

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3711
Wednesday, March 28, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
WHERE DAVID RIZZIO WAS SLAIN; THE PALACE OF HOLYROODHOUSE
THE Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh is Scotland’s chief Royal
palace, and is forever associated with the unhappy Mary Queen of Scots.
It was her principal residence for six tragic years (1561-1567), and it was
here that the most famous scene in Scottish history was enacted.
On the 9th March, 1566, Queen Mary, the Countess of Argyll and David
Rizzio, the Queen's secretary, were dining together when they were surprised
by Ruthven, Darnley, Morton and other conspirators, who entered by the
private staircase. They seized Rizzio, who had thrown himself behind the
Queen, clinging to her robes for protection. He was torn from his hold and
dragged through two outer rooms to the head of the main staircase, where
he died from fifty-six dagger wounds. Jealousy of Rizzio’s political influence
with the Queen is reputed to be the chief motive for this crime. Today a
brass plate marks the spot where Rizzio died; it covers the bloodstains
which it is said existed there for some years. The brass plate bears the
inscription—“ The body of David Rizzio was left here after his murder in
Queen Mary> Supper Room, 9t,h March, 1566.” Rizzio was buried in the
Chapel of Holyrood Abbey, adjoining the Palace, and three months later
Queen Mary married Bothwell.
The building of Holyrood Palace was begun about 1500, during the reign
of James IV, and completed in James V’s reign (1513-1542). In 1544 most
of the Palace was burned down by the Earl of Hertford. It was quickly
restored, and in 1650 it was occupied by Cromwell, whose troops damaged
much of the interior. The Duke of Lauderdale enlarged the Palace to its
present extent in 1671 during the reign of Charles 11.
It was here in 1745 that Bonnie Prince Charlie held his gay court beneath
the guns of the hostile castle before setting off on his ill-fated march to London,
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THI
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


i ml
IUIK
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
ER 1 ™ 0 , PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—CPT HERE AND MAIL - ——- -
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) .'.....‘.Age".'.'”
The Red Page
KOREAN PICTURE.
Korea is not a battlefield which the
British soldier, or the Australian either,
has taken to his heart. But there is this
to be said about it; that it was hitherto
the only practicable peninsula which the
British Army had not fought in, and now
the record is pretty complete. Its fighting
roll now includes campaigns (most of
them unsatisfactory) in every peninsula
along the belt of the 38th-40th parallel
of northern latitude— the Peninsula
(Iberian), Italy, Morea, Gallipoli, Crimea,
Malaya (a bit off the belt, these two) and
now Korea,
Perhaps campaigns on peninsulas were
inevitable in the wars of an amphibious
Power using limited expeditionary land
forces; but our military history provokes
the question whether there has been a
passion in the War Office for this sort
of battlefield.
Australia was too young for the
Peninsular War and the Crimean War, but
in all the peninsular campaigns that have
come along since it has been with the
British Army in this specialist pursuit.
Hie late Professor George McCune, of
the University of California, in his Korea
Today (Allen and Unwin) does not men-
tion, naturally enough, this British
idiosyncrasy. There is nothing like a war
to encourage the study of a particular
region, and his book should attract much
interest among English-speaking peoples.
Prof. McCune, who died before he
finished his book, was born in Pyongyang
and lived more than half his life in Korea.
His wife knows enough about the country
to complete his manuscript; and a fore-
word mentions a Professor Shannon
McCune, of Colgate University (N.J.),
who is engaged on a companion volume
on Korean geography. Clearly the family
knows something about the land, and
maybe long acquaintance invests Korea
with redeeming features unremarked as
yet by any of the mixed foreign units in
the U.N. forces, which have in advance
or retreat done the passage up and down
its length of mud and snow and beastly
villages some four or five times. When
we know more of the intimate details
of the campaign we shall probably learn
that as much D.D.T. as T.N.T. figured
in the United Nations’ “Q” indents.
The author reviews in 13 pages Korean
history (mythical and otherwise) over
the period 2333 b.c. to a.d. 1905, gives a
chapter to Korea as a Japanese colony,
and spends the rest of the book in a
survey of the political and economic con-
ditions of the post-war years in that
unhappy land. A short note on the
Korean language to “the reader unfamiliar
with spoken Korean” (the singular noun
is a little comical) will leave most people
with the impression that their un-
familiarity with the subject is probably
incurable.
It appears that from the beginning of
Korea’s recorded history—of date about
the time that Cresar was invading Britain
—there has been a tendency for the
country to be divided into northern and
southern sections, with the south also
occasionally split again into south-eastern
and south-western States. Till about the
seventh century a.d. the warlike northern
kingdom, Koguryo, which covered also
a great part of Manchuria, held the
supremacy ; it fought off “invading bar-
barians [from Russia] in many campaigns
and engaged in one great war against
China from which the Koreans came off
victorious.” (It was true in those days,
too, that he who held Manchuria could
dominate north China.) Then, in 668,
the south-eastern kingdom, Silla, in a
combined attack with China, overthrew
the two other kingdoms and established
hegemony over the whole peninsula.
Silla’s 300 years’ supremacy was con-
temporaneous with a Golden Age of
:ulture in Korea. It was followed by
the Koryo dynasty (450 years)—whence
the name, Korea, used by Western
adventurers then first making its acquaint-
ance-characterised by recurrent Mongol
invasions and finally conquest, whereafter
wars occurred with Japan. Then General
Yi Trejo (the T’ indicates “an aspirated
T”) knocked out the Koryo dynasty
(1392) and established his own, which
lasted till the Japanese annexation in
1910. For seven years after 1592 a
Japanese invasion ruined the prosperity
which Korea had known for several
centuries, but the Japanese were finally
vanquished after the shattering of their
navy by the Korean Admiral Yi’s iron-
clad “turtle-ship.” A short renaissance
of 20 years followed but was cut short
by a Manchu invasion of longer duration.
The period of the European Middle
Ages was one of a high cultural level in
Korea, as the poems of that age, pub-
lished in some delicate translations by
Mrs. Joan Grigsby 20 years ago, abun-
dantly testify. Her collection was drawn
from Korean authors through several
centuries, though Professor McCune does
not mention them. Korean brushwork,
pottery and refinement of the Buddist
culture all reached their zenith while the
poet Yi Kyu-bo was writing such poetry
as this fantasy upon the departure of
the god of Spring:
The falling petals of the flower pavilion
Fashioned his perfumed bed.
There, through the last watch of the moon,
he rests.
Into his sleep a purple wine-flower drips
The fragrance of her dew:
Laughing he wakes; drunken with blossom-
breath
He wanders through the garden, seeking
love.
Whom will he take to share his ecstasy?
The peach? Her wanton gifts have wearied
him.
The mountain apricot? Too harsh her
tone.
But the silk skirts of the peony shimmer
like tinted moths;
Her scarlet petals tremble; she falters forth
his name.
Even in the Western Garden he would find
no fairer flower.
Swiftly the last watch of the moon goes
down,
And flames of morning leap from hill to
hill.
Retreating steps ... At dawn an empty
courtyard,
Departing echoes of his cavalcade,
Peony petals fall in the flower paviliion.
there is a sound of tears.
Like Japan, and through roughly the
same period, Korea, “the Hermit
Kingdom,” went into rigorous seclusion
from the outside world ; then at the end
of it adapted itself but slowly to the out-
side world, while Japan went into the
business fast and furiously. A revolu-
tionary movement, that of the Tonghaks
in protest against all Western influences
undermined the Government; both
Chinese and Japanese troops went in to
restore order; and then the Japanese
drove out the Chinese in the short de-
cisive war of 1894-95—so short and so
easy a Japanese victory that it was hardly
a war. The Japanese destroyed the
Chinese Navy at the mouth of the Yalu
River and the Chinese Army at the battle
of Pyongyang.
As for the internecine wars Professor
McCune remarks that the struggle be-
tween the Nam-in (North men) and the
luk-in (South men) which lasted for
most of the period beween 1560 to 1725
left “traces which are still evident today
with the north-south division of the
country.” There is evidently some foun-
dation in history for this 38th-parallel
division of the world’s present concern.
MacArthur’s landing at Inchon
(Chemulpo), the port of Seoul, had some
natural difficulties to contend with. The
good roadsteads of Korea are mostly on
that (western) coast, but are handi-
capped by great tidal movements. Inchon
hke Darwin ; the maximum
difference between high and low tides is
Professor McCune makes clear that
the shortcomings of South Korean native
Administration during the post-war years
is not to be attributed entirely to corrup-
tion. During 40 years of Japanese
colonisation the Koreans were allowed
little opportunity for learning the art of
governing their country whether with an
elected “Parliament” or without one;
they have simply had to begin again from
scratch.
Squatting in the 'Eighties.
Probably there is a human tendency to
eavesdrop, which makes dialogue easier
to assimilate than straight narrative, and
a number of Australian authors are
taking advantage of it these days, throw-
ing old diaries and records into conver-
sation, which, while it enlivens them,
enables them still to be advertised as
true, and obviates the creative labors of
the novelist.
Of such is The Call of the Kimberleys
(Hallcraft), a “documentary tale of the
five young men who established the first
cattle-station in the Kimberleys, ‘Yeeda
Station,’ ” which has been “adapted from
the original records of Hamlet Cornish”
by Irene Shackcloth.
In 1880, their enthusiasm fired by John
Forrest’s return from his Fitzroy River
explorations, four young men, well-
heeled, from estates on the Murray River
(W.A.) —George and Bill Patterson,
Alexander Richardson and Hamlet
Cornish, with Samuel Elliot, just out
from England—formed The Murray
Squatting Company, filed a claim at the
Lands Department for 120,000 acres in
the new country and set out from Rock-
ingham for Beagle Bay in a small iron
schooner, taking with them three black
hands and a Chinese cook, stores, 700
sheep, and horses stabled on deck.
Welcomed at Beagle Bay by Julius
Brockman, a pioneer in that district, they
pushed on to Lake Louisa, A party re-
turning to their store-hut on the coast
found that blacks had removed all but a
bag of flour and a cask of beef, so that
thereafter they must live off the land. A
further party, returning to try to retrieve
the stores from the blacks, found con-
vict Brown in their hut, escaped a few
days before from hard labor on Gov-
ernment guano on the Lacepede Islands,
his tongue swollen so that he could not
eat from being kept out at sea two days
in a small boat in burning sun without
water by menacing natives on the shore.
The squatters added the convict to their
entourage, and after several brushes with
blacks, in which Bill Patterson was
wounded in the shoulder, they returned
to Lake Louisa ; and the whole party set
off again. “Legs” and “Yandy,” two
local blacks, guided them to the Fraser
River, and then to the blacksoil plains
of the Fitzroy; the blacks took them up
Mount Anderson and into a cave
decorated with aboriginal carvings, of
which a painting is reproduced in one of
the plates, and to a kind of balcony on
the mountainside from which the whole
country could be seen.
In this district they established their
station; and for the next year or so the
story is of horses dying wholesale of
Darling-pea, of parrots getting drunk on
fermented berries, of shearing and shep-
herding sheep, but especially of advances
and retreats by the tall, powerful blacks,
who killed Neah the black shepherd, of
an Afghan camel-driver who appeared
out of nowhere to carry the wool to the
coast, and of the willy-willy which
buried the sheep in mud and crashed a
tree down on the homestead. The
squatters coming back to this disaster
from an excursion in their property
found that Hamlet Cornish’s young
brother Tony, who had recently joined
them, had been murdered by one of the
local blacks who had been engaged as a
shepherd.
The book ends with a vigorous and
well-written manhunt for the murderer,
one Guirella, travelling with his gin and
her sister, at first among friendly tribes,
then with the women, then alone. At
one point the expedition, which included
a sergeant and party of police and four
or five black-trackers, chained a whole
tribe together as they returned to camp
so that they could not warn Guirella. At
night the blacks fell against one another
and began to fight, so tangling and twist-
ing their chains that the police had to
file them loose. But at last Guirella was
caught, taken to Perth, tried and hanged.
Not long afterwards, in 1883, Yeeda
Station was sold, at that time carrying
10,000 sheep, 45 horses and 50 cattle —
it was by then clear that the district was
better suited to cattle than to sheep—
and eventually became a Kidman
property; and The Murray Squatting
Company, still sticking together, went
gold-prospecting and pearling, and then
settled down at Mardi, on the Fortescue
River.
THE POOL AND THE STAR
Let me be most clear and most tender.
Let no wind break my perfection.
Let the stream of my life run muted
and a pure sleep unbar
my every depth and secret.
I wait for the rising of a star
whose gaze of light shall transfix me—
whose single-shining sword
my very truth must answer.
That shaft shall pierce me through
till I cool its white-hot metal.
Let move no leaf nor moth;
sleep quietly, all my trees,
I must be one still silence
until that bright one rises.
Then down the fall of space
his kiss the shape of a star
shall wake the dark of my breast.
For this I am drawn from far;
for this I am gathered together.
Though made of time and of waters
that move even while I love,
1 shall draw from the living day
no hour as pure, as bright,
as this hour when across the night
he stoops with his steady ray
and his image burns on my breast.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Out of fhe Frying-pan.
Central Europeans circulate consider-
ably these days, seeking peaceful
countries, hopping out of frying-pans into
fires; and if the adventures of Dr.
Barbara Lloyd Still, told in her auto-
biography, Dr. Barbara (Elek), are not
exactly unique, the entanglement with
them of four husbands, and the recurring
pattern, all over the world, of husband-
trouble, refusal of dentists to allow
foreigners to practise, and war, revolution,
internment and flight, give the book a
rounded design.
Dr. Barbara was the daughter of a
well-bred Hungarian family, whose name
she suppresses, which had lost all in the
Balkan war. She went to work in an
office at a time when no well-bred young
woman did such a thing; and during
World War I studied medicine at the
University of Budapest. She married a
brilliant fellow-student; and they fled
into Rumania to escape the counter-
revolution, under Horthy, which sup-
pressed the Hungarian Communists, Dr.
Barbara went on with her medical studies
at Cluj, sitting for her final examination
three days before bearing her daughter,
Eva, at the University clinic.
Dr. Barbara and her husband got
District Medical Officer jobs in neighbor-
ing towns on the old Transylvanian gold-
fields. After a while she got leave to take
a dentistry degree in Berlin. On her re-
turn, her husband, perhaps a little
jealous of this degree, made scenes.
Dr. Barbara took an overdose of
veronal But her husband, drop-
ping over the following morning to
borrow a drug he had run out of, was
able to bring her back to life in three
days; after which he made no further
objection to their divorce.
She then became Health Insurance
Dentist in. the Hungarian industrial town
of Torda, and there took up with the
recently-divorced editor of a Cluj
theatrical paper. They were married,
disagreed ; and were divorced. Later, on
holiday in Budapest, Dr. Barbara met a
rich Dutch diplomat, Jan, who was to
become her third husband.
It was now 1939 ; Jews and people
with the wrong political notions were
hurrying from one country to another,
and fiance Jan was flying between
Amsterdam and Bucharest trying to pull
off big business deals. Then they heard
over the air of the German invasion of
Holland. Jan had lost all his Dutch
property; while in Rumania Dr.
Barbara’s clients had defaulted 200,000
lei, and her bank failed:
This was a normal part of life in
Rumania, where a group of business people
would start a bank when they were so com-
pletely broke that they could not start
anything else.
They got out of Rumania, spreading
quantities of baksheesh at both ends of
the Customs, and found a flat in Con-
stantinople, where Dr. Barbara hoped to
get work as a dentist. But the Dutch
Legation told them;
“Foreign dentists are not allowed to
work here, and if you are caught working
they will send you to prison—a Turkish
prison, you know.”
But various Turkish dentists allowed
her to work in their surgeries on a 50-50
basis. Here daughter Eva married a
young Dutchman ; the young couple went
off on a diplomatic mission to Java, and
thither Dr. Barbara and her husband set
out to follow them.
They went by boat to Bombay, where
they had news that daughter Eva had
gone on to Shanghai. They attended an
Indian wedding, and visited the home of
a Punjabi manufacturer, where:
I was puzzled to find they had six of
everything except the furniture: six lamp-
shades —same shape and color —six
statuettes ranged side by side, six bits of
Dresden china.... The flat looked exactly
like a shop When I commented on this
my host was surprised.
“I can’t go into a shop and buy less than
half-a-dozen of anything, can I?” he said.
They went by train to Calcutta and by
collier to Singapore; then by Dutch
liner to Batavia, where the Dutch
authorities interned them. Dr. Barbara
contracting dysentery in the camp. Their
Dutch nationality procured release with-
out the formality of appearing before the
High Court; husband Jan got a job
managing a motor-car firm, and Dr.
Barbara was free to sue for the right to
practise as a dentist.
First she was called upon to prove that
her diplomas were not forgeries. Then
Count Marchand d’Assembourg, former
secretary to the Dutch Legation in
Bucharest and on his way to Canberra,
((Continued on page 35.)


TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING
null
Ensure yourself that extra
comfort for the coming
Winter...
“JUMBUK” Regd
r
* / /
Woollen Underweor
Regd. Trade Mark
Guaranteed and recommended by
Anthony Horderns’, “ Jumbuk ” Regd.
Underwear is made from pre-shrunk natural
long staple wool and is stocked in sizes
34in. to 50in. chest or waist.
Lightweight Natural All Wool
I
■
mis
< w
; ,It'« Vv.
*# r , i#/
v<- ■**&>■ « Wr/
n
h Li
k/
£//2
iF*N
■ »
O
* i-
IW
/
ip
V-.
t -
WBK
s»»
>1
"
m
—-.
y®®
-r-y
KI
JM- i
*
.V*
'•*B
r
m
■ : ■
A .*.; W i
.rvj
wmmmm
M Ii 11
I
n
i
• .
m ;#«
* - ~ -
; w
v, w
B
A
Winter Accessories
Left: All Wool Cardigans, fancy designs on fawn, brown or
grey, 36in. to 40in. chest, 64/9. 42in. to 44in., 68/-.
All Wool Fancy Jacquared Slipon in blue, fawn or brown.
Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest. Priced at 36/6.
A. —Tan Leather Gloves, fleecy lined, fur wrist
and Dome fastening. Sizes Sin. to lOin. Price, 51/9 pair.
B. —Tan Leather Gloves, fleecy lined and Dome fastening.
Sizes Sin. to lOin. Priced at 43/6 pair.
a
■
m
a si
ONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S WEAR DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. M 2401.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE PATTERN OF PROGRESS
V
:>v . ... C «^: ;
-
V
ii
■
m
W|
ft
X
. ■
■
iSi
a
Kjs® :s S|illl
ft®
Hf**
■ *
■J.- '•:*;
pinml■■■■
,
IHi
Throughout Australia today vast
plans for the development of our
natural resources are taking
shape.
Mighty machines, crawler trac-
tors, scrapers, excavators, rock
crushing plant and all the para-
phernalia of modern construction -
allied to International Power and
ranged against the forces of
nature to keep faith with the
steady development begun by
our forebears 150 years ago.
We of ISAS are justly proud of
our association with this, massive
array of equipment which, during
this year of Jubilee, is contribut-
ing to this pattern of progress.
INTERNATIONA!
INDUSTRIAL POWER
/
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
INTERNATIONAL
harvester
AO7O
thr o u c h;out ay s tjuu hi
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBRRT ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3711
Wednesday March 28, 1951
tysy Sr,
4,y,.
\ 'f/'*us*y'iK 'mjt
BARNACLES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOCIALIST SLEEPWALKERS.
“Labor,” risen to power on the shoulders
of the big Communist-led trade-unions,
has been a party to many shabby
manoeuvres.
Its first thought has never been con-
structive policy, but policy which can be
used for vote-buying for the moment,
with a background of stealthy building of
political armament for the destruction of
the Parliamentary system and the substi-
tution of junta rule by outside bodies of
intriguers who direct the “class-war.”
The internationalism of the Socialists,
with all its gabble about “human
rights” and the “equality” of nations
irrespective of their strength, was
originally an emanation of Moscow —
though it must be said that the infection
spread far beyond Dr, Evatt’s party.
The germ of the urge to legislate for
everything under the sun, including
freedom of the Press and religion—which
meant also the right to legislate for the
control of the freedom of the Press and
religion and to define its limitations —
came from the same source. The social-
service programmes, made irrespective
of the ability of the country as a
whole to cope adequately with them,
were just as much devices of the class-
war as the long-continued commercial
and financial controls which “Labor”
engineered under war-time powers.
These were framed to take from the
thrifty and energetic, who conserve
resources to meet the lean times, and give
to the loafer and the improvident.
Under “Labor” regimes and influences
the expert tradesman has almost ceased
to exist except in a. few businesses which
the unions cannot dominate. As in
political standards, so in industrial
standards, “Labor” has been a destroyer
party. It has done its best to destroy
ambition and bring the rank-and-file of
its followers to the level at which what-
ever Government is most willing to bribe
is the most likely to survive.
It has destroyed as far as it can the
will to work for an employer, so that
often bricklayers who could lay 800
bricks a day lay 200 on week-days and
1000 a day on piecework on a black-
market during the weekends while the
union officials turn their backs. It has
persuaded the workers of many unions,
though some of them do not understand
what they are doing, that it is healthy that
there should be shortages of staple
materials on which national development
and security depend—coal, iron, steel,
electricity, timber, shipping—because
shortage enables the unions to blackmail
employers for more leisure and more
wages.
It has sought to breed permanent
enmity between employer and employee,
and it has filled some of the
younger generation, in N. S. Wales in
particular, aided by a Communist-
headed Teachers’ Federation, with the
idea that all wealth comes from Govern-
ment. It has also taught that Govern-
ments by themselves can stem the tide of
inflation even in a country in which the
economic conditions depend primarily
on world prices and world conditions and
upon the will or lack of will of a very
small population to put out its utmost
effort in production to compete with over-
seas nations on a low wage-level.
“Labor’s” post-war policy was framed
in an unreal atmosphere on the basis of
an airy belief that good times were here
for ever and that “Labor” and its
dominant unions, which had become
dominant only through the war, could
look forward to a long period in which
there would be endless money for official
handouts and civil-service pay. In which,
also, the grip of “Labor” could be
tightened on Parliament and on private
enterprise until both were strangled.
“Labor’s” policy counted on always hav-
ing a huge surplus of paper-money funds
to play with. It could not function in
office otherwise.
It still seems to believe that it can
regulate the country’s economy on a
Father Christmas plan of vote-buying
and Socialist paternalism. It still believes
that if it offers enough bribes to electors
Australia will accept its device towards
the handing of Parliamentary power to
the unions—the nobbling of the Senate
through a scheme by Dr. Evatt to pro-
vide a permanent “Labor” majority in
that House, or, at worst, a deadlocked
House.
This alone shows how far its leaders’
thoughts are from reality.
“Labor” believes that it can still hope
to secure office even after providing proof
at the Triennial Labor Conference, and by
Mr. Chifley at the last caucus meeting
of the session, that “Labor” accepts the
subordination of the country to a hole-
and-corner Com.-ridden junta who
form the A.L.P. control.
The fact that it does is clear and in-
disputable, for Mr. Chifley declared in
caucus that he must rule put of order any
motion which conflicted with the instruc-
tions of the A.L.P, Executive or Trien-
nial Conference to the Parliamentary
caucus.
“Labor,” indeed, seems like a being
walking in its sleep. It is so much ab-
sorbed in its Socialist dream that one of
its many “leaders,” Mr. Calwell, actually
believes that electors on the present arti-
ficial wage-scales can be tempted by a
rise in child-endowment of five shillings.
Housewives have seen living costs
mount with every coal and wharf
strike, with the increase of black-
outs which Mr. McGirr in N. S.
Wales now proposes to accept as a
normal facet of life in the Socialist
era, and with the swelling of the
basic wage. Yet “Labor” believes it can
persuade them that a Government by its
own actions can put value into the pound
and reduce prices. The only possible
inference from this would be that
“Labor” might hope that the Communist-
led unions would be willing to call off
their strikes in return for the advantage
of having in power a “Labor” Govern-
ment which they can dominate both in
domestic and foreign policy.
“Labor’s” own experience in 1949
demonstrated the fallacy of this. Never
did the Communist party and its
adherents make more progress than in the
years 1941-49 with “Labor” in office.
Never was any Government more
browbeaten, more humiliated or more
spat upon by the unions following
Moscow than in that period. And
time has proved that every control
which the “Labor” Government imposed,
every whittling-away of free enterprise,
every new bit of bureaucracy or vote-
buying constituted another strengthening
of Communist organisation and another
step towards the Socialist millennium in
which there is to be complete govern-
ment by the union juntas, unity
of ideal with Communism, and complete
transformation of a free people into a
sodden mass.
The coming election has only one real
issue—whether Parliamentary govern-
ment and free enterprise shall continue,
or whether the electors are willing to
make a present of this country to a party
which is prepared to sell the Common-
wealth lock, stock and barrel to the
Communist-led unions.
On the present showing of public
opinion, which will this time be under the
influence of the most united Liberal-
Country-party alliance for 25 years,
“Labor” is likely to suffer its rudest
awakening for many a year on polling-day.
"Labor" on Prices.
A Labor Government will halt the gallop-
ing inflation and, by price-control, will
help every household.
Thus Dr. Evatt on what he hastens to
declare the primary issue of the election
campaign.
Inflation is, in fact, “Labor’s” own
beloved adopted child. It is an ideal
instrument for the advancement of
socialisation, since nothing will more
assuredly destroy investments, put capital
values to flight and reduce all incomes
to the same trashy level. In so far as
it does not succeed in bringing about
these results it can be used as an excuse
for urging those permanent central
controls over all prices and charges which
would make a stalking-horse for the sup-
pression of private industry—the Socialist
aim—through the imposition of controls
in order to stifle those industries which
“Labor” has marked down for socialisa-
tion. Certain Communist-controlled
unions have already been concentrating
their rolling strikes against those same
industries —notably steel and shipping.
Meanwhile “Labor” has been
thoroughly enjoying inflation as far as
it has gone to date. There is no known
method of restraining prices where there
is a persistent failure of output in goods
to meet demand ; and so long as “Labor”
endorses bidding up wages by a scarcity
of working hands, and the limiting of
weekly hours of work to an unprofitable
minimum, the checking of inflationary
pressure is impossible. Certainly there
are other factors also in the vicious spiral.
But none of them ranks with the shortage
of production as a primary cause of high
prices.
When the war ended, the inflation
caused by the war’s wastage throughout
the world —even in Russia, where the
currency was devalued by calling in all
paper currency and reissuing every ten-
rouble note as one rouble —came pat to
“Labor’s” hand. It raised nominal wages,
always good for the political shop-
window. Mr. Chifley gave inflation a
blood-transfusion first when, under
“transitional powers,” he unpegged war-
time wage-controls but refused to lift the
control-ceiling over prices, and next when
he (through the mouth of the Govern-
ment’s counsel) barracked in the Arbitra-
tion Court for 40 hours’ work at 44 hours’
pay.
These were post - war “prosperity
benefits” for the workers, and industry
was supposed to be able to carry the
extra burden. So it did for a time, till
the inevitable happened with a reduction
in output of goods. With this impetus
inflation had already got a long start
before the Chifley Government was
defeated,
“Labor” now charges the Menzies
Government with failure to control this
evil, though the Chifley party has spent
the last 18 months in deliberately thwart-
ing the Government in every legislative
effort. Mr. Calwell, in fact, announced
as soon as the late Parliament met his
party’s refusal to co-operate in reducing
prices. “Labor” even opposed endow-
ment of the first child, a palliative for
rising costs against the family. It has
resisted tooth-and-nail the legislation to
remove the Communist influence exerted
to maintain the principle of giving the
minimum of work for the maximum of
pay ; it has condoned the unions’ ban on
overtime in defiance of the 40-hour
award; it has declared anathema bonus-
incentives to employees and secret bal-
lots as a preliminary to strikes against
awards, because these would “weaken
union executives.”
It first restricted by legislation the
power of the Arbitration Court to en-
force disciplinary provisions in awards
and then resisted all the Government’s
efforts to restore them in the cause of
establishing an even tempo in produc-
tion. It refused to revalue the pound at
the most propitious moment, and has
since assailed the Menzies Government
for not doing it.
“Labor” held one of its obstructive
field-days in the late Senate last
November with the airing of its bill for
a red-herring “price-control” referendum.
When this bill got into committee the
Attorney-General asked Senator Mc-
Kenna to tell the country “exactly what
is comprehended by this word, prices.”
Summarised, he asked:
Did It include charges—professional fees
and other charges for services, freight
charges, transport charges, interest
charges, WAGES? Is the charge marked
against a pound of tea a “price,” tout not
a charge for doing a day’s work or for
shipping or railway carriage? With this
power would Senator McKenna be able to
direct any citizen in possession of a com-
modity to sell that commodity at a loss to
himself or his business?
Senator McKenna’s points in reply:
Granting of power over prices to the
Commonwealth Parliament would not rob
the States of their power in that field.
Commonwealth law would prevail only in
case of a conflict between Commonwealth
and State laws. There would toe full
power over prices in the States apart from
those powers the Commonwealth chose to
exercise.
Senator Spicer: I thought State prices-
control was “ineffective”?
Senator McKenna: I am making one
broad proposition. Power would not be
exclusive to the Commonwealth. Secondly,
it would not have to toe exercised all the
time. In the ultimate analysis the mean-
ing of the word “prices” will toe defined
by the High Court. It will certainly not
Include power to fix wages. When the
content of the prices power comes to be
considered. It will be examined in relation
to all other powers in the Constitution....
The new power will NOT enable Parlia-
ment to compel persons to seU at
prices fixed....
His questioners thought these answers
very illuminating, and so will the public.
Pressed further, he thought transport
charges might come within the power if
the High Court so held, but he did not
believe other charges would. He finally
sought refuge in the general statement
that the power would, anyway, “enable
the Commonwealth to control all the re-
quirements of the ordinary citizen, his
food, clothing and housing.” Meat? he
was asked. Well, admittedly in Westralia
State price-control of meat had been so
effective that no supplies were available
to consumers, but that was because meat-
growers were more concerned about their
wool-cheques than cheap meat.
Asked about the labor-element in costs
of housing, Senator McKenna said the
biggest element lay in the margins added
to costs by manufacturers of building
requisites. Then:
I acknowledge that the cost of labor is
a factor in the price of any commodity,
tout except in war-time the Commonwealth
has no power to control wages.... The
Government might very well discuss the
problem of stabilising wages with repre-
sentatives of the trade-unions. If the
Government wiU face the questions—“ What
are you doing to control profits?" and
“What are you prepared to do to ensure
that those engaged in production get at
least some share of increased production
and increased profits?”—it can approach
the trade-union movement.
Finally Senator McKenna was asked
whether he thought the inflationary
pressure would continue permanently,
and, if not, why he wanted a permanent
power to control a temporary difficulty.
To which Mr. Chifley’s lieutenant —and
the “dark horse” in the race for succes-
sion to the leadership—replied that he
wanted the permanent prices power for
the same reason as a permanent defence
power;
We require a defence power in case of
war, but the fact there is a defence power
does not mean that we must be continually
at war. The fact that there is a power to
control prices would not mean that prices
would be controlled for all time.
That, on top of the late High Court
judgment defining limitations of the de-
fence power, is a choice morsel.
What does this all mean? What can it
mean, other than that “Labor” does not
know what the power would contain,
that there would have to be long (and
probably unsatisfactory) fight in the
High Court, and that charges for essential
services are too near to wages to be
accepted by “Labor” within the defini-
tion of prices? Again, if “Labor” wishes
to control profits, why does it not include
“charges” as well as “prices” in its
scheme; and if it believes that trade-
unions would be amenable to wage-
pegging—that is, to a fixed wage “norm”
—if workers shared in increased produc-
tion, why does it shut its face outright
against incentive-payments and bonus-
payments which employers and the Gov-
ernment have been advocating?
On this record in the past and this
shilly-shallying with the costs question
now, “Labor” professes to believe it can
deceive the electors into voting for
cheaper living without increased produc-
tion and harder Work. That is surely
treating the ordinary citizen’s intelligence
with derision. And “Labor’s” allies, the
Communists, would be delighted.
"This Age of Shoddy."
“Libra”: The Bulletin (B. 28/2/’5l)
in “This Age of Shoddy” and “R.W.”
have touched on what may well be the
base problem of our times,
I would suggest that the particular
outlook giving rise to the “age of shoddy”
—the era when what is barely acceptable
is accepted, and when what is scarcely
offerable is offered —may have been the
necessary hardening of the popular mind
in time of war. War leaves little room
for sentiment —even the most just war
calls for cold efficiency, complete relega-
tion of “softness,” the highest considera-
tion for one’s own side, and the least
consideration for the other.
The sediment of six years of that sort
of living in the most recent war is a
general “look out for yourself” outlook.
A new generation has grown up with
the new outlook, nurtured only on this
doctrine of self-interest preached in
desperation, in the homes of people who
have turned to it in self-defence against
a heartless age where all values can be
converted to so much cash.
The suspicion so necessary to the man
of war has crept into every level of
civilian activity—everyone is looking for
a catch somewhere, wondering what could
possibly motivate a good turn other than
some gain to its doer.,
The little man lives in a world of
violent economic turbulence which he
does not understand. It is interpreted
from completely contrasting points of
view by political parties, poles apart.
With the faint backing of a functional
education system he is asked to ponder
the reason for depression, inflation, ex-
change difficulties, labor v. management
(or vice versa). Bewildered by a constant
stream of “authoritative” Press comment
on everything from the decline of
marriage to interplanetary travel, he can
only turn, baffled, to the things he knows
—the garden, a clock that needs mending,
a shed that needs painting, a horee worth
a bet, a knockout punch. Faced with a
conflicting welter of hard-to-understand
knowledge he has adopted the point of
view that the world is a queer place
indeed, that catastrophe might happen at
any moment, and that the best thing he
can do is look after his own and himself.
That is the real problem of our age.
It grows apace with the broadening com-
plexity of the era we live through,
is a base problem, the final solution of
which must be a basic change in human
outlook —perhaps calling for a tre-
mendous resurgence of Christian teach-
ing and the advocacy of that code of
decent fellowship we once preached so
bravely to a dark world.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trouble In Persia.
Persia is rich in untapped minerals of
great strategic importance. It con-
tains the oldest of the Middle Eastern
oil empires: that of the Anglo-Iranian Oil
Company, whose founder was D’Arcy,
of Mt. Morgan, and which believed that
it held the concession under fast agree-
ment until 1993, there being no provision
in the agreement for unilateral cancellation.
In World War II Reza Shah, the reign-
ing monarch since 1925, decided to fall
in with what he believed to be the win-
ning side, that of Germany, with the re-
sult that in August, 1941, Russian troops
from the north and British from the
south jointly occupied the country. Reza
Shah left hurriedly for the far south —he
died in Johannesburg in 1944. If the
Russians had taken him he would have
died much sooner.
In 1942 Britain and the U.S.S.R,
guaranteed Persia’s territorial integrity,
agreeing to remove their troops from
Persian soil six months after the sign-
ing of an armistice with Germany. U.S.
troops established a supply-line for
Russia across Persia, and in December,
1943, at the Tehran Conference, the U.S.
joined in the guarantees given by Britain
and Russia. U.S. troops moved out at
the end of 1945, British as agreed, but
Soviet troops hung on.
They occupied the Azerbaijan region
of the north contiguous to Russia, where
immediately a nationalist independence
movement reared its head and established
an autonomous Government under
Russian military protection. Moscow did
not release the province from its sur-
veillance until a new Persian Government
agreed to sign an agreement allowing
the Russians to prospect for oil in the
north. The United Nations interfered, but
it is doubtful if the Russians would have
loosened their clutch if they hadn’t felt
that persistence might affect the course
of , events in adjacent India.
A new Parliament in 1947 repudiated
the Persian-Soviet oil agreement. Im-
mediately nationalist movements, their
propaganda radio operating from
Russian soil, began to be chronic in
Persia. A member of the Tudeh Com-
munist party attempted to assassinate the
Shah in February, 1949, leading to the
suspension of the party.
Soon numerous organisations similar
to the stooge Communist bodies
which operate in Australia began to
appear, devoted to Moslemism and other
causes—to anything ostensibly except
Communism. A member of one of these
bo.dies recently murdered the Persian
Prime Minister, who was friendly to
Britain and the United States, and steps
were taken, with the noisy backing of
Communists, to nationalise all oil and to
break the agreement with the Anglo-
Persian Company, in which the British
Government holds the controlling
interest and which shares its oil with the
United States companies.
No greater blow than this could be
struck for Russia at Western defence.
The Persians have hardly enough know-
ledge to run a fat-lamp, much less the
largest oil-refineries in the world. It thus
seems inevitable and premeditated that
behind the religious and supposedly con-
servative elements which made the first
moves towards nationalisation there is a
scheme to sign another Soviet-Persian
agreement and hand over British plants
and equipment to Moscow or its covert
agents. Both Britain and the U.S. have
vigorously protested.
The whole matter has caused chaos in
Tehran. Martial law was declared last
week following another assassination.
A strike of post, telegraph and telephone
employees has disrupted communica-
tions, and the whole country is pretty
close to revolution. Tanks were patrol-
ling the capital last week.
It seems certain that if the chaos
continues long Russian troops will be in
the country: equally certain that if
Russia is given a share in Persian oil
interests they will be right across the
main British air routes to India and Aus-
tralia and with ports on the Indian Ocean,
which will then cease to be a British-
American sphere of influence.
There are American and Australian
editors and “Labor” politicians, five years
ago vigorously eager to end British rule in
India, who may soon rue the day of their
advocacy of the disruption of Britain’s
Asian empire.
German Immigration.
“N.K.”: Queenslanders are generally
interested in this subject, particularly
farmers whose country is in the Darling
Downs and Moreton and Burnett
districts. The majority of farms in those
areas are owned and worked by d
scendants of original German settlers.
In these districts, where labor is at
premium, the admission of a number oj
German families of the peasant type
would be of great benefit to the lane
generally.
Perhaps the main objection
German immigrants by “Labor” po
ticians is the fact that they will wor
Even during the depression very fe
names of German extraction were on th
unemployed-list.
It is to be hoped the Federal Govern
ment will not be influenced by an
rabble-rousing meetings against carryin
out to the fullest extent its programme o
bringing out approved German im
migrants.
Latham, C.J.
John Greig Latham, retiring Chie;
Justice of the High Court, has spent
lifetime in the service of his country, t
the great benefit of his generation.
His sterling qualities, broad huma
sympathies and devotion to every tas
he took in hand carried him, while sti
in the prime of life, to the highest plac
in every sphere of his activities, anc
withal left a native modesty, courtes
and selflessness unspoilt.
He became Prime Minister in all bu
name—he could have consummated hi
term of party leadership in Parliamen
with that post, had he not yoluntari]
yielded it in 1931; he was for four year
Vice-Chancellor of his University anc
Chancellor for two years more; anc
his 16-year term as Chief Justice ol
the High Court was the crown of hi
legal career. This triple record is uniqu
in Australian history.
After graduating at Melbourn
with high distinction as Maste
of Arts and of Laws, he bega
work at the Victorian Bar in 1904
interrupted it to serve in the R.A.N.
World War I, and as Commande
Latham was secretary to the Ministe
(Sir Joseph Cook) at the Versailles Peac
Conference in 1919. Three years afte
he entered the Commonwealth Parlia
ment as member for Kooyong (1922) h
was Attorney-General, and for the latte
half of S. M. Bruce’s term was that Prim
Minister’s right hand. There was n
more strenuous work in any departmen
than that of Latham in combating th
stormy period of the ’twenties of strike
on the waterfront.
When Bruce was defeated and lost hi
seat at the 1929 elections, Latham becam
Leader of the Opposition, and upon him
fell the full brunt of steering his part;
through the impact upon Parliament o
the depression and the financial crisi
which by 1931 broke the Scullin Ministry
Nothing in Australian political life ha
equalled the gesture with which
when the hour of his elevation to Prime
Minister came naturally to meet him, he
stood down in the interests which required
that J. A. Lyons, whose break along with
others from the “Labor” party lately in
office made Scullin’s defeat certain
should lead the new Government
Latham became Deputy Prime Minister
also Minister for External Affairs anc
Minister for Industry, in the Lyons
Cabinet: in its counsels he was Prime
Minister in all but name through the
first difficult years of recovery from the
depression.
Before he was made Chief Justice in
1935, Latham led the first Australian
diplomatic mission to a foreign Power —
to Japan in 1934. His success in that
undertaking was recognised in Tokyo as
well as in Canberra—it earned him the
G.C.M.G. —and when Hitler’s war
threatened to involve Japan also. Sir
John Latham was given leave from
the High Court to serve as first Australian
Minister to Japan in August, 1940, a post
he relinquished only a few weeks before
Japan entered the war.
“Characteristic of him,” as Attorney-
General Spicer says, is the offer,
notifying his desire to retire from the
Chief Justiceship, that he is willing to
undertake, during a year’s leave due
before finally quitting, a revision of the
rules of the High Court, “many of which
require redrafting and amendment.”
Costly State Jealousies.
In his latest report the South Australian
Railways Commissioner says that when
American railways were faced with a
“serious rival” in road transport, so much
was done about it that, with “the result-
ing technical development in the way of
heavy rails, huge truck loads, diesel loco-
motives, centralised train-control and
modern freight - handling facilities,”
American railways move a total net ton-
mileage of 658,000 million a year at
a rate of 1.375 d. a mile, “approximately
half the average cost of transport on Au
tralian railways.”
The commissioner is aware that pa
of the trouble with Australian railway
as a whole is the seven different Govern
ment authorities running them and th
varying gauges. This he admits, but
omits to add that American railways ar
privately owned, and that they had
meet road competition or go bung, hav
ing no power to impose restrictions anc
penal taxation on road transport, and no
being able to lump their losses on to th
taxpayer.
However, the commissioner is o
sound ground when he says that our rai
ways suffer a large proportion of the
losses because of broken gauges anc
inter-State jealousy:
Cheapest railway transport is on the long
runs, and there is not the slightest doubt
that if N.S.W., Victoria and S. Australia
were blessed with a uniform gauge it would
lead, with an increasing population, to an
immense growth of inter-State traffic, to
the great benefit of industry.
Victoria, apparently, is suspicious o
this “growth of inter-State traffic” anc
“benefit to industry”—if it happens t
be N.S.W. or S.A. industry.
Victorian policy as regards priority for
inter-State transport is not quite in line
with our own First priority should be
given to inter-State traffic in goods and
passengers, for the reason that railway
operation becomes more economic as the
length of haul increases A priority
should be given to inter-State transport
even at the expense of intra-State traffic.
Victoria refuses to shunt local loac
out of the road and give inter-State loac
a clear run. But the S.A. railways aren
the only sufferers. Victoria follows th
same policy with road transport—eve
to the extent of refusing road permits t
trucks carrying goods from S.A. t
N.S.W. and vice versa, incidentally defy
ing Section 92 of the Commonwealt
Constitution. It gets away with thi
because of a High Court decision las
year.
All of which seems to suggest—alon
with the fact that whereas S.A. was quit
willing to adopt the standard gauge
that traffic could run straight throug
from Brisbane to Port Augusta, Victoria
wouldn’t have it—that the old, hatefu
inter-State trade rivalry is still very mud
alive, and still costing the Australia!
people millions in this Jubilee year o
Federation.
New Guinea Defence.
“R. Macka” : N. F. Maloney, o
the Port Moresby Advisory Counci
has opined that Port Moresby coulc
be captured by a native fore
of 200, because the New Guinea
Yoluntary Reserve has a captain
lieutenant and warrant-officer with no
men to command. The only othe
defence force is the Papuan Con
stabulary. Two days after Maloney’s
statement Sir Raphael Cilento remarkec
that Soekarno has promised the Indo-
nesians sovereignty over Dutch New
Guinea in 1951.
Any force we place in New Guinea
would serve a dual purpose—it woulc
strengthen the hand of the Dutch in their
bargaining with the Indonesians, and it
would give the men in the force training
under the very conditions they would
meet in an island campaign. Anti-
malarial precautions and the rules of
tropical hygiene would be followed of
necessity and, once learned, become
second nature. Medical officers of the
2nd A.I.F. know that dysentery and
malaria casualties far outnumbered those
caused by the Japs. Men who have been
trained to keep themselves healthy in the
tropics are much more valuable than
troops fresh to such conditions.
A balanced land and air-defence force
should be stationed at Port Moresby, each
battalion of the Regular Army to do six
months’ garrison duty with the support
of a fighter squadron based on one of
the first-class strips in the area. As was
proved in the last war, New Guinea is the
ideal place in which to defend Australia
against any contemplated attack.
A Day Off the Week.
“Labor” politics and Communist control
of the Miners’ Federation have between
them now reduced the working week in
the chief industrial State to one of four
days, and to only three days in every fifth
week. That is, so far as supply of State-
managed electric-power supply is avail-
able for factories. No doubt this is only
the beginning of a new rogue’s march in
industrial progress.
Where private enterprise has invested
in its own plant for generating power—
the State having failed—industry may be
able to carry on over the State’s power-
less days. Householders are not so for-
tunate. They will be reduced to black-
fellows’ fires in the backyard or cold
rations for the powerless days. Other
services—light, use of the radio, etc. —
are simply a washout.
The McGirr Government in N.S.W.
has taken weeks to accept rostering of
the power service in this way, being too
ashamed to do anything till the com-
munity had got so used to expecting the
deprivation, and so exasperated by the
irregular blackouts all day and every day,
that it would welcome any device that
smelt at all of orderly administration.
Is this the unexampled prosperity and
happiness on which McGirr congratu-
lated the community upon possessing, and
his own Government upon conferring on
it, in his Christmas message? Or was
that spouted in the days when he had
been unable to foresee this result of his
own administration?
This feat in “organising scarcity and
equalising misery” stands as the monu-
ment of the McGirr era and of “Labor’s”
confidence of its capacity (vide the Evatt
electioneering propaganda) to reduce
prices and increase production. While
industry and householders groan under
the power-famine, direct result of the
coal stoppages, they can derive what con-
solation they may be disposed to accept
from the knowledge that there are some
150 million tons of coal easily available
in pillars underground which the miners’
executive and McGirr alike will not allow
to be extracted by machinery, thus end-
ing the coal shortage so far as it need be
a cause of worry for at least a genera-
tion to come.
And this community just sits and takes
it.
Training Civil Pilots.
“Waddlin’ Willie”: The announce-
ment by Air Minister White that
the Government proposes establishing
a joint R.A.A.F.-civil air-school for
training pilots gives Australian civil-
aviation its best news for years. A
growing shortage of pilots in the last few
months has caused great concern among
airline executives keen to maintain a
full service with ample pilots.
At the end of the war in 1945, civil
airlines in Australia were inundated with
former R.A.A.F. airmen. After a short
conversion course they were flying Aus-
tralia’s airliners. However, after five years,
many of them are nearing the retiring age,
the need for more and more pilots is
growing, and the expense of training civil
pilots from “scratch” is often beyond the
economic limit of an airline company.
Minister White’s scheme is simple ; yet,
if properly administered, could be a great
asset to Australia. He intends opening
a new school, probably at Point
Cook, where young men will be trained.
Those in the R.A.A.F. will later be
appointed to squadrons for full-time duty,
but the civil section will be diverted to
the airlines and will probably be obliged
to join the Citizen Air Force and belong
to one of its “part-time” squadrons. They
will be members of the reserve, flying
Australia’s airlines in time of peace, but
proficient in service aircraft for time of
war.
No doubt the companies will be asked
to pay something toward the cost and
upkeep of the school on a pro-rata basis.
But Australia’s civil airlines will be sure
of sufficient pilots, and there will
be no talk of having to discontinue
services because of a dearth of men to fly
the machines.
Idle Ships.
The other day Adelaide “Advertiser”
published a summary of statements made
on the Australian shipping position which
is an effective answer to the “Labor”
announcement that it intends to fight the
election next month on the inflation issue.
C. D. Storrs, retiring chairman of
Liverpool (Eng.) Steamshipowners’
Association, said delays caused by
“virtual disorganisation” of Australian
ports was equal to about 50 ships being
out of service each year. Ships of his
own company had waited an average of
82 days in Australian ports during 1950,
compared with a pre-war average of 27
days. He blamed shortage of labor, the
40-hour week and lack of modem wharf
equipment, politely refraining from refer-
ences to the wharfies.
A. J. Reardon-Smith, a director of the
“City” line of freighters, said that be-
cause of Australian wharfies’ “poor work-
ing” British shipowners sought non-
Australian trade, which meant that Aus-
tralia did without urgently-needed goods,
running-costs were increased and freights
rose.
Nine coastal vessels were held up be-
cause of crew shortages on March 20,
and 40 had been held up for varying
(i Continued on next pa&U


For election comment in this issue David
Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is respon-
sible.
cmmiwM
m
It’S their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A
GI3SE/R
CARRERAS LIMITED — OYER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITYJ
periods since December 1, 1950, accord-
ing to R. A. Courts, of the Australasian
Steamship Owners’ Federation.
Sydney’s abnormally wet summer has
been a factor in ship delays at that port,
but in Adelaide and Melbourne, where
the summer has been abnormally dry,
ship delays have been as bad. Though
none of the comment spoke of Com-
munist plotting in wharfies’ and seamen s
unions, only the blind and deaf don t
know that it is at the bottom of the whole
trouble. , .
Mr. Reardon-Smith remarked that the
cure for Australian shipping troubles
rested in the hands of the wharfies. It
may have until Mr. Menzies convinced
the Governor-General of the need for a
Federal election. Now it rests largely m
the hands of the Australian electors.
It shouldn’t need much imagination for
people to realise how much the villainous
wrecking of our shipping economy by
the Communists controlling the seamen s
and wharf unions has increased the cost
of living. “Labor,” by an eight-year
policy of pandering to Communists,
helped bring this situation about, and,
during the 15 months of the Menzies
Government’s reign, strenuously opposed
through the rigged Senate that Govern-
ment’s every effort to root out the cause.
That the High Court ultimately held the
anti-Red bill illegal detracts not one whit
from “Labor’s” guilt in this matter.
And this is the crowd that talks about
fighting the election on the “inflation
issue”! The main purpose of the election
is to give the people a chance to
strengthen the hand of a Government
whose every attempt to defeat inflation
has been hamstrung by a “Labor”-
dominated Senate. That “Labor” obstacle
must be reduced to impotency if Aus-
tralia is to escape an economic crash.
POLITICAL POINTS
In N. S. Wales the Liberal and Country
parties have achieved a better measure of
electoral co-operation than ever before,
with the result that only in one electorate,
Eden-Monaro, will there be a three-
cornered contest. Last year there were
three —Fairer, Lawson and Paterson ; the
Libs won the first two and the Cockies
picked up Paterson. This time both
organisations will support the sitting
members in those districts. The Govern-
ment parties will contest every seat in
the State —the Liberals are putting up the
men for 38 seats, including 16 held at
present; the Country party will defend
its eight seats, and, in addition to trying
to oust Fraser frorp Eden-Monaro, will
field a man against Joe Clark in Darling.
All three parties will select the rest of
their candidates this week.
It seems most likely that a similar
amicable agreement will apply to Queens-
land, and even in Victoria, where the
Country-party alliance with “Labor” in
the State Parliament has made matters
difficult for the Federal parties, there is
every probability of triangular fights
being avoided. “Labor’s” hopes of cash-
ing in on a private squabble between the
Government parties have gone with the
wind.
Whistling to keep his courage up, P. J.
Kennelly, Federal secretary of the A.L.P.,
told the A.C.T.U. last week that he was
confident “Labor” would win the
election. He should have left it at that;
when he tried to elaborate his statement
his confidence faded somewhat:
At the last election 14 anti-Labor seats
were won by majorities of less than 2000.
Some of them could change hands.
If only “some of them” change hands
“Labor” will still be out in the cold. It
would need to win the whole 14 to gain
a bare majority, and that would vanish
with the appointment of a Speaker.
Several “Labor” seats were also won at
the last election by majorities of less than
2000. Kennelly didn’t mention the fact,
but it probably occurred to his listeners
that some of those could change hands,
too.
One “Labor” seat hovering around the
2000-mark is Barton, which gave Doc.
Evatt whacking majorities in 1943 and
1946. At the last election Bert had the
prestige of office as Attorney-General and
Minister for External Affairs to help him,
and was still trailing clouds of glory—
for those who could see them —as ex-
president of U.N., yet Nancy Wake gave
him the fright of his political life. The
electors of Barton have seen their repre-
sentative in many roles; April 28 will
show What they think of his current one.
Victorian A.L.P. at its Easter confer-
ence endorsed its executive’s censure of
the Doc. for appearing on behalf of
Communist Idris Williams. Discussion
on the motion brought Calwell to his
feet in the unaccustomed role of defender
of Evatt. Arthur must have wondered
himself why he was doing it, though, of
course, the answer is clear—he’s a
member of the Federal executive, and
what that body says goes. Bert hastened
to show his appreciation of Calwell’s
action by going on the air to attack Holt’s
migration programme, which is a con-
tinuation of Arthur’s.
There will be at least five Liberals
seeking preselection for Percy Spender’s
seat, Warringah. Most likely pick seems
to be Ivan Black, who has resigned his
Neutral Bay seat in the N. S. Wales
Assembly to try his luck, but he is up
against some strong opposition: Pro-
fessor Bland, formerly professor of
Public Administration at Sydney Uni.,
now a keen advocate of decentralisation
and local-government; Group-Captain
John L. Waddy, Citizen Air Force repre-
sentative on the Air Board ; L. G. Ferris,
Mayor of Mosman; J. R. Partridge,
president of the Hunter’s Hill branch of
the Liberal party.
Chifley will deliver “Labor’s” policy
speech at the Empire Theatre in Sydney
tonight. It is understood that his opening
remarks will be a few words of thanks
to Calwell for jumping the gun and
delivering it for him last week in Mel-
bourne,
The Opposition-leader will address only
two meetings in Victoria one in
Fawkner, which W. Bourke holds by 27
votes, and the other at Geelong in support
of Dedman. Chif’s loyalty to his former
Minister is commendable, but after
Deddy’s performance in court during his
unsuccessful libel action against Geelong
“Advertiser”—it led the judge to remark
“Within ten minutes you have given com-
pletely conflicting accounts of your con-
duct” —he’ll need all the support his leader
can give him, and more.
Ernie Wright, secretary of the “Labor”
party in N. S, Wales, in an appeal for
party funds has called upon trade-
unionists to “give till it hurts.” Those
who don’t understand what this means
should ask Dan Mulcahy.
Sydney Water Board has had to import
pipes at a cost £220,000 above what they
would have cost bought in Australia.
The president said the bpard simply
hadn’t enough pipes. This is a change ;
in the past the board never had enough
water.
Transport Minister Billy Sheahan wails
on behalf of the McGirr outfit that the
N.S.W. transport system is running into
“complete collapse” because the rail-
ways are 7000 men short and the trams
1000 short. But what does he expect?
In conditions of a lean labor market
McGirr legislated to cut the working
week from 44 hours to 40, despite warn-
ings on all sides. Consequently where
70.000 employees did the job before,
77.000 are required for it today. Mc-
Girr has never been able to get this sum
right.
In the battle of tactics between the two
parties in the almost evenly divided
House of Commons almost anything
goes, but the latest suggestion of a section
of “Labor” members that the Opposi-
tion should be discouraged from forcing
late sittings by banning the supply of
beer and spirits after 10 p.m. goes a bit
too-far. Hang it all, Mr. Attlee, as an
old Haileybury boy you must surely
realise it just ain’t cricket I
Melbourne bus-proprietors are the
latest section of the community to
threaten to take the law into their own
hands. They say that on April 1 they
will raise their fares by one penny
whether the Government likes it or not.
Byrnes, Minister for Public Works, says
the busmen will have their licences can-
celled if they attempt it, but their associa-
tion says they aren’t bluffing. Their
argument is that the Government has
taken six months to consider their
request for higher fares, though demands
from public bodies such as the tramways,
railways, gas or electric-power authorities
get immediate satisfaction.
Coal report: Losses through strikes
N.S.W, fields for week ended March 17,
79,410 tons, making total losses for nine
weeks of this year 648,030 tons. Com-
parative losses over same period of 1950
were 409,631 tons.
An ex-President of Cuba, a Senor San
Martin, has been charged with “criminal
responsibility in the theft or misappro-
priation ol more than 40 million dol-
lars.” That’d buy an awful lot of coal
and candles.
The Chinese Communists allege that
“China’s most scientific treasure,” the
Peking Man, is in the United States, and
that they must seek its restoration to
China. They’d better leave it where it is,
otherwise some Russian scientist will
claim he saw it first.
Another prop was knocked from under
“Labor’s” election contraption when the
Full High Court found unanimously that
the Wool Sales Deduction [2O p.c.] Acts
were valid. Action was brought by the
Australian Primary Producers’ Union, a
recently spawned agrarian pressure-
group, through D. C. Moore and T. A.
Darcy, Victorian sheepmen, and the
A.P.P.U. will have to find the costs. The
deduction, wrongly called a tax by
“Labor” in the House, is a sort of exten-
sion to high wool prices of the “pro-
visional taxation” portion of income tax,
with the difference that it is to be repaid
at some future date out of Consolidated
Revenue. The Federal Government finds
difficulty in justifying it, since it is applied
only to wool incomes, but the High Court
says it is acting within its taxing powers.
Back in January the Port Kembla iron-
workers —Red-controlled, of course—put
a ban on overtime. Last week they lifted
it at all except on one plant. Another case
of “peace in industry”—until after the
election.
“Common Cause,” official organ of the
Communist-led coal unions, says that
“voting of the membership of the aggre-
gate meetings last week showed an over-
whelming decision in favor of the Central
Council’s recommendation to ‘continue
to stand united till all our demands are
won in the interests of bringing about
the downfall of the Menzies Govern-
ment.’ ” In Victoria the vote was carried
by 336 votes to 11; in Queensland by 698
to four, and in Northern N.S.W. by 1435
votes to 104 —1539 voted out of 11,000
entitled. In Adamstown the poll was 88
out of 1000, in Cessnock 389 out of 2900
and in Kurri 117 out of 2700.
Although Senate teams have not yet
been announced it seems that neither the
Government nor “Labor” intends to
nominate more than six candidates in
each State, the idea being that as a party
would need to poll nearly 64 per cent,
of the votes to secure a seventh seat it is
useless to field more than six. The argu-
ment overlooks one thing—the fact that
under proportional-representation casual
vacancies are filled by referring back to
the voting figures of the previous elec-
tion. Naturally under this system if a
Senator dies he will most likely be re-
placed by one of his own party. But if
when it comes to a count-back there are
none of his own color left —if, for example,
his party got its whole six elected —it
looks as if the vacancy would go to the
other side. Party managers had better
think this over. Senators are a pretty
tough breed, but they have been known
to die.
Brian Lewis, Professor of Architecture
at Melbourne University, just returned
from a trip to Turkey, has been compar-
ing Ankara, the capital of that country,
with Canberra. The Turks, he says, have
spent 10 times as much on Ankara in the
last 25 years as Australia has on Can-
berra. Still, it’s a safe bet that Canberra
has spent more than Ankara.
Chronological note for the benefit of
astrologers and other interested parties;
The coming election, the 20th since
Federation, will be only the second one
to fall in April, and the fifth in the first
half of the year, December, with six
polling-days, has been the most popular
month, with September (four) second-
favorite. January, February, June and
July have never seen a Federal election ;
March and August, one only—the first
Federal Parliament was elected in March,
1901, and Curtin’s war-time election,
which resulted in a landslide to “Labor,”
was held in August, 1943. May, October
and November, like April, claim two elec-
tions each. The just-dead 19th Parlia-
ment lasted only 15 months, but there
have been shorter ones —the fifth, elected
in May, 1913, ended in double-dissolu-
tion 14 months later, and the 11th, elected
in November, 1928, had a life of only
11 months.
It seems that Dedman just won’t lie
down.
Gem of Cocky Calwell’s pre-election
forecast of “Labor’s” programme for the
elections was his promise, in answer to
a questioner, that, if returned to power,
“ ‘Labor’ policy would entail no
nationalisation of anything.” OL course
not—not till they are safely home.
Premier McDonald discovered last
year that Melbourne was likely to be
short of wood and coal for its winter
fires. So he announced that unless the
fuel-merchants did something about it the
State Government would take over their
businesses. This year he has discovered
Victoria, like every other State, is short
of cement, so he has warned Australian
Portland Cement, of Geelong, that unless
it produces more his Government will
take over its works. It’ll be interesting
to hear this gentleman when Melbourne
runs short of farm products.


WfcUU, LAPI6S ANP GTNTUEMEH,
This is ths night of
Thß Big fight /
vN
.. *. Mugo looks in
GREAT FORNA > tT'S GOING TO BE
AN «PsITER.eSTING OOUT . % %% . * "
*—
«.*. Mugg is taking thb 4
fight to suugg right
FROfv\ THE START
V'
'' * * A uept to rne jaw anp a right to
THE FACE ». . . ANOTHER.
EE.FT TD THE JAW ANp A
£/GHT TO THE FACE
vN
.... PfcRMITeLY ANOTHER..
RPUNP to mu gg I
SAY * % , f/
*
....Muggs Right perniteu?/
Rocked Suu&& thbrb »,,, "
*
'* « V£S , M U&O HAS OUTPONCHED,
OOTBokEP ANp OUTGUESS EP SLUGa
THERE'S THE 6EUU ... * "
\N
.. ' * M(JGG IS SHOVAJ(MG THAT
HE CAM TAKE (T AS UOEU- AS
G-IV/E IT* *
lOeuu, that's the end
OF THE FiGrHfT. MuGG IS
Oovjjn For the count .
Stand ay For the anthem, puea££ 1
FIGHT NIGHT.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mr. Calwell forecast that ‘Labor’s’ election policy
would include an increase from ss. to 10s. of endow-
ment for a first child. ‘The Ohifley £l,’ said Mr.
Calwell, ‘was worth 12s. Fifteen months later the
Menzies £1 is worth 6s.’ ”
"Irving”; I claim to have had the
service of one of the first male baby-
sitters in Australia. My mother was on
the verge of hysteria with the fractious,
cross-grained infant that was I when Old
Jack, rouseabout at our little back-
country pub, came to light with his offer:
"Let me have him for a while. Missus,”
and then departed with the squalling
bundle. Old Jack had never heard of
child psychology, but under his care I
developed in a few days into an amiably
sleepy person, who, in his brief waking
moments, surveyed the world with a
placid tolerance. Old Jack’s services were
largely honorary, as he insisted on no
reward other than the doubling of his
daily beer ration. The happy state \yould
have continued
but for my
mother’s chance
discovery that Old
Jack and I were
taking sip for sip
from the same
beer.- mug, in
flagrant disregard
of all hygienic
principles, but to
my infantile satis-
faction. With the
immediate sack-
ing of Old Jack I relapsed into my
former anti-sociability. My present
willingness to walk a mile to get my beer
from an old-fashioned glass-handled mug
I ascribe to a hangover from the days
when I drank with my babysitter.
* • ♦ *
“Easter”: On our bus-route the con-
ductor was relieved by a natty, cheerful
and most polite New Australian con-
ductor. The relieved man, a battle-
scarred Old Australian, rode on some of
the way. The inevitable over-voluble
passenger spake thus to him, “There.
Look at that young fellow. Polite to
everybody, most obliging. It ought to be
a lesson for some of you fellows.” The
Old Australian’s face didn’t move as he
glanced from the newie to the passenger.
“Yes,” he said dryly. “But wait till he’s
had as much to do with you ruddy pas-
sengers as I have.”
* * * ♦
“Cine Ma”: Film-star Maureen O’Hara
has been telling Hollywood that Aus-
tralian film fans are much more demon-
strative than Americans—“they shout and
yell at exciting moments and toss com-
ment at the screen.” If this judgment
refers at all to Melbourne the only cinema
Miss O’Hara must have frequented is the
Lyceum, For years that Bourke-street
house has catered for a particular clientele
Which likes Westerns, romantic dramas
and good rough stuff. Every now and
then, however, to the astonishment of
its regular customers it becomes the
reception-house for highbrow matter of
the loftiest intellectual order which the
posh cinemas in Collins-street fear is too
good for a long run in a large theatre.
Perhaps Miss O’Hara was present on one
of these occasions. Screened in Collins-
street, the same films would be received
in solemn silence,
* * ♦ ♦
“Clooter”; Save for three members,
everybody at our golf club seemed to be
unusually cheery last Saturday. The
explanation was discovered to lie in a
widely-published report from two Ameri-
can doctors that a man “is a fool to drink
alcohol before he is 40, and a fool not
to drink it after 40,” The three uncon-
cerned are teetotallers. I say unconcerned
as applied to last Saturday afternoon;
by Saturday night they’d been derided
as fools so frequently that one threatened
to resign, another was seen in earnest
conversation with a bar steward, and the
third had so far lowered his guard as to
take a schooner of lemonade with a dash
of beer in it,
* ♦ * •
“Harold Hardupp”: The “adventurous
spirit” that induced young men to seek
their fortunes in other lands was not by
any means universally regarded as that
by English people. When a friend of
mine decided, many years ago, to come
to Australia, he was disappointed in a
vague hope of getting a few quid to help
him on his way from a well-to-do uncle.
“Reckon the provosts'll be awake-up , mate?”
The uncle said that he classed as a failure
any man who found it necessary to leave
his own country, and although it was the
custom to give gifts to anyone who was
departing he had not a penny to spare
for a self-confessed failure. My friend
has always felt a slight rankling about
that parting nastiness, mitigated of recent
years by a sense of a noble revenge when
he sent the dour old codger food parcels,
for which he was suitably grateful.
“Emjai”: From Manchester recently
came a report of a mighty hit by a bats-
man ; the ball, soaring over the boundary,
the embankment and the outer fence,
17ft. above the level of the pitch, finished
up by striking a girl standing at the
gate of her home 98yd. away, with
damages to the girl’s head and £l4O
against the Cheetham Cricket Club. A
Melbourne cricket writer recalled a
'r tmtuMsB
wallop by Bill Howell on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground when he drove Warwick
Armstrong over mid-off into the park-
lands behind the outer. That seems to
stand as an Australian record, though
no measurements were taken. I well
remember that sensational smack, as first-
slip told me after the match that Bill,
while the ball was still soaring into the
distance, turned to him and said, “By
cripes! That one would have gone if
I’d got onto it.”
* * ♦ *
“Becks”: I am well aware that Time,
custom, prejudice and vanity play all
sorts of tricks with inoffensive words and
that in accordance with this trend
“emigrant” and “immigrant” have been
almost banished from official and general
use, their place having been taken by
“migrant.” At the same time that
scarcely justifies the A.B.C. announcer in
telling his St. Patrick’s Day audience that
they had just been listening to a record-
ing of John McCormack singing “The
Irish Migrant.” After all, when Lady
Dufferin wrote the verses, which begin
“I’m sitting on the stile, Mary,” she
wasn’t thinking of a migratory swallow,
though perhaps if she had been able to
look info the future she plight have called
her piece “The Lament of the Hibernian
Displaced Person.”
* * * «
“Vil”: Tk e t wo well-dressed women
in the train were criticising the judging
at the dog show, and they fell to
exchanging confidences about their own
lap-dogs. “Oh, he has his own chair, and
he sits up to the table just like we do,”
gushed the bejewelled one. “So does
Tossles,” the other came in. “And she
is so good when the manicurist comes;
she sits as good as gold and has her toes
done.” This seemed to be something
new to Jewels: “Oh, a manicure ser-
vice?” “Why, of course! Haven’t you
one?” It appeared that the manicurist
came every week for a fee of 7s. 6d, a
visit. A telephone-number was given and
gratefully accepted. From there they got
to ailments —one of the little tykes had
suffered from nerves. However, a skilled
vet. —“Really a specialist, you know”—
had overcome the affliction. And so on.
For my part, I love animals —that’s why
I hate to see a dog treated as anything
else but a dog.
» * * •
“Rann”: “Drong’s” flea remedy (B.
14/2/’5l) reminds me of the uses to
which the troops put some of the items
issued in New Guinea. “Canned heat”
was rarely used for the purpose of heat-
ing—it made an excellent foot lotion—
and mosquito-repellent was so useful for
starting fires with rain-soaked wood that
an order had to be issued forbidding its
use for that purpose. One line of tooth-
paste supplied to the troops was a
favorite in the workshops as a metal-
polish. A large proportion of the packets
of dried fruits received in parcels were
used in the only way one would expect
in an area into which the import of
“spirituous and fermented liquors” had
been prohibited.
* * ♦ *
“Uramao”: The egg-eaters have been
at it again, despite famine prices. In
Dunedin (N.Z.) three of them staged a
performance at a coffee-stall. One de-
molished 41 eggs in an hour and 32
minutes; the runner-up accounted for
39 and the third 38, None of the trio
suffered any after-effects —so far.
* * • ♦
“Mullum”: There’s hope for the nation
yet; in fact, I would go so far as to say
that the outlook is bright. The manager
of the local radio-station tells me that
the new serials in his children’s session
are far more popular than those they
replaced. The “new” ones are Peter the
Whaler and Coral Island.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Overseas visitors have said
some tactless things about this country
before, but his Serene Highness Nibadh
Diskul, head of the Siamese Taxation
Department, made an observation on
arriving in Sydney which beats even Lord
Beauchamp’s celebrated quotation from
Kipling. Waxing enthusiastic over Aus-
tralia’s admirable tax system, H.S.H.
asserted that we have “one of the best
methods of collecting taxation in the
world.” His country has a large number
of Chinese merchants who don’t keep
books, and when he introduces the Aus-
tralian system he expects the revenue to
be doubled. There are lots of people m
Australia who don’t keep books, but the
Oriental gentleman probably doesn t know
that.
AUNT CALLY’S FAIRY-TALE.
Now, Auntie Cally, do not fail —
You promised me a fairy-tale.
Well, child, a big bad giant, Bob,
Said “Give the kids five-bob a nob” . . .
I carft see why you call him bad—
I wish I had him for my Dad /
Let boys not praise nor girls condemn;
They never know what’s good for them.
Now, Bert and Ben said: “This is rash.
The fellow has not got the cash!”
By Bert and Ben whom do you mean?
They are Good Fairies, often seen
Dancing upon the village green.
Ah yes. I think I’ve heard it said
Bert dances better on the red —
But Auntie, this five-bob a kid —
Did Bob persist ?
Alas, he did,
But, thinking-up a charming trick,
Our fairies called upon Old Nick,
Who said to Bob: “Your foolish prank,
Persisted in, will break the bank.
Five-bob spells ruin; think again—
I must insist you make it ten.”
But Bob, the baddest giant alive,
2 Went on his wilful way with five.
I can’t see wherein Bob was scurvy;
r It seems a little topsy-turvy.
However, Auntie, tell me true,
What next did your Good Fairies do?
Ah, child, the best of Fairies dies
Who can’t fulfil his prophecies;
So our two and their crew set out
To bring the promised ruin about;
And hosts of little crimson dwarfs
Cobwebbed cargoes on the wharves.
Chased the miners out of mines
And sat the judges down on pins;
And companies of carousing witches
Jiggled about electric switches,
While Nick, with Machiavellian paws.
Diverted and delayed the laws:
And thus the pound, which Ben himself
Reduced from twenty-bob to twelve,
Was by these surreptitious kicks
Knocked further down to only six,
And this miraculous behavior
Obtained while Ben was out of favor—
Should he become the public hero
He may achieve financial zero,
And then, my child, and then, and then
He’ll raise your five-bob up to ten.
You understand it; I do not —
How give us what he hasn’t got?
Dear child, the method is, to pay,
And get it back some other way.
If these Good Fairies, Aunt, were Misters,
People would surely call them twisters?
Why, yes, my child; of great agility,
And valued for their proved ability
To twist upon a major scale —
But there. It’s just a fairy-tale.
RONALD McCUAIG.
252 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


“Most women no longer young would never go
about without stockings if they were to make an
honest appraisal of their legs. For most it is a real
blessing that skirts remain fairly long.”
— Woman’s paper.
“Aestur”: In another Speck boarding-
house (B. 14/2/’5l) a young woman sat
down to her breakfast of a solitary chop,
and was just lifting her knife and fork
when a long toasting-fork was thrust over
her shoulder to spear the chop. As the
cook-proprietress carried it off in triumph
to the kitchen she yelled in explanation
to the startled guest, “That’s Ernie’s
chop,”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Melb’n”: Millane, the man who
staked a goldminer’s claim in the busiest
part of Queen-street, Melbourne, has
“Butter-fingers!”
found a successor in Noble Kerby, of
St. Kilda, who has just staked a brown-
coal claim of 550 acres in Port Phillip Bay
opposite the pier, and stretching 6000 ft.
to Point Ormond. The stakes are four
large piles, and Kerby seems to mean
business. Mining experts agree that there
is plenty of coal in the seabed, a 50ft. to
80ft. seam 300 ft. below the surface. If
he gets his mining licence Mr. Kerby
intends to build an island, erect flats for
his miners, and then sink a shaft through
the island down to the coal seam. He
is negotiating with a Dutch dredging firm
to implement his project and is prepared
to spend £12,000 on preliminary explora-
tion. There are a few snags in the way.
There’s the matter of a permit, which the
Public Works Department doesn’t seem
inclined to issue. Properly beaconed, the
island might be an ornament to the
featureless bay. Someone had a similar
brainwave 20 years ago. His idea was to
establish a romantic isle of pleasance, but
vested interests of entertainment objected.
There are no vested interests in coal at
present, there being no coal.
■t * * * *
“Bamekaw”: A minor racket of the
day is the practice among shopkeepers
of bunging any officially announced price-
increase on all affected articles in stock
irrespective of how long they have been
held. The specious excuse advanced by
our local soap-’n’-sugar seller left me
speechless. “Well, you must remember
that if the price falls we have to sell at
that new, low price even though the stuff
may have been bought at a price higher
than we can then charge. So it cuts both
ways, you see.”
* ♦ ♦
“J.C.”: The imported additions to
Canberra’s housing had a narrow escape
from destruction recently when the ship-
ping crates were found to contain
ambrosia beetles. Rather than risk pos-
sible devastation of thousands of acres
of pine plantations, the authorities were
prepared to incinerate the whole ship-
load of houses, despite Swedish experts’
blithe declarations that the beetles were
harmless; there are already enough
examples of livestock unimportant in
their native lands becoming major
menaces in a new land. A closely-
related European beetle is now enjoying
itself among South Australian pines.
However, the Swedish migrants were
found only under the bark of c:ate-
wood —the crates were made of 10-»-
edgings with bark left on. It was de-
cided to burn the crates, and creosote
and quarantine the houses. Future ship-
ments of Swedish-spruce houses will come
without bark.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Occasionally in our local
courts a judge shows something of the
wisdom of Solomon. In divorce, recently,
’Sonah was curious about the evidence
of a woman who said she knew the
respondent was often intoxicated. She
admitted that she had never seen him any
w'orse than slightly merry, but his wife
had told her frequently that he was a
drunkard. “That is no evidence,” said
the judge tersely. “If a man drinks at all
his wife is always prepared to say he is
a drunkard,”
* * * *
“Findy”: The sleek grey car with the
sleek grey-haired woman at the wheel
backed out from the tightly-packed line
of cars parked along fhe eastern kerb
of Pitt-street. She had given a hand-
signal and, as far as I could judge, was
using every care, and it certainly wasn’t
her fault that a large truck chose that
moment to back out rather swiftly from
a narrow lane on the other side of the
street. A P.M.G. van careering up the
street swerved to avoid the truck, and
there was a screech of brakes as it came
to rest inches away from the grey car.
The youth who was driving the van
“Sh! I'm a stowaway !"
glanced at the truck-driver and decided
to pick an easier mark. “Why don’t you
watch what you’re doing?” he bawled at
the woman driver. “Young man,” she
replied. “/ was perfectly aware what I
was doing and I’d just like you to know
that I was driving cars when you were
still in nappies.” She moved off
smoothly and victoriously.
* * * *
“X.S.”: When a critic particularises he
is apt to take risks. Arnold Shore, writ-
ing in Melbourne “Argus,” said of Alma
Figuerola’s show at George’s Gallery that
“alt her tone-matching care, as evidenced
in ‘lris,’ fails to convey the simple
rotundity of the flower-vase used.” Miss
Figuerola tartly replied that Mr. Shore
“debits me with failing to achieve rotun-
dity in a flower-vase which was, in fact,
not rotund, but flat-sided.” Mr. Shore’s
reply hasn’t come out yet, and it is diffi-
cult to see what reply he could make,
since artist and critic were both one-time
pupils of Max Meldrum, whose whole
teaching is concerned with the exact
analysis of the visual sensation.
* * ♦ •
“Vaucy”: Sydney’s hot and humid
summer brought gastro-enteritis to the
Vaucluse peninsula, and the daily Press
featured it, with all sort of exaggerated
statements calculated to scare parents into
fits. A fly-bome germ causes the disease,
which is almost an annual event in hot
inland towns where sanitation is
primitive; the germ thrives on filth
putrefying under heat and humidity.
Somebody announced that raw milk was
responsible, and this, coinciding with the
introduction of the free-milk scheme at
schools in the area, resulted in hundreds
of youngsters being ordered by their
parents not to drink the stuff. Samples
of one dairyman’s milk were taken for
analysis, and, at the rate of progress when
this was written, it’ll probably be Christ-
mas before the result is announced. Some
doctors rushed in with statements that
milk was responsible, which is absurd,
seeing that the germs don’t infect cows
or their udders. Infection comes from
humans, which is why home-cleanliness
and protection of food from flies is the
essential safeguard. The yarn that
“hundreds of adults have had to stay
away from work because of it,” if true, is
just another example of the work-shy
seizing on a popular excuse.
* * * ♦
“Jubilee”: “Hamfat’s” par (B.
21/2/’5l) recalls Phil May’s famous
“Punch” drawing of the lion-tamer’s wife
shaking her umbrella at her husband.
He is sleeping with his back propped
against one of the lions while his wife,
outside, of course, is saying, “You
coward!” Did Phil May get the idea
from the incident in Fitzgerald’s Circus
or did the inebriated clown get his in-
spiration from Phil’s drawing?
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Gandhi, the apostle of
non-aggression, is to be the subject for
the most aggressive memorial in history.
It will consist of a gigantic bust of the
Mahatma, 114 ft. high, leaning on half
a spinning-wheel and grinning down
benignly on the human antheap of New
Delhi. Inside it will be a four-storied
museum housing relics of the man who,
for half a century, dominated India from
his praying-mat in a mud hut. The
sculptor will be V. P. Karmarkar, of
Bombay, who may, or may not, be a
genius. Nobody has yet been able to
give an artistic content to a work of art
of that size, though many have tried. A
Japanese artist painted a portrait of the
Mikado which covered half an acre, and
in Berlin before the First World War I
saw a German sculptor at work high up
on a maze of scaffolding putting the
finishing touches to a 75ft. wooden effigy
of the Nordic war god, Thor. His studio
was a big one, but not big enough for
the giant, whose head stuck through a
large hole in the roof. As there was no
possible position from which the artist
could view the work as a whole there was
no hope of his producing anything but an
artistic howler. During the subsequent
European upheaval it was renamed “Von
Hindenburg” and patriotic Germans paid
for the privilege of driving nails into it
as a sign of victory for the Fatherland.
* ♦ * ♦
“Tackline S.”: Curtailment of news-
papers through newsprint famine —even
more acute in Britain than here —reminds
me of a sight I saw in Sweden which
would make the mouths of editors and
freelances water. In a barber’s-shop there
was a roll of newsprint, a large sheet
of which was tom off to take the place
of the hairdresser’s cloth each time a
customer climbed into the chair.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Pip Tok”: Those who conversed with
members of the Black Watch Band have
noticed that the visitors’ accent is flavored
as much with Yorkshire pudding as with
oatmeal. At Northam (W.A.) one bands-
man replied, when asked how he was
enjoying the visit, “Laad, it’s champeen,”
He was one of an appreciable number
of the Black Watch men who came from
south of the Tweed. The kilt has always
had a strong fascination for the Sassenach,
and the rolls of Scottish regiments have
always contained English, Irish and
Welsh names. Colonel Mathias, who
commanded the Gordons when they made
their famous charge at Dargai, was a
Welshman, and many of his men were
Irish. Not that that was strange; even
in those days Glasgow had a big Irish
population.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Derwent”: Treasured in Launceston’s
Queen Victoria Museum is a flag, 12ft.
by 9ft., which was hoisted in 1851 as
the banner of the Australasian League,
founded to abolish convict transportation
to the colonies.. Made by Launceston
women and presented to the two Tas-
manian delegates who attended an inter-
colonial conference in Melbourne in
February, 1851, the flag, of blue silk,
bears the Union Jack and the Southern
Cross of gold stars. A white silk border
carries the inscription “Australasian
League, Instituted 1851.” Dozens of
copies were made, in bunting and other
materials, and flown at ships’ mastheads,
hung up at outdoor gatherings and indoor
public meetings, and even displayed in
New York, America showing profound
sympathy for the colonies in their fight
for termination of the “system.”
Although its designers declared that it
“was not a flag of rebellion,” it very
nearly came to being one. The Imperial
Government’s intransigence over trans-
portation brought things to such a pass
that “cutting the painter” was openly
advocated in Sydney, while at a meeting
in Hobart speakers declared they would
tear down the British ensign and hoist the
flag of a free people in its place. The
Imperial Government ultimately gave
way, and transportation ceased in 1853.
A MATTER FOR THANKFULNESS.
It needs a long and intimate inspection
By aid of candid mirror to convince
A woman that her supple, slim perfection
Of shank has disappeared—alas, long since.
The doubts she entertained are not well-founded,
She hopes—like M.Ps. with the ballot-box,
By all the hags of fear intently hounded.
And then, dismayed, despondent and dumb-
founded,
She gazes on her hocks!
Her legs, perhaps, are bottle-shaped or hairy,
Straight up and down and tenuous withal
(Rather resembling those of the canary)
Scarce adequate to keep her from a fall.
They may be simply fat, or strong as cable,
Or of a bulk, a general contour
Like those you see beneath a billiard-table.
They won’t be as the legs of Betty Grable,
Of that you may be sure.
All those who own such comic underpinning
Should heed the need for giving Nature aid.
Against the law of Eve she would be sinning
Who’d brazenly and blatantly parade
Bare-legged, anno Domini defynig,
Risking the ribald laughter and the leer.
It’s far more dignified, there’s no denying,
To mercifully cover them. Be buying
Some nylons for ’em, dear.
You, sister, raise that skirt a few more inches!
See what I mean? Look at that pair of
knobs!
That is the argument, you know, that clinches.
You must admit they’re not the best of jobs.
Drop it again. That’s better. Elevation
Suits not your age. Be thankful, if you please,
That current fashion shows consideration.
Long skirts confer this boon, this great salva-
tion:
No one can see your knees!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m camped on the
Campaspe just out o’ Echuca,” said Mat.
“In among a lot o’ them dairyfarmers. A
kid comes up on a bike an’ asks if I see
a roan heifer. I tell him no, an’ he pedals
off, lookin’ scared. A few minutes later
a little girl on a pony asks me the same
thing, an’ she gallops off. Then a woman
comes in a sulky, asks me the same an’
away she goes. There’s a bit of a lull
after that, then up come two blokes on
foot with the same question an’ they get
the same answer. Then the boy on the
bike comes back an’ asks me again an’
goes off cryin’ like mad. I’m beginnin’
t’ think it’s a funny turnout when blow
me tight if a parson don’t arrive in a
old motor-car. ‘lf y’re goin’ t’ ask me
about a roan heifer,’ I says, ‘y’ needn’t,
’cos I ain’t seen her, an’ there’s a boy
an’ a girl an’ a woman an’ two blokes
been here already,’ The parson looks a
bit anxious an’ then he says, ‘Was the
boy sandy an’ freckled?’ ‘Yair,’ I says.
‘Was the lady tall an’ thin?’ ‘Yair.’
‘Oh, dear,’ he says, ‘l’d better be goin’.’
‘Wait a minute,’ I barks. ‘What’s goin’
on?’ The parson looks at me dead
solemn an’ says, ‘That heifer belongs t’
Mr. Reefer ; that’s his wife y’ saw. She’s
the organist at the church. Mr. Reefer
is against the church. If we don’t find
that heifer he won’t let her play the
organ an’ we won’t have a service tonight.
I must go. Good-bye.’ An’ he hits up
the old car and streaks off. Gripes, it
was the funniest way in all me travels I
ever found out the day was Sunday.”
V * * *
“K.Mc”; Old Wheatear set four
rabbit-traps on top of his haystack to
ensnare white cockatoos, which were
tearing the sheaves to pieces. That even-
ing four birds were in the traps. Armed
with a stick, Wheatear clambered up on
the stack and dispatched one, two and
three. Number Four fluttered in the trap
and screeched, “Krurrrkkk! Krurrrkkk! ”
As Wheatear lifted the stick the bird
turned its head, gave W. that inimitable
knowing look of the domesticated parrot
and gabbled, “Poor old Cocky; what’s
wrong with Cocky?’* Wheatear fell off
the stack, swore at himself, then climbed
up again and took the pest home. “He
talked me out of it,” he explained.
*** * ;
“Smithy”: There are some really out-
landish insects up north. Centipedes of
Sin. and 6in. are common. The best I
ever saw was 10*in. (measured). It was
killed near Fanny Bay jail. A locust that
all but filled a small glass jar was caught
at East Point, Darwin. It went two and
a bit inches around the girth before it
was embalmed in metho. The only
scorpion I ever saw up there was easily
4in. long before a .303 butt turned it into
a horrible mess. But the daddy of ’em
all was at Annaburroo. A praying-
mantis. The blokes who saw that insect
will never forget it. No measurements
available now, but I’ll swear it went 15in.
It was very dark green, except where the
wings joined the body ; here it was bril-
liant crimson. The wings were leathery
to the touch and badly torn about. When
“ Cripes , I'll bet that bloke can swing an axe."
put upon the ground it had difficulty in
moving its bulk. I’m back in the south
now, and when somebody jumps from a
2in. centipede I just grin.
* * * *
“How”: In the depression days I got
a job with a woolgrower for a couple
of weeks, and when my time was up put
it on the boss for tobacco money. He
pushed his hat back and studied the
horizon. “Ain’t got it, How,” he ad-
mitted. I asked for my fare to Sydney.
He didn’t have that, and I left with the
mere satisfaction of having eaten. That
was 18 years ago. A cheque arrived this
week. It was from that woolgrower—-
30s. for my wages and 10s. interest. There
must be money in wool.
* * * *
“Wester”: Jim was seeding a back-
paddock, and when he pulled the tractor
up for lunch noticed a smell of power-
kero., investigated, and found he had a
broken fuel-line. The tool-box had every
kind of spare except that one ; it was
seven miles home and ten to the town.
Jim decided to eat his lunch and then
drive the ute into town. He boiled the
billy, made the tea, opened up the lunch
and was suddenly smitten by something
he saw. He took the hunk of cheese to
the tractor, worked it round the break,
bound it with a strip of his handkerchief
and some anti-friction tape and got
through the rest of the day. Need I say
that Jim was working for himself?
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Old Charlie, a veteran
builders’ laborer, always lived in hopes
of finding a miser’s hoard in some old
building under demolition. Then came
the day. Charlie had been at work only
a Tew minutes when his yell brought
everybody running. He was frantically
struggling to enlarge a hole between the
floor and the ceiling below. “Look!” he
hollered. “A lump off a quid note, and
I can see a great wad of ’em down here! ”
So could we. Then he got the board
prised up and tragedy struck —three frag-
ments of old notes and the rest confetti.
No actor ever put such feeling in his lines
as old Charlie achieved in five words:
“Chawed. Chawed by blasted rats!”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: We’d let our horses go,
and were getting a lift into town with
Bill Henderson. “Better than riding,” I
remarked gleefully. Seventyfiver stared
at the road in silence, and turned to yarn
to Bill. The truck chugged over the
swamp flats, developed a splutter on
Black Ridge, and half-way up the long
spur dwindled to a standstill. “Doing this
on me quite a bit lately,” remarked Bill
as he dropped off. “I know what’s the
matter. Won’t take me long to fix it.”
He pulled out a bag of tools and I handed
them to him as directed. Half an hour
later he was still blowing through
gadgets and fitting them together. “Beats
me why you blokes don’t get some sort
of a motor out there,” he mentioned
presently. “Save you no end of time.” I
glanced at Seventyfiver’s poker-mug and
said nothing. “Keep you in touch with
things,” Bill persisted. “You could come
in every week for your mail and supplies,
and you wouldn’t have to clear much of
a track. Why don’t you get one, old-
timer?” Seventyfiver’s head came round
slowly. “Wa-al, sonny,” he drawled
sorrowfully. “When they make ’em so
they’ll swaller a shot o’ drench like any
reas’nable sort o’ beast, ’stead o’
demandin’ a major operation ev’ry time
they cough, maybe we might start
thinkin’ about it.”
H l * H*
“Anthrop”: “In ’is prime ’e was the
best shafter I ever had,” old Charlie said
regretfully as he reluctantly loaded his
rifle. “No use puttin’ it off any longer
now, though; poor old feller’s too old
to be anything but a misery to ’imself.”
He paused, considering life’s mutations,
delaying the unhappy moment of execu-
tion. Lowering the rifle he gazed down
the paddock. “Coin’ to be a bit
awkward,” he mused. “I’ll have to drag
’im down to the creek somehow—after-
wards.” To me there seemed an obvious
way to avoid this post-mortem transposi-
tion. “Why not walk him down there
now under his own power?” I suggested.
Charlie glared. “On a day like this?”
he cried. “And in his condition! The
heat’d kill ’im.”
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The last race of the bush picnic
was a handicap for matrons, handicaps
being decided on avoirdupois because of
an entire absence of data on previous
form. A second or two after the cowbell
had started them off the favorite, a com-
paratively slim woman on scratch, caught
“Why didn't We get one of them two-seaters and save a few bob?"
her foot in a hidden root and smote the
sod. The limit matron, a 15-stoner,
showing a surprising burst of speed over
the 33yd. course, headed the field through-
out and won by a couple of yards. As
a scrubby-looking man came up and
carted the winner proudly off a whiskered
cow-cocky reclining on an elbow near
the finishing-line took the stem of pas-
palum from between his teeth and
drawled: “Gripes, you’re pretty tough,
Joe, winnin’ with a ring-in.” “Whaddaya
talkin’ about, ring-in?” replied Joe in-
dignantly. “She’s me own missus, ain’t
she?” “Oh, I ain’t questionin’ that,”
came back the recumbent kine-fancier,
“but, struth, y’ wouldn’t exactly call her
grass-fed, would y’?”
* * * «
“Scot”: Probably the strongest “taint”
in the flesh of cattle or sheep (B.
17/1 /’5l) results from their grazing on
the plant Virginia pepper-cress (often
erroneously called wild-mustard weed),
which comes up thickly in s.-w, Q. during
August and September. Mutton especi-
ally is almost unfit for human consump-
tion as the result of sheep eating it. Any
cattle that remain fat on scrub-fodder
always show rich yellow kidney- and
caul-fat, far darker in color to that of
grass-fattened cattle, when slaughtered.
Virginia pepper-cress is the bane of
butter-factory managers, owing to the
strong “taint” in cream supplied from
dairyfarms on which the plant is grow-
ing. Wild-turnip and horehound plants
also produce a strong bream “taint.”
And when lagoons and waterholes are
“weedy” the flesh of fish and wild-ducks
develops an objectionably “weedy” taste.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: In six weeks’ trapping and
shooting in the Rawlinson (W.A.) area,
two dingo-hunters collected bonuses to
the value of £385 from the Norseman
Pasture Board. Total bag over the period
was 295 dingoes, seven pups and 12
eagles. Nearly 200 of the warrigals were
run down and shot from a utility-truck.
* * * *
“Rumberg”: A train crew in N.Q. is
still shaking from an experience unusual
even in the casual north. On the table-
lands behind Cairns is a maze of small
branch-lines, mostly put down in the
mining days, and this crew was running
a train on the Etheridge line, laid down
in 1899, and recently reopened for heavy
traffic after having had only light rail-
motors running on it for years. They
were shaken out of the somnolence of a
dull trip when the guard’s van jumped
the rails after crossing a bridge over one
of the innumerable deep gul'ies. At least,
the crew thought they’d crossed a bridge.
They hadn’t! They’d crossed the guliy
all right, but on the rails only. The
bridge proper had collapsed completely,
leaving the rails sagging like a suspension-
bridge across empty space. It speaks well
for the quality of the 51-year-old rails,
which are the light, 401 b. type, that
engine, tender and several box-cars went
across before the rails spread enough to
derail the van after it, too, was safely
across.
* * * *
“Toto”: “Coincidence is a funny
thing,” said Wally. “Now take me Uncle
Bill. I goes out to his place one day, and
just as I get inside the gate I hear a
terrific row going on out the back. I goes
around (and here’s the old boy and another
cove about the same age almost havin’
a stand-up fight over a wire-haired foxie
that’s tied up in the yard. The other
bloke reckons Uncle Bill has pinched it,
and Uncle Bill wants to rip him apart.
Me Uncle Bill and the other Moke both
had red hair. Makes you think.” “You
mean it was a coincidence that they both
had red hair?” I asked. “No,” said
Wally impatiently. “The dog didn t
belong to either of them. It belonged to
me. I pinched it from a bloke in Kal-
goorlie, and he had black, curly haul
THE FLESH.
1 die? I, that from the dust arose
And saw the stars? The stars
Were nameless but for me,
For I am eye and ear to man in all
That measures where life’s universe is
mind,
Or worlds outside the mind.
Let the soul have its hour! Give it its
cold eternity
Where no sense asks the rose of love to
bloom.
Life’s fire to warm, its joy to sing,
And in the sky the moon to be
The butterfly of night!
But I, I the poor perishable.
In one brief moment can declare
All these to man, and bring to him
His utmost depth and reach. Even the soul
Itself I give, for without me no soul
Found man in whom to be, in whom to
house!
And I alone give man his child,
Give him his own recording self.
Father to son, and son to son again.
What is the soul beside all this?
What can it give to man who lived in me,
And by me saw the stars?
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE


HOLDEN
COUPE UTILITY
★
Good looks . . . passenger car comfort
i s s and Holden*s proved performance built into
a sturdy go-anywhere utility
THE Holden Utility is smart and business
like. The amazing petrol economy of its
power-packed engine combined with the
generous, roomy payload area reduce running
costs, add pounds to profits.
Designed specially for Australian conditions
there’s no finer light transport proposition
for the farmer of business man than Australia’s
own utility. Arrange for a demonstration now
at your Holden Dealer’s. Admire the smart,
modem lines ... sit in the roomy, comfortable
cab . , , thrill to the punch and power of the 6
cylinder engine ... examine the sturdy aerobilt
construction, the generous payload area, the
easy-opening tailboard and the many other
proved utility features that make the Holden
Utility your perfect partner for work and
leisure.
There’s an “Air Chief” Radio specially designedfor Holden,
List Price £785 plus tax. Convenient hire purchase terms are available through GM.A.C.;
General Motors’ own finance company.
Great Power from the
21 h.p. 6 cylinder overhead
valve engine combined with
high powcr-torweight ratio
mean faster acceleration,
better hill climbing, higher
speed and more miles to the
gallon.
Roomy Cabin setting a
new standard in utility com-
fort with ample leg, elbow
and head room for three.
Adjustable seat, ea»y-to-read
illuminated instrument panel
and new-type Holden seating
to make driving a pleasure.
Generous Payload Area
with space to take a really
profitable load. Check and
compare these dimensions.
Length on floor 75$*, max.
width at front 56$'”, between
wheelarches 43", depth at
front 20". Payload—7 cwt.
HOLDEN Australia’s Own Utility
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
u
ism
\4
y
PI.82
WHEN A COCKTAIL
CALLS FOR ABSINTHE
USE—
PERNOD
■B HHIHI ■■■
Leading Wine
and Spirit
Merchants,
Hotels and Clubs
will supply you
with this essen-
tial to many
of the world's
most exciting
cocktails.
Agenfs fot Autfralla:
McLaughlin & Co. Pty. Ltd.. Sydney
Distributors—• Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd., Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty.
Ltd. South Australia: Georg* Wills & Co. Ltd. Western Australia!
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
“Warroo”: We hadn’t seen the Ford-
cubbins for over a year, and drove out
there one Sunday to renew a happy
friendship. The road into F.’s turns
through a gate just short of a hill, the
homestead is beyond the hill so that from
the gate you see only the roof. The iron
gate we remembered was gone and the
marks of flood damage told us why; in
its place was a “Queensland” gate of wire
and battens. Harry got out, undid the
fastener, the “Q.” gate promptly flew
back like a racecourse barrier and three
panels of fence fell down. It took three
of us the best part of an hour, in the
blazing sun and in our Sunday clothes,
to get the panels up and the gate re-
fastened. Just as we finished young Jack
Fordcubbin came along the road. “Didn’t
y’ know?” he marvelled. “When the
flood washed the gate away Dad put a
new one in just round the turn, other side
of the hill. Y’ needn’t ha’ gone through
there at all.” But we had gone through
and those three panels had to be let down
and stood up again before we could get
out. Gates!
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Larrakeah”: Who said Binghi had no
sense of humor? Up north he believes
that the coconut can see and will never
drop on a native-—yet he takes no risks.
Camped out at West Arm one evening
I pitched my bunk beneath one of the
five straggling coconut palms. Tiger, how-
ever, prepared bis shakedown of split
coconut fronds well down on the beach
and clear of the trees. He looked a bit
shamefaced when I chiacked him about
the nuts. “Yes, boss,” he replied. “That
fella nut he see all right daytime, but how
that fella nut see blackfella in dark?”
• * * •
“Rus”: Mick, who was boundary-rider,
fencer and rabbiter—mainly the latter, as
he was almost past his horseriding days
—had a hut at the far end of the station.
Usually by the time rations and beer
came out of his wages only a few bob
“Cant you sing anything else but sea-chanties?"
remained. Knowing this, it was no
wonder we were surprised to see him
turn up at the pub one Saturday in a
new outfit which must have cost the best
part of 30 pounds. “ ’Struth! ” exclaimed
Dan the barman. “Look what’s coming.
Hey, Mick, struck gold, or has there
been a fire?” Mick looked selfconscious,
then said, “Aw, I cashed my wool-clip,”
“Y’ mean y’r rabbitskins, don’t you?”
asked someone. “No, me wool-clip. I
bin usin’ half a dozen full-wool pelts on
me bunk for a mattress!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Like most bushmen the
old boss was firmly attached to his ancient
felt hat. Though his missus and
daughters bought him expensive panamas
and velours, and once even tried him
with a bowler, he’d wear them only on
formal visits to town. On all other occa-
sions the old, grey, bandless, shapeless
felt crowned him. One shearing season
he hung it on a post in the shed while
he filled the pens. It disappeared. That
shed was searched from chutes to roof
and back again. No hat. Then all hands
sat down and thought it over and came
to alternative conclusions. Either a ewe
had eaten it or it was pressed in one of
the bales. No, the boss didn’t order the
bales cut open and the wool searched.
He had more brains than to do that. He
wrote to Jus brokers about it; they sent
the word forth and one day, many moons
later, the hat arrived by post —all the way
from a Belgian woollen mills.
* * * *
“Harbel”: The local kids were clustered
in excitement round the cages of the
travelling circus and menagerie, billed to
play our town. Then a very small boy
toddled past, ignored the lions, monkeys,
dogs, ponies and donkey. He’d got nearly
across the road when a flying female
rescued him and took him inside a cara-
van. I suppose any kid born in a circus
would become excited at the sight of an
old sheep tethered on a lawn.
* * * ♦
“Wonk”; Twenty minutes of pouring
rain, and water was racing every-
where. “ ’Struth, look at the creek,
will y’,” bawled Charlie, pointing to the
row of willows just below the shack.
“Runnin’ a banker.” Ben’s eyes roved
over the torrent, then he let out a yell.
“Blime! The foal’ll git drowned.” He
drew the other’s attention to the poddy
foal, tethered on the farther side. “How’s
a bloke goin’t’ get over t’ let him go?”
“Y* can’t,” Charlie bawled back. “Any-
way, it might ease off, and long as he
stops where he is I reckon he might be
awright.” “Can’t risk it,” returned Ben.
“Too valu’ble. I might get over on that
limb there.” “Aw, don’t be mad, y’
can’t reach . . .” But Ben was already
fighting his way through the storm. He
reached the willow, clawed his way along
a limb, made a wild spring for the farther
bank, and landed a foot short. The
current whirled him over, and swept him
rushing downstream to catch on a fence.
There he scrambled out, and as he made
for the foal Charlie re-entered the hut.
A long time passed; then Ben returned?
In silence he began stripping off his
streaming clobber. “Get the foal off?”
Charlie inquired. “Get him off!” howled
Ben. “Blime, soon’s I let him go he
raced straight t’ the place he alwus
crossed, jumped in, an’ got himself washed
away!”
* * ♦ *
“Kali”: Natives of the Upper Ramu
leave rattan loops in the jungle, and the
spiders obligingly build their web across
the loop ; thus Brown Brother acquires a
ready-made fishing-net with which he can
capture all the small-fry common to N.G.
waters. In the Markham Valley these/
webs are collected by the expectant
mother. Should the newcomer be a girl,
the web is plaited into a girdle and tied
very securely around the child’s forehead.
This band is only removed on rare
occasions, and, being non-elastic, the head
grows long, thus giving the child the
peculiar conception of beauty that is so
much desired by those who people the
Markham. The married women also
wear a long string of plaited web around
their necks, the idea apparently being
that it is a handy purchase for the
husband to grip when he wishes to give
his spouse a good walloping.
HONEY-EATER ON A RED-HOT-
POKER FLOWER.
What a brave throat is thisl
To swallow molten flame,
Thrusting beak-scimitar
Straight into depths of fire;
Sword to be tempered right
In the hot core of delight;
A taut and fragile frame
Stretched for the burning kiss.
All sinuous desire
Expressed in body and wing;
Claws tightly clenched to hold
The stem, to grip and enfold
Love’s vast infinity here,
Casual and unaware:
As if it were no heroic thing
To sup at the heart of fire.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING


IMCtVSCIT
TAXATIOI
STICK
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7
Y our Estate will he Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
COMPANY
O F
AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albary, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept. Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £
1944.. 6,884,448 8,633,893 568,572
Written off premises, £10,000 -
To staff fund, £3,950 ...
£
2,668,032
1946.. 7,208,804 3,822,276 626,481'
Written off fixed assets, £12,270 ■
To staff fund, £4,060.
2,743,727
1946,. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673'
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 -
Exchange adjustment, £200,000
2,698,846
1947.. 8,583,867 4,042,303 962,341 7
Written off fittings, £24,218 J
3,505,005
1948.. 9,300,665 4,448,507 1,065,303 ‘
Written off assets, £40,000 .. ■
Exchange adjustment, £100,000...
3,646,855
1949., 10,211,276 4,549,727 1,131,214 1
Written off assets, £23,104 .. f
Exchange adjustment, £10,914 .. f
To contingencies reserve, £750,000 1
8,746,317
1950.. 11,012,057 4,753,158 1,249,217 ]
Written off assets, £17,292 .. j-
Exchange adjustment, £10,391 . .J
4,981,999
* Excluding income tax and rates.
The big life cos. had another record
year in 1950; this because of the
security aspect of a contract with a
sound, regular bonus-paying life office.
Certainly the increase in capital value of
a life policy (sum assured plus regular
annual bonus additions) is unable to
match today’s decline in the purchasing-
power of money, which is the con-
comitant of inflation. But the capital
sum payable under a life contract keeps
on increasing, even when the price of
Stock Exchange securities fall. More im-
portant, life assurance provides a full
measure of capital protection for the
assured and his dependants long before
it is ever paid for ; an advantage for
which there is no substitute on the Stock
Exchange or elsewhere. For these and
a lot of other reasons a life policy should
be the sheet-anchor of everyman’s invest-
ment portfolio.
The National, second-largest of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual offices, put a
record £31,513,405 (up £5,992,459) of new
business on the books last term. The
average amount per policy was £590, and
the average premium p.c. £3 12s. lid., as
against £4BO and £4 Os. 4d. respectively
three yearsl ago. The co. is thus not only
writing more, but also bigger and longer-
term contracts. And they are ordinary
and group policies —no industrial business
is written —gathered in all countries of
the British Commonwealth except
Canada. No analysis of the composition
of new business is possible from the
published figures, but the growth of in-
dustrial superannuation schemes, of infla-
tion, of population and of home-purchase
coupled with life cover largely account
for the buoyancy of the figures.
The year’s total income was £11,012,057
(up £800,781), of which £8,307,153 (up
£582,251) was premiums and £2,704,904
(up £218,530) net interest, divs., and rents.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £5,009,682 remained, of which
£17,292 was written off the book-value
of assets and £10,391 was gobbled in
exchange adjustment. The remaining
£4,981,999 was added to the assurance
fund, raising it to £77,061,824, which is
well in excess of actuarial liabilities under
policies. In addition there is £3,276,087
of contingency and other reserves, which
also belong to policyholders, there being
no shareholders.
Another heartening feature is the arrest
of the long drift in the net rate of interest
earned (after deducting taxes) on the
assurance fund —£3 13s. lOd. p.c., up
Is. 9d. p.c. In valuing its policy liabilities
the co. assumes that the fund will turn
in only 2\ p.c. net. The margin between
the two rates is more than is usually
considered adequate to maintain rever-
sionary bonus-rates.
These rates were maintained at the
same satisfactory level as for the three
preceding years, ranging, on whole-life
policies, from 30s. p.c. on contracts five
years in force to 455. p.c. on those 30
years old or more. Only portion of last
year’s surplus (excess of assurance fund
over liabilities under policies) was distri-
buted. Prospects of a slight strengthen-
ing of bonus-rate at the next triennial
valuation (Sept. 30, 1952) are encourag-
ing.
During the war and early post-war
years surplus funds were nearly all
channelled into low-interest-bearing Gov-
ernment securities, which reacted un-
favorably on bonus-rates. Since the
board’s first duty is to policyholders,
more attention is now being given to
mortgages and industrial and other
securities, which show a bit better net
return: —
, 1949 N , 1950 s
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. .. 2,334,923 3.0 2,538,529 3.1
Govt, securities*..49,227,B3s 63.9 47,491,239 57.6
Debentures .. 1,384,692 1.8 1,832,660 2.2
Mortgages ..10,813,569 14.0 16,582,440 20.1
Deposits building
society .. .. 3,076,600 4.0 2,854,050 3.5
Loans on policies 3,982,286 5.2 4,123,723 5.0
Shares other cos. 2,998,676 3.9 8,691,425 4.5
Other assets .. 3,256,337 4.2 3,355,136 4.0
Total assets ..77,074,918 100.0 82,469,152 100.0
Liabilitiest .. 1,661,968 2,077,558
Net assets ..75,412,955 80,891,594
* Includes local-govt.-body loans,
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
At Sept. 30 last Government securities
(down £1,736,596) accounted for 57 p.c.
of total assets as against 71 p.c. in 1947
and 50 p.c. in 1939. Mortgages, largely
through the associated co., Fourth Vic-
toria Permanent Building Society, in-
creased by £5,768,871, and shareholdings
by £692,749.
Industrial Acceptance Corp., Ltd.
f Dividends v To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. 'Total. serves, serves.
& £> £ Sj
*47.. 87,224 74 p.c. = 87,500 49,724 268,192
Special div., £185,611 .. .. .. 132.581
Sundry additions, £120,838 .. .. 253,419
Share premiums, £150,000 .. .. 403,419
To special tax res., £86,081 .. .. 817,388
— 124 P-c. =125,000 90.598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/off. £10,921 .. 897.065
'49..270.823 5 p.c. 124 p.c. =144,271 126,552 523.617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
'50..396,161 5 p.c. 124 p.c. =165,625 230,536 879,153
It has been a remarkable development,
especially over the last three years.
Formed in 1926 as an offshoot of
American interests, the business has been
entirely Australian-owned since 1930,
and is now one of the largest hire-
purchase finance houses in Australia. Its
activities cover all States and embrace a
wide range of goods, chiefly motor-
vehicles, tractors, furniture, refrigerators
and other household and electrical equip-
ment, etc. And the co. enjoys strong
connections with several car-selling and
furniture-retailing houses.
Paid capital, which was £lOO,OOO in
1930, reached £500,000 at end 1947. It
had grown to £1,750,000 in 500,000 £1
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 5,000,000 ords. of
ss. each at Dec. 31, 1950. The public
became interested in Dec., 1948, when
1,333,333 ord. shares—equal to one-third
of the issued ord. capital—were offered
and taken at 11s. each. Since then the
whole of the pref. money and £250,000
of new ord. capital has been subscribed.
Also, at the close of last accounts the co.
had raised £5,204,800 on debentures, and
was holding £1,174,669 of fixed deposits.
Hire-purchase contracts figured at
£11,281,314, of which 33 p.c. was in N. S.
Wales, 26 p.c. in Victoria and the balance
proportionately distributed over the other
States. Only three years ago the book-
of contracts was £3,420,735.
Besides being very rapid the expansion
has also been profitable;
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £ £
Gross earnings.. 318,500 637,098 810,333 1,214,894
Exes 227,101 295,944 370,531 535.774
Depreciation .. 4,175 4,556 4,979 7,459
Taxation .. 121,000 164,000 275,500
Net profit .. 87,224 215,598 270,823 396,161
Last term the co.’s name was placed on
the list of accredited finance houses of
the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Pty.,
an offshoot of the big Ford Co., Canada.
Gross earnings increased by £404,561,
approximately 50p.c. Exes, (up £165,243)
took 44.1 p.c. of the gross figure as
against 45.7 p.c. in 1949 and 71.3 p.c. in
1947, After allowing for depreciation
and taxation (up £111,500), the net result
was £125,338 stronger at £396,161. That
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 33 p.c. on average ord, capital as
against 25.1, 21.5 and 17.4 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div. was kept
at p.c., and the £230,536 that re-
mained (58 p.c, of the year’s profit)
lifted reserves to £879,153. No hint is
given as to what provision, if any, is
being made during these days of super-
ficial and deceptive prosperity to meet
bad debts, etc., in a possible less pros-
perous future.
Present central-bank policy aims at in-
ducing traders, especially vendors of
short-term consumer credit, to finance ex-
panding turnover from outside the bank-
ing system, the object being to curb in-
flationary pressures. The abnormally
high current demand for h.-p. accom-
modation rests partly on the quicksands
of an inflationary boom, the duration of
which is anybody’s guess at the moment.
So, to avoid the possibility of a top-heavy
structure of permanent share capital later
on, and to help boost earnings in
relation to ord. capital, the co.
issued £5,204,800-worth of debentures
last term —£3,270,300 carries 4i p.c.
(£2,960,000 of it matures March 31,
1953, and £310,300 Oct. 31, 1955)
and £1,934,500 in short-term 3i p.c. paper,
repayable on 90 days’ notice from either
party, or 10 years after date of issue.
The co.’s bankers are reported to have
taken a substantial wad of the 3i p.c
issue. The year’s net profit, plus deben-
ture interest, was around 8 p.c. on aver-
age shareholders’ funds and debenture
capital combined. So the debentures are
earning a lot more than their keep.
Subject to Treasury approval, co. has
authority to issue up to £6,000,000-worth
of debentures.
Most of the debenture money was used
to slash £3,586,142 off the overdraft;
1947. 1948, 1949. 1950.
& & £> £>
Paid capital 500,000 1,225,000 1,500,000 1,760,000
Debentures 5,204.800
Overdraft .. 2,072,667 2,896,814 3,951,184 365,042
Fxd. deposits 98,800 4,900 1,900 1,174,669
Sundry
creditors .. 130,788 142,830 502,140 306.498
Unearned
income .. 403,219 641,617 891,292 1.353,229
Staff fund 14,991 20,604 26,684 30,272
Tax provis’n 117,330 227,631 183,591 307,547
Final divs. 37,500 125,000 75,000 90,625
Freehold .. 16,000
H.-p. debts 3,420,735 5,524,739 7,480,288 11,281,314
Shares subsids.,
etc. .. 180,167 128,092 128,092 128,096
Office equip-
ment. etc. 24,571 27,635 32,296 36,765
Cash .. 2,014 416 14,733 15.660
Intangibles 11,500
The balance of the debenture cash,
together with an extra £1,172,769 raised
on fixed deposit and £250,000 of fresh
ord. capital, which brought with it
£125,000 of share premiums, and more
besides, was lent under h.-p. agreements
(up £3,801,026).
Since the close of accounts the co.
bought the 60,000 f.-p, £1 shares (backed
by net tangibles of approximately
£502,000) in the Ajax Insurance Co. in
exchange for 1,000,000 of its own f.-p.
ss. ords (face-value £250,000). Ajax
holds 833,290 of I.A.C.’s ords. What
the board proposes to do with these has
not yet been announced. Income from
this investment is said to be equal to the
rate now earned by I.A.C. on its own
funds.
Exactly what the more distant future
holds for the business is difficult to say.
Until the elections are out of the way.
Government measures to combat infla-
tion, and in relation to credit and capital
control, defence, allocation of scarce
materials, taxation and a lot of other
things, remain uncertain.
At 13s. Id. the ords. return 4.8 p.c. on
a 12jr p.c. div, basis, and the prefs. at
21s. yield 4.7 p.c. Including the Ajax
deal, net tangible cover is £6 15s. 3d.
prefs. and 9s. 7d. ords.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
, Divs. ■,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Sale assets, £BB2 ..
W/off prelim, exes., £13,756.. }•
’48.. 84,163 10,725 7 p.c. =35,000 J
25.564 25,564
Sale assets, £7874 .. .. •• 33.438
Unex’d addition, £7334 .. .. 40,772
'49.. 92,833 15,000 8 p.c. =40,000 37,833 78,605
Sale assets, £3980 .. .. .. 82,585
Unexp’d addition, £2Bll .. 85,396
’50..168,019 15,000 10 p.c. =50,000 103,019 188,415
To staff fund, £5OOO 183,415
‘Subject to intangibles, now £47,877.
Expansion, which became more marked
last term, has been the outstand-
ing feature of the accounts since
the present co. took over the then 51-
year-old, well-established business of
H. C. Sleigh from H. M. Sleigh (son of
the founder and now chairman) in June,
1947, The price was £500,000, including
£47,000-odd for trade-marks, etq., which
was satisfied by the issue of a like amount
of f.-p. £1 ords., of which 135,000 were
made available to the public at 255. each.
At the same time £300,000 of 5 p.c. pref.
capital was publicly subscribed, raising
paid capital to £BOO,OOO.
Headquarters are at Melbourne and
activities, which spread throughout Vic-
toria, N. S. Wales, South Australia and
Tasmania, fall into four main divisions.
Chief of these is importation and distri-
bution of petroleum products—motor
spirit, kerosene, diesel fuels and lubri-
cating oils —which are marketed under
the “Golden Fleece” brand, and have
been since 1913. The co.’s marine
terminals are at Melbourne, Sydney,
Newcastle and Adelaide. An export and
import department, which handles
primary and manufactured products, and
trades mainly with U.K., Europe, Middle
East and Southern Asia, contributes to
the pool, too —turnover exceeded
£500,000 in 1948, and has grown since.
Also, there are an expanding merchandis-
ing section, handling the co.’s own and
agency lines, and a profitable shipping
department, which acts as general agents
and brokers for the chartering and
purchase of tonnage.
Net earnings and divs., which have
responded to expanding turnover, have
exceeded prospectus estimates. Outstand-
ing event of the 12 months covered by
the last accounts was abolition of petrol
rationing in Feb., 1950. This and growth
in number of motor-vehicles and diesel-
plants in use sent sales of petroleum
products up with a rush, and the ship-
ping section was “very profitable.” After
allowing for depreciation (£54,240, up
£5593) and taxation (£105,000, up
£56,000), net earnings shot up by £75,186,
reaching £168,019. The figure benefited
by an unstated amount from dollar con-
tracts discharged at the old rate of ex-
change. The £168,019 was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 30.6 p.c, on
ord. capital as against 15.5 p.c. and 13.8
p.c. for the two preceding terms. Since
money is wanted in the business, only a
couple of points were added to the div.,
making it 10 p.c., thus leaving £(03,019,
or over 61 p.c. of the year’s profit, to
plough back into the undertaking.
To cope with the bigger trading the
co, increased its petrol-storage facilities,
including bulk depots in country areas,
and installed a lot of new kerbside
electric-pumps, etc. The outlay shows up
in net additions of £155,499 to freeholds,
£165,306 to plant, etc., £195,869 to stocks
and £85,435 to book debts:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £BOO.OOO £BOO,OOO £BOO.OOO
Bank overdraft.. .. 92,507 152,806
Creditors .. .. 480,721 378,727 1,000,136
Tax provision .. . • 46,000 95,000 122,939
Final divs. .. .. 42,500 47,600 57,500
Freeholds .. .. 69,776 83,370 238,869
Leaseholds .. .. 21,200 36.212 41.934
Plant and equipment .. 358,066 383,236 548,54..
Shares .. .. 3,001 2,751 2.751
Stock 614.917 701,278 897.147
Uebtors .. .. 342,224 289,022 374,457
Cash 30,231 8,892 17.413
Intangibles .. •• 47,877 47,877 47.8 7
To meet the year’s expenditure and wipe


North Kalgurli (1912) Limited.
CHIEF ENGINEER.
Applications are invited for above position.
Qualifications required: Sound technical
training and experience in both electrical
and mechanical engineering. Duties: To
take charge of Maintenance, Design and
Construction in connection with the opera-
tion and expansion of the Company’s mine
at Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. Present
output is 20,000 tons per month, and
programme of equipment for increase is
in progress. Salary range £l2OO-£l6OO
per annum. House (unfurnished) pro-
vided rent free. Full particulars of
qualifications and experience to—
THE GENERAL MANAGER.
P.O. Box 88. FIMISTON, W.A,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY MICHAEL RUSS (also known
as MICK O’BRIEN) late of Raleigh in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that IVY LAVINIA RUSS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3953 of
1949 on the ground of Desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 25th day of May 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. W. FRASER & PARKIN-
SON, Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— g. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO BERTHA MARY SMITH late of
Burraneer Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
GORDON TATE SMITH has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1321 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 30th May 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. UTHER & DAVIS,
Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
fitter
Cylinder
df
df
TQ
guthridge
PTY., LIMITED,
10-1% Parramatta Koad,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
another Record Year
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL
JMWrtSS!/
SJSHTHJJ
SNOIIIIIAI a
The Assurance fund at 30th September, 1950, was
£77,000,000, an increase of nearly five million pounds
in one year.
*
52,000 vew
pouc/es
Record New Business was written—over 53,000 new
policies assuring £31,500,000.
s/v/iExesr
x/irec/p
Average interest rate earned increased by lid. to
£4/0/1 1 per cent. After deducting rates and taxes the
net rate was £3/13/10 per cent, as compared with
£3/12/1 per cent, for the previous year.
'££££££££££?
i
5
RECORD
PAYMENTS
TO
POLICYHOLDERS
f
s
£££££££££££
Payments to policyholders or their dependants during the
year amounted to the record sum of £4,750,000. No
less than £lO2 million has been paid to policyholders
since establishment 81 years ago.
V
c/samc Bonuses
Reversionary Bonuses will be allotted to
policies on the same liberal scale as last year.
The Association is purely mutual and transacts Ordinary Department
Business only (including Group and staff superannuation). If will pay
you to become a member of this progressive, PURELY MUTUAL
Association. Funds available for Loan on approved Security.
MUTUAL
life Association of A/asiaLtd
550 GEORGE S* SYDNEY established'^
350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
395 Collins St., Melbourne.
293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
91 King William St., Adelaide.
81 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
119 Macquarie St., Hobart.
Custom House, Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
out the overdraft (£152,806 at
the previous balance), the
amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by
£621,409.
To lighten the debt and pro-
vide for further extension of the
business, those on the ord. and
pref. registers are presently to
be offered 250,000 new £1 ords.,
one for two, at a premium of
ss. each, and 150,000 new £l5
p.c. prefs., one for two, at par.
That will raise paid capital to
£1,200,000, on which the pref.
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. will
call for £97,500, or £70,519 less
profit than was claimed last
term.
The fly in the ointment at the
moment is pressure of the rising
cost of landing and distributing
petroleum products against a
background of fixed selling-
prices. To ease the position the
distributing cos. recently asked
for an increase of 3d. a gallon
in the selling-price of petrol, but
only Id. was granted, making
total selling-price at city pumps
3s. Id. a gallon. The cos. claimed
that landed cost, including lid.
duty, was 27.94 d. a gallon, to
which handling, storage and dis-
tribution added 5.39 d., and 3.75 d.
went to the garage, making a
total of 37.09 d. On that basis
the distributing cos. are losing
.09d. on every gallon of petrol
they sell, and costs are still
rising. The authorities will
further review selling-prices next
month. It is too early yet to say
to what extent, if any, the
trouble in Persia will affect
Australian oil supplies.
At 50s. 6d. the net price of
the co.’s ords., after exercising
rights to the new issue, is
425. 4d., giving a return of 4.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 245. 6d. yield 4.4 p.c.
Including the pending new issue,
net tangible cover is £3 2s. Id.
prefs. and 255. 3d. ords.
King l Island Scheelite (1947)
This four-year-old reconstruc-
tion of King Island Scheelite,
N.L., which found itself over-
capitalised when war ended be-
cause of a strategic loan from
the Government, has suddenly
exceeded the most optimistic ex-
pectations formed of it. Prime
cause is the rocket-like ascent
of the price of wolfram, which
has become a scarce metal, cur-
rent international developments
having both increased demand
and reduced or jeopardised exist-
ing sources of supply.
For the three months to May,
1950, milling was retarded by
shortage of water, and little or
no profit was earned during this
period. However, throughput
and recoveries compare favor-
ably with the previous year’s:
Year to Oct. 31.
1949. 1950.
Milled, tons (wet) .. 158,313 160,167
Head value, WO3 .. 0.59 p.c. 0.54 p.c.
Concentrates, tons .. 791.2 776.1
Average grade, WO3 67.4 p.c. 67.0 p.c.
WO3 units produced 53,328 51,972
Profit £63,764 £178,471
Div.—
Rate .. .. 10 p.c. 20 p.c.
Amount .. .. £50,000 £lOO,OOO
In addition, 154,265 tons waste
and overburden were removed
last term. Average price re-
ceived per unit WOS was
£8 15s. lid. as against £5 11s. 4d.
for the previous term- Operat-
ing costs increased by 13s. Bd.,
reaching £3 16s. 3d. per unit,
and all-in cost (including de-
preciation £40,000 and tax pro-
vision £6420) were 225. 3d.
heavier at £5 7s. sd. per unit.
The profit (£178,471, up
£114,707) was 35.7 p.c. on the
£500,000 of capital as against
12.7 p.c. and 15.7 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The div.
was lifted from 10 p.c. to 20
p.c,; and prospects of a much
better showing at next balance
are encouraging.
When the books closed cash,
debtors and concentrates on
hand totalled £216,714, and
stores, etc., £134,267. Current
liabilities (including tax provi-
sion and the div.) amounted to
£140,740. Fixed assets figured
at £396,178.
Ore reserves were put at
2,629,446 tons proved and pay-
able, with prospects of more
pay-stuff being developed.
Before the war the bulk of the
world’s wolfram and other
tungsten-bearing ores (scheelite
is native calcium tungstate)
came from China, Burma, Spain
and Portugal. During the war
new deposits were opened up in
America, Brazil, Africa and
Australia (chiefly King Island),
and South Korea was added to
the list after war ended. Sup-
plies from China, Korea and
Burma have now been inter-
rupted.
The importance of tungsten in
the scheme of things today is
that it is used as an alloy in
high-speed steels, and as
tungsten-carbide tips for metal-
cutting tools, and for coalmining
bits. During the later war years
large quantities of tungsten-
carbide tips were used for shells.
The next table shows how the
London price of wolfram, to-
gether with its Australian
equivalent, has moved since the
end of 1949: —
Average price per
unit WOS.
/ "*■
Australian
London, equivalent.
1949, Dec. .. £S4 9 7 £AS 12 0
1950, June .. 6 3 7 714 5
1950. Oct. .. 11 19 6 14 9 5
1951, Jan. .. 23 14 4 29 12 11
1951, Feb. .. 29 12 8 37 010
1951, Mar. 19 .. 26 15 0 33 8 9
The future price-level of the
metal depends mainly upon what
happens in U.S., with which the
London market keeps in step.
The co. recently entered into
long-term contracts (terms not
disclosed) for sale of its concen-
trates to U.S. (seven years) and
U.K. (five years). With wolfram
at £S2O 16s. per unit and all-in
costs at, say, £A6 per unit, the
co.’s profits look like approxi-
mating the million-pound-mark.
The market-price of the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares advanced from
ss. Id. in June last to 10s. in
Oct. and 17s. 6d. in Dec. It shot
up to 295. 3d. in Jan., 1951, and
has recently been fairly steady
around 355. 6d. At 355. 6d. the
market values the undertaking
at £3,550,000,


&
J.
<y>
. , each secure in the
knowledge that radio’s in-
visible lifelines link with the shore.
A decade before domestic broadcasting
began, A.W.A. commenced the research
and industry which have contributed so
vitally to the increased safety of life at
sea.
To-day modem marine radio installa-
tions, meeting the rigid standards of
|\|1\ International Regulations, are built,
V maintained and operated for the
■’iiilife' Australian Mercantile Marine by
A.W.A.—pioneers of Australian
Wireless —Makers of the finest
in Radio.
A^
0f9 afl
i«*»
W' ,e
olio
A#*» f
HOl7
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Sharemarket
Though a number of stocks
which went to record levels
earlier this year—notably the
“heavy” issues, such as Waugh
and Josephson, Tutt Bryant,
Thirlwell and McKenzie and
British Standard Machinery—
have shown signs of reaction,
the market is still ready to give
full attention to any stock which
increases its dividend or other-
wise shows special merit.
There has been no hesitation
in the reception given to most
new issues offered recently. Syd-
ney brokers have had difficulty
In satisfying all their clients in
the case of most recent offer-
ings. Peter Lloyd Industries
was heavily oversubscribed, and
so was the Frederick Ash offer-
ing; earlier, James Sandy scrip
was snapped up, and the ss.
shares quickly went to a ss.
premium, settling at 9s. 6d. The
731,000 ss. ords. in Newcastle
Wool Processing were promptly
taken. Many other less-publi-
cised floats went off almost as
quickly, including Ve-Toy Hold-
ings, Mason-Kolok, W. G. Wat-
son and I.E.C. Holdings, Other
small ones are in the process of
digestion at present, and are
causing the market no discom-
fort.
The big B.H.P. issue is moving
off more smoothly than was
anticipated in many quarters.
Though reports from the steel-
works concerning production
have not been the happiest, the
market for B.H.P. “old” shares
has firmed to 555., and the rights
have been traded in at mostly
above 20s. This makes the price
of the scrip generally stronger
than it was immediately before
the shares became ex-rights.
The B.H.P. issue consists of
6,527,311 20s. ords. at a premium
of 10s. a share. It will thus take
the best part of £lO million
from the market; of this a third
only is payable on April 10. The
other two thirds are payable on
October 9 this year and March
31, 1952, respectively.
This new issue will carry the
B.H.P. share-register total up to
£25 million, and maintenance of
the present div.-rate would call
for profits of at least £2 million
a year. The new issue will not
participate in any dividends until
fully paid, but will be entitled to
the whole of any dividend
declared in May, 1952, or after.
March appears to be passing
off without any of the market
upsets with which the month has
been traditionally associated in
the past. It was inevitable that
the vigor of the rise in share-(
prices during the preceding few
months would spend itself—
there has to be a limit to any-
thing of that nature —but there
was a tapering-off rather than
a reaction eventually. Last week
the tone of dealings was steady,
with strong support for sound
stocks previously passed over in
the market’s upward surge. And
considerable interest was shown
in determining a fair price for
many of the new issues which
have yet to establish the rate of
dividend which is to be expected
from them.
So this strong market goes on,
supported by a huge wool
income, expanding industrial
activity, overseas investment and
a great deal of speculative
activity. Probably the wisest
investors are those who are buy-
ing shares as a hedge against
inflation and who are prepared
to hold on over a long period.
They are likely to do all right
whether the pound gains or loses
in buying-power, provided they
put their money into well-
managed, essential industries.
One snag which even these
investors are up against is the
fact .that industry today is not
being allowed adequate provi-
sion for depreciation either by
prices officers or by the Taxa-
tion Department. Inflation —
especially wage-inflation is
reaching such proportions today
that this depreciation inadequacy
ceases to be an academic prob-
lem ; its incidence will be very
“Real cowhide, sir.”
real before long, and only those
concerns making provision for
plant-replacement out of tax-
paid profits will be able to face
it with equanimity. Masonite is
one concern which is openly
making provision for plant-
purchase out of profits which
have borne tax.
Financing wool stocks will be-
come an increasing problem for
Australian woollen-mills before
long. A mere 10,000 bales
today cost something like
£3,000,000. Yarra Falls recently
doubled its capital by issuing a
million new £1 shares at par.
Other listed woollen-textile con-
cerns may approach the market
for more capital soon, and at
least two proprietary establish-
ments are expected to convert
into public companies.
Rising costs are an increasing
problem with all industry, but
more especially for those busi-
nesses which have to face com-
petition in the market for their
output. These types of industry
may be few and far between, the
lack of adequate coal produc-
tion throughout Australia keep-
ing the supply of most essential
goods below the level of de-
mand. But there are cases where
competition is keen. And hotel
cos. are feeling the labor prob-
lem acutely.
Coal, Oil and Water
“L. 0.”: A large number of
books, pamphlets and articles
have, in recent years, dealt with
the power resources of Aus-
tralia, but very few have suc-
ceeded in picturing the overall
situation in a manner intelligible
to the average layman.
Harold Rabling, who is a
mining engineering graduate of
Melbourne University and who
now holds the position of manag-
ing-director of the Australian
section of Vacuum Oil, has, how-
ever, been able to condense an
account both authoritative and
adequate for its purpose into the
60 octavo pages which comprise
the essential letterpress and tables
of Energy for a Greater Australia
(Tait).
Mr. Rabling’s analysis of
world-wide energy consumption
is restricted to the power
obtained from coal, petroleum,
natural gas and water; and, on
this basis, Australia falls into a
middle position with a consump-
tion of 90 million British
Thermal Units per head of popu-
lation per annum. This com-
pares with 240 million in U.S.A.,
210 million in Canada, and a
world average of about 45
million.
Calculated as percentages, the
consumption of the equivalent
of 781.6 billion B.T.Us., esti-
mated as the Australian energy
expenditure for 1950, was con-
tributed by black coal, 56.5;
petroleum, 24.0; brown coal,
9.4; firewood, 6.0; and hydro-
electric power, 4.1. The reader
must be left to discover for him-
self the bases on which these
figures are calculated. The data
were collected and correlated by
Vacuum Oil’s Economics Depart-
ment, and may therefore be
accepted as authoritative.
That petroleum, with its 24
per cent, energy-contribution,
should occupy half the volume
may seem out of proportion, but
its treatment is a model of non-
technical conciseness, the pro-
cesses and economics of obtain-
ing petroleum from coal and by
synthesis being dealt with as well
as the nature and distribution of
petroleum source —and reservoir-
rocks. The chapter on “Oil
Prospects in Australia” is not un-
duly optimistic, and is illustrated
by diagrammatic maps indicat-
ing the commonly-accepted ex-
tent of encroachment of what is
now the Australian mainland by
early and late Palaeozoic, Meso-
zoic and Tertiary seas. A word
of caution, however, is necessary
as to their acceptance as show-
ing anything more than the
known distribution of marine
strata. The true limits of these
seas will only be revealed when
a regional and more intensive
study of the shoreline facies of
the several systems has been
undertaken.
It should be noted, also, that
the volume was in print before
the major oil company operating
in Queensland abandoned drill-
ing there after a very thorough
examination of 250,000 square
miles, with drilling and geo-
physical work, had revealed
thicknesses of marine strata
underlying favorable structures
much less than had been antici-
pated from detailed surface
evidence. This fact, unfortu-
nately, carries geological implica-
tions beyond the limits of the
State in question.
The author confirms the warn-
ing so often voiced by The
Bulletin that the search for oil
is no game for the small man
when he says, inter alia, that it
is “a long, tedious and expen-
sive process.”
Victoria’s Eildon Weir is to
be made into the biggest water-
storage in the Southern Hemis-
phere at a cost of £lO million.
Utah Construction Co., of Cali-
. fornia, has been given the con-
-1 tract and expects to complete it
in A\ years, employing between
1200 and 1500 men. To hold the
1.300.000 acre-feet of water the
co. will have to shift 12 million
cubic yards of earth, build a
dam wall 259 ft. high, 3300 ft.
long and 30ft. wide on top.
Heavy equipment for the job is
rolling into Eildon, where a new
town will be built. Vacuum Oil
has contracted to supply
2.500.000 gallons of distillate,
500.000 gallons of motor-spirit,
and 200,000 gallons of lubricants
a year for the job. The Utah
people had a big hand in build-
ing the Boulder, David and
Grand Coulee dams in the
United States.


NO THANKS I
... Fd rather have a
'Red Capstan ...
—time for a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
83<iCM2*50
r PAY BY faufot*
CHEQUE
r |4IVI
&
i&K
'*/
and budget for
your expenditure
Few people con afford to be careless with
money. A Union Bank cheque account assists
you to save both time and money, and pro-
vides a permanent record of Income and
expenditure, on which to base your budget
The Manager at your nearest branch of the
Bank is a friendly, accessible person, who
welcomes the opportunity of assisting in the
simple procedure of opening a current account,
and explaining the many
helpful facilities available
to customers.
<lhe
Its really
inii)imiiiiiiiiiiinniiitn>
A VERY SIMPLE
iHimiiiiimtiiimiuv
MATTER
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand and In London
Agents throughout the World
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. KADFOED (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZEB.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
TOUCH tt«» 4 TOUCH
I 1 0”" -Id 9 i« •>»*■
cutting <* nd 9
corn-
resiit
even
eorf
lot
fi
HI-MILER RlB—For long,
fast hauls on Improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction is needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
GOODYEAR
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all oyer Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free serv:c3.
Let these iough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOBi
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
N.Z. Investments
When the “Easter-egg” season
had come and gone most Maori-
land investors found they’d been
passed by, or had to wait for
their main divvy season in May
and June for any special favors
that might be in store for them.
The chick that attracted most
interest in the pre-Easter brood
was a f p.c. rise to 10 p.c, by the
top co. jn its field, Kempthorne,
Prosser and Co.’s N.Z. Drug
Co., which has eggs in two main
baskets—drugs and fertilisers.
Business was never so brisk in
drugs as since M.L.’s social-
security scheme started Maori-
landers developing into a race of
“free”-medicine drinkers during
the past decade, and, with the
State paying, there’s no risk of
bad debts,
Fertilisers don’t look quite so
gilt-edged, although there’s a big
pent-up demand from end to end
of Maoriland. The world short-
age of sulphur is a bottleneck
that is limiting the output of
superphosphate in N.Z. to
600,000-odd tons yearly when a
million tons are needed. N.Z.
Drug is one of four cos. m this
line. If the bottleneck is only
temporary it won’t worry cos. so
much, because they’re not keen
to undertake big expansion at
today’s sky-high costs', but if it
contmues for long they’ll have
to look at their hand again.
Fertiliser concerns aren’t alone
in being up against shortages.
MX. manufacturers say there
are four problems right ahead,
and they put raw materials first,
particularly for metal and
apparel industries. The other
three are—risk of undercutting
by imports if controls are swept
away quickly, slow and cumber-
some price-control, and confu-
sion over being called on to
absorb part of the 15 p.c.
February general wage-rise,
Added together, these are going
to cut profit margins, and last
Y ear s trend for cos. to find the
harder might go a good
further before it s reined in.
. Easily the highlight m share-
r*ses the first quarter was the
boom j n insurance scrip. N.Z.’s
* wo bi§ leaders and rivals, the
Auckland - controlled South
® n * lsa and N.Z. Insurance cos.,
I 5 draw a bout 85 p.c. of their
* ncome front abroad and fatten
°° export prosperity from wool,
which is putting juicy underwnt-
,rjsks m their way. South
British, with a div.-rate or 21\
P- c * a .f 1 , . lon ’ IS , m a
class by itself. Its 10s. snares
touched a pre-Easter peak of
£6 3 § . 3d. before buyers called
a hah- .
investors, luce Aus-
'rah“s ’ ? re se?sl-
five to shocks the higher prices
s°» hut with inflation still sweep-
m 8 them , or h wa^ th £ y ca fL l do a
great dea * a bout it. Over the past
a^' » s °iared by morie than
P- c » and se^ers are stlll ca U m g
netxuto. ... t . n
™ bleaS
f- s bI S I ! sue , be S an
w^dc f Trfd Sw
™‘ d ;“^ ch onwards
Austral]tan 'cos., luce wool
worths. Felt and Textiles and
™
« e t, hut this was only a breath
space.
r , i_«..
™ ,
Money-wise Maorilanders are
uneasily watching the growing
inflationary trend in their
economy under record export
prosperity and easy bank credit.
Only the Reserve Bank seems to
have dug in its heels in a deter-
mined effort to hold the line
against inflation, and its stand
won’t count for much if the
other banks follow a contrary
policy.
Last autumn the R.B. loosened
the reins, after holding the trad-
ing banks under tight credit con-
trol for a number of years,
mainly to curb speculation and
luxury spending, and since then
credit has been flowing in grow-
ing volume. Credit sales, which
Maorilanders label time-pay-
ment, are on the increase, and
family budgets are beginning to
pinch. Maorilanders are realis-
ing that paper prosperity is
costly, but they haven’t yet made
up their minds that they’d be
better off without it.
As for the banks, expansion
in advances increases their loan
funds and therefore their profits,
and they’re human enough to
want to earn more. The old
pre-war habit of keeping ad-
vances and deposits in balance
is outmoded, and today discre-
tion appears to be the only
limit to credit creation, which, in
plain language, is making money
out of nothing. As wool mil-
lions fall into the laps of M.L.
growers and are banked —a third
of them “frozen”—will the
banks continue to follow the
path of easy money? Maori-
landers expect they will, and
most of them are still rather
blind to the dangers. Those who
see where this is leading are
baffled about how to put it
right. Few are ready for an
increase in interest-rates, if it
has to come to that, and the
crowd prefers to postpone the
day of reckoning. One thing
seems certain: that if money
goes on mounting it will hold
down interest-rates by sheer
weight—until the breaking-point.
As Australia is moving faster
than Maoriland, perhaps it will
supply the answer.
“Southern Cross” Goes
After five years in which it
never looked like being sea-
worthy, Maoriland’s first Labor
daily, the “Southern Cross,” has
gone to the bottom, and with
it have gone the last hopes the
Labor unions had of ever re-
covering tens of thousands of
capital invested in the concern
back in Socialist years.
In the early part of its life
the show was losing nearly a
thousand a week, and by the end
of December, 1949, just after the
Socialists were given the boot,
accumulated trading losses and
general establishment exes,
totted up to £160,132, which
didn’t leave much of paid capi-
tal of £210,724. Since then no
figures have been given out, and,
with hidden State subsidies cut
off when the new Government
took over, it was only a ques-
tion how long it could hold on
before the end came.
It was in a hopeless plight
when its owner, N.Z. Labor
Newspapers, Ltd., Wellington,
was claiming “considerable im-
provement” in mid-1949, and its
outsize board of directors, 14 of
them, all leading Labor-party
officials, with “never-say-die”
grit, were calling for more funds
and telling supporters there
shouldn’t be any doubt about its
ultimate success. Two of the
directorate were fortified by
printing and publishing experi-
ence—the others were mostly
passengers or worse, with too
many political axes to grind.
When the unions got tired of
paying, gaping holes in its
finances were plugged by getting
overdraft accommodation from
the State-owned Bank of N.Z.,
until it got tired, too. The co.
had an army of small share-
holders, one of the largest in
N.Z.
In last-minute efforts to keep
it afloat, by clutching at straws,
there wasn’t one idea that hadn’t
been thought of a score or more
times before. On its fifth birth-
day, when the board was at last
beginning to see the writing on
the wall, it said, in realistic vein,
that it had begun in a time of
post-war shortages and “never
had behind it powerful cash re-
sources.” Its story was of hold-
ing on against lack of money,
staff and plant. Here is its
epitaph: Born, March 4, 1946.
Died, March 17. 195 L


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
It’s been a gay and lively week, with
lots of visitors, plenty of interesting events
and the weather behaving itself fairly
well, for once.
The Red Cross Ball started Show Week
festivities very successfully. Among the
1200 people present were Sydney’s most
distinguished personages, and the standard
of. dressing was particularly high. Great
thought had gone into the table-decora-
tions, which included sailing-ships, birds
of paradise, swans, gun-carriages, red
crosses, chickens and Easter eggs, all
made of flowers. Mrs. Donald Smith’s
prizewinning table had a vivid blue cloth,
a mirror, centrepiece, red roses and a
metal matchbox for place-cards. Second-
prize went to Lady Stanham’s table,
exquisitely decorated with garlands of
autumn berries trailing from a small
bronze statue in the centre to tiny Grecian
urns full of grapes and pomegranates.
Mrs. G. Ashton’s table was the cutest,
with its pineapple men and animals made
of bananas and cucumbers. The curly
silver candlesticks on Robin McFadyen’s
table were much admired, also the W. E.
Hopkinses’ table, which featured a country
homestead and home paddocks. This
might have won a prize had it been a
little less bushy. Apparently there had
been a lot of rain in those parts.
Among the dancers we noticed Mrs. C
M. Guiney in silver lace, Mrs. P. Burke
in pink and fox furs, Mrs. T. M. Innes,
from Walgett, in brown lace, Mrs. A. C.
Ingham, Mrs. G. Carlos and Mrs. Oong.
Mrs. Mark Barnett and her daughter
Anne both wore white, Mrs. Barnett
draping a delicate black lace stole round
her shoulders and Anne wearing a dark-
red rose at her throat. How it stayed
there caused some speculation, but those
who looked closely enough realised that
Scotch-tape was the answer.
It must have been hot on the unshaded
official dais at the opening of the Show,
as the sun seemed bent on showing what
he could do after two rainy days. The
Governor said that the Victorian visitors
must have brought their weather with
them, for which he was heartily grateful.
Certainly the sunlight made the Grand
Parade more splendid and brave than
ever. The most thrilling moments come
first when the rough-riders with their
pennants lead the parade from one side
of the ground while the big, black
Aberdeen Angus, all bedecked and every
solid inch a champion, starts the pro-
cession from the other side ; and, second,
when the last horseman has joined the
circling show. Then one sees everything
in magnificent symmetry, a wonderful
feat of organisation and discipline.
One thing that is disappointing at
the show is the Hall of Industries, which
in the past used to have all sorts of manu-
facturing processes being demonstrated
everywhere. These were fascinating to
watch and even slightly educational.
Now there seem only to be displays in
elaborate forms and sample-bags at
elaborate prices.
Several people flew down from Can-
berra for the Jubilee “at-home” given by
the Royal Empire Society, including Mrs.
Bartholomew and the Kunwarani Duleep-
singhi, who wore a beautiful gauzy dress
and sari of hydrangea-blue embroidered
with red flowers. Mrs. Percy Spender
and Mrs. G. Mack were hostesses. Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn was in cool floral silk
and Mrs. Allan-Williams wore a hand-
some black dress with pearl embroideries
on the belt.
Many guests from the R.E. “at home”
went on later to the party given by Dr.
and Mrs. Robert Paterson to welcome
home Mrs. Paterson’s sister, artist Alice
Danciger, who has been abroad for the
past four years. Here again the dressing
was very attractive. Mrs. Paterson’s black
tulle hat was the most romantic seen in
these parts for some time. Alice
Danciger’s rich olive tie-silk was draped
in a dashing oblique line. Mrs. Danciger
wore a smart black tie-silk dress and
jacket. The Premier and Mrs. McGirr
were present, also many members of the
diplomatic corps. Mrs. Miculicic-Rodd
wore soft blue with white cornelli em-
broidery, Mrs. Rahman a brilliant dress
of tangerine chiffon. Artist Elaine Hax-
ton was in pink with a white hat.
It's a miracle how women arrived at
the opening night of the third opera, “Un
Ballo in Maschera,” so well-dressed and
with their faces on straight, considering
that the lights went out just at the
moment most of them were getting ready
for it. This Letter was wishing she had
one of the masks used in the third act, for
making-up by candlelight is a pretty
chancy business. The evening was given
an extra gala touch by the presence of
the Governor and his vice-regal visitors.
The dressing was as brilliant as usual,
and that’s saying something.
St. Leger Day at the races was “hat”
day for the women. Outstanding were
the new persimmon, orange, tangerine
tones and the velvet and plush materials.
Mrs. Rosenthal, from Melbourne, had a
dramatic-looking wide white hat of plush.
Mrs. Millard Hagen’s tangerine vest
matched her hat and was worn with a
fine check tweed suit. Mrs. Pierre Mann
wore one of the many black velvet hats
which look like being the rage this season.
There was a certain amount of black-
and-white-check worn, also navy and
white such as Claudia Beazley chose.
There were large numbers of new suits
out, all short and slim-skirted, but they
weren’t quite so comfortable as the tie-
silks and alpacas in the rather warm
weather.
The Electricity Department’s theme in
its window-display at the moment is
“Dreams are the stuff reality is made of.”
Don’t they mean “nightmares”?
An engagement of both city and
country interest is that of Brenda Lambie
(in our picture) to Bryan Brennan,
Brenda is the daughter of Professor and
Mrs. E. C. Lambie, of Woollahra. Bryan
comes from Eurobin, Tumut. Photograph
by Norton-Trevaire.
The Black Watch band seem to have
taken the town by storm. At their open-
ing night at the Town Hall their parad-
ing down the aisles to the skirling of
pipes had an almost intoxicating effect on
the practically all-Scottish audience.
Certainly for such a traditionally reserved
and reticent race they can put on a
pretty spectacular show when they want
to. The pipers, by the way, don’t wear
the Black Watch tartan, but were given
the privilege of wearing the Royal Stewart
by Queen Victoria. A member of the
band said it was because pipers couldn’t
be called musicians, but it was a
Sassenach who said that. It was surpris-
ing to find that more than 50 per cent,
of the musicians don’t come from
Scotland.
There were some delicious recipes dis-
cussed at the luncheon given by women
prominent in the wine industry at the
Showground during the week. Appar-
ently it’s not the thing to cook with drip-
ping at all. You use butter, oil, wine or
the juice of the joint. The wine that was
served at the luncheon wore discreetly
noncommittal labels, as there were many
different firms represented. Mrs. Fiaschi,
the only woman vigneron in Australia,
was chief hostess. Others present were
Mrs. H. J. Tulloch, Mrs. R. E. Ley, Miss
Asprey, Mrs. Leo Buring, Mrs. R. Cooley
and Mrs. W. H. Davis.
Here’s a nice little recipe given by Mrs.
Tulloch for a distinctive salad. You slice
onion very finely, alternate it with layers
of sliced orange (sprinkle sugar on the
orange) and serve with lettuce and French
dressing
Mark Foy’s unique “Parade-on-Ice”
includes this year not only skating man-
nequins but also a skier who careers
down a slope for the delight of the audi-
ence. It’s quite a clever piece of stage-
craft. New notes in the clothes shown
are the “Canasta” skirts, harem pyjamas
for after-ski wear, a yashmak veil that
covers the lower half of the face,
dramatic evening dresses “after” Italian
designer Fontana (who made Linda
Christian’s trousseau), tartan ski-capes
and quilted or pleated velveteen skirts.
If there were a prize for the most
delicious cocktail it should go to Hugh
Macken’s “Bundaberg Basher,” which he
serves on special occasions. It’s made
from the juice of fresh pineapple soaked
in rum and mixed in equal parts with
champagne. The only thing wrong with
it is the name, which is not nearly
glamorous enough.
From Melbourne
On Good Friday night Sir Bernard
Heinze conducted the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra and the Royal Mel-
bourne Philharmonic Choir in Bach’s “St.
Matthew Passion” —a fitting climax to a
day when every church in the city had
been crowded to hear again the story of
Christ’s trial and death. From the open-
ing chorus, “Come, ye daughters, share
my mourning” to the final “In tears
of grief, dear Lord, we leave Thee,” it
was an inspiring delineation of Matthew’s
simple, dramatic story and of Bach’s
noble musiy. Elsie Findlay, Joan Jones,
Godfrey Stirling, Robert Payne and Keith
Neilson were the soloists.
Almost 300 guests were entertained by
the High Commissioner of Pakistan,
Husuf Haroon, and the Begum Haroon
at a buffet-dinner party in the Venetian
Court of the Australia Jo do honor to the
Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, who was
in his best form. His wife, in a gown of
deep-blue Chantilly lace and a matching
long-sleeved jacket, shared the sartorial
honors with the Begum, whose pink
sheer-silk sari had a deep edging of hand-
beaten silver embroidery. Heather
Menzies was attractive in a bouffant
gown of aqua-green crepe topped with a
tiny matching bolero. Mrs. Harold Holt
billowed in ice-blue tulle. The gown
worn by Lady Collins was of a sea-green
crepe sprinkled with tiny sequins in a
deeper tone. Mrs. R. G. Casey’s black
and gold brocades carried a matching
jacket. Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade com-
bined a beige French crepe skirt and a
black lace bodice. Silk roses with sequin
centres cascaded down each rever of Mrs.
Trevor Oldham’s black velvet gown. The
neckline and sleeves of Mrs. G. R.
Nicholas’s creamy satins were worked in
a lattice design and encrusted with pearls.
Judges Foster, Clyne and Stretton were
accompanied by their wives. Mrs. Foster
was dressed in pale-lilac patterned with
toning roses, and Mesdames Clyne and
Stretton chose black crepe. Lady Olney
contrasted her black gown with white
'embroideries. Mrs, H. F. Wright teamed
a black satin skirt with a white satin
bodice. Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s bouffant
gown of cinnamon-brown tulle had a
strapless top of opalescent sequins and
moonstones. Royal-blue crepe was worn
by Mrs. Frank Smith.
Here is Nancy Weir, famous pianist,
back in her native land after an absence
abroad of many years. She has returned
at the invitation of the Commonwealth
Government to take part in the Jubilee
celebrations. Nancy left Melbourne in
her early ’teens, studying for two years
in Berlin under Artur Schnabel. The
solid foundation for her career, however,
was laid by her brilliant teacher, Ada
Freeman, who, recognising her genius,
took her personally to Schnabel. During
her stay in Germany Nancy mastered the
language, and this she put to good use
when she went into the W.A.A.F. and
worked in R.A.F. Intelligence. War
work took her to Cairo, where she
spent almost two years and played for
the troops. Later she was transferred to
Algiers and then to Italy. Nancy’s first
appearance will be on April 4 at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall, where she gave her
first concert at 13 years of age.
Mrs. J. J. Daly hostessed the afternoon-
party at the Lyceum Club at which
Nancy Weir was guest-of-honor. A
pleated black crepe frock, short match-
ing jacket and small beige straw hat
trimmed with black velvet comprised the
hostess’s outfit. Nancy was hatless, and
under a caramel-toned coat wore a
mustard silk frock spotted in nigger-
brown. Lady Disney’s tailored suit in
tiny brown-and-white checks was worn
with a brown beret which had a headband
of brown velvet cut to resemble butter-
flies spotted with gold sequins, Ada
Freeman was in grey suit and matching
grey felt hat. A grey silk suit embroidered
with matching braid was the choice of
Mrs. G. Lassells. Mrs. A. A. Lord’s
English suit was wide checks in deep-red
and blue, the skirt finely pleated and the
jacket fitted. Her felt hat matched the
red in her suit.
First function in the year’s programme
arranged by the Sutherland Homes for
Children Auxiliary is a dinner-dance on
April 4. Eton Hall has been generously
donated by Norman Lynch, who has
added another handsome gift to the
auxiliary in the form of an excellent
dinner. The function is under Lord-
Mayoral patronage. Mrs. Norman Lynch
heads the small committee as president,
and she is assisted by three ticket-
secretaries who are also arranging for
table reservations. They are Mrs. Royden
Honeyman (WA2096), Mrs. Con Curtain
(MW1862) and Sadie Kaufman (BJ4882).
Tickets are two guineas each. Last year
the auxiliary, which is composed of young
matrons, raised almost £lOOO for the
Homes, and this year they expect to do
better. With generous support coming in
that objective should be achieved.
Miss Ellen Cumber, now visiting this
country, is general secretary for Overseas
Settlment for British Women. This
society, which began its work in 1947,
acts in migration matters as the women’s
branch of the Commonwealth Relations
Office. Free advice is given to all who
seek it. Miss Cumber found that many
women planning to leave England for the
first time had so little knowledge of what
to expect that they did not know what
questions to ask; consequently it took a
long time to prepare them. This week
Miss Cumber was guest-of-honor at a
late-afternoon party at the Lyceum Club.
Staged in the Venetian Court of the
Australia, the La Petite fashion-show in
aid of the Children’s Hospital was a suc-
cess artistically and financially. Mrs. G.
I. Stevenson, on behalf of the board of
management of the hospital, opened the
show in a black lace gown which had the
pattern outlined in jet sequins. At Mrs.
Stevenson’s table was Jeanette Brooks,
wearing a pastel-blue satin gown with
the slim-fitting bodice ‘finished with shoe-
string straps. Mrs. Alistair Mackinnon
was also in blue, hers under a wide stole
of fine white lace. Pamela Stevenson’s
strapless gown of powder-blue glittered
with bead embroideries. Anne Sprag-
gett chose ripple taffeta in deep-blue
tonngs. Mrs. Leo Guest’s bouffant gown
was of flame organza. Mrs. Loring
Dowling’s garnet-red satin gown had
powder-blue satin lining the petal top of
the strapless bodice. Mrs. Walter
Ebstein’s grey net frock, with its peacock
hemline, had old-world ruffles of match-
ing net for adornment. Gloria Ladd
swished in a draped white satin gown
resplendent with gold bead trimmings.
Mrs. Jo Jensen’s white satin gown had
silver bead embroideries.
Mrs. Neil Rogers designed the gowns
and introduced, three new colors for the
grey days. They were panther-grey,
autumn-leaf-green and paradise-pink.
Only one complete ensemble of the new
pink was seen, although it cropped up
through the show as jacket-linings and
touches on various ensembles. Junior
blue and black were popular. There are
straight skirts for day- and evening-wear.
Thirteen inches from the ground is the
new length for tall women and llin.
for the not-so-tall. Suits were slim,
nipped-in at the waist, and revers were
deeper than last season. Coats for town
wear were also in at the waist, but for
casual wear they were full, sometimes
reversible and worn over matching frocks.
The apron-skirt was used with distinction
for day-, afternoon- and evening-frocks.
Highlight of the show was the material
used in lovely evening creations. Un-
crushable waterproof velvet, shot-
marquisette and flat-surfaced material
came from France and Switzerland.
These gowns were lavishly encrusted with
pearls, sequins and diamente embroidery.
One outstanding model was fashioned of
gold marquisette over bronze shot-
taffeta and layers of tulle. The slim
bodice was trimmed with gold beads,
finishing just below the waist. Over it
was worn a very full matching faille coat
with balloon sleeves and heavily-beaded
yoke. Most arresting was a cocktail
ensemble of ruby velvet. The full-length
swing coat, its bracelet sleeves ending m
wide cuffsi was worn over a strapless
frock of matching velvet, beaded heavily
in red and gold.


BOOK YOUR PASSAGE NOW TO
ENGLAND and EUROPE
1 951 1 952
As an individual luxury class passenger—without the usual travel worries
and with first class steamer and hotel accommodation throughout
y nj ? y f** mont^s of interest exploring the wonders of Great Britain, Europe and New
Zealand in an Atlas luxurious road coach which is used during all land travel and when
connecting with steamers (no tiresome train journeys). You travel by famous ships of the
P. & 0., Orient, N.Z. Shipping Co. and Italian lines, and pay ONE FARE ONLY, costing far
below that of any tour you could arrange yourself.
Full detailed itineraries from
ATLAS WORLD TOURS
12a MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 'PHONE BL 3896. And at Melbourne and London
V
- - r-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Glasgow-bom Jimmy Mollison, who
first got into a cockpit at 17 and into
record-breaking with his Australiar
England flight in 1931, and has scarcely
been out of one or the other since, had
five years with the R.A.F. after War I.
Serving therein in India, he later piloted
passenger planes between Monte Carlo
and Corsica, till he was lured here by
the fame of Kingsford Smith, Bert Hinkler
and other Australians, and the country’s
reputation for first-class flying conditions.
For a year instructor to the S. Australian
aero club, he then flew the Adelaide-
Port Lincoln run, and next settled down
with Kingsford Smith as a senior pilot
with A.N.A. Then he took off for further
international records and honors. At 45
he’s just announced his intention of
having a crack at the 1953 London-
New Zealand air-race.
Revisiting his old stamping-ground,
though this time with different intent,
Britain’s new fleet Commander round
Korea, rangy Rear-Admiral A. K. Scott-
Moncrieff. The naval war thereabouts
is a fast, in-and-out one—bombardments
at high speed, quick, stealthy landings—
and the new commander knows that type
of fighting as well as his compass. A
quiet, hard man, he was on the China
Station, in destroyers, 30 years ago; he’s
been in the lethal midgets pretty well all
the time since. His first D.S.O. came
with the Bth Destroyer Flotilla, in the
sub-zero washings-down of a destroyer
screen for Arctic convoys: his second was
won, again leading destroyers, in the
pleasant weather and unpleasant company
of the Mediterranean. Now he’s got
some bigger craft —but they can be, and
almost certainly will be, used like his
former commands.
Calling it a day in Westralia’s Legis-
lative Council, after some 40 years’
association with the A.L.P., 28 of them
representing West Province and Fre-
mantle, Edmund Gray. At 71 he still
likes his gardening too much to throw
in the trowel there.
The other day a high and well-deserved
honor came the way of Waite Institute
director Professor James Prescott, who
can now title himself F.R.S. —one of only
three of South Australia who can. Born
at Bolton (Lancs.) 60 years ago, he was
schooled in England, France and Ger-
many, and in 1912 gained a Ministry of
Agriculture research scholarship. That
was the grounding for an unsurpassed
knowledge of soil which was to give him
the Chair of Agricultural Chemistry in
Adelaide in 1924, and the head position
in the Soils Division of the C.5.1.R.0.
between 1929-47. A prolific contributor
to scientific journals dealing with earthy
matters, he left recently for Pakistan, to
advise on the establishment of an agri-
cultural research-station there.
Three British Service top-notchers go
to Eisenhower’s commands —Field-Marshal
Montgomery, Admiral Sir Patrick Brind
and Air-Marshal Sir Hugh Saunders.
The first is more or less well-known —
having worked with his chief before, and
chased the Hun across two continents.
Brind (“Daddy” to all hands, forrard
and aft) is the giant who had a gunboat
in the Kaiser’s war, heavy cruisers Orion,
Birmingham and Excellent in Hitler’s
(all three with a heavy list of battle
honors), as well as the cruiser-command
of Britain’s Pacific Fleet towards the end.
Recently head-serang of the Far East
Station, he’s the son of a colonel and
brother of a general.
Saunders, lately Inspector-General of
the R.A.F., has, as expected, D.F.C. on
his chest; he wears also M.C. and M.M.,
these won in War I with the South
African Horse, which he joined in his
native Transvaal. Transferring to the
R.F.C. in 1917, he jumped from groupl-
- to air-commodore in two years.
•He lead a group of Fighter Command
tigers in the Battle of Britain, the whole
of the R.A.F. in Burma in 1945 and
Bomber Command, 1947. He’s 56.
Done very well for himself with his
first-class book The Great Escape, Paul
Brickhill has had his story televised in
the U.S. and dramatised over the 8.8. C.
Melbourne-bom in the middle of the
Kaiser’s scrap, Brickhill was very much
in the middle of Hitler’s, flying Hurri-
canes over Alamein. He followed the
westward advance in Spitfires, and in
March, 1943, was shot down over the
Mareth Line in Tunisia. He baled out
at 10,000 ft., but for the first highly un-
pleasant 9000 ft. had his ’chute tangled in
his falling plane, His book is the story
of the almost incredible mass escape
from Stalag Luft 111, under which camp
some 600 R.A.F. and Dominion airmen
slaved for a year on three great tunnels,
hundreds of feet long, dug too deep even
for German sound detectors. After the
war Brickhill revisited Germany, and his
book presents the German side of the
escape as well. While in Europe he
represented Australian papers in Austria
and Italy, and covered the Nuremberg
trials. The Great Escape hit English
bookstalls last week.
The features here limned belong to
23-year-old Kevin Miller, Adelaide tenor,
one of the outstanding successes of
the Melbourne National Theatre opera
season. When at his first appearance in
opera (thanks to the National Theatre),
and first with a full orchestra also. Miller
let fly with his golden notes on the open-
ing night of the “Barber,” the audience
sat up and took notice, while the Press
next morning paid such glowing tributes
that even the singer himself was a bit em-
barrassed. Possessing, in addition to a
OPERA.
voice of unusual quality, natural acting
ability of a high order, he rattled the
words of the fast-moving opera across
the footlights with m.-g. speed, while his
singing never lost its richness, Adelaide
has, long realised his talent and is send-
ing him abroad.
In Melbourne to establish a market for
his prefabricated “Spooner” houses, sturdy
John Leslie Spooner, managing-director
of Spooners, Ltd., Yorkshire. One of
his Hull factories covers five acres and
employs more than 100 persons, and he
hopes to ship 2000 houses to Australia
yearly. The whole of a Spooner house,
complete with electric- or gas-cooker,
copper and h.w. service, can be trans-
ported on a single semi-trailer and erected
on its feet without cranes. The speci-
men house in the Exhibition Building
took 110 man-hours to come into being.
The third international celebrity to be
brought here by the Australian Institute
of International Affairs under the Dyason
Lectures series (the other two being
Professor Northrop, of Yale University,
and Bertrand Russell) will be the dis-
tinguished Spanish scholar and author,
Salvador de Madariaga. Married to a
Scotswoman, De Madariaga, who is prob-
ably the outstanding authority on his
country’s history, started off as a mining-
engineer, and has been journalist, ambas-
sador, Oxford professor, member of the
8.8. C. Brains Trust, and statesman. He
is an exceptionally good speaker.
Herewith the thinking part of hefty
Douglas Wadley, one of Brisbane’s most
solicited solicitors. Out of court his
LAW.
interests are canine and cattle—he satis-
fies the one with a long term as president
of the Kennel Association of Queensland,
and judging cocker spaniels at Sydney’s
Royal, and the other with his Jersey stud
at Long Pocket, Brisbane. Both sons are
.studying law.
Recently died at 84, in Melbourne, Sam
Barnes, Minister for Railways and Mines
in the Lawson Ministry of 1918-23, The
first mining-manager (he managed Long
Tunnel, Walhafla) to become a Minister
of Mines, he was then one of the most
experienced mineralogists in Victoria,
where he landed from Cornwall with in-
herited mining instincts. Features of one
of the most exciting terms of office in
Victorian history were the opening of
the first electrified line from Broad-
meadows to Sandringham, the appoint-
ment of the ebullient Harold Clapp as
Railways chairman, the piloting through
the House of the Yallourn electrification
bill and the Border Railways Bill, which
was designed to serve the Riverina with
Victorian railways. Sam Barnes is re-
called also as a great after-dinner
speaker with a dry wit.
“One of the finest feats of seamanship
in the history of shipping,” was the
tribute paid by the chairman of the
Wellington Harbor Board to Captain D.
M. Todd, who recently brought the
Taranaki and Waipiata, two ships locked
together in collision, safely to port. Todd
is Wellington’s harbormaster.
Gordon here present? Thomas
Alfred Hiley, one of Queensland’s front-
rank accountancy men; and Logan (Q.)
put him into the State Parliament in
1944. Now representing Coorparoo,
Hiley was practising accountancy at 21,
which no doubt accounts for the post
he reached at 41 —president of the
POLITICS.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Australia. He followed Bruce Pie as
leader of the Queensland Liberals, and
is now; Nicklin’s deputy in the Assembly.
Thomas Herman Andersen, who takes
over the baton from John Doyle, will be
the first Westralian to be appointed Com-
missioner of Police in his own State.
Born at Beaconsfield (W.A.) 56 years ago,
educated in Perth, Andersen farmed on
his father’s property at Brookton till he
joined the police at 19. Most of his
service has been with the liquor inspec-
tion branch, to which he was transferred
from country beats in 1923. He grew
with the branch, which now includes
inspection of weights, measures and fire-
arms, until he was promoted inspector-
in-charge in 1945 —four years later he
was chief inspector. A tall chap of trim
build and soldierly appearance, even to
the close-dipped grey moustache, he has
done much for police boys’ clubs, and is
now president of the Federation of Police
and Citizens’ Boys’ Clubs in W.A, The
new commissioner has one qualification
rare among policemen—he is a full-
fledged chartered accountant and a
Fellow of the Federal Institute of
Accountants.
Into the Silence;
In Wellington (M.L.), at 74, James Prender-
ville, Crown Solicitor in Wellington and well-
known Rugby administrator. He represented
M.L. at the Imperial Rugby Conference in
London in 1935-36. Graduating LL.B. from
Wellington’s Victoria College, he was one of
the first to be capped at that institution after
its establishment, almost half a century ago.
He retired from Crown Soliciting last year.
In Brisbane, at 63, Arthur Charles Pratt,
a director of Norco Co-op., Ltd., for close on
20 years, and a North Coast (N.S.W.) Primary
Producers’ Union for a bit more than that.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 69, Justice John
Bartholomew Callan. A native of Dunedin,
where he was educated and practised law, and
later in Wellington, he became judge in 1935.
Like several other M.L. Supreme Court judges
he served in the Kaiser’s war, officer in the
Rifle Brigade, A member of the N.Z. Univer-
sity Council and one-time president of the
Otago Amateur Athletic Association.
At Nannup (W.A.), at 90, Richard Wilson,
who reached Australia from Dublin as a lad
in a sailing-ship, after a six months’ voyage.
Gold-prospector, he was a member of one of
John Forrest’s exploration parties.
In Melbourne, John A. Graham, a former
goldmining magnate and the historian of
Creswick. He wrote Early Creswick, an his-
torical account of that producer of Australian
talent, published the book at his own expense,
and donated the proceeds to the Creswick Red
Cross.


Servicemen
£
d
-
f
.
have fewer worries!
Many men prefer life in the Navy,
Army or Air Force because Australia
provides adequately for the needs of
her sailors, soldiers and airmen
through a carefully planned system of
pay, allowances and privileges. Pay is
good, and when all the “extras” are
added, compares favourably with
civilian awards.
A Serviceman’s pay is adjusted
periodically in relation to cost of liv-
ing changes and basic wage variations.
A Serviceman’s “extras” include food
and accommodation, clothing allow-
ance, family allowances, free medical,
dental and hospital treatment, free
travel to and from his home for his
annual leave, and congenial social and
sporting facilities for his leisure time.
A Serviceman’s future is made secure
through opportunities for steady ad-
vancement, and a pension or gratuity
on retirement or at end of engage-
ment.
Get all the facts about Service life
now.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
at the following addresses
In Melbourne; Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place
and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide:
Richards Building, 99 Currie Street; In Perth; 34 King Street; In Hobart; Franklin
Square; In Launceston: Town Hall, St. John Street.
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
| The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the
following cities —Sydney, Melbourne,
1 Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
| Launceston.
Please send me, without obligation,
fall details of enlistment and service
I with (indicate which desired) —
□ NAVY
□ ARMY
□ AIR FORCE
□ ALL 3 SERVICES
□ Full time
□ Part time
NAME
ADDRESS.
(
: f '
,
Ifsu*3~the Government of~tkt Commonwealth of Australia,
1921*1951. Congratulations to the R.A.A.F. on its 30th Birthday.
x,-.>
J-
SERVICER
V AVIATION
-*r
1
#
r
%
From reindeer to kangaroo—
across the globe you can rely on the unfailing
readiness and efficiency of the BP Aviation Service,
available at airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney. Qantas Empire
Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are amongst
the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it
~*■ the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company,Ltd,
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Addru* “AIRBEPEE” W*
AMOK WITH AN AXE
by MAT'S MATE
WHEN we walked out of
the station at Murray
Ford we found a band
of Young Australia
League boys or something
drawn up, playing away on their
instruments while some local
bigwigs stood by. Before I
could work out whether the boys
were being welcomed or fare-
welled Mat dropped his suitcase,
clasped his hands over his head
as do boxers in the ring, bowed
and grinned to all and sundry.
Then be turned to me and said,
loudly, “Gripes, this ought to be
a good town. They bring out
the ruddy band to welcome a
man.” A policeman stepped to-
wards us and I grabbed our bags
and got Mat out of there.
“Y* ruddy great goat,” I said,
“actin’ the nanny is likely to get
us kicked out o’ the place be-
fore we get into it.”
“Aw, pull y’r head in, mate,”
he chuckled. “What’s wrong
with a bit o’ fun?”
There was a hotel just across
the road from the station, and
there we booked a room, after
which we investigated the town
and sounded out a few of the
locals about the prospects of
work.
There didn’t seem to be much
doing, but that didn’t worry us,
for we had a few quid, and a
few days loafing with a few beers
and a few feeds that somebody
else cooked looked all right to
both of us. After we’d explored
the place and learned from a
grieving informant that it had
once boasted seventy pubs, but
now had but the bare fifteen,
that there “used to be plenty o’
jobs on the wharves when the
boats was runnin’,” and that the
country generally was “done”
because the “cockies had too
much money,” we drifted back
to our pub and had a beer or
two before tea,
“I dunno what that bloke was
growlin’ about,” Mat remarked,
draping his big frame across the
bar-counter. “Y’d think pullin’
down the pubs from seventy to
fifteen would make it a lot easier
for him to hum his way round
’em every day.”
“You coves goin’ to the darnce
tonight?” the publican asked
incuriously.
“What darnce ?” Mat asked.
“Up at the Oddfellers. They
say they’re good darnces.”
Mat took a sip at his beer and
asked carefully, “Many get
prarncin’ round darnces here?”
The publican missed the
point.
“Fair few,” he replied.
“H’m,” Mat said, I could see
by the look in his eye that some-
thing was coming.
“H’m,” he said, again. Then,
“What charnce would a coupler
freelarnces have at a darnce
here?”
Again the publican missed it.
“Aw,” he said, “coupler new
blokes at a darnce always got a
charnce o’ gettin’ partners. They
do some old-fashioned darnces,
too ; larncers an’ all that.”
Mat burbled in his beer and
I turned hurriedly and looked
out the door. When I turned
back Mat had the face of a
cunning devil on him.
“Many girls go?” he asked.
“Plenty.”
“Huh. I reckon I won’t be
goin’. I’m an odd feller.”
“But I just told y’. It’s an
Oddfellers’ darnce.”
“Yair. An’ I’m an odd feller.
Darnces with girls at ’em is no
good to me.”
The publican paused and gave
Mat a long look.
“What the hell,” he demanded,
“would be the good of a darnce
if they was no girls there?”
“What the hell,” flared Mat,
“is the good of a darnce when
they is girls there?”
He glared at the publican,
who stared back at him blankly.
It was time to end it
“Give us another drink,” I
said, “an’ have one y’rself.”
The publican, plainly baffled,
turned away to obey, and Mat
slipped out to see a man about
a dog or something.
The publican put the beers on
the counter, glanced furtively at
the door, lowered his voice and
said to me “He all there?”
“Not with girls,” I said. “An’
another thing, he always sleeps
on his right side an’ don’t eat
turnips.”
Before the publican could
work this out Mat came back
and picked up his pot.
“Y’ want,” he said gravely to
the publican, “to get that wood-
heap-axe sharpened.”
The publican was becoming
impatient, “You won’t be
choppin’ any wood Here,” he
said surlily.
“Aw, I wasn’t thinkin’ of
that,” Mat said airily. “But it’d
be pretty tough if someone run
amok with a blunt axe.
Wouldn’t y’ sooner have y’r nut
hacked orf with a sharp one?”
He gazed in a fascinated manner
at the publican’s neck. The pub-
lican backed off a step, his im-
patience plainly changing to
alarm.
“Come on,” I said hurriedly.
“Let’s go an’ get washed for
tea.”
IN the dining-room the waitress
1 sat us at a table for two. She
seemed rather nervous, and kept
her distance, looking furtively
from one to the other. There
were two or three other lodgers,
and I ‘noticed that they shot
curiously apprehensive glances
at us and hastily averted their
gaze when I looked at them.
“Y* big mug,” I said in a low
voice. “Everyone in the place
thinks we’re a coupler lunatics.”
Mat grinned, picked up the
table-knife and the butter-knife
and began rubbing them to-
gether as a butcher uses a steel.
The three lodgers all turned to-
wards us at the sound, and the
waitress, entering «with plates of
food, stopped dead. Mat lowered
his head and swung it round,
showing his teeth like a dog.
The lodgers hurriedly resumed
eating and the waitress fled into
the kitchen.
“Look,” I said, feeling several
sorts of a fool, “cut it out or
I’m leavin’ y’ on y’r own, see!”
“Righto, mate,” he said
civilly, and looked embarrassed,
as he always did when I recalled
him to a sense of dignity.
He stopped his fooling after
that, the lodgers and waitress
recovered their equanimity, and
after tea we went out and visited
the billiard - saloons, yarning
with fellows and trying to get
a lead to any work. We had
supper in a Chinese fish cafd
and got to bed about eleven
o’clock that night.
We then discovered the disad-
vantage of sleeping near a busy
railway yard. What with
whistling locomotives, bumping
trucks, shouting shunters and so


Its (fiat Ingrams face again.
•79
I
r
L»
I \
*HowoMoi%
Like Cupid's arrow, an Ingrams face goes straight
to the heart of feminine appreciation.
You’re right on the target with a smooth Ingrams face.
A jar of Ingrams shaving cream is a promise of cool,
smooth, easy shaving. Get one from your Chemist
A Product of Bristol Myers
{ X
SHAVING CREAM
(^REfLA^^^^^nFun
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAINTS—for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for larj
areas, spotting
nozzle for small
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
Also
available
m petrol model
•r 32 V. end 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp St Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
J. W. EARNSHAW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney— ’Phone X 83950
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
■CAD OFFICE, SYDNEY
An Effective
Banking Service
livery day more and more
people are using the complete
range of banking services
provided by this Bank.
The various departments of
The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited
are staffed by men of ability
and specialized experience
whose friendly assistance is
available to all who seek it.
This same spirit of service
will be found at the Bank's
Head Office or at any of its
hundreds of branches.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
0F SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
forth, we were awake as often
as we were asleep.
“When I get back to Mel-
bourne,” Mat growled, “I’m
goin’ right into Harry [Sir
Harold Clapp was Chief Com-
missioner of Railways] an’ bang
a empty kero.-tin in his office
an’ say ‘That’s the sort o’ row
y’r flamin’ trains kick up at night
when a man’s tryin’ to sleep.’”
“Yah*’” J said, “you an’ who
e l se? ”
A FTER breakfast next morn-
1 * ing we leaned against the
front wall of the pub and sourly
surveyed what we could see of
the town. Magpies were carol-
ling somewhere, the sun was
bright and the world a-sparkle,
with a small boy and a dog run-
ning joyfully down the road ; but
we felt like something the cat
had dragged in. A couple of
railwaymen came out of the
pub, their lunch-boxes across
their shoulders, and paused to
roll cigarettes, giving us casual
glances. They lit up and, as
they passed us on the way to the
station, one said “We was eight
minutes back at Rochester, but
we pulled it down to five on the
run in. Not bad for a big rake,
There was seventy-three alto-
gether, five empty louvres and
a Dee-Dee draggin’ ’em.”
Suddenly Mat stepped for-
ward and grasped the man’s arm.
Mat had a hand like a ham and
a grip like a ten-inch vice, and
the cove had to stop.
“So,” Mat said in a low and
deadly voice, “you’re the bloke
brought that train in, are y’?
Seventy-three flamin’ trucks, a
engine and a guard’s-van
seventy-five all told. I could
hear every flamin’ one o’ them,”
The man he held was speech-
less with astonishment, but his
mate wasn’t. “What the hell’s
bitin’ you!” he demanded.
“This bloke,” Mat snapped.
“Couldn’t make up his flamin’
mind. I hate blokes who can’t
make up their mind. He gets
that flamin’ train in an’ what
does he do? Decides he wants
her up another three feet —
didn’t want to climb out o’ the
van except on to the platform,
I suppose—so he signals the
flamin’ driver an’ up she goes—
clankety, inkle, tinkle, bonkle,
unkle, tonkety, bonkety, bunk
seventy-four times. But she
goes up five feet because there’s
a bit of a slope, an’ so she has
to go back two feet to suit his
nibs. He waves his lamp, yoo-
hoohoo goes the engine an’
inkle, binkle, umpety, blonkety,
crankle, tank she goes seventy-
four more times, an’ me tryin’
to get a bit of sleep. It ain’t a
fair go, an’ ”
“What sort of a mad blankard
are you?” snorted the railway
cove, trying to pull his arm
away. And his mate said loudly
“Let go his arm, y’ big hump.”
“You shut up an’ listen to
me!” Mat roared, and he
grabbed the other railwayman
and held him. By this time two
small boys and a youth on a
bike had pulled up to watch.
“Up an’ back,” Mat howled.
“Seventy-four- times up an’
seventy-four times back. That’s
a hundred and forty - eight
flamin’ tinkle-conkle-clunks. Is
he satisfied! Not on y’r ruddy
life. She must ha’ come back
too far, about four flamin’
inches too far! So off she goes
again, rungle, bungle, gungle,
bash! ”
He quivered with simulated
rage and shook the two captives.
“Now you blokes take yT flamin’
trains out of this an’ keep ’em
out t’night or I’ll come over to
that yard an’ go y’ scone-hot.”
And he threw them from him,
cocked his hat over one eye and
swaggered back to the wall.
“I’m square with the flamin’
Victorian Railways,” he
muttered to me. But my eye
was on the railwaymen. I didn’t
like the suspicious haste with
which they hurried to the station,
for I guessed there’d be rein-
forcements there,
“If y’ve done laughin’ y’rself
sick,” I said, “we better go up
the town.”
“You got the wind up?” he
asked,
“You get y’rself run in,” I
said, “an’ y’ can get y’rself run
out again. I ain’t buyin’
trouble.”
E walked to the town and
. I was hoping we could find
a job of some sort, for these
playful moods of Mat some-
times lasted for days when he
was idle and had money in his
pocket and could get enough
beer to make him reckless, A
couple of months earlier the
police in a Gippsland town had
taken a dim view of him ring-
ing himself in as a traveller for
a city firm of undertakers and
wanting to measure people and
quote them “cut rates” for their
eventual obsequies. The police
admitted they had nothing on
him, but said they were hunting
up advice on false pretences and
things like that, and they really
believed that part of Gippsland
would get on a lot better with-
out Mat. Mat didn’t like Gipps-
land and told the police that the
place wanted livening-up, and
what he thought of it, and said
if they wanted to pinch him to
go ahead and do it, because liv-
ing in a Gippsland lock-up
couldn’t be any worse than liv-
ing anywhere else in Gippsland.
It baffled the police a bit, be-
cause there wasn’t much they
could do, since Mat was careful
to keep his language clean, and
made no show of violence, and
couldn’t be vagged because we
were working on a road job,
and they knew it. But after
that every time we went for a
beer or walked forth at night or
raised our voices at a football
match we’d see a policeman
with his eye on us, and it only
needed somebody to pick a fight
or get Mat’s back up and we’d
have been gone gooses. So we
chucked the road job and went
over into the Colac country.
Unless I’d had enough booze
to make me reckless these antics
of his always discomfited me and
made me nervous, because there
was always likely to be some-
body who wouldn’t appreciate
Mat’s humor, and might want to
have a piece of us. The big
fellow hadn’t much to be afraid
of —his size, weight and speed
kept him out of trouble; it was
different with me. He usually
calmed down the offended, for
he had the most winning ways
about him when he chose, and
when he was contrite was cap-
able of the most generous
actions to compensate those who
might be hurt.
But on occasions—like the
time he protended to be a plain-
clothes policeman and “arrested”
eight or nine men and youths
playing Murrum in a Mallee
billiard-room, and the whole
bunch assaulted us when they
found out —when his victims re-
acted with violence I usually got
the worst of it. And I seldom
got any sympathy from him ; he
reckoned that if I was his mate
I was in the joke—whatever it
{Continued on next page.)


SC
E-L-A-S-T-l-C
PROTECTION
FOR ALL
MINOR
INJURIES
For minor accidents, there is
no dressing quite so com-
fortable as this British-made
plaster which is adhesive and
firm, but elastic and flexible. Flesh-coloured and
inconspicuous, Elastoplast is wound on a convenient
metal spool, 1" x 1 yd. long (stretching to l|/2 yds.).
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
TRADE MARK
E-L-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available.
asr>
ANOTHER"PRODUCT OF T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., HULL, ENGLAND
EVERYWHERE PRIMARY PRODUCERS PROSE IT
imi for AUSTRALIAN CCNDITIONS
' > " C*
mzmi
mmM ‘hm
6-way Power (Belt-pulley, P.T.0., Adjust-
able Swinging Draw-bar, 3-point Hydraulic
Power). 5 FORWARD SPEEDS (I to 18
m.p.h.). ADJUSTABLE TRACK. FULL
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT . . .
. . . the NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL HAS
EVERYTHING! DOES EVERYTHING!
IT IS BUILT AND BACKED BY A NAME
YOU CAN TRUST!
(Above): Nuffield Universal pull-
ing 18 Plate Offset Disc Culti-
vators; width of cut, Bft 6in. This
is a particularly heavy draught
implement for orchard work,
enabling close cultivation to fruit
trees, and was pulled in 3rd gear
at m.p.h.
Distributors for New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD
LIMITED
213-217 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phono MA 6357
(Next I. & G. Building]
AUIHORKED
NDFFIEID
DEALER
Also sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Throughout the Commonweath
m
NAP/24/N/BO
ta
d
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
was—and ought to be prepared
to pay for it.
Anyway, we went into the
town this day and idled around,
having a dr'ak here and there,
until we heard of a small
fencing job that was going about
five miles down the river. There
was a cove going put there in a
sulky, and Mat got a lift with
him, leaving me to wander
about and see what else could
be found. When it came dinner-
time I went back to the pub.
AFTER dinner I was leaning
against the front of the pub,
and saw a policeman come out
of the railway-station and walk
towards me. He’d seen me, and
it was too late to duck inside.
“G’day,” he said.
“G’day.”
“Hot enough for y’?” There
was no suspicion in his frank
face and I relaxed.
“Yair,” I said, “but she’ll be
hotter.”
He put a hand against a
veranda-post and rested there.
“You see anything of a mad
bloke about here?” he asked.
“No. What’s he been doin’?”
“Aw, actin’ funny an’ makin’
threats, be what I can hear. We
got a complaint about it from
the railway, and the sergeant
reckoned it might be something.
You been here long?”
“Come in yesterday. I’m
stayin’ here.”
“They reckon this was a big
bloke. There was a cove come
in and said he was staying at
this pub, an’ he reckoned this
mad bloke was sharpening
knives and pulling faces at
everybody.”
“When was this?”
“Last night.”
“Well, I didn’t see any mad
bloke.”
The policeman took his hand
off the veranda-post and stood
erect.
“Well, I better go in and see
the publican about it,” he said.
The only way I could see to
stop him talking to the publican
was to say, “How about a
drink?”
He looked up and down the
road and oyer towards the
station.
“We’re not supposed to, in
uniform,” he began dubiously.
“Aw,” I said, “surely there’s
nobody round here that’d be
lousy enough t’ pot y’. Y’ could
do a drink, couldn’t y?”
“Too right,” he said fervently.
and solved the difficulty by tak-
ing off his cap and shoving it
under one arm. I don’t know
whether this means that a
constable has temporarily gone
off duty and is thereby entitled
to have a drink, or whether it’s
a gesture of homage to a
man ready to buy a policeman a
drink, or whether it’s a reverence
to the beer itself, but I’ve seen
policemen do it often enough.
Anyway, we went into the little
side bar. The publican’s eyes
nearly popped out when he saw
my company. He accepted the
order in silence, and when the
mugs were put before us I paid
and said “The constable’s
lookin’ for a wild bloke he was
told was runnin’ round with
knives on the railway-station last
night. You hear anythin’ about
it?”
The publican stood back a
bit and eyed me.
“Didn’t he have a axe, too?”
he sneered. The sneer was
meant for me, but the police-
man thought it was meant for
the tale of the wild man.
“Nothing was said about any
axe,” he said sharply. “Can’t
you answer a civil question?”
Before the publican could
gather himself there were foot-
steps ip the main bar, and I
looked through the little window
in the side bar and saw Mat.
“Hey, Mat,” I called. “Come
round here an’ tell us what y’
know about a mad bloke that’s
been seen throwin’ knives or
somethin’.”
“.Was he throwing knives?”
the policeman asked quickly.
“I never seen him,” I
answered. “This is me mate, he
might have seen somethin’.” All
this in a loud voice for Mat’s
benefit as he came to us along
the passage. To the publican I
said “Pull up another beer an’
have one y’rself.”
I caught Mat’s eye and gave
him a signal.
“This gentleman,” I said, in-
dicating the policeman, “is
lookin’ for a bloke they reckon’s
done his nut.”
“What’s he been up to?” Mat
asked innocently.
THE policeman emptied his
mug and pushed it forward
suggestively. He seemed to be
impressed by Mat’s size and
bearing. He fished a notebook
from his tunic pocket and
opened it.
“I better tell you about it,”
he said, wetting a finger on his
tongue and riffling through the
pages of the book. “Here it is.
Just listen to this: 9.48 a.m.,
stationmaster telephoned and
informed Sergeant Rudduck
two shunters assaulted on way
to work, secretary local branch
A.R.U. informed him men
request permission hold stop-
work one hour next Tuesday
discuss matter, meantime men
insist police make investigation.
Sergeant Rudduck asks if
shunters can identify alleged
attacker and will they lay
charge, Stationmaster says
he’ll find out. 11.19 a.m.,
Shunter William Henry Dobson
called at police-station and says
he deputised by railway-yard
staff to apprise police of alleged
attack on unionists proceeding
to their work, thus making them
four minutes late in signing on,
which Head Shunter logs in
time-book; union secretary pro-
tested, but H.S. says it is regu-
lations and he unable do any-
thing ; after consultation union
secretary says we will hold stop-
work discuss matter, and H.S.
agrees to make preliminary
report to Divisional Superin-
tendent, and provide supple-
mentary report upon police in-
vestigation of charges. Shunter
William Henry Dobson asked
by Sergeant Rudduck if he saw
alleged assault. Answer: No.
Sergeant Rudduck then asked if
men who suffered alleged assault
can be brought to police-station
or will they make statement if
interviewed at their work.
Answer: One man went to
Bendigo on 9.15 a.m. on tem-
porary transfer, other not on
shift till 8 p.m. tonight, and
believed gone rabbiting down
river. Sergeant Rudduck then
asked what was complaint.
Answer: Alleged that big man
attacked both men near railway-
station by grasping their arms
and shaking them violently, and
that he abused them and shouted
something about trains going
inkle - binkle - bonk Sergeant
Rudduck asked Shunter Dobson
to repeat this, which he did —
alleged attacker made violent
threats to wreck trains and blow
up railway-station. In opinion
of men attacked the man was
insane, and may become very
violent unless apprehended.”
The policeman paused. Mat,
the publican and I listened to
him open-mouthed. He took
a gulp at his beer and went on;
“I” (“that’s me,” said the
policeman) “was then detailed
by Sergeant Rudduck to make
inquiries. On proceeding to rail-
way-station I was informed by
stationmaster that he hoped
something could be done as his
staff was restless and agitated,
and it would be a black mark
against him if there was a strike.
Ticket-Collector Kenneth Wil-
more informed me he was play-
ing snooker-pool at approxi-
mately 9.30 o’clock last night,
and a friend said to him ‘Do
you see that big person over
there?’ Wilmore said ‘Yes/
The friend said ‘Well, he is mad,’
or words to that effect. ‘He
was sharpening knives and
razors down at our pub and
screwing up his face, and they
tell me he tried to carve one of
the waitresses up, but she got
down the cellar.’ Question to
Wilmore: ‘What is your friend’s
name?’ Answer: T don’t know
for sure, we call him Broomy. I
think it is Broomwell, but I am
not sure. I understand he stays
at the Railway Hotel.’ Ques-
tion to Wilmore: ‘Did you see
where the alleged mad person
went?’ Answer: ‘No. But he
looked barmy to me. He had a
red face and his eyes kept flash-
ing in the light/ Now, what I
want to know is whether you
chaps saw anything of this big
person with a red face and flash-
ing eyes? Or have you heard
anything?”
“By gosh,” Mat said, “he
must be a bad cow. Y’ know,
them blokes have ten men’s
strength when they get started.
I wouldn’t want t’ meet him on
a dark night, if he had a axe an’
had it in for somebody!”
I saw that his eye was on the
publican, and when I looked at
that gentleman he was having
a struggle to choke back some-
thing he was about to say, and
was gazing at Mat in a sort of
desperate fascination.
“Perhaps it was some bloke
just actin’ the nanny,” X said
nervously.
“Couldn’t be that, mate,” Mat
said. “Blokes that go round
chasin’ shunters with razors an’
choppin’ up girls ain’t actin’ the
nanny. Are they, Constable?”
“I’ll say they’re not,” the
policeman answered sincerely.
“I suppose,” Mat said, “y’ve
got y’r gun with y’?”
My heart almost turned over,
and I’m sure the publican turned
green.
“Too right,” the policeman
said, one hand instinctively
touching a lump under his
jacket.
“That’s good,” Mat said, with
obvious relief. “Perhaps that
joker’s hidin’ round here. Want
us t’ go through the pub with
y’?”
The policeman scratched his
head. “Well, I dunno,” he said.
”Y’ see, it isn’t proved that he’s
mad. Can’t very well arrest him
unless someone points him out
and makes a definite charge.
He”
“No,” Mat said. “Still, we
ought t’ have a look. Never
know; y’ might catch him in the
act. Carvin’ somebody up or
somethin’.”
Absurdly enough, at that
instant a female screech
came from the rear of the pub.
The policeman whirled and
stared down the passage as
though expecting a gory figure
with a bloodstained axe to come
charging along it. Whatever
doubts he had were resolved by
Mat, who let out a yell. “Gripes,
that’s ’im!” and charged to-
wards the rear. The policeman
(Continued on page 32.)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
ft
ear
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
and continent -
Davy
Europe’s most reasonable rates!
Most friendly service from £1 per
day for 80 miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy, 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jatdeecars, Londok.
STOP SMOKING
In only one day yon too can Per-
manently overcome the ceaseless
craving for Tobacco with my famous
"SMOKENDA"
A really scientific method. Swift,
Pleasant, Harmless. Succeeds where
other methods fail. Save money.
Double Your Energy. Improve
Health. SMOKENDA is yours for 12/6
Post Free. (Plain wrapper.) Success
Guaranteed.
KEN G. McCALL, Dept. wi.
Smoking Cure Specialist,
BOX 4535, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
YOUR CAREER
IF YOU CAN irrespective of age, sex, or
circumstances, you may start NOW to prepare yourself at home
and in your spare time for a high salaried position in Commercial
Art. You may even if you choose open a studio of your own if you
train under our celebrated Directors of Studies, James Northfield
and Leyshon White.
AT I. DISTINCTIONS
In the £2OOO contest recently Conducted by the Australian Writers’
and Artists’ Federation 47 of the 50 Cash Prizes for art were
awarded to Students of the Art Training Institute.
FREE COPY OF PRIZE LIST ON APPLICATION TO A.T.I.
YOUR ART ABILITY
TESTED FREE!
THINK!
Your Talent Tested At Our Expense
IF you enjoy sketching—lF you itch to hold a pencil—write today
for our grandly illustrated book, ART ABILITY TESTS, and put
your talent to the test. In it you will find Special Test Drawings
for YOU to copy and submit for free criticism by our expert
Commercial Artists. No cost, no obligation. You will find the
tests simple and interesting, the Criticism HONEST, HELPFUL,
HEARTENING.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50 Hotham Street, Melbourne, C. 2.
Please send me your illustrated 32-pagc booklet, ART ABILITY
TESTS, without cost or obligation.
| NAME.
(Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS.
BuL Mai. '6l
SUNDRY SHOWS
ART.
An exhibition of vast pictures
at Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne, by
Harry O’Neill, a 73-year-old
Brisbane artist, is interesting
from the illustrative point of
view, even if its aesthetic content
isn’t very great. O’Neill is an
academician of academicians
and a one-time London “Punch”
contributor. One of his pictures
hung in this exhibition caused a
furore in America and sold over
a million copies. It depicts a
lonely couple working their
farmlands on a wild promontory
on the Cork coast. They are
waving goodbye to the distant
America-bound steamer which
is carrying their children away
for ever. The artist obviously
felt his subject like an Irishman,
and he has done the same thing
in “Elizabethan Battle Scene.”
Irishmen, barefooted in the
snow, half-naked and armed
with spears, are fighting a rear-
guard action against the Virgin
Queen’s troops, clad in compleat
armor and on horseback. One
is slashing the withers of a
knight’s horse, another is feeling
for a chink in the rider’s armor,
and others are charging down
on steel-clad English soldiers
who are armed with what look
like the first bazookas. The
contrast between the mechanised
and non-mechanised forces is
very striking. The same vigor
of illustration appears in a
picture of the furious Orion
chasing the seven naked sisters,
and in a study of a primeval
Queensland forest where vines
as fat as boa-constrictors and
as big as trees have been busy
for centuries trying to strangle
the life out of forest giants 3000
years old O’Neill’s painting of
the opening of the first Victorian
Legislative Council in the old
Hibernian Hall in Bourke-street
is a masterpiece of comic de-
lineation. Except for their cloth-
ing, the legislators might be 1951
vintage instead of 1851. The
work is priced at a mere 30
guineas, and ought to be
acquired for the nation, especi-
ally as the Hibernian Hall, as
well as the Leg. Council, is
being threatened with demoli-
tion.
♦ * ♦ ♦
H. A, Hanke’s report on his
recent trip to Europe is on view
at David Jones’s Gallery, Syd-
ney: the paint generally too
muddy, the figures of pedestrians
in the street-scenes too de-
pressed and the skies too much
lacking in distance for any clear
statement beyond a patient and
amiable fidelity to emerge from
most of the landscapes. It con-
firms one’s previous impression
that Hanke, though he paints
everything from pirates to
petunias, does by far his best
work as a portraitist. “Monte-
guido, Spain,” with its striking
mountain of hot, fawn-colored
rock set against green poplars,
is the most spirited interpreta-
tion of foreign parts, and there
is some feeling about “The
Thames, Battersea,” “Fisher-
men’s Cottages, Martigue,”
“Plaza Franco,” and, in a group
of Australian landscapes, “Old
Barn, Ingleburn,” and, particu-
larly, “Road to Mudgee.’* .. jg
Amongst a bright if not par-
ticularly important lot of paint-
ings at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries’ Easter exhibition the out-
standing works are George
Lawrepce’s “Coal Hoppers”; a
nice Utrillo street-scene in white
and grey-green borrowed for the
occasion; an early Dobell self-
portrait clearly showing the
Lambert influence aqp much
firmer in technique if less
dramatic in effect than his later
work, also a small oil sketch of
“The Cat Lover,” by Dobell, in
the vein of “The Little Mil-
liner” ; Orban’s green pastel
from Gippsland; some hard
Lloyd Reeses; Jean Appleton’s
pleasant, if rather empty, “Land-
scape” ; and Adrian Feint’s
rococo “Spring Morning.”
Justin O’Brien shows once again
that he can put down rich reds
and blues and can design a car-
pet, but he should never again,
until he learns to draw, exhibit
a kitten.
* * ♦ *
Murray Griffin, art teacher at
the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, has been showing oils
at Stanley Coe’s Gallery in
Bourke-street. The formula he
applies to Nature is that of the
late Bernard Hall, his teacher,
but there is something else
coming in which might be the
modern tendency to put the
emphasis on color. His most
successful effects - in this
direction are “Landscape of
Gold” and “Golden Hills.”
Stage.
What with Wirth’s Circus
back in town, “The Highway-
man” (reviewed here B.
29/11/’SO) at the Palace, the
Borovansky Ballet company due
to take over from the Pidding-
tons at the Empire and “Worm’s
Eye View” about to replace
“Song of Norway” at the Royal,
there are enough shows in and
around Sydney to satisfy the
most voracious. Added to that
list —and the opera season at the
Tiv., and the Black Watch Band,
and John Alden Company’s
“King Lear” at the St.
James Hall the Metropoli-
tan is playing Shaw’s “You
Never Can Tell” in a very
nicely-manneredi performance
against an equally nicely-stylised
background by Robin Lovejoy.
There are good grounds for
agreeing with the programme
that the play might be taken as
a rather cheerful period piece,
which is the way producer Robin
Lovejoy and his players seem
to take it anyway, making an
altogether gracefully exuberant
comedy of it. Oddly, it is the
male roles in Shaw that seem
to present producers in these
parts with the most difficulty—
the difficulty of finding actors
who can make an easy natural
business of Shaw’s mannered
verbosity and sharp witticisms —
and although Richard Meikle
was light and bright, and Charles
Collings, Michael Aron and
Joseph Scully were careful and
competent, one could not help
thinking of Howards, Harrisons
and Morleys. Only Peter Mac-
Donald, as Walter Bohun, Q.C.,
left one really satisfied. The
ladies—Patricia Crocker, Gwen
Harrison and Marcia Hathaway
—were much better, particularly
Miss Crocker, who looked and
behaved as though she couldn’t
possibly belong anywhere except
to the time and place and char-
acter represented on the stage.
Alexander the Great in 12
short years, from the age of 20,
turned Macedonia into a great
world Power which extended
from the Bosphorus to the con-
fines of the Persian Empire, into
Egypt, India and Syria. Then
he caught fever and died and his
empire collapsed almost as sud-
denly as Hitler’s; but he made
an enormous impression, so
much so that legend says that he
was expected any time in China,
and in some remote parts is still
expected, while little rajahs up
backwaters in Malaya still trace
their descent from Shah Iskander,
He has also apparently made
an impression on Terence Ratti-
gan, who wrote “Adventure
Story”—put on by the Coronet
Group at Melbourne Repertory
Theatre on a reading of
'Plutarch, whom he follows fac-
tually while imposing his own
conception on the facts. In the
play Alexander starts out with
the ideal of establishing world
peace, like Napoleon, Hitler,
Stalin, Truman and every other
leader of mass movements.
Whether he was like that we
don’t know —we don’t know
what determined his ambition,
and Mr. Rattigan does not
attempt to show it. He is con-
tent to write a tragic drama of
an idealistic individual who
creates all the difficulties he seeks
to avoid and ends up completely
frustrated and morally cor-
rupted, having added another
example to a million others of
the principle that force begets
force. It was difficult to make a
judgment on the play from the
Coronet players’ presentation.
Most of them were so frightened
of their own ferocity that they
seemed to be apologising for it.
♦ * * *
Elizabethan audiences liked
their drama hot and steaming,
and John Ford’s “ Tis Pity She’s
a Whore” contains five murders
or accidental killings, one
suicide, one death by burning,
one blinding, one case of vivi-
section in which the subject’s
heart is brought on impaled on
a sword, and a case of incest in
which the parties, a brother and
sister, suffer a violent retribution.
If Shakspeare wrote “Titus
Andronicus,” in which a father
and daughter are mutilated, two
of the father’s sons are beheaded
and the heads of two innocent
children are baked in a pasty
and served up to their mother,
who is stabbed along with her
daughter, the stabber being
stabbed by another stabber who
is stabbed in his turn, then he
could have written “ Tis Pity.”
There is no internal evidence
that Shakspeare wrote “Titus,” ;
but on the evidence of “ ’Tis
Pity” Ford could have—he lived
at about the same time as, but a
year longer than, his august
fellow-playwright. There is
nothing of Shakspeare’s quality
in Ford’s play, but if it lacks
subtlety and humanity it has a
certain bustling violence and
robustness that would have made
its revival by the Marlowe
Society at Melbourne Univer-
sity’s Union Theatre worth while
if the violence and robustness
had been reflected in the acting.
Except in the case of Don Sist,
Judy March and Harry Dawson,
they were lacking.
Music.
Richard Farrell has brought
back from America a tremendous
power oyer the percussive effects
of the piano, as he showed with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
in the Rachmaninoff Rhapsody
on a theme by Paganini, and in
the chords and octaves of a Liszt
Rhapsody and a Chopin
Polonaise —miracles of evenness
and speed and controlled rise
and fall of tone. He has also
brought back that admirable
seriousness which differentiates
the young pianist of today from
his more ecstatic brother of be-
tween wars, sitting down to a
long Schumann Fantasia as to
the analysis of an abstruse
mystery, which, no doubt, it
was. The Schumann, however,
was not half so mysterious as
the sonata by the American,
Aaron Copland, in which the
composer seems busy building a
belfry to a peal of bells miracu-
lously suspended in mid-air:
every so often the hod-carrier
drops his bricks with a grind-
ing clatter of bass dissonances.
Of this strange, hard, new
music Mr. Farrell has the secret,
and it is to be hoped he will
come back often and try to
make us understand it. But
with delicate and legato pas-
sages he is not so hot, as we
found in the romantic episode
of the Rachmaninoff rhapsody
and in a Chopin nocturne played
as an encore; clear and fine,
but without singing quality.
Maybe what he needs is a great
sorrow in his life —maybe these
remarks will give him one.
* * * *
The band of H.M. Ist Battalion
Royal Highland Regiment is so
constituted —an approximate two
to one preponderance of brasses
to woodwind —that it is able to
play anything, from the regi-
mental march to operatic ex-
cerpts, with considerable artistic
integrity. At its first Sydney
Town Hall concert the selection
from “La Traviata” was beauti-
fully played, with the clarinets
usurping the normal function of
the first violins. In the ballet
music from “Prince Igor” the
oboist. Bandsman J, Wither-
spoon, conjured a melting tone.
The standard of individual in-
strumentalists, indeed, is high.
A Lehar waltz gave irresistible
invitation to the feet. Bandsman
Pratt combined great pedal
agility with digital dexterity in
a rattling xylophone number,
and Bandsman James Stryker
raised a light, pleasant tenor to
fair effect Altogether, the band
succeeded in dispersing light
entertainment in a most enter-
taining way, under the facile,
expert guidance of Bandmaster
L. H. Hicks.


0
I
TMIIHH
*******
*****
I** 01 .******
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY DOCTORS FOR RELIEVING
Doldn has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
in America, Canada and England.
Now it is made available for you.
Doldn tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis,
Lumbago and Gout. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains
substances which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the affected
tissues.
Dolcin gives prompt relief, and is
also non-toxic. It will not harm the
heart and can safely be taken for
long periods to relieve the rheu-
matic activity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism,
including people who had given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again able to work
thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin
has brought them.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
DOLGIH is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or
any other organ.
OOLCiN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCiN is easy to take in tablet form.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
8/160
DOLCiN has been proved In clinical
tests and is prescribed by the
Medical profession.
DOLCIN Is approved under the British
Free Medicine Scheme.
DOLCIN is obtainable from yew
Chemist.
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Doleln win be
aent on request to Dolcin (Australia)»
Pty. Ltd., Box 1553. 0.P.0., Sydney.
' Missing Friends.
ESTATE JOHN COBB BUSOALL Dec’d.
IF GEORGE BUTTLE BUSOALL, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, will com-
municate with YILLENEUVE SMITH &
HARFORD, of Mutual Life Chambers. 44
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, the said George
Buttle Buscall will receive information
materially to his advantage. __
ESTATE OF GERALD CUMMINS, late of
Randwick. —Information is sought of
GEORGE SMITH, formerly the husband
of MAY KATHLEEN SMITH, in respect
of the abovementioned Estate. Will
George Smith, or any person able to
supply any reliable information, please
communicate with N. G. RUDD, Solicitor,
350 George Street, Sydney?
TO ALBERT LESLIE HOWELL formerly
of Linton in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DORIS
MAY HOWELL has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court at Ballarat on or
before the Eighteenth day of April 1951
and on or before the Twenty-eight day of
April 1951 file an answer in the said
office the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs. —
, T. E. BYRNE & CO., Ballarat, Solicitors
for the "Petitioner, i ,
There’s no
e like home-
%
ill
feeause it has taken a lot of sacrifice
and hard work to buy your house, furniture, clothing and
the thousand and one other possessions which make your
home.
Can you find money to replace anything which a burglar
may take tonight or which may be destroyed or damaged
in many other ways? If you cannot, insurance is the
answer to your problem. The protection and security of
an A.C.A. Houseowner’s and Householder’s Policy cost
you little.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
Why should
you take
a chance?
It is our
business to
carry your
risks!
nr Manager,
(Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Limited,
66 King Street, Sydney.
I Without any obligation please arrange to let me
I have more details on Houseowner’s and House-
holder’s Insurance.
i Dwelling of Brick/Wood/Fibro/Mixed.
| Please mark appropriate structure.
I Name
Name
I
Address
I
l_
Australasian Catholic Assurance
Company Limited
Incorporated, in New South IFaJcs.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 8X2165.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth k
KOREA’S TWO WARS
“Ek Dum”: It is obvious that
two wars are being fought in
Korea —the real war, which is
never described in either proper
proportion or proper perspec-
tive, and a fairy-tale flavored
war carried on by propaganda de-
partments and by newspapers
which isolate and magnify de-
tails which they think are sensa-
tional enough to command
attention in competition with
the latest dress hints of bodgies
and widgies and photographs of
bookies and lottery-winners.
The true perspective of what
has happened in the past two
months is best gauged by start-
ing with the statements of
Generals Collins and Mac-
Arthur made on January 20-21.
General Collins, the United
States Chief-of-Staff, declared
then that if the Chinese and the
North Koreans attempted a new
attack in force they would be
“severely punished,” and that he
had found during his visit to the
front that the United Nations
troops in Korea were “in good
shape” and “better disposed to
resist an attack than they had
been for some time.” In Tokyo,
General MacArthur, also just
back from the front, said that the
U.N. troops would maintain a
military position “just as long
as the statesmen of the United
Nations decide that we shall do
so.”
Ho, according to those who
reported him, allowed an infer-
ence to be drawn that further
withdrawals might be possible if
the enemy attacked in full force,
remarking that it was “only by
manoeuvres” that the allies
could avoid the risks confront-
ing their forces in the face of
overwhelming masses of a de-
termined enemy.
War of Manoeuvre
Neither of the statements by
the two men most responsible
for the conduct and military
policy of die war sounds as if
it were uttered by an aggressive
commander about to enter with
determination and confidence on
an offensive likely to lead to
complete victory. Nevertheless
the inference has lurked in
almost everything which has
happened since that the Chinese
armies were being annihilated,
and that their ultimate destruc-
tion was only a matter of time.
Since January 20 most of the
reports published from Korea
have been devoted to the
allegedly unparalleled vic-
tories of the allies, the unpre-
cedented slaughter of the tough
and always bitterly resisting—
but at crises will-o’-the-wisp—
enemy and the unexampled
prowess of the United Nations
troops. Each nation involved,
of course, reserves the palm for
bravery, skill and effectiveness
to its own contingent, the two
salutary exceptions being the
Canadians and the plodding
British, whose statements issued
in London have been usually
limited to a few restrained lines.
Nevertheless the developments
of the past month appear to fit
in exactly with General Mac-
Arthur’s theory of a war of
manoeuvre as enunciated in his
statement in January. But it is
a war of manoeuvre on both
sides, which appear to have been,
and still appear to be, engaged
in a contest to keep their lines
of communication as short as
possible, and not to extend their
efforts into regions beyond the
natural capacity of their trans-
port.
The initiative in this game until
March seems to have been
largely in the hands of the
Chinese, who ceased to attempt
to follow the allies when they
reached a point at which their
lines of communication were be-
coming stretched, and to have
shown themselves all too ready
to retreat without defeat —
though sometimes with heavy
loss, which they do not mind,
since human life is cheap with
them —whenever the U.N. troops
have made a major advance.
In their February retreats,
during which they suffered
painful blows, largely at the
hands of the British and Aus-
“Shove y'r compass on 'im , Snow , an' see if 'e's
North or South.”
tralian troops, the Chinese did
not, however, lose control of
their movements or their ability
to launch heavy counter-offen-
sives and annoying surprise raids,
some of them on a large scale.
Heavy Casualties
The current phases began on
February 20, when General
Ridgway, in command of the
Eighth Army, was reported as
stating: “The Communists have
had a fearful beating and have
broken off contact.” The same
day the cables to the Australian
Press reported that “triumphant
U.N. forces last night surged
forward as 250,000 Reds fell
back in full retreat.” The next
message suggested that the
Allied drive was merely designed
“to exterminate the 40,000 Com-
munists south of the 38th
Parallel,” this offensive being
modestly named “Operation
Killer.” It began with the U.N.
forces advancing up to their
knees in mud on a 60-mile moun-
tain front in central Korea.
The offensive followed im-
mediately on an announcement
by General MacArthur that
“the U.N. forces must kill a lot
more Reds” before they could
think of crossing into North
Korea.
It appeared that day that the
Allies had succeeded in causing
casualties of 113,957 —exactly—
since January 15: just a modest
132 per hour for 36 days and
nights on end, not counting, pre-
sumably, the ones that weren’t
found or were completely
obliterated. Two days later it
was announced that the total
casualties suffered by the enemy
from June 22 last year were esti-
mated by U.S. Army H.Q. in
Tokyo at 624,000, made up as
follows:
N.
Chinese. Koreans.
Killed and wounded 185,000 242,000
Non-battle .. .. 21,000 40,000
P.-0.-w. .. .. 136,000
206,000 418,000
U.S. casualties for the same
period were stated at 49,132, of
which about 9000 were killed.
As up to the end of Novem-
ber few of the Americans had
seen a Chinese, and the total
number of Chinese in the front
line early in January was said
to be a quarter of a million
(with over 1,000,000 in rear
areas in Manchuria), the per-
formance in slaughter is at least
commendable. The elimination
of North Koreans is even more
worthy of notice, more
especially as it was some months
from the beginning of the war
before the U.S. forces had a
complete brigade, much less a
division, in the front line. Also,
it was only a few months since
(to quote a U.S. company-com-
mander in “5.M.H.,” 25/l/’5l)
“the [U.S.] fellows” ceased to
“take off for the rear at the first
crack of the rifle.” “Now,”
said their officer, they “charge
when they are ordered to.”
It is no wonder, with a record
average slaughter, wounding or
capture of 2540 of the enemy per
day since the beginning of the
war, that some U.S. states-
men have announced during the
week that U.S. military strength is
approaching the point at which
it “will make war impossible.”
Observers in other countries
would have been more ready to
agree if the Chinese were not at
the moment refusing very vigor-
ously to be annihilated.
They have continued to be
alternately powerfully resistant
and elusive since then, in the
ultimate always retreating, and
showing less and less inclina-
tion to mix it with the Allies as
the 38th Parallel, North Korean
border, was approached.
The advances which began in
the third week of February con-
tinued, but slowly and unevenly.
Varying Methods
British, Australian and Euro-
pean troops generally favor close
individual combat and have
learned that the Chinese have
much the same inherent charac-
teristics as the Chinese labor
in Europe during World War I
—they are great runners in the
presence of certain types of fire
and they prefer a bayonet at a
great distance. The U.S. war
becomes more and more
mechanical. The Korean War
in the U.S. sectors is the most
intensively - equipped machine-
war which history so far has


ctt %jruta CTT&tel
FACING G PARK
Th« one thing yon will imme-
diately notice when eon stay at
the Wentworth la the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . , The
Wentworth faces a pari ... yet
It It merely ’round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are ail you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent.
IRE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
CL D. Maclutcan. Managing Director
LEI IMS PROVEN TREATMENT
restore your
virility...
IRIR6 BAH REW MAKLIRESS ARD VI6OOR
NU-MAN is not just a tonic. It
is a true, tested, genuine hor-
mone preparation that, by direct
absorption through the mouth,
combines with the normal hor-
mone secretions, resulting in im-
mediately increased vitality, NEW
VIRILITY, and a more energetic,
determined approach to We.
FOR MEN OF ALL AGES
To the young, middle-aged or
elderly, NU-MAN brings back
lost vitality, vim and vigour.
Every week, new letters of thanb
pour in from men all over Aus-
tralia, telling of its amazing
effect in increasing their manliness
—BUT THE EFFECT OF NU-MAN
IS NOT JUST IN INCREASED
VIRILITY; it acts as a general
tonic—toning up the whole system
MAKING A NEW MAN OF
YOU.
in fact, if you suffer from
any one of these symptoms
• Feeling elder than yen ore.
• Depressed and ever-tired.
• Irritable and nervy.
• Unable to sleep.
• Rheumatic and joint pains.
yon, too , will benefit from
the NU-MAN treatment
tor mem on ip
NU-MAN
Send far full parr ■
details and sample ■ KEC •
Ladies—Write for health chart!
A. B. WARD & CO.
Department 83, Box 3323,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.B.W.
Please PRINT your name and
address.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 2934 of 1950.
TO JOHN PATRICK MORTEN McIVER
late of 37 Ku-ring-gai Avenue Turramurra
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
a Decree for Restitution has been made
against you requiring you within 21 days
from service of the Decree to take back
or return home to your wife GWBNYTH
ALICE McIVER and render to her con-
jugal rights and to file in the Divorce
Registry King Street Sydney a Certificate
of your Compliance with the Decree By
an order made on the 2nd of March 1951
substituted service of the Decree has to
be made by advertisement once each in a
Sydney daily and a Sydney weekly news-
paper and that Notice of the Petitioner’s
address viz. Wolbunya Benalla Victoria
and of the possible consequences of non-
compliance with the Decree and a copy
of this Order and of the Notice published
be posted by pre-paid letter in an en-
velope addressed to you at 55 Willoughby
Road Kirribilli The consequence of your
non-compliance with the Decree is that
Petitioner may at once present a Petition
asking for a Decree against you for
Judicial Separation or for Dissolution of
of your Marriage Service is to be taken
as complete on the 30th day of March
1951 from which date the 21 days in
which you are to take back or return
home to the Petitioner will commence to
run Copies of the said Decree Order
and Notices are obtainable free from A. P.
BERNE & DOUGLAS MURRAY. 16
Barrack Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To JOHN WILLIAM ANDERSON late of
Bexley.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIE
LOUISE ANDERSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1984 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
day of May 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE. Solicitors. 38
Martin Place, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN
Registrar. ’
“Production line” perfection
JT/7
as
/i
W'L
r
o
’Z't.
0 3
'■
Xa
it lasts years longer
if it's made from ...
STEEL SHEET
CJLM- DIVISION OF LYSA6HTS WORKS PTY. LIMITED
ď
JOHN LYSASHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-GENERAL
SALES AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE:
Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.J
John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
CB4-SI
The Drag Saw that is NEW and DIFFERENT
m
■
■ ■: ■
>•>:*<
SSKSSffi
W
MiiiiriiMriii£uiiilii
T
m
1
• '
From felling fo cross-cuffing by simply pushing a lever .
But the simple quick action lever change from the felling to the cross-cutting position is
only one of the many advantages of the Mobilco drag saw. Consider the features illustrated
below and you will see why Mobilco is far and away the best buying for you.
YOU GET ALL THIS WITH A MOBILCO DRAG SAW.
m
TWO MACHINES IN ONE.
Remove pulley retaining nut, withdraw drag saw
shaft, replace circular saw shaft and pulley and
you are all set up to cut the smaller trees for
which a circular saw is best.
*
*
A\s©
sa*
‘{'TVS'
\co
NOJ
*a'
I*® 0 '
t.o''
<o s
v>on
td*
* a
VC* a
viP
SV' 3
P»
t)3 C
*e< I ' a
\o£ s
o**
t\W
nW
W®
6' n ®
*©n
Q\^
0 o
&v£
wcO
on
<n°
?o
t<n
dr*
t*°
c.a'W
*n e
\\s
at>°
V** c
(63
e' s
»V>
yf'n®
\AO^
rvo
\3° e
S**
\vS
fO*
a
ft
LEVER CONTROLLED SAW TENSIONING.
On the Mobilco there is a pressure arm which
bears on the blade during cutting. It Is spring
activated and is controlled by convenient lever
and ratchet. Just apply a little pressure at the
commencement of the cut and increase as the
blade cuts deeper into the log.
PROMPT DELIVERY - CONVENIENT TERMS
fd
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT!
m 3W&KSTOH n , ftjEP> CEHTMI 4W. AFTE* HOURS:
iff*.:'
ITD.
seen—o n e Tokyo office*
describes it as “an engineering
job throughout.”
The widespread offensive
operation by the U.N.O. allies
since February 18 has divided
itself into two phases—the first
during which the enemy kept up
his resistance and was pushed
out of many positions by fierce
little fights largely hand to hand,
and carried on particularly by
British Commonwealth, Turkish
and French troops.
The second phase began about
the end of the first week in
March and went ahead easily.
This is an almost entirely Ameri-
can force, the British-Australian
troops having been withdrawn
to rest-camps after bearing the
brunt of some of the most vital
spearhead fighting in the earlier
phase, in which the Chinese
were supposed to have suffered
further heavy loss in addition to
the 624,000 Conirades gone
before.
By March 14 Seoul, which was
still in Chinese-N. Korean
hands, had been well out-
flanked by a crossing of the Han
River, which runs through its
environs well to the east round
Yongdu. It is, however, notice-
able that though the slaughter
goes up on a grand scale accord-
ing to the casualty-lists when
the Americans take over the
main frontal operations ex-
clusively, a condition quickly
develops in which it appears
be very difficult to find th
enemy.
How much this is due to th
road-bound nature of intense
U.S. equipment and how mud
to the Chinese profound distaste
for artillery bombardment it i
difficult to say in view of the
tight censorship—or, rather, two
tight censorships, one at the fron
and one in Tokyo. But it
chronic in U.S. advances.
Enemy Tactic*
The enemy, as always when
his equipment is light and primi
tive, is able to call the tune in
battle tactics, and to catch him
his adversaries must have a type
of intelligence which is rough
and ready and very widespread
and a dispersal and a flexibility
in action equal to his own. The
enemy so far seems to have had
all the advantage in intelligence
He has missed few unguardec
and weak points in the Allied
front during the past weeks, and
again and again he launched
assaults in mass against points
which seem to offer opportuni-
ties. He has all the liking oi
the World War I Digger for
night-raiding, and his lack of
the Diggers’ skill at that pastime
is often compensated for by an
utter disregard for death in
attacks in mass, which usually
materialise towards dawn.
Despite the dispersed nature
of the fighting the Americans
claimed to have killed 38,000
Chinese in the first week of the
March advance, but at the end
of that time it was generally
admitted that there was little
contact with the enemy, who was
retiring as swiftly as possible
towards the border, about the
crossing of which the usual con-
troversy arose, as no doubt the
enemy hoped it would. By that
time he seemed in the whole war
to have had 700,000 casualties
in a force which has never had
more than 200,000 in the front
line.
By this week S. Korean patrols
were over the 38th Parallel with
a force of about 12 divisions
behind them meeting little
resistance, though large move-
ments of Communist troops in
North Korea were reported on
every road right back to the
Manchurian and Russian
borders.
The 38th Parallel
The week’s advances mean
that in three months the U.N.O.
forces have recovered the
ground which they began to lose
on New Year’s Eve, though
ground means nothing in the
present type of fighting. The
politicians were involved in
the problem of whether North
Korea shall be invaded, and vic-
tory is as far off as ever.
General MacArthur’s view on
March 15 was not very much
different from that expressed in
January. He was asked by Mr.
Hugh Baillie, president of
United Press, how many troops
would be needed to hold the 38th
Parallel inviolate. He replied
that the present conditions of
campaigning did not favor posi-
tional fighting on any line across
the peninsula, and that there
were no natural defence features
anywhere near the 38th Parallel.
He added that conventional de-
fence in that region would “call
for a force so large that if they
had it they would be strong
enough to drive the Chinese
right out of North Korea across
the Yalu River into Manchuria,
establish a line on that river
and then proceed to the unifica-
tion of Korea.”
He said, however, that under
present circumstances he could,
and would, unless the situation
was radically altered, “continue
to fight a campaign of
manoeuvre” as the best means
to “neutralise the military dis-
advantage under which we fight
and keep the enemy engaged
where it best serves our own
military purpose.” And this, he
declared, must mean that there
must be variable points of en-
gagement and fluctuations due
to the shifting relative strengths
of forces committed, so that the
fighting would constantly move
up and down.
He said that the problem in-
volved called for much more
fundamental decisions than he
himself was able to make —“de-
cisions which must not ignore
the heavy cost in Allied blood
which a protracted and indecisive
campaign would entail.”
However, when the 38th
Parallel was reached on March
24, General MacArthur,
apparently losing patience with
politicians, made his own un-
authorised offer to the C.-in-C.
of the Chinese forces in Korea
to meet him in the field to settle
a truce and avoid further blood-
shed, adding that “the enemy
must by now be painfully aware
that a decision of U.N.O. to
depart from its tolerant effort to
contain the war to the area of
Korea, through expansion of our
military operations to his coastal
areas and interior bases, would
doom Red China to the risk of
imminent military collapse.”
It would also doom the world
to a third world war, since
Russia could not allow Red
China to collapse or the Ameri-
cans to establish land bases and
large forces on the Chinese
mainland.


3f
Are i
mk
/ p
r 5
n
i i!~
. n
IM
• rssOjTK
MOW is the time to
BNSUIATE YOUR HOME
against H EAT and COID
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for ail
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is corn*
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modern
insulator—B. L SIACWOOL
fd
fd
UUUJi
.ippsfe SIDNEY. HA 9311 • MEI BOURNE, MU 3506
BRISBANE, 83804 • ADELAIDE, C 7757 • PERTH, 12107
.
m
m
CO
' '
fMBm
'' i
■«ss»?
«a»
'S
JC
, :•: :■
3
sn
,ia Jit
lip
6«j i
9&m
'
• •■' •: - •'• •
"The pursuit
of perfection
is the
pursuit of
sweetness and
light ”
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNISM AND LOYALTY.
Probably the best news the
West has had for some time is
that of the split in the Italian
Communist party.
Dealing with the split edi-
torially, London “Times” con-
siders it would be an overstate-
ment to describe it as being of
major proportions; nonetheless,
it gives the defection of top
Communists Magnani and
Cucchi a lengthy leading article,
and Silone, who got out earlier,
has spoken of “a crisis of vast
proportions” with the signs of a
national movement for “unity
and independence.”
That very slogan, the “Times”
points out, has a national echo:
“unity” and “independence”
were the cries “of the Risorgi-
mento itself.”
As elsewhere, the conflict in
the Italian Communist party
turns on the question of loyalty
—to their own country, or to
Moscow? The Yugoslav Com-
munists long since gave their
answer; and now this may be
the herald of the Italian Com-
munists’ answer, too.
If so, the matter is certainly
of “major proportions,” for the
Italian Communist party is
generally admitted to be the most
dangerous of all on the Western
side. Moreover, any sign of re-
volt in the ranks of Moscow’s
fifth-column in any country
must have some steadying effect
on lunacy in the Kremlin.
“The revolt of Signor Cucchi
and Signor Magnani,” the
“Times” comments, “has
occurred over a question that
may come close to the hearts of
many men of the old resistance.
They have taken their stand on
‘the necessity for the social revo-
lution to develop according to
the special conditions of the
country.... .and not by means of
imposition from outside.’
“Their complaint is that the
Communist party in Italy is so
closely controlled from Moscow
that all freedom of choice and
action is denied to it [as with
Australian and all branches of the
fifth-column]. Although they
have not ceased to disapprove
of Italy’s adherence to the North
Atlantic Treaty (just as Marshal
Tito would oppose the adher-
ence of Yugoslavia) they carry
their heresy so far as to claim
for Italian Communists the right
to join in the defence of Italy
even against a Russian attack if
that should come. And it is on
this question that non-Com-
munist opinion has fixed as being
crucial : ought a Communist to
fight for bis country if it were
invaded by, say, the Soviet
Army?
“No sound party member who
has studied the Marxist-Leninist
texts can very well hesitate for
a moment over the correct
theoretical answer to a question
of this kind. Did not Lenin dis-
pose of the matter? Suppose (he
argued) that a German under
Wilhelm II or a Frenchman
under Clemenceau thought it his
duty to defend his country if it
were invaded: ‘He argues not
like a Socialist, not like an inter-
nationalist, not like a revolu-
tionary proletarian but like a
petty - bourgeois nationalist.’
Such texts left the correct atti-
tude of a Communist in no
doubt If the bastion [Soviet
Russia] were to go (so runs the
argument) the hope of the
workers’ revolution everywhere
would be destroyed; clearly,
therefore, the interest of the
Soviet Union prevails over all
else. To question this proposi-
tion is nothing less than Titoism.
“A commentator in Belgrade,”
the “Times” further states, “has
denied that any Yugoslav in-
spiration was behind the Italian
defections. No such inspiration
is, in fact, needed to bring to the
surface (as it must in the course
of nature come to the surface,
here and there) the dilemma that
faces Communists in those
countries that feel the threat of
Soviet liberation.’ The Com-
munist party line, clear as it is,
requires a severe intellectual
effort directed to the suppression
of certain ordinary feelings of
local affection and national
loyalty. Where' the intellect is
dominant and closely blinkered
—or where the individual’s feel-
ings are weak or abnormal —the
effort can succeed, though even
the select Communist party of
Great Britain was seen to swal-
low hard after the pact between
Moscow and the Third Reich in
1939. But the more numerous
the Communist party is in any
country the more normal men
and women there are likely to
be among its members —and the
greater the certainty that the
gorge of some members will
revolt.
“In Italy the revolt has
occurred at the logical point, the
point of junction between the
party and the old resistance
movement, of which the two
leading rebels were distinguished
members. Signor Togliatti may
C.O**' A
New York "Herald Tribune ."
GONDOLIER TROUBLE.
be able to damp down the
trouble in his party for the pre-
sent, but the ultimate dilemma
will continue to face Communists
in the West so long as an inter-
national movement requires
their obedience to Russian
national policy.”
Losses in Korea.
Leaving out the South
Koreans, “New York Times”
makes a comparative tabulation
of some of the U.N.O. losses:
“The casualties of some of the
nations at our [America’s] side
are negligible in a military sense
(though not to wives and chil-
dren left behind), but some of
our allies have suffered grievous
losses.
“The Turks, whose magnifi-
cent fighting has already become
legend in Korea, have experi-
enced the greatest number of
casualties —948, approximately a
fifth of the whole Turkish force.
“Great Britain, which [exclud-
ing the U.S.] has sent the largest
number of men to Korea (some
22,000, exclusive of R.A.F. per-
sonnel), counts 892 casualties.
“The French, who put up a
terrific battle with the sur-
rounded American Twenty-third
Regiment at Chipyong, suffered
the largest casualties on a per-
centage basis: one-third of the
French battalion is dead,
wounded or missing.
“These,” the “New York
Times” comments, “are real sac-
rifices —small in comparison
with American casualties of
nearly 50,000 to date, but large
in comparison to the number of
troops our allies have com-
mitted.”
Four-Power Meeting.
American Press comments on
the moves leading up to another
Four-Power Conference (Britain,
U.S., France and Russia) have
been as good as unanimously
sceptical, though this will make
no difference if the meeting
comes off.
The U.S. stand on this was
included in an authoritative
statement by Dr. Philip Jessup,
whose official designation is
Ambassador-at-large. Defining
America’s “peace programme ”
he included “negotiation” in
what can be taken as official U.S.
policy in general, and there-
fore all specially worth noting
in summary here;
(1) The first point in the pro-
gramme is building defensive
strength.
(2) The second point is at least
to keep open the possibility of
negotiation.
(3) These steps are designed to
deter the Soviet Union from
launching an attack on the rest
of the world,
(4) If the Soviet Union insists
upon forcing war upon the
world, the steps the U.S. are
taking will put Americans in the
best possible position to defend
themselves and to gain the
victory.
(5) If Moscow is deterred from
starting the war, the United
States may find itself in a long
period of armed truce. In such
a period the programme the
United States is following will
enable the country at least to
hold its own. Both reason and
history show that the corrosive
elements of self-destruction are
potent in a totalitarian police
State and not in a democracy.
(6) There may or may not be
a change in Soviet policy, but if
such a change does occur the
United States will be in a position
to take advantage of it.
(7) If there is no change in
Soviet policy, the United States
has not left undone anything it
ought to have done and it will
have lost none of the essential
strength of its position.
“The only alternative course to
follow,” Dr. Jessup supple-
mented, “would be to start a war
against the Soviet Union now.
The task of our foreign policy
is to guide the United States
along a road which will preserve
peace so long as peace can be
maintained with justice and free-
dom. The United States will
fight if necessary to preserve
freedom and justice, but it will
not make war merely because
the road to peace is inevitably
long and hard and tiresome.”
Commenting on this important
statement, with its diplomatic-
ally-phrased invitation for a
conference, the “New York
Times” Washington correspon-
dent James Reston said that
more would be heard of it “in
the coming months,” because the
Truman Administration “is
disturbed about the preventive-
war talk, and apprehensive about
the growth of such talk as
tensions on the home front are
increased by high taxation, in-
flation and a more-or-less per-
manent military draft.” 1
If such talk is found worrying
in America, it would appear
from the British Press to be ten
times more worrying in Britain
—and that goes for the Press in
general, not merely such extreme
Left-wing America-haters as the
“New Statesman,” or the simi-
larly oriented Communist sheet.
There are, of course, exceptions,
such as the blunt appraisal of
“Time and Tide”:
“The Russian attempt to bring
about a Four-Power Conference
on Germany is simply another
attempt to divide the Western
Allies. Should the conference
take place we may count on a
Russian attempt to split France
from the United States and Great
Britain by playing up her old
fears of Germany and to weaken
the strategic position of the
Western Powers by demilitaris-
ing Germany and thus laying it


3ft*AlL-BTUTI§H
ft
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart- & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Flue Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Racks.
Priced 84/- per lb. or loose Priced
88/- per lb.
"PACIFIC” Fine Cut Beady Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced S/- per pack, or loose
Priced 88/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 80/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box W, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
COARD
PROTECTA
€tml- dig,
TILL
Suitable for every type of basinets ll records,
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly bn Jit,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oisirihuf/mg Mgrmtf—
SYDN’EV . W. C. Yenfold A Co. Ply. Ud.
MELBOURNE . . Norman Broa. Ply. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Tardoo a Sana Lid.
rSBTM • . Docket Book Co. JAant.t
frusaoe
*
a
Siff *
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
T he ease
>
that A GA briags
you...
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA coojss
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!,
/
&
SO
r
’>/
Co« V with ...
AGA
COOKER.
te :
s.' 1
-W,
«4|i
' -
'‘ un «ANT[ F
Z go,n *t fauu
WorkL °‘* or
Bu "t to, nsh! P-
«A£? •
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ‘AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS,, BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. O. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A, Agents; MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
•mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmammmmuamm a«/.i e«
open to Communist infiltration
and capture from the East,
“Russian proposals on the
German question can be so pre-
sented as to sound very appeal-
ing to uninformed opinion in the
West. Their propaganda at this
moment often falls on favorable
soil among the perplexed public
of Western Europe. It is all the
more essential to keep the salient
facts of the world situation
always before our eyes.”
Generally speaking, however,
the meeting has been welcomed,
with some expression of despera-
tion. The general British feeling
can be taken as fairly repre-
sented by these Edinburgh
“Scotsman” comments:
“To decline a conference
would be to give up hope of any
agreement being reached. There
is, in fact, little prospect of a
conference being successful,
though some observers infer
from Russia’s indignation about
the proposed rearmament of
Germany and the measures
taken for Atlantic defence that
she is alarmed at the growth in
the power of the Western
nations. If, but only if, that con-
jecture is right, there will be a
prospect of agreement. Russia
recognises only power, and it
may be that she now realises that
her policy of expansion is begin-
ning to encounter real resist-
ance.”
Liquidations in China.
It was bound to come. Com-
munist China had been follow-
ing the pattern inseparable from
the Communist dictatorial rule
of the majority by a minority.
Like the Russians, though not
yet on so wholesale a scale, they
have been having their purges—
not, of course, that control by
executions is really anything new
in China.
A month back the Corn-
munist Government enacted a
decree which prescribed penalties
of death or life imprisonment
for “those who work with im-
perialism against the father-
land,” ringleaders of counter-
revolutionary guerrilla units,
spies and saboteurs, agents who
try to “tempt and buy over”
soldiers or civil servants, those
who disseminate “counter-revo-
lutionary propaganda and
rumors,” and persons stirring up
disunity, disturbing financial
markets or inciting “serious re-
sistance to grain-tax collection,
labor service, army service and
other administrative orders.”
Commenting on those mea-
sures, London “Economist” gives
some additional information;
“All countries in time of war
take measures to suppress enemy
agents and subversive elements;
but the extension of the death
penalty to so wide a range of
offences indicates either extreme
ruthlessness or else an internal
situation of a very alarming
kind.
“An official statement issued
to justify the decree does, in-
deed, paint a picture of wide-
spread disturbance and resist-
ance to the new regime. It was
asserted that ‘in many places’
railways and bridges had been
wrecked, factories and mines
damaged and warehouses set on
fire; members of local peasant
associations had been murdered,
groups of peasants transporting
requisitioned grain for the army
had been attacked, and in the
province of Kwangsi alone 3000
‘cadres of the People’s Govern-
ment’ had been killed. Such ad-
missions seem to support the
claims of widespread anti-Com-
munist guerrilla activity put out
by Chiang Kai-shek from For-
mosa.
“It may be,” comments the
“Economist,” “that both sides,
from different motives, are
exaggerating the extent of the
resistance; but there seems to
be no doubt that the exacting
demands of war against the
United Nations have begun to
produce cracks in China’s
national solidarity.”
J. Bull's Lost Beef.
If a general election were held
in Britain now it would be a
pretty safe bet that the Attlees
would be hoofed out of office —
not over steel but over steak.
The roast beef of Old England
having become the lost beef,
there has now for some time
been continuous bitter complaint
in the British Press, including
sections of it usually not notice-
ably hostile to the Government.
Only the actual Government
party-sheets affect to defend the
starvation cuts. “Manchester
Guardian” can be quoted as
merely typical, not as the most
savage:—
“Nothing has more distressed
opinion throughout the country
than the cut in the meat ration.
The country was ready to put up
with temporary sacrifices in the
ration so long as it felt that the
Government was trying to
counter unreasonable demands
from a bad Government, that of
the! greedy and tyrannical Senor
Perdu.
“But the uncomfortable doubt
has now crept in that under
cover of John Bullishness the
Ministry of Food is hiding its
own mistakes of policy, and we
are suffering in our stomachs for
it.
"The ordinary man and
woman see this in the fantastic
contrast between the miserable
ration and the free sale of high-
priced tinned meats off the
ration, and in the wide variety of
prices paid to suppliers. It seems
to them hypocrisy that the Gov-
ernment will not let people have
beef for a copper or two more
a pound but encourages them to
pay ridiculous prices for foreign
ham. It seems to them wicked
that we should be paying out of
our taxes millions of money in
free gifts to butchers because the
Government is not letting them
have meat to sell to us.
“Mr, Webb [the Food
Minister], an estimable man.
may plead that he is the victim
of past policy. The Government
has been playing these tricks to
keep its bulk-buying system (a
vested civil-service interest now)
and to fake the cost-of-living
index, which in any case is not
now keeping wages down. But
to admit these things is their
condemnation. The worst
possible way of defeating infla-
tion is to starve the people with
one hand and make them reck-
less in their expenditure with the
other.”
London “Time and Tide” re-
lates the cuts to the Attlees’
socialising in general: “Only a
mandate for vegetarianism could
clothe the Government’s meat
policy in reason and respect-
ability. If the eightpenny ration
has served no other purpose, it
has at least opened the eyes of
the public to the final idiocy of
Socialist planning. Once the
shares fall below a bare
minimum, the bottom falls out
o£ the principle, for the simple
reason that consumers are com-
pelled to buy expensive alter-
natives and the whole purpose of
rationing is defeated. The poor
can become poorer at least as
fast in a badly-administered
Socialist State as in a badly-
administered Capitalist State. Yet
still Socialists persist in the de-
lusion that cheapness can be
allied to scarcity. They seem
incapable of realising that cheap-
ness and abundance are a pair
of words as indissolubly wedded
as dearness and scarcity.”
“In the matter of meat,” says
London “News Chronicle,” also
making a comment on doctri-
naire socialising anywhere, “we
seem to have wandered into a
strange land beyond the Looking
Glass. While the eightpenny
meat ration lasts we shall have
to keep the'butchers alive by sub-
sidy. This will come from public
funds and will run at the rate of
about 20 million pounds a year.
“The difference between what
we are willing to pay for
Argentine meat and the price
that Argentina wants would
amount to about five million
pounds a year. It will therefore
cost the taxpayers four times as
much not to have meat as it
would cost the consumers to
have it.”
Dragnet Digest.
Truman Revokes. —From a “New
York Times” review of a book on
President Truman: “You experience
shock, then relief, when you come to
the story of Truman putting up $lO
as membership fee in the Ku Klux
Klan. That was in 1924, when he
was running for County Judge. Like
many Southern politicians in that
period he apparently was not averse
to a nominal affiliation with an or-
ganisation that had a lot of votes.
Yet when he was asked to pledge he
would not hire Catholics he said no,
and took back the $lO. That year
the Klan helped to administer Mr.
Truman’s one and only political
defeat.”
* * * *
The Neutralists. —Edinburgh “Scots-
man,” which gets good information
from London, quotes “Whitehall
analysts” as believing that if the
Communists could win over the
neutralists (who are of the Right in
France and Italy and of the Left in
Britain) they would gain an accession
of strength after a period of steady
decline. Exact directives are there-
fore being worked out in Moscow
on how far nfeutralism can be favored
in order to win over its adherents,
without officially endorsing it. Re-
ports from Milan, stronghold of the
Italian Communist party, have sug-
gested a propaganda line towards
neutralists that if the Foreign Minis-
ters’ Council fails to reach accord on
German disarmament, and the war
danger grows, Russia would be ready
to guarantee French and Italian
neutrality.
* ♦ * *
West Limit. —“ New York Times’s”
summing-up of the West’s defence
objectives: “The best that can be
hoped for, the most that can rightly
be sought for, is a force that can
stop a Russian attack at some accept-
able boundary. And an acceptable
boundary cannot mean a wholly just
and righteous boundary. No one in
authority, for example, is planning a
war ta make Russia take her hands
off Poland or Czechoslovakia or
liberate the Baltic States. The most
democracy can do at this stage of
history is to hold the ground it now
occupies.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Ivan Fears Fritz. Holding that
“Hypocritical as are Russia’s pro-
tests against West German integration
in Atlantic defence, her fear of it is
plainly sincere enough,” London
“Daily Telegraph” sees in this all the
more reason for bringing Germany
in: “Russia’s evident alarm fully
justifies the wisdom of enlisting Ger-
man help in the defence of freedom,
and the patient efforts by which
France’s misgivings were overcome.
If there could be any doubt before
about the importance of a German
contribution, there can be no ques-
tioning it now.”
* * * *
The Chance of War. —As seen from
Washington by correspondents of
New York “Herald Tribune”: “A
fundamental change has come over
the world situation in the last six
months. The Soviet Union, for the
first time, has made certain obvious
preparations for a military move in
Europe. The pattern suggests an
attack on Yugoslavia; but measures
have also been taken to prepare for a
larger onslaught on Western Europe
by the 35 Soviet divisions in East
Germany and Poland.”


a
eilrrA
S
m
.
M
I
Blue Gillette
Men in the public eye know how
important it is always to look smart,
fresh and well-groomed. It is not sur-
prising, then, to find that the majority
of such men shave with Blue Gillette
Blades. Not only do they get cleaner,
closer, more comfortable shaves, but
they also get more shaves because a
Blue Gillette blade stays sharper longer.
Gillette razors and blades
are made for each other .
Gj’r,
mi'?,
5 for 1/8; 10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8 (in plastic dispenser)
“GOOD MORNINGS” BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
. ER,ES - 8^ 1KG , IIIUt *
Highly qualified technicians maintain a con-
stant check, testing every batch of rubber
processed. You can be sure of unfailing
reliability when you buy . . .
Olympic
TYRES
C H A M P IONS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Royal Easter Show organisers had
to place a guard over potatoes.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Anyone going near them was
chipped.
•F *F *F
“Nervous farmers raise nervous
pigs, according to Danish agricultural
expert Herlun Hansen.”
But even a nervous pig can be
cured.
•F *F *F
“The annual hunt of Arnhem Land
natives for tobacco is on again.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
It’s being conducted in a spirit
of gib and take.
“Britain’s nobility is running short
of sons.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.’ 1 ’
We’ll soon hear of the last of
the barrens.
•F 4* 4*
“Lost, brassiere in parcel, lost two
weeks ago vicinity terminus.”
—Suburban paper.
Evidently a hold-up in the
tram service.
•F *F *F
“By two shakes of a lamb’s tail
Mrs. Nancy Palmer, daughter of a
New Zealand grazier, can tell which
lamb should be kept for woolgrowing
and which should go to the butcher.”
The decision could be post-
poned for a couple of years
without affecting the animal’s
eligibility in the latter respect.
•F *F *F
“Moscow Puppet Theatre director
Professor Sergei Obratsov told (he
Puppet Players’ Congress in Berlin that
Russia no longer had Punch-and-Judy
shows.”
The Soviet being too busy
pulling strings abroad.
Ode to Me.
O soft-boiled Ego, partner of my
yoke !
Ah Me of my delight! Dear
Me ! (perhaps
Too dear, but necessary). Gentle
bloke.
Sit easy, please, on my well-
meaning lapse!
O boon of a companion ! How
could I
Exist without you ? Lonely is
my hearth
And dumb my tub when you are
absent, my
Melodious commander of the
bath.
O humble, uncomplaining
menial /
Who else would serve me with
so meek a grace?
Who else would be so tender,
genial
And glad to brush my teeth or
wash my face ?
And yet, if you could leave
me, would you try
A wiser comrade? Brother,
so would I!
NEIL MILLAR.
Conversation Piece.
“Well, Ben,” said Bert, as he
finished pasting the latest Press
photo of himself in his scrap-
book, “what do you think about
our chances at the polls?”
The Bathurst Burr pulled at
his pipe for a while in his slow
deliberate way, and then, in the
famous mellifluous tones which
must have made him a brilliant
tile-layer or something had he
not chosen politics as a career,
drawled; “Well, I can’t see how
we can lose. The people are
sure to realise that on’y for my
foresight in riggin’ the Senate,
knowin’ that we were goin’ to
get emptied out, an’ so makin’
it impossible for the other mob
to carry out the will o’ the
people, Menzies mighta bin able
to get somethin’ done,
“We taught the people for
nine years to expect a Guwer-
ment to get nothin’ done, so
they’ll appreciate the fact that
we’re stickin’ to sacred Labor
principles an’ vote us back. If
it’s a close go, don’t forget that
we’re sure to get the Commo
preferences. That’s always a
help. We’ll have to make a splash
about disownin’ ’em, of course,
until after the elections. But
we’ll have to tread carefully.
The party’ll be dependin’ for
election funds on the miners,
wharfies, seamen, ironworkers,
buildin’ workers and all the
other Commo-led unions—if
they turned nasty on us we’d
fold up financially. Not that
they’re likely to, of course.”
“Yes,” observed the Shrink-
ing Violet, “The Commo
"Cot any shock-absorbers ?”
preferences might save a few
of our ‘dicky’ seats, including
my own. I suppose I can claim
quite a lot of the credit, really,
for the goodwill shown us by
the Moscow political philoso-
phers.”
“Ye-es,” said the Bathurst
Burr, smoking furiously.
“Who else but myself,” went
on the Shrinking Violet enthusi-
astically, “could, with such
irresistible conviction, have
allowed the bill to outlaw the
Commos to go through Parlia-
ment and then attacked the
same measure a little later with
such telling effect in another
sphere? Why, I almost convince
myself that I’m a wizard.”
“Our best line of appeal, I
think,” interpolated the Bathurst
Burr, a touch of impatience in
his voice, “will be on the score
of our party’s consistency. While
we were in power, for instance,
we stoutly refused to assist the
worker-family-man by giving
him endowment for his first
child, and we fought tooth and
nail against Spooner’s bill to
grant it to him until we decided
we’d be about as popular as the
German measles if we ordered
our Senate majority to oppose
it any longer. Now I see Cal-
well announces we’ll double-
somersault and offer to make it
ten-bob a week. Just like
Arthur, of course—shooting off
his mouth, as if he’s running the
outfit.”
“To my way of thinking,”
said the Shrinking Violet sen-
tentiously, “we should concen-
trate on the international situa-
tion, of which none will doubt
I am a world authority. Above
all, we should stress the in-
evitability of peace—after all,
there’s no particular reason why
our party shouldn’t run its own
peace campaign as distinct from
that of our unofficial supporters.
“You know, Russia wants
peace—Vyshinsky told me so
once. In any case, as a Pacifist
party we must continue our
opposition to any vigorous de-
fence measures. If war did
come it would be a long way
* away. Not that a modern war
will be fought with armies, any-
way.”
“Exactly,” said the Bathurst
Burr “Push-
buttons.”
“We should also,” went on
the Shrinking Violet, warming
to his subject, “recall to the
people the Glory That Was
Roam —the days, in short, when,
as president of the U.N.O. and
champion of the small nations, I
occasionally paid a short visit
to Australia. The days when
my personal prestige was so high
that I was beaten in the race for
the presidency of the World
Court by a bare half-mile or so.”
“And can a grateful country,”
pursued the S.V., “forget that
as Minister for External Affairs
I had the boldness and courage
to hand over our foreign policy
to the Commo officials of the
Wharfies’ Federation? By that
master-stroke of diplomacy I
was at once enabled not only
to avoid Jim’s annoyance but to
succeed in gaining for Aus-
tralia the temporary friendship
of one whose proud boast it was
that during the war against us
he was decorated by the Ja{>s for
collaboration. Certainly it meant
alienating the friendship of our
only white neighbor in the
Pacific. But I’ve no time for
the Dutch, anyway—they be-
lieve in hard work, and that’s a
crime with the party.”
“If you don’t mind, Bert,” put
in the Bathurst Burr, “I think it
might be better if we kept to
the home front, Noo South
Wales is the key State, and that’s
where most of the coal isn’t won.
We’ll promise ’em more —we did
before, and we had a bigger and
better strike on the coalfields
than ever. We can also point
out how bad the blackouts
might have been only for Mc-
Girr’s able handling of the situa-
tion. There are several other
popular things we can point to
with pride: the Brisbane Line,
‘Jock’ Garden, the Labor
Senate majority’s honest en-
deavor to govern the country in
the face of the obstruction and
reactionary tactics of the Liberal
party’s temporary majority in
the Representatives. But I’ve
got something even better—a
first-rate slogan.”
“Not another Golden Age?”
asked the Shrinking Violet
anxiously.
“The gold standard is dis-
credited,” said the Bathurst Burr
pompously. “In any case, we
live in the inflationary age
which I invented. I’m going to
offer the Diamond Age!”
S. W. K rough, 252 George St., Sydney.
Out On Their Roan.
“Between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000
Britons were eating horsemeat
because the meat ration was down to
Bd.-worth a week, said the secretary
of the International League for the
Protection of Horses (Mrs. M. F.
Colvin).”
The time is past
When British men
Could boast of their ability to
eat
A good repast
In dale or fen
With ample ale and decent beef
for meat.
For Socialists
Must chase their dreams,
And those who love their beef
will rue the day
When none resists
Their crackpot schemes
And Britons everywhere are
brought to bay.
Yet this will pass,
It’s my belief.
For voters one day soon will
rise in ire
In every class.
And, needing beef.
Have Churchill pull their chest-
nuts from the fire.
BERT.


Relax in fine hotels—enjoy guided tours in fascinating
cities— expense-free on the shortest, most colourful
route to Europe.
O nly
one aircraft, the internationally famous, long
distance Constellation, flies you on the “Kangaroo”
Service all-the-way to London —without the irksome bother
of changing planes. And on this route, alone, are three
all-night stops where you can “take it easy”—and enjoy the
ever-changing scenes of Oriental colour and Eastern fable.
FLY DE-LUXE VIA THE COLOURFUL EAST
As our guest, you’re invited on conducted tours of exotic
Singapore, mystical Cairo and historic Rome —to explore the
highlights of these world-famous cities. Stop-over if you
wish, at any airport en route, at no extra fare. “At your
service” all the way with many comforts and courtesies,
QANTAS-8.0.A.C. provide unsurpassed steward and
hostess service, modem hotel accommodation and transport.
No tips; no extras to pay.
Fly the regular route, via Calcutta or the alternative
service, via Colombo and Bombay. Five services
weekly. Consult your travel agent.
f
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
KSI
m
y. ■ .
mm
Wmsm
.
<0
0% yeu/u
huAuU-
(when they’re warm)
"It’s as cooling as an ocean
breeze on a hot day—and popular!
—one of the most popular of ail the
Vickers Gin coolers.
The gin gives It a wonderful
flavour. I won’t take a moment to
prepare It—then you taste it. Make
“SHADY GROVE
COOLER'*
Into a long glass put
half tablespoon of
sugar, juice of half
a lemon, 2 oz. Vickers
Cin. \
Mix with plenty of
ice and fill with cold
ginger beer .
•* note of tho recipe too—add It
to your collection."
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
df
A request to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd.. P.O. Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE,
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipes for
cocktails and tong drinks. Write for it now.
ICKERS GIN
fAHOUS SINCE t 7 S 0
. • VG40/U
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Everything seemed made-to-measure
for an excellent day’s racing at Rand-
wick on Saturday, the opening day
of the A.J.C. autumn meeting. The
weather was perfect, there was a
noble gathering of topnotch local and
inter-State gallopers, and a crowd of
80,500 rolled up to see the occasion
done due honor. Evidently, too, they
came well-heeled : tote turnover was
close to a quarter of a million pounds,
and £69,050 went through the
machines on the Doncaster alone —a
Randwick record for a single race.
It would be pleasing to be able to
add, d la report of the local hop,
that a good time was had by all,
but in this case the phrase would be
even further from the truth than it
usually is. The bookies had a whale
of a time, with the favorites beaten
in all seven events. In particular,
relentless disaster descended upon the
Melbourne camp and followers
thereof; thrice did a Melbourne
horse with a Melbourne jockey in
the saddle go out an odds-on favorite,
and thrice did they return defeated.
Three odds-on favorites beaten in one
day must be pretty close to a record
for Randwick. As well, at least three
of the five Melbourne horses in the
Doncaster were solidly backed, but
they didn’t manage to fill a place
between them.
Since Oversight started a solid
second-favorite at 11 to 2 in the
Doncaster his success was probably
the most widely appreciated of the
day, but it could have afforded no
punter greater satisfaction than it did
the A.J.C. handicapper, Fred Wilson.
Since weights were issued every critic
worth his salt has pointed an accusing
finger at the seemingly harsh handi-
capping of Oversight. The view
stated here more than once was that
it seemed pretty tough that the three-
year-old should be asked to meet
Achilles on 171 b. worse terms than
he did when that horse beat him in
the Epsom. Well, the outcome was
that Oversight won and Achilles
finished fifth, some four lengths
further back; the handicapper was
not only right, but, if anything,
appeared to have rather understated
the case. It should be pointed out
as well that in the event the only
horse which was able to make a race
of it with Oversight at the finish was
the New Zealander Davey Jones, in
dealing with whom the handicapper
had been under the disadvantage of
never having seen the horse in action.
In the circumstances his intelligent
guess was very close to the mark.
By the same token connections of
Davey Jones must be whipping the
cat, for there seems every reason to
agree with the opinion expressed after
the race by his rider, W. Cook, that
with another run under his belt the
New Zealand colt would have won; he
had had only one previous outing here,
finishing a brilliant second to Drastic
at Rosehill a fortnight earlier. In
the Doncaster, after appearing very
anxious to take the lead early, Davey
Jones was restrained into second place
behind Midwise, who did most of the
pacemaking. Striding to the front
at the distance, Davey Jones was then
hailed as the winner, but Oversight,
after securing a dream run on the
rails (picturesquely described by his
rider, J. Thompson, as a “Nat Gould
effort”) gradually wore down Davey
Jones and scored by a head. Three
lengths further back Great World,
mentioned here as a good prospect,
finished third, just ahead of Desert
Warrior and Achilles.
The Doncaster favorite Drastic
scarcely looked a chance at any stage
of the race. Possibly the inexplicable
burst of form which saw him win
four good races on end, after being
off the winning list for 18 months,
has run its course. This page’s selec-
tion, Achilles, was by no means dis-
graced, and might at least have
finished a good deal closer to the
winner had he been better served in
the draw for barrier positions. In
support of this it is worth pointing
out the rather remarkable fact that
the first six horses past the post
included, and almost in the order
they had been drawn, those started
from Nos. 1,2, 3, 4 and 5 positions
at the barrier. The exception was
Achilles, drawn No. 18 in the field
of 22 and finishing a good fifth, after
racing wide all the way.
Owned by W. A. Freeman, trained
by F. Dalton, and giving J. Thompson
his first winning mount in a Don-
caster, Oversight is a three-year-old
brown colt by Beau Son from Dis-
traction. Beau Son is a son of Beau
Pere and the imported French mare
Banita, both of whom trace on the
male side, through Dark Ronald and
Bay Ronald, to Hampton, and, as
well, Beau Son’s pedigree contains
several other strains of Hampton
blood. Presumably Beau Son was
given an opportunity at stud on
account of his blood lines rather than
his racing performances, which com-
prised 17 starts for three modest
wins, two thirds and £669 in stakes.
Beau Son stands at St. Aubin’s Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), and his progeny
have been offered at the yearling sales
for several seasons now without
attracting any spectacular attention
from buyers. Last year 10 lots
averaged 362 guineas, with a top
price of 625. Now, however, the
St. Aubin’s people must wish that
they were offering three dozen instead
of a bare three lots of Beau Son’s
get at the current Sydney yearling
sales, for in little more than a week
progeny of Beau Son have given their
sire the sort of advertisement stud-
masters must dream about receiving
right before the sales. In two Satur-
r no I
PARKINCj
days’ racing at Randwick progeny of
Beau Son have had seven starts for
four wins, two seconds and a third.
At the Warwick Farm meeting on
March 17 Belshazzar won the second
Fairfield Handicap, Oversight and
Great World finished first and second
in the Liverpool Handicap and Hurry
Up took the Autumn Handicap; they
were the only Beau Son horses to
run on the day. On Doncaster day
Oversight and Great World again
played their part, and, as well,
Damascene finished second to Cap-
tain Theo in the 10-furlongs Tocal
Handicap; again they were the only
Beau Sons to run.
The ill-luck which assailed Mel-
bourne visitors made its presence felt
right from the start, when True
Course started an odds-on favorite to
beat other three-year-old fillies in the
7-furlongs Princess Handicap and
failed miserably. It was difficult to
know quite what to make of her
run, except that when a filly who
has never previously been out of a
place manages to finish ahead of only
two out of 11 comparatively mediocre
performers the run is surely too bad
to be true. True Course was in strife
from start to finish. She was slowly
away from the unfamiliar barrier-
stalls, and thereafter every move she
attempted to improve her position
met with a check. True Course’s
rider, W. Williamson, came in for
some trenchant criticism after the
race, but in our observation there
was very little that he could have
done to avoid the trouble the favorite
encountered.
Actually the Princess Handicap was
not entirely a lost cause for Mel-
bournites, since the eventual comfort-
able winner was the Midstream filly
Even Flow (D, Munro). Even Flow
does her racing in Sydney, but she
is owned by N. Robinson, chairman
of the V.A.T.C. The win, too, rep-
resented a spot of revenge for Even
Flow, who filled minor placings
behind True Course in both the Sires’
Produce and the Champagne Stakes
at the autumn meeting last year.
Next odds-on pop on the agenda
was Alister in the St. Leger. With
R. Heather in the saddle the dual
Derby winner tried to evince his stay-
ing supremacy by leading all the way,
but he was not up to the job. In
the straight he was tackled first by
Midway and then by Aristocrat, and
it was soon evident that both had his
measure. Aristocrat finished slightly
the better to win by a long neck from
Midway, with Alister a half-lengh
further back. A son of Le Grand
Due and the Magpie mare Kirrang,
Aristocrat was bred and is raced by
V. E. H. Davis, a prominent Sydney
veterinary surgeon.
Supporters of Melbourne horses,
Melbourne riders and odds-on
favorites were finally and completely
crushed when Comic Court, with
Purtell up, was beaten in the weight-
for-age Autumn Stakes (12f.). The
sight of Freedom (W. Cook) downing
the champion in the Stakes must have
given veteran AJ.C. committeeman
Pat Osborne the greatest racing thrill
he has had since, on the same day
just a quarter of a century ago, he
saw his mighty filly Valicare start at
odds-on and fairly toy with a Don-
caster field in which she set at the
same time a weight-carrying record
for a three-year-old filly. Freedom,
of course, is a descendant of Valicare.
Comic Court, who tried to lead all
the way, didn’t appear to be going
overgenerously at any stage, and
gave the impression that he had
suddenly remembered his dislike for
the Sydney going. In the straight
the favorite shook off Playboy, who
had been worrying at him up to that
point, but the task of then trying to
beat Freedom as well proved too
much. Racing with his great heart
rather than any degree of muscular
co-ordination, the champion did his
best, but Freedom got there by a
half-head.
The rich Sires’ Produce Stakes (win-
ner’s cut £5571) went to Ocean
Bound, who is evidently one out of
the box. Free Rule and the hot
favorite Hydrogen were well beaten
in the minor places. A bay colt by
Channel Swell from Derring Do,
Ocean Bound is owned by A. W.
Riddle, brother of the late Peter
Riddle and manager of the Kia-Ora
Stud, where the colt was bred. With
W. Cook in the saddle, Ocean Bound
led all the way, and stoutly with-
stood all challenges. Ocean Bound
failed at his first appearance, which
was in the Breeders’ Plate; since then
the Channel Swell colt has had seven
starts for five wins and two seconds.
• ♦ • »
At Flemington on Saturday for the
opening of the M.R.C. Easter meet-
ing, Melbourne punters enjoyed a
continuation of the wondrous luck
that has been their lot in recent
weeks. Three favorites and two equal
favorites were among Saturday’s
seven winners.
The main event, the £4OOO Victoria
Handicap (7f.), was a very rough-
and-tumble affair, and, unhappily, the
worst sufferers were the most-fancied
pair Eclair and San Domenico. San
Domenico was knocked from pillar
to post, and had no chance of
recovering under his plaster of 9.7.
Backers of the favorite, Eclair, were
even more unfortunate; despite being
crowded on to the running rail in
the straight and returning to scale
liberally whitewashed along the near
side, Eclair was still beaten into third
place only by margins of a head and
a head. Savoy (S. Ralph), finishing
fast on the outside, just got up to pip
Star Port and the favorite.
The only other poor result for
punters was the success of the El
Golea colt El Solvino (A. Burton) at
10 to 1 in the second Juvenile Stakes,
which was a race for two-year-olds
who had not previously run a place.
However, punters made no mistake
in installing Just It (E. Preston) a
hot favorite for the first Juvenile. A
daughter of Audentes, and the first
representative of that imported French
sire to score here. Just It won by
the bare five lengths.
To briefly relate the remainder of
the happy tale, favorites Ellerslie (S.
Ralph) and Saintsbury (P. Simonds)
won respectively the 10-furlongs
Easter Handicap and the 12-furlongs
Westall Trial Stakes. Midhurst gave
veteran cross-country rider F. Dum-
mett a welcome change of luck in
the Winton Hurdle and Moograbah
(K. Mitchell) won the Hampton
Highweight,
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Principal conclusion to be drawn
from the outcome of the non-title
bout between Australian welterweight
champion Mickey Tollis and the
lightweight titleholder Jack Hassen at
Sydney Stadium last week was that
boxing, as exhibited in Australian
rings today, can scarcely longer be
termed the art of self -defence. Both
boxers, while dishing out plenty, also
seemed to stop absolutely everything
thrown in their general direction.
However, when two men of unequal
size conscientiously set themselves to
batter each other senseless, chances
are that the larger man will succeed
first. That was what happened in
this case. Tollis scaled 10.8 to
Hassen’s 10. H, and the ref. decided
that Hassen had had enough midway
through the last round.
* ♦ # *
The meeting of Charlie Beaton
(10.8) and George Kapeen (10,7±) at
Leichhardt rather strikingly illustrated
how one good (or lucky) punch at
the right moment can change the
whole course of a fight. Definitely
enjoying a big advantage in height
and reach, and appearing to be much
more favorably handicapped than was
declared by the clerk of the scales,
Beaton sailed into the fray like a
sure winner. He won the first three
rounds easily; then, out of the blue,
came a left hook which knocked
Beaton into the Fourth Estate.
Thereafter Beaton proceeded to visit
alternately the floor and assorted
areas beyond the ring until the ref.
declared for Kapeen early in the sixth.
♦ * ♦ ♦
A first attempt at rowing the annual
Oxford-Cambridge boatrace in vile
conditions on Saturday came to a
watery conclusion when Oxford foun-
dered ere they had traversed a mile
In one sense it was fortunate for the
Oxford types that they had only gone
so far before sinking; the rules pro-
vide for a re-row should either party
submerge within the first mile, and
the crews were lining up for a second
lash as this went to the printer.


WAKING AUSTRALIA
IS
ami
Illustrated is the Pan State
at a Queensland Sugar Mill
—designed and erected by
an Australian I
TAe Great /lustra//an
SUGAR Industry
lb* Australian Sugar Industry, important in world markets
for the excellence of Its products, has also ployed its part
In populating the vulnerable coastline of the tropics. Thus
It has contributed in two ways to making Australia STRONG.
The Sugar Grower plays Ids part in this Industry with the
help of Ronaldson-Tippett petrol, kerosene and diesel
Engines. Electric Lighting Plants and allied equipment.
We are proud to offer him this equipment, which, like his
own Industry, has no superior in the world for efficiency*
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
MELBOURNE Office: G2B Bourke Street. N.S.W.
Distbrs.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Frazer
House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. QTand Distbrs.:
Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle St., BRISBANE.
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
o
CINZANO
Oft
DRY
SWEET
a^runea
j&tvtce
/m
For Ease and Speed
of operation mark with
ELASTRATOR
The
ELASTMTOI
REGD. TRADE MARK
df
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A
PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.)
125 William St., Melbourne.
PTY. LTD.
ELIS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF CATTLE AT SYDNEY SHOW.
“Bulago”: Entries would have
been a record if the R.A.S.
could have accommodated them.
Even the early restrictions im-
posed on the number of entries
by breeders in any class were
not sufficient. So many new
studs were eager to exhibit that
a further appeal had to be
made; it is enough to say that
cattle space at Moore Park was
so heavily taxed that calves born
during the show were an
embarrassment to the R.A.S.
In quality, however, the
advance was not so spectacular.
Where there is an influx of new
studs there is seldom a cor-
responding raising of average
quality. Nevertheless, appear-
*S%T> Black
“Dear Sirs: With reference to the wool-cheque for
thirty thousand just received ”
ance of new studs is beneficial
in the long run. It gives young
studmasters an opportunity to
see their cattle alongside the old-
established studs and to benefit
by the comparison. Added com-
petition is of value to the breeds
concerned. There is nothing
more discouraging to a genuine
breeder than to find himself the
sole exhibitor in class after class.
A welcome innovation was the
spreading of the cattle judging
over three days. This not only
gave the judges more time for
the job but more space was
available, and for the first time
it was possible to handle the
biggest classes without having to
split them into several divisions.
Shorthorns.
Outstanding features of the
Shorthorns were their good solid
colors and the way they are get-
ting closer to the ground. The
judge. Lord Lovat, knew how
to handle cattle, and left no
doubt as to the type he favored..
Low, thickset, short-legged cattle
were his choice. The four
champion bulls were all of this
type and rich, deep-red in color.
Top honors went to Woomar-
gama Overlord, sold last year to
present exhibitor, Gulf Cattle
Co. Woomargama Shorthorns
were highly successful, and were
followed closely by Gulf Cattle
Co. and Kywanna. A feature
this year was the success of the
progeny of Kirkton Dictator
(imp.), including Woomargama
Ovation, junior champion,
Kywanna Jaeger, junior reserve,
and Kywanna Cherrywood 4th,
winner of female champion and
junior champion ribbons.
Result of recent importations
was strongly evidenced in the
prize-list, not only of Short-
horns, but of every other breed.
Another notable feature was the
high quality of comparatively
new studs. There were fewer
bad colors this year. Wongala
entries, from Victoria, attracted
a lot of attention. They are low-
set, soggy reds for the most part,
and they confirmed the good im-
pression this stud made in
Sydney last year.
There was a tail in the female
classes, but the tops were excel-
lent. Bulk of the blue ribbons
went to Brunette (Gulf Cattle
Co.), Wongala and Kywanna.
There were 10 new studs this
year, a healthy sign for the
future.
Poll Shorthorns.
Polls were patchy. The prize-
winners were as good as ever,
some of them the best ever seen
in Sydney, but there was a tail.
Ribbons were widely distributed,
but the breeder with greatest
cause for satisfaction was Frank
Simpson. Although not the most
successful exhibitor on the day,
the wide influence of Gunna-
warra polls on the breeding of
other prizewinners was very
marked.
Netherby brought a strong
team from Queensland and did
particularly well. The stud won
the championship with the white
Gunnawarra bull —Gay Lad
10th—which took similar honors
in Brisbane last year, while
Netherby White Heather —a
beautiful shapely heifer out of
that famous champion Match-
less Miss —led the 15-18-months
class, took the junior champion-
ship, and went on to take the
open. On the whole, the
females were not so good as the
bulls, and, in one small class,
the judge refrained from award-
ing a first-prize.
Peel cattle did very well
throughout the classes, and
added to their laurels by taking
the reserve with a neat little roan
bull —Peel Raider —that had pre-
viously been awarded junior
honors. Peel Sabina took female
reserve. Antrim and Bogan
scored well, and Kyalla did well
to take junior reserve with
Greenwich Baron on their first
appearance in poll competition
in Sydney.
Devons.
This year saw the keenest
competition, and also the best
all-round lot of Devons that
have paraded in Sydney.
Havilah, the staunchest sup-
porter and representative of the
breed, came up against tough
opposition, and although still
dominant didn’t have everything
its own way. v
Newstead South, on their first
appearance in Sydney, had the
novice classes to themselves, and
did well in female open classes.
Right through the Devons the
weight of imported blood was
evident, and this is likely to be
even more pronounced in years
to come, when the progeny of
the most recent importations
comes along.
Double championship went to
Havilah Midas 18th, a beauti-
fully-proportioned 15-month-old
bull and another Havilah bull —
Forester 59th was reserve.
Banoole Note was junior
reserve.
Female championships went
to Ban Ban, with the exception
of the junior retained by
Havilah with an 18-month-old
heifer of the Apricot family.
Aberdeen-Angus.
Average quality was not quite
so high as last year. Several
teams lacked their usual finish,
and there was a pronounced tail.
However, the tops were very
good, and a great deal of in-
terest centred round H. G.
Munro’s imported cow, Black
Flora of Rowley. She is so
short in the leg and low-set as
to appear almost a pigmy along-
side other cows of her age, but
her scale is comparable to the
best of them, and she is full of
quality.
Victorian studs scored well,
Terrinallum in particular, with
Battery Park close behind. Of
the locals, Narrangullen had a
very strong team, and the Wam-
banumba black polls made their
best showing to date. The con-
test for bull championship saw
a ding-dong go between Booroo-
mooka Salom (by B. Hector)
and Belltrees Supreme (also by
a Booroomooka bull). The
latter is one of the nicest-bodied
bulls seen for many years, and
the margin by which N he lost to
Salom was very fine. Junior-
bull honors went to Narrangul-
len and Battery Park.
The Milong team was con-
sistent, and put up a good claim
for ribbons. Wallah polls were
not quite up to the mark, and
the department cattle from
Trangie did not seem to have
got over the widespread flood-
ing of last year. In the female
classes Terrinallum capped a
good performance by taking
junior honors with a smart
heifer, and Battery Park was
runner-up. In the open the issue
was never in doubt, and the
little Booroomooka cow won
with a Narrangullen entry in
reserve.
Herefords.
Although there were no really
outstanding animals such as we
have seen in past shows, Here-
fords were, on the average,
better and more numerous than
ever. The enlarged judging-ring
enabled the largest classes to be
judged as one, but even so there
was no room to spare when 67
bulls in the popular 15-18-
months class were paraded.
Competition has never been
keener, and ideal weather was
on the side of the hundreds of
Hereford enthusiasts who lined
the arena. The fact that no
fewer than 24 studs figured in
the prize-list may give some idea
of the general excellence of the
exhibits. It was Bexley’s day,
however, and Hays Bros, deserve
their triumph. Their most meri-
torious victory, apart from
champion, reserve and junior
bulls, and junior reserve heifer,
was to win first and second rib-
bons in the biggest class in the
show—a line-up of 67 young
bulls from the pick of the studs,
A comparatively new competi-
tor, J. and W. Tanner’s Hill-
crest stud, did remarkably well,
and Colly Creek kept up their
well-known reputation with
junior bull championship for
good measure. The female
championship staged another
duel between last year’s con-
testants —Yarrandabbie Wood-
bine and Herbert Park Ann —
and once again the former
triumphed. They are a splendid
pair that would be hard to beat
in any company. Turee Prin-
cess won junior championship,
and this stud put up a first-rate
performance with a very strong
team, including first and second
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The present cyclonic rains in Queensland (18/3/*5l)
comprise the cyclical rain group 'of this part of March, intensi-
fied by a sudden sunspot outbreak on the sun’s southern
hemisphere. Unfortunately, coming at a disturbed time, its
progress could not be watched, and, again unfortunately,
this sunspot weather effect is not yet officially recognised as
it some day will be. There is no daily interchange between
Australian solar observatories. Such a service Would enable
a clouded-over station to know what was happening and
also to advise its probable effects.
A lot of rain seems likely through April and possibly
well into May: likely to be very heavy along the eastern
coast, especially from Brisbane to Sydney. Good rains of a
very general nature seem probable.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
5 0s
a*S
CMS
mm. atm*
om-
Jus
e*r
■ " •' ' ,
CHampioM
SPARK PLUGS
WCfiiDS
mmm
\
1
Cl
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM,
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BAERERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAEEERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28B), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
For Sale.
MASSE Y-HARRIS Tractor, M 25, iron
wheels, in good running order. —
SALESIAN SCHOOL, Sunbury, Victoria.
Phone Sunbury 1.
TRACTOR, Twin City, MZ Standard, 28-
h.p. belt, 16-h.p. draw-bar, rubber tyres,
good condition.—SALESlAN SCHOOL,
Sunbury, Victoria. Phone Sunbury 1.
Phenovls Worm Remedy
t
* i
•f
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
te.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
r -
d
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements. ,
: V
fd
AND SONSj
PTY. LTD.;
£4O/IZ/6
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
Tel. BW 8631
A complete instruction book on
m
mm
mm
m
poo
Cft° N
f/STf* 1 '
\
CTO
ptV
■tlOt*
I**'°
aV*
O'"
O'
ONLY RAINBOW GIVES YOU
ALL THESE FEATURES:
fd
FLEXIBLE COUPLING
Worked on a ball and
sobket principle, this
coupling provides a
positive, watertight
joint in any direction
better than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordinary
outlet, but does the work of
hydrant as well! Simple to
operate, reduces obstruction
in both outlet and main.
*
f
STURDY ANGLE IRON STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24 ft. section. Absence
of crossbars In tall stands
eliminates interference to
vegetation.
POWERFUL SPRAY
HEADS
Throw a fine spray over
an area 48 ft. square, or
a heavy spray up to
72 ft. square.
df
60/83.12
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
available to all
Rainbow Spray
Irrigation users
Here are all the answers to your
questions about irrigation! The
practical, versatile Rainbow Spray
Irrigation system can help you
make money, and this booklet tells
you how to get the most from your
Rainbow Irrigation plant.
With the booklet you get a complete
picture of Rainbow Spray irrigation.
The Rainbow Company has given the
various problems of irrigating very
careful study, and this book is based
on the research of technical staff and
practical field experience. It tells you
how to plan an efficient and economi-
cal spray system, how to install it, how
to operate it, how to compute costs.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt St., Sydney. ’Phone
8U3425.
Branch Offices: C. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont,
64 King St., Melbourne; O. Beaumont, Mildura.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane; Ralph
Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; P. 0.
Korwill, 68 Hobbs Ave., Nedlands, Perth.
Representative for New Zealand: Freshfields,
Ltd., Wellington.
in the 15-18-month .heifer class,
against keen competition.
South Boorook (Vic.) did not
produce such a good team as last
year, but they had a well-
matched lot of bulls. A Here-
ford had to be particularly good
to score in any of the open
classes this year, and although
many well-known studs did not
feature prominently in the prize-
list, the company was such that
there was no shame in being an
also-ran.
Red Polls.
In numbers and quality Red
Polls have registered little im-
provement of late years. The
only advance that may be
recorded is the elimination of
washy colors, but, on the other
hand, there is a tendency to-
ward the darker reds ; this needs
watching.
Judging a dual-purpose breed
is a difficult job, and many of
this year’s aspirants were on the
beefy side. The Woodburn
(Vic.) polls appeared to hold the
right balance, and Mt. Parry
cattle attracted the judge’s eye.
The latter stud did very well in
the bull classes, and collected
three mail championships, top
junior honors going to Bunda-
leer. A beautifully proportioned
Flagstaff cow collected the
female tricolor with the shapely
Woodburn yearling heifer junior
champion as reserve.
Poll Herefords.
These brought forward some
very nice animals and a number
of faulty ones. There was a
pronounced tail. Mrs. N. P.
Wright’s Blandford polls, which
did so well in Brisbane last year,
repeated the performance in no
uncertain manner; in fact, it
looked as if all the bull cham-
pionships were going there until
K. G. Luke (Vic.) broke the
sequence by taking reserve with
a Milton bull.
In the females the Milton polls
maintained their unbroken suc-
cesses, and, in fact, improved on
it by taking all four champion-
ships and reserves. Classes were
small, however, although the
bull classes attracted some good
musters. Nevertheless, from a
quality viewpoint, Hereford
polls seem to have consolidated
rather than carried on the im-
provement that most recent
years have shown. Colors are
good, there is more uniformity,
but there are a lot of constitu-
tional weaknesses that neither
feeding nor Show get-up can
hide.
Erosion in Victoria.
“C.S.”: Farming practice in
the cereal areas of north-eastern
Victoria must be modified if
serious water-erosion damage is
to be checked, according to
C.5.1.R.0. Bulletin 243.
Overgrazing and extensive
cultivation have led to the pre-
sent eroded condition. The
erosion is mainly due to water,
and is confined largely to hills
and land adjacent to them. It
can be rectified now only by
control methods by all the
farmers co-operatively in any
particular watershed unit. i
The report is mainly a techni-
cal description of the soils,
geology, vegetation and climate
of the area, but a discussion in
practical terms is included of its
agriculture, present land-use and
management practices for soil-
conservation. Interesting re-
lationships are shown between
such climatic factors as the in-
tensity of rainfall and the times
of the year at which storm rains
occur and consequent soil losses
and erosion damage. It is not
only the total amount of rain
but the time when there is in-
fluential rain which is of great
importance.
In those rare years when the
season finishes early crop yields
are low and pasture-growth poor.
This makes pasture-management
difficult, since in such years
farmers find themselves over-
stocked and the country left bare
in the following summer. Such
conditions, in conjunction with
the heavier rains of summer and
autumn (which appear to occur
more frequently after a dry sea-
son), are the main cause of
erosion in the area.
Ploughshares.
“S.S.”: A considerable in-
crease in the life of ploughshares
can readily be obtained by the
comparatively low-cost process
of hard-facing.
In actual ploughing tests at
Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege hard-faced shares gave an
acreage times greater than
untreated shares for an addi-
tional cost of less than half the
original cost of the shares.
The tests were applied to
ploughshares only, but results
indicate that efficiency of tillage
implements such as cultivators,
combines, seed-drills, rotary-
hoes, harrows and others would
be increased considerably by
hard-facing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”; Sorghum is useful
green feed. Drill in lin. rows
or broadcast one to two bushels
per acre and feed off only when
in full flower because of the
poisoning danger from prussic
acid, which develops at certain
stages of growth. To cut and
cart is safer. If the first cut is
made when the crop is 2ft. to
3ft. high several cuts may be
obtained; but yield and quality
will be better when the initial cut
is delayed until the crop has
come into head,
“Rooster”: In tests in Vic-
toria it was found that lime de-
ficiency was responsible for lack
of clover and failure to respond
to superphosphate. Used in con-
junction with lime, at the rate
of lOcwt. per acre, an improve-
ment is shown lasting from six
to 10 years. Lime used by itself
shows little pasture-improve-
ment.
“M.”: For scaly - leg on
poultry dip the legs in crude-
oil and scrub with a hard brush.
The dipping is best done in the
forenoon to allow the oil to
drain off before the birds go to
roost. Disinfect perches with a
thorough spraying of crude-oil,
which also will take care of
red-mite.
“Big Billy”: When using root
crops for supplementary feeding
see that they are fed off in
breaks and that young stock are
given the first feeding of each
break. See that a pasture feed
and some hay are also available,
“C.A.A.”: One of the easiest
ways to arrest an early scour of
creek or hillside is to fence the
area to keep stock and rabbits
out. Then apply plenty of super,
to hasten the growth of native
prospective grasses,
“Hortus”; Don’t apply liquid
manure to plants if the soil is
at all dry. Dry soil should first
be watered. The liquid manure
is best made from fowl drop-
pings put in a bag and soaked
in a cask or drum.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
;
m
11 :
ill
slim
mil
m
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
f IflflQ PRIZE NOVEL
pQRifHr ” AT AU BOOKStUtRS
HEINE M A N N
isTen
‘UTILITY
for prompt delivery
Thanks to up-to-the-minute
production methods at the
LISTER factory—the most
modern in the world—the huge
demand for these amazing
little self-contained plants is
being met, and limited
supplies are available for
prompt delivery.
SHF6A.IO3.
df
df
d
dśf
The ball-hearing one-stand
plant that shears like a
hie shed plant!
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloeh Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloeh Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street, WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND:
Winehcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated In N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bogshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE,
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sens Limited,
HOBART end LAUNCESTON.
raced after him. I had half a
mind to race to South Australia
or somewhere, but X ran after
them.
It turned out that one of the
women had spilt hot tea on her-
self. We left her to be mopped
up by her friends and tramped
back to the bar. The publican
had disappeared.
“Probably got the wind up an’
hidin’ in the cellar,” Mat whis-
pered, confidentially, to the
policeman. My idea was that
the publican was on the way to
the police-station, but I didn’t
say so. I never have liked fool-
ing about with the police, and I
was hoping that the constable
would go and give us a chance to
get away from there. But Mat
was now worked up to a high
pitch of devilment.
“Y* know,” he said thought-
fully, “the most likely place for
that lunatic to be hidin’ is over
in the railway yards.”
“Why?” asked the law.
“Well, he seems to have a
down on railway blokes. How
d’ y’ know he ain’t over there
now, waitin’ on one of ’em?”
“Aw,” I said, “he wouldn’t be
there. Maybe it’s all just a
yarn. Y’ know what these
towns are.”
That policeman had taken a
liking to Mat.
“Don’t be silly,” he said to
me severely. “This chap and I
will go and have a look, anyhow.
Of course, if you don’t want to
come” He left this reflection
on my courage in the air.
We went through that railway-
station like a cyclone. Accom-
panied by the stationmaster, and
with Mat ever at his side to
prompt him, the constable ex-
amined the offices, waiting-
rooms, goods-sheds, wheat-
stacks, tool-sheds, loco.- and
carriage-sheds. He had bales,
boxes and crates pulled down,
practically dismantled the signal-
box, ordered railwaymen to ex-
plore the dusty places under
platforms, made me climb up
and look in the water-tank. A
mixed train pulled in from some-
where, and he posted the entire
railway staff along both sides of
it to see the madman didn’t
sneak aboard. We were in the
midst of this when another
policeman and a civilian arrived,
and were identified as Sgt. Rud-
duck and the shunter who’d gone
rabbiting, Jones by name.
The sergeant surveyed the dis-
ordered railway premises as he
marched up to us and demanded,
“What’s going on here?”
The constable said, import-
antly, “I had information that
the alleged lunatic was in hiding
here. We’ve been making a
search. Sergeant.”
“I see,” began the sergeant,
but he was interrupted by Jones,
who stepped forward, pointed a
finger at Mat and said, “That’s
’im! ”
“Him? Who?” demanded the
sergeant.
“The mad bloke. That’s ’im,
all right. Where did y’ catch
’im?”
Everybody looked at the
accuser in astonishment. The
constable recovered first.
“Tommy-rot,” he rapped out.
“This chap’s been with me for
the last couple of hours.”
“That don’t matter,” shrilled
Jones. “That’s ’im, I tell y’!
Nilly twisted me arm orf, he did!
Think I wouldn’t know a ruddy
so-and-so that nilly twisted me
arm orf!”
BY this time we had an audi-
ence of railwaymen and
others. Sergeant Rudduck said
to the stationmaster, “Couldn’t
we go to your office and
straighten this out?”
As nearly as I could estimate
Mat and I had about £23 in
cash between us, and on the way
to the office I thought of several
charges which could be laid
against us and gloomily won-
dered how many months’ jail
we’d get for what our total cash
failed to meet in fines.
“This is a fine ruddy picnic
y’ve landed us into,” I muttered
to Mat as we crossed the yard.
“How much longer are y’ goin’
t’ keep it up?”
“Keep y’r ruddy wits about
y’,” Mat muttered back. “Can’t
y’ see we got to stay with it an’
bluff this Jones bloke some-
how?”
“Yair,” I mourned, “an’ what
if that other bloke gets back
from Bendigo. He’ll stick with
Jones, won’t he?”
“Aw, we ain’t dead yet,” Mat
grunted, as we followed the
policeman, the S.M. and Jones
into the office.
“All right,” said the sergeant,
turning on Jones. “Let’s hear
from you.”
“That big bloke there, he’s the
mad bloke,” said Jones. “Nilly
twisted me arm orf, the mad
coot.”
“Didn’t chop y’ with an axe,
did I?” Mat asked sarcastically.
He turned to the sergeant and
said with that easy grin of his,
“Look, Sergeant, all I was tryin’
to do was give the constable a
hand. It’s a man’s job to help
the police in cases like this. A
man don’t expect t’ have this sort
o’ thing chucked at him by any
sort o’ cove who might ha’ got
inter a brawl o’ some sort an’
then runs t’ the police about it
when he gets hurt. Do I look
mad? Can y’ imagine me wavin’
axes about?” This last with a
fine air of wounded dignity.
Jones opened his mouth, but
Mat beat him to it. “What’s
wrong with y’?” he said, in a
tone in which sorrow and out-
raged pride were nicely blended.
“What the devil would I want t’
tackle you for, a bloke I don’t
even know? You want to be
careful, sayin’ things like that.
Don’t y’ know that before you
say anythin’ about a bloke —like
sayin’ he’s mad —y’ got to be
able to prove it? How are y’
goin’ to do that? Y’d have to
get a couple o’ doctors to do it
an’ go before a court an’ swear
on y’r oath an’ everythin’. An’
if the doctors couldn’t prove it,
where would you be? Demme
tell y’ where y’d be, Y’d be
runnin’ round tryin’ t’ find a
couple o’ thousand quid, because
I’d quick an’ lively have y’ up
for damages. I’m pretty well
known an’ I’m not havin’ pea-
nuts like you runnin’ round
makin’ out I’m a lunatic or some-
thin’, You try it, y’ dope, an’
I’ll have a solicitor on your tail
before y’ can turn round.”
Jones belonged to that class
to whom mention of courts and
doctors and proof and solicitors
is more alarming than finding a
snake in the bed. Mat’s outraged
manner, the way he talked about
courts and proof, opened up a
terrifying vista for Jones. He
swallowed nervously and looked
about him.
“Well,” he managed. “I
thought it was you. Y’ look a
lot like the mad bloke.”
He swallowed again and was
even more nervous, for now the
constable, the sergeant, the S.M.
and Mat were staring at him
severely. It was obvious that
Jones, formerly so convinced,
was now doubting himself. He
wanted nothing more than to gek
out of that office and go back
t o tinkle-inkle-bonking hi s
trains.
“Well,” Mat said, with a frank
air of understanding. “I sup-
pose bein’ a stranger a man is
likely to get mistaken for some-
one else. Sergeant. Me an’_ the
mate here, we just come up from
the Western District to do a bit
o’ fencin’ for Jack Hornery, out
on the Campaspe road. You
know Jack?”
“Yes,” Sergeant Rudduck
said.
“Well, if y’ want to know any-
thin’ about us, you ask Jack.”
“I’m beginning to think,
Sergeant,” the constable said,
“this whole thing sounds like a
cock-and-bull story. All I can
say is that if this chap is mad”
—he indicated Mat —“there’s a
hell of a lot more ought to be
in asylums.”
“H’m,” the sergeant said,
rubbing his chin thoughtfully.
“Well, there’s nothing much
more we can do, I suppose. I
hope to God there isn’t a crazy
murderer about the place, but 1
don’t suppose we’ll know till we
hear more about him. Well,
come on. Constable, we’ll get
back.”
1 ONES would have been first
kJ out the door but the S.M.
said sharply, “Just a minute,
Jones, I want a word with you.
We four went out. The law
marched back to its duty and we
headed for the pub. Behind the
bar the publican looked at us
with his mouth open.
“Two beers,” Mat said.
“Where was you when all the
police was here lookin’ for the
escaped lunatic?”
“Aw, that!” The publican
laughed weakly.
“Me an’ me mate,” Mat said,
“is leavin’ after breakfast. Let’s
know how much it is an’ we 11
pay y’ now. An’ next time we
come to y’r pub we don’t want
to be bothered with mad blokes
sharpenin’ razors an swingin
axes. See! ” , T . .
That night I asked, Listen,
what about when that other
shunter gets back from Bendigo
an’ Jones gets hold of him?”
“Don’t be silly,” said.
“If you was Jones would y’ want
to go on with it? If y° u ,
was the other bloke would y
want t’ rush round to the police
even if Jones did word y ?
I admitted the correctness ot
his psychological thesis.
“All right,” I said. ‘‘But no
more actin’ the nanny, Iye naa
it,”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK.SO JH £
t rrtim ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating 1
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■KAO OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLO BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS i I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACESUL." BRISBANE
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour EE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube lor each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 28/S/’5l
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
149 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DORIS MARY GIBBONS late of
Bathurst.—TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY
WILLIAM GIBBONS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4709 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the 18th day of May 1961 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. COLREAVY & O’LEARY,
Solicitors, Wingello House, Angel Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL JAMBS CHALKEB late of
Eglinton near Bathurst in the State of
New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
CLAIRE BEATRICE OHALKER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3964. of 1949
on the ground of your Bigamy with
Adultery with M. McKENZIE If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 25th day
of May 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from R. W.
FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors.
51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DARRELL JOHN BARNETT (also
known as ERNEST DALWIN BARNETT)
late of Orange in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
EILEEN MAVIS ESLIOK (falsely called
BARNETT) has filed a Petition for Nullity
No. 805 of 1950 on the ground that at
the time of the ceremony of her marriage
to yourself you were then still the hus-
band of K. J. BARNETT If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 25th
day of May 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from R. W.
FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors,
51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
■
I Wzsmmssrnmm
\ ¥'.t>
\ ' / I
\, * /
m?m
mm
i
H
&tae
L
f J
¥' s
1111111
<
Immi
mm
’ '
<--«* I
jßwHn
■
H
- J
V
1 I i
Wk I , I
I . I
I I
yjfe
■>ij
■ SfifiP
MM
yi
«•
m
j.
.
m
*■ / {//L -r ** 4
■ = •
'•>:■ ■:* ■\ s
TOPDOG
dsf
FOR MEN AND BOYS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
What is Meniere’s Disease?
A condition of middle age in which
vertigo, headache, deafness and tin-
nitus (i.e., ringing in the ears) are
associated in sudden attacks, due to
haemorrhage into the internal ear or
labyrinth. Other symptoms include
vomiting and a staggering gait. While
the vertigo may pass away, or, at
least, become reduced, permanent
deafness may result. Though the
disease was first described fifty years
ago there is as yet no satisfactory
treatment, though relief may be
obtained by bromide, phenol barbi-
tone and the salicylates.
* * * ♦
Origin and meaning of the phrase
"wrangle for an ass’s shadow” ?
To contend about trifles. The tale
told by Demosthenes is that a man
hired an ass to take him to Megara,
and at noon, the sun being very hot,
the traveller dismounted and sat him-
self down in the shadow of the ass.
Just then the owner came up and
claimed the right of sitting in this
shady spot, saying that he let out
the ass for hire but there was no
bargain made about the ass’s shadow;
and the two men fell to blows.
* * * *
What books has Kate O’Brien, the
Irish novelist, written?
She was born at Limerick in 1898,
and was educated at University Col-
lege, Dublin. Her first novel, Without
My Cloak (1931), won the Hawthorn-
den and the James Tait Black
Memorial Prizes. Her other novels
include The Ante-room (1934) and
The Last of Summer, shrewd pictures
of Irish temperament with a back-
ground in County Clare; The Land
of Spices (1941), an unusual novel,
and imaginative, but somewhat marred
by obscurity in the use of words;
Mary Lovell (1936); Pray for the
Wanderer (1938); and That Lady
(1946), a distinguished novel based
on the hypothetical relations of Anna
de Mendoza, princess of Eboli, and
Antonio Perez, secretary to Philip II
of Spain. Her plays include “Hie
Bridge” (1927); “The Schoolroom
Window” (1937); and “Distinguished
Villa” (1926). She also wrote a travel
book, Farewell Spain (1937).
* * * *
Some particulars about Margaret
Mitchell, author of “Gone With the
Wind,’’ and how many copies of her
novel were sold ?
She was born at Atlanta (U.S.A.)
in 1900, only daughter of Eugene
Muse Mitchell. Educated at the
Washington Seminary at Atlanta, she
completed her studies at Smith College,
Massachusetts. For six years she was
a reporter and feature-writer on the
“Atlanta Journal,” and retired after
her marriage in 1925 to John R,
Marsh, a newspaper editor. She
wrote only one book. Gone With the
Wind, but it quickly became perhaps
the most celebrated best-seller among
the many successful modern American
novels. She began the book in 1930
and completed it in 1936. During the
first six months a million copies were
sold, as many as 50,000 being sold
sometimes in a single day. It was
awarded the Pulitzer prize in 1937.
Its sale, maintained over several years,
ran into 8,000,000. Margaret Mitchell
was killed in a taxi-cab accident in
Atlanta in 1949.
*** j *
From whom did George Thompson
win the Australian heavyweight cham-
pionship, and who won that title from
him? Where and when was Thomp-
son born?
George Thompson won the Aus-
tralian heavyweight championship by
knocking out Ern Sheppard before
round one ended at Leichhardt
Stadium late in 1926. American
negroes “Sunny Jim” Williams and
“Tiger” Payne each stopped Thomp-
son twice while Thompson was
champion, but it is generally agreed
that he still held the heavyweight
title in 1930, when his retirement was
announced. Thompson was bom at
Boulder City (W.A.), on October 20,
1898, and returned there after retiring.
Thompson did not retire right away,
however, as he was beaten by Claude
Nicol in a 15-rounder at Perth on
April 27, 1935.
* * * *
Length of principal N.S.W. inland
rivers ?
Murray, 1609 miles (1203 in
N.S.W.); Darling, 1702 miles (1626
in N.S.W.); Murrumbidgee, 981
miles; Lachlan, 922 miles; Bogan,
451 miles; Macquarie, 590 miles;
Castlereagh, 341 miles; Namoi, 526
miles; Gwydir, 415 miles.
* * * *
Did New Zealander Billy Murphy
ever win the world’s featherweight
championship? If so, who beat him
for that title? Where and when was
Murphy born, and is he still living?
Billy Murphy won the world’s
featherweight championship when he
k.o.’d Ike Weir in 14 rounds at San
Francisco on January 13, 1890. Griffo
beat Murphy in 22 rounds of a con-
test advertised for world’s feather-
weight championship at Sydney
Gymnastic Club on July 22, 1891,
but overseas authority never gave
Griffo credit for winning the world
title. Murphy was bom in Auck-
land, N.Z., on November 3, 1863,
and died in the same city on July
27, 1939.
Brief Answers.
R.G.: K. Wallace Crabb wrote
Scottish Humor, Songs and Lore,
published in Melbourne in 1908 and
now out of print. His short stories
were printed in various journals, in-
cluding “The Morning Post,” now
defunct E.M.: Write Director,
Victorian Government Tourist Bureau,
Melbourne G.A.H.: Consult a
local solicitor... .J.O’S.: “The Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine” (annual
subscription, Bs, 6d.), obtainable from
the Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney... .F.G.C.: The figures
are tabulated on pages 464-65,
Whitaker’s Almanack, 1950, available
most public libraries C. 8.8.:
Write Alec H. Chisholm, Editor-in-
chief, “The Australian Encyclopaedia,”
care Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney S.S.: In Aus-
tralia the lead necessary to enforce a
follow-on in a match lasting three
days or more is 200 runs R.J.:
Officers employed in N.S.W. under
the Public Service Act do not par-
ticipate in the lead bonus, which is
paid by certain companies at Broken
Hill. Public servants stationed in
that area do, however, receive certain
district allowances G .S.L.: The
term “euro” is one of the popular
names for the wallaroo inhabiting
the inland of South and Central Aus-
tralia. It is based on an aboriginal
word, also spelt “yuro.” This mem-
ber of the wallaroo grooup of larze
members of the kangaroo family is
also known to South Australians as
the “roany,” in reference to the
smoky-red coloration of the short fur.
M.F.: A Repatriation Local
Committee has been functioning in
Broken Hill since 1945. Any infor-
mation regarding repatriation affairs
can be obtained on application to
either the hon. secretary (Mr. C.
Crowley, town clerk) or, in his
absence, the asst, hon. secretary (Mr.
T. A., Davoren, solicitor, Argent-
street). ...A.C.L.: The mixing of
cement and crushed metal without
using sand is known as the “no fines
method of concrete construction. The
effect of the method is to eliminate
the capillary action present in or-
dinary mixes. In home-building this,
in turn, eliminates the necessity for
dampcourses and cavity walls, but
such construction, requiring a 1:2
mix, is considered fairly expensive
unless done on a large scale. It is
mainly used in the construction of a
certain type of concrete brick.
Further information may be ob-
tained from Elder Smith and Co.,
Ltd., 1498, G.P.0., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
P.J. le R.: We don’t deal much
in whales D.K.L.P.: You’d hardly
believe the stories they tell about
hypnotists—well, we wouldn’t, at any
rate,.. .E.D.: The chariot-race is
good, but the story doesn’t keep pace
with it J. and H.L.: Bright idea,
but the development was just too bad.
R.A.F.: No, no; racing stories
will just have to throw over these
diagrammatic confidence-tricks....
8.C.: Sorry you feel like that....
R.A.: It’s like a lighthouse in a
desert; a bright idea, but whaffor?
....C.A.A.; You fail to make your
point, if any M.E.P.: “The Slip”
was a little thin H.C.8.: The boy
well enough done, but what happened
for all that length? 8.C.: Our
idea is, if it’s sad and not super-
colossally brilliant, back it goes; so
—nicely done and all —back it goes.
D.A.S.: When all the other
people are so well done, why you want
to drag in a parson-author of an
aphrodisiac thriller we do not know.
R.K.B.: Anyway, the mechanical
story is one machine the miners can’t
threaten... .F. 8.5.; Your “Amateur
Classer” pulled no wool over our
eyes H. 8.: The dairy, the flood
and the sandbags nicely done; but
then, they have been nicely done so
often... .N.D.: Well, if not today,
John, maybe some oiler day, welly
nice? C.S.: Not strong enough
for that sort of story.... J.P.: Being-
helpful-to-New-Australians is becom-
ing a major Australian industry....
M.E.P.: Fantasies have a way of
going all fantastic on y0u....R.F.:
Let’s rather hope it will be the last we
return—-it’s a bit trite N.M.: Not
one of ours... .R.H.: Afraid we don’t
write about football pools in quite
that tone C.W.: So you think
we’re going to popularise house-
work-for-husbands?.... H. 8.: “The
Lodgers” might go well elsewhere.
.... W.A.W.: Does your first attempt
show any promise? If you are nine
or 19, yes; if you are 90 it hardly
seems worth bothering. What can
you do about it? Read, write, rhyme.
....W.S.: Stories and verse both
handled too casually ... .F.C.8.:
Verse thin. Try something in prose
about the place where you live... •
P.0.P.: It’s a jaunty little jingle.
....E.M.C.: "The Old Mining
Town” fell down A.D.: “Scat-
tered remnant,” “bear witness,”
“mark the progress”—you can’t write
a poem in the cliches of journalese.
Chiel: Spare us those domestic
details R.H.M.: A glimmer in
your raindrop.,. .J.P.: Well, once in
50 years:—
’Tis Jubilee year this nineteen-fifty-one
And Federal Parliament has sat
In its Australian birthplace
For fifty years to bat.
B.W.: You do not add very
much to the considerable amount that
has already been said about the moon,
but it is sad to have to reject such
beautiful handwriting.... Viking: You
very nearly put Nevertire on the map
once again.... .R.C.8.: Keep coming.
But why end a line with “with the”?.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
New Guinea
New Guinea is one of the world’s last
frontiers, and it would be a crime on an
international scale if we repeated there
the calamitous mistakes which we made
during the colonising of Australia. Take
timber resources as an example. In N.G.
there are magnificent stands of klinki-pine
and cedar; are we going to work them
on a sustained-yield basis, under the
direction of competent foresters, or do we
intend to go in for a reckless cutting
policy without any thought of regenera-
tion, and thus wreck them as the
Americans did their once-vast forests of
white-pine, or as Australians did with
red-cedar?
New Guinea, being as yet unspoiled,
gives us a wonderful opportunity to
reserve extensive areas for national parks
which would in time rank with Yellow-
stone in the U.S.A., Albert in the Belgian
Congo and Kruger in South Africa. Aus-
tralia has no comparable parks* and is
never likely to have them, because, with
the possible exception of the Scenic
Reserve in Central Tasmania, all our
great areas of mountains, lakes and
forests, with the indigenous fauna, have
now been so despoiled by reckless timber-
cutting, bushfires, erosion, domestic live-
stock and such introduced pests as foxes
and rabbits, that no adequate area of
virgin land now remains in the whole
country.
To secure what we do possess in the
way of national parks has usually involved
a long and heart-breaking battle. A few
enthusiasts, led by Samuel Dixon, had to
fight for 27 years to have Flinders Chase,
Kangaroo Island (S.A.), made into a flora
and fauna reserve. Two men, Collins
and Lahey, fought a similar battle to
establish the Lamington Plateau National
Park in southern Queensland. My efforts
in the same direction have confirmed the
fact that this sort of work brings little or
no credit, and involves a heavy expendi-
ture of both your time and your money.
The fact remains, however, that once a
suitable piece of country has been re-
served as a national park, it becomes the
pride of the country which owns it, and
thereafter nobody would dare to suggest
that it be used for any other purpose.
Surely we can have large areas of New
Guinea reserved in the same way without
a few individuals having to wage a long
and wearying campaign to get it done?
N.G. offers scenery ranging from lowland
tropical forests to Alpine meadows dotted
with stands of giant pines; in the birds-
of-paradise it has creatures of almost in-
credible beauty. It has lofty waterfalls
and gorges filled with giant ferns; in
the moss forests are scenes so strange that
they appear to belong to another world.
Great areas of country of wonderful
scenic beauty could be reserved at little
cost by examining existing aerial survey
maps and reports, then passing the neces-
sary legislation.
But action must be taken now. If we
allow sawmillers to pick the eyes out of
the forests, if great areas of the uplands
are cleared for cultivation, or if we intro-
duce alien animals to run wild and destroy
the flora, it will then be too late. Tourists
will come half-way across the world to
look at forests of giant trees, but they
won’t walk across the road to see stumps.
They will pay a lot to see those living
jewels' the birds-of-paradise, but they
aren’t interested in a few mounted speci-
mens of an extinct species. We have the
chance to preserve for posterity a great
area of New Guinea in its virgin state,
with plants, trees, birds and animals which
can be seen nowhere else in the world.
If we fail to do it we will deserve to be
classed as a race of vandals.—H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Egg Boards
That article (B. 21/2/’5l) on the func-
tions of State Egg Marketing Boards was
not very well informed.
I’ve been a commercial egg-producer
for a number of years, and am a recently-
elected Egg Board member. As I know
them, State Egg Boards arrange for the
reception of eggs from widely dispersed
sources and for the grading of those eggs
at strategically-placed depots. They
absorb the terrific spring surplus by
chilling eggs in shell for release on the
local market to offset the winter seasonal
shortage; they manufacture egg-pulp for
release to bakers during the same period.
More of the spring surplus is absorbed by
overseas export of eggs in shell and egg-
pulp.
The Egg Boards market eggs at
minimum cost to the producer, so that he
pays only legitimate marketing expenses,
any surplus being held in trust for
his eventual benefit. The system is similar
to a co-operative society. It eliminates
All contribution* bearing on the
Federal elections, and published be-
tween March 28 and June 13, must
carry the name and address of the
writer.
entirely the activities of speculators who
used to buy on depressed markets, chill
the eggs and then sell at a nice level of
personal profit to themselves.
State Egg Boards usually consist of a
number of democratically elected com-
mercial egg-producers, with a Govern-
ment-nominated member and sometimes
a consumers’ representative. In most
cases, prices are decided by the boards
after due consideration of production
costs and supply and demand. Where
Government price-fixing authorities have
"Would you take it off, dear? I'm nervous of having things pointed at me ."
grown restive, they have been asked to
conduct independent cost-of-production
surveys.
The system would not be workable if
control were not exercised over eggs pro-
duced by the “backyarder,” as the
majority of them do not look after their
product and market it in a filthy and/or
stale condition —which is very bad for
the industry generally. Therefore, when
“backyarders” own sizeable flocks
(small ones are disregarded), they are
compelled to market their eggs through
the board’s depots.
At this time of the year there is always
a decline in egg production as hens go off
the lay and before new pullets are in their
stride. In the case of South Queensland,
it is not the board which has killed pro-
duction, but a pigheaded Government
which has kept prices below cost-
of-production. The result is that pro-
ducers are throwing in their hands far
and wide.
Egg Boards are the best means yet of
maintaining orderly marketing, and they
function for the good of the consumer as
well as the producer. — D. Spencer (Tas.).
Gadgetry
I walked into a large hardware store
to buy a small quantity of nails. They
were not in stock, nor could the assistant
tell me when supplies might be expected.
In the same store I had to wind my way
through a veritable maze of smokers’-
stands (priced at anything from £2 10s.
to six guineas), as well as many other
items I could easily do without.
It was not the store’s fault that they
stocked so many unnecessary items and
so few in demand for everyday use. They
were selling what they could get. That
applies to other forms of merchandise.
Walk into any softgoods-shop, and
though it may be impossible to buy a
satisfactory shirt there are plenty of
“sports” shirts and beachwear on offer,
most of them in exotic designs.
It all stems back to lack of essential
production. Communist-dominated coal-
miners refuse to produce enough coal for
minimum needs and the steel industry is
starved. This, in turn, reacts on the build-
ing trades, fencing material for the
primary producer, and a whole list of
other industries—all depending on iron
and steel.
Our lopsided economy has encouraged
backyard manufacturers to absorb useful
labor for which real industries are crying
out. But for the absurd depreciation of
the £A most of these manufacturers of
unnecessary “gadgetry” would be com-
pelled to close, since they would receive
short shrift from the Tariff Board!.
Obelist (Tas.).
“Labor”?
What is “Labor”? A “political
philosophy”? A great social movement?
Or is it a scourge with equally devastat-
ing effects upon the community and upon
the individual.
“Labor” can apparently take in-
dividuals who have served their country
valiantly during war, and make them
voiceless cravens on the home-front.
When men’s homes, family-life and future
prosperity are at stake because of the
onslaught of a foreign ideology,
“Labor” so afflicts its victims that they
submit to a condition of dumb regimenta-
tion,
“Labor” has long since lost sight of
the fact that individual happiness is de-
pendent upon freedom from worry, un-
certainty, economic depression and
sundry other factors that affect every
Australian. It has fogged the minds of
unionists until they will resist any
attempt to thwart “Labor’s” objects—
even though such objects are daily re-
ducing the country to a state of social
and economic chaos.
If workers do not believe that they can
receive more by working less and pro-
ducing fewer and shoddier goods, they
give no evidence of the fact. Dulled by
the blight that has come upon them,
they raise no outcry, take no action.
When their workshops are shut down for
lack of power, when they cannot buy
needed commodities because the power
and raw materials are denied the manu-
facturers, when their “Government”
orders “powerless” days and closes their
places of employment against them, they
say nothing.
When they are offered bonuses for
working regularly instead of sporadically
they meekly accept the dictates of their
self-appointed fiihrers and decline to
“play into the boss’s hands.”
Under “Labor” this country—which,
through force of war-time circumstances,
gave premature birth to an industrial
revolution —has wilfully and deliberately
spurned opportunities which could easily
have made each one of its citizens
wealthy. Huge untouched markets in the
East were crying out for our products.
All that had to be done was to settle
down to produce the goods, ship them
and sit back to await the financial pros-
perity which would have followed. The
teeming millions of the East, crying out
for better standards of living, offered a
market which Australia, working at full
capacity, could never have surfeited.
Instead, the benighted “workers”
allowed themselves to be talked into
believing that they would work them-
selves out of jobs—that the “bosses”
would alone reap the harvest of any pros-
perity—and that in order to protect
themselves they must cut production,
sabotage the means of exchange and dis-
tribution and bring the economy of their
country to near breaking-point.
That is the policy of external enemies
who alone can benefit from a weakened
Australia. And “Labor” is carrying it out.
—V. E. Collins, Pyramid - street,
Padstow, N.S.W.
R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve
With Australia crying out for recruits
for the services, it amazes the 3000-odd
amateur radio-operators in Australia that
the pre-war R.A.A.F. Wireless Reserve
has not been reformed —there has been
a vigorous plea by the Wireless Insti-
tute of Australia for its re-establishment.
Back in the early ’3os a bunch of keen
amateur radio-operators and a handful
of R.A.A.F. officers established a wire-
less reserve for the junior service. It was
an immediate success. Some 300-odd
joined and began to learn about the
service’s signal set-up,
A series of well-planned lectures, visits
to R.A.A.F. stations and establishments
and operating of the service’s radio gear
gave these young men a firsthand
knowledge which, unknown to them at
the time, was to be a great help in the
future.
The pre-war R.A.A.F. reserve made
steady progress in the few years before
the war commenced, the members using
their own amateur radio-transmitters on
service frequencies, and handling service
traffic as if they were dealing with actual
R.A.A.F. messages.
When war was declared members of
the reserve were immediately called up
for active service. The reservists reported
within a day or two and were immedi-
ately placed On watch in the signal-
stations handling a huge bunch of traffic.
Senior R.A.A.F. officers frankly ad-
mitted that they would have been unable
to operate efficiently but for the reserve.
Nor is that the full war-time story. The
reserve’s members branched out into the
squadrons, repair-depots and remote
signal-stations, which were to expand
beyond everyone’s imagining.
By mid-1942 most of them had received
commissions, and when hostilities ceased
one had risen to the rank of group-cap-
tain, and there were a host of wing-
commanders and dozens of squadron-
leaders.
Now this valuable institution has been
lost. More amateur radio-enthusiasts
than ever operate their equipment today,
and they have openly expressed their
willingness to join an organisation such
as the Wireless Reserve. They insist,
however, they must have their own body.
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
National Theatre
I can’t see why “R.H.” (B. 24/l/’5l)
is so indignant at the idea of a national
theatre. We already have a national
broadcasting system, State libraries,
schools, museums and art galleries. These
may be helped by private effort (the
National Gallery in Melbourne is
immensely aided by the Felton Bequest),
but the State takes the responsibility be-
cause all these things are educational. If
a national theatre can add to national
knowledge, where is the difference?
The public does not wish to see the
actors who ask for a national theatre?
That misses the point. The public is not
likely to ask for something of which it
has no knowledge, but that is not to say
it would not benefit by knowing these
actors and their work if it had the oppor-
tunity.
“R.H.” also accuses the agitators for
a national theatre of being actuated by
vanity. Any worth-while actor has some-
thing to give the public and wants to
give it, but pride in one’s work is not
necessarily vanity.
As for wanting the actors to “bring
their acting up to the standard necessary
to pack people in,” it takes a great deal
more than ability to do that. The most
talented companies must have the funds
for publicity, costumes, hire of theatres,
travel, accommodation, etc. Overseas
companies can afford all those expenses
better than local beginners, because they
have already played to large audiences.
If a manufacturer wishes to compete
with an imported article he may ask the
Government for a protective tariff, and
whether he gets it or not nobody con-
siders that he is unreasonable to ask for
it. A national theatre would mean much
the same thing to actors, authors and
playwrights. —G. I. L. (Yic.),


AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
LAND OF MIRAGE, by George
Farwell.
A fascinating book about the arid,
mysterious country surrounding Lake
Eyre Basin in Central Australia. With
30 excellent illustrations.
15/- (post 9d.)
COME IN SPINNER, by Dymphna
Cusack and Florence James.
A £lOOO prize-winning story of
Sydney during the ‘‘American In-
vasion.” Spiced with pungent humour,
cheerful cynicism and realism.
11/6 (post 1/-)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
THE ANGRY MOUNTAIN
Hammond Innes
“If it were still necessary for him to do (and perhaps it is not) Mr.
Hammond Innes here establishes himself as one of the half-dozen best
thriller writers of our time — and, it may be said, something more than
that.” Edward Shanks in the Daily Graphic
COLLINS
Announcing Something New in Garden Books
THIS WEEK IN YOUR GARDEN
By P. J. Hurley (Waratah, S. M. Herald)
The Year’s Work Planned Week by Week
A companion book to the famous “Encyclopaedia for Australian Gardeners,” this
handy-sized manual shows what to plant and plan for each week of the year. It simplifies
for the beginner the mysteries of what to plant and when. There is no other book like it.
8/6 (Postage 4d.)
Obtainable all Booksellers or
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8L3611
HOW TO BUILD CARAVANS
By JOHN D. PORTER
NOW is the time to start building. Full instructions on every detail. Well
illustrated with plans and diagrams, etc. Construction; Park Layout; Caravan
Cooking; Trailer Power Brakes. Special section for the “Caravan Wife.”
Price 7/6 (Postage 4d.)
ROBERTSON & MULLENS Ltd.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALIAN SHELLS
WITH RELATED ANIMALS LIVING IN THE
SEA. IN FRESH WATER. AND ON THE LAND
By
JOYCE ALLAN, F.R.Z.S.
Curator of Shells, Australian Museum, Sydney
The first comprehensive, fully illustrated, popular book on Australian shells, covering
the more frequently encountered forms from the whole of Australia, from the sea,
the fresh water, or the land.
512 pages, quarto (9| x 7-j inches), 12 coloured plates illustrating 165 species, 32 half-
tone plates illustrating 291 species, and 112 text figures in line, illustrating 784
species, plus maps and diagrammatic structural figures. About 2,000 species are
described, of which 1,240 are illustrated.
Price 60/- (postage 1/6 extra)
Published by
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD.,
431 Bourke Street, Melbourne
An Australiana Society Publication
and Mijnheer Kievro, Lieutenant-
Governor-General, spoke on her behalf ;
so that all she had to do was move to
Sourabaya, where she would be able to
sit for examination at the Dental High
School.
Dr. Barbara was eventually established
on a 50-50 basis in the surgery of Dr. F.
with three assistant dentists and two
technicians; and as Dutchmen were
gradually being called-up more and more
work devolved upon her. Then the
Japanese arrived: ,
It reminded me very forcibly of the
Rumanian entry into Budapest in 1919. But
somehow it was even more humiliating to
see those little yellow creatures marching in
as conquerors....
The former manager of the Mitsui
Bishi bank in Sourabaya, Mr. Moria, who
had gone back to Japan in 1941, was
driven up, to announce himself with a
broad grin as General Moria, Governor
of Sourabaya. Dr. Barbara drew a tooth
for Sato; the executioner.
Curiously, though the Japs treated the
natives very harshly, the natives liked them
better than they did the Dutch.... The
reason was that among the Japs servants
were accepted as members of the
family
By now, Dr. Barbara’s third husband
was saying that he wanted to live alone.
They were arguing the point when the
Japanese burst in and arrested him. In
the internment camp, the divorce went
through in a month.
Thereafter, Dr. Barbara, too, was sent
into camp, where she was. wearing her arm
out working with a hammer and chisel on
the internees’ teeth until a woman brought
her a small electric screwdriver, which
made a labor-saving drill. She tells some
dreadful stories of the hardships suffered
by women in those camps, and a few
cheerful ones, like that of the radio-
receiver the Japs never found.
Even the liberation was no let-up ; it
was followed by the Indonesian revolt;
but from these massacres and calculated
indignities Dr. Barbara escaped, in the
company of her divorced husband, by
boat to Singapore, where she was put into
hospital with beri-beri and a tired heart.
In Singapore, she finally parted from her
divorced husband, he going to Holland,
she to India.
A holiday in Kashmir; then back to
Simla, where the Sikhs began killing the
Moslems, and Dr. Barbara, now engaged
to a medical colonel, followed her
familiar pattern of retreat from violence,
this time in a horribly congested train to
New Delhi, From Karachi, on the way
to her new sanctuary in England, she flew
to Amsterdam, where her daughter Eva
was awaiting her, also with “a story to
tell” ; though you’d hardly imagine it
could be quite as remarkable as her
mother’s.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Poker Game Complete : George
Coffin (Faber), foreword by Culbertson.
Mr. Coffin once won a world bridge-
problem contest, and “his extensive know-
ledge of poker was increased by his war
service as a first-lieutenant with the U.S.
Fifth Air Force in Australia.”
* * * ♦
Recent additions to Everyman’s
Library are More’s Utopia and A Dialogue
of Comfort, and The Golden Treasury
of Longer Poems edited by Ernest Rhys
—a strange modem section, necessarily
limited, includes Lawrence’s “Snake” and
excludes both Masefield and Eliot.
Penguin Classics additions, from the
Penguin Bookshop, Sydney, include
Madame Bovary and Don Quixote, both
newly translated.
* * * *
The World of Cotton: Edmund Vale
(Hale). History of the cotton industry
and survey of modern developments,
reeled off in a lively personal style.
* * * *
A White Man in Thailand : S. Conyers-
Keynes (Hale). The author likes the
Siamese and says they surrendered un-
willingly to Japan—“As a man who has
received nothing but consideration, good-
fellowship and all the kinder things of
life from the native dwellers in Thailand
I pray that the poor, painstaking little
country people were not hit too hard. It
was not their fault.” He was in Bangkok
from 1914 to 1939, for part of the period
acting as Lloyd’s agent, and writes a
pleasant account of shipping, trade, duck-
shooting, polo and native life, plus some
adventures with the local Germans during
the First World War.
* * * *
Andre Gide; The Ethic of the Artist:
D. L. Thomas (Seeker and Warburg).
Analysis of Gide’s work and his philo-
sophy of “individualism” by an admirer
who regards Gide as “the finest prose-
writer of the age” and who seeks to
combat the unfavorable opinions of
•Charles Du Bos and Desmond McCarthy.
# * * *
Crime and the Police: Anthony Mar-
tienssen (Seeker and Warburg). For
connoisseurs of murder as a fine art
either in fiction or in legal and police
memoirs this survey of how the British
police force today is constituted and how
it does its work may be rather too re-
strained and factual —the author is on the
editorial staff of the “Economist.” How-
ever, a good many anecdotes, including
some recent murders, do come into it ;
and the facts are guaranteed correct by
Assistant Commissioner Howe of Scotland
Yard.
* * * *
The Child and the Magistrate: John
A. F. Watson (Cape). A revised edition,
adding a discussion ol the Criminal
Justice Act, 1948, and giving a picture of
the Borstal system in operation. The
Lord Chief Justice in his preface to the
first (1942) edition said, “1 hope that every
magistrate who sits in a juvenile court will
read this book.”
THE POEMS COME EASIER.
The poems come easier
when you're very tired
with your head on the pillow
so the thoughts can creep.
But the head is heavier,
the pencil bigger,
and the words fall aaleep.
The poems come easier
when the heart’s a black crow
and your eyes scoop hollows
in the hard earth’s glare.
But the thought is self-pity,
the tune monotonous,
and your note-book’s not there.
The poems come easier
when your body shouts singing
because you’re beside her
though you’re miles apart.
But the song is a wild duck,
not easy catching,
and it flies to the calm
in the heart of your heart.
But the poems come easiest
when you’re really belonging,
and the deep earth and the dark sea
find in you home.
Then the bees that were buzzing
like flies at your eyelids
bring yellow-sun pollen
with song to the comb.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 114
Across.
I—Afthereer.1 —Afthereer. (11)
s—Fishy way of ensuring payment
for goods. (3)
7—Battle doctor has nothing to be
Eddy attire in furniture. (8)
9—An untalented performer swal-
lows wickedness while meditating.
(6)
11— Salute the French roofing as a
cure for faintness. (3, 8)
12— Split spice that five-score adore.
(5)
13— I am taken to heart by Silas, an
ancient invention of Coleridge. (7)
16 —The trimmest ate in the bird’s
home. (7)
18—Catalogues where duellists meet
inclinations. (5)
20 —Raging, and losing one’s affection
for father. (5, 3,3)
22 — American pioneer on an ensign.
(6)
23 — The people who are very drunk
cease what is immediately follow-
ing; (8)
24 — Gesture of affirmation backing a
European river. (3)
25 — Cyclist piano to the editor takes
the peak torchbearer. (5, 6)
Down.
1 — Birds behave like King Alfred’s
cakes in a Melbourne suburb. (9)
2 Agrarian. (5)
3 “Snake’s eyes” in the same cab.
(7)
4 Stir or back up custom. (5)
5 Jinglings of feature rulers. (9)
6 Artist of French fuel. (5)
B—Brick-carrier in the rope range
in Bulgaria. (7)
10—Post up O’Flaherty. (4)
12—Firm Christian name of 19 down
and 500 became grosser. (9)
14 — Fluster (anagram). (7)
15 — Journal dedicated to topics affect-
ing the staple diet of China. (4, 5)
17 — Stumble during this outing. (4)
18 — Practical joke sometimes com-
mitted while batting. (3-4)
19 — Fifty above in a flower. (5)
20 — King has nothing up with this
junta. (5)
21 —Whoever touches this ground
between wickets will be defiled
therewith. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 113.


This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOPFAT-ViRTUE LIMITED
ffl.V. AGRICULTURAL REIDS
March *""" *' " 1 , 1
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1951
How can we meet
the challenge of
synthetic fibres?
Synthetics can be challenged if the quality
of wool is improved; wool production in-
creased; and production costs lowered.
Wool quality can be improved by better
breeding. It is doubtful if there is any other
part of the world where better studs are to
be found than in Australia, making it possible
for the grower to select rams best suited to
his requirements.
Where conditions permit pasture improve-
ment will increase the carrying capacity of
the land, and render grazing more immune to
the effects of dry periods.
Production costs can be substantially re-
duced by the introduction of modem equip-
ment, enabling work to be done in a shorter
period; quite a consideration in these days
of high wages.
An increasing number of graziers are com-
mencing to realise the importance of using
the right equipment for the removing of the
wool clip from the sheep’s back.
Due to the efficient breeding of rams by our
studmasters the carrying capacity of our
sheep has increased from approximately 15
bales per 1000 in 1890 to as high as 30 to 35
bales per thousand today.
There are tens of thousands of stands of
gear still operating in Australian sheds which
were designed to shear sheep of 1890, and
furthermore, with a straight-toothed comb,
wide.
This old gear is now asked to remove not
only a much heavier and denser fleece, but
to do so with a bent-toothed comb, wide,
creating much greater friction and load.
This much heavier load is thrown back
onto the leather cone-pulley, and as the pulley
becomes impregnated with oil from the head-
gear it is obvious that slip must occur result-
ing in loss of speed to the handpiece.
This in turn tends to cause bruising of the
sheep and it has been definitely established
that this detrimentally affects the subsequent
growth of the wool.
Furthermore, carbonised oil from the head-
gear which can be seen on the 10 x 4 plank
and the roof immediately above the friction
wheel in any shed finds its way into the fleece.
In addition to its Machinery business,
Moffat-Virtue many years ago established and
ran, for a number of years, a Contract Shear-
ing business in each State of the Common-
wealth, in the course of which they shore
considerably over 100,000,000 sheep, using all
makes of shearing machinery.
During this period they became familiar
with these problems, and after 3 years of
constant experiment they introduced the first
ball bearing equipment which not only eli-
minated the carbonized oil problem, and oil
reaching the leather cone, but with the adop-
tion of the full floating transmission down
tube ensured practically a constant speed to
the Handpiece throughout the whole shearing
operation, reduced the engine power required
to drive the machinery and generally lowered
the overall cost of shearing.
The principal features in these improve-
ments are exclusive to the M.V. Machine and
graziers would he well advised to enquire
about the following:—
(1) The exclusive self-aligning ball race.
(2) Simplified Headgear which requires no
adjustment once installed.
(3) Full-floating down-tube without drag on
the cone pulley spindle or weight on
the top cog of the elbow joint.
GRAZIERS: Do you realise that you can
convert old gear or purchase new on a basis
of 30 to 40% discount under the special de-
preciation allowance until 1952. Enquire from
any of the undermentioned.
New Italian Synthetic Seen
As Threat to Wool Industry
A spokesman for one of Sydney’s largest Department Stores said recently that a
new synthetic fibre, being manufactured in Italy, could constitute a serious threat
to the wool industry.
The spokesman (Mr. M. J. Connaghan, Piecegoods Buyer for David Jones Ltd.),
described material made from the fibre as being almost indistinguishable from
the real thing. It looks like wool, feels like wool, and weighs about the same,”
he said.
This fibre, although it may not have
the same insulating properties as wool,
could sell in Australia for a third to
one-half less than the pure material.
In other countries, where wool tariffs
may not be as heavy, it would be
cheaper still.
Commenting on the overall wool
position, Mr. Connaghan said, “It all
depends on the capacity of the cus-
tomer to pay high prices. Fewer people
will be able to afford wool products.
The_ demand for wool frockings and
suitings will be smaller. Customers are
going to buy rayons, or rayon-wool
mixtures, at one-quarter the price of
wool garments.”
WOOL COULD FOLLOW 7 SILK
Mr. Connaghan cited the case of silk
and rayon. He pointed out that, be-
cause of its high price, the demand for
silk has practically disappeared. Rayon
is much cheaper, and in many ways
more practicable.
“Textile workers in England once
refused to work with rayon,” Mr. Con-
naghan said. “To-day, because of big
improvements in the quality of yarns
caused by increasing demand, the
workers sometimes object to weaving
certain types of cottons.”
If wool prices are maintained at their
present level the world is going to be
forced to find a cheaper substitute. The
present high prices are caused by the
world-wide shortage. The only way to
overcome the position is to increase-
wool production.
“This company,” said Mr. Connag-
han, “has always sponsored the use of
wool in Australia’s interest, but con-
sumer demand has to be recognised.”
W*:
m
I
/I
Mr. Gilbert Howes, a Director of
Howes & Howes Pty. Ltd., one of
Sydney’s leading Men’s Wear Stores,
is seen wearing a suit made from a
synthetic fibre. Mr. Howes is holding
a suit-length of wool-rayon mixture.
Asked his opinion of synthetics,
Mr. Howes said, “Whilst the manu-
facturers of these materials are
making great strides, and their pro-
ducts are reaching a stage where they
are challenging the market for pure
woollen fabrics, 100% wool piece-
goods are still the perfect material
from a tailor’s point of view.
“The main thing boosting the sales
of synthetics is the high price of the
pure material.”
BEAT SYNTHETICS
WITH BETTER WOOL
Improve the quality of wool; boost the wool output; and the danger of synthetics
will be greatly reduced.
This is the opinion of Mr. E. A, Elliot,
Principal Livestock Officer (Sheep and
Wool) at the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture.
Mr. Elliot says, “The first effects of
synthetics, if and when they do begin to
influence the market value of wool, will
be felt in the lower grades. Wool which
is badly bred is hard to sort and more
costly to handle and manufacture. It
will be hardest hit.
“The solution to the problem lies in
careful breeding and culling, aimed
towards increasing quality and pro-
duction.”
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manufacturers, Machinery
Merchants, Epsom Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-Operative Limited, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
Adelaide; Stockowners Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co. Limited.
Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited, Hobart
and Launceston.
