

The Bulletin
“THe Bulletin/’ VoL 72—No. 3722
Wednesday, June 13, 1951
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
One of England’s
Great Historic Homes
Is “Compton Wynyates”
TN a secluded valley, thirteen miles from
Stratford-upon-Avon, is Compton
Wynyates, which, since 1204, has been
in the continuous possession of. the
Compton family, represented by the
present owner the Marquess of
Northampton.
The existing house stands upon the
foundations of an earlier one and was
built by Edmund Compton, who died in
1493. His son William had the good
fortune to gain the lasting favour of
Henry VXIl; honours, wealth and
privileges were the rewards of this friend-
ship, as well as the ruined castle of
Fulbrook, much of the fabric of which
William incorporated as additions to
Compton Wynyates. Henry VIII,
Katharine of Aragon, Queen Elizabeth
and James 1 were all guests at Compton
Wynyates, and the last-named created
his host Earl of Northampton.
In 1643, during the Civil War, the
second Earl of Northampton supported
the cause of King Charles and was killed
at Hopton Heath. During the following
year the Parliamentarians captured
Compton Wynyates and held it against
the gallant attempts of the third Earl and
his five brothers to regain it. After
hostilities had ceased, the house was
restored to the Earl on payment of a fine
of £20,000, and thereafter the house
entered upon quieter times.
This ancient Tudor mansion is a
harmonious combination of mellow
brick, stone and timber and is built
around a courtyard entered by an arch-
w'ay over which are the royal arms of
England, believed to have been placed
there at the time of Henry VIlTs visit.
At the side of the archway are grooves
worn by the chains of the drawbridge
which, together with all but a short
section of the moat which it crosses, have
long since disappeared.
The principal rooms include the fine
panelled Great Hall, the Council
Chamber, the Dining Room (which
contains some notable paintings), the
Drawing Room with a plaster ceiling
dating from the time of Elizabeth, the
Cavalier Room, Chapel and Henry
VIII’s Room, which bears his coat of
arms and that of his wife, Katharine of
Aragon. The gardens of Compton
Wynyates are among the finest in
England, and its trim lawns are as green
as only Warwickshire can make them.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


ŵ
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
'CUT HERE AND MAIL'
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N Z specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news,'gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfleldiana Caxton Press. early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
wd others). Specialised fields for book hunting-
The Red Page
IN TOJO'S ARMY.
Every war produces its literature, and
one of the essential facts about that litera-
ture is that it mostly reflects the view-
point of each side in the conflict in a
way which the protagonists of the other
side have slight chance of fully under-
standing. This is true even if the con-
flicting sides are racially related.
Thus, even today, it is very difficult for
an historian to reconcile the British and
French views of the Napoleonic wars,
or to correlate the outlooks of the French
and British soldiers on the military life
of those conflicts.
To find common ground in the fiction
born of the war with Japan would seem
to be most improbable; yet Hanami
Tasaki’s Long the Imperial Way
(Gollancz, N.S.W. United Service Insti-
tution Library) is an absorbing novel
which essentially is Japanese but which,
nevertheless, every Allied soldier who
fought against the Japanese, and particu-
larly every soldier who was a prisoner of
the Japanese, has a chance of interpreting.
It partly explains, if it does not mitigate,
the barbarities practised on prisoners-of-
war by showing that the Japanese
swaddies themselves often suffered the
same sort of treatment in the ordinary
routine of soldierly discipline as the
Japanese understood it. To the historian
it will bring the further realisation (if he
hasn’t achieved it already) that the varia-
tion in the standards of Japanese behavior
from our own is largely due to the re-
tarded development of the Japanese com-
pared with that of Western countries, in
which changes take place in international
unison.
The Japan of Tojo, orderly, cultured,
regimented, cruel, adventurous, predatory
and newly literate, is more, like the Eng-
land of the first days of Elizabeth than
that of the first days of George VI,
Japan’s main difference from the Eliza-
bethan situation being that, whereas the
English found themselves powerful and
with ample new worlds to conquer, the
Japanese found themselves powerful but
surrounded by already-conquered worlds
far more advanced than their own; also,
that this depressing fact dawned on them
suddenly after 2000 years during which
they had come in their isolation to believe
that they possessed a monopoly in culture,
ingenuity and moral advancement.
Hanami Tasaki is a 38-year-old native
of the somewhat out-of-the-way island of
Maui, in Hawaii. He is Japanese, but
he spent a susceptible youth amid the
polyglot community of his native island,
mixing with a dozen races, acquiring a
smattering of their languages and thought.
Later he went to school in Honolulu
from which he matriculated to the Uni-
versity of Hawaii. Thence he transferred
himself to Oberlin College, Ohio,
Ohio’s climate, interior continental situ-
ation and swifter tempo, and lack of the
hybrid Oriental-Polynesian atmosphere
peculiar to Hawaii left him homesick to
the backbone.
When, in 1936, he went to Japan with
his family, he was under the influence of
a reaction against the West which, no
doubt, made him more Japanese than the
native Japanese.
There can be no reason to believe
that when he was conscripted into the
Army he did not approach his service
with the same regimented patriotism and
in the same fatalistic spirit of submission
as the rest of his native-born comrades,
or that he does not still think in Japanese
terms.
He was drafted to China for three
years’ service, part of which his novel
describes. Upon the outbreak of World
War 11, having for a time after his earlier
service been a correspondent of Domei,
in the South Pacific, he was conscripted
again in 1942 and served until 1945. He
wrote Long the Imperial Way while in
hospital. He wrote it in the English
which he learnt during his school- and
university-days in the United States, but
in an idiom and spirit which are essen-
tially Japanese.
It is very difficult to indicate the differ-
ence between the atmosphere which he
creates in his writing and that which
might be created by a European soldier
writing of cognate or comparable adven-
tures in terms of his own thought. The
veil between the two outlooks is, in
actual fact, thin, and at the same time
hard to pierce, just as the difference be-
tween Japanese taste and Western taste
is both apparently negligible and actually
considerable. The Japanese whole-
heartedly appreciate French post-impres-
sionist art, as some of their galleries prove,
and a critic of cultivated European taste
may almost rave about their best kake-
monos and landscape-gardening; yet
before the choicest examples of Western
artistic realism the Japanese stands be-
wildered and polite and much in the same
mood as the Australian officer whom I
heard in Japan lecturing the organisers
of one of the finest collections of water-
colors I have ever seen, his theme being
that if Japan could send a few of the
exponents of the ancient genre which
produced it to Australia we should be
happy to instruct them in the elements
of art.
In Tasaki’s book, as between Oriental
writer and Western reader, the same sorts
of barriers appear. There are things in
it which have universal application among
the soldiery of all nations-*—the primal
preoccupation with sex, the basic violent
urges which are the root not only of
all war but of all life, the human
tendency not to work unless forced to,
the leaning of all formations, mobs,
groups and masses to be hypnotised by
ritual and ceremony into performing
almost any absurdity. In these matters the
Japanese soldier and the Australian have
much in common, just as they have so
much in common in taste in music that
an Australian battalion stationed in
8.C.0.F. was moved to adopt the Japanese
song of the Red Apple, Ringo, as its
march-past and found it as stirring as,
or more so than, “Waltzing Matilda.”
In actual event. Long the Imperial Way
could well be the story of a war-time
march under similar circumstances of
any Australian unit. It is the detailed
mechanism of proceedings, the reactions
of the mass of the troops, the customs
and the attitude of mind only which are
native to Japanese thought and habit.
The theme is quite simple. It begins
with a raw first-year soldier on watch in
a post in China. It leads him through a
campaign and all its ordinary incidents —
the conditioning of the rookie in camp
by Old Soldiers (who maintain a cere-
monious and archaic type of strong-arm
authority which went out of fashion in
the West, with the Crimea), the route-
march of occupation, the ambush and its
consequences, the reprisals on the guilty
village, the leave in the big city, the
curious military amusements in villages
and in a yoshiwara, the sea voyage, the
capture of a town with its attendant
ravage, the trench warfare, the forlorn-
hope battle inspired by the Hon.
Emperor’s gift of hon. cigarettes, and the
disillusioning homecoming in which the
dug-out home-front general and the
beetle-like, tail-coated major might have
been cut out of an Australian photograph,
a.d. 1903, after South Africa.
All these are familiar things to the
P. 8.1. (not less to the P.8.C.) of every
established country. But the detail of
Japanese military life in general and the
soldiers’ attitude to it is novel. A reader
who was behind bamboo and regarded
the face-slappings of prison camps as
insolent exhibitions by his captors of
temporary triumph over an Occidental
enemy learns from Tasaki that they were
the ordinary persiflage of Japanese disci-
pline, a normal part of the conditioning
of every first-year Japanese conscript.
The Digger who has been made to bow
and scrape while a Japanese officer
bashed him discovers that worse than
that might have befallen a Nipponese
corporal who shamed his whole battalion
by allowing a rifle to be lost.
The poor, unprepared European who
has suffered, or looked on at, water-
torture' of a p.-0.-w. finds from this book
that in inflicting it the enemy was sub-
mitting his victims to ordeals which the
Japanese soldier takes for granted as part
of war and that what befel a lot of people
in Sandakan and on the Burma-road
could also befall Susuki San if, instead
of standing in a queue for his five
minutes with an authorised young lady
(price about two shillings), he was caught
by the Kempei-tai sampling the delights
of the forbidden native quarter.
One cannot help wondering what sort
of a national sensation would have been
created if some unfortunate Australian
soldier, flushed by the M.Ps. in the wrong
place in Cairo during World War 11, had
found himself —kicked, cuffed, slapped,
scuffed and dragged along—the centre, of
some such scene as the following:—•
The corporal knocked Miki over, to get
him on the ground where he could kick
him....lt was the usual method of the
Kempei to beat anyone who came under
their custody into a cringing pulp before
taking his confession or passing a sentence
[At Kempei headquarters] a group of
soldiers in their undershirts were forcing
water into the mouth of a kneeling native.
The native had his hands bound behind his
back, and several soldiers were holding him
down in his kneeling position. One
Kempei had a firm grip of his hair and was
holding his head backward with a knee
propped against his back while another
kept pouring water into his face....the
native kept gasping for breath like a
drowning man... .Another native, stripped
to his hips, was hanging suspended from
the ceiling, the tips of his toes barely scrap-
ing the floor wailing wretchedly while a
Kempei kept screaming in his face....
near him a native knelt resignedly with
hands bound behind his back, while a
soldier stood before him with drawn sword
hrfd an interpreter kept questioning him
persistently.
This was about all the defaulting soldier
saw because his tendency to observe was
suddenly liquidated when somebody
began to slap him skilfully, and “about
three others standing round,” including
a corporal, “jumped on him all at once”
until everything went black and all he
was conscious of was water being poured
on his head and somebody' kicking him
enthusiastically on the leg, all this assault
being merely a preliminary conditioning
before a thorough beating about the face
with the flat of a scabbard, which made
it necessary to send him to barracks in
an ambulance.
It is evident from the description of
this scene (which can be only mildly
sketched here) that if some Henry the
VIII were to have a trembling 23-year-
old Katherine Howard dragged into
Wynyard-square to have her head
chopped off in the most brutal manner
and with gallons of blood and a horrible
twitching of muscles, any Japanese
pxesent would regard it as good clean
fun. The differences in our own reaction
would not necessarily arise from the fact
that Australians are made from a purer
clay than the Nipponese, but from the
fact that the Japanese belong naturally
to the 16th century and have its outlook,
while the Australians belong to the 20th
century and think and behave in its terms.
This gap in civic maturity between the
East and West soon becomes obvious to
a visitor to Japan, even without the inter-
vention of Mr. Tasaki, who, however,
provides his quota of confirmation.
When this writer visited Hiroshima Jail
its mild-mannered governor showed him-
self proud though somewhat disappointed
that the last victim of his remarkable
gallows had taken only 19 minutes to die.
The writer remarking that Australia
did things better and that death by hang-
ing here was instantaneous, the startled
humanitarian of the atom age asked in
bewilderment: “But how then does the
fellow know he is being hanged?”
That, judging by Mr. Tasaki’s narrative,
which is one of the most striking to come
out of the war and a sovereign example
of the English language as poured out
of an Oriental mind, would have summed
up the comment of any logical-minded
Japanese,
EK DUM.
Three Saroyan Plays .
ẃ
ẅ
Maori Voyagers .
w
alas, his theory seems to be that the
brown people were worshipping
Tane, the god of peace; and they built
the statues themselves and then were
destroyed either by other invaders of
their own race or by themselves after
they had turned to the worship of the
war-god Koro.
At any rate, his voyagers stopped long
enough at one of the islands en route
to Easter Island for Mr. Hall, who will
be remembered as part-author *of The
Mutiny of the Bounty, to write a lively
romantic novel about them: how the
Tongas, as he calls his peace-loving tribe,
were allowed to settle on an island occu-
pied by worshippers of Koro, to the
extreme annoyance of the local witch-
doctor ; how Maui, his young hero, found
an underwater cavern like the hiding-
place in Coral Island (and like the cave
which does actually exist, one believes,
on the island of Tonga, and which is
mentioned by Byron in a poem); how
Maui also saw war-canoes crushing the
bodies of captives as in Coral Island;
how he offended the witch-doctor’s
nephew, and broke into the forbidden
territory of the Koro-worshippers and fell
in love with one of their maidens; and
how at last, just as the witch-doctor was
planning his tremendous revenge, the
peace-lovers got away in their canoes to
some island further to the east on their
long pilgrimage.
The Far Lands is an uncertain sort of
novel. Mostly it is too romantic and
statuesque to be taken as a realistic
picture of Polynesian life; and then from
time to time, as in his brief chapter on
the love-life of the girls, Mr. Hall seems
to realise this himself and comes out with
a burst of realism that is at once welcome
and incongruous. Maui’s smashing of
the war-god, whose gigantic image con-
veniently falls on the witch-doctor and
squashes him, is melodrama; and after
that comes a very interesting and realistic
account of the canoe-voyage.
Altogether the novel is chiefly to be
read for its bits of Polynesian lore and
legend, among which is a beautiful
account of the “phantom islands” created
of cloud vapor, and “the skin of the sea”
by the mythical Tavi.
THE CRADLE.
The brown quail startled from his feet,
whirring up where cliff-winds beat
out' the dark metal of the sea,
tells him that he shall ever be
solitary, searching; lost
in grey and purple distance crossed,
in gully, gaping cliff-face, steep
the serried spears of grass-trees keep.
Climbing where the scrub is pinned
back and sculptured by the wind,
out of his hand, with frightened cries,
the tawny honeyeater flies.
He parts the bushes on that crest
to find the flecked eggs in the nest:
cradling there his world’s wrong
into strains of wind-borne Song.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING
Horderns’
m
mmm
r jamm
f
mmmm
mmmmm
iVi *l4 •* 51 V* 1* t # tiitl - ‘ *
i Mmm
mmmm.
mmmm
wmm
m.
m i
■
i
tl
Ip
«
3
-M\
W'iV'.u
m
IWA\
||s|s|
f
§5
r»<s
sir
!§is-
i
M
m
m
f /m
m
m
9 Supreme accuracy
• Comfortable grip
• Bolt action
• Immediate delivery
• Overall length 43|in.
Ammunition . . . Sako .22 calibre,
"Hornet” smokeless cartridges. High
powered, soft nosed. Price 100, 80/-.
Introducing a new rifle for discriminating shooters
THE SAKO L-46 REPEATER
A Post-war Rifle ... the ultimate in design and performance ... the best for dependability. Truly
a modern rifle for the discriminating shooter. The barrel is 23i inches long and the net weight
is 6-Ilbs. The magazine carries three rounds and there is an adjustable rear sight marked at 1 00.
150, 200, 250 and 300 metres. All accessories available. Above “Hornet” rifle. £45/0/0.
PRICES OF DIFFERENT SIZE
CALIBRE OF THE SAKO
Calibre 7 x 33MM . . . Sake L-46 for the larger
game. Price £42/10/- with open sight, or £45
with hunting peep sight. 7 x 33MM ammunition
priced at 90/- per 100, and hunting peep sight
priced at £3/5/-. Canvas covers from 35/-. Other
calibres . . . orders taken for other Sako calibres
with delivery in about three months. Ammunition
available for all calibres.
w
V
m
tsm
»
MM
iKtfl
Is
m
y-
■
I
Middle. Auto-Beretta Rifle. .22 calibre. Olympic target automatic
rifle with adjustable rear and foresight. Can be used also as a single
shot or a repeater. With special heavy barrel 214 inches long.
Weight only 7fibs. Priced at £3O/10/-.
Top. Auto Defourny Rifle. .22 calibre automatic. 234 in. barrel
Fitted with 8 shot magazine and elevating rearsight. Will take long
or long rifle cartridges. £25/17/6.
Bottom. B.S.A. Repeating Rifle. .22 calibre B.S.A. fifteen shot
repeating rifle with bolt action, 25in. barrel and tube magazine.
Will take long rifle cartridges. Very light in weight and very
accurate. Priced at £l3/17/6.
GUN DEPT. GROUND FLOOR, GOULBURN ST. M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


ni annul report of tke
ŵ
ẁ
>.
>e^e.
/ G/ " /■«
• V, A
r e«# _
XS
CHAIRMANS ADDRESS
It is with pleasure that I am able to
record the outstanding progress which
was made by your Society during 1950.
I n this period we have witnessed not only
the establishment of yet another record
lor the production of New Business, but
also an increase in the effective Rate of
Interest earned on the Society’s Funds.
These results reflect both the magni-
tude of the task performed by the
Society as a whole and the success which
has attended your Board’s efforts to
invest Funds safely and at remunerative
interest rates.
The Reports now before you reveal in
detail the remarkable expansion to
which I have just referred. While I do
not propose to comment at length on the
figures, I do feel that, in passing, special
mention should be made of the fact that
the total New Business written during the
year amounted to more than £77,000,000,
thereby increasing the sum assured in
force to more than £638 million. These
figures are proof indeed of the outstand-
ing position which your Society occupies
in providing the benefits of life assur-
ance for the people of Australia and
New Zealand.
In commenting on the. volume of new
life assurance business it is appropriate
to mention the added incentive to thrift
of this nature given by a recent decision
of the Commonwealth Government.
This raised to £2OO the annual amount
of premiums which a policyholder may
claim as a deduction for taxation pur-
poses. Many of the Society’s members
are taking advantage of this provis’on,
with advantage to themselves and the
community generally.
PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
e
r-:
It has been emphasised on many
occasions that the prime function
of a Life Office is to meet the
claims which arise under policy
contracts. A clear indication that
the Society is fulfilling this obliga-
tion is provided by the figures
which appear in the Annual Re-
port. In the Ordinary Depart-
ment alone, payments during 1950
in respect of matured policies and
Death Claims totalled more than
£7£ million, including £2,300,000
on account of bonus additions. Claims in the Industrial
Department totalled a further £2,200,000. The Society feels
that, by means of these payments, it is contributing in no
small measure to the financial security of its members and
their dependants.
ẃ
INVESTMENTS
Demand from industrial and
commercial undertakings for
loan finance has continued
strongly during the past year,
and the Society has been able
to channel a further substantial
portion of its funds into this
type of investment, thus assist-
ing in the development of in-
dustry and commerce and at
the same time obtaining a
more appropriate spread of its
investments over the available
field. The total amount in-
vested m company shares has increased slightly during the
year, while considerable numbers of home purchasers have
obtained financial assistance from the Society.
The existing level of money incomes in Australia and New
Zealand has resulted in a situation where mortgages or other
securities in default are virtually non-existent. Nevertheless,
the Society’s Board continues to exercise the utmost vigilance
in the selection and supervision of the Society’s investments
and to ensure, as far as possible, that even if money incomes
and property values recede, the Society’s investments will be
well secured. The market values of investments quoted on the
Stock Exchange are, in total, substantially in excess of their
book values.
EXPENSES OF
MANAGEMENT REDUCED
During the year the Society, in common with all
other business institutions, had to meet increasing
costs due to alterations in salary and wages rates.
The Board has taken steps to counteract these extra
costs by added efficiency and by effecting economies
in management, mainly through the mechanisation
of routine accounting processes.
Mainly as a result of these steps I am happy to
report that in the Ordinary Department the expense
rate fell from 15.99% of premium revenue in 1949
to 15.72% in 1950. In the Industrial Department
the corresponding figures were 23.47% and 22.97%.
1 feel that the Society has reason to be proud of this
achievement.
COONALPYN DOWNS
£
Satisfactory progress is
reported from the
Society’s Land Develop-
ment Project, “Coonal-
pyn Downs,” where much
preliminary work has
already been completed.
Some 16,500 acres are at
present being used as an
experimental area, and the
results secured to date
have been most encourag-
ing.
STAFF
The success of the Society’s operations during 1950 has
been primarily due to the sustained efforts of members of
both the Indoor and Outdoor Organisations, and I would
take this opportunity of expressing the Board’s recognition
and appreciation of the loyalty and co-operation which have
been displayed.
The Society is experiencing, in common with other large
institutions, the difficulties of recruiting junior staff in suffici-
ent numbers to cope with the greatly increased flow of busi-
ness transacted. On this subject I would remark that due to
the present scope of the Society’s operations, the range ot
opportunities for advancement which exists in its service is
unparalleled in the field of commerce.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
ẅ
Your Directors have at all
times endeavoured to keep the
Society’s practices abreast of
modem developments in the
Life Assurance industry in
countries other than Australia
and New Zealand. Informa-
tion regarding practices in the
United Kingdom is continually
reaching us through the
Society’s London Branch, and
last year arrangements were
made for two senior executive
officers to visit the United
States of America and Canada
to study conditions in those
countries. These officers were afforded every courtesy by the
Life Offices of North America, and they were able to study
closely the problems of Office and Agency Organisation,
Medical Selection of Risks and New Business Techniques con-
fronting Assurance Institutions far larger than any at present
operating here.
As a result of their investigations it is hoped at a later
date to incorporate certain features which it is considered will
improve yet further the efficiency of our Society and its
service to its members.
■/.V.
«JVf
BONUSES
In view of the success
of the Society’s policy of
investment and the further
economies which have
been secured in the opera-
tions of management, the
rates of reversionary
bonus to be allotted to
policies for the year 1950
have been maintained at
the same levels as those
which applied in 1949.
This means that, in
general, owing to the compounding effect of the Society’s
bonuses, there will be a slight increase in the amount of
bonuses given to individual policies.
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT
Although this department of the Society’s activities has
not shown a marked expansion over the past year, it has
nevertheless continued to perform a function of prime
importance. The Society has provided through the Industrial
Department the benefits of Life Assurance to those members
who require a collecting service. That the availability of
this service is appreciated is evidenced by the fact that
policies assuring over £95,000,000 are now in force in the
Industrial Department.
RETIRED OFFICERS AND AGENTS
The Board has given consideration to the condition in
which retired officers and agents have found themselves
when confronted with continually rising costs of living.
In an attempt to alleviate their financial circumstances in
this abnormal period the Board has decided to grant a
lump sum payment of £5O to each retired male or female
officer or agent (whether in the Industrial or Ordinary
Department) who is at present in receipt of a pension or
life benefit from the Society.
DIRECTORS
And in conclusion, may I express the profound sense
of loss experienced by members of the Board, Manage-
ment and Staff on the death of Sir Frederick H. Tout,
which occurred on 4th July, 1950. His wealth of knowledge
and experience were, during his 19 years of office, of
inestimable value to the Society, and he will long be
remembered for that sincerity of purpose which characterised
his every activity.
Mr. W. A. Mackay has been appointed Deputy Chairman
in place of Sir Frederick, and Mr. G. Gordon Russell has
joined the Board to fill the vacancy created by his death.
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERIA
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3722
Wednesday, June 13, 1951
T ° UR
“HOW Y’ GONNA KEEP ’EM DOWN ON THE FARM?”
[Mr. Colin Clark, the noted economist, says one of the principal causes of the butter shortage has been the 40-hour working week.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
GP.O.), Wellington.
TERRITORIES AND SENSE.
Among the notable changes in the con-
struction of the Commonwealth Ministry
is that which groups Australian terri-
tories under a special Ministry. The new
Minister is Mr. Hasluck.
There are three issues which call for
basic long-term settlement in regard to
these large areas of land, which, regarded
in bulk, are about half the size of India.
They are defence, development and the
native.
Policy so far in the post-war years has
been inclined to reverse this list in order.
Mr. Ward placed the native first —
amid chuckles from Moscow, which does
not care a rap about Brown Brother or
Binghi so long as he stays discontented
and provides an awful example of the
dreadful brutality of capitalists when
handling the weak.
The native in the Northern Territory
has died off faster than ever under the
impact of the new “Labor” brand of
civilisation. In the more civilised areas
the one issue at the moment seems to be
whether he shall be allowed to drink
alcohol at will. It is a matter which has
Mr. Clive Evatt in N. S. Wales almost
in t.:ars.
Ihe New Guinea peoples had a simple
native culture, characteristic and suited
to them racially and to their tropical con-
ditions, and abundant food-supplies which
were obtained with little labor. When
they came to work for the white man they
did it with a pretty and musical languor
which accorded with their natural habits,
about six “boys”—that was the appropri-
ate generic pidgin for them—doing the
work of one white man.
Early Administrations—under men like
Sir Wiliam MacGregor and Sir Hubert
Murray—understood their nature, their
capacity and their real needs. They also
realised that in the interests of Australia
the New Guinea areas must be developed
by white settlement as a measure of
defence. Nobody in authority in Aus-
tralia listened, but the sanity of this part
of their policy was proved when war with
Japan broke out, and then all too pain-
fully.
Times, however, changed with the
advent of Mr. Ward and his half-baked
parlor pinks and with that of Dr. Evatt
and his theorists of U.N.0., the way
paved for them by 20 years of unskilful
and perfunctory meddling by League of
Nations mandated committees.
Government from their time onward
may be described as government by
shibboleth. The native, instead of being
recognised for what he is, an adult man
of another age and of another civilisation,
has become the “fuzzy-wuzzy angel,” He
is governed according to the ineffable
conceit of average demagogues and
meddling theorists rather than according
to the precepts of commonsense and
reality.
No “democratic” agitator can be
brought to believe that all happiness does
not spring from the regimenting of man
in the mass to promote the class- and
race-wars with a view to forcing from
the community those things which appear
m the trade-union code of happiness—a
snobbish superficial education which does
not educate, the right to strike, the right
to loaf at all times, the right to sabotage
the sources from which the livelihood and
security of the country come, the right
to collect as much pay as can be grabbed
without obligation to give commensurate
return, the right to hate everybody who
does not subscribe to the programme of
lorce, blackmail and slander which is
now the basis of “Labor’s” progress
The gentle, singing Brown Brother, who
oved everyody, including those whose
heads he hunted in an earlier day, is be-
coming a pompous human bladder full
words which he does not under-
tand, full of the phrases which make up
most of the pabulum of “Common
Cause and the “Worker.” He has more
money than is good for him. He has
/^ gard w ° rk as s °mething almost
disgraceful instead of a delightful game
which he used to be paid for playing to
the song of “pullim-he-come-pushim-
he-go.
New Guinea and Papuan industry is
now living only on the dope of inflation
and is in danger of dying when it ceases
to take this drug. The only things which
have expanded in the Territories since the
war are “humanitarian” meddling and the
civil service.
What applies in this respect both in
Papua and in the New Guinea Mandate
applies also to the Northern Territory.
The dead hand of Socialism fell on that
Sixth of Australia during the war. Left
with huge facilities by the military
occupiers, connected to the south for the
first time by roads which would be the
pride of any country, it has since spawned
little but civil servants and union loaf.
Its roads are in decay, its northern
capital, Darwin, dying.
The thriving little tropical settlement
at which two large shipping companies
were happy to call regularly, in which a
huge meatworks was built, has become a
Socialist Frog Hollow. A ghost of bomb-
ruins in which hundreds of civil servants
“toil” and in which none of the very rare
ships which come in has a hope of being
unloaded unless the beer is at the bottom
of the hold and the rest of the cargo has
to be removed to get at it. Darwin is
fading under the Socialism which has
resumed its lands and the red hand of
the North Australian Workers’ Union,
which is the real Government. Soon,
when the airlines, as they intend to, move
their Australian overseas terminus to
Perth, Darwin will become either a com-
plete incubus without purpose, since
strategically it has lost a lot of its im-
portance, or a charity town wholly sup-
ported by the taxpayers to save Can-
berra’s face.
Defence in regard to both the Northern
Territory and New Guinea, not to men-
tion the Solomon Islands and the
Hebrides, both screens for Australia or
attack-bases for an occupying enemy, is
subject to the same shibboleths as the
native question and development.
With regard to New Guinea, it seems
to be taken for granted that there is no
need to worry, since, if anything untoward
happens, good, kind Uncle Sam will come
along with a couple of atom-bombs, the
most powerful Navy, Army, Air Force
and whatnot in the world and chase away
our frightened foes.
Observers of Uncle Sam’s performance
in Korea are not quite as sure as the
American and Australian diplomatists and
Press of his capacity as an all-round
defender of the Pacific, nor indeed of his
willingness to serve in that capacity when
it comes to a new World War. In any
case, his ability to defend this country
.against the swift kind of attack which
might come depends on intensive prelimi-
nary preparations in the island screens
and on our north coast areas of which
at present there are none worth a trouser-
button and can be none so long as exist-
ing policies continue.
It is to be hoped that one of the first
things that Mr. Hasluck will do is to
make a clean sweep of present conditions ;
that he will restore free enterprise in the
Northern Territory ; that he will kill the
Alice in Wonderland Administration in
New Guinea and bring it down out of the
U.N.O. realm of fancy to solid ground.
Also that he will begin to press for the
transfer of the Solomons and New
Hebrides interests to Australia and for
the organisation in them and in the North
of a skeleton policy of defence based on
settlement, progress and sensible free
enterprise and practical native policy.
If half the money which has been spent
on the application of the fanciful theories
of lightbrains and humbugs and teeming
civil services in the past few years had
been put into solid hard work in road-
building and -maintenance and encourag-
ing white settlement where it can exist
without prejudicing native welfare, the
Territories might be getting somewhere
and Australia might have reason to feel
a lot safer.
Economic Psychopaths.
A number of commentators upon this
young Commonwealth in its Jubilee year
agree with disconcerting unanimity in
painting the prospects in sombre colors.
They can see little hope of that prosperity
which we have loosely accepted as assured
if we could accelerate our population
sufficiently to occupy this country for the
white race.
Psychologically we are in a depression
already. The Press, which supplies all the
reading many people ever allow them-
selves, provides one long, daily bleat
about fears of war, high prices, falling
prices, shortages, famines, strikes, law-
lessness, and every variety of human
tragedy from child delinquency upwards.
This is not a charge of distortion; it is
rather a calling of attention to the psycho-
logical effect of daily doses of pessimistic
news-display. The Atlantic Charter, and
the United Nations Charter which adopted
its principles, aimed at lifting the world
into freedom from fear and from want.
Those fears were never more oppressive
than today. The chief difference between
the evils of another great war —the
supreme fear of the day—and the spirit-
less depression of British peoples in their
problems is that the war at least furnished
the industrious excitement of living
dangerously. Nowadays we don’t even
put trust in “security.”
It is worth reviewing the comments and
exhortations currently addressed to the
present working generation in this time
of challenge The considerations prompt-
ing them are clear; and although the
criticism is applied as much to the home-
British people as to us in Australia, the
excuses which the new generation of Aus-
tralians could find—if interested in
denying them—will be less easily
accepted. Within the past few weeks here
are some of the reproaches which, if they
are to find a high spirit again, Australians
must take to heart.
The King, opening the Festival of
Britain last month from the steps of St.
Paul’s, said, in appealing to his people
to take heart:
We pray that under God’s guidance our
young people may acquire the courage that
uses perils as a spur, so that thus equipped
they may loyally serve, not only their
own Commonwealth, but all mankind.
Dr. Weatherhead, incumbent of the
City Temple in London, who has been
lecturing to great audiences in Australia,
said the other day in a farewell broadcast
that while he had been inspired by many
personal contacts in Australia and by
the immense opportunities offered in this
new land,
Your whole attitude to work, like ours
at home, is rotten. Men used to be proud
of doing a day’s work as well as they
knew how. Now it is—“ How can I get more
money for less work?” In some Industries
work is regarded as a nuisance, something
to be reluctantly endured for economic
reasons, but from which every effort
should be made to escape. I have seen
more drunkenness and motor accidents in
your cities in a few weeks than I have
seen in London in as many years. Your
fears to think broadly and ahead are a case
for a psychiatrist.
From these higher moral exhortations
it is but a step down to materialists’
prophecies of calamity unless we shake
ourselves up. The utterly vain chase
after lifelong “social security” and the
idiotic devotion, in times of financial in-
flation and overfull employment, of Gov-
ernment to measures devised to meet
depression and unemployment, is one of
the active causes of rising costs and fall-
ing currency values. Speakers at the
Science Congress in Brisbane and at recent
conferences of the Chambers of Com-
merce and the A.L.P. alike have venti-
lated fears that planners of Australia’s
development are biting off more than they
can chew, that there are too many idle
mouths and work-shy hands, that we are
within sight of not being able to grow
enough food even for ourselves, that
management is inefficient and indifferent
about being told about it, that though
immigrants are pouring in by tens of
thousands a month they are not being
put to productive work and the flow will
have to be checked, that small farming
industries are rapidly folding up. They
tell us that with the 40-hour week we
cannot both rearm the country against
the threat of war and provide for “social
security” or even for enough daily neces-
sities to support what are reputed to be
our high living standards. And so on.
The Economic Survey published by the
British Treasury at the time of the recent
Budget and the latest survey of Australian
problems published by the Sydney Re-
search Service present remarkably
unanimous conclusions. Each regards as
inevitable, in the lackadaisical mood of the
people, that the ruling inflation will con-
tinue for some time yet. Governments
cannot overcome it unless the whole com-
munity works to the same end consciously
and continuously. Each agrees that
money for anybody’s spending—Govern-
ment or private—is becoming tighter, and
that necessary goods in return for invest-
ment are not being produced. The “milk-
bar economy” demanded by city popu-
lations —also a fatal lure to rural workers
hastening to join them—is ruining the
virility of the nation.
The London “Spectator,” summarising
the British Economic Survey, says:
If unions could be persuaded to accept
perfectly reasonable statements which the
survey makes about the need for wage-
restraint they would ensure that inflation
did not get out of hand. Higher real in-
comes are still possible, even in a world of
rearmament, provided that emphasis is put
on total earnings instead of on wage-rates.
In the United States, which is facing
much the same rearmament problems, the
director of defence mobilisation has fore-
cast that two years from now not only will
reasonable safety from aggression be secured
but civilian shortages will be easing and the
relaxation of controls will be possible. It is
this confident attitude towards production
problems which British labor needs most
of all.
All the Government harping on the bene-
fits of “full employment” cannot disguise
the fact that vast reserves of capacity are
not working at anything like full stretch.
There has never been any shortage of inven-
tive ingenuity which leads to discovery of
new and more economical processes. High
prices for raw materials can be offset by
such processes. The capacity to succeed
is there. What is lacking is the spirit.
Of Australia, Research Service reports
that, if we will not tackle rising costs,
then immigration must suffer —and with
it, of course, national security. It con-
cludes that, if the present irresponsibility
of Governments, employers and em-
ployees alike continues, we shall have
not even a choice between guns or butter ;
we shall have neither. Prospects of in-
dustrial expansion are being impeded by
low production, slack work, failing small-
farming industries. Before 1985, with
the contemplated population of 20 million,
we shall not have enough meat, wool,
wheat, butter or eggs, without importing
these things—Australia importing meat
and butter!
Coal output will have to be increased by
135 per cent, and steel output by 352 per
cent.
Psychological factors likely to impede
industry for years to come are the
workers’ fear of economic progress, poor
managerial approach and the general de-
sire for “security” whatever the cost.
It is not only “the bosses” who are
telling us this. The recent A.L.P. Con-
ference in Victoria heard speakers be-
moaning that within 10 years Australia
would have to import meat and butter;
that if war broke out the country would
not be able to feed itself for more than
12 months ; and that “if a depression is
to be avoided there must be a rapid exten-
sion of closer-settlement and mixed
farms,” But how to put the city milk-
bar populations on to the land in order
to save the nation, or how it was going
to be done on a 40-hour-week-and-work-
as-slow-as-you-like— not one word from
the representatives of “the toilers.”
Something will wake us up long be-
fore 10 years hence. The Germans and
the Japanese will come back in strength
to the world’s work, and already the
mere prospect of that is sending up howls
of protest about the threat to the vic-
torious nations’ industries and shipping
and economic way of life. The awaken-
ing to the need for hard work cannot
come too soon if White Australia is to be
anything but a delusion and a snare.
Call Me Artie.
“Sir Arthurl said,
When I heard he'd been dubbed —
Or is it belted ?
No! That’s what
Earls get
And Arthur’s not
An earl — yet. . .
“Sir Arthur,” I said.
With a rush
Of blood to the head.
( That’s a blush.
According to the med-
ical diction’try I read).
He said.
Slightly embarrassed,
“Call me Artie.”
I told Sir Arthur
I’d much rather
Embarrass my father.
My sister, my brother.
My aunt, my mother-
in-law
Than draw
A blush to a cheek
That ne’er blushed before.
He held out a paw—
“ Call me Artie.”
“Sir Arthur,” I said,
{Making another attempt, because
My face was
Exceedingly red)
But I got no farther,
For the new knight stopped me —
Cut me short, rather;
Pleaded with me,
In tones midway between those gener-
ally considered suitable for use
in a lady’s bower
And those employed when shouting in-
structions to a half-deaf
workman engaged in reno-
vating the now defunct G.P.O.
tower,
Being neither as sweet as sugar nor as
sour
As cream-a-tarty —
“Call me Artie.”
It seems that in places official
His Majesty’s wish’ll
Doubtless prevail—
And they’ll hail,
By his knightly
New handle, the sprightly.
If corpulent. Chief of his Party,
But in circles less formal
The atmosphere warm’ll
Demand a more hearty
Address.
Such as? —Yes!,
“Call me Artie.”
N.S.W.
JASBY.


PLAIN ENGLISH
One Generation Ago.
This week is Canberra’s in the Jubilee
celebrations, and anyone who troubles to
cast back to newspaper files of only 24
years ago will be left in no doubt about
the amount of history made in that short
time. The Canberra celebrations are, of
course, a month late, displaced by the
general elections.
On May 9, 1927, the present King was
here as Duke of York to open the first
Parliament in the Federal Capital, still
very much a site in the bush. The May
week of 1927 belongs now entirely to
ancient days. The life and color of the
party was the Australian Light Horse,
now, alas! defunct; Nellie Melba
sang “God Save” to the Duke on Parlia-
ment House steps ; and the first experi-
ment on nation-wide radio-broadcasting
was pronounced “a complete success,”
though (as “S. M. Herald” observed)
there was only one announcer at Can-
berra, and a lot of time was lost as he
moved about the building from “three, if
not four, microphones.” “Many
thousands of owners of loudspeakers”
invited guests to their homes to hear the
novel reporting.
“S. M. Herald” of that day, opening
as big as a tablecloth and weighing about
a pound avoirdupois, recorded with pride
how it was able, through arrangements
with two special planes and motor-cars
at each end, to publish on the morrow
photographs taken in Canberra the
previous morning. In those days air-
travel was still an aspiration, and a
doubtful one at that, for most people;
Kingsford Smith had not yet flown the
Pacific; and the Canberra celebrations
coincided with a fatally unsuccessful
attempt by that venturesome Frenchman,
Nungesser, to fly the South Atlantic,
making the chief item on the “Herald’s”
cable-page for two successive days. There
was no Sydney Harbor Bridge, and
embryo arches were only beginning the
business of feeling towards each other
from opposite shores.
There were four great “Herald”
columns —of advertisements of Sydney
flats and offices to let. The papers of
Monday (Canberra’s great day) reported
no fewer than four weekend motor-
accidents in Sydney (from “skidding”)
and one in Melbourne, nobody killed.
The undisputed leading daily of Aus-
tralia, living example of newsprint sup-
plies that permitted the sale of a fair
acreage each morning for a penny, was
reporting that a breach between the Lang
Cabinet and caucus “has widened to such
an extent that it appears it cannot be
closed.
Mild attention was being called
to the revival of a military organisation
in Germany, though it had no rifles or
artillery; the conjecture was being
ventured that the Germans might in time
consider a war of revenge. But this was
only by-the-way stuff ; more seriously, the
condition of Mexico was considered a
disgrace to a world basking in the sun-
light of a League of Nations Covenant
for universal human betterment. Blankets
were on sale at a few bob a pair, and
the new-model cars advertised were
making the motor-buggy in which Lord
Kitchener was perched in 1911 look
rather out of date.
Australia was still feeling a bit self-
conscious in the new garments of full
nationhood, as devised in the previous
year under the Balfour formula at an
Imperial Conference. In token thereof
alongside the Canberra celebrations was
a Press report (by ocean mail, two months
late) of a debate in London on White
Australia, wherein one speaker from the
London School of Economics said this,
without exciting any particular comment:
Australia, a vast continent with a small
population, ventures to say that she
should have full sovereign control [of
Immigration ]. I believe that in the modern
world the doctrine of fuU sovereignty may
not only be difficult to maintain but that
It may be a source of aggression.
Such was actually the way we con-
trived to support life only 24 years ago.
At the Peak of His Form.
Mr. McGirr becomes more and more
natural every day. The veneer of
democracy is wearing off him and his
Ministry, and they are being revealed for
what they are.
There was the Darlinghurst election
and the brazen disregard for the charges
that McGirr’s Minister for Industry and
Prices holds that seat on a majority of
faked votes. Also his apology for Mr.
Evatt’s temporary repeal of the laws con-
cerning aboriginal drinking. Then the
plan to further manacle the Press in its
criticism of him, his party and the
institution which he described at the week-
end to a coterie of delegates from
shadowy A.L.P. branches as “your Parlia-
ment.”
Even those who admit that the Sydney
Press is not very responsible or renowned
for public-spirited purpose are hardly likely
to believe that Mr. McGirr will improve it
or promote freedom of speech by im-
posing controls along lines suggested to
him. One item in the proposals is
that the Government in office shall have
the power to compel journals to publish
adequate replies to their attacks on a
Government. It will be the day when a
Liberal Government, implementing this
proposed law, begins to operate on the
“Worker” and the “Tribune.” The
shriek for freedom of speech and against
“interference with trade-union rights”
will break the ice off the South Pole.
Next the matter of Sydney Ferries came
to a head. It appears that while the
State Government has been pretending
to consider the proposal that it should
take over the ferries from the company
at a fair price to be fixed by the Land and
Valuation Court, in accordance with the
company’s offer, it actually was making
plans to confiscate the business at its own
price and to pay the shareholders in de-
bentures. It now intends to run the
ferries not under Socialism in accordance
with its policy, but through private enter-
prise, appointing the Port Jackson Com-
pany, a piece of private enterprise, as its
managing agents. Presumably its ulti-
mate intention is that when the Port
Jackson Co. has put the Sydney Ferries
Ferries and Electric
Light Co.—page 10.
on a working basis it will seize the lot.
Port Jackson Co. included.
Mr. McGirr and his Mr. Sheahan will
have nothing to do with independent
valuations. When last heard from Mr.
McGirr was considering legislation to
prevent a fair thing being done to its
shareholders by a company whose plight
is largely due to the competition of bank-
rupt State land transport and the results
upon wages and prices of the gospel of
loaf and ever-higher wages.
Camp v. Korea.
“Ek Dum” surveys the scene:
The “Sunday Telegraph,” of Sydney, has pub-
lished an article which purports to be by Lieu-
tenant-General Bridgeford, G.O.C. Eastern
Command, which is headed “We are making
it like a holiday.” This refers to the condi-
tions under which compulsory trainees do their
training. It would be unfair to saddle General
Bridgeford with the atmosphere in which this
article is printed.
A military training-camp used to be a place
to which a body of men retired to be drilled
and hardened for battle. It was isolated from
the public because its managers had no time to
waste. It lived hard because war is hard.
But this is all changed. It is a matter of
apology that some of the trainees will tempor-
arily sleep under canvas because the housing
authorities cannot catch up with their needs,
but it will be “canvas par excellence.” Wooden
floors will be put down —if a trainee got wet
feet questions would be asked about it in Par-
liament. There will be “electric light, carpets,
wardrobes and what have you.”
At all camps will be free cinemas, regular
concert parties and recreation, and regimental
officers will give regular lectures on citizen-
ship, current and international affairs.
In fact, sitting down to tables with table-
cloths, with all the luxuries of home, these
young men are, in the words quoted of one
of the instructors, to have their 14-weeks’ train-
ing period made an interesting holiday rather
than ordeal.
War is an ordeal. Training for it can be
acquired only through ordeal. The pampering
of troops is reaching a danger-point of which
the signals went up in Korea and even before.
The first Americans to go into battle there were
trained in the same manner as our men are to
be trained, and the results nine months after
the beginning were obvious.
Matters have come to such a pass in the
U.S. Army that about half the force, or there-
abouts, acts as batmen looking after the com-
fort of the other half, and even with mechanisa-
tion and other modernisation it takes about
five men to produce the same firepower as
primitive armies like those of Russia and Turkey
produce with one.
It was pointed out somewhere the other day
that in a rifle-company of 180 men in the
U.S. Army 37 are cooks, apart from other
“amenities” workers; in the Russian Army a
similar company would have two cooks. The
Australian home Army is coming to the same
state as the American.
It would be interesting to hear what the
Royals in Korea think about it. If any one of
them has a wardrobe at the front he has kept it
a dead secret. And no person described as
“one of our instructors, a bemedalled veteran
of the Middle East and New Guinea,” has ever
been able to describe his experience as “an in-
teresting holiday rather than an ordeal.”
Fighting day in and day out in mud, lice,
Koreans, snipers, guerrillas, rain, snow, sleet and
dust, feeling that they have had a good night
if they are not raided and have a bit of dry
ground to lie on, and a good morning if there
is a bit of soap to wash with and no dead
Chinese to scent the air, the Royals have been
at the front for months, sometimes locked in
battle as fierce as any known in our history.
They are men who volunteered to fight for
this country on a distant shore, men who in
many cases had already done far more than
their share of fighting in defence of their native
land. They are, in fact, just poor, blanky, un-
hyphenated fighting soldiers, not hot-house
flowers. And nobody seems to worry much
about them, though their fame runs high among
the troops of U.N.0., as well as with the enemy,
who has named them as among his toughest
and most ruthless opponents —“wild beasts,” in
fact, “who know no fear.”
No wild beasts will be produced by Mr.
Francis’s new military hot-houses if they are
to be as promised.
Waterside Moves.
Events on the waterfront at the weekend
almost justified the newsbill men’s using
once again their favorite word
“dramatic.” Plenty of warning had been
given the Mackay watersiders that unless
they loaded the Wellpark with much-
needed sugar for New Zealand volunteer
labor would be engaged. It was, there-
fore, no great surprise when, on Saturday
morning, volunteers began loading the
vessel.
The real surprise came from Mel-
bourne, where it was announced that the
Federal Government had applied to the
Arbitration Court for a rule nisi calling
on the Watersiders’ Federation to show
cause why it should not be deregistered.
This move was not related particularly
to the Mackay dispute, but was based
on the general attitude of the union to-
wards New Zealand shipping, which,
coupled with similar action by other
Communist - controlled unions, had
already resulted in two ships being tied
up and several more delayed.
Mr. Holt, Minister for Labor, speak-
ing of the Government’s application, said
the wharfies had had plenty of time to
make up their minds over removal of
the ban; their executive had talked it
over for a week without any sign of a
decision.
During the time the watersiders’ execu-
tive was allegedly discussing the ban their
members in several ports walked off ships
in one-day protests against the serving
of summonses on Communist union
officials; also, during that time service-
men worked New Zealand cargoes in
Melbourne and Geelong, and the liner
Aorangi, whose crew had “resigned,”
joined the Wanganella in enforced idle-
ness. Hearing of charges against W.W.F.
secretary J. Healy had been adjourned
until June 27, on the application of his
counsel, and charges against two officials
of the Ships’ Painters and Dockers’
Union had been postponed until June 20.
In Brisbane a summons under the Crimes
Act had been served on Englart, fbrmer
secretary of the local wharfies.
A.L.P. chief Ferguson described the
Government’s deregistration move as
“foolish, provocative and savoring of
Fascism.” He felt that a continuance of
such policy would “lead to industrial
chaos and the strengthening of
Communism.”
If anyone expected Opposition-Leader
Chifley, who, as Prime Minister was
responsible for using troops pn the coal-
fields in 1949 as the present Government
has used them on the wharves, to take a
different attitude from Ferguson, it was
a vain expectation. Addressing the
annual conference of the N. S. Wales
branch of the A.L.P. on Sunday, he
attacked the move for deregistration and
accused the Government of being “out to
crush militant trade-unionism.” He
appealed for unity of workers of Left
and Right—whifch, if it doesn’t mean co-
operation between Communism and
official “Labor,” doesn’t mean anything.
All these “Labor” leaders profess to
be supporters of arbitration. Through
their A.C.T.U. they have condemned the
watersiders’ action as a political stunt
inspired by Communists. If the Water-
side Workers’ Federation is deregistered
it will be by the direction of the Arbi-
tration Court and as a result of acts
which the A.C.T.U. has itself condemned.
From Candelo to Ingleburn.
Not many people know where Candelo
is. The N.S.W. Licensing Board dis-
covered it the other day when it agreed
to a “conditional” transfer of the licence
of the Royal Hotel there to Ingleburn, a
hamlet about 27 miles from Sydney, one
of the conditions being the erection at
Ingleburn within 12 months of a two-
story pub, with beer-garden and other
appurtenances.
Ingleburn, be it known to all men, has
no pub, and this was felt to be a distinct
disadvantage to the 4000-odd men,
women and children living in and around
the village. True, 153 adults hired a
solicitor to object to the licence being
transferred, but obviously they hadn’t
considered all the aspects.
For instance, though there are pubs at
the Cross Roads, Liverpool, Campbell-
town and Narellan, all within three to
seven miles of Ingleburn, they are usually
so quiet during the week and so heavily
invaded by “bona-fide travellers” from
Sydney at weekends that the patriotic
Ingleburnian would far rather booze in
his own beergarden or climb to the two-
story balcony and there survey the
Saturday-to-Sunday road traffic. Drivers,
by the way, will no longer be forced to
endure the dry stretch from Cross Roads
to Campbelltown, which should add
greatly to the joys of driving round
Sydney at weekends.
The objectors should also note that
there are military camps at Ingleburn,
Liverpool and Narellan, shortly to take
in thousands of 18-year-old trainees, and
since the Commonwealth Government
promises to make the camps as homelike
as possible, provision of an extra beer-
garden within easy distance seems essen-
tial.
As for Candelo, the last time it was
observed was in 1937, when its 1700 or
so people had no fewer than two pubs to
compensate them for being over 300 miles
from Sydney and 15 from Bega on the
Monaro road. To get there then one
went by steamer, rail or road, or a com-
bination of two or three. Now one may
fly to Bega and ride or walk the rest.
The Candelonians indulge in the
professions of dairying, butter- and
cheese-making, too far from Sydney to
attract weekend parties and certainly not
in need of beergardens, since lolling about
in a beergarden would mean the cows
not being milked on time. If, on the
transfer of the Royal to Ingleburn, they
give up butter production and head for
Sydney and its 40-hour week and big
wages, the Licensing Board cannot be
held responsible. Sydney is short of
butter anyhow. It is short of beer, too,
but a pub at Ingleburn will help to
remedy that.
One other thing remains to be con-
sidered. Will the Minister for Building
Materials grant permission for the use of
housing material in this pub, which must
be built within a year? If not, the lucky
licensee may have to fall back on bark
(and mudbricks, or else pack up the
Royal at Candelo and post it to Ingle-
burn, or something. However, it is felt
that these difficulties will be overcome,
since in matters such as this both political
and private enterprise seem capable of
anything.
British Wharfies.
From London: The absence of protracted
trouble in the London dockyards seems
to be because of happy chance rather
than to any improvement in working
relationships. Certainly the record is a
bad one. Thames-side strikes and other
disturbances have meant the loss of two
million working days during the five
immediate post-war years, and have
caused the proclamation of a state of
national emergency in 1949 and again in
1950.
So great was the muddle and so con-
fused the issue after this last upset that
a committee of inquiry was formed to
make a full investigation.
The report has just been published
(ironically enough, during the fourth
week of a dockers’ strike at Manchester),
and appears to be sharper in diagnosis
than confident about a cure. Times were
too hard before, and too easy during, the
war. Dockers show little sense of re-
sponsibility, are parochially conservative
in their opposition to new methods, in-
cluding mechanisation. Much time is
wasted while on the job. High wages
often lead to absenteeism.
The committee’s main findings include:
(1) The bad conditions, including
appalling sanitation, under which the
dockers have to work ;
(2) The Labor Government’s failure to
improve these amenities, and also its
weakness in dealing with agitators ;
(3) The bureaucratic pomposity, in per-
spective, of the 3i-year-old Dock Labor
Board ; and
(4) The unwieldiness of the enormous
Transport and General Workers’ Union
and its inability to win the confidence of
its members.
Some readjustment in these quarters
can be expected, perhaps even to the
extent of writing off the Dock Labor
Board as a failure ; but what of the more
chronic weaknesses? A change of atti-
tude towards the dockers themselves,
whose touchy solidarity and collective
fits of bad temper at minor irritations
have previously been soft-pedalled, is
noticeable.
“It appears,” says the report, “to be
incredibly easy to bring dock workers out
on strike,” but the tone of voice grows
more definite later with: “The activities
of the Port workers’ committee are more
concerned to disrupt the working of the
port as often and as seriously as pos-
sible than to improve dock workers’ con-
ditions.”
The conclusion remains that, having
opened up the patient and exposed his
ills, he’ll be no worse after he’s been
sewn up again. Nor, for that matter,
will he be very much better.


XvAv
tm?:
■
iii
a®
m
in every way
00m
CRAVEN A"
jytevewt soie th/ioats
Stan
m
m
4190
CARRERAS LIMITED -—— OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
The House of Representatives in the
Twentieth Parliament includes eight
members who are making their first
appearance in the Federal talking-shop.
Five of them are “Labor” men: Bruce
(Leichhardt), Crean (Melbourne Ports),
Galvin (Kingston), Joshua (Ballaarat),
Fraser (Canberra). There are two
Liberals, Bland (Warringah) and Luck
(Darwin), and one Country-party man,
Brimblecombe (Maranoa). In addition to
these, two “Labor” members are making
a comeback —Fuller (Hume) and McLeod
(Wannon), both of whom managed on
April 28 to turn the tables on the men
yvho defeated them in 1949.
There are eight new Senators, of whom
Senator Byrne (Q.) is the only new man
on the “Labor” side of the Chamber.
Government “new boys” are McMullin
(N.S.W.), Cormack (Vic.), Pearson and
Laught (S.A.), Seward and Paltridge
(W.A.), Chamberlain (Tas.).
Talkative J. A. Ferguson, Federal
president of the A.L.P., said at the N.S.W.
A.L.P. conference that if there had been
no Communist party there would be no
Menzies Government. He might have
added that if there had been no Com-
munist party there might be no J. A.
Ferguson at the head of the “Labor”
party. Ferguson came into the higher
ranks of the A.L.P. under the wing of Dr.
Lloyd Ross, a member of the Communist-
party Central Committee, in 1940, when
—the authorities are Messrs, J. A.
Beasley and Sol Rosevear, recently
Federal Speaker—the Communist party
“secured the control of the policy and
domestic affairs of the ‘Labor’ party” in
N.S.W.
Two English girl migrants, convicted
of theft, are to be transported back to
England. How times have changed since
Botany Bay!
Soothsayer Calwell has donned his
mantle of prophecy again, undaunted by
past failures. This time his voices tell
him that the Menzies Government will
fall within two years because it will be
“confronted with so many economic
troubles.” Calwell himself helps to
aggravate those economic troubles —
which are Australia’s troubles, not merely
the Government’s —by urging people to
spend as fast as they can before the value
of the pound falls further.
There’s something strangely typical of
the times in that the first great freedom
Clive Evatt arbitrarily conferred on N. S.
Wales aborigines is the right to drink in
hotels. What is really needed is some
system by which people like Harold Blair
and Namatjira, and any other aborigine
of the same mental capacity, could qualify
for full Australian citizenship: abo-
riginals, of all people, should surely have
the right to become “naturalised.”
It’s going to be hard to convince some
of these pastoralists that the wool-tax
was worth a knighthood.
In the N. S. Wales Assembly one night
last week a snap division brought one
member into the House trailing his collar
and tie and another clad in pyjamas and
dressing-gown. If this sort of thing con-
tinues well reach the stage recorded in
England where a noble lord dreamed he
was making a speech in the House of
Lords and woke up to find he was.
Moree (N.S.W.) Council resolved to
prosecute people who didn’t vote at the
council elections in February. Then it
thought it over and rescinded the motion,
having discovered that the cost might ruin
it and that about the earliest some of the
“offenders” might be brought to court
would be two years, McGrrix’s crowd
thought up making voting compulsory at
local-government elections, but they’re
not game to do the prosecuting of those
who ignored the legislation.
The Army, Navy and Air Force spent
£20,000 —£30 per man —last week on
fares for flying 662 men to Canberra last
week for the Jubilee junket. It is as fine
a commentary on the state of transport
in the Services as on the Government’s
sense of financial responsibility to the
taxpayers.
Socialist Lord Winster hit out the other
day at the Attlees for going starry-eyed
over planners and faffing for such
schemes as the African peanut and egg
washouts, the meat-buying muddle, the
Algerian wine losses, devaluation and
other things. The Leftist Lord sardoni-
cally expects to be confronted with a
White Paper on “how to teach grand-
mothers to suck eggs.” A White Paper
on how Socialists become lords and vice
versa would be more to the point.
Mr. Chifley says a policy of deregis-
tration of “militant” unions will mean
“an army of scab unions.” But isn’t
that what we have now —an army of
them scabbing on Australia?
If the Demon Drink hadn’t learned
years ago that he has little to fear from
politicians of any color, he’d be shivering
in his labels in N, S. Wales at present;
both sides of the House are threatening
to reform him. He gave a beery grin
when the Libs started arguing whether
or not reforms suggested by some of their
members represented the views of the
lot, and the grin became a leer when he
heard that McGrrrr had told caucus
there’d be no reform bills this session.
He blinked a little when told that caucus
had “forced” Cabinet to change its mind
on this point, but when he heard that
McGrrrr had warned his followers not
to expect any action for some months, the
old reprobate hiccupped: “Hep! Shome
months, eh? Wheresh y’ think you’ll
be in shome months, eh?”
Beer is also a matter of political
moment in Victoria, where Opposition-
Leader Hollway claims that someone-
who-knows has assured him that the
Prices Branch approved an increase in
the price of beer a month ago, but that
the announcement is being kept back
until after next Saturday’s by-election in
Prahran. Premier McDonald has had
nought to say on the subject; “Labor”-
leader Cain claims that the Prices Branch
told him the matter was still under con-
sideration ; Hollway says he’ll stick to
his own opinion. Prahran should be
flattered at the suggestion that its favor
can be lost or won over the price of
beer.
Evatt minor last week, in reply to a
Dorothy Dixer from Powell, “Labor”
member for Bankstown in the McGrrrrr
establishment, proudly declared “the
Government has asked the A.J.C.
to prepare Warwick Farm racecourse for
racing by the end of the year.” The
A.J.C. would probably be only too
delighted to do so. It would have done
so years ago had it shown as little regard
for building restrictions as did “Labor’s”
Sydney Turf Club, which in 1947 was
fined £lOO in respect to “improvements”
carried on at Rosehill after a building
contractor, against whom no proceedings
were taken, had obtained 123,250 bricks
from the Government brickyards for
Rosehill and no questions asked.
According to Canberra reports, the
Government will this week bring down a
“National Defence Preparations Bill” to
place primary and secondary industries
on a “semi-war-time footing.” That’s
what they’re on now, as far as Com-
munists and won’t-works are concerned ;
the real job is to get them on a sound
peace-time footing.
One big difference between the nation-
alisation of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Com-
pany and the nationalisation of Sydney
Ferries —apart from the contrast in the
profits of the two concerns —was that
Premier McGrrrr didn’t burst into tears
when making his announcement. But
he must have felt like it 24 hours later
when he found that the company had
declared a 33| p.c. dividend and that
cheques had gone out to all shareholders.
Premier Hanlon is expected to material-
ise in Canberra this week, fasten himself
to the Prime Minister’s pink ear and urge
the case for a rise of lid. a pound in
the retail price of sugar. The public
won’t like it, but its antagonism would be
much less pronounced if Hanlon could
guarantee its getting some sugar.
When it was officially reported that
during a period of six months 15,344,000
blowflies, of a total weight of 12cwt.
261 b., were trapped in Canberra by the
Department of Health, Canberra resi-
dents were puzzled at the fact that blow-
flies last summer were as plentiful as ever.
What they didn’t know was that the
Communist party, aware of the ideological
importance of the nuisance-value of these
comrades, obtained a writ of habeas
corpus, and, briefing six of the most
eminent K.Cs. in the country, had the case
brought before the High Court and finally
to the Privy Council, which ruled that as
there was no mention of blowflies in the
Constitution their detention was unlawful.
They were therefore released.
Adelaide’s Municipal Tramways Trust,
long regarded as a model of efficient
organisation, has been coming in for
criticism lately, and the S.A. Government
has appointed a committee to inquire into
its finances, administration and future
development. Among the spate of com-
ments and suggestions already made one,
at least, might be borne in mind by trans-
port authorities in all States. Mr. F.
White, Mayor-elect of Norwood, inter-
viewed by the “Advertiser,” remarked
that “raising fares is no solution,” and a
reply given by the M.T.T. to a question
asked by another suburban council bore
this out. It revealed that following last
year’s increase in tram-fares there was
a falling-off of more than 1£ million pas-
sengers for an increase of only £3500 in
revenue.
The six meat-export companies operat-
ing in Queensland have reached the end
of their patience with go-slow; last week
they began closing their works. There
were howls of “lock-out,” but the Indus-
trial Court had already ruled that the
go-slow tactics were equivalent to
a strike. Some months ago the
Hanlon Government, alleging that graziers
were deliberately holding cattle off the
Brisbane market, enacted a law giving the
Government power to walk in and
“acquire” cattle from anyone’s holding
if it thought fit, It has not, apparently,
thought of walking into the meat union
with the idea of forcing it to obey indus-
trial laws.
The A.C.T.U., which “hates Com-
munists,” is to ask the Prime Minister to
repeal sections 30J and 30K of the Crimes
Act. If he refuses, the Council will con-
sider challenging the sections in the High
Court. Albert Monk says his organisa-
tion has been trying for this repeal ever
since 1926. Certainly this item has been
on the A.L.P, platform for a long time,
but isn’t it rather strange that nothing
was done about it during “Labor’s” eight
years in office?
The U.S. Supreme Court has confirmed
the jail sentence passed in October, 1949,
on 11 leading Communists charged with
conspiracy to advocate the overthrow of
the Government by force. During the
period of the appeal the men had been
out on bail. It would be interesting to
know how many cases Uncle Joe’s Aus-
tralian stooges can quote of persons found
guilty in Moscow of similar offences and
allowed to walk about freely for 18
months after their trial.
An inter-State transport operator com-
plains that thieves have been stealing
£lOOO-worth of goods a week from
Sydney-Melbourne road-trucks. Opera-
tors of these trucks pay thumping fees
to the two State Governments, and
though hordes of police and road in-
spectors are on hand to catch them if
they don’t pay, neither Government seems
to think that in return for the fees it
should provide mobile patrols to protect
the loads against hijacking.
The Communist “Tribune” prints a
message from Budapest recording a
sentence of 10 years’ jail and property-
confiscation against a man who “publicly
abused the peace movement and spread
war propaganda.” Could there be any
connection between this sort of charge
and the spontaneous rush—so often
recorded in the “Trib.” —of millions of
Hungarians eager to sign the “peace
petition”?
Australia’s average wheat yield
promises to be down about 2.4
bushels to the acre, with a total
decline of about 35,000,000 bushels
—last year there was a bumper
crop of 218,221,000 bushels. With
about 183,500,000 bushels, and 80,000,000
needed for home consumption and seed-
ing, only about 20,000,000 bushels will be
available for sale abroad outside the
International Wheat Agreement, which
absorbs 85,800,000 bushels—lss. 3d. per
bushel for 37,000,000 bushels to the U.K.
and 16s. Id. for sales to other Agreement
countries. The fall-off in free trading
surplus will be felt in the wheat districts.
In the open market sales have been made
at 18s. 6d.
Gloria Foley, daughter of Queens-
land’s Minister for Lands, has been
relating through the Press her experiences
of Czechoslovakia under Communism —
she spent over two years in Prague study-
ing the violin. She records that she was
at first impressed by the Reds’ promise
that they would not nationalise firms
with fewer than 50 employees, but
she found that “they didn’t directly
nationalise the small fry; they just
froze them out.” That has been
Communist practice in all the Iron-
Curtain countries —grab the big fellows
and you get the little ones, too. The
A.L.P. Socialists are also keen on em-
phasising that they have nothing against
the small proprietor. As Rugged Ben put
it, “We have no intention of nationalising
things like rag-shops and ice-cream carts.”
The Road Safety Council seems to think
it has been highly original in coining a
slogan, “Slow Down, Brother, or You’ll
Soon Be Dead.” That has been the slogan
of wharfies, miners and certain types of
racehorses for years.
There’s a move afoot in Britain,
sponsored by the British Electricity
Authority, to start a “back to the wind-
mills” plan to bring electricity to remote
parts of the United Kingdom. If anyone
started anything like that in New South
Wales the McGrmrs would insist on
linking the windmills with the “inter-
connected system” so that windmill-
owners in the outback could be
guaranteed their proper share of black-
outs.


&4B ses
ẁ
I footer
r
Riding on”
footboard
PROHIBITED i
i /fa, GHAMGt flKf
TfttoMi&ft ?Afi.VC.
U# 3 ]
f O NPITI° NftL
Trow* 6
J piACB
S& 3 ' j
Driver -/
PR IV£r>
. UNDErj'
WHEN THE GOVERNMENT TAKES OVER SYDNEY FERRIES.


ALL OVER THE WORLD
w
toood mornings begin with Gillette <
"'v s ••••• ... ... . .
The cleverest men in the Argentine
Have a way of shaving that’s mighty fine
With the keenest edge they will ever get:
Their blade, of course, is Blue Gillette.
Gillette Razors and Blades
are made for each other
Yes, and in every other
country too, the most
successful and intelligent men
ensure a good start to their
day with the same clean,
easy shave. They know no
other blade can equal the
wonderful sharpness or
long-lasting quality of
Blue Gillette.
Blue Gillette Blades
1/8 for five . . . 3/4 for ten . . . 6/8 for twenty
(plastic dispenser)
4/iei
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT SAM WENDT late of 229
Bronte Road Waverley N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that ILMA GRACE WENDT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 404 of
1951 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 13th of August
1951 and may obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion free of charge from HIGGINS, de
GREENLAW & CO., Solicitors, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
ẅ
GOLD
The quaint muzzle loaders used
by gold escorts in the 1850-60 period
are now of great interest to collectors.
They were loaded from the muzzle with a
charge of powder followed by a wad, then the
ball or shaped bullet and finally a second wad.
A cap placed on the nipple below the hammer
fired the powder when the trigger was pulled.
The musket illustrated, which is one of those
still in the possession of the Bank of Australasia,
also shows the old pattern triangular bayonet.
Well before the days of gold escorts a hundred
years ago, this Bank was firmly established
with branches in growing centres of population.
Today, throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in Fiji, the Bank has nearly 400 Branches
and Agencies providing a comprehensive banking
service for all members of the community.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Limited
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealandand in Fiji and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
GBA26-16
Business. Rollery. etc.
Ferries and Electricity
N. S. Wales Premier McGirr,
announcing the proposed
acquisition of the million ss.
shares in Sydney Ferries,
Ltd., at par, said the com-
pany’s 15 ferries, the Show-
boat and the lighterage
service would be taken over and
operated from June 30 by the
Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Co., Ltd., as agents for the
Government.
Shareholders in Sydney
Ferries would be issued with
3i p.c. debentures with a
currency of 10 years, redeem-
able at the Government’s option
after five years.
Assets of Sydney Ferries
would be vested in a board to
be established by legislation.
Each shareholder would
receive debentures having the
same face-value as his share-
holding.
The company’s shares, Mr.
McGirr said, had returned to
shareholders an average dividend
of 2 per cent, in the last four
years.
“Even this low dividend was
not met from profit earned but
partly from reserves,” he added.
Mr. McGirr said the Govern-
ment had no alternative but to
acquire the ferries because the
company had decided to
terminate its services from
June 30.
Transport Minister Sheahan
added that “the Government
will acquire the ferries in the
same way as the South Aus-
tralian Premier, Mr. T. Play-
ford, acquired an electricity
undertaking,”
The Government’s proposed
compulsory acquisition of the
ferries at its own price was fol-
lowed immediately by the de-
claration of a dividend of Is. Bd.
a share by Sydney Ferries out
of its liquid resources. This was
in turn followed by Government
hints that it might reduce the
compensation payable accord-
ingly.
The ferry co. then said that
the Government proposed tak-
ing over ferry, lighterage, Show-
boat and other assets of a
market-value of not less than
£750,000 and paying only
£250,000 for them. In the last
five years and nine months the
co. had paid out more than
£700,000 in repairs, recondi-
tioning and additions to its
vessels, approximately £250,000
of Which was capital expen-
diture.
The lighterage assets, the co,
claims, are worth at least
£250,000, and the Showboat
£lOO,OOO. The ferry assets,
which alone the co. was anxious
to sell, were “worth £400,000.”
When the ferry assets were
offered to the Government at a
value to be fixed by the Land
and Valuation Court the offer
was rejected by the Govern-
ment, Then the remaining
assets, which, unlike the ferry
business, are carried on at a
substantial profit, were offered
on the same basis, and the lot
rejected.
It will be interesting to see
whether the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment adopts the same method
of acquisition when it comes to
dealing with the Electric Light
and Power Supply Corporation
(“the Balmain company”). This
is the concern from which it co-
opted Mr. Conde, its Electricity
Commissioner.
Latest dividend from this
concern was 6 p.c. On the basis
of a similar return from 3£ p.c.
debentures compensation would
be at the rate of 345. 4d. per £1
share. But lots of “boys” round
the town who claim to be “in
the know” expect a better deal
than that, and up to 48s. 6d. has
been paid for the scrip. Until
Mr. McGirr and his colleagues
announced their master-plan of
acquiring the undertaking as
little as 295. 6d. a share was
OPTICIAN
acceptable to sellers of the scrip.
If the same basis of acquisi-
tion is applied to E.L. and P.
as is to be applied to Sydney
Ferries its shareholders will get
exactly 20s. a share —in 3j p.c.
debentures.
Associated Tobacco Mfrs.
Associated Tobacco Manu-
facturers (Holdings), Ltd., is ex-
changing 440,000 ss. shares
(£110,000) for the 100,000 £1
shares in Associated Tobacco
Manufacturers, Ltd., and offer-
ing the public 560,000 ss. shares
(£140,000) at par.
The operating co. was once
controlled by E. S. and R. C.
Moulton, Ltd. It was incorpo-
rated in Victoria, and a factory
was established in South Bris-
bane, Queensland, in April, 1932.
During the depression years, the
prospectus says, the co. had a
succession of trading losses, and
on the outbreak of war with
Japan allocations of Australian-
grown leaf on a previous-usage
basis made war-time expansion
impossible. A first profit was
earned in 1944, and in 1949, fol-
lowing removal of leaf-allocation
controls, the business made a
considerable advance : • for
1949-50 turnover almost trebled,
reaching £154,457.
R. C. Moulton was appointed
receiver and manager for deben-
ture-holders in 1943, the receiver-
ship nominally continuing until
early this year. By agreement
debenture-holders are to be paid
in full on Sept. 30, 1952. They
accounted for £6437 at Dec. 31
last.
Paid capital, which was
£20,143 in 1946, increased to
£87,335 at Dec. 31, and appears
to have gone to £lOO,OOO since.
Profits, after tax, are put at
£8325 for 1949-50—equal to
13.6 p.c. on capital as it stood
at June 30 last. The prospectus
gives the percentages of profits
to capital on a before-tax basis;
it would be more informative if
it gave the ex-tax figure.
Half-yearly figures to Dec.
31, 1950, show turnover at
£89,661 and before-tax profits at
£8275. A 10 p.c. div, was paid
for the year to June 30, 1950,
calling for £5OOO (£3325 less than
the net profit), and an interim at
the rate of 10 p.c. (calling for
£3692) was paid for the six
months ended Dec. 31 last.
Allowing for this interim div.,
net tangible assets at Dec. 31
were £75,668, on book-values.
equal to 17s. 4d. per share of
the operating co.’s paid capital.
The new capital sought
(£140,000) is wanted to provide
funds for construction of a new
factory for the manufacturing
co. on a freehold adjoining the
Rocklea State Industrial Area,
Brisbane, to add to stocks of im-
ported and domestic tobacco-
leaf, and to supply additional
working capital.
The new factory, when com-
pleted, would provide for “an
output several times greater than
the existing production limits.”
Of the need for more working
capital, the prospectus points out
that each 10,0001 b. increase in
production entails an additional
outlay of nearly £5OOO for excise
duty, which has to be paid be-
fore the tobacco leaves bond.
The co. anticipates a continued
increase in the demand for its
products. Its manager speaks of
trebled turnover when the new
factory is occupied, and of net
profits of £52,000 a year, subject
to taxation. That, presumably,
would be on a paid capital of
£250,000. The profits are ex-
pected from “operations of the
manufacturing company alone.”
Maintenance of the present
10 p.c. will depend, to some ex-
tent, upon how soon new
premises and plant can be com-
pleted and installed respectively.
Earnings at latest rates would not
be sufficient to cover distribu-
tions of £25,000 a year. There
appears to be a ready market
for most local tobacco manu-
factures where sold at the con-
trolled Australian prices.
On the board are W. J. Austin,
W. A. Baird, Henry Fulford, R.
C. Moulton, A. E. Rodwell, R.
D. Rudder and Alexander Smith.
There was a hesitation in
share prices last week. The cut
in zinc supplies disturbed some
people who have hitherto sup-
ported the “heavy” industries
consistently; and many taxa-
tion assessments are now falling
due. Interest-rates, too, are
lengthening slightly. But the
general sharemarket tone is still
very strong.
* * * *
The large expansion pro-
gramme of Associated Pulp and
Paper (Tas.) involves the issue
of 1,716,845 £1 ords. to share-
holders and employees at par.
Thomas Owen and Co., Eng-
land, will be offered additional
shares.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In ail Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SOUTHPORT AUCTION
i p
■
mmmmm
Under instructions from the Executors of the Estate
of the late J. H. Z. Ross, we will offer for sale
BY PUBLIC AUCTION
The well-known home, known as
SALAMARIS, ESPLANADE, SOUTHPORT, Q.
on the premises on
SATURDAY, 23rd JUNE, 1951, AT 10.30 A.M.
Frontage to Esplanade of 66 feet, area 2 roods. Substantially built home in
excellent order, containing 4 bedrooms, maid’s room, very large lounge and
dining rooms (arched), smoking room, kitchen, large pantry, 2 modem
bathrooms with W.Cs., spacious verandahs and shower-room with W.C.
Numerous built-in cupboards; septic system ; hot-water system to all points.
Complete with wall-to-wall carpets or feltex in halls, living-rooms and
all bedrooms. Telephones on both floors. Comfortable detached cottage
containing two bedrooms and bathroom with W.C. and hot and cold water
to bath and basin. Garage accommodation for 3 cars. Charming grounds
all under gardens and lawns, with barbecue, all in perfect order.
NO PERMIT TO PURCHASE REQUIRED.
Inspection by appointment with
FRANK MOXON (Phone 623) or
HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER (Phone 303, 837),
both of Nerang St., Southport, Q. —Auctioneers in Conjunction.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
REPORTS
SsSisssssssssaESssssssSlsHa^* tpC* |ss!s:.
t4l , tf-jO
. ..
■HiaiA
■■saaui%
New Policies issued in 1950, £42,312,61,7
£63,147,173 TOTAI FUNDS
to provide future benefits for Policyholders
and their families
Chief Office for N.S.W.:
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman.
ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. O.E.
Hon. Sir GRAHAM WADDELL, K.B.E.
Hon. F. P. KNEESHAW, 0.8. E., M.I.E. (Aust.)
Medical Director: A. HOLMES a’COURT, M.D., F.R.C.P.
J. L. GKEIO, A.1.0.A., A.C.1.5., Manager.
M. S MAINPRIZE, D.P.0.. F.F.1.A., A. 0.1.5., Assist. Mgr.
PURELY MUTUAL - NO SHAREHOLDERS
8.M14
FONDE
w
ENT724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
ours
to possess \
M
i
■
-A
mm s
i
Here is your chance
—and on easy terms, too,
if you wish it.
e DECAMERON
or
BOCCACCIO
Pulsing with the excitement and mystery of
fourteenth century intrigue, Boccaccio's vivid
portrayal of the private and public life of his
day grips the imagination as few things can.
in two volumes, well bound and beautifully
illustrated, this is the only unexpurgated
library edition of one of the most famous
classics of all time.
THE BOOK YOU HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO OWN
Post this Coupon immediately for your books
ŵ
Cross out
lines
not
required.
I enclose the full cash price of £3/3/-.
Charge to my account.
I enclose 17/6 deposit and agree to make
monthly payments of 10/- until I complete
the subscription price of £3/7/6. Postage,
1/6 extra.
NAME
ADDRESS
(if an account It not already opened the following information Is required.)
OCCUPATION .
CREDIT REFERENCES I
2
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
That limpet boarder in th
Welfare State, inflation, is be
coming more insistent in hi
demands, with 10 per cent
on this and 30 per cent, on that
A minor, yet basic, example i
the humble penny—now no
longer able to stand on its own
as a unit of coinage. Penny
fares went out during the war
penny papers a few weeks ago
and now penny postage is no
more. Requests for a new coin
the three-ha’penny piece, have
so far been met with an unequi
vocal “not practical.” But i
may come yet; and the collec
tion of pennies covering 12
centuries now on show at South
Bank may ironically represen
the coin’s life-history.
In some quarters the rearma-
ment programme is held to be
an even greater threat to
security. For instance, the voice
of intellectual Leftists, the “New
Statesman,” affirms in a front-
page leading article that “there
is nothing to be said for per-
mitting the financing of the
[£4700 million defence] pro-
gramme to undermine the real
defence of Britain —the struc-
ture of the Welfare State.” Not
even a quiet word that to do the
reverse would be not only to put
the cart before the horse, but
also to give oats to the cart and
starve the horse?
It is certainly open to question
whether the structure of the
Welfare State is solidly-enough
proportioned to withstand the
stresses and strains at present
shaking it. The shortage of
teachers and ancillary services is
expected to become serious in
about two years’ time. Those
pupils most likely to be affected
are the very young and potential
undergraduates. Not much
equality of opportunity here.
The reason why teachers are
scarce seems plain enough. They
are both middle-class and poorly
paid and have become, in the
“New Statesman’s” trenchant
phrase, “economically pro-
letarianised,” They’d rather be
able to live on their pay.
Taxation, too, is so penal that
it serves as a brake on effort
The Chancellor of the
Exchequer is known to be much
concerned about the extent o
evasion, but it is doubtfu
whether he has the machinery
to account for even a small pro-
portion of the offenders, the bulk
of whom are not bloatec
financiers, but small traders anc
the like who handle cash and
who, in many cases, are not even
assessed for income tax.
The payment by patients ol
one-half towards their spectacles
and dentures, introduced in the
last Budget, has had its reper-
cussions. Opticians and dental
mechanics foresee a falling-ofl
in trade. The reason they give
is significant; not the charge
itself, but the compromise to the
Bevanites that the check is only
a temporary one. Human nature
being unalterable by statute,
patients are expected to hold out
for two years, after which, once
more, they hope to be able to
get what they want for nothing.
Side by side with State bene-
ficence, there is also real hard-
ship, particularly among the
maimed, pensioners and elderly
people living on their savings.
Their plight worsens. It seems
a grim paradox that when the
well-to-do visitor dines expen-
sively at a West End restaurant
part of his meal is subsidised by
a hard-pressed war-widow, but
such is the truth, in effect. The
structure of the Welfare State is
not so comprehensive that it is
all-inclusive. Many there are
who are Stateless,
Political Patches
A general election is still
expected some time in the
autumn, but only if, as seems
reasonable, Mr. Attlee can't
hold out any longer.
The “Times,” in a leading
article, has accused the Labor
party of having no sense of
direction and affirms that it
lives or dies only as a reforming
party, “nourished by social
schemes.” There has certainly
been ample evidence not only
that State power is “illusory”
and that “redistribution of
income cannot solve the problem
of poverty,” but also that any
new programme must inevitably
conflict with the true demands
of the nation.
According to the “Sunday
Times,” more than a quarter o :
the trade-union element is anti
Budget, entirely because of Mr
Sevan’s resignation. The party
organisers in Transport House
can hardly look kindly upon him
for this. One step more to the
Left, and he would cause the
much-valued solidarity to disin
tegrate. Even Aneurin Bevan
daren’t do that.
Only two figures of any con
siderable stature remain in the
Cabinet, Mr. Attlee and Mr
Mprrison—and the latter has ye
to show his paces as Foreign
Secretary. Still another resigna-
tion, because of age and ill-
health, has diminished the Old
Quard, although it is fair to say
mat Lord Hall’s departure from
the Admiralty has nothing of
big occasion about it. Nor, for
that matter, has the appointment
of his successor. Lord Paken-
ham. Press comment was
factual rather than enthusiastic
and left the impression that
Lord Pakenham’s chief claim to
distinction lay in his being the
father of eight children.
Two recent visits to the St
James’s Theatre were much
enlivened by the presence, on
each occasion, of Mr. Churchill,
who was applauded all the way
to his seat. What political signi-
ficance this may have is impos-
sible to define, for one never
knows whether the acclamation
is for his lovable self, for his
past or for his future,
Oliviers’ Full Measure
Sir Laurence Olivier and his
newly-reconstructed company,
the non - profit - making St.
James’s Players, have made
amends for other shortcomings
in Festival productions. The
double bill of “Antony and
Cleopatra” and “Caesar and
Cleopatra,” in which he and
Vivien Leigh play the name-
parts, instantaneously became a
leading exhibit of the Festival of
Britain. It is open to doubt,
though, whether these two plays
are a happy choice in juxtaposi-
tion to each other, for the objec-
tive Shakspeare and the subjec-
tive Shaw are so dissimilar as
to have nothing in common but
synonymous characters. An
even wider show of virtuosity
could be made by alternating
“The Taming of the Shrew”
with “Kiss Me, Kate!”
The performances (which
include the intellectual quality
of Michael Benthall’s produc-
tion, the entrancing color of
Audrey Cruddas’s costumes and
the splendid diversity of Roger
Purse’s sets) exceed competence
by a degree of brilliance that
just fails to achieve greatness.
Unaccountably, Shaw comes off
the better. Coleridge’s opinion
that “Antony and Cleopatra” is
“by far the most wonderful” of
the histories and “a formidable
rival of ‘Macbeth’ and ‘Hamlet’ ”
is not borne out.
Vivien Leigh is superlative as
the comedy Cleopatra, kittenish,
unsure and loath to quit
adolescence, and her transition
to the mature forthrightness of
Act 111 is a tour de force. Her
tragic wanton, with an ever-
regal presence and violent
changes of mood, is magnificent
but a shade overdeliberate; it
is also estimably valiant.
Laurence Olivier’s Julius Caesar
is benign, paternal and tongue-
in-cheek. His Antony is a good
deal more subtle than it seems,
the tragedy of a good and able
man who has let a woman make
a wreck of him; but, by
gallantly subordinating his own
tragedy to Cleopatra’s, much
dramatic effect is lost and the
heart stays cold and unmoved.
Robert Helpmann, too old at
40 for the agile flights of the
ballerino, seeks equal distinc-
tion as a classical actor. His
flamboyant, expressive Apol-
lodorus, rich in mime and move-
ment and wide in range of voice,
is a better pointer than his acid,
desiccated Octavius Caesar —an
unfortunate error in casting.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
after C. J. Dennis.
*
“Yair”: Life can be very confusing.
In the place which said “Tea Rooms”
ever the door,-I asked for a cup of tea.
“Sorry, we only serve coffee here,” they
told me. “But you can get a nice cup
of tea in the coffee-lounge across the
street.” I went down to the milk-bar and
had an orange drink.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: A lady out our way has
been ordered by a magistrate to get out
of her flat within three months, on the
ground that she was guilty of annoyance
to neighboring occupiers. It seems that
she “burned sulphur in her flat to counter-
act the existence of the sole remaining
Communists in the flats.” It was not
stated whether or not the existence of
Communists in the flats had been proved,
or whether, if they were there, the sulphur
smoked ’em out. All the same, the idea
has its points and is hereby recommended
to certain trade-unions, literary societies
and suburban organisations of various
kinds.
•*, * *
“Uco”: In connection with the
Festival of Britain the Royal Mint has
issued a five-shilling piece, the first to be
minted since the Coronation crown of
1937. Its issue coincides with the 400th
anniversary of the issue of the first silver
crown by Edward VI. Introduced by
Henry VIII as a gold coin the crown has
been in and out of favor several times;
prejudice against large coins has now put
it out of general use. In the early part
of Victoria’s reign it was issued only
three times—lB44, 1845 and 1847 —but
in 1887 it was reissued for the Queen’s
first jubilee and continued to be minted
down to 1900. In Edward Vll’s Corona-
tion year it was struck again, then sent
into retirement until 1927, after which it
appeared annually until 1936, with a
special issue in 1935 for George V’s
Silver Jubilee. The coin now seems to
have established itself “for commemora-
tive purposes only,” though, when issued,
it is, of course, legal tender. The latest
crown is of cupro-nickel.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A man in Penang has found
a new use for the despised bunny. He
started eating rabbits during the war
when he was convalescing from malaria
and since then has had no relapses. When
I lived on the island another Penang man
claimed equally good results from a daily
diet of two bottles of English Bass —o f
the two this seems to me the more agree
able treatment. The proposition “I never
get malaria now” doesn’t logically follow
from the proposition “I eat rabbits” any
more than it does from “I drink Bass,”
but both men were thoroughly convinced
about it; the rabbit man has even started
a cony farm to make sure that he has on
hand a constant supply of his favorite
prophylactic. Malaria has never been
a problem in Australia. Perhaps it’s be-
cause we have so many rabbits. In that
case, by trying to eliminate the creature
by infecting it with myxomatosis, we may
be increasing our vulnerability to malaria.
* * * *
“Bul-bul”: Some interesting souvenirs
of World War II are causing concern to
at least one large joinery firm. They
imported a large quantity of deal-pine
from Norway. Unfortunately, the forest
from which the timber came was in a
war zone and the buyers are finding that
bullets embedded in it don’t exactly im-
prove cutting edges which come in con-
tact with them.
* * * ♦
“K”: Out in the great empty spaces
where men are men and women are
proud of it, the first road-link between
Darwin and Wyndham (W.A.) is now
being constructed by the Commonwealth
Department of Works. The Common-
wealth section extends for 120 miles from
Katherine to the W.A. border, where
their road will meet that being built by a
W.A. Government gang which expects to
“.... and I may say, Gunner Popkins, that it is with
the greatest reluctance and the deepest concern
for the feelings of your girl-friend that I regret
I cannot consent to your going on leave in that
lovely uniform .”
finish its end of the job by next October.
The Commonwealth roadbuilders
(32 in the gang) are using heavy
graders and bulldozers and mechanical
loaders; their boss, Kevin Graham,
an old hand in the N.T. who
did many war-time bush construction-
jobs in that region, is in constant radio-
touch with Darwin and can summon
urgently-needed supplies by plane, and
the surveyors ahead of the road-gang
use walkie-talkie sets to keep in touch
with each other.
* » * •
“Uramao”; Queer bets. Up Matamata
way, in the Auckland province, a North
of Ireland bhoy over a few beers chal-
lenged a countryman to fly from his own
backdoor in New Zealand to the back-
door of the family farm at Annaboo, Co.
Armagh, North Ireland, where he was
born and where a brother still lived. The
Waharoa farmer, V. Troughton, sought
the co-operation of the local Aero Club
“ Oo-la-la! Non, non! Eyes to ze ball! Eet ez only ze Australian mirage!”
and set out in its plane for Auckland,
thence by the usual airliners to Man-
chester, England, where he will engage
a private plane to land him at the door-
step of his ancestors.
« * ♦ •
“Chips”: Those meat-price tickets (B.
31 /5/’5l) reminded me of my first job.
I worked for a tall, lean butcher, and
nearly opposite lived “Tubby” Brown.
When I saw him leave his gate I had to
turn round the ticket on the rump steak
so that it showed 6d. instead of sd, as
marked on the other side. After many
disparaging remarks about each other’s
physique, the quality of the meat, and
much chaffering about the price, a sale
would be concluded at sjd., with both
parties satisfied.
* * * *
“Vingter”: The alleged failure of radar
in fog (B. 23/5/’5l) prompts me to ask
“Macnell” to put in
his oar in settlement
of an argument
which has raged the
past three Friday
nights among us ex-
footsloggers at the
club. One school
contends that the
Japanese Navy took
its death-k nock
owing to its not using
radar because, when
the Germans passed
the secret over, there
were no Nip word-
equivalents of the
highly technical
terminology of radar,
which meant that
only a few Jap
officers possessed the
education necessary
to understand its
manipulation. And,
because the opera-
tion could not thus
b e entrusted t o
ratings, the Japanese
did not employ
radar. This school
supports its argu-
ment with the fact
that all major
Pacific - war clashes
were, on the Allied
initiative, undertaken
at night. A semi-
official U.S. Naval journal lists the fol-
lowing exploits of Uncle Sam’s Navy,
which could not have been accomplished
had the Nips used radar. The sub. Bat-
fish lay off Luzon and, without being
herself detected, nailed three Nip subs
endeavoring to run supplies in to the
beleaguered garrison. The sub. Sealion,
using radar, crept right among a Jap
flotilla to damage the battleship Kongo.
In October, 1944, the sub, Tang in one
patrol sank 110,000 tons of Jap shipping
in convoy protected by Nip destroyers.
The sub. Sailfish sneaked right through
a Nip convoy to select an aircraft-carrier,
sank it and slipped away.
* * * *
“Sack”: Fight-fan humorists are
seldom really funny, whether they hail
from North of Ireland or south of Surry
Hills (B, 30/5/’5l). Hop Harry Stone
had the true sportsman’s opinion of the
heroes on the other side of the ropes.
In a bout with Stan Love he stopped his
opponent in six rounds. The moment
the count was finished a loud-voiced
“humorist” yelled a satirical comment on
the defeated boxer. Stone walked to the
ropes, held up his hand for silence, got
it, then asked in a quiet, carrying voice:
“Would the man who made that remark
like to come up and finish the other nine
rounds?” If the wit thought of an answer
to that one, he was too discreet to give it.
* * * *
“Hoppy”: It was on one of the last
of the sailing ships hauling grain from
South Australia to Falmouth. Three rat-
catchers belonged to the ship, their
names, like most
things on board,
of an uncompli-
cated nature
Blackcat, Grey
One, and Whitey.
After we rounded
the Horn and slid
up into warmer
climes Grey One
produced four
wee black - and -
white balls of
fluff. Unfortunately, fleas attacked the
kittens, necessitating a council of war at
which it was decided the mate and an-
other Finn, Alf, should drown them. At
the dead of night the deed was done. Two
days later, as I sat with Alf on a hatch,
Grey One walked past, pausing to give
us an eyes-right. Alf said to me sorrow-
fully, “That cat hates me. The mate
told me it was all clear when we threw
the little ones over the side, but she
knows I did it.”
♦ * * *
“C.A.L.”: Do officers and n.c.os. in
the new Army still bark at rookies
“You’re not paid to think”? Admittedly
it wouldn’t do for every soldier to ques-
tion every order, but the man in authority
who vetoes any questioning of his orders
can be a menace. I recall such a type
in an engineer unit at Wagga. During a
bridging course we were ferrying a bull-
dozer across the river, when one of the
pontoons forming the raft was badly
snagged by a sunken log. As they were
fitted with watertight bulkheads the
pontoons did not sink, so after landing
the ’dozer we were rowing the raft back
across the stream when an eagle-eyed
sergeant on the bank noticed by the list
of the vessel that it was leaking. “Get
out the pump and start pumping,” he
yelled. We answered that there was no
danger of foundering, and as the hole in
our side was a big one pumping would
be useless. “Don’t argue,” his
ultimatum. “I say you must pump.” So
while we finished the journey a cursing
sapper had to toil away with a 3in. pump,
trying to keep the ’Bidgee from pouring
through a 12in. hole in our plywood side.
MIN.
ẁ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


frusaow
m
8
ftt
NT;
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SCOXOIMB
Dewar's
neveK varies
For over one hundred years
•. . the same distinctive
character, mellow flavour,
and rich, heart-warming
qualities . • ,
DEWAR'S
"'White label”
SCOTCH WhUku
50 Gold
ant
Prize Mtfcot*
50 Cali
ant
Prlu MeJoI«
*"**:* musscis mw«» caißO
. “White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE ACE.
John Dewar & Sons I
DISTILLERS
® < *» Honor. H tymariui S.WI. PE S R COTLAN»
NET CONTENTS IPINT. 6EL OZS. -
*B«MTE{D WtWlir DISTILLED. MATURED MB BUNDED IH »
“Lord Luvus”: I would like to draw
the attention of the Rev. Robertson Mc-
Cue, secretary of the Victorian Local
Option League, who has been vocal for
years past on Australian drinking habits
and whose organisation has been partly
instrumental in making them what they
are, to a recent report in Current Affairs
Bulletin on the subject. Despite Mr.
McCue’s endeavors, the Australian is
drinking less tea than ever and more beer
than ever. Although Australia drinks
more beer than she did she still drinks
less than Britain and several other coun-
tries, yet the dissolute lady is fined or
jailed 20 times more often for drunken-
ness than Britannia,
“El Verdugo”; Tell “Pumba” (B. 6/6/’5l)
that there were two political T. I. Ryans—T.J.
of Queensland, who died'in 1921, and T.J. of
Victoria and South Australia, who died only
five or six years ago. The pair hated each other
wth a fine and fiery hate. “Pumba” is also a
bit astray about the Hansard No. 37 incident.
What happened was that Ryan and Theodore
made in Parliament in 1917 speeches under privi-
lege which were designed to affect the conscrip-
tion issue and which, had they been made in
the open, would certainly have led to their con-
viction. The speeches were rightly described by
W. M. Hughes as “teeming with the greatest mis-
representation and calculated... .seriously to
prejudice voluntary recruiting.” The Hansard
report was printed by the hundred thousand as
an anti-conscription pamphlet, with its high-
lights in black type, but under the authority of
the Speaker so as to secure privilege for it.
The G.P.O. refused to carry it, and the security
authorities seized the supplies at the Govern-
ment Printery. Billy, in a letter to Ryan, said
that he could rest assured that if the state-
ments were repeated outside the House, not
under privilege, he would know how to deal
with him. He reiterated this at a meeting in
the Exhibition Hall. That evening Ryan read
the quotations from Hansard in the Centennial
Hall. Ryan and Theodore were prosecuted, but
the prosecution failed on technical grounds of
privilege; it was followed by a series of mutual
actions which ended in stalemate. I was
“I saw your wife yesterday and she cut me dead!”
through all the incidents —in Parliament when
the speeches were made, at the Exhibition Hall
when Billy made his challenge, at the raid on
the Government Printing Office when Hansard
was seized, at Ryan’s meeting in Centennial
Hall, and at the throwing of the Warwick egg
on November 29, 1917, as Billy went south,
when, incidentally, Ryan’s State police, headed
on the platform by Sergeant Kenny, refused to
arrest the thrower when requested by Billy.
That failure in duty led to the establishment
of the Commonwealth Police.
* * * «
“Clooter”: It cheers my cynical soul
to discover that the two main political
parties in N, S. Wales have at last
realised that some things are far too im-
portant to be viewed in any sectional
light. Libs and Labs are rightly in bitter
opposition to each other over such pass-
ing questions as responsibility for black-
outs, breakdown of public transport,
shortage of milk, potatoes, onions, eggs,
bacon, matches and candles, though it
has distressed me to observe that to these
matters they frequently apply all the
sectional disagreement and bitterness one
would expect to find between a couple of
opposing football barrackers. However,
I forgive them both, for in one thing
they are apparently united —both parties
are convinced of the “urgency” of making
the getting of beer easier and beer itself
more plentiful. N. S. Wales has little
fear while her political leaders can thus
unite on really important matters.
♦ * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: In the good old
times when booze was allowed an open
slather on election days (B. 23/5/’5l) an
election was an orgy. The candidate
best able to “turn it on” certainly had a
big pull; even for “Tomato” Jessop, who
was an anti-liquor leader, kegs of beer
stood outside the Tea Gardens Hotel at
what is now Bondi Junction; Jessop
subsequently explained that the beer had
been provided without his sanction by
overzealous members of his committee.
Similar overzealous supporters took men
into and dragged men out of pubs in the
process of buying votes for their man;
their votes having been extracted, over-
boozed free and enlightened electors
were dumped on the grass or on the
street kerbs about the polling-booths.
There were booze fights even in the
booths themselves, and the day invariably
ended in brawls.
“Mu skeen”; Tell “P.E.A.” (B.
23/5/’5l) that some Australians are
trusted to behave themselves on election
day. In Victoria the pubs are open as
usual, beer permitting,
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Evidently on the strength
of his success in solving the psychological
problems of N.S.W. coalminers, thus en-
abling them to produce less coal, a psy-
chologist is reported to have been
appointed to perform a similar service
for N.S.W. railwaymen. It is to be
sincerely hoped that he doesn’t suffer the
same fate as the only real, live psycholo-
gist I ever encountered. A likeable,
sincere young fellow, he served as welfare
officer to a group of ex-servicemen in a
rehabilitation scheme. To further his
studies of the human animal in all walks
of life, he used to spend his leisure time
yarning to derelicts in the lowest dives
and “blood-house” pubs. One morning
he turned up for work with the blackest
stinker I ever smirked at. But he seemed
quite satisfied with his bargain—a black-
eye for a new experience—and wasn’t at
all selfconscious about telling me the
details: “There was a chap about half-
drunk, and to draw him out I started a
friendly argument. He was a really in-
teresting study until —did you know it is
a bitter insult to call a person a ‘pie-
eater’?” I didn’t know, either, till then,
but it seems to me that psychologists
who start “friendly arguments” with
drunks, and wind up by calling ’em pie-
eaters, ought to be psychoanalysed.
* * * *
“Zake”: The claim of the two youths
that they had that morning landed two
200-pounders brought jeers from those
at the pleasure-resort bay. But it
appeared that two elderly amateur fisher-
men were out in a dinghy in the middle
of the bay when one of them hooked his
first fish, and the other demonstrated his
knowledge of the art by excitedly going
over to the same side to watch the pro-
ceedings. Their combined weight keeled
the craft over. The two youths, who were
passing some distance away, noticed their
plight and hurried to their assistance.
Then they bumped solidly up against the
laws of physics. Ever try to skull-drag
a helpless 14-stone human from the water
into a boat? Their first attempt nearly
turned their own craft over, so they
worked the hapless pair around to the
stern, lashed two ropes to the rear seats,
dropped the ends into the hands of their
“catch” and towed them the threequarter
mile to the beach. They did make the
concession of going at only half-speed,
which, while it rendered the chances of
the appearance of an investigating sea-
lawyer rather greater, was at least slightly
easier on the anglers’ hands. The old
boys talk about sticking to cutting burrs
for their next holiday.
SOMETHING TO CHEW OVER.
ẃ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Macquarie”: The strangest—and
most entertaining—duel I ever witnessed
was a battle of ballads. It also had the
atmosphere of a Test match, with Long
Charlie representing England and the
nuggety Ted quoting for Australia. We
were a shooting-party camped for the
night when the long-’un started it by
reciting Kipling’s “The Overland Mail.”
Ted promptly matched him with Lawson’s
“The Lights of Cobb and Co.” Charlie
came back with the stirring ballad of the
ride of “The Colonel’s Son,” and was
countered with another ride—“ Where the
horse’s hoofs strike firelight from the
flints at every stride.” He followed up
his advantage with a sentimental switch
to Lawson’s “Ruth,” but struck tough
opposition in “The Mary Gloucester.” A
technical point seemed likely to crop up
when Australia claimed “The Sick Stock-
rider” ; however, England did not press
the claim, but “rung-in” Canadian Robert
Service’s “My Mate”: “I’ve been sittin’
starin’, starin’ at his muddy pair of
boots.” It was instantly tied by Gibson’s
“My Mate Bill.” The friendly battle was
still on when, marvelling at the con-
testants’ memories, we retired to the
blankets. l ong Charlie, dossing under
the springcart, was on a Kipling ballad
as I dozed off —the “Song of the Banjo,”
I think. Suddenly his voice rose dram-
atically and he sat up to deliver the
stirring: “But the word, the word is
when the order moves the line,
and the lean, locked ranks go roaring
"Excuse me, Madam, but is that seat taken ?”
down to die,” Abruptly he broke off
with a groan and fell back. Dead? No;
he’d hit his head on the axle! We
awarded the contest to Ted on a technical
knockout.
**. * *
“Bo”: We dropped in at old Ned’s hut
just as he’d finished polishing off a plate
of rabbit stew. He poured the last
of the tea out of the billy, up-ended the
tea-leaves into another plate, sprinkled
some sugar over it, splashed some milk
over it and picked up a spoon. “Y*
know,” he said as he lashed into it, “I
don’t reckon a feed’s a proper feed with-
out a bit o’ puddin’, though it should
have cocky’s-joy instead o’ sugar to give
it the real flavor!”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Muskeen”: “Ginger’s” chestnut mare
(B. 30/5/’5l) reminds me of a night mare
we had on Tarcoola station years ago.
Her name was Fisher Girl, and Harry,
the groom, had her trained to round-up
the cows in the morning, shepherd them
into the cowyard and have one bailed up
waiting for his services. It was one of
the sights of the West Darling to see old
Fisher Girl, minus saddle and bridle and
with foal at foot, rounding up a mob of
a dozen or so half-wild milkers. How-
ever, tragedy intervened one night when
the foal fell victim to snakebite. Next
morning Harry found all the cows in
the yard as usual, but in the bails was
Fisher Girl herself.
* * * *
“Dahaka Las”: Imported pests? Re-
cently, while awaiting the arrival of an
overseas vessel in Melbourne, I saw a
species of bird which I had never seen
before. Quite a flock of them in fact,
-hovering round several gaily-decorated
cars. When the liner berthed they
gathered on the wharf, displaying ban-
ners, and broke into song and cheered as
some of the passengers descended the
gangway. Their plumage was of varied
hues, though in this case the male ap-
peared more sombre than the female.
The females wore scarves bearing the in-
scription “Peace” on the front and
“Bread” on the back. They appeared to
be a type of White Dove of insipid breed.
Their cheering and song was more or less
drowned by the amused jeers and cat-
calls of many on board and by visitors
and workers on the wharf. Later they
flitted away, heading in the direction of
the Yarra Bank —perhaps their normal
nesting-place.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Carr Boyd (B. 16/5/’5l) and
a mate named George Davis were mak-
ing for Lake Wells when they struck a
pool that Carr reckoned should hold fish.
Tucker was giving out, so he fashioned a
hook from a sail-needle, used camel-lines
for a line, and, in the absence of anything
more suitable, carved a piece of flesh
from his calf for bait. So Carr said. He
had a scar on his leg, and at a meeting in
Lancefield later he showed the piece of
dried-up flesh. Some sceptics said it was
bullock’s hide—it wasn’t tough enough
for Carr’s.
* * * *
“Kros”: Evidently insects don’t feel
pain, as “Kelms” says (B. 30/5/’5l). Pain
is one of the four kinds of sensation to
which the human skin reacts —warmth,
cold and touch are the others. (Of course
extreme heat or cold is pain, too.) What
actually happens is that an impulse is
sent via the nervous system to the brain
as a warning that something may be
wrong. Pain is a quick, urgent alarm.
Man’s nervous system is very efficient;
and insects’ nervous systems are
organised on the same lines. However,
the insect warning-system quite often
seems to fail its owner—though at least
such failure ensures a painless death.
Three or four years ago an Aboliar wrote
that he had seen a dragon-fly, in, captivity,
being fed its own long abdomen, “which
had been brought under and forward by
means of forceps and offered to the in-
satiable maw. Accepted as an offering it
was devoured until no slack was left.” It
couldn’t have felt a thing!
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”; Someone has
brought up the subject of Father Long’s
nugget, and old Westralian miners are
once again speculating on its origin. The
“I’m told the marine growth is Very bad in the harbor."
“Golden Sickle” was shown to the young
priest at Kanowna (W.A.) in 1898, and
in the wave of excitement which followed
his announcement of its discovery he pre-
vailed upon its finders to reveal, through
him, the locality where it was won. The
fact that the area indicated was a claypan
didn’t prevent a rush, and many hard
things were said about the priest, who,
after all, had acted in good faith. It was
generally conceded that he had been the
victim of a hoax, which was designed to
bring business to the dying town. A
similar rush occurred at Leonora when
two prospectors “found” a big nugget
practically in the township. The Sons of
Gwalia mine almost closed down for lack
of hands while every able-bodied man in
the district joined in the search for the
reef that everyone had known for years
existed at that spot. A lot of dirt was
shifted to produce an opencut that should
still be plainly seen, and a lot of beer
was drunk, to the gratification of the
publicans, who were later accused of
having started the rumor. Considering
the ease with which rushes were started
in those days, it is surprising there wasn’t
more activity in the Darling Ranges.
There’s gold there, and one alluvial area
is worked each winter. Some of the old
geologists died maintaining that the ranges
would one day be the scene of a rich
find.
♦ * * *
“Brick E.”; Old Chips hates to see
good tools abused —especially saws, and
the first thing we noticed on arriving at
the site of the new homestead was a
crosscut lying in the dewy grass, rust-
spots forming on the steel. “Who owns
the saw?” Chips inquired. “Aw, it’s Big
George’s,” the cocky answered. “He had
it to fall that ole box; he’ll come for it
when he wants it again.” We started
work on the new place and I thought the
saw was forgotten, but at knock-off time
the old carpenter strolled over to the
neglected tool again. “Y’ know, it’s
criminal to treat a saw like that,” he de-
clared. “For two pins I’d —aw, I suppose
you don’t get into trouble for minding
your own business.” He left it there, but
next day was moved to suggest to the
cocky that the owner might be reminded,
as it was rusting. “He knows where it
is,” was the trump’s placid outlook. That
night I woke up with rain roaring on the
roof of our shed ; by the light of a hur-
ricane-lamp Chips was discarding a corn-
bag cape, his pyjama-legs were soaked,
but he looked contented. Before drying
his legs he wiped the long crosscut, cluck-
ing like a hen as he oiled it. In the
morning he sandpapered the rust spots
and oiled it again, before carefully hang-
ing the saw where the roof would not
“sweat” on it. A fortnight later some big
bloke came poking around in the long
grass. “If you’re looking for a saw, it’s
hanging up in that shed,” Chips pointed.
The big-’un sauntered across, collected
Jjis property and came back. “Listen,
mate,” he growled. “I don’t mind y’
havin’ a lend of me saw, but why ip ’ell
can’t youse blokes put things back where
y’ got ’em?”
* * * *
“Betcha”; When I was a kid, youthful
activities round our way were always
hampered by the necessity of helping dad.
A few hours fishing in the creek was a
rare delight, and our dads looked forward
to the time we’d leave school and extend
our endeavors beyond morning- and
evening-milking and a bit of wood-split-
ting. Jeff left school first. He worked
on the farm after that, eventually
taking up a bush-block for himself.
Spud joined his old man on the
wood-cutting contracts, the old bloke
giving him a bob to go to the
local hop every second Saturday night.
And Johnny’s dad bought another 20
cows to milk when Johnno joined the
goodwill payroll. It’s all years
ago; they’re grown old, and long-
established in works of their own,
and I was interested to see how
they were making out, when I visited
the old home-district, I found Johnny in
a hut behind the cowshed, his house
occupied by a married daughter who
couldn’t find another place. Spud’s corny
hands still slogged at a wood contract,
while he wailed about the labor shortage.
“Where’s your three boys?” I asked.
“Two of ’em in city jobs,” explained
Spud, “an’ I’ve just bought the other a
new truck, but he ain’t makin’ enough
yet t’ keep himself.” I went on to Jeff’s,
and found him crutching sheep. “Doing
pretty well, Jeff?” “So, so,” was the reply.
“Would’ve been awright, only I had t’
buy that property next door f’r young
Jeff. An’ now Bill’s walked out o’ college
an’ demands a place too, an’ I dunno how
I c’n get one, ’less I give him* this, an’
stay on t’ do the hard work fT him
meself.”
* * * *
“John S.”: Sorry I am to have to
support “Aestur” (B. 9/5/’5l) in spoiling
“Salmon Gums’s” romance of the eels
on Parramatta River, but scientific truth
must be supported at all cost. Home-
ward-bound along the Yarra Bank in
the early hours after a guest-night at the
Engineers’ Depot, I felt I had a touch
of the joe-willies when four slithery.
slimy, silvery
reptiles scaled
the gate of the
Botanical
Gardens at
Punt-road en-
trance. Di s-
regarding the
traffic lights,
they ski d-
wriggled across
AI exa n d ra-
avenue, mounted the parapet of Punt-
road bridge and dived into the river, but
not before my No. 9 trod on the rudder-
bar of the hindmost. When last seen,
they were making downstream, half-
submerged, in the direction of Gelli-
brand Light. It’s a pity that after their
honeymoon off New Caledonia those
eels don’t return to their original home,
because the bloke with the bent axle
could be produced as evidence of my
veracity and sobriety. But all is not lost;
since, according to “Aestur,” a brood
of elvers is due, any time, to make its
appearance in the lakes of the Gardens,
via Punt-road bridge and Alexandra-
avenue. The first member of the Council
reporting this shipping news is on a bottle
of Scotch.
DESERTED COAST.
The sea must have a place to play,
To pound at rocks and show its might,
And every slimy troglodyte
Must have a cave to haunt at night.
So there’s a reason for this stretch
Of bouldered cliffs and black-eye caves
Where unknown monsters keep their slaves
In chains of gloom and doom; where waves,
In all their roaring, lovely awe
Come smashing down, and eerie wind
With witchy hands, the tearing kind,
At faces slaps and screams behind,
Behind you, in the very dark
(Because, of course, you will not stay):
“This is the sea’s and mine; away!
This is the sea’s and mine.”
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


MAKE THIS YOUR WINTER AT
art
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
_ great barrier reef
Nowhere else in all the world
is such a wonderful holiday
possible for so reasonable a
tariff, so make up your mind
NOW to slip away to this para-
diseof sunshine, fun and gaiety.
Come and cruise, fish, swim,
play, sunbake at the world’s
finest tropical holiday resort—
Royal Hayman by the Barrier
Reef.
Though a world away in
climate and delightful pas-
times, Royal Hayman is within
easy reach by giant four-engined
flying boats right to the island.
Make this your winter for a
gay, informal holiday in
glorious tropical sunshine.
ŵ
■'-%
v
sss&g
Wt
m
m
*
m
jffk'
w*
Bookings at-~
amsett travel, service
Melbourne: MU6921; Sydney: 8W2921; Adelaide:
Cen. 2514; Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Laun-
ceston: 1760; Cairns; 2570; Canberra; F 390; Towns-
ville: 1150; Wagga; 2036, and all recognised Travel
Agencies. RHI-16
ẁ
£
K
s
n:
m
1 : .v
mx
Many men prefer life m the Navy,
Army or Air Force because Australia
provides adequately for the needs of
her sailors, soldiers and airmen
through a carefully planned system of
pay, allowances and privileges, ray
is good, and when all the extras
are added, compares favourably with
civilian awards.
A Serviceman’s pay is adjusted
periodically in relation to cost of liv-
ing changes and basic wage variations.
A Serviceman’s “extras” include food
and accommodation, clothing allow-
ance, family allowances, free medical,
dental and hospital treatment, free
travel to and from his home for his
annual leave, and congenial social and
sporting facilities for his leisure time.
A Serviceman’s future is made secure
through opportunities for steady ad-
vancement, and a pension or gratuity
on retirement or at end of engage-
ment.
Minimum age; Army and Navy 17,
years, Air Force 18 years.
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
at the following addresses
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney: Cnr.
and Phillip St. In Brisbane; Scottish Union House, 127 Uagle &t. xn aoc .
Richards Building, 99 Currie St V>«t?son S Bairacks
Square. In Launceston: Recruiting Ofhce, Paterson Barracus.
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the
following cities —Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
Launceston.
Please send me, without obligation,
full details of enlistment and service
with (indicate which desired) —
□ navy
□ ARMY
□ AIR FORCE
□ ALL J SERVICES
□ Full time
□ Part time
wm
3 */
id it
——
- ....
Issued by the Director-General of
Recruiting
r
DR2BT3-31
“Mat’s Mate”: We were staying at
Hosie’s pub in Melbourne and cdbbered
up with one of those coves who take up
the scientific notions of the day. “I bin
studying this sickeeatree,” he told us, in
the bar. “Y’ know how a bloke can get
a fixed idea? Well, be applyin’ sickee-
atree y’ can find out what causes it an’
help him get straight again. See?” “No,”
Mat said. “I don’t see.” The amateur
psychiatrist went to some pains to ex-
plain and finished up by saying, “Now,
take y’rself. Mat. You got any fixed
ideas?” Mat pondered. “Y’ know,” he
said, “when I’m on a holiday I get” ——
“Don’t tell me,” cut in the expert. “I’ll
find out,” He pulled a watch and chain
from his pocket and swung it in front of
Mat. “What does that make you think
of?” he asked. “Buckets o’ beer,” said
Mat. The cove took out a matchbox
and drummed on it with his fingernails.
“And that?” “Buckets o’ beer.” The
cove looked profound. “Where was y’
born?” he asked next, “South Oss,” re-
plied Mat. “An’ what does that make y’
think of?” “Buckets o’ beer.” The cove
fell into a brown study, emerged from
it, looked at Mat and said, “Now, why
do all them things make you think o’
buckets o’ beer?” “That’s what I started
t’ tell y’,” Mat complained. “When I’m
on holiday I don’t think of anything else.”
» * * *
“Rooster”: Those pests of golf-greens
and front-lawns —mole crickets—have
been particularly rife this year in the
southern States. And in the vegetable
garden, too, whole rows of legumes have
withered and died as a result of their
tunneling through the roots. In one such
tunnel I unearthed an entire family. Dad
made an attempt to look ferocious before
he made off through the pumpkin-patch.
Mum, on the other hand, hustled her
youngsters to a recess, where she bestrode
them like a broody hen. The mole
cricket must be one of the few insects
which will thus protect their offspring in
a tight corner. Most would leave them
to their fate,
* * * *
“Bass”; When the first 11 days of
April produced a record Westralian rain-
fall, weather-prophets remembered things
they’d noticed about flowering-gums and
“We who are about to die salute thee!”
black cockatoos. The practically rainless
May which followed brought a crop of
jeers from another school who’d read
the signs differently. Now I’ve got a sign
that I’ll back against all-comers. I’m
sharing a locality with about 5000 frogs,
whose symphony is restful, and one toad,
whose monotonous, sleep-destroying note
would madden a sheep. When that bloke
wakes me at night it’s going to rain.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Rode over one evening
to see Misery Mick, who had a bit of a
holding oh the other side of the ridge.
On the way I passed Mick’s yards, which
bore all the signs of having been in
recent and energetic use, confirmed by
the groups of weary sheep camped under
near-by scrub-patches. The yards were
a couple of miles from Mick's house, and
shortly I caught up with his 10-year-old
son, padding the hoof. The kid peered
at me wearily from dust-caked eyes and
wheezed, “Dad’s ahead. W e hid draftin
all day. ’Gripes, I’m tired.” “Hop up
behind me,” I said. Ihe kid almost
cried with relief as he did so. Half a
mile further on we caught up with Mick.
He was mounted and carried on the
saddle a young red kelpie. “G’day,”
he greeted. “Thanks f’r givin’ young
Mick a lift. Poor little beggar ’d
’ve had t’ walk it if y’ hadn’t come along.
I was givin’ me dorg a lift an’ there wasn t
room f’r three. We just had a pretty
big day, draftin’. The dorg was pretty
knocked up, what with the heat an’ dust
an’ all.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: I shot a rabbit that
was little more than fur and bones,
despite the lush pastures of a bumper
season. Though it had no conspicuous
marks of age, its front teeth had, through
malformation, grown into a pair of twin
tusks with a downwards, outwards and
inwards sweep making the fangs all of
2in. in length, before they ended in an
upturned pair of hooks which had
engaged beneath his lower lip, thus effec-
tively sealing his mouth. My shot saved
him from a death by starvation.
* * • •.
“Chuck”: Came on Larry moodily
mending a gate, and stopped a while.
“Those weaners of yours want a dose,
Larry,” I advised. “Just rode through
there. Some are in a bad way.” “I
know,” he grunted. “And they want
crutching. All those rabbits spreading
over my top-dressed country want catch-
ing, too.” “Where do they get in?”
“Coming off the hill paddock,” he
growled. “There’s a mile of fence wants
renewing there, but y’ can’t get labor any
more. Have to do it myself. And that
hill paddock’s just honeycombed with
burrows again. It’ll take me about two
years cleaning it up. Trouble is, if I don t
brand me calves first they’ll be too big to
handle. Then I’d better paint the wool-
shed to save the timber, and clean out the
dams, an’ go over them fifty acres of
fern again, and swing a couple of gates.
I must sow down that front paddock, too,
soon as I can get it ploughed.” Well,
Bill told me to remind you the district
sports are early next month,” I reported
on behalf of the sports president.
Larry shrugged. “ ’Fraid I won’t
see ’em,” he replied. “Not with
my Corriedales just started lambing.
“Oh, it’s not that,” I explained. “But
Bill says the sportsground’s too small,
and he wants every one of you committee-
men down there for five or six full days
next week to enlarge it and build a new
pavilion.”
* * * •
“R.W.”: The salad I got at the cafe
in the township re-
minded me of those
I used to enjoy in
Syria ; it had just the
faintest trace of garlic
through it, though
none was on the
plate. I asked the
waitress how Tony
managed to get the garlic effect. Does
he rub the plate with it?” I suggested.
“Oh, no” she replied seriously. “He
chews it up and blows over it.”
TOURISTS.
We tbok the long walk; saw many trees,
Six hundred varieties the guide-book said.
Shade types and softwood, native and imported.
They were very green, and to us they were trees.
The sun was our heavy and crushing haversack
That made legs unsteady and not satisfactory.
So that only in the sweet river of a tree
Could we gaze up at the day with our hats bade.
And we finished by climbing the Giant s
Stairway,
Breathless to count and using the heart-beat.
But she was the life I yearned to in the heat
And her touch made stairway starway to the sun.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


#
m
More PteGSuw
from Motoring
ẃ
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
£
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. B. G. JONES.
43-40 Hardware St., Melb.. C.L,
G.P.O. Box 71.
ẅ
Srf«vg o V‘*i
P'S
re
C 3 'SJ^’ <0 -
««2,
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE Vt
Tanquers? Gordon Bad Co. Ltd.
w
Gordons
Stands Sup I UMK&
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GLASSHOUSED LION.
How Britain’s Socialists set
the example which Persia has
followed is the theme of a
London “Financial Times”
writer. In fact, he holds that the
Persians in their nationalising
have far the better case.
If, comments the “Financial
Times” writer, coal, transport,
electricity, gas and steel are
“basic” to the British economy
and therefore suitable subjects
for nationalisation, how much
more basic is oil to Persia’s
economy? In Socialist, “Little
Englander” terms, indeed, the
Persians have a stronger case,
for whereas the “basic industries”
of Britain were largely (but not
exclusively) owned by British
subjects, the Persians are nation-
alising a basic industry owned by
foreign capitalists.
Britain’s ruling Socialists, then
writer adds, “may well be un-
easy. For not only have they
established this most dangerous
principle that it is ethically im-
perative that industries funda-
mental to a country’s economy
should be State-owned. They
have also established that com-
pensation payable for such in-
dustries shall bear no relation to
the real worth of the businesses;
that it shall be satisfied in Gov-
ernment paper, which is fast be-
coming a term of derision; and
that such Government paper
need not even be equal at the
time of its issue to the nominal
worth which has been placed
upon the assets to be acquired.”
With such an ugly collection
of chickens coming home to
roost, Britain’s ruling Socialists,
in the writer’s view, have
been desperately searching for
an alibi. The official Social-
ist case for disputing the Persian
claim seems to rest on the fol-
lowing lines. “We are not,” say
the Socialists, “opposed to the
principle of nationalisation. But
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company’s
concession is based on a legally
unassailable and freely negoti-
ated contract. The Persians may
nationalise to their heart’s con-
tent after 1993. But until then
we stand protected by the law of
contract.”
That argument, the “Financial
Times” writer comments, “is.
alas, too flimsy to stand examin-
ation. The Socialists have not
scrupled to ignore the .law of
contract when it suited them to
do so. Certain British electricity
companies, for example, were
‘protected’ by Act of Parliament
under which they had security
pf tenure until 1971. But, when
it came to the point, it was ‘We
are the masters now,’ a steam-
roller majority, and the Red
Flag to celebrate.”
That, from Britain’s point of
view, has been bad enough in
the Persian case ; the writer goes
on to point out the wider effects:
“The obvious implication of
the Socialist argument is that but
for the existing agreement the
—Akron (U.S.A.) “Beacon-Journal."
ROTATING ROLE.
Socialists would not object to
nationalisation of Anglo-Iranian.
There are often no existing
agreements to cover overseas in-
vestments which, despite two
world wars, we still retain and
on which the standard of living
of our whole population so
largely depends.
“With the mounting tide of
economic nationalism the world
over, he would be a bold man
who would deny that some at
least of these remaining invest-
ments may be threatened by pre-
cisely the arguments and methods
which the British Socialists have
employed at home.”
Britain’s ruling Socialists are
now learning that “it’s not a
sensible procedure for a nation
which by providence and nature
is perched economically out on a
limb to spend its time busily
sawing through that limb. We
can only hope and pray,” the
writer concludes, “that the lesson
has been learnt in time. And
that the more responsible
Socialists can pass on the lesson
to those of their brethren who
are still clamoring to destroy
capitalism, regardless of the fact
that without capitalism the limb
can’t and won’t support 50 mil-
lion souls.”
German Army.
Summing-up of the several
involved nations’ views on re-
arming Western Germany (from
a “World Review” article by
Cyril Falls, Chichele Professor
of Military History, Oxford);
The American View: Simple
and straightforward; first and
foremost strategic. The Atlantic
Treaty Powers Cannot defend
Germany without German aid.
Failure to defend Germany
would allow Russian forces
virtually to start off from the
Rhine. This would not allow
sufficient depth of defence to
afford a good prospect of
defending Continental Europe.
German aid would provide the
depth, and also greatly
strengthen the available forces.
Therefore, put up with lesser
dangers in order to avoid the
greatest, and call in German aid.
The French: At first complete
hostility to the whole project,
one reason being fear that it
might precipitate a Russian
attack. A second was the feel-
ing that the United States might
not fully participate or might
back out if conditions grew
easier, leaving France cheek-by-
jowl with a rearmed Germany.
Above all, the very notion of a
new German Army was repug-
nant and alarming to them.
They looked back on three wars
within three-quarters of a cen-
tury, in two of which they had
suffered complete defeat. They
could not overlook the danger
represented by their own Com-
munist friends of Russia. Since
then they have become partly
reconciled to the idea, but, with-
out counting Communist oppo-
sition, not united on the subject.
The British: A compromise
between the American and the
French, but it has probably
moved closer to the first than
to the second. What is remark-
able is the extent to which the
British Government has hard-
ened in favor of rearmament of
Germany. Before the Korean
affair it did not want the subject
mentioned. Now, with whatever
reservations, it frankly favors
the principle.
The German: Genuine paci-
fism is widespread, and outside
it there is inconsistency: on the
one hand Germans demand that,
if there is to be a new German
Army, it should be so organised
that it could not plan aggressive
war or threaten internal liberty,
which can only mean that it
should be subject to strict inter-
national control; on the other,
it is laid down that Germany
can come in only on a basis of
“complete equality.” Germany
has become rather more recon-
ciled to the idea of rearmament
but is far from united about it.
Various Voices.
British Major-Gen G. S. Hat-
ton, Chief of Staff, Southern
Command: “The urban nature
of England is more and more
driving the Services and other
wild life to compete with each
other for the few remaining
spaces.”
Conservative M.P. Oliver
Lyttleton, in the House of Com-
mons : “ ‘Thou shalt not’ is
written into the very spirit of
the Labor party. A new
mind, a new policy, and a more
expansionist outlook are re-
quired if we are not to be faced
with disaster. The road we
should travel should be one to
increased production, more in-
centives, and less deterrents;
bonuses, so to speak, for suc-
cess, and not fines,”
Leading U.S. army medico,
Major-Gen. Armstrong: “In
Korea United States troops
and those from other United
Nations have always operated
under a great disadvantage,
Korea is in many ways the
most difficult climate in
which Americans have ever
fought. It is hot and unhealthy
in summer, with a high inci-
dence of malaria, dysentery and
other war diseases. In winter it
is the coldest climate in which
our troops have ever experi-
enced actual fighting.”
American diplomat, Aver ell
Harriman: “People had said
that we were bogged down in
Greece —there could be nothing
but a stalemate. How could the
fighting be brought to a success-
ful conclusion within Greece?
We should either abandon
Greece or carry the fight across
the borders and attack Com-
munist bases in Yugoslavia. And
yet the struggle was won on
Greek soil. We heard the same
sort of thing during the Berlin
air-lift. There were those who
could see no end to it. We were
told either to get out or to have
a showdown. In those cases we
pursued the same kind of deter-
mined policies that we are now
pursuing.”
Dragnet Digest.
No Scuttle from Korea. — A Wash-
ington report in New York “Herald
Tribune” declares “there is not the
faintest chance” that the U.S. will
weaken and withdraw from Korea,
“as the Soviets have certainly hoped.”
In fact, “It is a great deal more likely,
if it begins to appear that the only
alternative is an endless bloody stale-
mate, that the U.S. will abandon the
effort to limit the war, and will adopt
the course of action proposed by
MacArthur.”
* * * *
The MacArthur Risk. —Tokyo cor-
respondent, “New York Times,”
touching on Gen. MacArthur’s pro-
gramme for extending the war in Asia
through the use of Chinese Nationalist
troops, air reconnaissance over China
and blockade of the China coast:
“The Sino-Soviet treaty hints more
than plainly that Japanese co-opera-
tion with the Western Powers Would
be regarded by the Soviet Union and
Communist China as revived imperial-
ism on the part of Japan, and would
call for action. Air and naval opera-
tions against China based on Japan
might be the last thing necessary to
touch off World War 111 in Asia.”
* * * *
German Smuggling. —Cabled that
the Western authorities are clamping
down on smuggling from Western
Germany over the border to the Soviet
zone, and about time, too, judging by
a London “Financial Times” report.
It states that, according to the Cus-
toms police in Hanover, who are in
charge of Customs control along that
part of the East-West German border
running through Lower Saxony,
approximately 200 million Deutsche-
marks’ worth of goods which were to
be smuggled to the East were seized
during 1950, including more than
100,000 tons of steel. And it is ad-
mitted that only about 30 per cent.
of all goods smuggled could be
seized!
* * * ♦
Further China Embargo. —Britain
“having taken the plunge” on the
U.N-O. embargo of arms shipments to
China, it should now, in the in-
fluential London “Economist’s” view,
try to keep in step with Washington
in further measures; “For the cry
will assuredly go up sooner or later
for a complete suspension of trade
with China and then a naval blockade
to enforce the suspension—and that
will certainly create a new risk of
war with Soviet Russia. The best
way to prevent this is to work in the
closest partnership with the United
States that can be contrived.”
* * # *
Europe's Weak Democracy.
American Professor Ferdinand A.
Mermens, in the British publication
“World Affairs”: “If we consider
democracy on the Continent of
Europe as a whole, we can only con-
clude that its weaknesses are more
impressive than its virtues. None of
the major countries seems capable of
a sustained effort without outside
assistance and pressure. In all of
them national morale is so low as to
encourage the internal and external
enemies of democracy.”


GOODYEAR
TYRES
HAVE CHANGED
TOO!
mmm
1915
1951
In the development of motor trans-
portation, tyres have played an
important part and none more
than Goodyear Tyres. Out of Goodyear’s unparalleled
experience in building tyres have come many historic
improvements resulting in greater tyre safety, longer
mileage and comfort Goodyear Tyres today are dramatic
evidence of Goodyear’s ability to give you the finest tyres
it is possible to build.
Again in 1951 ... as in every year for the last 36
years, more people, the world ever, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
OOD
rjr
YEAR
m
m
m
a.
Hi
a
a
ẅ
,
■
w
TO
ALL SIX CONTINENTS
Fly in comfort, on one ticket
all the way . . . from Sydney
to London or any country en
route, via the colourful East
... or on, across the globe,
to other continents. Speed-
bird services operate to 51
countries. Pressurised air-
craft. Complimentary meals
including drinks. No tips,
no extras to pay.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia
MALAYA • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN
AND VIA U.K, TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
X
m
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
ŵ
nr me
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(. 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia\ at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in
all cities and towns.
AI4/AU*
Specify 8.0.A.C. "Air Cargo" for your overseas shipment* I
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“For sale: Sea chest, good condi-
tion, sea chest type, with umbrella.”
■ —Suburban paper.
Sell this to the marines.
4* 4* 4*
A few weeks ago I met a man
called Harry Winter and fell in love
with him straight away. He did the
same.”
—Story in “Pocket Book Weekly.”
Hopeless competition?
_ ,4* 4* . 4*
For sale: Lounge suit, wmg arms,
sprung cushions.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser /'
Marvellous for wearing in the
office.
4* 4* 4*
According to Melbourne
“Argus”: “When Miss Pat
Woodley, Miss N.S.W., left on
her overseas trip, Press photo-
graphers searched the Orcades
for her from 9 a.m. to 5.15 a.m.
—but without success.” No
doubt about these boys —they
can even push the clock back.
“Latest gadget in American stores
is a girl fashion dummy that
describes the dress it is wearing.”
It wasn’t until after the
mechanic had okayed the
works after looking for a pos-
sible fault that the management
realised it was the latest swim-
suit it had on that had left the
automaton speechless.
Room for Improvement.
ŵ
BERT.
Proper Perspective.
ẁ
P. M.
Splitting Horsehairs.
“The owner of a horse which had
been leased to a company in Osaka,
Japan, sued the company on behalf
of the horse for wrongful dismissal
when the animal’s services were dis-
pensed with through advancing age.
The judge ruled that unless the horse
could give evidence on its own behalf
plaintiff would be non-suited.”
After a hurried consultation
with his client, counsel for the
plaintiff, Mr. Watayappa, E.C.,
announced that his client had
agreed to put his horse in the
witness-box.
The court adjourned while
workmen made the necessary
structural alterations to the
witness-box. A further adjourn-
ment was sought and granted to
allow the plaintiff to visit a
shrine to seek permission from
the spirits of his horse’s
ancestors to allow it to give
evidence.
Immediately on resumption of
the case counsel for defendant
company, Mr. Korkamagga,
E.C., objected that the oath
could not be administered to a
horse, which had no religion
and therefore could not pos-
sibly be aware of the gravity of
its moral responsibilities in tak-
ing the oath.
Mr. Watayappa: “Client
claims honorable horse most
intensiveness of sanctimonious
to point of hanging noble bean
in prayerfully several times
per diem, sometimes even
merely. Inasmuch and where-
tofore also, a moke getting on in
sere and yellow must in longevi-
tously of life have heard lashings
of oaths, many of severe juici-
ness and deepish blue of tint.
Ergo, must follow that most
sagaciously of best friend of
man in quadrupedness com-
pletely fitted to lift honorable
hoof and nod scone when asked
whole - truth - or - nothing - but-
truth gyvo.”
Mr. Korkamagga: “Submit
with extreme respectfully to
Honor that quadrupedness as
pal of Homo sapiens also in-
cludings common mong. Would
learnedly friend accept barkful-
ness and/or growlings or other
vocal issuings of honorable tyke
as answer in affirmative to
swearings on good book?”
Mr. Watayappa: “Quadru-
pedness could also embracing
cheetah. Would learnedly
opposite number suggesting that
animal more capably of taking
oath than elderly prad?”
Mr. Korkamagga: “Most cer-
tainly honorable Honor would
if findings any cheetah in
witness-box push him into clinks
pronto for honorable perjury,
He-he.”
Mr. Justice Itchiboko :
“Kindly refraining from push-
ing bib into irrelevantings, Mr.
Korkamagga.”
Mr. Watayappa: “Quoting
case-law with humble respect-
ing. In Big Charlie v, Kuma-
gutsa, defendant, honorable
alleged thief with garottings as
sideline, brought two horses as
witnesses to proving alibi. Nags
distinctly ‘neigh’ heard by good
men and true, and accepted as
answer in negativeness to ques-
tion shot by Crown Prosecutor
whether defendant had been
absentings from roof-tree on
night concernedly,”
Mr. Korkamagga: “Objec-
tionings—present case involving
only singular prad, not
doubleful of quantity.”
Mr. Justice Itchiboko:
“Objection sustaining.”
Mr. Watayappa: “Okay, must
proceed on other tack. Would
with great humbly suggest to
jury to recalling case of film
made by Yanks, much bustingly
of sides, of Francis, honorable
Army mule which shot off gob
plenty in late Pacific war of
disastrously memory. Evidence
of noble donk accepted in end
without questionness by brass-
hats.”
Mr. Korkamagga: “Gree-
tings. Melon-coverings of U.S.
Army’s top serangs not encased
in hats manufactured of alloy of
base metals as claimed by
learnedly friend by inference.
Said hats in factfully caps,
circumnavigated with much
goldful of braid and”
Mr. Justice Itchiboko:
“Kindly keeping to point, Mr.
Korkamagga. Veteran tyke for
hardness of thoroughfare. Am
aware of learned counsel’s
desireness to spin out time for
copping two thousand yen
per diem refresher. Proceed.”
Mr. Korkamagga: “Grovel-
lingness of apology. Honorable
opponent quoting case of
Francis v. top-level military
Yanks. Suggest superimposings
of human voice on to donk’s
throttle, making fake. Conse-
quent, such evidence takes nose-
dive. Also, film only hearsay
which in law inadmissibly as
evidence.”
Mr. Watayappa: “Also see-
say. Millions of fellow-Nips
plainly see projection on silver
screen.”
Mr. Justice Itchiboko: “Get-
ting nowhere fast. Witness for
plaintiff with much mokeful
patience still waiting in box
to be interrogatedly. Suggest
appropriate words as prescribed
be recited to Dobbin with push-
ing of good book under rear
onside hoof for necessary swear-
ing as witness. Court prepared
to await outcome of experiment-
ing in equine taking of oath.”
As the court official lifted its
hind hoof the star witness for
the defence lashed out, and kept
lashing till the bamboo witness-
box was reduced to a few
splinters. As it galloped through
the door Mr. Justice Itchiboko
belted his gavel down on his
desk.
“Take warrant out for arrest-
ing of moke, chargings with
desecration of Big Charlie’s
serene Court of Justice. Court
stands adjourned sine die or even
beyond that.”
BO.
Pheasant Memories.
ẃ
D. H. E.


*
w
I Jock McMurchy and Ken Stewart
harvesting the 1950-1 crop. Jock won
a D.C.M. and M.M. in the Scottish
Argyles in the First World War . . .
has been with the Stewarts over 20
years. Of Bulldogs he says: “They
save the bawbees!”
- '" t> ■'' ' .»"I
•« ■>
SS3S
h
hhhi
5<5«
*8
38USOTT 3® «?
ilxi
ill
ss
■n I
«
p
“lock and the BULLDOG
f|2f| S| q ||99
111 U II dll STEWART BROS.. SEA LAKE. VIC
HE 1939-45 war brought a crop
of labor problems to most
farmers, and the Stewart Brothers,
of Sea Lake, were no exception. So,
to cope with their large acreage, they
decided in 1940 to switch from horses
to a Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor.
Their right-hand man, Jock Mc-
Murchy, who had never driven any-
thing but horses, quickly mastered
the simple operation of their new
Bulldog. And he went on to do a
wonderful job with it, harvesting
1000 acres of wheat a year practically
single-handed right through the war
and for some years after!
Mr. Ken Stewart, son of one of the
Stewart Brothers and an ex-student
of Engineering of Melbourne Univer-
sity, reports: “This tractor has covered
1000 acres five times a year since
1940 and hasn’t been rebored. Apart
from ordinary running expenses, it
wouldn’t have cost us more than £lOO
in repairs. It has done an outstand-
ing job ... I can’t think of any
other make of tractor that would have
stood the punishment it has received,
A kerosene tractor, to do the same
job, would have been rebuilt by now
with spare parts.
“During cropping the Bulldog works
practically non-stop for a fortnight.
Never has it broken down and delayed
work. Yet, after
more than 55,000
acres of dependable
performance it con-
tinues to be very
economical. On har-
vesting we get 1
gallon to the hour,
and on ploughing
gallons. I have no
doubt that the Bull-
dog, with its wonder-
ful economy and reliability, has
played an equal part with good yields
and good prices in contributing to
our success.”
ras&£v'.'
h
8.000- wear after Shears!
I
THE Moresis around
Terappee, Vic., own be-
tween them SEVEN Bull-
dogs! Fred Moresi’s Bulldog
for instance is 15 years old
—has done 30,000 hours work
in harvesting 900 acres of
crop every year. Fred re-
ports: “After 11 years of
hard work our total repair
costs were only £l2 in parts
and £35 in expert’s time.
And after 13 years, when we
pulled the engine down, we
could find only 8000th wear
on the cylinder walls the
piston rings were in excellent
order. I don’t think there’s
a tractor in Australia with
a better record of perform-
ance than our Bulldog.”
********
U
mm
Of
mi
oil
•^c„ C »P A ff Y S^LEs
INTERSTATE REPRESENTATIVES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W. Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27 Currie St., Adelaide, S.A.
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth, W.A. K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart, TAS.
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane, Q’LAND.
Divorce Notice. .
TO “ AGNES THERESA WOOD (nee
Bosarini) sometimes known as AGNES
RODERICK married woman address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band WILLIAM CYRIL WOOD has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground that you have been
separated from him for a continuous period
of not less than five years and there is no
likelihood of cohabitation being resumed
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court Perth withm
30 clear days from the date of this publi-
cation In default of your so doing the
ease may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. DATED this *4«
day of May, 1951.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. CAHILL & DEVLIN, 41 Bar-
rack St., Perth, Solicitors for the Plalntun
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Eleanor Dark’s
Storm of Time. —5106.
To buy copy of Norman Lindsay’s
The Magic Pudding.—mi.
To buy novels by Henry James. —
5108.
To buy copy of An Outline of His-
tory, by H. G. Wells.—5109.
To buy novels by Tolstoy.—5110.
To buy copy of Ghost Stories of
an Antiquary, by M. R. James. —
5111.
To buy copy of Baker’s Hardwoods
of Australia. —5112.
Words of parody on Henry
Lawson’s poem “The Captain of the
Push.”—5098.
Information Sought.
Are there many species of jumping
spiders in Australia, and what do they
generally look like ?
The family AtticUe (jumping
spiders) is well represented in Aus-
tralia, 273 species having been
recorded. They are small or medium-
sized spiders, usually with a'thickset
body and strong legs which terminate
in two claws. They have large eyes,
particularly those at the front of the
cephalothorax; those behind on the
upper surface are very Small, and the
eight eyes are grouped to form an
ocular quadrangle. The body is usually
covered with hair. The spiders are
common on the trunks of trees, Jogs,
plants, fences, on the outside of
buildings or upon windowpanes.
They are hunting spiders, leaping
upon their prey.
* # * *
How to tan rabbitskins, using salt
and alum ?
Make a thin mixture of bran and
water and brush it on to the skins,
leave for 24 hours, then scrape and
wash well. Dissolve lib. alum and
jib. salt in one gallon hot water,
immerse the skins and soak for
another 24 hours. Squeeze out the
water, shake and partly dry them,
then immerse in a bath of warm
water and oatmeal thinly mixed.
Leave for another 24 hours, partly
dry in the shade and rub with a cloth
until quite dry. Brush and comb
the fur, trim edges. This process
gives a soft, easily-worked finish, but
if the skins turn out a little dry rub
in neatsfoot oil sparingly and work
we " in the
* * * *
Some particulars about the Tas-
manian aborigines and their habits?
The Tasmanian aborigines, who be-
came extinct in 1876, were of medium
height, had very dark-brown skin,
woolly hair, heavy brows, oval flat
arK i sma u heads, short broad noses
and large teeth. They were nomads,
food-gatherers, expert hunters and
trackers and moved in small family
groups about their territory. There
were no chiefs and no higher politi-
cal control than that which ruled the
family group. Small huts or wind-
breaks were the only shelters from
inclement weather, the unpleasantness
of which was also avoided by the
wearing of skin cloaks; otherwise
clothing was not worn. Scarification
was practised; charcoal and red ochre
were used for bodily ornament.
Drawings on bark were also traced
out with the same pigments. Neither
the spear-thrower nor the boomerang
was used on the island, where the
main weapons were the simple un-
barbed spear and a small throwing-
stick. Rafts were made from three
small logs lashed together, but could
be ridden with safety only in good
weather. The stone implements were
of the old Stone Age type inasmuch
as they were shaped entirely by chip-
ping.
* * * *
List of books on Australian abo-
rigines published since 1940, with
names of publishers and prices?
The Passing of the Aborigines, by
Mrs. Daisy Bates (Melb., John
Murray, 12s. 6d.); The Australian
Aborigines (Sydney, Angus and
Robertson, 12s. 6d.) and Citizenship
for the Aborigines (Sydney, Aus-
tralasian Publishing Cos., 35.), by A.
P. Elkin; Australian Native Policy,
by E. J. B. Foxcroft (Melb., Mel-
bourne University Press, 10s.); Abo-
riginal Women, by P. M. Karberry
(London, Routledge, 16s. 6d.);
Brown Men and Red Sand, by C. P.
Mountford (Melb., Robertson and
Mullens, 17s. 6d.); Australia’s
Coloured Minority, by A. O. Neville
(Sydney, Currawong, 12s. 6d.);
Arunta Traditions, by T. G. H. Streh-
low (Melb., Melbourne University
Press, 17s. 6d.); Songs of the Song-
men, by W. E. Harney and A. P.
Elkin (Melb., Cheshire, Bs. 6d.);
Stone Age Craftsmen, by S. R.
Mitchell (Melb., Tait Book Cos.,
275. 6d.); White Settlers and Native
Peoples, by A. G. Price (Melb.,
Georgian House, 255.); Tell the White
Man, by H. E. Thonemann (Sydney,
Collins, 12s. 6d.); and Economic
Structure and the Ceremonial Ex-
change Cycle in Arnhem Land, by D.
E. Thomson (Melb., Macmillan, 155.).
* * * *
How to waterproof material using
the sugar-of-lead process?
Unbleached calico, linen, firmly-
woven cottons and lightweight wool
and cotton mixtures can be used; gar-
ments should be made up first and
proofed afterwards. The treatment is
not a completely waterproof one, but
makes a fair showerproof material for
coats, etc. Full-proofing is almost
impossible for home-workers. In a
bucket of soft water put £lb. each
sugar-of-lead and powdered alum; stir
at^ intervals until it is clear, then pour
of! into another bucket and immerse
the garment in this for 24 hours, hang
out to dry without wringing. A
simpler method is to use prepared
commercial watershed dressing.
* * * *
What are the Four Freedoms?
The chief objectives of American
and United Nations’ policy, as pro-
posed by President Franklin D.
Roosevelt in his message to Congress
(January 6, 1941) with the stipula-
tion that they should prevail “every-
where in the world.” They are (1)
Freedom of speech and expression;
(2) Freedom of every person to
worship God in his own way; (3)
Freedom from want, economic under-
standings, which will secure to every
nation a healthy peace-time life for
its inhabitants; (4) Freedom from
fear, world-wide reductions of arma-
ments, etc.
* * * *
What were the seven wonders of
the world of ( a ) antiquity and ( b ) of
the Middle Ages?
(a) (1) The pyramids of Egypt.
(2) The Gardens of Semiramis at
Babylon. (3) The statue of Zeus at
Olympia, the work of Phidias. (4)
The Temple of Diana at Ephesus.
(5) The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus.
(6) The Colossus at Rhodes. (7) The
Pharos of Egypt, the walls of Baby-
lon or the Palace of Cyrus. ( b ) (1)
The Coliseum of Rome. (2) The
catacombs of Alexandria. (3) The
Great Wall of China. (4) Stonehenge.
(5) The Leaning Tower of Pisa. (6)
The Porcelain Tower of Nankin. (7)
The Mosque of St. Sophia at Con-
stantinople.
Brief Answers.
T.L.: The King’s Police Medal was
instituted in 1909 as a reward for acts
of exceptional courage and skill or
conspicuous devotion to duty to
officers and men of any police force
or organised fire brigade in the
British Commonwealth. Not more
than 120 medals may be awarded in
any one year. Bars may be added
for additional service P.N.: Nor-
folk Island is a territory of the Com-
monwealth of Australia administered
by the External Territories Depart-
ment, Canberra, through an Adminis-
trator. Its total area ig 8528 acres,
the island being about five miles long
and three miles wide. The island is
930 miles from Sydney and 400 miles
from New Zealand. Its population in
1947 was 938 JJ.O’S.: Rev.
Daniel O’Connell, Director, River-
view College Observatory, Riverview
(N.S.W.), estimates that in the past
30 years there have been roughly be-
tween 1100 and 1200 major earth-
quake shocks. (2) The most conveni-
ent source of detailed information is
Gutenberg and Richter’s Seismicity of
the Earth, published by the Princeton
University Press, 1949... .W.R.C.:
J. H. Heaton’s Australian Dictionary
(George Robertson, Sydney, 1879), P.
Mennell’s Dictionary of Australasian
Biography (Hutchinson, London,
1892), Fred Johns’s An Australian
Biographical Dictionary (Macmillan,
Melbourne, 1934), Percival Serle’s
Dictionary of Australian Biography
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 1949).
A.L.McK.: Write Australian
Journalists’ Association, 145 Collins-
street, Melbourne R.J.8.: (1) Pro-
nunciation is Too-san Loo-ver-tiir. (2)
A split-infinitive is an infinitive with
an adverb between the “to” and the
verb; e.g., he intends to really be-
gin. “To be really understood” is not
an s.-i., because the “to be,” which
is the infinitive, is not broken—
R.M.8.: (1) There is no disease known
as cosmophylia. There is, however, a
condition of the blood known as
eosinophilia, so called because of an
increase in the number of white blood
cells called eosinophils. This occurs
most commonly in allergic diseases
such as asthma and hay-fever and in
parasitic diseases such as hookworm,
tapeworm, hydatid, ascaris infesta-
tions, bilhazia, etc. (2) Yes, if one had
the disease causing the eosinophil
reaction of the blood for that long.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
S 3
%
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SIDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
The Myth of the
"Terrible Tonsils"
Once “yanked” out on the
slightest pretext, now throat
specialists increasingly believe
an inflamed, swollen tonsil is
probably just doing its job—
trapping, draining off infection
—building up immunity for
the future.
June Reader’s Digest brings
you a report of the medical
profession’s new views on this
subject—why you, as a parent,
should think twice about hav-
ing your child’s tonsils
“yanked” out.
June Reader’s Digest—now
on sale at all newsagents and
bookstalls, one shilling and
sixpence. Get your copy today
and enjoy the wealth of stimu-
lating articles condensed from
leading magazines and current
books.
Sydney Town Hall
MONDAY, JUNE 18
Maurice N. Cohen
presents
ZOLTAN
TESZLERI
Internationally Famous Pianist
prior to his American tour
Plans now open at Nieholsons and
Palings
Prices 10/-, 7/-, 57-
Tickets mav also be secured at Town
Hall Box Office.
Missing Friend.
TO RUBY SHAW formerly of 131 Western
Street Brunswick.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband ROY WILLIAM SHAW has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’a office of the Supreme Court
of Victoria in Melbourne on or before
the 7th day of July the hearing of the
suit may proceed in your absence If you
intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer on or before the 17th dav
of July 1951. —LEWIS WILKS, of 879
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
lIS THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT EDWARD BAMGARTEN
late of Careoar.—TAKE NOTICE that
DORIS BAMGARTEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 414 of 1951 on the ground
of Desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the Third
day of August 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MES-
SIEURS LIGHTOLLER, TALTY &
BROOKE, Solicitors, 2b Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN the" supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER ALFRED DAVIS (also
known as WALTER ALFRED DURRANT)
late of Farrell Avenue King’s Cross. —
TAKE NOTICE that FREDA ELIZABETH
DAVIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 254 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse foi
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of August
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. PRIM-
ROSE. YOUNG & PRIMROSE, Solicitors.
12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY OLIVETTE CUNNINGHAM
formerly of No. 5 Brighton Boulevarde
Bondi—TAKE NOTICE that DANIEL
JOHN CUNNINGHAM has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce (No. 4501 of 1950) on
on the ground of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
24th day of August 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY.
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 350 George
Street, Sydney■■—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY THOMAS WILLETTS for-
merly of No. 18 Townsend Street West
Bankstown.—TAKE NOTICE that MERL
DOROTHY WILLETTS has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 4443 of 1950) on the
ground of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 24th
day of August 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 350 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
three
ŵ
famous
companions
ẁ
THE JOWETT JUPITER
“Jupiter litre Sports Con-
vertible with glass side win-
dows. First and second in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally, 1 £
litre class.”
ẃ
THE JOWETT JAVELIN
“Javelin 1\ litre full 5-seater
Family Saloon. Fourth in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally, 1$
litre class.”
ẅ
THE BRADFORD
Available with station waggon
body.
1 HESE three have come from the same famous Yorkshire stable of Jowett
Cars Ltd., who have been making cars for nearly half a century. Each, in its
own class, has an outstanding performance. Thus the Jowett range caters for
every taste. The Jupiter is the fast litre sporting car. The Javelin is a
remarkably comfortable, well sprung and economical family car with a very
lively performance. The Bradford Commercial range, available with station
waggon body, is known all over the world for its amazing economy and sturdy
reliability.
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney: Liberty Motors (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd., Brisbane; British Engineering
Appliances Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Perth; Donald Gorringe
Pty. Ltd,, Hobart.
Made in Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Storm in Italy.
Alice Danciger, showing land-
scapes from Italy at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, goes in for
smooth, shiny surfaces, cum-
brous and massive forms and
crowded villages struggling up
mountainsides to a dark-blue
lightless sky which could be seen
only in a nightmare and which
remind one of a celebrated
Chinese poem: —
A woman is a flight of steps
Leading to calamity.
Not, of course, that this type
of painting is restricted to
women ; on the contrary, reflect-
ing the Teutonic gloom we see
here in Orban, with perhaps, like
so many other contemporary
paintings, a distant reminiscence
of El Greco’s “Toledo
Cathedral,” it represents an
essentially masculine weight and
gloom which Miss Danciger may
not really feel: most of her
paintings look more like exer-
cises in a fashionable manner
than the genuine moods of a
tourist sunk, in sunny Italy, in a
private mysticism of abysmal
despair, which is what they
would have to be to succeed.
Still, Miss Danciger un-
doubtedly has talent, and may
be coming through this phase to
some expression of her own.
There is a wholly unexpected
charm in “Little Venetian”—a
portrait of a small girl—and
something rich and vital, if still
sombre and heavy, in the big
still-life of “Limes” ; and two
of the villages, “La Chiesa
Nuova” and “Positano,” climb
very firmly and dramatically up
their dark mountains.
It comes as a surprise to learn
that master-mariner Captain
Brett Hilder, who is holding a
show (George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne) of watercolor portaits
of Pacific Island natives, is a
son of the celebrated “J.J.” His
father was sensitive to nature,
but an inveterate romantic. His
son’s show is an ethnographical
survey of the racial admixtures
of that watery melting-pot and
very well done. He frames his
pictures in teak originally cut
from the forests of Borneo and
Java, and salvaged by the artist
from the wrecks of ships that
have plied the Pacific for the last
80 years—some of the scarred
ones come from the Macdhui,
burned and bombed at Moresby.
He makes his mounts from
native matting, each from the
subject’s own island or district.
He is a skilful draughtsman, and
he paints a striking picture of
the dish that time and circum-
stance are cooking in the
Pacific.
4* 4* 4*
John S. Loxton, on whom has
fallen the mantle of the late
Harold Herbert, has a big show
of watercolors at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne. He has the same
facility as his mentor, and, what
is more, can carry it into oils,
and he has the same eye for the
picturesque and an associational
liking for the same sort of
subject. He doesn’t see deeper
than the man-in-the-street sees,
but he has the skill to put it
down on paper, and his pictures
are selling like hot cakes.
Music.
Those who heard Richard
Strauss’s “Elektra” had fair
warning of what was in store
for them in the same com-
poser’s “Salome,” the concert-
version of which was given by
Marjorie Lawrence and other
singers with the Sydney
Orchestra under Eugene
Goossens. As in the former, it
developed into a battle between
orchestra and singers, the orch.
easily winning on points, except
against Miss Lawrence, who
again sang with fine power allied
to splendid tone, her dramatic
climaxes being extraordinary.
But the orchestral part, a welter
of sensuality and horror, begins
to cloy soon after the un-
melodious vocal score has
reduced one to a state of frus-
tration —always excepting when
the dramatic soprano was sing-
ing at full throttle. The thank-
less task of singing the other
roles fell to Florence Taylor,
Mary Adams, Ronald Dowd,
Allan Ferris and James Wilson.
+ + 4 1
It was almost a foregone con-
clusion that when Yehudi
Menuhin and his sister, Hephzi-
bah, collaborated in a sonata
recital it would be artistically a
fully-satisfying experience. So
it proved at their first concert at
Sydney Town Hall, given over
completely to the classical
masters. The restlessness that
pervades the first part of Schu-
mann’s Sonata in D Minor is
reflected mainly in the piano ; it
was strong playing by Miss
Menuhin, In the Mozart, in A
Major, K. 526, a delicate balance
was held, the pianist excelling
herself in the tripping onrush of
the finale. Beethoven’s “Kreut-
zer,” the third big work, found
the pair at their best in its tem-
pestuous rhythms.
4* 4* 4*
There must be something of
a chameleon quality about the
Beethoven Violin Concerto. A
few years ago two satisfying yet
vastly different performances of
the work were presented by
the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra with soloists Simon
Goldberg and, later, the unfor-
gettable Ginette Neveu. Young
Australian violinist Beryl
Kimber chose the Beethoven for
her Brisbane appearance, and
once again the work seemed
tailored to her personality.
There was none of the authority
of Goldberg or the passion of
Neveu, but the concerto
mirrored freshness and beauty
and, in the second and third
movements, all the gravity and
gaiety of youth. Michael
Bowles, Irish visitor from New
Zealand, fitted the orchestra to
this interpretation. He made a
good impression with his lovely
opening performance of Handel’s
Concerto Grosso No. 9, and it
seemed a pity that such a genial
Irish personality should have
been condemned to conclude so
happy a programme with yet
another performance of Tschai-
kovsky’s Fourth Symphony.
Stage.
Mosman Theatre Guild is
presenting A. P. Dearsley’s
“Fly Away Peter” (produced by
Gladys Beard), a comedy of
English suburban life dealing
mainly with the friction engen-
dered by a mother’s reluctance
to part with any members of ner
family as they grow up. The
family was comfortably and
pleasantly represented by Gladys
Beard and Don Beard as the
mother and father; Margaret
McRae as the rowdy juvenile
daughter with a black-eye scored
at hockey, some geometry
trouble and developing romantic
problems; and Bill Boardman
as her young brother, Tony
Standen, as the elder brother,
expressed his discontent with
home-life and determination to
go to Africa by glowering at the
boards too much and too
sullenly; Roger McDougall, as
another gangling juvenile and the
play’s main font of adolescent
comedy, took to his part very
well. Patrick Bowley, as the
wealthy sophisticate who goes
off with the family’s elder
daughter, wasn’t a very convinc-
ing wealthy sophisticate, which
was probably the main reason
that Cortina Cowie, as the elder
daughter, didn’t seem as excited
as she might have about the
business.


ŵ
• • * Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards, Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are rolled in filigrained paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
cONSISTjSjyy-.
CORK
wm
m*.
m
m
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
ear . Replacement,
ended Etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
84 p.c.
1942 .. 934,619 994",500 1,622,338 4,666,646
1943 .. 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 .. 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 .. 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
8J p.c.
1947 . . 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
9 p.c.
1948 .. 1,241,504 1,053,000 1,802,819 6,823,115
From inner res. £123,806.. 1,926,625 6,823,115
104 p.c.
1949 . . 1,206,762 1,228,500 1,904,887 9,121,945
9jj p.c.
1950 .. 1,231,571 1,111,500 2,024,958 9,666,880
Share premiums, £285,989 2,310,947
9 p.c.
1951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
The fall of £228,169 in the profit was
this year’s surprise for the market. Last
year it was the £7 premium charged on
each of the 117,000 new £2O shares then
issued. Investors in C.S.R. scrip, how-
ever, seem to have a capacity for absorb-
ing these kinds of shocks and feeling little
the worse for them afterwards.
There is no doubt that the premium
charged on the 1950 share-issue was the
result of concern about the ever-increasing
cost of replacing plant—a kind of infla-
tion that ordinary taxation allowances in
respect of depreciation are proving
wholly inadequate to cover. The board
says, in respect of the latest year’s reduced
profit, that “it is mostly the result of
seasonal conditions, restrictions and
shortages, and the uncontrollable lag in
adjusting prices to continually rising
costs.”
Abnormally wet weather in Australia
brought about a reduction of 100,000 tons
in raw-sugar production (897,000 tons)
compared with the estimate. In Fiji, also,
the crop harvested was small, and pro-
duced only 96,000 tons of sugar. Whilst
the C.S.R.’s Australian refineries pro-
cessed a record tonnage of sugar during
the year, the quantity fell short of the
demand, and was 70,000 tons less than
the capacity of the factories.
“This loss of production,” says the
board, “was due to shortage of labor,
shortage and poor quality of coal and
public electricity blackouts. These and
other deficiencies also prevented higher
production at our building-materials
factories.”
Last year’s lower profit, which was
£84,698 short of the 9 p.c. (9y p.c.
previous year) div. requirements (it
represented 8.3 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 10.5 p.c. in the
preceding term), was written after pro-
viding £527,115 (up £51,315) for deprecia-
tion, and setting aside £200,000 (an un-
changed figure over the past three years)
“towards meeting the increase in replace-
ment costs.”
The C.S.R. has taken a leading part in
emphasising the necessity for allowing
industry tax-free provision for deprecia-
tion on a much larger scale than at
present in order to meet the cost of plant-
replacement when that contingency
arrives. The Bulletin has also drawn
attention in the past to what the C.S.R.
aptly terms “capital erosion.” London
“Economist” in January this year gave
support to the argument. There is little
doubt that today many concerns, because
of the high cost of replacing plant and
stock, and the fictitious nature of so many
profits in these inflationary times, are
really paying dividends out of capital. As
the “Economist” remarked, “Unless there
is a change of attitude on the basic
problem of capital-replacement, the
damage of a few more years of debilitat-
ing inflation may be too great to over-
take.”
The C.S.R., of course, is probably in a
stronger position than most when it comes
to questions of depreciation reserves.
But however adequate—or more than
adequate—provision for replacement was
in the past, where plant has a life of only
10 or 20 years, all previous estimates of
conservatism are being rapidly dissipated.
The co.’s awareness of this position is
indicated by the fact that whereas in 1939
replacement and depreciation reserves
represented 36.7 p.c. of the book-value of
refineries, mills, etc., at March 31 last the
ratio had risen to 57.8 p.c.
Apart from adverse seasonal condi-
tions, the sugar industry has more recently
suffered a knock through the completion
of an agreement by Canada to buy sugar
from Cuba in place of the Australian
product. The ultimate effect of this re-
mains to be seen, but it is a fact that
higher overseas prices in recent years
have helped to keep the price down to
the Australian consumer. Any difficulty
in marketing our export surplus at previ-
ous prices would impose additional
burdens on the industry. f
The co. now has extensive interests in
the making and marketing of alcohol of
various kinds, carbon dioxide, chemicals,
building materials and canned Fijian pine-
apple. The major enterprise, however,
remains the refining of most of the Aus-
tralian sugar crop, with growing and
milling activities on the side.
Last year the co. added £916,061 to the
book-value of refineries, mills, etc., which
now totals £17,668,528. This and a reduc-
tion of £547,954 in stock-values
(£7,563,375) were the most significant
movements among assets during last
term;
1948. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £12,480,000
Sundry creditors 8,998,884 7,377,521 5,451,686
Suspense account 3,017,235 3,281,289 3,499,627
Employees’ funds! 105,801 78,723 64,920
Employee de-
bentures .. 119,390 150,540
Final divs. .. 702,000 585,000 561,600
Refineries, mills,
etc 13,417,195 16,752,467 17,668,528
Steamers . . 276,316 288,486 291,601
Distilleries . . 535,747 675,331 715,114
Premises .. 229,626 241,921 243,026
Stocks.. .. 5,671,342 8,111.329 7,563,375
Book debts, etc. 2,682,152 3,284,321 3,520,833
Investments .. 4,627,458 4,120,386 8,957,358
Cash and de-
posits .. 534,533 1.359,520 715,694
! Provident and benefit funds.
An addition of £780,000 to the share-
register, plus the share-premiums, and
the transfers to the replacement and
depreciation fund helped in reducing the
debt (£5,451,686) by £1,925,835.
Investments in a number of projects
outside the sugar industry are not yet
fully in their stride. But, taking the long
view, the co. is as well equipped as any
to participate in future Australian indus-
trial expansion, which is the magnet at
present attracting so much attention to
investments on Australian Stock Ex-
changes.
At £69 the fully-paid shares return
2.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible backing, including the replace-
ment and depreciation reserve, amounts
to approximately £2 for each £1 of capital
paid up.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 11.819 6J p.c. = 12,033 53,540
Loss.
1942.. 628 Nil 52,912
1943.. 6,519 Nil 46,393
Profit.
Plant reserve, £492 .. .. .. 46,885
1944.. 8,032 2J p.c. = 4,813 3219 50,104
1945.. 8,205 3| „ „ 7,220 985 51,089
1946.. 12,014 5 „ „ 9,626 2388 53,477
1947.. 11,519 6i „ „ 12,033 52,963
1948.. 14,398 74 „ „ H. 439 52,922
1949.. 12,379 „ „ 12,033 346 58,268
1950.. 16,214 74 „ „ 14,439 175 54,043
Rising costs and shortages of labor,
coal, electric-power and some raw
materials as well as transport difficulties,
are now the major preoccupation of
industry, whether in its day-to-day opera-
tions or in its thinking about the future.
These factors are still holding back pro-
duction and pressing heavily against a
ceiling of severely-controlled selling-
prices in the brick- and tile-trade, which
is thus unable to earn more than
moderate profits, despite price inflation
and the fact that demand continues to
lengthen its lead over output—in some
cases output is as much as a year behind
the order-book. According to the Com-
monwealth statistician, Australian pro-
duction of bricks for 1949-50 was 581
million (81.3 p.c. of the 1938-39 figure),
or 31 million less than for the preceding
year. Main cause of the contraction was
the nation-wide industrial hold-up fol-
lowing the mischievous coal strike of
mid-1949.
This Hoffman co., which also turns
out sanitary-ware and pottery, extended
its field of operations last term by leasing
the Electricity Commission’s brickworks
at Yallourn. The co. also has a leg in
on the trade on the south side of the
Yarra through its shareholdings in brick
and tile concerns at Auburn, Oakleigh
and Blackburn. But only two of its own
three kilns at Brunswick were in opera-
tion. Still, increased mechanisation and
the Yallourn deal helped both output
and costs. So, after allowing for depre-
ciation (£5791, up £1884) and taxation
(£5568, up £2303), the board was able
to show £2835 more profit at £15,214,
which was 7.9 p.c. on capital as against
6.4, 7.5, 6, 6.2 and 4.2 p.c. back to 1945.
The div. was lifted from 6 \ p.c. to p.c.
again, making the average distribution
5.5 p.c. over the last seven years.
However, because of the failure of
profits to respond more fully to current
inflationary trends, the market for the
co.’s f.-p. pound shares lacks the
buoyancy of scrip in other sections of
trade and industry. At 265. 6d. (255. a
year ago) the return is 5.8 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
255. 7d. With little or no slack to be
taken up in the economy, it would be sur-
prising if defence requirements can be
met without inc-'ising the pressure on
both ■ anJ costs. Output
will depend u!y upon the labor
position.
The co. has a sound financial structure:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Sundry
creditors .. 18,139 22,255 26,299 29,405
Final div. .. 7,220 9,626 7,220 9,626
Freeholds .. 73,443 72,770 73,706 73,889
Plant, etc. . . 53,838 55,687 59,665 66,867
Shareholdings 44,946 44,946 44,946 44,946
Stocks . . 25,045 27,030 28,902 30,670
Book debts . . 15,401 22,148 20,911 23,824
Cash, etc. . . 58,177 54,750 51,184 45,406
Excluding shareholdings, there was a slip
of £6609 in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£60,869) last term, due to a net
addition of £7202 to plant, etc.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
Electricity Meter and Subsidiaries.
Net f- Divs. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1944.. 61,944 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 50,241 11,703 138,989
Share premiums, £13,650 .. ~ 152,639
Added intangibles, £4109 .. .. 148,530
Net reduction reserves, £44,765 .. 103,765
1945.. 62,285 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 51,921 10,364 114,129
Share premiums, £154,781 .. .. 268,910
P. & I. deficits new subsids., £26,695.. 242,215
Add intangibles, £25,542 .. .. 216,673
Net addition reserves, £12,391 . . 229,064
1946. .118,978 6 p.c. 7i,p.c. 85,992 27,986 257,050
Share premiums, £123,874 .. .. 380,924
P. & 1. credits new subsids., £64,051.. 444,976
Net additions reserves, £3199 .. ~ 448,174
Added intangibles, £87,019 .. .. 361,155
1947. .123,766 6 p.c. 7J p.e.100,377 23,389 384,544
Share premiums, £163,176 .. .. 547,720
P. & 1. credit new subsids., £2821 .. 550,541
Reserve adjustment, £6609 .. .. 557,150
1948. .155,944 6 p.c. 74 p.c.117,468 38,476 595,626
Net reduction intangibles, £ll6 .. 595,742
Addition reserves, £2359 .. .. 598,101
1949. .177,526 6 p.c. 8 p.c.180,991 46,535 644,636
Net addition intangibles, £243 .. 644,393
Addition reserves, £169,015 .. .. 813,408
1950. .347,823 6 p.c. 12| p.c.201,298 146,525 959,933
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
The record profit was equal to 21.9 p.c.
on ord, capital, allowing for pref. re-
quirements, compared with 10.9, 10.1,
9.3, 10,1 and 7.3 p,c. back to 1945, Also,!
to stock-and-plant depreciation contin-J
gency reserve £300,000 was added (makingj
it £600,000), compared with an addition
of £158,000 in the preceding year. There
was, further, an unexplained addition o$
£169,015 to general reserve.
Obviously a very good year ; and theJ
12 j p.c. handed to shareholders in]
the holding co. (compared with 8 p.c. l
in the preceding year) was well)
covered. But the outlook is not)
without its problems ; and the directors,!
at the half-way mark in the current
term, have warned shareholders that!
it isn’t certain that the volume of out-i
put will be maintained. So far 19511
output is about level with that for the;
same period of 1950. But manufacturing)
conditions are becoming increasingly diffi-
cult because of raw-material and mam
power shortages and blackouts.
However, some large contracts are ex-
pected to be completed by the end of thel
year. Westinghouse Rosebery has orders)
from electricity authorities totalling more)
than £lO million, and another subsidiary)
has railway-equipment contracts running)
into £4,250,000. There are over a score'
of subsidiaries, and a new one, Common-*
wealth Ceramics, Ltd., is to be added
to the list on a share-exchange basis.
The E.M.A.I.L. group makes electricity
meters and motors, magnetos, switchgear,
radios, refrigerators, vacuum-cleaners,'
washing-machines, plastics, cutlery, petrol]
and other pumps, oil-engines, air-condi-'
tioning apparatus, irrigation and telephone;
equipment, gas and hot-water appliances 1
and kerosene-heaters.
Various subsidiaries are spread through-
out Sydney industrial areas, and there)
are factories at Melbourne and Orange)
(N.S.W.). Disposal of the holding co.’s*
interest in British Oil Engines (Aus-!
tralasia) Pty., Ltd., has resulted in a
capital profit of £144,900, which will be 1
brought into the 1951 accounts.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that the'
organisation could do with more capital:
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries and
Subsidiaries.
1947. 1949. 1950.
Parent’s capital.. £1,384,666 £1,662,382 £1,662,382
Outside interests* 47,650 58,418 87,296,
Debentures . . 253,333 854,625 354,625
Sundry creditors! 1,570,731 2,953,688 3,576,441
Final divs. .. 66,881 78,119 132,803
Freehold, plant, etc. 989,957 1,022,041 983,7941
Stocks . . . . 1,671,899 2,796,643 3,203,146
Debtors’ balances,
etc 935,023 1,678,913 2,491,393;
Cash and deposits 86,373 167,319 610,840'
Intangibles .. 259,596 259,336 259,578
Inter-co. balances 15,087 86,951 84,307-
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
Stock-values are still rising fast. Last)
year they increased £406,503 (toi
£3,203,146), compared with a growth oh
£359,388 in the preceding year. Since
1947 the book-value of stocks has gone
up by £1,531,247, while paid capital (now)
£1,662,382) has increased in the same*
time by only £277,716. And debtors,
which rose £812,480 last year (tol
£2,491,393), have expanded £1,556,370 in
the past three years.
During the same period the group has'
added £575,389 net to ordinary reserves
and £600,000 to contingency reserves. But 1
the co.’s vigorous trading expansion has
been financed mainly by increases in the
outside debt; last term debentures and
sundry creditors (together £3,931,066,
including tax provisions) were £2,107,002
greater than in 1947. The growth last
year was £622,753.
At the moment the co. has the trend of
world prices on its side; stock-values at
market price are probably a good deal
above book-values. And the group has a
considerable reserve held against possible
fluctuations. Further, it is always pos-
sible that defence preparation will call a
halt to civil production, which would
accelerate demand for what finished pro-
ducts the co. already has on hand.
Taking the long view, however, some
consolidation of present achievements in
manufacturing and trading appears desir-
able ; and the board seems to be aware


Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
*\DO
svj
-v
iff Voes PftifiHT
3b anp Btre
For ’tis their nature to,
But never more I’ll do the like,
I’ve better work to do;
I’ve barked all night, from dark till light,
Great strife did I endure,
But I’ll bark no more, for I’ve been to
store
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
From Scotland
—every
precious
drop
mm
r 7
Pi
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK s WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
w
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
ŵ
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
ẁ
CHAMPION
■Mi:
(^(5.
(fatMctomifa
td tkeyoi&n
WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
ẃ
World's favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
cut
%
The Umbrella
First the shade of Priests and
Kings,
Now the common protector
of the millions.
of this, as evidenced by trans-
fers to contingency and other
reserves.
The market is prepared to
value the co.’s scrip on the div.-
rate alone. Following announce-
ment of the year’s record results
and the lift in the div. from 8 p.c.
to \l\ p.c., the parent’s ords. rose
in the market to 665. 6d., com-
pared with a “low” of 475. 6d.
this year and 335. in 1950. Yield
at the latest price is 3.8 p.c. on
a 12 j p.c. div, basis, and the net
tangible backing 325. 4d. a share
on book-values, excluding 7s. 7d.
a share in the stock-and-plant
contingency reserve.
K.M. Steel Products
Following announcement of a
one-for-one bonus issue in May,
the £1 shares in K.M. Steel
Products, a Richmond (Vic.)
manufacturer of steel window
sections, partitions, cabinets,
fabricating and reinforcing steel,
rose steeply to £5 35., compared
with 675. early in April.
The co. was formed originally
to make reinforcing steel for
concrete work, and evolved what
is known as the K-M method.
Since 1913 it has been making
complete reinforcing for
concrete construction. Later on
electrically welded fabric for
building and road-construction
was developed. Metal-window
manufacture began in 1928. The
proprietary co. was formed into
a public concern in 1938, when
paid capital became £105,000,
of which £30,000 was new pref.
money and £15,000 new ord.
capital.
In 1941 a further 70,000 £1
ords. were offered at par, and
paid capital has since become
£200,000 by the issue of 25,000
ords. Part of the earlier issue
was usgd to establish the co.’s
own rolling-mill in order to
ensure supplies of light steel
sections for window-frames and
other work. This period of ex-
pansion was followed by a run
of lower divs.; the rate dropped
from 10 p.c. in 1941 to 5 p.c. in
1942, at which figure it stayed
until 1946, when 7 p.c. was
paid. The rate then climbed to
12 p.c. in 1948, and it has been
maintained ever since. For the
year to June 30, 1950, net earn-
ings were equal to 28.6 p.c. on
ord. capital, so that the 12 p.c.
div. was an easy matter.
At the annual meeting in
November last chairman W. H.
Murphy said that the co. was
obtaining increasing benefit from
its planning and efficiency in
production, which was enabling
it to meet the increasing demand
for its products in every State.
He added that “with our long
and specialised experience in
steel-window manufacture we
find the Australian steel and our
own steel sections superior to
any previously imported.” A
20-acre site has been bought for
a N. S. Wales factory at Banks-
town, near Sydney.
The co.’s finances are parti-
cularly strong. Though, with a
paid capital of £200,000, the co.
owed £129,923 last balance-day,
it had cash and Commonwealth
bonds of £151,692, debtors of
£64,809, and stocks of £51,147.
Land and buildings figured at
£103,646 and plant at £94,161.
A large and expanding
demand for its products appears
to lie ahead of the co. It is
obvious, too, that the working
assets of the concern are earn-
ing a highly satisfactory rate. In
the light of recent history there
is some justification for share-
holders hoping that an increase
in total distributions will follow
the doubling of the ord. capital.
Profits for 1950-51 will soon be
known by the management, and
there is no reason to believe that
they will be worse than those
for last year, when the earning-
rate was sufficient to cover the
ord. div. more than twice.
Base-metal Scarcity
Last week the scarcity of base
metals was brought home more
forcibly than ever by the an-
nouncement from the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. that supplies of
spelter to Australian manufac-
turers would be cut by 25 p.c.
The cut has followed a reduc-
tion in the quota of hydro-
electric power being made avail-
able to the co.’s Risdon (Tas.)
plant. A long drought in Tas-
mania has affected the power
output of the Great Lakes
scheme.
Production of zinc before
rationing was 87,500 tons a year.
It is now below 70,000 tons a
year.
Electrolytic Zinc normally
supplies Australian industry
wjth 54,000 tons a year, at £65
a’ ton. Comparable prices
abroad are £175 a ton in the
U.S.A. and £2OO in the United
Kingdom. Most other base
metals lead especially are
sold in Australia at far below
world parity.
Shortage of zinc will affect
output of a great many indus-
tries. It will mean less
galvanised-iron, fencing-wire,
netting and brass products, as
well as paints, car parts and
fertilisers.
The building industry will be
one of the worst sufferers from
the present general shortage of
metals, which applies to iron
and steel, copper, nickel and tin
as well as to lead and spelter.
It is historically incorrect,
but nevertheless a nice
thought, to ascribe the intro-
duction of the umbrella to
Europe to the Calif Haroun-
al-Raschid. Yet in a way it
is correct to do so, because
the Calif sent a present of a
baldachine to Charlemagne,
and the baldachine is the
ancestor of our modern
umbrella, it being designed to
protect priests, kings and
other important persons from
the sun. Actually that is
really the function of the
umbrella (the word being
derived from the Latin
“umbra” meaning “shade”)
but it first received the other
name, which is merely a cor-
ruption of Baaldak, the name
by which Bagdad was then
known to Europe.
The umbrella is of great
antiquity, appearing in the
sculptures of Egypt, Nineveh
and Persepolis, and in the
East umbrellas used as sun-
shades are still familiar. In
ancient Greece and Rome
they were regularly used by
women, and sometimes by
men who did not mind being
regarded as effeminate!
They probably continued to
be used in Italy right through
the ages, but at the beginning
of the 17 th century the
umbrella was little, if at all,
known in England. During
the next few decades, how-
ever, it became popular as a
sunshade for the wealthy, and
during the reign of Queen
Anne it became popular as a
screen from the rain . . .
but again only for women.
Gay’s “Trivia” (1716) speaks
of women treading through
the wet “defended by the
umbrella’s oily shed,” and
soon it became usual to have
common coffee house and
parochial umbrellas; the
former for the use of patrons,
the latter to protect bare-
headed clergymen at funerals!
The first Englishman with
courage to carry an umbrella
appears to have been a Johas
Hanway, a practice he dog-
gedly continued for years,
despite sarcastic cat-calls and
general derision. Soon, how-
ever, others recognized the
umbrella’s unique protection,
and the habit grew. It was
several decades, however,
before any man carrying one
could escape public insults
and accusations of being
effeminate.
Today, of course, the um-
brella is part and parcel of
every man’s wardrobe, be-
cause nothing else has so far
been designed to give such
protection from bad weather.
On somewhat similar lines
Life Assurance has grown
from obscure beginnings to
its present universal accept'
ance because nothing else
can give the protection from
the uncertainties of life that
Life Assurance does. And
thanks to healthy competition,
your free and independent
Australian Life Assurance
Offices give you and your
family as complete protection
at as low a price as you can
obtain anywhere else in the
world. Three million Aus-
tralian Policy-holders with
over five million policies attest
to that fact.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Three Melbourne women included in
the King’s Birthday Honors List have, in
their separate spheres, done fine work.
One, Mrs. J. J. Daly, wife of Dr. J, J.
Daly, of Thornbury, who becomes a
Dame of the British Empire, began her
social work for St. Vincent’s Hospital in
1923, working with the auxiliary until
she became president of the C.W.0.,
formed in 1939 by Archbishop Mannix.
At that time Dame Mary was the only
woman on the executive, and she has been
its president since 1941. Food, clothing
and toys have been sent to the people of
Britain and to the British Zone in Ger-
many. The C.W.0., under Dame Mary’s
leadership, is now sending food to India.
She is also a council member of the
Victorian Division of the Red Cross.
•Dame Mary’s parents were the late Mr.
and Mrs. T. T. McMahon, of Sydney,
and she has two brothers and two sisters
in the medical profession. Her daughter,
Marie is, like son John, a pharmaceutical
chemist. Dame Mary is already 0.8. E.
and C.B.E.
Gertrude Johnson, of East St. Kilda,
who received the 0.8. E., needs no intro-
duction, for companies from the National
Theatre Movement she founded 15 years
ago have visited most of the capital cities.
When in 1936 she returned from a 14-year
stay in London, where she had performed
in opera at Covent Garden, her one aim
was to begin a movement on the lines of
the Old Vic. So well did she succeed that
148,000 attended the National Theatre Arts
Festival in which ballet, opera and drama
were presented. Last year the State Gov-
ernment sent Gertrude abroad to see the
Edinburgh and Salzburg Festivals.
Another 0.8. E. recipient is Mrs. Rita
May Harris, who has been outstanding in
her work for charity. She has been a
member of the Board of Management of
the Women’s Hospital since 1935 and was
the hospital’s president from 1945 to 1948.
She was also a vice-president of the Free
Kindergarten Union and has been a
member of the executive since 1935.
The twentieth birthday of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital was celebrated at the home of
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, in the form of what our
American friends call a “fork luncheon.”
The hostess wore a black faille jacket-suit
with pale-pink orchids. Mrs. E. C. Daum,
president of the auxiliary, was also in
black. Assisting at the luncheon were
Mesdames Charles McKay, C. A. Deem,
Heathcote Wright, Marvin Bryant, Mel
Saunders and Miriam Ramey. Among
members of the auxiliary were Mrs. Frank
Gillespie, her jade-green jersey frock worn
with a small white felt; Mrs. A. Perry,
whose cinnamon-brown tie-silk frock was
patterned in black and white and worn
with a small brown feather toque; and
Mrs, Bill Taylor, in large black platter felt
hat and black suit. Mrs. Harold Rabling
added to her black suit a feather-trimmed
winter-white hat. Mrs. H. Bettle wore
sables with her black suit and mushroom-
pink cloche. Mrs. T. Eardley Wilmot, a
former member, was warmly greeted
when she paid an unexpected visit —she
was over for a few days from Tasmania,
where she now lives. After lunch plans
for the July Fourth Ball were discussed.
This will be at the Town Hall. Tickets
will be five guineas a double, and Mrs.
Heathcote Wright (U 1191) is ticket-
secretary.
One hundred members of the Dante
Alighieri Society were entertained at the
home of the president, Dr. George San-
toro, and Mrs. Santoro at Kew. Guest-
of-honor was the conductor of the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra, Signor Alceo
Galliera, and Signora Galliera. The
hostess wore a velvet frock and bolero
in turquoise-blue velvet. She was assisted
by two vice-pi’esidents of the society:
Dr. Ellen Day, in jade-green wool jacket-
suit, and Sylvia Clancy, in a soft powder-
blue wool frock. The latter leaves early
next month for South Africa. Mrs.
Frank Tait adddd a gold stole to her
black frock. Madame M. Vigano topped
her Persian-lamb jacket with a small
cocktail hat. Mrs. Don O’Donnell set off
her scarlet frock with gold costume-
jewellery. Mrs. S. De Marco’s bright
little powder-blue hat provided contrast
for her grey squirrel coat. Lady Heinze
covered her frock with a dyed ermine
coat. Mary Boffa’s black lace frock was
mounted on blue taffeta ; her small hat
was of blue felt. Beatrice Mattei was in
rust-shot taffetas and a matching feather
hat. Carla Quartera’s taffetas were green-
and-black striped. Yvonne Whittam’s
powder-blue velvet frock had a small
black velvet beret for company. Mrs.
C. H. Dickson chose royal-blue crepe
romaine for her frock and matching
jacket.
The chairman of the Melbourne Con-
servatorium, E. Glanville Hicks, and his
wife received 21 members of the Con-
sular Corps at the first night of “The
Merry Wives of Windsor,” in comic-opera
form, presented at the Princess by
students of the Con. The dean of the
corps, S. J. Fletcher, Consul-General for
the U.S., was accompanied by his wife,
in silver foxes over black. Wife of the
Consul for the Netherlands, Mrs. F. H.
Wright, wore a full-length aqua-blue
wool coat encrusted with gold em-
broidery. Mrs. E. H. Peacock covered
her black gown with a grey squirrel coat.
Strella Wilson’s parma-violet crepes were
embellished with roses in cyclamen beads.
Mrs. Phillip Dare’s short, draped even-
ing frock was of clerical-grey faille.
At the annual meeting of the Country
Women’s Association Mrs. J. N. Spittle,
pictured here, was elected Victorian
president. Although she lives in Euston,
N.S.W., Mrs. Spittle is a member of the
Robinvale (Vic.) C.W.A. —she crosses the
border for her meetings. Her parents
were pioneers of the Ultima-Swan Hill
districts, where they settled in 1895. The
soldier-settlement of Robinvale was
named after her brother, Robin Cuttle,
who lost his life in World War I. When
Mrs. Spittle joined the Robinvale branch
she was elected North-east Mallee presi-
dent, and before her election as president
of the State C.W.A. she was a vice-
president on the central body. She has
a married daughter and two schoolboy
sons.
Guests who accepted the invitation of
Dr. and Mrs. H. F. Maudsley to “come
and have a drink with us to wish Ann
a happy birthday and to meet Colin
Angas” were surprised to find on arriv-
ing that, earlier in the day, Ann and
Colin had been quietly married. Ann
was attractive in a daphne-toned heavy
tie-silk ballerina frock and a matching
head-hugging hat covered with sequins
and paillettes. To her frock she pinned
a long spray of daphne mingled with
orange-blossom. Daphne ornamented the
wedding-cake. The ’groom’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Angas, of Angas-
ton (S.A.), and other relatives came over
for the wedding. Ann and her husband
will make their home in Adelaide.
A grey day for the King’s Cup meet-
ing at Flemington, but there was plenty
of brightness in the winter dressing.
Mrs. Norman Paul’s citrus-yellow coat
was worn with a black velvet beret. A
pastel-pink pillbox hat set off Mrs. F. H.
Wright’s black suit. Lady Snow topped
her bottle-green suit with a matching hat.
A hat of garnet-red felt went with Mrs.
Norman Robinson’s black coat. A grey
suit and matching hat finished with white
feather-wings were the choice of Mrs.
C. O. Fairbairn. Mrs. T. C. Manifold
wore a black suit and tiny pillbox hat.
Of ink-blue gaberdine was the suit worn
by Mrs. G. V. Roche with a matching
hat. Mrs. Hal Watt contrasted her grey
suit with a winter-white beret. London-
tan accessories highlighted the grey suit
worn by Mrs. I. Clarke. A topcoat in leaf-
green and a black melusine beret made
neat effect for Mrs. Keith Morrison. The
small winter-white hat worn by Mrs.
Frank Watts was finished with black veil-
ing dotted with gold spangles. That worn
by Mrs. W. H. Horsfall with her black
frock and silver-fox furs was trimmed
with ospreys.
The latest fashion fad from America
is (rather unattractively) called the
“bloomer hem.” It is reported as having
begun with Balenciaga and to be “glow-
ing up into a big fashion” —in more
senses than one, for it is a hem that is
draped up and under to form a stiff puff
of billows, rather like a harem-line, but
more so. It’s seen at the waistline on
jackets and just below knee-cap for skirts,
whether all round or just from a side-
drape. In all forms the effect is odd, to
say the least of it, which might be the
reason for its success.
At the Paton Memorial Chuch,
Deepdene, the Presbyterian Chaplain-
General of the Forces, Rev. A. H.
Stewart, officiated at the marriage of
Joyce Mary, daughter of the R. W-
Beethams, of Kew, and Henry lan, son
of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Hossack, of
Benalia. The bride’s gown of white faille
was cut on classical lines. Her long
veil was of tulle, and she wore a Juliet
lace cap and carried gardenias. The
bridesmaid, Jean Hutchinson, wore
flower-sprigged pink organza and a
matching Juliet cap, and carried pink
and white azaleas. Roy Scammell was
best man. Reception was held at the
home of the bride’s parents.
From Sydney
Rather more of women than men
were among the recipients of Red Cross
Blood Transfusion Service Badges, which
are given to those who have made 30
donations of blood. Matron Shaw, who
spoke at the presentation at the Y.W.C.A.
last week, said that the blood-transfusion
service was one of the main factors in
enabling the Crown-street hospital to
bring 6000 babies into the world last year
without the loss of one mother.
The N.S.W. College of Nursing held its
graduation ceremony last week, when 14
nurses received their diplomas and certi-
ficates from the Minister for Health, Mr.
M. O’Sullivan, at the B.M.A. Assembly
Hall. The students of this college are all
qualified nurses who undertake courses
in hospital administration and the teach-
ing of nursing theoretic knowledge (the
Sister-Tutor Course). The college was
established only in 1949, but already
the Sister-Tutor Course is recognised by
the General Nursing Council for England
and Wales. The president of the college
council. Miss M. Lions, said it was a
strange anomaly that while graduates in
this course were recognised overseas, this
was not yet the case in N.S.W.
This Norton Trevaire study is of
Jocelyn Macky, a recent visitor to Syd-
ney from New Zealand. She has since
returned to her homeland, where she has
taken up secretarial work with the Air
Force.
It’s the fashion these days to see
nothing at all good in Australian cooking
and to despise all food that is not flavored
with paprika, garlic, turmeric-powder,
etc. A Hungarian goulash (which is only
a stew after all) is eaten with gusto.
Chicken-livers done in wine—no matter
how amateurishly they are prepared —
will bring more applause than all your
skill in cooking roast beef to just that
right stage of rareness. If you want to
be a success as a hostess, don’t go to
the trouble of preparing our good Aus-
tralian meat and vegetables so that all
their flavor is conserved. It’s better to
make a soup with offal of some kind,
throw in all the odd bits of things you
have around the house, add capsicums
and paprika, call it Bulgarian Bouillion or
something, and you can’t go wrong.
Claureen Beckman gave a very pleasant
party at the Women’s Club in honor of
Mrs. R. Nilsson, who leaves us quite
soon for a holiday in Europe. Her
daughter Astrid, who will accompany her,
is at present studying dress-design and
hopes to learn as much as she can about
the art while she is in London. Most
of the guests were members of the
English-Speaking Union and included
Mrs. Persia Porter, Mrs. Harry Twigden,
Mrs. H. J, Brady and Mrs. Helene
Rankin.
The wearer of the best wool gown at
the Wool Ball will be given a flask of
French perfume this year instead of the
usual dress-length, which is a very good
idea. It has always seemed strange to
this Letter that the women who have the
best dresses (both at the Wool Ball and
the Black and White) should be given
other dresses as prizes. It would be more
logical to give them to the wearers of
the worst dresses —if anyone, of course,
would accept the ignominy of winning
such a distinction.
To help build more cottages for
elderly people the Eventide Homes
Appeal, sponsored by the Loyal Orange
Institution, is organising a Button Day
throughout N.S.W. on June 22. Those
who would like to help may volunteer to
sell buttons and should apply to the
Eventide Homes Appeal, M.L.C. Build-
ing, Sydney.
Alice Danciger’s Italian paintings
needed all their commanding force on
the opening day at the Macquarie
Galleries, for the dressing of the guests
was quite a bit distracting. Alice herself
wore a dress of black wool exquisitely
woven with a subtle shadow-plaid of
brown in the full skirt. Her sister Mrs.
R. Paterson’s suit was also black worn
with a dramatic tan-lined stole and a
pagoda hat pushed, like all the smartest
this season, well forward on the head.
Mrs. Neil Ackland also added a stole, a
small yellow one, to a grey suit. Other
fashion points were the black velvet
touches on Mrs. S. Viney’s suit, Mrs. Alec
Morgan’s tall red umbrella, the provoca-
tive feather in Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s hat
sweeping round under her chin, the two
cute bluebirds on Lady Moxham’s hat,
the little gold beads on Mrs. R. Instone’s
veil and Mrs. Tom Alexander’s kelly-green
suit.
Sydney people are getting busy on be-
half of young violinist Cathleen
O’Carroll, who takes up a two-year
scholarship in England shortly. To help
with her maintenance during this period
a meeting was convened by Gladys
Hart, when a committee was formed with
Clarice Lorenz in the chair. The first
function was a musicale held at the
Greenwich home of Carrie Lanceley,
when nearly £l5O was raised. Lady Mc-
Nicoll, Lady Davis and Mrs. Florence
Taylor were present, and the enter-
tainment was provided by pianist
Joy Cross, soprano Valda Bagnall,
baritone Don Graham and H. Gilmore
Nairne.
The wedding of Maxine Nettheim and
Anthony Matthews at Shore Chapel was
one of the prettiest 'of the season.
Maxine’s dress was of white Chantilly lace
over satin, and her attendants, Mrs. Bill
Bradley, her sister Pamela and Joan
Anne King, wore soft pearl-grey satin
dresses with little pink satin caps, pink
gloves and bouquets. Maxine is the
daughter of the E. L. Nettheims of
Bellevue Hill; Anthony the son of the
W. E. Matthewses of Parkes, where the
couple will make their home after a
honeymoon touring in Queensland.
Miles Franklin brings some news to
this Letter from Florence James in
London (Florence is the author, with
Dymphna Cusack, of the very successful
Australian novel Come In Spinner ).
Her two young teenage daughters,
Frances and Julie, have both broken into
the broadcasting world, Frances giving
her impressions of the Festival of Britain
over the 8.8. C. last Saturday and Julie
competing in inter-school quizzes with
girls in Stockholm and Copenhagen. The
English schoolgirls lost by a narrow
margin, but Julie was able to answer all
her questions correctly.
A piece of good news is that “Madge-
and-Cyril” are to play “Private Lives”
at the Palace for a six-weeks season.
Apparently Cyril received a cable from
Noel Coward with a personal request to
present this play, which filled him with
great delight, as it has always been his
ambition to do just that. It will be a
treat that all lovers of the lighthearted
will look forward to with eagerness.
After the new opera school in Reiby-
place had been opened by Sir
Charles Bickerton Blackburn (Chan-
cellor of the University), Erik Langker
introduced the teachers, and Mrs.
C. T. Lorenz spoke with her usual
enthusiasm of the future of opera in
Sydney. Mrs. Lorenz wore a tie-silk suit
and a dashing red velvet hat. There was,
indeed, quite a bit of red velvet and
velveteen in the audience, which looked
very well against the green upholstery
and curtains of the theatre. Somehow,
although the theatre is so small, the
fresh decorations seem to make it look
quite spacious.


h:£
GP.1.25
if.epS C0«*«
-hen «* '•*' "
-3^
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1 888,
ttxiie
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Added last week the chairmanship of
directors of the Bank of Adelaide to his
long list of other directorates, knight
James Gosse, still, at 74, one of Adelaide’s
on-the-ball businessmen. He should be,
having laid the foundations of his present
genial health by representing his State at
football as well as rowing. Born at Kent
Town (S.A.), son of a former Deputy
Surveyor-General, S’James has been
Danish Consul for S. Australia for years,
was created a knight of the Danish
Dannebrog Order in 1934, and received
the British accolade in 1947. Chairman
of the Fauna and Flora Board, he
recreates in his own grounds.
Two young barristers with soldierly
connections were admitted to the Vic-
torian Supreme Court last week. Norman
Vickery, Bachelor of Economics, came
home from the Middle East and the
Pacific with his majority, and M.C. and
M.B.E. Albert Woodward has for father
Major-General E. W. Woodward, D. 5.0.,
also of the Middle East and Pacific, and
soldier for the past 31 years.
Australia will shortly play host to the
first Lord Mayor-in-being of London to
visit this country, Alderman Sir Denys
Lowson. He will tour in no less state
than he does his ancient diocese when he
goes on Procession —accompanied as he
will be by the two Sheriffs, and by Mr.
Sheriff Percy Lovely, by his sword-bearer
and first esquire, Mr. William T. Boston,
and by two footmen. Denys Colquhoun
Flowerdew Lowson is the son of a famous
banker and head of a colossal trust bear-
ing his own name, as well as director of
14 other businesses, so his pocket isn’t
likely to be unduly affected by the drain
of what he has to spend yearly above the
£12,500 allowance he gets for his official
position. Reputedly the best-looking
mayor London has had for centuries,
6ft. 4in. in his socks, broad-shouldered
and 43, he will be accompanied
by “the loveliest Lady Mayoress
of all time,” according to the gossip-
writers. Educated at Winchester and
Oxford, he was called to the Bar in 1930.
C. W. Akeroyd, Westralia’s hefty Com-
monwealth Public Service Inspector, is
calling it a day two years before reach-
ing the age-limit, so that he may have that
much longer to enjoy his many spare-time
cultural pursuits. Foremost among these
is a love of old paintings. Born in Vic-
toria, he served with the 59th Battalion,
AJ.F., on Gallipoli and in France, re-
turning to Australia with a captain’s stars
and several wound scars. He joined the
C.P.S. in 1923 and for the next 24 years
travelled widely through all States as
chairman of the Appeal Board for Punish-
ments.
“Nobby II” on an Admiral:
Admiral Rhoderick McGrigor, R.N. (B.
30/5/’5l), is probably the smallest Admiral to
become First Sea Lord. At sft. 4in. he is 2in.
shorter than Lord Jellicoe and about 3in. shorter
than Nelson. Australia owes a debt to Admiral
McGrigor’s great-grandfather. As surgeon of the
88th Regiment (Connaught Rangers) he saved
the life of the future Governor Macquarie when
the latter suffered a bad hemorrhage after a
fall from his horse during the Egyptian cam-
paign against Napoleon in 1801. The surgeon
later became Surgeon-General to the British
Army and a baronet. Admiral McGrigor’s
grandfather was a noted Army agent, and his
father, Major-General Charles McGrigor, at
one time commanded the K.R.R.C. —the old
60th Royal American Rifles, the oldest rifle
regiment in the British Army. There is a legend
in the British Army that the Admiral was sent
to Osborne because the Army would have
reckoned him too little to fight, a judgment
which he certainly belied in North Sea opera-
tions in the last war, when fighting quality in
Admirals certainly did not go by height, sizes
among the most famous sea warriors running
all the way down the scale from the 6ft. 4in.
to 6ft. 6in. Admirals Rawlings, Mountbatten
and “Daddy” Brind (now C.-in-C. of the
Atlantic Union’s North Sea Naval Defences) to
Admirals Fraser and McGrigor, Edelsten and
poor Tom Phillips, who went down in Prince
of Wales on December 10, 1941. There were a
few pretty good ones, like Cunningham, Somer-
ville, Vian and some more in the medium-height
class. As a distinguished naval officer once re-
marked : “It isn’t the quantity of Admiral that
matters; it’s the quantity of guts in the middle
of him.”
Fifty years of unpublicised, steadfast
laboring to improve Queensland wheat
breeds was recognised the other day when
R. E. Soutter was made an honorary life-
member of the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science. Starting his work
in 1898 at Westbrook Farm, on the rich,
black-soiled Darling Downs, Soutter
developed many of the northern State’s
present breeds, and when he retired in
1948 was wheat-breeder of the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture and
Stock.
A week of knights:
New knight Arthur Fadden was Australia’s
13th Prime Minister in 1941 and the first native-
born Queenslander so to be; though on April
13, 1910 (a birthday), then a lad of 15, he was
in a Mackay street to see the posting of the
election returns which gave the Prime Minister-
ship to a Queenslander by adoption—Andrew
Fisher. Of rugged physique, with an engaging
grin, a fund of racy bush stories and an
accountant’s head for figures, Sir Arthur was
once town-clerk of Forgan Smith’s city,
Mackay.
It’s a safe bet to claim that through War II
Sir John Robert Kemp was the busiest man in
the northern State. Tagged on to his name —
Director of the local Civil Construction Corps,
Deputy-Director of Allied Works, State Co-
ordinator-General of Public Works, Main Roads
Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer of
the Department of the Interior. In 1942 he
received the Peter Nichol Russell Memorial
Medal, the Council of the Institute of Engineers’
highest honor for life-time service to Australian
engineering. Hobby—work.
Member for Gippsland East in the Victorian
Assembly for the past 30 years, and known
throughout that tree-land as “Snowy,” Sir
Albert Lind is a young man of 70 who left
Barrakee (Vic.) at three in a horse and dray and
later pioneered a selection at Mt. Taylor. He has
rowed on just about all the rowable rivers in
Victoria, ending up on the Yarra representing
Bairpsdale in the first Bairnsdale four. Now
Minister for Lands, Soldier Settlement and
Forests.
Sir Thomas Ritchie, Federal president of the
Liberal party, engineer by profession, has held
high executive positions in half a dozen large
Australian concerns, mostly electrical and en-
gineering, and in War II did a solid job with
the Ministry of Munitions.
Sir John Teasdale, member of the Australian
Wheat Board for close on 10 years, is now its
chairman.
Sir Harold Seddon started as an electrician
in the British Railways, entered the Westralian
Legislative Council through North-east Province,
and is now the council president, with some 30
years’ Parliamentary experience behind him.
Sir Philip Santo Messent, Adelaide University
graduate of 1918 and lecturer there in clinical
surgery for years, directs the university’s surgical
studies.
John William Rollison, Coventry’s
patient this week, has been in hospital
most of his working life—helping others
out. Now Director-General of Medical
Services in S. Australia, he left Adelaide
University for the Royal Adelaide,
shifted for eight years to Northfield
Mental Hospital, in the same time head-
ing the Morris Hospital, and in 1937
MEDICINE.
went back to his first place, this time as
medical superintendent. He stayed at the
Royal Adelaide till 1949, when he took
on the whole State’s health. Built like a
bulldozer, with a commensurate capacity
for work, he’s 48 and a member of the
Faculties of Medicine and Dentistry at
Adelaide University.
Norman Gow, the studious-looking
cove here presented by Stephenson, could
be anything from an accountant to a
university lecturer—actually he’s one of
Queensland’s best-known fishermen (the
pleasure variety), a foundation-member
and now president of the Game Fishing
Association. Gow returned recently from
New Zealand with a few tips on landing
MARLIN.
the big blokes; shortly afterwards four
120-odd-pound marlin were hauled in
from Moreton Bay—territory where the
big jumpers are not often seen. For any-
one interested, the happy hunting-ground
is the 100-fathom line, off the Continental
Shelf, seven miles east of Cape Moreton.
Ashore the fisherman is a director of
R. M. Gow and Co., the Brisbane grocery
wholesalers.
Promoted from Chief Inspector of
Stock to Chief Veterinary Surgeon of
Westralia, C. R. Toop has already spent
25 years in the veterinary branch of the
State’s Agricultural Department. A tall,
rangy 50, he joined the department in
1926, three years after graduating B.V.Sc.
from Melbourne University. Now recog-
nised as an organiser with a flair for
scientific research, he has made several
important contributions to the welfare of
stock of all types —one big job, on which
he spent four years in the Kimberleys,
was establishing control of buffalo-fly.
Other important work resulted in curing
pleuro-pneumonia among cattle, the
stamping out of swine-fever in 1942, treat-
ment of tuberculosis and brucelosis in
cattle, and the eradication of lice and
ticks in sheep.
David Nichol Smith, who temporarily
occupied the English chair at Adelaide,
returns to Oxford, where some
years ago he was Merton Pro-
fessor of English Literature. He
recently published an excellent small
book on John Dryden. Of Australia he
says that it is by foundation a 19th-
century country, and should try to acquire
and preserve all literary and historical
records of the time. University libraries,
in particular, ought to aim at completing
their collections of 19th-century English
literature.
“Macnell”; Commodore John Malet
Armstrong, D. 5.0., U.S. Navy Cross,
C.B.E. in last week’s honors and “Black
Jack” to all hands, is a rangy, black-
browed, wind-weathered officer who first
tasted salt in cruiser Australia. He
tasted it again, literally, when he went
over the cruiser’s side on a line off Scot-
land in 1940 to help haul from a gale-
driven sea the crew of a ditched Sunder-
land. Given command of his old ship in
1944, he had her at Lingayen and the
Luzon landing, there to collar the U.S.
Navy’s second-highest gallantry award.
Captain A. S. Rosenthal, who adds
0.8. E. to his D.S.O. and Bar, won his
first decoration in destroyer Nestor, when
in a savage E-boat Alley attack
merchantman Sydney Star was torpedoed,
Rosenthal slid Nestor alongside, dropped
his boats for fenders and took 500 men
aboard. The gong was duplicated for a
nice bit of depth-charging when a U-boat
got hers of! Cape Sf. Vincent. Nestor’s
own turn came in another Mafta convoy,
a brace of 1000-pounders firing the oil
in her boiler-rooms. Son of famous
Old Digger Major-General Sir Charles
Rosenthal (A.I.F. artillery at Anzac and
later G.O.C. 2nd Australian Division
at Hamel, Villers-Bretonneux and Mont
St. Quentin), the Navy man had his own
elder son an able-seaman in the War II
R.A.N.R.
Reached the Last Green in Adelaide,
at 80, Herbert Lockett Rymill, founder
of the remarkable Rymill reputation for
sport in South Australia. Founder, as
well, of the Kooyonga golf-links, whose
lawny sweeps have delighted devotees
since 1922, Herbert helped to start the
Royal Adelaide, was a captain and life-
member of both clubs, and specialised in
researching into golf-green grasses—the
Government runs its grass-experimental
station on his Kangaroo Island property.
With his brother, the late A. G. Rymill,
one of his State’s best-known woolmen,
Flerbert was in the S.A. team which
brought home the Australian pigeon-
shooting championship in 1903. He
leaves three sons and a daughter, worthy
keepers of the Rymill reputation—
Henry commodores the Royal S.A. Yacht
Squadron; William captains the
Kooyonga Simpson Cup golf-team and
held the State’s amateur golf-champion-
ship ; and daughter Katherine, the
women’s golf-championship. Herbert’s
nephew, Arthur Rymill, held the Aus-
tralian speedboat championship, repre-
sented his State at polo and is now
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor.
On study-leave from Sydney University
this year: Professor A. D. Trendall
(Greek), off to the British School at Rome
for archaeological research; Professor J.
Ward (History), who has an Honorary
Fellowship at St. John’s College, Cam-
bridge, is extending his examination of
British policy in the Pacific; R. G.
Howarth (English Literature), researching
in London on John Webster; Dr. G. D.
Osborne (Geology) and Herman Black
(Economics), enlarging their work in
England and America, respectively.
Into the Silence:
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 50, David A. Solomon,
of a well-known legal firm and, cricketer him-
self, president of the N.Z. Cricket Conned two
years ago. He got his majority with the
Second N.Z.E.F., as well as his 0.8. E.
In London, at 82, Sir Robert Burton-Chad-
wick, on the staff of the Minister of Muni-
tions in War I, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Board of Trade following it and counsellor to
the British Embassy at Buenos Aires from 1939
to 1946 In 1926 he founded the Honorable
Company of Master Mariners, clewing up as
master in 1940. His son in Wellington (M.L.),
Robert Burton-Chadwick, aged 39, is claiming
the baronetcy. But he has no wish to throw up
his storeman’s job for the allurements of the
Old Country—Maoriland will do him.
In Suva, at 79, Sir Maynard Hedstrom, who,
born in Levuka and schooled at Melbourne s
Wesley College, went back to the South Seas
to build up an embracing shipping system and
merchandising empire. Member of Fiji s
Legislative Council for close on 30 years, on
the side he was a correspondent of some note
for the United Press of America and B.U.P.
His mother was a South Australian.
In Brisbane, at 77, Colonel William G. Allsop,
who left for War I under General Grimwade,
had General Berryman for one of his lieu-
tenants and came home with D.S.O. and C.M.G.
After the war chief-clerk with flhe War Service
Homes Commission, he was for years secretary
to the United Service Club.
In London, at 70, South Australian knight
Charles McCann, who earned his title for his
17 years as his State’s Agent-General in Lon-
don. Chairman of the International Wool
Secretariat, he did a lot for Australian land
industries —beef-growers and -exporters here re-
ceived from him regular written commentaries.
A younger brother, also dead, was manager of
the big Bovril works at Santa Elena, in the
Argentine, where, for 11 years, from 1919, Sir
Charles himself managed one of the largest meat
companies.
At 88, in Melbourne, Lieutenant-Colonel
James Bray, in service and age the oldest Sal-
vation Army officer in Australia. He was in at
its foundation-laying in both Victoria and Tas-
mania, and established its first training and
vocational centre at Bayswater in 1897.
At Roxburgh (M.L.), at 60, J. Mawson, for
12 years rector of St. Andrew’s College, Christ-
church, and for a time headmaster of a
grammar school in Suva. He had service in
both World Wars —machine-gunner and M.C.
in the first, commanding-officer of an M.L.
battalion in Fiji in the second.
At Sorrento (Vic.), Mrs. Edith Coleman,
doyen of women naturalists in Victoria. She
was the first woman to receive the Australian
Natural History medallion.


II ANY WEATHER
you con safely mark with
ELASTRATOR
'adehn Method
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR S JAILER
L lOt
L tombs & calves A
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and
Station Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William St., Melbourne.
ELXo
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs——recommended for shearing-shed work.
i
: m I
* . . ■ , -*> •?#
3EQEHQS
40z., Bcz., 16<5z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
-
5«?
r
id
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2ix —Eye relief 3£in.
to s£in. Exit pupil 7mm,
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
SgSi
Telegrams;]
“Esdailson,’ 5
Sydney.
BW 8631.
w
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTtR STTiFET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Heredity and Environment.
“Outback”: In “Animal
Breeding Plans,” Professor Jay
L. Lush, of lowa State College
(U.S.A.), says the question
whether a characteristic is heredi-
tary or environmental has no
meaning, for every characteristic
is influenced by heredity and en-
vironment. The gene could not
develops the characteristic for
which it was responsible unless
the environment was right, and
no amount of attention to en-
vironment would develop it un-
less the gene was present.
The difference between
hereditary and environmental
characteristic is that, whereas
hereditary improvements are
transmissible, environmental im-
provements must be renewed
with each succeeding genera-
tion. Animals should be bred
to the conditions under which
their progeny will have to live.
It is only by the selection of
breeding stock under these con-
ditions that a breeder can gauge
which beast is most likely to pass
on the desired genes which will
create a progeny as near as pos-
sible to requirements.
This is particularly applicable,
says Prof. Lush, when cattle are
"No, I haven't seen a destroyer about.”
being bred for difficult condi-
tions. When dairy cattle are
being bred for specialised and
intensive dairying, they should
be well fed and milked three
times a day; those are the con-
ditions which appeared to be the
lot of commercial dairy cows in
future. To feed them poorly
and milk them only twice a day
prevents some of the genes useful
under specialised conditions
showing their presence.
Mis t a k ing environmental
effects for hereditary ones often
influences a breeder to retain un-
suitable cattle. In addition to the
doubtful value of high tests, such
factors as growth rates, fertility
and constitution, which are eco-
nomically important and physio-
logically complex, might be mis-
judged. It should always be re-
membered that the progeny of
parents which are at the extremes
at either end of the breed would
tend to revert to the mean aver-
age of their race. This reversion,
however, did not automatically
make the breed more uniform.
The offspring of each parent
would vary among themselves,
and environment would push
some up and others down.
Mixing Manures.
“Hortus”: Don’t buy special
fertilisers or complete fertilisers.
If using only small quantities it’s
far better to mix them yourself.
It's quite easy. What’s more,
you can vary the proportions to
suit your own particular require-
ments.
It’s better to mix them with
about three times their weight
of dry loam and distribute
evenly. Never add lime to a
manure containing sulph. of
ammonia or blood-and-bone
manures, as loss of nitrogen, in
the form of ammonia, is the
result. When land has been
limed, don’t use manures until
about three weeks afterwards.
Points in mixing manures:
Don’t mix together lime and
sulph. of ammonia, lime and
superphosphate, lime and farm-
yard manure or guano.
Don’t mix together sulph. of
ammonia with Thomas phos-
phate.
Mix immediately before using
lime and potash salts; lime and
kainit; potash salts and Thomas
phosphate; Thomas phosphate
and kainit.
You can mix together at any
time super, and sulph. of
ammonia; super, and farmyard
manure; super, and kainit;
super, and nitrate of soda ; super,
and potash salts. Also sulph. of
ammonia with potash salts;
sulph. of ammonia with nitrate
of soda; sulph, of ammonia
with farmyard manure.
A very good potato fertiliser
is potash and super, in the pro-
portion of three to one.
Wood ashes and super, is a
good combination to put in drills
for most seeds, especially root
crops.
Storing Pumpkins.
Pumpkins for storage
should be selected preferably
from early-sown crops as they
have longer to ripen off than
those from later crops, points
out the N.S.W. Agriculture
Department.
Don’t harvest until thoroughly
ripe, as immature specimens
develop mould. Maturity is in-
dicated when it is hard to pierce
the rind with the thumbnail; the
pumpkin should then be cut
from the vine, leaving several
inches of the stem attached.
Avoid bruising the skin, as
injuries permit entry by organ-
isms, causing decay.
Prior to storing, pumpkins
should be cured for two weeks
by placing them in the sun or, in
the cooler months, in the sun
on an iron roof.
Pumpkins free from frost in-
jury should then be stored in a
dry, airy place, preferably on
slatted shelves, and should be
examined regularly for any signs
of, decay.
For Young Land Folk.
“C.S.”: The Nuffield Founda-
tion is again offering two travel-
ling scholarships to enable
young Australian farmers to
spend six months in the United
Kingdom.
The foundation will meet the
travelling expenses of the scholar
(by air if necessary), make him
a living allowance and, if neces-
sary, help in looking after his
farm while he is away. It will
arrange the itinerary in the
U.K. Candidates, who may be
male or female, should be over
25, but not much over 35 years
of age.
This year the awards are
limited to farmers in Victoria
and Tasmania. Next year
N.S.W., A.C.T. and Queensland
get their turn. Ask Maurice
Brown, Nuffield Foundation
Australian Advisory Committee,
C/o Australian National Uni-
versity, Canberra, about it.
How to Kill a Sheep.
“Mikyo”: You wake in the
morning and say to yourself “I
must pick up a killer today.”
The next time you think about
it is when you see a fine fat
wether grazing quietly among
your sheep. Then you remember
you’ve forgotten to bring a dog
with you. You consider whether
it is better to drive back 10
miles to get one or to muster
them in the truck on your own.
Generally you choose the latter.
The sheep then take them-
selves across the swamps and
into the timber, where it is in-
advisable for the truck to go.
You set sail after them on foot.
A couple of hours of this will
prove whether you have a weak
heart, blood-pressure, the will-
to-win, gallstones or gout.
Then you strike a fence, and,
in a final do-or-die sprint, catch
the wether by the hind-leg,
falling in the correct Rugby-
tackle manner. As you hug the
earth and hold the animal you
have to make up your mind how
to change places with him, since
he is standing on three legs and
using the fourth in much the
same manner as a steam-engine
uses its piston. If you extend
your other hand and catch his
other leg he will sit on your face
and set all four pistons going,
If, on the other hand, you
struggle to your feet, let go the
leg, at the same time getting a
firm hold on his woolly back, he
will take you for a further run
round. With practice you will
learn quickly to let go the hind-
leg, catch the front, tip him on
his back, sit him on his tail with
his spine resting against your
legs. You both rest in this posi-
tion while you recover your
wind. Now you have lots to
think about.
Will you tie his legs or cut his
throat? Can you. get to him in
the truck. Do you know where
the truck is? You will probably
decide to tie his legs, but finding
yourself without rope, cord or
twine will use your belt. You
will then set out to find the
truck holding your trousers up
by hand. Sooner or later you’ll
find it, because there have been
practically no trucks lost in
sheep paddocks, and with a sigh
of relief you’ll set out in the
general direction of the wether,
After being bogged you'll put
on the chains and make for the
.. , . . j
timber at top speed. There
youll probably drive a stake
through your radiator and
eventually find the sheep. You’ll
notice that one ear seems funny.
Then slowly it will dawn on you
that that’s your neighbor’s ear-
mark. It is now advisable to
let him go because in the bush
neither neighbors nor police
have any sense of humor about
that sort of thing,
— ;
Care in Seeding,
“Hortus”: Proper seeding-
rate depends on the rainfall —
more plants can obtain the
necessary moisture in a wet dis-
trict. Late-maturing crops de-
mand soil moisture over a
longer period—therefore thinner
seeding. Thinner sowing for
grain Jhan hay, because the grain
crop is longer dependent on soil
moisture. Thicker sowing gives
the thinner, softer stems desired
in hay.
Early varieties are often poor
stoolers therefore thicker
seeding, but according to the
fertility of the soil: there’ll be
more stooling in good soil, also
with manure. Among autumn-
sown cereals the later-sown
crop stools less, because the
weather is colder, therefore make
a thicker sowing if late. With
very thin seeding the weeds may
B et the upper hand,
” ....
Mastitis,
“Foo”: Some cows get mas-
this without showing any sign
of change in the color or con-
sistency of the milk, so that the
use of a strip-cut cannot be re-
lied upon as an infallible guide
(B. 22/11/ ’5O). Look for a hard
lump in the udder tissue. The
only watertight test for mastitis
is by the bacteriological ex-
amination of a milk sample
torn the suspected quarter by a
qua l cd f
A. H. Ward, Director or
Herd Improvement i„ N.Z., re-
that results obtained at
the Ruakura animal research
stat i on s h ow that susceptibility
an( j resistance to mastitis are in-
fluenced by breeding to about
the same extent that breeding
influences the level of milk- and
butterfat-production. Obviously,
then, it is not sufficient to rear
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
There are no new sunspots showing as the last of the
old series disappears. This should mean that, beyond some
normal showers along the southern littoral and adjoining
inland, normal winter weather should prevail; with little
or no rain except perhaps on the far north coast of
Queensland.
Normally the next important rain should be in Sep-
tember, hut owing to the earlier onset of the drier weather
it may come earlier, and the sun will be watched for signs
of it.
The recent cold spell was of great cyclical Interest,
since under the cyclical theory we are repeating many events
of 1880; a very cold spell occurred in May of that year.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
4&
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J, P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
GUARD HIM
AGAINST
WORMS
How
long is it
since he was
wormed ?
Worms sap
a dog’s energy,
impair his
health and low-
er his resistance
to disease.
All dogs and
puppies that have
been exposed to the
risk of infestation
by worms should
be wormed
regularly every
three months.
BARKO Worm Powders
have been prepared spec-
ially for the elimination
of Tape Worms and arc a
safe and reliable medicine
to use for this purpose.
ŵ
Used by dog owners through-
out Australia for nearly 20 yeare.
BARKO
WORM POWDERS
PRICE 2/- per box
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
atlSl"
heub^ 5
.lU" 0
0«*
TRADE MARK
AMERICAN DISCOVERY
APPROVED DY DOCTORS
FOR RELIEVING
RHEUIIITISMSCIfIItINEIIRITIS
FIBROSmS ■ LUMBAGO ■ GOUT
Dolcin has brought relief to countless
sufferers from rheumatic disorders in
America and England. Now it is
made available for you. Dolcin Tab-
lets give prompt relief from the pain-
ful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Gout. Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Dolcin gives prompt relief and is also
non-toxic. It will not harm the heart
and can safely be taken for long
periods to relieve the rheumatic ac-
tivity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism, in-
cluding people who have given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work—thanks to
the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets
have brought them.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no harm-
ful effects on the heart or any other
organ.
DOLCIN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCIN has been proved in clinical
tests and is prescribed by the
Medical profession.
DOLCIN is approved under the British
Free Medicine Scheme.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLCIN
1/330
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Aust.) Ptv.
Limited, Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
the heifer calves from your best
cows without giving some con-
sideration to the mastitis record
of the dam. This can only be
satisfactorily done by keeping
individual cow history-sheets.
This may sound like a lot of
work, but the amount entailed
is little compared to the divi-
dends it pays, I have been
keeping them for 12 years or
more now, and on each cow’s
sheet go pedigree, service and
calving dates, production figures,
mastitis attacks, treatment and
results and all other information
relevant to the cow concerned.
I started with a herd of cross-
breds and find this recording is
now a very great advantage, as
I have been grading up to pure
Guernsey.
Sydney Sheep Show.
“C.S.”; A record entry of
1225 sheep will be shown in
Sydney on June 20-23, made up
of Merinos, 660; Corriedales,
135 ; Polwarths, 19 ; Ryelands,
53 ; Romney Marsh, 78 ; Border
Leicesters, 86; Southdowns,
60; Dorset Horns, 120;
Suffolks, 6 ; Cheviot, 8.
Fleeces number 95, there are
70 entries for sheepdog trials
and 228 for judging competi-
tions.
In addition to the 20gns.
trophy donated by the Com-
monwealth. Government for the
grand-champion Merino ram,
Hardy Bros., Ltd. have presented
a 150gns. trophy for the same
award. The latter will not be
won outright unless an exhi-
bitor gains three consecutive
wins or wins five times in all.
Two other additional prizes are
the G. B. Richardson trophy for
team of six Border Leicesters
and the Harry Inglis trophy for
best group of four Polwarths.
The ram sales will be held as
follows: British breeds, June
22 ; Corriedales, June 25 ; and
Merinos, June 25 to 28.
Spelling a Paddock.
“Sarina”: Giving agri-
cultural land a spell under grass
and running stock on it can
have drawbacks. The manure is
useful, but no stock should be
grazed there that are carrying
weed seeds in their hair.
If the area is heavily stocked,
the stock should be driven out as
soon as the grass has been eaten
out, and the ground recultivated.
To allow stock, especially
horses, to remain in a grazed-
out paddock encourages burrs
and other weeds. With light
stocking a paddock can be kept
under grass for years, but only
if the area is watched constantly
for weed growth. A few weeds
allowed to seed in a grazing
paddock may cause endless
trouble. In the Riverina, for in-
stance, nobody took any notice
of skeleton weed when it first
appeared.
The Brood Sow.
“Myrr”: From the day she
farrows until her litter is reared,
feed her a gallon of separated
milk daily, as much greenstuff
as she can eat, and 2oz. of a
mixture of four parts of ground
limestone to one part of salt.
As for cereals, give her none
the day she farrows, 41b. next
day, gradually increasing the
quantity until the end of a week.
Then, in three meals daily give
her as much grain as she can
eat, or supply the same amount
in a self-feeder. This will take
61b. to 81b., plus |lb. for each
piglet she is suckling.
For the youngsters, at three-
weeks-old put two low troughs
in a creep where they will be
encouraged to take supple-
mentary food; this’ll prepare
them for changes of diet when
they are weaned at eight weeks
old, and will produce rapid and
economical weight gains. Place
a dry mixture of four parts of
cereal-meal and one part of
meatmeal in one trough, and
in the other some separated milk
or water. If it’s water and no
milk, a limestone-salt lick, same
as used for the sow, will be
needed.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Stuffed rabbit-
skins suspended from fruit-tree
or vine scare marauding birds.
So do jam-tins containing a few
pebbles which will rattle in a
breeze, spent electric-globes,
stiff white paper or calico.
“Billjim”: Creosote is the
best preservative of fence-posts
against white-ants. Use dry
timber only and place in a tank
of hot creosote and soak hot for
several hours. Then either re-
move quickly to a separate tank
containing cold creosote or leave
to cool in same tank. Treat
posts to 1 Sin. above their depth
in the ground.
“C.A.A.”; According to M.
S. Wood, a soil-conservation
officer, five favorable seasons
have stayed the great soil drift
of the Victorian Mallee. Addi-
tional reasons are increased use
of rye-corn to provide vegetative
cover and better rotation of
crops However, Wood points
out that still not enough farmers
realise that non-burning of
stubble on these light soils is the
most effective way of preventing
erosion.
“Wilco”: Very handy and
long-lasting one-horse swingle-
bars are made by taking suitable
lengths of inch iron piping,
flattening them for lOin. or so
at each end and in the centre
and boring a hole in the flattened
areas. The holes take the con-
necting hooks.
“Metax”: A magnifying-glass
not less than 2in. in diameter
and with a magnificatiqn of two
or three is handy in the work-
shop for examining small parts.
A smaller glass with a magnifi-
cation of about 10 is useful for
viewing such things as tool edges
to find flaws that may be
hampering keen sharpening. The
glasses should be protected from
dust and should never be set
down with the surfaces contact-
ing anything rough or hard, as
scratches which will ruin the
vision can easily be made.
“Sundowner”: After digging-
out rabbits see that the warren
area is levelled and sown with
grasses. This will eliminate all
signs of burrows and discourage
stray rabbits from making a new
home on the same spot,
“C.S.”: N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture has a series of
Farm Record Books available at
2s. 6d. each, plus postage. There
are four types, one for wheat
and sheep chasers, one for cow
cockies, one for fruit and veges.
punchers, and one for chook-
farmers. Each is worth having
in its particular sphere, providing
the land man with a clear record
of what goes on.


ẁ
■ ' : ' •
&
a
a
a
Since this is to be an
evening of distinction, let it
begin with a cigarette really
worthy of the occasion
Benson & Hedges Super
Virginia, made for just
such times as these
when only the best will do.
'I
s/e
QZ J° 8 “FI
k “I
f ■ s
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson.ZiUmars
LTD
OLD BOND STREET\ LONDON
Occasions when no Gift is
more acceptable than a
lAVMNA
SWISS MASTERPIECE
/m:)
V
kJ
\m
&
N
On every
occasion
which traditi-
onally calls for a
gift of lasting value,
give a 17-jewelled
Lavina Swiss Watch. It
will be cherished through
the years for Its exquisite
perfection.
LAVINA
WATCHES
The Choice of Millions
Established IBS2. Vllleret, Suisse.
LW 19.61
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Pine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oa.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON." That Fine Old Wefi
Matured Pipe Mixture that la now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0.. Brisbane.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
%
ẃ
STOPvour Rupture
Worries/jHI^H
The new Koussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Eecommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 0 Martin Place, Sydney.
ẅ
ENGLISH WALNUT
SEA REELS
NOTTINGHAM TYPE
Star Back, Removable Check, Brass
Flange and Lining: Balloon Knobs
3£in. 4in. Sin. 7in.
45/- 52/6 ' 72/6 136/-
Postage Extra
Craig & Aifken Pty. Ltd.
654 George St., Sydney. M 6261.
w
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Success of Midwise in the June
Stakes (6f.), first leg of the AJ.C.’s
winter double at Randwick on Satur-
day, appeared to rile some members
of the crowd who were presumably
afflicted by the memory of the mare
failing at her previous start after
having won well a similar event at
the start before that. The demon-
stration in turn greatly peeved Mid-
wise’s part-owner H. V. Cooper,
whose indignation, together with ex-
planation of the mare’s previous
failure, v/as extensively reported in
the Sunday Press. “I don’t mind
fair criticism, but the way some
punters went on today was foolish.
The fact is that Midwise received
such a severe heel injury last time
she raced that I thought she would
never race again. But Midwise made
a remarkable recovery, and I thought
she had a great show today.” Thus
ran the burden of one report.
Personally, present writer cannot
see that Mr. Cooper or any other
owner is under the faintest obliga-
tion to proffer explanation of his
nag’s disappointing performances un-
less requested to do so by the
stewards. However, if Mr. Cooper is
so sensitive to the reactions of dis-
gruntled punters as to feel impelled
to make general public explanations,
then a more appropriate time to do
so might be immediately following
the said disappointing performance
instead of after any subsequent win.
These remarks, incidentally, are not
addressed solely for Mr. Cooper’s
benefit. Similar belated revelations
are rather commonplace. Nor is it
for a moment seriously suggested —
indeed Heaven forbid —that connec-
tions of all beaten horses should
weigh-in with detailed explanations.
But it may be suggested that if
stewards, having observed to their own
complete satisfaction such tangible
cause for a poor showing as they
doubtless did in Midwise’s case, were
to communicate their observations to
the public there might be less cause
for dissatisfaction and consequently
fewer demonstrations from punters
not blessed with the power to divine
and diagnose equine ailments from
such vantage-points as the Flat or
the Leger.
At all events Midwise’s June Stakes
victory should have occasioned no
surprise; the Midstream five-year-old
is a noted mudlark, the track on
Saturday was thoroughly soggy, and
the bunch opposing her were no great
shakes. Jockey A. Ward, after having
Midwise always in a fairly handy
position, was quick to seize upon a
somewhat fortuitous opening on the
rails which presented itself in the
straight, and the mare finished stoutly
to win by nearly three lengths from
New Look, with consistent old
Heroic Sovereign battling along to
fill third place.
Arthur Ward is at present enjoying
one of the best patches of his riding
career. He landed a double on
Saturday which, coming on top of
a treble the previous week, boosted
his tally for the season to 35 winners
—only three behind the absentee
leader W. Cook. Ward’s other
winner on Saturday was Nizami’s
daughter Niaranga, an easy winner
of the mile St. Aubin’s Handicap for
three-year-old fillies. Possibly be-
cause of some doubt as to her ability
“If it only had gears I reckon she'd do thirty miles an
hour!"
to concede all the others two stone
or more on the heavy track Niaranga
started at the surprisingly good odds
of even money; she demonstrated in
no uncertain fashion that it takes
more than mere weight to reconcile
the margin between real class and
something less than mediocrity. How-
ever, runner-up Silent Glory may be
heading for a win—in suitable com-
pany.
The successes of Niaranga and, in
the mile Exeter Handicap, the aged
gelding Blank Music were the only
bright spots for punters. Making
pretty much of a procession of the
10-furlongs Ellesmere Handicap to
eventually beat Beau China by a
couple of lengths, Damascene (A.
Whiteman) started at tens. Pelagic
(G. Frankland) taking the June
Juvenile (7f.) for colts and geldings
and Passing Fancy (G. Podmore)
downing the fillies in the June
Nursery (6f.) were both 9-to-l
chances, while Princess Parma (B.
Killian), though quoted at only 11 to
2, had three others preferred to her
in betting on the 12-furlongs Encour-
age, which she won narrowly but
gamely.
* * ♦ •
Melbourne punters seem to have a
sublime faith in the handicapper,
transcending all such minor considera-
tions as the state of the track. Their
curious penchant for making top-
weights favorites on heavy tracks was
remarked upon here only a couple of
weeks back. On Saturday they were
at it again, and once again took a
dreadful pasting. Elected favorites
for Saturday’s six events were four
topweights and two second top-
weights. Successful favorites amounted
to one —three-year-old Poncia (G.
Bougoure), who started at twos to
win the last event of the card, the
Buckingham Highweight.
Particularly at sea in the heavy
going were the topweight-favorites
Cape Neddick and Benarca in the
cross-country double of York Hurdle
and Hopetoun Steeple. Packing 11.5,
Cape Neddick just floundered round
the course, and more than once very
nearly came to grief. Russian Boy
and Midhurst, next in the weights
with 10.10 and 10.11 respectively,
and the only others at all in the
betting, fought out the finish, with
Russian Boy, after leading a fair part
of the trip, just hanging on to win
by a half-neck. Euripides ran a fair
race to finish a close third.
In the Steeple Benarca fared even
worse than had Cape Neddick.
Although, with 12.8, he was conced-
ing the nearest to him in the weights
441 b. Benarca started at 10-to-9-on,
but he came a cropper after covering
about half the trip; fortunately no
damage done. Winner of the Steeple
at 15 to 1 was Quixotic, one of the
real veterans of the game—he was
aged when he won the Grand
National in 1945. With Benarca
down the Steeple was left a very
open race, and superior experience
saw Quixotic a winner by three
lengths from Grey Morn, with the
rank outsider Esquire third.
If the standard of jumpers sighted
at Flemington fell short of expected
Grand National standard, the weather
at least did its best to provide the
right atmosphere—bitterly cold, with
a generous layer of heavy fog just
to complicate matters. What hap-
pened in the first furlong or so of
the six-furlongs Rothsay Handicap
must remain a mystery beknown only
to the participants, but when the big
field of two-year-olds did emerge
from the pea-soup the 14-to-l chance
Neat Wha (L. Lott) was in front, and
he was still there, with three lengths
to spare, at the finish. Favorite
Panghat made up ground to beat the
rest equally comfortably, although
Mighty Peak impressed in bagging
third money. Other events saw Pre-
diction (J. Purtell) down Nipani and
11 it rella in the seven-furlongs Royal
Handicap and Tamahine wjn the 12-
'-'ongs Sandringham Handicap in
.ly the best finish of the day;
nere were only half-head margins be-
tween Tamahme, Regent King, hot
favorite Durham and Milford.
* * £ *
“Pass-it”: In the inter-State Rugby
Union match at Brisbane last Satur-
day N.S.W. recorded an easy 33-6
win over Queensland. This makes
three successive defeats for Queens-
land this season, which means that
the N.S.W. representatives on the
Australian selection committee will no
doubt dominate discussions when it
comes to picking the Australian XV
to play the All Blacks. Possibly the
only Queenslander likely to make that
team is hooker Nev Cottrell, who
once again out-hooked the N.S.W.
hooker Wal Dawson. If Dawson
does miss out it is difficult to say
who will lead Australia in the Tests;
Dawson has been N.S.W.’s regular
captain this season. With no
Queensland contenders for the cap-
tainship, selectors may turn to the
Newcastle Wallaby, Cyril Burke, who
seems assured of his position as half-
back, and who has had a good deal
of international experience. Another
possibility is Col Windon, but, on
present form, Windon’s inclusion is
really doubtful, a point indicated by
the N.S.W. selectors in choosing
Dawson as captain of the State team
when it had appeared that Windon
would be the logical choice.
In Sydney club matches oh Satur-
day Gordon held a weakened Manly
to a draw; the three leading teams.
Norths, University and Easts, had
respective wins over Wests, East-
wood and Randwick; St. George
beat Parramatta, and Drummoyne had
the bye. Heavy going kept the scores
down in all matches, and winning-
margins were relatively small.
* * Ht #
At this stage the V.F.L. competi-
tion in Melbourne seems to have half
the League followers wondering what
the Hades has befallen Essendon,
downed by Carlton on Saturday to
make four defeats in seven games, and
the other half trying to pick “the
four” from Collingwood, Richmond,
Geelong, Fitzroy and Carlton. The
season, so far, has become almost
notorious for rough play, and
barracking is freely interspersed with
brawls, bottle-throwing at umpires
and sundry other expressions of mob
psychology or whatever it is.
* * * *
After Empire middleweight cham-
pion Dave Sands had sparred a
three-rounds exhibition with Frank
Maguire at Leichhardt last week
brother Alfie Sands (11.4) climbed
into the ring to joust with Jim
Doherty (11.5£) in what was billed
as a 12-rounder. However, evidently
suitably inspired by his illustrious
brother’s demonstration, Alfie pro-
ceeded to dispense with Doherty in
nine rounds. Enjoying advantages of
height, reach and weight, Doherty
might have fared better had he done
more attacking, but he really had
little chance to do so. Right from
the first bell Sands kept connecting
with every punch in the book, and
quite a few unknown to pugilistic
science. A right to the chin dropped
Doherty just before the end of the
eighth round, and he was down again
early in the ninth. Sheer instinct
saw Doherty on his feet at the count
of “nine,” but the ref. wisely de-
cided that something more than in-
stinct was required for him to weather
any more of Sands’s furious attack.
Dave Sands, incidentally, is about to
head for England to defend his Em-
pire title against Randolph Turpin.
It is to be hoped that before doing
so he engages in something more sub-
stantial than three-round exhibition
bouts.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The xontributor placed first is paid
per line; all others per line.
Industrial Degeneration
Australian unionism is fast moving to-
wards a crisis or collapse and carrying
the rest of the country with it. On the
workers’ side this deterioration is parti-
cularly noticeable among the elite, the
highly-skilled trades, but irresponsibility
and indolence are undoubtedly spreading
like a disease throughout the entire indus-
trial sphere.
Communism may be blamed for much,
but even unions and unionists who have
thrown out. Red, subversive or extremist
elements continue to behave like spoiled
children at the expense of their own and
the nation’s future. Work, the birthright
rather than the burden of the able-
bodied, is regarded as something: sinister,
to be avoided at all costs. Tradesmen are
squandering their skill; apprentices are
losing both the opportunity and will to
learn trades; laborers, having been
denied this chance or having lacked the
initiative to seize it as boys or youths,
work with chips on their shoulders,
believing the world owes them a living.
And consider the other side. Chambers
of Commerce, employers’ federations, re-
tailers’ associations and such —the unions
of the bosses —by their apathy, inertia,
confusion and/or truculence are doing
precious little either individually or col-
lectively to stop the rot. In fact, leaves
of the unions’ copy-books are blatantly
torn out and pasted in their own. Go-
slow, for example, hitherto the exclusive
weapon of the workers, is being subtly
used against them and the devil take the
country. Arbitration, flaunted so
frequently by the self-styled “slave,” is
laughed at on occasion by the master.
Disputes are countered even by high-
handed direct action, often involving
entire and defenceless communities.
Throughout rural districts the same
spirit of unrest and degeneration exists;
labor, already short, prohibitive or both,
declines ; farmers, especially the smaller
men, either retrench or desert.
As for the public service, it simply
gets larger and worse.
In short, nobody cares, and this marked
selfishness or unpatriotism of the masses
everywhere spells not merely the decline
but the fall of the democratic idea or
system. It begins to look as if the
“happiness of the greatest number” in
the future depends upon some stronger
form of Government or national control.
Perhaps Australian workers, born and
living in the land with the highest
recovery potential on earth, will realise
in time the trend of their negligence and
pull themselves up with a round turn?
Perhaps the employing class will come to
an appreciation, as the founders of their
respective industries did, of the national
dependence as well as the personal
importance of their power? Only in that
way lies the hope of the rising genera-
tion of Australians and the preservation
of our way of life. P . O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
New States
No State needs subdividing more
urgently than the Northern Territory. It
should be divided into two separate and
distinct States, with Alice Springs as the
capital of the one and Darwin the capital
of the other. The dividing line could be
somewhere just south of Elliott.
There is nothing in common between
the Centre and the North ; they might
almost be separate countries speaking a
different language, so wide is the division
between them. If they were divided into
two separate States, under separate
control, and each returning one member
to the Federal Parliament, both places
would have a chance to prosper instead
of languishing hopelessly as they do now.
A division was once made —in the
’twenties —but it was incomplete, for the
Administrator of the southern portion
had to take all his orders from the
Administrator at Darwin, who took his
orders from Canberra. The scheme soon
proved unworkable.
What is needed is a clear-cut division
of the two areas, each to be run inde-
pendently of the other, and each to have
its own Administrator and its own Gov-
ernment service. That would be less
unwieldy and considerably cheaper tha.*
“If’s all right , boss —it doesn't matter."
the present method of submitting all
important questions from Alice Springs
to Darwin, whence they are for-
warded to Canberra, which returns the
answers to Darwin for transference to
Alice Springs— Wingella (N.T.).
Attack and Defence
“Roscoe” (B. 16/5/’5l) strains at over-
simplification when he suggests that Gov-
ernment interference and misdirection
were responsible for France’s defeat of
1870. It would be just as logical to blame
the same cause for 1940.
The reason for France’s defeat, both
in 1870 and in 1940, went much deeper
than that. The main cause was faith in
the defensive. Philip Guedalla shows
clearly that Marshal Bazaine in Algeria,
Spain and Mexico had imbibed certain
lessons for warfare that colored the
whole of French military thought for the
next 70 years. The battle of Waterloo,
in which repeated French cavalry charges
had dashed themselves in vain against
British squares of infantry, had seemed
to establish that resolifte men on the de-
fensive could smash every attack, and
Bazaine, watching the progress of the
American Civil War from Mexico, had
seen that all the brilliant leadership of
Lee in attack, all the dash and elan of
the Confederates, failed to win victory
for the South.
No doubt, also, Bazaine was strength-
ened in his faith in the defensive by the
convictions of the Confederate General
Longstreet, who, as Douglas Southall
Freeman shows in Lees Lieutenants,
had his faith in the tactical defensive
justified at Fredericksburg, where the
Confederates won a crushing victory, re-
peatedly repulsing with bloody slaughter
uncounted massed Federal infantry
charges. Every time the Confederates
stood on the defensive —e.g., Coldharbor,
where 10,000 Federal infantry were
decimated in 20 minutes—they prevailed.
Conversely, Gettysburg, where, against
Longstreet’s vehement pleadings, Lee
ordered a direct frontal attack, the results
seemed disastrously to justify Long-
street’s strategical contentions.
Retain inherited Bazaine’s faith in the
defensive. The British found him want-
ing in the 1914-18 war, and, through their
efforts, he was superseded by Foch, the
master of attack. As Guedalla mordantly
comments, Retain was unlikely to re-
member them with gratitude. The
Maginot Line was his legacy to France
—“his contribution to the emergency of
1940 was a full equipment for the
military situation of 1918.” —Clem Lack
(Q.).
Apprentices
“Swelpme” (B. 23/5/’5l), warning of
the shortage of building tradesmen and
the alarmingly small number of appren-
tices, laments the fact that the C.R.T.S.
scheme in N. S. Wales has ended. But
the shortage is in all trades, and a con-
tinuation of the C.R.T.S. scheme is not
the ideal way of overcoming it —the plan
that is needed is one that works equally
well whether or not there are returned
servicemen to fit for civil life.
When I served my time, a tradesman
who needed assistance had either a
laborer or an apprentice ; each did more
or less the same work, but it was looked
at in different ways. The apprentice was
learning the trade and was paid 17s. 6d a
week (first-year apprentices, 1934); the
laborer was helping the tradesman, and
was paid a little above the basic wage.
The laborer had as much chance to
learn how to do the work except for two
things—the apprentice was moved to
different parts of the works (shop, plant,
power-station, etc.), and he attended
night-school. But the same could be
done for all tradesmen’s helpers; and at
the big industrial plant where I worked
it was done during the war. Trades-
men’s laborers were encouraged to attend
night-school, and if they showed aptitude
for the work and application in their
studies they were put “on the tools.”
Some of those who had served their
time resented this, but though I think the
highly-skilled men should be paid more,
I can see no reason why those capable
of the work should not be allowed to
work at a trade. In my time there were
many able and willing to take apprentice-
ships, but they were denied the chance ;
those who were taken on were either
outstanding, lucky or had strings to pull.
I suggest: cut down the number of
tradesmen’s laborers, increase the number
of apprentices and pay the apprentice the
laborer’s rate at the start, increasing it
in steps to full-rate at the beginning of
his final year.
Another thing: modify some of the
night-school subjects—boys capable of
becoming good tradesmen shy off because
of the theory involved. I don’t mean
bring the courses down to the level of
the dullard —the budding engineer could
still do the higher courses —but those
content to remain tradesmen could well
be given less difficult stuff. Some of the
lessons given while I was serving my time ♦
would have been very valuable to a
design engineer, but were wasted on lads
who, repairing radiators and lighting
leads, in the day-time, wouldn’t have
recognised the things discussed if they’d
tripped over them. — Taswegian (Tas.).
A.B.C. News Service
“Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 30/5/’5l) set out
in the first place to defend and even
praise the A.8.C., but he has now de-
veloped into an * ill-informed critic. The
A.B.C.’s news staff may be small by
comparison with some of the metro-
politan dailies; it is hard-worked by the
same comparison, but it is not inexperi-
enced. All journalists on the A.B.C. are
members of the A.J.A. and have served
their “apprenticeship” either with the
newspapers or the A.B.C. Someone else
can answer “W.W.’s” charge that the
A. relies on the dailies for much of
the news for its breakfast sessions—that
certainly was not the case a couple of
years ago and I don’t think it is the case
now.
“W.W.” is wrong in saying the story
of the sinking of the “Prince of Wales”
and “Repulse” was picked up from the
B. The 8.8. C. broadcast that story
for the first time, as far as Australian
listeners were concerned, in its 9 p.m.
(EST) bulletin on the day of the hap-
pening. The A.B.C. had broadcast it two
hours earlier. The then Prime Minister
(John Curtin) did not deny the story
eight hours later —he did not deny it at
all. The Naval authorities had prevailed
on the A.B.C. to deny the story several
times between the first broadcast (7 p.m.)
and its confirmation at 9 p.m.
I wonder if “W.W.” has any know-
ledge of the number of times during the
war and since that at least three out of
the four Sydney daily papers have tele-
phoned for details of stories which they
learned of for the first time in an A.B.C.
news broadcast?
Finally, Mr. Menzies’s criticism of the
A.B.C.’s election broadcasts may have
been merited —I am not in a position to
say —-but I must correct “W.W.” when he
says it was done by the news department.
The A.B.C. talks department had charge
of the election broadcasts and used some
of the news staff to help it out.—-M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 125
Across. . . .
1 Precise alternative face is origi-
nal. (10) . .
6—Keeper as surrounding me is the
same but different. (4)
p) Musical work by the newspapers
or a tyrant. (9)
ii River backing such regalia. (5)
12— am the thing consumed, ape.
(7)
13 — Paris sprang from this male
island of the Caribbean. (5)
16— Girl’s name. (4)
17 — Beast has one before I accom-
pany the progenitor to 50. (6)
18— Lament the herb of grace
thoroughfare. (3)
20 Number turning this snare, (j)
21 Two males, one a swan and the
other a wool-bearer, in a Vic-
torian town.. (6)
24 —Food that is sharp to the taste
for a disreputable woman. (4)
26 Beef to take the wheel, or the
27 Woman to call back for a finish.
(7)
29— Crosby, although scoreless, is
same. (5) . T ,
31_Tin roofing backing an Italian
melody, when I ask a Siberian
river to confirm my ability. (9)
32 Cattle upset this Scandinavian
author. (4) , , , ■.
33 — Row to the great lakes places
for washing-up. (10)
Down.
1 — Support the thing I swallowed to
appease. (10)
2 Goblin aviators and the street
turned up with damages. (11)
3 Open the Abyssinian vizier in
Verdi’s output. (6)
4 a record by Toshack. (7)
s_Sailor artist and a fruity old
actor of Lincoln. (7)
7—Mars can do this to many of his
votaries. (3)
g—pen a corresponding kiss where
the ferry traffic is one-way. (4)
9 —Meouw when the malicious
gossip telephones. (7)
14— The end of October to droop and
to recline with the Rhode Island
sharpshooters of Italy. (11)
15— Slips the favorite muscular twitch
against the grain. (10)
19—Hell urges Saggers to suffer.
(7)
22 Pertaining to a mineral salt used
for soldering. (7)
23 Learn as hiding an aggregation
of arms, (7)
25 —Lament about timber. (6)
28—Broken bone in the wood. (4)
30—Turning in ten, and ten less. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 124.


this entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT . Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VTBTUE IJMITED
m.V. AGRICULTURAL REUIS
June
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture*
1951
First World War Brought
Machine Milking to Dairymen
Early in 1915, just as the First World War was getting into its stride, a
young New Zealander answered the call to King and Country, and joined the
Army.
By this action he caused a radical change in the Dairying Industry
throughout the world, which made the work of the Dairyman very much
easier.
‘ Before he joined the colours the young
man was assisting his brother on their
Dairy Farm in New Zealand, and his
departure, along with many other able
bodied farmers presented a real problem
to those left behind to carry on.
The brother had engineering train-
ing, but had left his vocation to
take on dairying. For some years he
had interested himself in the problem
of mechanical milking, but it was not
until the younger brother enlisted that
necessity had forced him to apply him-
self to the task of developing some
means of extracting milk from his herd
to offset the dire shortage of labour,
thereby keeping the dairy intact against
his brother’s return.
Mechanical milking had been thought
of before, but no practical solution was
at hand. Tubes inserted in the cows’
teats, and the use of rollers which
simulated the action of human hands,
and various suction devices had been
tried, and found wanting.
The New Zealand machine, designed
and made by this young engineer-
farmer, was the first really practicable
milking machine to be produced.
This machine was essentially the
same as most preseht day types. A
piston vacuum pump, used in early
models, has been done away with by the
introduction of the rotary pump. Buc-
kets are now generally eliminated by a
releaser, but the principles employed in
the first milker are still used in every
modern machine.
The first practicable milking machine
was of very simple design. The farmers’
acceptance of mechanical milking was
gradual and by degrees a number of
manufacturers entered the field.
The simplicity of the original was
lost by many designers, so that today
many machines have become far too
complicated.
The best authorities agree that with
machine milking the correct training
of the cow is important. Patent devices
such as “stabilisers”, “vacuum breaks”,
streamlined airflow piping, etc., are in
many cases not essential for the correct
and efficient operation of the plant.
The more gadgets there are on a milk-
ing machine the more there is to go
wrong, and the more there is to clean.
Simplicity and efficiency are the basic
points to watch in milker design.
The designer should have a sound
knowledge of physiology as applied to
cows ... he should be well versed in
practical dairy experience . . . and he
should have an intimate knowledge of
mechanical engineering.
Experts have laid down a pattern for
designers of milking machines to follow.
Generally speaking, they recommend a
rotary vacuum pump; a weighted relief
valve set to operate at 14" to 15" of
mercury, and a rotary pulsator to con-
trol the action of cup inflations and
releaser. Complex machinery should be
avoided as much as possible.
The modern milking machine has two
main requirements to fulfil. It must milk
the cow in an efficient and reliable man-
ner, without causing injury or loss of
production. It must be simple; to keep
down repair and replacement bills, and
to provide for fast, easy cleaning.
Pioneer Designer Says .
SIMPLICITY IS THE
AIM OF
MILKER DESIGNERS
“Simplicity is the aim in modern
milker construction,” says Mr. Claude
Davis, formerly Research Engineer at
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., and one of the pio-
neers of releaser type milking.
“Without in any way affecting the
functioning of the machine,” says Mr.
Davis, “working parts can be reduced to
a point where cleaning becomes easy
and fast, reliability is higher, and re-
placement bills are very small.”
“The Moffat-Virtue machine has been
greatly simplified. A single full-rotary
pulsator makes the pulsations ideal by
giving each teat a gentle ‘squeeze-and-
release’ so necessary for ideal milking.
“The whole of the pulsating mechan-
ism is embraced in one control assembly,
connected to the Vacuum Pump by
means of a Stand Pipe. It is driven by
I Wot™
ŵ
*
m
Above: An artist’s impression of an
early, but unsuccessful, attempt at
machine milking, Tubes were inserted
into the cows’ teats, and milk drawn
out by means of bellows.
Below: A modern operator sits beside
ẁ
the cow, and wat
Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine
does its work efficiently and
.
.
ẃw
a small belt leading from the Spindle
of the Vacuum Pump. This eliminates
shafting of any description.
“The hygienic M.V. Releaser has a
dome shaped body, and two large con-
cave dishes. It can be dismantled in
three seconds, and washed perfectly
clean in a few minutes.
“The Automatic Vacuum Control
keeps the vacuum at a constant pressure
at all times without any adjustment.”
All these,improvements mean greater
simplicity, which in turn brings more
efficiency into machine milking. The
Moffat-Virtue Machine is the only one
on the market today which incorporates
these soundly proved and tested ideas.
Full particulars can be obtained by
applying to any one of the Distributors
listed at the bottom of this page.
Moffat-Virtue i
Merchants,
QUEENSLAND:
Toowoomba,
utd., Engineers, Manufacturers,
Epsom Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane,
and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-Operative Limited, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
Adelaide; Stockowners Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Smith
Elder,
Pty.
Co.
Crosby
AUSTRALIA:
Perth.
TASMANIA: William
and Launceston.
Limited, Hobart
