

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3706
Wednesday, February 21, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Cartographers’ Cathedral?
Hereford Preserves the
Mappa Mundi
IJEREFORD, situated beside the Rivei
A Wye in a district noted for its green
pastures, hop gardens and rich orchards,
is a city whose history reaches far into
the past. In Saxon times it was the capital
of Mercia, and during the reign of
Alfred the Great (871-901) the city was
enclosed within walls and a castle built
as a protection against the raiding Welsh.
The See of Hereford was one of the
first in Britain, and dates from the begin-
ning of the seventh century. In 792
King Ethel bent was murdered, and his
body was buried at Hereford, over which,
in 825, a church was built. This was
rebuilt during the reign of Edward the
Confessor (1042-1066), but the present
Cathedral of red sandstone was begun in
1079, and few English cathedrals contain
a better series of different architectural
styles. The central tower, 165 feet high,
was built in 1317 on the original Norman
piers and arches.
Preserved within the Cathedral is one
of the most remarkable treasures of
Britain —the famous “Mappa Mundi”—
a medieval map dating back to about
1313 and believed to be one of the oldest
maps in the world. It was drawn by a
monk, Richard of Haldingham, on a
sheet of vellum measuring 65 inches by
53 inches. The world is shown surrounded
by the oceans and was based upon the
writings of Herodotus, Pliny and other
early historians whose world consisted
of Asia, Europe and Africa only. The
map portrays grotesque monsters which
medieval geographers believed to exist
in different parts of the world of their
time. Jerusalem, Babylon, Troy, the
pyramids of Egypt and the journeyings
of the Israelites are a few of the places
and events portrayed in this unique map.
The Cathedral Library has a valuable
collection of old manuscripts and the
largest collection of chained books in
Britain, numbering about 1500. They
include a Latin version of the Four
Gospels written in Anglo-Saxon charac-
ters and dating back to the ninth
century.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEP PEL!
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN 'BB CANNON STREET LONDON E C. 4


Learn
Stom Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- — CUT HERE AND MAIL' —
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name ~.
Address
(8.13.251) Age
The Red Page
SHE SELLS SEA SHELLS.
Of all the occupations of mankind
there can be few so harmless as collect-
ing shells. There is no ferocious spirit
of competition aroused, as in golf; it
costs nothing; it is conducted in the
open and salty air ; it combines aesthetic
pleasure with the satisfaction of the hunt-
ing instinct; and, unlike any other trophy
of the chase, the shell is never likely to
offer the slightest objection to being col-
lected . . . provided, of course, one keeps
away from living specimens of the giant
clam, which are likely to collect the col-
lector, or the poisonous cone-shells of
the Barrier Reef.
Miss Joyce Allan, then, through
modesty or the scientific spirit, is a little
too severe when she suggests, in the
curious inscription borrowed from some
American writer to introduce her
Australian Shells. (Georgian House), that
collecting shells is “a valuable form of
occupational therapy and, properly intro-
duced, can be a helpful adjunct to some
forms of psychotherapy.” Doubtless this
is true ; but it seems a pity to wait until
one is slightly dotty before indulging in
this beautiful and blameless hobby.
Everyone, in point of fact, has gone
in for it at some time or other. All right-
minded children fill the seaside cottage
with decomposing periwinkles and sea-
urchins; all adults who become the pro-
prietors of small children are obliged,
whether in pleasure or repugnance, to
take up the study of shells once more ;
and the most hopelessly suburban citizen,
marooned on a suburban beach with his
colored umbrella and his portable radio,
will at least turn over a shell with his toe
among the orange-peel, coke and empty
cigarette-packets, as something rare and
curious.
The point immediately suggested by
Miss Allan’s book is, since one way or
another everybody takes an interest in
shells, why not be expert about it? Not
awe-inspiringly expert like Miss Allan,
who has written, in this huge volume,
470 pages about shells —a feat beyond
ordinary mortal aspiration —but expert
enough to know that when the one beach
north of Sydney not yet completely
devastated by Sunday trippers and slum-
dwelling campers is sprinkled one day
with thousands of violet-colored snail-
shells these are, officially, the Violet
Snail:
The Violet Snail, with a delicate, snail-
like shell, is sometimes washed up on
beaches at the same time as the Portuguese-
man-o’-war, or “Bluebottle,” and a beautiful
sea-slug, the Sea-Lizard, or Sea-Deity,
Glaucus, which floats by means of a
physiological flatulence.
Simply because she gives the names of
shells Miss Allan’s book has a special
value for Australian writers. The whole
of English literature, since Shakspeare
wrote about the daffodils that come be-
fore the swallow dares, has been en-
riched with the names of the birds, the
trees, the wildflowers, the grasses and
presumably—if one made a search for
them —the shells ; and by those names
the vocabulary is enlarged, description
is made vital by precision, the earth itself
seems to speak. In Australia we are not
yet well enough acquainted with our own
country; too many of the wildflowers,
particularly, lack popular names, or the
names are not widely known ; too many
trees are just “gum-trees” ; consequently
too much descriptive writing, whether in
prose or in verse, is merely vague,
generalised, therefore not fully alive.
As to shells, one doubts if they exist
in Australian literature, except in some
of the Barrier Reef books. And the
language of the shell-hunter, as Miss
Allan reveals it to us, is exceptionally
rich and strange: not only the names such
as Ripple Triton, Humpbacked Cowry,
Flame Dog Cockle or Twisted Ark, but
the exact descriptions of the seashore for
which the conchologists have invented
their own terminology—how delightful it
is, for instance, to wander among the
headweed in the barnacle zone.
But this is by the way ; Miss Allan is
not, of course, writing for writers. She
is writing for everybody. And everybody,
not only writers, should be grateful to
her merely for naming the shells and fox-
providing the beautiful colored plates
and rather coarse but still serviceable
pen-drawings which make identification
so easy. A thing unnamed is, literally,
anonymous ; it passes out of memory ;
things named and known are taken alive
into the caverns of the mind . . . and one
can have worse things in one’s mind than
shells.
To say, however, that Miss Allan has
named and described the ten thousand
Australian shells and illustrated a total
of 1240 species in 12 color-plates, 32
half-tone plates and 112 text-figures so
that she has provided the perfect hand-
book for anyone who wants to go hunting
along the beaches is only to begin to
describe the immense, the astounding
achievement of this volume. It is not
only comprehensive, the first big popular
book of its kind in Australia ; it is not
only authoritative —Miss Allan is curator
of shells at the Australian Museum,
Sydney ; it is, though not intended to be
a masterpiece of prose in the manner of
Hudson or Fabre, readable all the way
through ; not just a learned encyclopaedia
but a rich storehouse of information for
anybody who cares for the literature of
nature. It has the scientific names, the
technical details; and beyond that it has
the genuine fresh tang of the sea.
One might have expected the introduc-
tion, where Miss Allan is deliberately try-
ing to lure the reader into collecting shells
or at least into reading her book, to be
interesting reading. And so it is; there
is something good on every page ; the
fact that a snail (who has counted them?)
has 15,000 teeth; a freshwater mussel
which was sent from Australia to England
and lived 498 days out of water ; another
freshwater mussel which seized the foot
Of a black duck and flew with it for four
or five days, landing alive when some-
body at Naracoorte, S.A., shot the duck ;
the speed of periwinkles (what devoted
soul computed it?), which is three inches
a minute, or a mile in 15 days; the lairs
of octopuses which, like the nests of
hawks, are to be detected by the bones
and shells of their victims lying around
them; the mangrove snail that lowers
itself from leaf to leaf by a mucous
thread; the small squid, Heteroteuthis
dispar, which, instead of the usual foul
ink, shoots out a cloud of fire when dis-
turbed ; the False Ear shell which drops
its tail as a sop to a pursuer; the love-
life of molluscs, which, like other inhabit-
ants of the seashore, seem to respond to
the stimulus of the full moon ...
But the really remarkable thing about
this book —it must represent years of
devoted labor —is that it stays alive and
interesting like this long after the intro-
duction has been left hundreds of pages
behind, The style becomes, naturally,
more compact; the flow of narrative be-
comes a catalogue ; but the sea, so to
speak, never runs quite dry. We learn
that the Grand Buccinum or Spindle
whelk is “commonly found in crayfish-
pots” ; that the main symptoms of poison-
ing from the cone-shells of the Barrier
are “acute burning pains and swelling,
a local numbness which rapidly spreads
in severe cases to paralysis, loss of
muscular control, speech and dimness of
eyesight.” There is all about pearls, all
about squids and their tribe, all about
razor-shells, all about carnivorous snails.
And, so bravely does enlivening anecdote
persist among the purely scientific descrip-
tion, right at the end we have the very
odd fact that “Recently a trawler, operat-
ing off Newcastle, N.S.W., brought up
in a seine net a petrol-tank of a crashed
plane, inside which was a large female
octopus sitting on a great mass of eggs.”
The Red Page has often enough criti-
cised Australian nature-writers for trying
to do what Miss Allan has done in this
vast survey ; for trying to cover the whole
great continent of Australia in a single
volume; for turning a nature-book into
an encyclopaedia. But there is a differ-
ence between trying to write that sort of
book, and succeeding; and Miss Allan
has succeeded in every way. This is the
basic encyclopaedia, at once scientific and
popular, which the continent must have
and from which smaller, more lyrical
books will spring ; it is done once for all,
comprehensively and in painstaking
detail; it is the perfect handbook for the
collector and the amateur ; it is a fascinat-
ing nature-book; and Georgian House
and the Australiana Society have made
a fine, big, handsome volume of it.
New De La Mare Poems .
At 76 Walter de la Mare is still writing
poetry ; and it is no small talent and no
dwindling power that can still see itself
as a star, “wildly bright,” in the storm
of old age: —
Turn now: —the door ajar—
See, there, thy winter star,
Amid its wheeling consorts wildly bright.
Herald of inward rapture, never of rest!
Still must thy threshold wait a laggard guest
Who comes, alone, by night.
In Inward Companion (Faber) De la
Mare hasn’t anything very new to say ;
but then, he never has had. He is a poet
of one theme: man against eternity, the
frailty of life against the immensity of
the surrounding universe. But on this
one theme —and it is the greatest of all
themes —he' has found a thousand varia-
tions ; and he is still finding them, and
each variation strikes with fresh force:
This evening to my manuscript
Flitted a tiny fly;
At the wet ink sedately sipped,
Then seemed to put the matter by,
Mindless of him who wrote it, and
His scrutinising eye —
That any consciousness indeed
Its actions could descry!....
Silence and wavering candlelight;
Night; and a starless sky.
You could not say that the whole of
this new book is De la Mare at his best;
but very likely none of his books has
been. It is enough that everything is
well-written and that now, as always,
from time to time something as perfect
in imagery and beautiful in technique as
this little poem emerges ; and that now,
as always, De la Mare seems more at
home in the proper territory of poetry,
on the margin between vision and reality,
than any other poet of this age.
To the Rescue of Burke .
Edmund Burke’s career provides at
least one mystery of the kind which
scholars delight in, and Professor W.
Copeland certainly makes the most of
the opportunity to discuss it in his
Edmund Burke ; Six Essays (Cape).
The question is, to what person or
persons did Burke address his Reflections
on the Revolution in France and his
Letter to a Member of the National
Assembly, and who was the French trans-
lator with whom he corresponded?
Burke himself, since anybody in France
at that date who dared to correspond
with the great English opponent of the
Revolution was an obvious victim for
the guillotine, said with deliberate vague-
ness that the Reflections were addressed
to “a very young gentleman at Paris” ;
and the young gentleman at Paris main-
tained an equally prudent reserve.
With rumors to guide them and, later,
Burke’s published Correspondence, the
biographers had a pretty clear notion that
the young man was a M- Dupont. But
if the Reflections and the Letter were
addressed to the same person, there were
four Duponts in the National Assembly
to choose from; and though a German
scholar of the 20th century managed to
eliminate three of these as impossible
candidates for the identity of the “very
young Frenchman” and therefore
plumped for the fourth, an ingenious
French scholar named Mantoux more
recently succeeded in eliminating all four.
Moreover, one of the most reliable of the
early biographers. Prior, had asserted
with much firmness that Burke had been
in correspondence with a M. de Menon-
ville as well as a M. Dupont, to whom
he addressed practically identical letters.
So, all round, there is a most enchant-
ing confusion for the scholars; which
Professor Copeland manages to resolve
by deciding that the very young gentle-
man was a M. Victor Du Pont, who was
not a member of the Assembly ; that the
translator was a M. Du Pont de
Mignonville (whom Prior confused with
Menonville) ; and that the member of
the Assembly was M. de Menonville.
Which, if doubtless still open to argu-
ment, is a beautiful piece of scholarly
ingenuity ; but since not one of these
innumerable Duponts, Mignonvilles and
Menonvilles had the slightest personal or
dramatic significance in Burke’s life, being
merely so many pegs on which he hung
his essays, it all seems monumentally
unimportant, and certainly not very
helpful towards Professor Copeland’s
main purpose, which is to reawaken
interest in Burke as a personality.
It is the sort of thing which makes an
admirable paper in a learned magazine,
but which adds only the most minute
grain of interest to a biography. One
would much sooner be told more about
Tom Paine’s “geometrical wheelbarrow,”
mentioned in a letter from Jefferson to
Paine —a most peculiar contraption to
have been invented by the author of The
Rights of Man ...
Professor Copeland has another admir-
able and very dull essay on Burke as a
I journalist in which he concludes that
Burke wrote most of the book-reviews
for the “Annual Register” ; a much more
lively account of Boswell’s relations with
Burke in which, while satisfactorily argu-
ing that Burke wouldn’t let Boswell say
much about him, he takes the unworthy
view of Boswell popularised by Macaulay
—the greatest of English biographers is
depicted as “stalking the great” because,
in the necessities of his art, he cross-
questioned Burke and Johnson. And, by
far the best of the essays, there is an item
entitled “The Little Dogs and All” in
which Professor Copeland gives a de-
scription of Burke in politics.
Here there is indeed very lively stuff:
the three impoverished adventurers com-
ing over from Ireland to make their for-
tunes in English politics ; Richard Burke,
the brother, and Will, the cousin, falling
into sharp practices, undergoing disgrace
and poverty, always loyally defended by
Edmund and, for the brief period when
the Whigs were in power, very hand-
somely rewarded for their sufferings—
Burke, as Paymaster of Forces, got £4OOO
a year, Will was a deputy-paymaster in
India at £5 a day, Dick had £3OOO as
Secretary to the Treasury ...
Then there is Burke in a passion in
the House, renouncing his long friendship
with Fox because they differed over the
French Revolution, Fox rising with tears
streaming down his face to beg for a
reconciliation ; and Burke, after his son
had died, weeping on the neck of his
I horse ; and the man Powell, whom Burke
restored to his situation in the Pay Office
against his will after lie had been dis-
missed for peculation, committing
suicide; Burke’s amazingly accurate
“prophecies” on the disastrous course of
the Revolution which, Professor Cope-
land demonstrates in another interesting
essay, may not have been so amazing
after all because he was probably
supplied with private information by Tom
Paine, who though in considerable
error, that the champion of the liberty
of America would also be the champion
of the Terror in France ...
All this does suggest, as Professor
Copeland argues, that Burke has been too
much neglected and that it is time some
new biographer, with the aid of Burke's
private papers—only recently released to
scholarship, after being withheld for
150 years—attempted to rescue from
comparative oblivion this great and
colorful statesman whom Matthew
Arnold thought as outstanding amongst
the English prose-writers as Shakspea r e
and Milton among the poets. But the
biographer, at the same time, will have to
take care that he rescues Burke from Pro-
fessor Copeland’s enchanted wilderness
of Duponts.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Dark River: Philip Clark (Win-
gate). A sultry suicide in Charleston,
Ca’lina; or did she shoot her husband
when he hit her, or did one of her friends
he was jealous of? Thick with atmos-
phere, it has a few good mazes ; but the
main motive is a last-minute ring-in.
* * * *
A Journey to Vienna: Mrs. Robert
Henrey (Dent). Mrs. Henrdy, of the
Normandy farm and the London bomb-
ings, supplies the need of those unable
to travel; this time, a ball-by-ball descrip-
tion of a tour to Vienna, where her son,
Bobby, was acting in a British film; lots
of color, photographs of the Schonbrunn,
the Kaisergebirge, St. Stephan’s, the
Ringstrasse, the Karlskirche, etc., and
chatter about “the three Brothers Korda
—children of Hungary, who before going
to England and to America had made
pictures in Austria,” and little pictures
of everything that happened and every-
thing that was said, padded out with
reveries over the history of this and that,
alt very pleasant.
* * * *
Strange Cases: George Sava (Faber)
The famous surgeon-author tells five
stories and then “diagnoses” them—i.e.,
makes a medical and psychoanalytic
study of the principals in each; namely,
a pukka sahib whose abandoned native
mistress visits him in England and infects
his son and wife with leprosy; a precise
stenographer-secretary who met a man,
lived with him, married him, and wa
fined for assaulting a policeman during a
celebratory binge; a woman who gram
ally came to agree with the rest ot tn
village that she was a witch, and waixe
into the lake ; a miserable spiritless by,
disowned by his father, who won a .
and a middle-aged, overworked boo
keeper, proud of there having been no
women in his life, who began
dream about glamor-girls, proceeding
the edge of madness.


mm
IN ADVERTISING '
dfg
ms*
X
i
I l)
;
i
lU
a
; m^
f\
Lit!)
i (
#V\
UU
C^v
at
L — i
'
%
n
*V ■ ', i
* /
w
S—
\
« f
'T7-/yZ<^.'
S^nX
u)
& \
la
>
n
syj
i.
LikL
Ll'
\
(sN
ft
“Wedgwood & Go. Ltd.” English dinnerwear
41 piece utility set —cream ground with brown and black figured border pattern
comprising 6 each dinner plates, entree plates, bread and butter plates, soup
coupes, teacups and saucers, one each meat dish, covered vegetable dish, open
sugar bowl and jug. Price, £9/5/-. 53 piece utility set (setting for 8) £ll/7/-.
BRIERLEY ENGLISH CRYSTAL SUITE
FABLE GLASSWARE IN CUT FLAT FLUTE
* Port or Sherry Glasses at 9/6 ea.
* Claret Glasses priced at 10/9 ea.
* Cocktail Glasses priced 10/9 ea.
* Champagne Glasses at 12/3 ea.
* Liqueur Glasses priced at 9/- ea.
* Goblets priced at 14/- each.
* Jugs, 2 pint capacity, at 47/- ea.
* Jugs, 3 pint capacity, at 56/6 ea.
* Decanters, 2 pint cap., £4/11/6.
* Tumblers, £ pint capacity, at 9/6.
* Tumblers, i pint capacity, 11/-.
A. English Tumblers of thin, clear glass, ringed finish, 10oz., 7/9 doz.
B. English Toughened Tumblers, soz. capacity, 35/6 doz.; 90z., 38/6 doz.
"Royal Gouda" Jardinieres in a variety of colourful ana
attractive hand painted designs in autumn tonings.
Diam. at Top Ilyin. lOin. 8{in, 7-Jin.
Diam. at Belly 14in. 12in. KHin. 9in.
Height 8 jin. 8in. 7in. 6in.
Price £15/10/- £6/10/- 87/6 57/6
%
&■
>.-■
sgjg
m
m
■/ ■'
lii
ENGLISH “SUNFLOWER” 40-PIECE UTILITY SET
Primrose coloured, embossed, fluted edged Utility Set comprising 6 each Dinner
Plates, Entree Plates, Bread and Butter Plates, Soup Bowls, Teacups, Saucers,
1 covered Vegetable Dish, Meat Dish, Jug, £5/5/-. 21-piece Teaset to match, 36/■
TUSCAN CHINA TEASET—2I PIECES
Left. Fine English Bone “Peachbloom” China Teaset comprising six each Teacups and
Saucers, Tea Plates, one Cake Plate, one open Sugar Basin, one Jug, 99/6 set.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’—CHINA AND GLASSWARE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR—PHONE M 2401— MAIL 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


*• Y- Y* Y Y. ~ Y '■■■■*<'■ *-. ■'* * <:• ; > % '■'>, ■:■■ •':>. *. ':<•• ■=>, «t % •* X* % « fe: V % ~' % 'x Y *■ % V'« 'Y '\ Y V s * »- Sfe J* ' :> '<* '*•
■fe,. v *„ v y %. « ' y y •««• v, • *»••*. \ v < x \ '< *- y ■*■ y> * y y v v** » y. y s v *%- y •*• >■' '•
•■ « » •> % -> & <s-y <-• .sf )?' :*•■ <* x' 4 <& # f &,#’£ -* v S* ■& * •& <* •j?'V vf & o' S
■-\ ■ ■ ■- * .v- > ■■/• .* *- s* .*■ '*?■ > ,»- .<■ x- •#■ s» ** ** v > •••■ «? •' ■- *
v\ is V. toc-Y ' ■• Vy .v' »' >" ■*> *e- -sr *• ■# Jf -i? & s' *■ y S
.&■*■■ »' " ■ #■:*■ <x jsr
r MF ■ *». ■%. -, a y y %
iff *. ■<> <*v v % %. * <;.., vv *-'%■ %. % % \ »*% v < % v v •* '•»•**. > * • v
„ y - * «■ > * » .#■ - ' - * - - ? ■■ ' •' *■ * * '
MIMB» v- v' S*'# H* *r #**
i - **s r'r** H’lr''* -r- 1' Vs + sZ/rS* ****** t***^*;'***
s J y -s s &*f> S'SS *? * # * S X? S ,* * <?*<? S'o s J s ~ S S , s*- <*> *■ ; * r . / C C C "' ,
- V -S. '-, « "S % V » % X V \ ■» «!. - -V %; SJ -y % *» % '•>• -* *% ** V '- '« > 'O %■ V ♦ 54 2 2 £ ' £ r ? 2* r vT ? , 4 V -J V v
,v< %VV% V /* 'V ~ *** \ * » . ,'
\w
Your tailor can make you
the kind of clothes you like
when he uses VICARS fine worsteds
from fine wool. Such reliable quality
is more than ever essential with
wool so high in price.
VlO
w O' 3
5267
MARRICKVILLE, NS


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3706
Wednesday, February 21, 1951
" A SEMI-WAR FOOTING.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" AND DEFENCE.
An A.L.P. executive trying to make up
its collective mind on any subject more
serious than dogracing or night trots is
one of the most pitiful pictures the
current age can offer; when the subject
happens to be defence it becomes almost
heartrending.
Five years ago it was different. The
war was just over, and “Labor,” assisted
by “the workers” and to a certain extent
by the three Services, with the moral sup-
port of America and 40 other nations, had
emerged victorious. Our “glorious Ally,”
Russia, was supercharged with peaceful
intent —at least in the eyes of “Labor” —
Britain was basking in the dusty-pink
glow of a Socialist dawn, and Australian
“Labor” saw before it the wide, open road
of socialisation leading to the Chifley
Golden Age.
In that atmosphere defence offered no
heartaches and no headaches. The
United Nations Organisation was
in full spout; henceforth inter-
national disputes were to be decided —
ironed-out was the favorite term —by
words instead of weapons, and in good
Doctor Evatt, about to take; his stand as
the champion of the middling-sized
nations, this country had a man who
could talk his way out of anything.
War having been abolished, the next
thing to do was to get rid of everything
connected with war. With almost indecent
haste army training-camps were dis-
mantled and disposed of, and in every
capital city there sprang up a crop of
“disposal shops” whose proprietors made
tidy sums retailing Army clothing, stores
and equipment thrown out by the Gov-
ernment at prices which suggested that the
whole lot was infected. It seems more
than likely that the rush to sell was in-
spired by the fear that if the clothing and
equipment were kept there might be a
temptation to train sufficient men to use it.
The A.L.P. Federal platform
provided for the amendment of
the Commonwealth Constitution “to
assure that no Australian citizen can be
conscripted for military service” and for
amendment of the Defence Act to secure
“deletion of all clauses relating to com-
pulsory training and service.” The plat-
form also expressed the party’s “greatest
abhorrence to war and Fascism,” urged
the nationalisation of the production of
munitions and all war materials and “the
establishment of a defence scheme com-
mensurate with Australia’s ability to
maintain it.”
As a Government the “Labor” party
did not get round to its amendments of
the Constitution and Defence Act—
possibly the plans got snowed-under by
the mass of bills for the socialisation of
this and that and of High Court writs
arising therefrom. Nor did it get as far
as “the establishment of a defence scheme
commensurate with Australia’s ability to
maintain it.”
The chief features of “Labor’s” re-
cruiting programme were an attempt to
make uniforms “more attractive” and a
spate of newspaper advertisements point-
ing out that men entering the services
would be given an opportunity to learn
a trade. All the emphasis was on what a
young man would gain by joining up ;
there was no appeal to his desire to serve,
none to his pride of country.
It is not surprising, then, that when
“Labor” went out of office, it left an
Army, Navy and Air Force well below
establishment strength, even at the modest
target it had set for them. They are still
well below strength, and “Labor” has
been singularly un-co-operative in the
Menzies Government’s attempts to in-
crease their numbers by voluntary enlist-
ment and unashamedly obstructive to its
efforts to reintroduce compulsory training,
although the scale of call-ups is so small
that many of the Government’s own sup-
porters have been outspokenly critical of
it.
Events of the last year or so have
dissipated “Labor’s” airy-fairy dreams of
everlasting peace secured by debating-
society procedure. More and more
members of the party recognise that the
threat of Russian Communism to the free
world is a threat to Australia. More and
more of them think that someone ought
to do something about it, but on the
question of what should be done and how
they are hopelessly divided.
This division held up the Anti-Red bill
for several months while the opposing
factions attempted to find a “formula”
which would compose their differences.
A similar rift was responsible for shelv-
ing the National Service Bill by sending it
to a Select Committee of “Labor”
Senators, ostensibly charged toi “examine
all the relevant defence manpower and
economic needs and capacities of Aus-
tralia,” but whose real task, as set by the
party, is to keep the bill on the shelf until
the A.L.P. triennial conference, to meet
early next month, decides whether there is
to be a change in the party’s “traditional
attitude towards conscription.”
A preview of the type of cerebral
gymnastics and rhetorical contortions to
be expected when that body begins its
deliberations may be had from a study of
the remarkable document issued by the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive after
wrestling mightily with the problem. No
“Labor” statement on defence can be con-
sidered genuine without an avowal of the
party’s hatred of war. The N.S.W.
executive’s statement passes that test; it
proclaims that “Labor,” fundamentally, is
opposed to war. It then goes on to speak
of a “threatening world situation,” the in-
creased possibility of a third World War,
and it regards “with uneasiness” the
“growing Imperialist ambitions of the
Stalinist regime.”
The central executive “insists that the
international policy of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations must be unified,
and it welcomes the lead given by the
British Labor Government in endeavor-
ing to find a solution to the problems
which beset the world.” How Dr. Evatt
would view this resolution should he again
become responsible for External Affairs
the executive did not apparently consider,
nor did they indicate whether their in-
sistence on British Commonwealth unity
would be so strong if a Conservative Gov-
ernment happened to replace the Attlees.
After reiterating the party’s opposition
to “any form of military conscription for
overseas service,” the executive took the
plunge and said that it agreed to “com-
pulsory training for the home defence of
Australia.” Shivering a little at what it
had said, it added, “provided this does not
conflict with the development of the pro-
ductive capacity of Australia for de-
fence.” Then, with an air of “There,
that’s done. Now let’s get back on
familiar grounds again,” the befuddled
body recommended that instead of intro-
ducing compulsory training “at this time
of acute manpower shortage.... a form of
voluntary military training should be
established, on popular lines ”
Thus, after admitting in the guarded
phraseology of an organisation which
uses circumlocutions like “major con-
flagration” because it shudders at the
word “war,” that world affairs are about
as bad as they can be, the best the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. can do about it is to approve
compulsory training “in principle,” but
advise against it in practice.
The buck is now passed to the
triennial conference. Every State
branch except the Tasmanian has gone
through the same mental struggles as the
N. S. Wales crowd, though no other has
so well succeeded in tying itself in verbal
knots. Three States, Victoria, Queensland
and Westralia, have plumped for com-
pulsory training ; South Australia sticks
to the “traditional” attitude, and Tas-
mania makes up its mind next weekend.
There’ll be some mighty yanging when
the Federal conference meets, and it
seems more than likely that it will give
some kind of approval to conscription.
But if the New South Wales delegates
have any say in it—and don’t they
always?—the approval will be so hedged
around with ifs and buts that the rank-
and-file will still be in a fog as to where
they really stand on thd issue.
A Japanese Treaty.
Mr. John Foster Dulles has come
south to sound out Australian and
New Zealand Governments on the
lines of a treaty for Japan which
he has discussed with Japanese leaders in
Tokyo, apparently to their mutual satis-
faction. Japan is to be restored to
sovereign independence and to accept
American garrisons in strategic areas,
such as Okinawa. The right to freedom
of commercial trading and to rearm for
self-defence —though for some curious
reason Mr. Dulles, in his statements on
arrival, seems to discount this point—
cannot be denied under sovereign inde-
pendence, and Japan is to be encouraged
to qualify for admission to U.N.O.
We may not like the rearmament of
Japan any more than the British people
like the rearmament of Western Ger-
many. For five years the Australian
people, Parliament and Government have
in sheer distaste postponed consideration
of the consequences of a Japanese peace
treaty. The public has tried to forget the
whole thing. It dislikes not merely the
specific proposals outlined in the United
States, but any proposals which would
restore to Japan freedom as a Pacific
Power. We may as well be frank about
this. We don’t like Japanese rearma-
ment or the renewal of Japanese trad-
ing competition. But all this amounts to
a dislike of Japan’s continued existence.
As soon as we face the realities of the
actual and (as Mr. Menzies again warns
us) the highly dangerous world we live
in it becomes plain that opposition by
Australia to American policy can only
be fruitless.
“The United States,” said Mr. Dulles
in Manila, en route, “has, through the
force of events, been required to assume
a certain leadership in the free world.”
Maybe we are not adequately equipped to
do it, but do not let that destroy your
confidence in what we are trying to do,
because if confidence fails we all fall apart
and we shall be overcome surely one by
one. Therefore my plea to you is to have
confidence and trust that we shall be faith-
ful to our friends.
That is the appeal Mr. Dulles makes for
co-operation, and the consideration he
offers in exchange. Australia can, of
course, reject the American proposals,
like the Chifley Government rejected the
Manus offer. But rejection will not get
us anywhere, for the United States has
clearly resolved to make her treaty with
Japan, anyway, leaving (if necessary)
every other country to make its own.
American policy has been crystallised
by the Soviet-instigated Korean war and
Red China’s invasion of Korea. That
American leadership of which Mr.
Dulles speaks is the dominating fact in
the world today, and Moscow decided to
put it to the test on the peninsula which
is “a dagger pointed at Japan.”
Australians may protest that they
demand “security” and “freedom from
fear.” But these things depend
primarily on our character and our
own effort. For while we continue
to be reluctant to rearm ourselves
nobody can cast out our “fears”
for us. Security in the international
sense and the maintenance of peace now
depend not on the “United” Nations,
but on the old and tried system called
the balance of power.
The balance of power, under leader-
ship of Britain with her two-Power naval
standard, warded off a world war from
the time of the defeat of Napoleon till
the first German bid for world dominion
under Kaiser William 11. At the open-
ing of this century, when that balance
was being undermined by Germany,
Britain moved to confine the coming
struggle to Europe by making an alli-
ance with Japan. That statesmanlike
treaty—of which Washington can now
perhaps appreciate the merits—did, save
for some slight scrapping in German out-
posts, keep the peace in the Pacific during
the first German war, and helped Britain
materially to preserve a balance of power
in Europe.
History seems now about to repeat
itself. We can either consent to
some sort of Pacific pact with Japan a
fellow-member, or we shall see something
like an American-Japanese alliance. To
prevent the re-entry of Japan into the
society of nations is beyond our powers,
and any cold-shouldering of American
diplomatic approaches now might give us
real ground for fears about “security.”
The best thing the Commonwealth
Government can do is to inform the Aus-
tralian people, for popular debate, fully
and frankly on the facts of the
situation. Japanese cruelty during
the late war stamped their people
in our eyes as savages; the Japanese
people as a whole will be pay-
ing in one way or another for those ex-
cesses for a long time yet; and for that
they can blame nobody but themselves.
But it will be idle for spokesmen
purporting to represent public opinion to
fulminate against a Japanese treaty be-
cause of “the impossibility of ever trust-
ing those people again” and against the
risk of allowing them to rearm at all.
It is idle, because the Japanese are a
hardened, industrious and fecund race of
80.000. and they can no more be per-
manently herded into subjection than can
8.000. Australians. It is idle, also, be-
cause, while there is an obvious risk in
“permitting” (as we say) Japan’s re-
armament, the supposition that in to-
day’s circumstances we can prevent it is
an illusion, and the problem before us is
not one risk but a choice of risks. The
transitory occupation of Japan by Ameri-
can troops (plus one Australian bat-
talion) cannot continue for ever. Japan
will rise again either under sponsorship
Of the free nations, treating her as a
when the American troops
withdraw) as a satellite of Russia, Those
are the alternatives.
The people of Western Europe have
had to make precisely the same choice
over Western Germany. If Russian
armies crossed the Elbe to overrun Wes-
tern Europe the Germans would fight
either on the side of the free nations or
against them under Russian compulsion,
there can be no balance of power against
Communist aggression in Europe without
the Germans. China having gone Red
and India being neutral, there can be no
balance of power against the same
aggression in Asia without the Japanese.
Britain’s choice of risks has been made,
after much hesitation, in response to’
American influence and American mili-
tary assurances. Anybody who supposes
that a similar decision concerning Japan
can be avoided by Australia is living in
a dream-world.
If Australia fears the resurgence of
Japan as a military nation, it is with
hardly less alarm than the Australian
“Welfare State,” based on “full employ-
ment” (whose other name is inflation),
and working only five (now, by order of
the miners, four) days of the week, views
the return of Japanese trading competi-
tion. Japanese ships will come to our
ports again, and the spectacle of go-slow
they will see here is a dreadful advertise-
ment for White Australia. The Socialist
“Welfare State” in Britain has evidenced
the same fears over German re-entry into
world trade. But if the British Common-
wealth’s “social security” can be main-
tained only by stopping the clock in rival
trading countries, then “freedom from
fear” is not for the Commonwealth
peoples, and no foreign pacts are going
to guarantee it for them.
Again, Mr. Spender’s Colombo plan,
taken over blindly with Dr, Evatt’s
foreign-policy outfit in the External
Affairs Department, proposes inter-
national financial aid for the improving
of living standards in Asia. But which of
the members of the Colombo conference
is going to mass-produce shirts, rubber-
shoes and bicycles cheaply enough to be
within the common Asian’s reach? If
Pandit Nehru’s India is to be primarily
preoccupied with armament against
Pakistan the answer must be to let the
Japanese industrialists back in the job.
Too many Australians have for half
a decade been living in a Utopia of
Socialist visionaries, dreaming of a world
wound up for perpetual peace through
abolition of profit-seeking and the
enthronement of “social security” on
votes for lotus-eating instead of work.
Not before the due time, they are now
being re-educated in the facts of life.
Bridie and Cochran.
“H.H.” (London): The English theatre
suffered a sad loss in the deaths, within
a single week, of two of its most colorful
personalities, James Bridie and C. B.
Cochran.
Bridie had been failing for some time,
with the result that his visits to London
were infrequent, and, because of the
hours kept by theatre-folk, injurious to
his health. As with Shaw, to whom he
bears comparison in at least one im-
portant respect, the actors themselves
enjoyed playing him.
If posterity should judge his works
unenthusiastically, it will be for one good
reason —his own defiance of the unities.
He despised the “well-made” play so
fiercely that he deliberately caused him-
self to be unorthodox and wayward.
Perhaps that’s the chief distinction, apart
from output, between Shaw and himself.
Shaw was lik,e an artist who has learned
his draughtsmanship only to forget it,
and also acknowledged his debt to the
greatest-ever master of form, Mozart:
Bridie’s way was to decorate his
rooms before he had made sure of
his foundations. Perhaps it now seems
unfortunate that he knew so well what
he was doing.
C. B. Cochran was no less individual
or adventurous, and more’s the pity that
he’s left no tangible monument behind
him. It is as hard to imagine what the
’twenties and ’thirties would have been
like without the words “C. B. Cochran
presents ” as it is to comprehend
that he actually went to school with
Aubrey Beardsley.
Now that large-scale theatrical pro-
duction in the West End seems to have
become as predictable as cost
accountancy, with devices to reduce the
hazards of extensive loss and to boost
average plays into moderate successes,
“C.B.’s” single-mindedness and happy
disregard of spectacular and costly
failures establishes him firmly as the last
as well as the first, of his kind.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"A Semi-war Footing."
The Prime Minister, on his return from
Europe, has emphasised the sternness of
the danger of a thh'd world war and
his agreement with other Western
leaders by his assurance that it has be-
come necessary at once to put Australia
on a “semi-war footing.” But he has also
emphasised, by his review of the world
situation, the uninformed way in which
Australian foreign policies have been
carried on during the past year and the
grave need for reconstruction of that
policy to accord with the facts.
Mr. Spender failed at the outset to make
a true estimate of the Indonesian situa-
tion, thus encouraging Soekarno and his
collaborator gang to press their West
New Guinea claim. He has adopted
throughout the fetish of Nehru’s gestures
of loyalty to the British Commonwealth
ideal, a delusion which he inherited from
Dr. Evatt and has maintained in the face
of direct and continuous evidence that
Nehru is prepared to use Communism as
a weapon of Pan-Asianism. And Mr.
Spender has failed to make clear to the
Australian public that in the struggles
revolving round Kashmir, as Mr. Menzies
has now made plain, Australia can only
side with Pakistan. He has failed to
recognise, too, the truth expressed by an
Indian officer a few days ago in a Sydney
paper that our interests in Asia lie with
the Mohammedan world, since India may
“follow China into Communism,” while
Pakistan “will not go Communist, because
Moslems believe in God.” The Indians
believe only in gods, “which is vastly
different.”
Though The Bulletin has previously
drawn attention to the alarming situation
in Afghanistan, Mr, Menzies’s statement
on his return last week was the first indi-
cation that the Government has become
aware of it. And, in addition, there
appears to be a complete lack
of appreciation by the External Affairs
Department of the vital importance
of concerted action with Britain, and
of the United Kingdom’s special prob-
lems in relation to such matters as the
diplomatic recognition of Communist
China, which is almost forced on her
through possession of Hong Kong, with
which there is, and must continue to be,
a continuous day-and-night trade across a
land border. There is also a tendency to
play politics in relation to the Japanese
peace and rearmament and to pander to
the Communist-born industrial-Labor-
party tendency to favor the inclusion of
Australia in South-East Asia.
Mr. Menzies, who himself has done an
inspiring job as Prime Minister, has a
difficult task in front of him in the Par-
liamentary session which opens on
March 7. The session will almost
certainly be preceded by strong
attempts by the rank-and-file of his
followers to secure a strengthening
of the service Ministries through
the removal of men who have little
qualifications for their offices other than
that they come from certain States. It
is to be hoped that he will succeed in
strengthening the Cabinet in several vital
directions. There is already a Communist-
sponsored “Labor” campaign being
developed to prove that “only ‘Labor’
can be trusted with the defence of the
country,” and that this can only be
achieved by the introduction of commer-
cial and financial controls paving the way
to a socialisation of the Commonwealth
as complete as that which operates in
Russia.
Australia at the moment is in greater
danger than most countries because it is
threatened by two forces —the Com-
munists of Moscow from both without
and within, and the Chifley-Evatt-Ward
party, which desires to set up its own
Socialist dictatorship.
The Great Permit Game.
The sort of thing that maddens people
who have to seek the permission of Gov-
ernment departments to do things: A
South Australian textile firm wanted to
send a load of wool-tops to Melbourne
in a hurry. Since the goods were its own,
to be carried on its own truck, and the
truck driven by its own employee, no
S.A. road permit was needed.
Victorian transport - “strangulation”
authorities, however, refused a road
permit unless the firm could produce a
S.A. permit. S.A. held that it couldn’t
issue a permit where one wasn’t necessary.
Victoria, told of this, said it couldn’t do
anything about that and its rule was firm
—no S.A. permit, no Vic. permit.
S.A. was asked if it could bend its
regulation a little and issue a permit to
satisfy the Vic. demand. The reply was
that there was no precedent for such a
thing and it wasn’t proposed to establish
one. By this time, of course, days had
elapsed, and the yells from Melbourne
for the wool-tops were deafening.
So the firm hired a truck and driver to
cart the stuff, got an S.A. permit because
it was a hired truck, then got its Vic.
permit and the goods got away.
This is what the Premiers of both
States call a “liberalised road-transport
policy.”
A Minister to Boot.
From London: Although White’s Club
bears little resemblance to its early days —
or, more correctly, nights—when landown-
ing M.Ps. gambled away their fortunes
and cirrhosed their livers, it still remains
a resort of high Tories. Oddly enough,
one of its recent distinguished visitors
turns out to have been none other than
that professional and vocative man of the
people, Mr. Aneurin Sevan, On leaving,
after a quiet drink in the bar, Mr. Bevan
became involved in an “unprovoked in-
cident.” A member (who is both an
earl’s son and a descendant of that most
clubbable of political Bucks, Charles
James Fox) appears to have administered
to the person of the Minister of Labor a
playful kick in the pants.
Mr. Bevan, to his great credit, showed
none of the ruffled pomposity of outraged
dignity. Noblesse oblige proved to have
a double application: Mr, Bevan was
singularly the gentleman, and the offender
quickly resigned his membership
(although not of his other clubs). He is
not known to have gone into voluntary
banishment. Indeed, the numerous tele-
grams and large mail he has received sug-
gest that he is not without a considerable
following.
The conclusions! are two. First,
although it’s still bad manners to boot
anybody —even a Cabinet Minister —from
behind, a democratic country can let the
“assault” pass without punitive action.
And, second, in order to avoid similar
incidents in future, it might be prudent
for Britain’s Government to put exclusive
clubs and expensive restaurants out of
bounds to members of the Labor party.
There is no likelihood of the imposition
of such an embargo, which would only
mean an unduly large number of empty
chairs and vacant tables.
Flying Plastics.
Before the official American announce-
ment last week that the “flying saucers”
people have been seeing in the sky for
some three years were plastic balloons
used in U.S. research into cosmic-rays,
speculation had run the limit. The ex-
planation has naturally left many people
very angry.
One Gerald Heard had even published
a book suggesting that the objects came
from Mars —like the invading airborne
armv of a New York radio hoax just
before World War II —and were directed
by large and intelligent semi-human
insects, resentful of the earth people’s
atom-bomb explosions. Many other
people began asking why, when the U.S.
Government knew the answer all the
time, it let the multitude go on speculating
and wasting time and money in delving
into a mystery which could have led to
hysterical mass-reactions.
Even the British Astronomer-Royal
entered the debate with an article in the
London “Spectator” just before
Christmas, in which he sorted out the
evidence of observers for generally-agreed
features of the objects seen, ridiculed the
Martian theory as absurd to all
scientists, and finally dismissed the whole
thing as “a myth.” He did say, how-
ever, that he believed many reports were
“distorted accounts of natural
phenomena; in a few instances meteor-
ological balloons, experimental aircraft or
guided missiles may possibly have been
observed.”
In these days when no activities, in
scientific investigation, international
diplomacy, military intelligence or even
private lives, are supposed to be pursued
in secret, the allowing of public in-
quisitiveness to travel on false tracks after
“flying saucers” is plainly an outrage.
That is, from the Communist “intelli-
gentsia’s” point of view.
"Rough On Rats."
“Ex-R.S.M.”: It has long been known
that ultra-violet rays have great sterilising
power, but little practical use was made
of this knowledge until quite recently.
Today, ultra-violet ray lamps, which re-
semble miniature fluorescent lighting-
tubes in appearance, are being installed
wherever perishable foodstuffs are stored.
It has been found that in butchers’ cool-
rooms they kill moulds and bacteria, re-
ducing the wastage on stored meat from
five per cent, to nil; they also eliminate
all odor. They reduce mould damage in
stored fruit from as much as 15 per cent,
to a negligible amount, and in maternity
hospitals they greatly lessen the risk of
airborne infections spreading among
babies.
Now a surprising discovery has been
made. Wherever these lamps have been
installed to protect perishable food-
stuffs, all rats and mice have been driven
from the storerooms. This appears to
be because these lamps generate a small
quantity of ozone, quite harmless to
human beings, but which has a very
irritating effect upon the mucous mem-
branes of small animals. Further, these
lamps also appear to drive out cock-
roaches and the lazy-moth which can
cause such damage to dried-fruit in store.
Ultra-violet ray lamps are being made
in Adelaide by the two brothers of
Professor Marcus Oliphant, the nuclear
physicist. The Oliphants, who make
laboratory equipment, started making the
lamps as a sideline, but it is now their
main activity. They have made some im-
provements to the original design, and
their product is now in such demand that
they are 1500 orders in arrears, with more
piling up every day.
Shock for Sobsi.
Those “Indonesian comrades” of the
Australian wharfies are not playing the
game. Moscow’s little brothers all over
the place outside the Iron Curtain were
supposed to keep up the pretence that
under Communism there were never any
strikes because everybody was so happy
and no cause for strikes could exist.
And now look at them in Indonesia!
The Defence Ministry in Djakarta has
banned the right to strike in every in-
dustry that matters, including transport,
mining and wharf-lumping, and left the
“wage-slaves” with only the right—made
a compulsory duty under penalty of a
year’s jail—to refer disputes to “a settle-
ment committee” of several Ministers.
It won’t be long before such “settlements”
will consist of shootings in the back of
the neck.
What must seem even more intolerable
to the Commo gang roosting in Aus-
tralian unions is that the strikes now being
banned by the supposedly “correct” Gov-
ernment in Indonesia were organised by
the local Communist headquarters, Sobsi
—made up of initials read in U.S.A. as
s.o.b.’s of Indonesia- —and Sobsi was sup-
posed to have established supreme con-
trol over all Indonesian unions. Things
must be going wrong somewhere if good
Commo union-bosses, sitting pretty in
front of push-buttons for calling strikes
anywhere at any minute, see prospects of
themselves being shot in the neck.
Blended Wine.
“Vino del Pais”: Although I make no
claim to be an expert, my palate—in
common with that of most folk who drink
good wine for the pleasure it gives—is
sufficiently discriminating to revolt at
poor stuff. When, in my scant leisure, I
discover a flagon to my taste, I like to
feel that I can get further supplies of the
identical beverage. In Europe or South
Africa or Chile, or even Turkey, one can
do so by buying a wine of the same
description and vintage and bearing the
name of the vineyard which produced the
original bottle. In Australia, however,
the year of the wine is rarely indicated,
and one has to be content with a usually
passable but rather characterless drink.
Those Australian vintners who wish to
do so can still blend “consistently good
table- and dessert-wines, year by year”
(B. 27/9/’5O), for their bread and butter,
but they should not be precluded, either
by policy or by lentor, from participating
in the craftsman’s joy of cherishing the
best products of his good years and setting
them aside for discriminating clients.
This class of buyer, incidentally, is the
best advertisement for good wine, and he
drinks the “blended” product only where
he lacks the leisure and opportunity to
search the cellars for what Mr. Hardy
admits is “somewhat superior.”
Another angle on blending is included
in a quotation from the London “Sunday
Times”;
the unsatisfactory practice of blending
to which importers resort to even out the
difference between the duties on light and
heavy wines. Blending does lower prices,
but the result bears little relation to the
wines as shipped, and leads to a loss of
prestige.
As one who has, in moderation, en-
joyed the wines of many countries, I
cannot agree with Mr. Hardy when he
states that “the comparative lack of
variations in the Australian climate does
not produce the extreme differences which
result from the uncertain European
climate.” I’ll publicly recant that opinion
if I prove incapable of distinguishing
between, say, Hunter River 1948 and 1950
vintages. Both of these vintages, when
matured, should yield wines which will
compare favorably with the best of their
type in the world, and yet each will
possess a personality characteristically
Australian. To blend such wines with
the object of maintaining consistency,
year by year, is sacrilege.
Dedman and Socialism.
There were two highlights in the failure
of Mr. Dedman’s libel action against the
Geelong “Advertiser” and a Liberal-party
campaign-director in 1949 (Mr. Ivo
Gibson), apart from the wonder that he
should have brought it at all. One was
his views on Socialism and the “Labor”
party’s Socialist objective, and the other
was his right, as the judge said, to make
words he uses mean anything he likes.
Mr. Dedman, ex-Minister for Defence and
Post-war Reconstruction, lost his seat in Cono
at the 1949 elections and sued the paper and the
Liberal agent for defamation alleged in election
advertisements. These quoted (1) Mr. Dedman s
statement in Parliament, as recorded m
“Hansard,” during debate on the 1945 Housing
Agreement Bill, in which is enshrined the
sentence that his Government was “not con-
cerned with making the workers little capitalists,
a reference (denied by Mr. Dedman) to home-
ownership; and (2) a statement by Mr. Dedman
three weeks before the election that “1 believe
in the right of every worker to own his own
home.” Mr. Dedman said these advertisements
made him out to be unfit to sit in Parliament,
a liar and a hypocrite, and he claimed £lO,OOO
damages, which claim he increased during the
hearing to £20,000.
Under cross-examination Mr. Dedman defined
Socialism as “the act of giving effect to some-
thing which is socialistic in character or could
be described as socialistic.” The marketing of
primary produce under legislation was, he said,
a form of Socialism. The principle of Socialism
was that every person in the community would
render service to the community according to
ability. , , .
Mr. Justice Coppel: What do you do to
the means of production to socialise it?
That depends on the type of production. In
primary production you get some way towards
it by setting-up boards, such as the Milk Board.
Any party, he said, that sought to establish a
Harbor Trust or a State Water Supply Com-
mission was Socialist with qualifications.
Questioned on the 1921 Socialist objective of
the “Labor” party and its qualification under
“the Blackburn interpretation,” Mr. Dedman
said he could not recall when he first regarded
himself as bound by the “interpretation.” He
had not seen and had “no idea” concerning
any report containing the A.L.P. platform prior
to 1948 in which the “interpretation” was
even mentioned. Over a number of years he
had discussed with “Labor” officials, including
the late Mr. Blackburn, the meaning of the
party’s socialisation pledge. He described him-
self as “a Christian Socialist,” which was very
much milder than “a Fabian or a Marx
Socialist.”
His party was averse to further alienation
of freehold in land; socialisation of means of
production, he agreed, would mean socialisation
of land. „
Mr. Justice Coppel: All land? —Yes, all
land. . . . , ..
Socialisation of land, he continued (in
answer to questions), would mean supervision
by the State of uses to which the land was put.
Mr. Reynolds (for Mr. Gibson): It is not
mere supervision that is meant in the party
objective, is it? —That is what I take it to
mean, and what the Blackburn interpretation
means.... However, a certain amount of land
has been alienated from the Crown, and I’m
not in favor of nationalising that.
Mr, Revelman (for Geelong “Advertiser ):
You could not create a socialistic State if you
created thousands of little capitalists owning
their own homes? —No, but that is something
for the future.
Mr. Justice Coppel: In the creation of a
socialistic State thousands of workers owning
their own homes would be an obstruction?
That is my belief, but the present state of
society is likely to exist for many years.
Further cross-examined, Mr. Dedman said that
under complete socialisation the State would
own all homes and would let them out on
perpetual lease to workers. If a man went on
strike and there were other workers without
homes the striker could be put out of his home.
However, as long as private ownership existed
he believed in every head of a family owning
his own home. Even when private ownership
ended he still believed “some similar provision”
should be made available to heads of families.
Mr. Dedman was reminded of some of his
own election advertisements in the Geelong
“Advertiser,” and admitted that one of them
stating that “a vote for the Liberal party
would mean penury, poverty and conscription”
—was “a little exaggerated and unfair.” After
issuing his writ against the paper, he said, he
sent a statement to the editor, but denied having
intended it for publication. Later he admitted
that he had sent it hoping it would be published
and knowing that, if it were published, the
editor could have been imprisoned for con-
tempt of court, and this, he believed, would
have been punishment for the “Advertiser
having libelled him. He had not pointed out
in the statement that its publication could give
rise to contempt of court.
Mr. Justice Coppel : This is a somewhat
radical change. Within. 10 minutes you have
given completely conflicting accounts of your
conduct.
For the defence it was pleaded that the
statements in the advertisement were, as
to one part, true in substance and in fact,
as to another part were an extract from
Mr Dedman’s speech in “Hansard, and
as to a third part Mr. Gibson said in
evidence that he meant to convey not
that Mr. Dedman had three weeks before
the election changed the opinion he had
previously expressed, but that there was
(Continued on next page.}


K
OUVEIf*
I
162
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATI ON FOR QUALITJf
an inconsistency in the A.L.P. on the
question of home-ownership.
Mr. Justice Coppel, summing up, told
the jury that the advertisements were not
defamatory and they should find for the
defendants; that it was impossible to
attach any other meaning to Mr.
Dedman’s quotation than that attributed
to it by the defence; and that the only
thing which concerned the jury was the
claim that the second part of the second
advertisement made Mr. Dedman out to
be a man willing to deceive the electors
in order to get himself elected to Parlia-
ment. The judge said he would express
no opinion whatsoever on this claim.
The jury found for the defendants
after a retirement of an hour and a half.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies’s first statement on arriving
back from Britain was a grim one. The
P.M. said that although he himself did
not regard a third world war as inevitable,
that was the view of many responsible
people. Therefore the threat of war could
not be ignored. He indicated that it was
the Government’s intention to put the
country on “a semi-war-time footing,”
but said it would not be possible to do
this and at the same time maintain our
economy if we were going to indulge in
the luxury of strikes, stoppages and ineffi-
ciency. The P.M. did not say so, but
another factor that will militate against
the Government’s efforts to put such a
policy into effect is an obstructionist
Opposition whose one purpose is to pre-
vent the Government from governing.
Nothing illustrates so well the degree in
which Soviet Russia has corrupted and
perverted normal values as the fact that
when Stalin talks of peace the world is
more suspicious and apprehensive than
when he threatens war.
Most ridiculous item in Uncle Joe's
weekend tirade, in which he attacked
everything outside the Iron Curtain, was
his description of Prime Minister Attlee
as a warmonger. Clem’s political
opponents have accused him of many
things, and they can probably think of
many unpleasant names for him, but
warmonger isn’t one of them.
Stalin’s other quip was that Russia had
completed her demobilisation by 1948.
Latest authoritative figures of Soviet
armed strength place it at 175 divisions,
25.000 tanks, 20,000 aircraft and a large
fleet of submarines. Russian demobilisa-
tion probably consists of demobbing
500.000 over-age veterans and calling up
a million youths.
In carrying out the death sentence on
three convicted murderers whose appeals
to the Privy Council had been rejected, the
McDonald Government at least showed
it had the courage to carry out the law
of the land. Too many Australian State
Goyernments are game neither to abolish
capital punishment nor to enforce the
penalty, however richly deserved.
When the N. S. Wales branch of the
Ironworkers’ Federation was fined £375
last November for taking part in an
illegal strike the Industrial Commission
ordered payment to be made within 14
days. Last week the court appointed a
receiver to wind up the affairs of the
union. It looks as though the iron-
workers will be seeing a real balance-
sheet at last. A copy of it should be sent
to Comrade Thornton in Peking.
Mr. Holt, Minister for Labor, chided
the colliery proprietors for not joining
in a conference with the miners and the
A.C.T.U. The owners maintain that
under a Joint Coal Board rule they are
forbidden to confer with miners while
they are on strike, and that, in any case,
they felt they should not attend any con-
ference until the miners resumed normal
work. That seems fair enough. After all,
the Coal Board, the Coal Tribunal and
the Government have all said there can
be no question of a review of the
Gallagher award unless the miners agree
to call off their one-day strikes.
Pensioners in the Lithgow district have
been complaining that coalminers have
been spending strike-Monday picking
blackberries. It seems a harmless and
healthy way of spending the day, but
apparently the miners don’t do it just for
fun ; there’s money in blackberrying, and
the strikers have been doing it in order to
recoup some of the dough they lose by
striking. The catch is that blackberrying
for profit used to be the prerogative of
the pensioners and youngsters. Now if
the miners really want to make up that
lost pay, why don’t they slip down to
Sydney and do a night-shift on the
wharves? Their • mates the wharfies
couldn’t very well object; they don’t
want the overtime work.
Britain’s iron-and-steel industry passed
into the Socialist maw last Wednesday,
though for the present at least the indi-
vidual firms in which the Government
now becomes the sole shareholder will
continue to trade under their own names,
and under the old management. How
long this will be allowed Attlee and co.
don’t say, but obviously it won’t be for
any longer than they can help. Churchill
and Eden have made it quite clear that
when they return to power they intend
to unscramble the eggs, and it is not in
the nature of the Socialists to make it
easy for them.
According to the London “Sunday
Times,” news of the appointment of Sir
Ronald Cross as Governor of Tasmania
leaked out a little earlier than was in-
tended, and as a result the Conservative
party was deprived of his vote in a
couple of vital divisions. “It is held
improper,” says the “Sunday Times,” “for
a Governor-designate to continue to be an
active politician.” That may be so in
England, but Australians will recall a
case where a politician appointed to vice-
regal office subsequently took part in a
political faction fight—incidentally, back-
ing the losing faction,
Calwell, silent for some time, is now
up and rarin’ to go ; he wants Chif. to
challenge the Government on price-
control as soon as Parliament meets.
Calwell may be honest in his expressed
desire for an election, but plenty of his
colleagues with seats not so safe as
Arthur’s shudder at the thought. It’s
an old saying that the strongest party in
any Parliament is the No-Election party.
The present Federal Parliament is no
exception.
If Chifley does accept Calwell’s advice
he won’t thank his ex-Minister for an
address he delivered to a meeting of
“Labor” supporters at Brighton. “Buy
all you can. Don’t save your money,
because the position is going to be
desperate,” urged this eminent critic of
the Menzies Government’s failure to
check inflation, “Money is no good in
the bank while prices are rising so fast
....Put your money into goods before
prices rise further.” Calwell knows full
well that that is the very sort of talk
which aggravates inflation. It justifies
suspicions that he doesn’t care two hoots
what happens to the country’s economy
as long as his own party can crawl back
to power. “Save for security” was the
slogan when “Labor” was in office;
“Spend every penny” is Calwell’s substi-
tute now the party is in Opposition.
Recently Melbourne Trades Hall
cleaners struck for higher pay, which had
been refused by the T.H.C. as though it
were a mere capitalistic employer; and
now the local A.W.U. president says con-
ditions under which T.H. employees
(about 250 of them) work are worse than
that at remote woolsheds. They ought,
he said, to have dining-rooms, washing
facilities, rest-rooms and a trained nurse
on hand in case of serious accidents. Of
course they ought; but the union officials
whom these wage-slaves attend are far
too busy seeking out breaches of regu-
lations concerning conditions of employ-
ment elsewhere to notice offences of the
sort in their own backyard.
Giving evidence at the Royal Com-
mission on Pastoral Land Settlement, Mr.
Hope, chairman of the Queensland Meat
Industry Board, estimated that by 1960
Australia’s requirements of beef for home
consumption would have increased by 40
per cent., and that unless a correspond-
ing increase occurred in production the
local market would swallow up the export
trade. There’s a similar trend in mutton,
lamb and pigmeats. If something isn’t
done about it we may see the day when
Governments issue patriotic appeals to
citizens to “Eat Less Meat.”
Attlee’s Minister for War, John
Strachey, has quite a following. When
he addresses political meetings he has to
contend not only with normal hecklers,
but also with: (1) Those who don’t like
him ; (2) those who don’t like his politics ;
(3) those who don’t like his immediate
past over peanuts; (4) those (“reac-
tionaries”) who don’t like his more-
distant-past preoccupation with Com-
munistic dogma ; (5) those (Communists)
who don’t like his present, “reactionary”
occupation as Minister of War. A task,
it would seem, that is sufficient in itself
without the responsibility of departmental
duties.
Accusations of ballot-rigging are no
new development of “Labor” preselec-
tion wrangles; there was a time in
N. S. Wales politics when it must have
seemed to the casual observer that almost
the main requirement of a Trades Hall
official was the ability to do sleight-of-
hand tricks with sliding panels. The
Victorian A.L.P. Disputes Committee is
now investigating charges of an attempt
to rig the preselection ballot for Mel-
bourne Ports by bogus votes from the
Montague branch. Three weeks ago the
State executive suspended the branch
when it was claimed that a swag of names
on its membership roll were fakes or
dummies.
Sydney’s harbor ferries may be a joy to
inter-State visitors and a comfortable
means of travel to thousands of harbor-
siders, but they have become a headache
to those who run them, despite the fact
that a threepenny pre-war trip now costs
ninepence. Latest suggestion is that the
N. S. Wales Government should take over
the ferry service, leaving Sydney Ferries
to operate its tugs and lighters. It might
have been thought that McGirr and his
merry men, being good Socialists, would
have jumped at the chance ; but so far
they haven’t said a word. Current losses
on Government railways are high enough
to deter all but the most ardent Socialist
from adding a non-paying ferry-service
to the Government’s burdens.
Parodying what Alan Herbert wrote
about the Board of Trade, it might be
said or sung of the Australian Egg
Board:
First there wasn’t any Board
And now there are not any eggs.
Queensland has now joined Victoria and
N.S.W. in laments from egg-marketing
officials that the poultry industry is go-
ing out. It is—killed by board control.
What eggs are available are expected to
be 6d. each soon.
In the old pre-control days when any-
body could keep as many hens as he
liked without asking official permission,
helping out his feed-bill with kitchen
scraps, and could sell his surplus eggs to
those who wanted them, there were
enough eggs to go round and the price
was kept down. But that was part of
what used to be known as free enterprise.
Every now and then someone revives
the old yarn that the plot of land contain-
ing Father Receveur’s tomb at La
Perouse, on Botany Bay, is French
territory. Latest to weigh in with the
story was the A.B.C.’s newsman, who put
it over the air last Saturday night. In
1917 there was a suggestion that, as a
gesture of Franco-Australiau friendship,
the land should be deeded to France in
perpetuity. The Holman Government got
as far as preparing a bill, but the Federal
Government stepped in and pointed out
practical difficulties presented by such a
scheme. One was that a criminal who
took refuge at the tomb would be im-
mune from Australian laws until extra-
dition papers were taken out. The plan
was dropped, but apparently the news has
been travelling rather slowly.
Queensland’s Parliament reopens next
Tuesday. Deputy-Premier Gair told the
“Courier-Mail” the session would be a
busy one because the Government had a
heavy programme of new legislation pre-
pared, apart from bills left over from the
last session. Another piece of unfinished
business is the showdown on the Bulimba
Election Tribunal report. Opposition
parties intend to make the tabling of the
report the occasion for a full-dress attack
on the Government’s administration of
electoral affairs.
Victorian A.L.P. central executive,
which includes four members of Federal
caucus, has censured Bert Evatt for
defending Communists in the Arbitration
Court. The protest, which states that
the action of the Deputy-Leader of
Federal “Labor” “is damaging to the
Labor party and should not be per-
mitted.” has been sent to the Federal
executive. There’s a growing feeling that
the Doc. is giving away politics and going
back to the Law —being vice-captain of
the losing side isn’t really his dish of tea.
If he hasn’t made this decision he’d be
wise to do so. Nancy Wake ran him close
at the last election when he was Deputy-
Prime Minister, with a big build-up as
U.N.O. president. What the electors of
Barton think of his doings since then
remains to be seen —if Bert allows it to
be seen.
If the McKenna Committee expected
to get from Lieutenant-General Gordon
Bennett any support for the A.L.P. stand
against conscription, they were surely dis-
appointed ; Bennett believes in compul-
sory training, and plenty of it. He is not
in favor of granting any exemptions at
all, even to conchies.
Three agricultural experts, led by
Professor Prescott, of the Waite Institute,
Adelaide, are at present in north West-
ralia, investigating cotton-growing possi-
bilities in the Ord river district. Benefits
of such a scheme would be twofold —a
measure of independence of overseas
supplies and a means of peopling the
empty North. It’s by no means the first
time such hopes have been held; let’s
hope more comes of this attempt than
of past ventures.


* Qk. Tomkins, VDur patient
iwiu. see you now/'
WAITING
ROOM
gdf
jaggs**'
w
f//
r$>
4^
10
vaP
a
ferf/ ,
Mfk v /
(insult your yoctor
* W®
V' .
I've prescribe?
myself a 7/
'GKEAS V MEAU.
)6oV£ 6F£N UOOKINO A SIT
off u\T£uy, scythe; sftt^r
6-ET MF WHIP our THAT
APPFNPIX OF YOURS.
THE DOCTORS’ DILEMMA.
“According to Professor H. Dew, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Sydney University, Australia will be oversupplied with doctors by 1953, and young doctors will then
probably find it difficult to get work.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
( Inspired, if this be not too strong a term, by
the popular song “The Cry of the Wild Goose.”)
“Broiga”: The lot of the policeman on
point duty at Sydney’s busy intersections
is not an enviable one, and at times
tempers are strained to breaking-point.
I remember seeing one throw up his hands
in disgust on a hot afternoon. “Go
where you like,” he announced to
all drivers within
earshot. “I’m going
to have a smoke.”
However, the job
has a few perks.
The driver of the
evening - paper
truck will throw
out a copy of the
late final-extra as
he passes, and with
a swift hand-pass
the paper is stowed
away with hardly a check in the waving
hand-signals. But I was surprised the
other day to see a hefty p.c. leave his
post and run a few yards after a van
which stopped suddenly just over the
crossing. He returned to his job after
he’d stowed a bottle of milk in a tunic
pocket.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Having early in the piece
intimated to the landlord of our garden
flats that in 14 years at sea gardening had
had no place in my life, I was pleased
when he accosted me, all beaming, with
the information that the new tenant of
No. 1 was most enthusiastic about pur-
suits horticultural. “He made it almost
a condition on taking the flat,” enthused
the landlord, “that I should let him potter
about the garden. So much so that I’ve
"I wont keep you a jiffy , dear — I'm just putting on my hat."
set out a little plot for his own use. Now
my worries are over!” That was three
weeks ago. I may be maligning the new
bloke, but I know how hard it is to get
a flat. Neither flowers nor landlord
have seen him since he moved in.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: When the legitimate
theatre folded up under the impact of
the talkies and 11 Melbourne playhouses
either closed down or went over to the
enemy, nobody would have predicted
that in 1951 over 50 Victorian country
centres would have regular servings of
flesh-and-blood drama, ballet and music,
even if only from a peripatetic theatre.
Everyman Theatre is the travelling play-
house of the Council of Adult Education,
and it is doing six tours this year with
J. B. Priestley’s fine social drama “An
Inspector Calls” and Wilde’s “The
Importance of Being Earnest.” The com-
pany includes two talented Latvian
dancers, Aina Reega and Arvid Fibigs;
pianist Valerie Hartung and baritone
William Laird; the internationally
celebrated tenor Eric Liffman, and a Mel-
bourne trio, pianist Shirley Paton,
violinist Marie Bull and ’cellist Marjorie
Thoms. Earlier tours have left behind
them a trail of play-reading and drama
circles.
* * * ♦
“Hamfat”; The picture of the small
boy who invaded the lions’ cage to get
the autograph of the lion-tamer (B,
7/2/’5l) reminds me of a tale of Fitz-
gerald Brothers’ Circus, which used to
rival Wirths. In the early hours of one
morning, following a commotion
amongst a cageful of tigers, one of
the clowns was found fast asleep at one
end of the cage, whilst the tigers were
packed together at the other end snarling
and growling, but making no effort to
harm him. The circus theory was that
the powerful odor of the rum which the
intruder exuded had the fierce felines
bluffed; they stood off from him as fear-
fully as a group of old ladies from a
drunk. The clown’s wife had strong views
about his drinking habits, but whether
he got into the cage in an attempt to
commit suicide by being torn to pieces,
or whether he felt he was safer there
than facing his missus, was never dis-
covered,
* ♦ * ♦
“K.”: Away up in the Victorian
Mallee on the Wimmera River lie the
hamlets of Jeparit (population 740) and
Jeparit East (population 60). They are
pretty parched today, and though there
is some water in the river and fish in it,
the populace has been starved for worm-
bait. In one of the main thoroughfares
of Jeparit, hopefully named Rainbow-
street, the populace recently congregated
around the only dampish spot in all the
landscape, a wet patch in the gutter,
and started digging for worms. The local
constable regarded the business as
possibly savoring of an anti-civic state of
mind, but held it didn’t matter much as
the gutters weren’t needed anyway, under
that brazen sky. The state of Jeparit’s
town gutters being what it is—they are
unmade, and the local council is held not
to be interested in them—no notice
whatever would apparently have been
taken of the gutter-destruction had not
some story of Jeparit’s need for worms
been told on a Victorian news broadcast.
The digging came to a halt when two
South Australian listeners along the
wheat-belt railway wired that they were
sending relief —three tins of worms by
goods parcel.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Despite the fact that our suburb
has as high a percentage of cars to popu-
lation as any in Sydney—owing largely to
the number of brickies’ laborers, builders’
laborers, etc., who have taken up residence
in it in recent years—we enjoy easily the
lowest car-accident rate of any. That
this peculiar immunity can be attributed
to our having been selected for some
special dispensation from on high may
“And this is the wife —Worst bit of hunting I ever did."
be the belief of the unthinking and un-
observant. But those of us ratepayers
who have followed with interest the pro-
fessional activities of our council’s
engineer have no doubts whatever about
the source of it. Very obviously the
death-is-so-permanent posters which for
so long were splashed over the hoardings
had their cumulative effect on him, and
he has become an honorary and enthusi-
astic disciple of the Road Safety Com-
mittee. With what heartfelt gratitude
would any member of the latter body
view our suburb’s cars moving from pot-
hole to pothole in second gear! Often,
before I came to full realisation of the
noble work he was doing, I cursed the
engineer for a half-wit whenever I had
to get back into first gear at the bottom
of a hill to crawl over a culvert that for
years has carried a 12in. depression which
would have broken my axle had I gone
over it at anything over 10 m.p.h. Had
it been perfectly smooth I would un-
doubtedly have rushed down the hill at
normal speed and climbed the opposite
hill at around 30 m.p.h. An officially-
permissible speed, certainly, but who
knows but that while I was going up it
my four wheels might have come off, my
steering and brakes failed, and I been
seized with an apoplectic fit? Why,
dammit, I really owe my life to the
fellow!
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne “Sun-Pic” takes
sole credit for the Melbourne citizen’s
sudden conversion to rational summer
clothing. Having conducted three solid
months of uninterrupted work it reckons
it has convinced him. I don’t believe it.
Two months of consecutive hot weather,
a record heatwave, would have convinced
him without the propaganda, and if the
paper takes credit for that it should also
take credit for another example of
rational dressing I saw the other day in
the centre of the city—a stout pater-
familias, naked to the waist, walking
along with his smartly-dressed wife and
four well-clothed children.
* * ♦ *
“Sixenate”: A will probated over 40
years ago coming to court, some doubt
whether copies of correspondence bearing
on the testator’s intentions was resolved
when a firm of solicitors, delving into its
archives, dug out a letter-copying book.
It was a ghost from an age when type-
writing had not yet made its way, and
was regarded with scorn and distrust by
legal offices. Letters in longhand were
written in “copying ink,” and impressed
into the flimsy pages of the letter-copying
books by smears of the “letterpress” then
a feature of every office. TTie records
of the old letters, clear today as they
Were when written, caused excitement
and interest, and helped the court to
make its order. When the old system was
explained, one of the solicitors concerned
remarked: “That’s what an odd bit of
furniture in our office must be —a letter-
press! It’s been allowed to stay there,
and nobody knew what it was meant for.”
* * * ♦
“Zake”: Before Bob Menzies, by the
combined power of the golden tongue
and the anti-Socialist policy, prised the
first of the 100-million-dahler loans off
Uncle Sam, the snorks which came
sizzling out of Australia’s frying-pans
were encased in a local product of seem-
ingly caoutchouc origin from which the
teeth virtually bounced. Anyone noticed
that nowadays the mysteries can be
masticated without harboring the impres-
sion that the butcher had had to encase
the processed fat-scrap in party balloons?
The reason is the American-variety snag-
overcoat, undoubtedly the world’s best.
But the snag-lover may swallow this with
his favorite fodder: tenpence out of every
pound he pays for it represents the value
of its overcoat!
* * * *
“Fairf”: The most embarrassing thing
I ever carried home was an ordinary
millet-broom. They were in short supply,
but I fluked on a shop which had a few.
Of course the shopman wouldn’t wrap it,
that would have been expecting too much;
it wasn’t until 1 held the naked object in
a crowded street that I realised what I’d
done to myself. Through back-lanes 1
crept to the station, but still had to walk
the gauntlet of eyes along the platform.
When the train pulled in I dashed into
the little rear compartment and, leaning
against the omnipresent thing, tried to
pretend 1
wasn’t embar-
rassed. I was
last man
through the
barrier at my
d e s t ination ;
but the march
through the
main street,
with a broom
at the short-
trail, was the
sort of thing
you suffer in
n i g h t m ares.
Still, the plea-
sure in my wife’s eyes was ample reward
—until she exclaimed: “Oh, how lovely!
Could you get another? Mum’s is just
about worn down to the handle.” I said
I would, but I took a large sheet of
paper to wrap it in. The wrapping stayed
on until I’d gone about 30 yards. By
this lime I was sure that people were
tittering about the eccentric who carried
a broom for company. That wasn’t the
end; my sister had heard the news.
Would I be a good fellow and get her
one? Men have received medals for less
courageous actions. I delivered the hate-
ful object, but my self-confidence has
never been completely restored. And it
took me months to live down the nick-
name —Van Tromp.
THE CRY OF THE WILD BOOZER.
“Dunk Island, eighty miles from Cairns, is for sale
with vacant possession, licensed hotel bar, fresh water,
etc., for £Bo,ooo.’’
Last night, as I lay sleeping, in my bunk sunk
drunk,
A voice said, “Grab a sampan or a junk to
Dunk:
For eighty thousand smackers you can file that
isle
At the Registration Office as your domicile.”
Chorus :
My heart longs for the clink, clonk, clunk,
Of ice against the glass of a long drink at Dunk,
And the sound of ukeleles going plink, plonk,
plunk,
For hula-girls as dramatised in ink by Unk.
While city lights they flicker like a quick, trick
strike,
And Labor bosses dicker with a slick dislike,
The hope of world-wide happiness has shrunk
to chunks
Of isolated Paradise; just little, dinky-Dunks.
There’s plenty of fresh water, and the sea-breeze
frees
The coconuts and mangoes from their trees
with ease;
The sun and moon for many years have never
wunk or blunk,
And they are all the light or heat you need at
Dunk.
I sat up then, orating to my toused, roused
spouse:
“The city price will soon be eighty thous. a
house;
I’ve often heard you say I was a skunk, you
thunk,
So now’s vour chance to ship me off alone to
Dunk,”
She answered, “What a noble thing for you to
do!
It’s worth it to get rid of you—if I go too”
But, mentally unpacking my trunk, I slunk
Unhappily to sleep again, to dream of Dunk.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“By means of a set of tinted contact lenses costing
£350 women may change the color of their eyes
to match their dresses.”
“8.A.K.”; I’m no authority on Sydney,
but I do know that the city possesses a
goodly number of prominent buildings
with large sweeps of steps: the Town Hall,
St. Mary’s, the G.P.O. and Mark Foy’s
are just a few that come to mind. In all
cases, as far as I can ascertain, the steps
are used as, well, steps —nothing else. In
the ordinary course of events a young
man would not, willingly, sit down on
one of the long tiers ; and as for a young
well-dressed girl—why, it’s unthinkable.
Yet whenever I pass the Public Library
there are from four to 40 young men and
women sitting on the steps, reading, talk-
ing, thinking or maybe just sitting. Ad-
mittedly a public library is recognised as
the “seat of learning,” but the thing
doesn’t have to be taken so darned
literally.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: Typical of the
slovenliness of speech which passes today
“Duck, Billo—We're goin' through !”
without inciting jeers was the statement
of a U.N. spokesman that the situation
in Korea “is now perfect, and continues
to improve.” The phrase recalls the old
Bulletin joke about the Cornish boss
who, having been assured by his over-
seer that a job was perfect, said “Perfect,
is it? It’ll have to be better nor that.”
Former N.S.W. Premier Stevens’s remark
that a colleague was “enjoying bad
health” is beaten nearly every week ; but
nobody seems to notice.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The world’s most conscien-
tious person? The Victorian Railway
Department recently received a fiver with
the anonymous explanation that the
sender had fined himself for having
accidentally spat in a railway carriage.
The penalty on conviction for expectora-
tion on railway property is £5.
♦ * * *
“Tackline S.”; Australian strikers once
returned to work through receiving sup-
port. One of the “Bay” liners when in
the London docks some years ago had a
strike of seamen. The ship’s cooks, see-
ing the chance of a holiday, came out in
sympathy. As soon as the seamen realised
that such support meant no meals they
went back to work pronto.
* * * »
“C.Q.”: Does anything promote an
interest in culture more than the fillums?
Melbourne National Gallery recently re-
ceived hundreds of phone-calls from
people anxious to have a gink at the
famous “Mona Lisa.” The picture isn’t
included amongst the gallery’s collection
of world-famous masterpieces—it is still
in the Louvre if it hasn’t been stolen
again—but the inquirers had seen a film
called “After Midnight” in which
Leonardo’s masterpiece figures.
* * * *
“Taswegian”; The gang I was working
with regarded me as an authority on
grammar, spelling and the like —it was a
case of “In the kingdom of the blind, the
one-eyed man is king.” A workmate
asked me “Tas, how do you spell
rhinosterous?” I spelt it. “I thought so ;
there’s no T in it?” “That’s right,” I
said. His next one floored me, “Then
why do we say it with a ‘t’?”
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Art has been taken to
the court-room again in Paris, where a
case is being fought out with the usual
passion. It concerns Leaner Fine,
France’s most fashionable surrealist
painter, who had a dream in which she
saw a “hoot-owl-and-cat” mask. Using
her dream for inspiration, she designed
the mask and it appeared with great
success in a ballet. Then one day she
saw her hoot-owl depicted and described
in a magazine as the creation of a famous
Paris beautician. She brought a charge
of plagiarism against the beautician, on
the ground that the image was private
to herself and could not be copied or
stolen. This opens a wide field for liti-
gation. Most modernist artists profess
to paint their private dreams or intro-
spections, but they don’t claim there is
anything in the external world corres-
ponding to their pictures—which is just
as well, because most of them can’t paint
even a cup and saucer and make it look
like a cup and saucer. As their dreams
are private there is no way to prove that
their pictures are good or
bad copies of them, but it
is strange that the dreams
which most of them have,
on the evidence of their
pictures, are extra-
ordinarily like the pictures
of Cezanne, Matisse,
Modigliani, Picasso and
the rest. If the French
lady wins her case it might
be a precedent for Picasso,
for instance, bringing a
claim against half the
artists in Australia,
* ♦ *
“Ceg”; The town’s s.-p.
bookie was boasting in the
pub that he was always
prepared to lay the odds
on any sort of sporting
event. Someone asked
whether he would be in-
terested in a pigeon-race to
be conducted in Mel-
bourne. “0.K.,” he said,
“but I can’t offer more
than two to one; the
starting - price for such
events isn’t published.”
His offer was accepted and
a fiver wagered on Homer
—Mr. J. Smith’s bird. It
was really too easy. Such
a simple matter to type
out a very brief account
of the race and announce
Homer as the winner.
This report, signed by the
“secretary” of the pigeon-
club, was sent in to the city
papers and duly printed. The s.-p. bloke
paid over, but he now bars such events ;
he reckons they’re too risky. Actually
there was no risk as there was no bird, no
club, no race and no secretary. Just a
mug s.-p. bloke and a crook.
* * * *
“Mutton Jeff”; A house isn’t always
worth a house (B. 24/l/’51); sometimes
it’s worth a bit more. An old chap I know
has built and sold several houses. He
cares little for civilised comforts, and
when they put down a bitumen road in
front of his first house and the water and
electricity were laid on he sold out at a
profit and built again further out. In
due course the expanding town caught up
with him and he repeated the process. To
date he has built and sold five houses and
is happily living in his sixth, on a dirt
road, with a tank to catch rain-water, a
kerosene-lamp for light, a wood stove for
cooking. Apart from nis bank balance
“Last down sits at the back of the engine!”
and his expectation of adding a little more
to it in five or six years’ time, he’s got the
laugh on those who bought his earlier
houses —higher costs don’t affect him and
he can poopooh blackouts.
* * * *
“Hix II”: On the Monday after the
arrival of an Italian immigrant ship, I
was interviewing applicants for jobs.
When Sicilian Joe from the machine-shop
brought in two of his countrymen, the
only vacancies left were in the foundry.
They were obviously not keen. Then Joe
said “Excuse please ; I refer,” and walked
out of the office, leaving his pals with me.
A minute later he was back, and without
saying a word to the others, he told me
“They accept.” Afterwards I found he
had spoken with a Latin gentleman in the
street. Maffia or just another racket?
* » * *
“Mullum”: Of course modern
youngsters are softer than their Dads were
(B. 24/1/’5l). The advance of science
and machines has increased the emphasis
on brains rather than brawn, and, while
folk-dancing may not require a brilliant
intellect, it certainly demands more con-
centration than saddle-me-nag. Come to
think of it, the Dads show the same
tendency. Except on the football field,
brawls are a far less common form of
amusement than they were 30 years ago.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Edward Hargraves, claimed
as the first discoverer of payable gold in
Australia just 100 years ago, was ap-
parently deceived by the appearance of
the country in Westralia, 11 years
after his gold discovery in N.S.W. In
1862 the Westralian Government paid
him £5OO plus reasonable expenses to
search in the colony’s settled areas
for six months and report on the
possibilities of gold being mined there.
Hargraves examined the country from
Albany to Northam and the Darling
Ranges, and reported that the country
was rich in copper, lead and iron, but
that Westralia was a trap country where
gold would be found only in small
quantities.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mac Fergus”: My pal jubilantly
waved a telegram just received and cheer-
fully recited the contents: “Come at
once. Grandfather dangerously ill.” I
never before saw a bloke so happy on
the impending demise of his grandsire.
A beneficiary under the will or relief
from a charge on the family exchequer
was my thought, but I was wrong. It
was a code message to say his girl-friend
was waiting for him under the clock.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“No Sirrah”: The A.B.C.’s epic
journey in the footsteps (or rowlocks) of
Sturt leaves me cold, If these people
wanted to do something worth while, why
didn’t they follow in the footsteps of
Lasseter and pick up his lost reef?
There’s an old identity in my little town
who could tell them just where to go.
Come to think of it, there’s an old
identity in almost every town who could
have told them, so they’d have been
bound to get somewhere.
• * * *
“Billy S.”: From the radio in the
corner there poured forth the anything-
but-dulcet tones of one of radio’s highest-
paid comedians. “I’d like to get that
bloke’s pay-envelope every week,” said
ex-R.A.N. “I dunno,” replied Blue. “I
reckon he and I’d just about come out
square.” “How d’ you figure that out?”
asked ex-R.A.N. “Well,” said Blue. “He
draws about ten times what I get, and I
work ten times as hard.”
* * ♦ *
“Fairf”: That affair of the stalled bus
(B. 25/10/’5O) recalls a traffic hold-up
during the war. Two young soldiers
attempting to board a badly overcrowded
tram got in the sacred rear compartment.
Immediately the conductor left his foot-
board to walk aft and order them out.
The Diggers protested that they weren’t
doing any harm, but showed signs of
obeying. At that moment a civvy
sauntered up, said something like “How
y’ goin’, Charlie?” to the trammie and
calmly pushed
past the soldiers
into the com-
partment. He, it
immediately be-
came obvious,
was not going
to be ejected.
“We’ll get out if
he gets out,”
offered one of
the young fel-
lows sportingly.
“Never mind
about him,” snapped Fez-please. “The
tram don’t go till youse get out.” “What’s
the strong of this?” demanded the
Digger. “If he can stay here we can stay
here.” “He’s got a right here,” the con-
ductor retorted. “He’s a Government
employee.” “Well, who the hell’s paying
us?” the Army asked in unison. Evi-
dently the other Government employee
didn’t know the answer to that one —no
trams had overtaken me by the time I’d
walked to Central.
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Ike Hollar” and his par. (B.
24/1/’5l) about his old friend’s death-
bed reminded me of an aged farmer who
was about to “pass over.” His weeping
wife, the doctor and a parson new to the
district were present at the bedside. When
the parson had finished saying his piece,
the wife asked whether the children rnigbt
be brought in. The doctor agreed and she
disappeared from the room. Soon after-
wards the door opened, admitting three
huge men with dense black beards. They
were the “children,” and the parson,
despite the solemn occasion, found it
very difficult to preserve his serious mien.
He told me that the sudden appearance
of what looked like three bushrangers
instead of the expected little darlings
caught him off his guard.
THE EYES HAVE IT.
According to your feminist,
Woman no longer will be fooled
By man. They’re equal, she’ll insist.
He is, indeed, the optimist
Who thinks that Lve may still be ruled—
That is, by him who still believes
He is the lord of all Creation;
Who atavistically cleaves
To ancient thoughts, and not perceives
That Time has wrought the great negation.
Yet, though she may forthwith disdain
To take her orders from her spouse,
And even put him on the chain,
Making it absolutely plain
That she's the master of the house,
She'll bend the knee and bow the head
To one man—that sublime dictator,
By whom she’ll willingly be led,
To whom she’s spiritually wed:
The Fashion King, the Mode Creator.
By his imperious decree
Her locks she’ll either tint or shear
(To get the highlights in it, she,
Giving a dig to dignity,
Not long ago soaked them in beer!)
As well, be she from Mexico,
From Iceland, Italy or Tassie,
When orders come that she’s to show
Not curves, but lots of angles, lo!
She’ll soon attenuate her chassis.
For long with patience she has stained
Her fingernails, her cherry lips.
To do this she has been constrained
To match that which has been ordained
Should swathe her over bust and hips.
And if the Latest Look demands
Of hair luxuriant ginger “switches,”
Or, say, a pair of pale-blue hands,
Such needs she clearly understands.
She’ll wear ’em, so that she bewitches.
And now she faces this ukase:
The color of her eyes must change
To match her dress. Her orbs she’ll raise,
Demurely give a deep-beige gaze,
A tartan 100k —which may seem strange.
Beware, the wife who doesn’t care
For cost, who has a husband thrifty!
A black dress she might have to wear
To match her eye if she should dare
To set his wad behind three-fifty.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Laetitia”: We don’t play jokes any
more out at Wiregrass since our last race-
meeting, the only cheerless and beerless
function of its kind in our sporting
history. The calamity would not have
occurred if old Baldy Thompson, who
had set out at a pre-dawn hour from the
railhead with his precious cargo carefully
packed in ice, had not been the first to
observe the object which oscillated across
the track near Slessor’s Crossing. Baldy
stopped, studied the object,
reversed and sent his utility
at a fierce 25 m.p.h. back
to the railhead, where he
hammered on the police
sergeant’s door with the
news that a bloke had
hanged himself at the cross-
ing. When eventually the
disbelieving sergeant set
out to investigate, Baldy,
with uptilted rum bottle,
refused to be cajoled or
threatened into accompany-
ing the law. It was daylight
when the sergeant got to
the crossing and inspected
the body, which was that
of an old-man ’roo, somewhat incon-
gruously garbed in battered felt hat,
waistcoat, khaki shirt, moleskins and
larfin’-s des, and swaying at the end of the
rope attached to the overhanging limb.
When the sergeant got back to town
Baldy was in no condition to run the
beer out to the Wiregrass races.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Poets may wax lyrical over
the effortless and graceful flight of birds,
but, compared with most insects, they
are inferior. As K. C. McKeown points
out in his Insect Wonders of Australia,
no avian flier can, like the dragonfly,
suddenly go into reverse-gear, or,
like the common housefly, dart to
right or left without pivoting on its
centre of gravity. The hawkmoth, deli-
cately poised above a blossom as it
extracts the nectar by means of its long,
coiled proboscis, makes the hovering of
a hawk clumsy by comparison. Whether
it be in soaring, gliding, hovering or in
true flight, the insect has the bird beaten.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “It’s a funny thing
about you,” I said, “the way you handle
female stock. You don’t punch ewes into
a race; you nurse ’em in. You’re the
same with cows. Anybody seein’ you
work ewes and cows an’ then seein’ you
with wethers or steers wouldn’t think it
was the same bloke. With that little
kelpie bitch just now: you know she’s
pigheaded an’ balks the sheep an’ runs
round like she’s gone mad an’ won’t
take any notice of y’ yellin’ an’ whistlin’,
yet y’ don’t go for her like y’ went for
old Spieler when he made one mistake
be turnin’ ’em away from the gate. I
don’t get y’, Mat.” Mat rolled his smoke
and drawled, “Aw, well, it’s the females
got t’ do all the rearin’ an’ that. They’re
softer, see. Y’ can’t go ’em like you
would a buck or a. steer.” “It’s a funny
thing,” I said. “Y’re like that with
animals, but y’ got a down on wimmen.”
He lit the fag and stood up. “Female
animals don’t talk,” he said, heading for
the yards again.
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Towards dusk the
cranes, which have been getting restless
for the last half-hour, take off from the
swamp in pairs, and move in slow,
distance-eating flight to their nesting trees.
The ducks, their confidence increasing as
night deepens, move towards the water’s
edge. Soon they’ll be on the bank, feed-
ing. The kookaburras laugh at a pair of
crows winging slowly back from a forag-
ing expedition, and the magpies, with a
tired carol, go home to bed. Then come
the martins. They arrive swiftly and in
numbers, and soon some thousands are
circling the swamp. The soft, swift rustle
of their wings as they beat the air a few
hundred feet above ground is like no
other sound in nature, and they swoop
and soar and circle in what must be an
exhilarating, gay abandon. Then they
dive. As they pass the skyline above the
reeds their falling bodies are like hail.
They must hit the rushes at the speed of
a fast car, and a sound like a water-
spout rises and continues for perhaps 20
minutes. Then silence reigns, momen-
tarily, while day-life sinks to sleep and
night awakes.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Long Tom spent every
weekend on the little orchard he was
building-up, his object independence and
the satisfaction of being able to tell the
boss certain facts. One Friday he gave
his customary programme for the coming
break: “Got to burn off all that long
dried grass around the joint; if a spark
got in that —phew! ” He came back with
an extremely bad case of Mondayitis.
By “smoke-oh” he’d thawed out enough
to say that his hand was crook —“Trouble
with a little bit of a burn, you never know
how they’ll finish up.” At lunch-time
he sprawled out in the sun and went to
sleep. When, at blow-up, the “pannikin”
succeeded in bringing him back to life he
crawled back to work like a blue-tongued
lizard. During the afternoon he an-
nounced, between yawns, “Holy hell,
grass-fires lake it out of a man.” But it
wasn’t until he was dragging off his work-
ing boots that he let out what was really
on his mind: “Should have got further
out when I bought my little joint—away
from neighbors and blokes drunk with
tinpot power. There’s a bloke up there —
captain of the local fire-brigade.
Officious? Gaw’ strike me! Anyone’d
think a man deliberately tried to bum
half the place out!” I’d love to know
just what happened after the long’un put
the match in the grass as a precaution
against grass-fires.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Young Charlie spends his
summer school vacation in a way most
lads his age only dream about; he shares
a hut with his dad and another stockman
high on the snow-leases, rides his own
tamed brumby after untamed bally-faced
steers, and listens at nights to tales that
would raise the short hairs on the necks
of many fellows much older than him-
self. He’s a good camper; clean, quiet,
keeps his gear in good nick and tends
his pony before himself, and, of course,
rides very well; but he is not much given
to speech—unless you manage to touch
on what to him is novel. Had he ever
been caught in a snowstorm? Aw, yes,
he had. Had he seen any dingoes in
these parts? Only a couple. Wombats?
“Curse that flea!"
He had. Many foxes about? Yes,
plenty foxes. Do the cattle wander off
their own lease? Aw, they will if you
let ’em. Any trout in the creek? Only
below the falls; none above. How old
is your pony, Chari? Year younger ’n
me. Wonder what all the crows are after
at the top of the big hill? Moths ; there’s
a cave full of ’em. And so we jog on,
with such quiz sessions punctuating long
stretches of companionable quiet; then
I had the luck to ask, “See anything this
summer you hadn’t seen before, Chari?”
and he was off! “Aw! yes. Didn’t see
any last year, but Dad did —I just missed
’em. We came up earlier this year and
I was hopin’ we’d catch ’em and we did.
Hikers! Nine of ’em came through on
New Year’s Day ; men ones an’ women
ones, wearin’ short pants an’ colored
shirts an’ big packs and billies, an’ all
sorts o’ things. Talk about anything an’
dfg
“That oughter keep the house-hunters away."
want to climb all the hills —Dad let me
show ’em the way up Big Hill an’ put ’em
on the right track from there. Gee,
Billy, they was good!” He’ll picture
tbem for months, though maybe they’ve
forgotten him by now.
* * * *
“F.G.W.” wakes up to an old snooz-
ing method: —
Anthropological records of the nocturnal
habits of our aborigines are scanty, and research
fails to find any details of the methods adopted
by the natives, in tribal days, to keep warai
whilst sleeping. The shallow trench filled with
hot coals and covered with earth, and upon
which the native slept, was sometimes used
solo, or by a nunga and his weir, in the wurley;
but not by the majority of the tribes.
Tribal laws being strictly enforced, and cus-
toms rigidly observed, the blacks would in all
probability have discarded any other issue but
the foodstuffs in their wanderings. In any case,
they were never known to carry even skins.
One extraordinary method of keeping warm
whilst sleeping, eschewing covering of any kind,
was the community one practised by the bucks
of the Charm tribe, on the west coast of
S.A., and by the Cokatta tribe, in adjoining
territory, ranging north and west of Lake
Acraman. M ,
About twenty of the nungas built themselves
into what they called a yulkadoo. Several
abos sat on the ground to form a ring, with
their arms and legs extended towards the centre,
and feet touching the feet of those on each
side. Others then stepped just inside this ring,
and, with their feet on the ground between
two sitting members, sat on the shoulders of
those beneath them interlocking their arms
with those on each side. Shoulder to shoulder,
they thus formed a second tier of sleepers,
Boys then climbed up on the backs of the
second to form a third tier; the whole structure
taking the shape of an inverted basin.
Backs only were exposed; heads, arms and
legs were always placed inside the structure, and
arms were interlocked whenever possible. The
warmth thus generated in the closely-knit mass
of bodies resulted in sound sleep.
The derivation of the name yulkadoo to the
practice by both of the above tribes is not
known to me. This was, in fact, their word
“; k 2 o ™ 3 7 ra i^ OOi C 4 0 ?
numbers up to 20 were indicated by suffixing
the names of the left and right hands and feet,
had no words indicating numbers above
Yulkadoo probably referred to the three tiers
of sleepers, but the bucks were not interested
in ■ t . he etymology of the word, and yulkadoo
on fte'Sner 0
* * * *
“Chuck”: Dick dropped the news-
paper on to his knee and reached for the
makings. “Says here,” he remarked, nod-
ding at the paper, “that a big bear got
away from a circus in one o’ them towns
in northern Victoria an’ roamed round
loose for quite a bit.” Paddy didn’t
comment, and after a pause Dick con-
tinued. “Couple of folks come on the
bear diggin’ out a rabbit-burrow by the
side of the road, an’ when they tried to
call it off it just growled and went on
diggin’ like mad.” “Yair?” Paddy came
slowly to life.
“So they left it
and went for
help,” Dick
went on, “and
later the ani-
mal was las-
soed and re-
turned to the
bloke that
owned the cir-
cus. Bet he was glad ; though the circus
ain’t workin’ at present. Having a short
holiday or something.” “Not workin’,
eh! ” Paddy’s interest grew. “Which
town did y’ say it was? A letter to the
bloke might find him there, d’ y’ think?
Wouldn’t do no harm, anyway, t’ write
an’ see if I c’d get him for a bit in that
back paddick o’ mine. It’s crawlin
alive, that paddick, and it’s awful hard
to find help. Think he’d take a job?
“Eh? Who?” Dick turned a puzzled
countenance. “You mean the circus
bloke?” “No,” sniffed Paddy scornfully.
“Not 7m. The bear.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: The bird was dark-grey in
color, it had long legs and bill, a stilting
gait and was the size and shape of a stone-
plover. But what would a stone-plover be
doing mincing amongst rocks and crevices
by the seashore? That’s what I wanted to
find out. I’ve prowled around the rocks
on scores of beaches along the coast of
N.S.W., but I’d never seen a sea-bird like
that before. For hours I kept a watch on
him as he waded in the shallowest water,
diving a beak down for a titbit occasion-
ally and skipping back like a giggling
flapper when a broken wave threatened
to wash over him. The fact that he was
alone did not seem to worry him. As he
followed along the edge of the reef he be-
came even harder to see, so close his
color was to that of the wet rocks. Per-
haps, if a school of dolphins had not
attracted my attention for a few minutes,
I would have seen him go ; as it was, I
failed to find him again. Nor did the
bird return during the fortnight I s P?
in Gerringong (southern N.S.W.). Trying
to identify him in a bird-book I found
that there is a sea-curlew and a beach
stone-curlew (curlew, of course, being
synonymous with stone-plover). The sea-
curlew has a beak seven inches long,
which would, I think, eliminate him. But
the beach bird is a native of “Northern
Australia and islands off the coast, ranges
also from New Caledonia to the Anda-
man Islands.” Anyhow, I suppose he had
as much right to go to Gerringong tor a
holiday as I had.
FOUR WHITE HOOFS.
W.A.
Four white hoofs
On the sandy track.
Dust clouds rise.
Then settle back.
Nodding head
And swaying mane,
Tail swinging left,
Then right again.
Creak and stretch
Of leather trace,
Click-clack of hubs
On axle base.
Grit of rims
On sandy road,
Lurch and sway
Of wagon-load.
An endless, rhythmic.
Soothing beat
To drowsing man
On the driving-seat:
Four white hoofs
Lift up and down,
Plod-plodding on
To sunbaked town.
W.E. BROWN.


“NIMROD THREE" from Andrew M C GEE
1 "Nimrod" Ready-to-Roll
■ Cigarette Tobacco
Made from
extra high-
grade leaf.
o*.
V:
Exclusive to
Andrew McGee.
2oz. pack 3/3i.
26/4 per lb.
Please add post-
age, 1/10 per lb.
N.S.W., 2/9 per
lb. other States.
Pipe Repairs
2. " NIMROD" DRYSMOKER ENGLISH BRIAR PIPE
Featuring the famous hygienic filter which ensures
milder, cleaner, cooler smoke. (See cutaway
illustration.)
28 shapes to
choose from.
u
PRICE
2 7/6 Each
PLUS POSTAGE
fFrife for general price list.
Andrew M C GEE
70 PITT STREET or 1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
3.
"NIMROD"
WINDPROOF LIGHTER
The lighter
■with a 12
months’
guarantee.
Chrome-
plated,
44/-
Gold-
plated,
84/-
Plus postage
IMRuO
lighter Repairs
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver had pestered
the store for weeks in a vain attempt to
get the garment he wanted, and on each
trip down-country he visited the drapery
establishments and made inquiries,
without meeting any success. One
firm offered to make him one to measure,
and the old
bloke grew in-
terested and
explained his
exact and
rather uncon-
ventional re-
q u i r e m ents,
and stressed
the] urgency of
delivery within
six months or
so. Then he
asked the price, looked as though he
would blow up, and promptly strode out-
side to his nag. He spat fire all the way
home. This morning I found him on the
hut step, his ancient vest spread out on
the floor in front. A large chaffbag patch
had been shoved underneath for backing,
and he was busy with bag-needle and hay-
band, adding a few knots at salient
points. Recklessly I dropped a query.
“Yair, an’ what else c’n a man do?” he
snorted. “Go about the country in ’is
bare shirt —besides ’avin’ nowhere t’ put
nothin’?”
* # * *
“Fairf”: Twenty-odd years ago
the Seven-mile Beach at Gerroa (N.S.W.)
was well in the news. In recent years
nobody has attempted to break the world’s
speed record along its graceful crescent,
and, apart from an annual influx of
holiday campers, peace has settled over
the picturesque rural beach. But the
phenomenon of its sands remains. The
greyish sand possesses some strange
quality that causes it to pack tightly
when washed by the waves and remain
as firm as a ballasted road when the tide
has completely ebbed. Nor does the
texture or nature of the sand vary along
the whole seven-mile stretch. Truly a
natural speedway. Yet, less than three
miles north, where Werri Beach breaks
the rugged cliffs for a distance of about
threequarters of a mile, the sand is yellow,
and loose with that typical beach “drag”
that is responsible for the high-stepping
march of lifesavers. Why?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Old Bill, a battler
from the depression days, had been at
Liller for years to sell him a hundred
sheets of galvanised-iron to do some
much-needed repairs to his house. Liller
agreed to sell, but wanted far more for
the secondhand stuff than new iron would
have cost if it had been procurable.
Several times Bill decided, reluctantly, to
pay the exorbitant price, only to find
that since his last offer Liller had upped
it in keeping with rising costs. Then
Bill would call Liller a bloodsucker and
angrily refuse to pay. Finally, goaded by
his wife, the old bloke bought it. Before
he could use it his wife died, and the iron
lay in the yard, unwanted, for
months. Then Liller married unex-
pectedly, and found that he, now, re-
quired to add to his house; so, remem-
bering the iron he’d sold to Bill, he drove
over to see the old-timer. In the mood
he was in. Bill would have given it to
any other newlyweds, but he drove a
hard bargain with Liller, who finally
bought it back at five-bob a sheet more
than he’d paid for it. Which is why
Liller is now talking about black-
marketeers, and old Bill is regarded as a
man who knows how to buy and when
to sell.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: For two hours Dick had
been yearning for a smoke. He had
papers and ’bacca, but the box of
matches must haye slipped out of his
pocket as he got through one of the
fences. Now, drawing near to camp, his
feet wouldn’t go fast enough. Climbing
the last rise he saw what he’d been look-
ing for all the morning—a Too, and about
300 yards away. For a moment the hunt-
ing instinct was stronger than yearning
for the fragrant lady. He carefully lined
up the sights and pressed the trigger. The
red doe bounded forward —one convulsive
jump, then dropped and lay still. Dick
was on his way to view the corpse, he
was already fishing in his pocket for the
skinning-knife, when Lady Nicotine began
to work on him again. He changed
direction the Too would keep until after
he’d got a light. The two new-chums
looked up from the fire as he came up.
“We heard your shot,” said the little fat
one. “What, did you miss?” Cranky for
the need of a smoke the veteran merely
grunted and reached for a blazing stick.
His first draw tingled both big toes; and
with it good-fellowship and humor re-
turned. “Never saw- a Too,” he lied. “The
shot you heard was when I bowled over
a crow.” He took two more puffs, then
suddenly pointed in mild excitement:
“Look, there’s a Too —back there, almost
over the rise ; you can just see his head
and neck.” Fatty and his lean mate
were goggling. “Where? Where?” “Over
there, about . . Dick was moving the
back-sight on his rifle. “About nine-
hundred yards. Watch where I shoot,”
The old-timer fired, nodded confidently,
and led the pair to where the red doe lay,
the blood still unclotted and the body
yet warm. Never again would those new-
chums ask him had he missed.
* * * ♦
“M.S.”: The road to increased produc-
tion is so uncomfortable with potholes
and growth that many are by-passing it
and short-cutting to easier living. Within
this district alone during the past six
months no fewer than five long-established
farmers have sold up their properties
and transferred to smaller holdings and
modern conveniences within easy reach
of towns, and more are searching for just
such places. The work-free portions of
their large farms further out sell readily
enough, but the rougher parts hang fire
badly. Years ago those entire properties
were carrying a full complement of
stock and employing permanent or
periodic casual labor, but gradually the
outer fringes are going back and rabbits
are everywhere. Ask any seller his rea-
son for transferring to the easily-handled
town-paddocks and the answer is the
same. “Aw, I’ve had it. Can’t get a man
to do anything nowadays, and what’s the
use working all hours of the day and
night when it only goes in tax, anyway?”
One can hardly blame them —for, after
all, why should the cocky be the mug
working 90-odd hours a week? But to
one who believes increased production is
the only trail to ultimate prosperity this
surrender of farmers to rotten conditions
looks pretty bad.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”; The little pub in our
valley doesn’t boast refrigeration ; the keg
sits on the counter, and the amber cheer
is drawn straight from the wood —but
from that you must not infer that we
have only one tap. Into the bunghole is
hammered a cunning T-shaped affair with
a tap on each branch, so when demands
are heavy the entire staff may both be
kept busy. Called in after the sale last
week; prices justified a few jugs. Over
the first round or so some of the bunch
still had to be convinced their fats had
brought the dream figures called in the
yard ; a bit later they were trying to con-
vince us they’d expected more —then
somebody sensibly suggested one for the
road. Mrs. Bung pulled three glasses
from one tap, then switched to the other,
filled two and petered out on Lofty’s.
The long bloke eyed the fading trickle
in the glass of froth, scratched his head
and spake. “Better go back to the other
teat. Missus,” he advised. “Y’ might
have to put the calf back on her yet.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Snakes not only hiss (B.
31/1/’5l), but they can, on occasion, be-
come eloquent. It is on record that the
Prophet—Mahomet—while out walking
found a snake stiff with cold and almost
dead. He warmed it in his bosom and the
snake, recovering, said “Now I will bite
thee.” “Why?” asked Mahomet. “Be-
cause we are enemies,” the reptile replied.
“And if I do not kill you, one of your
tribe will kill me.” The prophet tried to
reason with it, but the snake, losing
patience, cried “By Allah, I shall bite
thee.” “If thou has sworn by Allah,” said
the prophet, “1 shall not try to dissuade
thee.” The snake bit him, but Mahomet
sucked out the poison and spat it on the
ground. At that spot theie sprang up a
plant, whose leaves combine the venom
of the serpent and the compassion of the
Prophet. Men call that plant tobacco.
* * ♦ ♦
“Bo”: The willy-willy ripped through,
plucking the 800-gallon galvanised tank,
which was almost empty, from its stand
and setting it rolling towards the western
fence. It was making straight for Choom,
who was coming, head down and with
his hand clutching at his hat, towards the
house. Joe yelled a warning to him. As
he looked up and saw the tank bearing
down on him Choom turned and bolted
in front of it. Joe was so doubled up at
the sight he couldn’t even raise a gasp,
and it was left to Dad to roar out not to
run with it, but swerve to the side. Just as
Choom did the tank hit a gibber, half-
pivoted and followed the tangent Choom
had taken. He blindly obeyed a further
yelled instruction to veer again, and as the
tank rolled on past him, to pile into the
fence, the sprinter, his face white, made
his way back to the homestead. “B’ gosh,”
he panted as he sagged down on to the
veranda-step. “Ah thowt Ah’d get . . .
roon awver bah big droom.” Joe turned
to Dad. “Big drum!” he said feebly.
“Can y’ beat'it!”
* * ♦ #
“Sackville”; I recently heard some-
body repeat the old fuiphy: “You’ll
never find a dishonest Chow,” It took me
back about 25 years. My mate George
had access to numerous horse-paddocks, a
spring-cart and surprising business
acumen for a youth of eighteen. I could
swing a fair shovel. “Fertilisers, Ltd.” was
formed, with the Chinese market-
gardeners our clientele. Chung Lung took
two loads. After a respectable lapse of
time the senior partner decided it was time
the account was met. Chung looked
bewildered when the bill was presented,
but his slant eyes roamed around the
garden, and his thoughts weren’t hard to
follow: “Muchee no good, Malure all
gone. Where gone? Gone to grow um
vegetab, Where um vegetab? Him all
gone. No malure; no vegetab ; no pay
um.” After half-an-hour of vociferous
explaining in a mixture of pidgin and
baby-talk, another two syllables crept into
the Celestial two-word vocabulary; “No
mon.” We weren’t too sure how the re-
sult would turn out if we took physical
measures to recover our dues, so a re-
luctant tactical withdrawal to consider the
position seemed the only manoeuvre left.
We were outside the fences, debating,
when the local policeman came up on a
pushbike. In those days it was necessary
to keep a shotgun licensed. George re-
quired the constable’s signature on a
renewal form. He produced the paper
and was standing by while the Law certi-
fied one George as a fit and proper person
to possess a .410 when a strange cry
floated across the market-garden. Chung
Lung was fairly streaking towards the
fence, waving something in his skinny,
yellow hand. “Him alii,” he panted. “Me
pay um.” He did. The heathen Chinee
always had a healthy fear of the “pleecy-
man.”
BUSHLAND.
My land is a land that is fairer,
Etched deep in the annals of glory
And lit with a love that endures;
A land whose enchantment is rarer,
Repeating its glamorous story
With voice that is gentler than yours.
You have little to offer the idle;
Small treasure of beauty and blossom.
Small measure of lure to impart,
But the strong men of saddle and bridle
Have lain with their heads on your bosom
And heard the wild beat of your heart.
Through fire and through flooding of water,
In all of life’s chances and changes,
In all of life’s losses and gains,
In the battle with drought and its slaughter,
They loved you, those lords of the ranges,
They loved you, those knights of the plains.
And I but a stranger among them,
Who rode in their ranks for a season
And shared in their toil and their play,
And in halting poor fashion have sung them,
Have surely as rightly a reason
To love you as dearly as they.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman)
E. R. KNOX
ALLEN C. LEWIS
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT
D. R. LYSAGHT
SAMUEL HORDERN
H. V. DOUGLASS
Managing Director
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000
Your WILL is first and foremost a business matter
Your will is probably the most important document that
you will ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter
of the highest importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in
confidence, with Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The
Company has more than 63 years’ experience in Estate
administration and is well qualified to guide you in your
planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a
Solicitor. This will involve the appointment of an Executor
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS ADMINSTRATOR. ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
and Trustee. If you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as sole Executor —or jointly with a relative or
friend —you will be following the lead of many of our
wisest and most successful citizens.
If you would have particulars of the services offered by
the Company, ring B 0377 (or write)
and make an appointment. A Senior
Officer will be pleased to give you the
information you desire.
B Bi
5 5;
'ts 5 r
£
HT
E?rt
3!
"The WILD
CAT
COLUMN"
Humes, Ltd.
Parent’s Figures.
/ Dividends N
Pref. I —Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 74 p.e. p.c. serves, serves.*
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 20,000 1,874 203.674
1945.. 18,198 8,438 4 20,000 193,434
1946.. 36,963 8,437 4 20,000 8,525 201.959
Parent and Subsidiaries,
1947.. 75,325 8,438 5 25,000 41,887 179.731
Add capital bonuses, etc., £309,943.. 489,674
Add reserve adjustments, £51,969.. 541,643
To special depreciation, £20,000.. 521,643
Intangibles increase, £125,011 . . 396,632
1948. 8,438 37,500 156,619 553.251
Unexp’d addition reserves, £47,369.. 600,620
Less share-issue exes., £4138 . . 596.482
1949. .135,860 8,438 8 40,000 87,422 683,904
Sundry res. adjustments, £425,052.. 1,108,956
Less share-issue exes., £1764 .. 1,107,192
1950. .243,327 13,125 10 57,534 172,668 1,279,860
* After deducting intangibles, now £126,215.
t After deducting outside interests.
There have been big changes in the
organisation and financial structure of
this group. Originally it was the Hume
Pipe co,, formed about 30 years ago,
whose two principal subsidiaries were
Hume Steel, Ltd., and Hume Industries
(Far East), Ltd. The parent changed its
name to Humes, Ltd,, in March, 1950,
when the Steel co. became a wholly-
owned subsidiary. The aim was to
eliminate overlapping, reduce overhead
and further expand the consolidated
undertaking, which now includes 53
operating factories —36 in Australia, 14 in
New Zealand and three in Malaya—
whose principal products are concrete
and concrete-lined-steel pipes for water-
supply projects, etc., and other concrete
products.
The 27-year-old Steel co. had a paid
capital of £500,000, one half in 1\ p.c.
prefs. and the other half ords. All the
ords. were issued f.-p. for rights, the
parent taking 165,000 and W. R. Hume
85.000. Last term the parent bought the
85.000 ords. in exchange for 41,500 of its
own f.-p. ords. and the prefs. in exchange
for a like number of its own 1\ p.c. B
prefs., which enjoy stronger backing for
both divs. and capital. The Steel co.’s
ords. have had only five small divs. of
p.c. each. Earnings, retarded by shortages,
improved in 1949, when the net result
(£45,145, up £25,630) covered the pref.
div. and 10.5 p.c. on ord. capital.
The Singapore co., formed in 1922, now
has a paid capital of £950,000 in 250,000
5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 700,000 ords.
The prefs. were issued for cash since the
war to those on the parent and Steel cos.’
registers. Recent growth in the ord.
capital has been as follows:
Hume Hume
Pipe. Steel. Total.
Previously held .. 216,670 75,003 291,673
Bonus issue* . . 209,717 99,997 309.714
Taken for cash* .. 61,681 36,932 98,613
Total .. .. 488,068 211,932 700.000
* In 1947.
All the ords. are, of course, now owned
by Humes, Ltd. The bonus scrip came
from a surplus of £421,858 on revalua-
tion of properties. For the year to Dec.,
1949 (last figures available), the co. netted
£89,050 (up £19,972), which covered the
pref. div. and 10.8 p.c. on ord. capital.
No ord. div. was paid in 1948 or 1949.
During the year the parent also made a
par issue of 270,750 new £1 ords. for cash
to finance expansion. And since the close
of accounts those on the ord. register
received a one-for-two bonus-scrip issue
(£406,125). It has all raised paid capital
from £612,500 at the close of accounts in
1949 to £1,580,875 in 112,500 A and
250.000 B prefs., both 7± p.c cumulative,
and 1,218,375 ords. The pref. divs. and
10 p.c. to the ords. on that lot will call for
£149,025, or less than two-thirds of last
term’s combined net earnings.
The big leap in combined profits since
1947 has been due mainly to expanding
turnover in Australia and to rehabilitation
of the Singapore co., whose figures are
not included in consolidated accounts
prior to 1948. Last term’s profit (£243,327,
up £107,467), which includes only nine
months’ trading by the Steel co., covered
the parent’s pref. requirements and 40
p.c. on average ord. capital as against
25.5, 38.8 and 13.4 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. So nothing was strained
when the div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to
10 p.c. The large reserve adjustment,
interlined in the table, relates mainly to
absorption of the Steel co.’s business.
After deducting intangibles, and includ-
ing the surplus on revaluation of the
Singapore co.’s properties, reserves stood
at £1,279,860 at June 30 last.
The large increases in balance-sheet
figures reflect absorption of the Steel co.
and all-round expansion of business:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital . . 612,500 612,500 612,500 1,174.750
Outside interest 474 295,416 627,013 250,522
Overdraft . . 256,534 1,015,410 719,797 835,606
Creditors . . 147.832 512,551 565,484 736.447
Freehold .. 100,708 176,775 180,701 224,734
Leasehold .. 164 27,913 946 917
Buildings .. 75,630 601,986 611,130 755,867
Plant . . 153,520 370,740 421,500 829.717
Shares subsidy. 216,024
Shares other cos. 63,625 121,825 126,500 59,100
Stocks .. 130,446 486,523 604,095 1,134,039
Debtors .. 441,374 609,828 623,331 805.038
Cash, etc. . . 13,296 13,615 4,685 3.108
War claims . . 647,399 130,979 630.979
Asbestos deposit 31,503 31,287 31,898 62,382
Excluding shareholdings but including
war-damage claims, etc., more-or-less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, in-
cluding final divs., by £961,745. The war
claims are subject to official assessment,
and settlement is expected at an early
date.
Whether the gift-giving in respect of
the Singapore business has been overdone
only the future can tell. The group has
large orders, covering over 750 miles of
pipes, on hand, and the chairman says the
outlook is “extremely bright.” The
market prices both classes of prefs. at
315., the yield being 4.8 p.c The ords.
at 40s. give a return of 5 p.c, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is £22 Bs.
6d. firsts, £lO 19s. lOd, seconds and 41s.
ords.
Stirling Henry, Ltd. (Syd.)
r Dividends \ Re-
June 30, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1941 .. 21,237 8 12J 14,500 44,290
1942 . . 12,242 8 10 12,000 44,532
1943 .. 13,229 8 10 12,000 45,761
1944 . . 15,105 8 10 12,000 48,866
1945 . . 16,335 8 10 12,000 53,201
1946 . . 15,929 8 15.2 17,162 51,968
1947 . . 23,210 8 12J 20,750 54,428
Share premiums, £37,500 . . • • 91,928
1948 . . 27,310 8 12i 23,563 95,676
1949 . . 23,878 8 10 20,750 98,803
1050 . . 34,702 8 10 25,438 108.067
Share-issue exes., £1562 . . .. 106,505
This cotton-goods manufacturer, which
took over Stirling Henry’s importing
business in 1924, put up spinning, weav-
ing and knitting plant at Flemington
(near Sydney) in 1936. For most of the
14 years since it has operated in a shel-
tered and expanding market, and ord.
shareholders have had divs, averaging
11.4 p.c., reserves have climbed from
£11,492 to £106,505, while capital, steady
at £125,000 till the close of accounts in
1946, stood at £306,250 at June 30, 1950
—the last £93,750 of it was gathered half-
way through the past term.
No time has been lost in finding profit-
able employment for new share- and
other moneys. As output and prices rose,
so did turnover. Last term’s sales passed
the million-pound mark, and, after
allowing a liberal £21,915 (up £2698) for
depreciation and £13,658 (up £328) for
taxation the profit was £10,824 stronger
at £34,702. That was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£2000) and show 13.9 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 11.6, 14.6,
14.1 and 13.9 p.c. back to 1946. The div.,
which dropped from 12 j p.c. in 1948 to
10 p.c. in 1949, was maintained at the
lower rate.
The next table shows from where the
co, has derived its funds and the way in
which it has used them:
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Ordinary .. £150,000 £187,500 £187,500 £281,250
Preference. . 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft . . 118,126 307,442 279,692 218.063
Creditors, etc.* 96,703 97,624 186,984 232.472
Final div. .. 11,250 14,063 9,375 14.063
Freehold . . 118,421 131,506 147,130 163.840
Plant, etc. . . 90,601 113,812 154,837 140.773
Shares subsid. 12,839 12,839 12,839 12.839
Stocks . . 138,983 352,814 351,826 431,868
Debtors . . 92,565 113,770 118,982 126,201
Cash, etc. . . 2,098 2,563 1,740 1.832
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term’s fresh share capital, an extra
£45,488 from trade creditors, etc., and
surplus earnings and allowances enabled
£61,629 to be snipped off the overdraft,
£16,710 to be added to freeholds, £80,042
to stocks and £7219 to book debts. The
bank and sundry creditors, etc., had
21s. lOd. invested in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders.
To ease the position and provide for
more working capital and for installation
of additional emergency-power plant
375,000 new ss. ords. were issued at par
in December last. Paid capital thus be-
comes £400,000 in 25,000 £lB p.c. prefs.
and 1,500,000 ords. of ss. each. Last
year’s rates of distribution on that lot
will call for £34,812 for the current
term, and for £39,500 thereafter.
Turnover has continued to increase
since the close of accounts, but there are
signs of a coming tussle between costs
and prices. The latter are mostly con-
trolled, while the former have yet to feel
the full effects of the recent sharp rise
in the price of raw cotton, due partly to
U.S. export restrictions, and of lifts,
totalling 275. a week, plus payroll tax,
in the basic wage. Much will depend
upon what the Government decides to
do to curb inflation.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the ss. ords. at 9s. 7d. (9s. 3d. a
year ago), giving a return of 5.2 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 30s. 3d.
yield 5.3 p.c. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is £2O ss. 2d. prefs.
and 6s. sd. ords.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, senses.
1942.. 24?722 6.6 p.c. = 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943 25 318 10 „ ~ 24,334 984 2,347
1944" 14,800 3.3 8.111 6,689 9.036
1945" 9,684 3.3 , 8,111 1,572 10.609
1946" 24:912 6.6 ” .. 16.222 8,690 19.299
1947 56 812 16.6 ~ >• 40,556 16,256 35,555
I:: “:11l 2 8 ,s :::: m.™ jmw
Surplus sale assets, £27,162 .. .. 103.610
War-time disposals profit, £22,851 . . 1-6.461
1949. .140,057 36.6 p.c. = 89,224 50,833 1^7,294
1950. .274,628 46.6 „ „ 113,557 161,071 338,365
Old shareholders, who cast their mind
back to 1930, when drought and an
anaemic wool market left the co. with
capital deficiency of £112,692, look at
the last line in the table and wonder
whether they can believe their eyes. The
ballooning of profits (up £134,571 last
term) to over 10 times the 1946 figure
has been due to hyper-inflation of wool
prices combined with a run of four good
seasons in succession.
Rainfall on the co.’s three principal
properties was abnormal last year:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Thuruleoona* . • 6.81 17,83 13.03 19,25 33.05
QuanSonet . . 8.25 20.84 16.86 19.18 34.39
TeryawyniaJ .. 7-81 11-41
* Near Cunnamulla (Q.). t Near Brewarrina
(N.S.W.). t Near Menindie (N.S.W.).
Thurulgoona, comprising 421 square miles
held under occupational licence, is to be
subdivided for closer-settlement during
1951, and the co. is on the hunt for
another property. Quantambone includes
13 square miles freehold and 306 square
miles of Government leases, which run
out in 1972-75. Teryawynia, bought for
£60,000 in 1949, is in a low-rainfall area
and comprises 279,627 acres of western
leases expiring 1968-74. Early in 1950 a
new property, Mundarra Park, 6189 acres
freehold in Western Victoria, together
with 6800 sheep, 107 cattle and plant, etc.,
was bought for £117,750.
Fewer sheep were shorn for a slightly
heavier clip, which realised more than
double the previous year’s figure, the
average per bale being an unprecedented
£174 4s. 4d. (up £lOl 2s. 2d.);
( Sh eep N
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Dec., Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 £56,951 £l6/2/6
1946.. 80,362 63,781 2486 77,120 31/0/5
1947.. 72,126 93,157 2176 102,160 46/18/11
1948.. 82,839 116,564 2851 183,624 64/10/0
1949.. 86,551 105,217 2755 202,152 73/2/2
1950.. 83,012 104,784 2838 494,443 174/4/4
Sale of livestock, etc., turned in £62,041.
After allowing for depreciation (£7287,
up £697), taxation (£174,000, up £68,000)
and the wool contributory charge
(£36,745, up £35,731), net earnings took
a leap of £134,571, reaching £274,628.
That was equal to 112.9 p.c. on capital
as against 57.5, 40.1, 23.3, 10.2 and 3.9 p.c.
back to 1945. The distribution was lifted
from 36.6 p.c. to 46.6 p.c., of which
33.3 p.c. was labelled bonus. The
£161,071 that remained lifted reserves
£95,027 higher than paid capital.
Thus, for the first time in its 68 years’
existence, the co. enjoys an embarrass-
ment of riches:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 1,277 4,725 2,753 6,516
Tax reserve .. 33,100 60,000 109,713 91,362
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 162,599 210,308 113,781 111.558
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 31,670 40,065 34,209 36.046
Wool unsold. . 104 154 2,415 50,840
Cash, etc. . . 151,342 182,652 463,806 578.472
When the books closed, cash, Government
securities, etc., alone was equal to 71s. 4d.
per share, some of which will be needed
when a new property is found. There
has been no writing-up of the book-value
of freeholds or livestock, and sheep and
fencing have been insured against fire.
The current year promises to be an-
other fat one, subject, of course, to later
seasonal developments, etc. There is
nothing at the moment to suggest an
early and sudden collapse of wool prices.
In this class of business the gamble is,
as it always has been, with seasons, prices
and costs; hence average rather than
immediate return is the only fair basis
on which to assess long-term prospects.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1947 divs. averaging 6.8 p.c. were paid
from profits averaging 9.4 p.c. on capital,
and for the decade before that divs.
averaged 3.8 p.c. and profits 1.1 p.c.
At 90s. (535. a year ago) the f.-p. 30s.
shares give an immediate return of
15.5 p.c. on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution, or 6 p.c. on an average distribu-
tion of 18 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 71s. 9d. per share.
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd. (Townsville)
f— Dividends ,
Pref. To R®'
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942.. 14,490 8,571 2} p.O. * 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO ~ 1L633
1943.. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11.607 10,407 22,040
Prom reserves re leases, £4032 .. 18,008
1944.. 38,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,350 34,358
To staff fund, £5000.. .. •• 29,358
From bad-debts provision, £10,000.. 39,358
To reserves re leases, £6359 .. 45,717
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,382 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO 60,919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 68,0 a/
1946.. 35,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 13,193
From reserves re leases, £4077 67,75 a
1947.. 45,039 6} p.c. = 15,090 20,664 88,417
To tax provision, £5500 .. ••*2,917
Share premiums, £24,500 .. • •
1948.. 43,573 9,285 p.c. = 18,408 15,880 123,297
1949.. 47,170 9,285 6| „ ~ 23,052 14,833 138,130
1950.. 57,813 1L428 8 „ ~28,372 18,013 156.143
The post-war expansion of this old-
established North Queensland busi-
ness has been more marked, in both scope
and volume, than the profit figures in the
table suggest. And the co. is in better
trim, financially and otherwise, and the
outlook for shareholders is brighter than


■I
aw
\v
G.P.0., ADELAIDE, S.A.
On November l t 1867, H.R.H.
The Duke of Edinburgh laid the
foundation-stone of the Adelaide
0.P.0., the building being com-
pleted and opened for business
on May 6, 1872.
The height of the tower contain-
ing the G.P.O. clock is 149 ft.,
diameter of the clock face
being 7 ft. 8 in.
fora
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
UNIQUE
OPPORTUNITY
SALES
MANAGER
required for
LARGE RETAIL
MULTIPLE STORE
ORGANISATION
Age Not exceeding 35 years. Must
be capable of rising to high Adminis-
trative Office and possess experience
in Administration, Organisation,
Psychology, Salesmanship, Buying and
Stock Control and other phases of
Retail Management.
University Degree desirable but not
essential.
Salary commences at the rate of
£1,500 per annum.
Bonus on results. Company
operates excellent Staff Provident
Fund.
AH applications treated as strictly
confidential.
Apply in writing, stating qualifica-
tions, to No. 332, Advt. Dept.,
Bulletin Newspaper, Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
DAVIES & CQLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
gd
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Koad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
fg
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
....INSURANCES EFFECTED AT LLOYD’S
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD .
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. B 0538
And all other States
EL5.32.4
FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
EXHIBITIONS
MAY 3 to SEPTEMBER 30
The stimmer of 1951 will be long remembered by
Britons all over the world. Just as the ‘ Crystal Palace ’
Exhibition of 1851 was something utterly new and bold
in its generation, so Britain now invites you to a Festival
the like of which has never been seen before.
Exhibitions will be only one part of the Festival pro-
gramme, but a spectacular and important part.
IN LONDON the centrepiece of the Festival will be
the great South Bank Exhibition on the sweep of the
Thames between Westminster Bridge and Waterloo
Bridge. Here, amid 30 acres of new buildings and broad
terraces, dominated by the giant Dome of Discovery
(the largest in the world), visitors will see the story of
Britain and her people at work and at play—in industry,
transport, tiie farm; at home and on the seas ; in sport,
at leisure, and in those boundless fields of exploration
and discovery in which British scientists and technicians
are helping to build the world of tomorrow.
In a new extension to the Science Museum in South
Kensington, the latest advances in scientific discovery—
the frontiers of man’s present knowledge—will be on
display.
In the East end, an Exhibition of Architecture at Poplar
will show the community centre of the future in course
of construction, using the latest building styles and
techniques.
These main London Exhibitions will be open to the
public from May 4 to September 30.
IN GLASGOW an Exhibition of Industrial Power at
Kelvin Hall will show British achievements in heavy
engineering, from the earliest steam engine to the
harnessing of atomic energy. This Exhibition will open
on May 28 and last for 13 weeks.
IN BELFAST the Ulster Farm and Factory Exhibition,
staged in the interior and grounds of a new model
factory, will show the growth of the linen industry and
of research-directed developments in agriculture and
other local industries. This will be open from June 1
to August 31.
IN EDINBURGH there will be an extensive Exhibition
of Scottish Architecture and Traditional Crafts, during
June and July.
In addition there will he Exhibitions of British Books and Litera-
ture in London, Edinburgh and Glasgow, and Exhibitions of
painting in Cardiff and Norwich.
But Exhibitions are not the whole of the Festival. There will also
be Arts Festivals in twenty-three famous towns, and local activi-
ties ranging from carnivals to sporting events in hundreds of
communities throughout England, Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland.
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details.
for many years past. Certainly
much of the present buoyancy
in trade is due to inflationary
conditions, but in the back-
ground are such factors as a
rapidly-growing population, and,
wool apart, long-term contracts
with Britain for an increased
quantity of sugar and for as
much meat as we can export,
expanding mining activity and
the increasing popularity of
N.Q. as a tourist resort, all of
which augurs well for the future
of trade.
The co.’s own activities cover
a wide range of interests, most
profitable of which appear to be
a string of hotel properties,
mainly freeholds, in the thirsty
area between Cairns and Bowen.
The general merchandising sec-
tion, which is strengthened by a
controlling interest in Hollimans
(Townsville retailers), includes
dry-goods, which usually carry
narrow margins, and the co. has
strong connections in the hinter-
land. An old-established ship-
ping agency and franchises for a
wide range of electrical goods
and for Ford motor-vehicles
also help to swell the flow of
earnings. The Ford agency is
handled by a subsidiary, Mag-
netic Motors, which is enjoying
its share of the present prosperity
in the trade.
All sections of the business
contributed to last term’s record
(turnover (amount not stated),
and the commercial refrigeration
and builders’ hardware sections
are to be expanded. The im-
provement in gross earnings
(£322,714) was £54,109. In-
cluding £50,000 (up £13,500) set
aside for the tax-collector and
something for other contingen-
cies, exes. (£264,901) made off
with £43,466 of the gain. The
net result was thus £10,643
stronger at £57,813, or 11.6 p.c.
on capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 9.5, 10.2, 12,
9.5, 10.4 and 10.4 p.c. back to
1944. The div. was lifted from
an all-round 6i p.c. to 8 p.c.—
the prefs. participate with the
ords. in any distribution beyond
6 p.c. All but £21,633 of the
£156,143 of reserves has been
accumulated over the last eight
years.
The year’s bigger trading and
rising prices show up in net addi-
tions of £116,745 to stocks and
£60,111 to book debts:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £496,973 £497.500 £497.500
Mortgage .. 21,023 35,003
Overdraft .. 138,090 174,416 304.860
Creditors and
tax . . 249,300 284,351 298.188
Final div. . . 27,693 16,169 23.631
Properties
and plant 406,590 442,860 449,190
Shares .. 19,939 19,939 19.939
Stocks . . 256,893 291,710 408.455
Book debts 343,640 368,526 428.637
Cash. etc. . . 8,291 8,554 9,104
To meet the outlay £13,980 was
added to mortgages, £130,444 to
the overdraft and £13,837 to the
amount coming to trade
creditors, etc. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£184,484) was
£11,653 stronger. Still, when
the books closed there was 19s.
6d. of outside money in the busi-
ness for every pound belonging
to shareholders.
On the basis of last year’s dis-
tributions the prefs. at 345. and
the ords. at 365. yield 4.7 p.c.
and 4.4 p.c, respectively. All
scrip ranks equally for surplus
assets, the net tangible cover be-
ing 265. 3d. per share.


IF YOU LOOK AHEAD
you ’ll choose the Navy ,
the Army or the Air Force
Ml
saw
Hi
Sensible fellows, with an eye to the
future and a natural liking for. an
active kind of life, are turning to
the Navy, the Army or the Air
Force as the finest career of all.
They argue that the new, increased
rates of pay, the special allowances,
the uniforms and accommodation
provided, and the pensions or
gratuities payable after a period of
service or on retirement, compare
very favourably with civilian occupa-
tions, and offer far greater security.
To-day there is no “ceiling” above
which a Serviceman may not rise.
The highest posts are ultimately
open to the man with ambition and
outstanding ability.
Now is the time to get the full facts
about Service life and conditions.
Inquire, without obligation, at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or
Information Bureaux
at the following addresses
In Melbourne: Cnr. Minders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney: Cnr. Martin Place
and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street; In Adelaide:
Richards Building, 99 Currie Street; in Perth: 34 King Street; In Hobart: Franklin
Square; In Launceston: Town Hall, St. John Street.
IF UNABLE TO CALL SEND THIS COUPON
The Deputy Director of Recruiting,
G.P.O. Box XYZ in any of the
following cities —Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
Launceston.
Please send me, without obligation,
full details of enlistment and service
with (indicate which desired) —
□ navy
□ ARMY
□ air force
□ ALL 5 SERVICES
□ Full time
□ Part time
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth aTAustralia .
NAME
ADDRESS.
drOOi
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
mum
SWEET OR DRY
m
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Inflation and “Industrials”
“R.8.R.” (Sydney) raises
some currently arresting ques-
tions :
3lost people are puzzled about our
financial problems, and too little in-
formation is available on the various
phases of the post-1914-18 war in-
flation in Germany, which should
point the way for us.
Could you answer these questions,
please ?: —
(1) When the German finance
authorities developed inflation to
eliminate all fixed internal debts,
what effect did it have on ordinary
shares of (a) Essential industries?
(b) Retail and wholesale?
(2) When Germany was in the
throes of inflation were prices of
ordinary shares in companies high,
and how did they fare when final
collapse of currency occurred?
(3) Australian authorities all sug-
gest that investors can counter in-
flation by holding ordinary shares In
key industries. But if the profit
and its distribution is limited and
controlled, and a large proportion of
the profit taken in taxation, (a) How
will possession of ordinary shares
offset inflation? (b) Again, although
these companies have valuable mate-
rial assets, how can an ordinary
shareholder benefit without liquida-
tion of the assets, which would mean
that for the same reasons other com-
panies would be liquidating and
assets would be hard to sell?
(4) How can, say, a woollen-manu-
facturing company pay 20s. a pound
for wool and hope to sell its produc-
tion unless the basic wage is raised
to a fantastic figure, which in itself
would mean disaster for the com-
pany?
(3) It is suggested that interests
controlling world finance are permit-
ting prices for wool, lead, tin, etc.,
to run wild, so that inflationary con-
ditions will wipe off war debts now
burdening the world. From 1938 to
1944 sales of these commodities were
controlled to one-twenty-flfth the
present prices. How is this sugges-
tion viewed ?
(6) Could the present trend de-
stroy the existing currency com-
pletely or only reduce it to values
comparative with, say, French cur-
rency, without hope of restoration?
Regarding industrial shares
as a whole, it is on record
that, during the wiping-out of
the Government, municipal and
mortgage debts of Germany the
only stocks that had any atten-
tion were industrials. Accord-
ing to Professor Moritz Bonn,
“The public were buying indus-
trial shares regardless of divi-
dends as a means of safeguard-
ing their money against de-
preciation. They were quite
satisfied if these shares rose
automatically with the fall of
the mark, or if they
could get cash by sel-
ling an option on the
issue of new shares.”
Some of these con-
cerns appeared to be
doing very well in-
deed. But if they paid
a 20 p.c. dividend it
amounted to practi-
cally nothing; thus
the great bulk of the
profits remained un-
divided. They were
put into plant or other
fixed assets as soon as
possible something
that wouldn’t evapor-
ate in a night. But
the significant thing is
that many other
traders “sold them-
selves poor” each
time they turned over
their stock they were
able to buy less with
the proceeds.
Most German industries re-
constructed after the stabilisa-
tion, and writing-off of some
capital was a common thing.
With regard to Question 3, it
is true that continuous inflation
will ultimately rob many Aus-
tralian industrial shares of
their real value if they
continue trading they “will
sell themselves poor.” Even
in present circumstances in
Australia some companies are
paying dividends out of capital
because they are not being
allowed sufficient provision for
depreciation by the price-control
and taxation authorities.
The value of industrial
ordinary shares in this country
as a protection against inflation
will depend a great deal upon
(a) how long inflation con-
tinues, and ( b ) to what extent
prices and taxation authorities
agree to allow industry to re-
coup sufficient funds, in their
prices and profits, to replace
“Yes, son, one day that's going to be Circular Quay
railway. They started it when I Was your age.”
their working and trading assets.
In the event of gross, uncon-
trolled inflation the value of
liquidation assets would depend
upon how long they could be
held and upon what terms the
economy would be eventually
reconstructed.
The cost of raw materials,
mentioned in Question 4, is not
such a dominating factor in our
inflation as it would seem. Wool
at 20s. a pound would mean a
comparatively mild rise in living
costs if it were not for the spiral
that has taken place in wages,
starting with inadequate produc-
tion and the wastage of our
economy caused by socialisation.
The* suggestion in Question 5
is “received” with considerable
reserve. Whilst it may be attrac-
tive to some Government
economists in various parts of
the world that the burden of war
debts should be lightened
through a raising of the price-
level (which means a higher
Government revenue from taxa-
tion, etc.), it is extremely un-
likely that any Government is
happy about the present infla-
tion in its own country, more
especially in Australia and the
United States.
If it was desired to lighten the
U.S. war debt still further by
greater inflation it would be easy
to do so through putting a
higher dollar price on gold—
something which Washington
appears reluctant to do. The
greatest present cause of infla-
tion is the high cost of socialisa-
tion (which has brought with it
less work for more pay) and—
in some countries actual
Socialism and Communism.
The Communists seek financial
revolution as a prelude to poli-
tical revolution.
In answer to Question 6, it
should be noted that the cost-of-
living index in Australia is now
of the order of double what it
was in 1939. It is thus clear that
nothing like the depreciation has
occurred in our money so far
that occurred in the French
franc, let alone the German
mark. The French franc today
is worth something like a
fortieth of what it was worth in
1914. The old German mark
has gone altogether. Compared
with 1914 the Australian pound,
on a gold basis, is worth about
a quarter of what it used to fetch
in the world’s exchanges.
To beat inflation Australia’s
per capita production must be
increased. Without such an
increase inflation will go on.
Other monetary measures may
also be necessary, but increased
production is what we most
urgently need. And it is only
increased production that will
eventually make industrial shares
really as desirable as they
appear to many people now, A
hope that we, as a people, will
eventually start working hard
again is entirely justifiable. And
long-term industrial prospects
under conditions of adequate
production are very attractive.
But industry will need sympa-
thetic consideration from “con-
trolling” and taxing authorities
in the meantime.
Maoriland’s Problem
When knight Geoffrey Hey-
worth, one of John Bull’s top
industrialists and head of a
combine with 500-odd cos. in 43
countries, passed through New
Zealand lately, he gave Maori-
landers some homely advice on
how to tackle inflation in their
isolated and insulated industrial
field. If they’d put their backs
into the job and lift hourly out-
put, that would help, but they’d
have to instal more labor-saving
plant to get over manpower
bottlenecks. When they bought
this plant they’d have to run it
for long hours, or it would eat
its head off. This meant either
a longer working week, or shift-
work, and in face of Maori-
landers’ easygoing attitude to-
wards life, shift-work seemed the
only answer. They were trying
to do too many things today,
and would have to concentrate
more, above all in lines that paid
best, like farming and industries
closely tied up with it.
With prosperity running bank-
high, Maorilanders might have
been more ready to do something
about it if they’d been told an
easier way. There’s so much
wealth flowing at the moment
that it’s nearly pushing them off
their feet. On the 40-hour, five-
day week they’ve never had so
much leisure, or so much money,
and they’ve got the idea that if
only something was done about
their shrinking pound they could
get out of their troubles without
real sacrifice. There’s nothing
they’d welcome more than a
solution that wouldn’t make their
muscles ache.
Even now, under-equipped as
Maoriland is, there’s a lot of
valuable plant standing idle most
of the 24 hours, while Maori-
landers play, eat, sleep and
generally give the rein to costs,
without realising they’re robbing
themselves and binding industry
in chains. While they fiddle
costs keep running on, and
they’re a long way behind
scratch, with their small enter-
prises in their little market. To
make the big change that would
take a rise out of costs they’ll
have to shake off their lethargy
and clear away those manpower
road-blocks. A first step in the
right direction would be to re-
distribute their limited labor
force to give basic industries a
larger share and to redress the
balance after a 15-year drift,
which has taken 20,000 men out
of farming.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS[
OSUIXTVAJV
t ■%, rrxun ,
*lexs V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
STOP™
Worries?
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
r
gd
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write; MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box lit Talley F. 0.. Brisbane.
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing of the
present whereabouts or information con-
cerning the descendants of ANNIE SMITH,
who died at Brisbane in or about the
year 1894, and who was a lawful sister of
GEORGE BOLSTER, who recently died in
England intestate, please communicate
with MORRIS FLETCHER & CROSS,
Solicitors, of Penneys Building, 163 Adel-
aide Street, Brisbane?
p.
«Utf '
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
ABEL TASMAN
In 1642, Anthony Van Dieman, Governor General
of the Dutch East Indies, commissioned Abel Tasman,
a sea Captain employed by the Dutch East India
Company, to undertake a voyage to the unknown
south seas.
Leaving Batavia in August, 1642, Tasman first
set a course towards Mauritius, then sailing south-
wards, and later easterly, he reached, in November,
1642, the west coast of Tasmania, which he named
Van Dieman’s Land, The names of his ships
Heemskirk and Zeehaen survive as the names of
two mountains, the first land he sighted.
Two years later, on another voyage, Tasman sailed
along all the northern coast of Australia (which
became known as "New Holland”) from Cape York
to North West Cape.
The name ’'Australia” was not officially recognized
till many years after Tasman’s voyages. Meanwhile,
Australians pioneer hank was established in 1817
with the name "Bank of New South Wales”. Today,
on the fubilee of the Commonwealth of Australia,
the "Wales” honours the explorers who opened
the way for the development of this great country.
fo*
fg
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
ASIOIDD
ttemwm/f
§
SS St/
. .
f:
u
o
Sv*?£>(-
\
mw
I
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
„ Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Coal, meat and the letter Z
are the topics of the hour. Be-
cause they remain nagging im-
ponderables they also form
Britain’s chief domestic
anxieties, and there is scarcely a
family in the entire length and
breadth of the country that is
not affected by them.
Rising in price and deteriorat-
ing in quality, in some quarters
coal is almost as scarce as
golden sovereigns. Much seems
to depend upon the alertness
and business acumen of the
individual coal-merchant, the
speed with which he can distri-
bute his supplies and his ability
to retain his delivery-men. Few
households were able to take in
large stocks during the summer
when coal was plentiful, for the
sufficient reason that what are
somewhat anomalously called
“modern” houses (those built
between the wars) were not pro-
vided with capacious cellars;
but those Britons who sank their
pride and allowed their gardens
to be disfigured by slatternly de-
posits of coal are now thankful.
As with similar national em-
barrassments in the past, the
English language has not been
spared its agonies. So that the
power-stations may be kept
going supplies of coal to industry
are to be cut by one-seventh.
Whitehall puts it: “Supplies will
be under-delivered by 15 per
cent.”
The meat ration now stands
at the wretched extremity of
eight-pennyworth per person per
week. Comment generally ex-
presses the situation as “com-
plex,” but the consequences are
simple enough. Surely the Wel-
fare State, with its “fair shares
for all,” has turned full circle
when it has to subsidise the
butchers for having no meat to
cut and little work to do. The
subsidies (£450,000,000 a year)
are intended to make basic
foods available to all, leaving
the housewife to augment her
rations by buying uncontrolled
fowl, fish or game. When, as
with meat, the basic ration be-
comes so insignificant that it
can be pushed through an inch-
deep letter-box the result is only
to force upwards the price of
its alternatives. Rabbits, for in-
stance, now cost ss. 6d. each
(compared with 9d. before the
war), and spare-time trappers in
the eastern counties are said to
be earning £2O/£3O a week. It
is cold comfort to British folk
to be told that Germany has
meat to spare for export.
Citizen Reserve
Ever since the Korea flare-up
Britain’s citizen soldiers, sailors
and airmen (numbering some
3,000,000 and mysteriously
styled “Z-class”) have been
rather uneasy under their col-
lars. Many of them have spent
six years of their lives in the
forces, and when, five years ago,
they changed into “civvies” they
were just as anxious to put ser-
vice life behind them as their
families were anxious to settle
down to peace. But these men
have never forgotten that their
civilian status is only condi-
tional, since the State of Emerg-
ency governing their discharge
has not yet been declared to
have passed. So that, in effect,
they are on indefinite leave.
This explains why the Terri-
torials are below strength. A
seasoned fighting-man tends to
be wary of volunteering, and he
doesn’t usually hurry back to
barracks before his leave ex-
pires. These facts are self-
evident to any serving-man,
whether he has gold braid upon
his cap or nothing at all upon
his sleeve, but they seem to
have been overlooked by the
civilians in Whitehall and on the
Government front-bench. Com-
monsense dictates the simple
truth that, as the international
situation worsens, so does the
civilian’s security and stability
decline. For months the Z-
reservists have been expecting
“an important announcement,”
but, until quite recently, have
been left to grope and guess
blindly in the dark. They might
have been spared a good deal
of anxiety had Mr. Attlee and
his lieutenants followed the
example of any wise commander
by winning their confidence and
keeping them informed.
Manpower and' Defence
According to a report in the
New York “Times,” which is
believed to be attributable to
some words of Mr. Shin well,
war in Western Europe is con-
sidered unlikely before the
autumn of 1952. The argument
hangs on the supposition, based
on recent intelligence, that the
Soviet Union will need at least
18 months in which to build up
a stock of atomic weapons of
sufficient might to attack
Britain.
On the face of it, the rearma-
ment programme which Mr.
Attlee recently announced in the
Commons seems to fit these con-
clusions. Two other factors also
give support: the Soviet policy
of “all mischief short of war”
—i.e.. Of war in which Russians
themselves are directly con-
cerned ; and the apathy and
weariness prevalent in many
European countries. In other
words, Russia neither wants to
march nor is able to provoke a
Korea in Europe,
Looking at Britain’s defence
programme, there is nothing to
suggest any large-scale mobi-
lisation in the near future. In
1951-52 £l3OO million is to be
set aside and £4700 million over
the next three years; of this
total nearly half is to be spent
on production.
The Navy is to recall from
the Royal Fleet Reserve 6000
regulars who have “done their
12” and 600 officers from the
emergency list. All will be re-
quired for a period of up to 18
months. The R.A.F. will call up
200 reservists for the same period
for flying - instruction duties,
2300 officers and men of the
fighter squadrons of the auxiliary
reserve and 1000 aircrew re-
servists for three months’ inten-
sive training. All three services
will retain some regulars who
have completed their time.
These measures seem to point to
a sizeable fleet, readily deploy-
able and capable of quick ex-
pansion, and a front-line force
of fighter squadrons.
So far those concerned are
professionals and volunteer-
reservists, no calls having been
made on conscripts. Some
10.000 officers and men of the
R.A.F. G-reserve, required to
man the control and reporting
organisations in war, are to be
recalled for 15 days’ training, as
are 235,000 Z-reservists for the
Army; of them, 80,000 will
train with the Territorials and
40.000 with the Anti-aircraft
Command. Thus a quarter of
a million civilians are to be
called up for a fortnight during
the summer, apparently at
random.
This announcement has been
received with a good deal of per-
plexity, particularly among the
3,500,000 who form the stock
from which the samples are to
be drawn. They can understand
three months’ intensive training
by specialists, but can’t believe
that a fortnight, including the
medical examination and kit-
ting-up of heterogeneous indi-
viduals, will leave much time for
worth-while training.
Although Mr. Strachey has
given his denial to the obvious
explanation—a trial mobilisa-
tion —it is hard to see what else
it can be.


/tAnuwyimfA
Blue Gillette
Every, man owes it to himself to use the method
which gives him the cleanest, close shave
possible. When you have used a Blue Gillette
Blade for some time you realise it is not only
the most efficient, but the most economical blade
you can buy.
• SO DURABLE—each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP—they stroke
your beard away.
• SO FAMOUS— they have
made the world clean shaven.
IS
5 for 1/8
10 tor 3/4
20 for 6/8
(In plastic dispenser)
‘Good mornings’ begin with Gillette
8/160
dfg
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Hat all the finest features
cf hiqh-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■'Notional'' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BttLU rnntimij In AuaimU* 6f
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jistributlng i|««M —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W, C Penfold Si Co. Pty. Ltdl
, Norman Bros. Ply Ltd-
, Vardon Si Son* Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Ausl )
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA—No. 1399 of 1950.
BETWEEN LESLIE HERBERT JOHN
PENLEY Plaintiff and REGINALD
EUGENE GIBSON Defendant. TO
REGINALD EUGENE GIBSON formerly
of 205 Hutt Street Adelaide South Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that a specially
endorsed writ of summons has been issued
by LESLIE HERBERT JOHN PENLEY
claiming £ll5O/0/0 being money re-
ceived by the Defendant to the use of
the Plaintiff which claim arises out
of a sale by you to the Plaintiff
of a Chevrolet Sedan Motor Car Regis-
tered No. 254-897 AND IT HAS
BEEN ORDERED that service of the writ
upon you be effected by this advertisement
and by posting a copy of the writ to you
at 205 Hutt Street Adelaide If you in-
tend to defend the said action you must
enter an appearance either personally or
by solicitor at the Master’s Office Supreme
Court House Victoria Square Adelaide
within 30 days of this advertisement
otherwise judgment may be entered
against you in your absence. Dated the
Bth day of February, 1951. —FISHER
JEFFRIES TAYLOR & GILMORE, Ep-
worth Building, 38 Pirie Street, Adel-
aide, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
TOUCH wm* fOUfiH
nds >n
pou
cutting
wear,
the thi
and g' ve
slow,
extra mileage.
even
Uodt- and
bw “-"C*-v. • pec, °"’'
v\
HI-MILER RlB—For long,
fast hauls on improved road
surfaces.
HI-MILER ALL-WEATHER—
Recommended wherever
greater traction is needed.
HI-MILER
TRUCK and BUS TYRES
BY
GOODYEAR
Performance records of Hi-Milers have proved to
thousands of truck and bus operators all over Aus-
tralia that these famous Goodyear Tyres give most
for the money in mileage and trouble-free service.
Let these iough Hi-Milers keep your vehicles moving,
reduce delays and cut your tyre costs to a minimum.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER TO RECOMMEND
THE RIGHT GOODYEAR TYRE FOR YOUR JOB!
10A2-M
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“In my country a woman isn’t con-
sidered a woman unless she can
attract a man with her clothes on.”
—ltalian actress Marina Berti.
“Cameramen paid her the supreme
compliment: ‘She hasn’t a bad
angle.’ ” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
i It is safe to assume she was
I all curves.
4* 4*
1 “I have yet to see a conductor tell
a woman offender to put her cigarette
i out.” — Letter to Melbourne “Argus.”
i She would probably fume if
he did.
4* 4* 4*
“Dr. Silbermann is taking to Europe
his manuscript of his biology of Mr.
Eugene Goossens to arrange for pub-
lication.” — Sydney “Sun.”
No doubt he will blind his
readers with science.
4* 4* 4*
“An idea can be killed only by a
better idea.” — Professor Murdoch.
It’s a pity this doesn’t apply
to the young idea.
“Women have proved themselves
equal to men.” — Feminist article.
Hence, theoretically, they’re
no longer our better halves.
“Wayne Tepper, aged 2, walked
around for four days with his grand-
mother’s tiny gold wrist-watch in his
tummy.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
However, he wound up in
hospital.
4* 4* 4*
“No woman can expect hair beauty
as a gift.”— Women’s magazine.
But with proper care it will
grow on her.
Revealing Criticism.
It’s nice to think there still exists
A land so unsophisticated
That female modesty enlists
The love of fellows satiated
By Hollywood’s half - naked
. styles
Which fill the seats and throng
the aisles
At entertainments overrated.
But though the fair Italian belle
Has been described in phrases
glowing
; She still would find it just as
well.
When planning how to meet the
i growing
! And bitter competition of her
j kind
For bachelors she has in mind.
To make at least a decent
showing.
BERT.
Making Sure.
“The State A.L.P. has agreed ‘in
principle’ with compulsory military
training for home defence, at some
indefinite future time. It advocates
training ‘on popular lines.’ ”
The Military Liaison Secretary
of the Few Trades and Less
Labor Council (salary £ll5O p.a.)
was being shown over the Com-
pulsory Military Training camp.
As official representative of the
party he was making a tour of
inspection to see that everything
conformed to the “Labor” idea
of training soldiers, and to make
sure that they had the full benefit
of such popular amenities as
would be approved not only by
caucus but by the various
Commo-led unions upon which
the A.C.T.U. depended so much
to keep that body—body is the
word —from folding up financi-
ally.
It is doubtful if the party
could have made a happier
choice than that of the M.L.S.
of the F.T.L.L.C. to pass an ex-
pert opinion on the needs of
troops preparing against the need
to go into a possible battle —a
battle which would, in any case,
receive the official approval of
“Labor” only after a full meet-
ing of the A.C.T.U., in which,
of course, Communist union
delegates would have full voting.
had decided it was not a bosses’
war and was not inimical
to the best working-class in-
terests.
During World War I he had
covered himself with glory—and
had assured preferment in the
party —by denouncing volunteers
as “six-bob-a-day murderers.” In
World War II his fierce demand
that no man should be sent to
fight north of a line drawn
through King’s dross further en-
hanced his prestige with the
“movement.” Also, while the
Japs were rampaging over the
Kokoda Trail the union of which
he was then secretary had set
WET
CONCRETE
WEEP OFF
“Why didn't you dive in head-first, and then We could
have had your likeness for posterity !”
all-time records for low produc-
tion and high absenteeism. The
profundity of his military know-
ledge receives emphasis from his
remark, on hearing an artillery-
man refer to his battery, that he
didn’t think the Army would
have any horses to race now it
was mechanised.
As the major conducting him
around took him into the recrea-
tion hut the pillar of the “move-
ment” which has been marking-
time for 30 years stopped in
astonishment as he looked at the
bare, clean tables.
“Where are all the tele-
phones?” he asked.
The officer looked blank.
“The phones for the camp’s
s.-p. merchant,” went on the
M.L.S. of the F.T.L.L.C. testily.
“Strike me, don’t tell me the
Army’s so dead to the need o’
the workers drafted for trainin’
it don’t provide facilities for the
troops gittin’ their bets on.
Why, it’s the first thing we git
the shop-stewards in the fact’ries
to see to. This is serious. I
dunno what the Army heads are
thinkin’ of —only things like
learnin’ to shoot straight, I sup-
pose.
“The Army should take a
lesson from the ‘movement.’ One
of our most brilliant speakers
an’ high-ups got his start be
makin’ a book —finished up
ownin’ one o’ the biggest s.-p.
businesses in the country. Y’
should have at least four sergeant
s.-p. men to each platoon or wing
or whatever y’ divide y’r Army
up into. They might become
generals. I’ll certainly git the
Council to take the matter up.
Also, we’ll have to see that y’
don’t hold parades or drill durin’
race broadcasts.
“I suppose,” went on the
M.L.S. of the F.T.L.L.C. aggres-
sively, “the troops enjoy the
forty-hour week, with the usual
ban on overtime?”
“Certainly not!” exploded the
major. “How on earth could
we run an Army on those li”
“By not allowin’ troops to
stick to the sacred ‘Labor’ prin-
ciple of doin’ as little as y’ can
for as much as y’ can git,” pur-
sued the union man sternly,
“the Army must be regarded by
the ‘movement’ as Fascist an’
reactionary. Are the trainees
allowed to knock off three-
quarters of an hour before the
set time so they don’t have to
wash in their own time? An’ in
case it’s rainin’ an’ there’s no
trainin’ for ’em to do are they
entitled to appearance-money?”
The major clutched for sup-
port at a near-by Nissen hut as
the other went on:
“Another thing, I see that the
rifles used by the worker-trainees
have got holes in the end of ’em.
We can’t stand for that. You’ll
have to have ’em made solid. If
it ain’t done we’ll form action
committees an’ pull a strike
until the Army agrees.”
“Good G”
“An’ then there’s the question
o’ penalty-rates for those on
weekend guard duty, special
peace-time loadin’, prosperity
loadin’, inflation loadin’, livin’-
away - from - home allowance,
heat-money, cold-money, dirt-
money, fatigue-money—oh, yes,
an’, o’ course, there’ll be danger-
money an’ Here, Lieutenant,
Lieutenant, quick— the major’s
gone an’ chucked a doubler!”
BO.
Fed Up.
“A horse is as much entitled to
consideration as a human being,
sometimes more so.”
—Judge Tudor Rees.
Man’s noblest friend still gets
but small
Consideration from pur kind.
In fact, you might say none at
all
From types in towns or on the
farm
That all of us can call to mind.
Who do the horse no end of
harm
By working him beyond his
powers.
Poor victim docile and resigned.
Through endless and exacting
hours.
And even when he has the luck
To have a master who’s inclined
To treat him well, there’s cause
to buck
Against a fate not fair by half,
For though he does the tasks
assigned
At best he gets a lot of chaff.
D.H.E.


Missing Friend.
SYDNEY HENRY EGAN, deceased. En-
quiry is directed by the Supreme Court of
N.S.W. to ascertain if GEORGE EGAN
or HENRY EGAN, brothers of the de-
ceased, survived him or, having pre-
deceased him, left children, who survived
him. The said George Egan and Henry
Egan are sons of late George Egan (also
known as GEORGE CONNOLLY) and late
Catherine Egan {nee Holloway). Any
person claiming to be interested under
the enquiry, whether as a survivor or as
representative of a deceased person, should
communicate immediately with THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., for information as to
filing a claim in the Court. Any person
who can give information about George
Egan or Henry Egan or about any children
of either of them will please communi-
cate with said Public Trustee.
TROUT FLIES
TIED TO ORDER!
By arrangement with the makers of RISE Trout
Flies we can supply special types, to your
own specifications, at short notice.
Forward sample fly with order.
The makers’ long study of flies and
fly-tying ensures excellent quality. Minimum
quantity 1 doz. of any pattern.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD.
624 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. M 6261
"V//
*RISE-
df
ifgn
%
Legal Notice.
TRANSMISSION BY DEATH.
Real Property Act of 1801 to 1942.
NOTICE is hereby given that application
has been made for the Registration of
Transmission of Title to the Lands herein-
after mentioned. Particulars of such
application are given below, and any
pex-son desiring to oppose may do so by
lodging a Caveat on or before the day
specified, at the Office of the Registrar of
Titles in Brisbane.
Name of Deceased Proprietor: NORA
NELSON, late of Redclitfe, wife of
Henry William Nelson.
Date of Death: 23rd May, 1950.
Name of Claimant: Queensland Trustees
Limited as Devisee in Trust.
Description and Situation of Land: Allot.
13, Sec. 11, town Southport.
Estate Claimed to be Transmitted: Fee-
simple.
Particular’s of Will or otherwise: Will
dated 22nd May, 1950.
Date within which Caveat may be lodged;
13th March, 1951.
Registrar of Titles’ Office, Brisbane,
27th January, 1951.
R. J. THOMSON,
Registrar of Titles.
fheWoxM
mrmcms
xw
bitter
OR-
S'
fnmzmm
(MM
Emm
WOfflDS
fAvomm
mm
x
mm
m
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Obtainable all Newsagents
PRICE 21-
TILLEY. RADIATORS
(BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE)
V
itnoS
m
a
nmy.
“THE ADMIRAL”
Double Burner Radiator
Model R. 46. Burns 10
hours on 2\ pints of
Kerosene. Luxurious
warmth, when and
where you want it. The
Modern Form of Portable
Heating.
“THE AMBASSADOR”
Single Burner Radiator
Model R.I. Burns 12 hours
on one filling of IJ pints of
Kerosene. The complete
answer to those cold pass-
ages and occasional rooms.
Portable.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
12M25, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
'•••••If mu |mid lilt nil
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
Gallery Purchases.
N. S. Wales National Gallery
has adopted the admirable plan
of holding an annual exhibition
of the year’s purchases and
gifts; which means, of course,
that there will be one more
annual war-dance in the Sydney
dailies. And indeed, though
reluctant to join in the chorus,
the present commentator is not
inclined to let so beautiful an
opportunity pass.
The strangest purchase for
1950 was Francis Lymbumer’s
“Mainland Boat” for £B5 ; not
because Mr. Lymburner can’t
paint—he often paints charm-
ingly—but because this is so
smudgy, so empty, a frolic ex-
panded until it becomes merely
vacuous. But this was bought
by the director; and it was after
this purchase that the trustees
belatedly discovered that they
did not have the power to let Mr.
Missingham buy for them.
The mystery is, then, why the
trustees of their own accord
bought the equally empty
“Flowers” of Filippo de Pisis, a
modern Italian painter, for £156.,
This is one of those pictures in
which the artist attempts to paint
flowers by not painting flowers,
and the trustees could have got
dozens of the same sort of
amiable smears from the Con-
temporary Society for a tenth
the money; which would still
have been very expensive.
In a less astonishing category
there are a number of the kind
of paintings which the trustees
seem to buy because they find
themselves at the Royal Art or
Society of Artists exhibitions and
feel obliged to buy something
tolerable before they can
decently get away. And thus,
though with respect for their
more notable works, one cannot
see much profit for the National
Gallery in Norman Carter’s “The
Hillside,” Douglas Dundas’s
“Sheep Country,” Erik Langker’s
“Sunlit Hills” and H. Edge-
combe’s “Nerriga Landscape.”
And similarly with Roi De
Mestre’s vaguely cubist “Cruci-
fixion,” bought in London.
And then, though the trustees
got a pretty good Lance Solomon
from the Royal Art Society, they
could have bought something of
much finer quality from his show
at the Grosvenor Galleries. The
National Gallery should not
have missed those resplendent
paintings of the N. S. Wales
coast.
But if the trustees are fallible
they cannot reasonably be pre-
sumed, as the dailies like to
picture them, to be always in
the wrong. And, in fact, they
undoubtedly picked by far the
best painting out of Sidney
Nolan’s show at David Jones’s
—there is a pleasant decorative
quality in this jungle scene in
green and yellow when it is
separated from the thin red
mountains of Ripolin which
so much impressed the dailies
at the time. Max Ragless’s
“Hobart Waterfront,” a bold
bright painty landscape, is
another discovery; the very
small James Gleeson was a wise
choice ; Arthur Murch’s “Sleep”
(if the lady’s neck always makes
one a little uneasy) still looks
very lovely ; Amalie Colquhoun’s
small child is plaintively and
humorously alive ; there is charm
in A. D. Colquhoun’s “Alice” ;
George Lawrence’s rough wild
wintry “Landscape” stands out
as the pick of the whole year’s
buying ; and there are admirable
watercolors by Hans Heysen,
Frank McNamara, Ronald
Steuart and G. K. Townsbend.
Overseas purchases Mac-
Taggart’s red still-life, Russell’s
“A View of Poole Harbor” —
don’t amount to very much ; the
Sydney Gallery, not having the
Felton Bequest to play about
with, would do better to con-
centrate on Australian art. But
among the gifts are two good
examples of the later pre-
Raphaelites, a Burne - Jones
dragon being attacked by an in-
furiated curate, and some de-
ceased ladies and angels by
Spencer Stanhope. There are also
a “Portrait of a Woman” attri-
buted to Adriaen Hanneman, a
sound example of the Dutch
school; and, in the Sydney Ure
Smith memorial presentation
from the Society of Artists,
Margaret Preston’s “Banksia,”
Dobell’s “Sleeping Greek,” a
rough Lambert sketch in oils and
some cracked tomatoes by V.
Choukhaeff.
"Meet the Orchestra."
The Queensland public was
invited to meet the 1951 version
of its orchestra at a series of
three concerts entitled “Dis-
covery,” “Exploration” and
“Entertainment.” As the
orchestra defied summer tem-
peratures and played better than
ever under its resident conduc-
tor, John Farnsworth Hall, all
three programmes were well
deserving of the title reserved
for the third.
Works chosen ranged from
Bach’s “Overture Suite No. 1”
to the modernism of Shosta-
kovich’s “Concerto for Piano,
Trumpet and Strings” and
Honegger’s allegedly descriptive
“Pacific 231.”
Because of the limited num-
ber of permanent players, such
works as “Scheherazade” and
Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony
are often considered beyond
the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra, yet in both those
works the conductor was able to
give an excellent account of the
music. In particular, the surge
and color of the final scene of
the Rimsky-Korsakov was ad-
mirably achieved.
Soloists Joan Howley, Cecil
Berry and Hilda Woolmer gave
a fine performance of
Beethoven’s rarely-heard “Triple
Concerto,” a work marred some-
what by digression but well
worthy of more attention than
it receives. The ’cello melody
in the second movement was
beautifully played.
* * * *
Among other qualities neces-
sary for a great conductor. Sir
John Barbirolli certainly has
endurance. He was ill before his
final Melbourne Town Hall
concert, but, although pale and
unsteady and clutching at the
rail of the rostrum, he carried
through an exacting programme
which included the “Semira-
mide” overture of Rossini, the
first performance in Australia
of the Fifth Symphony of
Rubbra, an English composer,
the Symphony No. 29 of Mozart
and the mixed bag of variations
which Elgar called the
“Enigma.” The Rubbra sym-
phony found the orchestra in
splendid fettle. A delicious
second movement, light and
witty, led into an exceedingly
lovely third, and a close which
was solemn like the beginning.
Gathering strength as the even-
ing proceeded, the conductor led
the orchestra through a delicate
performance of the Mozart. The
Elgar Variations dominated the
second half of the programme
and provided Sir John with an
opportunity for the sharp con-
trasts he delights in.
A good-humored farce of the
“Charley’s Aunt” variety,
“Love’s a Luxury,” at Sydney
Palace, ostensibly has to do with
a husband’s manoeuvres to allay
the suspicions of a jealous wife,
but, really, its chief concern is
to get Reg Quartly, who lately
played the Dame in “Jack and
the Beanstalk,” back into Vic-
torian petticoats and long black
bloomers. It is cheap but cheer-
ful stuff, performed with general
goodwill, and greatly enlivened
by Malcolm Phillips as a wild
Scotsman addicted to eggs,
temperance and croquet.
* * *
The Criterion Players, a
group of youthful enthusiasts
who put on Lillian Heilman’s
“The Little Foxes” at the St.
James Hall, Sydney, were,
despite their enthusiasm, rather
too youthful to cope with the
human decay, the merciless
greed and vicious hatreds that
go to make up this story of the
Hubbard family, that ugly
gathering of financial oppor-
tunists thriving like a fungus on
the remains of the southern
aristocracy. Patricia Lithgow,
as Regina, John Heaney, as Ben
Hubbard, and Lois Thorpe, as
Birdie, each gave indications of
knowing what was required even
if they couldn’t always achieve
it —partly because they couldn’t
take on the necessary weight of
years and partly because they
were often flat-out trying to
support the supporting cast.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
“Carmen,” presented by the National
Opera Company as part of the Centenary
Jubilee Celebrations, demonstrated clearly
the wealth of vocal talent here. The first
night had vice-regal patronage. Lady
Brooks chose a lovely bouffant gown of
silvery-blue brocade, her daughter
Jeanette a slim-fitting floral satin. Sir
Robert Knox, president of the National
Theatre Movement, was with Lady Knox,
who wore an ankle-length frock of black
faille. Their daughter, Mrs. Robert
Lindsey, was in black lace. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll’s gown glittered with jet beads.
Mrs. Philip Dare’s wide-skirted strapless
gown was of hunter’s-pink organza. Mrs.
lan Potter’s brocades were of blue and
silver. Masses of iridescent beads
clustered on the three-tiered chiffon cape
worn by Mrs. F. H. Wright matched the
deep-blue of her gown. Her daughter,
Mrs. Ronald Marriott, wore a froth of
cafe au lait tulle. Strella Wilson’s
powder-blue crepes were embellished with
silver beading. An ankle-length black
faille theatre-coat was worn by Mrs.
Simon Warrender over a matching black
frock. Mrs. John Knox’s blue brocade
gown had a dropped shoulderline and
full short puff-sleeves.
Betty, eldest daughter of Mrs. Dawson,
of St. Carol’s, South Yarra, and the late
Mrs. L. Dawson, formerly of Adelaide,
was married at Christ Church, South
Yarra, to Maxwell, only son of Mrs.
Shaw, of Brighton, and the late Mr. P.
Shaw. Betty was unattended and given
away by her mother. Max had Bryan
Page as best man. The bride’s frock of
platinum-grey crepe romaine was made
with a slim side-draped skirt and low-
necked crossover bodice, and was worn
with a wide-brimmed picture hat of
matching grey tulle relieved by two
clusters of lilac-pink violets. Relatives
and close friends later met at St. Carol’s.
When Miss A. M. Sage, Matron-in-
Chief of the R.A.A.N.S., and Miss Jean
Wheatley, Principal Matron of the
R.A.A.F. Nursing Service, were guests-of-
honor at a party given by members of the
Returned Nurses’ Club, they were
presented with miniatures of their awards
which had been announced in the New
Year’s Honors list. Venue of the party
was the War Nurses’ Memorial Centre in
St. Kilda-road and was attended by 160
members and former members of the
R.A.A.N.S. and R.A.A.F.N.S. Mrs. J.
W. Fussell, president of the Returned
Nurses.’ Club, made the presentations, and
Lydia Shaw, matron of the Alfred
Hospital and principal matron of the
R.A.A.N.S., spoke in appreciation of the
guests-of-honor. Miss Sage wore a frock
of navy crepe trimmed with navy and
gold plaid silk on the sleeves, pockets and
neckline ; her boater hat was of fine cream
straw. Miss Wheatley’s frock of black
corded faille featured a side-button treat-
ment and was worn with a folded hat of
mushroom-pink felt. Margaret Cuthbert,
of the War Nurses’ Memorial Centre, and
Mary Laidlaw were the organisers.
“Mary Had a Little,” the American
farce which opened at the Tivoli, drew a
weff-dressed audience of first-nighters.
Mrs. Morris Sallman wore an ankle-length
frock of black faille and a lovely white
lace stole. Greatly admired were the
gold mesh gloves and jewelled shoes worn
by Mrs. Norman Lynch with a short
black taffeta frock. Joan Ross was in
white ruffled taffetas. Lady McConnan
wore pastel-pink chiffon. Mrs. Alan
Ryan’s gown was of white moire faille.
Gladys Moncrieff wore heavily-beaded
black crepe. Honey-blonde satin
fashioned Mrs. Henry Rosenthal’s frock.
Mrs, Bertie Hotchkiss was swathed in
deep rose and silver lame. Valerie
Staley’s pretty pink quilted taffeta frock
was worn under a short white lambskin
jacket. Her mother, Mrs. Grey Staley,
was in black satin.
Late in March the board of manage-
ment of the Women’s Hospital will
launch an appeal for £150,000. But the
hospital’s energetic president, Mrs. J. E.
Cornfoot, has in the meantime organised
many small groups who have commenced
the work of raising money. To thank
members of those committees, to wel-
come back to work members of the board
and to farewell Lady Leitch and Mrs.
Norman Harris, who are retiring from
the board after many years of active
work, Mrs. Cornfoot gave a buffet
dinner-party in her South Yarra flat. Tall
vases of white and pastel-toned gladioli
and hydrangeas made gay the reception-
rooms. The hostess welcomed her guests
in a powder-blue French crepe dinner-
gown, the bodice trimmed with iridescent
shell-beads. Black lace and French crepe
fashioned the gown worn by Mrs. Nor-
man Harris. Silver embroideries shone
on the gown of Mrs. George Hume.
Lady Connelly’s bouffant frock was of
bronze-brown taffeta. Lady Brookes was
in pale-lilac satin. A soft black lace was
worn by Mrs. D. Dare, whilst Mrs.
Preston Shelmerdine had the bodice of
her black gown trimmed with lovely rose-
point lace. Among other guests were
Miss A. M. Sage, Mrs. George Wynwood,
Kathleen Syme, Mrs. Lytton Stephens,
Col. and Mrs. George Sutton, Com-
mander and Mrs. A. J. White, Dr. W.
D. Refshauge, the medical superin-
tendent, and his wife, and Dr. and Mrs.
I. Hayes.
Margo Thomas, who is the wife of
A.B.C. personality Wilfred Thomas, has
carved out quite a distinctive niche lor
herself as a recitalist of the works of the
English poet William Blake. The Indian
poets have also been the subject of her
keen study. At the first celebration of
India Day Margo was invited by the
India Day committee to recite from them.
Study by Sydney photographer M.
Michaelis.
That clever designer Anne Collins is
over from Sydney with another collec-
tion of hats, which she is showing at the
Rene Henri salon. Anne says that many
of the new colors have been taken from
stained-glass windows. Soon to be popu-
lar are French-briar, a rich brown,
pastel-petunia (pink), persimmon, orange-
marmalade and peacock-blue. Black and
white are also in the news. The materials
used were velveteen, hatter’s-plush, panne
and peachbloom velours. A pillbox model
in white hatter’s - plush, designed
originally by Vernier of London for the
Duchess of Kent, has as trimming a tiny
white osprey tipped with black-jet sequins
which fell softly over the front of the
brim.
The pillbox is among the new trends
for the coming season, with cloches and
berets also popular. Sequins, strass
(something like diamente), high feathers
and lots of veiling are also in order.
Veils will be worn nose-length, the mesh
this year being wider than formerly. The
veiling sponsored by Maud Roser, the
French designer, was used on a number
of hats ; it swathes across the face and
is embellished with clusters of chenille
spots high on each cheek. Named
Swan Lake, one model was a little head-
hugging cap of soft white feathers with
two black swans’ heads crossed in front.
A feature of the Anne Collins hats was
the jewel trimmings. Glass opalescent
beads, moonstones and tiny silver beads
flashed on a cloche of blue-grey hatter’s-
plush misted with black veiling. Tiny
caps for cocktail- or theatre-wear were
massed with jewels. Pink sequin birds
soared on a beret in French-briar velour.
Ocelot banding the tiny brim of a dark-
green beret was matched by the ocelot-
tipped quill-mount.
Sir George and Lady Wales invited
more than 200 guests to a buffet dinner-
party at their Toorak home, their guests-
of-honor being the Lord Mayor, Sir
James Disney, and Lady Disney. The
imported French model frock worn by
Lady Disney was of black crepe with
jet embroidery featured on the bodice
and forming a deep hem. Her wide-
brimmed black straw hat was trimmed
with black lacquered satin. Lady Wales’s
black chiffon was pleated from yoke to
hemline and finished with a duchess satin
collar and cuffs on the three-quarter
sleeves. Mrs. T. T. Hollway wore a
cinnamon-brown pleated frock with
jacket and wide-brimmed straw hat in
matching tones. Mrs. Trevor Oldham
added a matching cocktail-hat to her
black satin frock.
From Sydney
Fashion experts say that women’s sil-
houettes always reflect the spirit of the
time. It is significant that the “Jubilee
silhouette” predicted for spring is very
slender and pared down.
The Cunard liner Caronia, commonly
called “the millionaire ship,” has been
the chief topic of conversation this week.
It arrived on the hottest day of the year,
but its travellers (who don’t like being
called millionaires, we can’t tell why) set
off shopping and sightseeing with great
zest. The most interesting thing about
these people, it seemed to this Letter, was
their naivete and childlike delight in
everything they saw and did. After five
weeks of the utmost luxury and continual
parties, they were still as excited and
happy as ’teenagers at a barbecue. Each
one has paid between 3500 and 30,000
dollars for this three-month trip, and
they’re certainly getting their money’s
worth.
Most of the passengers are middle-
aged to elderly, and the dressing on the
whole seemed very ordinary. Not so,
however, was the jewellery which sparkled
with so' many diamonds of such size that
they almost took the sight out of our
eyes. One traveller, Mrs, Harold Graves,
had a birthday and a wedding anniversary
while she was in Sydney, for which her
husband bought her diamond earrings
and a beautiful opal ring—blue, immense,
oval and decorated with the southern
cross in diamonds. Most of the
passengers said that they had brought
“an arful lot of clothes” with them, for
they dress for dinner every night, and
some of them don’t like to be seen in
the same dress twice.
The alert look in the picture belongs
to Honor Laurey, who, with her husband,
controls the puppet-show at the Empire.
Honor is a member of a theatrical
family which has been connected with
marionettes for many generations. She
herself gave her first puppet-show when
she was nine years old. Her husband lan
was destined for the diplomatic service,
but left Cambridge, where he was study-
ing, to take a short engagement with the
Laureys. It was an engagement which
resulted in his marrying Honor just
before they set out for Australia. Both
the Laureys are 23. “I take his name in
private,” says Honor. “He takes my name
in public.”
The Sydney designer Norda Rut-
kewitz timed her mannequin-parade in
Leo Buring’s cellar to coincide with the
visit of the Caronia, Parades in cellars
are quite the thing in New York, where
Norda has shown her dresses on two
occasions. This particular cellar is the
site of Sydney’s first jail, but the grim
ghosts were happily exorcised by pink
champagne and the lame cocktail dresses
worn by the guests and the mannequins.
We didn’t see the winter collection, be-
cause the “millionaires” were interested
only in cottons and silks, so that the
parade was more of a party than an event
of fashion importance to the Sydney
season. As a party it was picturesque,
lively and pleasant.
There was a happy gathering at the
Pickwick when the president and
members of the Vaucluse State Elec-
torate Conference gave a party in honor
of the newly-married Murray Robsons.
Mrs, Robson (she was Sue Other Gee)
wore a grey brocade dress with a wide
hat of grey faille wreathed with tulle.
Mrs. Jane Bernays’s dress was cream silk
patterned with brown. Mrs. D. G. Page
wore black with a small blue hat. Mrs.
Millard Hagon allied japonica accessories
to a mushroom-grey suit. Mrs. Muriel
Mackay’s sailor hat in golden straw was
trimmed with a black bow. Present also
were Mrs. A. Beere, Miss M. Bourne,
Mrs. H. J. Brady, Mrs. Arthur Pettitt
(from Adelaide), Mrs. Gladys Lister,
Mrs. Edgar Holt, Mrs. F. W. Allen, Mrs.
C. R. Nilsson and her daughter Astrid,
whose little black hat was decorated with
white lily-of-the-valley.
The shops are showing the new sea-
son’s artificial jewellery, which features
the tailored type for daytime—gold- or
platinum-plated necklets and bracelets
like little pieces-of-eight. For evening,
pastel rhinestones, colorful as a flower-
garden, are the thing, and jet mingled
with crystal and pearls for those who
can get it. Earrings are like tiny crystal
chandeliers or showers of jet. A high-
fashion necklet with gold peapods with
green beads for peas is one of the
quaintest pieces showing. The Sydney
designer and manufacturer Simpson, who
exhibited his jewellery in Canada and
London last year and now supplies Aus-
tralian-made goods to Montreal, says that
he would make much more jet jewellery,
but it is very, very scarce.
We hear from “Uramao,” of Oamaru
(N.Z.), that our Mrs. William Moore
(Dora Wilcox), who is visiting New Zea-
land after 23 years, is finding many
changes. Her visit is primarily to see
the centennial celebrations of Canter-
bury, as she is the granddaughter of two
of the pioneers who arrived in the ship
Sir George Seymour. Mrs. Moore visited
the old homestead, Brockworth, at Ric-
carton, where the former farmlands have
now been parcelled up for suburban
homes. Mrs. Moore is the widow of the
author of The Story of Australian Art,
and is a well-known poetess herself.
Anthologies of verse are liberally pep-
pered with her work, and it was she who
wrote the ode to commemorate the open-
ing of the Commonwealth Parliament in
1927.
The knitting season has begun with as
much enthusiasm as ever, although the
price of knitting-wool is now up to 2s. 2d.
per ounce and 4s. 4d. for half an ounce
of angora. Even at these prices it will
be cheaper to knit jumpers than to buy
them, for in the madeVup article the
original price of wool will mean higher
costs for every stage it goes through. In
some shops there is on sale a thing called
“nylon wool” at 3s. a skein and equiva-
lent in knitting to two-ply. It is pure
nylon, but it certainly looks as soft and
resilient as our golden fleece. Said to
have excellent washing properties, it
needs watching as a possible threat to
real wool.
The Garden Club is rapidly growing in
strength. At its showing on Friday night
of garden films which had been loaned
by the British Council and the Royal
Empire Society there was an excellent
attendance. At the meeting held the
same evening it was decided to hold a
Flower Show in early spring (September-
-17 is the date), on the roof-garden at
Farmer’s. There will be flower-arrange-
ments and table-setting, a section for
native flowers and a special border display
of azaleas. The show is to be non-
competitive, but the club is asking al
members to send in cut flowers t°r
display.
There is great enthusiasm for adult
education at the moment. Women are
enrolling in hundreds for all sorts o
classes, of both the intellectual and
handcraft type. Leatherwork, dressmak-
ing, flower-making, drama, astronomy,
music, painting, glove-making, etc., al
are immensely popular. The millinery
classes are mobbed, perhaps because hats
are so much fun and also so expensive.
Still, one can’t help thinking that the
home-made hat is generally less
successful than the “real thing.” Profes-
sional milliners must have some secret
which makes their products so readily
recognisable. Perhaps, like some jealous
cooks, they leave out the vital point when
instructing the amateurs. More likely,
hats are really difficult to make, and it
takes long experience to get the right
touch.
Arriving in Australia this week is
soprano Marjorie Lawrence to take pait
in the Jubilee celebrations. Miss
Lawrence’s fight against polio has been
an inspiration to all who have followed
her career. At her concerts m Aus-
tralia this time she will stand without
support, only, if necessary, holding o
the sides of her special platform. Since
VE.-Day Miss Lawrence has made five
morale-building trips to Europe. On one
of these she was awarded the French
Legion of Honor, and her colleagues of
the French National Opera presented her
with a diamond replica of this award.
During her visit here she will give recitals
in each State capital, as well as m
Geelong, Broken Hill, Bundaberg and
possibly Colac.


BP
no*- •
whan «h* - 4 hB
■A
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1 888.
Hxibc
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD..
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brushing her barnacles off in prepara-
tion for work, reconditioned survey-
sloop Warrego ; taking her north, Com-
mander George Tancred, a man of many
depths who (except for some battleship-
time and two years in submarines) has
been surveying for most of his naval life.
For almost five years in the late war he
crept through Torres Strait and the reef-
cluttered waters round New Guinea and
the Philippines, sounding, marking and
plotting ahead of the Allied fleets, under
almost constant attention from an enemy
who knew only too well what his presence
signified. In all, captain of eight different
survey-vessels up north (Warrego among
them), Tancred came home with a well-
merited D.S.C. He has an enormous job
ahead of him now.
Fighting the £lOO,OOO fight for the Aus-
tralian Board of Missions’ War Memorial
appeal (B. 14/2/’5l), the Right Rev.
Fortescue Ash has all the qualities the job
calls for—persuasive personality, a
deft turn of wit and considerable
practice in the craft. Bishop of Rock-
hampton for 19 years from 1928, he left
the north to take on the commissionership
of the A.B.M.’s Centenary Appeal in
1947, and has been persuasively prodding
the pocket-books of the faithful ever
since. He admits that the great love of
his life is yarning. More pounds to his
A.B.M. pocket!
Leslie Rees, Federal play-editor for
the A.8.C., who writes books for children
in his spare time, has had a full-length
children’s novel accepted by Collins for
publication in England m August. It is
called Quokka Island, and, bringing in the
Dutch navigators of the 17th century, is
a story of buried treasure, located on the
islands off Fremantle (W.A.), where
Rees spent holidays in his boyhood. A
quokka, improbable though it may sound,
is a small wallaby of the paddymelon
type.
“Uramao”; Waikato (N.Z.) gets for
its new bishop the Rev. J. T. Holland,
son of a former bishop of Wellington,
now dean of Norwich (Eng.). An Oxford
man, the new bish. was ordained in 1936,
landed in the Fernland as vicar of
Featherston, and left again shortly after
for the Middle East and Italy, chaplain
with Freyberg’s fighters.
Pushing back the directorial chair for
the last time this month, after 52 years’
continuous service with the Westralian
wholesale druggist firm of Feltons, A. E.
Walker, “Archie” to chemists from
Albany to Broome. His office-boy-to-
boss career was helped by a lively sense
of humor and sport played hard —at 65
tennis is still his game.
“Fitz”: Meeting Les Robinson in the street
reminds me. When he first began writing
for The Bulletin and the old Lone
Hand he was living in a far Sydney suburb,
and during jobless periods (which were often)
used to set out on foot for town in search of
work, but didn’t always get that far —there
were parks on the way in which he was wont
to tarry a while. He had his favorite nooks
and seats, and did a lot of writing in and on
them. When he did succeed in reaching town
it was too late to look for work, so he’d
spend the rest of the day in the Museum, the
Art Gallery, second-hand bookshops, or perhaps
continue to write in the Domain or the Botanic
Gardens. On wet days he was often to be
found in caves —he knew them all for miles
around —or else wrote in waiting-rooms, shelter-
sheds or the public library. He tried many
occupations without finding one to suit. The
job he hated most was on a poultry-farm. “I’ve
always detested noises,” he explains, “especially
in the early morning. I know of none more
infuriating than the crowing of roosters.” The
roosters drove Les to live with a colony of
writers and artists who dwelt in tents in a
grove of banksia-trees among the sand-dunes
of Dee Why North (N.S.W.), where they worked
at tables made of driftwood, and lived mostly
on fish cooked in kerosene-tins. Gradually,
however, members of the colony grew pros-
perous or got married and drifted away, but
Les remained in the district for long years
after in a crazy shack which often appears in
his stories. His Arcadian existence in tents and
shacks helped, and still helps, to provide him
with the material for humorous and fantastic
stories and articles which have appeared from
time to time in this paper over a long period.
Latest of a long list of top-flight oil-
men to visit New Guinea for the Austra-
lasian Petroleum Co., H. W. McCobb is a
director of Standard Vacuum Oil, New
York. East Indies manager for his com-
pany when the Japs looked in, McCobb
got out, joined the U.S. Army, and re-
turned to the Pacific as boss of the Army
petrol supplies in the area. What he
learned of the enormous distribution
problems there he took further west, to
the Atlantic, where, headquartered in
North Africa, he gave the Allied forces
what they needed in the way of juice.
Back in the Indies after the war McCobb
did a good job helping rehabilitation men,
and in 1947 went home to New York.
There he has the tidy job of bossing the
exploration, production and purchasing of
Standard Vacuum.
Come ashore recently, new marine
superintendent in Australia of the com-
bined fleets of the N.Z. Shipping and
Federal Steam Navigation Companies,
Captain R. J. B. Dunning, who has been
steaming his line’s ships for almost 30
years. His route in War II was across-
Atlantic. He never lost a ship.
Regardless of the sectional booing
which met Speaker Cameron when he
opined in Adelaide that all university
students should do military training, Aus-
tralian universities are well to the fore in
such training, as they were in the Hitler
disturbance. Sydney ’Varsity has lately
formed its first flying squadron, with
Flight-Lieutenant Thomas Berry, a per-
manent R.A.A.F. man, as c.o. Until
recently with an aircraft-research and
-development unit at Laverton, test-flying,
Berry was equipped well enough for that
—having had flying experience in the
islands at the tail-end of War 11, added
to a Sydney University engineering degree.
Flying membership of the new squadron
is complete—but there is still plenty of
room in the equipment, engineering and
radar flights.
Michael Auld, president of the Federal
Viticultural Council of Australia, was
acutely conscious on his Sydney visit of
the solid rain visible through the window
while Prior was sketching him. “No
rain,” bemoaned the vintner, “is the chief
worry down our way”—“our way” being
VINTNER FROM THE SOUTH.
the Auldana vineyards, marching in
ordered rows over the foothills above
Magil] (S.A.). Auldana was first planted
by Auld’s ancestors way back in 1842,
though now the present Auld has shifted
to the managing-directorship of H. M.
Martin, producers of the Stonyfell wines.
President of the F.V.C.A. since 1950,
Auld revealed the interesting and healthy
fact (particularly for vintners) that in
1939 Australian consumption of wine was
four-and-a-half-million gallons; now it’s
over 12 million.
Owner of the cheerful dial here
victimised by Gordon, George Nicklin
has been Queensland’s Opposition-leader
since 1941, As the jaw indicates, he’s not
afraid of fighting, and he did a lot of the
good, clean variety for the South Queens-
land fruit-men during his 11 years as
secretary of the Palmwoods Fruit
Growers’ Association. This earned him
his seat in Parliament, member for
Murrumba in 1932 ; he was still there
last year, when redistribution, and a
healthy majority of voters, gave him the
Landsborough seat. Re put in three and
a half years with the 49th Battalion, Ist
FIGHTER FROM THE NORTH.
A.1.F., returning with his commission
and M.M. So he needed only a brush-
up to qualify as an instructor to leaders
of V.D.C. units in the next scrap, and
drilled large numbers of the old and the
new in his home-town, Palmwoods, on
the Queensland coast. Cricket’s his
delight.
“Trinco”: Described by Churchill as
“that rare bird, the Socialist millionaire,”
Steven James Hardie—who, after War I,
with a few thousand pounds and a
soldier-cobber, bought a decrepit ship-
breaking business in Scotland and, up till
last week, was director of over 30' com-
panies—becomes the tsar of British steel,
chairman of the British Government’s
Iron and Steel Corporation, with nation-
alised assets approaching £230 million.
With the heavy strength of a prizefighter
in his face, the new emperor (a Socialist
of 1947 vintage) has a good war record
—commander of a 51st Highland Divi-
sion machine-gun battalion in the Kaiser’s
war, he went through France, Belgium
and Germany, coming out with D.S.O.
and three “mentions.” Born in Paisley,
Scotland, he’s 65.
“C. 8.”: Ernest Hutcheson, dead at 79
in New York, was another Melbourne
musical child prodigy who, like Percy
Grainger, made good as pianist and com-
poser. After a brilliant Melbourne debut,
Hutcheson was sent to Leipzig to study
piano and composition, and five years
later was giving recitals in Weimar. At
27 he gave a concert of his own works in
Berlin. Marrying a German baroness
before settling in the U.S., he became one
of the leading concert artists there and
was highly regarded for his orchestral
works, which figured a lot on American
programmes.
Doffing his mortar after half a century
of teaching, Gilbert Phillips, principal of
the Sydney Teachers’ College, is the maths
expert who, by his work on the Binet-
Simon scale for determining nippers’ in-
telligence, gave Glenfield (N.S.W.) Special
School a world reputation for advanced
methods. Taking over, Ivan Turner is
another maths specialist with an impres-
sive equation of initials after his name.
A Sydney University and Cambridge man,
who has taught at Columbia University,
New York, Turner is the author of a
small library of books on teacher-train-
ing and education.
Calling on his New Zealand home-town
(Timaru), R. R, Macintosh, Professor of
Anaesthetics at the Oxford Institute of
Medical Research, founded by Lord
Nuffield. There Macintosh developed the
revolutionary Oxford vaporiser, a very
compact and handy machine for giving
anaesthetics, much used in small ships of
the Commonwealth Navies in the late
war. Known internationally in his field,
the professor will attend the JB.M.A. con-
ference in Christchurch this month.
In a letter to The Bulletin from
Glasgow on the death of O. H. Mavor
(James Bridie), Dr. Alexander Glen tells
of the last hours of the well-known
Scottish playwright. Brother of a Sydney
solicitor, Glen was soldiering in Meso-
potamia with Bridie, was with him at
Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow, and re-
mained his medico after Bridie forsook
medicine for letters :
I had him under my care in the Victoria
Infirmary for three weeks, and he did quite
well. He went to North Berwick for a
holiday, and while there arranged to see
Learmonth [Sir James Learmonth, Professor
of Surgery at Edinburgh University, who
performed the operation on the King]
about a venous thrombosis in his leg.
Learmonth told him he was getting on
well, and Bridie left in his car. He had
gone a few yards when he became very
ill. Learmonth put him to bed in his
ward; he had taken a cerebral haemorrhage.
I was through and saw him twice. He was
his usual cheerful self, making jokes about
himself. He died, however, suddenly, a
week later, at 63. I never knew anyone
quite like Osborne Mavor. I never heard
him say an unkind word. He always saw
the good points in the most hopeless
people.
Bridie, who wrote a score of plays,
some of which were filmed, as well as
being broadcast by the 8.8. C. and A.B.C,
was with the R.A.M.C. in both World
Wars, and was for a time Professor of
Medicine at the Anderson College, Glas-
gow.
Another R.A.A.F. shuffle takes Group-
Captain R, H. Davis from London to
command of Richmond air-station
(N.S.W.). Davis’s squadron of Hudsons
were the first aircraft to get into holts
with the Japs in Malaya. He remained
there, p.-0.-w., for almost four years.
Robert Haines goes north to take
over the Queensland National Art
Gallery. Assistant-director of the Vic-
torian Gallery since 1947, he has just
come from a year’s trip through Europe,
full of ideas which an observant eye
culled from the galleries there. A Caul-
field Grammar and Melbourne ’Varsity
man, with four years in the War II
A.I.F. (Army education), he had a year
directing the big George’s Gallery in
Melbourne immediately after the war,
and at 38 is one of Australia’s youngest
National Gallery heads.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 74, E. Shadforth, who knew
the Gulf country as well as any nAn. His
first acquaintance with it was as a lad, when,
in the early 1880’s, he travelled overland with
his parents on the unimaginably tough haul
from Melbourne to the Gulf. Driving their
own cattle, the courageous family established
erne of the first homesteads there, Lilydale.
In London, at 58, Harry Perryman, a London-
born War 1 secretary to W. M. Hughes when
“Billy” was Prime Minister. Earlier Perryman
had been George Reid’s assistant at Australia
House, London.
At Kyneton (Vic.), at 82, Old Digger Geoffrey
Hurry, D. 5.0., who succeeded W. M. Hughes
as Federal member for Bendigo in 1922, staying
there seven years. Solicitor by trade, he left
for France in 1915, captain in the 38th Battalion.
He was its colonel at the cease-fire.
In Brisbane, Edgar Slaughter, who spent 55
of his 79 years in the Queensland Ambulance
Brigade. Joining in 1892, he rose to be
secretary, and finally head of the Brisbane
centre.
In Los Angeles (U.S.), at 73, Lloyd C.
Douglas, the ex-Congregationalist minister who,
after 30 years in the church, retired to put
his Biblical knowledge into some dozen books
and plays, among them Magnificent Obsession.
The Robe and, the latest, The Big Fisherman.
The man’s character is indicated by his listed
recreation—rheumatoid arthritis.
At 88, Patrick Joseph Connolly, snapping one
of the last links with the boom days of Gympie
(Q.) goldfield. One-time manager of the Aus-
tralian Joint Stock Bank, he was later secretary
of No. 2 South Great Eastern Gold Mining
Co. Brother Virgil, now 90, and living near
Brisbane, arrested Arthur Ross, armed mur-
derer, at gunpoint in 1908. Their father, John
Connolly, one of the first to open the
Gayndah pastoral district, reached 103.


a Duel of DRAGONS
by HENRY G. LAMUND
A SCUD of rain overnight
had sweetened the air.
made the world fresh and
soft ■ even the ground
underneath had a pleasant crisp-
ness on that hot morning of mid-
summer in Western Queens-
land. The leaves of the gidyea-
trees, rinsed and hung out to
dry, danced before the light
breeze ; the grass waved beckon-
ingly to far tussocks in the
distance; the heatwaves lay
sluggishly above the claypan,
too indolent in that easy air to
rise and dance.
That claypan, a month or
more previously, had been used
as a night-camp for a mob of
travelling cattle. Their clods,
baked to bricks, were dotted
about irregularly.
An old-man goanna rustled
through the grass which grew
to the edges of the claypan. He
paused a second before he came
into full view. He was old with
an age not given man to know.
He may, and it was quite pos-
sible, have been verging on the
century. Against that, he may
have been a comparative
youngster of a mere fifty years.
Known to scientists as the Laced
or Monitor Lizard (Varanus
vctrius), he was fully six feet
long, armored with a loose
skin, small - scaled, with a
muscled tail which was both a
scythe and a battering-ram in
action. He raised himself on his
four short legs, lifted his snake-
like head, sensed the air with his
forked tongue, which slid in and
out of its basal sheath. He was
brown, almost black in patches,
and ragged edges of transparent
skin showed he was in a process
of moult.
The goanna lifted himself
high, with his front feet off the
ground, and the pendulous
dewlap from his chin to his chest
swayed as he turned. He seemed
satisfied the coast was clear. He
hissed like steam escaping from
a leaky pipe; he dropped his
front feet to the ground, and he
waddled as he walked out on the
claypan. His belly hung low,
almost touching the earth ; his
tail swayed in synchronisation
with the action of his legs ; his
head swung from side to side,
his tongue continually tested the
air, and his glass-chips of eyes
glinted streaks of sunlight when
the rays struck them. He was
hungry —he was always hungry
—and he was fighting-fit.
It would be absurd to assume
that the goanna reasoned. An
animal gifted with instinct did
not need to reason. He knew
that the rain of the night would
soften the connecting bonds be-
tween those clods of manure and
bound ; he also knew the call
the earth to which they were
of moisture would bring insects
hiding under those clods to the
surface. He was going to have
an appetising titbit before begin-
ning the real business of the day
by hunting for heavier food.
THAT goanna was not the
only one who had heard or
felt the dinner-bell of the clay-
pan. A mob of crows were on
the far side of the heaps of
clods. Those black comedians in
feathers called their jokes aloud
as they foraged for food: they
put a stout beak under the
smaller clod; they levered,
turned those small heaps over,
pecked hurriedly at the insects
which scurried for shelter as
soon as they were exposed.
The goanna—and he was deep
enough in color to be called
Darky— went to his first clod,
too big to be within the powers
of the crows. A man, with his
superior reasoning-power, would
have considered the hand-like
paws of the goanna ideally fitted
to turn clods of manure—they
were strong enough, and suffi-
ciently armed, to tear the soft
belly-skin of a young kangaroo,
Darky did not reason: he acted
on instinct—he put his sharp-
pointed nose under one edge of
the clod ; he prised it forward ;
he levered as he lifted, and that
clod turned over. Without a
pause, and in continuation of
the one action, Darky darted
forward. He dabbed three times
with his mouth, and a beetle, a
Catherine-wheel grub and a
centipede had no time to escape,
That showed the beauty and
simplicity of Darky’s method of
turning—it left him in a posi-
tion for immediate attack. Had
he gripped the clod with his
paws, pulled it over towards
him, it would have meant a loss
of time, to drop his feet to the
ground and get his poise ; also,
it would have left the clod as a
barrier between himself and the
vermin which took the edge off
his appetite.
Darky ignored the crows;
they kept out of his way; he
turned half a dozen more clods,
and the fishing was good.
A GUST of wind sprang to
life. It turned itself into a
small whirlwind. It fizzed
erratically, spun in zigzags, came
spinning over the claypan to-
ward the goanna.
Darky lifted his head. That
wind had brought him a
message. Away over, a hundred
yards or more, a dead lamb lay
bloated and rotten in the grass.
A haze of green blowflies buzzed
above it; another goanna was
busy on the ground near that
body.
That goanna, about the same
size as Darky, lighter in color,
red enough to warrant the name
of Sandy, had not Darky’s
pendulous dewlap ; his skin did
not hang in pleats and folds like
that of the older goanna; but
his glass-chip eyes had the same
cold lack of expression. He
placed two front paws on the
lamb’s body, and the flies rose
in a cloud of protest. Sandy
gripped with his jaws; he
tugged, pressing against the pull
with his front feet; the leg of
the lamb slid out, came as one
would pull a sucking finger from
a sponge of dough. It was
green, putrid, oozing slime and
horrible. Sandy swallowed it
with relish, and the muscles of
his body and neck expanded and
contracted as that visible lump
travelled to his stomach.
Sandy half-reared to place his
paws on the body again. He
turned while those paws were in
the air and faced in the opposite
direction, and on the instant
from a feasting glutton became
a fighting fury: his body arched,
his tail swishing, his muscles
tensed and taut, his head sway-
ing, his tongue flickering and
steam hissing steadily from his
mouth.
Darky had run that scent up-
wind. There was no doubt he
knew another goanna was
already there: he came out of
the fringe of Mitchell-grass
ready to fight, cleared for action.
The two goannas circled each
other, their backs arched, bellies
held high, their four feet well
under them. Their tails swung
in blurred arcs of whipping
speed; heads low, ready to
strike; and those heads, held
almost at right-angles to the
body, pointed towards each
other all the time, as to a
common centre.
T HERE was a certain eti T ue , tte
1 about their preparation for
battle. Though each un-
doubtedly knew it had to light,
the formal challenge had to be
given ; the dare had to be
accepted. .
Sandy picked up a pebble m
his mouth, and his short rapiers
of teeth grated as they slid on
its surface. He tossed it aside.
Darky pecked at a stub of
twig. He fumbled that between
his teeth before he snicked his
head and tossed it away.
Sandy raked the ground; and
the miniature clouds he swept
behind him were almost opaque
in their volume. He stopped
abruptly in the middle of a
rake; he arched his belly
higher; he began to circle
again.
Each circle drew the goannas
nearer to each other.
There was a blur, a flash of
hurtling bodies in the air, and
the two warriors met. Each, in
the air, in the final flick of a
second and inch of space, swung
side-on and lashed with his tail
—blows which could bring a dog
up with a shock, knock a charg-
ing cat off its feet. Then, seem-
ingly using that tail as a pivot
on which to turn, each squirmed
in the air and faced the other.
They clinched, grappling-irons
out, held tight one to the other.
In the medley of that first mad
mixture it was impossible to
chronicle actions. They tore and
stabbed and wrestled ; they
raised flurries of dust as they
rolled over and over; they
buffeted with their tails, raked
with their claws, took hold with
teeth and locked their jaws.
Then, the froth taken from their
fury, they seemed to bounce
back from the other. They stood
apart and glared.
That, it seemed, was a pre-
liminary, just a trial of strength
and fighting-power. Each had
tested the other. It was patent,
by the exaggerated care with
which they began to circle, that
each had found a worthy
opponent.
Both goannas were pumping
great gulps of air to their lungs.
Their flanks worked with a
bellows action; their necks
swelled as hidden and huge
bubbles of air were swallowed.
They were dusty, dishevelled,
slightly distressed; but they
were game. Belligerency fairly
oozed from them ; hate sounded
in their hisses.
SANDY responded to some
hidden switch which
clicked in his brain: in the
middle of a step he changed
direction, swung with a jerk too
quick for the eye to see, sprang
in a long-drawn streak of brick-
colored light at his opponent.
That miracle of speed was met
by a greater marvel: Darky rose
to meet him. He swung his front
paw with the sweeping action of
an awkward boxer, and his tail
came round with a sizzling
speed which, had it landed
fairly, would have knocked
Sandy breathless to the ground.
It did not land fairly. That
glancing blow diverted Sandy’s
direct attack. He hit the ground,
reared on his hind feet as he
hit, clinched as Darky rushed
him.
The two fighters wrestled.
Each clasped his arms about the
other. Almost in the action of
kangaroos at war they pulled the
other in, striving to bend the
back, expose the soft under-
belly. They fell to the ground,
and the dust rose and hid them
as they tumbled over and over.
The wind picked up the dust
and swept it away ; the body of
the lamb crushed and dis :
rupted where the warnors had
fought over it; the blowflies
buzzed in the air, indignant a
the break in their meal. s
always, when death was in e
air > a P air cr<aws sat on t e
bough of a near tree and cawed
the lighters to greater efforts.
The two goannas, panting tor
air, stood upri g h t like
kangaroos. They were on their
hind feet, their tails used as
props, leaning against each
other. Each had his forearms
draped about the other; each
rested his long neck on the
shoulder of his opponent, wit
the vulnerable point, the thioat,
safely placed behind the back o
the other’s neck. It was a truce,
a spell between rounds, a perfect
smother and defence from
attack.
Sandy shuffled slightly,
brought his hind claws under
him, sent one tearing talon
raking at Darky’s belly.
Darky, it would seem, sensed
that action before it began: he
had his back arched, his belly
well tucked under him, and that
eviscerating stroke sliced only
the air.
Sandy struck at Darky’s neck
—withdrew his own head and
stabbed with a pecking motion
in one continuous action. His
teeth grated along Darky’s
scales, closed on a loose lap of
skin, and he hung there while
he shook and worried.
Darky bounded, squirmed in
the air and sent raking claws
scratching along Sandy’s ribs.
His tail came round in a blow
which shocked Sandy—knocked
the breath out of him, made him
open his mouth and gasp.
Darky sprang. He landed on
top of Sandy. He straddled him,
and, though the action was
lightning-fast, almost he seemed
to deliberate as he gripped the
back of Sandy’s neck. He
ripped with his claws, particu-
larly the hind talons, and rib-
bons of red appeared along
Sandy’s ribs. He worried, with
his teeth, and Sandy’s head was
pounded on the ground. He
shifted position a trifle, ap-
parently to get in a more favor-
able attitude.
Sandy, quick to sense his
opponent off balance, gave a
convulsive bound. He heaved
Darky over sideways, grappled
with him, scrambled free. Then
he scuttled away, his tail high,
his claws spattering pebbles
which he tossed behind him, and
the grass rustled as he brushed
through it.
DARKY watched him go. By
all rules of wild war he
should have chased his enemy.
There seemed to be something
of a gentlemanly agreement
about this respite —which could
not be termed a truce. Darky,
unaccountably, stood still.
Sandy raced away a matter
of about twenty yards or more.
He stood still. He spread his
legs wide. He lifted his tail
high. He arched his neck. He
heaved with great efforts. He
disgorged the putrid lamb he
had lately eaten. He spread that
disgusting meal in a scattered
heap. Then, relieved, he re-
turned to the fray.
Darky waited for him. Both
warriors had red streaks along
their ribs—scratches from which
slow blood oozed at deeper
places and formed dark drops.
They were both covered with
dust, begrimed and dishevelled.
They panted for air as their
flanks pumped. But each had
his back arched, his head high,
his tail sweeping, and each
tongue flickered as steam hissed
from their mouths. They were
tired, sore, wounded, distressed.
But each bead of an eye glinted
red as they began to circle.
Sandy feinted. This time, the
razor-edge taken from their
speed, actions could be more
clearly defined. It was notice-
able how each old man dropped
to his breast, how he held his
forearms well back. It was evi-
dent that another tender place,
apart from the belly, was also
the armpit.
Darky dropped in response to
Sandy’s feint. He struck up-
wards from that position. His
jaws closed on Sandy’s armpit.
Those goannas seemed to go
, mad. The trapped Sandy
= whirled in a dervish - dance.
Darky hung on to his grip. Dust
and fine gravel were spurned as
they spun; grass, chopped to
chaff beneath their warring
bodies, was tossed in the air, to
be caught by the wind and
whisked away ; the crows on the
trees cheered in encouragement
of the fighters. Sandy bounded,
to be jerked back like a charg-
ing dog on a chain ; Darky held
on grimly.
That pace could not be sus-
tained. Both goannas, flanks
heaving, lay still to recuperate.
Sandy was in a bad way. That
was evident.
Darky, to consolidate his hold,
moved over and lay parallel with
his opponent. He tried to inch
forward with his jaws, working
up to reach a vital spot.
As Sandy felt the other’s body
against his he lashed with his
tail. He struck a sweeping
blow which swept through the
air, took his antagonist fairly
along the ribs. He may have
felt Darky shake to the shock.
He repeated the dose. Again,
again and yet again he thudded
that battering-ram of a tail
against the body beside him. In
spite of the agony of the grip
which held him he seemed to
measure his distance, take his
stance, balance himself, put all
he had into those efforts.
Q ANDY shot forward like
— J released elastic. There was
no check in his action, no pre-
monition of his forward move.
One part of a second he was
held, struggling to free himself,
pounding with his tail, and in
the next wink of an eye he was
a shooting-star in the form of a
goanna fleeing for his life. He
raced through the grass, brush-
ing it aside, disdaining to turn.
His tail was arched over his
back. He favored one leg—the
one which Darky had gripped.
Occasionally, to ease it or to
gain added pace, he reared and
raced on his two back legs
alone, assuming the pose of a
biped. But he certainly w-e-n-t!
Darky started in pursuit. He
chased Sandy to the edge of the
claypan. He stood there, halt
his body free of the grass, his
head raised, his forked tongue
flickering, and he watched Sandy
speed across the bare claypan,
scattering clods of manure, dis-
turbing crows and ground-teed-
ing birds.
Then he returned to the scene
of the battle.
Darky did not reconstruct the
fight; he did not worry about
the tracks on the ground. He
was a goanna ; he was hungry.
He may have been tired. Sleep
could come later: his inner
needs demanded first attention.
He sensed the air with his
tongue ; he analysed the scents.
There was food there in
plenty, enough even to take the
edge off his huge appetite. The
mess Sandy had voided was all
good food for him ; the scat-
tered portions of the putrid
lamb were just the stuff his
system craved. Crows were
already busy on that. they
could be hunted before they took
too much. As for the swarms
of flies —they could look alter
themselves: if they did not get
out of the way they, too, couia
go with the lamb down mto
Darky’s stomach,


fg
01S
;'- r -
ii/RM
M?<
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Qua/etfp
snc/nnJbetfact&e
spwx}§
suopio q
>:
iiir-r
V (
Midnight in Fiji
noon in L
noon in London
the BP Aviation Service gives unfailingly efficient
service. At airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney, the BP green and
yellow symbol stands for speed and reliability. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are
amongst the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
X AVIA
SERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Address “AIRBEPEE’’MELB.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SPEECH BY DULLES.
In a notable speech he made
before leaving America on his
mission to Japan, Australia and
N.Z., John Foster Dulles gave
Russia’s “internal vulnerability”
as one of the important assets
capable of being developed into
the deterrents of a general war
of Russian origin. “If the Soviet
Union itself decides on open
aggressive war there is only one
effective defence,” he said. “That
is the capacity to counter-attack.
That is the ultimate deterrent.”
Of the huge population of the
Soviet Union, he pointed out,
only about 6,000,000, or 3
per cent., are members of the
ruling Communist party. “The
political prisoners number twice
the total membership of the
party. The party itself is shot
through with distrust and sus-
picion, and there are periodic
purges as between party factions.
No one, even in high authority,
feels personally safe.
“In the case of the satellite
countries the situation is even
more precarious. For example,
there is much unrest on the
China mainland, and in Poland
and Czechoslovakia the people
are forced to accept officials of
Russian nationality because no
trustworthy persons can be found
at home.
“When a few men rule
despotically eight hundred mil-
lion that is bound to be a vul-
nerable position. Many of the
eight hundred million are sure
to be sullen, resentful and eager
for change. Most of the others
will have been so beaten into
submissiveness by the harsh dis-
cipline of the police State that
they have lost all sense of per-
sonal responsibility and could
not respond to the needs which
war disruptions would impose.
“War can be very unkind to
rulers who are despots and who
have systematically destroyed
the individual initiatives of their
peoples.
“When it comes to straight
military strategy the free world
seems, momentarily, in a mood
of some confusion and without
any agreed deterrent programme.
The Soviet Union has interior
lines. It has concentrated men,
tanks, artillery and strategic and
tactical aircraft around the hub
of the great circle of its control.
From within this vast orbit a
single will can, in secrecy, plot
and act to strike any one of
many nations with overwhelm-
ing force.
“It is not practicable to build
up, in each one of the more than
twenty nations making up this
vast frontier of about twenty
thousand miles, static defensive
forces which could make each
nation impregnable to a major
and unpredictable assault by the
Red armies of Russia. To
attempt this would be to have
strength nowhere and bank-
ruptcy everywhere. That, how-
ever, does not mean that we
should abandon the whole idea
of collective security, and build
our [U.S.] defence area with the
help of such other countries as
we might pick because of their
capacity to be useful to us.
“There are, I think, flaws in
that thesis. Any nation which
at a moment of supreme danger
sheds those of its allies who are
most endangered and to whom it
is bound by solemn treaty, by
common heritage and by fellow-
ship in war and peace is scarcely
in a position thereafter to do
much picking and choosing for
its own account. It elects a
dangerous course, for solitary
defence is never impregnable.
“It is possible to plan, on
paper, and describe in words,
what it seems should be an im-
pregnable defence, a China Wall,
a Maginot Line, a Rock of
Gibraltar, an Atlantic and Pacific
moat. But the mood that plans
such a defence carries within it-
self the seeds of its own col-
lapse. A defence that accepts
encirclement quickly decom-
poses. That has been proved a
thousand times.
“Against such military power
as the Soviet Union can marshal,
collective security depends on
capacity to counter-attack against
the aggressor. We have our
strategic Air Force, a stock of
weapons, naval power and
potential strength on the ground.
Much more of all of this needs
now to be brought into being.
The arsenal of retaliation should
include all forms of counter-
attack with maximum flexibility,
mobility and the possibility of
surprise. The places of assembly
should be chosen, not as places
to defend but as places suitable
for launching the means of de-
stroying the forces of aggression,
“The United Nations, if it
shows that it has the requisite
moral courage, should be given
the right to determine the fact
of aggression, so as to ensure
the Charter goal of armed forces
London “Daily Express.”
“Confound this shadow! It spoits the view of the
fire in the Far East.”
not being used save in the com-
mon interest. We face a period
that is bound to be one of grave
anxiety. But so long as the die
has not been irrevocably cast for
war we must assume that
righteous peace may yet be pos-
sible, and we must work with
all the power that lies within us
to achieve that peace.”
“Attack Can Be Held.”
in Britain and Continental
Europe, as well as in the U.S.,
Mr. Truman’s expositions of
U.S. European policy have been
warmly acclaimed, the fol-
lowing London “Daily Tele-
graph” comment on one of his
speeches being widely typical:
“Above all, Mr. Truman’s
pledges give a final death-blow to
the defeatist belief, wherever it
may still linger, that Western
Europe could not be defended
against the first onslaught of
Communist aggression.
“There now remains no doubt
at all that the strategy of the
Atlantic Alliance is founded
upon the conviction that such an
attack can and will be held.
The stimulus to the morale of
all free European peoples—not
least to that of Germany—can-
not be overestimated. They now
have assurance that they will be
defended from attack, not
merely liberated after conquest.”
Japan—An Ally?
Unpalatable as the notion may
be, to Australians particularly,
a peace treaty amounting
virtually to a military alliance
with Japan is almost inevitable,
and is being hastened by the
Korean situation. As pointed
out by London “Daily Mail”
Far Eastern correspondent G.
Ward Price;
“The peace treaty which is to
be negotiated will be of a much
more indulgent character than if
the Korean emergency had not
arisen. Only five years after her
unconditional surrender Japan
will be treated on a basis of
virtual equality. To the United
States and the nations under
American leadership she has
immense importance by reason
of her military potentiality.”
Of Japa'n’s immediate
potentiality as an active militafy
ally. Ward Price says: “If the
present situation develops into a
full-scale war with China the
United States may look else-
where for its resources in in-
fantry. In Japan no military
organisation exists, but it would
be possible to utilise and expand
the 75,000-strong police reserves
enrolled when the Army of Oc-
cupation was transferred to
Korea, who have since been
receiving semi-military train-
ing.”
Finally, taking the more long-
range view, the “Daily Mail”
man indicates the sheer cold
facts which apparently must rule
in near-future dealings with
Japan;—
“This warlike nation of over
80,000,000, with its vast in-
dustrial machine, stands at the
gateway of the Russo-Chinese
alliance that is aiming at world
conquest.
“The best estimate of the con-
tribution that Japan can make
to the United Nations Organisa-
tion, in which the peace treaty
will almost certainly enrol her,
can be reached by reflecting
what would happen if she were
to ally herself with the other
side. In combination with
Russia’s supply of raw materials
and China’s inexhaustible re-
sources of manpower, Japan’s
trained leadership and technical
skill would make the opposing
forces invincible.”
For what any such view
based on present appearances
may be worth, the correspondent
believes that “a new generation
is growing up in Japan whose
inclinations are towards the
American and European way of
life,” and, believing this, he
concludes:
“If we can secure that coun-
try as a barrier the free nations
of the world will be strong
enough to hold back the Com-
munist flood that now threatens
to overflow the Far East from
the vast reservoir of China.”
Uncle Sam and U.N.O.
Noting, in Britain, “a disturb-
ing revival of suspicions of
American policy” and a renewal
of “the old arguments against
the Korean war,” “Manchester
Guardian” answers some of the
fuzzy notions:
“The basic charge is that the
United Nations is simply
America in disguise; the alleged
action in defence of collective
security is really the defence of
America’s sphere of imperial
interest.
“Is this true? What has
America to get out of Korea?
“The answer is; Nothing. If
America had consulted its
strategic interests it would have
kept clear of involvement in
Korea. The American Army
had decided this before last
June. It was to vindicate the
principle of collective security
that President Truman reversed
this decision.
“Some of the complaints made
against America today come
from those who were silent when
the operation was going better.
The people who have the best
title to criticise are those who
from the start have been scepti-
cal about the whole machinery
of the United Nations for main-
taining peace, as formerly they
were sceptical about the League
of Nations. They say that a
system of collective security is
impossible when the world is
divided into two camps of fairly
equal power.
“Perhaps the United Nations’
procedure in Korea may end in
humiliation. But the experience
two decades ago in the Man-
churian and Abyssinian crises
showed that the rival methods
of the old diplomacy did not
give very satisfactory results.”


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work.
; •:
i -
1W
dfg
40z., Boz., 16dz., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
GALA OPENING—FRIDAY, I6ih MARCH
with Special Ring Events, DAY and NIGHT,
including Trotting
Come to the Royal Easter
Showl Enjoy 10 event-
packed days and 8 brilliant
nights. See the cattle-judg-
ing, wood - chopping,
primary and secondary in-
dustry exhibits and the
wealth of other events
which combine to make the
Royal Easter Show the
greatest single attraction in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Don’t miss this, the 1951
‘‘Jubilee Year” Show, at
the Showground, SYDNEY,
Friday, 16 th March, to
27th March, 1951.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
(G. C. Somerville, Secretary)
IEYE lotion
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose&Co.Pty.Ltd.KlnaBt.Sydngy
m
(T) Ccdiom’s
Scots Cilhisky
3
(ftlplUßqH ['OwiXbUfllJUtW*
The norne
••••
i.. a s«
The » s
S SSSSS =SS::;^3
“Trifles make perfection ...
but perfection is no trifle
lilllllllllll
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Lambs in Queensland.
“Agric”: The shortage of
wire-netting is retarding fat-
lamb production in coastal
Queensland.
Coastal Q. was long re-
garded as unfit for sheep,
though they originally helped
in the opening-up of the country.
Merinos were unsuitable, and
were replaced by Suffolks and
Lincolns, which in turn gave
way to Romney Marsh, Border
Leicesters and Corriedales. The
Romney Marsh-Border Leicester
cross now seems likely to restore
lamb-raising on the coastal
slopes.
Beaudesert lambs were suc-
cessful in the recent Australian
Meat Board carcass competi-
tion, and this drew attention to
the practicability of lamb-rais-
ing. The new insecticides have
reduced losses from worms and
flies, but losses from dingo
attacks make the dog-netting of
properties essential, and, if
netting is not available, and at
a reasonable price, yarding sheep
every night would make the in-
dustry uneconomic.
A number of western graziers
have purchased farm properties
on the coast, where they live in
semi-retirement, and these and
other farmers are anxious to de-
velop fat-lamb production.
A conservative estimate places
the value of a ewe today at £5
per annum —£3 for her lamb and
£2 for her wool. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock
has acknowledged the possibili-
ties of the new industry by
appointing an officer to super-
vise it full-time and by extend-
ing its subsidy scheme to in-
clude the purchase of Corriedale
and British-breed sires for use
in flocks from which two-thirds
of the annual production is
marketed for slaughter.
Departmental officers recom-
mend that sheep be run in con-
junction with the dairy herd, fol-
lowing the milkers through on
their rotation, to utilise any feed
left and to keep down weeds
and rubbish.
Wheat as Dairy Food.
“A-Jay”: With reasonable
precautions wheat is a safe feed
for dairy cows. The more com-
mon ill-effects are loss of appetite
and, in more severe cases, indi-
gestion.
There is great variation in the
susceptibility of cows to upsets
of this kind, some being unable
to take more than 41b. to 61b.
of wheat a day. Cows fed en-
tirely on chaff and concentrates
appear to tolerate less wheat
than those grazing on good pas-
tures and receiving plenty of
hay. Heavy-milking cows with
a good appetite can generally
eat more wheat than low pro-
ducers.
When wheat is first used it
should be introduced gradually,
noting the reaction of each cow.
Where cows are on good pas-
ture no protein supplement
need be provided. To counter-
act the deficiency of calcium in
wheat, 11b. or 21b. of ground
limestone should be mixed with
every 1001 b. of crushed wheat.
Wheat should be ground to a
fairly fine gritty texture before
it is fed to cattle or horses. For
sheep, pigs and poultry use
whole grain. Mix ground wheat
with some concentrate of a more
open texture or with chaff, and
add an appropriate amount of
protein supplement.
Linseed in Victoria.
“C.A.A.”; It is finding in-
creasing favor, particularly in
the heavier-rainfall areas of
western Victoria and the south-
east of South Australia. Culti-
vation calls for only a medium
depth of ploughing (4in. to
sin.), but it is important to get
a crumbly tilth. Applications of
super, vary between lewt. and
3cwt. an acre, and the crop does
best on soils which have been
limed well during the period in
pasture.
Generally better returns are
obtained from land which has
been pasture-improved. Drill
301 b. to 401 b. of seed on lighter
land and 501 b. to 701 b. on
heavier soils, to a depth of lin.
Direct heading is the usual har-
vesting method in hot, dry
weather. Cutting by a binder
and threshing later is more satis-
factory in poor weather.
Show Poultry.
“Whit”: Preparation should
begin about seven weeks before
the Show. Select the best birds
and confine them in separate
pens and coops.
They should be laway from
other birds, to minimise the pos-
sibility of fretting, living in a
dry, sunny corner where there
are no draughts. Roof each pen
to protect the birds from direct
sunlight. Otherwise the back
and neck feathers, particularly of
the colored breeds and the buffs,
will fade. Coops should be
smooth inside, with a layer of
cut straw or chaff on the bottom.
Make sure there are no sharp
projections on which the birds
might injure themselves.
For the first week or so of
confinement the birds will go off
in condition, but after that they
should pick up. Feed mash and
grain, including a little bread
and milk, for a fortnight, adding
a pinch of Epsom salts to the
drinking water each day, then
gradually wean them from mash
to grain only. Handle fre-
quently but carefully to elimin-
ate fear.
After four or five weeks each
bird should be sturdy in condi-
tion and should handle quietly.
For the last week confine all
birds to the coops.
Four or five days before the
Show examine the birds and if
their feathers are marked or
soiled they will have to be bathed
in a solution of warm soapy
water, using about one cake to
eight gallons.
To bath a bird, plunge it
once completely in the soapy
water, then allow it to soak, hold-
ing its head out with one hand,
for about 10 to 15 minutes. The
water can be worked under the
feathers with the fingers. After
it has been properly soaked, take
the bird out and rinse it in a
bath of lukewarm water. When
all soap has been removed rinse
it in water through which the
blue-bag has been swished just
sufficiently to color it. This will
add lustre to the plumage of
both black and white birds.
To dry, press as much water
out of the feathers as possible,
then dry with a soft towel. It
is important that the feathers be
rubbed in the right direction or
the quills will snap. When
drying the comb and wattles,
don’t rub, but dab with the
towel.
The day before the Show,
apply a little olive-oil on the
comb, wattles, legs and feet of
birds to brighten their color and
give them a healthy appearance.
"You'd better start bailing or We'll NEVER get home!"
Spray-irrigation.
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Spray-irrigation
uses only one-third of the water
required for the furrow system,
it moistens the soil evenly to a
depth of two to three feet in-
stead of saturating it as furrow-
watering does, there is no salt
seepage problem and no need to
grade the land, since piped water
can be carried up and down hill.
The pipelines can be buried deep
enough to be out of reach of
cultivating implements, or can
be carried on posts high enough
to permit implements to pass
beneath.
Of several types of sprays one
which impressed me is used by
Allen Watkins, of Paringa (S.A.).
On top of a standpipe there are
two arms, each 25ft. long,
carrying six sprays. The spray
nozzles are ingenious. The
main stream of the jet emerges
from a 3-16 in. hole as a rod of
water. Alongside it a small bent
tube directs another stream of
water to strike the main jet at
an acute angle about Ift. from
the nozzle. This touching of
the two jets is sufficient to break
the stream into that fine mist
which is the whole secret of suc-
cess with spray irrigation; the
idea is foolproof, as there is
nothing to get out of order.
Central bearing is a brass
bushing inside a brass collar;
water pressure causes the bushing
to lift, so that it revolves on a
cushion of water, reducing wear
to the minimum. The two outer
jets are slightly off-set, causing
the arms to rotate very slowly.
Each sprinkler distributes a
shower of fine drops of water
over a circle 150 ft. in diameter,
so that four of them will cover
more than an acre of land and
in eight hours apply the equiva-
lent of 2in. of rain to the soil.
It is, in effect, artificial rain,
and trees and vegetable and
fodder crops respond to it. It
is a labor-saving device; once
the sprays have been installed,
watering is merely a matter of
opening the valves and letting
the sprays run.
Extension does not involve
laying miles of irrigation
channels, installation of central
pumping plants and extensive
grading of land. Wherever there
is sufficient good soil reasonably
close to water-supply in areas of
10 or more acres, even if the
water has to be lifted 200 ft., a
pumping plant can be installed
and an irrigated holding estab-
lished. There is little doubt that
these sprays will make it pos-
sible to graze sheep on irrigated
pastures.
Spray-irrigation is one way to
solve the problem of providing
farms for ex-servicemen, and it
can bring a huge area of riparian
land into production. The only
thing holding up its widespread
adoption is shortage of piping.
No Co-operation.
“Rus”: State Departments of
Agriculture spend a lot of time
trying to get farmers to produce
better export bacon. Improved
types of pigs are recommended
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The sun showed what may be the onset of a fresh
spurt of sunspot activity, but on February 11 no observation
was possible. This was due to a marked cirrus veil which
frequently precedes disturbed weather and rain, and accord-
ing to the main cycle the rain began on 14th with a pause
in a few days, and the main heavy general rains develop-
ing about 20th. Under the Uranian cycle, which now seems
likely to be dominant, the initial rain was about the same
time but not so heavy, while the main rain after the 20th was
much heavier and also general, though the recorded details
do not cover the west 'of New South Wales at all. The
rain in the Tropic has begun, as was formerly advised, and
is likely to continue till April, whilst the March rains may
have the delayed January rains in the Cape York areas and
Cooktown added to them.
There should be some late February rains in the
southern States and in southern Western Australia, but north
of Geraldlon there are no records.


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
HYGEIA DISSOLVEMfITOn
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system .l
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 32 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
df
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
"Phenovli” Worm Remedy
Ml ichins time »
£o* me!
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
'////
y/.
/
ft'a
/
//
m
Phenothiazine Drench
gd
fg
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
•A
m
%
r
r
i m
/
..£lBO
sa o eS
ectf
t (jfrommoTtsetm Wmh of^ nsf
■ pAYTO EVERYLANEANDK.Z‘Tr A
the SUM OF 180 POUNDS (TAX FREE
THE
m
TOO,
could save flso every year
by operating a “BULLDOG"CRUDE OIL TRACTOR
Instead of your present KEROSENE TRACTOR!
HERE’S HOW YOU CAN DO IT:
• SAVE ON FUEL COSTS
Save 7d. on every gallon of fuel by operating a
BULLDOG.
• SAVE ON FUEL CONSUMPTION
BULLDOGS use only three-quarters the amount
of fuel to do the same work as Kero tractors.
® SAVE ON ACREAGE COSTS
BULLDOG Crude Oil Tractors cut Kero tractor
operating costs per acre in half.
• SAVE £llO A YEAR
on fuel costs alone with a BULLDOG!
9 SAVE £2O ON MAINTENANCE
with BULLDOG’S fewer moving, more robust parts
and resultant minimized wear and repair,
9 SAVE £5O ON DEPRECIATION
with BULLDOG’S fundamental sim-
plicity, which guarantees longer life
and eventual higher resale value.
Kl
iv
UlM
bulldog
Ciuuk 6U tuotom
Get more fads from your State Distributor:
K.L. TRACTOR SALES PTY. LTD., 304-314 Spencer St.,
Melbourne.
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD., 10-14 Young St.,
Sydney.
K.L. TRACTOR SALES PTY. LTD., 121 Brunswick St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LIMITED, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide.
KELLY & LEWIS (W.A.) PTY. LTD., 349 William St., Perth.
K.L. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
>vS
and scientific methods of feeding
are publicised, but bacon factories
don’t seem to care. One has
only to look at any two sides
of bacon to make a comparison,
and to see the poor stuff being
turned into bacon.
Outers will buy anything as
long as it has a curly tail and
grunts. One firm, in Victoria,
which buys on the farm, will
take any pig of bacon weight,
fat or in store condition, and
turn it into bacon for export.
Other firms complain of overfat
pigs, but sell them cured just
the same. Quite a lot of rashers
are only 5 p.c, meat, but sell
for the same price as rashers
from a good baconer. Why do
the processors talk about losses
when the remedy is in their
hands?
A Skin Irritant.
“Sam”: Use care with sprays
containing D.D.T., which, if it
touches the skin of some per-
sons, means dermatitis.
It may be a month or longer
before symptoms develop. The
affected part must be kept dry,
and should the fluid from the
small sacs get on another part
that will become affected.
I know —I had it for two
years. Several methods were
tried without much result, but
the following cured in a short
period; On parts subject to
perspiration and covered by
underclothes, after ensuring part
is dry, very liberal applications
of Friar’s Balsam ; time of cure,
ten days. On forehead, eyelids
and hands frequent applications
of methylated spirits; time to
cure, seven days.
Treatment for legs and feet was
to rub off tops of blisters with
cotton-wool saturated with un-
diluted peroxide of hydrogen,
dab on some with cotton-wool
four or five times, removing
froth with cotton-wool, then two
applications of methylated
spirit, and when dry paint
liberally with Sayer’s or Friar’s
Balsam. Wait until itch re-
appears, about three days, and
repeat. (Three treatments prac-
tically cured. A drastic remedy,
when over 50 p.c. of leg gave
froth, but worth it.)
No return of complaint for
past two years, though informed
I would get it every summer.
Parts must be kept dry during
treatment, but if washing is
necessary immediately apply
methylated spirit.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: When planting out
* rees an Y put them in
rather deeper th,an they were
wn | n nursery. It’s
alwa Y s bes t to la y the longest
and strongest roots in the direc-
t >° n i , from wh ‘ cb Ptevailmg
Wlnds Th,s B lve t s the trees
a ™ ucb better support.
A-Jay”: Cut the tusks oft
boars when they are a year old.
is not a difficult job and may
be done with bolt-cutters. Hold
the boar by placing a rope noose
we |l back over the upper jaw and
P ullm S sbor t up to a firm post,
“Waverly”: February is a
good month for planting winter
and spring leaf-vegetables in all
districts. Since plant seedlings
may have to be transplanted in
hot weather, extra care is needed
in preparing the soil. Dig in
ample quantities of rotted
manure or compost before plant-
ing, turning under to a depth of
at least 4in. Supplement with
5-1-1 superphosphate, ammonia
and potash, using the narrow-
band method of application each
side of rows.
“C.A.A.”: Snails may be
stopped with a bait of 11b. of
calcium arsenate in 161 b. of
bran. In citrus areas choppe
orange pulp makes the bait
more attractive,
“Taswegian”; Support the
green peas TTie P° ds « Ul b =
cleaner and will not rot from
contac * ™ th , F°“ nd >
vatton will be easier and pods
maturing in advance of the mam
crop will be readily seen and
should be picked—it they are
left to dry they will tend to stop
the vine producing. Don t use
plain sticks , give the en n s
something they can grip readily
rough brush, or twiggy
branches.
“Billjim” : White-scours in
calves may be overcome by
diluting their milk with 10 to
15 per cent, of water, or feeding
it slowly through a rubber teat,
thereby increasing the time to
consume it and the amount of
saliva created. The latter
method eliminates the desire to
suck other calves’ ears and tails,


xm
m
A
m
A
i
That indefinable gift ,
which guides people of taste
and leads one instinctively to
select perfection, will ensure the
choice of Benson & Hedges as
the cigarettes for all occasions
when only the best will do.
m
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KINO
dfg
In
tins of 20
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES 3/3
Bensonmd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
—
m
I’m proud
of my
Aladdm home
Aladdin makes city comforts
easily available for country
homes. Decide now to
"Aladdin-ise" your home with
these efficient, easy-to-use
Aladdin products.
GOOD
LIGHTING
Immediate,
bright,
steady 75
e.p. light without
pumping. No
smoke or fumes!
Aladdin Lamps
ndd beauty as
well as comfort —
and are the
simplest of all
lamps to operate.
Have an Aladdin
non-pressure
kerosene mantle lamp In every
room —full range is now
available.
GOOD COOKING
dfg
df
All the convenience
of a gas or electric
stove! The Aladdin
pressure - kerosene
elevated oven
range has 5 burners, adjustable
to any heat required. Ideal for
pressure cooking. Oven cooks
to perfection. Simple and safe
to operate.
PORTABLE 2-BURNER
For home or general outdoor use,
this pressure-kerosene stove give?
ready, heat where it’s needed.
Flame is adjustable to any heat;
metal carrying case (optional)
serves as windshield for outdoor
cooking.
gdf
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Floods a larga
area with brilliant
light. 300 candle
power pressure-
kerosene lantern
is built for years
of rugged service.
Adjustable down
or side reflectors available.
There are authorised Aladdin dis-
tributors In all cities, suburbs and
country towns throughout the
Commonwealth.
Aladdin
KEROSENEAP?LI RBCtS
ALADDIN IN DUST RIFS Pty.ltd
BOURKE ST. WATERLOO NS W.
63/141.12
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Glancing through the mass of facts
and figures representing the results
of past Oakleigh Plates two con-
stantly recurring items stand out.
They are the complete predominance
of four-year-olds among Oakleigh
winners and the frequency with which
the race has been won by horses
carrying a solid share of weight.
This pattern was set right from the
start by the first Oakleigh winner
Malua. When Malua won in 1884
he was a four-year-old, and he
carried 9.7. At Caulfield on Saturday
the 69th Oakleigh Plate winner turned
up in Regal Scout, a four-year-old
and heading the weights with 9.5. In
all, 32 Oakleigh winners, including
seven of the last nine, have been four-
year-olds ; and 15 winners have carted
burdens ranging from 9.1 up to the
10.5 with which Woorak scored in
1917.
Racegoers, who departed for the
course in a particularly unpleasant
muggy heat, had their discomfort
topped-off when the moisture-laden
atmosphere dissolved into rain shortly
after the first race. Three two-year-
old events which opened the card
were each clipped out in a fraction
over the even minute, but by the
time the Oakleigh came round the
track was more than a mite soggy
and pretty thoroughly cut-up.
It was a wide-open field that lined
up for the main event. The £2OOO
Plate attracted 24 runners, and, at
various stages of the betting, it was
possible to get tens about any of
them. However, as the chips poured
in for him, Winlake emerged as a
clearcut favorite, starting eventually
at fives, while it was 10-1 bar him.
As usual, the first half of the race
was simply a mad stampede as a
bevy of top-class speedsters fought
for advantageous position, but,
coming to the turn, Winlake had
reached the front, and as he kicked
away from them in the straight it
looked as though the plunge for
him was going to pay-off handsomely.
At that stage Regal Scout’s most
ardent admirers could scarcely have
given him The Bolter’s chance of even
getting a place, let alone winning.
He was well back in the field, and
ahead of him, with such a short dis-
tance to go, were some of the
speediest gallopers in training. Regal
Scout, however, unleashing a mighty
burst over ihe final 100 yards, fairly
mowed down the opposition, and
actually beat Winlake quite com-
fortably. Third money went to Our
Title, a son of High Title, who won
the Oakleigh in 1942.
For a horse to win over the Si-
furlongs Oakleigh Plate journey at
Caulfield alter conceding real speed-
sters so much start as Regal Scout
did from the home turn would be a
creditable effort in any circumstances.
To do so with 9.5 on a badly cut-up
track and to clock 1.6 i for the dis-
tance was a more-than-top-class per-
formance.
Regal Scout is a bay horse by
Kinderscout from a beautifully-bred
mare named Gold Chick. Gold Chick
is by Windbag from Chickling, a
daughter of Spearhead (by Spearmint,
by Carbine). Trained by E. H.
Nichols, and ridden on Saturday by
the trainer’s son George Nichols,
Regal Scout is owned by P. E. Col-
lins, who has had remarkable luck
with the comparatively few horses he
has owned. Collins now appears to
hold a strong hand in the New-
market, with both Regal Scout and
the early favorite Flying Halo carry-
ing his colors, but possibly the handi-
capper has the measure of both good
horses. Originally on the 9.4 mark,
Regal Scout has now been bumped
up to 9.12 for the Newmarket. Flying
Halo, who originally received 8.9 for
the Newmarket, stopped a 31b. penalty
a couple of weeks back, and so now
has 8.12, which is 41b. over weight-
for-age, and a pretty solid task to
set a three-year-old.
Incidentally, surely the penalty
clauses attached to most major handi-
caps are r*»out due for an overhaul.
It is difficult to see how a handi-
capper, after assessing a horse to
within one pound on the strength of
all its performances over a couple of
seasons or more, can feel justified in
altering his assessment by as much
as eight or 10 pounds on the strength
of one subsequent win.
In contrast to the big Oakleigh
field only six runners lined up for
the £l5OO St. George Stakes. How-
ever, the prospect of trying to beat
Comic Court in his present devastat-
ing form at weight-for-age is one
that might well discourage owners of
lesser lights. As it happened, those
who laid 3 to 1 on Comic Court,
and doubtless regarded such an in-
vestment as being simply a matter of
“picking it up,” had a most unplea-
sant few minutes before they col-
lected. When Gorhic Court strode
to the front half-a-mile from home
he seemed well set for an easy win.
At the furlong peg, however, he was
tackled most determinedly by Iron
Duke, and, in a desperate struggle to
the line, it was only Comic Court’s
grand fighting heart that saw him the
winner by the narrowest of margins.
Making a return to racing after a
12-months’ absence and a season at
stud, Carbon Copy finished a
moderate third. It was surprising to
learn that stewards opened and ad-
journed an inquiry into his run.
How Carbon Copy will fare in
his attempted comeback remains to
be seen, and could scarcely be pre-
dicted on Saturday’s run, but cer-
tainly his two-year-old half-sister
Lady Havers appears to have a bright
future. Making her record three in
a row. Lady Havers comfortably
downed the crack Sydney filly Sun-
shine Express in the first Yarralumla
Stakes for two-year-old fillies. Lady
Havers, incidentally, was ridden by
the very promising apprentice R.
Irons, who has now ridden one
winner per day for eight successive
Saturdays—a record which most of
the senior hoops would be only too
pleased to have to their credit.
* * * *
A couple of successful favorites
contributed their small measure to
easing the punters’ sorry lot at
Canterbury on Saturday, but results
generally were such that any bookie
who was not sporting an ear-to-ear
grin at the end of the day could only
plead toothache.
Both winning favorites were three-
year-old sons of imported Midstream,
whose progeny have not been having
quite their usual success this season.
Ridden by McGrowdie, Bankstream,
a brown colt out of the Magpie mare
High Class, ran race-record time of
to win the Frank Underwood
Cup over 11 furlongs. Boatman (R.
Binder), who is by Midstream from
Passage, started at odds-on, and won
the 9-furlongs Burwood Mixed by
lengths.
The Flying Handicap (7|f.) gave
the books one of their best results
of the day when the Newcastle
galloper Val Bowl (R. Selkrig), who
started at 14 to 1, downed the hot
favorite Buzmark by a length or so.
Although he has won like a cham-
pion on occasions, Buzmark seems,
in general, to be a pretty faint-hearted
customer. Other Canterbury winners
were Blue Law (G. Frankland) and
Winmil (R. Selkrig), who won divi-
sions of a Three- and Four-year-old
Maiden; Priscilla (B. Faggotter), who
accounted for other fillies and mares
in the Punchbowl Mixed (7*1.); and
Cymbidium (J. Thompson), who took
the Two-year-old. An aptly-named
daughter of MacArthur Bronze
Orchid, Cymbidium looks a particu-
larly promising type, and with two
wins to her credit from three starts
she has already shown a fair return
on the 850 guineas she cost as a
yearling.
* * * •
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Encourage: High
Law, 1; Smuggler’s Hoard, 2;
Muffles, 3. Three-year-old Quality:
Tapoaki, 1; Aristocrat, 2; Careless,
3. Nursery: Lloric, 1; Solrex, 2;
Channel Patrol, 3. Encourage : Can-
ning Downs, 1; Fresteem, 2; Try
Again, 3. Denham Court Handicap:
Denali, 1; Donegal, 2; Field Boy,
3. Warwick Handicap: Lordly, 1;
Admetus, 2; Yamboon, 3. Edensor
Park Handicap: Fireship, 1; Grand
Monarch, 2; Marine Victory, 3.
For the Futurity Stakes: Iron
Duke, 1; Chicquita, 2; Regal Scout,
3.
# * * *
Principal cricket items in progress
at the weekend were two Sheffield
Shield matches, the outcome of which
was to determine the destination ot
the Shield for this season. In Sydney
it was N.S.W. v. S.A., and in Mel-
bourne, Vic. v. W.A.
Rain, which washed out play in
the Melbourne match on Saturday
afternoon, decreased Victoria’s chance
of scoring the outright win they par-
ticularly needed. Westralia scraped
up a modest-enough first-innings
score of 126, but when the rain
intervened the Victorians were doing
not a great deal better, with eight
down for 182.
Scoring in the Sydney match was
on a somewhat higher plane. N.S.W.
skipper Morris won the toss and,
surprisingly, sent the South Aus-
tralians in to bat first on a perfect
wicket. His gamble, or whatever
one might term it, came off, as the
visitors were bundled out for a total
of 207. The ’Walers, in reply, had
lost seven for 358 at stumps on
Saturday, Miller contributing a handy
122.
Rain also interfered on Saturday
with the two-day match M.C.C. v.
Victorian Country at Geelong, but
this match had by that time been
already reduced to hopeless farce by
the inexplicable tactics of the locals.
Playing as though it was a no-time-
limit match the Victorians fiddled
around ail day Friday to score 201
for the loss of five wickets. This
might be explained (though not
excused) by a desire to have the
Englishmen batting as a star box-
office attraction on the Saturday.
But, lo and behold, came there the
Saturday and the Country team con-
tinued its innings. Finally, they
declared at seven for 217. After all
this nonsense there seemed a touch
of poetic justic in the rain which
forthwith washed out further play.
The Englishmen did not bat at all.
* * * *
Jack Read on “Sugar” Ray:
World welterweight champion
“Sugar” Ray Robinson, whose bap-
tismal monicker was the more homely
Walker Smith, made no mistake when
he fought Jake La Motta in Chicago
last week for Jake’s world middle-
weight title. Scaling 11. to La
Molta’s 11.6, Robinson, according to
the assessments of experts on the
spot, lost rounds one, two, five, six
and seven. What happened in the
remainder of the fight is a matter of
unhappy memory for La Motta, who
stopped practically everything in the
book before the ref. declared him to
be out on his feet in the 13th round.
Since Henry Armstrong held the
world feather, light and welterweight
championships American boxing rules
have been altered to now declare that
no boxer can hold more than one
title at a time. Robinson’s welter-
weight championship has consequently
been declared vacant. This, however,
has not discouraged Robinson from
seeking bigger and better titles, and
he is now tentatively matched to fight
Joey Maxim for the light-heavy
laurels at Madison Square next
month.
After winning all of his 85 amateur
contests Robinson turned professional
in 1940 and won 40 fights (29 by
knockouts) before suffering his first
defeat; La Motta beat him on points
in a 10-rounder at Detroit just on
eight years ago. Robinson outpointed
La Motta then in their next three
meetings, and he won the world
welterweight title by outpointing
Tommy Bell in December, 1946.
Robinson defeated every contender
for the welter title so decisively that
he simply ran out of opponents in
the 10.7 division. Nor do there now
seem to be any middleweights in
sight likely to trouble him. La Motta
is entitled to a return with Robinson
within 90 days, but Jake is reportedly
quite agreeable to the clause being
altered to 90 years.
Over recent weeks there has been
endless talk of arranging a Robinson-
Dave Sands meeting in Australia.
About 99 per cent, of this palaver
has been pure hot air; if anybody
is really interested in arranging the
show, Robinson’s quote is a mini-
mum of 75,000 dollars deposited in
America before he starts packing—
a suggestion which should fetch some
good horse-laughs from certain Can-
berra identities.
* * * *
With the Australian featherweight
championship (vacated by Bernie
Grant recently) at stake, Ray Cole-
man (8.13) and Alfie Webster (8.13)
furnished a willing scrap at Leich-
hardt last week. Coleman, however,
was too classy for Webster, whom
he stopped in the eighth round.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Values
A recent cable revealed that Major
Kenneth Muir, Argyll and Sutherland
Highlanders, winner of a posthumous
V.C. in Korea, left an estate of only
£760.
There is a moral in this for Austra-
lians, a moral that would be just as
obvious if the estates of Australia’s dead
in Korea were known. For soldiers
don’t, as a rule, amass large estates.
An impartial observer travelling
through Australia today could not fail
to be impressed by the universal hunger
for money; it is evident among all
classes, and conditions even the simplest
transactions. Arbitration in industry is
based upon it, primary and secondary
producers’ representatives strive for the
last decimal of return from their pro-
ducts, retailers withhold goods pending
price increases, unions strike, or threaten
to strike, to secure more from the inflated
pool, politicians vote themselves hearty
pensions The gulf between effort and
reward has never been greater.
But Major Muir had managed, during
his life of service, to mass only £760.
Wharflaborers,- succumbing at last to
chronic ennui, leave estates many times
larger. A grazier will pay that much in
bonus to the “dealer” who secures
a new American car for him and
think nothing of it. Such an amount pro-
duced in the betting-rings at Randwick or
Caulfield would be small beer.
Nevertheless, one would think that even
in a world of inflation and false values
it would be possible to place some
intrinsic value on Major Muir. What
was he worth? How many sheep ? How
many hours of overtime, how many
retail-price margins, how many washing-
machines, how many new cars?
Was he worth more than a radio-
quizmaster, or a stylish horse-trainer, or
a superannuated politician, or a suburban
butcher?
Time will eventually supply the answer,
and time is not standing still, A country
immersed in selfish pursuits while on the
brink of war, where money is the gauge
of merit and the goal of all hearts, may
be forced to revise its scale of values. —
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
The East
Sir Douglas Copland talked rubbish
in claiming that the Chinese Communists
had established “the strongest govern-
ment the East has known for a century,
and the strongest military power in per-
haps 400 years.”
A century ago there was no strong
government in the East, which at that
time had reached the lowest point of its
decline. After the revolution which
abolished the Shogunate in Japan, how-
ever, that country secured a Government
which, in little more than 30 years, turned
a third-rate Asian country into a Power
that proved strong enough decisively to
defeat the formidable Russian Empire.
Less than a generation later Japan was
recognised as one of the world’s leading
industrial and military States.
In the 1939-45 war, although entirely
dependent on their own industrial
potential, the Japanese maintained war
for nearly four years against the British
Empire and U.S.A., capturing the two
strongest fortresses in Asia, Hong Kong
and Singapore, sinking heavy British
and American warships, and penetrating
to the oufskirts of India and Australia
before they were stopped. All this time
they also held down a huge area of
China.
Mao and his associates have yet to
show themselves capable of achieving a
comparable record. They have only been
in control of China for about two years.
Their armies have performed very much
less impressively in Korea than the Jap-
anese did in the equivalent period follow-
ing their entrance into the last war. Jhe
whole of Korea could be hidden in a
corner of the area overrun by the Japs in
the first three months of their offensive.
Australian soldiers who have fought
against both the Japanese and the Chinese
Communists have pronounced the latter
to be very much less formidable
opponents.
That the Eastern peoples have a long
record of civilised life which extends back
to the ages when “Western Europe was
still without the arts of civilisation,” and
that “It is only in the last three hundred
“It'll be perfectly o.k. with the censor—she's only a nymph in the script .”
years that the West European nations had
risen to power and exercised authority
over them,” provides no justification for
the present regime of China. The great
civilisations of the East all developed
under monarchial Governments, con-
servative in character. None was
influenced by Communist ideologies.
Nor will the latter inspire an endur-
ing culture in the present century,
for Communism is lacking in the power
to stimulate creative qualities.— Cunedda
(W.A.).
Direct Reaction
Minister Holt’s appeal to the public to
back him against the Reds must fail
unless, firstly, all unionists attend union
meetings in force and resolutely out-
vote the extremist minorities on all ques-
tions of policy (both domestic and
general), and, secondly, vote Communists
out of office at the earliest opportunity.
Also, Governments cannot expect the full
support of the moderates until the secret
ballot in relation to trade-union manage-
ment and control is enforced by law.
Reds gained control of key unions in
this country mainly because of two
closely-related circumstances —show-of-
hands ballots and rank-and-file absentees
from union meetings. Under the show-
of-hands system voters against firebrand
or contentious motions frequently become
marked men and (particularly in coal-
mining townships) are often persecuted
by the communities in which they live.
Likewise, the thin edge of the Com-
munist wedge, once inserted under the
union machine, is driven home not by
extremist strength but by the weakness
of the moderates represented by the
noticeable falling-off of attendances at
meetings after such motions are re-
peatedly carried. It’s as simple as that.
The industrial strife and disruption in-
flicted upon this land by a handful of
political blackguards must culminate in
calamity unless Parliament ceases to
wring its hands. It must take the firm
stand of meeting direct action with direct
action, and, by bringing down the neces-
sary legislative reforms in trade-union
government, help the great majority of
unionists to help themselves. —P. O.
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Community Hotels
There’s one thing other States can
learn from S.A —how to establish com-
munity hotels. There are about six here
and not a bad one among them.
There is no mystery about their estab-
lishment, management or organisation.
Local residents raise the capital, elect
their board of directors, appoint their
manager and run the pub as any other
business is run. The difference is that
the investors cannot receive a return
greater than four per cent.—the balance
of profit has to be spent in local improve-
ments, playgrounds, pre-school centres
and such.
From the visitors’ point of view t the
differences are tremendous. The man-
agement is concerned only with giving a
satisfactory service, there is no question
of high profits and quick returns, and
the difficulties —staff and so forth are
community ones which the community
helps to solve. — Mikyo (S.A.).
National Theatre
I sympathise with “R.H.’s” suspicion
(B. 24 /1/’5l) that it is often the unsuc-
cessful and disgruntled actor who most
loudly demands a national theatre; but
good causes are not invalidated by bad
advocates.
“R.H.” seems to divorce the theatre
from other contemporary arts, and to
regard it merely as a means of entertain-
ment to be supported by those who prefer
it to spending their leisure and money on,
say, racing, boxing or beer.
But surely the whole history of the
drama shows that it is something more
than entertainment. It began as a
religious or spiritual exercise with the
Greeks and continued as a religious
activity until after the Middle Ages. It
was then subsidised by the rich and
cultured aristocracy, maintaining their
own theatrical companies and playwrights,
who were consequently able to perform
for the ordinary public. Out of this
background an audience grew up, able to
appreciate subtleties of play-acting and
play-writing. And, not less important,
actors were able to “learn their trade”
or “study their act” in an atmosphere of
comparative security and understanding.
Rich patrons can hardly exist today—
the State’s taxes make that impossible—
so surely the State must be under some
sort of obligation to take the place of the
rich patron, just as it has felt obliged to
do in the provision of education, in the
care of the poor and sick and in the
provision of art galleries, etc.?
It is, I suppose, possible that Aus-
tralians are unlike any other civilised
people in the world, and do not need the
emotional release and comforting sense
of pattern that the drama provides. I
doubt it. But I am certain that play-
appreciation requires education just as
much as it is required in art- or music-
appreciation.
How is the Australian actor to get
training? I am not talking about dramatic
academies, but the sort of training that
comes from acting with a variety of ex-
perienced actors in a theatre with tradi-
tion in actors and audience.
1 write with deference, since I have a
very limited knowledge of Australia, but
from my short experience I should say
that the Australian actor has to make un-
exampled efforts to pursue his craft.
There are various Little Theatres, where
he can scarcely earn a living, and actors,
like other human beings, have to eat.
Great efforts are made in these theatres,
but they are handicapped by the fact that
actors, in order to maintain themselves
and their families, have to interrupt
rehearsals in order to fulfil their radio
obligations. It is not, I am sure, a lack
of acting ability in Australia that has
caused a lack of theatres —one has only
to look at the Australian actors who have
left this continent.
No, the lack of theatres is due to the
lack of an educated and theatre-minded
audience. And that can only be built up
by the rich patron or the State. — Ruth
Lodge (N.S.W.).
Mudbrick Houses
There is a certain irony in the fact
that an official of the Commonwealth
Experimental Housing Station is visiting
the N.T. to teach the nomad abo, how to
make pise or mudbrick houses. He
hopes in due course to see the wandering
black man living in pleasant-looking
villages in earth-construction homes 18ft.
by 20ft., with open verandas.
If he succeeds the spectacle will be
presented of Binghi living in dwellings
infinitely better adapted to the climate
than the white man’s fibro-plaster-and-
tin wurlies, some of which, says the quoted
expert, are as bad as any he has seen
anywhere in Australia. They are the
same sort of house that amazed a British
expert imported by the Commonwealth
some years ago—he stigmatised them as
little tin hells.
The abo. having no prejudices with
regard to houses, never having had one,
should be much more easily persuaded in
favor of the mudbrick than the Vic-
torian municipal authorities, who grant
permits for any sort of gimcrack modern
dwelling, but won’t have the substantial
earth house at any price.
BUMPKIN
(Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 109
Across.
I—A1 —A Parliamentary fellow, but not
Dame Enid Lyons, as a source
of hashish. (4)
3—Banditry of a ship and a. Mel-
bourne newspaper. (10)
10— Film-star fish to come ashore. (7)
11— Greek letter is to use the spade
before morning, mother. (7)
12 — Constellation and the Eternal
City, tailed by the District
Attorney. (9)
13 — ivy-bush attributable to pence is
death in parts of Europe. (3)
14 — A steamship is a much older
form of transport. (3)
15 — Ancient gardener has a water-
supply- (4)
10 Curving inwards to study the
place where Tom Sawyer and
Becky were lost. (7)
21— The ache disturbs a sprinting
beast. (7)
22 — Bazaar may cause disorder in the
feet. (4)
23 — Mahal town in the Libyan desert.
(3)
26 —A detail of racing information
hasn’t a leg to stand on. (3)
27 Name a figure to write a label
on a sheep. (9)
28— Backing ban on a crooner is
quite arresting. (7)
29 — Neighbor of France beheads a
neighbor of Sierra Leone or an
Asiatic Russian. (7)
30— Birds separate raised lines. (1U)
31 — Invites. (4)
Down.
1 — New Year swine and a fellow
affirmative. (8)
2 This relative of noon lets me
eradicate Idriess. (8)
4 Upland Slav in any roof. (5-4)
5 Creek in Queensland. (5)
6 No reorganised vine gate shows
that black is white, and white is
black. (8)
7 Fleet to give the girl a gun. (6)
8— Collects taxes no longer in the
fifth book of the New Testa-
ment. (6)
9 Goals for a Nigerian city. (5)
17— Lichake resembling 100 links. (9)
18— Rib on the jetty is displaying
more white horses. (8)
19— Abstains from choruses. (8)
20 — It is the end when you and I
swallow a name. (8)
23—Arrive to consult a reference.
(4, 2}
24 — Talk of whoever digs you in the
ribs. • (6)
25 Prank may be quite saucy. (5)
27—Summoned by a bellhop. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 108.


L
gdf
H
51
OS'
"N>
««
?-S»3s
Si>
:<<
gti
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to
us and we will see that your requirements are sept to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
s _ _ ■ ■
>rysh or blades needed
* OJ/O ”
for the
ELECTRIC
DRY- SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
dlowing outstanding characteristics.
It is fully guaranteed against de-
ceptive material or workmanship.
It has no motor and requires no
ication.
There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these - distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
Shave anywhere anytime with the
“ PJ/° *
meev-tm—
NON-ELECTRIC
Without Electricity, Soap, Water,
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful
substitute for your Viceroy Electric/
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
:
m*
SHAVER
gd
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives: , u ~
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
