

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 72—No. 3734
ir*
Wednesday, September 5, 1951
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AT the north - eastern corner of
Trafalgar Square in the heart of
London stands the famous Church of St.
Martin’s-in-the-Fields. it is not only
“the parish church of the world”: it is
also the * parish church of English
Sovereigns, and in its registers are
entered the births of all the Royal children.
Charles 11, John Hampden, Francis
Bacon and Sir Winston Churchill, father
of the Duke of Marlborough, were all
christened there. In 1811 Thomas Moore
was married in the church to Bessie
Dyke, the actress. In the burial register
appear the names of Thomas Chippen-
dale, the cabinet-maker, who died in
1779, and of Nell Gwynn, who died in
1687. There is in St. Martin’s a Royal
pew, the only one in any parish church
in London. The elaborate steeple, sur-
mounted by a Royal crown to signify the
Royal parish, is a favourite roost for
London starlings.
The patron saint is, of course, St.
Martin, who died sixteen hundred years
ago ; he was a Roman officer who be-
came Bishop of Tours. In 1222 it is
recorded that a church stood upon the
present site, and for centuries it was
surrounded by an agricultural district—
hence its name.
The Church of St. Martin's, as it exists
today, was built in 1721-26 to the designs
of James Gibbs, and is regarded as one
of his best works. The architect, who
came from Aberdeen, studied in Rome
under Fontana, the builder of the front
of St. Peter’s. • His influence is seen in
the dignified Corinthian portico. Gibbs
also built St. Mary-le-Strand, near Aus-
tralia House, and his designs influenced
church architecture for a century, par-
ticularly in the United States, where St.
Paul’s Church, on Broadway, New
York, was modelled on the lines of St..
Martin’s.
The fame of St. Martin’s is due in no
small measure to the work of the Rev.
Dick Sheppard, its vicar from 1914 to
1927. His personality, his enthusiasm
and his famous sermons aroused a
warmth of personal affection for him-
self and for his church which was a
revelation to the world. He founded the
“St. Martin’s Review,” to which many
eminent writers contributed; he intro-
duced the tradition of military bands at
services, and at night the crypt became
a friendly shelter for the homeless.
ST. MARTIN'S-IN-THE-FIELDS, “PARISH CHURCH OF THE WORLD”
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4


HHBTiI
EISBbSSM^
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
TOO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
•CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address ....
(5.8.351) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfleldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields for book hunting.
The Red Page
"THE GREAT SOUTH LAND."
I had thought of reviewing Rex Inga-
mells’s The Great South Land (Georgian
House) by re-examining it, if not line by
line, at least book by book; partly in
the hope of discovering what I really felt
about so immense and complicated a com-
position, and one so bewildering in its
mixture of good and bad ; partly because
a volume of 352 pages, containing a poem
boldly labelled “An Epic” and amount-
ing to the astronomical total of 7788 lines
divided into twelve “Books,” does seem
to deserve, if only for the magnitude of
the effort and the courage of the attempt,
an extremely careful study.
Mr. Ingamells, moreover, has some
prominence as the founder and leader
of the Jindyworobak school of nationalist
poetry ; and, as a poet in his own right
(though his early lyrics of the bush, written
before his talent flooded out into militant
rhetoric, remain his best work) he is
always worth considering; always, as we
can see from The Great South Land, cap-
able of rising above polemics into verse
alive and warm with Australian color and
feeling;
Corroboree-fires cast glint upon the tides
of Arafura on the Northern Coast,
and licked with light the red Mac Donnell
gaps,
and ran in pools of color on the dim
dry sands of creek-beds in the Flinders
Ranges . . .
And, since he has been heard before on
the aborigines, one might mention here
that The Great South Land shows him,
at times, equally effective on less familiar
themes; the great navigators, for ex-
ample, whom Kenneth Slessor introduced
to Australian poetry with his “Five
Visions of Captain Cook” and who,
rightly, have since become common
property: —•
Merchants of Portugal who bear the Cross
before them to the end of voyaging;
conquistadores of Spain . . . Iberian Age,
when Faith was fire; the holy Name of
Christ
a blaze-bright stream on the sword-blade,
flame
at the smoky maws of arquebus and cannon.
But to go right through the poem in this
way would require a review filling an
entire issue of The Bulletin ; which is
hardly practical politics. And such a re-
view, whether or not the poem has suffi-
cient intrinsic importance to justify it,
would certainly involve a great deal of
repetition. For what is true of the Over-
ture before Book 1 is, essentially, true of
the 12 Books and the epilogue on “The
Timeless Covenant” that follow it.
In the Overture, which deals with the
creation of the earth, there are 433 lines ;
some, such as the invocation to the ocean
beginning with the didactic “Do homage
now, in awed apostrophe,” passable;
some, such as the invocation to the winds,
which was first printed in The Bulletin,
rising to a stirring eloquence; and some,
such as
Expect of me no pure and fixed devotion
to European outlook and tradition.
Product am I of them, in major part,
and of heredity I do not make
repudiation ...
incredibly naive and flat. In only four
lines out of the 433 does the verse really
rise to a visionary intensity where it be-
comes poetry:
Then was there no man living to observe
the flagrant sun-flames run at evening over
such forests no man visits but in dream,
such ocean edges, such bright glaciers!
After you have got over the creation
of the world, which continues into
Book 1
... .amid the rolling clouds
of vaguest definition, overlarded
with geologic heaves of Mystery
(may the Muse preserve us!) the propor-
tion of good or tolerable verse to bad
does, in fact, alter considerably in favor
of the good. At all times there are re-
markable, possibly memorable, descents
into flatness and bathos; among which I
must say I particularly relish the line:
The walkabout was not a racial whim.
But when Mr. Ingamells becomes excited
by Australian scenery or by the great
voyagers, Spanish and Dutch and French
and English, there are so many admir-
able pieces of narration or description
that, broadly, you can say a whole Book
is well-written; the major proportion of
several whole Books.
You cannot say Mr. Ingamells adds
anything to Cook’s Voyages, Dampier’s
Voyages and Discoveries or any of the
first-hand accounts of the navigators; in
fact, he is always less interesting than the
original documents from which he has
drawn his material. But you can say, at
least, that Dampier, Cook, Magellan and
many others are all well-handled; there
is an adequate summary of their achieve-
ments in presentable verse. Occasionally,
as in the account of John Callander, the
style becomes as clear, compact and ener-
getic as Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s for a
moment;
Scotch plagiarist! ...
picking the brains of de Brosses, as an
eaglehawk
will, scoop in the skull of a lamb
and, notably in a passage of 150 lines
entitled “Homage to Old-Time Ships,” the
verse increasingly takes on the eloquence
that comes from deep feeling:
Old wooden ships, long, long at sea, whose
captains
sought frantically for landfall, any landfall,
where water might be found, where crews
might win
asylum for a space, recovery
from travail terrible beyond report.
Old wooden ships, grey ghosts upon the
water
of sunken yesterdays, with canvas bellied
before the steady winds, in worlds of sea,
beneath cloud-tumbled skies . . .
But, however much it improves, the
poem remains the most amazing muddle:
better at its best than one had thought
Mr. Ingamells could rise to ; much worse
at its worst than one had thought he
could possibly descend to. After that
vigorous evocation of the old ships the
verse at once drops back to (this is about
Prince Henry the Navigator):
Rarest Originality, derived
from brilliance in perception, and desiring
creation of new circumstance, attains
the van of History . . .
I think I can best illustrate my final
impression of this strange medley by
quoting Mr. Ingamells in a good average
passage:—
The Aborigines, in hiding, saw
strange men —or were they spirits? . . .
They knew not what—
apparelled in shirts and trousers, boots and
belts, .
with broad sun-shading hats, bearing strange
arms,
strange clubs and boomerangs, strange
digging-sticks . . .
alongside what Francis Webb wrote on
the same theme of primitive man’s first
sight of the European in A Drum for
Ben Boyd :—
Through the thick morning steam they took
shape.
With fierce white symbols shaking above
them in air:
Sea-monsters from icy regions bringing
cold tides with them.
Some of us trembled and clapped hands
slowly in fear,
While others fingered their spears and
stones in doubt;
But when flame sprang, and spirits squeaked
overhead,
And an incredible thunder troubled the
trees,
We crouched in terror lest our sky drip
blood.
Or you could take one of the most
curious incidents from The Great South
Land, representing the verse at its best:
The Emperor Ying Tsung, in later years,
regarded a porcelain map, an exquisite
thing,
most delicately wrought, and cried: “Cheng
Ho,
in spite of the disaster ought to be
remembered, since survivors of his fleet
marked out a strange barbarian coast.
Behold,
it has a longer coast than China’s, that
remote and unattractive Southern Land,
Such evidence is curious for scholars.”
and put it alongside a somewhat similar
incident in William * Hart - Smith’s
Christopher Columbus :
Elbows in wine-slops, news of the ocean
isles
they tell in taverns under a stinking lamp.
Madre de Dios, here is evidence!
And once a swollen corpse, a woman’s
naked, tattooed, face-down in a scum
of jellyfish and weed ...
And bits of wood to Santo sometimes come,
most strangely carved.
The woman drowned, they say, had almond
eyes.
Masters, a ship, a ship, for my youth dies!
In the first pair of quotations it is
obvious that Mr. Ingamells falls short
in urgency, immediacy, in the visionary
quality of creative imagination that makes
the reader feel that Webb has become,
for the moment, his Papuan savage; Mr.
Ingamells is merely trying his best to
imagine, from the outside, what his abo-
rigines would have felt Similarly, in
Fitz Gerald’s “The Face of the Waters”
you feel that the poet was actually present
at the creation of the universe (and per-
haps he was), but you never really feel
that about Mr. Ingamells’s Overture and
Book L
In the second quotation Mr. Ingamells
does seem to be present at the Emperor’s
court—his poem is by no means com-
pletely lacking in visionary quality —but
he is not seeing the scene, or living it,
so vividly as Hart-Smith, and his verse
is of secondary quality. Hart-Smith
would never have written the pedestrian
iambic pentameter “in spite of the dis-
aster ought to be”; and there is, in fact,
not a single couplet in the whole of The
Great South Land that lingers in the mind
as does
The woman drowned, they say, had almond
eyes.
Masters, a ship, a ship, for ray youth dies !
Perhaps it is not quite fair to ask from
Mr. Ingamells’s “epic” the lyrical inten-
sity of Francis Webb or Hart-Smith, for
these authors have, in fact, sacrificed epic
construction to achieve their sets of lyrics.
But neither is The Great South Land con-
structed in truly epic form, and so to a
great extent it depends, like the sets of
lyrics, on the merits of the episodes rather
than on the movement of the whole.
In the epic proper, as the form was
practised by Homer and defined by Aris-
totle, dramatic movement is everything: —
The construction of its [the epic’s] stories
should clearly be like that in a drama; they
should be based on a single action.... so as
to enable the work to produce its own
proper pleasure with all the organic unity
of a living creature... .Herein we have a
further proof of Homer’s marvellous
superiority to the rest. He did not attempt to
deal even with the Trojan War in its entirety
....Through a feeling, apparently, that it
was too long a story to be taken in one
view, or if not that, too complicated from
the variety of incident in it.
An epic, in short, is not the history of
the Trojan War ; it is the quarrel of Aga-
memnon and Achilles over the slave-girl
Briseis. But The Great South Land is,
precisely, the history of Australia. It has
moments of drama like the moments of
drama you get in a set of lyrics, but no
dramatic continuity. Therefore, it lacks
“organic unity”; therefore, simply, it
fails to hold the reader’s attention as does
the unfolding of a dramatic narration.
For all that, as Virgil showed, by re-
fusing to confine himself to a single
action —though he did cling to the one
hero—you can disagree with Aristotle,
or disregard him, and still write a poem
which, while it can never have the dra-
matic intensity and formal perfection
of The Iliad, may still be valued for its
episodes, its verse-craft and its signifi-
cance in the life of the nation. And I
found that The Great South Land did,
with difficulty, hold my attention. Apart
from the interest of the verse, good and
bad, it contains a great deal of out-of-
the-way historical information, such as
that Maupertuis believed there were men
with tails living in Australia. I suppose
that, roughly, it holds together as an
“epic of ideas” ; a pageant of Australian
history, infused with patriotic ardor, with
a special emphasis on the aborigines, and
leading to the conclusion: —
In us the Past of this great Land shall live;
we shall take the dreams of the Early People
to heart;
sunset, sunrise, shall burn within our blood;
our thoughts be strong and free as birds
that fly
above the vast and grey-green bush at
noon;
and we shall build into this Land’s rich
Legend
ourselves, our hearts; enter Alcheringa;
we shall be one with the Land and the Land
with us.
Except for the reference to “entering
Alcheringa”—which I find disconcert-
ing; not because I don’t like the abo-
rigines, but because it sounds like an in-
vitation to a revival-meeting—-the whole
book is very much like a vastly expanded
version of Bernard O’Dowd’s “The Bush.”
It is not a great poem but it is a respect-
able one. Only, when it is reprinted, Mr.
Ingamells would be wise to cut and com-
oress it to about a third its present length.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Some Magazines.
It has been left to the Hungarian
community in Australia to hit , on what
is probably the best title yet found for
an Australian magazine; “Aurora
Australis.” Though it hardly lives up to
the glowing promise of its name, the
magazine, now in its second issue, is a
readable and informative little paper,
mingling literature and politics. There
is an able defence of Cardinal
Mindszenty against a book which attacks
his reputation and which “is now being
distributed among New Australians,” and
there is an article on the Russian poet
Alexander Blok. “Aurora Australis” is
edited by Dr. Frank A. Doczy (who has
a serial running through it) for the
Hungarian Literary Society of Australia,
and is obtainable from Cheshire Book-
shop, Melbourne, or from the publisher,
Z. Partenyi, c/o South Yarra Post Office,
Victoria. It is written, one should add,
in English.
Also from Melbourne (printed by
Hall’s Book Store, Chapel-street,
Prahran, for Bruce Muirden, proprietor
and editor) is the third issue of “The
Austrovert,” a little magazine in which
Mr. Muirden keeps a lively and youthful
eye on what is happening in Australian
literature. Included in its amiably
irreverent commentary is a review of the
autumn “Meanjin” which has taken a
new lease of life with a Commonwealth
Fund subsidy, and a board of six
associate editors to keep Mr. Christesen
company: Nettie Palmer, Arthur Phillips,
Alan McCulloch, Elizabeth Vassilieff,
Bernard Smith and Dorothy Green.
A note to The Bulletin from Reba
Ginsburg describes a new magazine,
“Brolga,” of which she is to be the editor.
‘ Brolga’ is to be a magazine written
by and for Arts undergraduates and
graduates from every university in Aus-
tralia. A sub-editor in each State is for-
warding contributions to the chief editor,
who this year is in Sydney. The magazine
will be edited from a different State each
year. It will be quarto size, and will be
distributed free to Arts students at Sydney
University, and sold to Arts students of
every other Australian university. Sydney
Arts Faculty Council are contributing
£lOO towards the cost of printing, but
as this will barely cover one-third of the
cost we hope that we can sell advertising-
space in the magazine. So far the
response has been very poor: only 30
replies have come (in answer to 150
circulars), and of these only a couple are
acceptances. Anyone interested in assist-
ing us can ring me (FM4041) for further
information.” 0 The magazine will deal in
literature, art and music.
James on Japan.
If anybody should be qualified to write
a history of Japan from a European’s
point of view it is Captain David James.
If any Japanese city had a post-office
clock he would be known there as well as
it. Ho was first taken to Japan as a child
of three in 1883. He has spent virtually
the whole of a long life in the Far East.
He speaks both Japanese and Chinese
and knows the surroundings of those
countries north into Manchuria and down
into the South Seas almost as well as if
each part was his native country.
' He saw the development of the South
East Asian drive at first hand. He was in
Malaya attached to the British forces
when Singapore was surrendered and he
was a p.-0.-w. in Japan, with more than
usual freedom to observe and more than
normal facilities and opportunities be-
cause of his colloquial knowledge of the
language and the people.
Out of his experience he has written
The Rise and Fall of the Japanese Empire
(Allen and Unwin), which should be with-
out price to diplomatic students in under-
standing both the mainsprings of the de-
velopment of the Japanese policy in the
direction of war and the Japanese outlook
and character. The first 200 pages form a
synopsis of Japanese history from the
beginning, ending with a grim couple of
paragraphs which explain pretty clearly
the disasters of the early part of the war
of 1941-5:
For tea years (1931-41) the Japanese
Army and Navy had been on a war footing.
Officers and men had practised the art of
modern warfare over thousands of miles
of Chinese territory and gained practical
(experience of amphibious warfare, aerial
warfare and submarine warfare At that
time Japan’s military strength, in men and
weapons, exceeded that of Britain by fifty
to one in the Far Eastern theatre of war.
She had a fully-trained Army of 2,500,000,
with a yearly intake of 300,000 and an
enormous reserve of men fit for service,
apart from all the skilled and unskilled
labor she required for war effort. We had
about 60,000 mixed— U.K., Australian and
Indian— troops in' Hong Kong, Burma and
Malaya, a puny Air Force and a skeleton
of a Navy.
We also, it appears from his observa-
tion, had a delusion prevalent in
Singapore “that the Japanese would not
be so insane as to enter a war against us
with the certainty that such an action
would bring in the might of the United
States against them.”
And so the Malaya debacle which
Captain James saw from start to finish,
with a view part of the time from inside
of the Eighth Division A.1.F.:
Rightly or wrongly the A.I.F. thought
they should have been sent to Kota Bahru,
not the Indians. The “Aussies” held the
Japanese in contempt, and were anxious to
give them “a taste of the bayonet.” Hut
the Eighth Division were short of a brigade
of infantry and had no battle-practice. They
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover.)


Fence your property
with only one wire!
This modern way of fencing—The Everyday Electric
Fencer way —brings widespread benefit through
its great savings in the cost of fencing.
The Everyday Electric Fencer is SAFE and harmless
because it operates on the SAFE low voltage of
a 6-volt storage battery, electrifying up to
25 MILES OF FENCE.
a i
;
hS
'll
: V
m
t
Everyday Electric Fences are easily erected, easily moved and make fencing
for feeding off areas no job at all. Simplifying crop and pasture rotation
. . . fencing off lucerne, maize or other feed . . . segregating sick and
infected crop . . . providing temporary pastures, likewise bull or calf
pens, pig runs, etc., anywhere on the farm.
Wiring. Barbed wire is recommended, but plain wire will do. New
wire is not necessary provided the old wire )ou use is not badly rotted
or rusted. This is important because the whole success of electric fencing
depends on the electrical continuity of the wire.
Made in Australia for Australian soil and climate conditions. AH
fences are thoroughly tested and adjusted for maximum performance and
include a built-in neon test light.
One man can fence 10 acres in half a day with the Everyday . . .
light stakes cut from the bush replace heavy posts ... no post holes to
dig , . . no holes to bore in posts . . . run ONE wire instead of
five . . . use harness dips or spring hooks instead
of gates. Priced at only
£B/10/-
Save energy . • . Vermorel KnapsacU Sprayer
gallon brass alloy tank, 2ft. 74in. delivery hose. 22in. Spray Lance.
Angle bend for potatoes, ground crops. Weight 14 lbs. £22/5/-.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
B
m
P* c>
■
mm
m
m
wm
S
, 1 J
Xr>
• Easily erected
• Costs so little
• Charges 25 miles of fence
/ \ :»
i i
'■AkS'r
6
Vi
1. Drive in stakes 30 feet apart.
0>
i* *
itt
) V.
■f
*4O
/
3. Run a single wire from stake
to stake.
Ji
r
Kv V
*vT\
2. Nail on the insulator.
‘■a
L> .■/ %
4. Connect fencer to wire and six-
volt battery to fencer.
S
m
Solve your brick and building problems
44 Truline 55 Brickmaking Machine
To make 1,000 “New Method’’ Bricks 9in. x 4fin. x 3in.,
all you require is 10 bags of cement and 2f yards
sand or similar material. Three men operating the
machine will produce approx. 250 bricks per hour.
Price, £B4/3/6. Plus tax where applicable.
Simac Semi Rotary Pumps Iron (brass valves)
‘TRUTH’ IN ADVERTISING"
re
m
iSSi
,-c
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT-FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401. POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT EXTRA


BEING
A SERVICEMAN
PAYS 3 WAYS
Every Serviceman shares
the proud privilege of
performing a vital task,
which deserves the finest
rewards and he gets
them in 3 ways!
-o
1
■ In cash pay
an 18-year-old Ser-
viceman who has
completed his basic
recruit training
(normally 3 to 6
months) is paid
£B/15/- a week
(special extra allow-
ances for married
men), and, in
addition—
o
Food and
accommodation,
uniforms, and medi-
cal and dental care
are provided free.
This adds up to a
big cash advantage
with—
s
m
A gratuity or
pension on retire-
ment while you are
young enough to
enjoy it.
Check up on what a
Service career will do for
you. Get the facts.
dfg
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets; In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street: In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Currie
Street; In Perth: 34 King Street: In Hobart: Franklin Square;
In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in anv of fhe above cities.
IBZII'99«g
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
‘ and PERTH
BRANDAUERS
PENS
m
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandaucr & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
What Tension Does
to You
Repeated telephone interrup-
tions, hurrying to keep ap-
pointments, worry for the
future how do these things
affect your glands, your heart?
In September Reader’s Digest
Dr. Richard Hoffmann tells
how, besides producing its own
aggravating symptoms, tension
can make you a candidate for
real diseases. How the con-
stant demands of telephone,
clock and calendar affect the
way our bodies function and
what you can do to lessen
their tyranny.
Your whole family will enjoy
September Reader’s Digest-
packed with 29 stimulating,
informative articles from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
ON TIPTOE to EXPLAIN
By PETER BARKER
THE comical little coal-train
rattled a long line of empty
trucks past vines drooping
in the thick afternoon heat.
It tooted a ridiculous greeting,
like a child’s Christmas trumpet,
to a solitary blockee cutting run-
offs on a ridge. It made quite
a creditable noise crossing its
only bridge, over one of the main
channels, and then tooted again,
to the outlying general store, and
settled itself complacently to the
final run up to the town, the
rail-head and its load of coal.
Just past the store, a cow,
chained in a patch of lucerne
growing in the seepage at the
foot of a block, moaned un-
easily as the train tooted, and
moved unsteadily, erratically
backwards to the fence, tossing
and lowering her head. Her
stiff, splayed legs seemed hardly
able to maintain the weight of
her swollen belly.
The train rattled away behind
the peppercorn-trees at the edge
of the town, and the cow settled,
by degrees, into her heat-
induced and prospectively-
maternal torpor. The starkness
of the sun mellowed gradually,
softened by a slight film of dust
raised by a tractor on a distant
block, and it declined, weary and
repentant, towards its own rest.
A breath of wind came from
the river, and as it advanced the
vines seemed to sigh with relief,
that the process of living, for
this day at least, was nearly com-
plete.
A few cars passed along the
road, and the cow tossed her
head now and then and moaned
intermittently. After a time the
sound of the train came again
from behind the peppercorn-
trees, and it rolled past, towards
the pumping-station, with a
deeper, seif-satisfied clack-clack,
bearing its lumpy black load of
coal.
AS the end truck, with its
little red flag, came past the
cow two small boys leapt from
the back and scuttled behind a
bush at the side of the rails.
They peered cautiously above
it until the cab of the driver had
passed behind the store, and
then ran, giggling, and slapping
at each other with wet bathing-
togs, across the road. The bigger
was an older replica of his
brother. Each had fair hair,
still wet from their swimming,
and with a peculiar faint green-
ish tinge. They had frank, open
faces, bespattered across the
cheeks with light freckles, and
the skin on their noses was dry
and peeling. Their limbs were
sturdy, plump and very brown.
They stopped by the cow, which
moved forward familiarly to
meet them. They patted her
soft, velvety nose, her nostrils
dilating sensitively to their
touch. One boy observed, “Gee,
she’s gettin’ fat, ain’t she?” and
then they ran on towards a small
weatherboard house that huddled
between two broad-shouldered
cedars a short way along a side
road.
They disappeared inside and
the afternoon was left to carry
the burden of its own reality. It
made a splendid attempt as a
few wisps of cloud drifted shyly
up from the horizon, like under-
studies creeping past the master,
and were touched to transient
reflected glory by the paternal
hand of the sun. They grew
more confident as the sun sub-
sided, and tried ever newer plays
of color. Blueness stole back
into the glassy brilliance of the
sky from the east and formed a
neutral backdrop to the splendid
pale gold, the deeper orange in
the centre, and the fine, spun-
silk, whitish sheen at the edge
of the clouds. Encouraged by
the success of the first venture,
more clouds mounted, to form
an irregular lacy curtain, swiftly
drawing over the land; here
tenuous, like drooping willows,
here clotted, like cream.
A flock of sparrows suddenly
clattered across the sky, heading,
with immense indecision and dis-
cussion, to a tree, for their
night’s lodging. As they almost
settled for a moment on the wire
fence, a boy with the same fair
hair and brown skin came along
the road, pedalling a bicycle
furiously, head down, angular
arms out to the side. He re-
sembled his two younger
brothers as the thin, stringy
mallee-gum resembles i t s
brothers of the watered plains.
He was lanky and bony, but his
legs pumped the pedals with the
force and precision of a machine.
His face had the same cast as
that of the other two, but was
given a distinctively wistful ex-
pression by the possession of a
slight hare-lip. He skidded
madly round the corner, scream-
ing good-naturedly at the cow,
and stopped precipitantly at the
house. He propped his bicycle
against one of the fence-posts
and dashed inside.
PAST the peppercorn-trees
came a solitary figure, laden
with two bulging string-bags.
She was still a young woman,
but walked as though she had
almost given up realising it. She
wore a cheap cotton dress and
strap sandals. Her hair was
brushed, conveniently rather than
decoratively, straight back, but
a few wisps had strayed back
over her forehead. She had a
strong, slightly bent nose and a
lean face. Only in the generous
curve of her lips did she show
the source of the characteristic
ingenuous expression of her three
sons.
When she came to the cow,
lowing now almost without stop-
ping, she went over among the
lucerne, and unfastened the chain
from the fence, making a little
sound of annoyance. She looked
back along the road towards the
town. The trees were taking on
shadowy substance as the clouds
became redder, and they made a
trough with the road, filled with
the glow from the sun. Out-
lined in the glow was the walking
figure of her eldest son. She
recognised him by his bouncing
walk and the almost womanish
slope of his shoulders.
She frowned a little and, rest-
ing her parcels on the ground,
she waited for him to come up.
He was wearing a crew-neck
cotton shirt with brown hori-
zontal stripes and long grey
trousers. His face was a tran-
sition from the soft lines of his
little brothers’ to the strength,
and almost arrogance, of his
mother’s. He came along slowly,
kicking at stray stones in the
white dust at the edge of the
road, and looking very sullen.
As he came up his mother
led the cow out from the lucerne
and gave him one of her string-
bags,
“Here. You can carry one
of these for me, Neil,” she said.
“And don’t you start any more
of that talk tonight, either. I
don’t want it in front of the
kids.”
He didn’t reply, and she went
on.
“Just because you’ve got a
job and you’re earning y’r own
money, it doesn’t mean you can
talk to me like that!”
“Aw ... all right!”
They walked on in silence.
Shrieks of laughter came from
within the house where the young
boys were playing. Suddenly
the boy blurted out:
“Well, they do talk about you,
1 heard them today, when I came
into the store, after school. That
dirty little Jenkins bloke that
washes the windows was telling
them something, and when he
saw me he shut up, quick. And
then when I went past them he
said ‘ ’Ow’s y’r Ma today, Mister
Jensen?’ Smirking like he thinks
hes a smart-aleck. And I
couldn’t think of anything to
say but ‘Aw, shut up! ’”
“Let them talk. They’re only
wishing they could get what they
can’t. Talking never broke any-
one’s milk-jug. I never cared
what anyone thought, ’cepting
my own kids.”
“Yeah, but you give them an
excuse for it. All them . . .
those parties . .
“Now, that’ll be enough from
you. If you’d worked as long
as I have by myself, looking
after you four kids, you’d want
something to cheer you up now
and then. Thank God I’ve got
a bit of life left in me still,
although you wouldn’t think it,
to see how skinny I am. You
go and scrub and sew all day
and see how you like it.”
They were outside their house.
They could hear the boys on the
other side of the house, in the
sleep-out, shouting and fighting.
The sun had disappeared and
they could see each other only
by the rosy, reflected glow of
the sunset, glorious now with
crimson and orange. The sky
between the clouds was an in-
credibly deep blue.
“Now, remember. You shut
up tonight!”
He grunted grudgingly, took
the cow-chain from her and led
the ungainly animal round the
side of the house to the cow-
shed. His mother went inside
and lit the lamp in the front
room. It made everything out-
side suddenly seem darker, in
o Continued on page 24.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3734
Wednesday, September 5, 19S1
A.L.P
NO COLLABORATION.
"Whilst 'Labor' campaigners opposing the Anti-Red Referendum have been ordered not to speak from the same platform as Communists, the ban is lifted when the
Communist appears in the role of a trade-union official."
“You can’t come in the front-door, you know; but you’ll be cordially welcomed round at the trade-unionists’ entrance.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0. ), Wellington.
COMMUNISM AND UNIONS.
Nothing better illustrates the political
immorality of “Labor’s” campaign for a
“No” vote on the Communist-party
Dissolution Act referendum than its atti-
tude towards association with Com-
munists.
The 1948 Federal A.L.P. Conference,
which set the code of morals and laws
under which “Labor” works, decided that
Communists were barred from member-
ship of the “Labor” party; that they
planned “the destruction of the demo-
cratic way of life of the Australian
people” and of their personal liberty ;
that there is such basic hostility that no
Communist auxiliary “can be associated
with the Labor party in any activity.”
Also, that efforts must be made to eradi-
cate Communists from trade-unionism.
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, now president of
the Federal A.L.P., and chief interpreter
of the code of laws of “Labor,” said at
the 1949 State A.L.P. Conference in
Sydney that “Labor people must en-
thusiastically declare their intention to
perform a more active part inside their
trade-unions, remembering that the
strength of the Communist party is
derived from its spurious connection with,
and use of, trade-unions.” And now it has
been ruled that, during the referendum
campaign, while “Labor” men may not
appear on the same platforms and co-
operate with pure, ordinary unadulterated
Communists they may appear on plat-
forms with Communists who are there in
their capacity as trade-union leaders.
In other words, it seems, association
with trade-unionism purifies everything
and excuses everything —even treason.
Let there be no mistake that Com-
munists enter the trade-unions for pur-
poses of treason. They are the only
purposes for which they enter them,
because the trade-unions are their
accepted machinery for the wrecking of
constitutional government, for the pro-
motion of the class-war, for the bringing-
about in industry and in civil life of the
chaos which they believe necessary as a
preliminary to the civil war which is to
turn Australia —and every other country
in which Stalin’s fifth-column operates—
into a satellite of Moscow, a grim jail run
by a coterie of tyrants.
It is for that reason that Lenin made
it his primary instruction to Communist
organisers that “we must be ready for
any and every sacrifice, and even, if
necessary, to practise trickery, to employ
cunning, to resort to illegal methods, to
sometimes even overlook or conceal the
truth—all for the sake of penetrating into
the trade-unions, to stay there, and by
any and every means to carry on the
work of Communism.”
The Australian Communist party sub-
scribes, and always has subscribed, to
this technique. After Comrade Sharkey,
that sinister Communist figure who over
twenty years has flitted backwards and
forwards from Moscow, came into con-
trol, directives were issued of which the
following is a sample —it touched the
party’s plans for Red-anting the trade-
unions through the formation of factory
cells:
It cannot be too often repeated that the
factory nucleus of the party is illegal;
that names of party members in a nucleus
must not be kept anywhere where our
enemies can get hold of them; and in re-
cording minutes, in discussion, etc., pseu-
donyms must be used, so that in the
event of documents falling into the hands
of our enemies, real names of party
members will not be shown... .If arrested,
give no statements incriminating any com-
rade, no names, no addresses... .absolute
denial even when confronted persons
and despite evidence given by police spies
and agents-provocateurs.
This charming admission, issued in an
official document of the N. S. Wales
branch of the party, was supplemented
by the circulation of a more comprehen-
sive one for the instruction of “the con-
temporary revolutionary” who “lives and
works under the perpetual danger of
police terror.” This bore the signature
of Adam Ogston, who is secretary
to the Communist party’s Central Com-
mittee to oppose the granting of the
powers asked through the referendum to
deal with Communism; the collaborator
of Dr. Evatt and of other “Labor”
leaders in the fight for the “No” vote.
There is no need to be in doubt about
the objective of all this illegality and
anonymity, nor about the good reason
for all the precautions. The Communist
party has an extensive educational
system, headed by a man who came
from Moscow just before the last war to
establish it. This organised educational
system issues an official Tutor’s Hand-
book, out of which the teachers of Com-
munism are instructed and in which are
named and summarised the set books
from which Australian Communists are
taught Communism. One of these is
Sharkey’s The Trade-unions: Communist
Theory and Practice of Trade-unionism.
This work closes with a quota-
tion from a message sent from the
Central Committee of the Russian Com-
munist party (i.e., from the then de facto
Government of Soviet Russia) to the
Trade-union Conference in 1922:
That which made Red October possible
was the fact that the banner of proletarian
revolt was at the same time the banner of
the trade-union movement.
And Sharkey sums up by saying that
“Socialism in Australia can triumph only
when the banner of the trade-unions is
the banner of Communism.”
Let there be, again, no doubt about
the nature of the “proletarian revolt”
which this furtive fifth-column of an
Asiatic barbarism is using the trade-
unions to organise. This is set out clearly
in another textbook officially prescribed
for Communists to study as the authentic
guide to organisation— The Foundations
of Leninism, by Joseph Stalin. It is now
in its severalth Australian edition pub-
lished by the party. It says that “a work-
ing-class without a revolutionary party is
like an army without a general staff. The
[Communist] party is the military staff
of the proletariat.”
And it leaves no doubt about how it
intends to function as a staff, for it says
that without the Communist party it is
“futile to think of overthrowing im-
perialism and achieving the dictatorship
of the proletariat.” It lays down that it
is equally futile to attempt to bring about
revolutionary conditions without control
of the trade-unions, since “the essential
questions of the Labor movement are
settled by force, by direct struggle, by
the general strike, the insurrection of the
proletarian masses,” the general strike
being “the greatest school for the prole-
tarian revolution and the indispensable
means of mobilising and organising the
proletarian masses on the eve of an attack
on the citadel of capitalism.”
It is made clear that this attack need
not await the conversion of a majority of
the citizens of Australia to Communist
tenets. The assertion that “the prole-
tariat cannot, and ought not to, seize
power if it does not itself constitute a
majority in the country” is characterised
as “an absurd thesis which cannot be
justified either theoretically or practi-
cally.”
Force is the only thing which counts
in Communist philosophy either before
or after the revolution which it is plan-
ning as part of the scheme of Russian
world conquest. Force is the essence of
the “dictatorship of the proletariat”
which it operates when the revolution has
succeeded, for its textbook defines it in
terms of brutal frankness. The “seizure
of power is only the beginning.” The
dictatorship, once established, is to “be
used to break the resistance of those who
have been expropriated,” and then to
join in the world war for Russian world
domination, for its final task is set out:
(c) To arm the revolution and to organ-
ise the army of the revolution for the
struggle against the external enemy and
for the struggle against imperialism.
The nature of the dictatorship in being
is further described in bold black type in
a quotation from still another prescribed
textbook of the Australian Communist
Party’s Training School, Lenin’s State
and Revolution :
The dictatorship of the proletariat is the
domination of the proletariat over the
bourgeoisie, untrammelled by law and
based on violence and enjoying the sym-
pathy and support of the toiling and ex-
ploited masses.
Finally, the Foundations of Leninism
textbook emphasises that persuasiveness
is not the weapon which the Australian
Communist plans to use in its revolu-
tion, for it sets down two “fundamental
deductions.” The first is that the “dic-
tatorship cannot be a democracy for all
....it is democratic in a new way—for
the proletariat and the poor in general—
against the bourgeoisie.” The second is
that “the dictatorship of the proletariat
cannot come about as the result of the
peaceful development of bourgeois
society.... .it can come only as the result
of the destruction of the bourgeois State
machine, of the bourgeois civil adminis-
tration and of the bourgeois police,” and
it adds that “the law of violent prole-
tarian revolution, the law of the destruc-
tion of the machinery of the bourgeois
State as a condition precedent for such
revolution is an inevitable law the
proletarian revolution is impossible with-
out the violent destruction of the
bourgeois State machine.”
Communism, however much it may (in
the words of Lenin’s instruction) “prac-
tise trickery, employ cunning, resort to
illegal methods and sometimes overlook
and conceal the truth,” is in the trade-
unions for one objective and one objec-
tive only—the laying-down of a base from
which to destroy Australian democracy,
Australian law and Australian freedom,
and its replacement by a violently-con-
trolled and ruthless dictatorship in which
the Communist party has all the rights
of democracy and anybody else is liable
to be ruthlessly liquidated.
It aims to “arm the revolution” which
it makes for the purposes of Soviet
Russia. A queer ambition for a party
which is always ranting (like Dr. Evatt)
against “warmongers” and squealing
for peace, though without referring its
audiences to the definition in its official
Marxist Glossary which says that “paci-
fism which fails to differentiate between
just and unjust wars rejects the only
guarantee of peace—united mass-struggle
against imperialism and its replacement
by world Socialism,” and which quotes
Lenin’s remark that “ ‘boycott war’ is a
stupid phrase.” Communists only want
to boycott the power of defence against
Russian aggression.
Yet these are the people for whom Dr.
Evatt and his satellites are pleading that
they shall not be denied the use of their
principal weapon, the trade-unions, and
that they _ shall not be molested in their
admitted trickery and plans for blood-
shed, marked openly by admissions of
shady illegality. He and his so-called
“Labor” party might just as logically
advocate freedom for burglars to buy
gelignite, jemmies and knuckledusters at
department stores, and that no preventive
action should be taken to hamper night-
robbers in going about their business.
Peacemakers' Troubles.
At San Francisco this week the nations
approving the draft Japanese peace-
settlement are gathered for the purpose
of baptising the reborn and democratic
Japan (according to its American fairy-
godmother) into the society of nations
pledged to work for the prevention of
war. As in the old fairy-tales the wicked
witch will attend the ceremony to heap
general curses upon it and the career of
the central figure.
Since Soviet Russia made a last-
moment decision to attend, the
atmosphere of goodwill carefully pre-
pared for the occasion has largely gone
by the board. Nothing can prevent the
implementation of the agreed draft treaty
by U.S.A*, by the chief nations of the
British Commonwealth and by those
European Powers concerned in the
strengthening of the democratic world
to resist Soviet Russia’s schemes for
another great war of conquest. It has
been made clear that, at the worst,
U.S.A. alone will sign, making a sort of
alliance with Japan in order to create
a counter to the Russian march towards
southern Asia. But, despite the flap over
the Soviet’s malevolent intrusion into the
treaty conference, it has not yet been
suggested that the affair will prove so
complete a failure as that.
The Russian aim has nothing to do
with peace for Japan or anyone else, but
is rather to dominate Asia and command
Asian resources for an eventual third
world war. To that end European and
American influence shall first be expelled
and all commercial treaties denounced ;
then, the way being clear, Soviet Russia
moves in. Pandit Nehru in India lends
no less ready an ear to Moscow than
Mao’s Communist outfit in China, and,
significantly enough, Nehru advances as
his reasons for refusing to attend the San
Francisco conference his objection to the
treaty terms which
Provide for U.S. troops to remain in
Japan, and U.S. trusteeship over the Ryukyu
and Bonin Islands (which includes Okinawa).
Fails to require the handing of Formosa
to Communist China.
Fails to approve Russian acquisition of
the Kurile Islands and South Saghalien,
north of Japan.
Nehru’s complaint is that U.S. occupa-
tion forces in Japan make Japan “an
American colony,” in defiance of “Asia
for the Asiatics,” though he ignores the
probable subjugation by the aggressive
Moscow-Peking combination of all Japan
and Formosa as well, thus opening a
wide breach in the American defence-
chain for the peace of the South Seas.
“Asia for the Asiatics” was, a brief
decade or so ago, the slogan under which
Japan planned her domination of Asia,
euphemistically called “co-prosperity.”
The Chinese, first under Chiang Kai-shek
and then under Mao’s Communist
revolution, made bids tor Japan's place
Chiang created a sensation by publishing
a book on these lines at the height of
his power. That Chinese aim is* gone
now save as one to serve Moscow which
looks to bring Asian “co-prosperitv”
altogether within the Iron Curtain where
it would be sunk out of sight. ’
Pandit Nehru’s voicing of “Asia for
the Asiatics” in the present connection
could not better serve Russia’s purposes
if it had been arranged in Moscow It
is of a piece with Nehru’s gestures of
friendship with Peking at a time when
Mao’s Communist civil war completely
destroyed the China of the Stalin treaty
as a designed member of the Big Five at
U.N.0., and was a direct affront to the
U.N. Charter. It is of a piece with
Nehru’s lip-support for U.N. action
in Korea to resist an act of aggression
aimed at forcing the Allied Occupation
Forces out of Japan and carrying civil
war into the Japanese islands also.
Of all the mainland States in eastern,
southern and western Asia whose peoples
were formerly at war with Japan, it
seemed at the weekend that only Pakistan
would attend the treaty-finalities. The
rest would all be represented by Soviet
Russia. Moscow’s agents have plainly
conveyed the desired line of action to
all the more important Asian quarters
where Russia’s wishes receive instant
attention and enduring priority. Peking
has ceased protesting about not being
invited. New Delhi refuses the invitation
offered.
There is a legitimate Asian point of
view. The procedure may leave Japan
in a formal state of war with all main-
land Asia, though at peace with the
Western Powers and ready to offer
service to the U.N. cause. True, India
has expressed its intention of signing a
separate peace with Japan, and Pandit
Nehru has even said the draft treaty is
“too hard” on our and his late enemy,
though his explicit objections to its terms
hardly bear out that complaint. But we
can understand better an Asian resent-
ment at being virtually required to sign
on the dotted line if we imagine circum-
stances in which all Western Europe,
including Britain, had completely
collapsed before Hitler, and America,
having throughout directed and borne the
burden of the German war, had drawn
up for a defeated and completely sub-
missive Germany a peace-settlement
which all Western Europe was required
to take or leave as it wished. The
parallel, of course, does not begin to
exist, but there is enough of it for the
professional mischief-makers of the
Kremlin.
Coming back to the facts, no peace is
being made or can be made at San
Francisco except between those who
intend to act towards each other honor-
ably and in the way of peace. As for
the mainland of Asia, there is little peace
anywhere to be brought to the conference
table. The Russo-Chinese Communist
bloc or its guerrilla allies are carrying on
a war of indefinite duration in Korea,
China, Tibet, Indo-China, Malaya and
Burma ; India and Pakistan are fully
mobilised against each other over
Kashmir; the Persian seizure of the
Abadan oil refineries is as much a trans-
Caspian design to lead the Soviet armies
to the Persian Gulf as a move in Tehran
to confiscate British investments; the
Arab States and Israel, all members of
U.N.0., are itching to renew their war;
and an Egyptian Government talks of
using force to deny any legitimate British
interests in the Suez Canal, “since India
is no longer a British connection.”
When sjuch protagonists of “Asia for
the Asiatics” affect indignation because
they are not allowed to prescribe the
terms of a treaty to bring peace for
Japan, there is much to be said for the
downright American stand. True, that
stand bears a disconcerting resemblance
to the overbearing Imperialist behavior
which in the past U.S. Congressmen dis-
tinguished behind every British dealing
in Asia, and it is not 30 years since
Washington demanded that Britain
should abandon the Anglo-Japanese
Alliance as (among other things) a big
stick held over Asia.
But whatever the American con-
science feels today, as the facts
of life make their impression, there
is doubtless real anguish in Washington
over the behavior of India’s Nehru. The
anguish will pass, along with the raw
national delusions which preceded it;
and a Washington spokesman might
assist the passage by conveying to Nehru
that everything he says about Formosa
is refuted by what he says about
Kashmir, and that he may carry “Asia
for the Asiatics” to a point where it re-
coils on him with a threat of forceful
expulsion of Indians from an Africa
beginning to demand “Africa for the
Africans.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Holland Wins Again.
The New Zealand elections have shown
convincingly that a country will always
stand by a Government which is prepared
to govern.
Challenged to go to the country after
only 18 months in office on the issue of
his firm handling of the industrial trouble
on the wharves and his anti-Communist
policy in general. Prime Minister Holland
accepted. With 70,000 postal and other
votes to be counted when this was written,
the Nationalists were likely not only to
win 48 seats out of 80 (a gain of two on
the 1949 results), but to have increased
their overall majority over Labor con-
siderably. Last time it was 50,705. This
time on the uncompleted poll the vote
was 518,721 to Labor’s 446,545
majority, 72,176, with the certainty that
the remaining count would improve the
position.
The elections were conducted in a
noisy atmosphere in some electorates,
but, generally speaking, Maorilanders
are a more stolid type than ourselves,
and they have plenty of butter and onions
and fewer complaints about the cost of
living. They were not taught even by a
Labor Government that the be-all and
end-all of life is to escape work and soak
the boss, though they had the 40-hour
week years ahead of Australia.
Part of the reason seems to lie in the
determination of M.L.’s Governments to
“serve the people, not dominate them,”
as expressed by Mr. Holland in his speech
of thanks after the poll. Part is due to
the fact that the electors, and not hidden
juntas of ex-Communists, still really
control politics and, therefore, their own
destinies, and that there is a universal
and intelligent interest in public affairs.
The dictum of Mr. J. A. Ferguson,
president of the Federal A.L.P., that the
worker does not care what controls he
is subject to so long as he has full
employment does not yet seem to have
penetrated to New Zealand, and the class-
war is still distasteful to the majority of
the Dominion’s voters, as shown by the
election result.
Overfull Employment.
From Auckland: A couple of Maori-
land Government economists who delved
into inflation have torn the mask from
the country’s full-employment policy,
which the Socialists spoiled by overdoing
things and saddling industry with overfull
employment until there were 30,000 or
more jobs going begging.
The cracks went so deep that in 20-odd
months since the Holland Government
took over it hasn’t been able to make
any headway against them, and most
Maorilanders are wondering why. These
economic sleuths, J. V. T. Baker and
H. G. Lang, have gone a long way to-
wards giving the answer, and there’s
nothing peculiarly Maorilandish about
their discoveries ; they apply to Australia
and other countries, too. As production
is wrapped up in employment, and New
Zealand is nearly as much in need of a
boost in output as Australia, the clues
ought to be headline news.
When the technical lingo and verbiage
are cleared away, the full-employment
goal is laid bare, and it’s nowhere nearly
as enticing as has been made out. It
takes toll of production, destroys mobility
of labor between industries and districts,
plays up with efforts to make the best
use of resources and breeds inflation.
Once full employment gets going full
blast it isn’t long before the pressure be-
gins to rise, and then it’s full steam ahead
into overfull employment, which was
reached in New Zealand shortly before
controls became the order back in the
early ’forties. Since then the aches and
pains have made life a burden for N.Z.
industry, with basic production hit most.
If, as in Maoriland, full or overfull em-
ployment is accompanied by unbalance
which has become difficult to control (the
pair say), it may be wellnigh impossible
to improve the balance without a major
retreat from high-employment levels, and
this is still true if prices are pegged and
goods rationed, because banked-up in-
flationary and other pressures operate be-
hind the controls. When the employment
goal is pursued beyond the safe point
there’s an end to stability. From then on
up goes the price-wage balloon. If con-
trols are tightened to hold it, this is like
sitting on the safety-valve of an engine;
in time, if the fires aren’t damped down,
there’ll be an explosion.
It’s no use putting faith in price-
controls, because this amounts to nothing
more or less than helping employment by
stifling inflation, which won’t die under the
treatment and will be harder to deal with
the longer it’s concealed.
There’s danger in rushing in the other
direction, too. That’s as bad as releasing
the safety-valve too quickly. The reaction
to a sudden swing away from full employ-
ment, sheltered by controls, to open com-
petition, free enterprise, and every man
for himself, is “more immediate and
startling” than reaction to absence or
control in an upward movement. The
sensible way is to change the conditions
that give rise to the pressures before
controls are unloosed ; otherwise there 11
be a price-wage spiral,
Maoriland’s problem (say Baker and
Lang) is:
1. To get rid of the controls which, in
the upward movement, checked natural
reactions enough to make the desirable
employment goal unattainable.
2. To find means by which inflationary
and other pressures banked up behind con-
trols may dissipate themselves as harm-
lessly as possible.
[They add: ‘‘The position in New Zealand
is that, with the present structure of the
economy, full employment takes economic
activity to a point where the economy J s
so out of balance that extensive controls
are essential to preserve economic order. J
Among the big hurdles are industrial
bottlenecks that dog enterprise when full
employment blossoms out in lack of
skilled labor, materials and plant, or in
monopolies. When this stage is reached
there’s nothing surer than that growing
demand will force up prices. There’s no
getting away from inflation if demand
can’t be matched by output.
Pacific Pact.
It was announced in the Sydney Press of
September 3 —anniversary of the outbreak
of World War ll—that “Australia, New
Zealand and the United States” had signed
the Pacific Security Pact at 8.55 a.m.
Sydney time.
The three Powers now stand to “resist
aggression in the Pacific.” Mr. Spender
(Australia) signed first. Sir Carl Berendsen
(New Zealand) second, and Mr.
Acheson a modest third, with the echoes
of saluting guns still in their ears. Though
the British National Anthem was played,
Britain, which guards our seas and whose
Navy is virtually integral with our own,
was not there. Neither was its flag. Nor
were the other Pacific and Indian Ocean
nations of the British Commonwealth.
Australia and New Zealand were alone
present from among them, and for the
first time in history it now seems techni-
cally possible for Australia and New
Zealand to be at war without the Mother
Country.
The words of the treaty are such as en-
visage the linking in future of Australian
policy and Australian defence with that
of the United States rather than with
Britain, since all commonwealths and in-
tegral unities of nations are based on de-
fence and “common destiny,” which, in
this case, “we three share.” A longer step
towards cutting the painter with Europe
was possibly taken on Sunday than some
of the ambitious signatories realise.
The obvious future seems to hold the
chance that the United States will want
to maintain still closer ties with us than
at present, and that before long we may
be asked for the same facilities as are
granted by the partners in the second
Pacific Security Pact which is being com-
pleted with Japan and the Philippines—
occupation by American troops.
It is about time that these major moves
by Ministries in the establishing of new
relationships with other countries began
to be subject to more local discussion
and perhaps to referenda. It has become
a sort of axiom in the new-fledged Ex-
ternal Affairs Department since the advent
of Messrs. Evatt and Spender that Aus-
tralia is a personal chattel to be given
away or mortgaged by Ministers or the
Commonwealth Parliament at will. Actu-
ally, despite the Commonwealth Consti-
tutional freedom to act on policy and
defence, there are still implications of
importance to be considered in the fact
that Australia is only a federation of
sovereign States and not a sovereign State
in itself. And the States have a. strong
case for a say in anything which is likely
to affect their allegiance or relationships.
Under the new agreement possibilities
arise which may be far-reaching. The
United States has a mutual defence pact
with the Philippines and expects (with
other nations concerned, perhaps) to make
similar arrangements with Japan. Aggres-
sion against Japan or the Philippines will
then mutually become aggression against
the United States, which in terms of the
new Pacific Pact means aggression against
Australia and New Zealand.
It is worth while to pause and consider
how much the Australian public opinion
in general might in some circumstances
relish being drawn automatically into a
war to resist attack on Japan or the
Philippines.
£45 Million Wool Refund.
From S. Ick-Hewins, general secretary of
the Graziers’ Association of N. S.
Wales:
While I have no complaint about the general
tenor of your article “Wool Scheme Rejected
(B. 29/8/’5l), I wish to draw attention to what
appear to be some misconceptions of fact.
The Reserve Wool Price Marketing Plan was
not first advocated as an anti-inflationary
measure. It was first put forward simply as a
plan to cushion sharp short-term downward
trends in the wool market. It was not unfit
after a draft plan had been considered m
London in January, 1950, that the question o
setting aside money in advance to finance a
plan arose. .
The Commonwealth Government then in-
formed Australian woolgrowers’ organisations
that it would not continue international dis-
cussions for the purpose of formulating a firm
plan unless woolgrowers’ organisations would
agree to the principle that the plan should be
mainly financed by growers. Growers weie
asked to assent to that principle on the under-
standing that, if they did assent, a 1\ Per,ce,nut-
levy would be imposed on wool proceeds lortfi-
with to build up a fund; the final plan would
be subject to growers’ approval, and the money
would be refunded to the growers if they
rejected the plan when it was finally submitted
to them. The woolgrowers assented to that
proposition. ,
A couple of months before the woolgrowers
referendum it was becoming general knowledge
that the plan would be turned down. It was
not until then that anyone began to talk about
the inflationary effect of handing back to wool-
growers the money they had voluntarily set
The plan has not been defeated on the ground
that the levy was unpopular, but mainly on
the score that the plan imported far too great
an element of Government control into the
marketing system. The plan was considered by
growers on its intrinsic merits.
The Wool (Reserve Prices) Fund Act, 1950,
provides that if there is not in operation on
September 13, 1951, a scheme of reserve prices
for wool, being a scheme which the Minister
is satisfied has the general approval of wool-
growers in Australia, the amount standing to
the credit of the Reserve Prices Fund shall be
distributed so as to effect a refund.
Girls—Get These Measles.
Any young fellow who feels that he
isn’t being noticed as much as he would
like by the opposite sex now has the
remedy at hand. All he need do is get
German measles, known medically as
rubella, advertise the fact that he’s con-
tagious, and if the girls know their busi-
ness they’ll rush to get close to him in
the hope of catching the disease.
At least that’s what they’re advised to
do by Dr. R. S. Walsh, Director of the
Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service,
who wants them to get the measles before
marriage so that if they happen to get
them afterwards they needn’t fear having
babies suffering from blindness, deafness
or heart trouble.
The whole thing is another triumph
for Australian medical research. Back
in 1941 Dr. Norman M. Gregg, Lecturer
in Ophthalmology at Sydney University,
and senior ophthalmic surgeon at Royal
Alexandra Children’s Hospital and Royal
Prince Alfred, discovered that birth
defects, including blindness and deafness,
in children were the result of German
measles in the mother during pregnancy.
For this discovery he received a Fellow-
ship from Toronto University.
Having discovered the cause, re-
searchers looked for a cure, and those
working under Sir Macfarlane Burnet at
the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute (Mel-
bourne) discovered that if the affected
mother could be given blood from an
adult recently recovered from German
measles her malady would be arrested
and the child saved from its effects.
The R.A.N. played its part. Sailors
were infected with the measles, then given
blood from one who had recovered from
them. They recovered quickly. Now all
adults with German measles (more
prevalent than many suppose) are urged
to give blood to the Red Cross as soon
as they recover, and any expectant
mother who contracts the disease is urged
to ask her doctor to arrange a trans-
fusion. But the best way to avoid the
danger is by catching the disease before
marriage.
There may be something humorous in
the spectacle of earnest young ladies going
about in search of German measles;
the amusement ought to be tinged with
admiration for the research-workers
and the naval ratings—who made the
cure possible, and have saved unborn
children from the dreadful effects of the
disease.
Revolt at Bathurst.
What the deuce has gone wrong in
Bathurst, the late Ben Chifley’s strong-
hold? Not only has the local Trades
and Labor Council rejected a motion that
it form a “No” committee for the forth-
coming referendum; it also refused to
contribute £lO 10s. to Dr. Evatt’s “No ’
campaign funds. The leading figures in
the revolt are members of the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, dominated for
years by Communists.
One member, E. Lavis, said Dr. Evatt
had not done the A.L.P. any good by
sponsoring a “No” vote, added that he
considered Russia to be the only menace
to Australia, and that unionists should
not be “threatened or coerced into voting
against their own judgment.” J. Starling,
the other, supported Lavis’s denunciation
of Communism, but opposed the pro-
posed legislation.
Mr. Starling is apparently one of those
“Labor” supporters, of whom there are
many thousands, who don’t like Com-
munism but believe the “Labor” propa-
ganda which alleges that Menzies’s deter-
mination to destroy Communism is an
attack on trade-unionism —a muddled
frame of mind for which the Federal
“Labor” leaders are directly responsible.
It is not known whether Dr. Evatt or
“Jackie” Ferguson has cancelled all other
appointments to rush to Bathurst in a
frantic effort to "convert the heretics.
Perhaps they’ve too many heretics on
their hands, since something similar to
the Bathurst notions evidently exists in
Victoria and Tasmania.
Weekend Penalty-rates.
From M. F. Dixon:
I cannot think of any custom so economically
unsound or so industrially unwarranted as the
payment of penalty rates for weekend work
which forms part of an ordinary five-day 40-
hour week, or whatever an award provides. The
tribunal which first sanctioned such payments
has a lot to answer for.
In the industrial revolution which followed
the outbreak of World War II the prejudice
against Sunday work became swallowed up in
an effort to keep factories going seven days a
week. Many employers were able to do this
by using labor from other industries in which
there was no call for more than a five-day week,
they found it cheaper to pay special rates for
such casual labor than to work their own staffs
the extra time at penalty rates.
No one could have foreseen that after the
war those who worked even part of the week-
end as portion of their regular five-day week
would demand, and receive, special payment for
it. The practice is now so widespread that most
workers in transport and some other industries
receive a special rate for Saturday and Sunday
work; where they work on both days the rate
for Sunday is usually double that of an ordinary
working day. . „
People who before the war had religious
scruples against working on the Sabbath now
find their consciences salved by the higher
wages offering; and even the most ardent race-
goer or football fan who in ordinary circum-
stances would refuse to forgo his Saturday-
afternoon “sport” is prepared to do so if the
bait is tempting enough. This is a most
unhealthy state of affairs, indicating that
people’s only interest in their jobs is what the)
yield in money and leisure. \Ve cannot hope tc
maintain a high standard of living on that basis
This so-called “bone,” in the shape of week-
end penalty rates, which has been handed tc
the workers will not be taken away from them
without a struggle. Unionists would regard a
ban on the payment of these rates as an “attack
on their hard-won rights.” It would be nothing
of the kind, since the workers themselves are
taxed, in one form or another, to pay the
penalty rates that some of their members now
receive for weekend work. In Sydney, for
example, tram and bus fares are higher on
Saturdays and Sundays; and there is a Sunda)
surcharge on meals and most other services.
I can think of only one way of bringing
things back to earth, and that is for the Govern-
ment to take its courage in its hands and declare
an open season for work on seven days a week,
with a five-day working week for all hands,
but no penalty rates for Saturday and Sunday
when they form part of an ordinary five-day
week. Think of the traffic problems that would
be solved if all our activities were spread over
seven days; think also of the increased factory
output and the stability in business and industry
generally. The churches would object, no doubt;
so would sporting bodies; and inevitably we
should have the theorists who would argue mat
if there icVt enough labor to run a bve-day
week the mo for a seven-day week would be
foredoomed to failure. .
Such arguments 'eave me cold. It is beyond
doubt that the more we try to compress our
ever-growing activities into a shorter working
week the more trouble N .ve build up for our-
selves. Let us reverse the for a change,
leave business and industry fi ’e to operate over
the longer week, with proper safeguards against
exploitation, and we shall soon, emerge from
the stagnation and frustration which are now
engulfing us.
Bewitched by Boards.
Six different Prices Controls and the
Lord knows how many different com-
modity-control boards, all engaged jdst
now in a “pull devil, pull baker orgy of
seizure, prosecution, orders and counter-
orders, threats and general muddle, have
demonstrated clearly —if any further
demonstration was necessary after the
experience of the past five years—that
the whole idea that Government chaps
can manage commerce better than any-
body else is a complete washout.
From Premier McGirr of N.S.W.,
using price-control powers for party-
political ends, down to the most stiff-
necked controller of eggs, or potatoes,
or canary-seed, the tale is one of contu-
sion worse confounded And the victim
all the way along the line is the hou
wife, now almost at the point of dementia
(Continued on next page.)


[For referendum matter requiring signature,
David Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, is
responsible.]
7
■
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
I
* 7 .{ m m m m>/\!
' * fh
mW
A”
mi
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
as she battles desperately to keep her
family fed.
Brisbane short of meat because
Queensland fixed prices are below those
of N.S.W. and the beef goes south;
N.S.W. short of butter because its butter
price is below that of other States, and
Queensland short of butter for the same
reason; N.S.W. dairy factories storing
butter and the State Prices Minister talk-
ing about seizing it; Victorian potatoes
consigned to N.S.W., where the price is
higher than in Victoria, seized by Vic-
torian railways at the order of Victorian
Potato Board (Section 92 of the Consti-
tution notwithstanding) and taken over
by the board ; potatoes being “smuggled”
over the Murray and sold at fabulous
prices ; thousands of bags of Tasmanian
potatoes rotting at Sydney showground
because the Tasmanian board won’t sell
them at N.S.W. prices ; South Australian
farmers suggest abolition of S.A. Potato
Board and are told that if they do it
“thousands of tons of Victorian and
W.A. potatoes” would be dumped in
S.A.; N.S.W. fixed potato prices laughed
at in Sydney market, where wholesalers
sidestep it in various ways; Victorian
Egg Board accused of holding eggs for a
price-rise until they had to be pulped;
Australians eating Japanese onions and
Russian and other foreign fish, but if an
N.S.W. citizen buys a fish direct from a
fisherman both are liable to prosecution.
All this and more while hordes of in-
spectors patrol the roads in search of
“smugglers” running food from one part
of the country to another, while Premier
McGirr uses his price-control for poli-
tical ends, while board officials publish
countless warnings and threats.
A lot more could be said, but that’s
enough to show what official interference
with the fundamental law of supply and
demand has done. That it applies to
things other than food is no consolation.
That the tendency is not to ease controls
but to tighten and extend them and that
the people accept all this with a fatalism
hitherto foreign to Australians means
that either they’re badly informed as to
what is going on or just don’t care. If
the latter is the case the bureaucrat has
established his dominion and our free-
dom —like butter and potatoes—is a
mere memory.
POLITICAL POINTS
Communist “Tribune” on “the most
democratic Constitution in the world”:
The Stalin Constitution was adopted in
the Soviet Union on December 5, 1936. It
is named after its great architect, Joseph
Stalin.
The Russians have never been given the
opportunity, by referendum or other
means, to have a say in their “most demo-
cratic” Constitution.
Calwell is listed to make a four-day
visit to Queensland in referendum week
to urge the “No” case. He is certain to
be applauded to the full by one section
of Queenslanders —the Communists.
Others will know they’re listening to
Calwell the politician, not Calwell the
man.
Queenslanders, used to invasions of
Federal politicians in winter-time, are to
suffer them again this month —it being
referendum season. Menzies, Holt,
Anthony, Casey and Townley are to put
the “Yes” case ; Evatt, Ward, McKenna,
Calwell and Daly to put the “No” case.
That’s if there is a “No” case.
A reserve animal for an event at
Harold Park “dogs” (Sydney) was Free
Loan, which a Sydney “Sun” tipster said
“cannot be discarded” from considera-
tion —if it raced. It didn’t. Another
prospective runner is Compulsory Loan,
which Victorian Half-Premier Mc-
Donald and Economist Copland say can’t
be “discarded from consideration” —as
the means of withdrawing “spending-
money” from circulation. It’s probably
another non-starter.
Seeking all sorts of ways of getting
money, the McDonald-Cains in Victoria
are now hinting at bumping up the permit
fees for road transport, and have been
eyeing the N.S.W. road-tax system. They
put it this way:
A semi-trailer weighing 20 tons with load
would pay only £5 between Melbourne and
Albury, but at 3d. a ton a mile it would
pay £BO between Albury and Sydney.
Higher Victorian charges would remove the
anomaly.
The N.S.W. revenue from this tax (last
year some £700,000) is paid direct to the
bankrupt State railways instead of being
used on roads. “Remove the anomaly”
is a polite way of saying “extend the
robbery.”
Melbourne toy-traders issued thousands
of a pamphlet with a harrowing illustra-
tion of emaciated Australian soldiers
lying on a bunk in a Japanese p.-0.-w.
camp with the caption “Have you for-
gotten? Ban Jap toys.” This didn’t
get the reception expected, particularly
from ex-p.-0.-w. “Vile propaganda,” the
Federal R.S.L. president Holland de-
scribed it. “The R.S.L. is opposed to the
entry of Japanese toys, but we must not
sink to this level in fighting against their
importation.” Besides, it was too much
like Commo posters attacking the J?'
peace treaty.
Strachey, one of those Britvsf Socialist
Ministers, made scath ; ence to
shareholders with “unear nnes”
big enough to live f owns
£10,170-worth of ordinary mares in the
independent capitalist weekly, “Spec-
tator,” and London '"Daily Telegraph”
notes that last year these shares paid a
tax-free dividend of 5 p.c. The paper
doubts if this is Strachey’s only source
of investment income, apart from his
' a year as a Minister. Here in
there’s a parallel in Premier Me-
Girr, who frequently assaults “vested in-
terests” with his tongue though belonging
to a family with large property interests.
Dr. Evatt is getting more and more on
the no-es.
Queensland Government has been
forced to declare the dairying part of
Central Queensland “a drought-stricken
area” so that milk-farmers there can get
fodder at half normal rail freights. Tis
said banks are refusing credit for the
purpose, and the State Agricultural Bank
is being invited to take up the burden,
but Acting-Premier Gair has hinted that
the S.A.B. will stick only to its own
clients. The same Mr. Gair would howl
to heaven if he heard of any other busi-
ness applying pressure under similar
circumstances.
For the third time B. J. Maguire,
Queensland’s Principal Electoral Officer,
is facing trial for the alleged forging of
ballot-papers in the Bulimba election in
April, 1950. Juries at two previous trials
disagreed. This time there are a new
judge and a new Crown prosecutor.
Describing commodity-control boards
as pressure-groups bent on “squeezing
as many pennies as possible out of the
consumer,” Victorian M.L.C, Warner said
that one way they managed it was to
refuse to sell second-grade goods. Thus,
though children wouldn’t mind a spotted
apple for 2d., they were forced to pay
6d. for an unblemished one and the
spotted one was wasted. This, of course,
applies to a lot of other eatables.
The McDonald-Cains seem to think
they might get nearer to balancing their
Budget by abolishing bookies and forc-
ing racecourse punters to use the tote.
Victoria could get closer to a balanced
Budget by abolishing the McDonald-
Cains.
Forecasting what everybody doesn’t
want a population-drift from Mel-
bourne’s outer suburbs to the heart of
the city—the Dean of the Faculty of
Architecture at Melbourne Uni. wants
the Government to build more flats in the
inner city. The Dean may not be a
Socialist, but what a Socialist ideal —to
get all the people in one place and
surround them with inspectors!
Inhabitants of a French village went
crazy after eating the local baker’s bread,
four died and others had to receive
hospital mental treatment. The mystery
became world news. Then toxologists
identified the cause as ergot-infested rye,
from which the flour was made, and said
the disease had been unknown since the
Middle Ages. Not in Australia. For
years now ergot-infested paspalum has
affected dairy-cattle with “three-day
sickness,” though no humans have suf-
fered, and our wheaten flour s Tee of
the stuff. Still, there are plenty of other
things calculated to drive Australians
crazy.
The Hanlons have re-elected E. J.
Walsh to the Cabinet as Acting-Minister
for something or other. One of Forgan
Smith’s bright boys, he defeated Fadden
for Mirani in 1935, was Lands Minister
in 1940 and then Deputy-Premier and
Transport Minister, lost Mirani to the
Agrarians, 'and last year outed “Bomb-
shell” Barnes from Bundaberg. His first
victim is now Federal Treasurer.
The mainland is short of coal, steel,
butter, spuds and sundry other items.
Tasmania is short of rain and its
harnessed lakes are drying up, so the
islanders are threatened with power-
rationing and daylight-saving, possibly
until 1954, which seems to be the year
which the Tasmanian Hydroelectric Com-
mission sees as bringing power develop-
ment up to needs. However, nobody has
so far thought of buying a ship to pump
power into the place from coastal points,
which is about all N.S.W. seems to have
in mind.
Mr. Conde, the N.S.W. Electricity
Commissioner, has been heard from
again, this time saying that he will ask
the McGirrs to “consider buying generat-
ing plant from Japan.” Strange, a week
or so earlier he was assuring everybody
that he’d lined up the Americans, got
priorities and other things, and N.S.W.
could expect generators almost in the
next mail.
A Sydney “Herald” man went in search
of Premier McGrrrrr and Acting Prices
Minister Downing at the weekend to see
what they intended doing about the
N.S.W. butter shortage. Neither was
“available.” Maybe McGrrrrr was getting
his orders from Dr. Evatt.
A Queensland “Labor” member named
Donald, claiming that the Canberra de-
cision to sack 10,000 Commonwealth
employees was the “beginning of an un-
employment pool,” asserted that eight of
10 public servants were as productive as
private-enterprise employees. “If any are
to be dismissed,” he wept, “let it be
those who are inefficient.” What, and
bust the union law of “last on, first off”?
Queensland’s jury system is to be “dis-
cussed” by the State Cabinet, following
reports of “weakness” and “rigging.” The
opinions of some of the judges would be
worth hearing.
The “West Australian’s” Canberra
man suggests that appointment of R. G.
Osborne, a member of the Chifley-created
Australian Broadcasting Control Board,
to the Commonwealth Bank Board, and
resignation of Olive Ogilvy from the
A.8.C.8., leaving only chairman L. B.
Fanning, means the end of the A.8.C.8.
No flowers, by request.
Among the many things coming out
in the inquiry into the running of the
Victorian Egg Board was this gem: In
1949 the board upped the price of eggs
so suddenly and severely that people
stopped buying them and thousands of
cases had to be pulped. So the pro-
ducers didn’t get even the ordinary price
and the consumers didn’t get eggs. But
nobody on the Egg Board suffered. No
private firm would conduct business like
that, yet these board chaps are perfectly
convinced that they, and they only, are
capable of marketing goods.
Federated Taxpayers’ Conference in
Melbourne was told by a Sydney dele-
gate that Australians are receiving nearly
£184,000,000 a year in social services, in-
cluding education, allowances —about £23
a head. The “enormous increase” in
these Government handouts, he said, “is
mining the independent spirit of the
people; they cannot continue on the
present scale, and they are a main con-
tributing factor to inflation.”
From London; Recent hurried goings
and comings among Attlee’s Ministers
have been somewhat breathtaking.
Wilson went out, with grace and dignity,
and may yet decide to quit politics. The
way things are going he may have no
option, for his majority at the 1950
general election was only 830 out of a
44,500 poll. He could, of course, change
his constituency, or float placidly into a
“safe” seat at a by-election. This is what
actually happened to the two new law
officers. Sir Frank Soskice and A. L. Un-
goed-Thomas. Both were defeated at the
general election. Soskice had a by-
election specially “created” for him, the
then sitting member being elevated to the
Upper House. Sir Hartley Shawcross,
new president of the Board of Trade has
one uncommon distinction—his promo-
tion, for such it was, meant a drop in
salary from £lO,OOO a year to £5OOO.
Reported that Federal Cabinet is
reviewing the national economy “at the
highest level.” Does this mean the
highest level the cost of living is likelv
to attain?
Professor Oliphant considers carting
coal about the country is “one of the
silliest things man does.” He’s probably
right, but it is sillier still to leave it in the
ground just because the Miners’ Federa-
tion won’t allow its members to extract
it from pillars which experts say can be
safely worked.
S.A. Parliamentarians have given them-
selves a cost-of-living increase which
bumps up their salaries to a maximum
of £1225 for those living furthest away
from Adelaide. That means that South
Australians still get their politicians at
£l5O-a-nob cheaper than citizens of the
Ma State—and they don’t lose on quality,
either. Yet M.L.As. in the McGrrrrr
talking-shop are not denying reports that
they are about to grab another £5OO a
year.


SZSES7
SEPT
111
SEPT
17
,\9'
Strt
\\t
StPT
15
SEPT
114
U)HAT Iv£ 6e£N
C?OlNO WHIU& YOU U)&3E
away, P£AR? UKG
A COAT OP PAINT TO
PRgSHeK UP A PLACS
15 THSR£ ?
WHEN THE WIFE’S AWAY


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Harbel”: Nearly 35 years ago I saw a
film about the French Revolution ; not a
skerrick of the plot has been retained in
my memory, but one thing 1 have remem-
bered through the years —the unbelievably
long, thin loaves of bread that somebody
bought, somewhere, in the picture. Some
28 years later I saw the film version of
“Bitter Sweet.” In the garret scene the
hero, having struck a bit of luck, brought
home the wherewithal for a grand cele-
bration. Prominent among the pro-
vender were a couple of loaves of the
elongated dodger. The sight immediately
recalled my childhood puzzle; Why do
they make it like that? Last week in
a Sydney shop-window I saw several
specimens of the loaves in the —well.
“It's a little de-luxe attachment of my own."
flesh might not be the right word. There
was something nostalgic about them. I
was wondering whether I’d look an idiot
if I asked for “one of those long, skinny
loaves,” when a foreign-looking woman
emerged with an armful of parcels, a long
loaf and a refractory child. The kid was
one of those “darters-away.” He ignored
what was obviously a frenzied recall from
his mother. She pursued ; he kept his
lead. Suddenly, like a swordsman un-
sheathing his weapon, the lady drew the
loaf from under her arm. Bonk! It
stopped the fugitive in his tracks. After
35 years I had found the answer to a
riddle.
# * * *
“V. Cluse”: As one who toils for a
fixed salary not improved by basic-wage
rises, and seriously disimproved (pardon,
I’ve been reading a Government book-
let) by galloping living costs, my hopes
of some day owning my own home now
depend on the supply of hollow-logs
holding out. It was with deep interest,
therefore, that I read in the N.S.W. Hous-
ing Commission’s annual report that “ad-
vances for home-building” fell by
“almost 50 per cent.” during the last six
months of the financial year. Since these
advances are limited to £1540 to owners
of land whose incomes don’t exceed £l2
a week, I’m not surprised. The commis-
sion puts it down to rising building costs.
I put it down to the basic-wage rises,
overtime, blackmarket wages and sundry
other things which have resulted in few
people in the home-building class getting
less than £l2 a week. And what help
would £1540 be to a man on £ll 19s. lid.
a week?
* * * *
“Harry R.”: Wharflaborers and
workers of other unions claim, and are
paid, appearance-money. An old Bris-
bane street-musician whose stand —or,
rather, seat—is just outside Central
Station, on the Anzac-square side of
Ann-street, put in an unusual and rather
poignant appeal for “disappearance-
money.” Train-travellers one day last
week who used -the Anzac-square route
saw only the old regular’s empty mando-
lirt-case, with a battered old felt hat
alongside, in which, apparently incentively
deposited, were a few coins. Prominently
displayed near by was a cardboard sign
on which, in large and evidently hastily-
written letters, was the one portentous
and explanatory word: Gastritis.
* * * *
“Terence L.”: When broadcasting at
the Brisbane Show I used to bring to the
microphone personalities who I con-
sidered might have something of interest
to say. It was a chancy business, as I
found when I presented to our listening
audience “The champion whip-cracker
of Australia.” Gently but firmly he
moved me aside, and, possessively grip-
ping the microphone, declared;
“Champion whip-cracker of Australia?
Huh! Champion of the b world!
Good afternoon, ladies and gents ...”
* * * *
“Lou”: Where is it going to end, this
compounding of chemicals with jaw-
breakers? A Victoria “Gazette” has
decreed that no person shall sell, without
an approved label, the • insecticide
dimethylparanitrophenylthiophosphate (36
letters and, my guess, 13 syllables),
Another insecticide was mentioned with
35 letters, spelt as above without the “m.”
In another “Gazette” the Minister for
Agriculture determined a quota for
butter at “one hundred point nought
nought per cent.” That’s an unequivocal
pronouncement if ever there was one.
Immediately underneath he determined a
quota for cheese likewise at “one hundred
point nought nought per cent.” The old
sub-editorial maxim: “When in doubt,
leave out,” should be applied here. All
those noughts could be loopholes through
which the scheming butter-and-cheese
men could sneak another hundredth part
of a quota.
* * * *
“Bo”: It behoves none who dwell in
Sydney and its environs to be basely
ungrateful for the thoughtful adjurations
aimed at us in innumerable small panel
“When I make puff-pastry I only put in HALF that amount .”
ads. in the dailies to use less and less
electricity, thereby making the Power
Authority’s deficit bigger and bigger in
order to force the rates higher and higher.
As a householder I had always taken an
especial pride in the size of my electricity
bills. To this end I always encouraged
the family to leave as many lights burning
as possible. My favorite sport of watch-
ing the iron, left on after the ironing was
all done, get white-hot, pursued so that
I could savor to the full the looks of
rage and frustration of my neighbors
when I triumphantly flaunted my bigger
bill, I will now curb. I even rushed out
and spent £6 on a pressure-cooker be-
cause the Power Authority urged me to
use one to save electricity; I calculate it
will take me only 24 years to recoup this
capital outlay, plus compound interest on
it, through the saving in power that this
shall effect. What a pity it is, for the
sake of the children’s happiness, that
soap-making were not a Socialist
monopoly like electricity-making, instead
of being in the hands of pitilessly-efficient
private enterprise!
♦ * * *
“Bagot”: Flood of applicants for un-
claimed lottery prizes (B. 1/8/’51)? In
the early days of the totalisator a South
Australian club announced that a clerk’s
error had caused a considerable under-
payment to investors on one of the
previous Saturday’s winners. The de-
ficiency would be made good to backers
lodging statutory declarations affirmed
before a Commissioner of Oaths. Then
came the deluge; 90 tickets had been
sold—2ooo solemn declarations were
received. In the end the club paid the
money to charity.
* * * *
“E.M.C.”: Two Australians, Jo and
Stephan, both “new,” and young Harry,
an “old,” were arguing in the hut the
other evening about the use of the word
cinema. Harry contended that the word
was not used in Australia, and that
“pictures” was correct. Jo argued for
“cinema” in a mixture of Yugoslav, Ger-
man and English. Called in as mediator,
I explained diplomatically that both
terms were permissible, and as the bet
was for 10s. I suggested that Jo pay Harry
ss. and Harry reciprocate with five-bob.
Later Jo picked up an old envelope on
which Harry had been scribbling, and
pointed to a word written on it.
“Cinema?” he queried. Phonetically it
was correct, sinnemar, and Harry ad-
mitted to the spelling. I’ll admit Harry’s
only a youngster and hasn’t had much
schooling, but Jo had no right to say
“Harry no understand English!”
■** * *
“Ike Hollar”: Again under fire for
potholes that can be made to look like
bottomless chasms in photographs taken
by artificial light, Sydney roads have
always been a subject of bitter criticism.
Away back in 1832 it was recorded that
“between 25 and 30 vehicles” which had
sunk so deeply into the road during heavy
rains had to be abandoned on the
Parramatta-road and dug out by working-
gangs when it dried. If the roads are
bad today the badness is as nothing
compared with that of the early years of
this century before the growth of the
army of motorists created a clamor for
something like smooth surfaces; early
motorists had to contend with bumpy
conditions ruinous to axles. I remember,
after heavy rains, seeing a buggy and a
wagon both sunk to over the axles in
Oxford-street opposite Centennial Park.
It was near the Ferndale Hall, now
turned into a night-club, but then a cheap
dance-hall. The old-time pushes fought
many a pitched battle near the hall;
blue-metal from the roads was their
recognised ammunition; and the old
macadamised roads, which had other
drawbacks, developed spinal weakness in
spots which the larrikins regarded as their
ammunition-dumps.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Haven’t seen it here yet,
but one of the best dance-steps I’ve seen
came from a Digger at Milne Bay. A
group of Papuans
were singing
hymns in a cocount
grove. Slim sat
listening. Came a
lull in the harmony
and Slim got to his
feet, discarded his
shirt and began a
complicated series
of dancing-steps, a
cross between a
polka and a cat on
hot-bricks. It got
the fuzzies in properly. They were still
doing the “Papuan Polka” long after I
hit the hay.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The old Prince of Wales
Hotel at Sandringham (Sydney) is on the
way out, erosion of the soil threatening
its foundations and already having
brought down some of the big trees, mak-
ing the place dangerous. With its sur-
rounding picnic-grounds, which had
attached aviaries and native animal en-
closures, it was one of Sydney’s most
popular resorts in the closing decades of
last century, when Sydneyites took
their picnicking seriously. With others,
I went to see Randolph Bedford
there, but he told us through his door
that he had locked himself in and pushed
the key out to a servitor with strict in-
structions to keep it until he had finished
three stories he was writing for The
Bulletin. When, by appointment, we
met him at The Bulletin office next day,
he was coming down the stairs waving
the pay-docket for the three yarns. While
I was only a toddler my elder brother
and myself had had a busy morning
gathering the “soldier - crabs that
swarmed on the beach in front of the
hotel. When we went in to lunch we
placed our tied-up handkerchiefs, tilled
with our gatherings, under the table. Ihe
first indication that the little crawlers
were getting out and about came when
some of the women rose from me table
with little screams, shaking their skirts—
very long skirts in those days. Soon the
feminine squeals were general, so was
the skirt-shaking, and there was a panic
rush of women from the dining-room lor
places where they could modestly make
adjustments.
DAIRYTALE.
“Police are trying to catch gun-happy weekend
picnickers who, they allege, are killing and wounding
stock in the Little Hartley (N. S. Wales) area.”
Jim Trumble was a city lad;
His ignorance was utter.
He said, “I’m going picnicking
To shoot a pound of butter.
“Mum says the butter shortages
Are decimating her;
She says the ration’s meagre,
But she blames it on McGirr.
“From all such footling argument
I mean to stand aloof;
As there’s no butter on my bread,
I’ll get it on the hoof.”
Don’t ask if he went up or down,
Or where he came to stop,
For, wheresoever it was spent,
His weak end was on top.
But, as upon a broadcast by
An oyster-feed champeen,
He came at last to where the herd
Was grazing on the scene.
Jim loaded up his .303,
And took a steady aim.
And though he missed the cows, he scored
A bull’s eye, all the same.
The dairyman came rushing up,
And he began to curse:
“You silly cow, you’ve shot my bull,
For butter or for worse!”
“Oh, my mistake,” said Trumble,
As he resumed his gun.
“A mere head-butter will not do —
I’ll shoot an udder one.”
But here the farmer shouted, “No!”
And issued loud commands,
And having taken Trumble’s arms,
Consigned him to his hands.
They marched Jim Trumble into town
And threw him into jail,
Where he remains without a cow,
But much in need of bail.
May trigger-happy picnickers
By this tale be deterred:
How poor Jim Trumble worked to get
A buttered loaf —but erred.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


NOW YOU CAN
£&WHY
p/IDSOH
BRITISH-MADE
PATENT DRY SMOKE PIPE
IS SUCH A
SMOKING
SUCCESS
Men who like a smoke that’s really dry say
that smoking a “Dadson Patent Dry Pipe is
a grand experience. Andrew McGee suggests
4 good reasons why Dadson gives a perfect
smoke. It’s all due to the remarkable absor-
bent in the cooling chamber which provides:
1. A DRY SMOKE because the absorbent soaks
up all moisture entering the stem from the smoker’s
mouth.
2. A COOL SMOKE because the hot smoke
impinges on the absorbent instead of on to the
smoker’s tongue.
3. A HEALTHY SMOKE because pyridine (the
poisonous part of nicotine) is separated by the
cooling action into the absorbent.
4. AN ECONOMICAL SMOKE because every
shred of tobacco is smoked. No wet “dottle” is
left in the bowl as in ordinary pipes.
I
I
A wide variety of shapes—Finest London-made briar.
37/6
Mail Orders
Accepted
ANDREW NTGEE
1 CASTLEREAGH ST., 70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
A
/
IT'S THE
ABSORBENT
THAT DOES IT/
BOWL
SCREWS OFF
- PERMITS
CAST CLEAN/NS
mSORBENT
TRAPS JUICES
— COOLS SMOKE/
“Clooter”; One of these days some
penetrating writer will make a list of
the more patent absurdities of govern-
ment in this enlightened land and awaken
his fellows to demand some reforms —
that is, if Australians aren’t already
eternally damned to a meek acceptance of
rule by numbskulls. The foregoing out-
burst is inspired by the fact that in my
N.S.W. letterbox the other day I found
an envelope containing application-forms
for tickets in an “inter-State consulta-
tion” (I’m not permitted to name it in
print by N.S.W. law), accompanied by a
free gift of two books of matches, on the
covers of which were printed details of
the gamble. Now I learn from the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary that, although
N.S.W. runs a lottery and the other State
runs a lottery, both legalised by the
respective State laws, N.S.W. law regards
all other lotteries but its own as “foreign,”
and anyone advertising, selling or buying
tickets in, or even announcing the results
of, a “foreign” lottery is liable to a heavy
fine and sundry other penalties. This led
me to contemplate the spectacle of the
Sydney Government prosecuting the Bris-
bane Government over the letterbox
matter, but I now learn that the Bris-
bane Government is safe, since it dis-
owns the matches and “does not sell
tickets in N.S.W. That is done by Golden
Investments.” Dopes like me wonder
where the Commonwealth mails come in
and whether lottery tickets come under
that section of the Australian Constitu-
tion which guarantees freedom of trade,
commerce and intercourse among the
States; but, then, dopes like me are
always wondering about something or
other.
* * ♦ *
“Sackville”: For years I have been
accustomed to hear the question bandied
from sister to spouse, spouse to sister:
“Is my slip showing?” I gathered that to
expose the rather characterless garment
known as a “slip” was the positive limit
in immodesty. Apparently a girl could
wear a French swimsuit and still keep
her self-respect, but not even a strip-tease
artist would be seen walking along the
street with her slip showing. In the face
of that I naturally felt a little sorry for
the girl I saw recently mincing down the
footpath in blissful ignorance that her
dressmaker had neglected to sew the last
4in. of a skirt seam, thereby exposing a
portion of the tabooed garment. When
a similarly stigmatised flapper passed me
I began to reflect on the slipshoddiness of
contemporary dressmaking. But after the
fifth or sixth short-stitched seam realisa-
tion came —this was done deliberately ;
it must be the vogue! It is a dangerous
thing to come to conclusions about the
sex, but I am faced with the startling
evidence that, in the feminine view, it is
immodest unintentionally to reveal
hidden mysteries, but when you do it
purposely—well, that’s different.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Is anything on offer
regarding the origin of ‘Never-Never,”
as applied to portion of the Northern
Territory and north-western Queensland?
It was in vogue, of course, long before
Mrs. Gunn made it widely current
through We of the Never Never, first pub-
“ That's how I left mine this morning—only had time to wash-up."
lished in 1908. Reference books ascribe
the first use of the term “Never Never
Land” to 1884, but The Bulletin of
22/4/1882, referring to Dick Skuthorpe’s
failure to produce alleged relics of
Leichhardt, remarked that he “retired to
his station on the ‘Never-Never,’ and
there sulked like Achilles in his tent.”
Moreover, a Queensland country paper,
the St. George “Standard,” also used
“Never-Never” in quotation-marks, and
in relation to Skuthorpe, in the same
period—September, 1881. There is a
vague and silly tale that the title is a
variant of “Nievah vahs,” said to be
aboriginal for unoccupied land; much
more acceptable is the suggestion that it
was born of the assertion that persons
knowing the region never, never wanted
to return to it —a statement now usually
amended to read that those who really
know the area never, never want to leave
it.
* * * *
“Kali”: A Chinese-crewed steamer
arrived at Semarang on the east coast of
Java recently ; the captain reported the
death of a sailor the previous evening ;
and the Health Officer gave a certificate
for burial. The crew prepared a Chinese
funeral for the departed: fireworks and
the burning of paper-money and a photo-
graph of the dead man ; and they pro-
cured an enormous coffin from the local
dealer. That evening a gay procession
left the ship for the Chinese cemetery,
where the coffin was interred. A Customs
official developed deep suspicions. He
knew that the bones of practically every
Chinese seaman who dies are taken back
to his homeland to be deposited with those
of his ancestors. So the grave was watched.
Soon after midnight Customs men
pounced on three Chinese who had just
about disinterred the coffin. Inside the
casket the cadaver had suffered a meta-
morphosis into 300 tins of flist-grade
opium. * * *
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: I learn from my morning
paper that 23 French villagers, after eat-
ing the village baker’s bread, suffered
mental derangement and had to be taken
to a mental hospital. It’s a mystery to
the French. Had it happened in Sydney
the only possible conclusion would have
been that the victims were shocked to
discover butter on the bread.
* * * *
“Airs-crew”; Navigators of Bomber
Command were provided with large
canvas bags for maps and their various
tools of trade. My crew at Brunting-
thorpe O.T.U. regarded it as an excellent
depository for odds and ends —the skip-
per’s scarf, the gunner’s camera, a pull-
over, the sandwich-packet and divers
other articles would weigh it down.
Encumbered with this, a Mae West, para-
chute-harness, parachute and sextant, I
would clamber up the ladder into the
nose of our Wellington. One night I
plumped down in my compartment,
extracted doovers from the bag, sorted
out my gear, then groped for the para-
chute. It was missing. I’d left it in the
truck. I clicked on the R.T. to find out
if there was time to get it. “Hey, Skipper,
I’ve left my ’chute behind.” But the
squadron-leader taking the check had
just switched on, and my ears reddened
at his reply, “This time, son, you can be
a blanky hero.”
* * H= *
“W.M.H.”: Not only officialdom
offends with flowery English. Some
“reports” of Test cricket read like a
review of opening night at the ballet.
But for sheer, flamboyant nonsense this
effort by an English soccer scribe takes
some beating. “The dashing pivot, with
the grace of a ballet-dancer, circum-
navigated the penultimate defender to
steer the leather orb past the baffled
custodian into its destined haven.”
* * * *
“Willpar”: In Moresby in 1944,
secure in the knowledge that the Jap had
been stopped on the Kokoda Trail 18
months earlier, we were inclined to relax
both nervous-systems and vigilance. It
therefore came as a shock one tropical
night in the combined Australian-
American Fighter Control-room to hear
on our own broadcasting frequency an
unintelligible jibber-jabber-grunt of great
clarity and volume. A quick call to Army
intelligence and much panic; then the
broadcaster was tracked down—in the
radio-room attached to our own shack.
Dressed in his American uniform and
wearing two stripes the full-blooded Red
Indian was passing signals to a fellow-
tribesman, stationed on the other side
of Papua, in his native tongue. No code
being necessary, the service was fast and
foolproof. Any Jap who picked it up
must have been just as puzzled as we
were.
* * * *
“Chev”: Richmond (Vic.) Football
Club president wants bottled soft drinks
banned on all grounds—too many bottles
get thrown at the players, the throwers
being mainly girls and young men. Who
says Melburnians don’t take sport seri-
ously?
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”; The chap who
wanted to know how women have con-
trived to alter their shapes from genera-
tion to generation (B. 27/6/’5l) evidently
has not studied the various devices by
which women manage to make them-
selves seem what they are not. Apart
from such afflictions as wasp waists, now
fortunately forgotten, all sorts of tricks
can be played with dress; downward
stripes can give an appearance of slender-
ness even to the buxom, and horizontal
stripes are a counter to overthinness ; but
these are merely the simplest devices. A
surf-girl of my acquaintance decided to
go to a ball in a dress of the Empire
fashion —the sort that showed the sloping
shoulder* which once were regarded as
a grace in women. How she did it,
heaven knows, but this muscular modern
girl looked the Empire-period lady to
perfection—sloping shoulders, graceful
neck and all. Incidentally, the phrase
“swanlike neck” has always seemed rather
horrible to me. References such as those
to Edith of the Swan-neck and Annie
Laurie, whose “neck was like the swan,”
have always created in my mind the
impression of a lady who is able to crane
her head over backward, and do up her
back buttons with her teeth.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania has opened an
unusual war memorial in the midlands
town of Ross, named by Macquarie when
he visited Van Diemen’s Land 130 years
ago: a community centre providing
reading - room, sports - room, public
library, etc. It was built in 1836 by
convicts as an ordnance office, and served
for a long time as the Ross Council
Chambers. Part of the old building has
been preserved and part enlarged and
extended. It is possibly the only build-
ing in Australia bearing the coat-of-arms
of the British Ordnance Corps.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Most of the intriguing
nomenclature of British pubs dates from
a century or so back. An exception is
the Drunken Duck, a pleasant inn, on
Lake Windermere, whose tag dates
from the occasion on which a crowd of
R.A.A.F, types on leave whiled away a
Sabbath morn in introducing the inhabit-
ants of the inn’s dockyard to the Demon
Drink. The Drunken Duck was one of a
chain of pubs maintained by Lord Nuffield
as leave-centres for Air Force crews.
Accommodation was gratis, though guests
had to buy their own beer. There was
no bar in the ordinary sense; the public
taproom was closed and the liquor, all
bottled, was stored in rooms in crates,
to which guests had access. Under the
honor system the drinkers took what beer
they wanted and wrote their names on a
slate, squaring up at the end of their
stay. The proprietors claimed that there
was always more cash paid in than was
necessary to account for the bottles con-
sumed. This was because it was
de rigueur for all drinkers to sign for 10-
bob’s more worth of grog than they
remembered taking, as a surety against
inadvertent discrepancies during purple
patches.
SOUND PSYCHOLOGY.
“A specialist writing in a medical journal says
food should never be taken after one has been emo-
tionally upset.”
The paterfamilias.
Contentedly sipping
His mulligatawny, might get
Straightway rather bilious.
Resulting in skipping
The meal, to his rageful regret,
If they told him young Wally
Had borrowed a chopper
And hacked Daddy’s golf-clubs in two,
Or that Peter, the collie,
Had bitten the copper—
And, well, to be frank, wouldn’t you?
Whether sylph-like and nifty,
Or 40-inch-waisted,
No sensible wife, you’d suppose,
(Especially if thrifty)
Before he had tasted
His dinner, would coyly disclose
To her lord that she’d mashed up
Two mudguards that morning
And into the grill put a bend.
The meal that she’d hashed up—
Her nous would be warning—■
Would knock his digestion on end
The fellow who’s thinking
Of daringly biting
The boss for a rise should use tact.
It’s no use of blinking
This fact: he’s inviting
A blow to his digestive tract
If before lunch he chooses,
Despite the injunction
Of medical men who should know,
And his stomach refuses
Its usual function —
Emotional storms treat it so.
That acute indigestion
From flared-up emotion,
While eating, will always occur
Is, without any question,
A hard-headed notion
Long known to the restaurateur.
Perforce, he’s expert in
Psychology, meeting
The fancies of Jack and his Jill.
That’s why waiters make certain
That you’ve finished eating
Before they trot in with the bill!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Eurimburra”; “Look, Johnno, no
more—you’ve been on it all day,” said
Bung. “Take him home, someone, or he'll
be seein’ ’em,” the last in a whisper. Low
as it was, however, Johnno heard and,
clutching the bar, croaked with great
dignity; “Awri’, I’ll remove my unwanted
preshensh unashisted, thanksh,” and with
a bow that was nearly catastrophic turned
and slid into the night. “Betcha he comes
back,” said Bert. Ten minutes later there
came an urgent hammering on the door.
“Let him in, for heaven’s sake, or he’ll
bring all the Johns for miles,” barked
Bung. Johnno, white as a ghost, fell in
the open doorway and grabbed Bert.
“Ellyphunts, cornin’ over bridsh, dozens
of ’em! ” he panted. “One cow putsh arm
roun’ me neck an’ pinched me hat!”
“C’mon,” said Bert, “we’ll drive him
home,” and out they went. “Gripes!
what’s that?” howled Joe. Johnno made
a bolt for the bar. “Ellyphunts—look
out!” he yelled. They were, too; slowly
they came up the main street, trunks
swaying from side to side. Perched be-
tween the ears of the leading mammoth
was Johnno’s lid. Wirth’s had come to
town.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”; Shades of Rolf
Boldrewood’s Captain Starlight and the
Marstons! Nine cattle held in connection
with a stealing charge in the Roma (Q.)
district were guarded closely by the police,
by day being herded in the police-pad-
dock ; by night locked up in the police-
yard with a policeman keeping watch—
two constables were brought specially
from Brisbane for the purpose. In the
early hours of the morning of the in-
tended trial in the police court —long be-
fore daylight—the officer on guard went
indoors, it is alleged, and on returning
some 20 minutes later found an empty
yard with the padlocked chain on the
gate cut through. The alarm was im-
mediately given and the roads searched in
all directions. It was not until about nine
o’clock that the bodies of the cattle were
discovered in saleyards beyond the far end
of the town; they had been shot through
the head and the ears and brands cut
away. When it is considered that the
Roma police-yard is closed in on three
sides by a brick courthouse, the police
offices and quarters respectively, and is
situated in almost the centre of the prin-
cipal residential area, the daring nature
of the “lifting” can be rightly assessed.
There was much police activity that day,
and it is even said that anyone who
yawned in the street made himself im-
mediately suspect as having been abroad
at hours when he “shouldn’t ought to” and
liable to questioning accordingly. In an-
other part of the Roma district, a gent,
claims to have been challenged and had a
bullet fired over his head by another gent,
for no reason beyond his looking round
his own cattle on his own land. The
“shootee,” who, like Mark Twain, “went
away from there then,” states that the
trigger-happy gent, of the other part was
seated on a high rock above a spring
where the cattle watered, and that he wore
a “Hopalong Cassidy” outfit and had a
handkerchief-mask over his face. The
police are making inquiries, but there
appears to be no connection with the
earlier escapades, unless it is that some
germ or bug of sorts is invading the
country,
* * * *
“Puloh Tikus”; The atoll of Cocos-
Keeling (to give it its correct name), which
will soon form an integral part of the
projected Australia-Africa air service, is
the home of the giant robber-crabs, which
live on coconuts but will not turn down
a bit of human flesh when the oppor-
tunity occurs. One badly-injured Malay
was torn to pieces and eaten during my
spell on this paradise, while a white
supervisor was well on the way to the
same fate after being held down by a
fallen tree ; he was rescued just in time.
A fully-grown crab weighs up to 201 b.,
and the strength of his claw is such that
it can snap a broom-handle easily. From
the front the monster presents an invul-
nerable defence, but it can be handled
safely enough from the rear. We kept
“Spar-row in the tree-top , spar-row in the tree-top ”
them in heavy oil-drums ; no wooden
container would hold them.
*** . *
“Mat’s Mate”: Lanky, a lengthy cove
we’d associated with for several weeks.
suddenly outfitted himself with a new suit,
a pink striped shirt and green tie, not only
shaved closely but rubbed cream into his
leathery dial, became meticulous about his
fingernails and generally cavorted like a
17-year-old youth who falls in love with
y JQ/p) o
“Dogs are funny things—all shapes and sizes. "
the postmistress. Both of us had com-
monly referred to Lanky as that old so-
and-so, and we took notice When,
accoutred and pomaded, he was sighted
squiring the daughter of a local farmer.
The young lady had every appearance of
being fully 16 years of age, whereas
Lanky—well! Anyhow, we began to tease
him, but stopped it when we discovered
that Lanky was seriously infected with
love. “But,” Mat blurted, “she’s only a
kid. Lank. You could be her father.”
“Whadda y’ mean!” snorted Lank. “I’m
24, I’ll admit, but that ain’t so bleedin’
old.” Mat looked at him. “Strike me
fat,” he marveled. “I always thought y’
had a pretty good reach, Lank., but I
never thought y’ could reach back that
far!”
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: The curator at the Perth
museum who barely survived the tiger-
snake bite (B. 1/8/’5l) would have won
the sympathy of Frank Buckland, one-
time Inspector of Fisheries of England
and Wales, and the man who introduced
trout and salmon to Australia, Buckland
was bom to be a naturalist: his father.
Dean of Westminster, started the
Geological Museum of Oxford, and was
assisted in his work by a wife of scientific
taste and with a talent for accurate draw-
ing ; and their home and garden were
menageries harboring guinea-pigs and
frogs, snakes and ferrets, hawks and
owls, even a hyena. Buckland himself
was insatiably curious, a trait that almost
cost him his life. Wanting to see the
effect of cobra-poison on a rat, he put
one in the cobra’s cage. After the rat
was killed he examined it, and, failing to
find any external wound, he skinned it,
and found two minute punctures around
which the flesh appeared mortified. To
see whether the skin itself was affected
he scraped it with his thumbnail, but
found nothing. About a minute later he
felt as if he had been struck a violent
blow on the head and neck, and a hot
iron run into his chest. He staggered to
a chemist’s shop, drank two large
tumblers of “spiritus ammoniae” and
water, then went to a friend’s place and
drank four wineglasses of brandy. Then
for the first time he felt pain under the
nail of his thumb, where the poison had
entered through a crack in the flesh.
The experience didn’t quench his thirst
for risky practices: we read of him later
inoculating animals with puff-adder
poison, experimenting on frogs and birds
with wourali (used by South American
Indians on their blowpipe arrows), and
eating crocodile, viper, panther-chops
and elephant’s-trunk.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Estuarine waters in the
south-west of W.A. are commonly in-
fested by a species of scaleless catfish
locally known as cobbler. It is armed
with three barbed and venomous spear-
points of ivory, sheathed and concealed
in the first dorsal and the two pectoral
fins, yet it occasions the cormorant which
dines on it no trouble. Catching the prey
usually by the thick of the body, the bird
gives it a toss, and down goes the Old
World fisherman’s “fire flare” head-first
Rays, too, dine on cobbler. At Man
durah, I watched a fisherman cleaning out
his net, which was clogged with cobbler
The recipient of these, as they were tossed
overboard in shallow water, was an over-
size stingray. A final cobbler, on a shark-
hook attached to a steel line, proved the
ray’s undoing—it took four men to haul
it ashore on a shelving beach. With
enough cobbler-stings inside him to have
killed a dozen men that ray died only
from lack of his natural element.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Jack had a set routine on
Mondays and Thursdays, when the bi-
weekly mixed came to Drowsalong. Some
time before it was due he’d leave his place
up in the hills. He needed only to get the
old car going for a hundred yards or so,
then he could switch off the engine, get
into neutral, and coast all the way down
the gentle incline, which would take him
over the level-crossing, the momentum
from the slight dip then carrying him
right to the post-office-cwm-store—all at
the cost of about a tablespoonful of petrol.
Then came the day when, bowling down
the hill at an easy 25, he was horrified to
hear the whistle-blast of an engine just
around the bend where the butter-factory
was. By the time his reactions got busy
and he got into gear he was across the
line, the engine-buffers missing his back
wheels by a couple of feet. As he indig-
nantly said to the mob in the store: “If
them cows are goin’ to make it a practice
of not gittin’ here when they should a
man’ll have to finish up gittin’ a set of
brakes on the old bus!”
* * * *
“Chuck”: I’d called and found the
store out of spuds. “Thought you got
plenty from old Ted,” I remarked.
“Used to,” came the reply, “but since he
got crippled-up he’s put Steve Hicks on
digging. You might get a few if you call
there.” Steve was beside the potato-
patch, his back propped against a tree. I
stated my wants. “Yair, so does every-
body else in the district,” he drawled.
“Never heard o’ people wantin’ so
many spuds. Well,
they gotta wait,
that’s all. Bloke
ain’t a flamin’
machine.” I glanced
at the small half-
row Steve had
turned over that
morning and roved
on over the many
waiting acres.
“ ’Member when
Ted worked this
himself,” I mused.
“Kept all the district and half the next
town in ’taters. Worked long hours, Ted
did, and many a Sunday evening I passed
by and spotted him still working.” “Yair,
he was a mug awright,” said Steve, throw-
ing away his butt and reaching for fresh
makings. “Lucky we got unions now t
save us from all that. Wish they’d ’urry
with the thirty-six-hour week, though.
He eased his hip into a more comfort-
able position and ran his tongue along
the cigarette-paper. “Y’ know,” he
drawled presently between puffs, ‘‘ ma , n 5
a goat sloggin’ his insides out like this tor
a lousy twelve quid a week when he c a
get more in the city f’r doin’ nothin. An,
cripes, y’ need a decent screw these days,
what with the damn’ shortages an the
price o’ things. Yair,” he heaved a long-
suffering sigh, “if y’ ask me, I J us ,
dunno what this blasted country’s comm
to!”
IN THE APPLE ORCHARD.
In the apple orchard this is what I found;
Some belated mushrooms
In their camping-ground,
Pushing button-noses, querying the weather,
finding it so cold.
Raising brown umbrellas above the frozen
mould;
And seven gay rosellas
In the old apple-tree.
Those parrakeets had slipped
Out from the eucalypt
As silently and swiftly as a school of silvery fish
Who, at some common wish, across a deep
rock pool
Make a sudden sally;
Thus the parrots dashed, rocketed and flashed
Down the old deserted
Orchard alley.
Midge clouds went spinning through the melan-
choly air
Of winter’s chill beginning
Over autumn’s spent resistance. In the middle
distance
Mountains seemed to wear
Shawls of pansy purple drawn about their
shoulders.
Little moved or stirred; only, bird to bird,
In the tattered boughs the iridescent apple
thieves
Swapped sweet scraps of gossip
In the pendant leaves.
The drab hour fell away, the second split
asunder
And I was suddenly aware
Of some great wonder.
The apples swung like scarlet lamps lit by
magic fuel,
Each bird hung like a jewel,
All seemed to me
Immortally to flash and burn on that bent
apple-tree.
I could not put it into words
(Prescience cannot linger)
More than I could have touched those birds
With outstretched finger.
Standing there in quick surprise
Trying to image my delight,
They looked at me with jet bright eyes and then
Were out of sight.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


Here are practical reasons why
Fordson Major Farms Australia
Ford son Major is practical
in Power
The Kerosene-powered Agricultural model equals a
good 10 horse team. Where even greater drawbar
power is needed, there is the Diesel-powered Agricul-
tural model; and Half-Track and Full Crawler models
with choice of Kerosene or Diesel power in each.
Fordson Major is practical
in Price
The Kerosene-powered Fordson Major is hundreds of
£’s less than other tractors of comparable power. All
other Fordson Major models, compared power for power
with other makes, are the lowest-priced in Australia.
Fordson Major is practical
Equipment
in
For instance, the price of the Agricultural model includes
belt pulley, starter, lights, brakes, radiator shutters and
power-take-off. And, as standard equipment, every
Kerosene-powered Fordson Major, has a new vaporiser
that increases engine efficiency and fuel economy. For
use with Fordson Major’s hydraulic lift, there are
many special purpose
implements
available.
▼
Fordson Major is practical
in Power
The Kerosene-powered Agricultural model equals a
good 10 horse team. Where even greater drawbar
power is needed, there is the Diesel-powered Agricul-
tural model; and Half-Track and Full Crawler models
with choice of Kerosene or Diesel power in each.
Fordson Major is practical
in Price
The Kerosene-powered Fordson Major is hundreds of
£’s less than other tractors of comparable power. All
other Fordson Major models, compared power for power
with other makes, are the lowest-priced in Australia.
Fordson Major is practical
in Equipment
For instance, the price of the Agricultural model includes
belt pulley, starter, lights, brakes, radiator shutters and
power-take-off. And, as standard equipment, every
Kerosene-powered Fordson Major, has a new vaporiser
that increases engine efficiency and fuel economy. For
use with Fordson Major’s hydraulic lift, there are
many special purpose
implements
available.
5 (R
FM24-HP
Ask for a demonstration
on your property • • •
Throughout Australia, over 27,000
Fordson Majors are working hard and
saving their owners money. Never-
theless, check for yourself what Ford-
son Major will do in your particular
working conditions. Your local
Fordson Dealer will be glad to
arrange a demonstration on your own
property at a time convenient to you.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
“Old-timer”: The red kelpie was old
and full of wisdom, and he lay on the
footpath outside the post-office, head on
forepaws, eyes watching the township
movements incuriously. Passing dogs
sighted him but paused not, knowing with
that telepathy which exists between thf.
tamed canines (and probably the untamed)
that Rowdy was not socially inclined
just then. The post-office cat came
daintily down the steps, walked
indifferently past Rowdy and
leapt lithely to a crotch in the
old pepperina just above him.
Rowdy’s only sign was a slightly-
curled lip. Time passed and the
westering sun sent long feelers
of shadow across the road. Here
and there a shopkeeper began
preparations to close up, home-
going office-girls gathered mo-
mentarily on the corner and dispersed,
cyclists drifted by, a sort of hiatus fell
over the town, disturbed only by sparrows
congregating in the pepperina above the
cat and about the post-office clock. Then
from the clock came a preliminary
murmur before striking the hour of six
p.m. Rowdy sat up> cocked an ear and
waited, He sat, alert, counting the
strokes, and at the sixth heaved himself
up, trotted across the road and parked
himself outside the bar door of the Royal,
hearing the voice inside declaring “Time,
please,” and knowing that his boss was
about to appear.
* * * *
“K.R.”: Can’t agree with “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 22/8/’5l) that the urge to
migrate in birds and animals is due to an
overdose of vitamins in their tucker, the
resultant increased fertility leading to an
eating-out of the resources of the usual
habitat. Vitamins have nothing to do
with these things, or at the most influence
them very slightly. Migration is an age-
old instinct which, particularly among
birds, derives from the time, aeons ago,
when the ice-floe advanced and retreated
at the ends of the earth. The birds there
had to find other parts to nest
and breed in; hence the migratory
instinct, which remains, though in
some birds it is not now absolutely
“’ Bye , lovey!”
necessary. That it is due to the Ice Ages
is proved by the fact that no tropical bird
(at least I know of none) migrates to
breed; they never had to develop this
instinct, because the ice never got to the
Equator. As for overpopulation of an
animal species, it is due to favorable
weather conditions and abundant food,
not to the “oversexing” effect of any
vitamin. (Though it is said that scarcity
of Vitamin E causes sterility in some
animals.) It is quite unscientific to infer,
as “G.” does, that this “oversexing” is
even passed on to other animals which
prey on them. The explanation for the
expansion in the attackers’ numbers
which normally occurs at such times is
simple : with more food (i.e., animals to
be eaten) available the carnivores
naturally flourish too. Incidentally, the
number of animals born in good and bad
seasons doesn’t vary greatly ; but, when
food is plentiful, many more naturally
survive.
# * * *
“C. Coral” brings the hammer down on
a myth:
That story of the sacred calabash (B.
29 /8 / ’5l) originated, according to Sir Peter
Buck, of the Bernice Bishop Museum at Hono-
lulu, with Admiral Rodman of the U.S. Navy.
While on duty in Hawaii he was struck by the
name Ke ala i Kahiki (the Path to Tahiti)
applied to a passage between the small island
of Kahoolawe and the large island of Maui.
He made inquiries from Hawaiians, and tound
that the passage was so named because early
Hawaiian voyagers set out from there to sail
to Tahiti. They kept the North Star directly
astern until they crossed the Equator, when they
sailed by another constellation ahead, and so
reached Tahiti. This part of the story is
supported by Hawaiian tradition. On the way
back they took the starboard tack against the
prevailing trade-wind. On crossing the Equator
and picking up the North Star they knew they
were too far to the east. It was then that the
‘sacred calabash” was introduced. This had
the stalk-end cut off to form a bowl with a
level rim; four equidistant holes were bored
some distance below the rim, and it was used
as a primitive sextant to observe the altitude
of the North Star. Water was filled into the
calabash to the level of the four holes, and
with this artificial horizon the observer held
the calabash level and looked through one of
the holes. Thus the Hawaiians had an instru-
merit of mathematical accuracy. Rodman sub-
sequently published an account of the instrument
in a U.S. Navy journal, with a picture of a
large wooden bowl in the Bishop Museum
which he said was the actual instrument. The
story was challenged by the Curator of Poly-
nesian material on the staff; it was pointed
out that there were absolutely no references
in Hawaiian traditions to any such instru-
ment or any mechanical means of observing
the stars. Furthermore, the deep wooden bowl
featured as the “sacred calabash"’ was actually
a container for clothing and feather-cloaks!
Rodman’s reply, that he must have made a
mistake in selecting the vessel in the illustra-
tion, lacked conviction.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I’ve just found
evidence of a tragedy for which Mother
Nature is largely to blame. Attracted by
a newly-ploughed patch near the swamp,
the turtle had made for what probably
looked like an ideal spot for a hatchery
and fell on her back into a half-filled
furrow. It was there I found her skeleton.
Wild life knows no pity, and sharp beaks
must have found her weak spots. So
she died, helpless, while the eggs she was
about to deposit remained in her shell.
They’re still there, and I’m wondering
why. There are 13 of them —the usual
number —and they must have been seen
by the crows, who’ll risk a shotgun
pellet to steal eggs from near the house.
These eggs are the size of a bantam’s,
and should have been worth sampling,
yet they are unbroken. Why?
* * » •
“Chips”; Anyone attempting to paint
a roof by resting the foot of the ladder
in the gutter like that cocky (B. 15/8/’5l)
may find himself with more worries than
the price and scarcity of paint. By
affixing a piece of timber to the top,
which will clip over the ridge, the ladder
will hang down
from the top, with
no weight on the
gutter. This is
known as a
“Jacob’s - ladder.”
But the farmer to
whom time is im-
portant might fol-
low the method
adopted by three
painters working
for a contractor on
a large roofing
area on piecework.
The contractor was surprised when after
three days they had completed the job.
Then it transpired that while one painter
poured the paint out of a tin at the top,
the others brushed it out with a couple
of long-handled soft house-brooms.
PUB OF THE PAST.
It's grey and sober-looking,
No sign upon the walls,
It smells of hashhouse cooking,
Yet something still recalls
Nights when the lights were blinking.
The barmaids fair and young.
And, with the glasses clinking,
Old drinking-songs were sung.
Where hangs the wide lace curtain,
The public once read “Bar”;
“Front furnished room,” for certain,
Was where youth came to spar
With time and pride and living,
And a kiss for Dolly, too,
Who maybe liked the giving,
As Dollys mostly do.
Oh, champagne-corks went flying,
And Dolly called them “Dear,”
And never a cop came spying.
And there was no “No Beer.”
And though it’s far from beery,
And now but “rooms” and grub
And not what you’d call cheery,
It still looks like a pub.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


fg
* Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards, Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are rolled in filigrained paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
f
gf
CORK TIPPED
mm
w
!?««
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
7 A 8 o 6 Q 7 fi 5 -7 \ P-C,= 694,245 34,430 4,955,696
iqar' t-q’oql r ” ” 694 ’ 245 65,122 5,020,818
1946 p fit 9,29 ! 2 5 x” ” 694 > 245 85,047 5,105,865
,3 sale assets ’ £24,542 .. ..5,130 407
1947.1,221,351 7* p.c. = 1,041,369 179,982 5, 310*389
Profit, sale assets, £61,899 .. .. 5 372 288
£125,000 .. 5,497*,288
1948.1,255,388 8* p.c. = 1,157,075 98,313 5,595,601
Profit, sale assets, £8622 .. 5 604 29a
19 4 9.1, 2 36,049 8* p.c. = 1,157,075 78,974 5i685’197
Share premiums, £1,946,091 ..7,629 288
Bjofn. sale assets, £49,073 .. . 7 678 361
1950.1,„86, 7 42 8* p.c. = 1,284,513 2,229 7’,680’590
Share premiums, £1,537.608 ..9,218,198
Profit, sale assets, £8894 .. .. 9,227,092
lQ. l^i Pr n ° V i Si ° n 1 forfeited divs - £2069.. 9,225,023
1951.1,, 16,925 8* p.c. = 1,539,391 177,534 9.402.557
From the investors’ point of view the
scrip in this big iron and steel organi-
sation parent, seven subsidiaries and a
string of associated cos.—has all the
essentials of a sound industrial equity.
Not only is the business well-organised,
highly-efficient and soundly-financed, but
the production potential has been
stepped up by substantial addi-
tions to plant, etc., while output,
blanketed by factors beyond the board’s
control (chiefly shortage of coal), is so
far behind the order-book that much
high-priced steel has had to be imported.
A lot of new plant has not yet
had an opportunity to develop full
earning capacity, and the programme of
expansion is by no means complete.
Obviously the organisation awaits the
opportunity to do itself justice in both
output and earnings.
From the national viewpoint, the
defence programme has placed fresh
emphasis on the importance of iron and
steel production, which is vital to the
well-being and development of every
sector of the economy. Since increased
Government expenditure on defence
(here rearmament is only in the tooling-
up stage) and on public works promises
to exceed the increase in raw materials
available, some curtailment in civilian
consumption of capital and durable-
consumption goods seems inevitable.
Among the problems to be solved are
the equitable allocation of materials and
the curbing of inflationary demand. To
this end the Government has set up a
Raw Materials Allocation Board, and
much depends upon how it does its job.
During the last two years £11,045,962
of new capital, carrying with it £5,522,980
of share premiums, has been issued. The
last 6,458,175 of the new pound shares
were put out at a premium of 50 p.c. in
January, 1951. That lifted issued capital
to £24,930,864, of which £4,078,564,
together with £1,691,479 of share
premiums, was still to come when the
books closed at June 30. The money
subscribed by shareholders, and more
besides, has gone mainly into expansion
of the big steelworks at Port Kembla
(Which now rival the Newcastle plant in
size), the mechanisation of collieries,
erection of a new blast furnace and coke-
ovens, the building of more ore-carrying
vessels, and construction of a new
million-ton-a-year hot- and cold-strip
mill and tinplate plant at Kembla, now
well on the road toward completion.
Despite all this the outturn of pig-iron
and steel-ingots (Newcastle and Whyalla)
was 12.2 p.c. and 6 p.c. respectively below
the 1948 levels:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron .. 841,750 718,485 625,458 738,877
Steel ingots.. 805,914 711,068 684,947 757,064
The figures for 1950 were affected by an
eight-weeks production blackout, due to
the Communist-inspired coal strike in
mid-1949. The lift in last term’s tonnage
of iron and ingots was carried right down
the line, through the blooming, plate,
merchant-bar, rod, cold-rolling and other
mills. And more by-products—tar,
ammonium sulphate, benzol, etc. —came
from the coke ovens, too.
At the shipbuilding-yards at Whyalla
(S. Aus.) the third of the co.’s own
12,500-ton ore-carrying vessels was
launched, and is now working satisfac-
torily with the other ten units of the fleet.
The keel for another similar-type vessel
has been laid. Also, the fourth 6000-ton
freighter, built for the Shipping Board,
left the skids, and is now being fitted out.
The parent’s accounts showed a profit
of £1,716,925 (up £430,183), which came
from trading £821,709 (up £99,287), sub-
sidiaries £515,135 (up £290,803) and
general investments, etc., £380,081 (up
£40,093). The div. was kept at 8| p.c.
Actually the position was much better
than that, which leaves out of the reckon-
ing undistributed earnings of subsidiaries.
Here are combined p. and 1. figures for
the whole group, including outside
interests:
Consolidated Fiqdees.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Working profit.. £5,253.477 £5,468,424 £7,645,466
Divs., etc. .. 390,621 418.202 447,636
Total .. £5,644,098 £6,871,626 £8.093,102
Depreciation .. 2,399,817 2,513,863 2,849,643
Taxation .. .. 1,437.384 1,410,231 2,580,315
Other exes. , . 303.065 843,799 841,524
Total exes. .. £4.140,256 £4,267,393 £5,771,482
Net profit .. 1,503,842 1,604.233 2,321,620
Profit, sale assets.. 14,148 49,004 21,979
Last term more was set aside for the tax-
gatherer than was earned for share-
holders. The provision for depreciation
(10.9 p.c. of book-value of fixed assets
at May 31) raised the total so provided
over the last 11 years to approximately
£31,000,000. Of the £2,321,620 (up
£717,387) of profit, about £146,450 ap-
pears to belong to outsiders. The other
£2,185,170 was equal to 11.8 p.c. on
B.H.P.’s average capital for the year.
The next table shows the financial set-
up of the group:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
r B.H.P. Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.t
1947.. 13,884,902 8,586,827 2,169,613 7,365,509
1948.. 13,884,902 9,420,540 2,226,514 9,234,836
1949.. 13,884,902 9,895,799 2,259,863 9,387,045
1950.. 17,777,083 12,107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
1951.. 20,852,300 14,443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1947.. 14,902,823 5,237,841 2,490,554 9,375,633
1948.. 16,604,210 6,595,418 2,573,660 9,022,084
1949.. 18,959,926 7,641,989 2,174,700 6,650,884
1950.. 22,517,069 8,888,696 2,811,249 7,527,170
1951.. 26,389,915 10,593,218 3,001,402 9,717,330
* Including proportion reserves. I Includes tax
provision.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £3,872,846, stocks, etc., £1,754,522
and book debts £190,153. Other assets
(up £2,190,160) include Government
securities £3,375,631 (up £49,183) and
cash £3,963,430 (up £2,263,214). The
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
increased by £2,579,662.
The biggest subsidiary is A.I. and S.,
in which B.H.P. owns all the £11,000,000
of ord. capital (up £6,300,000 over the
last two years), and from which much is
expected later on. For the year to Nov.
30 last it netted £617,621 (up £406,737),
which was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£75,000) and show 4.9 p.c. on its ord.
capital.
In an active market B.H.P.’s scrip rose
from 525. in Aug., 1950, to 655. 9d. in
Jan., 1951, fell to 51s. ex rights in Feb.,
strengthened to 595. in April and eased
to 555. last week. At 555. the return is
3 p.c. on an 8£ p.c. div., or 3.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. The contribs. at 345.
would cost 545. when fully paid. Includ-
ing uncalled and unpaid capital, net
tangible cover (book-value) is 28s. 9d.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
To Re-
May, Surplus.t Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1945.. 396,800 12* „ „ 187,500 209,300 3,771,075
Peace bonus, 12* p.c., £187,500 .. 3,583,575
1946.. 458,529 12*p.c.= 187,500 271,029 3,854,604
1947.. 931,979 12* „ „ 187,500 744,479 4,599,083
1948.. 994,052 12* „ „ 187,500 806,552 5,405,635
Less exchange adjustments, etc.
£1,217,780 4.187,855
1949.. 796,138 15 p.c. = 225,000 571,138 41758,993
Unexplained additions, £414,484 .. 5,173,477
Add exchange adjustments, £216,000., 6,389,477
1950.. 689,910 15 p.c. = 225,000 464,910 5,854,387
Less net exchange adjustm’ts, £15,850 5,838,537
1951.. 978,125 15 p.c. = 225,000 758,125 6,591,662
t Includes net additions to reserve for unexpired risks.
The scrip in sound, old-established and
progressive insurance offices, like this
N.Z. co., has always ranked high in the
investment market. Among the attrac-
tions are a policy of profits-allocation
which ensures strong reserves, with con-
sequent high earning-power in relation
to capital, and, at intervals, increases in
the amount distributed as dividends and
the issue of bonus scrip. The dividend
is usually covered, more or less, by returns
from a wad of Government and other
sound securities, thus leaving the under-
writing surplus available to swell invest-
ments and the returns therefrom.
This Auckland-controlled office does
about four-fifths of its business outside
the Dominion in Australia, Canada, U.S.,
U.K., Africa, Middle East, India,
Pakistan, East Asia and the Argentine.
Of its £1,500,000 of paid capital
£1,200,000 has come from reserves
since 1912, the last gift being
£300,000 in 1930. For the 21 years
since, divs. have averaged 12.3 p.c.,
and reserves, including £3,246,000 for un-
expired risks, now total £6,591,662. And
last term’s net return from investments
(£256,831 after deducting taxation)
exceeded the 15 p.c. dividend charge by
£31,831.
The mainspring behind the big leap
of £1,055,341 in last term’s net premium
income was the wtorld-wide inflation of
commodity prices and other insurable
values, combined with a growings volume
of trade. Such large sums were at risk
at certain places that the acceptance
capacity of the insurance market was for
a time overstrained, the chairman says.
Here are the co.’s underwriting figures:
Loss ICxpenH
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1946. . 2,398,939 1,343,909 786,477 56.0 82.8
1947.. 3,162,310 1,601,098 822,584 50.6 26.0
1948.. 4,389,856 2,746,296 888,191 62.6 20.2
1949. . 4,018,800 2,344,464 1,069,526 58.3 26.6
1950. . 4,282,246 2,562,710 1,265,089 59.8 29.5
1951.. 5,337,587 3,274,028 1,342,265 61.3 23.7
The sharp contraction of £5 16s. p.c. in
the expense-rate is a reciprocal of infla-
tion more than anything else. The loss-
rate was 30s, p.c. heavier.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£266,846 stronger at £721,294, and the
net return from interest, rents, etc., was
£21,369 better at £256,831. The gross
surplus from all sources thus moved up
by £288,215, reaching £978,125. The
board, being prudent men, transferred
£546,000 (£147,785 more than usually
considered adequate) of the £978,125 to
the reserve for unexpired risks, raising
the figure to £3,246,000, equal to 60.8 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas
40 p.c. is usually considered sufficient.
The net amount available for distribu-
tion was thus £432,125 (down £147,785),
or 28.8 p.c. on capital as against 38.6 p.c.
for the previous term.
The solid protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is seen in the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£N Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £NZ.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 1,730,255 1,703,051 2,121,996 2,723,301
Final diva, 150,000 160,000 112,500 112,500
Public securi-
ties .. 4,084,068 3,773,547 4,458,526 4,773,218
Mortgages.. 214,704 206,456 347,412 502,762
Shares, etc. 1,640,167 1,676.798 1,991,764 2,170,877
Freeholds.. 780,665 734,861 861,662 930.795
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 1,803,009 1,720,382 1,929,518 2,549,811
The year’s net additions to public
securities (up £314,692), mortgages (up
£155,350) and shareholdings (up
£179,113) augur well for the return from
investments. Agency balances, etc. total
£1,378,920 (up £478,414) and cash, etc.,
£1,170,891 (up £141,879).
The scrip is firmly held. Last recorded
sale on Australian ’Changes was at
£6 17s. 6d. A recent quote in N.Z., ex
final div., was £6 75., equal to £7 17s!’6d.
in Australian currency at the current rate
of exchange, which also makes 15 p.c.
worth 18.6 p.c. So the return in Aus-
tralia at £7 17s. 6d. is 2.4 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution. The
Australian investor at £7 17s. 6d. who
looks for only 3.2 p.c. on his money
thus counts on a one-for-one bonus scrip-
issue and drop in the declared rate of div.
to 10 p.c., or other benefits.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
. „ „ To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ & & £
1944.. 39,367 12 p.e. = 27,0001
Written off hotels, £3400 f
8,967 185,997
1945.. 41,406 12 p.c. = 27,000 ?
Written off hotels, £BOOO )
6,806 141,803
1946.. 44,578 12 p.c.‘= 27,000')
Written off hotels, £10,487 )
7,091 148,894
1947., 42,783 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £9860 J
5,873 154,767
1948.. 43,860 12 p.c. = 27,000'
Written off hotels, £6970
To staff fund, £1341
8,549 163,316
Profit__8al e _ assets, £5100 .. .. 168,416
1949.. 45,710 ISip.c. = 29,8121
Written off hotels, £4973.. I
To staff fund, £956 . .1
9,969 178,385
Freeholds written up, £150,000 .. 828,385
Reserves capitalised, £150,000 .. 178,385
Profit sale assets, £7140 .. .. 185,525
1950.. 38,747 13ip.c.' = 29,812]
To staff fund, £336 .. f
8,599 194,124
Profit, sale assets, £l3OO .. .. 195,424
Written off. £lO,OOO .. .. 185,424
1951.. 44,741 8 p.c. = 37,425 7,316 192,740
To staff fund, £264 192,478
Chief sources of revenue are (1)
approximately a half-interest in Tas-
manian Breweries Pty., which also rents
Cascade’s old brewery premises, (2) hotel
rentals, (3) manufacture of cordials and
(4) returns from a small but expanding
offshoot. Traders Pty., which is in the
wine-and-spirit business. Another small
offshoot. Cascade Fruit Products Pty.,
formed in 1947 to process berry-fruit
juices for the cordial factory and export
market, didn’t meet with the success
anticipated, and is being wound up. The
lo'ss on the venture is estimated at £13,000,
of which £lO,OOO was written off last
term.
To help finance expansion of the
brewery 135,000 new 21s. shares to be
called to 20s. each were issued at par
shortly before the close of accounts in
1950. At the same time a tax-free gift
of 150,000 bonus shares, also of 21s.
credited as paid to 20s. each, was made
from a reserve of like amount created by
writing up the book-value of freeholds.
All that lifted paid capital to £505,262
at June 30 last, and there was still £4738
to come.
Last term all sections of the business —
except, of course, the liquidated one —
continued to expand. The brewery pro-
duced to the limit of available malt sup-
plies, to quicken and cheapen produc-
tion of which new malting plant is to be
installed. To pay for it and other equip-
ment “we shall have to arrange for addi-
tional finance, provided consent can be
obtained from the Capital Issues Board,”
the chairman says. That could mean that
shareholders will be asked for more,
though the board is not precise on this
point. Output of the cordial factory con-
tinues to grow, additions have been made
to the delivery store and to the premises
of the wine-and-spirit business, which
has “expanded greatly.”
After allowing £17,190 (up £3204) for
depreciation and £21,100 (up £4600) for
taxation net earnings from all sources
were £5994 stronger at £44,741, equal to
9.6 p.c. on average capital. Though the
div. was lowered from 13| p.c. to 8 p.c.,
the gift-scrip already referred to makes
8 p.c. worth 11.3 p.c. on cash-paid capi-
tal, the last £135,000 of which has not


From Scotland
—every
precious
drop
•^SSIWHIVI
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK t WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
g
dfg
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt..
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts. Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
MARINE ENGINEERS & ENGINE
DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering
and desirous of passing examinations
for advancement, write for prospectus
regarding Engineering Correspondence
Courses, Tuition for Engineers and
Engine Drivers’ Examinations, also
Special Courses for Engineer Appren-
tices
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A,
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, C.l.
P.O. Box 904, NEW ZEALAND.
For Sale.
mules”
Twenty-five Clydesdale cross heavy
mules just coming into their prime;
sound, quiet, broken in to harness.
Prices from 15 to 25 guineas.
Apply Box 122, P. 0., Bundaberg, Q.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
a
HI
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Boad,
Cainperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232,
B 6130
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Strength:
. . . power due to the
possession of resources.
This bank has the resources
to serve its customers as they
should be served. Yet it is ever
mindful of the fact that
strength is nought without
spirit and the desire to serve
its customers,
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which U amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not
revised your Will to
meet to-day’s condi-
lions, the conse-
quences may be seri-
ous for someone
who depends on you.
Your responsibility
to that someone is
too important to
justify delaying until
some to-morrow that
may never come.
"5*
i
-2
Why not have a confidential talk
with one of our Senior Officers on the
subjeci of the appointment of the Com-
pany as your Executor and Trustee —
alone or jointly with a relative or
friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step
of having your Solicitor redraw your
Will, should then be a simple matter.
If you would have particulars of the
services offered by the Company write
(or, ring B 0377) and make an
appointment.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAOE. Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH & ORANGE.
yet had a chance to contribute
much to the pool.
The year’s £85,532 of fresh
share capital, together with an
extra £26,918 of mortgage
money, etc., and a further
£30,771 from other creditors,
went mainly into hotel proper-
ties (up £67,665) and book debts
(up £76,193):
1949. 1950. 1951.
£,£,£,
Paid capital .. 225,000 419,730 505,262
Mortgages and
deposits .. 79,724 79,831 106,749
Other creditors 32,956 52,208 82,979
Tax reserve .. 22,000 16,500 21,100
Final div. .. 16,313 16,313 19,387
Hotels, etc. . . 330,409 510,612 578,277
Plant, etc. .. 94.876 104,254 114,168
Stocks . . 37,736 48,974 50,064
Book debts, etc. 10,222 12,034 88,227
Cash, etc. .. 1,488 21,645 16,465
Shares other cos. 79,646 79,646 80,764
When the books closed more-
or-less liquids (including shares
in other cos.) exceeded liabilities
by £5785, an improvement of
£8338 over the twelvemonth.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures, taken in conjunction
with the position generally,
which is very fluid at the
moment, suggest bigger gross
earnings. The imponderables
are probable increases in taxa-
tion and costs. However, until
the Budget is brought down the
effects of extra Government
bleeding in the form of excises
and income tax, and of other
things, will be difficult to assess.
The market, which hopes that
shareholders might be asked for
more, advanced its bid for the
205.-paid shares from 40s. a year
ago to 545. 6d. in June last. A
week ago sellers asked 535. 6d.,
giving an immediate return of
3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Including uncalled and unpaid
capital, net tangible cover is
275. 6d. (book-value).
G.M. of Kalgoorlie
Third-biggest producer on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
the co. is shaping well. For
the year to March 31 last the mill
handled approximately the same
volume of slightly richer feed
for more profit, but the div. was
lowered from 22y p.c. to 20 p.c.
Here are operating results:
Ore Gold,
Treated, Fine Divs.
Mch., Tons. Oz. Profit. 22£ p.c.
’5O .. 163,213 41,837 £129.076 £138,319
20 p.c.
’5l .. 163,115 42,670 153,290 122,950
About 25 p.c. of the ore came
from the Australia East opencuts
and the balance from under-
ground. Average recovery was
a shade below run-of-mine ore,
being 5.23dwt. (90.9 p.c. re-
covery) as against s.o7dwt. for
the previous year. After deduct-
ting realisation charges, the
gross return was 65.055. (up
9.755.) per ton. Mining, treat-
ment and development charges
were 6.35. heavier at 44.165. a
ton. The profit (up £24,214) was
24.9 p.c. on the £614,750 of
capital, of which Great Western
Mining Corp. holds about
30 p.c.
Ore reserves were put at
480,800 tons, averaging 5.6dwt.,
and development work has
resulted in some encouraging
disclosures. Of the year’s
9741 ft. of driving, cross-cutting,
etc., 2401 ft. was in ore averaging
6.ldwt. over widths of from 58in.
to 60in. At No. 7 level, Iron
Duke shaft, the drive advanced
90ft. in ore averaging 15.2dwt.
over a width of 58in.
Including stores (£136,187),
current assets totalled £362,002
and current liabilities (including
divs.) £169,410 when the books
closed.
Another string to the CO 7s bow
is the possible southern extension
at depth of the main Kalgoorlie
structures and ore-shoots. A
new co., Kalgoorlie Southern
Gold Mines, which took over
about three miles of G.M. of K.’s
southern leases, is now test-
drilling this area. The new
co. has an issued capital
of £185,250 in ss. shares,
of which G.M. of K. took
120,000 paids for the leases and
subscribed for 50,000 contribs.,
and a further 245,900 contribs.
were offered to those on the
G.M. of K. register. Western
Mining Corp. and staff also took
up 110,000 contribs., and the big
silver-lead cos. at the Barrier
most of the balance.
The market prices G.M. of
K.’s scrip at 18s. 4d. as against
20s. 6d. early in 1951.
Doria Gold, a small Adelaide
concern listed toward the end of
1949, but which never met with
the success anticipated by the
promoters, has now joined the
hunt for tungsten ores. It is
whooping about high-grade stuff
in the main reef on its leases at
Mosquito Creek (N.T.), where
200 ft. of the strike has been in-
dicated by costeening and open-
cutting. Well - defined walls,
regularity of strike and dip and
widening of the reef at depth
are spoken of. Such generali-
ties, however, mean little so
far as estimating the possi-
bilities of the venture are con-
cerned. What ought to be men-
tioned and isn’t are assay re-
sults obtained, and —especially
at this stage —the width of the
reef exposed and the depth to
which it has been traced. How-
ever, the high price of wolfram
and the fat profits being won by
two established Tasmanian pro-
ducers (King Island Scheelite and
Aberfoyle Tin) have excited
market interest, and Doria’s
scrip, which fetched around Is.
a couple of months ago, shot
up to 4s. 7d. at the end of
August.
* * * *
Other cos. now operating or
investigating scheelite deposits
in the Northern Territory and
Centralia are Hansel Munday
Gold (in which Consolidated
Gold Areas recently bought a
parcel of forfeited shares), Terri-
tory Scheelite N.L., Wolfram
Hill N.L., Central Scheelite
(formerly Viking Gold Mines
N.L.), New Sterling Gold Mines
N.L. and Merloo Gold Mines
N.L. In Tasmania a syndicate
has taken over the S. and M.
tungsten- and tin-mine, and in
N. S. Wales Tungsten Consoli-
dated, Ltd. (formerly Exchange
Investments, Ltd.) is installing
plant on a lease at Frogmore.
Hopes are that wolfram will re-
main at a high price because
of rearmament. London aver-
age per unit was £S6 3s. 7d. for
June, 1950, £S23 14s. 4d. for
Jan., 1951, and £S2B 10s. 3d. for
June last.


“and we’re
going to
enjoy
our own
party”
5)
X
\V.
$
se
Party-giving is easy when you make
Vickers Gin your standby. With Vickers
and the help of the Vickers Cocktail Recipe
Book, you can mix a great variety of
delicious, out-of-the-ordinary drinks. You’ll
be a more successful host or hostess than
ever! Stock up with Vickers Gin and send
out invitations now!
Yicrers gin
FAMOUS SINCE 1750.
Write for the free Vickers Gin Cocktail
Book, containing over 50 tested recipes
for cocktails and long thirst-quenchers
to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
gdf
VG 50/16
Come in
please!
A
II \
O'
¥
A
c///.
sA
i
■vx»
THIS is a friendly invita-
tion to you from your
nearest Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank.
In the Manager’s office
your financial position, your problems, your plans may
be discussed with complete frankness and with the
assurance that the information will always be kept
confidential.
The Commonwealth Bank is a modern trading Bank
and offers you a full range of banking services. Cheque
Accounts, Finance for Commerce and Industry, Over-
drafts, Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques,
Interest-bearing Deposits, Housing Loans, Loans tor
Primary Producers these are only some ot the
facilities available.
The staff of your nearest Branch says, "Come ia
please and let’s get acquainted.”
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
«the bank you own-
C 08.22-82
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Wool-price Reactions
Once more Australia faces a
period of economic change that
will create uncertainty in the
minds and actions of many
people. The price of wool has
fallen, interest - rates are up,
and taxation - increases are
threatened. All three things
are usually symptomatic of a
change from a boom to period
of financial reaction.
But the issue now is by no
means clear-cut. Wool prices
were very high before, and can
well stand some adjustment. In-
terest-rates were very low be-
fore, and some hardening was
overdue. So far as taxation rates
are concerned, no one seems
quite sure whether they are
being raised in order to check
inflation or to pay for defence;
in either case they are not
being increased to balance an
ordinary peace-time Budget,
which was a practice common
before and during “slumps” of
the gold-standard era.
Again, at this moment we are
short of most essential goods
and services. We are not “over-
producing.” We have an en-
larged population that needs
better housing and improved liv-
ing and working facilities. There
is a food scarcity. Roads are
falling into disrepair, and few
new ones are being built. Ship-
ping and railway services are
, inadequate.
In short, there is a vast
, amount of work waiting to be
. done. And the need for doing it
I is obvious to most people. There
’ is nothing of a theoretical or
merely blueprint nature about
- the problem. It is a real one,
; staring us in the face at all
‘ times.
There is too much consumer-
spending in Australia and not
enough outlay on national
works. Our tools are wearing
out in many industries without
adequate provision for their re-
placement. There is a crying de-
mand for drastic economic
action even if it be politically
unpopular to start with, pro-
vided it represents a workable,
all-over plan.
In Australia, anyway, there is
no surplus of essential commodi-
ties. There should be full em-
ployment for many years to
come and a great field of oppor-
tunity for all industry. But
there is no doubt, on the other
hand, that much which is arti-
ficial and superficial in our way
of life is due for exposure and
remedial action.
Most of our “prosperity”
over the past decade has been
a fraud. It has been paper-
money plenty only. We have
not been earning our keep in
real economic terms, and, if our
external buying-power slumps
as a result of the fall in wool
prices, then we shall be unable
to “keep” ourselves in the way
to which we have been accus-
tomed—unless we produce a
great deal more in Australia by
our own working efforts.
Other countries have shown
a greater rate of recovery in
productivity than has Australia.
Even ex-enemy countries are
now working hard, whereas in
Australia the output of coal and
steel is deplorably low. This is
largely the result of Communist
activity, but a contributing fac-
tor to the shortage of many
essential commodities has been
the demand for so many non-
essential ones, the production of
which many employers as well as
wage-earners have found more
attractive.
Sections of industry may be
in for a jolt as a result of the
drop in wool prices. Imports
may be harder to finance
(though we have large London
reserves), but it is a fact that a
fall in export income tends of it-
self to curb the desire to im-
port. Because of a reduced
national income the Govern-
ment may be compelled to cur-
tail its expenditure or to raise
tax-rates further. And high
costs, previously encouraged by
high wool prices, may make it
difficult for us to compete in
overseas markets, as well as
tending to bring overseas com-
petition more severely into our
own.
In Australia we must realise
that we can’t live in a vacuum.
We are vulnerable to world
prices as regards both our ex-
ports and our imports. And
therefore we are particularly vul-
nerable as to costs.
Our costs have been rising
rapidly. There is talk now that,
because wool prices are down,
costs in Australia will fall, since
rising wool prices were blamed
for a good deal of the price-
(and cost-) inflation that has
taken place over the past two
years.
But whatever happens to
prices, real costs will not come
down until production is in-
creased, as it could very easily
be without any hardship to any-
one. Increased per-capita pro-
duction would not only tend to
check inflation; it would also
tend to make the burden of de-
fence easier to carry. And it
would lay a real foundation for
our social - security schemes,
which at present are run on a
purely hand-to-mouth basis.
Government finance and
“social-security” seem likely to
feel the blow of lower wool
prices first. Last year’s high
wool prices went mostly in taxa-
tion, and the Federal Govern-
ment, with an enlarged defence
programme to handle and with
the 20 p.c. wool levy to return,
will feel the effect of a lower
taxation field very keenly. It all
points to a higher overall rate of
tax (especially in 1952-53) and
the necessity for heavy cuts in
civil expenditure.
Our problem is capable of
interpretation and correction.
Given freedom from war, we
have a prospect of great in-
dustrial activity ahead of us, and
if Communist leadership of the
trade-unions can be dislodged it
is certain that the trade-union
movement can be led along the
path of commonsense and
industrial honesty.
Upon the shoulders of the
Menzies Government, and par-
ticularly upon those of Treasurer
Fadden, the responsibility for
initial diagnosis and treatment
falls. It is a physical problem
that can be gravely aggravated
by mere financial remedies. The
physical nature of our malaise
must always be kept in mind,
and the probable effect of any
financial “remedies” deeply
pondered in advance.
N.Z. Investment Shares
A lesson Maorilanders learned
in Australia’s big share shakeout
was the value of self-reliance.
For weeks, from mid-July on-
wards, they had to lean back
on their own section of the
market, and they found, to their
relief, that local shares could take
the strain. It was the sternest
test yet for Dominion issues, and
they stood up to it.
With turnovers well supported,
brokers and investors got
along comfortably while securi-
ties across the Tasman were
undergoing a general slimming.
For this they had to award at
least part of the credit to their
semi-isolated and -insulated
capital market, under tight Re-
serve Bank controls. Their
firmer pound qualified for high
marks, too, and better-balanced
export income, shared by wool,
meat, butter and cheese, wasn’t
overlooked.
For years there had been a
steady growth in the proportion
of Dominion securities in Maori-
landers’ hands, and a fall in the
“For a minute I thought you Were from Price-control."
Australian percentage, which had
been sold and re-sold, without
much addition to the supply ex-
cept for occasional cautious
opening of the door for trans-
fers of funds to take up rights
and shares in B.H.P.
For the rest, unless M.L. in-
vestors could find small loop-
holes, it was a case of cashing-
in on shares or other assets in
Australia to get into new issues,
and this shut many out, Aus-
tralian cos. had been more liberal
than N.Z. in bonuses, new issues
at juicy premiums and other
handouts, while M.L. concerns
were vigorously padding reserves.
Many investors grew tired of
monotonous uniformity in diys.
of some old-established cos., in-
eluding woollen mills that dated
back well into last century, and
they had been on the lookout
for a long time for a fat share
bonus from their top-ranking
div.-producer. South British In-
surance Co., which now paid
271 p.c., and was bulging with
funds. Where cos. could afford
more, shareholders had been
losing in the race with inflation.
If posterity got the benefit it
would be at the expense of this
generation. This had made N.Z.
a less attractive field than Aus-
tralia in the past, and only the
ban on export of capital had
hindered Maorilanders from
going for Australian issues in a
big way.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
S 3
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.IV. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
%
06,
Missing Friend.
ARCHIBALD LEWIS MOLLOY
ARCHIBALD LEWIS MOLLOY, who was
born at Portland, Victoria, on 11th August,
1898, and who served in the 4th Light
Horse Regiment in the 1914-18 War, is
entitled to a substantial share in the
estate of his late mother, Mary Cameron.
Will Archibald Lewis Molloy, or any
person having information about his move-
ments since 1920, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria ?
Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin'
F.E.De groot
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
7
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method"
NAME
ADDRESS „
STATE
FOB INFOKMATION ONLY: The requirements of Section IST of the Companies Act, 1936, of
New South Wales have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, which is an abridgement
of the full prospectus. A copy of the full prospectus dated the twenty-seventh day of August, 1951, has
been filed with the Registrar-General of the State of New South Wales, who takes no responsibility as to
the contents.
Aldershot Investments (Australia) limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 17th August, 1951)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE, AT PAR, OF 2,000,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 5/- EACH
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
40,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £10,000,000
PRESENT ISSUE
400.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each are reserved for application
by and allotment to Malnguard (Australia) Limited, the
Directors and Associates £lOO,OOO
1.600.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each are now available for
public subscription 400,000
£500,000
DIRECTORS
SIR ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON, K.B.E. (Chairman). Banker,
Montgreenan, Leura.
PAUL ALFRED CULLEN, D. 5.0., E.D., Company Director, 126 Phillip Street,
Sydney.
ALLEN TAYLOR ANDERSON, B.Ec., Company Director, Ocean Street,
Edgecliff.
JACK EVELYN CASSIDY, K.C., 8.A., LL.B., Barrister-at-Law, 174 Phillip
Street, Sydney.
HENRY ROGERSON RANDERSON, B.Ec., A.8.1.A., Consulting Economist &
Financial Advisor, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY & REGISTERED OFFICE
G. W. McADAM 126 Phillip Street, Sydney
DROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
Brokers for the Issue are PRING, DEAN & CO., Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney, with whom is
associated for the purpose of the issue J. H. CLACK & CO.,
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
Primary Object and Purpose of the Issue.
Aldershot Investments (Australia) Limited
has been formed to _ operate as an Invest-
ment Company of the management type.
The principle of companies of this type is
co-operative investment.
Mainguard (Australia) Limited sponsors the
formation of this Company and the
Directors advise that, in their opinion,
there Is room for such a company and that
its success is assured.
The funds of the Company -will be Invested
in first-class local and overseas equity
shares, preference shares and other securi-
ties in such a manner as to provide the
greatest possible security of capital and
income.
Aldershot Investments (Australia) Limited
has the unusual advantage for a financial
institution of this kind of being able to
draw on the accumulated experience of
Directors who are prominently engaged in
industry.
Through Aldershot Investments (Australia)
Limited, shareholders with moderate capital
will share in the benefits of large scale
investment operations. Diversification of
the Company’s portfolio will provide security
of capital and income with reasonable pros-
pects of capital appreciation over a period.
Applications. Applications will be accepted
only on the form referred to in and endorsed
upon the full prospectus, copies of which
may be obtained from the Brokers associated
with the issue, or any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange in Australia.
Application lists open at 10 a.m. on 3rd
September, 1951, and close at 5 p.m. on
the Ist October, 1951, but the Directors
reserve the right to close at an earlier date
without notice.
Minimum Subscription. The minimum sub-
scription on which the Directors may
proceed to allotment is £500,000.
The Issue has been underwritten by
MAINGUARD (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
126 Phillip Street, Sydney
Hendon airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is probable that between
500,000 and 1,000,000 Europeans
have this summer spent their
holidays outside their own
countries. They have travelled
without let or hindrance, have
been received with courtesy and
friendliness, have been respect-
ful of others’ customs and have
returned home with no unhappy
memories of churlish treatment
or angry scenes.
Yet a mere 300 (out of the
not-very-considerable total of
under 1000) British students
who sought to reach East Berlin
for the Communist Youth Rally
have raised a commotion as
loud and strident as the after-
math of a pogrom or massacre.
To say that the rally itself has
shocked the whole of Europe is
no understatement, for no other
reason than that the prospect of
Teutonic youth—so prone in the
past to mass incitement —being
harnessed to the Kremlin shafts
is quite frightening.
The gist of the complaints
about treatment of the 300 is
that
(1) “not all” of the students were
Communists,
(2) the students were “unanimous
in believing that legally and morally
they had the right to pass through
Austria,” and
(3) the American soldiers used
violence and subjected them to indig-
nities in herding them together and
then denying them lavatory accommo-
dation.
What actually happened is
that the students did not pro-
vide themselves with the grey
passes which are necessary for
transit through the Russian zone,
but which the Russians, on this
one and only occasion, conveni-
ently saw fit to waive. The
students were turned back by the
American authorities at a station
near the demarcation line. It
was on their second and subse-
quent attempts to “jump” the
frontier by evading the occupa-
tion troops that the alleged in-
cidents occurred. They refused
to board the homeward-bound
train put at their service, and
appear to have provoked some
of the American troops into
retaliation. Both the alleged
violence and the discomforts of
a night without covering in the
cold mountain air appear to
have been self-induced.
There can be little sympathy
for a party of Russian sympa-
thisers who take the law into
their own hands, truculently and
arrogantly provoke armed
soldiers on duty and then con-
spire to manoeuvre themselves
into a self-supposed state of
persecution that will bear com-
parison only with that which,
in the near past, has been im-
posed by the Nazis —and the
Russians.
Powerless Albion
A grim prospect faces Britons
this winter. Not only does the
theory of averages deny them the
probability of a fifth successive
mild winter, but it is now cer-
tain that there will be a serious
shortage of power, particularly
electricity.
Consumption of electricity is,
of course, rising, and has raced
ahead of production and de-
velopment. Such remedies as
are proposed are no more than
short-term, and rely upon the
twin devices of load-spreading
and appeals for economy on the
part of housewives. Employers’
and employees’ associations are
agreed in principle to the
former, although neither stag-
gered hours nor night-shifts can
be expected to be popular among
the trade-unions. It is esti-
mated that industry may have to
suffer up to 20 per cent, cuts
during the “peak” hours, which
it would seem were better termed
“plateau” hours, since they occur
between eight and 12 in the
morning and four and five-thirty
in the afternoon.
Of household economy there
is no evidence yet of the efficacy
of pious exhortations upon the
housewife. When the raw Eng-
lish cold seeps into the room and
chills the bones she either fills
the grate or switches on the fire.
And, as the nation’s vast
sources of coal lie beneath the
ground, seemingly unobtainable
except in small quantities, she
has no choice but to switch on
the fire.
Lord Citrine, chairman of the
nationalised Electricity Board, is
reported to have stated that
legislation provides a solution.
That presumably means a statu-
tory penalty if the fire is switched
on between statutory times.
Apart from the observation that
here is what looks like another
case of passing the buck (from
a nationalised board which has
failed in supply to the law,
which must fail in enforcement)
it offers a promising field for
the satirist.
There seems to be one solu-
tion only—more coal —and that,
unfortunately, is no nearer
achievement.
Love Runs Amuck
There are only five characters
in “Intimate Relations” (Strand
Theatre), which is the title given
by Charles Frank to his trans-
lation of Jean Cocteau’s play
“Les Parents Terribles.” The
aptness of the English title is
beyond dispute, for a closer
interrelationship defies imagina-
tion.
There is Leonie, who lives
with her sister Yvonne and who
once was engaged to Yvonne’s
husband, George. There is
Yvonne, a diabetic, who has a
double fixation for ill-health and
her 22-year-old son Michael.
There is Michael, who is im-
moderately in love with Made-
leine. There is George, a rest-
less dodderer who has showered
money (borrowed from Leonie)
upon a light-o’-love and who is
shaken because she has cold-
shouldered him. Finally there is
the light-o’-love, who turns out
to be the same Madeleine. A
pretty pentagon!
This is the play that, it is de-
clared, has shocked Paris for
five years. But it is a long way
from shocking London, notwith-
standing its swear-words, bor-
rowings from the kennels and at
least one attitude that the cen-
sor should have barred. It may
be that the wit, style and
piquancy of Gallic acting cannot
be translated into a British idiom
or that Judith Purse’s produc-
tion, though rapid and pointed,
skates over the psychological
subtleties; or that the young
lovers lack technical experience
in the finer grades of charac-
terisation ; or that the author,
for all his classical style and
brilliant cohesion, is overclever.
His two main characters, the
mother and the girl, are finely
drawn, but the others are so
overtaxed with the changes of
outlook necessary for the un-
folding of the plot that they be-
come mere instruments of it.
Yvonne’s suicide, after the
reconciliation of the lovers she
nefariously conspired to split,
seems to be carrying things a
bit too far, for its effect is
mock-tragical and flatly melo-
dramatic. M. Cocteau, whose
technique is as broadly classical
as that of Moliere or Racine,
brings new methods to old
forms. No revolver-shot off-
stage, nor leap from a window,
nor self-induced plane crash:
Yvonne slips away to give her-
self an injection, and returns to
die in full sight, slowly and with
agony.


Introduction
TPHESE letters begin in 185 3, when Bid-
dulph, Rachel Henning’s only brother
(then 19, and considered "delicate”),
and her sister Annie (23) sailed for Aus-
tralia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great
Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta
(“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851)
and Amy were thus separated, for the
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed
from England to Biddulph and Annie in
Australia. She moved around from one
part of England to another, spending
her time agreeably with some of her
numerous relatives, and keeping Bid-
dulph and Annie in Australia informed
of family, social and political doings in
Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister
Amy, with their cousin, Tregenna Bid-
dulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta.
They reached Melbourne on October 1 5
and landed in Sydney on October 22.
Six days later Rachel and Amy went to
Appin, in N.S.W., where her brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev.
Sparling. Rachel soon became very un-
happy and homesick.
Following Amy’s marriage to Thomas
Sloman, of Bathurst, in September, 1855,
and while Biddulph was establishing a new
place on Bulli Mountain, Rachel decided
to return to England, where she arrived
in October, 1856. She left Amy, Annie
and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends
and relatives in England, during which
period Tregenna returned home to marry,
prior to settling on the Shoalhaven,
Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great
Britain for Australia on February 17,
1861. On her arrival she started pre-
parations to go to Queensland, where her
brother Biddulph had taken up a large
selection in new country near what is now
called Bowen.
This is the fifth instalment of the
letters.
“Great Britain,’’
Queenstown,
February 24, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
It was quite pleasant to wake
yesterday morning and find the
ship quiet, and then to look out
and see that we were steaming
up the beautiful harbor or
Queenstown. The sun was shin-
ing, the sea quite smooth and
numbers of white-sailed ships
dancing about and getting out of
our way.
We were soon surrounded by
shore boats, and the whole Great
Britain population seemed to
turn out upon Ireland. I went
on shore with Mrs. Bronchordt
and a party of gentlemen to see
what was to be seen. We had a
pleasant row across the harbor
and soon got to Queenstown,
which is built on a sort of
precipice, the white houses
rising, tier above tier, all up the
hill and looking very well from
a distance ; but we soon got into
a narrow, filthy street, swarming
with Irish children and pigs.
Some parts of the town were
much better, but we had soon
seen all there was to see, and
then we set off in a steamer for
Cork.
The sail was most beautiful
between low green hills covered
with woods and gentlemen’s
houses peeping out, or some-
times wild heathy hills and
downs. We were about an hour
going to Cork, which, though
rather dirty, was a better town
than I expected. The popula-
tion generally despise bonnets
and go bareheaded, or put up
hoods when it rains—not that
they seem to have much to do.
We went to the Imperial
Hotel and dined, and then set off
in a real Irish car to visit the
ruin of Blarney Castle. The
country round Cork is beautiful,
something like Devonshire. We
had a real specimen of an Irish-
man in the driver, who would
have blarneyed the head off
your shoulders, to say nothing of
the money out of your purse.
We walked up a hill and I
saw the furze in blossom, and
the hedges budding as I did
not expect to see them again in
England for a long time.
Blarney Castle is a most
picturesque ruin, and we went
to the top and saw the famous
Blarney stone.
We drove back to Cork
intending to return to Queens-
town by train, but were too late,
and so had to get back by a
most circuitous route, by train
to Passaje, then a mile in cars
to Monkstown, then we crossed
a long ferry, then performed a
night-march of two miles over
some very dirty roads, to Mrs.
Bronchordt’s great horror, and
at last got to'Queenstown about
eight, when we took a boat for
the Great Britain.
The moonlight ro.w across the
harbor was lovely, and sea like
“Swarming with Irish children and pigs.”
glass, the Queenstown lights
reflected in the water and the
ships dotted about and all show-
ing different lights. It was a
pretty scene. X thought as we
came along that Mr. Boyce was
probably about then arrived at
home, and was telling you about
his adventures and our Liver-
pool experiences. I will not say
I wished myself back in your
drawing-room, but I thought
very lovingly of it,
We got on board the Great
Britain about nine after a very
pleasant day’s excursion. The
weather was beautiful and quite
mild.
This morning we had service
on deck. There is a Presbyterian
minister on board; he read a
chapter, prayed and preached
very nicely and to a most atten-
tive audience. Perhaps it was
more suited to them than our
long morning’s service, though
I did not like it so well.
A great number of the pas-
sengers are on shore staying at
hotels. Perhaps I shall get on
shore again tomorrow, but there
is some report of the ship sail-
ing at noon, though I hardly be-
lieve the repairs can be done by
that time.
We have not seen tpuch of the
captain till today, when he
appeared at breakfast. He has
had a terrible life of anxiety
since we sailed. Now I hope we
may make a fresh start under
better auspices. Do not be
uneasy that we have met with
such weather; such a gale is
quite an exceptional thing, and
there has been none such since
the Royal Charter was lost, nor
did it blow so hard then, only
she was in-shore, while, provi-
dentially, we were in the open
sea.
We may make a good passage
after all. I have no fears myself.
No ship could have stood a gale
better. There are some in the
harbor sorely battered with
bulwarks gone, masts down,
etc.; far worse than we are. Of
course we cannot arrive in Aus-
tralia till May, so you will not
hear of us till July.
The saloon is full of visitors
come off to see the ship, and I
was surprised to hear my name
called just now, and on looking
up, to see Mr. Humphries, one
of our Calcutta passengers. I
could not remember his name at
first, and cannot imagine how he
knew me, for I have not seeft
him these five years. He is liv-
ing near Cork, and came to see
some friends he has on board.
He has sorely hindered my writ-
ing, and this has to go ashore by
five o’clock.
Some of the passengers have
talked of giving up the voyage,
so dismayed were they at the
weather, but I do not think any
of them have done such a foolish
thing. We have nothing to
complain of on the whole, in the
ship, though we amuse ourselves
by grumbling a little at the table,
which is not over-good for what
we pay. The provisions are
plentiful enough, but rather
coarse in quality. Still, we have
good appetites.
I have not made any great
acquaintance with anybody
except Mrs. Bronchordt, Ido
not think we have a very eligible
set on the whole, but perhaps
they will improve as we go on
and it is only for two months, I
hope, at all events.
You cannot think how dirty
everything gets; hands, clothes,
everything is black. The white
in my dress is in a most
disastrous state. I never saw
such a dirty ship. We are well
supplied with water, however,
and as yet no animalculse have
made their appearance.
Ever yours very affectionately,
Rachel Henning.
Surry Hills,
Sydney,
May 15, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
I suppose the newspaper tele-
grams will have told you that
the Great Britain has safely
reached Australia before you re-
ceive this. We landed in Mel-
bourne on the 2nd of May after
a very good run from Cork of
sixty-two days. I wrote to you
from Queenstown the day we
sailed, so you know my adven-
tures up to that point. After that
we had a calm passage on the
whole; of course there were
rolling days and stormy nights,
but nothing that could be called
a heavy gale. The passage was a
pleasant one, take it all together.
After leaving Ireland we soon
got into warm weather, and very
warm weather it was. Some days
the thermometer was up to 90
in the saloon, but we were for-
tunate enough to steam through
it, while the unhappy sailing-
ships we passed were flapping
their sails helplessly in the
calms on the Line, while their
inhabitants must have been
nearly roasted alive.
We crossed the Line March
17th and rounded the Cape on
April 6th. After that we had
some cold weather, of course,
but nothing very intense, as we
did not go very far south. We
never had very favorable winds.
Once we made a run of 315
miles in the 24 hours, but only
once, and it was chiefly owing
to the screw that we made such
a good passage as we did.
I liked some of my fellow-
passengers very much, but not
my cabin companion, Mrs.
Bronchordt. At least, I did not
dislike her, for she was good-
natured enough, but a more
helpless, childish, complaining
mortal it was never my misfor-
tune to come across. She could
not do her hair fit to be seen,
nor mend her clothes, nor keep
her things in any sort of order.
However, as she spent most or
her time in bed, I gave up the
cabin to her and followed my
own devices elsewhere.
I think I told you about Mrs.
Ranken. I found her most
pleasant all through the voyage,
and now I am going to travel
up to Bathurst with her to-
morrow, and she has asked me
to come and stay with her there,
Of the young ladies, the one
I knew best was a Miss Shermg.
She was going out under the
captain’s care to be married, as
were two other young ladies on
board. She was a gentle, darx-
eyed girl from Bristol, of some
tradesman’s family, I r
imagine, not very c^ ever ’
very kind and good. The > S


ladies, in general, were a very
dull set.
We had some pleasant people
at our table. My next neighbor,
Mr. Brandt, was a German Jew,
but who spoke English very well,
and we kept up an incessant
skirmish on the relative merits of
England and Germany; below
him were the Friend family,
some Sydney people ; opposite
me were Mr. and Mrs. Feldheim
—he was another German and
rather a well-informed man.
Then there was Mr. Gifford, a
flourishing - looking Adelaide
squatter, who told most amus-
ing stories about the bush ; Mr.
Uphill, a merchant, but not
from Bristol, as I first thought,
but he knew the place very well;
Mr. Payne, a young lawyer,
clever and amusing and a
thorough Englishman, who used
to join in the battles with the
Germans ; and a Mr. Compton,
who, I think, was a little
cracked —he used to come out
with such extraordinary state-
ments. We had far more fun
going on at our table always
than at any of the others, and
the captain used to say it was
the only one he liked taking the
head of. He took them all in
turn.
Somehow there was a good
deal of stiffness and party feel-
ing on board the ship. I hardly
know how it arose, but half the
people were not friendly with
the other half. I enjoyed the
voyage myself. I was always so
wonderfully well; I never had
a day’s seasickness nor illness
of any kind, and never was
absent from a meal from the
time I left Liverpool till I
reached Sydney. It was a thing
to be very thankful for, so many
people were unwell at various
times. I was more often than
not the only lady at the table,
except old Mrs. Friend.
I will not say more about the
voyage, however, as you will
find plenty about it in my
journal if you have patience to
read that document. I am going
to send it, together with the
pinafores, to England by Cap-
tain Gray, and as he sails on the
29th of this month, it will prob-
ably be in England at the end
of July, a short time after this
reaches you.
As soon as we got to Mel-
bourne we heard that there was
no steamer on to Sydney till the
7th of May, and when I found
that I must have missed Annie
anyway I did not regret the
detention, as I rather wanted to
see something of Melbourne.
Soon after we anchored a Mr.
Frew came on board and in-
quired for me. He brought a
letter from Annie, who knew his
brother in Sydney, and very
kindly offered to see to my
luggage, etc. I was very much
disappointed to find that Annie
had been in Sydney for three
months, but that, expecting the
Great Britain nearly a fortnight
before it arrived, she had settled
to go to Rockhampton by the
steamer of the 4th of April;
as there was no possibility of
letting Biddulph know, and
she did not like to disappoint
him and make him come sixty
miles for nothing, she went on
the Saturday after I came to
Melbourne. I think she was
quite right, though it was very
vexing, and the disappoint-
ment, I am sure, was as great
to her as to me, but I hope I
shall see her in a few weeks
now.
I rather enjoyed my stay at
Melbourne. About twelve of the
passengers were going on to
Sydney, and of these six besides
myself had taken their passage
through and were therefore en-
titled to stay on board the Great
Britain if they liked. We were
quite a pleasant little party
there; Mr. and Mrs. Paul, Miss
Parkins, the latter’s sister, Miss
Dyson, Mr. Golding, Mr.
Osborne and myself, besides the
captain, the doctor and Mr.
Turner, the first-officer. We
used to go ashore in the cap-
tain’s boat every morning after
breakfast, spend the day on
shore and return to the ship to
dinner at five ; and in the even-
ings amuse ourselves with music
or whist or chess afterwards.
We spent one day in seeing
Melbourne, its shops and streets
and grand buildings, and a very
fine town it is, far better than
Sydney. Another day we went
up the river to the Botanic
Garden and Zoological Gardens,
and another we made a picnic to
a place called Gardener’s Creek,
about seven miles up the Yarra
Yarra.
You cannot think how kind
the captain was to me during
the voyage and especially during
my stay in Melbourne. He
always took me under his
especial care in all the boating
and railway travelling back-
wards and forwards, for we had
to go up by rail to the town ;
the ship was lying about a
quarter of an hour’s pull from
Sandridge pier, and then there
was about a quarter of an hour's
journey by rail to Melbourne.
I was very sorry to say good-
bye to the Great Britain and her
captain when we sailed from
Melbourne. She is a splendid
ship, and I am sure we all have
reason to speak well of her.
We left Melbourne at two
o’clock on the seventh in the
Wonga Wonga, a pretty little
steamer, but rather different in
size from our old ship. We had
a very calm passage. We took
two days about it, entered Syd-
ney Heads very late on Thurs-
day night, ran up the harbor and
anchored at the wharf at twelve
o’clock at night.
I did not the least expect any-
one to meet me so late, but as
soon as we anchored Annie’s
friend, Mr. Macmichael, came
on board ; he had been waiting
at the wharf all that time for
me, and very kind I thought it
of him. He wanted me to come
out to the Surry Hills at once,
but I would not knock up the
Hirsts at such an untimely hour,
but preferred sleeping on board
ship one more night. I had not
slept on shore for more than
80 nights, and had got rather to
like small cribs.
The next morning I got up
early, and a most lovely Aus-
tralian morning it was, the sun
shining and everything looking
bright and beautiful. Mr. Hirst
and Emily Tucker came on
board for me soon after eight
o’clock. The former looks older
and more careworn than when
I saw him last, the latter exactly
the same. I do not see that
these three years have made a
pin’s difference in her. I was
so glad to see her again. She is
a very old friend after all. Mr.
Macmichael appeared again
soon after, and after some re-
search I found most of my lug-
gage on the wharf; part of it
was sent to Mr. Hirst’s stores
and part of it was put on board
a cab, wherein Emily and I set
off to the Surry Hills.
There I found Caroline look-
ing just the same as ever, the
picture of a comfortable, well-
to-do ma/tron, stout and rosy
and as pleasant as ever. The
boys were grown out of all
knowledge, of course. Edith, the
baby when I was last here, is
now a very pretty little girl of
six years old, with fair skin and
dark hair and eyes, not unlike
Lucy Macey ; she
often reminds me
of her. The
youngest have
been born since I
left. Wilfred
would be a very
fine little boy, as
he has beautiful
dark eyes and
pretty features, but
the mosquitoes
have devoured him
till he looks as if
he had the measles,
and Caroline, hav-
ing had the
mosquito - curtains
to his bed washed
and put away,
cannot be gre-
vailed on to take
them out again.
Emily is most
useful to Caroline
in the house,
makes puddings,
dresses Edith, re-
proves the boys,
and is, in fact, a
model aunt. Th§y
have a nice com-
fortable house,
with plenty of
rooms of a good
size. I sleep with
Emily, and many a
talk we have to-
gether about old
times.
Of course I have heard a great
deal about Annie and Bid-
dulph—they are all full of the
former here, as she has only just
left. She seems to have been
excessively popular in Sydney.
She was escorted to the steamer
by nine gentlemen and three
ladies, all armed with pocket-
handkerchiefs, and several of
them have been out of spirits
ever since she departed. She
must have dressed beautifully
according to Emily’s account,
and she has taken up such nice
things to the bush in the way of
hats and cloth habits and new
dresses that J am afraid she will
be quite alarmed at my shabbi-
ness.
Biddulph, too, seems to have
made quite a sensation here. He
was here for two months at the
beginning of the year. They say
that he is not the least roughened
or colonialised by his long resi-
dence in the bush, but that his
manners and appearance are
“first-rate,” so very simple and
yet so very gentlemanly. That
he is most polite
and attentive to all
the young ladies
and a great flirt!
I do long to see him and Annie
again. I am sure we shall be
very happy together. I fully
mean to try.
We shall have some furniture
at Marlborough,* which is a
blessing, for Biddulph bought a
great deal of Captain Tucker’s
furniture when he went to Eng-
land. Emily says he would have
bought the piano only he was
then uncertain about my coming
out. I wish he had ; it would
have been such an amusement
in the bush.
Emily was very much obliged
for the coronet you sent her,
and likes it very much ; they are
nearly new here. My large cases,
of course, I shall not open till I
get to Rockhampton. My watch
came quite safely in company
with Mr, Flemming’s. I took it
out as soon as I arrived here
and wound it up and it goes
beautifully; it is certainly a
very pretty watch, and it is a
wonderful thing to me to know
the time again. His lordship, as
they always call Mr. Flemming
here, called for his property the
day after I arrived. He is
rather a gentlemanly young
man, more so than I expected,
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
and with a most perpetual
tongue; he spent yesterday
evening here and was so good
as to volunteer another call
before I go.
I have walked about with
Emily a great deal since I came ;
the weather has been perfection,
bright and clear and just cool
enough to be pleasant. Cer-
tainly the Australian winters are
lovely ; but the summers!
My bonnet is very pretty —
that was your taste —and very
new-looking, for very few of
“She was escoried to the steamer by nine gentlemen and three ladies.”
that shape are worn here yet.
Emily and Caroline both wear
the round fronts. My black one
has survived the voyage, and
Emily is at this moment pin-
ning in a clean cap, preparatory
to my wearing it to Bathurst
tomorrow.
We went over to the North
Shore yesterday to see the Wil-
liam Tuckers and the Stewarts,
That north shore is most beauti-
ful, in some places the wild
bush goes down to the water’s
edge, or cliffs and waterworn
rocks, with the clear blue water
washing over them, and the
houses have such lovely views
from all the windows.
I do not know how to give
you any idea of the beauty of
Sydney Harbor. I certainly
underrated the Australian
scenery, but, then, it is winter
now; I should tell a different
story in the heat and dust of
summer.
I set off for Bathurst to-
morrow, and that is the reason
you will get these letters dated
cab costs ten shillings and you
cannot get a porter to carry a
box to an omnibus.
I shall probably stay with
Amy about a month ; then come
bacjc here and spend a few
weeks, as Caroline will not be
satisfied with the six days’ visit
I have paid her, and I shall
probably get to Marlborough
about the end of July. They say
it is a dreadful voyage up to
Rockhampton, as the boats are
small and bad and take eight
days on the passage. I am long-
so long before the
mail starts. I wish
I could have ven-
tured to leave writ-
ing to you till I had seen
Amy, but I shall not be at
Bathurst till Saturday evening at
the earliest, and if it goes on
raining as it is doing today I do
not know about getting there at
all, as we shall probably stick in
the mud on the Blue Mountains.
I should have gone up before
probably, but I wanted to go
with Mrs. Ranken; it is so
much pleasanter than travelling
alone. We shall be a party of
four ; Mrs. Ranken, her sister,
her son and myself. We start
tomorrow evening by train for
Parramatta, sleep there and set
off next morning by the coach,
travel all day, sleep somewhere
on Friday night, then on again
till Saturday evening, when, if
we are lucky, we shall get to
Bathurst, and very glad 1 shall
be to see Amy and her children.
I shall not get my luggage till
some days after I get there my-
self. It is such a dreadful plague
to move luggage here, where a
ing to hear that Annie is safely
and comfortably at her new
home, for she is a very bad
sailor and dreaded the voyage
very much.
Ever your most affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
Bathurst,
Sunday, May 19, 1861.
My Dearest Etta,
I came up to Bathurst rather
suddenly, as I was coming with
Mrs. Ranken and she did not let
me know till a day or two before
we started. I set off with her,
her sister, Miss Hutchinson, a
very funny old lady, who talks
such broad Scotch I can hardly
understand her at all, and her
son Tom,
We left Sydney about five
o’clock and got to Parramatta
by train about six. It is only
seventeen miles, but the Aus-
tralian railways do not go at
express pace; though otherwise
they are very comfortable. We
slept at Parramatta and the next
morning set out at seven o’clock
in an American coach,f which
has lately been set up in opposi-
tion to the old mails. It is a
machine built very strong and
very light, hung upon a peculiar
sort of spring and with seats
inside for nine. Three on each
side and a canopy over, sup-
ported by little wooden pillars
and drawn by four capital
horses, changed every ten miles,
at every stage.
The Bathurst road was bad
when I was here before, but now
there is no word that I should
like to use that would the least
express its state. We got on
pretty well to Penrith, where we
crossed the Nepean in a punt, the
bridge having been lately carried
away by a flood. The coach,
horses and all, was driven on
to a sort of floating platform,
to the infinite terror of Miss
Hutchinson ; and then we were
towed across. Then began the
ascent of the Blue Mountains by
a long pull up Lapstone Hill,
I wish I could give you the
least idea of the beauty of the
scenery here. It was a lovely
morning, and we wound along
one side of the hill with a deep
ravine on our right, and, on the
other side of the ravine, a wall
of rock that seemed to rise up
to the sky with trees growing
(i Continued on next page.)
• A station near Rockhampton (Q.)
taken up by Briddulph jointly with the
Tuckers in 1858.
t A Cobb and Co.’s coach. The
N. S. Wales service was established in
1861, and headquarters set up in
Bathurst,
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia in 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Later he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 255. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, bis wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WILLIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


•• -XV
&I.
■A
:>*
m
i
ip
it
■
mm
You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Madam 1
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H. M. KING GEORGE VI
contented mood .
g
dfg
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
i'BW LSI
kuv mom saw
SANDERS
SftfikeflLtS,
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed In the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference ai
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
m
Price* «od ,Br *
Cher «nCorro*ti»*
■ poo
Jackson & O’Sullivan Ptv. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — r( ,i
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon 4 Sons Lt .
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (A ll - ■
THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
• Company Account*
• Mining Activitie*
PRICE 2/-
out of every crevice and the sun
shining on the top, while all
below was in black shade. I had
forgotten how magnificent those
Blue Mountains were. We
travelled among them all day,
over such roads as I never saw
before. We had a capital driver,
fearless and yet careful, and he
took us safe over rocks and ruts
and deep holes and fallen trees.
Once we certainly took off the
head of a sapling and then got
aground on the stump, but the
united exertions of the gentle-
men lifted the coach off and we
got under way again.
The coachman drove very
much by voice. “Hie good
horses! Pull then! Hie Chance,
hie Jemmy! Hie a-l-o-n-g”—the
last word with a good roar,
when the horses would make a
desperate effort and pull us out
of the particular boghole in
which we were at that moment
stuck, and with a lurch, and a
pitch, and a tumble (enough to
break the springs of anything
but an American coach), we
would go on a rock and then
descend into another hole. We
took six hours to do the last
twenty miles that night, and we
arrived at Black Heath, a solitary
inn among the mountains, where
we were to sleep, about eleven
o’clock at night. Here we had
supper in company with a few
coachmen, etc., and slept as well
as we could till six next morn-
ing, when we made a fresh start.
There were 10 people in the
coach —six ladies and four
gentlemen. The latter were
always getting up and down to
help the coach out of difficulties,
and were covered with mud
before the end of the journey.
We went down Mt. Victoria
just at sunrise, and some of the
views were lovely. You looked
down on seas of forest and fold
after fold of mountains covered
with wood. I should have
enjoyed it more perhaps if I had
been walking, instead of in a
loaded coach coming down a
steep hill over the worst road
you can imagine, and with a
precipice rising up on the left
and another on the right going
sheer down I don’t know how
many hundred feet, and no
parapet, so that a shying horse,
or a wheel coming off, or an
overturn, would have sent us all
into another world most likely.
There are many such places on
the road through the Blue
Mountains. Luckily I am not
nervous, nor is Mrs. Ranken, but
Miss Hutchinson did nothing
but groan and say “Oh!” at
every fresh lurch the coach gave.
Fortunately we had good
horses down Mt. Victoria, but
at “Solitary Creek,” the next
inn, they put in a team that
nearly did for us. The coach-
man tried to start them, when
the off-leader turned short round
and bit the horse next him, the
latter, a colt, who had hardly
been in harness before, reared
on his hindlegs, while both
wheelers jibbed obstinately and,
when exhorted with the whip,
began backing and kicking.
We were all but overturned,
and obeyed the order “to get
out as fast as possible” with
great alacrity. We lost nearly
a quarter of an hour in trying to
start those horses, and at last
the whole team had to be taken
out and four splendid horses
substituted that had been kept
for the down mail. How that
latter vehicle got to Sydney I
do not pretend to say, but about
seven o’clock last evening we
rumbled into Bathurst, very glad
to be at the end of our journey,
though I was wonderfully little
tired to what others were.
In writing to Amy I had made
a mistake between the mail and
the American coach, so there
was no one to meet me when I
arrived at the inn. (Mrs.
Ranken’s carriage met her before
we got to Bathurst, and she lives
four miles from the town.) But
while I was inquiring for some-
one to show me the way to Mr.
Sloman’s, a gentleman whom I
had seen standing at the door
came up and said he lived just
opposite his house, so I walked
with him for about half a mile,
a most lovely starlit night, till
we came to a pretty-looking
house with a veranda before it,
and knocked at the door, which
Amy immediately opened by
She was looking very well,
and I was so glad to see
her again, for, kind as they all
are at Sydney, it is not like being
among one s “own people.” Mr
Sloman too, is looking well,
though I am not sure that he is
improved by a beard that he
has grown since I last saw him
The two little girls had been
kept up to see me, as they
expected me later. They were
sitting up at tea when I came in
and seemed quite delighted to
see me. I think Amy had been
talking to them about “Aunt
Rachel. They are very neatly
dressed in crimson French
Merino dresses, made high with
long sleeves for the winter, and
white pinafores of the’ old
shape; they wear little cloth
jackets out of doors and brown
felt hats a broad shape not
turned up.
The baby I did not see till this
morning ; he is a very large, fine
child for eight months old, but
not pretty. He seems very lively
and intelligent, takes notice of
everything and held qut his arms
to come to me as soon as I saw
him. He must have recognised
me as his aunt, for in general
he will not go to strangers.
The house is very comfort-
able ; they have a pretty
drawing-room, nicely furnished
and with all Amy’s knick-
knacks that she used to be so
fond of about it, a roughish sort
of dining-room, where the
children play also, then Amy has
a large bedroom with a dressing-
room inside it. The bedroom
also serves as a nursery, for the
baby is generally there when
not in the dining-room.
Bathurst agrees with both
Amy and Mr. Sloman, I think.
The climate is more like Eng-
land than Australia ; just now,
for instance, it is like our very
best autumn weather. There
was a sharp white frost this
morning, and it was quite cold
enough to make fires very com-
fortable ; then it came out into
the most splendid day, clear
sunshine, no wind and such a
cloudless sky.
There was no service here this
morning, and Mr. Sloman got a
dogcart and drove us over to a
church on the other side of the
river about three miles off. It
was quite a pleasant drive this
beautiful day and we heard a
very nice sermon.
The church we went to stands
on a hill with a beautiful view
round it, but it is a very ugly
contrivance in itself, red brick
with a little square tower and
an article on the top thereof
exactly like a tin extinguisher.
Constance w£nt with us and
was very good. Amy dresses
very nicely; she is wearing a
tweed dress and she has a very
handsome black silk mantle, one
of the large ones, which Mr.
Sloman brought her on his last
return from Sydney, and a straw
bonnet trimmed by herself with
black velvet. She says Mr.
Sloman also gave her a mohair
dress, but I do not think she
has had a silk one for some
time, so I hope our present will
be a useful one.
I mean to be very happy at
Bathurst this time, so don’t think
of me jis otherwise.
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
{To be continued next week.)


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHANNES HERRO BORGER late of
62 Darling Point Road Darling Point. —
TAKE NOTICE that PAULINE MARY
BOItGER has filed Petition No. 1319 of
1951 in which she prays for a decree for
restitution of conjugal rights on the
grounds of your withdrawal from cohabi-
tation with her without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may file
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 6th
of November 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from LESLIE
RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
pit
10
«s
*******
&
4^'*
* ******* **°*°
66 The Reds are to blame for the sick state of Australia’s
economy . Stoppages and strikes , go-slow tactics and
general unrest are the commodities they deal in. You
would be buying more for your money if there were no
Communists in this country
(Mr. Cosgrove, Labor Premier of Tasmania, Sydney Sun, 25/6/51)
YES — and four State Governments — Victoria,
Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania
— agreed to give to the Commonwealth the
necessary powers to deal with the Red menace.
But because two States — N.S.W. and Queens-
land — refused, a Referendum is necessary. It is
for you to decide.
AUSTRALIA VERSUS COMMUNISM!
ON
SEPT.
22
VOTE
flBfSS
Authorised for The Liberal Party by J. L. Carrkk, 30 Ash St.. Sydney,
FG. 150.44
A SPOON IN
THE WORKS
by E.MARY MEDLEY
THE headmaster’s wife sat
at her desk and fidgeted
nervously. Before her
stood Matron, a formidable
figure. The matter under dis-
cussion—if it could be called
discussion —was the forthcom-
ing visit of some Very Important
People from England. The
headmaster’s wife was young
and new to the school and
anxious to avoid unnecessary
dislocation of the routine, which
she was only just beginning to
master. Matron had been an
Army nurse and knew what was
due to inspecting V.I.Ps.
“I really don’t think we want
a lot of fuss. Matron,” the head-
master’s wife ventured. “If they
don’t enter their boys it will all
have been wasted, and if they
do they’ll soon realise that it was
all put on for their benefit.”
“Of course, it is for you to
say,” replied Matron, standing,
if possible, more stiffly to atten-
tion. “I only wish to have every-
thing in order.”
She settled her flowing cap
and crackled starchily out of the
room.
He first objective was the
clothes-lockers. The scouts, of
course, would be in uniform.
That made things much easier.
A field-day had been arranged ;
and if the visitors stayed to see
the campfire, it would be nearly
dark and it would not matter
how dirty the boys had got.
Then there must be cricket. All
English people liked to see little
boys in long white trousers
dotted about on a well-kept oval.
The headmaster always had a
sprightly reference to “the play-
ing fields of Eton” ready for
such an occasion. If only the
boys could be prevented from
going off to catch yabbies in the
dam while waiting to bat or
when finding things dull on the
boundary fence, they should
look reasonably clean from a
distance. Some nicely-spoken
senior boys must wear their best
suits and school ties, and be
ready as guides to show off the
attractions of workshops and
hobbies rooms. Anyone left
over fropn these groups could go
bathing. Their outfits would not
need any planning, and the
swimming-hole was a long way
off.
So much for clothes. Matron
set forth to spread alarm and
despondency in the kitchens and
pantries. After a quickfire
fusillade of orders about tidy-
ing dormitories and providing a
suitable afternoon-tea, she came
away, leaving a froth of
grumbles totally unheeded in her
wake.
Now for the sickbay. This
was Matron’s baby and must be
kept as the focal point of the
visit. All parents liked to know
how expertly and devotedly
their children were nursed when
sick, and nothing impressed
them more than a spotless
hospital. There must be abso-
lutely no hitch here. A suitable
patient must be in it and every-
thing done with military pre-
cision.
Matron looked inside and
found everything to her satis-
faction. Rows of empty beds
showed how healthy the school
was, and the human touch was
given by Sister, bending over the
frail and pallid form of a small
boy in the corner. Young
Wilson had very opportunely
overeaten himself at a black-
berry hunt, and was looking
beautiful in the early stages of
convalescence.
Matron nodded approval at
Sister and went up to her room
to put on a still stiffer uniform,
having dispelled any doubts in
her own mind and everybody
else’s as to whose job it was to
organise the day.
Everything went off per-
fectly. Scouts and bicycles
signalled the approach of the
cars, and the guard-of-honor
sprang to attention at exactly the
right moment. The headmaster
was on the front steps, and the
specially-chosen guides in their
first long trousers stood in a
studiedly careless group behind
him. The cricketers could be
seen through the gum-trees in
the distance walking in a pur-
poseful manner towards the
oval, shepherded away from the
yabbie dam by an energetic
junior-master. The visitors said
all the right things ; and when
Matron led the procession
through the little hospital and
emerged into the sunlight every-
body felt that the day had been
an unmitigated success.
But, as usual, they had calcu-
lated without Bobby.
Bobby was always a lone
hand. He was very small for
his age and could hide any-
where, and he made the most
of his opportunities. His father,
a widower, was a grazier away
on the black-soil plains, and
Bobby had grown-up with the
shearers and station-hands, rid-
ing before he could walk and
accumulating a rich store of
anecdote and expletive, only half
of which he could understand.
When he was eight his father
had realised that he never
seemed to get any bigger, and
had packed him off to school in
the hope that somebody might
feed him something to make
him grow. Everyone loved
Bobby. He had something about
him of the great outback. He
was completely fearless and
quite alarmingly truthful. He
was often found in the kitchens
and farm buildings, which were
out of bounds; but nobody
seemed to mind. Even the boys
accepted his eccentricities and
forgot their usual hostility to
anything different from the
accepted pattern.
Everyone loved him, except,
of course, Matron. She had
early crossed his bows, and they
would never understand each
other. Her regimented outlook
could not appreciate his adven-
turous spirit, and at the first
sign of preparations for a scene
in which Bobby realised he
would not wish to have a part,
he had sought sanctuary under
the hospital and from here he
now emerged.
His shirt, worn outside his
pants, was torn and covered with
cobwebs. He staggered under
the weight of an enormous jar
of that brown sticky compound
which is prescribed for the
nourishment of the undersized
on much the same principle as
Popeye’s spinach. His face was
smeared with streaks of it, and
he struggled with the handle of
a tablespoon which stuck out of
the top.
A group of well-dressed
strangers led by Matron in full
sail meant nothing to Bobby.
He approached his ally, Sister,
who was standing politely on
the step:
“Hey, Sister,” he said in his
little piping voice, “give us a
hand with this, will y’? Me
bloody spoon’s bogged.”


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The number of people who have said
lately “I’m so glad the weather’s behav-
ing. It’s such a relief when there are visi-
tors from overseas here,” makes one think
that Sydney is just like that little girl
who had a little curl—when she’s good
she’s very, very good, and when she’s
bad she’s horrid.
Someone must have been praying very
hard for the Girl Guides, for heaven
sent them a week of unbelievably sunny
weather as a donation to their camp at
Narrabeen. The provident organisers had
made arrangements to evacuate them to
the quarantine station if it rained, but,
happily, that wasn’t necessary. The
Governor, as Chief Scout, officially
opened the camp on Wednesday, when
the 500 guide - campers paraded and
about 500 more came to look on and
cheer. The parade showed a wide variety
of guide costume, which gave it a
pleasantly feminine appearance. Out-
standing were the girls from Ceylon in
white, the American girls in green and
the Pakistan guide who was clad in float-
ing white draperies and sari. It was in-
teresting to hear that she wore this type
of dress even for camp duties and on
strenuous hikes, managing just as well as
our guides do in their functional uni-
form. Elizabeth Northcott represented
her mother as Chief Guide at the open-
ing, when Mrs. C. R. Fairbairn presided.
Lady Julius, as State president, was pre-
sent, also Miss Eleanor Mannine, Mrs.
P. B. Stacey, Miss Audrey Morphett,
from S.A., and Miss A. Price, who is
commissioner for N.G. and Papua.
The Victoria League in N.S.W. bene-
fited by the gala premiere of “Of Men
and Music” last week. The Governor
was present, and Elizabeth Northcott
represented her mother, who is N.S.W.
president of the league. The official party
included Mrs. Norman Hill, Mrs. H. S.
Nicholas, Rear - Admiral and Mrs.
Showers, General and Mrs. Bridge-
ford, Wing-Commander and Mrs. E. B.
Courtney, the H. H. McNalls, Colonel
and Mrs. Allan Foott, Captain and Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutcheson, R.A.N. Lieut.-
Commander Bruce Watchorn and Mrs.
Watchorn, Helen Buchanan, Katherine
Connor, the Sydney Allbrights and the
Alexis Alberts. The foyer was decorated
with beautiful pink blossom and lilies
by Mrs. Instone and Mrs. Blaxland, and
members of the Young Contingent sold
masses of the lovely spring flowers,
daphne, stock, freesias and late camellias
which had been donated by members and
friends of the league.
The Bankers’ Ball assembled about
1000 dancers at the Troc., and will add
another £6OO to the many thousands
already raised by this annual ball for the
R.P.A. Hospital, The National Bank
seemed to do most of the organising this
year, with the wife of the chairman, Mrs.
A L. Chapman, presenting the 17 debs
to Dr. and Mrs. Coombs. First prize for
the best-decorated table was won by the
Hurstville branch of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia. Second prize went to the
National Bank for the table adorned for
debutantes Patricia Crellin and Elaine
Kirby. It was a little disappointing not
to see the debs’ partners wearing white
tie and tails, as they did last year, be-
cause that gave the ball a distinct cachet,
but such garments certainly are at present-
day prices a bit beyond the average young
man. Several Melbourne bankers, in-
cluding Mr. P. F. Gordon, took time off
from their conference with Dr. Coombs
to bring their wives to the ball. The
Douglas Farquesons, from the Bank of
N.S.W., entertained a large party and, in-
cidentally, looked after the Press very
well.
Visiting her homeland for a couple of
months is Ruth Dobson, who, as a woman
diplomat, is something of a rarity. She
is attached to the Department of External
Affairs, and has been in Geneva as a
member of the Permanent Delegation to
the European office of the U.N. She has
also been a delegate to a great many
conferences in Paris, Rome and Geneva,
and has been Australia’s representa-
tive in Europe for the Australian United
Nations Association. Ruth isn’t so
appalled at the price of things in Australia
as we are, because she says that to one
coming from Europe this seems quite a
place to do a bit of shopping. In France
and Switzerland, apparently, there are
many beautiful things to buy, but one has
to be in a pretty high income-group to
buy them. Ruth has been staying with
her sister, poet Rosemary Dobson, at
Neutral Bay, and proposes to go to Miita-
gong, where her mother lives, and to Can-
berra before returning to Europe.
“Morning’s at Seven,” the new produc-
tion at the Metropolitan Theatre, is one
of those welcome plays which give you
food for thought but no need to think,
if you’re not in a thinking mood. Nearly
all the characters are about 70, which
seems to be as dangerous an age as 17,
or 30 or 40, or any age, for that matter.
But in spite of the old folk’s troubles,
gentle, mild, humorous and pathetic, the
final thought, that “God’s in his heaven,
all’s right with the world,” is a comfort-
ing one to go home with. The players:
Reginald Lye, Patricia Assange, Gwen
Harrison, Patricia Schumann, John
Barker, Kenneth Warren, Wanda Herbert,
Sheila Reeves and Robin Lovejoy, did
a very commendable job all round, but
the most convincing of the old people’s
parts was played by Reginald Lye as
Theodore Swanson.
Our picture shows Mrs. Roy Mc-
Caughey, who is a vice-president of the
committee for the Black and White Ball,
set down for the Trocadero on October
2. The Governor is to be guest-of-honor
at the ball, and has given his consent for
decorations to be worn on the night.
Elizabeth Northcott will present the
prizes.
There was quite a fair sprinkling of
men at the Lady Mayoress’s cocktail-
fashion-party. The hats (which seemed to
be the main feature of the parade) had
been designed by members of the stronger
sex. The men showed great interest in the
headgear, and perhaps they were ponder-
ing whether it might not have been more
fascinating to be milliners than lord-
mayors, doctors, generals, etc. More
likely, though, they were merely taking
that indulgent masculine amusement that
men get from looking at the fanciful
things women put on their heads. Mrs.
C. M. Guiney was violet-sprinkled and
fox-furred, Mrs. Bridgeford wore a beauti-
ful cocktail dress of navy broderie
anglaise with a wide hat, Mrs. F. G.
Callaghan was in black, and Mrs. Alex
Morgan teamed up a tiny hat with pink
flowers to a smart black suit.
The first community cottage built
by the Eventide Homes at Padstow
will be opened next Saturday at
2.30 p.m. Designed to accommodate
five elderly ladies, it has been
christened the Henry Lawson Cottage,
and is, the committee feels, the best
memorial it could erect to the memory of
the poet. Interested friends may send
donations to the appeal office in 44
Martin-place, or help with the button-
day which is to be held on Friday, Sep-
tember 14.
News comes from London that Breffni
Hosking and his wife Thea Rowe are to
have bestowed upon them the title “Bard
of the Gorsedd.” The Gorsedd exists to
maintain the national spirit of Cornwall,
to encourage the study of Cornish history
and language, to foster Cornish literature,
art and music and to link Cornwall with
other Celtic countries. Breffni has made
a study of Celtic languages and has trans-
lated many old folk-songs which Thea
now has in her repertoire and which she
has been singing in her English tour.
Thea and Breffni —who are both of
Cornish descent —will wear the robes of
their ancestors for the occasion.
Dorothy Helmrich welcomed guests to
the Arts Council’s reception for the “Let’s
Make an Opera” company. All the
members of this company, including the
children, are Australians except the con-
ductor, Edward Renton, who, at Benjamin
Britten’s request, has been the guiding
light for the production many times in
England. This interesting show, which
opens on Friday, has South Australians
Joanne Priest for producer and Jacqueline
Hicks for decor and costume-designer.
September is a good month for dances.
It’s not too cold to go out and not too
hot to make dancing seem less delightful.
Besides, the coming of spring willy-nilly
inspires a certain amount of gaiety. The
Medical Ball is on the 18th ; the Uni-
versity Ball is scheduled for the 21st;
the 27th sees the Lady Mayoress’s Ball,
and on the following night is the
“Naughty Nineties,” for which attractive
invitations have been designed by Sam
Hughes. They represent the double-doors
of a theatre opened at the centre to
disclose an old-time pantomime fairy. For
this ball also Mrs. Maurice Samuels, a
prominent member of the American
colony, has devised a supper which, it is
said, is guaranteed to reconcile the most
nostalgic of her friends to their lot.
Somewhere to take the children
during the holidays is the International
Children’s Festival, which will be on at
Phillip Park from Sept. 3 to Sept. 7.
Hephzibah Menuhin came over from
Melbourne to open it. There is
a display of dolls, books and hand-
work from all nations, and every after-
noon children of other nations will put
on various perfomances in which it is
hoped the visiting children will join.
Each morning well-known artists will give
talks on child- and folk-art.
From Melbourne
Among the guests at the supper-party
given by Sir Robert and Lady Knox at
the conclusion of the first performance of
James Bridie’s “Mr. Gillie” at the
National Theatre, Eastern Hill, were
members of the cast and John Casson,
English actor-producer. Lady Knox added
gold-thread gloves to her black ensemble
and dyed-ermine coat. Mrs. Rupert
Downes wore scarlet angora, her
daughter Mrs. Jim Campbell midnight-
blue. Gertrude Johnson, director of the
National Theatre, was in flowing black,
gold-embroidered. Mrs. lan Potter mixed
ice-blue and silver lame. Mrs. A. T.
Smithers’s choice was dove-grey crepe.
Mrs. Paul Fiddian’s crepes were soft-
pink. Mrs. A. N. Jacobsen had a black
lace mantilla for her gown of the same
material. Of cerise wool was Mrs. A.
Blakeborough’s frock. Pauline Bindley
wore midnight-blue crepe.
Tall, fair Mrs. John Inkster, who will
act as Lady Mayoress for her father, Cr.
O. J. Nilsen, is the mother of four
daughters; Margaret, almost nine,
Deidre, nearly seven, Cheryl, two and a
half, and Rosemary, seven months. In
that capacity she will, of course, be
hostess to the King and Queen next
year. Mrs. Inkster, whose interests include
dressmaking (she makes her children’s
clothes) and pottery, follows the example
set by her mother, the late Mrs. O. J.
Nilsen, in her interest in charitable
causes: she is a vice-president of the City
Creche and also of the Woollies Appeal.
Members of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra were among the many guests
who were at the farewell-party given by
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Winnacott at their
lovely Mt. Eliza home for pianist Nancy
Weir, who returns shortly to England,
having completed her Australian season.
The hostess’s pleated gown was of wine-
red crepe, Nancy’s navy faille cocktail-
frock had a fishtail-drape at the back of
the skirt. Mrs. S. Herkes, a sister of the
hostess, wore Chartreuse angora ; another
sister, Mrs. E. Leticq, teamed a rose-pink
sweater and a black satin skirt. Of
course Ada Freeman, who laid the solid
foundations for Nancy’s career, was
there; so were Mrs. John Osboldstone
and her husband, Mrs. Tom Benton,
Mrs. R. Hutchison, Mrs. N. Murchie,
Mrs. David Englander and Shirley
Davies.
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde McNicol an-
nounced the engagement of their daughter
Jocelyn (Josie) to Bruce Selleck with a
film-screening and cocktail-party in a
small private theatrette. Josie, who was
educated at the Methodist Ladies’ Col-
lege, is well known as a model. Her ring
is a diamond solitaire with baguette
shoulders. Bruce, who is a film execu-
tive, is the only son of Cr. and Mrs.
Frank Selleck, of East St. Kilda.
Spring flowers cascaded over the recep-
tion-rooms of the East St. Kilda home of
Mr. and Mrs. Don Hutchison when they
entertained at a dual-purpose buffet-
dinner party; it was Mrs. Hutchison’s
birthday, and honor was also done to
Mr. and Mrs. Reg Applebee, of Adelaide.
Peacock-green sequins highlighted the
dark-blue draped frock which the hostess
wore with a matching velvet jacket. Mrs.
Applebee’s beech-brown crepes carried
gold embroideries. Mrs. Norman Lynch
wore under a short blue mink jacket a
frock of light-silver faille patterned in
dark-grey design. Mrs. H. Silk added
gold accessories to her brown lace frock.
Mrs. C. Curtain combined an off-the-
shoulder pink sweater which had jewels
on the shoulder with a black satin skirt.
Blue bead embroidery was featured on
Mrs. E. Haisman’s black gown.
The Victoria League Ball at St. Kilda
Hall on October 30 has been listed by
the Government as one of the Jubilee
celebrations. The Governor, Lady Brooks
and their daughter Jeanette will be present.
At the first meeting of the organising
committee, Mrs. Ronald Austin, of Mort-
lake, was elected chairman of the com-
mittee. This function will also commemo-
rate the jubilee of the Victoria League,
and it is planned to have an atmosphere
of pageantry, with the gallery open to
spectators. Descendants of early-Vic-
torian settlers will appear as family
groups in costume. Mrs. Wilfred Brookes
is convenor of the sub-committee arrang-
ing the decorations, Anne Bailey is secre-
tary of the ball-committee, and Kathleen
Lascelles and Mrs. Lance Moore will
handle table-reservations. Tickets are
30s. each; admittance to gallery, minus
supper, ss.
Those who went to the Valencia Shoes
display at the Oriental Hotel were im-
pressed by the Swiss process of alu-
minium trimming—really a braid—which
was the newest feature of footwear.
Sandals were in American-beauty or
electric-blue, while gold-metal braid edged
trim, well-cut shoes. In this attractive
collection of summer shoes, straw, ging-
ham and linen were other materials used,
and they featured high, medium and flat
heels. Black straw, in a pretty lace design,
was set in the front of a high-cut black
suede court shoe ; alternating straps of
navy and light-blue kid highlighted a pair
of courts which were cut very low be-
neath the instep. Beige linen shoes, the
newest in court shoes, were gaily em-
broidered in dark-red flowers, whilst a
pair of flat-heeled junior-navy shoes of
finely-plaited straw were embroidered on
the toes with white daisies. These shoes
will meet with approval from the women
on a modest dress allowance, for most of
the evening models were priced in the
region of three pounds and the day shoes
slightly lower.
The highly successful Delphic dinner-
dance organised by Mrs. W. K. Burn-
side and her energetic committee will add
considerably to the funds of the Adult
Deaf and Dumb Hostel appeal. Mrs.
Burnside wore beech-brown faille with
clusters of gold sequins on the shoulders.
Mrs. A. G. Warner’s leaf-patterned satin
gown was pale-apricot. Mrs. V. R.
Scott wore a sequin-studded jacket to
match the crushed-strawberry satin top
of her dove-grey crepe skirt. Mrs. Nor-
man Strange wore bouffant black lace.
Mrs. Ralph Bryant’s pale-grey lace frock
was studded with brilliants. Mrs. Frank
Marland’s short dinner-gown was of old-
gold faille. Lavinia Fieldsend was in
smoky-grey silk chiffon.
With the first day of spring natty straw
hats laden with field-flowers appeared at
the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield. Yel-
low, from old-gold to palest primrose,
was a favorite not only for suits but for
hats, sweaters and blouses. Mrs. Nor-
man Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, wore with her black suit a
black velvet beret. Mrs. Ken McLean
gained contrast for her junior navy suit
with a deep-rose felt cloche. Lady Snow
wore a chevron-tweed suit in brown ton-
ings and a matching beret. Mrs. W. S.
Cox topped her black Persian-lamb-
trimmed coat with a flat cap of garnet-
red velvet. Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s small
black hat was worn with a full-length
black Persian-lamb coat. A tiny white
feather head-hugging hat was worn by
Mrs. C. Nodrum with a black jacket-suit.
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher added to her junior-
blue suit a cloche in old-gold velor.


m
QP3.25
gnu k«m m*! 1 ®
wh«n the rest have »*°PP e
In every field one performer out-
stays all others in stamina and relia-
bility. In batteries it has been Exide
tactile
-since 1888.
BATTERIES
Mr. *
I
#
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
After what must be close to a record
20 years, Leonard Henry Pike is calling
it a day as Queensland’s Agent-General
in London. Son of a Brisbane man, but
born in Surrey and educated in London,
Pike served against Kruger with the City
of London Rough Riders, and against
Wilhelm, naturally with the Australian
Light Horse. He had Queensland experi-
ence as the Premier’s private secretary,
and directed his State’s tour of the
present King and Queen in 1927. But
mainly he has been attached to the
Queensland office in London, going there
first in 1931. An acknowledged expert
on sugar, he’s vice-chairman of the Inter-
national Sugar Council, and Australia’s
representative thereon.
Herewith Gordon’s impression of
Reginald Barlow, the E., S. and A. Bank’s
chief in Queensland since 1944 and, last
year, chairman of the Associated Banks.
Born at Bega (N.S.W.), in 1897, Barlow
learned to count on the family plantation
at Fiji, and took on banking in 1913. A
lover of horses, he was a natural for the
Light Horse; sailed with a Queensland
detachment, and stopped a nasty one
at Samakh, on the Sea of Galilee a
few miles east of Nazareth. With the
BANKER.
Kaiser whipped, Barlow returned to
his bank and served in Queensland,
Sydney and Melbourne, gaining in the
last two cities the executive experience
which gave him his present post. In
his spare-time he looks after funds of the
Flying Doctor Service and fishes.
A figure at a funeral:
Congregators at St. Andrew’s, Sydney, for the
funeral of Brian Penton included poets, artists,
writers, journalists, newspaper proprietors and
executives, ad. men and politicians, and also —
putting the first of them last —W. M. Hughes.
He was first in more ways than one: first to
arrive at the Cathedral, beating punctuality by
exactly half-an-hour, and first of them to arrive
on this earth by a fair margin of years; actually
he had been on it for 40 years already before
Brian himself was born: he is due for an 87th
birthday this month (on the 25th). The car
that brought him for the service pulled in at
the street pavement just as the Town Hall clock
was belting its 1.30 half-hour clangs down the
Cathedral walls, and out stepped “Billy,” alone.
Everything—Town Hall, Cathedral, street build-
ings, the wide pavement, the official-looking
shiny black car, even the foraging pigeons—
looked tremendously too big for him. Taking
little steps to the back of the car and peering
at the number as if to memorise it, he looked
more a cut-out from a Dyson or Low cartoon
than anyone real: black turned-up hat, black
shoes, light-grey tight suit, yellow-mottled red
tie (a law unto himself), white ear-aid plug,
shoulders humped. No such impediment as a
walking-stick, he set out across the pavement,
down the sandstone steps towards the Cathedral
entrance. The beribboned khaki traffic-police-
man pulled a stiff leg to attention and saluted
down to him. The pigeons bobbed. The
scattering of pedestrians stood and watched him,
and the sun-baskers sitting along the pavement’s
sandstone parapet turned their heads to see him
go in under the high arched doorway. On the
sandstone parapet one who looked like, and
spoke like, a fishwife from old Tyneside, black
shawl and all, resumed what she wanted those
near her to know, from her own store of know-
ledge: “He was a vary clavar man, the one
inside. Aye, a vary clavar man, he was, the
one inside.” But she was referring to Brian.
The job of Dr. Albert Coates, the
R.S.L.’s nominee at the Jap Treaty Con-
ference, is “special consultant ” He’s done
work in the special line before —long-
remembered by p.-0.-w. in Burma and
Siam, Actually the doc.’s whole career
has been something special—early experi-
ence of Gallipoli trenches, work by
night in the mailroom of Melbourne
G.P.0., study of medicine at the univer-
sity by day, extraordinary persistence
rewarded by first-class honors and one of
the biggest prizes in pathology. He was
president of the Victorian B.M.A. in 1941
and in 1947. Special experience in be-
tween —consulting surgeon to the A.I.F.
in Malaya ; the yellow tide welling down
the Malayan neck, escape under orders ;
ship removed from under him by a Jap
bomber; capture on Sumatra after
volunteering to stay, and the resultant
work which has made his name a legend
among his p.-0.-w. patients. Now 56,
he was born in Ballarat.
John Henry McClemens becomes, at
46, the newest judge of N.S.W.’s
Supreme Court, after six years in silk.
Common law and industrial jurisdiction
have been his field.
Back in 1897 a Royal Navy petty-
officer, whose beard, chin, hawk nose
and wind-narrowed eyes seemed to a
scouting photographer to typify the
hearts of oak of old England, had his
face recorded by the scout’s camera.
Players, the tobacco-firm, agreed with
their photographer’s assessment, and so,
through millions of tobacco packages, the
face of Tom Wood, of H.M.S.
Edinburgh, became known throughout
the world. Wood received two guineas
and a healthy chew of tobacco as reward.
The other day, at 83, he died in Brighton
(Eng.).
Retired from Western Command the
other day, Major-General John Stewart
Whitelaw. A Duntroon graduate who
specialised in gpnnery, he was wounded
in War I, and was afterwards chief-
instructor at the School of Artillery.
New G.0.C., Western Command,
Major-General A. R. Garrett, was born
the son of a banker at Northam (W.A.).
He had for godfather another Northam
banker, James Mitchell, who was to be-
come Westralia’s Governor. Young
Garrett went to Duntroon, then to a
staff-college in England, then, in 1940,
the Middle East. He got out of Crete,
had a fighting period with the British
7th Armored Division back in the desert,
and returned to Australia to help estab-
lish the Ist Armored Division at Pucka-
punyal. Bougainville followed, and
C.8.E., and, with the Japs licked, a time
commanding at Wewak before posting
to Japan, principal administrative officer
of 8.C.0.F. While in Japan he became
friendly with the British Prime Minister’s
representative at MacArthur’s h.q.
In his new job Garrett will be seeing more
of that officer —Sir Charles Gairdner,
Westralia’s new Governor. Garrett’s
son, now at Melbourne University, did
his soldiering with the Army of the
Rhine.
After 23 years’ service (exceeded by
only one other New Zealand magistrate),
J. H. Luxford retires as senior-magistrate
in Auckland. He was Samoa’s Chief
Justice between 1929-34. A major in the
Kaiser’s war, he later wrote the official
history of the N.Z. machine-gun corps.
“Cauboy”: Vale Mrs. Allan Wilkie,
who, as Frediswyde Hunter-Watts,
backed her husband’s fancy through all
the ups and downs of his great campaign
to get Shakspeare into the Australian
theatre. His dream was to do the whole
lot; he actually did 27 of them, starting
off in Melbourne, and his handsome wife
did everything, from Juliet to Desdemona
and Portia to Ophelia, Later they took
their repertoire to Africa, Asia, America
and England. When the ghost failed to
walk on one occasion and they were faced
with complete ruin, Wilkie had a brain-
wave and turned to Restoration comedy,
made what was for him a fortune and
immediately returned to Shakspeare.
They were both solid actors and made
the Bard live robustly. She died in
Hampshire, where they had retired. Their
son, Douglas Wilkie, is foreign-affairs
writer on the Melbourne “Sun,”
Ted Badcock takes a sound score of
experience to his new job of official
coach of the W.A. Cricket Association.
An all-rounder, he has played and
coached in England, New Zealand, the
West Indies, India and Ceylon. In the
Dominion he trained Otago to win the
Plunkett (the N.Z. equivalent of Sheffield)
Shield. As a Test man he represented
N.Z. against South Africa, and against
Jardine’s M.C.C. team in 1933. In the
first Test against the M.C.C., he bowled
both Jardine and Sutcliffe, the latter for
a duck. On the recommendation of Tate
and Sutcliffe, he went back to England
as professional for Werneth in the Lan-
cashire League. Plum Warner recognised
Badcock’s coaching experience when he
had him write the section on coaching in
one of his cricket books. Now a genial
52, in his new job Badcock will concen-
trate on the rising generation.
Diggers’ Tribunal chief:
Diggers of two wars will recognise the leonine
features of Colonel Clayton Davis, D. 5.0.,
M.C., here presented by Prior; and some will
know that they belong to the chairman of
No. 5 Assessment Appeal Tribunal, one of the
four independent bodies whose job it is to hear
appeals by ex-servicemen from the Repatriation
Commission in respect of rates of war pensions.
Interest in law and war goes back a good way:
a brand-new honors graduate from Melbourne
University, Davis enlisted private in the 29th
Battalion, was dubbed lieutenant with the one
pip of that time before leaving Australia, added
another in Egypt and a third in France. The
M.C. came for work at Morlancourt and the
D.S.O. for Vauvillers, in August, 1918, at the
beginning of Monash’s historic push-through.
Of Davis’s part the Official History records:
Meanwhile, on the left, the 29th Battalion
(Bth Brigade) had, most unexpectedly, taken
Vauvillers. The commander of its right
company, Lieut. Clayton Davis, who had
been knocked unconscious by a shot
through the neck, on regaining conscious-
ness took charge of the right and centre
companies, which had lost all their officers.
After reconnoitring south of the village
[a footnote adds that here a companion
was wounded and carried back by Davis]
he sent a patrol round that side while he
himself advanced through the centre and
others round the north, and established
posts beyond the village
Wounded three times, a captain, and with a
“mention” picked up somewhere along the line,
he was with the battalion at the finish. Between
Wars he practised as a barrister in Melbourne
and as a solicitor in the Riverina, and Hitler’s
war found him raising a V.D.C. battalion at
Jerilderie, with the General Staff in Melbourne,
training special companies—forerunners of the
SOLDIER.
commandos —and training engineers at Wagga.
Then he was appointed C.O. of the crack 2/2nd
Pioneer Battalion, and was with them in N.
Queensland, Morotai and Tarakan. He says
his War II career was “quite undistinguished.”
But officers and men speak of his penchant for
doing two younger men’s work, which led to
his leaving Tarakan per stretcher. And there is
a tale of an erect figure strolling imperturbably
under fire, sternly cautioning his men to ‘‘keep
their heads down.” Back in Civvie Street he
joined the staff of the Legal Service Bureau,
and was with them until his present appoint-
ment.
Herewith Commander Richard Terence
Power, who has the job of training all the
“macaroons” for the R.A.N. at Flinders,
as well as having the National Service
trainees on his slop-chit. Shortly after
the battle of Matapan Power was caught
ashore when the Germans made their first
heavy air-raid on Piraeus Harbor (Greece)
to bottle up Ajax and Perth —his ship.
Perth slipped out into Phalleron Roads,
and, while attempting to regain the ship
SAILOR.
in a skiff, in company with Lieutenant
(now Commander) Bracegirdle, he tried
to tow several ammunition-barges clear
of a burning ammunition-ship. The ship
went up, wrecking Piraeus Harbor. After
spending the night swimming in a harbor
partly covered with burning fuel-oil,
the two sailors woke up in hospital with
very sore backs, which they attributed to
their emersion—until they discovered they
had been put to bed in cots which were
full of glass fragments from broken
windows. In 1946 Power, then Deputy
Chief of Intelligence in Singapore, served
under Admirals Boyd and Brind. He re-
members the occasion in Shanghai when
he paid 700,000 dollars for two whisky-
and-sodas and remembers, without regret,
when flying home from Bangkok, looking
after an attractive Siamese lady to oblige
a Siamese naval officer friend, only to dis-
cover on arrival at Singapore that he had
been escort to the wife of Nai Pridi, the
then exiled Premier of Siam, and that she
had been smuggled out of Siam with his
assistance.
An R.A.A.F. campaign takes-off next
week to recruit a “shadow” Air Force —
a duplicate of its own permanent
strength, comprised of civvies as well as
Diggers, tradesmen and apprentices being
trained in their own time with payment
for 28 days’ service every year. Touring
capital cities, teeing-up the drive, Group-
Captain W. J. Duncan, head of the show,
was latterly in South China, regional-
director for U.N.R.R.A.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 91, Thomas Nock, whose first
job was running messages for an ironmongery
shop at a Circular Quay edged by the bare spars
of windjammers, in 1872. A little over 20 years
later he helped found Nock and Kirby, Ltd.,
which he saw grow into one of the largest
hardware stores in Australia.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 81, Sir Albert Ellis,
discoverer of the phosphate deposits at Nauru
and Ocean Island in 1899, and British phos-
phate-commissioner in New Zealand for the
past 30 years.
At Seaton, Devon (Eng.), at 87, Sir Ernest
Clark, who, as Tasmania’s Governor from 1933
to 1945, equalled the long-Governorship record
of Colonel George Arthur, the incumbent from
1824 to 1836. Called to the Bar in 1894, Sir
Ernest was on loan to the S. African Govern-
ment in the reconstructional period after the
Boer War, and later held responsible positions
in Irish administration, among them the Sec-
retaryship to the Treasury of Northern Ireland.
At 83, in Sydney, Sir Clifton Love, head of
the firm of merchant-manufacturers and one of
the founders of the Chamber of Manufactures
of N.S.W. 56 years ago. From then on die
chamber had felt his energetic competence—
he’d been vice-president for one, and president
for three terms, presiding, as well, over the
Commonwealth body in 1922-23. His spare
time was devoted to hospitals and city-missions.


KM 14
FONDH
*
EN 1724
RE MY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
g
CHAMPION
eji&.
yatmctornufa
td the yo££
WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
dfg
World’s favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
C. 22.6
M&
za
m
0
iK
I
7
of mem
ml
Proof of the shear is in
the shearing .. . and through-
out Australia to-day there are many
"Ace" handpieces doing
their 10th, I Ith and even 12th seasons.
This is the performance you can
expect from every single "Ace" handpiece.
Bearings and surfaces are precision finished and
close-fitting to exclude grit and hold oil. The
back joint has a self-oiling, self-cleaning bear-
ing to prevent binding, even in the
sandiest conditions.
isTen
5H88.93
Full defalls from:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangor, Gedye & Maltoch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street. SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street. PERTH.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street. WEST FOOTSCRAY.
ACE
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Norwood Bagshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street. ADELAIDE,
TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
WITH THE ANTI-BIHDING
BACK JOINT
SB*
s\
m
o
L
m
cs
'T&
Secure a happy
future with
THE EQUITABLE’
From the day you say “I do,”
your family responsibilities begin,
that is why it is so important to
make provision for the future with
“THE EQUITABLE.”
“THE EQUITABLE” will dis-
cuss with you and advise you on
a suitable life assurance policy to
assure the future, for both you
and your wife and your retire-
ment, or for your wife if you
should pre-decease her.
Call, write or ’phone “THE
EQUITABLE” and discuss this
i important matter. J
/#/
7
df
gdf
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7. G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
contrast to the brightness within.
The little boys came tumbling
out from the sleep-out, shouting
all at once: “Hullo, Mum.”
“What’s for tea, Mum?” “Can
we go up to the baths after tea
tonight, Mum?” Mrs. Jensen
felt suddenly that a light had
been lit within her, for the Jen-
sens were together, at home.
NEIL JENSEN walked at the
side of the road, towards
town. The moon had not yet
risen and the night was a velvety
darkness, warm against his face.
From a distance, across streets
and houses, he could hear the
noise at the swimming-pool. He
came to the first street-light and
left the warm summer mystery
of the darkness for the bright
electric glare, and the futile buzz
and clack of the insects about
the globe. A water-meter on a
take-off channel behind him
chuckled derisively, seeming to
laugh at him, as at the insects,
clustered to the light. He walked
on past the first houses. People
browsed on their front verandas
or hosed their gardens and sighed
against the heat. Two children
ran past him with family bricks
of ice-cream from the ice-works
and were greeted at a near-by
house with, “Here they are!”
“Gee, is this going to be good!”
“Bertie! Run out to the kitchen
and get some saucers and
spoons.”
Neil came to the corner before
the pool and looked down on
it from the slight rise. Converg-
ing on the pool from the outer-
parts of the town the street lights
outlined a starry web of streets.
The lights at the pool seemed to
make a palpable globe of radi-
ance above the lawns and trees.
The familiar sounds came to
him, softened by the distance,
but clear in the evening hush ;
the screech of the turnstile, the
bang of a clothes-tin, the thump
and vibration of the diving-
board, the innumerable splashes
and crashes, shouts and screams.
He walked quickly down to
the entrance, looking through
the wire-netting fence at the
people swimming and running
about the lawns. Four big
willow-trees on each side of the
pool made a sparkling aisle of
light, with long, black, drooping
shadows threading across the
lawn, and between the trees out
to the fence. Some boys were
playing with a ball on the lawn
near him, and nearer the pool a
girl ran, screaming, from two
youths, who eventually caught
her and carried her to the edge
of the pool, where they threw
her in, arms and legs flailing like
a loose-jointed rubber doll.
When Neil was in the water
his younger brothers, who were
playing in the shallow end, leapt
upon him with shouts of “Give
us a dive off your back, Neil!”
“Give us a back-somersault!”
“Let’s dive between your legs,
Neil?” “Aw, go on, Neil! ” He
grabbed one of them and de-
manded, “Why didn’t you stay
for the washing-up?” His
brothers looked shamefaced,
then one said, tentatively, “We
wouldn’t ’ve been able to have
a swim. We have to be home
earlier ’n you do.”
“Yair, that’s all right, but you
don’t do it in the morning,
either.”
“We will, though, Neilie.
Promise!” “Yair, promise!
Cross me heart . . . hope to die.”
“Go on, Neilie, give us a
dive?”
He gave them some dives from
his back. He would crouch be-
neath the water while one settled
himself on his shoulders, and
then leap up quickly, to send the
little boy flying up into the air
and outwards with a great splash,
to flounder to the surface again
with shrieks of delight, and
paddle back to him like a faith-
ful puppy.
Then he left them and went
down to the diving-board. A
girl of about his own age was
diving. He had never seen any-
thing so beautiful. She wore
dark-blue cotton togs that out-
lined every wrinkle of her skin.
She had slim, tense brown limbs,
a small, finely-moulded head and
long, thin fingers. She had a
distinctively virile way of mov-
ing, as though her muscles were
all the time poised to spring. She
dived like an acrobat, with easy
somersaults, her muscles form-
ing graceful, harmonious lines.
She entered the water cleanly,
her feet making a rounded curve
with her legs.
He tried several dives himself,
but felt like an awkward calf
beside her, so gave up and un-
abashedly watched her from the
side. The branches of the
willow hung about the first part
of the diving-board and at first
she was hidden in the leafy
darkness as she came up to dive.
Then she came through the trail-
ing leaves that clung about her
shoulders, as though reluctant to
yield her to the light. A hundred
little reflected lights from the
lolloping little wavelets in the
pool greeted her and made
irregular, changing patterns on
her skin. She ran, she leapt,
the board gave a thump and a
twang, and then it seemed to
Neil, for a fraction of time that
was, in a way, longer than the
dreary day of school and work,
that she had defied the pull of
the earth and conquered the laws
that govern a falling body and
hatl fled to a world of her own.
She floated freely, beautifully
sustained by the flickering
fingers of light, between th-
darkness of the summer nmht
above and the sparkle of the
water below. Neil shivered each
time with her inevitable fall to
the water.
A MONO the tall grey belars
the night held a peculiar
breathless hush. Neil walked
slowly through, watching the
newly-risen moon play hide-and-
seek through the tree-trunks. An
immense orange globe it
wavered unsteadily in the’haze
above the river.
The night seemed to Neil
suddenly eager to explain.
He stopped, bewildered, and
leant his head against a tree. He
thought of the girl he had seen
at the pool. He felt again the
sick shyness he’d had when he’d
wanted to speak to her. And
then a heavy summer cloud
winked for an instant over the
moon and he knew that he
would one day speak to her and
it would, perhaps, be the same.
He went on through the trees,
not yet ready to go home. Near
the fence by the channel, four
horses stood patiently in two
pairs, each head to tail, now and
then flicking from each other the
mosquitoes and other insects of
the night. Neil moved suddenly
into their warm smell, tinged
{Continued on page 32.)


Missing Friend.
WOULD GRAY LEAKY, formerly of
Ireland, or any person knowing or having
information concerning the whereabouts
of him, please communicate with DIBBS,
CROW'THER & OSBORNE, Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney, telephone 8X3964,
as it will be to his advantage if found.
AUSTRALIA
versus
INFLATION
Get Into the Fight—This Way:
There is no easy way to correct
inflation. If Australia is to achieve
economic security the active co-
operation of every member of the
community will be needed. It is a
job for everyone.
First: We must halt the buying rush
for scarce articles. That only forces
prices up. Second; We must turn
out more goods. Enough to close the
gap between the available supplies of
money and goods.
Your part in reducing competition for
scarce commodities is to spend less—
to buy only essentials. The money
you save by wise spending will do a
national job if it is invested in the
Thirteenth Security Loan.
Subscriptions to the Thirteenth
Security Loan will be used to provide
urgently needed funds for great
national developmental works for
increased power and transport facilities
and basic material supplies. Without
these, all other measures for improved
production must be prejudiced.
Nowhere else will your savings be as
safe; repayment in full at maturity
of face value of your Securities is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth. All
the time they will work for you by
earning interest, payable every six
months, at the highest rate offered for
Commonwealth Securities for over 10
years.
3 TASKS FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN
31'/.
THIRTEENTH
SECURITY LOAN
LOAN FACTS: (1) The main purpose of the Loan is to pay for Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Bonds or Inscribed Stock may be purchased at
par for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
(3) 11-14 Year Securities (minimum subscription £10) will bear interest at 31% per annum.
3-Year Securities (minimum subscription £1,000) will bear interest at 2% per annum.
(4) Interest will be paid each six months. (5) Repayment in full at maturity of the face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
135L13.11M1
SUNDRY SHOWS
Society of Artists.
A watercolor by Hans Hey-
sen, “Sunburnt Hills of Aroona,”
exploding with light and as clear
and strong as anything he has
ever painted, stands in a class
by itself at the N. S. Wales
Society of Artists show.
In a slighter way there is
something of the same quality
in a small oil by John Rowell,
“An Old-time Bridge”; and,
though he had better work in
his recent exhibition at David
Jones’s, there is a frail and dis-
tinctive lyricism in Arthur
Murch’s ethereal white horse
materialised under ethereal wil-
lows.
Apart from these most of the
best paintings, such as Lloyd
Rees’s and George Lawrence’s
—which are echoed in the land-
scapes by T. J. Santry and
Arthur Evan Read—-are of the
currently fashionable “black”
school; at their best, dramatic ;
at their worst, as in Lloyd
Rees’s “December Afternoon,”
dead; and always, as a land-
scape without life must be, in-
complete and finally unsatisfy-
ing to anyone who cares for
nature as well as art.
The Lawrences, with their
opaque skies, sweeping composi-
tions and contrasting dabs of
red, are good of their kind ; the
South Australian Gallery gets a
solid chunk of Lloyd Rees’s
rocks ; but the most interesting
event among this group—though
his paintings are really too much
like George Lawrence’s for them
to rank yet as independent
works of art —is the emergence
of Santry as a landscapist of
genuine strength. His work,
too, is more atmospheric than
that of the others; not so
abstract as Lloyd Rees’s, not so
painty as George Lawrence’s.
Some other paintings that
speak up for themselves among
the total of 150 are: Jean
Appleton’s bank s i a cones ;
flowerpieces by Nora Heysen,
Maud Sherwood and Adrian
Feint; a little rough landscape
by Leonard Greening; and
Roland Wakelin’s “Hoddle
Bridge.” Jean Bellette has a
strong but cumbersome “Still
Life” ; J. Passmore’s “Study for
Saturday Afternoon” looks like
a promising preparation for a
study of Saturday afternoon;
and Herbert Kemble’s “Neutral
Bay,” presumably influenced by
Vlaminck, has a certain dash
about it.
The panel of the Society’s
Old Masters, hung in a Jubilee
spirit, includes some lovely little
paintings by Hilder, Tom
Roberts and Conder; but for
the most part such exceedingly
minor examples have been
chosen that one would not be
surprised if a band of tall and
indignant ghosts crept in in the
night and horribly haunted the
Education Department Galleries.
The caretaker should beware of
them.
Flotta Lauro Prize.
The most notable achievement
of the sponsors of the Flotta
Lauro prize, won by Donald
Friend, was to unearth George
Finey from his wildwood haunts
at Springwood to exhibit with
the other contestants at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
Ten years ago the chief of
Sydney’s wild men, and too
seldom heard of these days,
Finey submits a bold and strik-
ing design, mostly in black-and-
white, based on a prodigious en-
largement of the cones of the
needlebush. It is a painting
which emphasises the queerness
and the spikiness of the bush,
where the needlebush keeps com-
pany with lizards, fire-blackened
stringybarks and freak orchids ;
and its Australian quality is
deepened by an intelligent use of
aboriginal motifs, decorating the
enlarged cones.
The prize, which consists of
a free first-class trip to Italy,
plus £250, was offered by an
Italian steamship company for
a mural symbolising Australia,
It certainly provoked a lot of
exceptionally bright and gay
work, but Finey seems the only
painter genuinely inspired by
the bush; the others were ob-
viously inspired by the thought
of a free trip to Italy and, for
the most part, painted as if
already on holidays. Besides,
Finey works with the certainty
of an artist, and some of the
others are only using the holiday
spirit to disguise a lack of tech-
nical capacity.
Francis Lymburner is lightly
frivolous; William Constable is
cleverly surrealist without any
underlying feeling ; Elaine Hax-
ton’s bright, shallow “Bush
Picnic” might as well be adver-
tising frocks in David Jones’s
window as hung in the art gal-
lery ; Desiderius Orban is de-
terminedly merry among his
slums; Sali Herman cheerful
and empty in a large empty
landscape; John Passmore
vaguely sinister about some
disintegrated swimmers; Robert
Blake lively in a two-up school;
and Jacqueline Robertson quite
effectively sprightly with some
bounding aborigines in a bounc-
ing aboriginal style.
Donald Friend’s crowded
panel certainly contains a lot of
miscellaneous Australian objects,
and may be well suited to
decorate the ballroom of a liner,
but it has not the force of the
Finey nor, indeed, of Friend’s
own best work —his drawings.
Melbourne Independents are
keeping going, and the group has
had another annual show at the
Athenaeum. Edith Alsop has a
pleasant “Flower-piece,” Lina
Bryans pours all the colors on
her palette recklessly into “The
Pool,” and Charles Bush has a
study of Eastbourne Pier which
isn’t free of the conventions.
Phyl Waterhouse’s “English
Trees” is hard and unatmos-
pheric, but R. Malcolm Warner
has dealt more sympathetically
with nature in two watercolor
landscapes. The late James
Quinn is represented by a
vigorous drawing in paint of
Howard Matthews. It is an
excellent likeness of the sitter,
though a bit on the surface.
The Children's
Crusade.
In 1212 an extraordinary thing
happened—the kind of thing
that could only have happened
in the days of faith, in the
Middle Ages. The adults, par-
ticularly the working people,
had grown sick of the crusades,
so somebody or other whipped
up enthusiasm among the
children. In the south of France
and in the Rhone valley the
excitement spread amongst the
kids like wildfire, and a crowd
of thousands of French boys left
their weeping mothers and
marched to Marseilles, where
they were promptly lured on
board ship by slave-traders and
were drowned or sold into
slavery in Egypt. Thousands
more German youngsters
trudged from the Rhineland
into Italy across the Alpine
passes, most of them to perish
and none of them to see their
objective. When those who re-
turned were asked why they had
departed they answered “We
know not,” according to the
contemporary chronicle of
Albert de Stade.
That is the fantastic story
Gabriel Pierne, the French com-
poser who died in 1937, chose
to set to music, and his oratorio
was the subject-matter of the
517th concert of the Melbourne
Philharmonics at the Town Hall
under Professor Heinze’s baton.
The extraordinarily moving
music was sung in an extra-
ordinarily moving manner,
especially by the youthful choir
of the Methodist Ladies’ Col-
lege, schooled admirably as
usual by Ruth Flockart. Its
singing was particularly lovely
in the “Hearken To Its Moan-
ing” chorus, sung when the
child crusaders get their first
sight of the Mediterranean.
Keith Neilson’s bass was well
suited to the role of the old
sailor, while Betty Fretwell as
a blind boy, Barbara Wilson as
his sister and Thea Phillips as
a despairing mother gave poig-
nancy to their parts.
Previtali.
Fernando Previtali, an un-
Italian-looking young ' Italian
conductor, scorelessly piloted the
Sydney Orchestra through a
stimulating programme with
alertness and vigor and a fine
sense of dramatic values.
He opened with Rossini’s “La
Cenerentola” Overture, which
he whipped along until it
sparkled and crackled right to
a whirlwind finish. The open-
ing section of Respighi’s tone-
poem “The Fountains of Rome”
was serenely pastoral. In the
second movement Previtali left
his audience in no doubt as to
his ability to build up climaxes
—the orgiastic dance of naiads
and tritons was given the
authentic touch of frenzy with-
out becoming a mere battle of
contending sections. In the final
movement the varied effects —the
distant bell-tollings, the twitter-
ings of birds, the wind disturb-
ing the park trees —were faith-
fully conjured.
The conductor kept a tight
rein on throughout Stravinsky’s
“Firebird” Suite, except in the
Infernal Dance of Kastchei,
when the devil-dance was given
“the works.”
The big work of the night
was Brahms’s Fourth Sym-
phony, its autumnal shades,
gentle melancholy and noble
resignation apparently much to
tire conductor’s liking. In
the expression of reflectiveness
horns, clarinet and flute wove a
beautiful pattern, and in the final
allegro, a set of variations on an
eight-bar theme that is unex-
ampled in symphonic literature,
the whole orchestra gave some
of its best playing of the sea-
son.
Four plays were entered for
the Queensland finals of the
Commonwealth Jubilee Amateur
Theatrical Festival Brisbane
Arts Theatre’s production of
“Our Town,” Toowoomba
Repertory’s “The Linden Tree,”
Rockhampton Little Theatre’s
“Trespass” (Emlyn Williams) and
Twelfth Night Theatre’s
“Antigone.” Alan Denby’s pro-
duction of the winning play,
“Our Town,” maintained a con-
sistently high standard of acting,
and Denby’s performance as
stage-manager dominated the
play. Well-planned and moving
studies also came from Bernice
Murray, Earle Cross, Rolf Lukey
and Olga Massey. Lighting was
used with significance and pre-
cision, and a comfortable com-
promise achieved with the neces-
sary American accent.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
a
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman,
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White .
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF IY.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE JAP TREATY.
At this week’s Jap-treaty
conference at San Francisco
the Soviet delegate (London
“Times” forecast) would argue
that a settlement to which
Communist China is not a party
must be worthless; that leaving
the Japs to make their own
settlement with Peking or
Formosa is sinister and wrong ;
that an arrangement for stand-
ing American garrisons and
bases in Japan must be regarded
as a warlike, not a peaceful,
move.
The aim in that would be
general propaganda, with a
special eye to Asia. Moscow
knows well enough that
America is assured of ample
support for a Jap treaty on its
own lines, despite anything the
Soviet delegate (or anyone else)
may have to say. The confer-
ence is limited to speeches and
the actual signing of the treaty.
As forecast by “New York
Times,” the treaty may be still
subject to some revisions on the
basis of comments by the prin-
cipal nations concerned, but
there was no intention of re-
opening major issues.
Veto Out
“One of the most significant
provisions of the treaty,” adds
the New York paper, “is that it
will come into force when it is
ratified by Japan and by either a
majority of the nations desig-
nated in it or, after a certain
period, even on a bilateral basis.
This means that, while Soviet
Russia is among the designated
States, and is still welcome as a
signatory, Moscow is for once in
no position to veto or obstruct
a peace settlement.”
Also, the same paper com-
mented : “The agenda will
contain but one major item.
Indeed, in this instance it might
be accurate to speak of an
agendum. But behind the one
item will be much more: not
merely a legalised peace with
Japan, but peace permanent and
real throughout the Pacific ; not
solely the liquidation of one war
in one area, but the prevention
of other wars everywhere ; not
a paper to be signed, but
hundreds of millions of people
to be saved from misery. The
hopes of 1945 were high. The
winds of freedom seemed to be
blowing through the Golden
Gate. What of 1951? Let us
hope for an acceptable docu-
ment, but —more than that —for
a revival of the old brave and
hopeful spirit.”
Three-part Scheme
Actually, towards the hoped-
for “peace permanent and real
throughout the Pacific” there
are three related instruments,
thus summarised;
1. —A peace treaty with Japan
which strips that country of its
empire, but restores Japan itself
as a sovereign equal in the free
world, £nd permits it to rearm in
keeping with the requirements
of its own self-defence and its
obligations as a prospective
member of the United Nations.
2. —The mutual defence pact
between the U.S., Australia and
New Zealand, providing that an
attack in the Pacific against one
of them shall be considered
dangerous to the peace and
safety of all of them.
3. —A bilateral agreement be-
tween the U.S. and Japan, to
follow the signing of the peace
treaty, permitting the U.S. to
retain both troops and military
bases in Japan after the present
occupation regime ends.
British Doubts
London “Economist” rather
grimly described the current
conference as one for the
“ceremonial signing of the treaty
which restores Japan, minus its
empire, to the role of an equal
and sovereign member of the
free world six years after the
island empire was crushed in its
brutal and determined effort to
conquer Asia and the South-
West Pacific.”
Even American officials, the
same publication added, ad-
mit there “is a certain degree
of calculated risk in this policy.
But if it does not work, the
United States is ready to meet
the consequences from the
outset.” It further reported
on the British side of the
arrangement;
“The interlocked questions of
Formosa and Chinese participa-
tion in the settlement came closer
than is generally realised to pro-
voking a major split in Anglo-
American policy. And the com-
promise worked out by Mr.
Dulles in his talks in London
with Mr. Attlee and Mr.
Morrison probably did little
more than freeze their funda-
mental differences in a state of
suspended animation. The com-
promise, which lets Japan decide
whether to seek a similar treaty
with Communist or Nationalist
China, and leaves the future of
Formosa open to later discus-
sion, undoubtedly goes further
to meet American wishes, if not
American interests, than British
wishes and interests.
“Given this compromise,
which was once rejected and
later accepted rather resignedly
by the British Cabinet, the
United States is abundantly con-
fident that Japan will not, at
any rate, elect to seek a settle-
ment with Peking. American
officials find it ‘unthinkable’ that
Japan would do such a thing
when it is dependent on the
United States and the non-
Communist world, not only for
its industrial raw materials, but
for its security, as long as
American armed forces are
stationed in and about Japan,
as they will be for some time
under the bilateral American-
Japanese ‘security arrangement.’
“Yet, some officials and ob-
servers in Washington wonder
how long Japan will forgo at
least an attempt to revive its
traditional economic ties with
China.
“Equally, it is sometimes sug-
gested, though usually in
whispers, that perhaps General
MacArthur was not as suc-
cessful as is generally made out
in converting the Japanese
people into a nation of ‘little
Rotarian baseball players.’ The
shrewdest observers are still
somewhat sceptical that Japan
is now the democracy that it is
officially said to be.”
U.S. Somersault
The treaty, even when signed,
will not come into force until
ratified on the lines stated by
“New York Times.” And it
must be said that when it is
finalised it will represent one of
4g£
dfg
Portland ( U.S.A .) “Oregonian."
THEY JUST DON’T BITE ANY MORE.
the most remarkable back-
somersaults in history.
It could not have been
forecast a mere five years ago—
not by Americans, Japs,
Russians or anybody else. The
American aim then, of course,
was to build up China as the
leading Asian Power; not
merely one to hold a balance
against Japan, but in all
respects to replace it: Japan in
that scheme of things being rele-
gated to insignificance.
While the obvious appeal of
China as a vast potential market
entered into that war-time and
post-war American policy, the
dominant motive was to
eliminate the Jap threat per-
manently. President Roosevelt’s
war-time oratory was not yet as
completely forgotten as it now
conveniently appears to be (some
passages of it would make an
ironic comment on the confer-
ence proceedings, particularly
the reference to an infamy that
would live in the minds of
Americans for 100 years).
No Other Choice
But (as a London “Twentieth
Century” writer, Geoffrey
Hudson, ably sums-up the re-
versal of policy) the shift has
been inevitable; a plain and
unavoidable matter of cause and
effect: —
“Just as in Europe the
Atlantic Pact has not been the
origin, but the result, of the
international tensions arising
from Russian expansionist
policy, so in the Far East the
raising of Japan from the help-
lessness that followed her defeat
has not been a factor driving
China into the Soviet orbit, but
a consequence of that realign-
ment. With nearly all the
eastern coastline of continental
Asia from the Bering Strait
down to the Vietnam border
(and possibly at any time
extending still further south)
controlled by Communist
Powers, America’s only choice
has really been between
abandoning the Far East to
Communism altogether, with all
the vast potential of its hundreds
of millions of inhabitants, and
taking steps to obtain the co-
operation of a revived and
regenerated Japan.”
Safeguards
On the fears of Japan being
again tempted “to trespass
abroad” (instinctively strong
here in Australia, and only
partly allayed by the American
protective guarantee) the
“Twentieth Century” writer
gives his reasons for optimism:
“Japan is not likely to
succumb again to such a tempta-
tion in the foreseeable future
because, in spite of the appre-
hensions voiced in many
quarters, the design of the peace
treaty and the subsidiary agree-
ments which will form the basis
of .the new Japan’s international
relations is well calculated to
leave no scope for expansionist
policies. Japan’s power in recent
times has been founded first on
a strong strategic network of
forward bases both on the con-
tinent of Asia and in the Pacific
Ocean, and secondly on a
balanced armed force of
military, naval and air arms
capable of massive offensive
strokes. As a result of the war
Japan has lost all her forward
bases, and the project for Jap-
anese rearmament under an
American-Japanese agreement is
part of a scheme whereby Japan
will provide a military com-
ponent for national defence
while America will supply the
naval and air components—a
system which would render it
impossible for Japan to under-
take overseas aggression on her
own resources.”
U.S.-Jap Alliance
Holding that this American
arrangement should provide for
an effective defence of Japan
against any Communist coup de
force from the mainland and
avert the danger of a totally dis-
armed Japan becoming a Power
vacuum after the withdrawal of
the occupation troops, the writer
describes the situation which
now exists in the Far East as
virtually a balance between a
Russo-Chinese alliance on the
one hand and an American-
Japanese alliance on the other,
the second combination being a
consequence of the first. As
long as Japan is not subjected to
any acute economic crisis, and
armed intervention or infiltra-
tion from the mainland can be
ruled out, he sees no reason to
expect a Communist-led up-
heaval in Japan.
“Defeat and foreign occupa-
tion have brought reforms, but
no revolution in Japan, nor has
there been any disintegration of
the structure of the Japanese
State. There is continuity with
the past through the institution
of the monarchy, which remains
the central factor of stability in
the Japanese political system, and
there has been no division of the
country by rival State organisa-
tions such as have been brought
into being in Germany or Korea
by conflicting policies in dif-
ferent zones of military occupa-
tion. It cannot be said that
there is any great enthusiasm in
Japan for the new Constitution,
which is known to have been
drafted by American theorists at
General MacArthur’s head-
quarters, but democratic ten-
dencies in Japan have certainly
been strengthened, both
negatively by the elimination of
the Army as a constitutional
pqjitical factor, and positively
by the creation of new popular
vested interests through the
agrarian reform and the organi-
sation of trade-unions. There is
no reason why a limited rearma-
ment of Japan should involve a
restoration of the old semi-
independent powers of the
Army.”
While (the writer concludes)
a swing to the Right in Japanese
internal politics is generally
expected to follow the ending of
the occupation, a regime of dic-
tatorship is unlikely except in
the event of serious economic
breakdown. “The basic problem
is one of Japan’s economic
viability, and its solution de-
pends not only on Japan’s own
efforts, but on the co-operation
of America and the other
nations of the free world in
assuring Japan trading condi-
tions adequate for her needs as
an exporting industrial Power.”


Don’t let
Menzies fool you!
COMMUNISM IS NOT THE ISSUE IN THE REFERENDUM
THE ISSUE IS THIS; Do you approve the unnecessary, unjust, totalitarian Menzies
Government proposals which could be used against YOU if some Canberra bureaucrat
didn't like your views? P politicians instead of trial by judge
or jury?
DON'T FORGET-THERE IS NO DEFINITION OF THE TERMS
'COMMUNIST' OR 'COMMUNISM' IN MENZIES PROPOSAL
The powers sought could be used against ANY
individual or organisation
THIS IS WHAT
COULD HAPPEN
H the Menzies
Government were
given the powers
it seeks
Government officials could break, enter and search yourjjonjgi
and search any person, WITHOUT A WARRANT.
An innocent citizen could be declared subversive and traitorous
WITHOUT RIGHT OF APPEAL
If q reactionary politician merely "thought" some organisation
was "communistic" he could have that organisation outlawed
and its property confiscated
THAT IS FASCISM. THAT IS A FLAGRANT DENIAL OF BRITISH JUSTICE. VOTE “NO" TO SUCH
INFAMOUS PROPOSALS!
Tell Menzies to get on with the job of checking inflation instead of trying to Hitlerise the
Australian Constitution. Tell him to keep his promise to "put value back in the £" instead
of trying to put Australians into handcuffs.
NO more powers to the Government which is abusing
the powers it ALREADY has!
Authorised by Hon. W. E. Dickson, M.L.C., Parliament House, Sydney.
p r, P 11A-81


FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
I:
nr to
HOH6
me
Colourful, cosmopolitan Hong
Kong, fascinating city of the
Orient, is only 48 hours by air
from Sydney—by comfortable,
modern Qantas Skymaster.
Excellent cuisine and first-class
steward service cater for your
comfort all the way. Regular
weekly services.
S3SSRI
Ti
■■ a
. .£ >: I,:
\' ■•.
;
P* .: x -; ; A
Mmfl
MS
i
m
s!;
| |
> %
si
✓ 6
J
- - •
«
C '•*
3iC
&ss*acmm --ggsaa?
>S
\ 1
for full Information consult your travel agent.
df
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia's International Airline
'Fly Qantas there’s a world of difference"
!<?CM
GOODYEAR TYRES
1915
NAVE
CHANGED
TOO!
1931
1951
The improvements that the
years have brought to car
performance have, to a large
extent, only been possible be-
cause tyre development kept
pace with progress. Goodyear
has made many historic contributions to the development of tyres
to their present standard. The outstanding safety, longer mileage
and greater comfort of to-
day’s Goodyear Tyres are the
results of unparalleled ex-
perience that Goodyear has
gained in producing more
tyres than any other
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 ... a* I"
every year for the last 36
years, more people, the
world over, ride on Good-
year Tyres than on any
other make.
gd
GOODYEAR
83.1*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“According to the latest scientific
research a kiss and a pinch of salt
are practically one and the same
thing.” —Sydney magazine.
But the former is more
pleasant to take.
“ ‘There should be special shops
for older women,’ says a fashion-
designer.”
Where youth will not be
served.
❖ 4* 4*
“A Greenfield (Lancashire) widow
cut three people out of her will. She
used scissors.”— “World’s News.’''
The most unkindest cut of all.
4* 4* 4*
“The ‘Herald’ also applauds the
objective of good children’s films for
children. Meanwhile it has faithfully
reported how the children reached. —
Editor.” —Melbourne “Herald
Not the reaction they ex-
pected.
“Pandit Nehru’s Government has
ordered all tax-collectors to be
humble, polite and courteous.”
Ours have always had taking
ways.
“Whoever heard of a man s own
money after marriage?”
— Dr. Margaret Mead.
Wives certainly can husband
their resources these days.
Off Color.
“Top-ranking Britons have found
that contemplation of tropical fish is
a better way to relieve the strain and
tension of life than calling in a
psychiatrist.”
When I was a kid and phren-
ologists throve
On the science, so-called, of
the bump,
I early showed up as the sort of
a cove
To whom pseudo lore gave
the hump.
And now that Tm getting — well,
long in the tooth.
Til admit I have little respect
For psychiatrists claiming to dig
up the truth
In their rooms with diplomas
bedecked.
I’m tired of the rigmarole used
in their game
Where the man who is
mentally sick
Is given a suitable complex to
blame —
Or a tension may well do the
trick.
Yet if I were worried I’m sure I
would wish
To depend on their cures for
my ills.
For surely this staring at tropi-
cal fish
Would make one look white
round the gills.
D.H.E.
Foregone Conclusion.
That gambling, as a rule, re-
tards ambition’s stride is plain.
Therefore, my cautious soul re-
gards all betting-mediums, from
cards to horses, with disdain.
Yet, when it’s foggy, cold or
wet, or freezing westerlies roar
my pay (plus overtime) I’ll bet
without the slightest hesitation,
that he or she who’s last to get
on my train at any station won’t
shut the carriage door.
PERCIVAL.
The Radio Sponsor Writes
His Own Serial.
Inspector Clew (in comfort-
able chair; stretches luxuri-
ously): “What a glorious thing
to think that for the next three
weeks I needn’t care a hoot what
crimes have to be solved at the
Yard —that’ll be young An-
struther’s pigeon. My first holi-
day for sixteen years, and here
I am up in the Cotswolds at last.
to do just what I like—play
golf, or go for a tramp—that is.
so long as he’s not a big fellow
—ha! ha! And I can face a
long walk with complete con-
fidence, for I had the foresight
before I came away to get a
pair of full-welt, heavy-duty
black calf brogues with the
famous Doctor Bunyan s m-
bin t toe-grip and self-swivelling
heels, which Chizzlas Friendly
Store are selling tor the ndi-
culously l° w pnce of eighty-
n * ne f e even ! guaranteed
shock-proot, rust-proot and
lightning-resistant, and
{Knock at door.) “Come in.”
{Footsteps entering .)
Inspector Clew: “Oh, good
“ Anyhow, We're lucky to get adjashenl cells."
night, landlord. Ah, a little
nightcap, eh?”
Landlord: “Yes, zur.
Thought as how you might like
soop o’beer afore you retire for
night. Good beer, too, that, I
warrant you.”
Inspector Clew (sipping):
“Excellent! I’ve only tasted one
as good—that’s Molar’s Union
Jack Ale. Anyone can have a
dozen bottles of it delivered by
Chizzla’s Friendly Store if
they buy only five pounds’-
worth of groceries. The store’s
motto is ‘We Do Our Best and
You Do Yours.’ ”
Landlord: “Well, you’ll find
bed comfortable, zur. It couldn’t
be else, seein’ as how it’s one of
Chizzla’s own outer - spring
mattresses, which has best-
quality C 3 elliptical springs set
in sponge-rubber and stoat-
feathers, complete with air-
conditioned ball-bearings and
special gyroscope action allow-
ing the feet always to point
east. Well, good night, zur.
Maid will bring ’ee coop o’
senna tea and fried orange in
morning.”
Inspector Clew : “Thank
you, landlord. I never sleep on
anything else but bedding from
Chizzla’s Store when I’m home,
either. Good night... Well,
I’d better get into my Strangle
wool - and - horsehair pyjamas,
available at Chizzla’s Friendly
Store in all sizes and shapes, and
guaranteed to fit all but the coat
and pants. They’re going at
prices that make the governing-
director howl with anguish”
(Music fade-out.)
(Loud knocking on door)
Inspector Clew (sitting up):
“Who’s there?”
(Landlord enters, agitated.)
Landlord ; “It’s me, zur. Will
’ee coom down taproom?
Summat’s oop.”
Inspector Clew: “What do
you mean, man?”
Landlord : “Just’s I said, zur.
Summat’s oop. It’s John Fletcher
—he’s stroong oop to oak beam
in ceilin’. ’E weren’t there when
I doused glim an’ locked doors
an’ winders last night, zur. Oh,
oh”
Inspector Clew : “Stop
wringing your hands and tell
me calmly what else is the
matter.”
Landlord : “All blood
drained from him, zur. I’ve
beared tales hereabouts of vam-
pire’s sookin’ blood from
cadavers, like.”
Inspector Clew: “All right.
I’ll be down as soon as I’ve put
on these zippered lambswool
slippers and the candy-striped
super-nylon dressing-gown with
brocaded pockets, satin revers
and matching piping, both of
which I bought at Chizzla’s
Friendly Store at prices within
the reach of a 11..,. Well, this
looks like the end of my holiday
even before it’s begun.”
(Music fade-out.)
(Footsteps entering.)
Inspector Clew (in startled
voice): “By heavens, landlord,
you were right—there isn’t a tea-
spoonful of blood left in him.
Get me a sharp knife and I’ll
cut him down —a good-quality
one in Sheffield stainless steel
like they sell for as low as six
guineas a dozen at the famous
Chizzla’s Store. There, now.
Hold him by the legs, but make
sure you don’t put your hands
anywhere near his neck. This
looks like either a suicide or a
murder job, and there may be
valuable fingerprints.”
Landlord; “Purty tough
rope, that there, zur. Seem it
be ’ard to cut through.”
Inspector Clew {looking
closely): “And no wonder! I
recognise it as the same super-
grade hemp that Chizzla’s sells
and which they guarantee to
have a breaking-strain of three
tons and be free from splits,
shakes, knots, kinks, borers, air-
pockets and blowholes. And
don’t forget, Chizzla’s will
always refund your money if
you’re not satisfied. I My
God! The landlord’s vanished!
And the lights gone out! There’s
something uncanny here, I just
felt something cold and clammy
brush past me”
(Music fade-out.)
“Who spirited the landlord
away? Was the cold clammy
thing that Inspector Clew felt
the dreaded vampire? And
what of the degored Josh? Can
the great Scotland Yard inspec-
tor solve this gripping mystery?
Listen-in again tomorrow night
at the same time for a further
thrilling instalment. And in case
you didn’t hear it before, this
session is brought to you by
courtesy of Chizzla’s, the
Friendly Store.”
Bo.
Rejected!
Speak, lofty typewriter! Sing,
lyric portable !
Ring out, wild keys, unto a
savage ed.!
Are all your efforts vain and
set-at-naughtable ?
Then fall his circulation! —on
his head!
Ah, love! If we could write a
living tale.
How sweet it were to pause, to
make an ed..
And then reject him, send him
home by mail.
Or, with a pair of scissors, cut
him dead!
What gems lie hid in each
unwanted casket!
What priceless pearl from
each rejected page is
Lost in an editor’s waste-paper-
basket !
Oh groan, ye critics! Weep,
ye future ages!
Let laughter sob and optimism
cringe.
For lo ! The very birds are on
the winge !
NEIL MILLAR.


Dis^
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
srr<
Grills are extra-rapid ~. end
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
kv
the
COOKER
N^V-'^ V> v :V
i’ll
n
%
O'
■c w t
rn! [AHs *
St'RS-itr
Bu 'ff
W «tfnSf
//iTT!
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ‘AGA 1
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KINS STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr,
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents; A. G. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
i A 1 / I
STOPvoupßup
Worries/1
o
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands. ■ —
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and 1i Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
t
Ik
'SSL
Cr
O
IffVoesVemr
To Fark anp Bite
►
For ’tis their nature to.
But never more I’ll do the like.
I’ve better work to do:
I’ve barked all night, from dark till light.
Great strife did I endure.
But I’ll bark no more, for I’ve been to
store
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cnre.
.1
f *«
\r
More Vlea&M
from Mot
Hr;.?—
ORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
a
mmm
AwJ
*W/
raa&a&as
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. K. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C.l„
G.P.O. Box 71.
Stand 474, International Motor Exhibition, Earl’s Court, London
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Second money of £450 in Saturday’s
w.-f.-a. Memsie Stakes at Caulfield
raised Chicquita’s total earnings to
£27,325 and took her a somewhat
laborious step closer to passing the
figure of £30,627 with which Flight
figures in the record-books as the
top prizewinning mare of the Aus-
tralian Turf. If Chicquita does even-
tually achieve the honor she will have
thoroughly deserved it. Apart from
some of her earlier victories over
fellow three-year-old fillies her wins
have seldom been easy ones, and she
has a really heartrending record of
second placings behind topnotchers of
the stronger sex in good races. Fancy
having the misfortune to bump first a
gift-\yeighted Grey Boots in the
Caulfield Cup and then, for good
measure, such a Melbourne Cup win-
ner as Comic Court!
With Comic Court’s enforced retire-
ment matters had looked brighter for
Chicquita, particularly when, at her
first appearance this season, she con-
vincingly licked her toughest-looking
weight-for-age rival Ellerslie, who was,
on that occasion, a solid favorite.
However, in Saturday’s Memsie
Stakes Ellerslie just as convincingly
turned the tables, and it would seem
that he may, in the coming season,
be just as great a stumbling-block for
the mare as Comic Court has been
in the past.
Contributing to Chicquita’s defeat
on Saturday was the drearily slow
pace at which the race was run in
the early stages—a pace, of course,
perfectly suited to Ellerslie, with his
powerful finishing burst. Purtell, on
Chicquita, realised some distance from
home that he was at a tactical dis-
advantage, and he made a desperate
attempt to steal the race when he
shot the mare to the front at the two-
furlongs mark. A furlong from home,
however, Purtell was at work with the
whip, and it was clear that Ellerslie
would win. Chicquita fought on
gamely; she wouldn’t know how to
do otherwise. But there was more of
a suggestion of instinctive doggedness
than of her customary brilliance
about the effort. Ellerslie scored by
a length. Iron Duke finished a fairly
good third, and the Derby colt Usage
made a good showing to be fourth.
Reverting to the question of Chic-
quita’s stakewinnings, even if she
does achieve the record it seems
unlikely that she will be able to hold
it long, for already she is pretty
close-pressed by the year-younger
True Course. On Saturday True
Course, having only her second outing
this time up, very brilliantly won the
£l5OO Heatherlie Handicap (9f.),
thereby carrying her earnings past the
£25,000 mark—only a couple of thou-
sand pounds short of Chicquita.
Coming from well back to be handy
to the leaders at the top of the
straight, and continuing her run to
look an easy winner inside the dis-
tance, True Course had, eventually,
to fight very desperately indeed to
just score in a photo-finish from
Welkin Sun, who came with a mighty
burst over the last 100 yards. Honors
were with True Course, who carried
topweight of 8.13, conceding Welkin
Sun 1 lib.; it might be added that the
race was run in four-and-a-half
seconds faster time than the Memsie
Stakes. On the strength of her excel-
lent win True Course was immediately
hoisted close to the top of Caulfield
Cup charts. Actually it is not beyond
the bounds of possibility that the
Heatherlie Handicap held the solu-
tions to the mysteries of both Cups;
Durham, for whose Melbourne Cup
prospects present observer has long
had a sneaking regard, didn’t get a
place, but he ran a very nice race
indeed.
If the fact of a man biting a dog
constitutes news, then it is surely no
less worthy of record that the book-
makers on Saturday took a very
thorough pasting. Defeat of the
odds-on favorite Chicquita undoubt-
edly steered a pile of shekels into the
capacious bags, but Ellerslie, by the
same token, was a solid second-
favorite at threes, and there was
scarcely a cracker for any other
runner. True Course went out a hot
favorite. So, too, did the Audentes
filly Audit (J. Purtell), who downed
other three-year-old fillies in the Glen
Eira Handicap (7f.); National Hope
(W. Williamson), who won the second
Warriston Handicap for three-year-
old colts and geldings; and the three-
year-old colt Beau Silhouette (G.
Bougoure), who downed open com-
pany over the six furlongs of the
Whittier Handicap. Other winners at
Caulfield were second-favorites: John
Wren’s Redden (J. Purtell), a son of
his Derby winner Pandect, started at
7 to 2 and downed 3-to-l favorite
Great Acre in the first Warriston
Handicap and the Genetout five-year-
old Generous (L. Lott) accounted for
Coolport and Regal Chief in the 12-
furlongs Doona Handicap.
Whether it is cause and effect or
t'other way about, the Canterbury
Guineas meeting seldom provides sub-
stantial pointers to spring prospects,
and does not attract a really rep-
resentative collection of the antici-
pated stars of the spring racing.
However, the meeting is far from
being unpopular with racegoers. On
Saturday £133,907 went through the
tote, a record figure for an S.T.C.
meeting, and really surprising in that
two of the principal events attracted
only seven and eight runners, respec-
tively.
The Guineas itself, particularly, has
in the past proved a very poor guide
"No! I DIDN'T say Water-polo !”
to Derby prospects, or, at least, it
has so far as concerns its winner;
only one horse has ever won the
double. So, apart from reiterating
that owner E. R. Williams certainly
has a very promising Derby hand
with three such good colts as Hydro-
gen, Nitrogen and Forest Beau, it
might be best to reserve judgment on
the said Forest Beau’s victory in
Saturday’s Guineas. Forest Beau was
always prominent, and hung on well
to win by a half-length, but there
was much to be said for the efforts
of several of the beaten runners. Neat
Andrew came from the clouds, and
was fast overhauling the winner.
Montana, on the surface, disappointed
by finishing only third, but, forced
wide a good deal of the way, he
covered a packet of extra ground on
the tight Canterbury circuit. How-
ever, the horse which impressed
present onlooker as the most probable
winner had he struck any sort of luck
over the last half-furlong was the
Cragsman colt Bronze Peak.
San Domenico won the w.-f.-a.
Canterbury Stakes (6f.) so ridicu-
lously easily (as he did also last year)
that it is difficult to say much about
those whom he beat; however, the
scorching early pace set by the New-
market winner High Jip may have
been too much altogether for one or
two who may do better over a longer
trip. The Victorian three-year-old
Baal, having his first outing of the
season in Sydney, impressed as a
splendid-looking colt, ran well, and it
will surprise if he fails to pay his
way.
While one would hesitate to label
confidently anything sighted at Canter-
bury as a real pointer for the prin-
cipal events if the spring, there was
no shortage of form suggestive of
coming winners in lesser company.
Breeders’ Plate winner Lloric looked
ripe to win one over a trifle shorter
trip than the furlongs of Satur-
day’s Three-year-old Handicap, in
which he was just touched off by
Alkanna (W. Cook); they ran race-
record time. In the same event Noble
Love and Sledman shaped well.
Iroquois (A. Ward) had a runaway
win in the first Ashbury Mixed (6f.),
but Thalaba, a three-year-old Con-
fessor gelding, did quite promisingly
to finish second at his first public
outing; favorite Video looked as
though he may have had enough
racing for the present. The Welter
was won well by Legal Wig (K.
Barratt), with Fra Diavolo and Great
Art in the places, but among the also-
rans Grand Archer looked one to
keep in mind; he was knocked from
third to pretty well last at one stage,
but was coming again at the finish.
Three-year-old Triclinium (P. Burk-
hardt) simply waltzed away with the
second Ashbury Mixed, and the
Campsie Mixed (Ilf.) saw Rion’s
Pick win by virtue of an exception-
ally brilliant bit of riding by B.
Smith.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Novice: Hazard, 1; Beau Manna,
2; Rome, 3. Three- and Four-year-
old : Fengari, 1; Blue’s Sister, 2;
Grand Archer, 3. Highweight: Lloric,
1; Granite, 2; Chief Host, 3. Tram-
way Handicap: Drastic, 1; Baal, 2;
Dynamite, 3. Chelmsford Stakes:
Aristocrat, 1; Delta, 2; Nitrogen, 3.
Spring Handicap: Revenue, 1 ; Crag
Son, 2; Dinanda, 3. Welter:
Admetus, 1; Jan, 2; Misrule, 3.
The lists of past doubles champion-
ship winners of the leading tennis
countries of the world are pretty
liberally bestrewn over the past forty
years with the names of Australian
teams, but no past team, from Aus-
tralia or any other country, has made
such a clean sweep as Sedgman and
McGregor have done this year. Beat-
ing fellow-Australians Rose and
Candy 10-8, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5, in the final
last week, Sedgman and McGregor
added the United Slates champion-
ship to the Australian, French and
Wimbledon titles they already had in
hand.
* * * *
In nominating its traditional “Five
Cricketers of the Year” the 1951
Wisden includes four of the West
Indian tourists. The only home
product to get a look-in is ’keeper
Godfrey Evans, and, of course, all
who saw Evans in action here last
season will certainly agree with that
choice. The West Indians chosen
were right-arm spin bowler S. Rama-
dhin, who bagged 135 wickets at 14.88
runs apiece for the season; slow left-
hander A. L. Valentine, who took 33
wickets in four Tests; and batsmen
E. D. Weekes and F. M. Worrell,
who, together and individually, gave
the scorers a terrifically busy time.
* * * *
Footscray, with an easy 13.15-6.12
win over South Melbourne, made the
V.F.L. “four,” and will meet Essen-
don in the first semi-final on Saturday
—probably their final appearance this
year. Fitzroy, ’Scray’s rival for
fourth position, scarcely took a trick
against North Melbourne, and, beaten
11.15-8.13, went into the discard after
an early promising of form. Geelong,
downing Hawthorn, 10.10 to 5.8, and
Collingwood, who only just beat St.,
Kilda by 10.19 to 9.18, couldn’t lose
their places, and Geelong finished as
minor premiers on percentages. In
the other games Richmond beat Mel-
bourne, 18.16 to 14.11, and Essendon
beat Carlton, 16.12 to 9.10.
The V.F.L. football season, now in
the final stages, has been marred by
rough play and crowd larrikinism.
The old agitation to give umpires
power to send offenders off is revived,
and the League could do worse than
try it for a season.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: Outcome of the Sydney
Rugby Union semi-final played on
Saturday was that Manly qualified
for the final by beating Norths, 24-6.
The match at no stage rose to any
great heights. Norths obviously
aimed to upset the smoothness of the
Manly backline, and, to the extent
of doing just that, their plan suc-
ceeded ; the Manly backs showed
that they can be forced into errors
and that they lack a steadying
influence when under pressure. How-
ever, having forced their opponents
into errors, and thereby created scor-
ing opportunities, Norths failed to
take advantage of their work, and
managed to score only one try. On
the other hand. Manly were quick
to grasp every chance that came their
way, and therein lay the scoring
difference between the two teams.
The other semi-final, between Easts
and University, will be played next
Saturday. At this stage Easts looks
the best-balanced team of the three
remaining, and if their players can
adapt themselves to playing the
obvious weaknesses of the other two
they have the side good enough to
win the competition.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*Du- €a£■ (M.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Bo* 588, Perth.
fT
kit
. - ■
■
irf
Telegrams:
“Esdailson, ; *
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
O Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2£s —Eye relief 3!in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23|ft. per
100 yards.
i
udoM
A<‘,J J 'i5
P.TY. LTD.
4/ HUNIUH STKKET SYDN’E]
1
•TISW
s c,A
nE ub' tiS
"u^BAOO
ii
!l:
U» bU .*
KH"
urn
nn turn
0
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
hrm.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/«
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box ISS2.
G.P.0., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Jetting Mixtures.
“J.R.D.”; “Rooster” is wide
of the mark in advocating an
arsenical dressing “for sheep
struck by flies after crutehing”
(B. 15/8/’5l). Anyone who puts
arsenic on an open cut or fly-
blown area is asking for trouble,
for the poison will be absorbed
by the sheep, with fatal results.
Enough is known about the
blowfly and the effects of the
new insecticides to keep fly-
strike to an absolute minimum.
Shearing and crutehing will give
temporary respite from crutch-
strike but give no protection
whatever against body-strike;
in fact, last wet season, freshly-
shorn sheep appeared to be most
susceptible.
Flystrike can be approached
from two angles—prevention
and treatment—and wise sheep-
owners seek prevention. Crutch-
strike and body-strike call for
completely different methods.
The former is usually confined
to ewes or to male sheep that
have been scouring or are daggy.
Body-strike applies to all ages
and sexes of sheep, but (whereas
crutch-strike is fairly regular) is
serious only under certain sea-
sonal conditions.
Most important step in pre-
venting crutch-strike is to Mules
all ewes. It has proved so suc-
cessful that many graziers are
extending it to wethers to pre-
vent tail-strike and collection of
dags. The radical Mules opera-
tion appears very drastic, as it
entails the cutting-away of a
wide crescent of wool-bearing
skin from the backs of both
thighs (also all the wool-bearing
skin on the tail and the two side
cuts are joined above the butt of
the tail), but it gives outstanding
results.
Its value has been amply
demonstrated in the worst fly
areas of western and north-west
N.S.W., where sheep that used
to need crutehing twice and
sometimes three times a year
now go from shearing to shear-
g without crutehing and with
a drop in crutch-strike from a
high percentage, varying accord-
ing to the season, to about 2 per
cent.
Mulesing is best done on
young sheep, and must be done
properly to be successful, but
where older sheep have to be
jetted it should be done as soon
as a hint of spring or warm,
moist conditions suggests flies.
For crutch-jetting, calcium or
sodium arsenite is good if used
before flies are active. The new
“gammexane” dips or jetting
fluids may be used with safety
either before or during a fly-
wave, as they are non-poisonous.
D.D.T. is not suitable for crutch-
jetting.
To control body-strike, pre-
vention is again the first con-
sideration. Spray the sheep the
full length and width of back
and neck with D.D.T. 1 per
cent., allowing at least a quart
per sheep. High pressure is not
needed, as the aim is to saturate
the surface of the wool. D.D.T.
will give upwards of three
weeks’ protection, dependent on
the weather and efficiency of
application.
Don’t rely on D.D.T. to kill
maggots. If sheep are already
being struck use a “gammexane”
spray. The strength at which
D.D.T. or “gammexane” can be
used has no bearing on safety
(both are perfectly safe), but is
purely economic. Minimum
strengths are D.D.T. 1 per cent,
and “gammexane” 0.05 per cent.
With regard to the latter, how-
ever, you will get far better
results and longer protection by
using it much higher. One
veterinary authority recom-
mends 0.2 per cent., using a
quart of fluid per sheep.
Where sheep are already
struck there is no need to shear
off the wool to expose the area.
Saturate it and the surrounding
wool with 0.2 per cent, “gam-
mexane” and there won’t be a
live maggot on the sheep next
day. It does not irritate, but,
by killing slowly, allows the
injured flesh to heal within the
shortest time. For poll-strike
prevention use either D.D.T. or
“gammexane,” the wool to be
saturated right to the skin and
all around the base of the horns.
If already struck use “gam-
mexane” only.
D.D.T. and “gammexane”
products are marketed in a num-
ber of forms —dispersible pow-
der, paste and emulsions. The
latter are easiest to handle, and
once mixed they should stay
that way. In the other forms
the insecticide is not dissolved
and the liquid must be stirred
or agitated while being used to
keep it from settling.
If using a fine mist spray you
will have to use a dissolved in-
secticide (in emulsion), as dis-
persible powders and pastes will
clog fine jets. Quickest way of
spraying sheep against body-
strike is to use special top
nozzles in a power-spray dip.
The run-off should not be col-
lected, which makes it rather ex-
pensive. Most thorough method
“ Cripes, we forgot to get underfelt for it!”
is to spray sheep individually in
a race, using any suitable type
of portable spray equipment—*
jetter, orchard-spray or fire-
fighting equipment.
Productive Cattle.
“Mr.”: Expansion in testing
has been marked in Victoria
since the war. The test is for
purebreds only, and 8485 cows
completed the 273-day lactation
period this year, 963 more than
last year. Eleven of them yielded
more than 7001 b. of butterfat,
60 gave 6001 b. and over and 236
topped the 5001 b. level.
Champion is a six-year-old
Guernsey, Yarraview Golden
Daffodil, owned by A. E. T.
Payne, of Lilydale. She yielded
8381 b. of fat. This completes a
run of four seasons for Daffodil
with a butterfat production ex-
ceeding 7001 b. She was reserve
champion last year. Second-
highest producer, with 8051 b. of
fat, was Dr. A. R. Haywood’s
mature Jersey, Windrest Perfec-
tion, but she did not recalve
within the official 15-month
period, and consequently was in-
eligible to compete for the re-
serve championship, which went
to another Jersey, C. J. Jennings’s
Milangil Canary’s Poppy, a five-
year-old which yielded 8011 b. of
fat.
Champion herd for the second
year in succession was P. W.
Goodfellow and Sons’ Friesians,
the 16 cows taking the ribbon
with a fat average of 604.51 b.
The reserve herd, owned by C.
J. Jennings (25 Jerseys), aver-
aged 550.41 b., and N. H. Young’s
30 Mornmoot Jerseys, with
536.71 b., were third.
“C.S.”: In N.S.W., under
similar official test, a purebred
Ayrshire aged five years put up
a record of 18,9601 b. of milk,
with a 4.9 p.c. test and 930.791 b,
of butterfat.
She is Ayrshire Park Miss
Dainty, owned by C. E. Ander-
son, of Boambee, near Coff’s
Harbor. She comes of good
stock. Her sire, Myola Victory,
also sired A. P. Miss Margaret,
who last year yielded 16,8651 b.
of milk and 828.81 b. of butter-
fat in 305 days. Her mother,
A. P. Stately 4th, produced
11,4901 b. of milk and 5101 b. of
butterfat as a junior two-year-
old.
C.5.1.R.0. Publicity.
“Extensionist”; Nothing has
been seen so far from the Agri-
cultural Research - extension
Unit formed early this year to
publicise rural research work in
popular and semi - technical
form.
As State Departments of Agri-
culture are responsible for exten-
sion of information and advice
to landholders, the new
C.5.1.R.0. unit appears to have
been formed ostensibly to make
the scientific jargon of its techni-
cal publications intelligible to
extension officers of State De-
partments.
There is no lack of intelli-
gence in these officers, who com-
mand the respect of the farm-
ing community. They are
generally well aware of the main
worth - while findings of
C.5.1.R.0. and other research.
The results of much C.5.1.R.0.
research only corroborate
knowledge already known or ex-
penence already gained by State
Departments of Agriculture
from their own research More-
T r Ac So^^° f the P ub j. lcatlons
of C.5.1.R.0. give findings or
advice which State extension
officers are unwilling to use be-
cause it is impractical.
AH this has cost the tax-
payer much money because
C.5.1.R.0. has the ear of the
Commonwealth Treasury, and
the new Research - extension
Unit will cost him more for
little or no more useful pur-
pose. Commonwealth expendi-
ture could be cut by strangling
the new infant at its birth.
state Departments of Agri-
culture were not in favor of
C.5.1.R.0. establishing this unit,
The objective and more could
still be gained, if it is not already
largely being gained, at far less
expense to the country, by
C.5.1.R.0. obtaining informa-
tion from the State Departments
as to the practical application of
specific research undertakings.
No one is better able, on behalf
of the public, to assess the value
of the scientific agricultural
research of C.5.1.R.0. than the
extension officers of State de-
partments, for they are the
people who have to induce the
landholder to apply the results
of this research.
Ticks in Dairy Cattle.
“Ringwood”: Seeing that
high-testing quality in dairy
cows is almost invariably asso-
ciated with a light, thin hide, it
is extremely unlikely, as “Agric”
claims (B. 15/8/’5l), that tick-
immunity in a Maleny (Q.) herd
was the result of extra-high test.
Ticks are partial to light-skinned
animals. In mixed herds it is
usual for Jerseys and Ayrshires
to be badly infested, whilst the
thicker-skinned Shorthorns and
Holsteins are relatively free.
Regular dipping, efficiently
done, will beat ticks in time, but
it is not desirable in tick-infested
country to eradicate ticks en-
tirely, as cattle lose immunity in
a few generations.
On the other hand, ticks
slowly establish a certain amount
of immunity to arsenical-dip
mixtures. After dipping in
ordinary strength mixture a few
hardy ticks survive. Unless the
mixture is strengthened an ever-
increasing number of survivors
will be noticed —probably the
descendants of those hardy few.
Over a period of years on one
C.Q. farm I found it necessary
to increase the strength of the
mixture 50 per cent. In using
such a strong mixture it is neces-
sary to protect the cow’s teats,
udder and all tender parts with
vaseline. Axle-grease will do if
vaseline is not available. As far
as possible dip in cool, cloudy
weather. Hot sun is severe on
freshly-dipped cattle, whilst rain
shortly after dipping lowers the
dip efficiency. Early-morning
dipping is best.
Sub.-clover.
“My”; Sub.-clover does well
in north-east Victoria under an
annual rainfall of 20in. or more.
N. C. Killeen, manager of
Rutherglen Research Station,
recommends four varieties for
sowing in that part of the State;


"Phenoris” Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
fg
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
Ws (mud... it's
w
Elastoplast
Every parent should keep handy a tin
of the new Waterproof Elastoplast
plastic First Aid Dressings. There’s
no fear of water, grease or oil
getting to cuts protected by these
dressings. Waterproof Elastoplast
is firmly adhesive and does not ruck
up; its smooth, non-catch surface
always washes clean. It’s so
comfortable, too —stretching with
every movement. Ask at your
Chemist for Waterproof Elastoplast.
<n
m
Sliilsiy
FABRIC ELASTO BLAST
is still available. These
popular dressings are
exactly what you need
when protection from
liquids is not specifically
called for.
NOW.
..2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST
. Fabric & Waterproof
w/m
Products of
T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., Hull, England
Thousands of
stock owners use
EIASTRATOR
because it’s...
(D
(D
©
@
swt
bloodless
CERTAIN
CLEAN
humane
SlMptf
ELASTRATOR is the tried and
tested modern way of castrating and tailing.
Enthusiastic Stockowners from all over the world
voluntarily write to tell us of their success and
satisfaction with ELASTRATOR.
Their stock losses are reduced—often by 100 per
cent —fat lambs top the market —carcasses fetch
best prices.
ELASTRATOR STOCK IS BEST
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR 'AUST.) PTY. LTD
JOOMd
- V
SJUHOVSAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
” ' . ~* :t: f ,
—»
■J»
m
||
>%
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC
Dwalganup, Bacchus Marsh, Mt.
Barker and Tallarook.
The mid-season variety, Mt.
Barker, for the high tablelands,
Bacchus Marsh for areas with a
rainfall around 24in. and Dwal-
ganup and Tallarook in the drier
parts (18in. to 21in.). Sowing-
rates range between 21b. and 41b.
per acre, according to the
amount of care taken in prepar-
ing the seedbed.
Got the Worms In.
“Metax”: A Launceston
(Tas.) man is a disciple of the
belief that worms will do the
work of a spade in the garden
if there are sufficient of the right
variety. Bypassing the Speck’s
local types and starting with a
colony of 200 which he calls
soilites, imported from N.S.W.,
a target population of 200,000 is
expected within a year by keep-
ing the conditions favorable for
multiplication. This number is
calculated to keep the garden
permanently dug.
The chosen worms are sup-
posed to be harmless to plants,
to be disinclined to wander too
far or too deep and to cultivate
their own weight of soil in each
24 hours of tunnelling. Should
the worm population threaten to
get out of hand birds will be
bred to feed on them.
Using the Soldering-iron.
“A 1 W.”; To tin a soldering
copper, clean the point well with
a file or scraper, rub the heated
iron with sal ammoniac and then
apply the solder. The iron
should be heated to a little above
the melting-point of the solder.
A cleaned metal surface
oxidises immediately on expo-
sure to air. A thin coating of
oxide is formed when the oxy-
gen and metal combine. Solder
will not unite with a metal that
has a coating of oxide, grease,
dirt, etc. A flux is used to re-
move the oxide the instant the
solder comes in contact with the
metal.
A prepared soldering paste is
the most commonly-used flux,
though tinsmiths prefer killed
muriatic acid (zinc chloride). To
kill muriatic acid pour it into a
glass container and add small
scraps of zinc, a few at a time,
until the acid fails to eat the
zinc. Resin, beeswax or borax
may also be used as a flux.
You can solder cast-iron by
first scraping it, then using raw
muriatic acid to clean the part,
and then tinning the surface to
be soldered by using zinc
chloride as a flux.
If flat parts to be joined are
perfectly tinned and flux applied
between them and then held to-
gether and heated the parts will
become perfectly soldered. This
is called sweating.
For a strong joint use hard
solder. The harder solder has a
high melting-point and makes a
stronger join.
Seeding Cauliflowers.
“Bass”: It’s hard to seed
summer cauliflowers because,
having grown in the hot season,
they are soft and rot easily after
rain or watering.
To seed summer varieties grow
them out of season. Seeds sown
now will give plants which will
flower in winter, and, being out
of season, will be hardy, will
flower and seed profusely.
Once every few years select a
good plant in season and en-
deavor to seed it, covering it
from the weather if necessary.
Then use the seed from that for
out-of-season seeders.
Kikuyu-grass.
“Bill Ding”: Experience of
this grass (B. 6/9/’5O) in parts
of W.A. has been far from
pleasant. Down Manjimup way,
in the far south-west, it is a
pest—rampaging and rioting
over paddock and garden and
defying eradication. It is a much
worse pest than water-couch,
which is but a giant lawn couch
and can be dug out if one digs
deep enough and often, but
kikuyu, like the Guildford grass
—the greatest pest-grass of
W.A. and fondly believed to be
a valuable fodder-grass —is a
soil-clutterer and a costly nuis-
ance.
Thistle Bait for Rabbits.
“M.”: The recipe for thistle
bait for rabbits is: Roots of
flat-topped thistle varieties only,
scraped and cut into iin. lengths.
On each 141 b. of roots sprinkle
|lb. of sugar and loz. of
powdered strychnine. As a
decoy, flavor with a half-tea-
spoonful of spirits of nitre and
two teaspoons of vanilla, stirring
the bulk in the sun for 10 to 15
minutes.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: Best to time shear-
ing and lambing seasons so as
to come reasonably close to-
gether. Lambing has a pro-
nounced retarding influence on
rate of growth of wool fibre —
as much as 18 per cent, at times.
Fleeces of ewes which lamb be-
fore shearing collapse. They are
“mushy” in appearance.
“M.”: To kill cockchafer
grubs in lawns sprinkle a mix-
ture of moist friable earth and
arsenate of lead powder (51b. of
powder to a bushel of earth) over
each 1000 square feet of turf
and water lightly in to wash the
poison into the root-zone of the
grasses, where the grub operates.
“Brassica”: Cutting parts of
cabbage or cauliflower as re-
quired for a small family, leav-
ing the vegetable still in the
ground to “retain its freshness”
(B. 17/1/’5l), would not be satis-
factory, at least with cauliflower.
This vegetable stays only a brief
time in prime palatable condi-
tion. Left in the ground it very
soon reaches the so-called
“ricey” stage, at which it has
lost its tenderness. Cutting the
whole cauliflower at once and
standing it upside-down on the
spot will keep it fresher than
allowing it to grow on.
“Myrrhee”: To protect furred
or woolled skins from weevils
spray the undersides with a mix-
ture of arsenic and arsenate of
soda made up as follows: 11b.
of arsenic and 31b. of arsenate
of soda boiled in sgal. of water.
When dissolved make up to
15gal. with water, thoroughly
agitate and apply to the fleshy
side of the dried skins with a
fine spray.
“Hortus”: For sore teats or
udders use a mixture of Idr.
of zinc oxide and loz. of vase-
line. Apply whenever necessary.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
Cyclical spring rains are now drawing near, the cyclical
chart shows them due about mid-September, and a sunspot
change could cause them to develop. At present C26/8/ SIJ
the sun is quite clear. Recent spots were not of the complex
character that makes for any change, except to intensity
whatever conditions exist at the time. _
Recent heavy rains in Victoria are quite compatible with
the cyclical records, although for that period 71 and 84
years ago they are not very numerous.
Under the cycle September should bring very good falls,
possibly heavy on the N.S.W. central coast.


i&ei
AFTER
40
THE
STEPS
GROW
steeper
When steps seem a little
steeper, the days a little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care . . . and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime.
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test”
. . . to-day I
WOLFE'S
(Zjnxjtnntic
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH'S SAKE
r c
"■■ : U
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
r
mi
0
for sports car performance
IV2 litre JOWETT JAVELIN
Here’s the car that’s got it both ways. There’s room for all the family, 5 or 6
of them, and luggage—swishing along in luxury, with the full protection of an
all-steel body and immensely strong under-frame. Or, if you’re alone and want
speed, you can cruise at 60—and reach it from standing in 22 seconds with the
50 B.H.P, flat-four engine—terrific acceleration. But there’s safety all the time,
<1W '
m
Mm
steering, springing, and every vital part of
the Javelin is built to take it and go on
taking it.
JOWETT JUPITER
The Jupiter is the fast sports car version
of the Javelin —class winner of the Le
Mans 24-hour race in 1950, and again in
1951, Ist and 2nd in the 1951 Monte Carlo
Rally li litre class.
THE BRADFORD
The Bradford Commercial range, available
with station waggon body, is known all
over the world for its amazing economy
and sturdy reliability.
Made in Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford,
Yorkshire
DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Redman Motors Ltd.
ADELAIDE: B.E.A. Distributors Ltd.
PERTH: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.
HOBART: Donald Gorringe Pty, Ltd.
Legal Notice.
NOTICE UNDE R SECT lON 3 OF THE
PROPERTY LAW AMENDMENT ACT
1939.
TO JOHN JOSEPH FIELDER (commonly
known as JOHN FIELDER) formerly of
Wingatui Otago Trainer but now of parts
unknown.—WHEREAS it was directed by
Order made in the Magistrate’s Court
at Dunedin on the Bth day of August
1951 that delivery of notice under Sec-
tion 3 (1) of The Property Law Amend-
ment Act 1939 should be effected by (inter
alia) publishing the same once in the Syd-
ney “Bulletin” newspaper AND WHERE-
AS default has been made by you in pay-
ment of moneys secured under Deed of
Mortgage No. 149998 Otago Lands Registry
(affecting all that parcel of land in the
Provincial District of Otago containing
by admeasurement two roods more or less
being part of Allotment 1 on Plan de-
posited in the Deeds Register Office at
Dunedin as No. 319 which parcel of land
was subsequently brought compulsorily
under the provisions of the Transfer
Act and is all the land comprised and de-
scribed in Certificate of Title volume 262
folio 260 Otago Lands Registry) given by
you to James Lang late of Palmerston in
Otago Merchant deceased which is now
vested in James Fairbairn Lang of Dun-
edin Public Accountant as Mortgagee
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to you that
the said default complained of by the said
Mortgagee is the non-payment by you of
the sum of £1403/8/7 being the amount
owing by you under the said Deed of
Mortgage as at the 19th day of March
1951 AND you are hereby required to
remedy such default AND notice is hereby
given to you that the power to sell the
said land subject to the said Memorandum
of Mortgage will become exercisable at
the expiration of one calendar month from
the date of service of this Notice upon you
n the event of your failing to remedy such
default before the expiration of that time.
Dated at Dunedin this 9th day of August,
1951.— JAMES FAIRBAIRN LANG by his
Solicitors and Agents, PATERSON &
LANG, 8 Moray Place West, Dunedin, N.Z.
Occasions when no Gift is
more acceptable than a
lAVIMA
SWISS masterpiece
i
f.
V
On every
occasion
which tra-
ditionally
calls for a gift
of lasting value, give
a 17-jewelled Lavina
Swiss Watch. It will be
cherished through the
years for it* exquisite
perfection.
LAV3NA
WATCHES
The Choice of Millions
Established 1852. Vtlleref, Suisse.
LW2o.il
Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIH
OSUUJV/VN.
i a. FIT lift . /V
MU
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORKI
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The
Mutual life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy witu
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £78,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£12,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A.. Gen. Manager.
with a sharp odor of ammonia,
One horse blew the dust from
its nostrils with a sudden snort,
Another lifted and dropped one
foot, making a dull thump like
a cough from the sleeping earth,
Neil climbed through the fence
and came out on to the side of
a small channel. He fell on to
his stomach in the grass by the
edge and looked down into the
water. The moon made a
smooth, yellow track from side
to side. By the edge the water
formed intricate, visible little
eddies from the irregularity of
the concrete. Four stiff-legged
insects were skittering sideways
on the water. Each time one
stopped a single ripple rolled out
to break the smooth pattern of
the moon-glow in the water,
Neil heard a girl’s low laugh
and a man’s mumbling reply,
He looked along the channel
and saw a white shirt beneath a
low bush. He stood up and
jumped across the channel. The
reflection of the moon fled madly
down the long, straight channel
as he jumped, like a piece of
shrill music.
Neil walked through a thin
belt of belars and came out at
the edge of the football-ground.
The moon had paled and firmed
as it rose and now scattered a
pale sheen over the empty space
of the ground. Neil had never
seen it empty before. He had
known it hot, dusty and embit-
tered by fierce football rivalry,
the fences teeming with people
and the oval dotted with zig-
zagging specks of color. Now,
it seemed that he had outlasted
everything; and was alone in
the waste-land of the moon. A
cat ran across the middle of the
oval, in a straight line, looking
neither to right nor to left. Neil
was comforted strangely by its
presence. He walked across the
oval towards the small railway.
At the far edge of the oval the
earth was banked slightly and
above the bank were outlined
big onion plants in a market
garden. They had been left too
long and had gone to seed. They
had tufted, powdery tops that
made them look like African
natives. The faintest puff of
wind made them give a gentle,
sibilant rustle as he passed.
Neil walked in the white dust
alongside the rail track and tried
to think what it was that the
night had been wanting to ex-
plain, but every time he came
close it slipped away around a
corner. He came up to the
house and heard the cow bellow-
ing. He saw a lamp’s flicker in
the cow-shed. As he opened the
gate his mother heard the squeak
and called from the cow-shed,
“Is that you, Neil?”
“Yes, Mum.”
“Come and give us a hand.
The cow’s havin’ her calf.”
He went to the cow-shed and
stood at the door. The calf was
almost born. Neil watched,
feeling a little sick,
WHEN they were washing
their hands Neil said to his
mother, “Hey, I’m sorry about
what I said, Mum.”
“That’s all right.”
“I dunno ... I didn’t seem to
understand before and I don’t
know why I do now.”
He went back to get the lamp
from the cow-shed. The cow
was still lying on her side and
was nuzzling the wet, blind,
struggling little calf within the
fold of her legs. Neil blew out
the lamp and walked over to the
house. His mother was watching
tne light clouds passing over the
moon, like moths leaping at a
light. The mosquitoes’ hum
seemed only to make the silence
deeper, and a single bark from a
distant dog fell into the silence
and was lost without a trace.
Neil said to his mother “There
was a beaut sheila up at the
baths tonight. Gee, she could
dive!”
“Could she?”
“Hey, funny thing, Mum . . .
the calf being born. It looks so
crook and everything, but I don’t
know, it somehow seems sorta
dignified or something.” He
stopped, helpless with lack of
expression.
“Yes. Go to bed, Neilie, or
you’ll never get up in the morn-
ing.”
His mother’s voice sounded to
Neil as quiet as the touch of the
moon on the water. They went
in to bed.


CSM
Successful farming with BUUPOOS
i> ~ "'
*\
.... '■>;,
i
vm.m,
dfg
3 Months
ON THE
BELT
o
'O'.
says WALLY MURPHY. Manager for CLAUDE JENNINGS Esq,
WHEN property-owner Claude Jennings Esq. told his
manager, Wally Murphy, to buy a tractor for their
2000 acres of rough irrigation country over the river
from Swan Hill, Murphy first thoroughly surveyed the
field.
“I wanted a reliable and economical tractor that would
endure our hard ploughing and leveeing work and also
stand our annual three-months non-stop pumping.
Kerosene tractors would be too costly to run . . . diesels
were much too complicated . . . and multi-cylinder
tractors generally seemed quite unsuited for 3 months
on the belt—l’d seen too many crack up before under
such conditions.
“So I suggested to the boss that a little extra money
invested in a Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor would probably
pay off in the long run —pointing out that Bulldog’s
simple, single cylinder engine was made to order for
pumping. And when I quoted the exceptional run that
Harry Sherriff, of Nyah, had had on pumping with his
Bulldog, he agreed. Now he reckons the Bulldog’s the
best investment I ever made!”
With his never-failing Bulldog driving a 15in. pump
with 18in. delivery and about 15ft. lift, Wally can send
over 250,000 gals, of Murray River water per hour
surging over Jennings’s grazing land. Summing up, Wally
Murphy says, "I’ve had 8 tractors to look after in some
way or another in my time, and I quite definitely consider
the Bulldog is the BEST all-round tractor!”
Versatile BULLDOG ploughs, levees too!
For unmatched ruggedness, you should see Murphy’s Bulldog
ploughing with a sft. specially reinforced and weighted set
disc going a depth of 5 Inches over virgin swamp country
with cracks 6ft. deep in places! And after ploughing,
Murphy grades It with a 12ft. board towing
approximately 3 cubic yards of earth for levee
banks—a tough assignment for any tractor.
P&£
I
a
m
a
a
ee
op
fc.
Ul
a
u
3
«
a
M
I-
a
r/c.O^^STATE
P - y ’ I2i % ob *n. 'gtystribljt 3% \t el *idl'
1)e V a i| f % r , f
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Accountant, qualified, will complete
accounts and prepare tax-returns. Go
anywhere in N.S.W., any time. —5185.
Words of poem “The Oozlum Bird”
by W. T. Goodge. —5184.
To buy copy of British Authors by
Richard Church. —5183.
To buy a cookery-book on cooking
for about 150 persons.—5182.
To buy copy of Beef, Iron and
Wine by Jack Lait. —5181.
To buy books of verse by Jack
Sorenson.—5180.
To buy Chunuma by Mary and
Elizabeth Durack.—5179.
To buy copy of King and Ketley’s
The Control of Language, Grattan
and Gurrey’s Our Living Language,
Gower’s Plain Wards, Ward’s The
Phonetics of English, Mitchell’s The
Pronunciation of English in Australia,
Wrenn’s The English Language,
Chaucer’s The Nun’s Priest’s Tale
and The Albatross Book of Living
Verse edited by Untermeyer.—5186.
To buy Marlowe’s Tamburlaine,
Sheridan’s School for Scandal, Shak-
speare’s Much Ado About Nothing,
Antony and Cleopatra and Othello
(separate texts), Shaw’s Pygmalion,
Galsworthy’s Strife, Anderson’s
Winterset, Eliot’s Murder in the
Cathedral and Stewart’s Fire on the
Snow.— 5187.
To buy Goldsmith’s The Vicar of
Wakefield, Scott’s Heart of Midlo-
thian and Old Mortality, Austen’s
Pride and Prejudice, Collins’s The
Moonstone, Hardy’s The Return of
the Native, Bennett’s The Old Wives’
Tale, Conrad’s Nostromo and Woolf’s
To the Lighthouse. —5188.
Information Sought.
Was Eddie McGoorty, or Mike
Gibbons, middleweight champion of
the world when Darcy defeated
McGoorty in 15 rounds at Sydney
Stadium on July 31, 1915, and did
Darcy ever win the world’s middle-
weight championship ?
Neither Eddie McGoorty nor Mike
Gibbons fought for, let alone won,
the world’s middleweight champion-
ship. A1 McCoy, of Brooklyn, k.o.’d
George Chip in one round at Brook-
lyn on April 7, 1914, to win the 11.6
world title, and McCoy was middle-
weight champion when McGoorty
met Darcy. As Darcy had decisively
beaten Jimmy Clabby (the only boxer
to hold a referee’s decision over Mike
Gibbons), Buck Crouse and Chip,
many astute judges think he would
have beaten McCoy. George Chip
was an ex-champion when Darcy
defeated him, and none of Darcy's
opponents held the world title at
time of his victory over them.
* * * *
Blackberries have invaded my gar-
den from a near-by vacant allotment.
How can I eradicate the pest by the
arsenic-and-caustic-soda method ?
Spray the roots with 11b. of arsenic
boiled with 11b. caustic soda and then
diluted with about five gallons of
water. If the infested area is small,
and it is practicable to apply the solu-
tion to each root with a brush, it is
advisable to do so, as the arsenic will
not thus affect the soil. If not, spray
lightly, and the soil will not be
affected to any great extent.
* * * ♦
How is fish-glue made, and are
there any sidelines in making fish-
glue ?
Fish offals are thoroughly
washed with water and discharged
into large extractors or digesters with
live steam. After cooking or diges-
tion, the liquid is run off and allowed
to stand. When cool the upper oily
layer is removed and the lower gluey
solution clarified with alum. The
liquid is then filtered, concentrated in
open vats and bleached with sulphur
dioxide. The residue of the offals left
in the extractors is dried in steam-
heated vessels, mixed with potassium
and magnesium salts, and put on the
market as fish-potash fertiliser, thus
forming a sideline to the glue-
making.
* * * *
(1) How to make two gallons of
bungalow-brown paint? (2) How to
make two gallons of paint as an
undercoat ?
(1) Take 71b. red oxide in oil, 11b.
burnt turkey umber in oil, 31b. black
in oil, raw linseed-oil, igal.
boiled linseed-oil, \ pint terebine, \
pint turpentine. Quantities given are
approximate, and would depend upon
the quality of the colors used. They
should be well mixed together, the
liquids added slowly during stirring
so as to ensure amalgamation. You
could probably buy the paint as
cheaply ready mixed. (2) For an
undercoat omit the boiled linseed-oil
and increase the quantity of turpen-
tine igal.
Brief Answers,
P.P.: Scarlet Pillows, An Australian
Nurse’s Tales of Long Ago, by Mrs.
Arthur H. Gamsey, obtainable from
Whitcombe and Tombs Pty., Ltd., 12
Barrack-street, Sydney G.H.B.:
William Kuhnel and Co., 136 Rundle-
street, Adelaide, are agents for Wert-
heim sewing-machines... .G.R.: The
horse may be impounded. Driving-
and damage-rates are fixed by the
N.S.W. Impounding Act, 1898....
R.R.: Write C. B. Berckelman,
honorary secretary, Book Collectors’
Society of Australia, Box 905, G.P.O.,
Sydney... .P.G.: Cement and Con-
Crete for the Handyman by “Domus,”
published by Robertson and Mullens,
Melbourne C.M.A.S.: Try E.
Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-street,
Sydney A.G.: Particulars available
from Mrs. C. McNamara, hon.
Federal secretary, New Education
Fellowship, Box 3, P. 0., Gordon
(N.5.W.)....H.G.L.: From Thomas
C. Lothian, 1 Fleming-place, Mel-
bourne.. . .E.C.: Write the Australian
Wool Board, 416 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne... .A.A.W.; Tales of the Old
Regime by William Astley (“Price
Warung”) was published in 1897....
H.D.: From Farmers and Graziers’
Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Cos. Ltd., Sirius House, 23
Macquarie-place, Sydney A.L.R.:
Write Museum of Applied Arts and
Sciences, Harris-street, Sydney, for
pamphlet “The Rotproofing of Jute
Hessian,” price 6d., postage 3d
F.N.G.: Write Gordon and Gotch
(Australasia), Ltd., Barrack-street,
Sydney R.McG.: Mr. John Met-
calfe is the principal librarian and
secretary of the Public Library of
N. S. Wales; Miss Phyllis Mander
Jones is the Mitchell librarian
J.S.: The main objection to the idea
is that it would increase production
costs without necessarily increasing
circulation... .C.C.: Modern Aus-
tralian Aboriginal Art by Rex Battar-
bee was published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, not F. W.
Cheshire, Melbourne, as stated.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
H.V.F.: Some feeling for nature
and Hopkins in them, but too much
clumsiness C.S.H.: It has a lot
more life than most translations
from Horace K. 8.: Well may
you apologise to Dennis... .C.N.M.:
Why not use this century’s language?
Sammie McDougall: “I've been
reading your efforts for 43 years, so
it’s only a fair go you should read
mine.” We’ll not only read you—
once every 43 years—but we’ll print
you: —
G.S.; Whatever you may think
of mining finance you can’t rhyme
“report” with “fork” W.R.; If
that indecipherable morass of manu-
script represents a one-act play, we
don’t publish one-act plays
W.M.S.: Too vague. Precisely what
flowers were you looking at?
C.R.: Not for us L.S. : All poets,
sooner or later, when feeling particu-
larly well, write a poem about their
tombstones... .J.R.P.: Your ode on
the Royal Tour is not particularly
publishable, but it’s a whale of a lot
better than some of Colley Cibber’s.
F.H.P.: There’s a certain simple
charm in “Chinaman Joe,” and at
least one piece of profound observa-
tion : —
When a white man laughs
He goes ha ha ha ;
When a Chinaman laughs
He goes hee hee hee.
J.O.M.: The didgeriedoo has
been didgeriedone before... .J.V.R.:
Some good ballad stuff, but you do
roar like a wild bull about it
0.W.: One among dozens we get on
such themes H.P.: Too much of
“To a Bluegum Tree” is hackneyed;
including, alas, the “bushland maid”
you say you dream about E.H.:
Two lines then :
Chinese were pushed into a war which they
abhor.
When asked to continue many ask wha for.
....J.C.M.: Come again W.V.T.:
Your best chance would be to get
some local newspaper to print it tor
you in book form. Not up to our
standard, and don’t know any society
that would criticise it for you
N. 8.: “Warning” the nearest. Try a
women’s paper... .A.J.G.: “ T desire
not marriage,’ she said to me; ‘nor a
child in my arms. I desire to be
free.’ ” Now that’s no way to talk.
R.M.D.: A flicker in “For Ever
and Ever” 8.5.: A fair effort, but
that’s a very elementary verse-form.
John Dawes: Nevertheless poetry
didn’t die with Tennyson nor art with
Millais... .8.W.P.: Both thin
5.8.: “Maybe I’ll meet Prince
Charming.” Not here A.R.T.:
Your poem on the Jenolan Caves
will not emerge M.J.8.; “While
thoughts do pine of she I see no
more.” This is a very painful pining.
The trouble with this country is the M.Ps.
that we keep,
Whilst you and I are working, these super-
drones all sleep ;
If given work of any kind they farm it
out to Boards
Then collar our taxation pay and tour the
world like lords.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Public Honesty
A certain amount of trust reposed in
the general public would release quite a
number of civil servants for more con-
structive work, would reduce costs, and
would promote better feeling between
departments and public. In his drive to
decrease the Commonwealth civil service
by 10,000, Mr. Menzies might find a
fruitful field in those departments which
have an army of inspectors checking on
a public which is 99 per cent, honest any-
way.
The busybody who constantly “polices”
inspectors, seeking some evidence of pre-
ferential treatment and generally trying to
“keep them on their toes” must be
silenced by publiq opinion. He’s been a
costly menace for too long. And the
public must realise that a few minor in-
justices which the removal of costly
inspection might involve can profitably
be overlooked.
Inspectors lately did the Perth metro-
politan area seeking unlicensed wireless
sets. There was often discourteousness,
and generally they left a train of ruffled
housewives. I don’t know how many
offenders were found, but I’ll warrant the
fines they paid didn’t compensate for the
cost of finding them or for the incon-
venience caused.
Don’t tell me that there would have
been more but for the knowledge of the
inspections. As I said, the Australian
public is fundamentally honest.
We haven’t achieved an ideal society
yet, but we are advanced sufficiently to
trust our friends. We could take a chance
and trust some people we don’t know,
too. So could Governments. — Bass
(W.A.).
A.B.C. News
If “Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 22/8/’5l)
would wake up to himself as he advises
other critics to do, he would realise that
Radio Australia and the A.B.C. are
identical, and that any criticism of the
Radio Australia news-service is neces-
sarily a criticism of the A.B.C.
The national news which “W.W.”
praises is rebroadcast by Radio Australia,
and is therefore available to “Trans-
porticus” and “Orang Puteh” without
their having to “line up their sets” or
write to the A.B.C. for times of operation
and frequencies. Radio Australia also re-
broadcasts a bulletin of Australian news
as a follow-up to the national news ; but
even the two bulletins appear to fall short
of what “Transporticus” and “Orang
Puteh” expect.
To get control of Radio Australia
from the Department of Information
A.B.C. asserted that it could broadcast a
better all-round service at less cost. Even
when the D. of I. controlled Radio Aus-
tralia that station regularly rebroadcast
the A.B.C. national news, and followed it
with an Australian bulletin of its own
compilation. It is this follow-up bulletin
which now so disappoints “Transporticus”
and “Orang Puteh.” Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
Hydro Power-Stations
Hydro power-stations in Australia are
fast becoming white elephants, and unless
the electricity authorities make a close
check on the hydro expense, consumers
are likely to be committed to huge interest
bills for years to come.
In Victoria, for instance, cost of Kiewa
hydroelectricity scheme, estimated at
£25,270,000 in 1947, has risen to
£50,520,000. In four years it has
increased 100 per cent., and is still rising.
Newspapers, eager to get “color”
stories, play up the hydro schemes, and
the Kiewa job has had more than its fair
share of publicity—“ Power from Kiewa
Waters” has been the catchcry of Vic-
toria’s State Electricity Commission,
which has made Kiewa an open house to
Press-men.
Despite all the glamor that goes with
hydro it is built to generate power and
its worth is measured, in output.
Ultimate planned capacity at Kiewa is
only 289,000 kilowatts, which, when
available, will be only one-tenth of the
State’s requirements.
Unlike northern European countries
with their huge rainfall, catchment areas
and swift-flowing streams, Australia has
a small rainfall and is not a hydro
country. Millions of pounds are being
spent at Kiewa running race-lines around
the hills to pick up water from all the
small trickles that run down toward the
Kiewa River.
In Australia there is no substitute for
hard black or brown coal fuel to drive
the turbines which will generate elec-
tricity. Money spent on the Kiewa
scheme would be much better directed to
winning more coal.
After all, black coal is there, and only
has to be won. Hydro stations depend
on good rainfall for their power, parti-
cularly in the summer months. A couple
of dry years would make the hydro
station a larger white-elephant than ever.
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Sydney
Big capital cities are always expensive,
but nobody would mind if they felt they
were getting their money’s worth. People
could feel proud of Sydney (B. 29/8/’5l)
if it meant to N. S. Wales —or Australia
—what Vienna means to Austria, what
Paris means to France, London to Eng-
land, Edinburgh to Scotland, or even
Buenos Aires to Argentina. These are
capitals—they epitomise and window-
display the culture and achievements of
their nations. In this sense Sydney is no
capital—it’s more of a comic-strip metro-
polis. Its people are endlessly victimised
—and never were victims more submis-
“ There! She looks MUCH better now , dearie."
sive—by strikes and rackets based on the
fact that the city is rotten with money
but desperately short of commodities,
especially basic foods and building
materials. Just now butter and sugar are
neck-and-neck as to which will be off
the market first. Blackmarketing flourishes
so universally as to have become regarded
as normal and even necessary. Electricity
is savagely rationed, gas supplies are un-
certain, crimes of violence are common
and public co-operation with the police
is poof. It is sometimes hard to realise
that this is one of the most prosperous
cities in the world and unmarked by war.
Sydney isn’t an imposing city, apart
from its great steel arch. With the ex-
ception of the fine Public Library, public
architecture, considering the size and
wealth of the city, is ordinary. The little
old galleried Parliament House in Mac-
quarie-street is pleasing, but Government
departments are, for the most part, housed
in large dun-colored buildings like big
boxes. The Town Hall is antiquated-
looking, uninspiring and small; the big
greasy-brown post-office is like a
mausoleum. Central Railway, from a
distance, is fair enough as station build-
mgs go, but it hardly does justice to its
commanding position. The two cathedrals
are fine, but seem to show little originality
—one feels more taken by a little old
church like St. James, in King-street.
The streets of the city proper are unim-
pressive. Only one of them, bare, treeless
Martin-place, is really wide enough for
modern traffic volume. Two of the
busiest, Pitt and Castlereagh, are tortuous,
tram-jammed canyons, too narrow even
for their one-way traffic. All of them
seem chronically under repair, or in need
of it. There’s no sign of any local
counterpart of Paris’s boulevardes, Edin-
burgh’s Princes-street, Buenos Aires’
Avenida Mayo, Melbourne’s St. Kilda-
road or Adelaide’s North-terrace. Even
Sturt-street, Ballarat, or Auburn-street,
Goulburn, could show Sydneysiders a
few things. Rio de Janeiro has run one
of its main, tree-lined thoroughfares for
four miles along its harbor shores. Syd-
ney’s own superb opportunity has been
allowed to pass.
Sydney’s public-transport system, rely-
ing mainly on an electrified city-suburban
raffway network supplemented by trams
and buses, is staggering under a too-
heavy load. The electric-trains are good
but inadequate, necessitating pushing,
shoving and sardine-standing of pas-
sengers as normal practice. The trams
are ancient, clattering juggernauts whose
European and American counterparts
have long since gone to the junkheap.
Sydney’s homes run all along the scale
from the demi-palaces on the outer
North Shore line to the awful tenements
of the railway districts of Redfern and
Newtown, or the “housing settlements” at
Herne Bay and Hargreave Park. These
ugly, crowded, paintless old wooden
barrack-huts have been people’s homes
for years, and look like being so for
years more, for Sydney’s housing shortage
is the worst, possibly, in all the English-
speaking world. The great majority of
citizens live in street after street of little,
squarish, verandaless “standard” homes
of brick, timber or fibro. Whole suburbs
of them could have been punched out
by the same machine.
This sprawling collection of mostly
commonplace suburbs, spreading itself
over the rocky, triangular bit of bushland
bounded by Pittwater, Blacktown and
National Park and clustering round its
unbeautiful business centre on Port Jack-
son, is, as the home of 1,500,000 people,
more of an economic evil than otherwise.
And there’s little can be done about it
now, except to make it more worthy of
its natural surroundings and more live-
able. — Kensa (N.S.W.).
Exports
The comments of P. O. MacCabe (B.
22/8/’5l) on the “wholesale export of
necessities” and “get-rich-quick exporters”
are based on the usual misinformed ideas
a hout Australia’s export trade.
Many basic commodities, including
sugar, butter, wheat and flour, hides,
leather, milk products, tallow and eggs,
t 0 mention but a few, are under rigid
export control. Specific quotas are
exported at world parity or contract
prices, and extra payments so obtained
are used by various boards to stabilise
an( j cheapen the price of the same item
f or i oca i consumption.
The reason for the local butter
shortage, apart from the seasonal drop
j n production, is obvious. Until butter
ceases to be a political football, and
sufficient incentive is given to farmers to
pro duce more butter, it will probably
rema in short. The statement that our
butter is available in “any quantity” in
Asia is open to grave doubt, to say the
least; exports to Asian countries have
been very restricted since the last war.
The shortage of sugar has nothing to
do with its export—plenty of unrefined
sugar is sitting in sheds in Queensland
waiting for shipment to the refinery in
Sydney.
Australia, as a farming country, must
export, and our present prosperity and
healthy overseas balances are the direct
result of the efforts and initiative of
Australian exporters who, during the last
75 years, pioneered and developed our
overseas trade. P.O.MacC. should read
up the story of Mort, who pioneered the
export meat market, and others of the
same calibre.
Also, let P.O.MacC. try to ship any
of the commodities he mentions, and he
will find that they are well under control,
both by Customs and various Govern-
ment departments.— Shortship (N.S.W.).
Diesel-Electric Locomotives
Not to be outdone by the Common-
wealth Railways Department, at least four
States are breaking their necks to run
diesel-electric locomotives, but, unless
used wisely, they will not be much
benefit to any of them.
With its varying gauges and centralised
railway systems, Australia is not a
country for the fast-moving diesel-electric
locomotive which can do a 750-1000-mile
journey non-stop, refuel and do it again
if necessary. The Trans-line lends itself
to diesel-electrics because of its long
straight lengths of track and the inade-
quate water-supplies. But the State
systems will find little use for the diesels
except perhaps on the long runs from
border to border.
America has proved beyond doubt that
diesel-electric locomotives are the most
economic form of rail traction, but only
if there are long lengths of rail. —L. L.
(Vic.).
An Officers’ Corps
Lads are in camp now for 14 weeks’
training, after which they will join the
A.M.F. for some more night and annual
military training. That sounds very well,
but it does not fit a soldier to take the
field at a moment’s notice.
Modern war is a trade and a profession
—a trade with other ranks, a highly-
trained job for officers. You just cannot
take a man from behind a counter, or
from an office or factory, label him an
officer and expect professional brilliance.
At the Landing our battalion was for-
tunate enough to possess two former
regular officers and one who had been to
Quetta Staff College. We also had several
former regular n.c.os. Those officers
knew all the tricks of land and move-
ment ; they knew how to lead and under-
stood the artillery problem as well as the
infantry and (meagre in those days) air
set-up.
Those former regulars saved us hun-
dreds of lives with their professional
knowledge and their knowledge of men
under stress —a most important factor in
the field and under fire and noise.
To give our boys the best chance in
battle, we must have a professional corps
of officers and n.c.os., exchanged be-
tween here and Canada, the U.S., South
Africa, England, India, Pakistan and any
war theatre.
It’s all very well to say we are giving
recruits every comfort in camp. The
question is “Are we providing them with
a staff of officers and n.c.os. ready and
professionally fit to take the field and
guide them in war?” —5 G. R. (Vic.).
Housing
The accommodation problem is hitting
certain sections of the community parti-
cularly hard. Take Government
employees in provincial cities and towns.
Their lot is singularly difficult because
they are strangers in the community.
They include a wide range of skills, from
those in State instrumentalities such as
education, railways, police, transport,
Crown law, public works and agriculture
to those in Federal authorities—P.M.G.,
social services, employment bureaux.
Separately some of these bodies have
attempted to ease the position by erecting
or buying homes, but while that policy
caters in part for married people it makes
no provision for single folk.
It is time both Governments concerned
produced a joint plan to remedy the posi-
tion, in the interests of the individual
and of the efficiency of the department
concerned. In many Government depart-
ments today employees are refusing
promotion, in most cases accompanied by
substantial salary increases, because m
the transfer involved they will leave a
home without any guarantee of suitable
accommodation in their new post. This
situation surely must detract from general
efficiency, as it means that a department
remains understaffed or is forced to fall
back on junior employees who can be
roomed in hotels.
A positive approach to the problem
would be the setting-up of hostels. Suit-
able large buildings are available for tms
purpose in every large centre, and the
domestic problems of running such an
establishment could be met by organising
it on a self-help basis along the same
lines as Works and Housing hostels in the
Federal capital. Plain Australia."*
(Vic.).


BOOKS FROM A. & R.
THE DESERT COLUMN,
by lon L. Idriess
Desert warfare in World War I.
With official photographs.
15/- (post 7d.)
PROVIDENCE PONDS,
by Stanley D. Porteus
A family’s adventures in early Aus-
tralia.
12/6 (post 6d.,)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY*
OF THE TOWN
ITT I WiMmw
m ‘i .■ -M
$
/f SCANPAj^jLa
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
FOR
don’t
forget
good
books
• You’ll find lots of suggestions for books to take
on your holiday in our monthly CATALOGUE
OF NEW AND RECENT BOOKS.
Have your name placed on our
MAILING LIST NOW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone BL 3611.
THE
THE
Two Exciting Books
WOODEN HORSE
by Eric Williams
TUNNEL
by Eric Williams
COLLINS
Available from all Booksellers
“Handy Hints for the Farm”
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty,, Ltd.,
George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
The Lyrebird Books of
AUSTRALIAN POETRY
LANGUAGE OF THE SAND, by Roland E. Robinson
THE DARKENED WINDOW, by Nancy Cato
IMMINENT SUMMER, by Nancy Keesing
(frontispiece by Norman Lindsay)
From leading booksellers or direct from
Roland E. Robinson, 18 Manion Avenue, Rose Bay, Sydney
were not short of mechanical transport,
but their officers lacked experience in
modern warfare; they had very little idea
of what the 11th Indian Division was up
against on the Malay-Thai border, and
their training in “jungle warfare” had been
on a strictly peace-time basis —uncomfort-
able, but not productive of battle casual-
ties.
His experiences as an intelligence
officer were interesting, and he lays down
at the outset the Japanese views on
p.-0.-w. status:
During the entire [Malayan] campaign
we captured a dozen or so Japanese—nearly
all of whom were wounded. Whatever their
faults, surrender was not one of them in
Malaya; they kept in mind General Araki’s
words —“The Japanese soldier never surren-
ders in battle; in Japanese wars there are
no prisoners. Why then should the
Japanese surrender to the limitations set by
nature?”
That was Kodisra, and it was because
they held such definite ideas on the subject
of “prisoners-of-war” that they treated us
with contempt when we fell into their
clutches in great numbers —great numbers,
but small in comparison with their own
abject submission a few years later.
Of the Malayan surrender he says that,
for numerous reasons, blame for it all
was saddled on the shoulders of “Malaya
Command”; but that the critics were
“merely indulging in defensive introspec-
tion and that it was beyond the power of
Malaya command, 111 Corps or the A.I.F.
to restore us command of air and sea
without which we had no chance of turn-
ing retreat into victory,” Retreat it was,
full of mistakes, and the pictures of the
last days of the A.I.F. fighting are not
pretty. The force had riot only “too few
lighting men for too much frontage, but
they were expected to defend ground
which was largely occupied by squatters.”
Their communication wires traversed
kampongs crowded with natives, and the
danger from a security point of view was
obvious.
In the end there were three demoralised
A.I.F. battalions overwhelmed by
numbers:
By 0800 hours, 9th February, hundreds
of bedraggled “Aussies” were streaming
down Bukit Timah-road on the way to the
city. The Military Police (U.K. and A.1.F.)
attempted to check them, but they were'in
no mood for homilies from “Red Caps.”
Some paused long enough to accept a
cigarette, light it and say, “Chum —to hell
with Malaya and Singapore. Navy let us
down —Air Force let us, down. If the
‘bungs’ won’t fight for their bluddy
country, why pick on me?” There was
more truth than discipline in the retort:
we have no Kodism, no Kempei-tai and no
bullct-in-the-b'ick for the straggler. But
sometimes our “dangerous thoughts” are
allowed too much expression for the good
of a common cause whett we have our
backs to the wall.
The rest is an oft- told tale varied only
according to the viewpoint of the teller.
One of the most interesting sections of
Captain James’s book is devoted to an
analysis of the features of the air war
against Japan, which entered its definite
offensive phase in November, 1944. The
most terrible period of this campaign was
in March, 1945, known to the,, Japanese
as Yake-tsuchi Jidai —the “burned-earth
period” and the climactic stage of the
dropping of the atom-bombs with the
huge accompanying B 29 raids on cities
other than Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Not the least humorous part of
Japanese war history which is brought out
is in the finale of the peace settlement.
Marshal Stalin, to commemorate the vic-
tory over the Japanese, issued an order
of the day;- —
Tonight, at 10 p.m., our capital, in the
name of the Motherland will salute our
gallant Transbaikal and Far Eastern Forces
and the Pacific Fleet, and also the Mon-
golian Army under Marshal Chqy-pao-san,
who have liberated Manchuria, South
Sakhalin and part of the Kurile archipelago,
with 24 artillery salvoes from 324 guns.
These celebratory salvoes must have
constituted virtually the whole of the
Russo-Japanese war of 1945. For, as
Captain James shows, the U.S.S.R. de-
clared war on Japan at 11 a.m. on August
10, 1945. Japan’s acceptance of the
Potsdam declaration had been broadcast
and cabled to the United States at 7 a.m.
on August 10, In other words Russia
declared war four hours after Japan had
accepted unconditional surrender.
EK D.
"New Zealand Notables."
Dear Red Page, Two points that require
correction in your review of R. M.
Burdon’s New Zealand Notables.
F. E. Maning was bom in Dublin on
July 5, 1811, and went to Hobart with
his father in 1824. Your reviewer says
that Maning was bom in Tasmania.
The New Zealand tunnel with which
Sir Julius von Haast was associated was
the Lyttelton tunnel which was pierced
through the Port Hills between Christ-
church and the port of Lyttelton in the
1860’s. The Otira tunnel was not begun
until 1908, 21 years after the death of
Von Haast. —P. W. Glover (Apia,
Western Samoa).
Books to Come .
New Australian novels announced in
an Angus and Robertson catalogue of
books to be published between now and
the end of the year include: Dead Men
Rising by Seaforth (Kenneth) Mackenzie,
about the Jap p.-0.-w. outbreak at
Cowra; The Shades Will Not Vanish,
a first novel by Helen Fowler, dealing
with a returned A.I.F. prisoner of the
Japanese; The Witch’s Thorn by Ruth
Park, about a murder in New Zealand in
the ’twenties ; O Willing Hearts by Eric
Lowe and The Valleys Beyond by E. V.
Timms, both continuing historical
sequences.
A monumental work by W. J.
Dakin on The Australian Seashore looks
the most interesting of the docu-
mentaries ; and there are also T. C.
Roughley’s Fish and Fisheries of Aus-
tralia, Ernestine Hill’s The Territory,
Colin Simpson’s Adam in Ochre (about
a recent Arnhem Land expedition), two
Clunes ( Hands Across the Pacific has
already been published and the other is
Somewhere in New Guinea, about Aus-
tralian and German gold discoveries), and
a new Idriess entitled Across the
Null arbor. There will be a new edition
of M. H. Ellis’s Lachlan Macquarie.
Ddr tin g, This Is Death : Dana
Chambers (Hale), The bus carrying a
young disabled war-veteran journalist to
the station whence he proposes to go to
Miami for a holiday is held-up in the
snow by the tyre-blown Rolls of the sister
of the girl who jilted him. Leaving the
only other passenger sleeping in the bus,
the journalist stops to fix the tyre and
drive girl and Rolls to town, where they
go to a pub for breakfast. But there the
sleeping passenger, obviously in trouble,
asks to be helped up to the room he has
booked; and there expires of knife-
wounds he had been nursing in the bus.
Low-browed, black-overcoated villains
throng to the scene ; young journalist and
girl escape by train to the residence of
the girl’s brother-in-law tycoon: it turns
out that the murderee was a private dick
looking for a stolen part of the brother-
in-law’s new aeroplane engine—the scene
changes to Miami, where girl and
journalist strive to protect the stolen part
from a tough English gent, and a German
who wears flowered kimonos and uses
rouge and lipstick; there is also a
beautiful chorus-girl who shoots ac-
curately from underneath her mink.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 137
Across.
I—Lying plate has one pen. (10)
5 —A go is removed from an Ameri-
can city for elegance. (4)
9—Fruit hacking a god by direction
whose mouth is not to be
examined. (4, 5)
11— Clean up the undergrowth, (5)
12— Dye the French hundred. (3)
13 — Furniture sin is to point the bone
at a boy before 6.50. (7)
14 — Refuse Capone’s hat in the
presence of ladies. (5)
17 — A lion confuses an actress named
Massey. (5)
18 — Swift is immovable, but it’s
bound to cause some hunger. (4)
19— Pacific island hides one in a
tree. (4)
2! —Flower girl to be seen with. (4)
22 Moulding manager. (4)
23 Khan in a profit encore. (5)
25 — Russian playwright is to leave a
journal the wrong way. (5)
26 Guernsey's guernsey is made of
it. (3-4)
28— across has dropped in for this
Moslem notable. (3)
29 A matter of course is to tease
the device for clogging the move-
ment of a wheel. (5)
31— —Yours truly is incapable of fixing
the beggar. (9)
32 Fibre court before 50. (4)
33 — Freebooter sounds like one who
bankrupts a young mare. (10)
Down.
1— Animal covering for the floor
before I warble while rigidly
expounding a code. (11)
2 Trumpeting without risks is a
crime. (4-7)
3 Music publication concealed a
Scottish johnny like a snake. (8)
4 Fifty-fifty is among the trees
and lattices. (9)
•6—Woman takes nothing from the
hero. (3)
7 Firm bee for a male swan. (3)
8 — Wee Macgregor, of course? (5)
10 —A revolution without bloodshed
—if you keep your hand away
from the fan. (3)
15— Boundary hit a bust way of
marching. (4, 7)
16 — The award for any bad play or
book, and the goat spread. (5-6)
18 —Florence accompanies the rascal
before I finish off a composition
by Vaughan Williams. (4, 5)
20—State weight in old Egypt and I
turn up in a Maoriland lake. (8)
24 —Paves with banners and slackens.
(5)
27—Now turning was victorious. (3)
29 Hamlet is produced by her. (3)
30 — Spanish river ounce in Japan. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 136.


avt
advt
LOOK YOUR BEST!
The secret of the smart appearance of Stamina
Trousers even after years of dry cleaning is -
1. The beautiful dyes used, that never fade.
2. The wonderful "wrinkle-resistant" Crusader
worsteds that never shrink.
5’. The special "cut" of the Trousers
obtainable only in Stamina Brand.
mm
» &
__
' * \
im ' w-
1
m
tm
:■■■'■
m
I n
;
I
S'- '
i/' ’ i
1 ill i:
i i
>? ■
iiiiiiil i
L N *
-,m
iMr*
i
MM
H
Siii
:. ;>fiii ; ;.
ill
"'1«K *'
siM i; is
iiiiiiii
mm
mm-
:
11
K5S
|L ' -
:
Sliillii
■ill
‘t'VVHSi
•V^U
x
X
il. 1
CLOTHES
INSIST ON GETTING
PURE WOOL
When you buy "Stamina”
you GET GOOD AUS-
TRALIAN WOOL spun
and woven by the famous
Crusader Mills into
Crusader Cloth, styled by experts
and stoutly sewn into a smart,
comfortable, wear-resisting pair
of Stamina Trousers.
FOtt VALUE,
THEY ARE OUTSTANDING
as™
Stamina,
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
V
KEEP FIT!
You will find health in every pair of Stamina.
Each wool fibre in Stamina Trousers acts like a
thermostat. It allows the skin to breathe and
protects you from heat and cold, acting as a
natural regulator of body temperature.
It cuts down the danger of chills..
/ \
SI
BUY
STBENGTH!
Why is it an
economy to buy
Stamina Trousers?
The special pure
wool fibres
in Crusader cloth*
diameter for
diameter, are
STRONGER THAN
STEEL. You are
wise to buy
trousers that DO
resist heavy wear.
TAILORED
FROM
(Eras after
(Elnth
