

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3701
Wednesday, January 17, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
( Courtesy of Irish Travel Association.)
T.C.D., ALMA MATER OF FAMOUS MEN OF LETTERS
DUBLIN, the capital of the Irish Republic, is essentially a creation of the
eighteenth century, when buildings were planned and built magnificently,
regardless of expense. One of the finest of these is Trinity College, familiarly
known as T.C.D., with its classical portico in the Corinthian style, founded in
1591 by Queen Elizabeth, at the instance of Archdeacon Ussher, Archbishop
Loftus and Luke Challoner. It has a provost, thirty-two fellows and seventy
scholars on the foundation and the average number of students is about 1500.
The normal course of study lasts four years, and courses are available in
the arts, law, physics, science, divinity, engineering, agriculture, commerce
and music.
On College Green, facing Trinity College, are bronze statues of
Goldsmith, Burke and Gratton —with arm upraised in a rhetorical gesture-
commemorative figures of three of the many famous men who had their
training at Trinity College, Dublin.
In the examination hall of this world-renowned university is an organ
taken from a Spanish ship at the Siege of Vigo in 1702. The famous Library,
which has the distinction of receiving a copy of every book published in the
British Isles, has in its Exhibition Hall many priceless treasures—chief among
which is the Book of Durrow, a seventh century copy of the Gospels; the
Codex Usserianus of the sixth century; the Book of Armagh, over a thousand
years old, and the greatest treasure of all —the famous Book of Kells, a
magnificently illuminated manuscript of the Gospels, justly described as “the
most beautiful book in the world.” It was designed by an unknown hand
in the Monastery of Kells in Meath between 650-690, an indication of the
part played by Ireland in the Dark Ages.
When Roman civilization was Being trampled to fragments throughout
Europe, Ireland remained a custodian of knowledge. It has been said that
in the eighth century anyone north of the Swiss Alps who knew Greek was
either an Irishman or an Irishman’s pupil!
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
fd
wamea
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— •—CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.L51) Age
The Red Page
BRENT OF BIN BIN.
Brent of Bin Bin has long been an
honored name in Australian literature
and will long continue to be honored ;
but it must be said that the reader meet-
ing this surprising novelist for the first
time in Prelude to Waking (Angus and
Robertson) is likely to emerge from the
encounter dazed and bewildered, as if he
had been tapped about the head with a
feather-duster.
In style alone, in its abrupt descents
into colloquialism and in its even more
astonishing flights into polysyllables, in
its archness and lightness and bubbling
capriciousness, it is so different from the
common run of contemporary novels
that the reader may well feel he is not
reading a novel at all, but is watching a
display of verbal acrobatics, something
aerial, quite out of this world:
“I want your help and comfort, Niggeh
old grub.”
“You wax garrulous. You should eschew
repetition,” said I, parking my feet on one
of Lady George’s ugliest chairs, and pull-
ing at my cigarette.
Merlin comes to me occasionally to seek
diagnostical discussion. I go to her inter-
mittently to untie the more tangible knots
into which I caracole We adjoined
forsooth a purveyor of fermented and
spirituous liquors, and in Curdish-street’s
repertory of perfumes that of stale alcohol
was raffishly about my d00r.... She
[Merlin] was whoppingly successful at
drawing-room meetings.
Then, the whole tone of the book, the
drive, the moral purpose —and it has a
strongly moral purpose —runs counter to
the spirit and tendency of modem fiction.
An age which has made best-sellers of
The Naked and the Dead and Forever
Amber, to mention two extreme but
significant examples, an age which con-
sciously or unconsciously has been reared
on the theories of Freud, and which even
in its most decorous fiction'invariably
demands that the hero and heroine shall
at least get married at the end, cannot
but be astounded by a novel in which
men in love are described as “beasts”
and “ravening lunatics,” in which sex is
synonymous with “putrescence,” in which
the doctrine is preached that “Preserva-
tion of things most precious to the human
soul sometimes lies in renunciation” and
in which, finally, the events are manipu-
lated so that the hero and heroine shall
be prevented from marrying each other.
Merlin, in fact, marries herself platoni-
cally to an old English gentleman;
“Niggeh,” the narrator, marries himself
almost platonically to a musician whom
he hardly ever sees, but whom he
manages to reward with a “loathsome,
small red object”.—a baby—so that it
becomes impossible for Merlin and
himself, who love each other and have
done so all along, to divorce their
partners and come together.
Then, too, adding to its strangeness
among the novels of today. Prelude to
Waking is, for very nearly half the
journey, a book in which nothing of any
consequence seems to happen. Merlin,
an Australian girl in London in the
period round about the end of the Great
War, asks “Niggeh,” a novelist, to have
an imaginary, “Shavian” affair with her
so that she may seem to conform to
Mayfair custom, but still be in a position
to confound the scandalmongers if she
needs to —at least these appear to be her
motives in making this improbable pro-
position. Then “Niggeh” and Merlin, in
America, in London and. at an English
country house, talk about politics, the
Empire and social reform for, so it seems
—though “Niggeh” does fall mildly in
and out of love with someone named
Maisie in the middle of it —a hundred
pages. There are, indeed, some lightly
amusing incidents in this long prelude;
and a drama of a kind —the curious
efforts of Merlin and “Niggeh” to marry
the wrong persons so that they will not
be able to marry each other—is slowly
and almost imperceptibly developing;
but the immediate effect on the reader
is of a strange gay emptiness, full of
talk ; like a dance of balloons.
Finally, when things do begin to
happen, they seem incredible, not deriv-
ing from the observation of human
nature but from an ideal. Or if, like the
death of Merlin’s brother Guy on his way
back to Australia, the event is convinc-
ing enough, it means practically nothing
because one hardly knows who Guy is,
so little has he been on stage ; and even
Merlin’s grief is a little unreal because
she always seems more of an idealised
figure than a real woman.
It is hardly possible, in the first place,
to accept “Niggeh” as a real figure. If
his talk is convincing at, all—“ She was
whoppingly successful at drawing-room
meetings”—it is that of some twittery
effeminate, but that is not at all how
Brent of Bin Bin wishes the reader to
see him. Perhaps he is vaguely credible
as some kind of Mayfair Johnnie, flippant
on the surface, sober and serious under-
neath. But when you have accepted that,
you still have to believe that he can be
in love with Merlin for more than 10
years without, until somebody tells him
about it at the end of the story, ever being
aware of it, far less ever suffering a
“ravening” thought about this beautiful
girl. You have to believe that “Niggeh”
would marry his lady musician in a
moment of absent-mindedness, as it were,
and that Merlin would deliberately enter
into a platonic marriage with her noble
old gentleman from the highest motives.
Then you have to believe that an old
Cockney cobbler would propose
marriage to Merlin, (who chases him
with a chair for the “outrage”), and that
Merlin’s father, supposed to be a dis-
tinguished old squatter, would marry a
charlady . . , and in the end, however
much of this could be proved to have
happened in life, it becomes very difficult
to believe that any of it has really hap-
pened in this novel . . .
Yet the odd thing is, in spite of its
thinness. Prelude to Waking makes very
pleasant reading. For that there are
reasons.
In the first place, once cannot pretend
not to be familiar with Brent of Bin
Bin’s name, reputation and previous
novels; and so—this is the just reward
of a considerable body of work —
Prelude to Waking cannot and should
not finally be judged in isolation, but in
relation to the Brent of Bin Bin novels
as a series. The publishers say:
It is not generally known that the
three previously-published novels —Up the
Country (1928), Ten Creeks Run (1930) and
Back to 800 l 800 l (1931) —which together
might be called a saga of the squattocracy
are part of a larger plan. There are,
in fact, six complete and separate novels in
this carefully-designed series.
Prelude to Waking is the first, though its
period is 1925-26; then comes Up the
Country, a novel of the pioneers (1852-69),
followed by Ten Creeks Run (1888-95).
Between these three novels and Back to
800 l 8001, the last, whose period is
1928-29, comes two novels still in manu-
script: Cockatoos (circa 1899-1906) and
Gentlemen at Gyang Gyang (circa 1926),
The publishers look forward to bringing
out the six novels in this order.
With this substantial body of work,
then, and with Up the Country and Ten
Creeks Run generally regarded as Aus-
tralian classics, Brent of Bin Bin is a big
enough figure to carry one or two weak
novels among the series without loss of
stature; indeed, with a gain in stature
for what may remain worth-while in a
comparatively poor book and for the
increased bulk of output. It is even
possible for a novelist to be valued for
the faults in his writing, as • we value
Wordsworth for his faults as well as his
great merits; because in the last analysis,
a fault of style or an excessive vehemence
of thought may bear witness to great-
ness or exuberance of personality.
And then, though the publishers still
speak hopefully of the “mystery” of
Brent of Bin Bin’s identity, so many
critics have proved to everybody’s satis-
faction that Brent must be none other
than Miles Franklin that the “mystery”
may now reasonably be considered
solved. It is enough that the publishers,
who have obviously been supplied with
the information by Brent of Bin Bin,
use the word circa as Miles Franklin uses
circa in All That Swagger ... in a special
tone of voice, half-humorously and half-
triumphantly, a little like a schoolboy
airing his Latin and still more like
somebody writing to a friend and using
a private language—all Miles Franklin’s
prose is like that . , .
So Prelude to Waking is almost cer-
tainly an addition not only to the six
novels of Brent of Bin Bin, but also to
the Miles Franklin novels My Brilliant
Career, My Career Goes Bung, Old
Blastus of Bandicoot, Bring the Monkey,
Pioneers on Parade and All That
Swagger, plus the biography of Tom
Collins: a very big achievement indeed
in Australian prose.
Prelude to Waking, Shavian in method
as well as Shavian in outlook, may be,
as one has said, largely a book of talk.
But perhaps the talk is worth while for
its own sake, whoever wrote it; certainly
it is all about subjects of the greatest
topical interest—England ; America ;
Australia ; the rise and fall of nations
and empires. And it is doubly worth
listening to as a debate conducted by so
distinguished a novelist as Miles Franklin.
And so, all through that early part of
the novel when nothing of any conse-
quence seems to happen, the present
reviewer, for one, simply sat back and
listened with profound interest to Miles
Franklin’s views on the future of the
Empire, whether it was “Niggeh” paying
tribute to America:
Were they casuistically or merely stupidly
blind to the fact that our [English] reign
as overlords of the globe was glimmering
to its close? Or was it because they lacked
first-hand impact with the U.S. and could
not envisage the might and majesty of sheer
raw power and energy that it is? Just to
cross that country from east to west was
enough to assure even a lay observer that
there, in working order, is material power
unconquerable by any other national
agglomeration, or any that would combine
against it....
or whether it was the long debate on Eng-
land and Australia, pages and pages of
it, examining the problem of Imperial
relations from every side, during the
weekend at Snippington Manor ... as a
whole, a most sound and comprehensive
piece of thinking, expressed clearly,
temperately and gaily.
And as the ideas about politics become
more interesting if we attribute them to
Miles Franklin, so do the ideas on sex;
not, here, because one agrees with, them,
but because one recalls them with affec-
tion from as long ago as My Brilliant
Career and because they are expressed
with vehemenee . . . distantly they remind
one of Swift’s immense displeasure with
mankind.
And the style, too, as Miles Franklin’s,
takes on a certain lustre. It carries one
back to Australian writing of the early
1900’s, the prose of Tom Collins and
the poetry of Bernard O’Dowd, when
Australian literature seemed quite cut off
from the rest of the world as American
literature was cut off in Walt Whitman’s
day, not provincial but truly colonial,
free: free to be naive, free to be itself,
free to be exuberant.
One cannot say it is a good style. It
is really a no-style. It is the opposite of
Flazlitt’s “plain English,” and its poly-
syllables do not flow naturally and
sonorously like Dr, Johnson’s but some-
how uneasily, uncertainly. The social un-
easiness, masquerading as humor, shown
in the spelling of “Empire” as “Empiah”
and “dear reader” as “deah readah” be-
comes, indeed, a little painful. Yet it is a
spirited style ; it is somehow very natural
in its unnaturalness; it is human, it is
warm, it is fresh, it is alive.
And, finally, throughout this novel as
through all Miles Franklin’s writing, there
runs like a stream of poetry a deep, rich,
nostalgic love for the Bush. Though
“Niggeh” during a momentary pause in
the conversation whizzes to Australia for
three years and back to England again,
the story as a whole is set in America
and England, mostly London; but the
principal characters are Australian, and
Australian scenes keep coming up shining
in memory, Australian feeling warms the
whole course of the action;
riding with Guy across the plains
which unfold beyond the Namoi towards
the Bar won. There had been unexpected
rain in the drought, and a great bird
population from the far rim, where the
glowing phantom waters mocked them, had
surrounded the real waters of a big dam
where the cool shadows of reeds had sub-
stance. Oh, those glowing widths—but
how to convey the glamor of that incon-
sistent southern atmosphere to those who
have known only France and Germany and
the British Isles! There upon the plains
in the light of full day were the whistling
pigeons; the apostle-birds in their com-
munities; the white spoonbills; galahs or
corellas in rosy clouds, and bright-hued
parrots with their clinking notes like the
glittering conversation of a high party. A
little further towards the horizon, where the
world rolls down to nights beyond man-
infested days, were the tall grey-brown
emus coursing wide like sentinels....
Somewhere in the middle of Prelude to
Waking “Niggeh,” who is supposed to be
writing the story as well as taking part
in it, describes the novel as having “begun
in levity and wound up elsewhere” . . .
and exactly what that “elsewhere” may
be, except that it is not detective fiction
or “pruriency,” he himself seems to be
puzzled to decide. The only conclusion
which the present reviewer can come to
is that it begins in levity and ends no-
where in particular . . . except, cheer-
fully and flimsily, in the midst of Miles
Franklin’s fine contribution to Australian
literature.
THE FOUNTAIN.
O growing from their fount
Like silver flowers of light
The clear jewelled waters mount
The crystal towers of night.
The blossoms of the soft
And sparkling waters meet,
Meet and divide aloft
The moment that they greet.
And where the waters fold
The falling silver showers,
A heart of fire they hold
As winter holds the flowers. _
O springing from its fount
The blossomed water rhymes
And where it soars I mount
The Tower all beauty climbs.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
Old Australian Ballads.
Dear Red Page,
I read with interest the review of
“Old Australian Ballads” in your issue
of October 4.
“The Broken-down Squatter” was
written by C. A. Flower and published in
the “Queenslander” in 1884, under the
pen-name of “Anthos.” It did not
contain the lines:
When the big bugs are brought to the
bankruptcy court, i
What hope tor a squatter like me?
Most songs passed on from one person
to another are apt to have words altered.
It was first sung by a. well-known
Queenslander of that time, Dick Stuart,
whose name is still commemorated by
Stuarthoime, near Brisbane, now the site
of a big convent. At the time many
people took for granted that he was the
author of the words as well.
“Perching, gaunt” is the correct version
of another quotation.
I enclose a copy of the original, kept
by my father.
As I used to hear the “Wild Colonial
Boy” sung—“fie was his mother’s only
son, his father’s pride and joy,” and “111
fight, but I won’t surrender,” were (as I
remember) the correct words.
(Miss) M. M. Flower.
THE BROKEN-DOWN SQUATTER.
Come, Stumpy, old man, let us shift while we
can,
All your mates in the paddock, are dead.
Let us wave our farewells to “Glen Eva’s”
sweet dells
And the hills where your Lordship was bred,
Together to roam from our drought-stricken
home
It seems hard that such things have to be,
And it’s hard on a “boss” when he’s naught
for a boss
But a broken-down squatter like me.
No more shall we muster the river for fats
Or spiel on the fifteen-mile plain,
Or rip through the scrub by the light of the
moon
Or see the old stockyard again.
Leave the slip-panels down, it don’t matter
much now,
There are none but the crows left to see,
Perching, gaunt, on yon pine as though longing
to dine
On a broken-down squatter like me.
When the country was cursed with the drought
at its worst
And the cattle were dying in scores,
Tho’ down on my luck 1 kept up my pluck
Thinking Justice might temper the laws.
But the farce has been played, for the Govern-
ment aid
Ain’t extended to squatters, old son!
When my money was spent, they first doubled
the rent
And resumed the best half of my run.
’Twas done without reason, for, barring the
season.
No squatter could stand such a rub,
Since it’s useless to squat when the rents are so
hot
That one can’t earn the price of his grub.
And there’s not much to choose ’twixt the
banks and the Jews
Once a fellow gets put up a tree.
No odds what I feel, there’s no court of appeal
For a broken-down squatter like me.
They have, left us our hides and but little
besides.
You have all I possess on your back.
So, Stumpy, old sport, when I boil my next
quart
We’ll be out on the wallaby-track.
It’s a mighty long ride when you cross the
Divide
O’er the plains stretching out like a sea ;
But chances seem best in the “faraway” West
For a broken-down squatter like me.
CHARLES A. FLOWER,
Durham Downs,
Roma.
Published in the “Queenslander” in 1894
under the pen-name of “Anthos.”
Chance in the Game.
Having been in the writing game for
over 40 years, I have learnt, amongst
other things, what a large part chance
plays in it. Recently in “Time” I read
the announcement of the death of
Pauline Lord, the American actress, at
the age of 60 years. I suppose it is a
distinction for an Australian to have his
name in The Encyclopaedia Britannica.
That my name is there is indirectly due
to Pauline Lord.
In 1923 my wife and I were staying at
a private hotel in London. Staying there
(Red Page continued on page 35.)


"TRUTH
ADVERTISING^
fd
trgg THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALK
m
FROM TOWN HALL STATION
;v v i
\
m
\ :..t\
\ < f
: , : i ;i, V:
!- , I, ' I r t ‘ ' V
I imMMi
1 '• '-'VViV;'
"i' 1 \l( I 1/ (’, ,/■'•• p
■,yvv.r ,r v'J
i ii ,/' , i k ,■('»•/ *■'*rmj V >1 ? 1 <i 11 Jp
I \ \'J ' '|X|• /I f l /m' /’ 'i | . f|
('.'V'/V'./H l') 1 '"' /(*_
fl'lft l/fl}' l/l'ift'lp
]!' ■,'//' {>*
(l („V i(, / •
Mowers to Save Task and
Above: The Greens Electric Lawn Mower. Fully controlled hand
clutch. 150 ft. heavy insulated flex, 1/3 h.p. split-phase induction motor,
6 Sheffield steel blades. 12in., £56. 14in., £59/10/-.
Right: New “Pope” Centre-court Electric Lawn Mower. 1/3 h.p. motor
operates on 240 volts. Grass-proof drive. Rubber tyres. £34/13/-.
Below , Left: “Cambridge” De Luxe Mower. 6 Sheffield steel blades,
ball bearing, tubular steel handle. Min. cut. Rubber tyres. Price, £l3/19/6.
Below , Right: 16in. “Qualcast.” 1 h.p. Villiers 2-stroke engine. £77/4/6.
!7VL'&O/
r
r {,
C
, '
jx
vs^
-PJ
r
SS*
*fl
*W.
. »
ca
a
-
mm
-I
*
- •
.. : : :
;•-
m
■j.:
■
:: :
■V-
mm
I
m
m
■ur
jf > ii," J ' S
f , -
ii
*
v :; :
U^r ~ - i - :i
. ■
£ -*;. 1 i
i»ia« «
v . ;rL
mmm
1%!,
fCr ' '
m
-V’-' ' ? .*7>h
' V . .vtj§ S
#S - - S - » _
r >c
Sf
;
A
il
lii
H
n
>
-> "-' ’ 4* ' > - - > ,§
■VA 'rt-m
x? \ m m
m
■: . I .
v %' v as* fc
i * | 1 z' 1
•• ■ - f
1
■>
‘•V.vr S4Mi
. W - .;
; r".:
/ v >
>
il
: ;
m
yr- r- > —C ‘ ; J <-?. ~*s'f
• .'. -'
;
■
; :• *^
»' ..., ,'
■ ■■■:■■,-,.
; A
*■. •■: o-.’
feS
■Zh I
<£f%
■
i I fc^lfesg£s«i|s
m
&M
. .. m
ANTHONY HORDERNS 5 , AGRICULTURAL DEPT., FOURTH FLOOR, BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA.


PRO DUCTS OF THE
CROU
Humber~Hillman
plant at Coventry —
One of the Rootes Group’s
seven huge factories,
totalling 5 million square
of floor space.
feet
mn
i try-
otes Group’s
0
/
F 23
ESS
&S? ?0R
■■V S?
a
'’s^=s
a
|T?I
w»«
l %i
Sfti
»u
v, t*
HtfMßtt
To
\a a
r?
i£
Rootes’ Assembly Plant,
Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria
Rootes Group Distributors turn
headquarters In Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Launcestoa.
A Nation-wide chain of
dealers sell and Service
Rootes Croup vehicles.
Wherever you go throughout
Australia, or anywhere else
in the world, you can be
sure of courteous, efficient
Rootes Group service.
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
KARRIER
F
I
m
m
r i W
mm*
. I
m
.
I
iiiiiiiw
Z' ' '
K M
‘ **
S ■*
.
mm
m
*g^PPPWS
ImmmM
SSiSSS'V
mmm
Rootes Australian Assembly
Plant—a fourteen-acre factory
employing over 1,000 people .
The VITAL LINK
an unbroken chain
of Service
Every owner of a Rootes Group vehicle is assured of con-
t|nudu& service', by the presence of the great Rootes Group plant
at Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria. This X4-acre factory—the first
established in Australia by a United Kingdom motor manu-
facturer —is an integral link in the chain that begins at the
huge Rootes parent plants in England and reaches directly to
the Rootes Distributor or Dealer who supplies your car or truck.
PRODUCTS OF
Bootes grow
AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST FACTORY
n
5
Humber Imperial Humber Super Snipe Humber Hawk Hillman Minx Sunbeam-Talbot Commer and Karrier Commercial Vehicles


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3701
Wednesday, January 17, 1931
zwm M3J3
JIO JAH Of TAM
BMJA
“TIME, GENTLEMEN —PLEASE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE GLEN DAVIS STORY.
It is understandable that the men em-
ployed at Glen Davis should be strongly
opposed to the Federal Government’s
decision to close down the shale-oil in-
dustry on which their livelihood depends ;
understandable, too, that their trade-
union leaders should protest against the
move. But it is preposterous that those
union-leaders should have the colossal
hide to pretend that their protest is made
in the interests of defence. It is true that
the Commonwealth was first induced to
put money into the project as a defence
measure, but harsh experience has con-
vinced it that the contribution of Glen
Davis to national defence is almost as
negligible as that of the “militant” trade-
union movement.
The history of attempts to work the
shale deposits of the Newnes-Capertee
district goes back well into last century
and is a chronicle of disappointments
and futile endeavor. In the nineteen-
thirties George Davis, who had built up
a big business in gelatine, had turned
Cockatoo Dock into an efficient, paying
concern, and was looking for fresh outlets
for his energy, directed his attention to
shale and persuaded the N. S. Wales and
Federal Governments to back National
Oil Pty.’s attempt to put the industry on
a payable basis. Under an agreement
signed in 1937 the company was to put
up £166,000, N. S. Wales a similar sum
and Canberra £334,000. The debentures
held by the two Governments were to be
free of interest until output reached
10,000,000 gallons a year—in the 13 years
since then it has never been within cooee
of that —and the Commonwealth agreed
to waive excise on a similar annual figure
for 25 years.
Later the two Governments bought out
the Davis shareholding, and, with Senator
Ashley as Minister for Fuel, the project
began to show some really impressive
figures—on the wrong side of the ledger.
Annual loss since 1946 has never been
below £400,000; for 1949, the last year
for which published figures are available,
it was £474,212. Output has been far
below expectations; in the peak year,
1947, it was just over four million gallons,
but it fell the following year to 2-| million,
and seems to have stayed round about
that figure. This is mainly due to the
blighting influence of the “darg,” which
operates at Glen Davis as on the coal-
fields and makes sheer nonsense of the
expressed concern of the union-leaders
over defence.
When Senator McLeay, Minister for
Fuel, announced/the/Cabinet decision to
close down the industry he put the accu-
mulated losses of the show at £4 million
and the estimated cost of continuing on
the present basis at £350,000 a year, plus
interest. He said the defence value of
the project was small; the annual pro-
duction, 2,750,000 gallons, represented
about two-thirds of tjie capacity of one
tanker; the cost was 4s. Id. a gallon
without including interest, as against
Is. 3d. a gallon for imported petrol. The
miners displaced by the cessation of
shalemining would be found employment
on the coalfields and accommodation
would be provided for them.
The wisdom of closing the plant at the
present time is being questioned. Although
current output is considerably less than
one per cent, of our annual requirements
of liquid fuel and seven tanker-loads
would compensate for the loss of 10
years’ production at Glen Davis, a con-
siderable body of expert opinion main-
tains that the present output could be
increased many times by the installation
of Renco retorts, as recommended by an
American commission which visited the
area during the war.
This, however, obviously presupposes a
far greater degree of co-operation from
the men who mine the shale than has
been accorded in the past. If high costs
have killed Glen Davis the factor most
responsible for the high costs has been
the “darg” which, against all reason and
commonsense, has kept the production of
shale down far below the capacity of the
retorts, just as it has kept the output of
Australia’s coalmines far below what
could reasonably be expected from the
labor force engaged and far below the
needs of industry. Production of shale—
and that is the key to the whole sorry
mess has been entirely inadequate for
any kind of processing to be profitable.
It is in the light of this fact that the in-
voking of the defence issue by union-
leaders and “Labor” politicians must be
considered.
The response of the secretary of the
Western District miners, J. H. King, was
that his board would recommend a stop-
work meeting to decide on “an all-out
protest stoppage,” and would consider
“trying to extend the stoppage to all in-
dustries in the central-western district.”
King’s concern for national defence is
well-known. His name was included in
the list of Communists named by the
Prime Minister when introducing the
Anti-Red Bill, and at the time of the
1949 coal strike he was sentenced to 12
months’ jail for contempt of court. The
western miners, who include men at Glen
Davis and also the State coalmine at
Lithgow, polled more heavily than either
the southern or northern district in favor
of that strike which Mr. Chifley described
as “a revolt against the whole commu-
nity,” and of which “Fixer” Ashley said,
“The Communist miners’ leaders are try-
ing to implement a foreign Power’s
policy.”
Under Communist leadership the only
defence the miners are concerned about
is the defence of their own jobs. When
the coal strike threatened permanent harm
to Glen Davis by causing the closing-
down of the retorts the Miners’ Federation
graciously “allowed” the owner of
National Coal Mine No. 2 to resume
partial production to produce enough coal
to maintain heat under retorts. There
was only a small quantity of coal in-
volved —50 tons a week—and the union
agreed to its production— at a price. This
was the immediate granting to the men
concerned of all the claims for which
their colleagues were striking. The
defence value of Glen Davis didn’t matter
two hoots then, except insofar as it could
be used to blackmail the mine-proprietor
into granting demands which the court
had refused.
Comrade King was quickly supported
in his threat by Comrade Idris Williams,
another man on the Menzies list and a
coal-strike jail-companion of the Western
District secretary. Premier McGirr, too,
voiced his protest, saying that instead of
closing the plant the Government should
“step up production by extra labor and
improved methods,” His old friend and
former deputy, J. M. Baddeley, could he
have been run to earth in the wilds of
Burragorang, could probably have told
him that on past experience extra labor
would mean heavier losses and that im-
proved methods would be wasted without
improved rates of shale output per man-
hour.
One of McGirr’s followers, Mr.
Chalmers, M.L.A. for Hartley, forecast
that the Government’s action would cause
“one of the greatest industrial upheavals
Australia has seen in a long time,” and
said that a strike on the issue might be
justified. The fact that even a one-day
stoppage on the coalfields would deprive
Australian industry of more fuel than
Glen Davis could supply in a year meant
nothing to the advocates of “defence.”
From higher up in the “Labor” hier-
archy came other howls from eleventh-
hour converts to defence. “Fixer” Ashley
and Doc, Evatt sent a joint cablegram to
Mr. Menzies asking him to veto Cabinet’s
decision. Their interest in Glen Davis
was as belated as their suddenly-dis-
covered interest in defence. They were
both members of the Cabinet which, in
1943, ignored the American experts’ sug-
gestions for stepping up production at
Glen Davis to 22 million gallons and
establishing a plant of similar capacity
at Baerami. The same “Labor” Cabinet
turned down a chance of securing the
necessary plant under lend-lease. That
was at the height of the Pacific war; yet
apparently Dr. Evatt and “Fixer” Ashley
did not then consider the defence value
of Glen Davis sufficiently important to
justify any action. They were still of the
same opinion two years ago when they
refused to assist a private company to
obtain a dollar loan to open up Baerami.
Now that Glen Davis is to close down
they have suddenly awakened to its
“defence value.” They have, indeed,
suddenly awakened to the necessity for
defence. They showed no awareness of
defence needs last year when by weeks
and months of futile gabbling they held
up the anti-Communist legislation
designed to strengthen the defences of the
country. There is no awareness of
defence needs in their present attitude to-
wards compulsory training; their crea-
tures of the Senate have shelved the
Government’s National Service Bill to
give the party bosses time to decide how
they are to vote on it. And it was Doctor
Evatt who dashed American hopes of
building at Manus a naval base which
would have had more defence value to
Australia than a score of Glen Davises,
The sad thing about all these crocodile
tears now being belatedly squeezed out
over the demise of Glen Davis is that a
shale-oil industry could be of defence
value to this country. But it would re-
quire a complete change, of heart in all
those connected with the industry and a
complete reorientation of trade-union
outlook. If, instead of regarding the shale
works as a machine designed primarily
for the purpose of handing out pay-
envelopes, every man in the industry, from
the miners cutting the shale to the men
attending the pipeline, really believed that
in giving his best he was helping in the
defence of a country it was a privilege
to defend, there would be no question
of the industry being worth preserving,
It is the misfortune of Glen Davis that
too many of those connected with it have
been taking out more than they have been
putting in. No industry can stand that
for long. And no country can be de-
fended on that basis.
A Choice of Risks.
Nine Prime Ministers of British Com-
monwealth countries are met around the
Imperial Conference table in London,
most of them with one eye on an all-
important ally not present, whose influ-
ence nevertheless is daily felt at the dis-
cussions, and whose aid in interpreting
any practical results is so necessary as to
deserve a tenth chair at the table. The
British Prime Minister, having recently
returned from close talks with President
Truman in .Washington, can in some
respects speak with weight on the
American view, though he does not
entirely agree with it. On one matter at
least, that of how to deal with Red China,
Washington undoubtedly looks to the
four leading Dominions —Canada, Aus-
tralia, South Africa and New Zealand —
to resist the British Government’s
promptings of them.
With the conference in the grip of its
own conflicts of opinion on capital items
of the agenda, President Truman’s great
State-of-the-Union message to Congress
resounded in the Downing-street chamber
as loudly as anywhere. It made several
points on which American policy may be
taken to require collaboration from all
concerned:
It placed reliance upon U.N.O. for the
prevention of war as third in importance,
and worth only passing mention, after
(1) U.S. economic aid to the free world,
and (2) U.S. military aid to the members
of the Atlantic Pact. Mr. Spender’s
“Pacific pact,” inherited from Dr. Evatt,
is not in the running.
It declared that Soviet Bussia had
launched war in Korea by proxy, that
“the imperialism of the Soviet Union is
more ambitious, more crafty and more
menacing” than that of the former Tsars;
that the only way in which the free nations
can meet It with any hope of success is by
building up strength—strength—strength
in arms, and that quickly; and that Con-
gress would be asked for speedy action in
mobilising the strength of America for
herself and for support of her allies.
It intimated, without precisely stating,
that if the Soviet-Chinese war in Korea
were pressed to the point of driving out
the forces under General MacArthur “the
restoration of Japan to membership in the
community of free nations” is inevitable.
By this time mere wishful thinking
about avoiding war should be among
British peoples as dead as the dodo ; but
it isn’t. Their Governments pledged
themselves, equally with that of U.S.A.,
against any appeasement of aggressors;
yet they are divided at this conference on
the question of bargaining with the
Chinese Communists to halt in Korea,
and even on whether the Chinese offensive
against U.N. forces should be recognised
as aggression. Britain and the Asiatic
three (India, Pakistan and Ceylon) are for
diplomatic cognisance of the Government
in Peking; Canada and the three
Dominions of the Southern Hemisphere
are against it. As for the consequences
of General MacArthur’s forces being
driven or withdrawn entirely from Korea,
the conference didn’t like contemplating
them at all.
Primarily the Imperial Conference was
called to lift the community of British
Commonwealth States out of a sort of
little-U.N.D. atmosphere seeping over it,
and to galvanise its members into united
action to restore British diplomatic
authority and military strength in the
world (since the one is impossible with-
out the other) as highly necessary for
balance in these later years of an Anglo-
American partnership for “freedom from
fear” which won the late world war,
established the Atlantic Charter (basis of
U.N.0.), and must now assert its utmost
strength for the purpose of preventing
another world war. Among the British
member-nations two, and the most
powerful, are vitally concerned in the
Atlantic Pact; five (including Southern
Rhodesia) are concerned in defence of
the Middle East position, the job in
which London-Washington talks have
agreed the prior interest is British; and
in the Far East, in which it is important
to remember that Britain has surrendered
to U.S.A. the watchdog’s burden, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand—perhaps others,
too— must inevitably travel within the
orbit of American policy.
If the world is to resort to the old and
tried device of a balance of power to
keep the peace, that recipe is as logical
for the Far East as for Europe; and the
re-emergence of Japan for the purpose
has already begun. If it is part of the
Moscow-Peking plan of operations that
Japan should be kept demilitarised and
controlled, then the aggression in Korea
is a first-class blunder by the Communist
eastern bloc. Communist occupation of
Korea is a direct threat to Japan; and
Japanese rearmament is as certain as
tomorrow’s sun, whether the British
Commonwealth likes it or not. That
development will proceed either under
sponsorship of the United States as the
leader of the free nations, or as a Com-
munist satellite under the forced atten-
tions of the Moscow-Peking axis. Those
who talk about “the risk” have simply
a choice of risks.
Japan is already returning to maritime
trade with new merchant ships, and in
the first nine months of 1950 her export
of cotton textiles (803 million square
yards) led the entire world, with India
second and Britain third —together only
50 per cent, more than Japan.
Output of cotton textiles is expected to
reach this year nearly half Japan’s pre-
war figure of 2700 million square yards,
steel output and export of heavy
machinery since last March were “a
notable feature,” and in October America
contracted for 126 million dollars’ worth
of food and other supplies and nearly
23 million dollars’ worth of repairs to war
equipment. In November the first
Japanese ship for New York since the
war left Yokohama. There are in Japan
no short hours, no go-slow, no strikes.
Is this industrial power-house of a
nation to serve the free nations’ cause or
the Communists? Can Japan any more
easily than Germany be prevented from
fighting for self-protection in a war
brought to its very doors by the same
aggressor which the “United” Nations is,
at those doors, unable currently to with-
stand? What better diplomatic riposte
to the Soviet’s bid for all-Asiatic
dominion than the resurgence of Japan?
Stranger things can happen than an
American-Japanese Alliance to keep the
peace in the Far East, and an ironical
commentary that would be on America’s
former insistence upon dissolution of the
Anglo-Japanese Alliance which had
assured peace among the Pacific nations
during World War I. It is precisely that
memory in London, of how wrong has
been American judgment in the Far East
over the 40 years since Theodore Roose-
velt’s day, which makes the British Gov-
ernment question whether Washington is
not wrong now in its stand on the Chinese
problem. Yet in spite of the British
Government’s plea at the London Con-
ference for all-British recognition of Red
China, the British delegate at U.N.O. was
heard simultaneously declaring in the
New York glasshouse that failure of
cease-fire efforts in Korea “may result in
a full cleavage between China and the
rest of the world.”
The Atlantic Pact touches Australia
and N.Z. also, for Greece and Turkey
are members of it and are also associated
with the combination Britain is trying to
build up for defence of the Middle East
zone, covered by the strategic triangle—
Suez-Kenya-Ceylon. Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa are reported,
naturally enough, to have agreed to com-
mitments in this area in the event of war.
The Arab States would be in it, and
Britain has made some progress in Israel
to the same end; the bait there is that
a new base at Akaba would provide settle-
ment and employment in the Negeb. The
Israelites don’t like the Egyptians any
better than they did in Moses’s day.
Only Pakistan and India are as yet
holding off. The Pakistani Prime Minister
says his country’s participation in the
Middle East scheme is not possible while
the Kashmir dispute with India remains
unsettled, though everybody knows which
side he would be on. Also, he has fairly
driven Pandit Nehru into a comer. Nehru
has been working for a kiss-and-be-friends
finish in Korea, leading to withdrawal of
all troops and a free plebiscite on the
Koreans on their form of government
The Pakistani leader, having consented
to attend the London conference now that
Kashmir is on the agenda, said on arrival
there what his countrymen wanted in
Kashmir was withdrawal of all troops and
a free plebiscite on their adhesion to
Pakistan or India,
If Nehru is to shape up to anything
like the figure of the Macmahon Ball-
Chifley crowd’s imagination, who see him
as the man to lead the British Common-
wealth out of a mess, there, in Kashmir,
is his chance to show his character. But
even “Fixer” Ashley wouldn’t take that bet.


"Ek Dum," who writes “The Bulletin s
Serviceman page, is at present ill, and
his usual comments on the Korean
war are not available for this issue.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor" Clowning.
Along with political “Labor” members
proposal in Sydney to seek a High Court
injunction to restrain the Federal
Treasurer from administering the
Treasury by cutting out wasteful public
expenditure—the decision to close down
the little paradise of cushy jobs at Glen
Davis is the case in point—the Trades
Hall in Melbourne is canvassing a union
revolt if the Federal Government in-
creases taxation for defence. For good
measure the McGirr Government’s
Minister Finnan demands that meat
exports should be banned in order to
cheapen home supplies.
Nothing more ludicrous than “Labor”
opposition to increased taxation, however
necessary, has been seen in Australian
politics. For the past six months the
whole Socialist political and industrial
machinery has been directed to agitating
for a return to Federal control over
commodity prices—pegging prices while
boosting wages by every device of “job
control” and “direct action.” The idea
is not —or not yet —to reintroduce war-
time wage-controls, direction of labor,
rationing and permits to purchase,
consume, borrow, sell or do anything
whatever ; but simply to fix prices of
consumer-goods at an arbitrary declared
figure in every line. There could be only
one effect, apart from disgraceful black-
marketing and general lawlessness. When
production at such prices became un-
profitable, as it speedily would, goods
would disappear from the market, and a
vast onset of unemployment would ensue.
Since that condition would be intolerable,
production of goods would have to be
subsidised in ever-increasing amounts
from the Federal Treasury. “Labor”
pretends this could be done without in-
creased taxation. Taxation would, in
fact, rise in a new vicious spiral with
every rise in wages.
“Labor” denouncing higher taxation
is a picture which ought, to be hung in
the rogues’ gallery with one of Stalin
complaining that defenceless Western
Europe is preparing attack. The late
Chifley Ministry’s hallmark was a tax-
collector rampant, and if Mr. Chifley
could have had his way he would have
perpetuated war-time taxation rates till
kingdom come. The commonest cry
among “the workers” —pampered as they
were by the crowd they had voted into
office to run Mr. Chifley’s “Golden Age”
—was that they would hot “work for
Chifley,” since that was what any pay-
ment for overtime amounted to. The
Chifley crowd, being defeated at the
last elections, have been howling like
dingoes ever since. “Dragged screaming
from the tart-shop,” as Mr, Hughes once
said of Mr. Deakin, the leaders of “the
movement” announced in sheer bad
temper that, since they were no longer
allowed by the electors to run the country,
they would use every artifice to prevent
their elected successors from governing.
That has been the inspiration of
“Labor’s” political obstruction, its strikes,
its fight to save the Communist party
from statutory dissolution, and its
thoroughly disruptive propaganda.
One of the things the racketeering
crowd that barracks for “Labor” also
demands is “free” medical and health
services, so that (as in the examples of
similar Socialistic schemes in Britain and
N.Z.) they could get “free” spectacles
and other hand-outs to pawn for beer-
money. But no increased taxation! Why,
“Labor’s” tax-drunk Britain was saved
from bankruptcy under “social security”
and subsidised prices only by dollar doles
under Marshall Aid from the United
States.
Moreover, union executives increased
their own taxation of union members the
other day, saying that union dues on the
old scale did not meet necessary expenses.
What these arrogant Trades Hall
bosses really mean by their insolent
pressure-group tactics is that not the
national Parliament and Government but
their own executives shall govern the
country.
Peonuts Beyond Price.
The peanut is a homely, useful product,
very popular with small boys, chim-
panzees, picture-show patrons, white
cockatoos and some beer-drinkers,
though the latter prefer it salted. It was,
for some four years, very popular with
British Socialists, who thought so much
of it that they cleared over 3 million
acres in East Africa and spent £36.5
million trying to grow peanuts there.
Socialists have lost their taste for
peanuts now. The 200 tons grown in
East Africa between 1947 and 1950 cost
£57 10s. a pound to produce, making
them a whole lot dearer than Australian
wool, which reached 255, a pound last
week. And the British taxpayer has
the doubtful pleasure of seeing the
Attlee Government “wipe off” that £36£
million of his money as a dead loss.
This, however, does not mean that
there’ll be no further losses, nor that the
people responsible for the existing loss,
from the Prime Minister down to the
humblest kaffir laborer, will be hauled
over the coals for it. That’s not the
Socialist way.
Mr. Strachey, whom Shakspeare
might have characterised as the “noblest
Socialist of them all,” was Food
Minister when the great peanut plan was
welcomed to the Socialist fold as a
heaven-sent vision, and he launched it.
Thereafter clouds of bulldozers, tractors,
ploughs, officials, workers, prefabricated
huts, garden-forks, peanut-gauges, clerks,
timekeepers and what-have-you invaded
East Africa, all to grow peanuts from
which to make an estimated 260 million
pounds of margarine a year. All critics,
expert and otherwise, were ignored, for
no Socialist planner listens to criticism.
The peanut bubble burst in November,
1949, with the losses then announced at
£23 million. Was Mr. Strachey sacked?
Not a bit of it. He sacked two directors
of his Overseas Food Corporation and
himself was promoted to War Minister,
presumably on the assumption that a
man who couldn’t grow peanuts was
superbly fitted to fight his country’s
enemies.
Causes of failure? Oh yes, there were
causes, all right:
The directors struck many unforeseen
difficulties The ground was harder and
more abrasive than the American soil for
which the equipment had been made [it
was war-disposal, stuff, including Sherman
tanks]....dr oughts occurred the
obsolete railways were too busy carrying
food and water to the workers to carry
petrol for the machines... .vital planting
periods were missed for want of petrol.
The point about all this is that the
Government and the Minister responsible
are still in their jobs. In other days such
a costly fiasco would have brought a
Government down and the “heads” re-
sponsible would have been put where
they could do no more harm. But this
is the day of the Socialist “welfare State” ;
you can waste time, money, equipment,
men—anything you like, so long as you
are a Socialist and the plan is a Socialist
plan. And the sillier it is the more
appealing it is to Socialists.
Earthquakes.
“Henare Whakapopo,” his protest: As
a wandering New Zealander, I must say
that I enjoy making Australians’ flesh
creep with my favorite earthquake
stories, just as Australians like to
enthral and alarm the visitor with tales
of sharks and snakes.
There was, for instance, the big
Murchison ’quake, one of the most
cherished memories of my boyhood. We
were in school at the time, suffering tor-
ment under an inspector. The lights
began to swing, the doors and windows
rattled, the whole building gave that
curious shudder of the earthquake, like
a ship with her screw out of water.
It was enough. With one mighty
plunge the inspector, who really might
have said, “After you, boys!” dived out
the window, leaving us to follow if we
could. It was a very human occasion,
and if the hills at Murchison shifted
around somewhat there was an even
greater upheaval in our previously moun-
tainous respect for inspectors.
Then there was the night when a minor
’quake, centred around Wanganui, broke
a shop-window or two and unsettled a
few chimneys in Hawera. I do not re-
member how I got down the stairs —in
one jump, I think—but I found myself in
the street, where a white-faced youth
grabbed my arm, amidst the crashing of
glass, and cried “Look at that! Look at
that! ”
That was an old white rooster, dis-
turbed from his perch amongst his ladies,
careering through the main street with
wings outstretched and his neck looking
long as a swan’s. For a moment I
thought the graves were opening and the
sheeted dead were abroad, as in Shak-
speare. The youth thought so, too, and
while the rooster rushed off one way he
rushed off the other. And then, being a
good journalist, I went to see if the Water
Tower had fallen down. To my sorrow it
hadn’t, but I felt safe in reporting that
it had “swayed perilously.”
As for the Napier ’quake of 1931, when
255 people were killed, that really was
uncanny. I was out mustering in the
hills at Whangamomona, about 200 miles
away from danger. All I knew about it
for a start was that I felt a bit giddy and
sat down on a log. Then one of my
cobbers joined me on the log; then the
third ; we were all giddy. Then the sheep
all lay down. Then we saw, or thought
we saw, the crests of the ridges wavering,
rather like the little heat-mirages you see
on the road. We knew then that it was
an earthquake, and a big one; and soon
we learned on the radio that Napier
(since rebuilt, of course) was in ruins.
Well, the big disaster did occur ; just as
Bondi had its Black Sunday of the surf.
But for all that New Zealanders will get
a grin out of Sydney “Daily Telegraph’s”
“special” on last week’s shake at Cheviot,
near Christchurch:
Today I went to Cheviot and found its
residents nerve-wracked and despairing
amongst their ruined homes. The chimneys
of most of the houses had crashed through
the roofs there was hardly an unbroken
window within miles... .The Rev. -—, who
recently arrived from England, said: “My
nerves almost gave way when my house
trembled and bricks crashed through the
roof. I have never seen such calm courage
as the people showed.”
I am reminded of a Mr. Roderick
Cameron, an English visitor who recently
wrote a book about Australia and saw a
shark in every wave—“ Constantly the
bell is ringing out in warning
Sometimes you only see a grey shadow
flashing near you, to be gone the instant
you sight it; sometimes you only hear
a scream” . . .
So the chimneys crashed on the roofs,
did they? Brick chimneys don’t crash
through an iron roof; they crash on it;
and make an alarming banging sound.
In all the years of my childhood we only
had our chimney down once, and we
thought that was the most marvellous
fun.
Mr. Calweil Full of Fight.
A distinct air of relief was noticed
around Melbourne last week, for Mr.
Arthur Calweil, M.H.R., had come out
flat for battle against the Indonesians if
they try to grab Western New Guinea.
There should be, he said, “no appease-
ment of this ramshackle of a republic”
of Indonesia. Dr. Soekamo and the “rest
of Indonesia’s former Japanese colla-
borators” should be told precisely what
would happen if they attempted to invade
Dutch New Guinea.
Mr. Calweil can be forgiven for his
membership of the party which, when it
was the Australian Government, helped
to build the “ramshackle republic,” but
whether he will be forgiven for flying
counter to his leader’s claim that Aus-
tralian troops must not be sent to fight
in every little squabble abroad is another
matter.
However, since Mr. Calwell’s sincerity
in matters affecting the safety and welfare
of Australia is beyond doubt, all that
can be assumed now is that if he were
allowed to tell the Indonesians “precisely
what would happen” he would say:
The “Labor” party will support com-
pulsory military training; it will drop all
opposition to the anti-Red bill and have it
made law so that Communists in unions
and elsewhere couldn’t ban ships for New
Guinea and cause strikes and sabotage in
coal, steel, transport and war industries;
it will support incentive payments so as
to get more production; it will support
the Dutch to the hilt in resisting the inva-
sion ; it will —in short—wake-up to itself.
Surely that’s what he would say? Or
would he?
A Bureau of Blackouts.
About the middle of last year the Sydney
“Labor” Government set up an Electricity
Commission to control the generating
and supply of electricity in N.S.W. and
made H. G. Conde its chairman. This
Mr. Conde had come from a privately-
owned electricity company to handle the
rationing of electricity during the 1949
coal strike.
One of the first results of the Elec-
tricity Commission’s assumption of
control was that people who had hitherto
got their light and power from privately-
owned plants and who hardly knew what
a blackout was quickly found themselves
suffering as much as those subject to the
caprices of Bunnerong.
However, this was explained away as
part of the great plan. With a link-up of
all major plants in the State, N.S.W. was
assured, it would be possible to feed from
one to another, so that a breakdown in
one plant could be overcome by feeding
in supplies from somewhere else. What
were delightfully described as “initial”
blackouts were “inseparable” from
“adjustment,” and as soon as the plan
was “co-ordinated” they would fall away
to nothing.
They haven’t. Rather have Sydney
and its suburbs come to regard them as
part of the day’s work in recent months,
though those months are of long days
and a far less domestic demand for
power and light than in autumn and
winter.
Still, the N. S. Wales people must not
be needlessly alarmed about the winter
prospect. Mr. Conde has thought and
his executives have planned and his
draughtsmen draughted and his typists
typed. And f®r the winter N.S.W. is to
have a “special blackout information
bureau” set up in, of all appropriate
places, the “old National Emergency
Headquarters” in York-street.
AH the anxious industrialist, doctor,
dentist, housewife or owner of an electric
razor will have to do is ring up the bureau,
and he or she presumably wiH be
courteously informed what blackouts may
be expected and at what times for the
next 24 hours.
Thus has the grand McGirr election
“electricity plan” come to its full fruition.
"Coarse and Vulgar."
What with the Test matches, the re-
enactment of Sturt’s float down the
Murray, and even such side-issues as the
war in Korea, the theft (or, to play safe,
the removal) of the Coronation Stone
from Westminster Abbey has somewhat
dropped out of things.
It’s still a very live issue, though, in
the latest air-mail issues of the “Times.”
And such langwidge as they’re using,
too!
The “Times” itself started the flow of
near-Biliingsgate by designating what
happened “a coarse and vulgar crime.”
Letter-writers to the “Times” have tried
to cap that with such expressions as
“stupid hooliganism,” “vandalism,” “rude
fanaticism,” “squalid deed” and other
emphatic generalities. One writer went
so far as to say;
No combination of time, place and act
could be better calculated to comfort our
enemies and dismay ®ur friends than the
furtive pilfering of the Stone of Scone.
Just when the epithetical resources of
the Oxford English Dictionary seemed
to have been exhausted a gentleman of
Tewkesbury (perhaps an aspirant for the
late George Bernard Shaw’s mantle)
entered the arena breathing heresy:
May at least one Englishman say that
he cannot regard the theft of the Corona-
tion Stone as “a coarse and vulgar crime”?
Those who most deplore it must admit that
this is the kind of adventure which warms
the heart; and there must have been a good
many toasts of “Good luck to ’em” drunk
this Christmastide by people without a
drop of Scottish blood in their veins.
Since then the playing-fields of old
England have been too crowded for fair
fight, with, above the dreadful tumult,
the voice of the Dean of Westminster
appealing through the 8.8. C. to all and
sundry to “keep your eyes and your
ears open” and “let me know and I will
go to the ends of the earth to fetch it
back.”
If the Dean had Australia in mind, the
hallowed boulder doesn't seem to have
got out here. But perhaps he meant
Scotland.
—; "T '
America's Hand.
First report of the proposals by the
Imperial Conference in London for a
settlement in Korea alarmed Washington
and proved to be a furphy. The furphy
represented the decision as one for a cease-
fire agreement after both a general recog-
nition of the Red Government in Peking
and its admission to the permanent seat
on the U.N.O. Security Council now
formally held, but hardly occupied, by
Chiang Kai-shek’s delegate.
If this had been the ticket it would
have been difficult for U.N.O. to be taken
seriously anywhere, or to hide a glaring
defiance of the first of a set of “principles
agreed to at the London conference,
which was;
The only way to attain peace is to
make an approach from a position or
strength.
Next day saw the actual presentation to
U.N.O.’s political committee of the
British Conference plan by Foreign
Minister Lester Pearson, of Canada. It
laid down that cease-fire was to precede
further negotiations. The ensuing steps
were to be, in that order, withdrawal or
all troops, U.N.O. then to take charge of
the situation, and “an appropriate body
including representatives of U.K., C.b.A.,
Russia and Red China” to settle, in
conformity with U.N. Charter, Ear East
problems, including and Red
China’s representation at U.N.O. Nchiu s
very busy peacemaker with the unhappy
name of Rau, who has been putting up
plans about once every other day, en-
dorsed it, but the Soviet’s Malik promptly
declared nothing doing because the
proposal (he said) “contained nothing
new”—that is, by way of surrender to
violence. , . ,
Nobody appears to have expected any
other different result, least of an
the authors of the proposals, who
(Continued on next poge.l


,
A
•for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
In lO’s & 20's
OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■*sa
,v
6744-R]
on the following day based their
hopes on a “Big Four meeting,” with
Red China’s Mao as one of the
Big Four. This, it was suggested, might
take priority over America’s proposal to
declare Red China an aggressor. Even
if there were any prospects of success in
such a meeting, the whole Western world
should have learned from five years of
experience that it is useless to rely on any
agreement wiih Moscow anyhow.
Meanwhile the Chinese armies have
been pushing steadily down the Korean
peninsula, with some sharp collisions with
U.N. rearguards as the threat to the
passes through Sobaek hills was pressed.
It seems clear that General MacArthur is
preparing to retreat again into his lines
around Pusan —like Wellington did into
those of Torres Vedras 140 years ago ;
and the most emphatic news of weeks
past has been the decision of Washington
that, whatever U.N.O, may propose, the
United States forces will not withdraw
from Korea. The next thing the Imperial
Conference (and the world) heard was
Mr. Bevin’s statement that Britain will
stand alongside America in a Korean
bridgehead.
Significantly, these decisions on vital
points were made independently of either
U.N.O. or the Imperial Conference.
The Red leaders in Peking are doubt-
less intoxicated with the spectacle of
Chinese infantry winning a victory over
foreign troops for the first time in
modern history. But, as “Ek Dum”
wrote last week, final victory is the test,
and the campaign is not yet over. The
United States has a great diplomatic card
to play, and has let all concerned know
that she holds it. That is, the re-
armament of Japan, along with the con-
clusion of an American treaty of co-
operation with Japan on terms suited to
the circumstances forced on the parties by
Communist aggression. For whatever else
the conquest of Korea by the Moscow-
Peking Axis might, entail, it would quite
obviously be pointing a gun at Japan’s
very heart.
The architect of salvation for the free
nations is a very great American, General
George Marshall, lately recalled by
President Truman to the job of Secretary
for Defence. He is the heart and brain
of resistance by the West to the Soviet’s
bid for world domination He knows the
gang in Moscow and the rival Chinese
faction from first-hand experience. The
stand America is taking today is his work
above all others.
POLITICAL POINTS
We’re an illogical race. We accept
phenomenally high prices for wheat
and wool, yet whinge when other
countries charge us high prices for tea.
Twelve years ago in terms of relative
prices lib. of tea cost 11b. of wool or
401 b. of wheat; today it costs (as sold in
Australia) about 4oz. of wool or 121 b. to
151 b. of wheat.
Faith in Chifley as a financial genius
seems to be waning among his followers.
When the Attlees devalued sterling 18
months ago and Ben, reputedly after a
brief chat with H. C. Coombs in a taxi,
decided to swing along with them, there
were no complaints from the party. Now
the Victorian delegates to the A.L.P.
triennial conference, to be held in March,
have been instructed to advocate revalua-
tion. N. S. Wales Prices Minister Finnan
isn’t waiting for the conference; he’s
advocating it now.
Latest instalment of the Earle Page
health scheme was announced by the
Minister on Sunday, It is an application
of the principle of helping those who
try to help themselves, and is designed
to encourage the extension of insurance
against sickness. The Commonwealth
proposes to pay a subsidy of 12s. a day
on all hospital patients who contribute
to insurance schemes. To get the benefit
of the subsidy a single person will have
to pay 3d. a week to an approved society ;
by paying 6d, a week a married man can
cover his whole family. This insurance
would provide for £2 2s. a week towards
hospital expenses; the Federal subsidy
would bring this up to £6 6s. Later the
Government intends to introduce a
similar plan to cover up to 90 per cent,
of doctors’ bills.
Bruce Pie, who resigned from the
Queensland Liberal party as a protest
against its acquiescence in the latest
Parliamentary salary-grab and said he
would also resign from Parliament, has
now done so. Pie says he has timed his
resignation so that the by-election for his
Kedron seat can test the reaction of the
people to the Bulimba election frauds.
Last April he won Kedron by 400 votes,
defeating former Federal “Labor”
member Hadley, who intends to have
another try this time.
Acting-Premier Gair professed to see
in Bruce Pie’s resignation proof that Pie
was “satisfied with the present state of
the electoral machinery and rolls.” Pie
replied that he was far from satisfied,
and that if voting iff the last Kedron
election had been close “sectional votes
from the Electoral Office” would have
swung the result against him. He urged
the adoption of the Federal rolls. This,
he said, was the only way to stop
dummying.
Replying to a suggestion that circuses
should be banned because two bears had
escaped from one in a Victorian country
district. Premier McDonald remarked that
there would be no banning of zoos and
circuses so long as he was Premier. It
is not known in which category he placed
the Spring-street show.
A committee has been appointed to
inquire into possible methods of over-
coming the condition of chronic dead-
lock which seems fated to continue in
Tasmanian politics under proportional-
representation. The committee consists
of Professors Hytten and Giblin and
H. J, Exley, formerly Deputy Common-
wealth Statistician in Hobart, Three
figure-men! Proportional-represemation
is a mathematicians’ dream; the remedy
may well be a plain man’s nightmare.
C. E. Critchley, who has been five years
Australian Trade Commissioner in
London, and is here to tell exporters all
about it, hinted that the British are grow-
ing a little restive about the continuing
demands by Australia for purchasing-
agreements at higher prices. He thinks
“Britain recognises she will have to face
up to a general increase in production
costs throughout the world,” which is
another way of saying he hopes to
persuade the British to pay for Australian
goods produced under the 40-hour week,
constantly rising wages and go-slow on
wharves.
Melbourne branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation produced 500 new
wharfies out of a hat or something last
week. They are mystery men to the local
rep, of the Stevedoring Industry Board,
who declares that the federation had sub-
mitted no names of the new men it had
allegedly admitted. He said that the
present labor strength for the strangled
port was still at least 400 short of the
quota of 6000. Mr, John Calbert,
illusionist, of the Tivoli, is reported to
be inquiring how the federation did it.
Is this coal-getting business hanging
fire so long because the Joint Coal Board
can’t even get out an annual report?
There are two years of report now long
overdue, and the administrative job
must be the worst possible example to
the union. Of course, the show is run by
the Government now—and two Govern-
ments together, at that.
The Indonesian Ambassador, Dr.
Oetoyo, back from a visit to his home-
land, is reported as saying that there is
a feeling in his country that Dutch
resistance on the New Guinea question
“stiffened because of Australia’s attitude
in the matter.” That is possibly so, and
there is no point in denying that Aus-
tralia’s declarations on the subject were
made in the hope that Dutch resistance
would Dr. Oetoyo advanced one
of the queerest reasons so far offered in
support of Indonesian claims to Dutch
New Guinea. He said it was “living in
the hearts of the Indonesian people be-
cause our political leaders, including the
Vice-President, Dr, Hatta, were exiled
there.” Just as well the Dutch didn’t
send them to Holland for internment.
They’d now be telling Queen Juliana to
move over.
“N.S.”: The N.S.W, railway staff has
had a lot of bricks thrown at it over the
hold-up of trains in the Wynyard tunnel
last month, and it is only just that credit
should be given to the initiative of two
railwaymen on the spot—a driver and a
guard—who started the move to get the
trains close up, nose to tail, and have the
drivers’ and rear doors opened so that
passengers could walk through to Wyn-
yard platform. The railway authorities
are likely to make a working precedent
of this idea, among others being brought
to light by the inquiry.
Spender hit the nail on the head last
week when he said that “Labor’s” policy
on inflation dealt with effects, not causes.
The party is trying to present Common-
wealth price-control as a cure-all for our
financial troubles, and shrinks from tell-
ing its supporters that the only real way
out of the mess is by hard work. Spender
said that the basic cause of inflation was
underproduction, which was largely
the direct product of the teachings of the
“Labor” party over many years. In season
and out of season the party has constantly
enjoined others “Do as little as you are
obliged to for as much money as you can
expect.”
“Labor’s” slogan “Don’t work yourself
out of a job” had at least the appearance
of sense back in the days of the dole.
Under present conditions it is sheer non-
sense, but its blighting influence remains.
Sydney is to have a bureau to advise
on blackouts. Not on how to eliminate
them; merely to tell people when to
expect them. The service will be available
only to those who ring up to inquire ;
others will have to take their chance as
formerly. The bureau will only advise
on scheduled blackouts; impromptu
ones must be regarded as all in the game.
The McGirrs were to have taken de-
livery of a couple of hundred new trams
from a Sydney engineering firm in
November, 1949. Does anyone recall the
boasting of McGirr about it? Well, the
first of the trams has at last hit the lines.
Mr. Sheahan, who wasn’t McGirr’s
Transport Minister at the time, but is
now, blames the delay on the shortage of
steel. Meantime, he’s taking his chief
transport boss, Mr. Winsor, to Brisbane
later on to see how Brisbane, whose trams
are run by the City Council and not the
State Government, manages to build
modern “noiseless” trams for itself.
Sydney’s chief need is a few “noiseless”
transport authorities,
Tasmania’s Cosgrove will be getting
himself expelled from the “Labor”
Premiers’ Union or its equivalent. Not
content with speaking up now and again
in favor of compulsory military training
he’s also out of step with his fellows on
the subject of home-grown v. imported
Governors. The term of Sir Hugh Binney
expires in June, and Cosgrove and Co. are
in touch with London regarding his
successor.
Students of Canberra debates must
often have wondered just how much it
costs to gather the information necessary
to answer some of the questions so
blithely hurled at Ministers. A member
of the Indian Parliament wondered, too,
so when Question-time next came round
he asked the appropriate Minister to find
out. In due course he got his reply.
The average cost of an answer was £6,
but as it was necessary to make inquiries
among the officials of every department
in order to arrive at this figure the cost
of the answer to his question cost £2OO.
It is a proud tradition of the sea that
when a vessel is in distress other seamen
and ships spare nothing to assist her. At
least it used to be. Last week a Westra-
lian tugboat crew, called upon to make a
500-miles dash to tow in a disabled ship
with over 1000 people aboard, listened to
a Communist union boss and refused to
sail because there was an argument over
wages and conditions for the trip. The
ship waited, helpless in heavy seas, for
more than two days until a British
freighter got a. line aboard and towed her
into Fremantle,
A Canberra message puts it like this:
“The Federal Government hopes that
many thousands of Australian workers
will change their job's from luxury to
essential industries this year.” There
v/ill be no rush from the Commonwealth
public service to fulfil the Government’s
hope.
Victorian politicians voted themselves
a cost-of-living allowance before adjourn-
ing for Christmas. They .intended it to
be £lBl a year, but somebody blundered
in drafting the Act—more power to his
elbow!—and they’re getting only £lOB.
McDonald has promised amending legis-
lation when Parliament meets again, but
as, like McGirr, he has very good reasons
for a long recess, that apparently won’t
be till June. The hungrier members are
asking for the change to be made retro-
spective, but McD. thinks perhaps that
would be “a bit too much.”
According to the Farleigh (Q.) sugar-
mill chairman, E. Evans, there is a slight
snag in the much-trumpeted new sugar-
price agreement brought back by Premier
Hanlon from London. Evans says that
half the 600,000 tons which Hanlon
signed up to deliver at the new price is
“assumed” to be for Canada, but Canada
has not said it will continue Empire
preference, and negotiations on that
matter are with Canadian refiners, not
with the Canadian Government.
A nice little problem seems to be loom-
ing up for those State Governments
which make third-party risk insurance
compulsory for motor-vehicle owners.
So heavy have claims become —especi-
ally since juries have discovered that the
insurance companies are the “bunnies” —
that company after company is pulling
out of third-party business, and the busi-
ness knocked back by private cos. is
going to State insurance offices, which
can’t knock it back. Premiums have
gone up in some parts, but that seems to
be no remedy. It may lead to statutory
limitations on the amounts which can be
claimed.


REVIEWING THE TROOPS.
“If a plan now being examined by several of Melbourne’s biggest business houses is approved, the Commonwealth Recruiting Secretariat will ask employers in all States
to raise and maintain their own citizen-force units. Such units would comprise a platoon or company and would be attached to existing citizen-force establishments,
although retaining their identity.”—‘Sydney “Sun.”
yjAtE($S(Pg COMMANPOS.
<■'
(HE TuPP TROOPERS.
f^ess
Parape.
d
Com Press Parape.
H£ayi£s ..
/T
lfl£ OUp 6GJGfHP£ r
COMBAT ,


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“The Newcastle branch of the Surf Life Saving
Association is suggesting that interpreters broadcast
warnings on beaches to New Australians.”
“Smilo”; It is pleasing to see in
evidence once again those colorful
calendars which the grocer, butcher and
others of the retail fraternity present to
their patrons at this time of the year.
Although not always applicable to the
type of business of the donor, their
subjects are diverse, ranging from
glamor-girls and still-life studies to
picturesque landscapes. Considerable
thought must have been given to the
subject of the one at present before me.
It depicts a tranquil river scene, bearing
the caption “Where peace abides,” and
was distributed by a firm of undertakers.
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: Some professions
quickly expand in scope. The baby-
sitting business has set the example for
grandpa - sitting,
an old bloke hav-
ing expressed his
willingness t o
look after such
oldsters, aiding
them if necessary
in quaffing beer.
My paper adver-
tises the chicken-
sitter he’s wil-
ling to watch
holiday - makers’
poultry. I’m go-
ing to start a new
branch: pub-crawler-sitter. I’ll keep any
thirsty toper company for moderate fees
—four schooners an hour.
$ * * J*r
Jim O’Keeffe: At least one Brisbane
bloke won’t use the term “New Aus-
tralian” again. He remarked in a club
bar one night recently, “The secretary
tells me there’s a New Australian about
the place tonight. I wonder if he speaks
English.” “That,” said a voice, “is a
point on which All can weel inforrm ye.
Ah’m tihe pairson consairned, ye’ll ken,
and ye’ll pairceive nae doot that ma
English is pairrfect. As for that dommed
silly tairrm ye’ve used, Ah’d like it fine if
ye no applied it to me. Ah’m a Scotch
migrant, a British subject, and no tae be
lumped together wi’ arrivals frae
countries ootside the Empire. Ah’ve no
desirre tae be classed wi’ Slavs, Gyppos
and Asiatics, fine fellies though they may
be. This tairrm ‘New Australian’ suggests
a doubt as tae the capacity o’ the
immigrants tae adapt themselves tae Aus-
tralian ways. It implies an assumption
that a migrant feels a sairrtain sense o’
inferiority if called a Polish or Hungarian
or any ither sorrt of migrant. That’s
dommed presumption, implyin’ as it does
that Australians are prepared to make
an effort to owerlook the matter o’ the
newcomer’s origin and magnanimously
promote him the Australian status. Na,
r>a, laddie. The wee bairns arrivin’ in this
country by natural processes are the new
Australians, and to apply the tairrm else-
where is neither apt nor fair. Noo empty
y’r glasses and Ah’H hae ’em filled tae a
real new Aussie, due in aboot six weeks’
time if ma wife’s doctor is accurate in
his calculations.” May the new Aus-
tralian arrive safely,
* * * «
“T.McN.”; According to a newspaper
describing the Sturt re-enactment expedi-
tion, the party didn’t make the same
progress in their boat as did Sturt in the
first couple of days. There was a reason;
“When Sturt rowed to the sea the Mur-
rumbidgee was in flood ; it was straighter
in 1830 than it is today.” That’s what
comes of bumping boats into the banks
—they bend.
* * * *
“R.W.”: We have become used to the
displays of temperament by our own and
visiting “sportsmen.” Such things as
throwing a tennis-racquet across the
court or hurling abuse at the public
galleries are accepted as mere examples
of the player’s idiosyncrasies. The limit
was reached recently in Adelaide when
a visiting tennis-player objected, with
some heat, to the height at which the ball-
boys were bouncing the balls back to
him.
* ♦ * *
“Ex-C.G.”: In the midst of the third
Test excitement a Sydney morning paper
got a scoop photograph showing that,
although the umpire said “Not out”
when appealed to for a run-out, the
player’s bat was actually inches short of
the crease when the bails flew off. This
sort of thing will have to be stopped,
otherwise we may hear the radio com-
mentator of the near future say, “00,
Hasbrook is running, but Comtallon
snaps the ball up and returns it and the
bails are gone! There’s an appeal and
the umpire has called for a photo. Now,
while we’re awaiting the verdict, here
are Vic and Arthur to amuse you with
their interesting duologue. As soon as
the umpires have seen the photo we’ll
broadcast the result. And now, here are
Arthur and Vic.”
♦ * * *
“Plop”: Our Press cricket commen-
tators who are at this time being called
everything but curt might study this
piece of reporting which appeared in the
London “Times”:
A DAB HAND.
Of 159 anglers who spent Boxing Day
fishing in a competition at Walton-on-the-
Naze, 158 caught nothing. The only suc-
cessful fisherman was Mr. E. Curry, of
Bury St, Edmunds, who, by landing a
9oz. flounder, won a turkey and 50
cigarettes.
♦ * * #
“Zake” : When the inflationary spiral
began its spiralling, and a two-bite chop
was still a modest fourpence, our butcher
”It'll have to come down—the foundations
are insecure.”
used to get around (good heavens, no, not
for delivery —let the women lump it
home!) in a 15-year-old Ford. Today, of
course, with mutton chops which mas-
querade as lamb at 4|d. a bite, he has the
latest model, price around £ll6O, whilst
his shop is stuffed with all the most
expensive fittings, though he still has to
instal a rest-room where his feminine
customers may recover from the initial
shock of learning the latest prices. And
though I cannot vouch for the name of
his customer to whom it allegedly hap-
pened, I’m prepared on the strength of
previous evidence to give credence to
this; He quoted 12s. 6d. for a leg of
“lamb.” The customer hesitated, pon-
dered on a switch to beef, rejected both,
“ You’ve no idea how much it cuts our light bill!”
got to the door, then came back and de-
cided on the lamb. By then it was 14-
bob. Butch should be getting his new
Cadillac any time now 1 .
* * ♦ •
“Sixenate”: A woman who made a
brief appearance in a Sydney suburban
court must have been a relation of the
Mrs. Parsley who was once familiar in
Bulletin story-pages. She asked per-
mission to plead guilty to a minor traffic
offence on behalf of her son who was
unable to attend because he was engaged
on work of “the utmost unimportance,
yT Worship.” She added that “it is in
connection with providing blackouts for
the public.” She assured the court that
her son was a model citizen, but admitted
that he had been fined in court once
before. “It was for using inoffensive
language, yT Worship,” she explained.
* * * ♦
“Yarrasider”: The wide concern over
the way modern youth seeks big money
with little effort has made me watch
closely the results of the annual Sand
Castle Competition. Melbourne “Sun”
has been running these com-
petitions ever since the far-off
days of my boyhood, and
they make a handy yardstick
for comparing today’s youth
with yesterday’s. So it was
with deep satisfaction that I
read: “Excellent craftsman-
ship was shown by ‘Sun’
sand-castle competitors at
Brighton Beach yesterday,
where the third heat attracted
many spectators” ; and with
ungrudging admiration I
noted, as an old sand-castler
who knows just how tough
the game can be, “Heavy
rain drove the competitors
from the beach, but they re-
turned later to finish their
castles.” For these feats of
skill, carried out against all
the fury of the elements, the
winner, a lad of 14, received
£l, and second and third 10s.
and 7s. 6d. respectively. Mark
that, all you who say modern
youngsters are slipping. I, for
one, am satisfied that, in these
days when kids can earn £8 a
week on leaving school,
youth is still willing to tackle
a job for the sheer joy of
doing it. We oldsters can
rest content. Our buckets
and spades have passed to
worthy hands.
* * *
“Drong”: A cash-and-
carry grocery out our way
has inaugurated a novel stunt
which affords the thrifty an
opportunity of enjoying a
varied diet. Its bargain-
counter features tins of comestibles
from which the labels have been
removed. Only one person in the store
knows for certain, always supposing he
has a good memory, what is in those tins,
and he seems to be the most elusive
member of the staff. Other assistants
are vague a§ to what the contents may
be, so the customer, unless he happens
to be psychic, selects his purchases by
guesswork. He shakes the tins and holds
them to his ear, scrutinises hieroglyphics
stamped on them by the manufacturer
and finally makes his choice. It may turn
out to be, as he perhaps hopes, a tin of
spaghetti or stew, but he is just as likely
to find when he gets home that he will
be having pea-soup, sweet com, baked
beans, quince jam or tapioca for dinner
instead.
* * * *
Can’t agree that “outside
heat does not affect the temperature of
a stokehold” (B. 20/12/’5O). Every
furnace creates draught, and there is a
considerable difference in the tempera-
ture when the continuous preponderance
of pressure at the furnace-bars is supplied
by a hot westerly on one day and by a
cool southerly on another. I’ve seen
colored stokers die of heat apoplexy in
the Red Sea. It would not have hap-
pened in the Arctic Ocean.
♦ ♦ * *
“Metax”: Tasmania has again changed
its ideas on the location of its highest
point. This time Mt. Ossa (5230 ft.) in
the national park area north of Lake
St. Clair takes over from Legge Tor
(5160 ft.) in Ben Lomond. Legge Tor has
held top plac<* since it was found to beat
Cradle Mountain (5069 ft.) oyer 30 years
ago.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Uramao”: Misprints descend on our
local newsrag, not single spies but in
battalions. Its first edition comes out at
3.30 p.m.; and the second at 4.15, but
over a course of years I’ve found that the
only difference is some of the mistakes in
the first have been corrected in the
second. On one occasion a charity con-
cert was reported, and, according to the
sheet, “the patriotic note was struck by
Mr. M , the noted terror’s rendition
of ‘Rule Britannia.’ ” Some one got on to
it and the second edition read: “The
patriotic note was struck by Mr, M ,
the noted tenor’s rendition of ‘Rude
Britannia.’ ”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Hamer”: I have been admitted to the
company of those whose deaths have
been grossly exaggerated. A name-
sake of mine, living in the same suburb,
died, and scores of my friends, possibly
through wishful thinking, assumed it was 1
who had passed on. As one who never
believed in letting business interfere with
my drinking, it has been rather pleasant
meeting people who insist that it is
necessary to buy a drink for the man they
had supposed to be a corpse, but I have
a guilty feeling about the chap who told
me he had sent a wreath to what wasn't
my funeral and had attended it himself.
Obviously I cannot offer to reimburse
him for expenses incurred in going to a
funeral that was not mine, and my
suggestion that he might even matters by
not attending my funeral when it really
occurs, and not sending a wreath, was not
well received.
* * * *
“Bass”: Oyster-crayfish are soon to be
marketed in Perth. They take their name
from their alleged oyster flavor, gained,
it is suggested, from feeding on oysters.
They are caught well north of the usual
crayfish grounds, so it is possible that
oysters are occasionally included in their
diet, but it doesn’t follow that their food
would flavor their flesh. I’ve eaten plenty
of beef and mutton without detecting a
grassy flavor, and a chicken that was
caught in the middle of my tomato-patch
didn’t taste any different from other
chocks.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
0 migrant, in your skimpy britches,
Beware Australia’s golden beaches!
Vot to this beaches correspond ?
Per’aps, of course, these piquant blonde I
To-day, if you look out to sea,
You’ll find she’s breaking heavily.
1 look to see. Is these a choke ?
Vot is about ’er vot is broke ?
You’ll need experience—understand?—
Or else she’ll dump you on the sand.
You’re telling me on making love I
I treat these Elsie like kid glove.
Don’t go beyond your head, please note,
Or else she’s like to tow you out.
Me lose my ’ead wit’ Elsie ? No I
I get no kick from ’er beeg toe I
Of course, if you should strike a beaut,
She ought to give you quite a shoot.
Vot sort of blonde you think 1 like,
Vot shoot a man v’en she is strike I
And don’t be sharkbait, boy, and whine
For us to send you out a line.
You play the bait? Vot fonny lark! —
And pull the line inside the shark ?
Well, now you’ve heard what I have said,
Just run along. Go right ahead.
These blonde and bait is mooch too grim —•
I only vant to ’ave a svim.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“X.S.”: I am hesitating between buy-
ing a lottery-ticket or spending the
money on midnight oil to light my labors
while I write a world-shaking composi-
tion for submission to the Jubilee literary
competition. If I win £lO,OOO in a lottery
I will get £lO,OOO. If I win a thousand
smackers in the literary competitions
anything up to half of it will go in income
taxation, although I haven’t made any
income from freelance writing for at least
10 years. Or will Canberra make a
Jubilee gesture and put the writing blokes
in the same class as the gamblers?
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Of all fictionists whose
work has seen print I would suggest that
there are few who have not cursed the
artists who have illustrated their stories by
portraying characters not even remotely
resembling those conjured up by the
imaginations of the creators. Only once
has the reverse occurred to me. This was
in “Smith’s Weekly,” which ran a par of
mine on the subject of a civil-service
bloke, designedly unnamed by me, who,
smarting under the sting of salary-cuts
during the Forgan Smith regime in
Queensland, came upon a lost ball in
the course of a
round of golf.
Noting that it was
branded starkly
with the full name
of the Premier, he
belted the pill into
the tall timber.
The artist who
illustrated the par
portrayed a
character who
appeared as if
drawn from a
speaking likeness
of the taker of vicarious vengeance. As
a result the hero of the par went for
months in fear of reprisals. It was at
least five years before he bought me
another beer.
* * ♦ »
“Bo”: Homing late from his roister-
ings, he came past our suburban picture
theatre as the evening crowd was stream-
ing in. He stood back and looked up
at the brilliant blue neon signs which
proclaimed the current programme, and
slowly he read them out, in a loud voice:
“Lady Takes A Sailor” and, immediately
beneath it, the supporting fillum, “In a
Lonely Place.” Then he looked owlishly
at the mob standing on the pavement,
said “Heaven help the shailor on a night
like thish,” and teetered on his way.
* * * *
“J.R.S.”: One of my first impressions
of Australia was that it contained more
drunks to the square yard than any other
country I had known. I think I know
why. It is quite obvious that in a climate
where liquid pours out by the pint
through the skin equal quantities must
be poured in by the mouth to maintain
the metabolical balance, and, if beer
happens to be your taste, then beer it is
that performs that office. Unfortunately,
the alcohol in the beer disturbs the other
balance in the skull. One of the major
irritations of d» war-years in England
was the weakening of the beer. When it
fj rs t began to happen no eyebrows went
higher in horror and indignation than my
own. But I got used to it, and the process
was by no means as difficult as X liked
“Your move, Abdul!”
to pretend. Soon I noticed that I could
spend an evening in a pub, enjoy my
beer and still bend down to take my
boots off. If a weaker beer were made
generally available in Australia X am
sure that it would lead to a reduction in
drunkenness, particularly among those
who like their beer, but dislike those
ultimate results which come about all
too quickly under a combination of the
Australian climate and Australian beer at
its present strength.
* * # *
Etymology of “superette”?
In America a super-market is a sort of
hall of commerce, with groceries on
benches on each side. Customers roam
through, take what they want off the
shelves and pay at the door. As the
concern “Smilo” mentioned (B.
27 /12/’5O) had only small premises it was
felt that “super-market” would be an
overstatement. Hence “superette.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: An American doctor
named Gumpert considers we can all
live to 120 if ( a ) we don’t allow our
mental faculties to waste in middle-age,
(b) don’t overexercise after 50, and (c)
find jobs for retired employees to save
them regarding themselves as useless.
This seems to suggest that we are going
to have the present batch of wharfies,
coalminers and public servants with us
for a long time.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: 'Pastor Douglas Nicholls,
aboriginal parson of Fitzroy (Vic.), has
pointed out that the original owners of
this fair land have been completely for-
gotten in the Jubilee celebrations pro-
gramme, though there is mention of a
“I always get lots of room in the Water.”
ballet in which white ballerinas clothed
from head to foot in black tights will
perform a corroboree, which will be as
much like the real thing as a modernist
nude is like a human being. As the
Bishop of Ballarat has taken up the
matter, no doubt the omission will be
remedied; but it is difficult to see how
anything worth-while can be done about
it It would be ridiculous to fetch down
Albert Namatjira as a representative of
aboriginal culture when he is really a
product at one remove of the National
Gallery school in Melbourne; and it
would be as insulting to ask a team oi
Binghis to perform their sacred ritual
for the entertainment of the public as to
ask the bishop to perform a service for
the same purpose. Why not stage an
all-aboriginal buckjumping show? That's
one thing the black man can do as well
as, if not better than, his white masters,
and I would sooner watch it than nine-
tenths of the scheduled items on the
programme.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’m somewhat concerned
over the related phenomena of inflation
and road accidents. These two subjects
are more talked and written about in
Australia than anything else, yet for all
the floods of words poured out on them,
both continue to increase. Is it possible
that if we stopped talking about them
some good would result? As a rough-
and-ready student of mob psychology I've
observed that a fairly impressive propor-
tion of my acquaintances respond to
inflation talk by deciding that what
money they have now had better be
spent before it loses its value entirely ;
they thus add to what the experts call
“the inflationary pressure.” And how
many motorists now drive forth, especi-
ally at weekends, with their minds full
of “toll of the road” talk, become nervous
or overcautious or both, and thereby con-
tribute to the very thing they’re wonied
about? Mind if I put my earplugs back
and don my blindfold again?
* * * *
“Kelms”: An unholy joy filled my
heart when I read about the bloke who
bought a car in Perth and paid for it
with a dud cheque., I’m not an admirer
of the kite-flyer, but this bloke had a
novel plea, and to me it rang true.
According to his story he had gone to
the car salesroom not intending to buy
the car, but had had it practically forced
on him by the salesman, who must have
been as credulous as he was persistent, as
he accepted without question the cheque
for £1275.
♦ * * *
“Marlok”: Life today can be pretty
grim, but I hate to look forward 20 years
or so. A favorite form of radio-
reminiscence is to drag in song-hits of
past days, and one suffers again
cacophonies thought to be mercifully
forgotten. If the present spate from Tin-
Pan Alley is to continue, by 1970 stations
will be able to keep going all day on the
revived trash of the past half-century. To
date, however, I have been spared three
lugubrious ditties popular in my youth,
before the portable gramophone gave way
to the wireless. They are “The Prisoner’s
Song,” “Lay My Head Beneath A Rose”
and “The Letter Edged In Black.” If
these aren’t thought worthy of revival,
then present-day appreciation has im-
proved so much at least,
* * * ♦
“X.M.N.”: There are many lands in
which tipsy sailors (B. 27/12/’5O) are not
treated tolerantly: where they are, in fact,
lumbered on the slightest pretext. The
Latins and the South Americans take
first place. In those parts it is woe betide
the wanderer making back to his ship
without the price of a taxi in reserve.
Saturday night used to be the favorite
hunting-time, and the merely happy were
rounded up as well as the more incapable.
Sunday morning brought the reckoning ;
as there was little to be had in the way
of cash, justice was satisfied by a
couple of hours cleaning stables or sweep-
ing the streets. I still treasure the memory
of the vision of our second and third
officers washing a couple of large police-
horses.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: A recent Unk White
masterpiece reminded me. Twenty-
odd years ago I bought a gadget
for cutting my own hair. It cost
Is. 6d. and proved a very useful
article indeed. At the time I was camped
in a lonely part of the bush, many miles
from any barber, and by using this
gadget and a mirror I was able to make
a neat job of the trim. The instru-
ment looked like a glorified safety-razor,
and you could adjust it to cut at varying
lengths. You simply combed your hair
with it and it cut the hair as it combed.
In those days a haircut cost only six-
pence, so very few of the things were
sold, but in these days with a haircut
round about 3s. there should be a big
demand.
He * * *
“Bamekaw”: Two of us paid good
dough for an alleged brewer’s recipe. At
the bottom was a large caution to follow
the directions faithfully in order to obtain
a mildly alcoholic but non-intoxicating
brew. More sugar than prescribed would
raise the alcoholic content to a point con-
travening Federal laws. In gleeful anti-
cipation we
hurled in
pounds of sugar
at the risk of
making a syrup.
Th e finished
product had a
good head, the
right color and
aroma and a
beerish taste,
but it seemed
to lack some-
thing when go-
ing down. We
polished off
most of the
batch the first night, without getting even
mildly exhilarated. In disgust we gave
the rest to an old codger who lived near
by. Next evening his cobber, a
youngster, came reeling past with the
appearance of one headed for a mighty
hangover. “Someone gave ol’ George
a coupler bottles of home-brew,” he
informed us. “Real good shtuff. I jus’
helped him knock it over.” We often
wondered just what it was we found
lacking.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: It’s a wonder to me that a
convention of editors hasn’t long since
decided to save space and time by dis-
pensing with one of the most obviously
useless inflictions the written English
endures. Indeed, the more I flunk
of it, the more I am convinced
that not only editors but teachers,
businessmen and pretty well every-
body else who speaks and writes
English should rise up and demand the
abolition of what is at once a curse to
pronunciation and a tribulation to the
primary scholar, apart from its causing
frequent trouble with adults, particularly
letter-writers. The thing is never used
in ordinary conversation except by the
most pedantic speakers in English, and
even they stumble and halt and obviously
suffer momentary embarrassment when
confronted with it, either in written notes
or in memorised speech. Your spon-
taneous or impromptu speaker simply re-
fuses to use or recognise it. It has no
place in a modem world where hustle
gets you along and efficiency depends
upon elimination. I refer, of course, to
that useless abomination, that whiskery
relic of other days, the first f tn
February.
JUST A FEW.
“Our civilisation is lubricated with conventional
lies; if it weren’t, modero life would grind itself t
pieces.” — Women’s magazine.
There in front of the mirror she stands,
Parked under the weirdest creation:
A beehive stuck through
With a corkscrew or two,
All caught in the grip of inflation.
The wearer it might suit as well
Asa bowler hat suited old Adam.
Yet the salesgirl, with guile,
Will remark with a smile:
“Why! It might have been made for you,
madam 1”
And this is a favorite one
In support of this moralisation;
It’s a cert to be used
Or, say rather, abused
At the end of a long separation:
On a face on which Time’s left its trace,
Which is even beginning to moulder,
Joan will gaze, plant a kiss,
And with much emphasis
Say: “My dear, you don’t look a day older j
Who hasn’t, I ask, at some time,
With this champion liar been inflicted?
In your car he will get,
Feeling safe, you may bet,
That his words will be ne’er contradicted.
As you rattle and bounce up the road
With enough din the dead to arouse, and
Then some, he will yell:
“Yes, she runs pretty well —
You’d not think she’d done sixty thousand!
You yourself have said this, lam sure,
To your hostess, just after that lady
Had said her “Good-bye”
While relief sped your sigh
And you thankfully grabbed up your cady
As you thought of the long, murdered hours,
Of the talk, like the tea, very tepid:
“I’m afraid I must go.
But I’d like you to know
I enjoyed it so much, Mrs, Shepherd.
’Mong conventional lies, though, I’ll back
The ones on new-baby inspection.
The infant might look
Like a lately-plucked chook,
Or resemble a gargoyle’s reflection.
It’s an absolute certainty, though,
When they come the proud mother to visit,
With some rapturous cries
They’ll thus panegyrise:
“Oh, darling, I think he’s exquisite I”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
* ♦ * #
“Toby C.”: I was advised to go to
the bush —“the dreaming” bush the poet
called it —for my nerves. So restful, you
know. I lobbed in time to see a nice
strip-trees-act: Two bulldozers and a brace
of powder-monkeys blew up, tore down
and rooted out 70 acres of forest inside
eight days. During this hair-raising per-
formance every marsupial and bird headed
west, all the milking cows in the neigh-
borhood went dry and the two powder-
monkeys went bomb-happy. The
ambulance is taking me back to town
tomorrow —I’m spending a real rest-cure
in an iron-foundry.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The buildings in a
small Westralian country town became
airborne recently during a visit by what
the dailies described as a “cockeyed-bob”
or a wiUy-willy. They should make up
their minds. There’s a wealth of differ-
ence between the two. A cockeyed-bob
is a local storm, sometimes only a few
hundred yards across, and, while it can
do quite a fair amount of damage, it
couldn’t be termed a tornado. It can
spring up without any warning and
end as suddenly, and it can be
Off' ce
“A nice bit of overtime this Week, Charlie ."
either completely dry or it can
bring a deluge. During the cock-
eye season in the north a newcomer who
camps in a dry creek-bed could be flooded
out by a storm, a mile away, of which
he hadn’t heard a whisper. If a willy-
willy struck at that distance he’d know
all about it. It is the genuine tornado,
and can extend for scores of miles and
reach speeds beyond 80 m.p.h. Despite
the publicity given to the storms which
play havoc on the American coast,
Broome is the recognised centre of the
world’s cyclonic area; and it was on
the pearling-grounds that the term
“cockeyed-bob” was coined to denote a
blow which is stronger than a whirlwind
but which falls far short of a cyclone.
A “cockeye” may unroof houses and
topple windmills. A willy-willy sank the
Koombana.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; This is how Big Fleming
told it: “We was broke in Balranald one
time an' Lofty broke it for a coupler bob,
broke into a Murrum pool an’ broke it
for a coupler quid, so we went t’ the
Shamrock an’ got on it. That night Lofty
gets out on t’ the roof t’ sleep, reckonin’
it’s cooler, but he rolls off an’ falls. A
pot o’ geraniums broke his fall an’ he
broke into yells an’ L broke evens outside
an’ finds he’s broke his wrist. We get
him t’ a doctor an’ when I tell him what
happens he broke out laughin’ an’ Lofty
broke out swearin’ an’ sweat broke out
on him from the pain. We was still
there when the day broke an’ we broke
back to the pub lookin’ for a drink, an’
when we woke the publican he broke out
properly. I’d ’a’ broke his flamin’ neck
only” Just then the cook rang the
tea-bell and all hands made a rush for
the door, “Hey,” yelled 8.F., “don’t
y’ want t’ hear the rest of it?” Little
Curl paused and looked back. “Give us
a break,” he said.
* * * ♦
“Eurimburra”: With all the tenements
under the ridge-capping of the bails fully
occupied, a pair of late-coming sparrows
cast around for a suitable homesite. In-
vestigating the big corner-post of the
cowyard, they liked what they saw, for
rain and rot have eaten a sizeable hole
down the centre to the first mortice. Un-
fortunately, it, too, was tenanted, in this
case by a large family of wood-frogs, and
the sparrows, for the past week, have
been trying to evict them without success.
The cock-bird flies down to the top of
the post, and immediately a protesting
chirrup comes from within. Soon a head
bobs up and down several times, spitting
vituperation at the intruder. The spag
makes no attempt to attack, but waltzes
around in a shocked upright posture
evidently intended to draw the guardian
from the door. While this goes on the
hen-bird alights on a rail and, hopping
along, peers into the mortice. Here
another frog quickly appears, and with
great fluency tells her ladyship where she
gets off. Soon a regular chorus of
chirrups is in full swing as the junior
members of the speckled tribe add their
bit of cheek, and the sparrows retire
beaten. Turning in at dusk the birds are
out of luck ; but were they to investigate
the possie after dark they’d be sure of
vacant possession.
“Wobbly Kelly”: Maybe this is how
rows start, but when, where and under
what circs, does a snake hiss? I’ve read
of it in prose and verse, from Shakspeare
to “Bellerive.” The former’s ignorance on
the subject I let pass, as Drury Lane never
reeked with wrigglers; but for “Bellerive,”
who surely must come from Tassie, there
is no excuse —isn’t the little island full
of ’em? I severed diplomatic relations
with the legless horror 60 years ago;
"Cut it, Porky. Pop's coming !”
since then I have aided the demise of
hundreds, including blacks, browns,
copperheads, dukytes, bandy-bandies,
tigers, greenies and death-adders ; watched
them through all emotions asleep,
couchant, rampant, prodded, broken-
backed and in combat; had a ringside
view of a cobra-mongoose engagement,
yet never once have I heard a single
“Attaboy” or “Have-at-you” from one
of them. The sphinx and the late Dean
Maitland were Domain spniikers by
comparison. The fact is, Joe has nothing
in the lethal end to hiss with, and merely
goes through the motions, hence the
reason for the rattler, the world’s lone
noisemaker, using his rudder for the pur-
pose. Has the hiss ever been recorded ?
If so, the first in with a sound-track of
it can share my overdraft.
* * * *
“Bo”: Dad was showing the visitor-
some of his trophies: the gold medal
he’d won for woodchopping in his
yopnger days, the blue riband his Jersey,
Gilda 11, had been awarded at the local
show, the silver cup he’d got for the best
stand of lucerne along the river. The
visitor pointed to the stuffed head of a
rooster mounted on polished wood. “I
didn’t know you went in for blood-stock
poultry,” he remarked. Dad grinned. “I
don’t,” he said. “That was old Tom, a
big, scraggy old crossbred that used to
run with the few chooks Mum keeps.”
“You must have thought a lot of him to
have his head mounted,” the visitor re-
marked. “I’ll say we did!” replied Dad
enthusiastically. “He was a real hero,
that bird. It’d have done y’r heart good
to see the way he flew at the rabbit
inspector that day and sank his spurs in
his leg!”
# * * *
“M.S.”: One rarely hears rats men-
tioned among the man-on-the-land’s
pests, but the übiquitous rodents un-
doubtedly cause an enormous amount of
damage. Through the bush everywhere
they live on roots, thistles, berries, hides,
carcasses, or anything else they can
scavenge, and, being mainly nocturnal,
their presence is commonly unsuspected.
One can pitch camp half a mile out of
town, or 50 miles on through the bush;
it makes no difference to the precautions
necessary to protect tucker against rats.
In trapping country the number of rats
between the jaws spoils many a rabbiter’s
daily tally. Recently netted and planted
a vegetable-patch on a new bush block
miles from everywhere, and soon the
rats had cleaned up beet and tomatoes
and were busy burrowing for carrots and
potatoes. The dozens caught in a sur-
rounding line of traps appeared to make
little difference to their numbers, and as
the vegetables became scarcer the trapped
victims were devoured by the free mem-
bers of their cannibalistic tribe. Rabbits,
hares, ’roos, wombats, all worthy enough
adversaries —but rats!
* ♦ * *
“Bot Anik”: What do staghorn-ferns
and Kentia-palms live on (B. 27/12/’50)?
Just what any other plants live on; but
because their lot places them in positions
where growth is slow they require less
food than other plants. Staghorn-ferns
derive sufficient food for their require-
ments from rainwater and the broken-
down organic matter to be found always
under the shields and amongst the roots.
But poke a couple of lumps of manure
amongst the roots, place the plants in a
suitable position and generally look after
them and you’ll grow something worth
writing about. Most pot-plants grown
and used for interior-decorating are
usually neglected. How they survive is
often a miracle, for any resemblance be-
tween natural conditions and those they
endure is rarely found in the dark, dank
corner or the brilliantly sunny, draughty
windowsill. As for watering, either a
flood or a drought is their lot. Of course
that show-piece of the Victorian era, the
aspidistra, literally lived on cigarette-butts
and wine dregs, strange fare for a native
of the swamps of the Orient.
$ * *
“Shadow - chaser”: Having been
exposed to the wanderings of many
naturalists as to the means employed by
the wedgetail-eagle to lift the heavy
timbers used in its nest foundations, I
would like to point out that the big bird
is far too intelligent to use other than the
gravitation method. It selects a tall
tree near permanent water for its nest.
A three- or four-pronged fork high on a
semi-horizontal branch is chosen for the
site of Eagleholrae. Three or more
branches, above the nest, several inches
in circumference and five or six feet in
length, are stripped of all twigs and boughs
and then gnawed off and carefully
lowered by both birds and secured
firmly as a base for the job. The outer
walls of the nest are roughly constructed
of any twigs the powerful beaks can
interlace, and it looks a rough job out-
wardly. The inner nest is nearly per-
fectly circular, and cosily lined with
feathers and rabbit-fur. Usually three
eggs are laid. The female does all the
hatching, whilst Pa does the shopping
among the hares, rabbits and smaller
birds. The young fledgeling’s appetites
are colossal, and both parents have a
full-time job providing for them 'until
they get their wings and take the air.
* * * *
“King Bee”: Like most devoted bee-
keepers Hec was slightly “touched” as
far as non-beekeepers were concerned,
though perfectly normal to his fellow-
honey-chasers. The latter are not so sure
now. At the Honey Producers’ Confer-
ence a few of them had gathered in the
bar for a yarn. Hec listened and laughed
with the rest and then got his chance.
“Took me boxes down near Sydney last
year,” he said, “an’ spread ’em on a hill
outside Parramatta. They was good
blossom on the gums
an’ street-trees, an’ I
reckoned me bees
could get a fair cut
from the flower-
gardens, too. Well, I
did all right, but I
didn’t reckon on the
effect of the city on
me bees.” “What hap-
pened, Hec —they want a 40-hour week?”
someone asked. “No, it weren’t that,”
Hec answered mildly. “But after we
got back an’ settled down I noticed a
fair bit of excitement in the hives, an’
then found in one a row of cells that
seemed t’ be dead or somethin’. I put a
magnifying-glass on ’em, an’ strike me
roan if every one of ’em ain’t empty an’
wot a little notice stuck on it ‘For Sale,
Vacant Possession.’” Silently eyeing
Hec’s innocent expression, those beemen
drifted back to their conference.
WHEN THE BROLGAS DANCE.
O, bright may be the ballroom
And glamorous the tune
Where fair girls in their finery
Step out in silver shoon.
But no one knows Terpsichore
Until by happy chance
He passes on the claypan
And sees the brolgas dance.
In cloaks of grey and crimson
They drop from skies of blue
And bring their grace and beauty
To weave a spell for you.
They claim from you no plaudits,
They ask of you no fee,
And to their roofless ballroom
They bid you enter free.
Behold them set to partners,
Advance, retreat, and bow,
And thread a wondrous pattern
Of steps unknown till now!
No gallant meets his lady
With dalliance so sweet,
No maiden moves to music
With surer, lighter feet.
Our ballrooms have their courtesy,
But none so rare as this,
Where touch of every wing-tip
Is gentler than a kiss.
A man may ride the bushland
Where many scenes entrance,
Yet know not all her beauty
Till he sees the brolgas dance!
SCOTLAND,
WILL H. OGILVIE.


929
28
shapes
890
choose
from
sEK*
982
A Suggestion that’s sure to please . . . from
ANDREW M C GEE
GIVE HIM A
NIMROD DRYSMOKER BRIAR S PIPE
The gift of a genuine Nimrod Dry-
smoker Pipe from Andrew M c Gee
is a gift that is long remembered
and appreciated. The experienced
pipe smoker will tell you that the
Nimrod Drysmoker is a milder,
cleaner, cooler pipe because it is
fitted with the famous hygienic
filter (see cut-away illustration).
This keeps the bowl dry and
tobacco burning evenly—ensuring
a smoke that is always flavourful.
And there is no “breaking-in”
period since the carbonised bowl
is already prepared for instant
smoking. Order PRICE
your particular
shape straight
or bent—by mail
if you wish, from
Andrew McGee. *> lus 9d. postage.
27/6
ANDREW M'GEE
70 Pitt Street, or
1 Castlereagh St., Sydney
(Established 1S87)
“Orion”: He told me this story while
we sat beside a creek in the Hunter River
valley (N.S.W.). He had a small force
of native scouts, and worked for months
behind the Jap lines in New Guinea, a
period which he thoroughly enjoyed.
One day he was due to meet some natives
who had to be shifted, and the meeting-
place was a cane bridge across a river.
There came to hand them over an elderly
woman with hardly a stitch of clothing
on her, and she spoke excellent English.
In surprise he asked where she learnt it.
She answered that she had been a
children’s nurse in Melbourne for a long
time with a very nice family. Questioned,
she told their name. “What, not Jack
So-and-so’s people?” Yes, she remem-
bered Jack. “Why, he’s a major and not
far away from here! ” He got a message
to the major, who walked 40 miles
through the bush to the place; they met
with every sign of delight, and the old
lady threw her arms round his neck and
kissed him.
» ♦ ♦ •
“Solitude”: We were riding homeward
along the river track when Seventyfiver
started talking about fish for tea. After
10 minutes of it I could almost smell them
fried and brown, and by the time we had
reached the big hole at the bend I was
so hungry I agreed to wait and help him
catch a couple. From his pockets he
located two rusty hooks, a short length
of gut and a coil of string; presenting
me with a share, he explained that a bit
of tea-tree was near enough to a trout
rod. He was rubbing his hook on a stone
when I grabbed a
grasshopper and
started off. On the
unwieldy rod the
line swung
awkwardly, the
hook made a bee-
line for my pants
and stuck tight. A
few minutes’ cus-
sing and I cut the
piece out, adjusted
my bait and
managed to hit the water. A fish struck,
I jagged quickly and missed. At my
second cast the line circled, dived and
embedded the hook firmly in my hat. I
sat down to the job and eventually got my
lid free, and the hook out of my finger
again. Approaching the next hole I
swung carefully, but in the act of
descending the line changed course with
diabolic cunning, swooped and grabbed
a hookful of shirt. Again I cut the piece
out. Ten minutes later I felt a fish, jerked
and caught nothing. Seventyfiver’s drawl
interrupted my unholy wrath. “It’s y’r
hook’s the trouble, Sol,” he murmured
patiently. “Y’ can’t expect it t’ catch
inter anythin’ if y’ don’t sharpen it up
proper.”
* * • *
“Cowboy”; I had been 10 minutes on
the woodheap hacking into the Central
West’s granite-like gidyea and boree when
the axe-handle went, the third to snap in
as many weeks. “No doubt about y’!”
remarked old Charlie from the shade
of the shed. “Well,” I said, “that’s the
last handle till the mail comes out on
Sunday. No axe, no wood and no wood
no fire; no fire, no cooking.” “Trouble
with you is,” pronounced Charlie, “y’
don’t know how to belt the wood cleanly.
There’s nothin’ at all wrong with them
handles.” “Well, how about lending me
one of your imported hickory ones?” I
said. “I’ll give you one back when I get
the next issue of our Barcaldine beauties.”
Charlie almost swallowed his chewing
baccy. “What?” he roared. “Give you
one o’ my grouse handles for one of
them useless flamin’ matchwood things y’
just broke! Wodderyerthink this is—
Bush Week?”
“ Thanks —I Won't stay for lunch."
“Salmon Gums”: When an air-
craft travelling down the coast 100
miles north of Perth (W.A.) struck
engine-trouble, the pilot didn’t bother to
go inland to a cleared paddock. He
simply set down on the beach and walked
back to a settlement. A searching air-
craft located the plane, landed alongside
it, and took off again with the note left
by the crew. There’s nothing strange in
this. It could happen anywhere along the
coast. But if the Yanks had beaches
like that they’d use and publicise them.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Fred, an enthusiastic
young chap, was just back from his first
trip to Melbourne, the biggest town he
had seen outside Underbool, Linga,
Tiega and Tutye. He was so pleased with
himself that we let him suppose our
knowledge of towns was limited to those
between Ouyen and Pinnaroo, and he
proceeded to give us, night after night, a
vocal travelogue of the Yarra city, or as
much of it as he had seen in his week’s
stay there. Then he showed us a receipt
for £2, which he had paid as a deposit to
a bloke he met in the Royal Mail, the
bloke having explained that he had an
option on three acres of the North Mel-
bourne railway yards, suitable for a bee-
farm to supply the local people with
honey. A look from Mat stifled the laugh
in my throat as Fred asked confidingly,
“You reckon there’s anything in it?”
“Well, not just yet,” Mat explained care-
fully. “Y’ see, them city people have
been trained t’ eat jam because there’s
so many fruit-trees an’ jam-factories
round. But you wait, Fred. All them
fruit-trees is old now, an’ it won’t be
long before they start dyin’ an’ there
won’t be so much jam an’ then y’ can hit
’em with honey instead. They got t’ have
somethin’ sweet, see?” Fred thought it
over. Then his face fell and he said
“Blast it, y’ wouldn’t think a man could
be such a ruddy fool!” Assuming that
he’d waked up, we didn’t say anything.
Fred filled himself another pannikin of
tea. “I might ha’ known there was a
catch,” he grunted. “That bloke was a
wake-up. He could see that when the
fruit-trees died there’d be no blossom
for the flamin’ bees. I been caught, all
right.”
* * » •
“Espee”: If you have often wondered
why the swiftly-pirouetting ice-skater
doesn’t fall flat on her face from giddiness
after performing a few dozen revolutions,
consider this: On a joint in the driving-
shaft of my milking plant a spider has
built its little compact home. Milking
is done twice daily and each milking
occupies an hour and a half. As the
driving-shaft moves at about 80 revolu-
tions per minute and the milking takes
90 minutes, the spider in its web revolves
over 7000 times each milking without a
break. This has been going on for weeks
to my knowledge and with no apparent
ill effects to the spider, for it is generally
ready to seize any fly that is tossed into
its web.
* * « •
“Ida D.”: In “A Stir Over Cissie” (B.
6/12/’5O) one of the characters, Muscles,
tells another, Rufe, in the heat of
banter that he [Rufe] is only “fit
to live with a Mullingar heifer.”
The author, Stuart McDonald, paren-
thetically adds, “What such an
animal is he did
not define; but it
apparently de-
notes a cow
which is anything
but a lady.” The
alleged slur
started a fight be-
tween Muscles
and Rufe. It
needn’t have.
Mullingar is in
Ireland, and was noted for the quality
of the cattle it exported. Old-time cattle-
men, when appraising a herd, would note
one beast and comment, “H’m, a Mul-
lingar heifer,” meaning that it was “beef
to the ankles.” It came to be applied to
any stout girl or woman, but with no
reflection whatever on her charm or
morals.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
George Purdy (N.Z.): That champion
Westralian shearer who took the topcoats
off 1286 sheep in five days (B. 20/9/’5O)
was just coasting along. In December,
1943, at Branscombe, Akitio, Wairarapa
(N.Z.), Bill Meech, of Pongaroa village,
shore 1470 in five days.
* * * *
“Blime”: Roy Proctor claimed to own
the richest strip of country in the district
—a claim heatedly opposed by Charlie
Longford, who considered his own area
second to none around. Roy ran into
Charlie on the store veranda, “Lot of
thistles this year, Chari,” he began. “Those
big variegated sort. You got any?” “Yair.”
“By cripes they grow, don’t they?” said
Roy. “The good season, of course. An’
I think the better the soil the bigger
those things grow; don’t you reckon?”
“Yair.” “I’ve got some fair snifters out
my way,” Roy ran on. “Man can’t get
labor to cut ’em, which ’s just as well
p’raps, seeing no farm’d stand up under
paying about three quid a day to cut
thistles like those on my place this season.
Why, you mightn’t believe it, Chari,” he
said, “but with some of those thistles on
my flats I’ve been cutting off the butt-
ends, and using them for back-logs.”
“Yair? Well, I bet y* would, off that
country,” drawled Charlie agreeably.
“An’ I alwus say, it’s no sense wastin’
’em. That’s why I sawed up an’ split posts
the other day out o’ the one that fell an’
smashed me hut.”
« ♦ ♦ *
“Macnell”: “Lyle’s” Sydneysider camp-
ing in the bush who mistook a vixen’s
love-call for a woman being tortured (B.
13/12/’5O) recalls the Apostolic delegate
whose chief knowledge of our fauna was
culled from Yanks met in his last post,
Japan. After interviewing the newly-
landed cleric at North Sydney a scribe
was riding back across the Harbor Bridge
with him when he asked, in Italian-
English, if any animals had escaped from
“your wonderful zoo” the night before.
The scribe knew nothing of it, and said
so; his reverend companion asserted,
“But I’m sure that’s where it came from.
It kept me awake all night with its ‘whoo,
whoo, whoo.’ I understand why
the keepers couldn’t locate it.” The car
then entered upon the bridge; associa-
tion of ideas and proximity jogged the
newsman’s memory. “Your animal,” he
grinned, “was the Milson’s Point fog-
siren.”
THE PUDDLING MACHINE.
I used to work a puddling
Machine long years ago,
Driving the nag that pulled it,
And, oh, the pace was slow.
We went around in circles,
For ever wheeled around
In red dust to the ankles
Where once was solid ground.
The nag was old and weary,
Bony his faded rump,
And all his ribs were showing,
And on his side a lump.
I had a stick to whack him.
Flayed him to left and right—
But I’d have moved him better
With a stick of dynamite 1
Each time we did our circuit
The clouds of dust rose high.
Sailed down our throats in volumes,
Seeped into nose and eye.
I’d spit and spume and splutter,
The bag of bones would wheeze;
I’d turn to fits of coughing,
The bag of bones would sneeze.
Through waves of hot dust flowing
Like streams of fiery red.
The copper sun all blazing
Like a bushfire overhead —
Sometimes I saw the saplings.
Sometimes a dead gum-tree
Begin to waltz in circles
And then walk round with me.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


a
/
&
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Safeguarding Estst© IHV6StHfI6IItS
demands this specialised \nowledge
FAMILIARITY with legal requirements, invest-
ment values, taxation and property details is a
paramount responsibility of the Executor or
Trustee charged with the duty of administering
an estate involving commercial or pastoral
interests. Such knowledge is far beyond individual
capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified by
nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this responsi-
bility, and will act either jointly with, or in place
of, those who seek relief from such onerous
tasks. Charges are moderate; service is most
comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of Import-
ant Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.
The
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (EstaUllM 1S8S)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 378-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Aiburv, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Herald & Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends— —s
z—■ —Pref. N Re-
Sept., Profit.* 6| p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 )
Written off, £43,945 i
290,289
1942. .184,875 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 1
Written off, £44,372.. .. ..)
252,167
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000
Written off. £44,216
j 253,280
From staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res., £128,592 391,872
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 t
Written off, £42,550.. .. ..J
395,755
1945. .251,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
From tax reserve, £70,511 .. 578,995
1946. .254,140 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=164,000 654,510
From tax reserve, £15,778 .. 670,283
1947. .245,821 8124 16,500 14 p.c.=157,406 734,074
From tax reserve, £19,786 .. 753,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,860
1948. .292,330 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=180,800 1,236,765
Surplus sale investments, £243,546.. 1,480,311
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110.. 1,585,421
From tax reserve, £24,642 ..1,610,063
Depreciation, £236,219 .. .. 1,373,844
1949. .272,228 8125 16,500 14.1 =204,000 1,417,447
Reduction reserves, £105,334 ~ 1,312,113
Depreciation, £87,579 .. .. 1,224,534
1950. .322,828 8125 16,500 14.1 =204,000 1,818,737
* Includes provision for depreciation,
t After deducting intangibles, now £250,000.
Despite the last line in the table, news-
paper and magazine publishers have
been hit harder than most other traders
by the vicious costs-inflation spiral, the
effects of which have been felt most in
respect of newsprint and wages. Only
by drawing upon newspaper stocks bought
before 1943, with a consequent saving
of £110,250 in the paper bill, and by
charging reserves with £105,334 of
development costs associated with the
extension of activities into expensive
colorgravure publication, was H. and
W.T.’s board able to write last term’s
net earnings £5903 stronger at £235,249.
The co. is Australia’s largest publish-
ing house.. In Melbourne it turns out
two dailies (“Sun” morning and “Herald”
evening), which are the backbone of the
business, as well as three weekly and a
like number of other periodicals. It also
owns two Victorian broadcasting stations
(3DB and 3LK), and holds substantial
share interests in the “Courier-Mail”
(Brisbane), “Advertiser” (Adelaide) and
in Australian Newsprint Mills (Tas.), a
venture which it pioneered and which
will presently turn out about 40 p.c. of
Australia’s newsprint requirements.
In the colorgravure section, the co.’s
new weekly, “Woman’s Day,” was
merged with “Home,” a similar type of
journal published by John Fairfax and
Sons Pty., Sydney. The reconstituted
journal, “Woman’s Day and Home,” was
passed to a new jointly-owned subsidiary,
Herald Gravure Pty. “The establishment
costs of our magazines, less tax provision,
have been charged to development pro-
vision, etc., set aside for the purpose,”
the chairman says. The year’s reduction
in this reserve (now £179,285) was
£105,334. Circulation of the reconstituted
journal is now about 300,000 net, but
competition in this field —a rich one, the
board claims—is keen, and it may be a
while yet before the combined venture
gets firmly on its financial feet.
Net daily circulation of the “Sun”
(429,000) and “Herald” (418,000) reached
new peaks, and so did most of the co.’s
other journals. But the main factor in
the year’s £710,040 growth in trading
revenue was an increase in advertising
rates. The broadcasting stations made
“an important contribution to profits,”
and investments (shareholdings) turned in
an extra £5761:
Revenue— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Trading .. £2,564,122 £3,598,209 £4,308,249
Investments .. 77,014 74,334 80,095
Total .. £2,641,136 £3,672,543 £4,388,844
Expenditure—
Wages, etc. .. 778,300 980,081 1,143,155
Printing paper.. 810,138 1,490,486 1,915,145
Other exes. .. 676,394 883,630 986,795
Taxation .. 145,000 89,000 108,000
Total .. £2,409,832 £3,443,197 £4,153,095
Net profit .. 231,304 229,346 235,249
The growth in total expenditure was
£709,898, the major item being newsprint
(up £424,659), which, owing to price-rises,
consumed 43.6 p.c. of total revenue as
against 30.7 p.c. a couple of years ago.
The leap in the salaries and wages bill
was £163,074, and in other exes. £103,165,
The £235,249 of profit claimed covered
annual pref. requirements and 14.6 p.c.
on ord. capital (£1,440,000) as against
14.2 p.c. and 16 p.c. for the two preceding
years. The div. remained at 14.1 p.c.,
which is approximately the rate paid since
1938. The chairman said “We have
scarcely ever failed to add something to
inner reserves, and never before have we
called upon them.”
Profits in the introductory table include
the p. and 1* allowance for depreciation
(£87,579, up £41,345 last term), which,
until 1949, was tossed into a reserve for
restoration, etc. This reserve has since
been taken out of the window and de-
ducted from the book-value of plant, etc.
There was a shrinkage of £342,693 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus, of which
£240,630 was due to net additions to
fixed assets —three new presses were in-
stalled, a fourth is now almost complete
and a fifth is on order (this is part of
the co.’s answer to growing competition
in the morning daily field):
1948. 1949. 1950.
Stock .. .. £903,678 £831,275 £666,020
Debtors, etc. .. 423,421 734,319 886,476
Shares other cos. 868,500 672,480 792,426
Cash, etc. .. 119,136 210,166 2,811
Liquids .. .. £2,314,735 £2,448,240 £2,337,733
Liabilities .. 567,339 653,582 885.768
Surplus . . .. £1,747,396 £1,794,658 £1,451,965
Freehold, etc. .. 560,343 677,466 755,840
Machinery and
plant ~ .. 769,026 788,676 951,432
Net assets .. £3,076,765 £3,260,800 £3,158,737
The increase in shareholdings (up
£119,946) partly reflects formation of the
new jointly-owned subsidiary. The con-
traction of £102,063 in net assets was
due to the costs of establishment already
referred to.
Since the close of accounts the news-
paper supply position has become tighter
and isn’t likely to improve for some time
yet, and the price has continued to rise.
The co.’s paper bill for the current term
is expected to be about £350,000 heavier,
and there will be a big increase in the
payroll total, too. However, a lift in
the selling-price Of the co.’s two dailies
from 2d. to 3d. a copy as from October
4 last should add an extra £1,000,000, or
thereabouts, to total revenue for a full
year, after allowing for, say, 5 p.c. drop
in circulation. Selling-prices of the co.’s
weekly journals have been increased, too.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. ss. ords. at 225. 9d. (17s.
a year ago), giving a return of 3.1 p.c. on
a 14.1 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 9s ± 7d. The well-protected
prefs. are priced to yield 4.1 p.c.
Commonwealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit, 'Dividends—,, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1946 ~ 154,921 10 = 95,207 59,714 302,060
Refund deferred maintenance, £3775.. 305.835
1947 .. 150,048 8 = 76,665 73,383 379,218
From inner reserves to special depre-
* ciation, £155,174 .. .. . • 534,392
1948 .. 211,489 10 = 116,665 94,824 629,216
Unexplained addition special depre-
> ciation, £78,186 707,402
1949 .. 168,378 10 = 145,832 22,546 729,948
To capital assets reserve, £86,046 .. 815,994
Net unexplained addition reserves,
£21,027 837.021
To tax reserve, £67,523 .. .. 769,498
Added intangibles, £5396 .. .. 764,102
1950 .. 310,790 10 = 174,998 t 135,792 899.894
* After deducting excess cost over net tangible
[ value shares in subsidiaries on incorporation (now
£248,769), and including special reserve for depre-
' ciation ( £222,338 at June 30, 1950),
> t Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip issued Oct., 1950.
C.I.G. is the big holding co. that was
formed in Sydney in 1935 with the bless-
ing of the British Oxygen Co., Ltd.
(London), which has since been a tower
of strength on both the financial and
technical sides. The idea was to achieve
economies in buying and selling, and to
hasten technical and other development,
by bringing under one control a number
of widely separated concerns engaged in
producing and distributing oxygen,
acetylene and other industrial and
medical gases and ancillary equipment.
Later subsidiaries making electrodes and
welding equipment were added to the
group, which now consists of nine operat-
ing concerns, six of which make industrial
gases, etc., one manufactures industrial-
and medical-gas equipment, and the other
two are on the electrical and welding
side.
Development, rapid since war ended,
has kept in step with the growth of Aus-
tralian industry. Shareholders, who got
into the picture with 10 p.c. in 1937, have
had annual divs. averaging 9.4 p.c. for
the 14 years to the close of last accounts.
Paid capital, £850,000 at the start, grew
to £1,458,000 in 1948, following a par
issue of 500,000 new £1 ords., and re-
mained steady until the books were ruled
off at Sept. 30, 1950. Including £222,338
earmarked for special depreciation,
reserves then totalled £899,894, after de-
ducting the amount by which cost
exceeded net tangible value of shares in
subsidiaries at incorporation (£248,769).
The slip in profit in 1949 was due to
the coal strike, and consequent interrup-
tion to production. Last term new liquid-
oxygen and dissolved-acetylene factories
at Whyalla (S. Aus.), Brisbane and
Townsville (Q.), Preston (Vic,), Alex-
andria and Broken Hill (N.S.W.) and
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) helped to swell output,
and a lot of new evaporation equipment
was installed on customers’ premises.
Turnover went up with a rush, and, after
setting aside £237,937 (up £8475) for de-
preciation and £127,460 (down £4126) for
the tax-collector, net earnings shot up by
£142,412, reaching £310,790. That was
equal to 21.3 p.c. on average capital, as
against 11.5, 18.9, 15.7 and 16.2 p.c. back
to 1946. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
All that leaves out of the reckoning:
(1) A capital profit of £86,046 (£70,500 on
account of the winding-up of a New
Zealand offshoot and a £15,540 dollar-
exchange windfall) ; (2) a net unexplained
addition of £21,027 to reserves; (3) a
growth of £5396 in intangibles; (4) the
transfer of £67,523 to tax reserve on
account of special depreciation claims.
The keynote of balance-sheet figures is
expansion:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. 958,314 1,458,314 1,458,314 1,458,314
Overdraft .. 34,277
Creditors .. 724,361 433,451 714,214 1,079,539
Tax provision 114,775 182,937 171,771 272,906
Final div. .. 38,333 69,999 87,499 116,665
Freeholds, etc. 389,259 406,692 456,369 580,785
Plant, etc. .. 755,875 680,895 1,022,486 1,373,347
Investments .. 34,426 34,426 34,426 34,426
1 Stocks .. 688,168 817,625 1,082,332 1,129,668
Book debts ~ 421,798 448,668 446,319 551.899
Cash, etc. .. 38,125 205,609 154,091 207,193
To meet net additions of £350,861 to
plant, etc., £74,416 to freeholds, £105,580
to book debts and £47,336 to stocks the
co. leant upon sundry creditors (mainly
the British Oxygen Co.) for an extra
£365,325.
On Oct. 23 last those on the share-
register were rewarded with a twofold
issue of new £1 shares, one lot a gift and
the other for cash. The gift was 486,105
bonus shares, one for three, provided
from part of the surplus on a recent re-
valuation of assets. The cash issue was
1,055,581 new shares at par, 21 for 100
—the money is to be used to lighten the
debt to the London co. and to finance
further expansion of the undertaking.
Paid capital will thus become £3,000,000,
on which 10 p.c. will call for £10,790
less profit than was claimed last term.
The market for the scrip advanced from
555. at end 1950 to 58s. 3d. last week.
The return at 58s. 3d. is 3.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. With reserves as they
stood at Sept. 30 last, net tangible cover
is 255. lid.
Taubmans, Ltd.
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
t — Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.t
£ £ £>£/£,
1941.. 74,196 1506 13 p.c. = 51,852 20,844 255,876
1942.. 71,031 5000 10 „ „ 89,887 26,144 282,020
1943.. 62,726 5000 10 „ „ 39,996 17,940 299,860
1944.. 68,056 5000 111 „ „ 44,872 18,184 318,044
1945.. 70,878 5000 111 „ „ 44,872 21,006 339,050 ;
1946.. 94,733 5000 13| „ „ 54,844 34,889 373,939’
Net share-premiums, £13,847 ..387,786
1947. .163,742 5000 16 p.c. = 64,999 89,027 476,813
Share-premiums, £111,776 .. .. 588,589
Goodwill increased, £ 868 .. .. 587,721
Reduction reserves, £B7 .. .. 587,634
1948. .207,231 5000 174p.c. = 96,390 105,841 698,475
Net addition reserves, £3056 .. 696,531
1949.. 171.617.5000 17|p.c. =100,554 66,063 762,594
Share-premiums, £130,029 .. .. 892,623
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £987 .. 893,610
Unexplained reduction reserves, £9799.. 883,811'
1950. .245,424 5000 20 p.c. =134,071 106,353 090,164
* After eliminating outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc., now £18,917.
With its half-dozen subsidiaries, Taub-
mans, in which Pinchin, Johnson and
Associates, the English paint people, are
interested, is one of the largest paint
and industrial-chemical manufacturing
organisations in Australasia. The hub of
the group is the parent co.’s main factory
at St. Peters, near Sydney. At Villawood,
not far away, is a chemicals division,
which turns out insecticides and special
solvents and is giving a good account of
itself. And there are manufacturing off-
shoots at Melbourne (Vic.), Brisbane
(Q.), Adelaide (S. Aus.) and Wellington
(N.Z.), while other subsidiaries look after
distribution throughout the Common-
wealth and New Zealand.
The financial history of the group is a
pleasing one, and suggests enterprise com-
bined with care in administration. Since
the war demand has run, and continues
to run, well ahead of output. Limiting
factors have been shortages of raw
materials—especially linseed oil, pig-
ments, resins and tinplate—and of
skilled labor and electric power; and the
labor and materials problem has also
hampered expansion of factory premises
and plant. Over the last 12 years issued
capital has grown from £398,867 to
£1,254,240, shareholders have had divs.
averaging 14.2 p.c., and reserves have
climbe,d from £196,978 to £990,164. The
last 2,298,364 ss. ords. were issued in
May, 1950, at a premium of Is. each.
Including 20,148 ords, issued at a
premium (£15,111) in exchange for out-
side interests in subsidiaries, that lifted
paid capital to £996,923 —it includes
£lOO,OOO of 5 p.c, pref. money—at Sept.
30 last. There was then £287,281 of the
new capital to come. The premiums
(£130,029) were passed to reserves.
The leap of £73,807 in last terra’s com-
bined profit for the group was due mainly
to increased output and sales, and partly
to the fact that the 1949 figure was
affected by the nation-wide coal strike
The £245,424 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 35.8 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 29, 36.7, 36.6
22.5 and 16,5 p.c. back to 1945. A2\
p.c. bonus was added to the 17-1 p.c. div..
making 20 p.c. for the year.
The new share and premium moneys,
and more besides, went mainly into
stocks (up £425,565) and book debts (up
£179,086) Plant and freeholds increased
by £40,307 and £42,444 respectively:
Taubmans, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £506,417 £668,989 £674,691 £966,923
Outside
interests .. 93,927 105,063 154,368 148.311
Creditors* .. 166,525 467,829 695,071 841.118
Final divs. . . 44,706 64,642 64,642 90,977
Freeholds .. 279,053 301,474 394,371 436,815
Plant . . 216,088 272,675 331,783 372.09 C
Stocks .. 710,694 1,061,340 1,172,591 1,598,156
Debtors, etc.. . 279,766 401,269 465,848 644.934
Cash, etc. .. 14,343 3,886 41,458 41,973
* Includes provision for taxation.
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£432,787 stronger at £1,352,973.
The outlook for the group is one of
growing demand, and the plants, recently
expanded, are not yet producing to
capacity. Spiralling costs promise to be
troublesome, and selling-prices (mostly
controlled) may have to be increased to
cushion the bump. The fire that


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street. SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Oen. Manager.
■y--
2*»n
1L
CHI&
WITH
OFF
PEN
'Whether Junior is going to ft
new school or into a higher
class the child will do better with
a British "BLACKBIRD” foun-
tain pen. It has written the
lessons of generations of school-
boys and girls right round the
globe. The "BLACKBIRD” nib
is l4ct gold with a hard-wearing
iridium point, giving character
to the writing. The smarter and
longer clip grips the pocket or
handbag firmly. Price from all
Stores, Stationers and Jewellers,
only 29/-v
//I*
mnt'sw
sm
m
In Black,
mottled
Ruby,
Emerald
and Blue.
‘BLACKBIRD’
made by the
‘Swan’Pen People
MABIE, TODD & CO.
(MSI.) m. LTD., SYDNEY
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.” —A thousand ways of im-
proving yields. Published by “Jhe
Bulletin.” Price 1/-.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0-1-
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
Hastings Deering Building Limited
AND
Hastings Deering Service Limited
Extracts From Chairman’s Speech
Speaking to Shareholders at the Annual General Meetings
of the Companies, held on December 29, 1950,
Mr, H. Hastings Deering, the Chairman, outlined the
Companies * activities, and said: —
The results of our group ol companies are quite good. In a year of records In
Australia, our companies have been able to add to that number, i believe I am
quite correct in stating that we have sold a greater number of Ford units than any
other retail distributor in the world —which fact I verified when I was in England
and North America, This performance constitutes a record.
Profits have increased considerably and we have therefore increased out
reserves correspondingly. It is interesting to note that our Reserve Account now
stands at £115.000. This, of course, applies to the Service Company. As regards the
Building Company, our subsidiary trading companies are as yet too young to have
built up substantial reserves, but this will come. It would be impossible to replace
our buildings at the figures at which they appear in our books, and the difference
between present-day values and our Balance Sheet values constitutes a very
substantial reserve.
The turnover of the Group has increased considerably. For the ye# It was
five and a half million pounds (£5,5004500). which can be added to the twenty
million pounds (£20.000.000) worth of goods already sold since the inception of the
companies, making a total of twenty-five million pounds, which, in its sphere, also
is a record.
For years now, I have believed in Service, and have designed and planned
our Company's activities and developments with Service uppermost in my mind.
National Service, towards which so many of our activities are directed to-day. has
to go hand-in-hand with national defence. We look towards 1951 in a world beset
by some of the greatest problems and dangers which have faced it for the last
nineteen hundred and fifty years, and history relates some grim problems in that
period.
Hence our development in the Northern Territory is prompted by the knowledge
that "bully beef" becomes a munition. There are over one million head of cattle
in the Northern Territory. This number will have to be increased and this potential
will have to be readily available in the event of an emergency. We are establishing
a "Research Reserve" of considerable dimensions near Alice Springs and .hope to
make a very real contribution to beef production in Australia, conforming to our
policy of National Service plus National Development.
As indicated to you at the last Annual General Meeting, while in London this
year I bought for the Group, on most advantageous terms, the A.E.C.'s Australian
Company, which I have been privileged to manage for the last twenty-five years.
This transaction was by no means easy and the negotiations were not concluded
until July, 1950, giving us only one month of trading in the financial year.
You will notice from the Directors' report that orders since received amount to
£466.000. which is at a rale of one and a quarter million pounds per annum. The
AJE.C. Company have built London's buses for many years and are one of the
most experienced and successful heavy vehicle manufacturers in Britain and, in
fact, the world. During the two wars, A.E.C. was one of Britain s largest suppliers
of Army vehicles, and I am particularly pleased to report that all their experience
our Group in Australia inherits by this purchase. This addition to our group of
companies will play its part in Australian National Service, National Development
anH National Defence.
Looking at the men and women in our Company with whom I share my
responsibilities, a great number of them are young and virile and have had
considerable experience and training, as I believe that our Group is just at the
beginning of its big developments. Our plants have increased in size, in working
space and working power, and our personnel has increased to 850 in number.
Additional services have been created with Ford. Caterpillar. A.E.C.. Luna and
Haxland & Wolff. #
We will have in operation The Hastings Deering Finance and Investment
Company early in the New Year. I have always tried to keep our activities simple
and. when viewing the Group as a whole. th<=> Group preserves this wholeness.
It is well knit together, it owns the "homes" in which it Eves, it is accumulating
ample reserves, and this last addition of financial service by the new company,
together with our other financial associates, strengthens our Groups capacity for
National Service and Development, thus enabUng us to look to the part that wo
can play in the future with confidence.
CS-2
destroyed the lacquer section of
the parent’s factory at St. Peters
on Dec. 2, 1951, causing damage
estimated at £75,000, is not ex-
pected to have any marked effect
upon production.
The market lengthened its bid
for the f.-p. ss. ords. from 275.
6d. at end Nov., 1950, to 325.
last week. At the higher figure
the return is 3.1 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div. basis. The pound prefs. at
245. 6d. yield 4.1 p.c. Includ-
ing unpaid capital, net tangible
:over is £22 Bs, lOd. prefs. and
9s. 3d, ords,
Satupulo, N.L.
This Melbourne-controlled
co.’s 130,000 c.y.-a-month Werf-
Conrad dredge, operating at
Takuapa, West Siam, reached
the working face again early in
January, 1949. Subject to some
water and labor difficulties, it
has since operated continuously
for the following results:
Av.
Recovery, value. Profit.
Mar., C.y. t.o. c.y. &
1949 .. 169,500 29.5 0.39 lb. 2284
1950 . . 974,300 180.0 0.41 „ 9265
The oxide assays 74 p.c. tin.
Last term’s profit, equal to 5.8
p.c. on capital, was written after
allowing £3OOO for depreciation.
Operating costs were equal to
lid. per c.y.
During the 12 months of 1949
the London average price (spot)
for tin was £S6O6 7s. lid.
per ton. For the first six
months of 1950 the figure fluctu-
ated between £SS9O and £S6OI
15s. lid., and then shot up from
£8671 14s. Bd. for July to
£SIOB3 9s. Id. for Nov. On
Jan. 10, 1951, it had reached a
record £81242 10s, It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that for the
nine months to Dec. 31 last
the board was able to report a
profit of £849,808, equal to
£A62,260, or 39 p.c. on the
£159,300 of capital, which in-
cludes 10,500 £1 10 p.c. cumu-
lative participating prefs.
There is about 17,345,000 c.y.
of average-grade ground ahead
of the dredge, giving a life of
14£ years at the normal rate
of digging. At March 31,
1950, more-or-less liquids, in-
cluding spares (£9572), totalled
£66,272. There was £59,923
coming to outsiders, of which
£52,910 was a rehabilitation loan
from the Siamese Government.
Expenditure on account of re-
habilitation amounted to £53,206.
Settlement of the co.’s claim for
compensation (amount not
stated) is expected at an early
date.
How long the price of tin will
remain at or around its present
level is anybody’s guess at
the moment. The mainspring of
present heavy buying is stock-
piling, Government and com-
mercial, following developments
in East Asia, and consequent
anxiety about the continuity of
supplies from that area. At the
moment prospects of an early
and decisive improvement in the
situation are not bright.
The sharemarket takes a
cautious view and prices Satu-
pulo’s f.-p. pound ords. at 195.,
as against 13s. six months ago.
Gold
“Cambist”: In this inflation-
ary age the goldmining industry
is being constantly squeezed by
the pressure of rising costs
(labor and materials) against the
background of a fixed price for
the metal. And before long com-
plaints are likely to be heard
again from producers about the
“unrealism” of the U.S. official
price of $35 a fine ounce —un-
changed since 1934.
Certainly the Sept., 1949, de-
valuations gave producers in
soft-currency areas a new lease
of life by raising the local
paper price of gold. In Aus-
tralia the increase was 44 p.c.,
from £lO 15s. 3d. to £l5 9s. lOd.
a fine ounce. That meant a lift
in the value of existing ore re-
serves from 10.765. to 15.495. per
dwt. But since the storm broke
in Korea in June last a new
wave of inflation has already
gobbled much of the gain con-
ferred by devaluation, and is
threatening to drive the industry
into the doldrums again.
What, then, are the prospects
of a further rise in the statutory,
or official, price of gold in the
sterling area? Any further de-
valuation of sterling in terms of
the dollar appears to be outside
the sphere of practical politics
and economics at the moment.
In Australia the question of ap-
preciating the internal value of
the currency which would
mean a drop in the £A price of
gold—is still being actively can-
vassed, though the idea is
strongly opposed by manufac-
turing and primary-producing in-
terests. So it is to devalua-
tion of the U.S. paper dollar in
terms of gold that producers
now have to look for an increase
in the official local price of the
metal.
At the recent annual meeting
of West Witwatersrand Co.
at Johannesburg (S. Africa),
chairman S. R. Fleischer said
he “believed the prospect of an
all-round increase in the price of
gold justifies optimism for in-
vestors,” and he went on to
argue that the overvaluation of
the American dollar in terms of
gold is now resulting in a flow of
gold away from U.S. There is,
however, little evidence to show
that this outflow is basically due
to overvaluation as claimed.
Samuel Montague and Co., the
London bullion merchants, see
little prospect of an increase in
the dollar price of gold, and
claim that U.S. has no incentive
to lift the price, that gold pro-
ducers have no lobby representa-
tion at Washington, and that
world gold production will con-
tract still further. Moreover, the
Administration in U.S. has iden-
tified itself with opposition to a
rise in the official dollar price of
gold, arguing, among other
things, that it would further in-
crease inflationary pressures and
would tend to draw scarce re-
sources into production of
monetary wealth at the expense
of the production of other more
urgently needed commodities.
What investors need to watch
is the average-grade and tonnage
of pay-ore actually measured up,
prospects of developing further
payable reserves, mill capacity
and efficiency as measured by
throughput and percentage of re-
covery, and the level of costs,
which varies greatly from mine
to mine and from locality to
locality. Each mine must be
judged on its own merits.


im
mnm
innon
PR
m
a
§
3
a
*
■! KM 0| l>s-
-
fiOrtLEC. BY PE ft FOLDS WJNGS PTV. LTD.
il’C-HEY,* MCI&OtfKNIf, A !>£(.» IDE. »*(VBa«)E, PCPVH, .
; ;■ V : nett i «t: 6n,o,<s.
fW!M | j i <*h
9^
HOW BIG IS
TON OF GOLD?
\
X
m
m
w *i~.
-V
/5
/ /
GOLD is such exceptionally heavy metal
that a block weighing one ton can be contained
in a box measuring 15 inches in each direction.
Such a block would actually be worth
over £400,000 on the present day price of gold.
Many years before the discovery of gold in
this country, the Bank of Australasia
was established in business.
Today the Bank’s service covers
Australia and New Zealand,
and provides customers with
contacts throughout the world.
BANK OFAUSTRALASFA
Broaches throughout Australia, Netv Zealand and in London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
GBAte-1*
Business. Rollery. etc.
Shares Still Rising
Inflationary forces carried
Australian share prices up to a
new record level last week. But
as share quotations rose and
wool prices and wage-rates went
higher, present yields from in-
dustrial-share investments went
down.
Though a number of concerns
affected by special circumstances
have increased their divs. over
the past three years, dividend-
increases have been the excep-
tion rather than the rule. This
is especially noticeable in cases
of key industries depending on
coal and raw-material supplies
for their output.
B.H.P.’s div. has been un-
changed for four years, Henry
Jones’s for a much longer
period. British Tobacco’s div.
is down. Bradford Cotton’s rate
is still 10 p.c. (though the
market anticipates a benefit of
some kind soon), and Howard
Smith keeps a steady 6 p.c.
going.
Australasian Paper’s ord. div.
has remained at 6 p.c. since
1942, and Associated Pulp’s
rate has never been above 6 p.c.
A.C.I. has had a more active div.
record, bonus issues making the
rate more attractive still.
8.H.P., which had a lowest
price of 41s. 9d. in 1949, leapt to
655. 9d. last Friday. The whole
market was strong, and appeared
to be affected by the record
prices being paid for wool. Yet
high wool prices are likely to
affect B.H.P. adversely, prob-
ably adding to its costs, but in
no way assisting towards an
increase in output.
People with savings are find-
ing their position rather desper-
ate. If kept in the bank or in
Consols, their money rapidly
loses value as costs keep on
rising. And so they find them-
selves forced into the industrial-
share market, in which the long-
term prospects are probably
sound enough, though they
should be prepared for shocks
in case there is a jolt to con-
fidence whether through inter-
national developments, excess-
profits tax or harsher price-
control.
Some stocks still offering a
reasonable yield last week were
Bond’s Industries, 38s. 6d. (4.7
p.c.), Bradford Kendall, 18s.
(4.4 p.c.), Buckinghams, 11s.
(4.7 p.c.). Bearing Service, 16s.
6d. (5 p.c.), H. P. Gregory,
10s. 6d. (4.8 p.c.), J. C. Ludo-
wici, 575. (5.2 p.c.). Masonite
Corp., 755. (3.3 p.c.) and R, B.
Davies, 30s. (4.7 p.c.). The last-
mentioned is the largest manu-
facturer of builders’ hardware
in the Commonwealth, but is
not yet well known among in-
vestors, Masonite is one of Aus-
tralia’s strongest industrials,
with considerable potentialities
as an investment.
Glen Davis Shale-oil
“Petro”: There now seems to
be little doubt that Glen Davis
is going to shut down, and that,
at long last, the Government has
bowed to the inevitable and
accepted the advice tendered to
it, almost unanimously, by inde-
pendent experts with overseas
experience of oil-shale mining
and processing.
The present position was
summed-up last week (B.
10/1/ ’5l) where it was rightly
claimed that an output which
would put Glen Davis in a class
even approaching that of a
commercial producer could not
be achieved without the aboli-
tion of the “darg.” Even with
the wholehearted co-operation
of the miners’ unions (which —
to put it mildly—is just wishful
thinking), anything approximat-
ing remotely to operation at a
loss excusable on “strategic”
grounds is extremely doubtful.
The latest figures give the
Glen Davis costs at ss. 3d. for
each gallon of petrol. It takes,
therefore, the astounding sum
of over £6 10s. to mine and
process each ton of shale ; if the
interest charges are not included,
the cost per gallon is 4s. Id., or
over £5 per ton of shale, which
is still a ridiculous figure.
The uncompromising state-
ment by the Acting Prime
Minister, on January 9, when
“ ‘Pay as you go’? But I'm not GOING anywhere!”
he said that the Government’s
decision to close Glen Davis
would not be altered, should
therefore have caused no sur-
prise. He explained that the
Government, since its election,
had persevered with the Glen
Davis project; that expert
advice had been obtained; and
that the question had been in-
vestigated from every possible
aspect by a Government sub-
committee. He also gave what
must be a comforting assurance
to most taxpayers that the Gov-
ernment did not want to close
down a project which had any
chance of success, but that it
would qpt “thrash a dead
horse,” and that it was not so
irresponsible that it had got to
see money lost.
In B. 29/3/’5O present writer
dealt with U.S.A. methods of
production, whereby quarried
shale could be delivered to the
retorting plant at the equivalent
of ss. sd. (Aust.) a ton, and
crude oil produced, from 25
gallons per ton shale, at a price
almost exactly equivalent to 6d.
an imperial gallon. Premium
grade petrol was processed from
this crude at an all-in cost of
16.6 cents per U.S. gallon
(Is. 9.5 d. Aust. per imperial
gallon).
Glen Davis shale, as now pro-
cessed, averages 50 gallons of
crude oil to the ton, but the
other factors are heavily in favor
of U.S.A., and it is inconceivable
that Glen Davis, without the
stifling “darg,” and with a com-
pletely modern plant, could de-
liver even commercial grade
petrol in Sydney at less than
double the price of Is. 3d.
quoted as the cost to the Gov-
ernment of that quality from
other sources.
Many exaggerated claims of
possible cheap Australian pro-
duction have been made, but
they have not withstood investi-
gation.
The miners’ unions blame the
high cost of Glen Davis petrol
largely on inefficient refining
equipment and methods. In
fairness to the designer of the
“Fell” modification of the
Pumpherston retort, now in
operation at Glen Davis, it
should be pointed out that this
retort was not installed until
several years after the Govern-
ment had taken over control of
the project and that, although it
has given trouble-free service up
to the present time, it has never
had a chance of operating at
optimum efficiency and
minimum cost owing to a lack
of a sufficient and continuous
supply of oil-shale.
The American production
from the enormous and easily
quarried Colorado deposits is
50 tons per man-shift of total
mine employees. No reasonable
person would expect such an
achievement under Glen Davis
conditions, but the present figure
of tons per working miner
(or even double that production)
is simply not nearly good
enough to justify any further
waste of public moneys on this
astoundingly expensive experi-
ment.
The Malayan Market
“8.E.G.G.” (F.M.S.): True (B.
4/10/’5O), there is a good
market in Malaya for Aus-
tralian fruit and tinned goods,
but not under the present system of
marketing as practised by Australians.
Grading is very poor, quality of fruit
very uneven, and prices are high.
Both in Ipoh and Kuala Lumpur the
retailer has invariably to regrade the
fruit. Then his first-quality apple,
pear or orange is sold at 9d. (A), his
seconds at 7d., and what is left are
sold at 3£d. for cooking, the oranges
being just thrown out. The snag to
the retailer is that he pays a set price
as first-class fruit, and is unable to
say with any certainty what profits
he can make on any one case he
buys.
At the present moment I have
Canadian apples and American pears
in the ice-box. The apple is a red-
skinned variety, full of juice, and
ripe, something of a cross between
the Delicious and Winter Winesap,
with the latter’s firmness and juicy
sweetness, price about 9d. (A) and
weighing three and a half to the
pound; the pears are about the same
weight, ripe and juicy, and as ready
to eat as though picked straight off
the tree. Price again about 9d. (25
cents Straits). Wastage on U.S. and
Canadian is reckoned as not more
than 5 per cent, per case.
Australian apples are invariably
Granny Smith, or very much like
that variety (green); pears mostly
woody, immature and small, and the
same price as American. Now who
is going to buy Australian fruit if
better fruit is obtainable at exactly
the same price?
This also applies to South African
oranges: navels, about four to the
pound, price 7d. each for sound,
juicy, ripe fruit, graded expertly
throughout the case. Australian
oranges, slightly smaller, price 7d.,
case contents very mixed in grade
and at times the centre pith is rotten,
evidence of immaturity and poor
refrigerating storage.
Grapes, both muscatel and white,
4s. 6d. to 6s. a lb. Australian, skin
bruised, sour and probably one-third
of a bunch stunted berries. South
African and American grapes, same
price or slightly cheaper, vastly
superior in quality.
Yes, the market is here right
enough, but before Australia can
claim any great share in it she must
correct these abuses.
Now for the other side. A Tas-
manian firm packed scallops in cello-
phane wrappings. They were shelled,
cleaned and graded, all to a good
size, a one-pound package retailed at
4s. 3d. (A), and the whole shipment
was in perfect condition on arrival
in Ipoh. Congratulations to them.
It shows there is somebody down
there who realises that quality pays.
Generally the quality of Australian
canned goods is seldom the same in
any two tins—jams doped with apple
fillings, meats dry and tasteless.
Australian canners do not seem to
realise that here we can buy English,
American, Dutch, Belgian, South
African, Norwegian, Danish, Swedish
and other canned goods, prices vary-
ing from cheaper to dearer in com-
parison with Australian products, but
almost in every case quality of the
foreign goods is better. One other
thing that is not taken into con-
sideration is that there are many
Asiatics going overseas today, and


Your family’s Security
in the changing world
To safeguard the security of
your family in a changing
world, your Will should give
your Executor and Trustee in-
vestment powers and manage-
ment powers that are broad and
flexible.
Unless a Will expressly per-
mits, a Trustee is not allowed,
for example, to take advantage
of the excellent range of
investments covered by shares in leading Companies,
having sound capital structure and a reputation for
good management and a record of good dividends.
As a result your Executor would be prevented from
obtaining the maximum yield from your Estate to
ensure security for your family.
Discretion in such matters can safely be left to
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. It has a wide
experience in handling Estates of many different kinds,
Investment, Industrial and Pastoral.
The Capital and Reserves of the Company,
amounting to over £500,000 provide tangible security
for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of £BOO,OOO is
an additional safeguard.
If you would discuss this subject with one of the
Company’s Senior Officers, write, or telephone B 0377,
and make an appointment.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY POR ABSENTEES A OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, BTC.
DIRECTORS!
Hon. T. A, J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS: Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70.000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
? r.
.
5 in
3?®t
£
m
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Claeses Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
f
I NOW OPEN!
BRISBANE CITY COUNCIL
«" gilt edged
investment
GIIARANTEEDTBY THE GOVERNMENT OF QUEENSLAND
WATER I&ISEWERA6E
o.oooLoan
TRANSPORTATION!
FTFnTFni.
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY/1
f ilili
/see of exchart ot
fa <* fra // a
£3/6/3
, PERIipNUM fo*
l5 YEARS
The Brisbane City Council is unique among local
authorities, being the only Council in Australia
conducting the Civic affairs of the whole Metropolitan
area (covering 375 square miles) and also managing
Water, Sewerage, Electricity and Transport undertakings.
INVEST IN AUSTRALIA’S FASTEST GROWING
CITY —AT BETTER THAN BANK INTEREST!
HIGH RETURN. Interest
is payable at the rate of
£3/6/3% per annum for
15 years much better
than Bank interest.
GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVT. OF QUEENSLAND.
A gilt edged investment-
due payment of interest
and due repayment of
principal guaranteed by
the Govt, of Queensland
under 'The City of Brisbane
Acts, 1924 to 1950'.
REPAYABLE IN FULL.
Principal will be repaid in
full on Ist February, 1966,
free of Exchange, at the
Principal office of the
Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in all capital
cities.
INTEREST HALF-YEARLY,
FREE OF EXCHANGE.
Interest will be paid half-
yearly on Ist February and
Ist August each year, free
of exchange. First pay-
ment to be made by
warrant on Ist August,
1951.
MINIMUM INVESTMENT
£5O. Anyone with £5O or
more can subscribe. Allot-
ments made in multiples of
£5O to larger investors.
Issues mode in the form
of inscribed stock, or
debentures if required.
SINKING FUND., H%
of the aWiount outlie Loan
will be paid to the Trustees
of the City Debt Redemp-
tion Fund annually.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the
Loan cbyable either Ip full
on application, or 10% on
application, 'and balance
either in full or in instal-
ments of 30% at any time
up to 31st March, 1951.
READILY SALEABLE.
Application for Listing on
the Stock Exchanges of
Brisbane, Sydney, Mel-
bourne ;"and Adelaide will
be mode immediately after
the closing of the Loan,
and thus your securities
may be sold on the Stock
Exchange at any time.
THIS LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
IN QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA
•
APPLY NOW! Prospectus is available from, and applications may Da
lodged direct with any office of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia
(Bankers for the Issue) and may be lodged through members of
recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia, or at the City Hall, King
George Square, Brisbane.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER fr CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 31st JANUARY, 1951.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RA OFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in. all States Agencies in all Country Centres
they themselves are able to see what
is on sale in other countries. When
cnhcisSs me are aC not always ya kindly,
especially as regards foodstuffs, and
Australian goods seem to be the main
target for their abuse.
The only solution is for Australian
suppliers to bring their packing,
grading, labelling, etc., into line
with other countries and stick to it
so that mutual trust is built up
between the supplier and buyer.
Maoriland Overseas Trade
. . , ... , ,
x Christmas-box that cheered
Maonlanders more than a State
of . a head
200,000-odd pensioners and
!!| 0 o„ C J a tf,h Un i?
tsmo f!m i Sll,f 5 of £ fn.ir m h morl
38,000 ramifies of tour or more
children, was decontrol of a
further £6O million of imports
from soft-currency sources.
yfarly 1
months earlier, this removed
two-thirds of New Zealand’s im-
port trade from bondage, and
to long-rationed Maorilanders
meant early release from short-
ages and a Government-spon-
sored seller’s market for goods
within everyone’s reach abroad,
By taking off the brakes in
stages, N.Z. was following Aus-
tralia’s lead, though a long way
behind
The' move was notice to
traffickers in import-licences,
profiteers in scarce goods, pam-
pered manufacturers who bat-
tened on the public by cost-plus
price-fixing, bureaucrats who
kept traders waiting on the door-
step and workers who slacked
on the job that their day was
ending. Competition, bound and
gagged by the Socialists, would
soon be free again. This would
mean the deathknell to trade in
second- and third-rate goods,
and would restore standards in
M.L.’s degenerated market.
Manpower and resources would
gravitate back to sound indus-
try, and parasitic enterprises
would find themselves stranded,
It was a signal for many over-
due changes to put new life into
M.L.’s run-down economy, and
j t translated into action Prime
Minister Sid Holland’s dictum
that all controls are a subtle
form of Socialism, which en-
courages and rewards ineffi-
. ° .. • ...
ciency, penalises and discourages
efficient production, and demes
to consumers the service, quality
, aj tv tn wb j cb tbev are
entitled”’ Y
Maorilanders should have a
chance now to do something
about their high cost-price struc-
ture w kii e eX po r t prosperity is
still in full flood.
.. Q . m
inflation,” said H. E. Schofield,
president of M.L.’s Associated
d. •
Chambers of Commerce. Busi-
’sl^B
a ntces?arv P sten to put.
fjaje and industry squarely on
1 * le , , . . _. „,
Theres no fear that N.Z.s
exchange funds, buoyed aloft by
boom in wool, will not take
extra weight thrown on them.
ta | ce easi and most
Maorilanders can see no reason
for nursing the funds any longer
but goods that compete with
locally-made will have to be
watched ; they 11 remain under
licence at least until the newly-
formed Board of Trade has had
time to make up its mind,
One .°f the obstacles is the
Dominion’s tariff wall, which
isn’t high enough to shelter mar-
ginal industries, or even those a
bit inside the margin, if import
controls were all scrapped, and
it’s going to take perhaps years
to adjust the height of the wall,
for M.L.’s hands are tied by the
intricate network of tariff and
trade agreements that has grown
up since ’47 Geneva parleys
shaped a new course.
Some Maorilanders don’t care
two hoots about young border-
line enterprises that have never
been exposed to a real test, but
this isn’t the majority view. A
good proportion of unproved
concerns ought to be able to
earn their keep if given time ;
meanwhile they’re worth a little
extra help by trade defences.
Just how long they should be
given to prove themselves will
be for the Board of Trade to
decide, and by the start it has
made it seems fitted for the task.
N.Z.’s Restless Pound
Leaning on 12-year-old ex-
change controls has become such
a habit with New Zealand that
its pound is still supported on
crutches as in 1939 and later,
when there was no other course,
and few Maorilanders seem to
expect anything different,
although wool prosperity to-
day should be more than
enough to put the pound firmly
on its feet again. So long as
the props are there the pound
will be under pressure from the
rear, because Maoriland pro-
ducers haven’t a chance of
spending their fat wool cheques
as they come in—even after a
third is frozen in individual
trading-bank accounts and
they can’t invest abroad while
the Reserve Bank keeps that
door barred. Exchange de-
control would be deflationary,
which is the kind of medicine
M. needs just now.
Twelve years ago New
Zealand capital was being
drained away, and the country
was nearly bled white. Today
the balance of payments is
heavily in Maoriland’s favor and
the odds are funds abroad will
bank up rapidly in 1951. Wool
millions can’t be spent as quickly
as they come in, and even if
they could it wouldn’t be in
N. interest to get rid of the
windfall of about £lOO million
as if it were just so much
ordinary income. Much of this
wealth will have to go into
improvements, new plant,
machinery and equipment to
build up future production, and
this will be a fairly slow
process, probably made slower
by rearmament demands at the
supply end.
If spending can’t keep pace
with income the commonsense
course is to convert the
surplus into good securities, and
many Maorilanders would do
this if they were given half a
chance. Today, cut off from
the outside world, they’re re-
duced to bidding up for Aus-
tralian- and London-domiciled
shares on their local market.
They could buy 3s. in the £
cheaper if the exchange ban
were lifted and they had access
to external supplies, and the
anti-inflationary jolt to values in
New Zealand would help to
stabilise the pound. Every
million invested abroad would
cancel out a million that’s chas-
ing goods and services not at
present available in Maoriland.
Later on there could be some
cashing-in on these investments,
perhaps with a capital gain, to
buy plant, but some of the funds
would swell M-L.’s overseas
income permanently.
As long as world prices were
at or above average N.Z. would
have no need to worry about a
possible currency setback, for it
should stand to gain rather than
lose if currencies were revalued
later on. Its pound, anchored
to sterling, at parity, with an im-
pressive group of other soft
currencies, would have an ad-
vantage over Australia’s 25 p.c.
depreciated pound, and as there’s
no other investment field that
has the same appeal to Maori-
landers, the future of Australian
currency concerns them most.
One of the weaknesses behind
Maoriland’s exchange barrier
has been the growth of bank
credit on top of a great accu-
mulation of idle deposits. The
trading banks haven’t given the
central bank the wholehearted
support it hoped for when it re-
laxed its control of advances in
the early part of 1950, although
they’ve made an honest effort to
prevent speculation. Judging by
experience, it seems that money
created for legitimate uses is
liable to free other funds for
doubtful purposes, and that all
funds added to the stream have
much the same effect in the long
run, regardless of the merits of
their original use,


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
As the centre of social activity seems
to have passed to Palm Beach, parties
have been few in town this week, most
women’s time being devoted to the
youngsters, the sales, the shows and some
serious thought.
The serious thought is being given to
the teenagers, who, having passed the
Intermediate or the Leaving, are now
faced with the problem of what they’re
going to do. Many of the girls have no
ideas on the subject at all, except that
they’re sure they’d make good models,
film-stars or ladies of fashion.
Fashion-work has a fascination for
girls, but the trouble is that they want to
be right at the top from the beginning.
The way to start is to become apprenticed
to a dressmaking firm, a milliner, or to
get a position in a retail store. This isn’t
so glamorous, but it can be the start of
a really interesting fashion career.
Nursing is often passed over in the
belief that the hours are too long and the
work too hard. This is a mistake, for
nurses now work only 40 hours a week
(much fewer than housewives) and have
been relieved of the heaviest chores. They
are well paid when training and have the
satisfaction of knowing that they are
doing important and noble work.
For the girls with scientific leanings
dietetics is a fairly new profession v/ith
plenty of openings. It takes five years,
of which the first three are spent at the
University doing a science course, the last
two at a hospital studying food and nutri-
tion (the girls are paid during this period).
An alternative for the scientifically-
minded is to become a laboratory
assistant, which doesn’t offer so many
openings, but has the advantage of giv-
ing paid employment and training at the
same time.
Social welfare is another new profes-
sion for girls in which there are plenty of
openings. As the work deals with help-
ing people with their personal and
domestic problems, one must be at least
20 before beginning the two-year course.
After leaving school girls who want to
do this work could do an arts course at
the University or take an office job in
some organisation such as the Red Cross
or Y.W.C.A. It is said that the marriage-
rate among social-welfare workers is very
high, which may or may not be an in-
ducement to take up the course.
The youngsters’ main entertainment,
apart from thfe beach, has been the panto-
mime at the Palace, “Jack and the Bean-
stalk,” which brings back all the nostalgic
memories of other, more elaborate
pantos of long ago. One thing was
missing—that wonderful moment when
the whole company came on stage at the
end of the show and threw little boxes
of chocolates to the kiddies in the audi-
ence and the feeling of unfairness when
most of the boxes fell into the stalls.
Backstage the kids “limbering-up” for
the can-can, etc,, were just as amusing as
the show itself, and recalled one of the
main disappointments of childhood, that
of never being allowed to get a job danc-
ing in a pantomime.
The sales are no longer called by that
somewhat discredited name, but are now
“Special Summer Sellings” or a “Store-
wide Clearance.” To their normal
fascination, which is as magnetic to some
as the races, is now added the fear that
prices are likely to soar still further, so
that panic is never very far off. During
the war many stores decided never to
have another sale, but apparently the
women want them and so they get them,
for good or ill.
The new show at the Independent is
“Faust,” which drew a rather different-
from-usual first-night audience (lots of
the “regulars” have gone away to the
mountains and the seaside). There were
many theatrical personalities present, in-
cluding Muriel Steinbeck, looking oh-so-
film-starish in a black evening-dress.
The show starts at eight sharp and ends
at 11.30, giving one during that time as
much of the Goethe immortal as pos-
sible, and more, it must be admitted,
than most of us would read in a lifetime.
A gay luncheon was given at Prince’s
by Beatrice Bateman to farewell Lydia
Fernandez-Yayle, who returns shortly to
the Argentine with her Consul-husband.
Another guest-of-honor was American
Jean Taylor, whose natural shantung
dress and hat with red poppies certainly
upheld the fashion honor of the United
States. There was a generous assortment
of wives of members of the Consular
Corps, Madame Regala as usual being
exquisitely dressed in Philippines
costume, this time green with sequin-
embroidered sleeves The hostess wore
a wide hat of Victorian pink with a
own mk-blue velvet and a dress to
.
. There s been so much slinging off about
how muc h women don’t know about
f ,h ‘ s k* ler took a ‘“ son ° n
® be . yo “ ng “P hew f b «-
lik * Rugby Union - ’ "
Our picture is of Cathleen O Carroll,
who will leave shortly for England t( J
take up her violin scholarship with the
Royal CoUege o£ Music cathleen, who
is 20 > Uves at Bexle y North and belongs
to a large and very musical family. Her
eldest brother is a cnndnrtnr in
b“ur‘e her eldest sLer Eton a harafst’
Urne ’ ner eldest sister, Eileen, a harpist.
, Younger sister Patricia, who is also a
harpist, has just returned from New Zea-
land and Adelaide, where she has been
giving recitals for the A.B.C. Next comes
Maureen, a ’cellist, who is with the
National Orchestra in N.Z. Fifteen-year-
old brother Seamus has just won a
trumpet scholarship to the Conserva-
torium, and of the two youngest boys
Liam is studying the piano and Eamon
the violin. Cathleen herself has studied
with Gerald Whalen, Georgina McLean
and Haydn Beck. She will be in Eng-
land for two years.. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
A vital visitor from Canada is
Stephanie Marsh, who has been brighten-
ing up The Bulletin office of late while
she seeks material for her husband’s new
book Laugh With the Aussies. The
Marshes have been to Australia several
times during their trips round the world,
always using air travel, for they believe
in spending as much time as they can in
the countries they visit. Mrs. Marsh has
solved the problem of looking soignee
while travelling by wearing slack-suits
while on the plane and carrying her
dresses over her arm in a covered hanger
case, and by packing her coats and suits
in a zipper case marked “fragile.” She
doesn’t wear slacks while in Sydney be-
cause hotel dining-room managers take a
poor view of the custom. It is different
in New York, where the Broadway
actresses seem to possess only slack-suits
and evening dresses.
Mrs. Marsh says that, for dressing in
summer, Australian girls are the best in
the world. Their only rivals for top
honors are, she thinks, the New York
women during the midwinter season. Mrs.
Marsh, who is a graduate in Health Edu-
cation, devotes most of her time now to
helping her husband with his books —
she does the typing and some of the
research. She has three grandchildren
but looks remarkably youthful. She has
often been told that she looks like
Eleanor Roosevelt, which is a compliment
in her case, for it is Eleanor’s vigor and
intelligence that one sees in her face.
Lady Barbirolli, wife of Sir John, is
another viistor whose charming person-
ality has impressed Australians. Known
professionally as Evelyn Rothwell (her
maiden name), she is one of the few
women oboe-players in the world.
Although the oboe is the most difficult
of woodwind instruments, Lady Barbirolli
thinks it is well suited to women —pro-
vided, she adds, they are in good physical
condition. Australia will have an oppor-
tunity of hearing oboe recitals by Lady
Barbirolli on January 24 and 31, and on
February 7 and 14, when she will perform
two Australian works she has come across
since her arrival from London. In addi-
tion, she will play with the S.A. Symphony
Orchestra when her husband conducts
it on February 1,
When the Otranto sailed for England
this week, it took with it several members
of the Girl Guides’ Association, Joan
Stevenson, who has been Country Trainer
for three months, Joan Place and Eliza-
beth Wadge, of Vaucluse, and Miss
Bown, of Kogarah.
From Melbourne
The prima donnas of the forthcoming
National Theatre’s opera season will
include sopranos Betna Pontin, Barbara
Wilson and Betty Fretwell, Muriel Luyk,
mezzo-soprano, and Justine Rettick,
dramatic soprano. They will sing the
roles of Aida, Carmen and Rosina.
Although they have sung in previous
National Theatre opera seasons their
average age is only 24. Because of the
limited opportunities in singing most of
the girls have other jobs, but Betna
Pontin is devoting all her time to music
as a career; she also studies the piano
and languages. Up to now she has con-
centrated on Italian and German, but
consequent upon her decision to go to
Paris to study singing under the great
French soprano Ninon. Vallin she has
taken up French. Betna will give a fare-
well recital in the Town Hall on April
19. When she sails in May she will be
accompanied by Barbara Wilson, who
will also continue her studies abroad.
Justine Rettick is also saving hard for an
overseas trip. Mezzo-soprano Muriel
Luyk came from Auckland over five
years ago to do the Diploma of Music
course at the University Conservatorium,
and is with the A.B.C. singers. The fifth
girl of this enthusiastic group of singers,
Betty Fretwell, was a member of the
company which took opera to the
country under the auspices of the
Council for Adult Education. She also
spends much of her spare-time studying
languages.
Sydney art student Judith Eagle has
won the “Sara Levi” scholarship for the
most-improved student at Melbourne
National Gallery in 1950. She was also
placed second for her still-life study. A
student of William Dargie, she will
shortly go abroad to continue her studies.
Janet, who is a former student of Ruyton
Girls’ Grammar School, Kew, is the
daughter of Mrs. Kathleen Eagle, of
Barham (N.S.W.).
This photo of Lady McConnan, whose
husband was knighted in the New Year
honors, was taken on board the Himalaya
the day they arrived back from a trip
overseas. Petite, and possessing a softly-
spoken Scottish accent, Lady McConnan
is a member of the South Richmond
Kindergarten committee and of the
Town and Gown Guild. Her hard work
begins again after the holiday recess.
Returning from Britain, Lady McConnan
is emphatic that food parcels are still
urgently needed and should contain all
manner of tinned meats and fruits. Sir
Leslie and Lady McConnan have left
their daughter Bunty on the Continent,
where she is studying French and Italian
and doing lots of sightseeing.
April 21 is the date chosen, and St.
John’s, Toorak, the setting, for the
marriage of Janet Maling and Graham
(Chook) Fowles, son of Mr. and Mrs.
H. S. G. Fowles, of Mittagong (N.S.W.).
Janet, who is the eldest daughter of Dr.
and Mrs, H. C. Maling, of Portland, has
just graduated from the university with
an Honors B.A. She is wearing a
diamond-surrounded sapphire ring, and
has already chosen her bridal attendants:
Rosemary Grimwade, Jill Manifold, Sue
Boyd, Joy Fowles and her small sister
Ann.
Early in March Mrs. Helene Fischer
and her daughter Evelyn will bid goodbye
to the many friends they have made in
this city. For two and a half years Mrs.
Fischer has been a popular member of
the Consular Corps—she is a U.S. Vice-
Consul. Now she goes to an appoint-
r ment on the staff of the U.S. Consul-
-3 General in Toronto, Canada. Orson
Nielsen, until recently U.S. Consul-
l General in Sydney, now occupies that
i post in Toronto, so the two families will
l be able to get together once again.
■ Before coming to Australia Mrs. Fischer
■ spent 10 years in Germany. Evelyn has
i a host of friends at Melbourne
University.
News from England tells of the engage-
ment of Jennifer Gamble and Hugh
: Stretton, and this will link two legal
families. Jennifer is the younger daughter
: of Judge and Mrs. Fred Gamble, of Mont
, Albert; Hugh is the second son of Judge
, and Mrs. Leonard Stretton, of Greens-
> borough. Jenny went to England over
two years ago to study art, where her
i success has been marked by a number of
commissions for portraits. Hugh was the
; 1946 Rhodes Scholar ; still in his twenties,
r he is official Fellow and junior Dean of
Balliol College, Oxford.
The marriage of Helen Francis,
younger daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J.
Frank Spring, of Kew, to Peter Mornane.
youngest son of the late Dr, and Mrs.
H. S. Forrest, formerly of East Mel-
bourne, was celebrated with Nuptial
Mass at Xavier College Chapel, the Rev.
Father W. Smith officiating. The bride’s
beautiful gown of cream Rhodesia satin
had a fitting bodice with a wide V-shaped
neckline and long pointed sleeves. Her
Limerick-lace veil was held with two
sprays of orange-blossom, and she
carried a bouquet of cream water-lilies
and gardenias. Attending the bride were
Mrs. Luke Murphy, Mrs. James
Mortensen and Ann Forrest ; their full-
skirted gowns of lemon-spotted organza
and matching picture-hats thtew the
bride’s gown into high relief. Bouquets
were of frangipani. Kenneth Madden
was best man. Dr. Michael Forrest, the
bridegroom’s brother, and Dr. James
Mortensen were groomsmen. Reception
was held at the hospe of the bride’s
parents.
One of the brightest functions in the
social calendar is the Alfred Hospital
Ball. Nurses are now working hard pre-
paring for it. St, Kilda Town Hall is the
venue and February 23 the date; the
decorative motif is being kept secret.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks have granted their patron-
age. Matron M. J. Hanna is ticket-
secretary and Sister B. Bertram is secre-
tary, assisted by Miss M. McPherson.
Proceeds from the ball will be divided
between the hospital’s auxiliaries and the
fund for remodelling the theatre. Reser-
vations, which must be finalised by
February 9, may be made by telephoning
the ticket-secretary at LA1251.
Coming fast on the heels of Barbara
Cox’s 21st-birthday celebrations was a
buffet-dinner party at her parents’ home
for her engagement to Richard, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Timson, of
Mosman, Sydney. The ring is an oblong
sapphire surrounded by diamonds. Mrs.
C. F. Cox received her daughter’s guests
in a smart black faille jacket-suit.
Barbara wore a navy white-pin-spotted
tie-silk ballerina frock with a short
matching bolero covering the strapless
top. Mrs. Royden Honeyman’s black
crepe slim-fitting frock had a fine black
lace yoke. Mrs. Bill Ramsay, the former
Robin Bayley, wore a black taffeta
ballerina frock. Shirlee Bourchier was
in pastel - pink taffeta; her sister
Beverley’s bottle-green tie-silk frock had
a wide white Bertha collar ornamented
with a leaf design of the green tie-silk.
Desma Watts’s chiffons were shaded from
palest mauve to royal-purple. June
Vincent’s black romaine skirt was worn
with a cream needle-run lace on a black
tulle blouse. Junior-blue faille was the
choice of Armine Johnston, who came
from Sydney for the party. Patti Me-
Crickard’s white linen ballerina frock
was trimmed with Swiss embroidery.
Laurel Tressider’s crepe frock was dusty-
pink. Janet Maling’s ballerina frock was
of black taffeta. Janice McCreedy’s silks
were pale-lime-green.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
chairman of the V.A.T.C., presided at the
luncheon she gave at Caulfield to the
city’s social scribes in a black jacket-suit
and a pretty aqua straw cloche with its
trimming of matching ospreys. Mrs. Ken
McLean, wife of a committee member,
wore a green-and-white-coin-spotted frock
with a small white hat. Mrs. George
Pitt’s powder-blue frock was worn under
a navy coat and with a small white hat.
An ensemble in the same shade was the
choice of Mrs. H. Way, wife of the
V.A.T-C. secretary, a large white hat
giving the contrast. Mrs. Norman
Lynch’s Christian Dior frock of navy-
and-white-coin-spot silk featured the new
horseshoe neckline, and was worn with a
small white Panama hat with a cluster of
deep blue flowers at one side. Mrs.
Norman Mitchell offset her black faille
suit with a small white hat.


PERSONAL ITEMS
I holidaying with his Dutch wife on his
ive strand, William George Searle
lite, who answers to nothing but
imbo.” Climbing upwards of 6ft. 3m.,
eways to match, and never yet seen
hout a grin, Bimbo represented
eensland (his home State), N.S.W. and
stralia at Rugby Union, toured S,
rica with the national side, and in 1940
aed another national outfit, ending up
squadron-leader, D.F.C. He flew
nderlands in Coastal Command, came
:k for a lash at the Nips per Catalina,
d got his decoration for bringing out a
rty of coast-watchers from the Jap-held
tu Island. Instead of suffering from
ambat fatigue,” Bimbo throve—going
from 17 to 19 stone. As a) rest from
; strenuous stuff he did a couple of
ns-Pacific ferry trips, and after the war
ned K.N.1.L.M., stationed in Batavia
d flying round the Indies. Now with
L.M. in Holland, living in Haarlem, he
» the S. Africa-S. America route, and
11 keep on flying so long as they can
ild planes big enough to fit him.
Passed the Navy’s highest hurdle
eut. - commander to commander),
illiam Keith Tapp and James Maxwell
imsay. Tapp was in cruiser Hobart
rough her Java Sea junketings, shifted
Warramunga, and came ashore as flag-
utenant to Admiral Lord Keyes on his
astral ian visit. Towards the end of the
ix Tapp took command of valiant old
sndetta, of Tobruk and other glory,
amsay is a navigator who served with
app in Hobart, then shifted to some-
ing bigger—battleship King George V,
which he had the unforgettable experi-
ice of being officer of the watch when
ie smashed the Bismarck.
Revisiting Sydney and old friends, Sir
rchibald Jamieson, of London, one-time
rairman of Vickers, Ltd. Sir Archibald
on M.C. in his war (the Kaiser’s); his
m Major David Jamieson, a director
E the Australian Agricultural Co., won
.C. in his.
Before the war Peter Gibbes, A.F.C.,
>.F.C., was very well known to
vilian air-passengers—as their pilot
2 tween Sydney and Melbourne. In the
ar his enemy contacts included the
ombing, at mast-heighi, of an armed
ip wireless-ship off Malaya ; a lively
ight from Palembang to Singapore,
astily sketching enemy naval dispositions
nder shell-fire; and a run on terra firma
> board his plane and take-off with Jap
lachine-gunners all around him doing
ieir rapid-fire best to keep him there,
[older of Australia’s No. 1 radio-ticket,
arter of the Ceylon air-route, he re-
amed to A.N.A. after the war, and last
reek went up to become the line’s fiight-
jperintendent.
“K.”: Harold Power (who promoted his
;cond name Septimus late in life because it
sounded better with dealers”) was an enter-
iining fellow, as well as a superb painter ot
orses and dogs. I first met him in Adelaide,
bout 1906, where he originally showed some
fater-colors, and where he did the best day s
fork in his life by marrying his first wife, who
fed shortly before World War 11. She had a
eart as big as a bucket; no adversity dismayed
er; she nursed Harold through years of acute
tomach-trouble, spurred him on in his work
vhen his own spirits (not often) flagged, and
arried on his business-dealings, at which she
nade herself a match for most dealers. She it was
vho talked him into risking all the money they
tad in going to Paris to study. He got his
irst lift in Chelsea—l once had some miserable
liggings alongside them there in 1909 when he
tarted painting dogs. Then his horses his
irst and abiding love —found the popular taste,
le had studied veterinary science in order to
‘paint horses right.” He distinguished hjmselt
is one of the official artists attached to the
VI.F. by demanding to sketch a couple ot
Diggers in a shell-hole on the assembly-line just
jefore the attack on Broodseinde Ridge, in the
t'pres salient, in October, 1917. Being entirely
lew to the front, and very deaf, Harold did
lot in the least know what he was asking for,
md was most indignant when the attack started
md his models were hauled off; he himselt
walked back through the German counter-
aarrage nursing that grievance. Fame had come
to him, leaving him utterly unspoilt, when he
revisited Australia and held an exhibition in
Sydney in the early ’thirties. It was then I
came on him one evening flat on his stomach
in a boiled shirt and dress clothes —in Mac-
quarie-street trying to fetch an imprisoned
kitten out of a hole under a grating. Mrs.
Power stood beside him in a pose of admirable
resignation, while H ar °ld, filthy with dirt, and
his hand lacerated, laughed like a hyena as he
squeezed the animal to get it through the bars.
But Melbourne —where he had his first job as
a lad, in a chemist’s shop—was his final home.
Its citizens, on his return there (before the late
war), were first made aware of his presence
when Harold, travelling home late down the
St. Kilda-road in an old cable-tram, roused the
night with his rendering of “Annie Laurie” and
“Home, Sweet Home” on a saxophone, which
first infuriated the driver and conductor, but
eventually had the whole tram company con-
vulsed with merriment. He was a grand little
fellow.
Captain Charles Harold Peters, one of
Melbourne’s literary identities, died at 61
last week. As managing-director of
Robertson and Mullens (he started
as a boy when one side of the firm was
Melville and Mullens) he helped many
Australian authors to get their brain-
children between covers. He helped
publish Mary Gilmore’s collected
poems, was a close friend of Mrs.
Aineas Gunn, and printed endless editions
of We of the Never Never. Thou-
sands of listeners were familiar with
his weekly broadcasts on books, and his
was the energy behind the Australian
Authors’ Book Week and the Children’s
Book Week. A past-president of
Melbourne Legacy, in the 1914 war he
was delegated to the job of training scout-
ing and patrol parties. He was then
passed over to the British Army for the
same duty. He won the M.C. and Bar,
In B. 8/11/’5O a paragraph from
Brisbane mentioned that John, son of
the Rev. H. M. Wheller, was killed on
operational service with the War II
R.A.A.F. John has since presented
himself at The Bulletin’s Brisbane
office as evidence that he is still on deck.
Dr. F. Grayeff, a native of Germany,
who crossed to New Zealand from
Sydney in 1939 to become lecturer in
German at Otago University, has had
accepted for publication by Richard
Meiner, one of the leading firms
of Hamburg, a commentary to
Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason. The
volume, entitled Explanation of Kant's
Theoretical Philosophy, was submitted to
the publisher in English, but at his
request the doctor translated it into
German. An English edition will follow.
One of these days Melbourne beer-
drinkers may be sampling one of the
world’s most famous and oldest-
established beers —and brewed in Mel-
bourne, if Major S. W. Addison, shortly
to arrive in Australia, finds the possi-
bilities for which he is looking. He
represents the House of Whitbread, the
City of London Brewers, which was
founded two centuries ago, and exports
its product to 30 countries. The firm
has two connections with Australia,
Major Addison was born in Tasmania and
commanded the first squadron of the
A.F.C. in the Middle East in the 1914
war; he served with Bomber Command
in World War 11. Whitbread’s original
power-plant was a steam-engine made by
James Watt and installed in 1785. It is
now (B. 3/l/’5l) in the Sydney Museum
of Applied Arts and Sciences.
Herewith by Lambart, the heavyweight
champion of the Queensland sugar
industry and North Queensland develop-
ment —16-stone Ernest Evans, State
Country-party mouthpiece for the cane-
farming electorate of Mirani, round
Mackay. Evans toppled Deputy-Premier
Walsh for the seat in 1947, and held it
with a bigger majority last year. Born
on the Downs, Evans migrated from
wheat to cane as a youth, cut his way
to influence as a union advocate, and, in
1918, took on his biggest contract when
he and six others of like calibre moved
CANE.
into the “forbidden land”—a stretch of
country known as Little Mulgrave and
pronounced inaccessible. Evans and his
company of unbelievers turned the soil,
grew the cane, built a rail-line and sup-
plied Mulgrave mill from an area now
producing 60,000 tons yearly. Evans
himself moved on to Mackay, to combine
cane-farming with vice-presidency of the
Australian Sugar Producers Association
and chairmanship of the £2-million
Farleigh Co-operative Sugar Mill.
The Coventry face here presented looks
as though it’s owned by a successful
businessman —it is, Carl Bertram having
become president of the S. Australian
Chamber of Manufactures a few weeks
back. A previous holder ofi most of the
Chamber’s top posts, widely interested in
clothing manufacture, the new president
is a short and genial 54, and learnt his
figures at Adelaide High. In between
building up his business interests he found
CLOTHING.
time to qualify for an R.S.L. badge, with
four years in the old A.I.F.
The reappearance of a Coventry
caricature on this page means the end of
months of solid drawing of prominent S.
Australian personalities, which the artist
has included in another of his books, sell-
ing privately. Coventry’s distinctive work
first appeared in the old Adelaide
“Register” about 20 years ago—a com-
posite of an M.C.C. team. Following a
cabled request from London the drawing
was reproduced in the “Evening
Standard,” and young Coventry re-
membered! for long the surprised awe he
felt at seeing his sketches appear on the
front page while Low’s cartoon rated the
middle of the same issue. Since then he
reckons about 10,000 of his caricatures
have been published, scores of them in
The Bulletin. His latest is the third
book of caricatures, the first appearing in
1936 and the second 10 years later. Con-
taining 135 drawings, a selected gallery of
notable citizens, the present book is
beautifully produced on sheeny art-paper,
and should sell at least 135 copies—at 12
guineas a pop.
“5 G.R.”: Australian Staff Corps
officers may be interested to know
that Brigadier Villiers-Stuart, sth Royal
Gurkha Rifles, who crammed many
Australians for the Staff College,
has only just given up active Army
work. Handicapped by leg wounds,
his services in the first part of
War II were “menial” —he was a cook’s
offsider for a while until the War Office
woke-up. One of the finest exponents of
mountain warfare in the world, he was of
great value in advising on the Norway
show. His brother was killed while
serving on Corps staff at Anzac.
“C.Q.”: About six months ago Dr.
Reg Ellery, the Collins-street psychiatrist,
went so completely down to arthritis, to
which he had been a martyr for seven
years, that, his hands gnarled and twisted
and his eyesight threatened, he had to
give up his practice. A few days ago he
was walking about his hospital bed talk-
ing about the “most dramatic experience
of my life'” and anxious to start doing
things again. Cause of the miracle?
Cortisone. When a few years ago he was
in California he investigated the claims
made for the drug and arranged for a
consignment to be flown over when avail-
able, Hie consignment came, but was
held up by the Customs for lack of a
licence, although no dollars had been
paid for it, as it was a present. In despair
Ellery turned to his physician, who had
a small stock obtained when on post-
graduate work in the U.S. Injections
started and the recovery was immediate
enough to be called miraculous. Dr,
Ellery is the son of a former Melbourne
Town Clerk and is a capable writer, at
one time a prolific contributor to the
Red Page. His wife is the celebrated
musician who plays the harpsichord.
Retired from the magisterial bench at
Auckland (N.Z.), J. Morland, after 43
years’ service, 10 of them as magistrate
in Auckland. In 1937 he was appointed
Chief Justice of the High Court of
Samoa. Prior to that, he had been in
legal practice at Napier and Wellington.
After feeding the Navy for the past
seven and a half years (stomachs, not
guns), Robert White retires from the
Directorship of Victualling. He’s been
connected with naval accounts and
victualling since 1917, part of the time as
2 i/c of the huge Royal Edward Vic-
tualling Yard in Sydney. T. F. Daniel,
his former deputy, takes charge in the
galley.
“King’s Pawn”: Adelaide (for culture)
has another lead in Australian chess ; it
held in the long ago the first Australian
chess championship, and two years back
the first Australian junior championship
—it was won by Sydney boy Will Levick.
Now its juvenile chess star, Grant
Berriman, has been selected to represent
the Commonwealth in the World Junior
Chess Championship to be held in June
in England. Berriman, much improved
since he ran Levick closely in the
original championship, finished fourth
in the adults’ South Australian cham-
pionships, only a point behind the
winner. Like all the young chess-
players, a scholar who has carried
off quite a few honors, Berriman is
favorite for the Australian junior cham-
pionship, to be played at the Sydney
Uni. this month. South Australia, like
N.S.W., where over 300 boys took part in
this year’s schools competition, is giving
great encouragement to junior players;
the result is a brilliant crop of young
disciples.
Wing-Commander E. Russell-Bell, one-
time of Darling Point, Sydney, now per-
manently with the R.A.F., added A.F.C.
last week to his War II D.F.C. Chief-
flying-instructor at Manby (Lincolnshire)
Flying College, he has led a flight of
R.A.F. aircraft over the North Pole, and
got his second Cross for some extremely
touchy landing-work on London Airport,
deliberately landing in dense fog to help
thrash out problems of lighting the great
port. His brother, J. M. Bell, fell victim
to the Luftwaffe over the Irish Sea.
“Melbn”: “J.T.” is dead. He is the
man whom Melbourne has to thank for
its beautiful unfenced and ungated parks
and public gardens through which it can
wander at any time of the day or night.
Previous to his advent as a young horti-
culturist from England all councils
locked their gates at sunset to prevent
them being used by louts and lovers.
When William John Thomas Smith, as
curator for the Malvern City Council
and later Melbourne City Council,
advocated the removal of the iron fences
it was denounced by the wowsers as a
pagan proposal which would lead to the
degeneration of public morals and the
corruption of the rising generation. He,
however, won; and he was also
responsible for most of the playing-
fields and playgrounds scattered about
the city. A superb horticulturist,
he learnt his art in some of the most
famous English gardens. He founded the
Tree Planters’ Association.
Into the Silence:
At Mackay (Q.), at 63, G. Moody, for 10
years from 1933 mayor of Mackay, and one
of the earliest members of the Q. Labor party.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 71, Horace Hugh
Corbin, ex-principal of Auckland University
College School of Forestry. A native of
Southampton, he was B.Sc. of London, bdm-
burgh and Adelaide Universities. After a period
in Bengal as Professor of Agriculture he came
to Adelaide, where from 1912-25 he was Lec-
turer of Forestry, and inaugurated the Depart-
ment of Forestry at the university, con-
trolled a dedicated 15,000-acre forest and was
consulting-forester for the South Australian
Government. He went to the Chair of Forestry
in Maoriland in 1925-31. and became d.rec or
and consulting-forester for the Whakatane Mills.
In Sydney, at 69, Old Fortian Ronald Atkin-
son S M from 1924 to 1948. In between he
had, as well, been chairman of the Manpower
Anneals Board, and was the first magistrate
appointed in charge of the Special
Court, convened in 1943 to deal with National
Security Regulations.
On Macquarie Island, at 25, following an
appendicitis operation, John Windsor, senior
meteorologist of the Australian Antarctic
station. He came from Pascoe Vale, Mel-
bourne, and was buried on the island.
In Auckland (MX.), at 72 Dr. Cyril Hocken
Tewslev C M.G., assistant-director of medical
services’in the northern military command m
Hitler’s war. A native of Dunedin, he was at
Gallipoli with the field-ambulance, and later
in charge of Homechurch convalescent hospital
tEngl A member of the Royal Australasian
College of Physicians, he was vice-president last
year.
At 65 in Rome, Sinclair Lewis, who in his
brilliant’satire of an American businessman
gave the world a new word. He will live
through Babbitt.
At 60, while visiting New Zealand, Leslie
Albert Knight, Anglican Bishop of Bunbury
(W.A.) and first Westralian-born clergyman to
wear the episcopal apron. Ordained in New
Zealand, he filled several country pulpits there
before interrupting his ministry to spend two
years in France, padre with the Enzeds. He
was consecrated Bishop of Bunbury in 1938.
A man of great personal charm, deep scholar-
ship and wide culture, he spent much of his
leisure in painting watercolors.


The NATIONAL GAME
by T.A.G.HUNGERFORD
EASTSIDE CAMP squats
on the top of a red gravel
hill and droops in untidy
folds of unpainted
wooden buildings down the
slope to where a road skirts the
willow-lined river, its ugliness
masked partly, in the summer,
at least, by the heavy foliage of
half-grown oaks and soaring
poplars, some elms and pines
and pin-oaks and a stand of
ragged gums that drip their
tatters of grey bark on to the
gravelly paths between the huts.
Behind it is the sky, and in
front of it the road and the river,
and the lush greenness of the
lucerne flats. Dotted with red
and white cows, they stretch
almost unbroken to Duntroon
and the aerodrome. A lovely,
gentle prospect, but hardly ever
seen by Eastside’s inhabitants,
the laborers and clerks and
tradesmen and timekeepers
whose monstrous task it is to
change the wide and smiling
valley into a city. They have
other things on their minds.
In the late afternoon of a
summer day one of them, Mick
Ransome, walked down the
slope from the mess-hut and
stood for a while to look out
over the paddocks, golden with
the last light; it was something
he loved, in a curious way. He
was a curious fellow. The pale
grey eyes that now wrinkled
against the hot glow on the hills
could take as much pleasure
from the contemplation of a row
of bottles on a wine-shop shelf,
and the stringy frame that was
never more at home than when
it was draped comfortably
against a sopping bar had many
a time lain lonely on a dark hill-
side while his eyes sought the
stars and the wells of black
desolation between them and
beyond, and his head and his
heart wondered about them and
many other things that his
wandering and unlettered life
had never fitted him to under-
stand. The marvel of it was
that he even knew they were
there to be sought after and
wondered about, and that he
could stand, as he did now, with
the raucous noises of the camp
crowding the air of the hillside,
and lose them and the day and
himself in the softly-colored
stretch of silence below him.
Paul Kernow sat on the steps
of a wooden hut a little further
down the slope and watched
him. Not with great interest,
nor much understanding, but
with idle curiosity about what
he was looking at. Without get-
ting up and walking out on to
the path he could not have seen
it, so he sat and waited, for,
although he was only young, his
experience of life had taught
that it was more often than not
the safest thing to do —to sit and
wait.
He had been a farmer’s son
in Poland until he became a
refugee in the chaos of Central
Europe, and then a member of
a Resistance Movement and then
a laborer in Germany, and then,
after the peace, driver to an
American colonel and a black-
market operator. That was all
in the first twenty years of his
life; in the next two he was a
D.P., a New Australian, a New-
comer and a Balt. Drifting on
currents over which he had no
control, and recognising this
fact, he lodged in Eastside, and
lived out his two-year contract
clipping hedges along with two
Lithuanians, a Latvian, a Hun-
garian and another Pole, who
were all lumped by the Boss
under the name of Balts.
They tolerated the Boss, a
conscienceless middle - aged
soak, because he did not worry
them. They were in the main
fastidious, and were offended by
his bulbous red nose and loose
mouth, the pathetic eyes that
swam like two uncooked eggs in
the whiskery ruin of his face, the
ever-present stench of stale beer
and stale sweat and slops of all
kinds; they edged away from
his greasy flannel and the greasy
trousers that hung like a dish-
cloth beneath the awning of his
pot-belly, miraculously sup-
ported by a greasy leather belt.
He could not understand them,
nor make himself understood by
them, so after first making vague
clipping motions over the hedges
and shrubs, jerking out inarti-
culate words in English, and
waving a stubby hand in the
general direction in which they
were to proceed, he left them to
their own devices and settled
into a hotel —even if he had to
catch a bus to reach one. No
one ever bothered.
On his return he was inclined
to be maudlin, and, dropping a
hairy black arm across the
shoulders of the one nearest him
on arrival amongst them, was
given to commiserating with
them over the “crook deal they
got,” and promising them the
world, rolling his tragic eyes and
running his blue tongue clumsily
over and over his spittle-
whitened lips. This, too, they
tolerated, relieving their feelings
by abusing him in Polish or
Lithuanian or any one of half
a dozen tongues which were
common to them all, smiling
broadly the while, for in his
absence they sat amongst the
shrubs smoking and talking, one
or two working occasionally to
give the impression that some-
thing was being done. Paul
Keraow found the life easy
enough. More than once he had
planned and had his plans
smashed. Now he was content
to wait.
O ANSOME, turning away
* from the view of the valley
saw him and waved. Circum
stance had made them friends,
curious compassion on the par
of the Australian and lonelines
on the part of the Pole, and
nothing had happened to par;
them. A couple of months hac
cemented their relationship anc
each got something out of it —
amusement, company, instruc
tion —so they knocked arounc
together. Pictures, dances anc
beery parties made up the soda
round at Eastside.
“Hi’ya, Paul,” he said as he
approached the hut. “Why’n ya
go inside?”
Kernow shrugged. He knew
that any other, any Australian
would have gone into Ransome’
room, hunted up a smoke
stretched out on his bed anc
even read any letters that mighi;
have been lying around; but
even now he could not take the
liberties that seemed so
commonplace to the Old Aus-
tralians. He always thought of
them as that, sometimes with
secret amusement —if we are
Nm>. then they are Old
C dray !
“Come in,” Ransome said,
and Kernow followed him
through the door, along the
narrow passage that divided the
hut lengthways into two and
into the tiny cubicle that was his
home. It was almost filled by a
bed and a chair and a tiny table
and a wardrobe; two dusty
ports teetered on the top of the
cupboard, a plane and a wooden
mallet crowded the chair and
two towels hung with the
curtains across the small
window. Boarders at Eastside
did their own cleaning-up—or
didn’t. The room had a musty
odor, and dusty working-boots
and unwashed, undarned socks
littered the bare floor. Kernow
stood with one hand on the
doorknob.
“Sit down, for heck’s sake,”
Ransome said, “You make the
joint untidy!”
“Untidy?”
“Oh, forget it.” Ransome
still found it hard to remember
at times that the other couldn’t
follow his slangy talk. He
hooked the toe of his boot under
a rung of the chair and pushed
it along the floor. “Shift them
and sit down. What’s new —
what you want?”
“Nothing X want,” Kernow
said, raising his fair eyebrows.
“Just, what you do tonight—you
pictures, or somet’ing?”
“Somet’ing,” Ransome
mocked him with a grin. “I'm
going up the game—up to
Ainslie.”
“Game?”
“Yeah, the game. Swy—two-
up, you know, with the pennies?
At Limestone Hostel. They run
a big one there in the scrub,
behind. You want to come?”
KERNOW shrugged, and
Ransome felt like saying,
well, don’t put yourself out!
“No, X don’ know this game, this
two-up. I hear sometimes men
speak about it, only you win
money at it, no?”
“Yeah, or yici voce,” Ran-
some said, and grinned again. It
was like tagging around with a
school-kid, with Paul, and he
was slowly getting into the habit
of explaining things that others
took for granted, and of search-
ing his meagre vocabulary for
words that would take the place
of ones that the Pole didn’t
understand. “You bet —gamble.
You know?”
Kernow nodded, so he went
on. “Well, you want to give it
a burl —you want to come?
You’ll have to learn some flam-
ing time if you’re ever going to
be an Old Australian.”
It was an old joke between
them, and Kernow laughed.
Privately, he divided everything
into New Australian and Old
Australian, and laboriously
sorted it all out, only half-
knowing what things and words
meant, but carefully watching
what he did and said, and stack-
ing it all away for future use.
Sometimes he would bring out
something he had heard weeks
before, sometimes he would be
right on the beam, and some-
times so comically wrong that
Ransome would laugh. When
that happened, he was never
sure if the Pole resented it or
not.
“Then I come,” Kernow said,
“and maybe I show you Old
Australians how to play this —
swy.” Ransome could see that
another word had been ticketed
and filed away under the fair
hair, bleached almost white by
the sun. “Maybe I win enough
for buy”
He stopped, and Ransome
said: “Not for buy, Paul. To
buy—that’s the shot. Buy what,
anyway?”
“To buy something I think
about,” Kernow said, standing
up. “Someday, X tell you.”
“A motor-bike, I bet!” Ran-
some said with a swift grin.
That was what most of them
bought, after they had got a
good suit and shoes and gloves
and a heavy-belted overcoat.
The Australians did it in reverse
order—-went into hock for a
flash bike, sometimes a car, and
drove it around with the seat
out of their trousers, some of
them, while they saved up for
clothes that wouldn’t laugh at
their vehicle. “You’ll finish up
breaking your flaming neck,
that’s what!”
Kernow shrugged, flushing
slightly with half a smile, but
said nothing. It was something
else he found strange, still, this
frank discussion of each other’s
means and hopes and plans.
While he would have liked to
discuss it with the Australian, he
found himself unable, so Ran-
some watched him for a
moment, speculatively, and then
turned away with a shrug. He
was not overinterested in what
the other was saving for —his
question had been routine. Most
of them were saving for some-
thing—some for clothes, some
for marrying, some to send
things to their people, those of
them who lived in the parts of
Europe not yet swallowed up by
Russia. It was their own
business.
“You be down here by ha’-
past seven,” he said, “and we’ll
get away.”
“0.K.,” Kernow said, and
walked out of the room. As he
went, he said aloud, as though
he had forgotten Ransome’s
presence, “Swy—two-up.” He
said it a number of times, trying
it out on his tongue and his ears,
finding a spot for it in his head,
and Ransome, listening, grinned
at his back.
T IMESTONE HOSTEL
t—- backed on to the low scrub
and deep gullies on the side of
VARIOUS VERSE
THE OYSTER-EATERS.
I had heard the bird’s name, and searched with intent
The oyster banks; and a bird with a red bill
And a hingeing, unoiled note gave a high call
In a flat treble. Whatever the bird-voice meant,
It sounded ajar; a door protestingly forced;
A bivalve opening, shell from shell divorced.
I saw the oyster-bird with red cockade-like beak;
White, blue-black, like the tricolor; plump as a chef-
And it could well prepare banquets to last a week:
Oysters, hors-d’oeuvres. Somewhere around a cliff
A door’s answering squeak, and! two birds fed together,
At turn of the tide, with wind blowing us salty weather.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
FOR HARRY AND JUNE.
It is not for nothing that the sun looks like a young-again
old-timer
and the flowers burst open to let the bees go in.
I suspect also that the leaves are not polished without
purpose
and that the magpies are not singing in a spirit of mere fun.
It is early pale morning, but already walking
come Harry and June. She wears her bought-it-a-year-ago
hat—
the one made of violets that are suddenly real and blue-
violet,
blushing because a finch has looked them back.
Harry, perhaps, with his “Herald” and his dog-eared brief-
case
has little of spring and the morning in his stiff-necked hangar.
But surely it isn’t just sunlight that leaps from his glasses.
And where but from spring did he learn his Kelly swagger?
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
REMEMBERED DROUGHT.
That time of drought the embered air
* burned to the roots of timber and grass.
The crackling lime-scrub would not bear,
and Mooni Creek was sand that year.
The dingoes’ cry was strange to hear.
I heard the dingoes cry
in the whipstick scrub on the Thirty-mile Dry.
I saw the wagtail take his fill
perching in the seething skull.
I saw the eel wither where he curled
in the last blood-drop of a spent world.
I heard the bone whisper in the hide
of the big red horse that lay where he died.
Prop that horse up, make him stand,
hoofs turned down in the bitter sand.
Make him stand at the gate of the Thirty-mile Dry.
“Turn this way and you will die”—
and hollow and loud the dingoes cry.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


r
1
Prefect
—a proud possession
indeed I
Nothing but the best of everything goes
Into the designing, the materials and the
workmanship of the Ford-built Prefect.
The engine itself is the essence of sim-
plicity and performs with* consistent
efficiency; it is the result of skilful
design and engineering by Ford craftsmen.
The coachwork, too, is"the handiwork
of Ford craftsmen. The external styling
possesses enduring beauty and the in-
terior trim is truly magnificent. Uphol-
stery is tailored in genuine leather, and
appointments are all fine quality.
driving comfort
Light but steady steering
and easy-change synchro-
mesh gears help to make a
Prefect a sheer delight.
w
ROOM TO SPARE
Prefect is the family
car designed to
provide maximum leg
and elbow room.
a a
LUGGAGE SPACE
Prefect gives you a gen-
erous-sized boot with
firm locking door for
the family’s luggage.
FORD lOH.P. ENGINE
There’s smooth opera-
tion and years of depen-
dability in this nippy,
thrifty Prefect engine*
KSS
am
■m
THE
LOWEST-PRfCEO .
10 HP
4 DOOR SEDAN
IN AUSTRALIA
ect
FORD
BUILT - AND PROVED TO THE HILT
Your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
will be glad to give you full details
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
OFFICE
GEELONG. VICTORIA
the mountain, a good spot for
the game. Not only the men
from the hostel played there;
often Ransome, who was a
regular visitor, recognised men
he had seen in offices in the de-
partments sitting behind big
tables with girls to take their
notes. They were easily distin-
guished by their general cleanli-
ness, but they didn’t earn much
more than the men who
crowded around them in shirts
and singlets and ragged shorts
and possibly worked a lot
harden
The game usually started just
after tea, with a couple of petrol
pressure-lamps on boxes on
each side of the ring. It was
in full swing when they arrived.
Half a dozen men lounged at
intervals along the path from the
huts, and if Ransome had not
been recognised as a regular
they wouldn’t have got near the
ring, which was in a narrow
gully hung over with gum-trees
a couple of hundred yards
beyond the farthest hut. It was
hard to find, for the lamps didn’t
show through the mat of leaves
around them, and only close in
did the hum of the betters, and
now and then the voice of the
ringkeeper, seep out.
Ransome took five notes out
of his pocket, and didn’t ask
Kernow how much he had
brought with him. It couldn’t
have been much, in any case, for
he didn’t get much, and
although he was not mean, he
was cagey about money—on
Eastside standards, where it was
made to be got rid of in the
most flamboyant manner pos-
sible. They stopped at the outer
edge of the crowd for a while,
Ransome having a look at how
the pennies were falling and
searching for the tail-betters and
faces he knew. Some of the
players drifted away, and before
long they had edged right on to
the side of the ring.
Ransome had stood on the
edge of a ring like that more
times than he could remember,
and in some funny spots,
especially while he was in the
Army, but the curious drama of
a two-up ring at night was never
lost to him. Perhaps it was just
the light that palely gilded the
two circles of disembodied faces,
of the men kneeling at the ring-
side and of those standing
behind. Perhaps it was the faces
themselves, all naked expression
without a visible body to water
it down —he found himself
thinking, as he had done a
thousand times before, if I make
a killing tonight, I’ll be damn
careful getting away from the
ring and back to camp !
KERNOW stood staring
around the ring, listening to
the babble of talk and betting,
half-understanding it. On the
way across from Eastside, walk-
ing along the dark road between
the warm fragrance of the
lucerne-paddocks, Ransome had
patiently explained as much of
the game as he was able, and
now a quiet smile wreathed the
Pole’s lips as he remembered
the earnestness Ransome had
put into it, the pauses while he
searched for words to make it
clear. The only friend I have
made in a year and a half among
the Australians, he mused, the
smile on his lips deepening into
mild bitterness. And him one
who can talk only about women
and drink and gambling. G®d,
1 am still a stranger!
Staring straight ahead of him
he became aware of a small,
skinny man in a grimy singlet
who squatted on the opposite
side of the ring, his hands red
with the red dust of the hillside,
his eyes black and button-bright
with inquiry in the light of the
lamp. A wet, foul butt drooped
from one end of his thin mouth
and he spoke around it, looking
straight at Kernow.
“Ten-bob he tails ’em!” he
said, the butt wagging raffishly
as he spoke. “I got ten-bob to
say he tails ’em—ten-bob the
micks! ” He raised his brow and
shook the notes in his hand.
Kernow, as though he had
been doing it for years, slowly
peeled a note off the roll he had
in his hand and tossed it across
to the other side of the ring.
“Set,” he said, as he had heard
the others say, and Ransome,
standing alongside him, grinned.
The pennies flickered in the
air, the ringkeeper’s mate
stooped over them where they
lay on the ground and sang out,
'‘Heads —heads Te right!” The
thin man smoothed out the two
notes on the ground in front
of him and looked up at Kernow.
“Double up?”
“Sure, double up,” the Pole
said.
He won that bet, too, and a
few more. When the spin
worked around to him he turned
to Ransome with the lift of his
shoulders that said all he wanted
to without his opening his mouth.
Ransome took a quick look at
the roll of notes in his hand, and
his eyes popped—he could see
at least three five-pound notes
without searching for them.
“Yeah,” he said. “You get in
and spin, for Chris’ sakes—you
got plenty.”
“How much I spin for?”
Kernow demanded. By now
most of the side-betters had got
set and there wasn’t much noise
around the ring. Everyone was
looking at them, waiting for the
new spinner to come in, “Ten-
bob, is enough?”
The ringkeeper looked them
over impersonally. “Come on,
gents,” he said, but softly. He
was a big hulk of a man, built
like a church, and dressed in a
clean white singlet to advertise
the fact. He could afford to talk
soft and call the animals around
the ring gents, but in that com-
pany he’d need to be able to
back it up. “Come on,” he said
again. “Make up your mind,
Digger—a fast game’s a good
game. Spin if you’re going: to.”
Ransome whipped one of the
blueboys out of Kernow’s hand
and tossed it across to the ring-
keeper. “Five,” he said, and
grinned. “He don’t know!”
The ringkeeper looked at the
five-pound note in his hand and
grinned back. “He’ll soon
learn!” he said.
Kernow stood in the middle
of the bare patch of red dirt,
still as a rock while the ring-
keeper’s mate put the pennies on
the kip. A couple of late
betters called their bets, and were
set; silence settled oyer the ring
except for the hissing of the
lamps. He looked at the two
tiers of palely luminous faces
that surrounded him and re-
membered without volition the
tale his father used to tell him,
as a child, of two hunters in the
black woods of Poland standing
back to back in a circle of
grinning wolves.
“This’s where you begin your
flamin’ education. Swede!” one
of the onlookers called out, and
he grinned.
“Sometime, must begin
maybe, pay for learn!”
“You ain’t kiddin’! ” the ring-
keeper’s mate muttered, and
stepped back from him. “You
right, mate? All set on the side,
gents? All right, come in,
spinner! ”
The two rows of faces around
the ring, Ransome’s among them,
lifted and dropped again. Ker-
now headed them, and no ; mis-
take ; two lovely pictures of
Victoria looking up at them
from the red dust.
“Heads’re right!” the ring-
keeper’s mate called out, and the
player next to Ransome laid two
pound-notes on the ground in
front of him, took two more
from his pocket and raised his
eyebrows.
“Yeah, sure,” Ransome said.
“Double up, and more if you
want it.”
The man shrugged a refusal,
and Ransome set a tail-better on
the far side of the ring. He had
that queer, untraceable feeling
that seemed to start somewhere
in his belly, that Kernow was
set for a trot of heads. The
middle was set in no time, and
they were away again. Heads.
And then again. The tail-betters
began to fold up.
“You want to drag, Digger?”
the ringkeeper asked Kernow,
“You got thirty-five now.” He
had run rings in a hundred
different camps and knew that
the only man who ever won was
the ringkeeper, but wasn’t afraid
that they’d ever wake up to it.
He had seen men mad with ex-
citement and hiding it with a
soft smile and a lifted eyebrow;
he had seen men bitter over
losses and letting everyone know
it, men avaricious, men spiteful,
men desperate, but he had never
spoken to them in anything but
a soft, slow voice, nor looked at
them in any way but with a mild,
amused disinterest —as he looked
at this one, now, and said, “It’s
your dough, Digger.” Take
your dough, pass the kip, go
home and never come near
another ring. But of course you
won’t. No, I thought not.
Kernow shook his head and
the ringkeeper looked away
from his serious face to the mob
around the ring.
“We want thirty-five, gents.
Get the guts set, before you bet
on the side —he’s a good spinner.
I’ll take any part of thirty-five.”
T HERE was still a fair bit of
1 money around the ring,
although it was not pay-day, and
he got it in three tens and a
tive. A sour-looking big animal
at the edge of the ring just be-
hind him rolled the three tens
into a ball and flung them at his
feet. /
“I’ll take thirty of it,” he said
sneeringly and looked at Ker-
now as though he was butterfly-
ing the pennies. “He can’t
keep going for ever. It’s
a bad show when it’s left to a
bloody Balt to skin the ring.”
A few of the players laughed,
and Kernow went red as a beet-
root, standing there in the centre
of the cleared space. The ring-
keeper just looked at the better,
and, extending his foot, pushed
the notes back through the red
dust.
“Beat it,” he said softly.
“You’ve had your time here.”
“And you can !”
The ringkceper’s hand moved
so fast that it almost crammed
the foul words back between the
lips that had spoken it. “Watch
the box, Jerry,” he said quietly
to his mate, and stood over the
other while he scrambled to his
feet, blood pouring over the front
of his shirt. “The Balt’s dough’s
{Continued on next page.)


d
FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN 1951
MAY 3— SEPTEMBER 30
FI ST f VATS
The Calendar below shows the dates of the many Arts
Festivals which, with the exhibitions and other events
throughout the United Kingdom, make the Festival
programme the greatest ever planned.
♦ * MAY • »
ytd —London Festival Sea-
son, two months of gaiety and
colour in the theatres, con-
cert-halls and art-galleries of
the capital (till June 30).
Stratford-upon-Avon
Shakespeare Festival, with
outstanding new productions
to the famous Memorial
Theatre (till October ),
7th —• Belfast Festival, in-
cluding exhibitions of paint-
ings, books, architecture and
photography, symphony con-
certs and plays (nil June 30).
•oth Bath Assembly, coin-
ciding with the Sheridan
Bi-Centenary, with concerts,
opera, ballet, music in the
Abbey and a Gainsborough
Exhibition (till June 2).
ayth—-Perth Festival, cen-
tred around the contemporary
Scottish theatre movement
(till June 16).
* * JUNE • «
>rd—York Festival, with
performances of medieval
miracle plays, music in the
Great Minster, and a Festival
Architectural Exhibition (till
June 17).
jrd—Bournemouth and Wessex
Festival, including sporting and
New Forest events as well as
Festival performances in the
theatres and concert halls of
Bournemouth (till June 17).
Bth Aldeburgh Festival,
based on the work of Ben-
jamin Britten and the English
Opera Group (till June 17).
17th —Inverness Festival,
the most northerly of the
Arts Festivals, presenting a
composite picture of Highland
life (till June 30).
*Bth—Norwich Festival,
with music in the Cathedral,
plays in an Elizabethan-style
playhouse, and exhibitions of
the famous Norwich school
of painting (till June 30).
*4th Dumfries Festival,
with concerts by the Scottish
National Orchestra and the
newly formcdFestival Chorus,
ballet, and a * Burns night ’
(till June 30).
* * JULY * •
and—Cheltenham Festival of
British Contemporary Music,
with concerts by the Halle
Orchestra, ballet, opera and
chamber music (till July 14).
and—Oxford Festival,
focused on 17th Century
England, with lectures and
performances of Milton,
Shakespeare and restoration
comedy {till July 16).
Jtd —Llangollen International
Eisteddfod, where scores of
choirs meet for a world occasion
of choral music {till July 8),1
loth St. David’s Festival,
a programme of music, wor-
ship and ceremony in Wales’s
oldest Cathedral {till July 13).
i6th —— Brighton Regency
Festival, set in and around
the fantastic Pavilion built by
George IV when Prince
Regent {till August 25).
18th—Canterbury Festival, in
the ecclesiastical capital of
England, with a specially
written drama, music and
opera in the lovely Cathedral
{till August 10).
aand Liverpool Festival of
Music, drama and art, present-
fog a various and many-sided
Festival programme set
against large-scale ceremony
and spectacle {till August 12).
30th Aberdeen Festival,
with orchestral and choral
concerts, painting exhibitions
and outstanding British films,
in Scotland’s third largest
city {till August 13).
30th —Cambridge Festival,
with synmhony concerts in
College Courts; and con-
temporary and classical con-
certs and plays in the famous
University centre (till August
* AUGUST *
6th —Llanrwst Royal National
Eisteddfod, the national festival
of Wales, devoted to song,
poetry and performances of
great choral works (till August
19th—-Edinburgh International
Festival of Music and Drama,
one of the outstanding occa-
sions of the artistic world, now
held annually in the Scottish
capital (till September 8).
* SEPTEMBER *
and—Worcester Three Choirs
Festival, presented since the
18th Century by the combined
Cathedral choirs of Hereford,
Gloucester and Worcester {till
September 7).
16th—Swansea Festival of
Music, staged in the magnifi-
cent concert hall and drawing
on the long tradition of Welsh
choral singing (till September
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details
The Deportment of Technical Education
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in a wide
range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in touch
with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home study courses
will open up new interests and enthusiasms as well as lead to
EFFICIENCY PROMOTION SUCCESS
Any person, other than those of school age, who, by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, cannot attend Technical College classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses.
ART. —Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Drawing, Dress-
makers’ and Milliners’ Art, Display Card
Writing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE.—Bookkeeping, Commercial
English, Commercial Principles, Account-
ancy, Auditing, Commercial Law, Income
Tax Law and Practice, Banking, Finance
and Foreign Exchange, Cost Accountancy,
Company Secretary Practice, Economics,
Bankers' Institute, Commercial Corres-
pondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—LocaI Gov-
ernment Town and Shire Clerks’ Certifi-
cate, Local Government Auditors’ Certifi-
cate. '
ELECTRICAL, TRADES.—Electrical
(for apprentices and journeymen).
ENGINEERING TRADES.—Fitting
and Machining, Automotive Mechanics,
Refrigeration (for apprentices and
journeymen) ; Steam Engine Operation;
Steam Boiler Attendants; Gas Engineer-
ing; Diesel Engine Operation; Motor
Maintenance (for owners and drivers of
motor vehicles)
SURVEYlNG.—Certificate Course (De-
partment of Technical Education).
GENERAL EDUCATION. English
and Mathematics (approximately from Ist
year Secondary to Leaving Certificate
standard), French, Mechanics, Modern
History, Geography, Economics (approxi-
mately from Intermediate Certificate to
Certificate and/or Matriculation
of University of Sydney standard).
MARINE ENGINEERING.—Ist or
2nd Class Marine Engineer’s Certificate,
Part A.
■ BUILDING TRADES.— Building Con-
struction, Carpentry and Joinery (Theory,
Calculations, Drawing and Trade Prac-
tice).
PRINTING TRADES. Composing,
Printers’ English and Arithmetic, Lino-
type Operation, Bookbinding, Letterpress
Printing (for apprentices and journey-
men).
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS— QuaIify-
ing examinations (Degree and Diploma
Courses), N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology ; Certificate Entrance, Department
of Technical Education; Intermediate (see
Secondary) and Leaving Certificates;
Matriculation of University of Sydney;
Nurses’ Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH.— HeaIth Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
RURAL, —Agriculture, Care of Animals,
Pig Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep and
Woolclassing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm Mechanics
(including Farm Machinery, Farm Science
and Farm Arithmetic), Farm Management
and Farm Economics, Station Book-
keeping.
SANITATION. —House Drainage, Sewer
Plumbing, Water Plumbing, Gas Fitting.
SECONDARY.-—Art, Business Principles
and Bookkeeping, English, French,
General Mathematics, Geography, History,
Latin, Mathematics I (Arithmetic and
Algebra), Mathematics II (Geometry and
Trigonometry), Technical Drawing. (All
from Ist year to Intermediate Certificate
standard.)
HOME HANDlCRAFTS— Dressmak-
ing, Millinery, Dressmakers’ and Milliners’
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and other of the above courses.
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL COLLEGE
STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE
FEES
Basic Scale Z 5- per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Complete
schedule of fees available upon application. Half fees to students under 21 years
and receiving less than 30/- weekly.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO: The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Department of
Technical Education, 46-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
as good as yours, Mace, and if
you can’t do yours without
screaming, then best you leave it
at home. Now beat it, and don’t
come back.”
The man addressed as Mace
beat it, and Ransome, watching
him go, didn’t blame him. The
hand at the end of the ring-
keeper’s iron arm was big as a
small pumpkin and shaped much
the same.
The middle was set, and Ker-
now spun again. Heads. And
again. Again heads. The tail-
betters had folded up and the
ringkeeper was having difficulty
covering the stake. “All right,
gents,” he sang out, “there’s one
hundred and forty quid in the
guts—get it set before you bet
on the side. Any part of one-
forty quid—l’ll take it in
singles,” He grinned, knowing
that the market had closed up.
“I’ll take it in deeners!”
There was no response, so he
turned to Kernow. “You better
drag. Digger. We’re wasting
time.” Kernow nodded and the
other counted the money into
his hand. He stood there, look-
ing at it, not sure what to do, not
even knowing that his spin was
finished.
“Snatch it, Paul,” Ransome
said from the side. “Come on
out —your spin’s finished. Hand
’em the kip.”
Kemow shrugged and walked
out of the ring.
“Sling, Paul,” Ransome said,
and when the other looked at
him, shoulders and eyebrows
raised, he whipped a ten-pound
note out of the bundle the Pole
held and handed it to the ring-
keeper. “He don’t know,” he
explained. “It’s the first time
he’s played.”
“Then for Gaw’sake make
it his last!” the little man in the
singlet, who had taken Kernow's
first bet, said ruefully, but with-
out spite. “What he’s done to
me’s nobody’s business!”
Those within hearing laughed,
and the ringkeeper tossed the
ten-pound note into the box
negligently. “Thanks, Digger,”
he said.
IS ERNOW’S trot had broken
* '■a lot, and figures started to
drift away from the game. The
track was dark and swallowed in
shadow for most of its length,
so those leaving the ring occa-
sionally flashed the thin beam of
a torch in front of them as they
went; Ransome, his attention
attracted from the game for a
moment, followed a stabbing
flash and saw a dark clot of
figures crouched in the black
shadow of a drooping gum—
among the three, one which he
would have sworn was that of
the big yob the ringkeeper had
called Mace. They could only
be waiting there for one thing,
and that was for the biggest
winners to leave the ring. Ran-
some shrugged ; it was something
that they would have to take care
of when the necessity came up.
Kernow started to back the
tails, on his own initiative, and
it was a good hunch. After a
few losing bets the tails rained
down and it looked as if the
pennies had been made without
heads ; so much so that the head-
betters who had survived his run
of heads now tumbled for the
run of tails, and before long the
game began to peak. Ransome,
who was holding Kernow’s
money for him, threw the ring-
keeper another five-pound note
and nodded to the Pole.
“Come on, Paul,” he said.
“Well slope—we’ll go home.”
“Not much use you stopping,”
the ringkeeper said, but with-
out any sarcasm. It just wasn't
any use their stopping—they had
collared most of the money
around the ring and had waited
a fair while to give the losers a
chance to get it back. “You got
just about all the mazuma here.
You be 0.K., you think?” His
eyes flickered out from the
lighted ring and along the
shadowy track; he too, appar-
ently, was thinking of the man
called Mace.
“Yeah, she’s apples,” Ransome
said casually, although he was
not feeling too easy and nodded
to Kernow. “Come on, Paul.”
They left the glow of the ring
behind them, and the subdued
murmur of the few betters left
there melted into darkness and
silence. Passing the tree where
for a brief moment he had seen
three figures illuminated in the
swift beam of a torch, Ransome
glanced sideways but could see
nothing; however, they had not
gone more than a few yards,
stumbling on the uneven surface
of the track, when a stone, dis-
lodged in the darkness, clattered
a few feet down the slope and
came to rest.
“Come on,” he rasped, grab-
bing Kernow’s arm. “Run!
Run like hell!” As they began
to pound along the gully the
clatter of footsteps behind them
joined in the noise of their own
flight.;
They reached the first of the
darkened huts, dodged down be-
tween it and the one next to it;
reaching the other end, Ransome
stopped sharply, and followed
by Kernow, tiptoed up the steps,
along the central passage and
through the far door. There
they stopped, listened for a
moment above the rasping of
their chests and the thunderou
thump, thump of their hearts
and then darted across to the hui
opposite, through it and out th
other end into the low gum
trees that crept up to the edge
of the camp.
“Wait a mo,” Ransome
panted, and again they stoppec.
together and listened. All the
noises of the camp around them
drifted out to them—drunken
singing, the hum of talk and
laughter and the rattle of table-
tennis from the rec.-hut, the
purr of a car leaving on the
rough track down to the road.
But of sounds of pursuit there
was none. They had shaken off
whoever it was that left the game
just behind them.
“What is this, then?” Paul
whispered, the first words he had
spoken since they left the ring.
“This running?” He could only
vaguely make out his com-
panion’s outline, and the
doubling, twisting chase had
puzzled him and lost him com-
pletely. “It is like in the days
of the resistance, now! I re-
member”—
“Come on,” Ransome inter-
rupted him shortly. “We’ll talk
about that back at Eastside—if
we get there in one piece. Some
of those animals thought they’d
pick us off, I reckon, that big
ape that had a shot at you, Paul.
They mightn’t have, but then it’s
just as well to be on the safe
side.”
“Pick us off?” Kernow re-
peated the unfamiliar phrase.
“What is this pick us off?” But
the other was already edging
through the low scrub away from
the camp, Kernow looked be-
hind him at the darkened build-
ings, listened and felt the cool
wind that rustled in the leaves
around him and tickled the long
fair hair across his forehead.
This dark, warm Australian night
sent a shiver down his spine;
the stars, so near and clear and
bright, were strange stars, and
the lights of the city, scattered
in festoons beneath the looming
shadow of Black Mountain, were
only the pale reflection of those
stars in the black heart of a sea
of tremendous distances and in-
conceivable isolation.
It was so big, with a bigness
that frightened him and made
him long suddenly for the tight
neighborliness of the Polish
countryside, the small fields and
the stone’s-throw between houses,
the hour’s walk between villages.
And for people he could under-
stand, and who would understand
him; not the Old Australians,
hard and big and incomprehen-
sible like their country, who
could begrudge him the money
he had won at a game where
they might all have won as much
if it had been their luck to do
so. He shivered again, sensing
the affinity of bigness and hard-
ness between this country and its
people, an affinity so close that
he felt he would blunt his years
trying to force his way into it.
He shrugged and plunged in
among the trees in pursuit of
Ransome, whose passage was
marked for him by the swaying
of branches and the clatter of
stones in the darkness.
JN the safe closeness of Ran-
-1 some’s room they counted the
pile of crumpled notes that
Kernow tumbled from his
pockets and the front of his shirt
where he had stuffed them in
the excitement of the game ; a
tattered, dog-eared collection
smeared and gritty with the red
dust of the hillside. They had
walked home, down the hill and
across the bridge at Scott’s
Crossing, up the rise and in
amongst the scattered and
darkened huts of Eastside camp.
They had not spoken much,
their few words chased quickly
into the silence by the metallic
clatter of their iron-shod work-
ing-boots on the hard road sur-
face. Ransome, glancing side-
ways at his companion, grinned
occasionally; Paul walked with
his hands behind his back, high
up, and his head sunken on his
chest. Thinking, the Australian
mused. What’s he cooking up
now?
In the pale golden light Ker-
now stood staring down at the
scattered notes that covered the
counterpane, shrugged and
looked sharply up into Ran-
some’s questioning eyes.
“Mick,” he said, “this man
call me bloody Balt. Why?
Always Australians say bloody
Balts. Why? Are they opposite
us?”
o Continued on page 32)


New Transformation
For Dry Skin !!
NEW CONTINENTAL
FORMULAE
ren£e beauty
CREAM
Acclaimed as the Perfect
Nourishing Cream and Powder
Base for Dry Skin—DIRECT
from Laboratory to you.
4oz. JAR 10/6, POST FREE
2oz. JAR 5/6, POST FREE
Raymona Laboratories,
1435 Botany Rd., Botany,
N.S.W.
Please forward 40z./2oz. Jar.
State
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
a
an
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Missing Friend.
MRS. GLADYS KATHLEEN BORNE
formerly of Mount Isa, Queensland,
urgently wishes to contact her husband,
FREDERICK BORNEN, whom she last
heard of at Do Jarrahat, Queensland, in
1939. Will her husband, or anyone
knowing of his whereabouts, please con-
tact Mrs. Bornen’s Solicitors, MESSRS.
KINSEY & OALLAN, of Cootamundra,
New South Wales.
WHERE OcaiatWA MOVE - MERCHANDISE
MOVES
-
SSI
°*B Op C/V
SALES Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS RIDE
ON Otb ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more. _ .
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors. t
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators—-—your local Otis office
will be glad to survey your store and give
you the facts.
fd
fd
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM
UNITED
*
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRAHCE
SUNDRY SHOWS
Two Orchestral
Premieres.
At his final Sydney concert
Sir John Barbirolli piloted the
orchestra through two works
new to Australia.
It is not surprising that
Haydn’s Symphony No. 83,
written two years before Gover-
nor Phillip landed at Farm
Cove, has only just been heard
here. Of the 104 the indefati-
gable Austrian wrote, the last 12,
the “Saloman” symphonies com-
posed in England, and including
the “Surprise,” “London,” “Mili-
tary,” “Dream Roll” and
“Clock,” are highest in popu-
larity. So is the “Farewell”
(No. 45), written two decades
before. But of the many in
between only an occasional one
is “discovered” by some enter-
prising conductor.
The 83rd, which clearly fore-
shadows the final period of
Haydn’s mature genius, has all
the grace and refinement in-
herent in all that the first sym-
phonic master wrote, plus, in
the first two movements, an
unusual sobriety. The sun
bursts on it in the lovely
Minuet, whilst Haydn’s typical
geniality is given full rein in the
glittering Finale. The playing
was lustrous throughout, with
the spirit of Haydn seeming to
hover over the conductor.
Following the Haydn,
Roussel’s Ballet Suite No. 2,
“Bacchus and Ariadne,” came as
methylated - spirit - and - boot-
polish after mellow vintage
wine. In this high-powered, ex-
hausting “music” neuroticism
rides the isle of Naxos, and if
Theseus was driven from it by
the Wine God and was thus
denied the cacophonic horror he
must be considered fortunate.
The series of sounds might, or
might not, reflect the various
emotions of the two principals;
if they do, the services of an
alienist on the fabulous isle were
clearly indicated. Whether the
orchestra played the thing well
or badly is anybody’s guess.
Elgar’s tremendous Symphony
No. 2, with its multiplicity of
themes, the superbly rich orches-
tration —and here the English-
man had few peers —the great
complexities of the develop-
mental sections, the sudden swift
surging to splendid climaxes and
the equally quick falling-away
to piano passages—in short, all
that is Elgar at his most
scholarly, puts a heavy tax on
the resources of any orchestra.
That the Sydney one came
through this so well says as
mtich for the fine material he
was handling as for the brilliant
musicianship of Sir John, who
was always complete master of
the situation. Good as the play-
ing of this was, there was nothing
better during the night’s work
than that which went into
Weber’s “Der Freischutz” Over-
ture, especially in those pianis-
simo phrases which make the
early stages of this delightful
music more like a miniature suite
than the generally-accepted over-
ture.
"Faust."
Dr. Raoul Cardamatis, who
delights in the difficult, has a
production of the first part of
Goethe’s “Faust” on the stage at
the Independent Theatre, North
Sydney, With some concessions
to time and simplicity he has
made considerable cuts, reducing
the piece almost to a series of
15 tableaux —not unlike an ex-
hibition of paintings from
“Faust.” In the early scenes—
of the world-weary old Faust in
his study—there are two or three
masterpieces where the pro-
ducer’s interpretation, the com-
position and the acting all com-
bine to give the richness and
glowing depth of fine oil paint-
ings. They are gems of artistic
staging, scenes such as one has
not seen —and will probably not
see again—for a long time;
scenes which, like paintings, one
might go on contemplating and
finding fresh evidence of beauty
and genius in them.
The acting in these early pas-
sages is as faultless as the
staging—Alan White’s Faust is
an admirable blend of the
dignity of knowledge, feelings of
futility and the weariness of
age; and there is a flickering,
flame-like quality about Owen
Weingott’s smiling and delight-
fully evil Mephistopheles.
But it is too much to expect
a masterpiece from every picture
in an exhibition, and, dis-
appointingly, there is nothing
else in this production of
“Faust” that even approaches
the opening scenes. It would
seem that it was the producer’s
intention to match Fausts re-
covery of his youth with a
sudden descent to earth from the
dim light, the symbolism and
artistry of the study scenes; but
the fall is so sudden and com-
plete that one lands in the garden
with Marguerita with something
like an uncomfortable thud and
wondering if the influence of
Weingott’s Mephistopheles ex-
tends beyond the stage. Here is
the young Faust (still played by
White), a fleshly, mournful and
slightly incoherent fellow in
fancy-dress, and here, for him,
is a Marguerita (Deborah Winch-
combe) so dumb that it seems
incredible that she could get
into any kind of mischief.
One might have forgotten the
cooings and moanings and
weepings of those two if the art
that illuminated the opening
passages had reappeared in the
closing scenes —the “Walpurgis
Night” and the prison scene —
but the magic doesn’t return.
The prison scene is like opera
without music, and the witches’
festival is rather like the cavort-
ings of a lot of naughty young
ladies on break-up day—untidy
and unexpressive choreography
executed with much more en-
thusiasm than art.
One departs remembering
the brilliance of the opening
scenes, the consistently excellent
performance of Weingott, and
White’s equally superb portrayal
of the old Faust. And those
things, be it recorded, are some-
thing to remember.
“Cauboy”: D-day for the
celebration in dramatic circles
of the Victorian centenary and
the Commonwealth’s jubilee
will be January 31, in Mel-
bourne, though a start has
already been made with Irene
Mitchell’s fine production of
Douglas Stewart’s “Shipwreck”
at the Little Theatre in South
Yarra. That date will see the
opening of the National
Theatre Movement’s festival of
drama, opera and ballet at the
Princess, first gun being the first
production in Melbourne of
“Corroboree,” the abo. ballet by
John Antili. “Aida,” “Carmen,”
“The Barber of Seville” and
“The Marriage of Figaro” will
be the operas. In the drama
division “The Glass Menagerie”
will be repeated, and “Mr.
Gillie” will be a new play by
James Bridie. “The Taming of
the Shrew” will follow a
modern Stratford fancy with a
prologue in dumb show repre-
senting the arrival in an Eliza-
bethan inn yard of a company
of actors, and the curtain will
stay up throughout the pro-
ceedings. It will be their Aus-
tralian debut for Leslie Sands
and Pauline Williams, two
young English stars specially en-
gaged for the drama season.
Miss Williams is the daughter of
our old friend Ben, the Welsh
singer. William P. Carr, the
National Theatre’s amazingly
energetic producer, will be re-
sponsible for all the produc-
tions.
The Old Vic.
From Alec Maclean in
London: — ■
There were three reasons for
being in the gallery. The first,
regrettably, was poverty, but
having spent the day
economically at the Tate Gallery
—entrance free —I felt a certain
expenditure was justifiable.
Second, I have for many yeafs
been keen to feel the atmos-
phere of the Elizabethan
audience, which methinks does
not lurk in red plush seats and
gently clapping. Third, Ben
Jonson’s “Bartholomew Fair
was being played, and I have a
wholesome respect for Ben as a
maker of comedies. “Bartholo-
mew Fair” hardly ranks as one
of his major works, but it has
its fun and must have had con-
siderable pit-appeal.
So for the best eighteenpence-
worth of entertainment I have
enjoyed —seats two shillings if
taken earlier, one and six if
bought on the night and risk
standing. Value for money was
so great that at the first interval
X bought a mild ale for one
shilling. Total, two and nine,
including two three-halfpenny
bus-fares.
The Old Vic. is a genuine
theatre. It has atmosphere, but
not damnably so before the
play begins; and the opening
conversation of stage-hand con-
fidentially abusing the ignorant
playwright to the audience was
—confidential. Moreover, it
was audible in the gallery. So
was the play.
The latter hasn’t much plot,
but it has movement, spirit,
clowning, buffoons and
buffoonery, fine anger-provok-
ing satire (for the day, alas, not
now —one denies the dress and
the attack). It is a spectacle,
with an introduction, an atmos-
phere of Smithfield, rude, bit-
ing, witty, a study in manners,
types and language. That was
uncut, but I regret to report
that excellent indecencies
passed the audience by.
I have a brand-new sense of
the importance of staging and
the stage in the development of
drama, and a confirmation of an
old thesis that in Ben lay the
seeds of actions, characters and
satire for the Restoration
dramatists and their successors,
Congreve, Wycherley, Farquhar,
Vanbrugh, Goldsmith et cie.
The Old Vic., as we saw in
Sydney, goes in for teamwork,
or else the producer is really on
top. The result is a fine per-
formance, timed to a nicety,
built to a climax, with no back-
ground obscured by a star per-
former..
In fact, ingenious staging,
meticulous production, excellent
co-ordination and Ben Jonson
made a most excellent evening.
Not for two hours did the
narrow, lightly-padded bench
obtrude on my subconscious,
and then possibly because one
of the infamous reached across
to steal a stage cushion for his
knees as he knelt awaiting de-
nunciation.
Elizabethan? Probably it
wasn’t, except in spirit, but I
left with a fine feeling around
the heart, a feeling of being at
least back in time a century or
two.


\
iF
THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF
lt yfhd£
In a world of competing claims
Longines can state these simple
undeniable facts:—
| Best result for timing ever achieved by a wrist-
watch at NEUCHATEL Observatory. LONGINES
watch No. 6466775, 5 POINTS.
Standard of absolute precision 0
2 Best result for timing ever achieved by a wrist-
watch at GENEVA Observatory. LONGINES
watch No. 6708461, 850 POINTS.
Standard of absolute precision = 1000
Best result for timing ever achieved by a wrist-
watch at KEW-TEDDINGTON Observatory.
LONGINES watch No. 6176046, 94 POINTS.
Standard of absolute precision = 100
THE ONLY WATCH THAT HAS GAINED
10 GRANDS PRIX
\ * y
r
V\Aj\
4®
mm
w*
/
•5 \
smsomm
oufrsnm
hut
COOL AS A CUCUMBER
inside
Thanks to
8.1 Staqwool Insulation
f
si
I
s £
df
9
Insulation
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE. 836C4 • ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post free.
THE BATTLE OF THE RIVER PLATE
THE battle-wise Royal Navy
never had any delusions
about a phony’ war into
which, according to some
distant newspapers, the fighting
m E r pe . durln f first early
months had relaxed. Always
active, always perfecting,
cruisers of the South America
FqultSn °wem St
drills Sfnl n
drills, always hopeful of
Zl lrf
they were specifically concern
trated in those southern waters
one 0 f Hitler’s pocket-battle-
shins 1
And the crews of nine
merchantmen had similar views
on the phony war. Shin after
shin sighted ahead or astern
two thin black sticks jutting from
the horizon’s rim Swiftly they
grew into the’ fighting-tons
then rearing bridges then 11m
guns of the Admiral Graf
Spee.
One or two ships one of them
(he British Doric Star got off a
warning position-signal before
relieved of their crews who were
bundled into the ’ infamous
Altmark, they were shelled or
torpedoed to the bottom.
Back in the British base alert
naval telegraphists dragged
down Doric Star’s warning from
the ether transferring the hasty
dots and’dashes into a message
that had Commodore H H
Harwood signalling in urgent
code to his captains.
A seasoned seaman, who died
in 1949, Harwood gathered the
senior officers of his flagship,
6-incher Ajax, down aft in the
admiral’s cabin, and, in the
precise accents of a man master
of himself and of his weapons,
gave them his appreciation of
the situation.
A torpedo-expert who served
in War I in battleship Royal
Sovereign, Harwood later be-
came torpedo boss of the Third
Battle Squadron and captain of
8-incher Cumberland, sister to
Australia and Canberra, and
now, on the eve of this epic
engagement, again under his
command in the South America
Division.
. He . had been com T° dore ° f
1116 dmSlon smce 1936 ’ and
knew his ships and his captains
about as wed as he knew him-
lf Th . .
LdseTc
c f uiser Canberra will remember
him as the weather-taut, easy-
speaking commodore who,
™ hi] f their ship was in New
Zealand waiting to pick up a
Middle East convoy, stood
before them and casuall y S ave
tbem an e y ewitness account of
the actlon m which three
Brit ish cruisers hounded a com-
P arative . giant to her
ignominious doom in the Plate,
and thereb y thrilled the world.
But > standing before his
officers and a large chart of the
Soutb Atlantic, Harwood still
had his battle to fi B ht
Quickly and surely he out-
lined his estimation of Graf
Spec’s movements—at a cruising
speed of 15 knots she could
reach the Rio de Janeiro area
a.m. on December 12, the River
Plate p.m. also on the 12th, and
the Falkland Islands on the
14th. The Plate, with its larger
number of ships and its
extremely valuable grain and
meat trade, was the vital area
to be defended. All his avail-
able forces, therefore, would be
concentrated there in advance
°f the time at which he antici-
pated the raider might start
operations in that area.
In that decision, as much as
in the fighting execution of it,
was revealed the calibre of the
officer planning the coming
action.
With his intention understood,
Harwood dismissed his officers
and sent for the signal-yeoman,
In a matter of minutes Ajax’s
aenals were alive.
“In view of report pocket-
battleship, amend previous dis-
on c [of Harwood’s other
m T?ti Cumberland
self-refit at Falkland Islands as
Previously arranged, but keep at
short notice on two [propeller]
shafts * Achilles leave de
By "MACNELL”
Janeirp area so as to arrive and
fuel Montevideo 6 a.m.
December 8. Exeter leave Falk-
land Islands for Plate a.m.
December 9, covering s.s.
Lafonia with returning volun-
teers, Ajax, Achilles concen-
trate in position [north-east of
the Plate] at 4 p.m. December
10. Exeter to pass through posi-
tion 090 deg. Medanos Light
150 miles at 7 a.m. December
12. If concentration with Ajax
and Achilles is not effected by
that time further instructions
will be issued to Exeter. Oiler
Qlynthus is to remain at sea-
rendezvous until situation clears
instead of proceeding to Falk-
land Islands.”
With this signal passed, strict
W/T silence closed down on all
ships of the division.
The signals’ orders were im-
mediately implemented. Aboard
8-incher Cumberland, repairing
defects with her own team of
engineers and shipwrights, the
receipt of their message spurred
all hands to enthusiastic activity.
Aboard Achilles (manned by
about 60 per cent. New
Zealanders, commanded by
Captain W. E. Parry, R.N.), in
Rio de Janeiro, and Exeter (six
Sin. guns), Captain F. S, Bell,
R.N., at the Falkland Islands,
hundreds of miles apart, the
same known-by-heart drill was
carried out.
As muddy anchor-cables came
grinding in through the hawse-
pipes, captains of turrets
climbed over their gleaming-
breeched charges, checking, test-
ing, searching, meticulously-
drilled minds remembering auto-
matically every minute detail
which meant all the difference
between a “clean” shoot and a
misfire or breakdown.
These weapons were para-
mount parts of their lives now
—not show-pieces for gunnery-
officer’s inspection, nor weari-
some pieces of steel and brass
to be cleaned and polished and
polished again. These long,
deadly guns were now of the
very essence of life —like the
long-bore rifle to the frontier
plainsman, the brush to the
artist, the bow to a violinist.
Breechworkers, leading-
seamen who needed no ordering-
pipe to close-up, checked that
their belts, which they wore
round their overalled waists like
some modern two-gun killer,
were full of the long, explosive
electric tubes which, inserted in
a hole in the breech-block,
would fuse and fire a pencil of
flame on to the silken bags of
cordite behind the sharp-nosed
shells.
Ordnance artificers, well
down inside the
which extended like the root of
a tooth down into the shell-
rooms far below, checked
that turret-pumps were in run-
ning order, their oil-tanks full
of the viscous fluid whose pres-
sure, in non-corrosive pipes,
worked just about everything in
the turrets from shell-hoists to
elevating, training, ramming and
breech-opening machinery. His
assistant tested compressed-air
bottles whose blast would blow
burning residue out the muzzles
after each broadside; and the
watertanks which would squirt
a cooling stream on to the hot
breech-block as it opened. Those
touchy cordite-bags ramming
into the gun had to be kept clear
of anything that spelled, in the
slightest degree, heat.
Even while ships were racing
down-harbor, seaward, the pipe
shrilled through the loud-
speaker :
“M a i n armament-control
parties close up!”
These were not full turret-
crews, but director-layers and
-trainers, gun - layers and
-trainers, communication
numbers and so on; their pur-
pose to check that there was no
discrepancy between elevation
and training pointers in the
directors and their repeat-
pointers in the turrets.
The main director trained
dead on the starb’d beam —
Green 90. Critical eyes in
turrets noted the long red
electrical pointers on training-
dials swing to the same bearing,
and the elevation-pointers quiver
on the 30deg. at which the tele-
scopes in the director were laid.
If they didn’t, checking pro-
cedure was carried out until they
did. Yesterday turret-captains,
checking pointers in their daily
routine, with the war remote in
Europe, might have settled for
a difference in pointers of a
couple of minutes of training or
elevation; today, an error of
seconds was hunted down as if
it had been degrees.
Checked, tested and found
correct,, in every heart a bound-
ing thrill at the possibility of
action, tempered by apprecia-
tion of the explosive qualities of
1 lin. shell, the three ships thrust
eagerly towards the rendezvous.
They met, as ordered, at 7 a.m.
on Tuesday, December 12, and
headed for the congested ship-
ping lanes converging from the
vastness of the Atlantic into the
funnel of the Plate.
At noon that day Harwood
signalled, by light, his policy on
sighting the enemy.
“My policy with three
cruisers in company versus one
pocket-battleship. Attack at
once by day or night. By day
act as two units, Ist Division
[Ajax and Achilles] and Exeter
diverged to permit flank-
marking. First Division will
concentrate gunfire. By night
ships will normally remain in
company in open order. Be
prepared for the signal ZMM.”
Amplified, this signal meant
that the two 6-inchers were to
remain together, one ahead of
the other, or abreast, as the
senior officer desired in the light
of developments, with 8-incher
Exeter flung well clear to port so
as to divide the enemy’s fire, and
to allow Exeter to mark, and
signal back corrections to, the
6-incher’s fall of shot. One ship
firing at another right ahead can
determine whether her shell is
falling short or over, but not by
how much. Another ship well
to one side, however, by means
of an instrument called a “rake,”
can determine the error, exact
almost to a yard. Radar, by
ranging on the enemy ship itself,
and on the towering water-
columns thrown up by heavy
shell landing, gives gunners the
range-difference mathematically
exact. The necessary correction
is then applied. But this was
1939 —the rangefinder era.
At dawn on Wednesday, the
13th, all British ships closed up
at action-stations. Harwood
exercised the manoeuvre implicit
in his signal “ZMM” (of which,
while not bothering the reader


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review j'our
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
LEISURELY LUXURY MOTOR
TOURS TO THE CONTINENT
OF EUROPE
at inclusive rates from LONDON back
to LONDON in latest model British
ARMCHAIR Motor Coaches with British
Drivers and Tour Managers who know
every inch of the road.
LUXURY LAND CRUISERS LTD., a
Company founded in 1932, gives you here
the solution to your Continental visit
problem.
Many Australian visitors travelled with
us last season and were enthusiastic in
their praises of our organisation. We
confidently expect you to follow their
example.
Leisurely Tours at regular intervals to:
The ITALIAN LAKES; SWITZER-
LAND, SPAIN, ROME, DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL. RHINE,
BLACK FOREST and DENMARK and
SWEDEN.
You are strongly recommended to make
vour reservations prior to arrival in U.K.
Cablegrams; IMBLEGRIP, LONDON.
Letters to: —
LUXURY LAND CRUISES, LTD.
(Brochure C),
9/11 Princes House, 190 Piccadilly,
London, W.l, England.
Phone; REGent 4580 and 5241.
KUV mom SAFE/
saViifis
Correspondence,
statement*. etc., Ofcd Us the
"Sander* ” can be securely
bound and converted Into
period book oi reference at
the end of each n.otith
df
d
fd
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
thiirtbufmf
STBNKT
MELBOURNE ,
ADELAIDE •
W C Pc»«eld * Co Ply. Lid.
, Nartnao Br*» Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon A Sou Ltd.
metb . . o.a*i 8.. k t. i*u*u
mr
las/AS
From the most Modern
Shearing Gear Factory...
Lv,
X
n«i
/i
xi
T 1
jm
Modernise your
shed now with
most effifliwit
mmm
f
df
SUPER -DUPLEX
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES
Danger, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
VICTORIA
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street, WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND
Winchcombe Carson Limited,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Horwood Bagshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA
A. G. Webber and Sons Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
with its technicalities, the writer
would like to explain that its
object was to avoid torpedoes,
take the enemy by surprise and
cross his stern), and, with full
light lifting over an empty
space, fell guns out.
Then, at 6.14 a.m., a faint
smear, dark against the pearl-
blue of the north-west, was
sighted in the flagship’s glasses.
Smoke!
From under his binoculars
Harwood, great-coated in the
keen morning air, spoke briefly
to the signal-yeoman. A light
stuttered from the flagship’s
bridge; in obedience Exeter in-
creased speed to investigate.
Two minutes later she signalled
back: “1 think it is a pocket-
battleship.”
Two minutes later again a
brief sparkle of light appeared
under the distant smoke, yellow
flashes competing with faint
success against the sunlight.
Seconds, then the sea near
Exeter erupted ; for one instant
it stood, a trio of beautiful black
smoke-cones like rearing
cypresses, on thick white trunks
of water. Then the trunks flung
themselves apart in lathers of
spray. Bereft of support, the
smoke hung uncertainly a
moment above the circles of
creaming white on the sea, then
was chased down-wind, strung
out into a long, low smear, black
against the violent blue of the
sky. It was a pocket-battleship!
And coming towards.
The alarm-bells were shrilling
aboard Ajax and Achilles as
they heeled under rudder, till
they were pointing directly at the
enemy ship now visible ahead.
Both ships were shuddering with
speed.
Exeter opened fir© at 6.20,
Achilles at 6.21 and Ajax at
6.23, within three minutes of
each other, at a range of just
under 10 miles. Visibility was
extreme, sea slight, with a
moderate breeze. Harwood was
examining that breeze, in much
the same way as Nelson would
have, though for a different
reason —on its direction would
depend the efficacy of their
smokescreens. The action
began, it is presumed, with
empty stomachs on both sides.
Graf Spee was at first un-
decided on her gunnery policy.
She had thought at first there
was one cruiser to contend with,
and at once turned towards to
contend with it —and to sight
another pair. Her two triple-
turrets, one forrard, one aft,
were firing under different
controls, and she shifted target
several times before eventually
concentrating both turrets and
their big guns on Exeter, well
clear to port of the other British
cruisers.
As usual, the German’s
gunnery was good. Within three
salvos he had straddled Exeter,
great spouts of water erupting
on both sides of her. One 11 in.
shell burst short amidships ; on
the upper-deck instead of pene-
trating first. The whole of the
starb’d torpedo-tubes crew was
killed, communications to the
bridge were cut by shearing
splinters and the searchlights
and plane on its catapult were
riddled.
At that time the aircraft was
being prepared for catapulting,
so that it could mark the British
fall of shot. Instead, crippled
beyond use, it was taken hold of
by all available hands and man-
handled bodily over the side.
Then, four minutes after she
had opened fire, Exeter caught
a direct hit from a direct-action
shell on the sloping face of B-
turret, immediately below the
bridge. The terrific jolt of a
6701 b. shell having its 2500 ft.
per second velocity checked
abruptly jammed B-turret out of
action; the shell-casing exploded
into a thousand slivers, which
shot upwards and swept the
bridge and wheelhouse in a
searing blast of steel. All per-
sonnel on the bridge except
Captain Bell and two others
were killed or wounded, and
comnnipication to the wheel-
house below was wrecked.
At once the emergency pro-
cedure at which the ship’s com-
pany had been ceaselessly
drilled swung into action, with
the captain conning the ship
from the after conning-position.
This changeover took a few
minutes, in which time Exeter
shuddered under the receipt of
two more 11 in. shells forrard.
Meanwhile, Ajax and Achilles,
in concentration firing with one
ship controlling the fire of all
16 guns, were shooting fast and
accurately. And they were clos-
ing the range rapidly.
Rattled, the pocket giant
turned ope turret on these terriers
and smothered little Ajax with
enormous splashes. Both
Britishers promptly turned away
to throw-off the • unwelcome
attention.
Then Ajax catapulted her air-
craft. Under normal conditions,
a perfectly simple operation;
with four of the after-guns firing
on a forrard bearing, the blasting
mouths roaring within a few feet
of the plane, it was a highly
skilful evolution. The plane
zoomed off across the sea (tire
officer in charge of the catapult
had about seven seconds be-
tween broadsides to get her off),
and climbed high into the blue
to signal, by W/T, the British
fall of shot.
Shortly afterwards, Ajax and
Achilles altered course back
again to close the range. The
reader is asked to bear in mind
the ships’ relative positions —
Graf Spec was about to turn
under threat of torpedoes fired
from Exeter, and from then on
steamed, roughly, north-west to-
wards the South American coast.
She tailed Ajax and Achilles on
her starb’d quarter, and Exeter
on her port quarter, so that, in
effect, the ships formed a sort
of spearhead, Graf Spee at the
apex, the British cruisers on
either flank astern.
Ajax and Achilles were by this
time worked up to their full
power —contrary to Hollywood
conception, a warship cannot
leap from anchor to 34 knots
in a few seconds at a word of
command. From then on (6.32),
after he had turned away to
avoid Exeter’s torpedoes,
Captain Langsdorff, in
Harwood’s words, “displayed
little offensive spirit (after his
initial closing of the range), and
did not take advantage of the
opportunity that was always
present either to close Ajax and
Achilles or Exeter, the latter —
and he must have known it—
only having one turret in action.
Instead Graf Spee retired be-
tween the two forces, and
allowed herself to be fired at
from both flanks. Only at one
period did she again alter course
and concentrate on Ajax and
Achilles, and she immediately
abandoned this when Ajax fired
torpedoes.”
But, though running, Graf
Spee was still very much in
action. She shot another two
shells into Exeter, one of which
blew A-turret on the fo’c’sle out
of action, and the other, explod-
ing outside the chief-petty-
officers’ mess, starting a. fierce
fire and flooding the 4in.
magazine through ruptured
water-mains. As well, all gyro-
compass repeaters were out of
action, but Captain Bell, using
a boat’s magnetic - compass
about the size of a kitchen clock,
resolutely maintained Exeter in
action, steering her so that her
remaining turret, Y, on the
quarterdeck, kept bearing and
firing in local control. The
gunnery-officer controlled this
fire from the after searchlight
platform by eye, bereft of all the
mechanical aids his transmitting-
station had formerly given him.
At this time Ajax and
Achilles were in concentration
firing (now, with rad a r,
obsolete), in effect one ship for
control purposes, with Achilles
controlling the fire by W/T
orders to her consort. Then
occurred one of those im-
probable, but always possible,
events of war at sea which no
amount of training could fore-
stall except commonsense
initiative, which apparently was
not used.
Achilles’s W/T transmission
broke down; she immediately
and correctly went into in-
dividual control, with, at first,
her salvos falling well short; but
she forgot to tell her mate any-
thing of this development. Re-
ports of these fall of shot were
wirelessed back by Ajax’s air-
craft, sailing serenely above the
running German. The gun-
control officer in Ajax received
these reports, and, not knowing
Achilles was now controlling
only her own fire, assumed they
applied to his own shooting. He
corrected accordingly-—that is,
put extra range on his guns to
reach the target when in reality
he was landing all around it. As
a result Ajax’s falling salvos
landed well over the Graf Spec,
no doubt to her eminent satis-
faction.
By the time the error was
realised and corrected, Graf
Spec, altering course violently
to avoid the snapping teeth
again fastened on her, was mak-
ing smoke —vqluminous plumes
of rolling white spawning from
her apparatus on the stem which
hid her behind a bank of im-
penetrable opacity.
Only half-crippled Exeter,
well clear to westward, had her
still in sight. Tenaciously she
plugged away with her remain-
ing turret, whose guns had to
overcome in their elevation, the
7deg. of starb’d list a shell-burst
forrard had given their platform.
Cursing his enemy’s smoke,
Harwood swung his line directly
for the target and ordered his
ships to their utmost speed.
{To be concluded next week.)


Ta
V
m
'1
Si
it’s that
Ingrams hce
gain
a
• •«
You’ll score, and howl with a smooth Ingrams face
to meet the smartest bodyline play. You’ll score 120
cool, comfortable shaves to the innings from one jar of
Ingrams Shaving Cream, that combines its own face
lotion.
Get Ingrams from your Chemist today.
Q
pnqnms
SHAVING CItEAM
A Product of Bristol-Myers
1.5.J4
A
a
SHAVING
ORtAW
RMH
FONDE EN 1724
RE MY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BEATING INFLATION.
A Washington correspondent
of London “News Chronicle”
sees the U.S. Government plans
for beatipg inflation as being
based on “a new idea” —that the
U.S. can produce itself out of
the danger.
It is, of course, not “new” in
Australia (except in practice).
The Bulletin having, from the
start of the spiral, prescribed it
and the work it involves as the
only remedy.
In the U.S. effort “Some con-
trols, some allocation of scarce
materials, some increased taxa-
tion will be needed. But they
will be designed, not with the
aim of restricting and sharing
out the goods on which the
people will be able to spend
their money, but with the idea
of assisting the speedy produc-
tion of more and more goods.”
Confidence in this idea is
based on the remarkable Ameri-
can production experience of
recent times; the discovery over
the past 10 years that “America
had never previously known its
strength”: —"
“Any economist would have
been derided if he had said be-
fore the war that, in the five
3'ears from 1939 to 1944, the
total annual output of the
United States would be in-
creased by 75 per cent. But that
is what happened: and in con-
siderable measure the war was
won because it happened,”
Further present confidence
springs from the very important
fact that “The [U.S.] trade-
unions have joined the move-
ment. Most of them have now
learned the lesson that nothing
is so certain to bring bigger
wages as bigger production.”
However, for the U.S. public
there will “have to be some
economy in non-essentials,” and
“Without the right public
response the new idea will not
work, and the restrictions and
controls everyone wants to avoid
will become necessary. But if
there is self-discipline and
energy production will do the
job.”
So (concludes the corres-
pondent) the U.S. Government
believes, “And if the Govern-
ment turns out to be right, if
the American idea works, it will
change a lot of economic think-
ing in the 20th-century world.”
As a typical U.S. Press re-
action to this programme for
beating inflation, the Dallas
“Morning News” can be
quoted:
“The national Administration
at Washington has set the course
for an indefinite period of heavy
military expenditures. Armed
forces will be increased to
3.000. men, who will be
drawn largely from the nation’s
productive labor force. Some
4.000. or more other workers
must convert from civilian to
military production. This may
go on for 10, 20, 30 years. Are
we faced with a period of
economic austerity?....
“If war —big war —comes,
then we will have austerity and
plenty of it. But we will defeat
our own ends if we go in for
a long period of peace-time
lowering of our standard of
living. We will defeat the ends
of our companion nations be-
cause an economically strong
and prosperous United States is
essential to the rehabilitation of
their economies.
“The sensible alternative is
plain before our eyes, but few
of the researchers mention it.
We must go to work. That
means all of us. A hard-
working nation is the best pre-
pared nation in every respect.
And we will never be pre-
pared to meet Russia while we
are working an average of 40
hours a week as against the
Russians’ 50 hours.”
Wine Preference.
A London “Sunday Times”
correspondent, touching on an
issue which is seriously troubling
Australian wine-producers;
“Thanks largely to the pre-
war encouragement provided by
the British market, wine-produc-
tion is today Australia’s fourth
largest primary industry. But
Australia is seriously concerned
—as, indeed. South Africa
must be —at the effect of the
British duties, which have re-
duced Australian exports to the
United Kingdom to only one-
sixth of what they were.”
Going into the rises in
British wine duties—now heavily
loaded against Empire wines
compared with the old ratios—
the correspondent points out
that what they amount to is a
fall in the margin of preference
from 50 per cent, to 20 per cent.
He quotes Australian producers
and their importers in Britain
as holding that “a difference of
less than 2s. a bottle is not
sufficient at present prices to
compete with the ‘snob’ appeal
which, apart from their intrinsic
merits, the Continental wines
undoubtedly possess”:
“Encouraged in the pre-war
years by the welcome to her
wines in the British market,
Australia increased her produc-
tion from 16 million to 34 mil-
lion gallons. But so harmful
have been the increased duties
that imports, which had re-
covered to 1,851,336 gallons in
1947-48 (about half the pre-war
figure), had fallen to 640,411
gallons in 1949-50. More than
two million gallons of Australian
wine are now in bond awaiting
buyers.
“The fact that before the war
the United Kingdom took four-
fifths of Australia’s exports
encouraged the Commonwealth
Government’s sponsorship of
still more vineyard areas, now
just coming into production.
But increasing yield, coupled
with the decline of its major ex-
port market, threatens the in-
dustry with overproduction, and
thousands of small wine-
growers, many of them ex-
servicemen, are faced with ruin.
“Salvation, it is urged, can
come only by such a reduction
of duty on all heavy wines as to
bring about a noticeable reduc-
tion in retail prices and by an
effective increase in the margin
of preference on Empire wines
of all strengths. The revenue,
it is argued, would not suffer,
as the result would be to stimu-
late sales of heavy wine*—as
happened to light wines when
the duty was reduced in 1949.
“It would also discourage the
unsatisfactory practice of blend-
ing, to which importers resort
to even out the wide difference
between the duties on light and
heavy wines. Blending does
lower prices, but the result bears
little relation to the wine as
shipped and leads to loss of
prestige.”
Camouflaged Bear.
The Archbishop of York, Dr.
Garbett, on the Communist
“peace” hoax:
“Peace campaigns are an im-
—London “Time and Tide ."
PREFABRICATED DOVE.
portant weapon in the cold war ;
by petitions, meetings and con-
gresses the citizens of demo-
cratic States are called upon to
ask for disarmament, and to per-
suade their own Governments to
abandon weapons which they
possess but in which Russia is
not, at present, so strong.
“Under a barrage of peace
propaganda, and hidden by the
iron curtain, Russia is able to
increase and strengthen her
armed forces, which, already, are
the most powerful in the world.
“The call for peace naturally
attracts many good citizens who,
in their innocence, fail to dis-
cern the bear behind the sheep’s
clothing, and unthinkingly com-
mit themselves to policies which,
if acted upon, would only
strengthen the aggressor and
render powerless his prey.”
Malaya May Be Lost.
From time to time over the
last few years the Attlee Gov-
ernment has gone through some
of the motions of doing some-
thing about the protracted and
steadily worsening state of
things in Malaya, There was
even a Ministerial visit there
last year,
London “Times,” pressing for
more realistic action, now de-
clares: “The time has come for
the authorities to recognise that
Malaya is at war.” Decisions
and deeds, it insists, must be
drastically speeded up ; but:
“This will not be easy; some
officers are tired ; others are dis-
couraged ; too many still have
faith that the emergency will
pass if they continue their
accustomed conscientious rou-
tine. The Englishmen at work
on the spot, the planters and
the engineers, the Malay com-
munity, and indeed many
Chinese, have no illusions....;
“A sad amount of time has
been lost. There is still the
opportunity, with adequate regu-
lar forces available, to mobilise
the administration and the
people against the terrorists and
to break them. No one, in the
present state of the Far East,
dare prophesy how long the
opportunity, already too long
neglected, will last. Malaya, if
not settled soon, will be lost.”
Politburo Policy.
New York “Times’s” chief
European correspondent, in an
analysis of long-range Politburo
policy, has concluded that one
fundamental of it is keeping the
U.S. in a state of almost per-
manent mobilisation, with the
idea of undermining its economic
and social structure after years
of excessive strain.
“But,” the correspondent
commented, “this is a delicate
game. Moscow does not wish
mobilisation to proceed too com-
pletely or efficaciously either in
terms of production or man-
power. The Kremlin un-
doubtedly fears development of
a ‘preventive - war’ psychosis
which might swing such an
apparatus into action.”
Hence, “Rather than risk
such a danger it seems likely
that for a considerable period
to come the U.S.S.R. will seek
to convince the West and, above
all, the United States, that its
intentions are really and sin-
cerely peaceful.”
Wool v. Fibres.
In view of the huge demand
for wool, R. W. Moncrieff, an
expert who has written a book
on Artificial Fibres, raises the
question of what has happened
to those fibres which had been
hailed as “wool-like”:
“The answer is, in truth, that
there is no fibre, artificial or syn-
thetic, which is quite like the
wool fibre; there is no fibre
that by itself forms a satisfactory
substitute for wool.
“Sometimes the woolgrowers
and wool merchants look with
some misgiving on the growth
of synthetic fibres. Will they,
they ask, spoil the market for
wool? The answer is that wool
has unique qualities ; no artificial
fibre can reproduce them and,
provided that an enlightened
attitude is maintained towards
the growth of the new fibres,
these will do no harm. They
will do nothing but good to the
wool industry.
“No fibre can take the place
of wool, but there are some fibres
that can be mixed with it. The
new fibres cannot replace all the
wool, but they can act as substi-
tutes for a part of it, and when
they are available in large quan-
tities they should ease the supply
position of the natural fibre. No
new fibre, spun without admix-
ture with real wool, will give a
yarn or fabric which could pos-
sibly be mistaken for natural


Nu-METAL
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour EE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and Scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and tour times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
87/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. 0.0.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 17/1/’5l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
Women are
Different
They live longer (so nature
tries to compensate for this by
arranging that about 106 boy
babies be born for each 100
girls). They try suicide more
frequently (but men succeed
three times as often). Girls
suffer five times more anxiety
than boys, have a richer
fantasy life. January Reader’s
Digest brings you intriguing,
little-known facts about bow
men and women differ in
every phase of life from
conception to death.
Get your Reader’s Digest
today. Thirty articles of last-
ing interest, condensed from
leading magazines, current
books. One shilling and six-
pence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
relief from
d
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of sufferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. ha.>3
rmypfffpi
' ENGLISH
ASTHMA MEDICINE
Moauoi °*
J.S3ASV3. -
i "
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
INO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Lsave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayt at 11 a.m., arrive London
.for breakfast on Tuesday) No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance forjmealt
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you sea Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-4.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual alapsed time only 17 hit*
dK min*
fd
f
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
df
df
f Departures every Wodnesday and
Saturday. Full particular t from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General S alet Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
jm
m
KA.4f.MI
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
. ■ %
/ ' -A
,
JW;/ * J
mm.
I '
- # .
. Pali
m
m
%
mm
mm
\4
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE
!58
■
Mi m
w'*' ' m"'
Unloading 90 ton Mill
Housing for new Lysagbt
Cold Rolling Mill,
In 1917, John lysaght (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., commenced rolling the now
famous Orb brand Galvanized Cor-
rugated Iron. Since then and in
keeping with the steadily growing
demands of Australian home-builders
and manufacturers a progressive
policy of expansion has been followed
by the Company which has resulted
in today's enormous output and
greatly expanded range of grades
and qualities designed to meet every
conceivable industrial and architec-
tural need. Future plans call for an
even more extensive developmental
programme and aim at doubling the;
present huge tonnage.
&YSAGHTS /A
"Growing with * )
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
d
ixum*
wool, but there are some which,
>vhen spun in 50-50 mixtures with
wool—that is, half-artificial
fibre, half-natural < wool-will
give yarns and fabrics which are
so similar to all-wool that they
can only be distinguished from
it in the laboratory/*
J. Bull, Aristocrat.
“Despite Socialism, despite
the Welfare State, despite
Labor’s comforting belief in
Britain, this country is still
looked upon by most other
nationalities as the last civilised
stronghold of aristocracy.”
Thus the writer of a London
“Nineteenth Century” assess-
ment of what is probably one of
the main strengths in keeping
England, England still. More-
over, the writer, C. M. Wood-
house, agrees that the picture is
true:
“We [Englishmen] cannot fail,
if we examine our national
structure deeply and dispassion-
ately, to recognise that there is
at work within it a powerful
force, quite distinct from the
forces of ability or wealth,
which can still only be called in
all honesty the force of heredi-
tary class-distinction,” and “it is
plain that this is a force that has
no counterpart in like degree
anywhere else in the civilised
world.
“Nowhere else, for instance.
is social power so completely
divorced from the power of
wealth ; in the U.S.A. those two
are practically the same thing,
and in the rest of Europe the
first has been reduced to a
shadow by the gradual or
peremptory removal of its sup-
ports.”
As proofs of how far apart
Britain stands in this respect
the writer cites “two insti-
tutions which are to be
found nowhere else on earth in
the middle of the 20th century:
the House of Lords and the pub-
lic school. Not a breath of
criticism need be uttered in ad-
mitting this unique fact about
ourselves. The man who wor-
ships them as the highest pin-
nacle of European civilisation,
the man who accepts them with
all their faults as better than
most alternatives, and the man
who decries them as wicked
anachronisms —all alike must
agree on one point, that they
are unique.”
Push-button Reverse.
The Chifleys and others who
subscribe to the pleasant belief
that push-buttons have become
so potent that trained troops
aren’t wanted any more should
look into a report by a London
“Economist” correspondent back
from Korea. As he has seen
recent happenings there:
“A highly mechanised and
armorplated Army is taking a
strategical and tactical beating
from a mass of underequipped
foot soldiers, flagrantly flouting
all the theories of the best-placed
contemporary experts. There are
probably excellent broad-plan-
ning and political reasons why
the U.N. armies—supplied,
mobile and with the initiative in
the advance —were checked and
finally routed by the peasant
Chinese, The alleged mistakes
of General MacArthur —second-
rate intelligence, calculated or
miscalculated provocation—are
still matters for furious con-
jecture. These factors alone,
however vital to the long inter-
national view, are not enough to
explain this demonstration of the
foot-slogger’s superiority over
the machine.”
Arabs View Israel.
M. Philips Price, M.P., in a
“Manchester Guardian” article
sent from Damascus:
“Everyone here refuses to
recognise the existence of the
Jewish State, and therefore
assumes that the refugees will
go back one day when, as they
think, the Israelite State has col-
lapsed through economic weak-
ness and the failure of Ameri-
can subsidies.
“I have found every shade of
opinion adamant on this point
The Arab States now feel that
they have the whip hand over
the Jews, and that by refusing
any economic intercourse with
them they can ultimately make
the existence of the Jewish State
impossible. It would be a mis-
take to ignore the deadly earnest-
ness of the Syrians, as of all
Arabs, on this.”
Dragnet Digest.
Sheer “Bad Intelligence —Not all
the criticism of General MacArthur
over Korea has come from quarters
outside the U.S.; some of the U.S.
comment has been severe enough.
Thus a Washington report in New
York “Herald Tribune” said flatly
“The whole responsibility belongs to
Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s own in-
telligence organisation,” adding:
“Just as a great commander can work
miracles with good intelligence, so
even the greatest commander cannot
overcome bad intelligence. Since the
bad intelligence emanated from Gen.
MacArthur’s own headquarters, this
may displease those who like to
believe that he has attained a sort of
divine perfection. But facts are facts
none the less, and they must be
faced.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
German Reversal. —Summed up in
an article in London “Fortnightly”
by Renate Riemeck, German historian
and lecturer at the Oldenburg Train-
ing College: “The collapse of the
Nazi regime seemed to have marked
the final debasement of Germany in
the potential life of Europe; now,
after only five years, there is a
dramatic change of attitude on the
part of the democratic Powers to
Western Germany. There is no doubt
that this strange reversal Is largely the
result of Russian imperialism, and
ironically it might be said that the
German Federal Republic owes its
political recovery to die efforts of the
Soviet Union.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The Vital Battleground. —“Far
more clearly than the West,” com-
ments London “Economist,” “the
Russians see —and have seen for
years—that Germany is the vital
battleground. Whichever side, East
or West, can get Germany effectively
enrolled in its support is in a fair
way to control Europe. To this end
they [the Russians] give a devotion as
single-minded as the narrowness of
their ideology and their commitments
to their satellites permit.”
* * * *
Adenauer on Russia. —Stating in a
speech at Goslar that today Russia
no longer feels herself to be a Euro-
pean but a Bolshevist Power, which
“stands at the heart of Europe,” the
German Chancellor added: “With
her European satellite States and the
countries of Asia under her influence
she is in the position to conduct a
major war at any time without en-
gaging a single Russian soldier.”
♦ ♦ ♦ »
Placing the “Displaced.” The
International Refugee Organisation
has now resettled in new homes all
over the world some 80 per cent, of
the more than 1,500,000 “displaced
persons” entrusted to its care. The
organisation’s report shows the U.S.
as leading in the number of refugees
admitted, with Australia ranked
second. The U.S. figure is something
over 200,000, which should leave
Australia a comfortable winner on a
proportionate population basis,
* * * *
Worse Even Than Adolf. —London
“Daily Telegraph” editorial findings:
“Stalinism, like Nazism, will stop at
nothing but the fear of superior force
in furthering its plans to subjugate
the globe. It is more dangerous than
Nazism because, in addition to the
weapons of treachery, intrigue and
propaganda, it wields that of the
universal fifth-column. At no moment
since the defeat of the Turk at Vienna
in 1683 has the civilisation of the
West been exposed to such a threat
of total destruction as it is today.’


4S
Tfyim
Mb MWU
kmdi~
(when they’re warm)
“It’s as cooling as an ocean
breeze on a hot day—and popular!
•—one of the most popular of all the
Vickers Gin coolers.
The gin gives It a wonderful
flavour. I won’t take a moment to
prepare it—then you taste it. Make
a note of the recipe too—add It
to your collection.”
“SHADY GROVE
COOLER”
Into a long glass put
half tablespoon of
sugar, juice of half
a lemon, 2 oz. Vickers
Gin.
Mix with plenty of
ice and fill with cold
ginger beer.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
fd
ICKERS fill
A request to The United Distiller* Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box
7S9G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE,
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipes for
cocktails and long drinks. Write for it now.
rAN 0 U S $ I NCE 17 5 0
VG 40/16
Public Notice.
TO HYLTON SCUDDS late of Metropole
Hotel Bourke Street Melbourne. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Special Summons has
been issued out of the County Court at
Melbourne in the State of Victoria by
Rhodes Motor Company Proprietary
Limited for recovery of the sum of
£lO6/8/- for work and labor done and
materials for the same provided and for
use and occupation of premises AND it
has been ordered that service of the said
summons upon you be effected by this
advertisement and by attaching a true
copy of the said summons to an Olds-
mobile Motor Car registered No. N-S-W-
-—AZ4B3 Engine No. L 65407. If you
intend to defend the said action you must
give notice of your intention to so do to
the Registrar of the County Court at
Melbourne together with a stamp fee of
1/- within ten days of the appearance
of this advertisement. The summons in
this action was taken out by Messrs.
COLTMAN, WYATT & ANDERSON, of
456 Little, Collins Street,, Melbourne,
Solicitors to the Plaintiff.
Enjoy MISl 1 happy
holiday motoring
(i
J
R
llili
with
GOODYEAR
TYRES
There's more built-in safety
as well as more built-in miles
in Goodyear De Luxe Tyres.
Fit De Luxe and get the
peace of mind that comes
from knowing your tyres are
safe . , . you'll appreciate
the economy of their
extra mileage, too!
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
f
6LW*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
4* 4* 4*
“No woman should pretend she’s
16 when she’s 50.”
— Women’s magazine.
Age is so apt to tell on her.
4* 4* 4*
“In the United States pedestrians
are almost as extinct as Red Indians.”
— U.K. ex-Minister Leslie Hore-
Bellsha.
Those who survive have a
feather in their caps.
“The buxom, bosomy babes had
won the nod over the leggy, lissom
lasses.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph/'
More bra blah!
4* 4* 4*
“If you want to know whether your
diamond ring is real, scratch it with a
piece of sharpened dry-ice.”
—Sydney “Truth.’'’ —
If it’s false a cold sweat will
break out on you,
4* 4* 4*
“I often wonder when women will
wake up to the fact that they are
just ‘bunnies’ for milliners.”
—Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.’'
Never! They can put anything
over them.
4* 4* 4*
“Five English High Court judges
will decide early in 1951 whether tips
should count as part of a waiter’s
wages.”
Or whether they are just part
of the Socialist hand-out.
On the Rocks.
“Jewels in Paris heels.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The sombre years have rolled
away
When Paris knew the Nazi
throng.
And now with merriment and
song
Parisians are blithe and gay.
The tricolor once more unfurled
Floats proudly o’er the
boulevards.
And jealously the city guards
Her fashion fame throughout the
world.
With frocks so chic and bright
chapeau
She captures every woman’s
heart,
. And even brings to footwear
art
Undreamt of some few months
ago.
Her people prosper, yet I feel
This latest fad will scarcely
please
The few who steal to live,, for
these
Will now be always down at
heel.
D. H. E.
Getting the Hang Of It.
So 1 went to a pychiatrist,
I was standing in the reception-
room—taking a seat on one of
the uncut-moquette chairs could
possibly have cost me another
guinea—gazing absently at the
wall when a terrfic brassy clash
about three inches from myl ear
caused me almost to become air-
borne. As I broke into a cold
sweat and buckled at the knees
the psychiatrist stepped from
behind me and put down the
pair of cymbals.
“Your nerves certainly seem a
trifle frayed along the selvedge,”
he remarked, giving a nervous
twitch at his collar. He waved
me into the surgery. “Well have
to do something about them. No
doubt you are overworked?”
“And underpaid,” I put in
pointedly,
“A bad thing, sticking too
closely to your work. What do
you do, by the way?”
“I’m a glue-tester,” I replied,
not without a touch of justifiable
pride. “If I wnstuck to my work
my firm couldn’t very well sell
its product, I suppose.”
He frowned. “Do you have
many dreams?” he asked.
“Some beauts,” I replied.
“Every night, all night. I
wouldn’t be without some of
them, especially those I spend in
Eastern harems or as a book-
maker But last night I had an
awful nightmare. There I was
on a spit”-
The psychiatrist’s face
twitched violently, and he tugged
again involuntarily at his collar.
“In a spit,” he corrected tersely
—and he shuddered at my re-
volting predicament. “You must
ife
“Just say that again!”
have gone to bed with morbid
thoughts about an excessive
secretion of saliva.”
“ being slowly roasted as
it revolved,” I went on, ignoring
his interruption, “while a devil
was prodding me with a fork.
Do you have that, too?” I asked,
pointing to his right leg,
which wouldn’t keep still, “Mine
does that sometimes when I
can’t get to sleep.”
“Go on!” he said, apparently
pleased that he wasn’t a lone
martyr to the condition. “Mine’s
been doing that for years.
Rather awkwai'd if your car has
a sensitive accelerator, that’s all.
Now, this fork you were
prodded with. It was black,
wasn’t it?”
I gazed at him in admiration.
“You must be psychic as well as
psychiatric,” I said. “It was.”
“It would be a pitchfork,
then,” he murmured, as if to
himself. “Pitch is black.”
“So is a garden on a dark
night,” I replied spiritedly. “It
could have been a garden fork.”
He gave me a strange look,
took another tug at his collar,
then made his pronouncement.
“You have neurasthenia,” he
said. “Badly,”. His leg gave
another twitch, and as the nurse
put a pen down on a desk in an
anteroom he gave a startled
jump. “You will have to limit
yourself to six chops at the even-
ing meal, and avoid taking beer
with your porridge. Sleep with
your hat on, do an hour’s skip-
ping after each meal, and never
take a bath with the water over
a hundred degrees Centigrade.
And don’t bother about inhibi-
tions. You can swallow boiled
lollies whole if you like. I’d
like to see you again in a week.”
Seven days later I returned. I
was standing twirling my hat in
the reception-room when I felt
something cold and clammy
glide across my neck, and a
snake’s forked tongue flicked
out a few inches from my nose.
As gravitation pulled me back
towards the carpet the while I
emitted a half-strangled scream
the psychiatrist stepped from
behind me, coiled the reptile up
and put it in a box.
“Your nerves are improving
slightly, I think,” he said. “Step
into the surgery, please.” He
succeeded after about five
matches in igniting the cigarette
which oscillated violently
between his lips, “How are the
dreams going?”
“Rather better,” I said. “Last
night I was only beaten to death
twice and eaten by a fantod.”
The psychiatrist rubbed his
hands together. “Splendid!” he
said. “That’s a marvellous im-
provement.”
“But I had an unpleasant one
the night before,” I went on. “I
dreamt I was in the peak-hour
crowd in Pitt-street clad only in
my underpants.”
He looked at me with, I
thought, a look of deep con-
tempt. “You should worry,” he
rasped. “Last night I was in a
crowded ballroom in only a
singlet that I couldn’t pull down
past my chest! Anyway, keep
on with the same treatment, but
have a glass of cabbage-water
and a lychee-nut going to bed
Good morning.”
After that we became quite
pally, though sometimes he’d
make what’s left of my hair
stand on end describing his
own horrific nightmares.
On one visit I asked him did
criminality often go with
neurasthenia. For answer he
pulled out a large tome and
pointed to the features of
criminals whose photos studded
the pages. It appeared that he
also had several patients, includ-
ing women, who were known
criminals. After that I began to
take a keen note of those I
passed either going in or coming
from his rooms, and it was cer-
tainly amazing how easy it was
to pick them. It made me think
I might take up psychiatry
myself. It would be less messy
than glue-testing, too.
One visit, about 15 guineas
later, he was testing my reflexes
and telling me about his latest
nightmare when a
woman came into the
reception - room,
looked in at the psy-
chiatrist and myself,
then stopped and said
something to the
nurse.
I indicated her and
said: “Now there is
one obviously of the
most depraved type.
Little more than
quarter - witted, but
with low cunning
written plainly all
over her face. She’d do her
husband in as soon as look
at him. I”
Just then the nurse came to
the door. “It was your wife,
doctor. She dropped in while
passing, and told me to remind
you not to be late —there will
be guests for dinner.”
I don’t sleep with my hat on
now, nor do I swallow boiled
lollies whole.
BO.


rt^CARS
BMtems
or-
Cp*
pi
' . j
\
V
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
<U3LZMU
FACING H PORK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence ol
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a parlc . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer
from the centre of the city. The
looms are all you would wish
, . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
[HE WENTWORTH
In
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C, D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
df
Perfectly
ify.
/v
m
?m
m
v
w
&
zz
m
<f
=s
y
N
Ini
7
d
fdf
df
sa f.SUPP° RTmG
tHt BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
* NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At the last Sydney yearling sales
were offered the first progeny of three
new imported sires, all sons of
Hyperion and with a potentially con-
fusing common thread in their names
—AI Dakhil, A 1 Nasser and A 1
Wassat. A 1 Wassat, who, of the
three, had rather the best racing
record, with 11 starts (all as a three-
year-old) for three wins, a second and
five thirds, was represented by a par-
ticularly fine-looking bunch, mostly
breed at Widden Stud, and, as is
usually the case with the first offering
of a new sire, buyers rushed them.
The round dozen catalogued averaged
a shade over 1700 guineas, with the
three top lots fetching, respectively,
3000, 3200 and 4000 guineas. At
Randwick on Saturday A 1 Wassat
notched up his first success as a sire
when his daughter Evangeline scored
a most comfortable win in the Two-
year-old Encourage for fillies.
A chestnut filly out of Fidelity, and
thus a half-sister to the fairish stayer
Crusader, Evangeline was not among
the youngsters offered at the yearling
sales. She was bred by Denis Allen,
and carries his all-yellow colors.
Ridden on Saturday by W. Cook, and
starting at a handsome 10 to 1, Evan-
geline was in the box-seat all the way,
and was untroubled to win by two
lengths from Wayside Bloom and the
favorite March Yale.
With the 1951 yearling sales in the
offing, the result of Saturday’s
Juvenile for colts and geldings was
of interest in providing further evi-
dence that no relationship necessarily
exists between the price paid for a
yearling and the animal’s capability
as a racehorse. Winner of the
Juvenile was Free Rule, for whom
former topnotch jockey and nowadays
trainer Fred Shean paid 600 guineas
at the last sales. With G. Moore
up, Free Rule (Neptune-Golden Rule)
ted all the way, and won with ease
from Field Prince and Hydrogen.
First prize of £635 almost exactly
returned Free Rule’s purchase-price.
On the other hand, a third prize of
£75 didn’t pay off much of the 3200
guineas Hydrogen cost as a yearling,
and the unplaced brigade included
Caphua (1500 guineas), Maronghi
(2700 guineas), Golden Radiance (3000
guineas) and, stone-last, Nonda Chief,
who was a 3400-guineas yearling.
Flushed by the success they have
recently enjoyed in connection with the
Villiers-Summer Cup and the Carring-
ton Stakes-Tatt’s Cup doubles, book-
makers are trying hard to drum a
bit of business on the forthcoming
Challenge Stakes and Anniversary
Handicap, but even the most incur-
able of mug punters can begin to
suffer a surfeit of doubles. However,
Saturday’s results gave the bagmen
a couple of fresh “favorites” when
Buzmark produced distinctly im-
proved form to win the Sefton
Handicap and the rather more con-
sistent Great World (J. Thompson)
atoned for a string of minor placings
by most easily winning the Warwick
January Handicap of 12 furlongs.
* * * *
Melbourne’s racing on Saturday
was at Caulfield, where punters waged
somewhat more than usually success-
ful battle with the common foe —or,
rather, should the expression be “not
quite so unsuccessful as usual.”
Howbeit, the roughest winner of the
day was a 6-to-l pop (heavily backed-
in from tens), and three favorites and
a second-favorite were successful.
Star turn, from the punters’ view-
point, was the absurdly easy win of
Free Kick in the main event, the
2-miles Inkerman Handicap of £l5OO.
In line for three wins in a row, Free
Kick started at 10 to 9, and duly
registered the hat trick without
causing a moment’s anxiety. He won
by four lengths from Bold John, with
Our Love a remote third.
With one hurdle-race on Saturday’s
card, and two other events restricted
to apprentice riders, the senior flat
jockeys had only four opportunities
to land a winner; these were divided
equitably by the two leading riders,
Purteli and Williamson. Purtell had
the mount on Free Kick, and his
other share of the spoils was pro-
vided by the success of imported
One Up in the 6-furlongs Park Stakes.
A length behind One Up, River Hero
and Scotwyn deadheated for second.
River Hero is very much one to
watch in sprint events at present. He
is showing form, and is for the nonce
well down in the weights; only a
particularly bad barrier-position
cooked his chances on Saturday.
While both Purtell’s winners were
fairly comfortable jobs, Williamson’s
were pretty close squeezes ; in both
cases perfectly-timed finishing bursts
did the trick. In the Rowena Welter
(9f.) the St. Magnus four-year-old
Patron was a long way back at the
turn, but he finished strongly to
defeat Beefeater by a half-length. On
Gang Awa in the Juvenile Stakes,
Williamson had an even closer go,
the Debtor colt just inching home
ahead of Remover, with Theka only
a half-neck further back and the
favorite Moonpath also well in the
picture.
* ♦ ♦ 9
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Reel, 1; Port, 2; Oreel, 3. Two-
year-old Handicap (colts): Golden
Radiance, 1; Caphua, 2; Volonel, 3.
Parramatta Mixed: Double Dutch, 1;
Beau Sandy, 2; Apex, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Fresteem, 1; Franjohn, 2;
Bankstream, 3. Civic Handicap:
Royal Andrew, 1; Buzmark, 2; Star
Vite, 3. Lord Mayor’s Cup: Denali,
1; Persist, 2; Great World, 3.
Welter; Golden Tan, 1; Miss Pacific,
2; Sir Raven, 3.
« * * *
Australia retained the Ashes and
maintained its unbeaten record in
post-war cricket when England, after
narrowly losing the first two Tests,
took a really torrid pasting in the
third Test, which ended in Sydney
last week.
To relate briefly the sorry tale, the
tourists were beaten by an innings
and 13 runs. They were plagued by
bad luck throughout the match, and
finished up two men short, although
Bailey, with a fractured thumb, did
come in and essay to hold up one
end in the disastrous second-innings
batting collapse. In reply to M.C.C.’s
first innings 290, Australia hit up 426.
When the tourists came in for their
second knock on the fourth day the
wicket, which had been a mite skit-
tish right from the start, finally
abandoned all pretence of goodwill
towards batsmen, and with the aid of
this potent ally the Australian “mys-
tery” bowler Jack Iverson performed
prodigies of spin to bundle the
opposition out for a total of 123.
In the third Test the efforts of
three individual players stood head
and shoulders above the rest. Iverson,
of course, comes most readily to
mind. Until he took the ball in the
second innings Iverson had looked an
unhappy misfit in the team. He
bowled 10 overs in the first innings,
and didn’t for a moment look
dangerous. His fielding is poorish
and his batting simply a joke, in
which light he himself treats it, even
to the extent of using an incredibly
ancient caricature of a bat. But
from the very first ball he bowled in
the second innings Iverson had the
opposition in knots with his amazing
spinners. Bedser, to cite one example,
moved across to play a ball pitched
well on the offside; the ball, which
wasn’t there when he arrived, flicked
off the legside bail. Iverson’s final
remarkable figures read: 19.4 overs,
eight maidens, 27 runs and six
wickets.
• • • • •
The other two players who par-
ticularly impressed were English
skipper Fred Brown and Keith Miller,
both responsible for splendid all-
round efforts. Brown was the back-
bone, and, one is disposed to add, a
considerable portion of the rest of
the anatomy of his team in every
department. When his batsmen began
to fail in the first innings he pulled
the side together with a splendid 79.
Then, deprived of two of his best
bowlers through injuries, he toiled
like a Trojan for heartbreaking over
after over. Bedser, admittedly,
worked almost as hard, and took the
lion’s share of the wickets, but
Brown’s effort somehow shone.
Keith Miller’s performance ranked
with Iverson’s. Iverson finished the
job off in fine style, but it was Miller’s
earlier efforts which had placed the
side in a position where Iverson’s
burst of unplayable bowling could
win the match. In their first innings
the visitors were nicely settled-in, and
looked likely to stay for a week, until
Miller took the ball and started a
rout in one over. With the bat,
Miller again came to the rescue; when
his side seemed headed for a disas-
trous collapse Miller abandoned his
usual style, settled down to do the
job of a stolid opening batsman, and
literally built the side’s innings round
his own performance. At the finish
he was 145 n. 0., easily the highest
score by any player of either side in
the current Test series.
♦ * * ♦
The ways of the interests which
control boxing in Australia are
beyond understating. Most of the
time, while seemingly so short of
topline local fighters that they have
to stage matches between second-rate
importations, they show a steadfast
reluctance to arrange fights for the
Australian and Empire titleholder Dave
Sands. Then, when eventually stung
into importing an opponent for
Sands, they chose a pug whom
Sands twice
soundly thrashed in
Singapore last year.
Billed as “triple
champion of the
Orient” (a delight-
fully vajgue area,
and a title which
evidently was not
involved in his
two previous fights
with Sands), Boy
Brooks renewed
acquaintance with
Sands in Mel-
bourne last week.
Brooks scaled 10.13 j. Sands failed
by a couple of pounds to make the
middleweight limit (11.6), and didn’t
look as though he had made any
desperate effort to do so. Badly out
of condition, Sands gave a woefully
lethargic display, but it was sufficient
to see him a clear winner on points.
Sands was reported to be in tears
after the fight; about 99 per cent,
of the crowd were in a similar state.


Brs
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting .
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
d
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt, Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S"
WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Better Lambings.
“Bungaree”: There is no
short-cut, but a long-range pro-
gramme that starts before the
rams are joined and is followed
through until the offspring get
their first pair of permanent
teeth. Briefly, the thing that
counts is not the number of
lambs dropped but the percentage
of breeding ewes to lambs that
survive marking, weaning and
all the other troubles.
The ewes must be 100 per
cent, breeders. Take out all dry
ewes. At present values it would
pay to call in an experienced vet.
to advise whether shy breeders
are suffering from genital abnor-
malities. Some culling must be
done. A dry ewe usually grows
a better commercial fleece than
a breeder and is worth quite a
bit these days. If she is to be
retained, her place is with the
wether flock where, at shearing,
her wool will match better than
with the breeders’.
'Failure to breed is not so
serious as inability to rear a
lambi one of the chief causes of
poor marking averages. Many
ewes have teats cut off or
damaged at shearing, others may
lose half or all of the udder
through “black-quarter” disease,
while blind teats and other
abnormalities add to the list of
ewes that can breed, but cannot
feed, lambs. Many of these
deficiencies can be spotted on
the shearing board, and such
ewes should be raddled immedi-
ately for closer examination. If
the lack is then confirmed, the
ewe should,be culled.
Ask the vet. to look over the
rams at shearing. He may find
a surprisingly high proportion
with testicle abnormalities that
point to sterility. The aim is
usually to lamb at a season when
feed is uniformly good. In
many cases, however, the best
lambing time from the owner’s
point of view does not fit in
with the time when ewes are in
season. This period varies in
different parts of Australia, but
enough information has been
collected from experiments to
enable the vet. to advise sheep-
breeders on the best time to join
the rams.
Other aids are crutching the
ewes and shearing the bellies of
rams before joining, A number
of factors affect the ability of
rams to get lambs. Severe fly-
strike will cause temporary
sterility for up to three months.
Arsenic absorption following
dipping or jetting will also affect
breeding ability. If new rams
have been bought from a distant
stud, give them at least six
months to settle down before
using them.
Having taken all precautions
to ensure that rams and ewes
are fit, there are other things to
do before lambing. In a pulpy-
kidney district, for instance, pro-
tect young lambs by inoculating
the ewes with entero-toxaemia
vaccine. Give one dose when
rams are joined and a second
dose about a month before
lambing is due to start. If ewes
have been inoculated the previ-
ous year, a single injection a
month before lambing may do.
Inject the vaccine under the
slack skin over the ribs while
the ewes are standing in the race.
Two diseases that affect lamb-
ing ewes are pregnancy toxsemia
(twm-lamb disease) and hypo-
calesemia (lambing sickness).
The former is caused by insuffi-
cient nourishing feed during the
six to eight weeks before lamb-
ing, and there is no cure. Aim
at prevention by supplementary
feeding where necessary and re-
member that the ewe needs, in
addition to the normal main-
tenance ration, sufficient good-
quality feed to nourish the grow-
ing lamb, to build up for milk
production, and to grow wool.
Hypocalcemia is akin to milk-
fever in cows and is usually
brought on by prolonged yard-
ing, shedding or trucking of
sheep—where they have had
nothing to eat for a period An
injection of calcium boroglu-
conate gives a spectacular cure,
but, as treatment should be done
as early as possible, keep a
20c.c. hypodermic-syringe and a
supply of C.B.G. always on
hand.
Polling Dorsets.
“Peter B.”; “Nedrium” (B.
27/12/’5O) says it would be
worth £lO,OOO for anyone to pro-
duce a pure, polled Dorset. My
idea should be worth half that.
Have two forked sticks set in
" There —that squeak gets on a bloke's nerves."
the ground about 6in. apart and
with the forks 3ft. from the
ground. Yard the rams over-
night in June or July. In the
morning lift a ram’s front-legs
off the ground and rest the horns
in the forks. Straddle him from
behind to stop him from kicking
and saw off the horns with an
ordinary wood saw, about 3in.
from the head.
I do all mine this way, have
never lost one and, doing it in
June or July, have not had one
fly-struck or lose condition. The
only thing to watch is that you
don’t leave any horn pointing
forward —a lethal weapon in a
head-on fight.
Hive Color.
“Soc”: Whilst “Colin St.” (B.
13/12/’5O) is right in stating that
little interest has been shown by
the Australian bee-herder in his
choice of roof-color, I point out
that he has shown a deal of in-
terest in overall hive color. Most
of the hives in the nor’-west of
N.S.W. —where the mercury can,
and does, dance round about the
100 for a spell each summer —
are of a white or near-white
color for greater heat-radiation.
A bare handful of hives may be
noticed here and there of dark
hue, but it pans out to be a
desperate bee-herd taking
advantage of a disposals sale.
The difficulty of hive color
lies in the fact that the extremes
of heat and cold have to be mol
in the one year, although this
can be offset to a degree by re-
moving—if one is handy enough
to his bees—the lids in winter
and allowing the sun’s rays to
shine directly on the malthoid
coverings cut to fit the inside
measurement of the super. It
entails an amount of work, but
painting to suit the season is out
of the question. Silvafros
painted over an oil preparation
seems to be the most favored.
It wears longer, affords excellent
protective and radiation quali-
ties —and doesn’t come off.
Budding Stone-fruits.
“Myrrhee”: Use only a leaf-
bud or a multiple-bud (leaf and
flower), not a blossom - bud,
which is useless for the purpose.
A blossom-bud is round ; a leaf-
bud flatter and more pointed.
First operation is to make a “T”
cut m the scion, opening the two
flaps directly under the cross-
piece of the “T.” Then slice
off the bud from the bud-stick.
commencing |in. above and
drawing the knife so that |in. of
bark remains below the bud.
Shp jhis shield-shaped piece into
the “T” cut, bind it firmly with
raffia and seal with grafting-
wax.
Pink Pills for Pale Cattle.
“Oxo”: The U.S.A. claims that
a stilbestrol pill, costing (A)2s.
6d., injected into the neck of a
steer, wifi, make him put on an
extra 631 b. of flesh in 140 days
for 1581 b. less feed.
Ten steers were given stilbes-
trol pills at the Purdue University
in Indiana, on November 16,
1949. At the end of 140 days
they were weighed and com-
pared with gains made by steers
pf similar age and breeding,
finished off on the same diet of
com, cobmeal, cottonseed-meal,
molasses, clover, timothy hay,
bone-meal and salt. The “pilled”
steers outgained the “unpilled”
by 631 b. and had eaten 1061 b.
less roughage and 521 b. less
concentrates during the period.
Stilbestrol is a female hor-
mone occurring naturally in the
body and in some young plants ;
young, succulent grass has a high
content of a material like stil-
bestrol. Some grasses and
clovers contain much of this
material just before flowering,
and juice from tender, growing
oat plants also contains much
of it. A lamb can be treated
with stilbestrol for less than Id.
and will gain one-tenth of a
pound more per day and con-
sume 22 per cent, less feed per
1001 b. of grain than untreated
lambs.
The U.S. Government’s Pure
Food and Drug Administration
has not yet approved stilbestrol
for lambs or beef cattle, but
has approved it for poultry.
Poultrymen claim that treated
birds gain twice as fast as un-
treated poultry, and because of
the better fleshing they are get-
ting a premium over the market-
price.
All the Yanks have to do now,
apparently, is stand off the usual
Russian claim to prior discovery,
stuff the pills into their beeves
and, in time, produce an ox
bigger than an elephant. If it
comes to Australia there’ll be
strikes in every abattoir.
Clover Years.
“Nedrium”: Balancing the
various constituents of a pasture
mixture is often difficult. For
instance, in some years clover
attempts to take charge of the
ground and competes too success-
fully with the perennial grasses.
Clover is valuable for its
protein content, but there can
be too great a concentration of
it, with insufficient grass rough-
age. In clover years animal
diseases are encouraged by over-
mu c h protein. Pregnancy
toxasmia, twin-lamb disease and
uterine prolapse are amongst
troubles to be expected.
A climatically favorable year
for the growth of sub. clover
may defeat good management,
but a defence is available that
will hold good despite climate.
Scarify in a light oat crop after
the germination of the sub. The
oats will form an alternative
foodstuff or a reserve.
Another defence is to leave
some paddocks unimproved.
This is a good thing for many
reasons. Quarantine areas are
often needed, and sometimes
sheep need some of their con-
dition taken off —for breeding or
the like—and removal to a
poorer paddock is the best way
to do this.
Sawdust Concrete.
“Gem”: It makes an ideal
flooring for a pig-pen, fowl-
house or dog-kennel, being firm
and durable without the cold-
ness of ordinary concrete. Where
a floor is to take any pressure
it is best first to lay a stronger
base using an aggregate; other-
wise three parts of sawdust with
one part of cement with enough
water to make a dry mix will
serve the purpose.
The sawdust should be from
white wood or have a low
tannin content. Firms radiata is
ideal. Lay the mix in yin. layers
till the required thickness is
reached as, depending on the
consistency of the mix, the saw-
dust has a tendency to rise to
the surface. Smooth the top by
dusting with cement powder and
skimming with a steel trowel. It
will take about twice as long to
dry as ordinary cement.
When laying sawdust concrete
on an ordinary concrete base
give the base a thick coating of
tar to act as a dampcourse,
New Phase of Insect War.
“C.S.”: A new chapter in the
warfare against insect pests in
this country opened with the
discovery of such synthetic in-
secticides as D.D.IT., B.H.C. and
the rest. Naturally, the effective-
ness of these chemicals would
be enhanced by the manner of
their formulation —whether in
the form of powder, aerosol,
aqueous-solution or an oil-
solution—and the method of
their application.
Major C. L. Martin has
pioneered the “fogging” of
sheep. His efforts, which, in
their early stages, met with very
little encouragement, finally re-
sulted in over a million sheep
being “fogged” last year.
Martin states that, with the
assistance of stationhands to
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
Warning has already been sent from Crohamhurst re
cyclone dangers on the North Queensland Coast, and there
is now a strong southern sunspot group visible which has
just gone through some changes, which may get to a
circular distribution in the components, when a terrestrial
cyclone may result. The precise date and place are not
essential to the theory, but I have sounded the alert and
can do no more as yet.
Further south there should be merely some cloud and
rain, but later in the month a disturbance is likely, with
Some good rains about the N.S.W.-Q. border, on the coast,
with more Or less general rain over the two States, but only
light in other regions, and not of much importance in the
actual southern areas, where fire is still a danger.
Tasmania seemed to get some rain on the full cycle, which
is two months later than normal, and was due in November,
and it may now get further falls.


/T.
<* • i fl
m
m
• v
U5
Esdaile's 2ix
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
O Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
Q Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
® Very long eye relief.
® Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2-£x —Eye relief 3£in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm,
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23£ft. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,'’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
fd
AND SONS
PT.Y. LTD.
<- HlWita Sff
=5
-
'K V Oii*
Planned for
ECONOMY
CONVENIENCE
APPEARANCE
f
ECONOMY, because a DESIGN No. 242
"Durabestos" Home is
the "Lowest In cost to erect" of all types of permanent
homes; CONVENIENCE, because the plan embraces all
of those features desirable for present-day comfort,
including a spacious living and sunroom, three bed-
rooms, built-in cupboards, functional kitchen, bathroom
with shower recess, double access lavatory, hallways giv-
ing direct entry to every room; and APPEARANCE,
because of the modern wall, window and roof treat-
ment—all this in a "Durabestos" Home of only 1,185
square feet. Write to WUNDERLICH LIMITED, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for booklet.
T&ffluncttfiluJv „
IURABESTOS
JL/ BUILDING SHEETS
NOTE: Refer to local Hardware Merchant* re availa-
bility of "DURABESTOS."
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Cyelide
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A. Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.King St. Sydney
Yfusaoe
K
rueao^r
SSSSSiS
■v
. V
>' G 1 NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”—Price 1/-
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.*
252 George Street, Sydney.
Coal.
MILLIONS OF. YEARS TO PRODUCE .
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. Wi t h
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
I 1
□ m
S
x
i
V
■i
; fefel,
: H«a«l
arranged '
verketf «
• *
- j
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, H.SJ.
Branch Offices and Agencies la all Stales
muster the sheep and pass them
through a race, he has fogged
as many as 6000 sheep in under
four working-hours. He points
out, however, that his original
formulation, which is the one in
general use, consisting of 10 p.c.
D.D.T. and 3£ p.c. 8.H.C.,
earned in petroleum oil (serving
as the solvent as well as the
carrier) leaves a lot to be desired,
owing to the serious destruction
of the chemicals by the intense
heat necessary to develop the
solution into a fog. The high
chemical content of the formula-
tion was necessary in order to
compensate for this decomposi-
tion. The inconsistency of the
decomposition, he explains,
shows itself in the varying results
that have been obtained on
treated animals. He adds that
to step up the strength of the
formulation is to render prohibi-
tive the cost of treatment which,
he insists, even at these present
strengths, is very high.
Major Martin’s equipment
makes possible the use of
the superior oil-borne formu-
lations, which cannot be used in
spray or plunge dips or jetting-
guns. But unless provision
is made for the Agricultural
Departments to perform ex-
tensive tests on equipment,
as is now done in the case
of the chemicals themselves, pro-
gress in that direction devolves
on the private individual, involv-
ing heavy cost. Were it possible,
financially, for official tests to be
conducted on promising develop-
ments or modifications of plant
and/or formulation, “fogging”
could become one of the out-
standing achievements of the age.
Major Martin himself believes
that he has evolved a unit which
is thoroughly worthy of such
tests as have been suggested and,
possibly, there may be many
others, whose combined work,
given that necessary encourage-
ment, would bring us much more
rapidly to the desired goal.
.
N.5.W, Wheat Champions.
“He-Ne”; The 1950 crops in
the Sydney R.A.S. champion-
'ships were not up to usual
standards because many of them
had been hit by fungus diseases
caused by the winter and spring
rains. Few crops were attractive
and many presented a most dis-
appointing appearance. Results:
Northern Division: B. B. Gunning,
Bryson Park, Piallaway, 1* W. J.
2 V
Western K Divlskm ; Taylor Bros.’
Wilton, Narromine, 1 ; L. D.
Reynolds, Yetholme, Gilgandra, 2;
J - cSS^ilSSr' , fc. H R* o jitaon.
Buckinbah, Yeoval, 1; A. Cooley and
Sons, Kenilworth, Woodstock, 2; T.
Sullivan, Bingo, Ulamambri, 3.
E.^^Kenddl^Breirtwood 5 , ’ Lockhart*,
i ; a. H. Jennings, Trefula, Colin-
robbie, 2; M. L. McLean, Hopefield,
Boree Creek, 3.
carawllh™ Wafbundric
k. C. J, Davis, Forest Vale, Corowa,
2 ; T. E. Gorman and Sons, Fairfield,
Yerong Creek, 3.
Fifty-nine crops were judged
by G. Nicholson, Department of
Agriculture cereal specialist,
each of them a winner in its
own particular district, and
honors for yield and trueness to
type went to the comparatively
new Celebration and Gabo
wheats. Celebration won two of
the five championships and was
placed twice, and Gabo won
nine of the 16 north-west district
contests and all three places in
the championship. Bordan,
Ford, Kendee and Bencubbm
did best of the other 13 varieties
represented.
Poisoned Cattle.
“Waverly”: Snakebite sends
cattle doWh quickly. Staggering,
with semi-paralysis, is an im-
mediate symptom. Act quickly.
Whisky in 4oz. doses every two
hours will reduce shock. Locate
the bite if possible and incise
freely, washing out with Condy’s
crystals solution.
Bracken fern is poisonous,
especially to young stock. It
accumulates until the fatal dose
has been absorbed. Trouble is
more likely to occur when feed
is scarce, during dry autumn and
winter months. There’s no treat-
ment for affected cattle; they
lose appetite, become listless,
and excrete a thick mucilage
from the nostrils. Many will
recover, however, if shifted on
to good feed. Always provide
sufficient roughage and pasture
in ferny paddocks. Keep young
calves away from bracken.
Lead-poisoning comes from
paints, lotions, ointments and
orchard sprays. Again the effect
is cumulative. Symptoms in-
clude extreme salivation, chok-
ing, colic and debility. Often the
brain is affected, causing blind
rushes. Epsom salts will deal
with it. Keep stock away from
fresh-painted surfaces.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: An unusual
but effective method of getting
a late crop of tomatoes is to
plant from cuttings of side
shoots springing from axils of
leaves. They should be about
4in. long and of sturdy growth.
Plant in boxes or pots and for
the first week or two keep the
containers under glass or out of
direct sunlight. When growth is
observed transfer to containers
of ordinary soil placed in the
open for a fortnight before
planting out.
“Rooster”: Depraved appetite
in horses will cause them to eat
bark, stable manure, cinders,
etc. Lack of minerals is the
cause. Give a dose of linseed-
oil, followed by a powder con-
sisting of sulphate of iron one
dram, nitrate of potash one
dram. Powder is best given in
the food night and morning.
Alternatively, add dessertspoon-
ful of salt to chaff feed and pro-
vide a lick made of lewt. of
salt, 251 b. of sterilised bone-
meal and 11b. of dry iron sul-
phate.
“A-Jay”: Some overgrazing
around watering-points is inevit-
able, but the following precau-
tions will reduce drift consider-
ably: Place the watering-point
on the firmest possible ground,
avoiding sandhills at all costs;
have as few stock as possible
on each point; if salt-licks are
supplied or handfeeding is prac-
tised, this should be done at a
considerable distance from the
watering-point to reduce con-
centration of stock ; leave two or
three acres of natural scrub
around the water-point.
“Billjim”: To save wastage of
home-grown cabbage or cauli-
flower in a small family, cut off
as required while vegetable is
still in the ground. This will
also ensure that it is of maximum
freshness.
“M.”; The ideal sequence for
vegetables is (1) leaf crops, toma-
toes and vine vegetables, using
stable-manure or compost; (2)
root crops, using super.; (3)
legumes, using super, only.
Avoid using crops of the same
type or family in the same plot
twice in succession ; for instance,
don’t follow carrots with par-
snips, cabbages with cauliflowers,
onions with leeks or tomatoes
with potatoes.


■h
Jv
1
m
■ ■
e>.
r
r
i
£lBO a
is tc
s ai? eS
Wan of&t
■'PAYtO EVERYLANS AND n
■ T he sm OF 160 pounds cm i
'iivVr S,GWD i
df
by operating a_ "BUUDOG"CRUD£ OIL TRACTOR
HERE’S
• SAVE ON FUEL COSTS
Save 7d. on every gallon of fuel by operating a
BULLDOG.
• SAVE ON FUEL CONSUMPTION
BULLDOGS use only three-quarters the amount
of fuel to do the same work as Kero tractors.
9 SAVE ON ACREAGE COSTS
BULLDOG Crude Oil Tractors cut Kero tractor
operating costs per acre in half.
• SAVE £llO A YEAR
on fuel costs alone with a BULLDOG!
® SAVE £2O ON MAINTENANCE
with BULLDOG'S fewer moving, more robust parts
and resultant minimized wear and repair.
• SAVE £5O ON DEPRECIATION
with BULLDOG’S fundamental sim-
plicity, which guarantees longer life
and eventual higher resale value.
KL&
d
Get more facts from your State Distributor: —
K.L. TRACTOR SALES PTY. LTD., 304-314 Spencer St.,
Melbourne.
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD., 10-14 Young St.,
Sydney.
KX. TRACTOR SALES PTY. LTD., 121 Brunswick St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LIMITED, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide.
KELLY & LEWIS (W.A.) PTY. LTD., 349 William St., Perth.
K.L. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
mi
Public Notice.
WILL the next-of-kin of KATE OAUSLEL
also known as KATE TRIMMER, behev«i
to have died in Melbourne about 1918,
any person knowing their whereabou
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLI
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 2204, Auckland, Ke’
Zealand 2
“Against us,” Ransome said
automatically.
“Against us. lam sorry. Be-
cause I win so much money?”
He waved his hand above the
bed and shrugged again, disdain-
fully. “This only money. If
Australian win money in Poland
we do not say bloody Australian.
We are proud, we show our
country, we are not crook for
other country. But all Aus-
tralian say bloody Balt —here,
in camp, at job, in picture-
t’eatre, playing this swy. Bloody
Balt. If I win tonight, bloody
Balt. If I lose, silly bloody
Balt. Why?”
“Why? I don’t know!”
Ransome shifted uncomfortably
under the other’s sharp, ques-
tioning gaze.
“I dunno, Paul,” he said half-
irritably. “You’re strangers, I
suppose. In a while it’ll be
apples—it’ll be all right. Then
you’ll be Old Australians.”
But Kernow didn’t rise to the
old joke, “In a while,” he said
with a bitter grin. “I am already
here one year and a half. How
much longer? My friend, who
I know in Germany, is here
nearly free years. Is finish his
contract. Still people say to
him bloody Balt. Why?”
“Australians don’t trust
foreigners,” Ransome said de-
liberately. “Australian work-
men think you’ll hook all the
jobs. That’s why.”
“Jez’ Chris’! ” Kernow ex-
ploded. “That’s silly! Every
day papers say, Canberra
‘Times,’ many men for work
wanted, build dams, build roads,
build railways. Still many new-
comers arrive and still more
jobs. One Australian in one job
only—he cannot have more.”
“Count the dough,” Ransome
said, sitting on the side of the
bed and beginning to pick out
the red ten-pound notes from the
mass before him. He could find
no answer to Kernow’s question
and so ducked for cover. “You’ve
got a pile here.”
“Enough for go back to Ger-
many,” Paul said softly and bit-
terly. “To Germany I go, Mick.
This, what they say, this great
experiment what the papers call
is finish for me. I finish my
contract, kaput.”
“Don’t talk bull,” Ransome
said impatiently. “You were
never better off in your life.”
“Talk bull?” Kernow echoed
him with bitter sarcasm. It was
a term he had heard often
enough to know what it meant.
“I don’t talk bull, Mick. If I
have nothing to eat, if I have
nothing to live for, still I am
man, I am not bloody Balt in
Germany. You ask other new-
comers to see if I talk bull. I
tell you, Mick, ninety-five pre-
cent.”
“Per cent.,” Ransome said.
“Per cent., O.K. Ninety-five
per cent, of New Australians
not happy. Finish contract, go
to U.S.A., Sout’ America, back
to Germany. There, maybe not
so much food, not so much
work, but I say we are not
bloody Balts.”
RANSOME shrugged. There
was nothing to say. “Count
the dough,” he repeated, and
Kernow knelt on the floor be-
side the bed to sori out the
notes. Ransome watched his
hands, big, capable hands, strong
to work. Hands to work with,
and suddenly between his eyes
and the hands hovering over the
notes there was superimposed
the wide view of the lucerne
paddocks below the camp, the
fields of deep-brown soil that
reached forty feet down to the
water and produced five crops
a year, rich soil that was always
there, come rain, hail or snow,
depression or bloody Balts. He
knew what he must say to this
man who had known the good-
ness of the soil and forgotten
it—he, who had never known to
this moment what the soil
meant.
“Paul,” he said suddenly,
knowing that if he didn’t say it
now he would never say it.
“This’s different here, to any-
where else. Canberra’s a tough
place for an Australian, even,
when he’s new to it —everybody’s
here for what he can get out of
it, they don’t put nothing back,
and everybody’s scared some
other *s going to jump him
for his job, or his sheila, or
something. You understand?”
Kernow shrugged, and Ran-
some looked down at the wad of
notes in his hand. The bed was
cleared of money, and Kernow
held a similar wad.
“I got one-eighty-five quid
here,” he said. “How much you
got?”
“One-twenty-five, X think.”
“Over three hundred quid.”
Ransome took the Pole’s empty
hand, pressed the money he had
counted against the palm and
closed the unresisting fingers on
it. “You saved a bit in the last
eighteen months, haven’t you?”
he demanded. “A couple of
hundred?”
Kernow nodded silently.
“Weil, five hundred’ll buy you
a bit of land somewhere away
from this flaming dump—Aus-
tralia’s a big place, Paul, and
the people are kind, most of
them. That’s the shot —buy
some land and grow things. It’s
the good people who do that.
Only the drips settle in dumps
like this, and Sydney, and Mel-
bourne —they don’t know any
better, God help them,”
“Drips?” Kernow queried.
“Drongos—oh, hell, forget
it!” Ransome sat on the bed
and kicked off his boots. “Don’t
forget what I tell you—buy a
bit of land and you’ll never look
back.”
Kernow held out his two
hands. “Half of this is yours,
Mick.”
Ransome looked at him
obliquely, about to say oh, don’t
be so damn silly. But the man
looked pathetic, slightly ridicu-
lous. He’s offering me a couple
of acres of land, Ransome
thought, and the idea softened
him. “No, Paul,” he said gently,
“we don’t do things like that
here —you won it and it’s yours.
Thanks just the same. Whack
it in the kick and don’t forget
to hide it well until you can
whack it into the tin tank.”
“Till tank?” Kernow began,
but the Australian stopped him
with a laugh, glad for some
trivial thing that would ease the
tension.
“Scram,” he said, waving a
hand towards the door. “The
lesson’s oyer for tonight.”
p\UTSIDE in the soft, hot
darkness, thinned in the
open by the starlight, Kernow
stopped in the dense shade of a
full-leafed “tree and stared out
over the valley, At this hour it
was a pool of shadow threaded
tenuously by isolated strings of
pale-gold street-lights ; blue dots
pin-pointed the road to Dun-
troon, crouched under the
shadow of Ainslie, where every
ridge was specked with the ruby
lights that had been scattered
freely over the flat expanse of
the airport below. A cooling
wind that had something of the
fragrance of the lucerne flats be-
low him brushed across his face
and rustled in the leaves above
him; his sight blurred so that
each pin-point of light before
him found a companion and
swam unsteadily.
To buy some land! His
hands clenched hard about the
wads of notes they held; not
the rich black soil of Poland,
farmed and loved for hundreds
of years by his father and his
father’s father, but the wild soil
of this wild, wide country that
would have to be tamed, and
coerced, and then, with love,
brought to yield. For me, and
my sons, and my son’s sons, he
said passionately to the darkness
and the silence and the moon-
light. And here, in ray hands,
I hold it, the red soil.
He turned suddenly about and
walked briskly across the red
gravel slope to where he could
see the roof of his hut glistening
palely in the white light of the
stars. Eastside, this Australian
place that he had hated so much,
had taken on a strange new
beauty.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOX
nro
tvs
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vatson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
"NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” self-registering tills
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaeeos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Bub bed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Beady Bubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oz.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: WATT. OBDKB DKPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co. ( Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27W), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Commonwealth °f Australia
Department of Health
Comprehensive Medical Service
Tor
Pensioners
At a date to be announced, this medical service will be available
to the following persons: —
• Those in receipt of Age, Invalid, Service
or Widow’s Pensions, or of a Tuberculosis
allowance*
• The wife of the pensioner.
• Children under the age of 16 years in the
pensioner’s care.
rn SECURE THIS MEDICAL
SERVICE YOU MUST OBTAIN A
MEDICAL SERVICE ENTITLEMENT CARD
To got your Medical Servlco Entitlement Card do this:
1. Get an Application
Form. They will be available
at the Post Office where your
pension is paid in February,
1951. If your pension is paid
by cheque an application
form will he posted to you
with your cheque.
2. Fill in the Application
Form. If both husband and
wife are pensioners and are
living together, one form only
should be completed —by the
husband.
3. Return the Completed
Application Form as soon
as possible either by
handing it in at the Post
Office or by posting it to the
Director of Social Services in
your capital city.
A Medical Service Entitlement
Card will be posted to each
pensioner for himself and his
dependants upon receipt of the
completed application form.
When you receive your Medical
Service Entitlement Card keep
it in a safe place and wait for
the official announcement of the
This announcement will he made
as soon as pensioners in distant
parts of the Commonwealth who
The announcement of the com-
mencement of the scheme will
contain full details of the
benefits available and how to
obtain them. The vital thing to
do is to apply for your Medical
Service Entitlement Card on the
first pension pay day in February.
commencement of the scheme.
[/aXIrO WJ. .
apply straight away have had
time to receive their cards.
COMMONWEALTH MINISTER FOR HEALTH.
wrttrww
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Bulletin staff man wants to rent
cottage, Sydney North Shore suburb,
furnished or unfurnished, accommo-
date four adults. —4965.
Middle-aged man, Sydney, wants
light work, N.S.W. country guest-
house, for four weeks during Feb-
ruary.—4964.
Words of verse containing the
lines: —
Berthed on a gorgeous liner
Trailing a patent log.
—4967.
Books or magazine-articles giving
an account of the life and exploits ot
“Bully” Hayes, the notorious South
Sea Islands “blackbirder.” —4966.
Words of verse “When the Crops
Are Oyer the Fence.” —4968.
Information Sought.
What is the difference between “to
lie v and “to lay’’?
“To lie” (meaning “to assume a
position of rest,” not “to tell an
untruth”) is often confused with 4 to
lay (“to put to rest”). “To lay” is
a transitive verb —it must have an
object. You lay down a book, you
lay stress on some point. But you
lie down on the river-bank or on a
couch (there is no object in such a
sentence). “I lay me down,” how-
ever, is correct —“me” is the object.
Confusion between the words is
worse confounded because the past
tense of “to lie” is also lay; “I lay
down on the bed” is quite right, but,
to keep in mind the present tense,
it is “X lie down whenever I feel
tired” and “I am going to lie down.”
The past tense of “to lay” is “laid” —
“The hen laid an egg.”
* * # •
What is the code of signalling
between the umpires and the scorers
in a cricket match ?
Boundaries: by waving the hand
from side to side. A boundary six:
by raising both hands above the head.
Byes: by raising the open hand above
the head, Leg-byes: by raising the
leg and touching it with the hand.
Wides: by extending both arms
horizontally. No balls: by extending
one arm horizontally. The decision
“Out”: by raising the index finger
above the head. “One short”: by
bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest
shoulder with the tips of the fingers
of one hand.
* * * ♦
Names of batsmen who have scored
400 or more in first-class cricket
matches ?
D. G. Bradman, 452 n. 0., N.S.W.
v. Queensland, at Sydney, 1929-30;
B. B. Nimbalkar, 443 n. 0., Maha-
rashtra v. West India States, at
Poona, India, 1948-49; W, H, Pons-
ford, 437, Victoria v. Queensland, at
Melbourne, 1927-28; W. H. Ponsford,
429, Victoria v. Tasmania, at Mel-
bourne, 1922-23 ; A. C. MacLaren, 424,
Lancashire v. Somerset, at Taunton,
1895.
* * * *
A few details about the game of
iron quoits ?
Two iron or steel pins, 18yds.
apart, are driven into the ground,
leaving lin. exposed. Each is situated
in the centre of an “end,” a circle of
stiff clay 3ft. in diameter. The quoits,
made of iron, may be of any weight,
but are usually about 91b. each. They
must not exceed in diameter
or be less than in the bore or
more than 2£in. in the web. When
delivering his quoit a player must
stand within 4ft. 6in. of the centre
of the end and at its side. Matches
are played between teams or indi-
viduals, the object of the game being
to throw the quoit as near to the pin
as possible, a “ringer,” i.e., a quoit
actually surrounding the pin, count-
ing two and a quoit nearer to the
pin than any of the adversary’s
counting one. A match may .be for
any number of points, the team or
member scoring that number first
being the winner. All measurements
are made from the middle of the pin
to the nearest edge of the quoit. If
one or more quoits are lapped the
one most accessible is first measured
and withdrawn. All quoits on their
back are a foul.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
(1) What are the objects of the
English Association, and (2) Name
and address of the secretary of the
Sydney branch ?
(1) The objects are (a) To promote
the due recognition of English as an
essential element in the national
education and to help in maintaining
the purity of the language through
correctness in both its spoken and its
written use. (6) To discuss methods
of teaching English, and the correla-
tion of school and university work,
(c) To encourage and facilitate ad-
vanced study in English literature and
language. id) To unite all those
occupied with English studies or
interested in the Arts; to bring
teachers into contact with one another
and with writers and readers who do
not teach; to induce those who are
not themselves engaged in teaching to
use their influence in the promotion
of knowledge of English and of its
literature as a means of intellectual
progress. (e) To encourage and
facilitate the study of Australian
literature. (2) H. M. Butterley, 25
Hannah-road, Beecroft (N.S.W.).
Brief Answers.
W.R,M.: Tom Heeney never fought
Max Schmeling in America, although
he met many topnotch men there.
These opponents were Gene Tunney,
Max Baer, Charlie Retzlaff, Johnny
Risko and Jimmy Slattery.. . .J.D.;
On the information supplied it would
appear that yourself and wife would
be entitled to age pensions at a
reduced rate. The value of your
home would be disregarded for pen-
sion purposes. Suggest you make
application for age pension to the
Director of Social Services, Anzac-
square. Brisbane... .E.L.: A bandana
is a particular kind of silk or calico
handkerchief on which has been
printed a pattern made up of spots
and diamonds. These handkerchiefs
were originally made in India, but
are now manufactured in England.
The handkerchief is first dyed one
color and then placed between leaden
plates on which the pattern has been
cut out and put into a powerful
Bramah press, when the color is dis-
charged by means of a bleaching
liquid, and the spots are left white
on the dyed background R.T.L.:
Write Forest Production Division,
C.5.1.R.0., 69 Yarra Bank-road,
South Melbourne, for pamphlet No.
22, “Timber Bending”... .H.L.: The
“Newspaper World and Advertising
Review,” Bouverie House, 154 Fleet-
street, London C. 8.; He is look-
ing at a portrait of -his son... .D. 8.:
Tommy Fairhall won the Australian
welterweight championship from
Wally Hancock in 1930, but Fairhall
went to New Zealand later that year,
and relinquished the title before his
departure. Mickey Tollis is present
welterweight champion pf Austraha.
~. .H.E.C.: The poem “Ode to Dar-
win” was published on The Red
Page” of The Bulletin, August 13,
1941 F.D.: Norman Lindsays
illustration of the verse “Trio” was
published in The Bulletin, July
1906.... J.L.: Write W. S. Smart,
Australian representative, Hodder and
Stoughton, Ltd., Box 120, G.P.0.,
Sydney....R.C.: Bill Farnum was
the first heavyweight champion ot
Australia under Marquis of Queens-
berry rules, Farnum gained tms
honor by defeating Peter Jackson m
1884. Tom Lees took the title from
Farnum in 1885 and Jackson won it
from Lees in 1887. Jackson was still
recognised as heavyweight champion
of Australia when he went to America
in 1888 R.R.McK.: Write Wood
Technology Division, N-S.W. Forestry
Commission, 96 Harrington-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
A.D.G.: Returning Bandy Nolan
quick and lively.,. .F.G.D.: We 11
give you the dawn, also the sunset
if you’ll stop writing about them....
NC.: You’re not the first to note
the face that little acoms sometimes
grow into great oaks... .W.F.L..
“Missed Catch” is a missed catch.
D.KX.P.: Three lines then:
Old ladies unabashing
Say that, to give a bashing,
Umbrellas are the best.
H.B.: Not making the journey
with y0u....R.L.; “Do not let the
lip be curled.” Very well, but at
least allow us to raise an eyebrow.
... .H.M.F.: Not this trip... .E.C.:
It will not help to fill a Christmas
stocking....J.W.A.: You will not
be allowed to cheer “with lofty song
the deeds of daring men” in our
columns....J.P.: Poems arriving at
252 George-street with titles like My
Beautiful Island Where Dreams Come
True” are gently directed to the w.p.b.
Bellerive: We must pay the spot
a visit: —
....W.8.: To quote the last line,
your poem bad “A kindly dispatch at
the end”... .H.M.S.: Why not recite
it to her? J. 0.: “Then all I would
need to carry is a toothbrush and a
comb.” What, no soap! L.M.:
“Breathless, panting, restless comes
the wind.” Breathless, panting, rest-
less goes back your poem U. 8.:
“Ah! The wind blows strange and
wild,” What’s wrong with the wind
this week?... .M.K.W.: Thats the
spirit:
The cooky is always a stoical bloke.
And, though he’s been broke for yean,
He makes no complaints as he sits on his
moke
Nor gives himself to tears.
.: It would appear that the
hot weather has affected you badly.
R.W.J.: Enamored by two
lines:
Yes, life is funny. There’s no doubt 1
There’s blokes who don’t drink beer I
. ...K.R.: We weathered “The
Storm” F.T.: Your bugle blows
a feeble blast... .J.K.: You bear the
surname of an illustrious Australian
poet. Alas! You’re miles behind
him as a poet... .D. 8.: While unable
to print your verse “Night m the
Engine Sheds,” we could not resist
part of your covering letter: —
May I submit the enclosed. lam em-
ployed in the local locomotive running
sheds. You will appreciate that unlike
other forms of mechanical energy the
railway engine is almost a living thing.
When we turn the ignition switch of our
motor-car the motor dies and there is
nothing left. Excepting periodical wash-
outs and overhaul, a locomotive is always
in steam. An engine resting with a
banked fire will often remind us of this.
There will be the lazy life of a pump
where a mitre leaks a little, perhaps a
little sigh and a flurry of little red
embers falling from the ashpan. Per-
haps “Uneasy Quiescence” might best de-
scribe it.
S.B.: Sorry, mate, but spring is
far behind.
LAKE WENDOUREE, BALLARAT.
In summer over
The fine promenade,
Bending willows cast
A pleasant shade.
Crafts on the waters
Are picturesque to view
On tranquil days
When the sky is blue.
In fishing season
Local anglers are out
Eager for a catch
Of perch or trout.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Cumberland Scheme
After a protracted delay the P.M. has
told N. S. Wales Premier McGirr that
planning or replanning within the County
of Cumberland is a local matter to be
financed locally. McGirr gives every
indication of being disappointed, but
possibly the setback will afford the let-
out that he and his Government have
been seeking for months past.
The N. S. Wales leader and his offsider,
Mr. Cahill, put forward the argument
that the plan represented urgent national
defence works and on that account should
be partly financed by the Commonwealth.
How they support that argument would
make interesting reading—it has been
impressed upon the people whose homes
were threatened by the proposed roads,
railways and industrial zoning that these
were essentially long-range plans that
would probably not be put into effect
for many years, perhaps 50. It was
stated that dwellings would not be
demolished while they possessed economic
life, but owners would not be permitted
to restore or rebuild them. That might
constitute a defence programme in the
mind of advanced thinkers of the “Labor”
movement, but most of us visualise some-
thing much more realistic and urgent.
In broad terms, the plan seeks to zone
industry into areas most suited to light,
medium and heavy; to allocate to each
industrial area a residential area from
which it would (theoretically) draw its
labor forces ; to surround each residential
and industrial area with a green-belt of
parks and playgrounds; and finally to
re-route certain roads and highways to
link up the new satellite towns and by-
pass heavily built-up areas.
To a point the plan is commendable.
Taken by and large, however, it is
visionary and unrealistic.
In the first place, it “froze” vast tracts
of land in the outer suburbs that had
been subdivided and prepared for the
building of homes for wage-earners.;
Thousands of unfortunate people—many
of them returned servicemen—still own
land upon which they have been paying
rates for years without knowing if they’ll
ever be able to build. They cannot sell.
Ail they can do is wait until the plan is
abandoned or implemented. If it is
abandoned, they may continue with their
plans to build and can thank McGirr for
the fact that the four years’ delay imposed
upon them will have increased their build-
ing costs by some 50 per cent, (statistics
indicate a rise of p.c. in building
costs from March, 1947, to September,
1950).
If, on the other hand, the planners go
ahead and resume all those properties,
the dispossessed owners will be put to
the expense of finding alternative sites
and will have to pay up to twice the
price of the land they lost —and will still
pay the higher price for the cottages they
erect. If they have to await receipt of
compensation before they can finance
their new purchases, they’ll probably
never buy or build —they’ll probkbly be
too old. All these people are the victims
of that mania for pushing people around
regardless of their feelings or their wel-
fare —a mania that has afflicted our post-
war bureaucracy to an extent never be-
lieved possible in a land like Australia,
In the second place, it is debatable to
what extent the City of Sydney will
benefit by huge areas of ageing residences
slowly rotting away like a huge compost-
heap out of which is finally to emerge
the energy of industrial might. These
areas are nicely sited in a circle two or
three miles from the G.P.O. —a nice
target for atomic attack. Part of the
defence plan?
Third, it treats the city’s transport
troubles on a long-range basis instead of
finding a prompt solution.
Minister Cahill is now considering his
next move. In view of his past state-
ments in reply to protests concerning the
non-implementation of his plan he should
be in a position to do something without
delay. The action to be taken in the
event of the Commonwealth Government
refusing to be drawn into the plan should
long ago have been decided and should
be all set for implementation. Land
should be released or paid for forthwith.
—JiNDIVICK (N.S.WJ,
The contributor placed first it paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Ship-manning
The present situation as regards the
manning of merchant vessels on the Aus-
tralian coast can be said to illustrate
the baseness to which a section of this
country has sunk since the war. The crew-
shortages artificially produced by the sea-
men’s union, whereby vessels are held-
up for weeks for the want of three or
four firemen or sailors, are crimes against
the community.
Today, conditions in the fo’c’sle
are idyllic. Poultry must be served
on Sunday, by the award, and
“full and plenty” at all meals is the order
of the day. Even in the oldest ships the
crews’-quarters are such as would make
the old-time master mariner blink at the
luxury. Showers with plastic curtains
adorn the wash-places, and bed-linen and
towels are supplied as a matter of
course.
Medical attention is free and, I am
sorry to say, often scandalously abused,
a visit to the doctor being tantamount
to a day off. Conditions can be no excuse
for the present chaos. Regulations for
pay and discipline are such that a master
has practically no hold over his ship’s
company through these means. Inci-
dentally, during my seagoing lifetime,
some 30 years, a master’s pay has
“Hurry up, silly, or you wont be able to walk on those sunburnt feet.”
doubled, but an able-seaman’s wages have
increased over fivefold.
When I first went to sea there were
still some seafarers who, beastly condi-
tions and all, followed the business be-
cause they had a taste for virtue (in the
Roman sense of the word). Duty done
and integrity maintained counted more
than the pay-table with them. To
associate with such men made the sun
shine more brightly and the air better to
breathe. They were in all ranks, from
masters down to trimmers and stewards.
If any of their like remain today they are
swamped in the industrial maelstrom of
unions, overtime and niggling awards
which are fast reducing the status of a
noble and ancient calling to that of a
shoregoing factory industry. Salt
Horse Pojh (Vic.).
Railways
What would I do, given “absolute
control” of the N.S.W, railways (B.
29/11/’50)? But “absolute control” of
what? The trade-unions, responsible for
staff indiscipline, go-slow and strikes?
The miners who’d starve me for fuel?
The Arbitration Courts which fix working
costs? The Government which fixes rates
and charges? The manufacturers of
badly-needed equipment, five years behind
with their deliveries, many of them, in
this crazy age, located in Germany,
France or the U.K.? That’s only a few,
but enough to show that the expression
is meaningless.
Absolute control of all transport?
That’s a bit easier to deal with, though
it remains a purely hypothetical question.
First move would be to assess the true
overall cost of all forms of transport and
arrange charges accordingly; in other
words, take Governmental assistance out
of the picture and let charges rise to
their true level. Then, having established
a sound, economic and scientific basis on
which to work, start handing out sub-
sidies where they were strictly necessary.
They’d run into many millions just as
they do now u"der dfflerMt Md iUusive
ut **> e y wou id be clearly defined as
subsidies. . .
We d have to have quite a lot of air
transport. We couldnt burden a man
m the far outback with the full cost of
road transport. Wed have to subsidise
many rail services, and even shipping sub-
sidies would be both necessary and desir-
able in certain cases. On the other hand,
the scope for economy would be enor-
mous, and we could easily knock a
hundred million or more off our grossly
inflated national transport biU while at
the same time returning some hundreds
SLm°,“nt » roduct ‘ ve em -
p that it was possible to eet
controrof B lhe N,S^R P ld start by
s\Xmre inSandmodemiSinBilSfina “ Cial
L lln Ji a ri7A m ;iK rt n
Js"f thlrn !f£
pwwli Trpafiirer treat them
Federal Treasurer, who could treat them
as he does the similar charges for Civil
Aviation. Next, wash my hands of all
financial responsibihty for non-paying and
developmental branch lines, about 2000
miles of them, and dump that problem
m the lap of the State Government I’d
contmue to operate them if required and
-and mid
, P j rjj|| the fnwni
i S ™
ment cannot or will not afford me pro-
tection from “cream-skimming” compe-
tition, all concession rates would be out.
Every ton I carried would pay its way.
If it couldn’t, and there are probably
several million tons which can’t, that
problem, too, would be one for the
Government, not for the railway.
Those moves would save me up to £l2
million a year and would enable me to
cut rates by 25 per cent, while at the
same time giving a better service. What
they’d do to the State I wouldn’t know,
but we’re not concerned with that. —
Transporticus (Singapore).
Trucks and Highways
I, too, read the “highly informative
article” by David G. Wittels entitled
“Are Trucks Destroying Our Highways?”
“Transporticus” makes one very
significant slip. He doesn’t want to see
Australia faced with any repair bill of
£130,000 per mile. That enormous sum
could only be made possible! by the pre-
vious laying down of stuff like concrete
—nothing else would be so costly to re-
pair. That isS just the point I was trying
to make. I don’t like concrete either.
Furthermore, in Wittels’s article were
one or two very revealing bits of in-
formation about “flexible” roads —the
kind of road I believe in; macadam,
bitumen-bluemetal, etc., on rock founda-
tion. Anyone reading the article could
hardly fail to get the impression (not even
intended in my opinion in the general
concentration on the concrete problem)
that the flexible roads in U.S.A. seemed
to be doing all right, even the one suffer-
ing the by-pass of this heavy traffic which
was shooting through the back-lanes to
keep off the main arteries and avoid the
highway inspectors.
In any case, even if they have been
cracking up, my point again is that re-
pairs are nothing like so astronomical as
in this concrete business. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Road-trains
Getting their fats to market is the
Territorian cattlemen’s biggest difficulty.
Road-trains, consisting of truck and three
trailers, can shift 70 to 80 head at a time.
In one trial 607 head of mixed cattle
were moved 476 miles from Helen Springs
(below Anthony’s Lagoon, N.T.) to Mt.
Isa (Q.) in 36 hours at a cost of £3 ss. 2d.
per head. Droving would have been less
expensive, but would have taken six
weeks, and the fats would have lost 1001 b.
each in weight. Allowing the owner to
receive Is. per pound gross, road-train
transport thus saved the loss of 60,7001 b.
beef or £3035 worth.
Last year Marion Downs Pastoral Co.,
on the Georgina River, demonstrated their
faith in road-trains when they placed an
order for four British-made trucks and
trailers each capable of carrying 27
bullocks or 30 cows. Road-trains enable
cattle to be marketed a year earlier, and
dry stock-routes are no barrier to getting
the fats to market. But distances are too
great. Whether the fats are railed at
Alice Springs or Mt. Isa they still have
to travel another 1000 miles by rail to
Adelaide or Rockhampton for slaughter-
ing. To cut down travelling Michael
Sawtell has been advocating the establish-
ment of small killing-works at strategic
points. With carcasses as freight road-
trains could travel faster and deliver twice
as many per load and considerably cut
down the cost of transport. —K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
History in Schools
If, as “Wilken” suggests (B. 13 /12/’5O),
the Teachers’ Federation (N.S.W.) decides
what are to be compulsory subjects in
the leaving-certificate in that State, it
must surely be the only teachers’ associa-
tion in Australia which exercises the
powers of an Education Department. But,
apart from the question of responsibility
for the relegation of history to a non-
compulsory status, N, S, Wales is not the
only State in which history has lost much
of its former prestige. But its decay
arises from causes entirely different from
those named by “Wilken,”
In W.A., for instance, leaving-certificate
history is being slowly but surely ousted
by geography and economic history,
mainly because the content of the history
programme is very much greater and, to
high-school students, less interesting than
that of competing “social studies.” So
long as examiners in pure history expect
students to master such abstruse facts as
the steps which led to the acquisition by
various European nations of territorial
interests in north-east Africa, history has
no hope of being a popular subject. But
other and more powerful agencies are at
work.
The decline of adult and juvenile
interest in historical fiction has tended to
make the lot of the history teacher very
much more difficult than it used to be,
and recent changes in leaving-certificate
English programmes, now making it pos-
sible to secure a pass without even a
cursory reading of one of Scott’s historical
novels or one of Shakspeare’s historical
plays, have had a most damaging effect
on school history by restricting students’
background.
Education departments and universities
are continually subjected to public and
parental pressure to “go light” on subjects
the vocational significance of which is not
apparent. Such institutions may have a
genuine faith in history as a fundamentaal
part of education, but if parents think
history is quite useless for their sons in
the careers mapped out for them and of
no social or vocational value to their
daughters, they (the parents) will get their
own way sooner or later.
Even if teachers were at liberty to
nominate compulsory subjects, it is almost
impossible to believe that personal poli-
tical convictions could be the deciding
factor. Teachers in N. S. Wales, as else-
where, are, I assume, sufficiently human
to prefer subjects in which they can most
easily arouse pupil interest and which
entail less work for themselves. And
why should the Communists be silly
enough to pick history, of all subjects, as
marked down for relegation? If a
teacher has political sentiments of any
sort, which must find a way out, history
supplies natural outlet for propaganda.
The nine-point circle and the nervous
system of the frog cannot very well sug-
gest to the teacher an excursion into poli-
tical theory, but the franchise-extension
legislature of the 19th-century easily can.
The decay of history as well of all
liberal studies in our schools and univer-
sities is a deplorable feature of our
“democratic” education, but neither the
teachers nor the Communists are to
blame.— Hebridean (W.A.),


TWO THINGS TO REMEMBER
ABOUT YOUR HOLIDAY . . .
1. Good Books add so much to a good holiday! And an up-to-date knowledge will
enable you to take along with you those books you’ll enjoy more.
2. It’s easy to acquire that Knowledge of books if you read Dymock's Catalogue of
New and Recent Books each month, It’s full of interesting reviews of the latest
and best.
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List. Now.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone 8L3611.
NOW AVAILABLE
Catherine Gaskin’s new Novel
ALL ELSE IS FOLLY
(Price, 12s. 6d. net)
This young author’s new novel just published has been accepted for publication
in Gt. Britain, U.S.A. and Canada. Undoubtedly her best book.
Available at all booksellers.
COLLINS
TWO
OUTSTANDING
BOORS
JUBILEE. Official commemorative
volume. In two colours on art paper.
Nearly 500 illustrations.
26/- (post 1/6)
THE EARTH CRIES OUT, by Harold
C. Wells. A revealing story of Aus
tralian coalminers and their lives.
1 2/6 (post 9d.]
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
JOHN HINTON & CO. ESTABLISHED 1938
Please clip this advertisement and either write, ’phone or call for our
illustrated folder and price list featuring 100 leading American, English
and local periodicals.
26 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY ’PHONE 8W5170
Apuleius: THE GOLDEN ASS
Homer: THE ILIAD
Samuel Butler: THE WAY OF ALL FLESH
D. H. Lawrence: THE WHITE PEACOCK
E. M. Forster: PASSAGE TO INDIA
‘Saki’: BEASTS AND SUPER BEASTS
Monica Dickens; MARIANA
Henrv Miller: THE COLOSSUS OF MAROUSSI
Stuart Piggott: PREHISTORIC INDIA
Edited, Kenneth Allott: CONTEMPORARY VERSE 1918-1948
Alfred Fairbank: A BOOK OF SCRIPTS—A King Penguin .
W. G. Moore: A DICTIONARY OF GEOGRAPHY ..........
Trans. Robert Graves
„ E. V. Kiev, ..
2/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
2/
2/-
2/-
2/-
4/-
2/-
4/6
2/-
Please add 4d. per copy for postage.
Write for free list of all Penguins and Pelicans available.
THE PENGUIN BOOKSHOP
10 Hosking Place (off 86 Pitt St.), SYDNEY. Phone: 8W7318.
“Handy Hints for the Farm”
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
PRICE ONE Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
SHILLING Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne.
also was an American who had an almost
fanatic admiration for Pauline Lord. He
was in the habit of holding forth to any-
body who would listen to him about her
husky voice that he would say was like
what he conceived the voice of a goddess
to be. One afternoon my wife and I set
out for the matinee performance of a
certain play that we wanted to see, but
when we arrived at the theatre we were
met by the house-full sign. As we turned
away I saw the name Pauline Lord on
another theatre. We decided to go and
hear what her voice was really like.
The play was “Anna Christie.” Eugene
O’Neill was little known in London then.
I had never heard of him. The play in-
terested me tremendously. The next day
I wrote an article on it and posted it to
The Bulletin, where it appeared on
the “Red Page.” Back in Australia again,
I read “The Great God Brown” and
wrote an article for the “Red Page” upon
that.
When I revisited London in 1928 I
wrote an essay on four of O’Neill’s plays
and tried to find an opening for it in the
English magazines, but without any suc-
cess. I then posted the essay, c/o his
publishers, to Eugene O’Neill himself.
He wrote me a most enthusiastic letter
about it. Encouraged by this, I wrote
about two more plays, made a book of
the six essays and posted the MS. to
Messrs. Jonathan Cape. They accepted
the book for publication.
A remarkable coincidence connected
with that publication was this. I had with
me in London two copies of my first book
of philosophical essays The Great Long-
ing. On the same day I posted one of
the copies to Eugene O’Neill and the
other to Edward Garnett. One day in
Harrods I came upon a small book on
Turgenev by the latter writer. I had
always been interested in Turgenev, and
bought the book. In it I found expressed
many ideas that were much akin to many
I had expressed in The Great Longing.
So I posted a copy of my book to him.
I had read somewhere that he was the
literary critic who had discovered Joseph
Conrad, John Galsworthy, D. H.
Lawrence and other writers; In his letter
to me he told me that he had read my
O’Neill book manuscript and recom-
mended its publication.
And I had not the remotest idea that
he was in any way connected with Jona-
than Cape or any other publishing firm.
Now in The Encyclopaedia Britannica at
the foot of the biographical paragraph
on Eugene O’Neill is printed: “Biblio-
graphy—Eugene O’Neill, the Man,
Barrett H. Clark ; Six Plays of Eugene
O’Neill, Alan D. Mickle.” Had I not gone
into that theatre to hear Pauline Lord I
probably never would have written a
book about Eugene O’Neill. And my
name would probably not have been in
The Encyclopaedia Britannica.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Mrs. Fitch
“W.H.P.”: I fear that the identification
of Shakspeare’s “rump-fed runyon” with
Mistress Ralph Fitch in C. E. Carring-
ton’s The British Overseas (R.P.
20/12/’5O) does not stand up to close
examination. “Macbeth” was written in
1605-06. Fitch arrived in Goa in 1582
and returned to England in 1590, so that
there would be no savor of topicality
about the line. Why should Shakspeare
libel Mistress Fitch anyway? The de-
scription of the sailor’s wife is most
insulting, to say the least, and if the
audience seized on the allusion (suppos-
ing there was one) Mistress Fitch would
be the laughing-stock of every London
prentice for a month at least. And then,
while Fitch was in India, was the Tyger
(supposing there was but one such ship)
away, too? If she went only to Aleppo,
as I conjecture, and Fitch went overland
to the Portugese post, could she not have
made another trip or so, with another
master? The most logical explanation
of the choice of name is one that gives
little credence to Mistress Fitch’s some-
what backdoor claim to immortality:
that is that' the name “Tyger” was
common among the ships of Shakspeare’s
day (there was no Lloyd’s register then),
and that master Will snatched it up in
the heat of composition, as a useful, suit-
able and quite usual name for a ship
trading to the Levant.
[Whether or not Shakspeare actually meant
to libel Mistress Fitch as a “rump-fed runyon”
is likely to remain a mystery. Perhaps he was
thinking more about witches than about Fitches,
but the accident of rhyme brought the Tyger
and Aleppb into his mind. —R.P.]
Reviewed Briefly.
The Lock and the Key : Frank Gruber
(World’s Work). A crime thriller about
a young locksmith who gets into criminal
company and is taken along to open a
bank safety-deposit box; the crime is
interesting without being ingenious, the
girls are seductive without being interest-
ing, the conclusion is well-contrived with-
out making a first-class book —Mr.
Gruber as yet lacks the master’s touch.
* w * «
Geordie: David Walker (Collins).
Lord Wavell, A. J. Cronin, Eric Linklater,
among others, have praised this little
Highland study—it is simple and
authentic. Geordie has had some success
at putting the shot, and goes over to
America to compete in the Olympic
Games. There, he lifts a car off the
victim of an accident; the Press acclaims
him, America falls heavily for his tall,
red-haired simplicity, and the Scan-
dinavian competitor Helga kisses him
fervently when he wins, a matter which,
being rapturously relayed across the
Atlantic, stirs up trouble for him with
Jean.
♦ * * *
The Steel Minor: Donald Hamilton
(Wingate). A young scientist joins a
beautiful girl in an American cross-
country escape from her father and the
alienists who want to put her in a sana-
torium; she cannot remember whether
or not, when the Germans captured her
and her friends of the French resistance
movement, she gave her friends away
under torture ; the various points of the
excursion are done better than usual, and
at the end there is a first-class surprise.
But a thriller is essentially a wish-
fulfilment sedative ; and to make one of
the main characters act in a way in which
the reader would not like to see himself
acting is to monkey with the mixture.
* ❖ ❖ *
Short History of the Second World
War by “Strategicus” (Faber) is what its
title says, and tells the concise story in
297 large-print pages. There are also
30 pages of equally useful chronology.
“Strategicus” was a British Press com-
mentator throughout the war, placed in
“an unusual position to follow events
from behind the scenes.” He published
from year to year eight volumes of the
war’s contemporary history, and to this
summary, a ninth volume, he adds a
final chapter, “Inquest,” which contains
the author’s .views on mistakes in the
military and political conduct of the war
on both sides, including Roosevelt’s
grand mistake about China
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 104
Across.
I—Grub dogs f<pr hunting trades-
men who finish off the brick-
work. (12)
. 7 —Pouch century by South Aus-
tralia. (3) ■
9—Greed of a metropolis on strike.
(8)
11— Bach biographer places Napo-
leon’s enemy in South Australia
to expectorate with thanks. (6)
12— Wind the negative alternative with
the flower fifty, but why finish?
. 03)
13— Fiddle backing a parlor game.
(5)
15— It isn’t fitting to write back in
it. (5)
16— Eggs of none versus one. (3)
17— The region for scorelessness is
nevertheless exhilarating. (5)
19—Mythical bird with some laughter
in a Uruguayan town or a
Bolivian river. (5)
22—Very dull fellows from Artois?
(8, 5)
24—Is turning to seduce a resident
of ancient Wales. (6)
26—Indian city century with the beard
of the grain skin opening. (8)
27 — Australian town may be eaten by
horses. (3)
28 — The soup and fish, but you will
find this quite difficult to do
unless you also engulf the heads.
(12)
Down.
1 — City represents Saggers in toto. (7)
2 Communist apparel frisked about.
(7)
3 Put a mount in a suitcase. (4-5)
4 Negative. (3)
5 Less undeveloped. (5)
6 Willow animal that can fly. (3)
7 Saint eyes one of the Manly
beaches. (6)
8 — Vehicle to fondle furnishing. (6)
10 —Lintel to pay off the kidnappers
after tea. (7)
14 — Planet over Capone and a famous
wine. (7)
15— South American bet is just about
in . . . in the ministry. (2, 7)
17 — Duck a sea-dweller like a clod.
(6)
18 — Ring a hotly contested tennis
point by the mouth. (6)
20 — One priest and I arguing from
cause to effect. (1, 6)
21 — Used to be the woman’s means
of preventing taps from drizzling.
(7)
23 —Cast worth changing. (5)
25 — Boy with 27 across wrote “House-
master.” (3)
26 — Pass in a mountain range for
McCool perhaps? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 103.


fd
ROLLS RAZO
No soap, water, brush or
blades needed for the
■
ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
£7/15/-
9*.
m
f-CA
cfT~
A
-c
>*s'L
rr_
/-s u /
m
~%£>,
74
m
m,
n
um
ss
s
m
m
Here is a beautifully
made precision razor
The Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is
produced by the makers of the world’s most
famous Safety Razor and is backed up by a
highly trained technical staff who have gained their experience over many years in the production
of shaving equipment. The “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is fully guaranteed against defective
material or workmanship. It has no motor and requires no lubrication, and there is only one efficient
self-sharpening twin-cutting head to be cleaned after shaving.
Shave anywhere anytime
without electricity
* Vi.
NON-ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush or Blades. This fully
guaranteed non-electric precision instrument is a useful substitute
for your Viceroy Electric Shaver during Blackouts. The ideal
companion for a man when travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box of your car and shave where you
like, when you like. Remember you need no electricity, soap, water
or blades to operate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver. Price £7.
If your local dealer cannot supply you write direct to us and we will arrange
to have your requirements forwarded to any address within the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
/ Interstate Representatives:
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
fO/FPSj
