

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3728
Wednesday, July 25, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
Harvard, Named “John”
at Southwark Cathedral,
Founded a University
AT the southern end of London Bridge
x is Southwark Cathedral, which is,
with the exception of Westminster Abbey,
the finest example of Gothic architecture
in London. Its pinnacled sixteenth-
century tower, which is almost as well
known as the dome of St. Pauls, has wit-
nessed many stirring events in London’s
history. It was from here that the
engraver Wenceslaus Hollar drew his
famous picture of London at the time
of the great fire of 1666.
The Cathedral stands upon the site of
a seventh-century nunnery, founded,
according to tradition, by a ferryman’s
daughter called Mary, hence the early
name of the church—-St. Mary Overy,
In 852, under the direction of St.
Swithin, Bishop of Winchester, the
nunnery became a college for priests of the
Augustinian order, and this was followed
in 1106 by the building of a church of
which, however, few traces survive. The
older portions of the present Cathedral
date from 1207, above which its noble
tower rises to a height of 150 feet.
The Cathedral has many associations
with Shakespeare, who lived and worked
for many years in the borough. He is
commemorated in the Cathedral by a
recumbent alabaster effigy which rests
beneath a stained-glass window dedicated
to the great poet. Here, also, are
memorials to Shakespeare’s players and
fellow dramatists, and it was here that
Shakespeare attended the burial service
of his brother Edmund on December 31,
1607. The entry of this event may still
be seen in the great church register.
In the reign of Queen Mary (1553-
1558) the Lady Chapel was used for
religious trials, and at other times it
served variously as a. bakery and as a
coroner’s court.
John Harvard, founder of the great
American University, was born in the
parish and baptised in Southwark
Cathedral, or rather, St. Saviour’s
Church, as it was then known, in 1607.
A chapel within the Cathedral bears his
name, and was built by men of Harvard
University in memory of their University’s
founder.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


i ml
LiUi
Write now tor Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- cf rr HERE aNd
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) ...Age.’....'.
The Red Page
LAUGHTER.
In Argument of Laughter (Melbourne
University Press) D. H. Munro, Lecturer
in Philosophy, University of Otago, N.Z.,
is more concerned with what we laugh
at than why we laugh. His book is
largely an analysis of the main writings
on laughter, and it is surprising, how
little work seems to have been done on
laughter as a bodily phenomenon. A
Professor Greig seems to have done some
research on tickling; there is also some
reference to laughing-gas, nervousness,
the wish to “laugh it off,” joy, play,
make-believe and exultation over a fallen
enemy. Perhaps these categories would
include all forms of laughter.
But anyone who heard a matinee
audience of women screaming their heads
off at the old Sydney Haymarket in the
depression days when Mo and Mike
Connors and Queenie Paul were at the
top of their form must have wondered
to what degree laughter was related to
hysteria. Again, to what degree is it
voluntary? Must it be taught by tickling
or at play or by imitation? Speaking
without the book, one has the impres-
sion that the laughter of our days is more
various, especially in the kindlier
categories, than what has survived in the
literature of the ancients, when laughter
was either malicious or triumphant. Or
have the softer forms less chance of
survival? And there seems to have been
no consideration given to laughter as a
form of expression ; a parallel with speech
or song or dancing could surely be
drawn ; laughter serves as applause, as
punctuation, as agreement, as denial; it
is an act which people put on to convey
meaning. A survey of laughter in itself
would seem to justify more than 14 pages
on it; but this is all Mr Munro can get
together from extant works on the
subject.
And then he is off on his real subject:
Humor, divided into (a) any breach of
the usual order of events, ( b ) any for-
bidden breach of the usual order of
events, (c) indecency, ( d) importing into
one situation what belongs to another,
(e) anything masquerading as something
it is not, (/) word-play, ( g ) nonsense, (/i)
small misfortunes, (i) want of knowledge
or skill, (/) veiled insults. These heads
are more or less self-explanatory ; and
Mr. Munro has played a masterly descant
upon them, with illustrations from
standard jokes, and argumentations from
standard authorities.
In Part 11, we come to “Theories of
Humor,” possibly the most valuable
section of the book, summaries of the
main philosophies of humor. Hobbes
thought we laugh at a degradation of
other people or things, to our own
superiority; laughter is “a kind of sudden
glory” ; Leacock was half for triumph
and half for “the thing as it is, or ought
to be, and the thing smashed out of
shape and as it ought not to be” ; Bergson
found the laughable “something
mechanical encrusted upon the living,”
and saw “distrust of eccentricity as a
proof of the social function of laughter” ;
Feibleman considers that comedy, as
opposed to tragedy, is a rejection by
satiric method, by overstatement or
understatement, of real values; Mc-
Dougall feels that laughter is a natural,
instinctive mechanism by which we
convert the lesser misfortunes of other
people into pleasure; Kant said laughter
is “an affection arising from the sudden
transformation of a strained expectation
into nothing”; Schopenhauer said that
the source of the ludicrous is always the
paradoxical; Herbert Spencer spoke of
“descending incongruity,” as when a cat
walked on-stage in the middle of a tense
dramatic moment; Max Eastman thinks
that we laugh at unpleasant things taken
playfully, and that humor lies in being
fooled, and speaks of “poetic” and
“practical” humor; Kline believes that
“the function of the humorous stimuli
consists in taking the hide off conscious-
ness, and in breaking-up, in part only,
its organisation, which is at once followed
by the humorous feeling, the next wave
in the stream of consciousness.”
Freud laid it down, that harmless wit
is indulged in for its own sake ; tendency
wit grants us, in addition, the oppor-
tunity to gratify our repressed hostility
to others or our repressed sexual desires.
Gregory considered that laughter is a
desistance from effort, a pleasant interrup-
tion of the serious business of life. Grieg
opines that we laugh when, on contem-
plating an object or a situation, we find
opposite emotions struggling within us
for mastery. Knrishna Menon says that
people laugh in circumstances or situa-
tions, not at them.
Mr. Munro devotes some 11 chapters
to exposition of the opinions of the philo-
sophers above-named, and to critical
examination of their theories, putting one
against the other, and testing the ability
of each to fulfil all the requirements of a
complete and satisfying explanation of
laughter. Opening Part 111, his synthesis
or conclusion, he says “We have com-
pleted our survey: without, it may seem,
much to show for it.” Then he proceeds
to plump for “The Inappropriate” as an
overall theory:
Here are still many questions to be
answered. If humor is the inappropriate,
why should it cause the peculiar physical
manifestations which we call laughter?
Why should the same manifestations be
called forth by tickling, by laughing-gas
and by nervousness? I do not know the
answers.
Historical Novels .
It is a little confusing to come across
two Australian historical novels, one by
a Lindsay and one by a Porteus, anc
to find that the Lindsay isn’t one of the
Lindsays and the Porteus isn’t the
“Standby” Porteous who writes the sea-
stories ; and Kathleen Lindsay adds to the
confusion by submitting as one of her
characters a Mr. Wentworth who, living
in Melbourne, can’t be one of the Went-
worths.
However, it is possible to sort it all out;
and to arrive at the supposition that the
writing of pioneer novels, which for so
long was Australia’s staple industry, may
now be passing into the hands of our
cousins from overseas. Miss Lindsay,
with a long string of novels listed on her
half-title page, including such titles as
This Man is Mine, Another Woman’s
Love and Into Temptation —the novels
seem almost to run in sequence, for the
next title is Heaven Will Be Ours —
appears to be an English authoress who
has looked up some of our history at the
Perth and Melbourne public libraries.
Stanley D. Porteus is Professor of
Psychology at Hawaii University. He
taught school in Australia 45 years ago ;
has visited the country several times since
and has travelled over the locality he
writes about, ranging from the Monaro
to Gippsland. His wife, nee Scott, is an
Australian and her great-grandparents
travelled from the Monaro to Providence
Ponds —where their station was called
Delvine Park—as, though the characters
are changed into some fictitious Duncans,
do the people in his novel: Providence
Ponds (Harrap; Australasian Publishing
Co.). Not long ago Professor Porteus
made his first appearance as an author
by interestingly, if somewhat disturbingly
to scholars, rewriting The Restless Voyage
of Archibald Campbell.
Australian writers might well shrink
from the task these two authors have se
themselves, of saying anything new abou
convicts, blacks, bushrangers, pioneer
and all that; for if an original documem;
can always have something fresh to say
in fiction there is the most formidable
competition from Marcus Clarke, Ralph
Rashleigh, Henry Handel Richardson
Rolf Boldrewood, G. B. Lancaster
William Hay, Miles Franklin, Brian
Penton and M. Barnard Eldershaw
to say nothing of such popular
practitioners of the moment as E.
V. Timms and Roy Bridges. But no
doubt the historical setting, like any other,
must always remain legitimate; and the
only thing that really matters is what
vitality of characterisation and energy of
drama the novelist may bring to enliven
the hackneyed material.
Miss Lindsay, in Here in Eden
(Hutchinson), is nothing if not energetic.
Her novel has hardly opened before a
large brutal convict, bearded and hairy,
attempts to ravish a young woman in a
rowing-boat, despite the facts that neither
has had food for 24 hours or water for
48 and that the girl is so far advanced
in pregnancy that her child is born the
next day ; and thereafter all proceeds with
the same surprising ebullience, with
glasses of wine and bottles of water being
dashed into people’s faces, villains having
their faces slapped, duels being fought,
the hero being tried for murder of his
wife and saved from the gallows at the
last moment, wanderers perishing right
and left in the desert and, above all, in
fashionable quarters in Melbourne or low
among the convicts, a tremendous amount
of highly-colored lovemaking going on.
With something of Ouida’s excessively
romantic temperament, Miss Lindsay is
also capable of little lapses of fact or
probability almost rivalling some of the
classic mistakes of her predecessor. One
passes over, as perhaps only an unfortu-
nate phrase, the description of the
aborigines as “slaves” ; but one pauses,
astonished and enchanted, at the picture
of the lustful convict, when everyone else
in the boat except his intended victim is
dead, rowing with his “oar” in a style
that must take him round and round in
dizzy and continuous circles—“ The boat
drifted on, Homiblow pulling lazily at
his oar... .‘Gawd!’ he cried. ‘We’re
saved if we can only make it.’ Jabbing
at the water fiercely with his oar he put
all his remaining strength into the effort
required to reach that long blue shadow
which represented life and all the animal
urges that go with it” . . . and, with all
due respect for what is, after all, a well-
meaning and lively melodrama, one can-
not but quote this remarkable account
of an energetic grazier:
Lucie fretted secretly for her home in
Melbourne. This was alien soil to her.
Gum-trees and the scent of eucalyptus . .. .
always she would remember them. Matthew
did not spend a great deal of time with
her; he was always busy At the lambing
season he was down in the sheds, and when
shearing came he spent hours on end in the
paddocks.
Professor Porteus’s Providence Ponds
is a very different cup of tea; in fact,
just to prove that reviewers are a niggling
and deplorable tribe who can never
really be satisfied, it seems, at least by
contrast, dull.
Thus if bearded villains who ravish
convict maidens in open boats while row-
ing in circles with their oar are rather
too much to swallow, it is an insipid end-
ing to Providence Ponds to be told that
the Mother and the scapegrace partner
Ronald, who are obviously lovers and who
have run away together at very long last,
are a pair of innocents who had intended
to return home and who, in any case,
had been thoughtfully preserved from sin
by being speared by the blacks. The
Mother, besides, is too sourly portrayed
to hold the attention ; Ronald never quite
comes to life as a gay fellow ; the Father
talks more like a Typical Pioneer than
a human being; and though Professor
Porteus obviously has kind feelings about
the bush his writing seldom takes on the
lyrical quality wnich, perhaps a little un-
fairly, is expected by a reviewer who has
just been reading Brent of Bin Bin.
On the other hand, there is quite a
pleasing scene when the Mother, rather
livelier than usual, scalds the behind of
a bushranger; there are times, as when
the heroine is crossing the rushing rapids
of the Snowy, when she is trapped by fog
and snow on the mountains, and when the
Mother takes her child to a waterhole to
escape from a Gippsland bushfire, when
the writing does rise above its general
flatness ; and—the principal recommenda-
tion for this novel —when Professor
Porteus has his people bailed-up by bush-
rangers, or speared by blacks who eat
their kidney fat, or sends them droving
their cattle through the unexplored
mountains in a race to be first at Provi-
dence Ponds, you don’t doubt that his
fiction rests on a solid basis of fact.
Incidentally, since Professor Porteus is
able to provide, as well as his general
pioneering color, a scene in which the
young heroine stands up in her stirrups
and cries “Dad, we’ve done it!”, bavins
won the race to Gippsland with the cattle
and foiled the villains, Providence Ponds
might interest the film people ; who like
our friends from overseas, seem com.
pelled to discover the pioneers and the
Australian historical background before
they can think in terms of character
and drama.
TWO VISIONS.
How strange to lie upon a bed
With hands and feet disposed for death
And smooth-shut eyes, while overhead
A flight of angels fills the ear
With, stainless-sweet and water-clear.
Blown trumpets sounded by their breath.
Saint Anthony, how still you lie!
They are not dreams,” the painter said,
“Those bright frequenters of the sky,
They live, they breathe, and I should
know,”
(Dabbing his brush in indigo)
I placed them there above your bed."
Saint Anthony, that holy man,
Sleeps on, and with his inward eye
He sees, as but the holy can,
The heavenly host, the wings, the Dove,
The Hand in blessing raised above;
And puts the world of living by.
“Well, dream your dreams, Saint Anthony,
We have our visions, you and I,
And who can say where Truth may be—
In holy dreams, or in my paint
Which shows the wonder and the saint
Since both can pierce beyond the sky.”
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Gunther's Roosevelt
Roosevelt in Retrospect: A Profile in
History, by John Gunther (Hamish
Hamilton), is not a biography “in the
round” but a view, as seen through Mr
Gunther’s spectacles, of the dissected
body and soul and conscience of his
subject.
The natural starting-point from which
to draw a picture of Roosevelt one would
expect to be his infection with polio and
the beginning of his life as a cripple,
since his real greatness lay in his ability
to overcome his disabilities; but this
comes very late in the evaluation and at
such a stage that it somehow does not
fall into either its true place or its true
proportion.
Mr. Gunther begins by producing his
own “historical perspective” of the man
he calls “F.D.R,” with a certainty of
opinion that all experienced biographers,
even those who deal with the long dead,
will envy. J
“Was he a great man?” he asks on
page three, and answers with absolute
assurance in the next paragraphs that he
was, and nominates as his sovereign
quality his “humanity.” He was:
Charming, a fairytale hero to the mil-
lions ; he ruled with a wand — even if it
was an ivory cigarette-holder. Out in the
ram men and women strove — literally — to
touch the hem of his cape as he passed,
this man who could not walk. The “com-
mon people” chose him, a prince to lead
them, and he did. things for them as a
good prince should. What was the New
Deal except a ■ vast exercise in noblesse
oblige ?
Mr. Gunther puts the situation mildly
when he says as an afterthought in a
footnote that he “does hot think that
Mr. Roosevelt himself thought of the
New Deal in these terms,” but F.D.R.
probably would have forgiven Mr.
Gunther on reading his next paragraph,
which proclaims him gifted to a “supreme
degree” with “five qualifications for
statesmanship”—“courage, patience and
a subtle sense of timing, the capacity
to relate the infinitesimal particular to
the all-embracing general,” idealism and
3. sense of fixed objectives and ability to
“give resolution to the minds of men”;
though these seem to have been offset by
“dilatoriness, two-sidedness, pettiness in
personal relationships, a cardinal lack of
frankness, inability to say no, love of
improvisation, garrulousness, amateurism
and what has been called ‘cheerful
vindictiveness.’ ”
Even conceding these faults, Mr.
Gunther repeats that “of course he was
a great man.” He was “admired and
loved all over the world, his appeal was
universal.” Good and great men are
so scarce that it seems a pity that with
over 400 pages to play with Mr. Gunther
does not altogether make out his case.
He proves that Mr. Roosevelt was a
magnificent salesman-—of the type that
is hail-fellow-well-met with all, greeted
on every street, pockets full of
cigars, a confirmed baby-kisser, always
ready for the poker-table, popular
with ostlers and perennially with
a fresh line of sales-talk and the newest
smoke-room stories; not very deep, but
ready to adapt his conversation to any
company or his selling arguments to any
type of mind. But as a world figure of
enduring fabric one feels that among
Mr. Gunther’s samples he has been rather
oversold —again on Mr. Gunther’s exhi-
bition of “facts” and surmise, which are
not to be taken at face-value.
For one thing, to take the crucial
matter on which RD.R.’s fame must rest,
Mr. Gunther seems to believe that before
Mr. Roosevelt came bustling into World
War 11, a very Bayard full of altruism,
courage and of the virtues which go with
the cry of “God-defend-the-right!” all
was flabbiness, indecision and lack of
forceful direction in the Western world;
also, that once his hat was in the ring all
was well and that mere groundlings like
Winston Churchill were entirely sub-
sidiary to him in world-leadership and in
fibre. v;
He entirely fails to grasp the fact that
Mr. Roosevelt was for most of the time
a follower of .Churchill, not his leader, in
world policy and that his failures only
developed when he began to force his own
line on his British allies; also, that if the
American’s reputation falls by the way-
side of history in the next few years, it
will be in respect of matters in which he
followed his own and not Churchill’s
judgment; matters such as his support
{Red Page continued on inside back
cover!)


Ik
'J*
£l/7/6
IlT?
>ws
< t '-.
tuj
X
*****
-si-
m
1 v)#y
TRUTH
JN ADVERTISING"
fdsf
Soft light to reduce eye strain . . .
Lampshades for the Modern Home
Designed to harmonize with the beauty of your living and dining
rooms this shade with attractive hand painted Mexican scene
is ideal for a table lamp. Priced at 17/6 each.
Table Lamp with perch bar switch in Ivory mat finish. £l/15/6.
20in. double pleated Plastic Shade
for standard lamp, with hand
painted design. Price, £4/7/6.
Ivory Parchment Shade for stan-
dard lamp. Able to be trimmed
with own material. Price, 18/11.
Inverted Plastic Shade in colours
of Ivory, Gold, Green, Pink or
Blue. Priced at £l/2/3 each.
Novelty Plastic Collar Shade
with ring velvet trim, 20in.
Priced at only £3/19/6.
Plastic Shades for canda-
labra, petersham ribbon
trimming. Clip fitting, 11/11.
Hand painted Parchment
Shade, 20in. Ideal for stan-
dard lamp. Price, £l/4/11.
"Jeldi” Tufted Chenille Bedspreads
The latest edition to their large pattern range is design 108, made in
the full range of plain colours of Blue, Green, Mushroom, Off-White
Beige, Rose or Burgundy. Priced at £B/17/9 single, £9/0/6 double.
Curtains to match can be ordered. Priced at £B/7/3 per pair.
No. 24 design. £6/16/9 single, £6/19/6 double. Curtains to match, £6/5/9 pair.
No. 25 design. £9/2/3 single, £9/5/- double. Curtains to match, £B/12/- pair.
No. 99 design. £B/3/3 single, £B/6/- double. Curtains to match, £7/12/9 pair.
- <r?s;>
v v; ,:; : ; .-:--:;.;..:: : '
No. 99
IB 11
£l/2/3
' *V ,
mi
fmk
’
m m
vs
mmtsm
mmrm
*sW*- * ... «<&.»» * » •«• » w *
%* «
\\V* *.vgjfs
* »*"* **?TTV : - * w „ i *, «* W\ k * *t* ** «- »
W -
><>
»
k»»
Psi
W «• *V *
**♦
* * *
■**>.
****££*****
t>2
i«IS
M
WjsSssJ
%L;.. : -
m
■Jr :
mm
11* M
_s, S 5
!&S
Si
■| ' f , jp
gr imim
■-.
No. 108
BEDSPREADS, LAMPSHADES —THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


BE MEMBER -
HOAD COURTESY
HERNS
ROAD SAFETY!
'S
&
y*
R\o^b
ar
/I
:-:/
:r r
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Commonwealth of Australia and
Anglo-lranian Oil Co, Ltd,)
WRITE
FOR FREE BOOKLET “WHAT IS PETROLEUM”
Ideal Study Aid for Advanced Primary & Secondary School Students
This most interesting booklet is easy to obtain.
All you have to do to secure your copy is to write
your name and address clearly on plain paper,
and send, without stamps, to the Commonwealth
Oil Refineries office In your State. The booklet
describes in simple language and illustrations the
chemical composition of oil, and how it is formed
by nature.
C92/1732
The ant-Lion
by JUDITH WRIGHT
<< I IE can’t get it; he can’t
a hold of it,” Mor-
| Jvenna cried. She thrust
suddenly with the end of
a twig, trying to push the ant up
the shifting sand-slope of the pit.
But her brother, lying opposite
her, filled his cheeks with air and
blew hard. The a-nt fell back to
the pit-bottom, and in a moment
the little fury of jaws burst out
at it, seized it, vanished again.
Only a flurry of sand in the
bottom of the little pit marked
for a few seconds the ant’s last
struggle.
The two children sat up
slowly, breathing again. They
looked at each other with a kind
of guilt. Max’s face was quite
red; Morvenna’s mouth was
open.
“How many would he kill, I
wonder?” Max said, “That’s
three we’ve given him, but they
svere all little ones. I’ll get a
meat-ant and see what he does.”
“Oh, no. Max, don’t, don’t.
I don’t want you to.” Morvenna
clenched her hands, but she
could not help looking round in
the grass for the meat-ant track
that led to the anthill further up
the slope. Max went across to
it, holding his twig, and bent
down. Morvenna gave a scream.
“If you do, Maxie, Til kill the
lion. I will, truly.”
“Don’t you dare,” Max said.
“It’s the first ant-lion we’ve ever
seen and we might never find
another. I want to show it to
everyone.” He came back, hold-
ing his twig gingerly and turning
it from end to end as the red
ant rushed along it. Meat-ants
could bite.
“Now I’ll put it in,” he said.
“Look, Morv.” He shook the
twig hard over the little pit, but
the ant was obstinate and clung.
Angry, intent, he finally dis-
lodged it with a blade of grass.
Morvenna sat with her hands
over her eyes. “No, I won’t
look,” she said. “It’s awful of
you.”
BUT the ant was in the pit.
She peered through the
crack between her fingers and
saw it. It looked big and strong,
frenziedly pulling down the sand
of the slope in its struggle to
escape. Perhaps it might get
away. She took down her hands
and leaned forward.
In their minds the ant and its
arena of battle enlarged, filled
the whole world. Under the
sand at the pit-bottom crouched
the lion, big as a real lion, wait-
ing for the ant to slide down a
little further. But this one was
so big; bigger than the ant-lion
itself, Max said. “Now we’ll see
some sport.”
The ant was puzzled at the
sand that - slipped so treacher-
ously and persistently away as it
climbed. It stopped, slid, went
down almost to the bottom. For
a moment there was a stir in the
sand there, and Morvenna
jumped. The ant might have
seen it, too; at any rate it
gathered all its strength and
made a rush at the slope. The
sand slid quickly but the ant
was determined; he had almost
reached the top. “Good ant,
good ant,” Morvenna cried ; but
Max pushed with his twig, and
down went the ant to the bottom.
For a moment nothing hap-
pened. “It’s too big,” Max said,
and his lips pursed. The two
children stared down, lying on
their stomachs, heads almost
together. The ant hesitated and
began to struggle up against the
slope.
But now the ant-lion moved.
Quick, dexterous, it thrust its
stumpy forelegs from the sand
and began to jerk its head, heavy
and tool-like. Sand flew up,
hindering the big ant, setting the
walls slipping down. “Ah,” Max
breathed. “Look at that now.”
The ant slipped and slipped,
staying in the one place. It was
growing tired, but it was clearly
in a panic; its legs worked
frantically. The hot shadows of
the tree above moved across and
across; the cicadas filled the
afternoon with their monotonous
shrill. The battle swayed. Mor-
venna moved aside ; her rib was
against a knotted root of the
tree; and as she moved Max
gave a shout of triumph. “Oh,
what happened?” She thrust
him aside and peered down.
THE ant-lion had seized the
meat-ant by one leg. Those
relentless tool-jaws hung on, like
the jaws of a dingo harassing a
sheep. The ant, caught at last,
was putting out a desperate
effort; his free legs thrashed
wildly, he made a little headway,
but the weight of the grub-like
creature braced against him was
too much, and he could find
nothing to grip.
“I ought to save him,” Mor-
venna thought. “I oughtn’t to
let . . . Mother would call it
cruelty to animals.” But she no
longer wanted to put down her
twig, even if Max would let her.
Shamed, enraptured, she clung
to the tree-root with one hand
and stared down.
The ant grew weaker, slower,
his struggles more spasmodic.
The lion saw his chance now;
he released the leg and made
for the ant’s body, seizing him
by the abdomen. There was a
wild scurry in the pit now, the
ant rearing in the fountaining
sand. They could see those
shovel-jaws working.
The silence was the strangest
thing, Morvenna felt. Round
them the afternoon continued;
a wagtail hopped on the fence,
other ants ran placidly about
their business, the creek below
made its endless liquid noise over
the rocks; but to the two
children all had shrunk to the
dimensions of the pit, and the
creatures in it, engaged in their
soundless struggle, plunged and
reared enormous. The golden
air should have been full of
their shrieks and groanings.
Now the ant fell. All was
over; his waist almost severed,
his legs quivering in the air, he
lay helpless. How quickly, how
ruthlessly the ant-lion pulled
him down avoiding the last kicks
of those thin useless legs, touch-
ing him, severing abdomen from
body, hiding him in the sand to
serve for larder, where the other
ants lay. The creature seemed
like a little machine, a tool for
some energy that possessed him;
hideous, swift, he sent a shudder
through Morvenna as she
watched him.
Slowly, slowly the lion and his
victim sank into the sand. Now
they were only humps, sand-
covered ; now they had vanished.
There lay the pit, still and inno-
cent, its contours unchanged.
MAX sat up slowly. His eyes
looked large and dark.
“Are you going to put in an-
other?” Morvenna asked. She
half-hoped, half-feared it.
“No,” Max said. He stood
up, not looking at the pit or at
Morvenna. “Enough’s enough.”
“Are you going to bring Harry
down and show it to him?”
Morvenna persisted.
“Oh, shut up,” said Max. He
stood uncertainly for a moment,
detaching himself from the scene,
from the afternoon, from Mor-
venna. Then he set off down
the creek-bank, running faster
and faster. Morvenna stood
hesitating; then she too began
to run. At last they stopped, far
from the pit, exhausted and
panting.
“What shall we do now?”
Morvenna said.
MAHONY’S MOUNTAIN.
If there’s a fox, he said, I’ll whistle the beggar;
And shrill the counterfeit cry of the rabbit’s pain
Rang out in the misty clearing; so soon to be lost
In the stony spurs and candlebarks darker and huger
Where Mahony’s mountain towers in drifts of rain.
No sharp wild face out of burrow or hollow stump.
No rustle shaking the raindrops from rushes or flowers
—Greenhood and bulbine lily lighting the swamp—
Nothing but bush and silence; so on and up
Tramping through moss where so many violets cluster
You cannot help but crush them; and still more steep
The sheep-track winds through the dripping leaves and the
rocks.
And still no fox, no bandicoot’s tiny fluster,
No flurry of green rosellas flashing past,
Nothing but the huge grey silence, the trees and—look.
There where the mountain breaks on its granite peak
The doubletail orchid, O like some fairytale fox,
But whistled from earth by a wilder call than ours,
Pricks up its yellow ears and stares through the mist.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3728
Wednesday, July 25, 1951
basic-wage
BUS
MISSED IT AGAIN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
GOVERNMENT AND
THE PEOPLE.
Saddled with what has happened in the
past two or three months (the most dis-
concerting being the 13s. rise in the basic
wage), and menaced by what is to come,
the Federal Government is to hold a
referendum on the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill on September 22.
At least, if the Government can
manage it, the issue will be purely
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
But if “Labor” can manage it, the
real issue will not be Communism, on
which it would hate to fight, seeing that
its own organisations are rotten to the
core with it, and that its own policy of
Socialism runs exactly parallel to
Communism as far as the eye can see
ahead. It will be on prices, on com-
pulsory training, on everything irrelevant
to the stated issue on which an appeal,
no matter how disgraceful or illogical,
can be made to the housewife and the
loafer, to the addle-head who believes
that the millennium can be had without
work at the price of a vote for “Labor,”
and to the simpleton who believes that a
Government is like Aladdin’s lamp—if
you apply enough friction to it it can do
anything.
It is an unenviable position for any
Administration, especially for one which
is sincere in its belief that it is urgent to
prepare defence against attack from
without; one which is so genuine in its
intentions that it is prepared to risk its
life by temporarily adopting principles
which place it to a certain extent at the
mercy of its political opponents. But
the position is not hopeless. Die
Government has ample means of defend-
ing itself if it has the vigor and the will
to do so.
When the Australian people really find
themselves facing a crisis they are usually
willing to face it in a commonsense way
under the leadership of somebody who is
frank with them and who is ready to
tell them bluntly what they must do,
even if the remedy costs them a great
deal of sacrifice. They showed this dur-
ing World War I. They showed it again
in the depression when, despite all the
alluring suggestions of “Labor,” they
threw out the Socialist demagogues, and
put into and kept in office Conservative
Governments until the economy of the
Commonwealth had been reasonably
restored. They met the war situation of
1939 and 1941 with commendable calm,
and responded to national discipline, to
restrictions on their liberties, to conscrip-
tion, to manpower direction, to universal
rationing.
They will do it again if they can be
shown that it is to their advantage. They
will stand for general “all-in” military
service if they can be made to see that
it is a dire necessity, and not merely a
matter of politics and—to use Dr. Evatt’s
word—“warmongering.” They can be
made to co-operate to increase production
if they can be shown that our present
path is not the way to security, for the
Australian at bottom is as good a worker
as can be found once it is proved to him
that work is worth while. In a word,
the Australian will co-operate if he feels
that the other fellow is also co-operating,
which thousands feel that no Australian
Government has done in the past decade.
But the first step in persuading the
people to economise and to trust the
Government is for the Government itself
to show that it is doing its share of
economising and is worthy of trust and
co-operation.
The people are ready to pay
for their own security, but they
are not prepared to see money wasted
heedlessly. They expect to have
value for their money. They are ready
to produce if the matter is put to them
in the right light, and if they can be
rescued from seditious leaders and their
spirit-sapping doctrines of the class-war.
But it is little encouragement to them to
see the Government still nurturing a
huge, overpaid public service whose heads
are becoming drunk with authority, with
whole battalions of their juniors scarcely
earning office-room, much less their
opulent keep. Thousands of these people
were put into office by “Labor” during
its nine-years jag of office not because
they were needed or even because they
were efficient, but because their employ-
ment was a start on the road to the era of
Socialism in which virtually the whole
population was to become civil service.
In the higher ranks most of them were
chosen with due regard to their political
beliefs, which they naturally apply towards
the Socialist goal irrespective of the fact
that the Government’s policy is one of
free enterprise. The country has already
seen one sovereign example of the kind
of high officials whom the Chifley-Evatt
party imported into Commonwealth
employ in Dr. Burton, who deserted his
high and responsible post as High Com-
missioner in Ceylon, without even feeling
it incumbent upon himself to give due
notice of his intention to his Minister
before he hastened home to stand as a
“Labor” candidate at the elections and
abuse the policy he had taken salary to
carry out.
Another avenue in which the people
will expect an example from the Govern-
ment is taxation. Heavy taxation is in-
evitable, and it is astonishing how much
the electors, even the bowed-down middle
class which has no basic wage, are pre-
pared to carry. Most of the complaint
against the system lies in its ruthless dis-
regard for the human dignity of the taxed,
for the rapacious manner in which the
law has been expanded through “interpre-
tation.” The provisional tax is one griev-
ance which is genuine, for it is an impost
iniquitous because it grabs money which
is not owing and holds it without interest
lest it might be owing in the future.
Mrs. Ameas Gunn once referred to a
Government in the Northern Territory as
a “friendly, bushwhacking old Govern-
ment.” All Governments in Australia
used to be a little like that. They were
the concern of everybody, and politics
was a game which everybody liked to
play, sometimes rather roughly, but always
with the feeling that he was part of it.
The times have changed so much that the
normal attitude of the average elector to
all Governments, of whatever party, is
one of latent hostility and distrust. The
Prime Minister who can liquidate that
hostility is scheduled for immortality. It
can be done.
Mr, Playford has done it in South Aus-
tralia, chiefly because he takes the whole
State into his confidence, calls all in-
terests into consultation before he acts
on any major matter and knows no party
in administering his office. Canada does
it, too. It has controls, but they are
mostly administered by the controllees at
the request of the Dominion and without
policing by an army of frosty-eyed civil
servants. An example of the difference
between the methods of Canberra and
Ottawa is shown by the establishment of
the Canadian scheme of standardised
medical charges and free medicine, en-
tirely managed by the medical profession
without any socialistic controls. And in
both Canada and South Australia the
governed benefit through absence of
political disturbance and through stability
of policy, which makes for long-term
planning.
Politics at its Lowest.
If those who are campaigning against
the Prime Minister’s efforts to get this
nation into training, along with its
friends, as the best hope of averting war
had an honest case, they would not
misquote and distort the language of his
appeal. In particular, the “Labor” party
and its new leader, who shows himself
quite reckless in this regard, are, in de-
nouncing prospective controls, denying
the central feature of their own socialistic
faith.
Mr. Menzies’s statements, at the elec-
tions and in Parliament, on the essence
of his Defence Preparations Bill (now
enacted) were quite explicit:
In the new Parliament we will bring:
clown a Defence Preparations Bill to in-
stitute such needed controls as may be
thought to be within the limits of the
Constitution [that is, under the defence
power]. We do not propose to rush into
controls; we have an instinctive dislike of
them They will be adopted only if emer-
gency renders them necessary for the pro-
tection of the people.
There is this further writing on the
wall for all those who are instigating the
public to resist the necessity, quite in-
escapable, upon the whole nation to
tighten its belt and work to correct Aus-
tralia’s terrible vulnerability to attack;
namely, that the surest way to make
controls inevitable is to organise public
resistance to voluntary co-operation in
achieving the national purpose.
Somehow or other, preferably, of
course, without Government regulation,
the grave decline in essential production
must be cured, and the waste of working
energy in non-essential employment—
what Professor Copland calls “the milk-
bar economy” of this age —must be
stamped out. If the nation will not
respond to the Prime Minister’s appeal,
he will, as he has said, assert his Gov-
ernment’s authority through what
emergency powers he may be able to
mobilise in order to carry out the Gov-
ernment’s supreme responsibility to the
nation: that is to equip it to meet the
threat of a deadlier war than any we
have yet fought. It may be his fate to
be defeated in that purpose, though he
go down with colors flying. But if that
is the Australian people’s answer, and
they prefer to leam only from the
enemy’s own compulsion, it will be little
consolation to them finally to recognise
who their false leaders were.
At the moment, if they believe Dr.
Evatt’s propaganda from the by-election
hustings in Macquarie and Balaclava,
they will apprehend no danger whatever.
This is what “Labor’s” national policy
has descended to, as offered the other
night by its leader in the Melbourne
suburban seat:
I don’t think Mr. Menzies’s forecast of
a war is true. I think everything should
be done through our International organi-
sation to prevent war. We must have de-
fence preparations, but they should be
positive steps. We asked the Government
what they planned to do but they did not
say,
“Our international organisation” is as
unable to prevent war as a child to stop
a riot, and Communist China is, in
General Marshall’s words, “trying to
shoot its way into the Security Council” ;
the only “positive steps” towards Aus-
tralian rearmament have 'been taken by
this Government; and the Prime Minister
has said so plainly what he proposes that
“Labor” won’t even quote him on it.
Somebody ought to tell Dr, Evatt that
there has been all-out war in Korea for
over a year, with about a million
casualties, and that the negotiations for
an armistice there are at the mercy of
an enemy whose only reliable political
attributes are malice and bad faith ; that
there is war in Malaya and Indo-China ;
that Persia is as inflammable as one of
its own oil-tanks, with Russia ready to
march to the Persian Gulf ; that India and
Pakistan are mobilised against each other
to set all south Asia aflame ; and that the
entire length of the Mediterranean is
being made a string of American air-
bases in support of a Balkan-Turkish
front. Somebody ought to ask him what
all his earbashings over America’s “allow-
ing Japan to rearm” mean if the Japanese
treaty terms are a reflection of peaceful
times ; why the United States and Britain
are mobilising and American taxpayers
especially are finding annually thousands
of millions of dollars to buttress a de-
fensive front over half the world ; and
why there have been three urgent con-
ferences of British Commonwealth De-
fence Ministers within the past 12
months.
Defence Minister Mcßride has just
returned from the latest of these
emergency meetings. He said, on landing
home again;
Australia has got to prepare as rapidly
as possible for war. We have agreed to
build up certain forces, and their employ-
ment will be determined by the Govern-
ment in the light of circumstances. Our
responsibility is further to determine what
is the maximum diversion of resources we
are prepared to make for defence.
Dr. Evatt poses as believing that this
is all a plot of a “Fascist” Ministry
(elected by a popular majority presumably
“Fascist,” too) to perpetrate an inter-
national breach of the prevailing peace.
As a sample of how far sincerity and
regard for truth or principle contribute
to the make-up of his political mounte-
bankery let his attack on defence prepara-
tions in the Macquarie by-election last
week bear witness. The legislation, said
Dr. Evatt, was designed to create unem-
ployment ; “it is a measure whereby the
Cabinet could close down any industry
in Australia regarded as non-essential.”
Any intelligent Australian, after pausing
to consider that colossal stupidity in it-
self, would hardly want telling that the
“Labor” policy of socialising all industry,
as “interpreted” to mollify the electorate,
means the closing-down of any industry
which in the opinion of a Socialist Cabinet
is exploiting the public. In other words,
what Dr. Evatt charges the Menzies
Government with doing is not unlike
what he himself aims at doing on a larger
and permanent scale if he can only get the
people to approve of “Labor’s” desired
controls.
The development of grab-what-you-
can-for-yourself by pressure-groups in
politics has prevented any check to
the devastation of our living standards
under the advancing inflation of costs and
prices; and it may be that controls will
have to be secured to deal with these also
as well as with defence against the final
menace of the Communists’ designed
world war. But such anti-inflation con-
trols will need to bei no less all-embracing
than those to consolidate preparations for
national defence in arms.
The truth, which few Australians have
glimpsed yet, is that in each instance the
initial enemy to be met and overcome is
themselves.
For Ever England.
Kingsley Norris, a major-general,
director-general of the medical services
of the Army, is one of the most-
travelled and most - rapidly - moving
of Australians—a man who one week
stands among the muskeg where the
Canadian forces are experimenting
with the Arctic wind, the next
among the bluebells of Kew Gardens
(one of his favorite haunts), and
who may then reach his native land
via the ruin of Seoul. Seoul he
describes as the “most devastated city
of modem warfare —a city which has
ceased to be one, utterly gutted, utterly
deserted,” an awful lesson in the respon-
sibility of those who make wars—an
even more dreadful one to the slack,
carefree peoples of this continent.
Kingsley Norris gave one of his rare
talks, distinguished for oratory at its
highest level, on his adventures—
or, rather, observations —to a small
gathering of soldiers at the N. S, Wales
United Service Institution last week. And
though it ranged the world, it was notable
for a central conviction.
After seeing country after country
through a surgeon’s and organiser’s eyes,
travelling swiftly by air, or by choice at
leisure on a deck, he presents a considered
picture of Britain as still the greatest
nation in the world. Lovely among its
bluebells and its ruins, complicated in its
civilisation, adaptable in its sufferings
and, with if all, a tremendous fountain
of latent power: the source from which
originally almost everything of benefit to
our civilisation has sprung, from concep-
tions of liberty and forms of government
to the framework of universal modern
literary tradition and mechanical and
scientific revolution, and from which
greater things are still evolving.
He described it with wildflowers grow-
ing in its hollowed basements of Watling-
street and Friday-street behind St. Paul’s,
with its lovely villages and its wholly-
civilised, courteous and outwardly-
impressive common man, still 50 years
ahead of every other country in the
world in the application of commonsense
to living, and in the ability to sort out
what is essentially good for its people in
the ultimate.
His is a viewpoint to be commended to
the rushers after new gods and to those
who mistake propaganda for greatness
and mere mechanical magnitude for basic
strength. Norris pointed out that Britain
has in the past generation fought two
great wars at huge sacrifice —each time
to keep her word to little countries. Each
time she has suffered vast casualties, but
has emerged from these carnages spiritu-
ally exalted, undaunted by her shabbiness
and her troubles, confident of her future
and of that of her Dominions, and able
to launch herself into huge constructional
programmes and into an equally huge
experiment in Socialism from which
she is proceeding gravely to select what
features she needs and to discard just as
dispassionately those which she senses to
be failures.
All this, he says, is being done without
disturbance, imperturbably, and in a spirit
of seasoned commonsense which fills the
visitor with an awed feeling that, so far
from receding to a lower place in the
order of nations, Britain is becoming
“mightier yet,” amid the pageantry which
no other land can imitate without turning
it into buffoonery, and amid the beauty
of landscape which continues through all
industrial changes.
Those, like Kingsley Norris, who have
the power of movement which enables
them to compare, are able to see in
Britain the leader of the world rising from
a bed of sickness. Canada across the
Atlantic is her natural heir, a changing
Canada which from being three parts—
the French Atlantic zone, the raw and
polyglot central prairies and the little bit
of old England on the Pacific slopes—has
in a few years grown solidly Canadian
since their experiences in the last war
taught the native French that their original
homeland had now little care for them.
It will be surprising if these two great
parts of the Commonwealth, with Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, do not hold the
real key to the destiny of civilisation,
forming as they do a belt of light and
calm which girdles the world And that
is a viewpoint which might well be com-
mended to our makers of foreign policy,
so concerned to ally themselves primarily
with the lesser peoples of the Pacific.
EL V.


ds
fds
"THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
By special arrangement with the present-day relatives of Rachel
Henning, who have carefully preserved the originals, The Bulletin of
August 8 will commence the first publication of a series of letters which
in themselves make a fascinating, factual story, begun just on a century ago.
The life and people of the time are vividly described.
Rachel Henning wrote her letters between 1853 and 1882. They begin
in England, addressed to her brother and sister who had recently gone to
Australia, and later are written from Australia to her sister Etta in England.
Making a slight allowance for period, it may be said that Rachel, in
effect, steps out of the pages of “Pride and Prejudice” into the hurly-burly
of an Australia of the ’fifties that had gone gold-crazy and land-hungry,
and was still very rough and raw in the eyes of a cultured young
Englishwoman.
The long sea voyage to Australia is described. In her early homesick-
ness for England’s wooded walks and gardens and satisfying social com-
panionships Rachel wrote feelingly and descriptively, if not flatteringly,
of adolescent Australia. Later, accepting this country as her home, she
came to admire it.
All the time, in her fascinating letters, she is unconsciously telling the
story of Rachel Henning. And Rachel Henning is undoubtedly a character
to be noted and remembered.
The Letters of Rachel Henning will add materially to whatever
has already been written or printed of Australian history. And they are
vastly entertaining. The author wrote from many parts of N. S. Wales
and from North Queensland at a time when that area was only just being
developed. The Queensland letters in particular are most entertaining
and descriptive. It was in Queensland that Rachel began to develop a deep
affection for Australia.
It is intended to publish The Letters of Rachel Henning in long
instalments in The Bulletin, commencing with the issue of August 8.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Acid-test on "Labor."
One thing the Prime Minister’s con-
ference on inflation should do is to put
the acid-test on “Labor” on the subject
of co-operation to meet the emergency
of inflation.
Last year during the Budget session
Dr. Evatt wanted just such a conference
as Mr. Menzies proposes. Now he
ignores the conference and wants Par-
liament summoned.
Last March, before the recent elec-
tions, the A.C.T.U. offered full co-
operation with a “Labor” Government
in “stabilising the economy.” The late
Mr. Chifley made much of this in his
policy speech, though the A.W.D. and
the big Communist-controlled unions
received the A.C.T.U.’s undertaking with
a heavy silence.
The A.C.T.U. offered the unions
“full support” to make effective measures
proposed by Mr. Chifley to arrest infla-
tion —price-controls and profit-controls
—and specifically increase of production,
particularly in the basic industries, and
the banning of political strikes. It
looked forward to its biennial trade-union
congress (to assemble on September 3
this year) to reverse its previous decision
against incentive payments as a means of
increasing production. .
In the several announcements on their
trade-union plan for halting rising prices
there was no direct reference to wage-
pegging as one of the necessary
measures, though the “Labor” leader in
his election policy speech implied this.
He did not speak as plainly as Dr. Evatt
—now his successor —a short time pre-
viously. Dr. Evatt, seeking a general
conference, admitted something more
than price-fixing to be necessary.
Price fixation (he said), although impor-
tant in many respects, is only one aspect or
the problem... .Wages and salaries might
properly be included in a stabilisation plan.
Last November, during the committee
stages of his bill for a referendum
limited in scope to prices of commodities,
Senator McKenna made some interesting
admissions. He said he thought the term
“prices” would inevitably require defini-
tion by the High Court; but he thought
it would not refer to professional salaries
or to freight charges, and without the
latter might be incomplete. He said
control of prices would at least enable the
Commonwealth Government to control
the citizens’ “food, clothing and housing
materials” ; but then admitted that State
prices-control had been so successful in
Westralia on meat that meat had disap-
peared from the shops —like butter has
now done elsewhere —and that the cost
of labor (wages) is a factor in the price of
any commodity, especially in house-
building, He concluded thus:
The Government might very well discuss
the problem of stabilising prices with
representatives of the trade-unions....
Those representatives would ask three
questions:—
What are you doing about prices?
What will you do to control profits?
What are you prepared to do to ensure
that those engaged in production get
some share of the increased production
and the increased profits?
If the Government has the courage to
face those questions, it can approach the
trade-union movement.
The admission is clear in all this that
wage-pegging and harder work at the
job are essential ingredients, along with
price-control, in combating inflation. It
is also clear that some controls are beyond
Commonwealth power, and that volun-
tary co-operation is thus an essential
factor in any effort decided on.
Now, with the Prime Minister’s invita-
tion to a general conference, political
“Labor” is shaping to refuse any co-
operation whatever.
Trends in Asia.
It is reported from Korea that the only
outstanding question for the armistice
conference is whether “foreign’ i.e.,
United Nations —troops should be allowed
to remain in Korea. It is a very big
“only,” since to achieve it would mean
complete victory for the Chinese and
North Koreans and complete and humili-
ating surrender for the Allies.
All the North Koreans and Chinese
have been fighting for has been to secure
military control of Korea, the "dagger
pointed at the heart of Japan.” And for
“foreign” troops to leave would mean the
immediate subjugation of the South and
the establishment of Korea as a Chinese
province or Russian satellite State.
The effect in Japan would be profound.
There it would damage all faith in the
undertakings of the West and act as a
spur to the Japanese to rearm and take
their own courses.
With the emphasis laid on the point
by the Chinese and North Koreans and
the massing of fresh armies behind them,
it sounds as if the peace conference
started on Russia’s initiative was merely
one more manoeuvre, like the sudden
Moscow propaganda in favor of the con-
tinued existence of capitalism, so similar
to the outburst of 1945, and of Com-
munist co-operation with the West.
These things are designed to distract
attention from Russia’s part in a hundred
other movements which are in train to
tear Western influence out of Asia, and
of which the symptoms are the incessant
usage of Moslem hysteria to discomfit
interests of the British race and destroy
those friendly to them.
The hand of Russia is evident behind
the Persian oil crisis, behind the re-
crudescence of trouble between India and
Pakistan over Kashmir and behind events
in the Syrian-Arabian zone, where
Britain’s good friend King Abdullah of
Tranjordania has been assassinated. His
old antagonist Ibn Saud still survives.
All the chaos of the Mediterranean
littoral, all the disturbance in Persia, all
the schism and threat of war in the rest
of Asia mark the failure of the policies
of the United Nations and the alarming
position which it and its soft-headed sup-
porting Press and Socialist politicians
have brought about by their policy of
surrender to sentimentalism and their
gradual whittling-away of British strength
and national fibre in foreign affairs.
Dr. Evatt and his fellow-theorists will
have a lot to answer for during the next
decade.
Stalin's "Labor" Helpers.
The attitude of “Labor” to the anti-
inflation conference which Mr. Menzies
has called for July 30 is not surprising.
The party has for months been howling
to the Government to do something,
including the holding of a conference
advocated by Dr. Evatt. Now the Gov-
ernment proposes to discuss with the
States, the unions and the employers pro-
posals for higher anti-inflationary taxa-
tion, heavy cuts in public works, a brake
on hire-purchase, a cut of about 10,000
in the Commonwealth public services and
a reduction of the inflow of immigrants.
The 13s. rise in the basic wage having
brought about a crisis, it is urgent to deal
with the situation.
But “Labor” will not deal. The
A.C.T.U. has shown a disposition to do
so, but not Mr. J. A. Ferguson, the ex-
Communist who leads Dr. Evatt’s party
and gives him his orders. To him the
Australian nation is divided into two
parts —unionists who have inherent rights
to commit any outrage against decency
or law and order, and the rest, who must
have no say in their own fate,
Mr. Ferguson answered the invitation
issued by the Prime Minister by initiating
a campaign at the Sydney Trades and
Labor Councii with a resolution, which
it carried:
That this Labor Council reaffirms its
repudiation of the methods and tactics of
the Federal Liberal-Country party Govern-
ment under the guise of opposing Com-
munism and the Communist party, and
condemns outright the Arbitration Amend-
ment Act, the Constitutional Alteration
Bill and the Defence Preparations Act.
Council further declares that this policy
and actions of the Federal Liberal-Country
party Government establish that the party’s
methods and objects aim at the destruction
of the trade-union movement and the demo-
cratic way of life of the Australian
people and the establishment in its place of
a totalitarian form of government which
could encourage Communism and would
destroy our existing democratic institu-
tions and the personal liberty of the Aus-
tralian people.
This involves a stand by the Labor
movement generally and the trade-union
movement in particular.
Accordingly, and as an immediate con-
tribution, this council recommends that the
A.C.T.U. should plan resistance to these
moves and seriously consider severing any
association it might have with the Com-
monwealth Resources Board, and, in addi-
tion, should examine the Arbitration
Amendments Act in relation to the Con-
stitution, with a view to taking any con-
sequential necessary legal action on behalf
of the trade-union movement.
This Labor Council associates itself with
the Australian Labor party in expressing its
continued adherence to the basic freedoms
of the right of association and the right of
expression, which are the fundamental prin-
ciples connected with the Australian demo-
cratic way of life, and combines with the
A.C.T.U. and the Federal A.L.P. executive
and the Federal Parliamentary Labor party
in urging every Australian to study and
understand the iniquitous implications of
the Constitution Alteration Bill and, in the
name of justice and democracy, to reject
them.
In Mr. Ferguson’s supporting speech
he declared that Australia was “follow-
ing the same pattern as Germany in 1930
(when Hitler began to take over)” —
“inflation, repressive legislation, totali-
tarianism, Fascism of the worst form.”
His objective is not to destroy inflation
and reduce prices, but to force the Gov-
ernment —twice elected at democratic
elections within two years—to “vacate
office,” so that the United Front, which
consists of the servile “Labor” politicians
and the great Communist-controlled
unions, which dominate the “Labor”
party and for whom Mr. Ferguson is the
spokesman, can take over.
However much “Labor” may claim to
hate Moscow doctrines it is plain that it
has become a mere echo of the Com-
munist party.
How Nothing Gets Done.
“Abdul Assiz”: The N.S.W. Public
Works Department has refused to con-
sider the Hexham Swamp site, chosen by
experts from the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment as the most suitable in the district,
for the development of a civil aerodrome
for Newcastle.
Newcastle Council and Chamber of
Commerce have, since 1936, been press-
ing for air facilities adequate to serve
the city’s needs and those of the adjacent
centres of Maitland, Cessnock, Raymond
Terrace, Kurri Kurri and Lake Mac-
quarie, which, together, contain a quarter
of a million people, and include natural
resources much greater than the popula-
tion-figure would suggest.
The reason for refusal given by the
P.W.D. is that a State committee had
passed a resolution that no levee-bank
or filling should be placed in the Hexham
Swamp until flood-prevention works are
carried out in the Hunter Valley. Mr.
L. Cavalier, a foundation-member of the
Newcastle Aero Club and club pilot,
estimates that 15,000 acres of the
Hexham marshland could be reclaimed
for agriculture and a civil aerodrome,
allowing the construction of runways up
to three miles in length, at a cost of only
£lO,OOO.
The Raymond Terrace site, owing to
its proximity to the R.A.A.F. ’drome at
Williamtown, is unsatisfactory for civil
use and would be a hindrance to Air
Force manoeuvres; at Tarro, valuable
agricultural land would be taken out of
use and the resumption cost would
amount to about £lOO an acre ; and at
Sandgate an excessive amount of filling
would be required. But Public Works
officials state that levees and filling at
Flexham would prevent floodwaters from
entering the swamp, thus increasing the
intensity of downstream inundation ; this
is categorically denied by Mr. Cavalier,
who states that the marsh is not subject
to flooding by either river or tidal waters
but is fed by seepages from Black HiU
to the south.
The obvious answer to flooding —
pending the construction of the Glenbawn
Dam, near Scone —is to clear the blocked
channels which bank up the floodwaters
until they reach dangerous heights. It
these channels were dredged and kept
clear not only would the Hunter Valley
recover the advantage of water transport,
thus relieving the congested railways and
roads, but the probability of further tragic
floods would be very much reduced.
Superstition.
“Jassy” views a slice of life:
State lotteries are, 1 know, a moral blot on
a community, and ail forms of gambling
economic waste. Of that 1 am firmly convinced
I have frequently told my friends so, and i have
written articles proving conclusively that anyone
who buys a lottery-ticket in the expectation of
finding a quick road to wealth should be locked
up for his own protection. At the same tune,
not being a bigoted person, I occasionally put
in my bob towards a syndicate ticket, or, less
frequently, buy one on my own. Don t ask me
why. Probably it’s in order to have the satis-
faction of proving how right I am. That s how
I happened to be walking up Sydney s Barrack-
street the other day, intent on “investing some
loose silver in the degrading blottery.
The time was 3 p.m., and the crowd outside
the lottery office looked like peak-hour at Wyn-
yard. It wasn’t a queue; it was a surge except
that at the moment it wasn’t surging. Appa-
rently there were so many already inside tne
building that those on the top step could not
squeeze in through the door.
“Fools,” I thought in my most superior
manner, “fancy pushing and struggling like that
just to give away your money in order to make
some undeserving per,son momentarily rich.
Disgusting!”
When / donate my money for such altruistic
purposes I like to hand it oyer the counter
with a certain amount of dignity; I refuse to
take part in an undignified scramble to give
money away. Accordingly, when I saw this
milling throng I decided to keep my own dona-
tion till the place was less busy. I stood on the
outskirts of the crowd, watching the struggle
that was going on at the top of the stairs. 1
wasn’t on the outskirts for long. Within a
few minutes the arrival of further hordes of
would-be benefactors of their fellow-men meant
that I was well hemmed in. I said to a woman
alongside me, “Is it always as bad as this?”
“Gosh, no,” she answered in ladylike tones.
“Don’t you know it’s Friday the 13th?”
As this sank in I looked around me with new
eyes. The blighting effect of the big blottery
was worse than I had thought. So that was the
reason for the crowd. Every manjack and
womanjill in the mob was there because of a
cherished belief that by a trick of the calendar
fortune was going to smile in his or her direc-
tion. There would be 100,000 tickets in that lot-
tery, as in every other one, so the odds against
any particular person winning it would be
exactly the same as always, yet all these people
were building hopes that . . . And as nine out
of ten of them would give their ticket some such
name as “Friday the 13th,” “My Lucky Day’
or “Mugs for Luck” it was almost a certainty
that the first prize would go to a ticket with some
such name, thus helping to perpetuate the super-
stition. ,
Silghtly nauseated at the thought, I turned to
make my way out of the mob. As I struggled
off I heard the voice of the woman who had
answered my question. “What d’you know?”
she was saying to the audience-in-general. “Won t
buy a ticket because it’s Friday the 13th. Must
be superstitious.”'
Skirmish on the Fibre Front.
Messages came out of America lately
declaring, in substance, that the U.S.
Army was calling tenders for uniforms
and blankets made of synthetic fibres,
that the Washington Government would
probably declare synthetics “essential”
and give the manufacturers tax and
other concessions to encourage produc-
tion, and that experts had declared a new
fibre to be as warm and as light as, and
softer than, usual “fleece lining,’ with a
“good hand.”
The Australian wool industry may
have suspected the hand of the u.o.
Government itself, which not so long
ago sought in vain to have Australian
wool allocated to it by Government
{Continued on next page.)


mw
V ‘A*
ilElJgill
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A*
mm
-m
h
4199
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
action instead of competing for it at
open auction.
Whatever the impulse behind the
nylon yarn (no pun intended) there was
the fact that both Eric Johnston, the U.S.
Economic Stabilisation chief, and
Charles Wilson, boss of U.S. Defence
Mobilisation, made statements amount-
ing to U.S. Government backing of
increased nylon production. Johnston
was promptly challenged by Harry
Devereaux, president of the American
Wool Council:
As economic stabiliser of the nation in a
time of grave national danger, we feel
strongly that you should know your facts
when you urge that the taxpaying public
are obliged to finance attempts at the de-
struction of a great essential agricultural
raw material industry and the largest wool-
consuming wool-textile industry in the
world.
The synthetic fibres with which you would
replace those basic industries are so totally
inferior to wool in essential quantities that
there is no basis of comparison.
Further, although I have made diligent in-
quiries I can find no record of any tests
which have proved that any wool military
fabrics have been improved by 20 to 30
p.c. adulteration, nor do I find any record
of any such fabrics in production.
“S. M. Herald’s” New York man heard
that the U.S, Government had experts
examining new artificials, talked to them,
wrote articles, then found the articles
suppressed under security regulations,
and after several weeks was told that
the articles were “lost.”
Meantime the Dupont people an-
nounced “dacron,” a new synthetic, and
sent their nylon sales chief to the Ameri-
can Association of Textile Technologists
to tell it that dacron suits and shirts were
the goods. Whether the A.A.T.T. was
impressed isn’t clear, but earlier 12 lead-
ing American clothing manufacturers
issued this statement:
Since the proper fabric is the first con-
sideration we are basing our 1951 clothing
on wool. We could replace wool with in-
ferior, cheaper fabrics made of other fibres,
and turn out imitations of our present pro-
ducts. If we did our labels would quickly
cease to be guarantees of integrity.
About the same time it was officially
announced that current and immediate
future world wool production would be
about 15 per cent, below consumption,
and the International Wool Secretariat
said that if wool-producers didn’t fill the
gap the nylon-makers would.
It all boils to two things. First, that
the artificial fibres interests have mil-
lions invested and will spend millions on
publicity and other means to boost their
products; second, that wool production
is not increasing as it should. The wool
industry is being urged to improve and
widen its publicity. That’s all to the
good; but it isn’t much use creating a
demand for a product unless it can be
supplied.
POLITICAL POINTS
In delivering judgment in the case in
which J. Healy, Communist secretary of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, was
convicted on four charges arising out of
the watersiders’ ban on New Zealand
shipping, Mr. Meagher, S.M., said:
It is clear that this boycott was prejudicial
to the welfare and interests of the public,
and, in my opinion, was imposed without
reasonable cause or excuse.
Healy was sentenced to six weeks’ im-
prisonment on each of two charges and
on two other charges was fined a total
of £lOO. When Healy’s counsel, Mr. S.
Isaacs, argued that Healy’s actions were
“in accordance with the standard practice
in alii industrial circles” Mr. Meagher
replied that the High Court had pointed
out that loyalty to the country superseded
loyalty to a union and its members. Mr.
Isaacs said: “That is the legal view, but
in industrial circles Healy’s action would
be considered the correct one.” Allow-
ance may be made for the exuberance of
counsel in defence of a client, but do
“industrial circles” intend to allow it to
remain on record that they place union
before country?
Referendum-day has been fixed for
September 22, on which date the people
of Australia will, in effect, say whether
or not they want the Communist party
banned. If voting at the last election,
fought mainly on that issue, is any indi-
cation, they do. For a referendum to
be^carried, it is necessary; for the “Yes”
case to secure a majority of the total
votes and also to win in a majority of
States—i.e., at least four States. A three-
all result among the States means the
proposal is defeated, no matter how the
overall vote goes. Public-opinion polls
point to a “Yes” victory, though in a
vote like this more last-minute swings
should be expected than in a clear-cut
election involving the two parties.
Finishing touches are still being put to
the “No” case, but “Labor’s” general
argument is that the move is a Fascist
measure, that you can’t “ban an idea,”
that the best way to fight the Communists
is through the trade-u ions, and that the
Government’s measu:; are not aimed at
the Communists at a'!, but at the trade-
union movement. TL.re must be tens of
thousands of trade-unionists who don’t
believe that —otherwise the Menzies Gov-
ernment would never have been elected.
However much the Doc. may prate of
principle there is no disputing that his
party’s line of conduct on the Anti-Red
bill last year was dictated entirely by
expediency.
“Labor’s” dicky position on the refer-
endum is illustrated by the fact that the
party executive in Victoria, the State
where “Labor” put up its best showing at
the April # election, is strongly anti-Com-
munist and is in favor of banning ’em.
Under orders from higher up they are
required to advocate the “No” case, but
anyone who expects them to put up any-
thing more than an exhibition of shadow-
sparring would believe everything he saw
at the Stadium,
The response of J. A. Ferguson, tsar of
Australian “Labor” politics, to Menzies’s
proposals for a conference of Govern-
ment, employers’ and trade-union repre-
sentatives to discuss ways of fighting in-
flation, typifies the arrogant, irresponsible
attitude adopted by the A.L.P. since the
people of Australia threw out the “Labor”
Government in 1949. Ferguson said:
“The people elected Mr. Menzies to
govern. If he can’t govern he should get
out. If Mr. Menzies can’t govern, Labor
can.” How “Labor” can govern, with a
minority in both Houses, Ferguson did
not trouble to explain. What he really
means, as he made clear before the last
election, is that his organisation will help
a “Labor” Government govern, but will
not co-operate with a Liberal-C.P. Gov-
ernment.
Truth is that Ferguson and company
will not even help a “Labor” Government
unless it is obedient to their commands —
as was the last one. They profess to
see dictatorship tendencies in the present
Federal Government, returned twice
within 18 months by a majority of Aus-
tralian electors, who must include large
numbers of trade-unionists, yet their own
desire is to dictate policy to the Govern-
ment. When they say they will not co-
operate what they really mean is that they
will do everything they can to prevent
the Government from governing, even if
the country and the people whose interests
they profess to have at heart suffer
grievously as a result.
Among its measures to counter infla-
tion the Commonwealth proposes a cut
of 10,000 in the Commonwealth Public
Service, now estimated to employ “about
156,000.” What about a suspension of
recruiting for the Commonwealth Public
Service and a cessation of sales-talk de-
signed to convey the idea that if you
want your boy or girl to have a nice,
cushy job at a good screw the C.P.S.
will provide it?
On the principle of no-hide-no-Christ-
mas-pudding, R. Dixon, president of the
“Australian” Communist party, has writ-
ten to the Prime Minister seeking per-
mission to prepare a case for the “No”
vote in the Red referendum. What —
does Dixon think he can prepare a better
“No” case than Dr. Evatt, recently the
successful counsel for the party?
Another request by Dixon is that the
Communist party be given the same time
on national during the
campaign as “other political parties”—
although the Reds have not a single mem-
ber in the national Parliament, or in any
State House. Dixon was encouraged in
that request by earlier overgenerous
treatment by the A.B.C. in the matter of
free radio-time.
Choicest bit of the Dixon letter to the
Prime Minister:
The Australian Communist party, m the
31 years of its existence, has become an
integral part of the life of the Australian
people.
In precisely the same way as a cancer can
be said to become an integral part of the
body it is destined to destroy.
“In the interests of the community,
everyone should work,” declared Mr.
Justice Toose (N.S.W.). The trouble is
that so many do work —their heads.
They’ll be by-elections in Macquarie
(N.S.W.) and Balaclava (Vic.) on Satur-
day. Neither seat could be called a
swinger—Macquarie was held by the
U.A.P. during the ’thirties, but the last
redistribution sliced off much of what
could be called anti-“ Labor” territory.
Mr. Chifley got home with 9000 votes
to spare last April, and in Balaclava,
T, W. White, now Australian Minister in
London, had an even easier win.
State and Federal Parliamentarians
disagree on many points, but there is
one thing on which they are all in perfect
agreement—that the best thing to do with
a Parliament during the winter is to close
it up.
It had to come, and the dubious honor
fell to the miners of Stockrington No, 1
(Newcastle area). They struck in support
of the coves at Burwood, who had struck
about something or other. But while
the Stockrington boys were going home
—or wherever they go when on strike —
the Burwood boys were on their way to
work, having given up their strike. There
was a possibility of Burwood then strik-
ing again in support of Stockrington,
but luckily the weather broke or some-
thing.
The Governor of South Australia sug-
gests that scientists might find a hormone
that could make it unnecessary for cows
to milk over the weekend, thus doing
away with the worst feature of dairying.
What we really want is a hormone for
people who won’t work between week-
ends.
Shipping Minister McLeay announces
plans to have overseas cargoes delivered
direct to other than capital-city ports on
the Australian coast. It should have been
done long ago.
“There is hardly any country in the
world where it isn’t believed you have
only to kick an Englishman hard enough
to make him evacuate, bolt, or clear out.”
The words are Churchill’s, they are un-
comfortably near the truth, and they are
part of what the English have to pay for
the “Welfare State.”
Aneurin Bevan, the exploded British
Socialist, has been telling the Americans
that they haven’t acquired enough “poli-
tical wisdom and sagacious leadership to
tell the rest of the world what is good
for it.” In Bevan’s view the only source
of these attributes is in Socialist minds
that lean to Communism.
The McGirrs, after fooling with the
notion of buying an American steamer
to act as a sort of floating elec-
tricity unit up and down the coast, are
now talking about buying two smaller
ships with the same idea. They are “non-
self-propelled” and would have to be
towed around. Why not buy a wind-
jammer and mount generating windmills
to use the wind emanating from the
McGirrs?
Late last year, when Parliament was
sitting, Evatt wanted a general confer-
ence to combat inflation. Now that he is
offered it and Parliament has risen for
the winter recess he has nothing good to
say for a conference but wants Parlia-
ment summoned instead. Under Evatt
the duty of his Majesty’s Opposition is to
be cantankerous.
The “General Secretary of the Aus-
tralian Third Division Telegraphists’ and
Postal Clerks’ Union” is opposed to the
idea of pruning 10,000 off the Federal
public service because “Mr. Menzies’s
anti-inflation plan will only speed up the
movement from low-paid public-service
work to the higher-paid work of private
enterprise.” Doesn’t he want his members
to work for better money?
Jackie Ferguson, boss of the A.L.P. in
N.S.W., agrees with Dr. Evatt that
“Federal Parliament should meet to dis-
cuss inflation.” What’s the good of that?
Ferguson has already announced that
whatever is done to counter inflation he
or his crowd won’t be in it. He’s like a
fanatical Muslim who would rather die
of a poison than let a Christian doctor
cure him.
Peter Dargin, a Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher, stirred Australia in 1944 by defy-
ing unions and the Curtin Government
on his right to choose his own employees.
His stand led to a coal strike. He was
visited by Government “fixers,” called
to compulsory conferences and refused
to yield to persuasion or threats. Up-
held by a Conciliation Commissioner,
Dargin won when Prime Minister Curtin
invoked National Security Regulations to
order the strikers back, and all believers
in a fair go applauded him. Last week
Dargin was found shot dead with a rifle
beside him after he had closed his
Portland shop, saying he could not get
meat at reasonable prices.
After a Sydney milk-bar proprietor had
been fined for assaulting a customer who
had asked that his malted-milk be served
in a glass instead of a metal container,
the Milk Board was reported to be con-
sidering whether the man’s licence to sell
milk should be revoked. But isn’t
delivery to milk-bars already barred by
Milk Board ruling?
Attacked by American wool interests
for including artificial fibres as a defence
material, U.S. Economic Stabilisation
Director Johnston mildly replied that it
was hazardous to depend on a foreign
wool supply in an emergency. He must
have heard of the Australian defence
effort.


uqBStf*
VAgN I
*s^sT
I
EVOLUTION.


ITS PRINTED
AND IT'S WIMBLES INKS
“Pat Eff”: “Tailor’s Dummy” (B.
27/6/’5l) may be at a loss to understand
the disappearance of the “champagne-
bottle-shaped” shoulders of the last
century and the lilywhite neck rising
swanlike therefrom, but the reason seems
obvious. Nature took one look at the
conditions prevailing for the woman of
“Sorry to keep you Waiting, dear —I had to go
to Africa
today, decided that square shoulders were
more fitted to carry the load imposed by
shortages, blackouts, strikes and all the
other accompaniments of 20th-century
civilisation, and adjusted things accord-
ingly. As for being squarer than the male
shoulder, if this generation of masculine
strength continues downhill at its current
speed “T.D.” will yet see the return of
the shoulders he so admires —but not, I
fear, on the female form.
% sfc H*
“Mac Hoots”; Partly in reluctant ad-
miration, partly as a memorial gesture
that will soon obviously be needed, I take
my hat off to the driver of a white utility
on the road between Parramatta and
Penrith (N.S.W.) for the most incredible
piece of driving I have ever seen.
Basically the cause of his lunacy was
one of those huge trucks which hold up
all the traffic and drive us all mad. Most
of us, crawling up a hill behind one of
these sluggish monsters, have been
tempted to sneak past in the clay on
the extreme left; but this bloke, in the
face of oncoming traffic, shot across to
the clay on the extreme right —as far on
his wrong side as he could possibly get—
and, to the utter consternation of every-
body on the road, whizzed along there
until he was up the hill, clear of the truck
and able to dart back to his correct side
again. He did it twice before I lost sight
of him ; and on both occasions, by the
special Providence that protects the in-
sane, escaped the notice of the two
traffic-cops who were watching that
stretch of highway.
* * * *
“Eve”: On the morning tram we were
entertained by the puzzled man in the
corner saying suddenly, “Is this a Quay
tram?” We all nodded. “And is it
Monday?” he asked. More nods. “And
is it nine-thirty?” he gasped. When
assured that he was right in that, too, he
grunted, “Well, something s wrong. I’ve
caught this tram for eighteen months, but
today I’ve got a seat.”
« * * $
“Zake”; Our produce-merchant has
notched another, which makes it his
eighth racket running concurrently. No,
he was out of potatoes ; but he did have
some seed-spuds. He waved towards a
bag prominently near the door. I recog-
nised the huge murphies as Snowflakes,
from Victoria. “But they’d never grow
in this district,” I said. “You’re right
there,” he replied. “They wouldn’t. All
you’d get would be tops, same as if you
planted Tasmanian Brownells.” “Any-
way, look at the size of them,” I pointed
out. “They average about two pounds
each. Seed-potatoes should be small.”
“That’s right,” he agreed again. “I
wouldn’t plant ’em myself, that’s why I’m
advising customers not to use them as
seed. But they’re good eating. I can let
you have a quarter.” Yes, he was getting
sixpence a pound for them. The eyes of
the bloke who grew them would have
stuck out larger than those on his spuds
if he could have seen some of his enor-
mous tubers reverently interred whole by
some supreme optimists in another State ;
the resultant bush, if
and when it does come
up, will provide enough
shade for a yardful of
chooks.
* «
“Bethune”: The re-
vised income-tax form
was favorably received
in our office, particu-
larly by those who
found, after filling in
the section which
enables the taxpayer to
work out his own
assessment, that they
were in the “balance-
due - to - taxpayer”
category. But I doubt
whether the Commis-
sioner will appreciate
the business efficiency
of the bloke who wrote
alongside his final figure
“A cheque for this
amount by return post
will oblige.”
* *
“Tidapa”; While
repairing the St.
Vincent/Fayal cable
the cable-ship Lady
Denison Pender had
just hooked the Fayal
end when she picked
up a distress - signal
from a small coaster 50
miles away. Slipping
the recovered end the
cable - ship advised
London by flash memo that she
was delaying the restoration of the cable
in response to an SOS and would like
advice. She was told: “Proceed and
report later.” It reminded me of an inci-
dent on the cable-system’s landline from
Vancouver to Montreal. At two small
relay stations on the way are three men,
doing rotating shifts of eight hours each.
The job isn’t arduous —it simply amounts
to keeping the relays and regenerators
working smoothly—but apparently the
lonely life got one chap down. He
shorted the relays and hanged himself.
When his relief came on duty at 8 a.m.
he found the cadaver hanging from the
top of the door. A bit upset, he got in
touch with Montreal and asked what to
do. Montreal didn’t mince matters: “Cut
him down and get the relays working.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Sporting broadcasters on
N.S.W. stations never neglect to name the
first scorers at the end of a football-
W Yoo
Forget
ToSew/Ul
wcwrf
match, and from the stadium they invari-
ably give such unimportant details as the
winning corners for all the bouts. Of
course customs like these are in no way
connected with gambles conducted on
first scorers or corner numbers.
* * * *
“T.McN.”; A British Parliamentary
committee says fox-hunting, coursing and
other blood sports aren’t cruel, that
they’re based on giving the quarry a fair
chance, and that though animals suffer
pain and terror they don’t suffer appre-
hension. So next time you see two dozen
hounds and a dozen mounted humans
running a fox down, or two greyhounds
chasing a hare, or a mob of shooters
surrounding a swamp in the dawn, just
remember that the victims are getting a
fair chance. And if you hear the hare
squealing before it’s caught, that’s not
apprehension; it’s appreciation for the
fair chance.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Once knew a man who had
never known his real name and whose
sensitive soul rebelled at the thought of
going through life as Smith, the monicker
his kindly fosterparents had passed onto
him. When his mother, who had
come to them as a servant, bring-
ing with her what was in those
days referred to in newspaper adver-
tisements as “an encumbrance,” had
died, they had adopted the encum-
brance and when they died left him their
property and the prosperity of a country
store, which he extended. But “the
mystery of my birth” became a growing
obsession with him. He had a feeling that
there was noble blood in his veins and he
had no fear of any bar sinister as long as
he could prove that it was there. He
employed an inquiry organisation to delve
into the past, and he took a trip to
England after the revelation that the
village girl the investigators had decided
was his mother had been in service in a
ducal house. Then came success. He
found that his real name was that of the
itinerant trader his mother had left her
job to marry, being deserted by him two
years later just after the birth of the
child. The levanting husband was sup-
posed to have gone to Australia and she
had followed but had been unable to
trace him. The name? Smith,
# * * ♦
“Sackville”: Blandings Castle (B.
27/6/’51)? The portly dame who ran
the canteen where I worked a few years
back would have won an unpopularity
poll. If she had no tobacco it seemed
to give her delight to say so —in the
bluntest manner. When she did have
weed her heart seemed to be wrung at
the thought of the pleasure she was giving.
At least, that was the universal opinion.
Her favorite mode of address was:
“Wadcha want?” And a grunt was gener-
ally interpreted as being gracious thanks
I once murmured thanks for being served
with a pie, and was informed: “Don’t
thank me, thank the Lord you got it.”
She made a similar remark to Choom
who told her: “Tha know, Missus, tha
minds me of th’ Empress of Blandings.”
It was a difficult position for the lady—
she had never heard of the empress.
Neither had most of us, but we got the
idea that in some subtle way Choom was
getting a shot home. She became known
as “The Empress,” at first behind her
back, then openly to her face. When she
demanded more information on the title
Choom chided her gently: “Coom, coom,
tha moost have heard tell of Blandings
Castle! ” And that was when my dormant
memory woke up. I never called her
The Empress again. Although she didn’t
strike me as the sort who would enjoy
P. G. Wodehouse, you can never tell —
and she might find out that the Empress
of Blandings was a prize pig!
* * * *
Ray Whiting; Towards the end of
the war I was created base-walloping
editor of a camp magazine. The first
issue brought a ring to report to H.Q.,
where I found a choleric brigadier
goggling at a copy of the “News.” I
stood rigid while he opened up with
everything he
had, a finger
stabbing
savagely at a
poetic contri-
bution by one
of the boys.
The “poem”
was a simple
thing, per-
fec 11 y pure
even by Army
standards, with
the only cuss
word “flam-
ing” —if you
can call that
cussing. But it was that word which had
him screaming and bouncing in his chair
to such good purpose that I expected to
be shot out of hand. He ended the inter-
view by hurling the paper into the w.p.b.
and ordering me never, n&ver, never
to use that word again. Naturally I
didn’t, but I’m still wondering what the
flaming row was all about.
♦ * # «
“Nika”: On our Adelaide hills railway-
line we recently returned to the good old
days of guard preceding engine! Com-
ing home one evening the engine began
puffing and blowing and getting nowhere
fast. Finally it clanged to a stop and
stood there panting. Heads stuck out
through windows to ascertain the reason
for the hold-up, and passengers were
amazed to see the guard, bucket in hand,
mount the track ahead of the engine and
begin spreading sand on the rails. The
train followed him slowly and with much
effort. He kept right on up the line,
still sprinkling and followed by the old
chuff-chuff, and it wasn’t till the next
station was reached, much behind
schedule, and still trailing the guard that
passengers found out what the trouble
was. The Melbourne express, passing
through 20 minutes earlier, had broken an
oil-feed pipe, and had so greased the rails
that our engine’s wheels hadn’t an earthly
chance of gripping, unless given that
little extra something to bite onl
UNECONOMIC.
“The president of the A.O.T.U., Mr. A. E. Monk,
said that the latest increase of thirteen shillings in
the basic wage had reached ‘alarming proportions.’ ”
As Robert Gordon Menzies slept
An interfering angel crept
Into his room, and bade him come
To view an honest worker’s home,
And there he heard the worker speak;
“This extra thirteen bob a week —
The basic-wage increase, to wit —
I’ll tell them what to do with it,
For years ago I promised Dad
To do the good, and shun the bad.”
A Press reporter, passing by,
Eavesdropped on this soliloquy,
And, like the public, all agog
For bits of news like “Man Bites Dog,”
He phoned it in for swift release:
“Worker Refuses Wage Increase”
An item which was much suspect,
And not put in till double-checked.
The news and confirmation broke
With a terrific moral shock;
The farmers hung their heads in shame
And said, “Alas, we’re much to blame,
For at the very height of the
Australian farm’s prosperity
We’ve taken, saved, or drunk, or spent
A dole of twenty-five per cent.!”
The factory-owners joined confession
Of taking part in this transgression,
And one and all held hands and swore,
“We’ll ne\?r do it any more!”
The workers, not to be outdone
In the good work so well begun,
Decided then to use their powers
For forty-eight, not forty, hours,
And penitent blackmarketeers
Wept softly over bottled beers:
“Our cent, per cent, is far too shifty—
In future, we’ll make do with fifty” . . .
Here Robert opened both his eyes
In understandable surprise,
And rang on sundry telephones
For Dr. Copland—and at once!
And when the Dr. came, Bob walked
About the room, and talked and talked.
At last the Dr. said, “Your plan
Depends upon a single man,
But still, a human of a kind
1 couldn’t undertake to find.”
At winch our hero found a book,
And opened it, and said, “Now, look —
What can be dreamed of, in the view
Of Wittgenstein, can happen, too”
And here he paused to wonder what
The Dr. would reply to that.
The Dr. sadly shook his head,
So Robert plodded back to bed.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'/////* rll"
W:
fW
w
* 1 r .
Extruding the specially-mixed tread rub-
ber, which gives such outstanding wearing
qualities to
Olympic
iwresxo
SISIAJL
fsd
f
NUFFIELD
I UMVLKSAL 111 At lOK f
FARM-PROVED TIRHfiHOBT THE CBMMiXWEAI.TR
foeAt Atfsnt/um coAomoAfs
m
I Y-
{ .....
m
m
. SSI
mmamm
•
(Above.) NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL
TRACTOR trailing 3-furrow mould-
board plough. Width of cut 12 in. Cut-
ting to a depth of 5 in. (The NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL works all types of equip-
ment, mounted or trailing.)
The NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL HAS
EVERYTHING . . . 6-way power. 5
forward speeds, independent fuel cir-
cuits, anti-hunting governor, adjustable
track.
It is an exceptional Tractor built
and backed by a name you can
trust!
Full details and specifications
available from State distributors.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR VICTORIA <S SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: Kellow-Falkiner Ply. Ltd., 20S-218 Russell
Street, Melbourne, C.l 'Phone: JM 1555. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR QUEENSLAND & NORTHERN RIVERS
(N.S.W.): Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd., 457 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. 'Phone: B 2420. Branches at: 1
Railway Street, Toowoomba, 'Phone: 2793- 126
Woodlark Street, Lismore. 'Phone: 1802. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND BROKEN HILL:
Kingsway Limited, 118-120 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
'Phone: Central 6870. DISTRIBUTORS FOR WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., 928-928 Hay
Street, Perth (Temporary Premises). 'Phone: B 7913. DIS-
TRIBUTORS FOR TASMANIA: Metro Motors Ply. Ltd., 36-38
Argyle Street, Hobart. 'Phone: 4061. DISTRIBUTORS FOR
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited, 213-217 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. 'Phone: MA 6357. (Next to
T~"\ T. & G. Building.)
The Nuffield Universal Has
Everything ... Does Everything
NAP/24/N2/BO
Also Sold and Serviced
by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Thtoughout the
Commonwealth.
■iimoKsa
MFI£U>
DEALER
ds
K. ZETLAND. NEW
“Jasby”: Claims that a Greek gentle-
man in northern N. S. Wales has invented
an apparatus which looks like a bath-
heater and which can produce electricity
without using power or fuel are to be
investigated by the Clarence River County
Council. According to reports the in-
ventor asserts that his present model has
a capacity of 16,000 watts and the
materials from which it was made cost
only £5. He’s prepared to allow the
whole thing to be examined except “a
small item which weighs only a few
ounces.” It’s that small item that takes
my mind back 20 years to an invention
which was going to revolutionise Aus-
“Nice easy fit , sire.”
tralian industry. It was styled Universal
Power, and that seemed to be about all
the Adelaide citizens who paid out good
money for syndicate shares in the venture
knew about it, except that they would
tell you confidentially that a lift in a big
Melbourne building had been powered for
over a year by a small unit only the size
of a box-camera. In my recollection
syndicate shares, subdivided into sixty-
fourths, were changing hands at prices
running into hundreds. Haven’t heard
anything of U.P. for two decades, but
for all I know that Melbourne lift may
still be running on box-camera power.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Fight-fan humorists aren’t
noted either for their wit or valor, but
there was a time in Perth—just after the
Kaiser’s War—when it wasn’t safe to
throw challenges, even from the ring. One
unexpectedly sudden termination to a
bout drew some caustic remarks from
the bleachers, and the victor inside the
ropes gave the usual retort. One young
Australian with red blood in his veins
said “Go on, dad. Have a bit of him.”
Dad grinned sheepishly and shook his
head, but the young urger and the bloke
in the ring persisted, so he reluctantly
shuffled down to the square. He was
still looking sheepish as he donned the
gloves, but when the bell went he came
out fighting. It was another short bout,
but it lasted long enough for his son to
explain to all within hearing that his dad
had been a brigade champion and could
fight till the cows came home. He put
the pro. out in less than two rounds, then
came back to his seat, still rather self-
conscious. I’d known him for years as
“Bill the Goose,” and I’m still wonder-
ing how he got the name.
* * * *
“Harry R.”: The end of the world is
almost at hand, according to two prophets
of doom who called at my door and tried
to sell me “literature” to prove it. They,
of course, are among those chosen to be
saved and they have been entrusted with
the task of warning unbelievers of the
coming destruction. They revealed to me
that “an electrical ring” was approaching
the earth; it had been observed by
American astronomers using the giant
telescope at Mt. Palomar, but, of course,
the authorities dare not make the dis-
covery public for fear of the world-wide
panic that would ensue. This ring, they
informed me, is now only 17 miles above
the earth. When it reaches the earth
everything will be destroyed—burnt up
completely. “All except the righteous,”
they added complacently. I couldn’t
avoid the thought that they were deriving
a sadistic enjoyment from contemplating
the horrors in store for the rest of man-
kind. I showed them the gate and re-
turned to my Sunday paper. But several
times since then I’ve caught myself sneak-
ing furtive glances at the sky.
* * * *
“Melb’n”: The E., S. and A. Bank in
Collins-street, Melbourne, is a relatively
beautiful building in the Gothic manner,
and successive architects have tried to
maintain the motif in the surrounding
buildings. Nature, operating through the
winds, the rains, the dust, the soot and
the pigeons, has softened the outlines of
the bank’s rather too-precise carvings and
covered it all with a lovely patina. But
latterly the Bumbles have been up on their
hind-legs demanding that property-owners
give their premises a face-lift so that the
King and Queen will not be offended by
the drabness and dirtiness of Melbourne.
So now workmen are at it rubbing off the
beauty and sharpening the contours and
destroying the variety with a coat of
white paint. Can’t the Civic Fathers take
a lesson from Paris? There nobody is
allowed to clean the old buildings, and
Paris is universally regarded as the world’s
most beautiful city.
A CURLY ONE.
“Complaints have been made by members of Par-
liament at Canberra about the quality of the sausages
served in the Parliamentary dining-room.
Unquestionably there must be a lot
Of folk who’d got . ,
The idea (though, when you come to think ot
it,
There’s nothing odder),
That politicians shooting off their gob—
No cushy job—
Would deem as quite a needed perquisite
Some fancy fodder.
On fifteen-hundred per they can't afford
The “groaning board,”
To go right through from oysters to the
sweets
With all the trimmings.
The curtain on the luxury tucker’s rung,
they’d all go bung
Were they to let their heads go. Why, their
meat’s
Naught but the skimmings.
They’ve hardships—aye, aplenty; torn from
wife
And child, a life
Of ins and outs, condemned to live in pub.
For legislators
A pious tear we all may haply shed
To think they’re fed
Upon such lowly proletarian grub
As snags-an’-taters.
In Reps and Senate there’ll be quip and jest,
Not quite the best,
The while our watchdogs help to write, in
blue,
What will be hist’ry.
But in our Parliament’s refreshment-room
There’s deepest gloom
As sad-eyed members prod and hack and
chew
The gravied myst’ry.
The last curse flung, the last aspersion cast,
Enmities past,
The Libs, and Labs., the House adjourned, all
go
To dine together.
Nothing in common had they, seated there.
But dull despair
Now makes them brothers, one in common
woe:
Those snorks like leather.
It could be that in this complaint that irks
Some justice lurks,
That from the gristle and the mush inside
They deeply suffer.
But let them not deride its overcoat
For this point note:
Than that of politicians, could its hide
Be any tougher?
N.S.W.
S.W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
Wonk”; It was quite a job getting
to Dingo Pete’s, but eventually I found
the small creek, rode upstream and
located Pete slashing ferns. “Tough place
you’ve got here, Pete,” I remarked. He
looked round it thoughtfully. “Yair,” he
agreed. “Yair.” He hitched his ragged
blueys, eyed me a moment and leaned
on his fernhook. “Y* know, nobody’d
pull this place on but me,” he told me.
“Needs guts, that’s all.” He tapped the
emaciated hollow below his ribs. “An’,
o’ course, y’ got t’ run it right. They all
reckoned six days a week wasn’t long
enough t’ keep up with the work on this
place. They were right, too. Neither
was seven. But, there was nothin’ t’ stop
me workin’ eight days a week out here.
An’ that’s what I done, see. Eight days.
I stick in an extra one between Sund’y
an’ Mond’y, an’ so’s I won’t get mixed
up I count ’em orf with them eight
t’baccer-tins on me shelf. When four-
an'-a-bit weeks is used up, I write down
the name o’ the next month on the wall.”
He paused and pointed to the stony hill-
side he had cleared. “Guts,” he reiterated
proudly, again tapping his 22in. waist,
“an’ clever manigement.” “Well, you’ve
been here a good many years now,” I
said. “Yair,” he agreed solemnly. “Yair.
An’ it’s awright, too, only sometimes I
wouldn’t mind knowin’ what all them
other blokes in the world’s doin’.” “What
about a newspaper?” I suggested. “Have
one sent out every few weeks with your
supplies.” “Yair,” he agreed. “Yair, I
tried that. It’s no good. Mind, I don’t
say a bloke won’t live t’ see them things
happen awright,” he conceded, “but,
hang it all, them silly cows is printin’
their paper six munce ahead now.”
* * * *
“Trapper”: In many animal scraps,
and especially with dogs, mind plays as
big a part as teeth and muscles. A tiny
pup may boss a greyhound because the
hound is not thinking stoush, and a
smaller dog will often put it over a bigger
one for life by getting in a savage snarl
and a rush while the other is undecided.
The boss of my dog-pack isn’t much of
a fighter, but he rules the tribe with lots
of shaping-up and snarling ; and though
he collects many a kick in the slats for
it, it makes little difference. He was with
me the day I met Bob Riley. Bob was
driving a few sheep, with the aid of a
great savage-looking hound wearing a
muzzle. Up shaped my mong and the
fight was on. It didn’t last long. “Just
as well mine was muzzled,” Bob
remarked. “The big cow belts everything
he sees. I lay into him for it, but it does
no good.” “Well, mine needs a lesson,”
I suggested. “Slip his muzzle off.” Bob
did, but his dog’s mind had been made
up, and as my bloke advanced his took
off hurriedly for somewhere else. Arriv-
ing home, I dug up a muzzle and put it
on my belligerent. He’s been wearing it
two days now, but he can still snarl
through it, and is still boss of this pack.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver’s grand idea
was to make a couple of gates for the
yards. He’d collected a varied assort-
ment of boards, a few bush rails, one
rusty hinge, and, with pencil in hand and
a worried look on his mug, he was crawl-
ing round on a jigsaw-puzzle of wood,
making pencil-marks and losing them
“Pick up your lemon-peel—someone might slip on it!”
again. I decided he was set for the day,
but riding back at noon I spotted him
inspecting a clump of trees near the town
track. SloWly he circled the clump,
stopped, then began to climb. It was
a big yellowbox he’d selected, and three
times he slid back before gaining the
first branch. Even then his troubles
weren’t over, and I watched, interested, as
he clawed himself up the tree. Near
the top he stopped, and appeared to be
investigating a bird’s-nest in a high fork.
I scratched my head and came on. At
the foot of the slope I met him returning.
His jaw was set, and he looked about
ready to blow-up, so I shelved my
curiosity for the moment. “Finish your
gates?” I greeted mildly. “Finish ’em?
Course I ain’t,” he exploded. “Cripes,
how the hell could a man finish ’em when
that blasted good-for-nothin’ magpie goes
round pinchin’ his flamin’ measurin’-
string all the time?”
* * * *
“Vet”: It isn’t always easy to find the
reason for animals’ apparently senseless
practices, and one that has always been
a puzzler is a rabbit’s method of dashing
through a fire, instead of emerging from
his burning log via the harmless end.
Had a rabbit in a long log that rose
gradually till the far end was out of
reach from the ground. Bunny was just
within the high end, looking out. “Have
to get rid of this,” remarked Jim, and
he put a fire on the ground end. Minutes
passed. Bunny could easily have jumped
to safety, but presently came scratchings
as he turned, rattled a way down the
great length, and then dashed through the
heart of the fire. And nine times out
of 10 a rabbit will do just that. Why?
My guess is that, dazed in the thick
pouring smoke, as the heat becomes un-
bearable he turns each way, and the
only light showing through the pall comes
from the fire. This he mistakes for day-
light and makes a dash for it.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I’d like “8.J.C.”
(B. 4/7/’5l) to leave his city haunts for a
day and sojourn around the swamp that
is threatening to encroach on my back
veranda. I’ll put up the ducks for him,
and, if there’s any wind blowing at the
time. I’ll bet him drinks that they’d take
off into it —for the same reason that a
plane does. It is thus able to become air-
borne in the shortest possible distance.
Then I’ll give him a chance to get his
money back in a small wager that they’ll
circle and come downwind —I taking the
affirmative—at a great bat, “8.J.G.”
suggests that a duck’s flying speed is
about 20 m.p.h., and here’s his chance
to make really big money. I’ll nominate
a speed of 100 m.p.h., and whoever’s
estimate is closest to the actual speed
wins. I don’t know how the speed will
be checked, but I’ll give “B.'J.C.” a few
figures to think over. I’ve travelled in a
car doing 40 m.p.h. behind parrots which
didn’t have to extend themselves to keep
ahead of us. That was merely a coasting
speed and parrots are not fast fliers. In
his Encyclopedia of Sports, an American
publication, Frank Menke gives the
timed speed of a duck-hawk at 200
m.p.h.—it was timed with a stop-watch—
that of a peregrine falcon at 150 m.p.h.,
an eagle 70 m.p.h. and a crow 65 m.p.h.
His estimate for mallards (not timed) is
50 m.p.h., but he timed a swan at 45
m.p.h. Now, a startled black duck can
leave a swan standing—l’ve seen them in
the air together—and if you asked a crow
to race a duck he’d laugh at you.
“BJ.C.’s” high-flying ducks are strangers
to me. I’ve shot ducks over a fair part
of W.A., from the Bremmer Bay estuary
in the south to the Murchison, around
the inland lakes and on the Swan, and
I’ve never seen startled ducks fly high.
Where there’s a chain of closely-spaced
lakes, or a series of sheltered bays on a
river or estuary, they fly from one
sanctuary to another, keeping low, a
fact of which experienced duck-shooters
take advantage. A party which spreads
itself along a winding river, with a gun
or two at each bay, is sure of a good
bag. Those 20 m.p.h. ducks would have
a short life in W.A. No, we wouldn’t
shoot ’em —we’d run them down.
* * * *
“Kelms”; A Sydney columnist has dis-
covered a young cooper who made
a perfect beer-barrel from Westralian
“tea-tree.” I’ll bet he didn’t. We
“ Em-lee BOTTLES!”
have a wide variety of tea-trees,
ranging from 6ft.-high shrubs to
“paperbacks” up to about 100 ft. high
and 3ft. to 4ft. in diameter. It’s from
these trees, I take it, that the wood for
the barrel was supposedly obtained. You
can get samples of tea-tree that would
be tough enough for the job, but the
wood isn’t long-lasting, nor likely to
stand up to the rough usage a beer-
barrel gets. Westralian sheoak is the
wood for barrels, as the coopers found
when oak became unobtainable years
ago. It usually grows with banksia, and
it s a soft wood to cut when green, but
when it dries out it’s a sawyer’s night-
mare. It fakes the off a saw
quicker than dry jarrah, and in most
woodyards it’s thrown aside to be sawn
up just before the saw is taken out for
sharpening. I think that’s the wood
from which that young cooper made his
“perfect barrel.”
* * * *
“Bo”: One didn’t need the Sherlock
Holmes touch to deduce the reason for
“Cork” Grierson’s pseudonym, especially
when he got around in a pair of shorts.
His legs were about the same tenuousness
above the knee as below it, and the boss
had estimated his weight to be about
seven and a half stone, which it approxi-
mately was. There was a howling
westerly blowing, and the boss, on the
lee side of the toolshed with old Ned,
was watching “Cork” as he tried to make
his way up from the boundary fence.
With his body bent into the wind at a
comical angle, the skinny bloke would
take a step forward and be blown back
two or three. Ned looked at the boss.
“Think I’d better get the ute out and
give him a tow up to the house,” he said
solemnly. “There’s a couple of panels
still down at the fence, and if he keeps
coming at this pace he’ll finish up in
old Slattery’s dam back there.”
* * * *
“Bass”: The bloke who wrote “The
winter’s coming, go feather your nest,”
would be surprised to see how varied are
the interpretations which some of my
neighbors have placed on his words. The
musk-duck, building in the thickest of
the rushes, has taken him literally. His
—or her —nest is about the cosiest in the
locality, and although I can’t prove it,
I’ve a suspicion that the down with which
it is lined is contributed pretty evenly by
both partners in the venture. At least
the way he’s been courting her, racing
around the swamp, shooting jets of water
with his wings as he passes her, and
generally making a spectacle of himself,
suggests that he’d let himself be plucked
to make a home for her. You don’t
catch the black duck falling for that
line of talk. His spouse has to be con-
tent with an unlined depression in an old
dead tree, or in some thick grass, and
when, in the latter stages of incubation,
the eggs need a little extra warmth, she
has to provide the covering from her
own ample bosom. The cranes have co-
operated to build a nest in a high fork
of a tall gum—one of the few remaining
near the swamp. I haven’t been up to
look at their effort, but I think it will be
lined, even if they had to use grass. The
magpies will be starting soon, and they’ll
take the job seriously. If I leave a piece
of string or wire lying around they’ll
have it, and well they know how to put
those articles to best use. When their
bowl-shaped house is built they’ll line it
thoroughly with grass, hair, bark, leaves
—even wool, if they can beat the cockles
to it. The butcher-bird isn’t so fussy,
but he does a fair job for a bloke who’s
always pushing his beak into someone
else’s business. Just a shallow affair,
made of dead twigs and roots, with a bit
of grass-lining as a concession to the
wife’s fads, but it looks surprisingly com-
fortable. The mudlark —now there’s a
builder for you. None of your fancy
importations—just plain mud. But there’s
an art in it.. You mix the mud thoroughly
with grass to bind it. Even then, in a
very rainy season, many nests are washed
away, but it’s surprising how comfort-
able an adobe dwelling can be when it’s
properly made.
OUR BANTAM.
We had a little bantam and
He knocked about the place
With cocky head and manner grand,
And pride writ on his face;
Threw out his chest, just like a lord.
And crowed with all his might—
We thought he’d bust some vocal chord,
The pompous little skite.
You should have seen him strut about
And stare with haughty eyes
With insolence stick up his snout
As if he were the size
Of turkey-cock, or, larger still,
An emu off the plains,
And had a kick that well might kill,
Or damage someone’s brains.
Each time he crowed the wcdgetails fled,
Our cow forgot her cud,
The beetles in the trees dropped dead,
The shag dived in the mud;
The ants fled from the kitchen door,
The chimney almost split,
The tiger-snakes wept ’neath the floor —
So dread the sound of it.
When time passed by and he got old
And fit for but our pot,
We broke two axes ere he rolled,
To perish on the spot.
Tough to the last, he ne’er gave in;
We roasted him to start.
Then tried him in the kero .-tin—
My word, he had a heart!
We boiled him twice, he made no broth,
We fried him in the pan,
He beat our patience, roused our wrath.
His toughness foiled each plan;
Our teeth caved in, and, in despair,
We pitched him clean away . . .
The years have passed, and still he’s there—
That bantam won’t decay.
VICTORIA.
JAMESW HACKSTON.


IXL
This World Famous Brand Is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—"
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
fs
BOYS 16 TO 19
MAY BECOME
R FORCE OFFICERS
Full education and professional training
without cost to parents or guardians.
The Royal Australian Air Force invites
applications for appointment to a strictly
limited number of Officer-Cadetships.
The R.A.A.F. emphasises that these cadet-
ships are open to every Australian boy of
British Nationality. Selection will be
made on merit alone, the candidate’s ability
and potential ability being the only deciding
factors.
THE COURSE
Cadets undergo a four-year course at the
famous Point Cook R.A.A.F. College.
Here, under perfect conditions, they are
given an advanced general education in the
hands of highly qualified teachers. At the
same time they receive special Air Force
training from top-ranking instructors.
Cadets chosen for training as Technical
Officers undergo one year’s training at the
College followed by University Course in
Engineering or Science. The entire
training, including University Courses, is
provided by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and involves parents or guardians
in no cost whatever.
THE COLLEGE
The R.A.A.F. College at Point Cook
provides every Officer-Cadet with accom-
modation of the highest standard. Each
cadet has his own room, sporting and
recreation facilities are liberally provided,
meals are nutritious and plentiful. Initial
uniform and necessaries, even sports
clothing is issued free and regular cash
allowance made for replacements. The
finest medical, dental and hospital attention
is permanently available at the College.
Annual recreation leave of approximately
six weeks with free travel to and from home
is granted plus a special living away from
home cash allowance. In addition, cadets
receive Air Force pay as follows :
Ist Year
Under 18 years of age .. £197 0 0
Over 18 years of age .♦ £206 9 0
2nd Year
Under 18 years of age .. £220 0 0
Over 18 years of age .. £229 0 0
3rd Year .♦ .. .. £270 0 0
4 th Year £307 0 0
with special extra pay during period of
flying training.
ON COMPLETION
Graduation means appointment as a
Commissioned Officer in the R.A.A.F.
with substantial pay, professional status
and a permanent career. The way is then
open for promotion to higher rank.
Applications will be accepted from boys aged 16
and under 19 on 11th February, 1952. They
must be British subjects. The minimum educ-
ational requirement: (a) for N.S.W., Queensland
and Western Australia, is that of one (1) year
below Matriculation Examination, (b) for Vic-
toria and South Australia is that of the Leaving
Certificate, (c) for Tasmania, is that of the
School’s Board Examination.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE:
AUGUST 24th, 1951
Intending applicants and interested parents are urged to write im-
mediately for fully informative booklet and application forms.
Address letters to:— R.A.A.F. Recruiting Officer, Box XYZ in your
Capital city.
RC1.83.61
“Lignum”: It took some wheedling on
the part of the newly-arrived school-
teacher before old Bill Jersey agreed to
accept her as a boarder. A week later the
district was surprised to see the lass stay-
ing as a “permanent” at the little pub
where she had declined accommodation
on her first arrival. The schoolie was
uncommunicative on the subject of why
she had left the Jersey menage, but on
his first day in town Old Bill was in no
way reticent. “That young filly was too
blanky particular,” he told a few cronies
in the bar. “When I agreed to take her
in the first place it was only because she
reckoned she wanted to be treated like
one of the family. Well, on her first
Saturday in the place, she raised hell
when I walked into the bathroom when
she was there. She couldn’t seem to
understand that I had to have a shave
and didn’t want to be late for the pig
sales. It’d been a different thing if I
wanted to use the bath at the same time
as her, but I only wanted to use the
mirror. She could’ve stayed in the bath
all blasted day as far as I was concerned.
If that wasn’t treating her like one of
the family I don’t know what is!”
m • * *
“Wonk”: Besides grey rabbits I’ve
caught blacks, blues, near-whites, gingers.
“Are you there, dear ?”
grey-and-whites, blue-and-whites, ginger-
and-whites and a white with grey ears.
Thought I’d seen the lot till a few weeks
ago, when, glancing over a bank into the
gully below, I saw a black one with red
spots. Thinking I was seeing things, I
looked away, then back at the rabbit. It
was still there; and the same color-
scheme. I began an all-out campaign to
collect the prize. I dug out lots of
burrows he should have been in, went on
to others he must be in, trapped ferns
and pads, and dogged the entire vicinity
many times. You know how it is when
you’re after a particular rabbit? When
the boss mentioned that that gully was
entirely clean, and what about moving
on to another, and I replied doggedly
that I had to catch a black rabbit with
red spots, he grasped my shoulder firmly
and said: “Now, now, don’t you go and
crack up on me. Take a day or two and
spell off.” Wonderful opportunity, but
1 was beginning to have doubts myself,
and a bloke had to live with himself,
didn’t he? Gripes, I couldn’t bunk for
ever with a bloke with dingbats. So I
stuck after that black like an insurance-
agent, and eventually restored my self-
respect by trapping him near the gully.
Then I learned that the reddish-brown
spots were due to some skin trouble; pos-
sibly a peppering of small-shot in his
youth.
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”: Banksy had three hooks
on his line, and when he landed the catfish
and tried to grab it without getting a
hand sliced off by its pectoral spike he
suddenly found himself handcuffed.
Thumbcuffed would be a better word, for
the other two hooks, flying about on their
foot-lengths of line, had somehow em-
bedded themselves in Banksy’s two
thumbs, in such a manner that the digits
were hooked together. There he was, on
a sloping river-bank, miles from any-
where, the catfish leaping and plunging,
and his two thumbs close together. It
took more than Banksy had to pull his
thumbs apart, since the slightest attempt
to do that only drove the hooks further
in. He tried to stun the catfish with a
foot and finished up in the water, which
revived the fish, so that Banksy had to
stagger to the bank with the 'dangling,
squirming fish acting as a pulling weight
on the hooks in his thumbs. There he
sat down and suffered while the catfish
expired. Then he managed to get his
locked hands under it and, carrying it like
a votive offering, walked three miles to
Tammit homestead.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I scattered some
sheep-dip around the ant-nest at the back-
door and completely annihilated the in-
habitants. I'verified this by a thorough
excavation of the site. A week or so
later, however, I had occasion to move
a short length of three-inch pipe lying
near by, and found it chockful of dead
ants—the same little meat-ants as those
in the nest. Now, how did they get in
the pipe? Did each ant, as it felt the
poison taking effect, make for this
mutually-arranged Cemetery, or did it
crawl into the nest to die, to be removed
to the pipe by the survivors? If the
former, is this a usual practice with ants?
If the latter, was the burial service carried
out by the diminishing band of sur-
vivors until the last ant carried the
second-last into the pipe and then col-
lapsed in the tomb? I’d like to know,
because in the action there’s a suggestion
of reasoning, and if ants can reason man
is on the way out.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d camped just out
of Temora, shaved, straightened up our
clobber, hid the swags and went into the
town. After a drink or two we were
standing outside the Westminster when a
young cove came walking along with a
swag up. Mat eyed him. “Bloke that
carries his swag through a town is either
a newy, a galoot or a sympathy-chaser,”
he commented. “A newy wouldn’t know
any better, a galoot doesn’t care what he
looks like, and a sympathy-chaser hopes
some dear ol’ soul will sight the bluey
an’ offer him a feed or a drink. Me, I
don’t believe in it. A bloke don’t wear
his workin’ togs when he’s knocked-off
an’ havin’ a drink or two ; an’ if humpin’
the bluey ain’t work I’m a bad judge.”
After which philosophy we took refresh-
ment.
ROLLING ALONG.
Rolling over the highway, watching the miles
g° by, . , .
River and towns, range or downs, cloudy or
sunny sky: .....
A hundred hundred miles of road and my old
mate and I.
Gliding along on the tarred road, swish through
driving rain;
Lurch and sway on a bumpy way, over a rolling
plain, , . ,
Chatter on grids, opening gates, watching tor
signs of “train.”
Passing farms and station lands growing a
country’s needs,
Cane and wheat, wool and meat, pasture land
that feeds
Hereford, Devon and Aberdeen, Jersey and
Shorthorn breeds.
Sheep and sheds where shearers shear and roar
for “wool away”;
Loading bales for distant trails on trucks that
roar and sway
By poppet-heads of mining towns jagged in
their decay.
Jiggle and jaggle and chatter, rattle of chains
in mud;
Bogged in sands of desert lands, red as a field
of blood,
Or held before a bridgeless creek that rolls a
yellow flood.
Canberra, Sydney, Woy Woy, Scone and
Goonoo-goonoo;
Brisie, Rocky, Charters Towers, the ’Curry
and Ameroo;
Now to the Alice and Hall’s Creek, then Darwin
and the ’Loo —
So we see Australian scenes under an open sky,
Camping, eating, travel and greeting mates as
we go by,
A hundred hundred miles of road and my old
mate and I.
N.T.
W. E. HARYNEY.


Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards, Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are rolled in filigraincd paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
CORK TIPPED
M
m
m
i
m
The WILDCAT
COULUMN
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
r- 1 Dividends To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
1945. .33,389 6 p.c. 71 p.c. 26,250 7,139 276,416
Reserves disappear, £8196 .. .. 268,220
1946.. 38.269 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 32,500 1 „ „ 71
To staff fund, £2OOO ..J 3, 69 271,989
Restored to reserves, £196 .. .. 272,185
1947. .54,407 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 38,750 15,657 287,842
1948. .43,336 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 10,836 298,678
1949.. 44.368 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 11,868 310,546
Deferred lease premiums, £25,123.. 335,669
1950. .49,145 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 38,750 10,395 346,064
Revaluation hotel properties, £588,173 934,237
Capitalisation of reserves, £250,000.. 684,237
Surplus sale plant, £986 .. .. 685,223
Deferred lease premiums, £2143 .. 687,366
Income tax previous years, £3608 .. 683,758
1951.. 55.054 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 46,562 8,492 692,250
Those on the ord. register reaped a
good harvest last term. It was
of a twofold issue of new shares in
February, 1951 ; one a gift and the other
for cash. The cash portion, which was to
help finance extension of and improve-
ments to hotel properties and the
brewery, consisted of 125,000 £l5 p.c.
prefs. at par, one for each two ords.
held. The gift was 250,000 f.-p. £1 ords.,
one for one. It came out of a capital-
assets reserve of £588,173, created by
writing-up the book-value of hotel pro-
perties by that amount. The two issues
lifted paid capital to £750,000 in 125,000
A 6 p.c. and a like number of B 5 p.c.
prefs. and 500,000 ords.
Altogether it was more than the market
had anticipated. The price of the ords.,
which had advanced briskly from 635.
in July, 1950, to 80s. in the following
December, shot up to 925. in February,
1951 ; and the figure, which dropped to
495. 9d. ex rights at Feb. 28 last, now
stands at 525, or thereabouts. At 525.
the immediate return is only 3.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The A prefs. at 28s. 3d.
and the B’s at 21s. 3d. yield 4.2 p.c. and
4.7 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £ll 10s. 9d. A’s, £lO 10s.
9d. B’s and 475. Bd. ords.
Hopes are that the ords. might be asked
to assist in financing further additions,
etc., to plant and hotel properties, for
part of which official sanction has been
received and upon which work has
already begun. The co.’s brewer and
architect are to visit U.S., Britain and
the Continent to examine current trends
in brewing, brewery layout and hotel-
architecture and -services. No hint is
given as to the total capital outlay that
might be involved. However, defence
and public-works programmes suggest
that the materials and labor problems
might yet become more acute before they
get easier.
The brewery, at Ballarat (Vic.), feeds
90-odd hotels scattered throughout
western Victoria and over the border in
the N. S. Wales Riverina and at Mt.
Gambier (S. Aus.). The year’s steep rise
in costs was practically offset by gains
from expanding turnover:
1948. 19.49. 1950. 1951.
Gross profit—
Brewing .. £133,653 £150,758 £177,644 £200,496
Rent, etc... 46,685 46,537 52,760 59,468
Total .. £180,338 £197,295 £230,404 £259,964
Exes. .. 137,002 152,927 181,259 204,910
Net profit .. £43.336 £44,368 £49,145 £55,054
The gross return from hotels was well
below 6 p.c. on their capital value, the
chairman says. Exes, include £28,618
(up £5965) for depreciation and £53,500
(up £7500) for taxation. The £55,054 (up
£5909) of profit was £8492 more than the
pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. called
for. Although two and a half points were
chipped off the div., the 10 p.c. was worth
20 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift.
An important question for the in-
vestor is whether the 10 p.c. div. is likely
to be maintained. There is no certainty
that it will. On capital as it now stands
pref. requirements plus 10 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £8696 more profit than was
shown last term. For over a decade ex-
panding brewery turnover —which means
increased consumption of beer —has more
than taken care of the advance in costs.
Now costs threaten to win the race ; a
threat which was present before the just-
announced 135.-a-week lift in the basic
wage, which will further bump up raw-
materials, transport and other costs as
well as the payroll total, and have reper-
cussions on the Budget, too. Also, unless
the co. succeeds in getting its own power
generator, the p.c. cut in the public
power-supply may stand in the way of an
immediate increase in output. Further, the
Government “price-freeze” is likely to
delay the lift in the selling-price of beer
recently asked for by Victorian brewers.
In the absence of a wage standstill, the
“freezing” of prices can only aggravate
the costs problem, to the ultimate detri-
ment of wages, employment and the
standard of living. What is needed is
properly co-ordinated price-wage structure
anchored to productivity.
The co.’s financial position improved
with the introduction of fresh cash-paid
capital:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 315,000 375,000 875,000 750,000
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft .. 11,961 10,378 37,878 4,943
Sundry
creditors .. 21,607 20,456 25,272 26,971
Prepayments, etc. 26,199 25,931* 30,727* 40,217*
Tax reserve .. 39,000 42,000 46,000 53,500
Brewery, hotels,
etc 579,575 586,081 587,728 1,194,144
Plant, etc. .. 56,789 57,152 64,912 79,855
Stock .. .. 37,586 38,873 46,645 62,506
Sundry debtors 137,407 154,994 196,226 257,085
Shares other cos. 346 347 347 347
Cash. etc. .. 28,241 17,262 15,084 23,944
* Includes provision for final div.
Of the growth of £606,416 in the brewery,
hotels, etc., item £588,173 was on account
of the writing-up already mentioned. The
overdraft was reduced by £32,935, while
£14,943 was added to plant, £15,861 to
stocks, and £60,859 to book debts. The
more-or-less liquid surplus was £99,826
stronger at £168,251.
National Reliance Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 10,638 4 p.c. = 10,000 638 49,747
Capital loss, etc., £45 .. .. 49,702
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,188
Capital gain, £1767 .. .. 53,955
1947.. 12,808 4i p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
Capital gain, £1054 .. .. 57,015
1948.. 18,654 5 p.c. = 12,208 3446 60,461
Capital gain, £412 .. .. 60,873
1949.. 27,028 5i p.c. = 19,571 7457 68,330
Capital gain, £l7O .. .. 68,500
1950.. 34,588 5£ p.c. = 28,100 11,488 79,988
Capital gain, £9153 .. .. 89,141
1951.. 42,841 5f p.c. = 30,187 12,654 101.795
Shares in these investment cos. are essen-
tially a holding proposition, with security
of income and gradual appreciation of
capital value the targets. Judged on this
basis the 22-year-old National Reliance
—one of the Capel Court group, spon-
sored by J. B, Were and Son—has given
a satisfactory account of itself. Share-
holders have had regular but moderate
divs. from the start, an average of 4.4 p.c.
for the first eight years, including the
1930 slump, 4.1 p.c. for the next eight
years of war and controls, and 5i p.c.
for the five years of inflation and widen-
ing investment opportunities to the close
of last accounts. Also, paid capital
advanced by new share-issues at par from
£50,082 at the beginning to £250,000 in
1937, remained steady for the next decade,
and then grew to £630,000, supported by
£101,795 of reserves, at March 31 last.
An investor who took up, say, 400 10s.
shares at par in 1934, plus his full pro-
portion of the nine new share-issues since,
would now hold 5040 shares at a cost of
£2520, and, at the current market price
of 17s. Bd. per share, the parcel would
be worth approximately £4452 on the
market, thus showing a capital apprecia-
tion of £1932. It is very doubtful, how-
ever, if the experience of the last five
years, during which most of the expansion
took place, is likely to be repeated over
the coming quinquennium. Still, provided
present alarming inflationary develop-
ments are arrested before too much
damage is done to the economy, the long-
term outlook for trade and industry in
Australia is one of steady expansion. And
since the board’s declared aim is to invest
in the securities of a wide range of cos.
with prospects of continuing growth, the
co.’s shares look like remaining a satis-
factory holding proposition, though their
market-value may fluctuate.
Last term’s £42,841 (up £8253) of
profit was 8.1 p.c. on average capital
employed as against 8.2, 7.6, 6.1, 5 and
4.4 p.c. back to 1946. The div. was
lifted from p.c. to 5* p.c., leaving
£12,654 for reserves, which also bene-
fited by a capital gain of £9153 net on
sale of investments. On capital as it
now stands 5| p.c. will call for £6616 less
profit than was earned last term.
The board hadn’t time to put the last
£105,000 of new capital to work before
the books closed:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . £350,000 £420,000 £525,000 £630,000
Creditors, etc.* 111,299 122,398 141,782 189,893
Tax reserve.. 4,193 5,516 7,958 17,951
Investments .. 514,284 608,486 697,682 722,247
Debtors, etc. 931 1,197 39,723 45,139
Cash .. . . 10,738 6,561 17,323 172,253
* Includes provision for div.
Market-value of the investment portfolio
at March 31, 1951, was £1,145,682, or
£423,435 (58.6 p.c.) more than their book-
value, which is cost. Composition of the
portfolio is 89.7 p.c. ords. and 9.9 p.c.
pref. shares and 0.4 p.c. bonds and deben-
tures. Though ord. shares are not a
perfect hedge against inflation, they are
the best hedge available if income and
liquidity are also considerations.
At. 17s. Bd. (13s. 7d. a year ago) the
co.’s 10s. shares give an immediate return
of 3.2 p.c. on a 5i p.c. div. basis. In-
cluding the new issue, net tangible cover
is 1 Is. 7d. book-value, or 18s. 4d. market-
value,
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942.. 22.502 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 6,402 36,518
1943.. 21.873 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 5,773 42,291
8 p.c.
1944.. 30.069 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 11,669 53,960
1945.. 28,449 2400 8 „ 16,000 10,049 64,000
1946.. 33.365 2400 8 „ „ lb,ooo 14,965 78,974
9 p.c.
1947.. 2700 10 „ ~ 25,983 8,072 87,046
From tax reserve, £9433 .. .. 96,479
1948.-50,626 2700 10 p.c. = 30,000 17,926 114,405
To inner reserves, £5OOO .. .. 109,405
Share premiums, £112,500 .. .. 221,905
1949.. 49,060 2700 10 p.c. = 32,875 13,485 235,390
1950.. 67.800 2700 10 „ ~ 42,500 22,600 257,990
Unexplained addition, £439 .. .. 258,429
Revaluation of properties, £129,880. . 388,309
1951.. 80,565 2700 10 p.c. = 42,500 35,365 423,674
The one-for-two bonus-scrip issue
(£212,500) to those on the ord. register
at the end of June surprised the market.
The price of the ords., which had
advanced from 425. a year ago to 535. at
the end of March last, shot up to 645, 6d.
just before the gift, making net cost
after exercising the rights 435. 3d. Last
week the figure stood at 40s. ex rights
and ex div. (2s, per share). The return
at 40s. is 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The 9 p.c. prefs. (they are subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest-reduction Act) at
345. yield 5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover
(including the bonus issue) is £36 7s, sd.
prefs. and 335. 2d. ords.
The gift was made partly from the
share-premium reserve (£112,500) and
partly from a capital-assets reserve
(£129,880) created by a revaluation of
freehold properties. It lifted paid capital
to £667,500 in 30,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 637,500 ords. On that lot the pref.
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. will call for
£66,450, or £14,115 less profit than was
shown last term. And freeholds are
claimed to be still worth a lot more than
their book-value ; sale of one of the co.’s
suburban properties subsequent to the
writing-up has demonstrated this, the
chairman says. So, under today’s condi-
tions, the gift-giving has not been over-
done.
The co. manufactures builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, dairy utensils,
kitchenware, etc., in factories at Alex-
andria and Auburn, near Sydney, and a
third factory is presently to be erected at
Auburn. In March last it was decided
to withdraw from the retail field, and the
three selling branches in and around
Sydney and the one at Brisbane were
closed—experience generally has shown
that large-scale manufacture and retailing
are not a harmonious combination.
Turnover has stepped up with the growth
in building activity, the increase in plant
capacity and rise in prices. Last term
sales took another big leap. Despite the
rise in operating costs, net earnings were
£12,765 stronger at a record £80,565,
which was 17.7 p.c. on capital (pref. and
ord. combined) as against 14.9, 13.6, 15.3,
12.6 and 14.5 back to 1946, and an average
of 9.8 p.c. for the six years before that.
For the last five years the ords. have
had a steady 10 p.c., and the prefs. their
full contract rate.
The new factory is to be financed on
mortgage money (amount and terms not
stated) from the A.M.P. Society. When
the books closed £50,000 had been so
advanced:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £330,000 £435,470 £455.000 £455,000
Mortgage .. 60,000
Overdraft .. 81,677 58,279 188,348 188,366
Creditors, etc.* 120,198 94,597 150,728 225,545
Final divs. .. 31,654 34,529 44,154 44,154
Freeholds .. 161,050 191,167 203,123 343,371
Plant, etc. . . 88.823 126,367 151,771 184,931
Shareholdings 2,304 3,000 3,000
Stocks . . 255,084 342.425 444,446 473,193
Book debts . . 155,121 194,478 293,004 384,782
Cash, etc. .. 10,551 828 877 462
Goodwill, etc. 22,682 22,682 22,682 22,682
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £140,248 in freeholds was
due mainly to the writing-up already
referred to. Plant increased by £33,160,
stocks by £28,747 and book debts by
£91,778, while £74,817 was added to the
amount coming to trade creditors, etc.
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£350,372, down £7725, due to the outlay
on fixed assets.
There isi a strong potential demand for
the co.’s products, which seems likely to
continue for some time. The imponder-
able is costs, which are still spiralling
under the inflationary pressure of re-
current wage-lifts, the last of which has
alarmed both the public and Govern-
ment, because of its repercussions not
only upon the cost of living, but upon the
cost of rearmament and the cost of home-
building as well. The price of dwellings
has already been pushed to a level almost
out of reach of the middle- and lower-
income groups, and money for home-
building is becoming tighter. The Gov-
ernment decision to “freeze” prices, in-
cluding the price of building materials,
is an attack upon the symptoms, not the
cause of the trouble ; it does not mean
that prices will remain static. The defence
programme is likely to spell greater
shortages of essential raw materials.
However, it is too early yet to say what
effect, if any, it will all have upon
Malley’s turnover and net earnings.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends To Re- De-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.t
£, £ £ £
1942.. 13,751 12.4 p.c. 21 p.c. 8,652 5,099 11,420
To tax reserve, £7500.. .. .. 18,920
1943.. 18,514 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. 8,203 10,311 8,609
1944.. 14,209 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 6,006 2,603
Reserves.!
1945.. 13,086 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 4,883 2,280
From staff reserve, £ 10,000 .. .. 12,280
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,238 7,464 19,744
1947.. 27,587 7.5 „ 7} ~11,424 16,168 35,907
1948.. 86,190 8 „ 8 ~12,186 24,004 59,911
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 69,911
1949.. 29,967 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 18,254 11,713 81,624
1950.. 26,809 8 „10 ~18,254 8,555 90,179
t After deducting goodwill (now £25,000).
The slip of £3158 in last term’s net
earnings was due mainly to seasonal
conditions, which resulted in a lighter
crop from the co.’s Corowa, Mandalsea
and Yenda vineyards, and consequent
reduction of output from the Yenda


Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW & STAR LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
SECOND INTERIM DIVIDEND
No. 70
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared a
SECOND INTERIM DIVIDEND
in respect of the year ended 30th
June, 1951, of SIXPENCE per share
sterling, less United Kingdom Income
Tax at NINE SHILLINGS AND
SIXPENCE in the £, the net amount
of Dividend being THREE
DECIMAL POINT ONE FIVE
PENCE per share sterling.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from 24th to 27th AUGUST, 1951,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on 24th
AUGUST, 1951.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, Ltd.
R. J. Agnew,
ATTORNEY.
FIMISTON: 7th July, 1951.
Position Vacant.
WANTED Manager Goldmine in
Queensland. Must be holder of first-
class Queensland Mine Manager Certi-
ficate. Send copy reference to Secre-
tary, G.P.O. Box 1805 W, Brisbane.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
sdfsd
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdovm, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
t m
/
| ...acadmft
I <md iOnm
kWh, Mddmty
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness—and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
GENOA Ik
new, fast and luxurious
T.V. “ROMA”
T.V. “SYDNEY”
and the well-known
M.V. “NAPOLI”
M.V. “RAVELLO”
Apply to :
L. Gariglio & Co.
or
James Patrick & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street, Sydney. BW 4181.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LiHiiED
ss
m
I
w
T O THE MAKERS OP
MACHINERY AND VEHICLES
There are reported to be 5,175
factories in Australia making
Machinery and Vehicles.
They employ 216,712 men and
women who, at last reckoning, were
paid about £91,350,000 a year in
wages, and turned out machinery
and vehicles to an annual value of
over £221,000,000.
This bank serves many of these
concerns. Its managers provide a
complete service and are always
available for consultation and guid-
ance in banking matters.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
With which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 34 3 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
winery, which was also affected
by new building operations. The
slip in gross earnings (£103,780)
was £6542. Including provisions
for depreciation (£10,263, up
£3323) and taxation (£10,064,
down £8661), exes. (£76,971)
were reduced by £3384, which
suggests that the management
has kept a tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings. The £26,809
of profit was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£3914) and show 15.9
p.c. on ord. capital as against
18.1, 31.2, 23.7, 13.2 and 9.7 p.c.
back to 1945. So nothing had
to be strained to maintain the
10 p.c. div,, making the average
distribution over the last nine
years 6.5 p.c. The £8555 of the
year’s profit that remained lifted
reserves £90,179 in excess of
goodwill (£25,000), whereas
£18,920 of the capital was un-
represented by tangibles in the
books eight years ago.
The outlook for the current
term is a mixture of inflation
and bigger production and sales.
Additions to the winery and cel-
lars will enable a larger intake of
grapes to be handled, following
improved seasonal conditions.
The consumption of wine, stimu-
lated by growth of population
and by the spending spree en-
gendered by inflated incomes
and overfull employment, is still
on the upgrade. The volume of
production and consumption,
however, are not the sole deter-
minants of the level of profits ;
costs and selling-prices also have
to be taken into account. The
August lift of 13s. in the basic
wage, making it £9 13s. a week
in N.S.W., might finally add
more to costs than to the public’s
spending - power on non -
essentials. Selling-prices are not
officially controlled, but are
regulated within the trade itself.
During the year £97,724 net
was spent on freeholds and lease-
holds (up £30,847), and on plant
(up £12,071), stocks (up £46,716)
and book debts (up £8144):
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £152,326 £192,326 £192,326
Overdraft .. 71,663
Creditors .. 48,848 42,479 51,289
Tax provision 46,000 36,004 29,000
Staff funds 8,690 7,797 9,441
Final divg... 7,735 ip,561 10,561
Freeholds .. 110,985 125,042 154,332
Leaseholds .. 31,705 32,005 33,562
Plant .. 23,194 30,628 42,699
Stocks .. 109,120 142,530 189,246
Debtors ~ 26.904 24,745 32,889
Cash, etc. .. 21,602 15,835 1,681
To meet the outlay the co. went
to its bankers for £71,663 and
increased the amount coming to
trade creditors by £8760. The
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£51,912) was £34,357 less than
at the previous balance, owing
to the expenditure on fixed
assets.
To help finance further expan-
sion of the business, 16,602 £1
ords. were issued shortly after
the close of accounts at a
premium of 7s. 6d. each, 1072
£1 8 p.c. first prefs. at a premium
of ss. each, and 50,000 £l5 p.c.
second prefs. at par. The issue,
which was underwritten, will
bring in £67,674 of capital and
£6494 of share premiums. It
will lift paid capital to £260,000
in 50,000 8 p.c. first and a like
number of 5 p.c. second prefs.
and 160,000 ords. On that lot
the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. will call for £4309 less pro-
fit than was shown last term.
At 345. 6d. (30s. a year ago)
the ords. return 5.8 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. There has been
no sale of either prefs. for some
time. Net tangible cover is
£7 2s. Bd. firsts, £6 2s. Bd.
seconds and 325. Id. ords.
Takuapa Valley Tin, N.L.
This Sydney-controlled co.’s
two bucket-dredges—operating
in the Takuapa River area, Siam
—netted £139,950 (up £124,787)
for the year to Dec. 31,
1950. That was 55.9 p.c. on the
£250,000 of paid capital as
against 6.4 p.c. for the previous
year. Three divs. totalling 12^
р. (71 p.c. in 1949) took
£31,250, and £23,579 was used
to write off the balance of the
Ban Pru property not covered
by approved compensation. The
leap in profit was mainly the re-
sult of the sharp rise in the price
of tin, and partly of richer
ground, with a consequent
bigger recovery of tin oxide.
Both machines lost time owing
to strikes, each passed through
some barren tailings and No. 2
had “considerable” trouble with
buried timber.
No. 1, largest contributor to
the pool, dug 1,395,000 c.y.
(down 185,000 c.y.) of 0.51 b.
ground (up 0.191 b.) for 310.73
tons (up 93.17 tons) tin oxide.
Working costs were 8.98 d. (up
2.52 d.) and working profit
14.43 d. (up 11.48 d.) per c.y. This
machine has 4,435,000 c.y. of
0.381 b. ground, plus 900,000 c.y.
of barren tailings, yet to handle
before being dismantled for
transport to and re-erection on
the Northern Area, where
35,000,000 c.y. have been bored
to average 0.41 b. t.o.
No. 2 dredge turned over
1,595,000 c.y. (down 180,000
с. of 0.381 b. (up 0.251 b.) dirt
for 268.8 tons (up 164.1 tons)
tin oxide. Costs were 2.2 d.
heavier at 7.5 d. a yard, and the
working profit was 9.8 d. (up
1.7 d.) per yard. It is digging
itself down-stream on its way
to the Northern Area. En route
it expects to handle 3,070,000
c.y., averaging 0.41 b. t. 0., as well
as 1,685,000 c.y. of unpayable
tailings.
For the first half of 1951 re-
coveries for the two dredges
combined totalled 185 tons t. 0.,
as against 579.6 tons for the 12
months of 1950.
During 1950 the London
average price of tin rose from
£S6OO a ton for January to
£BllO4 for December, the aver-
age being £8745 18s. as against
£8548 for 1949. On July 18 the
quotes were spot £8857 10s. and
forward £8824 10s.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £168,022 and
current liabilities £33,825. The
co. expects to receive £A 108,750
(full settlement) in compensation
for its Ban Pru property and
rehabilitation of the Takuapa
area.
The f.-p. £1 shares, which had
dropped to 18s. 6d. in the market
during 1950, are now priced at
30s. or thereabouts.


“174,000 miles...and has not been re-bored”
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY TO HOLDEN DEPENDABILITY.
im
“Dear Sirs,
We operate a Private Hire Car Fleet . . . including six (6) Holden Sedans, and we feel
that you will be interested in the excellent results that we are obtaining from Holden.
The first Holden delivered to us has now done a total of 174,000 miles, and as amazing
as it may seem it has not been rebored and, in fact, has never had the cylinder head
removed.
We find the economy of Holden to be remarkable, as this particular Holden, in spite
of the huge mileage mentioned, still gives us 25 miles to the gallon and the oil con-
sumption is extremely low.
.... A big factor for the Hire Car Operator is “Service” and in this respect we cannot
speak too highly of the availability of spare parts when required . . ,
Yours very truly,
(Sgd.) J. M. Froster, (Manager).
KENT’S Motors Pty. Ltd., 83 Yarra Street, Heidelberg.”
HOLDEN
Australia s Own Car
• “Air Chief” R adios are specially designed for Holden.
Air Chief 5-valve with a 6-inch speaker, or Air Chief 6-vahe
with an 8-inch speaker.
# Convenient hire purchase temrs are available through C.M.A.C.
General Motors’ own finance Company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
So/d and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
40278
Q’LAND GUEST HOUSE FOR SALE
mu
■/ :■:
‘ TurramurraSpringbrook, Queensland.
BUILDINGS—SO Squares |
LAND —23 Acres Freehold/
PRICE—£BOOO
ACCOMMODATION for twenty-eight and staff of six. Hot-water
Service. Electric light. Games room. Shop.
Close to swimming-pool, horses and cafe. Bus service from
Southport railway station.
This ideal holiday resort rests on a plateau in the rich, green
mountain wonderland of South Queensland, twelve miles from
the east coast, one mile north of the N.S.W.. border and on the
boundary of the WARRIE NATIONAL PARK. Warrie (native
for running water) is, as the name implies, the place of many
waterfalls. The park, covering an area of 1400 acres, offers
the most colourful scenic country in Queensland. Well-graded
walking paths permit “Turramurra” guests to enjoy the scenic
grandeur of this tropical rain forest country where orchids,
ferns and staghorns abound, and to descend from the plateau
into “The Canyon” and picnic by the swimming-pools at the
foot of the falls. Springbrook offers an ideal temperate climate
Summer and Winter.
FOR SALE OR OFFER CONSIDERED
All enquiries to MR. W. V. T. SHELLEY, Manager,
“Turramurra” Guest House, Springbrook, QUEENSLAND,
Business Rollery Etc.
Inflation and Industry
With a capital-cities average
of £9 9s. a week, the basic wage
from the first pay period in
August will show a rise of 13s.
a week. Highest rate of pay will
be in Sydney, where, according
to statisticians’ figures, it takes
£9 13s. to buy as much as
£8 15s. will in Brisbane or
£9 9s. will in Melbourne.
In the last pay period before
the outbreak of war the average
capital-cities basic wage was
£3 18s. per week. It will be
seen that the present rate of
wage is now approaching two
and a half times what it was in
1939, and that the Communist
objective of a £lO-a-week basic
wage is now within easy strik-
ing-distance. And after the £lO
a week—what?
The announcement of the
135.-a-week increase has had the
effect of giving all sections of
the community food for alarmed
thought.
Obvious factors in the latest
increase have been the higher
world prices for all textile
fibres —cotton, hemp, sisal, etc.,
as well as the more obvious wool
—and the increased local prices
for meat and other foodstuffs.
Food, clothing and house-
furnishings have all been severely
affected by recent world infla-
tion of prices. It may be said
that, in some respects, we are
now moving from the aftermath
of World War II inflation into
the inflation that has resulted
from the Korean episode and
all its concomitants.
But Australia has, more par-
ticularly, its own characteristic
inflation - generating machine.
The 40-hour week, as it is
worked, has been a major in-
strument of inflation in the
Commonwealth. And the
November, 1950, special increase
of 19s. in the base wage was
almost bound, of itself, to help
in the compounding effect on
wages that are today largely
based on inflating wages. The
shocking slow-down of trans-
port by deliberate wharf and
shipping sabotage, the coalfields
sabotage and the deliberate
Communist policy of stifling all
essential production have placed
a terrific burden on Australian
industry, resilient and all as it is.
With too much all the time
being paid for too little, and with
paid-for time being wasted pro-
digiously on almost every job,
the inflation in Australia is
bound to be gross and un-
manageable until man-hour pro-
duction and transport is restored
to something like pre-war levels,
if not better.
The essential things in the fight
against inflation remain the
volume of production per in-
habitant and the rate of trans-
port by sea and land. That is
why the Communist-party Disso-
lution Bill is so important, and
why amendments of the Arbi-
tration Act to enforce secret
ballots in trade-unions are being
rushed through Parliament.
These basic factors in infla-
tion and the fight against it are
also the reason why any “stand-
still” order on prices can only
be 3 temporary, emergency mea-
sure pending a far greater co-
operative effort between the
Governments of Australia and
all the loyal and sensible people
of the Commonwealth. It is all
very well to establish a last-
ditch defence-line, but every
unit in the defences must be
assured that the stand will be
made by everyone—one in, all
in.
In any case, absorption of all
company profits in order to
“damp down” inflationary
repercussions of the latest leap
in the basic wage would do very
little towards that end. And
unless most other inflationary
factors were dealt with inside a
year or two they would, in
effect, be fed by the “profits-
from-industry” subsidy, and
would be in more exuberant
form than ever at the end of the
period.
It has been the practice, until
recent months, to place the
“Next time bring your stenographer and do some Work
while you re Waiting."
burden of inflation almost en-
tirely on those who invest and
save. The proprietary side of
industry has taken a greater
beating than is visible on the
surface. And the investor in
fixed-interest securities has been
shamefully robbed, whilst the
owner of ordinary shares is in
few cases as well off as he would
appear to be on market valua-
tions.
According to Commonwealth
Bank statistics, companies with
shareholders’ funds totalling
£422 million in 1939 in that
financial year earned 6.8 p.c. on
those funds. The same com-
panies, with funds increased to
£529 million, earned 7.4 p.c. on
those funds in 1948. By 1950
the percentage rate was some-
thing like 8.6 p.c.
But a rise from 6.8 p.c. to
8.6 p.c. between 1939 and 1950
represents an increase of only
26J- p.c., compared with a
growth of 140 p.c. in the basic
wage. And that general average
includes mining companies
doing exceptionally well from
the sale of part of their pro-
ducts at high world prices after
allowing Australian consumers
to have their requirements at
far below world parity. Manu-
facturing companies by them-
selves showed only 8.1 p.c. on
their funds in 1950, compared
with 8.5 p.c. in 1939. And,
although some of the funds in-
vested in our manufacturing
industries represent post-war
pounds, the greater part of the
investment is still pre-war
pounds, but profits are earned
and dividends are paid, of
course, in the present depreciated
currency.
Many dividends are today
being paid, in truth, out of capi-
tal. Very few manufacturing in-
dustries are providing, or being
allowed to provide, sufficient
untaxed profits to ensure the re-
placement of plant that is being
worn out or made obsolescent in
the earning of current profits.
Inflation, in other words, is mak-
ing normal depreciation provi-
sion quite inadequate to cover
actual depreciation charges as
they relate to the replacement of
essential plant. To the extent
that depreciation allowances and
reserved profits are insufficient
to replace worn-out plant, then
industry is paying dividends out
of capital.
The same thing applies, to
some extent, with stock-replace-
ment. Especially during the last
year or two, receipts from sale
of stock, after deducting selling
and other expenses, are not
sufficient to replace that stock at
prices now prevailing. Some in-
dustries, especially those mak-
i'ng woollen textiles, have found
the financing of restocking a
major problem, often involving
the issue of new capital. And
yet, after the issue of the capital,
they probably carry no greater
quantity of stocks than they did
before.
It became an accepted phrase
in inflation-ridden Germany of
the early 1920 s that industry
“sold itself poor.” That is hap-
pening in Australia today to a
milder extent. In fact, only that
the sharemarket is at present
buoyant and prepared to ab-
sorb new issues of capital, many
businesses would find that they
had to restrict the normal
volume of their activities.
Obviously it is of little use ex-
pecting very much of a “stand-
still” order on prices, with in-
dustry expected to hold the line
of its own accord. Industry
might take the brunt of the
attack for three months, six
months or, at the longest, 12
months. But at the end of that
time a general counter-offensive
would need to be mounted and
the proprietary side of industry
treated to a long recunerative
spell.
The Sharemarket
Investors took the shocks of
the last two or three weeks in
comparative calm. Whilst the
trend of share prices was lower,
nothing very sensational
occurred to any stock.
Control of capital issues may
be a strengthening factor in the
market. Attention over the past
two years has been partly
diverted from established stocks
by the flood of new issues, into
which investors and speculators
dived vigorously in the hope of
quick capital increment. With
fewer new floats there may be
a stronger demand for listed
securities.
Price - freeze orders seem
bound to come up for review
very soon. Little can be gained
by fixing prices alone. And the
control of essential materials
seems likely to favor basic
manufacturing industries.
Luxury - -manufacturers may
suffer, as may the newer hire-
purchase concerns.
Patons and Baldwins’ £1 ords.
opened up at around £2—double
the issue price. This is a very
sound stock, even if a conserva-
tive one. R. B. Davies In-
dustries, pending confirmation
of the new-issue proposals,
marked time at 425. It is a well-
managed concern engaged in
making builders’ hardware and
which recently tied up with an
English concern with world-wide
patents.
Vanguard Insurance, after an
excess of market optimism that
revealed ignorance of the in-
surance business, dropped to
9s. 6d., compared with previous
quotes of up to 12s. Main-
guard, in the same stable, was
weaker at Bs. 6d., partly by rea-
son of the impending controls
over new issues, which will
affect the market for all under-
writers.


tk
■to North America
providing a
FREE DEEPER
+a every passenger
B CPA
ic Information and bookings
from your local travel agent
or any airline booking office.
General Agents: Trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Office:
53 Martin Place. Sydney. Phone:
BW 2741.
•YONEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO U. K. VIA U. S. A. OR CANADA
BCA.M.ia
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET MARY CREEVEY for-
merly of 26 Addison Road Manly.—TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES THOMAS CREEVEY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1590
of 1951 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 11th of' September 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSIEURS J. MANN &
K. H. WILSON, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
EXPLORERS
or
AUSTRALIA
m
A
/
JOHN OXLEY
John Oxley, Surveyor-General of New f-juth Wales,
set out in 1817 to discover the course o* the Lachlan
River.
Following the river downstream past the present
site of Forbes, he found that it flowed into marsh-
land and, unable to proceed further, decided to
strike out for the South Australian coast
Shortage of water forced his return to the Lach-
lan, which he rejoined below the marshes previously
encountered, but only to meet more marshland
further on, Oxley decided to turn back and, leaving
the Lachlan, crossed the Bogan River and followed
the upper waters of the Macquarie bade to Bathurst.
In 1818, Oxley led an expedition to investigate
the Macquarie River, but again marshland impeded
the progress of his party. Considering this to be
the termination of the river, he marched eastward
and reached Port Macquarie, having discovered the
Castlereagh and Peel rivers and the rich and fertile
Liverpool Plains.
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales
Australians pioneer bank, established in 1817
honours the explorers who opened the way for the
development of this great country.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(IK CO BP OK AT ■!> IK mf BOOTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
•' 1 " A5109D
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
LAND TAX ASSESSMENT ACT 1910-1950
LODGMENT ol [AMD TAX REIUHNS
Federal Land Tax returns In respect of
land or interests in land owned as at mindlght
on 30th June, 1951, should be lodged with the
Federal Deputy Commissioner of Taxation,
Box 4046 G.P.0., Sydney, NOT LATER
THAN 31st AUGUST, 1951.
All persons who are required to furnish
returns must complete Form A, showing
complete details of all land owned as at 30th
June, 1951.
The following persons are required to
furnish returns :
(1) RESIDENTS who, on 30th June, 1951,
owned land or interests in land of a total
unimproved value of £4,000 or over ;
(2) ABSENTEES (or their agents) who, on
30th June, 195.1, owned land or interests
in iand**of an unimproved value of £1
or over ;
(3) COMPANIES which, on 30th June, 1951,
owned land or interests in land of an
unimproved value of £4,000 or over.
All such companies must also forward
returns setting forth the names and
addresses of the shareholders in the
company as at 30th June, 1951, the
number of shares held by each share-
holder and the amount of capital paid
up on each share at that date.
In every case where land Is held in more
than one State the return should be lodged
with the Federal Deputy Commissioner of
Taxation, London Stores Building, Bourke
and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne.
Forms may be obtained from the principal
Post Offices or from the Federal Taxation
Office. 3rd Floor, Commonwealth Savings
Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Late lodgment
PENALTIES;
of return —• 10% of the tax _
involved (mini-
mum £1)
Failure to lodge return £lOO
+ IMPORTANT The unimproved value to be
shown In the return is that at 30th June, 1951
W. A. PERT.
Federal Deputy Commissioner of Taxation
LT.72.71
Landan Airmail
From Herbert Holman
From Herbert Holman
Deprived of its twin com-
ponents of sturdy individualism
and love of liberty, the British
character wouldn’t count for
much. Yet two world wars, a
slump, recurrent crises, shortages
and controls have so shifted the
balance away from the inde-
pendent citizens at the circum-
ference to the State executive at
the centre that private liberty
tends to be something of a
luxury, attainable only in the
face of heavy odds. Bureau-
cracy inevitably grows, and
bureaucrats like administrative
tidiness, which hardly thrives
upon dogged individualism.
This tidiness Ijas brought us,
among other things, Gbvern-
ment-by-decree, delegated and
insufficiently-considered legisla-
tion, compulsory purchase of
land and property, subordination
of local authorities and much
else to Whitehall, increasing
hosts of State servants and
millions upon millions of
punched cards ; making, in sum,
a nation of seeming lifeless
uniformity.
Britons have long cherished
the sanctity of their homes. The
law still stands that no police-
man may enter premises or
property without a search-
warrant. Yet more than 18,000
Government officialSj under the
protection of Emergency Legis-
lation, have this right. And the
present Chancellor of the
Exchequer, deeply concerned
about the extent of income-tax
evasion, could see nothing amiss
in his demand that banks
should, in certain circumstances,
automatically declare the
amounts of interest paid into
their customers’ accounts. Bank
managers, while sympathetic as
to his object, are as deeply con-
cerned at the sacrifice of prin-
ciple, and feel that the whole
structure of their profession,
built as it is upon secrecy and
confidence, is being undermined
by State exigency. But, as they
say, if it’s the law, then they have
no choice but to carry it out.
Resistance-movement
Resistance to these various
encroachments upon private
liberty is often impotent rather
than effective, but it does go
on. Several individuals, includ-
ing a celebrity or two, have
elected to incur the statutory
penalty rather than fill-up forms
which they considered unneces-
sary. Housewives have solemnly
burned ration-books outside the
House of ~ Commons. There
have also been more responsible
gestures, as last year when the
veteran Liberal-leader, Lord
Samuel, presented his bill for the
“protection of the liberty of the
subject against the increased
power of government.”
Since its function was deemed
to hflve been fulfilled (at the end
of the war) the compulsory
identity-card has proved irksome
and irritant to most Britons.
Bureaucracy finds it useful in
connection with food-rationing
and with the prevention of fraud
on the Post-office Savings Bank,
and the police are helped by its
non-production \yhen rounding
up deserters. But the general
feeling is one of imposition and
unnecessary officialdom.
A protracted battle has
recently been fought in the law-
courts over the determined stub-
bomess of a certain Mr. Will-
cock, of Pudsey, Yorkshire, in
refusing to produce his card. He
lost his case, but the defeat was
a technical one only. Mr. Will-
cock declares that he has, in
effect, won a moral victory, since
the Home Secretary has can-
celled the existing order govern-
ing police procedure in the
London area. In future, the
police will ask for production of
the card only in cases of serious
crime or suspected desertion
from the forces.
As Mr. Willcock engaged
several prominent counsel to
defend him, the cost of his liti-
gation would have run away
with a tidy fortune had not
services been given free. This
fact is not without significance,
for it may be held to reveal a
main source of the new fight for
freedom. Mr. Willcock and
most of his legal friends are
active Liberals.
Preservation of Holmes
This being Festival year, every
organised unit in our corporate
life has at one time or another
considered what contribution it
could best make to the national
programme. Some months ago
a proposition was put before the
St. Marylebone Borough Council
and was deemed so fantastic
that it was turned down forth-
with. The suggestion was that,
since Baker - street is the
borough’s main street, a Sher-
lock Holmes Exhibition should
be held as near as possible to
the house where he was reputed
to have lived. The council
objected on the grounds that it
was anomalous to honor a
character who never, in fact,
existed, and that it was prefer-
able to pay tribute to the many
celebrities who had lived within
its boundaries.
Public opinion, airily and
ingeniously voiced, brought
about a change of heart. A
place was found for the non-
existent street-number, 22 18,
and the borough librarian (who
has been much harassed in past
summers by inquiries as to its
whereabouts) was given the task
of organising the exhibition. If
the result can be expressed in
terms of reward, it must have
been an enjoyable one for him.
So popular has the exhibition
proved that there is even a wide
demand for season-tickets. The
material, truly astonishing in its
variety and scope, occupies only
two small rooms. Of these, the
first seems to have two main
functions: to portray the
creative influences of Conan
Doyle, his illustrator Sidney
Paget, and the many actors of
stage and screen who have
appeared in adaptations ; and to
show, as it were, the perpetua-
tion of the legend by well-versed
and affectionate societies in
various parts of the world.
The show-piece is undoubtedly
the second room, where Michael
Weight has reconstructed the
interior of 2218, Baker-street.
His achievement is nothing short
of miraculous, for he has mani-
festly succeeded in the threefold
job of keeping strictly to period,
of simulating the abode of one
of the oddest characters in all
time, and of “illustrating” the
many adventures.
This visitor stood and gaped,
while long-forgotten incidents
reformed themselves out of the
articles in the cluttered room.
The many that still cling in the
memory include: The deer-
stalker cap and tweed coat, Dr.
Watson’s top-fiat and stetho-
scope, half-eaten crumpets and
undrunk cups of tea, crushed
telegram in grate, “V.R.” in
bullet - marks on the wall,
gasogene and tantalus and claret
on sideboard, knuckle-duster
and keys on table, hunting-crop
and Strad. and microscope, re-
torts and bunsen - burner,
revolver in half-open drawer,
tin of black shag, bearskin rug,
cigars in coalscuttle and tobacco
in Persian slipper, boxing-
gloves, portait of Irene Adler on
Holmes’s desk, and unanswered
letter spiked by a knife on to
the mantelshelf.
Never was a room that seemed
more bachelor, more lived-in
and more real; nor, indeed,
more of a problem-picture that
begged solution. The demand
for season-tickets is easily ex-
plained. A tenth visit would still
leave clues unidentified and
mysteries unsolved. This exhibit
is unique. It belongs in-
digenously to London, yet is so
cosmopolitan that it would be
at home anywhere. St. Maryle-
bone should apply for an export
licence. This ancient monument
is not to be missed.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne .
With “Federation” for an inspired
theme, decorations at the Town Hall for
the Lord Mayor’s Ball were dignified and
impressive. Huge banners, emblazoned
with the coats-of-arms of the Common-
wealth and States, hung before a curtained
background on the stage. Ever-changing
lights on this shone on a map of Aus-
tralia, superimposed upon a large world.
Smaller banners, also emblazoned with
coats-of-arms, hung above the official
dais. The front of the stage was laid out
as a garden, with beds of primulas and
begonias and green lawns. Behind these
were taller flowering shrubs and flowers,
including poinsettias from Queensland
and other floral natives flown from vari-
ous States. The Lord Mayor, Sir James
Disney, and Lady Disney welcomed the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady Brooks
and Jeanette Brooks, with their party, to
a fanfare of trumpets, and a guard-of-
honor from the Royal Melbourne regi-
ment.
Lady Brooks wore a gown of filmy
Chantilly lace in pastel-pink, mounted on
pink satin. The bouffant skirt was allied
with a bodice which had a graceful fichu
draped across the shoulders. Lady
Disney, one of the most gracious women
ever to fill the office of Lady Mayoress,
was a striking figure in pink pearl-tinted
lame, the pattern outlined with paillettes
and sequins. A floating panel at the back
was caught into a small bustle and then
fell into a short train ; a cape of the same
material had a soft pearl-pink ostrich-
feather collar. Jeanette Brooks’s aqua-
blue taffetas were woven with a narrow
silver stripe. Anne Spraggett’s frock was
of pink organdie. A wine-colored gown
and fur cape were the choice of the
Premier’s wife, Mrs. J. G. B. McDonald.
The wife of the U.S. Consul-General wore
mist-blue satins with floating panels on
each side of the skirt and a heavily-
beaded bodice. Lady Collins, wife of
Admiral Sir John Collins, was also in
blue satin, hers having one jewelled
shoulder-strap on the bodice, Mrs. Alec
Hay wore a stole of ruby-red velvet over
her cloth-of-silver gown. Mrs. A. C.
Haworth had emerald-green satin for both
frock and jacket. Mrs. Bernard Evans’s
orchid-pink crepes had cyclamen bead-
trimming. Her daughter Mary wore
white nylon embroidered tulle.
A lovely gown of heavy cream lace,
with the pattern outlined in pearls, was
worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis. Mrs. Les
Coleman’s muted-blue brocade gown had
the pattern outlined in gold beads and
opalescent sequins. Mrs. P. Hayes wore
grey chiffon over mauve taffeta. Mrs.
J. T, Inkster draped a black mantilla over
her hair and massed the front of her
black gown with white flowers. Flame
tulle sewn with large sequins was the
choice of Mrs. F. Selleck. Mrs. R. H.
Solly was in pale-pink-and-silver lame.
A saxe-blue crepe gown was worn by Mrs.
W. J. Brens. Alma Pedersen’s brocades
were grey. Mrs. A. G. J. Hardy wore
grey chiffon patterned with blue and grey
flowers ; scarlet gloves gave smart con-
trast. Lady Wales covered her black
satin gown with a dyed-ermine cape, A
yoke of cream guipure lace was a feature
of Lady Heinze’s black faille gown. Mrs.
T. J. Ryan added a matching stole to her
grey chiffon. Mrs. A. A. Lord’s white
satin gown was offset with a cape of
emerald-green ostrich-feathers. Marie
Daly’s grey tulle flowed over rose satin.
Mrs. Bert Chadwick wore cinnamon-
brown crepe. Mrs. Adrian Perry’s frock
of pale-beige tulle had an off-the-shoulder
bodice finished with a double-ruffle of
pleated tulle.
On the coldest night for 50 years women
danced at the Navy League Ball wearing
strapless gowns fashioned of the flimsiest
materials, and never even a suggestion of
gooseflesh. This was at Earl’s Court,
which faces the sea at St. Kilda, and it
was a test of endurance to get across the
Esplanade in the face of a biting, freezing
wind into the ballroom, which was deco-
rated with enormous bunches of white and
navy balloons, suspended from the ceiling.
Other appropriate touches were the flag-
decked ship’s bridge, a binnacle, ship’s
bell and a floral lighthouse, which
fashioned the official enclosure. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was accom-
panied by his wife and daughter. Lady
Brooks wore mist-blue satin, the fitted
bodice extending to the hipline from
which the bouffant skirt fell. Crystal
paillettes and silver sequins embroidered
the shoulder-straps. Diagonally-tucked
organza was the choice of Jeanette
Brooks. The vice-regals were met by the
president of the League, Commander R.
A. Nettlefold, and Mrs. Nettlefold, and
Mrs. Arthur Laver, president of the ball
committee, and her husband. Mrs. Nettle-
fold’s full-skirted gown of cherry-red
tulle had a shirred bodice with shoestring
straps and shaded silk roses at the waist-
line. Mrs. Laver’s gown of cinnamon-
brown nylon net had bronze sequins
massed on the bodice and scattered over
the skirt.
Committee-member Mrs. Stanley Car-
negie wore a tiny bolero with her blue-
and-silver lame. She was in charge of
decorations for the ball. Very effective
was her “fish-pond” on the official supper-
table. It was made of an oblong piece
of mirror surrounded with a 4in.-high
wooden frame, which was covered with a
border of green hydrangeas and camellias,
the mirror being covered with blue and
green tulle to simulate water. Flat leaves
and blossoms gave the effect of water-
lilies and many brightly-enamelled fish
and crabs, some covered with nail-polish
for added brilliance, were set in the
“pond.” Mrs. R. A. Burgoyne wore black
self-striped satin. Mrs, Andrew Mani-
fold’s tobacco-brown taffetas had a band
of bunched ruching flared out low on the
skirt. Red velvet was the choice of Alice
Carse ; Sue Cecil danced in a flame tissue,
gold-banded frock. Mrs. Norman Poul-
ton was in black velvet, the bodice having
a deep square neckline. Mrs. Norman
Speirs wore midnight-blue taffeta with
multicolored silk roses on one shoulder-
strap. A pale grey chiffon overskirt
edged with black Chantilly lace high-
lighted the darker grey pleated skirt of
the gown worn by Mrs. M. Sloman. Mrs.
Lionel Grimwade’s crepes were pale-
mauve.
The function for charity which needs
an able organiser needn’t look beyond
Mrs. Norman Lynch, pictured here.
During the war she was a member of
the committee organised by the then Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. E. Campbell, to raise
funds for war organisations. During the
same period she found time to work at
the Catholic Women’s Organisation hut
for servicemen, and she was also presi-
dent of the mothers’ auxiliary of
Kostka Hall, Xavier College’s prep,
school. Lately she organised the dinner-
dance for the Sutherland Homes for
Children Auxiliary, the proceeds of which
topped £7OO. Mrs. Lynch, when not
hoisting her own colors on the turf, finds
relaxation at golf.
Spring came, temporarily, to No. 9
Darling-street when the Yorick Club held
its annual dance. This effect was achieved
by masses of pink and white blossoms,
daffodils, jonquils, roses and the bright
flame of poinsettias. John Gourlay, presi-
dent of the club, and his wife, with Tom
Farrington, secretary, and Mrs, Farring-
ton, received the guests in front of a
huge log fire. Mrs. Gourlay wore aqua-
blue, crystal-embroidered faille. Mrs.
Farrington’s frock was of deep-lime and
mauve shadings, in chiffon. A beautiful
gown was worn by Mrs. Ronald Nott. It
was in four shades of grey, shading from
very pale to gunmetal, the top layer of the
skirt in the latter shade and cut in three
pleated tiers, and scattered with tiny pear-
drops of gunmetal beads. Dark grey
satin formed the strapless bodice, embroi-
dered with pearls and opalescent sequins.
Lime-green taffetas, with the full skirt
looped at one side to show a finely-
pleated underskirt, was worn by Mrs.
Hugh Syme. Black tulle was the choice
of Mrs. Keith Morrison. Mrs. Noel Bur-
bank’s black faille frock was slim-fitting.
An emerald-green velvet bolero offset the
white pleated chiffon gown worn by Mrs.
Bob Lawrence. Mrs. Frank Herman
covered her gown of heavy white lace
with a mink jacket. Mrs. Ben Dunlop’s
pale-grey satins were patterned with pink
and grey tulips, and cyclamen and gold
beads were clustered on the strapless
bodice. Mrs. E. R. Reynolds danced in
pink and silver lame.
At the Air Force Association’s ball at
St. Kilda Town Hall, giant balloons in
the Air Force colors of dark-blue, light-
blue and red were massed against the
ceiling, while against a backdrop, silhouet-
ting three aircraft, the stage featured the
figure of an airman and a flashing signal-
ling beacon and was edged with a path
of flare-lights. The president of the
association, J. G. Morison, and his wife,
assisted by secretary Bowen Harley and
Mrs, Harley, received the official guests,
who included Air-Marshal R. Williams
and his wife. Mrs. Harley’s gown had
a draped overskirt of mist-blue sequinned
tulle, which contrasted with the grey tulle
of her gown. Mrs. Ned Holland, ticket
secretary for the ball, wore junior-blue
silk jersey and an emerald silk shawl,
brilliantly embroidered. Her sister, Mrs.
Marshall Gibson, teamed a bodice of
glittering midnight-blue with a bouffant
skirt of sequin-embroidered tulle. Mrs.
M. Peart wore heavy white satin. Mrs.
Ken Kubler combined broderie Anglaise
and white satin.
From Sydney
It was interesting to see tjie newly-
decorated rooms at the Town Hall, some
of which are ready for the Royal visit
next year. The Lord Mayor’s reception-
room is painted a soft mushroom-pink
with gold embellishments and curtains of
rich red velvet and oyster brocade.
Margaret Lord, who is responsible for
the decoration, is at present supervising
the work on the Lady Mayoress’s
drawing-room.
Still on the subject of the Town Hall,
how varied are the audiences one sees
there at the different concerts and recitals!
Yehudi Menuhin drew a crowd almost as
brilliantly-dressed as an opera opening
does. The regular symphony concert-
goers are lively and talkative (in the foyer,
not in the hall itself). The crowd at the
Jazz Concerts are unique and indescrib-
able. At the organ recitals given by Dr.
Thalben-Ball last week the audience was
highly sedate, which was not surprising,
as many of them were parish organists,
that remote race which spends so much
of its time practising alone in cold, empty
churches. There was a fair sprinkling
of the clergy ; there was also a bishop
whose purple vest brightened up the dress-
ing a little. Dr. Thalben-Ball himself,
however, presented a very smart and
dapper appearance in white tie and tails.
The picture shows you Judith Wright,
who has written a poem and a story for
The Bulletin this week. Acknowledged
as one of Australia’s leading poets, Judith
has had two books of verse published,
The Moving Image, which was chosen as
the book-of-the-month by the Australian
Book Society, and Woman to Man,
which was awarded the Grace Leven
prize in 1949. A good deal of her verse
has appeared in Australian anthologies,
some has been reprinted in English and
American magazines, and she is also
represented in a new American anthology
Poetry of the ’Forties. In 1949 she was
awarded a Commonwealth Literary Fund
fellowship to write a novel on the life
of her grandparents, pioneers of the
pastoral industry in the Dawson Valley
(Q.) and in New England (N.S.W.) The
novel, The Generations of Men, is com-
pleted, but is at present caught up in the
publishing slump. A third book of verse
is under way, though interrupted a good
deal (she says) by gardening, housework
and the care of a baby daughter. Judith
was educated at the New England Girls’
School and Sydney University. Her
present address, North Tamborine (Q.),
has a name nearly as romantic as her
childhood home, which was Wallarnu'mbi,
Thalgarrah, near Armidale (N.S.W.).
As their contribution to the University
Appeal the Women’s Union is arranging a
late-afternoon reception in the Great Hall
on Friday, September 21. As the Great
Hall is one of the most beautiful places
in Sydney, the party should have a speci-
ally distinguished quality. The tickets
are 12s. 6d. each and can be obtained by
writing to the booking secretary. Miss V.
M. Wiedersehn, c/o Manning House,
University of Sydney.
Many of the shops are already showing
the new fabrics for spring, and shantung
seems to be the material none of us can
afford to be without next season. The
new color-combinations are daring and at
times a little stark, the patterned materials
seeming to derive most of their inspira-
tion from microscope slides where odd
elliptical forms and spirally shapes
abound. The dyes seem to be particu-
larly good and a soft “winter-sky” blue
the best background color.
The weather was a good advance-agent
for the show of wool knitwear round the
world which the Wool Board is exhibit-
ing at the Australia. There is knitwear
from 10 countries in Europe as well as
our own display, which should be the
best, considering that Australia produces
the wool and also enough icy winds to
compete successfully even with Switzer-
land. Next week there is to be an ex-
hibition at the National Art Gallery
called “A Thousand Years of Wool”
which has been designed exclusively for
the International Wool Secretariat.
Considering how few flowers there are
around at present, the decorations at the
Ladies’ At-Home of the Royal Empire
Society were specially notable. The
camellias from the garden of hostess Mrs.
Harry Twigden were offset by wax
flowers and crucifix-orchids. Mrs. Her-
mon Slade, who was co-hostess, grew the
slipper-orchids and the lovely cattleya
which was presented to guest-of-honor
Mrs. F. C. Callaghan (in her home at
Manly there are about as many orchids
as most people have weeds). Brigadier
Callaghan made some remarks about the
world situation before the musical pro-
gramme, stressing the importance of keep-
ing the British Empire for ever in our
minds as a force for good in the world.
The term “British Commonwealth of
Nations,” he said, did not have the same
significance, nor could it be so inspiring
as the word “Empire.” In the future,
this concept of Empire would grow in-
creasingly more important to us.
The speaker at the English-Speaking
Union this week was Mr, H. N. Rhodes,
who is chairman of the Movement for
World Federal Government. The aim of
this movement is to set up a Government
which will be above national Govern-
ments and whose aim will be to direct a
programme of world production to elimin-
ate hunger, disease, poverty and ignor-
ance. Only by giving food and education
to the masses of people in the world can
we combat Communism, Mr. Rhodes
said, and only a world Government could
do it. There was some lively discussion
after Mr. Rhodes’s talk, with a good
deal of doubt expressed about the prac-
ticability of such a plan, but on the whole
those present felt that if a world Govern-
ment could be set up, it would provide
a peaceful means of stemming the tide
of Communism.
“Isn’t it cold!” remarked George
Wallace when he was presented on stage
with Varney Monk and Stuart Gurr at
the opening of “Collits’ Inn,” presented
by the Mosman Musical Society. Cold
it undoubtedly was, but whether the
genial George was referring to the
meteorological conditions or the audi-
ence’s rather frigid reception of the play
was anybody’s guess. Anyway, George
should know the play—he was the Dandy
Dick of the piece some years ago.
Rhondda Baker exercised no little allure-
ment, histrionically, vocally and pulchri-
tudinally, in the chief role.
On her last day in Sydney Dr. Jeanne
Eder was entertained at an afternoon
reception by the Lady Mayoress when
Mrs. James McGirr and Mrs. T. Metcalfe
helped to receive the guests. Dr. Eder
in her appearance and manner amply
refutes the theory that women in public
life are apt to become hard and
masculine, for “womanly” is the word
that seems most naturally to describe her.
She spoke on the question that concerns
so many of us these days, “Should women
take jobs after marriage?” Dr. Eder
thinks that, provided the husband con-
sents, a woman benefits considerably by
having a job, not only economically but
also in the expansion of character. There
are only about 15 years of a woman’s
life during which her children need her
direct care. For the remainder, a job,
either voluntary or paid, is almost a
necessity. Many women’s organisations
were represented at the reception, as well
as members of the Lady Mayoress’s
committee.


0P5.25
STILL
when the
KEEPS 60INC
rest have stopped 1
In every field one performer out-
stays all others in stamina and relia-
bility. In batteries it has been Exide
Irxfte
—since 1888.
BATTERIES
#
UL,^
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A recent appointment makes Garnet
Vere Portus, Adelaide University’s history-
professor for 14 years till 1948, the only
Australian on the U.N.E.S.C.O. commis-
sion formed to compile a scientific and
cultural history of mankind. This should
be right into his hand—he’s been
concerned with university history-teaching
since 1914, and has produced close
on a dozen books. Rhodes Scholar
in 1907, the prof, while at Oxford got his
B.A. and B, Litt, as well as inclusion in
the English International Rugby Union
team. His only son, lawyer John Portus,
D.F.C., Commonwealth Conciliation
Commissioner since 1944, also played
Union for his State —and a rather violent
game, while an R.A.A.F. navigator, with
a German U-boat, which ended in the
enemy’s sinking and the plane’s crashing
into the sea, though with all R.A.A.F.
players surviving.
Victorian soldier-settlers are assured
that they have weight behind them in the
administration of their affairs now that
Tiny Henry Holmberg, an Old Digger,
has been reappointed a member of the
Soldier Settlement Commission. At
6ft. syin. and more than 20 stone he’s
the State’s biggest civil servant.
The new Minister for the Navy and
Air, William McMahon, vanquisher in
Lowe last April of Dr. Burton, reached
Ministerial rank in almost record time
for a man unknown in politics until his
election in 1949. Others have got there
more quickly, but they have come from
a training in organisational politics.
McMahon’s emergence is comparable to
that of S. M. Bruce. An LL.B. and
D.Ec., educated at Sydney Grammar and
St. Paul’s College, Sydney, he is an
incisive bundle of energy 41 years old
who has rarely been still or unoccupied
in his life. He has flashed round the
world on educational tours, served in the
Army for five and a half years (rank,
major on the staff), and professionally,
as a solicitor, acted as chief clerk to one
of the oldest and largest legal firms in
Australia. If energy and the will to
succeed mean anything in political life
he has a career in front of him.
“Fitz”: Whenever a Bulletin contributor
from another State visits Sydney he usually
climbs the stairs at 252 George-street to shake
hands with the literary gents who sub-edit his
copy. One such visitor was William Charnley
(“Colonial Cove,’’ “Golden Mile,” “Nor’-west”)
from Westralia, who has had the pleasure of
cashing more Bulletin cheques than he can
remember. Born at Ballarat, Charnley is old
enough to have seen the decline, of that great
goldfield. Like Edward Dyson, he lived a
“Golden Shanty” boyhood, round Ballarat’s
Chinatown and the mines, and did a bit of
fossicking himself. At 15 he was swinging a
sledgehammer for a blacksmith and two years
later was seeking his luck on Kalgoorlie and
Boulder. Bill witnessed the “near Eureka” of
the alluvial miners’ disputes, saw the hectic life
of illicit gold dealers and thieves, and listened-
in to a score of stories of mine robberies and
hold-ups. He is well versed in the period
depicted in Katharine Susannah Prichard’s gold-
fields trilogy, and declares that life then on
the fields was much easier and more pleasant
than as presented by that writer. Charnley’s
first steady job was with a foundry; he spare-
timed lecturing and writing verse for the Kal-
goorlie “Sun.” Bertram Stevens bought his first
short stories for the old “Lone Hand” and he
first saw print in The Bulletin with a story
called “Simon and Paul.” Lung trouble kept
him out of War I, and after the war he toiled
as a timber-worker and deep-sea fisherman. Since
1930 Charnley has been a full-time writer. He
has sold serials, short stories and paragraphs to
pretty well every Australian paper which buys
outside contributions, has written many Bulletin
yarns and is one of the stalwarts of the “Abo-
riginalities” pages. In addition he reckons he
has sold close to a million words overseas.
When chatting with present writer he remarked
that one of the sweetest moments of his writing
career was when Bulletin editor S. H. Prior
described his “Thieves’ Gold”—printed in a
Christmas number —as “probably the most grip-
ping story ever written in Australia.”
The Hill of Content, one of Mel-
bourne’s best - known geographical
features, of which none of the topo-
graphers have taken official notice, is
going—A. H. Spencer, who sat in the
bookshop of that name at the top of
Bourke-street for 30 years writing
patriotic eulogies of most things British
and putting them in his window to
counter the Red menace, having gone into
retirement. He entered the book-trade
pushing a barrow for Angus and
Robertson ; his business goes to that firm
and will be removed to Elizabeth-street,
An identity in the literary, musical and
art world, he was visited by pretty well
everybody of importance, from Melba to
Henry Lawson, who once raised five-bob
from him by selling him his walking-
stick. AH. is writing his autobiography
in retirement.
“Uramao”: Dr. Harold Larsen, an
Auckland University graduate, has been
appointed to head the Latin-American
division of the economic department of
the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development. Joining the
’Wales in Sydney in 1937, he lectured at
Canterbury University College before
crossing to London University for post-
graduate work, winning his Ph.D. degree
in economics. War service as a lieut-
commander in the Royal Navy preceded
his return as representative in Wellington
of U.N.R.R.A.
Plenty of musical executants have left
these shores under official auspices to
study. Dorian Le Gallienne, winner of
the Commonwealth Jubilee Scholarship
in music, is the first Australian composer
to do so. By a suggestion of Professor
Heinze, he was given a farewell concert
at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne, and,
although a young man, he was able to
produce from his own works all the stuff
needed for instruments of all sorts to
fill a long programme. A nephew of
writer and poet Richard Le Gallienne,
he has a distinct flair for translating
verbal images into musical ones, and some
of the most vivid items of the evening
were the settings for Donne’s “Three
Divine Poems,” four nursery rhymes,
sonnets by Shakspeare and three psalms
for choir and organ. Altogether, he gave
pianist David Fox, baritone Clifford
Powell, soprano Elsa Haas, violinist
Wilfred Lehmann, the A.B.C. Wireless
Singers and the University Oonserva-
torium Orchestra under Henri Touzeau
sufficient material for an evening of de-
lightful music.
Dropped in from Timaru in the Fern-
land, where he edits the “Herald,” lan
Donnelly, who’s been newspapering for
the past 20 years, part of it frolicking, as
he puts it, among the great of England and
adjacent countries. Out of that came his
first book. Joyous Pilgrimage, a series
of personal sketches on eminences he’d
met. Author also of another, with the
intriguing title Of Wives and Wiving, the
FROLICKING PILGRIM.
Enzedder has been questing round Aus-
tralia for the past few weeks, questioning
notables from Robert Menzies to Norman
Lindsay, with the idea of putting another
joyous pilgrimage between covers.
Favorite adjective—ruddy, which pretty
well describes his appearance.
Elevation to the N.S.W. District Court
Bench at 40 makes Russell Le Gay
Brereton the youngest in the State to sit
thereon. Admitted in 1937, with uni-
versity honors which presaged his present
success, he practised against Hitler in
the Middle East, private, and against
Tojo in the Pacific, captain. English-
professor J. Le Gay Brereton was his
uncle.
Occupant of the Chair of Geophysics
at the National University will be J, C.
Jaeger, Associate Professor of Mathe-
matics in Tasmania since 1944. Born in
1907, he graduated at Sydney in mathe-
matics and physics and moved to Cam-
bridge in 1928 to get his M.A. degree and
do research till moving to Tasmania in
1936. Sydney gave him a D.Sc, in 1942,
and his attainments in physics earned a
F.lnst.P. The long list of his publica-
tions includes the widely-known Opera-
tional Methods in Applied Mathematics, a
book written in collaboration with Prof,
H. S. Carlslaw.
Water has been in the blood of Julian
Dridan, here Coventried, since he joined
the S. Australian Engineer-in-Chief’s De-
partment in 1923 on the construction of
locks and weirs on the Murray. Succes-
sively resident-engineer of Lock 8,
district-engineer in the western and
northern districts, at 50 he’s now
engineer-in-chief, representative on the
River Murray Commission and so head-
serang of what his State is doing to
benefit from water-control. Reaching a
little over sft., a pleasant and popular
WATER NYMPH.
personality, he’s concerned, on the other
side of the picture, with what damage
water can do —he’s a member of the
advisory committee on soil-conservation.
Having launched the Department of
National Development on-course, Com-
mander R. G, A. Jackson returns to the
British Treasury. Taking over as secre-
tary, Dr. Harold Raggatt, recently back
from the U.S., is a top-line geologist.
Appointed Commonwealth Geologist in
1941, and now director of the Bureau of
Mineral Resources, the new secretary as
far back as 1926 examined New Guinea
for oil, and later did a similar probing of
Westralia and N.S.W. Born just over 50
years ago in North Sydney, member of
half a dozen scientific societies, Raggatt
got his science doctorate from Sydney
University, and likes to practise geology,
with a fork, in his own backyard.
Dr. R. S. Andrews, selected from 47
applicants from most of the world to be
Melbourne’s new gas chief, was an N.S.W.
schoolteacher, and was head chemistry-
master at Sydney Tech, before he entered
the unofficial world as a brilliant engineer
with high academic qualifications. He
visited the U.S. in 1925 to study coal
treatments, and has held various
important posts with B.H.P. in Newcastle
and the Gas Co. in Melbourne. Lately
he’s been focused on the technical plan-
ning of the Lurgi gasification project at
Morwell, which will bring piped gas 100
miles to Melbourne.
Here pictured by Mcßeath is Phil
Mayer, creator of the Warburton Chalet
(Vic.), known to snow-seekers from the
Gulf to Perth. Leaving his father’s farm
at 20 to go Melbournewards, Mayer in
the following 10 years established himself
in business sufficiently to marry, retire and
travel twice round the world. The next
CHALET CREATOR.
10 years he devoted, in an honorary
capacity, to the city of Northcote, finish-
ing up as mayor, with honorary life-
membership of the R.S.L. Then, when
most men would have called quits, Mayer,
much against the opinion of many busi-
ness associates, sank every bean he
possessed, raised a huge mortgage,
organised his own team of workmen and
in the shadow of snow-capped Donna
Buang carved his dream from the
mountain-side. Today, with its own
abattoirs, poultry-farm, bakery, golf-
course, swimming-pools and billiard-
saloons, the pleasure resort rarely accom-
modates fewer than 250 pleasure-seekers
weekly. Mayer hides his driving com-
petence beneath an unassuming person-
ality. He lost his only son in the late war.
W. J. Noble, chief sub-editor of the
Dunedin (M.L.) “Evening Star,” gets the
editorship, relieving Leslie Jillet, who
went to the “Star” from Sydney “Herald”
in 1947. Noble first spiked copy on the
Otago “Daily Times” in 1935, was chair-
man of the Parliamentary Press gallery
by 1939, and in War II was with the
Enzedders in the Italian campaign. He
was a war correspondent at the cease-
fire.
Into the Silence:
At 65, in Sydney, John Wilfred Gibbes, who
graduated, with shrapnel wounds, through the
Ist Pioneers in War I to Latin Master at
Sydney High School in 1919. Two years later
he graduated from Sydney University with
honors and first place in Latin. One of the
outstanding classics teachers of his time —at one
period every available Cooper Scholarship was
held by pupils of his—-he was president of the
Classics Association of Australia, and was just
about as successful also in his other love, foot-
ball-coaching.
At Manilla (N.S.W.), at 64, Alton Richmond
Macleod, old Bulletin contributor (“Magpie”)
and, from 1919 to 1947, publisher-editor of the
Manilla “Express.” One-time president of the
N.S.W. Country Press Association, he was a
crack rifleman, captaining the State team
against New Zealand in 1928, and, the follow-
ing year, scoring a record 23 consecutive bulls
at 900 yards in the King’s match in Brisbane.
Mayor of his town for 10 years, he had had a
helpful hand in pretty well all of his district’s
doings.
In Adelaide, at 75, distinguished medico
Herbert Russell, holder of the St. John
Ambulance Brigade’s highest Australian award
—Knight of Grace —and a particularly hard
worker for Red Cross, one-time executive-
member and chairman of five committees.
Organiser of the State’s V.A.D. in War I, he
controlled its counterpart in the next war, and
was awarded 0.8. E. for his institution of
vocational training, the precursor of modern
occupational therapy in the Australian Army.
In Melbourne, at 69, Professor Wilfred Eade
Agar, C.B.E. Regarded by his students when
he was Professor of Zoology at Melbourne
University as the most lovable, pleasant and
friendly pedant you could possibly study under,
he was as well a brilliant research man, indi-
cated by his Fellowship of the Royal Society,
science’s highest award. His long investigation
of the development of the South African lung-
fish, which took him to Central South America
and other places, was one of the most important
contributions of the century to the knowledge
of heredity. He served in War I with a High-
land regiment, captain.


...
%
w>
v. • ■'■■
m
■■/ / V<
%
ir
Captain of Pan-Air Strata
Clipper says "Snappy as
a record-breaking flight!"
“I’ve tasted chocolate all over the world,” says
Captain Meyring, “but my favourite is Small’s
Club Chocolate. Keep a
block of Small’s Choco-
late handy the not-
so-sweet flavour is great.”
Every Small’s Club
Chocolate breaks off with
a loud clear snap and
that snap means just
what the chocolate ex-
perts say . . . “the louder
the snap the better the
chocolate.”
I Swalts
iL o CIVJB
GHOCOIATt
I tar MtH
1 Hoi V.Wtl
J
0T CIOS CMOCOIATC
Small's make
drreat Chocolate
P.S. Another winner from Small's
"CHERRY NOUGAT" Try it! You'll love it!
Mnd,
SERVICE IN FARAWAY PLACES
The Leyland Mobile Service Unit, a modern, fully equipped
workshop, has been built to service the trucks of our many Leyland
customers operating in the Bush.
(1) A view of the workshop
showing the equipment and
spare parts carried.
m
m
■I
(3) Engineers’ sleeping
accommodation.
(2) Fuel injection room and
injector test pump.
M
mm
(4) View of van showing
access to workshop and
sleeping quarters.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD. Head Office for Australia:
153-167 George Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Branches and Agents—NEWCASTLE: D. L. Norton. 484 King Street. BRISBANE
DEPOT: 476 Adelaide Street. MELBOURNE DEPOT: Cnr. Courtenay and Villiert
Streets, Nth. Melbourne. HOBART: H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., 53-63 Bathurst
Street. ADELAIDE: Flinders Motors Limited, 62 Currie Street. PERTH: West
End Motors Limited, 1056 Hay Street.
THE LOVE NEST
by ETHEL ANDERSON.
IN Parramatta and its sparsely
populated neighboring
villages, about the period of
the Crimean War, there pre-
vailed a general idea that the
good were poor and the bad
rich, and that money, in short,
was not to be accumulated in
any great quantities except by
the Devil’s own luck, or cunning,
and by nefarious means.
The very reasonable sum
represented by an income of two
hundred pounds a year was re-
garded in such circles as being
quite sufficiently “warm” enough
for the godly, or even the demi-
godly.
The appearance, therefore, of
violent and ebullient prosperity
expressed by the almost audible
chink (reported to have been
heard by passers-by) of spon-
dulix. Golden Joeys, Happy
Dicks, Yellow Boys or guineas,
or any other term by which
money was then designated (a
sovereign in particular being
hardly “nice” enough for open
reference) obviously tainted the
lustre shining like an aura round
the cottage, reared up practically
under cover of night above the
river, a couple of miles below
Doggett’s Patch.
Its flamboyant well-being, in
local eyes, immediately invested
it with the fine effluvia of sin ;
whether mortal or venal sin re-
mained to be proved.
That the radiant dwelling
faced an estuary by
means of which (of
course clandestinely)
contact might be made
with the Pacific Ocean
(here hardly wide
enough, Miss Loveday
Boisragon felt, for all
that, so palpably,
“went on” there); that the
minute building, with its singing
canaries, its muslin curtains wav-
ing like flags through every open
window, was so sweet, so gay,
so airy that it might have been
constructed of sugarcane instead
of cedar, further conduced to
its recognition as being a Love
Nest, a place to be personally
and religiously avoided, but
nevertheless watched and gos-
siped about by all decent
Christians,
| T was Victoria McMurthie,
1 now seventeen, who first re-
ported the surprising existence
of this debatable dwelling.
Victoria’s father. Captain
James McMurthie, was a ship-
ping magnate poor enough to
be considered virtuous. He
owned various little ships of
sixty tons and under, which
sailed to Mauritius for sugar and
cocoa, to Van Diemen’s Land
for apples and potatoes, and to
“the Islands” to garner in what-
ever they might yield.
The Rose, a brig of forty tons,
carried the London trade, and
since she was not passed as be-
ing perfectly seaworthy. Captain
McMurthie usually sailed her
himself. She was, at the
moment, a month overdue from
Rio de Janiero.
These vessels had all been
named by the McMurthie family
in full conclave as they sal
round the red-clothed, lamp-lit
table in their two-storied wooden
house some way out of Parra-
matta.
The brig Victoria and Alber-
teena was named as a tribute to
the two eldest daughters, the
Edward and Elias was a compli-
ment to the two eldest sons, the
Henry and Alice, in this domestic
navy, represented the youngest
members of a family of sixteen;
all hungry.
The Fruitful Hannah cele-
brated the virtues of an ex-
emplary wife, of whom the
Captain was very fond ; the ketch
Dainty Jane he had himself
singled out for honor on launch-
ing her. (No member of the
McMurthie family was called
Jane.)
The daily lives of these
nautical children were so
wrapped up in the comings and
goings, the crews and cargoes
of their beloved vessels that they
felt every change of weather even
more acutely than the indefatig-
able man and girl, labelled “wet”
and “dry,” who popped in and
out of the Swiss Chalet set above
the dining-room mantelpiece.
The bunches of seaweed, the
swelling or wrinkled furbelows,
the dried-up scraps of arrow
muzlets or dahlia wartlets, nailed
to the verandah-posts, reflected
the emotions of these sea-
changed young people as faith-
fully as they, in their turn, were
influenced by the humidity of
the atmosphere; they were kept
for their prophetic qualities.
Should a cow lie down or a
swallow fly high or a spider spin
a web before noonday, such
apparently trivial happenings
would be reported as news; a
black nor’-easter would keep
Victoria awake all night; a
southerly buster would prevent
her from eating a bite of tea ; a
fair wind would send the whole
McMurthie tribe scattering like
gulls, to watch the Heads (hav-
ing begged lifts into Sydney) or
to organise riding parties to
some vantage-point along the
coast.
It was on one such excursion
that Victoria had observed the
Love Nest, which was not, of
course, supposed to be known to
her by so opprobrious a title ;
yet she had heard the name
applied to it.
Returning to the same
viewpoint one afternoon to-
wards the end of winter, she and
Miss Loveday Boisragon, who
had followed a rutty track that
dropped down to the sea from
Doggett’s Patch, reined in their
horses on a convenient head-
land, just facing the cottage from
across the river, and stopped to
discuss it.
It was a Monday.
That most revealing of all
betrayals, the washing, on which
a curious coterie from Doggett’s
Patch and Dural and even
Hornsby Junction had kept an
hebdomadal watch, was waving
in the sea wind that blew inland
every afternoon.
It was well known that every
Monday two sheets would
wanton in the breeze for some
three weeks on end ; that every
so often, four sheets would
make a snowy and irregular
appearance. Very strangely,
everyone thought, no saveloy-
like bolsters, full of wind, would
flounce about on the clothes-
line ; even more strangely, during


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
saf
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG!
if
m
SB
§i
VZS
m
BEEF
'SSE
for Export!
Of front-rank importance in Australia’s over
seas trade is the Export of Beef.
The cattleman knows the Ronaldson-Tippett
name. He associates it with the dependable
power he receives from his Ronaldson-Tippett
Engine and he appreciates it for the comfort
and convenience of the lighting and power he
receives from his Ronaldson-Tippett Electric
Lighting Plant. Known to him, too, is the
service which this organisation provides in a
splendid range of products covering the entire
field of primary production.
Making Australia STRONG is an obligation
which he accepts, come bushflre, drought or
flood and which the Australian community
recognises with gratitude.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD
Meat! Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
MELBOURNE Office: 638 Bourke Street. N.S.W.
Distbrs.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Frazer
House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’land Distbrs.:
Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Fty., Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle St., BRISBANE.
No. 7
RO N ALDSON-TIPPETT
a
ill
iili
iii
pi
poo
fl on
ati'-
/PI ST
.to
pf'*
\o*»
gM
i**'
9> y
A complete instruction book on
ONLY RAINBOW GIVES YOU
ALL THESE FEATURES:
dgse
FLEXIBLE COUPLING
Worked on a ball and
socket principle, this
coupling provides a
positive, watertight
joint in any direction
better than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordinary
outlet, but does the work of
hydrant as well! Simple to
operate, reduces obstruction
in both outlet and main.
0
4
STURDY ANGLE IRON STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24 ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates interference to
vegetation.
POWERFUL SPRAY
HEADS
Throw a fine spray over
an area 48 ft. square, or
a heavy spray up to
72 ft. square.
60/83.12
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
available to all
Rainbow Spray
Irrigation users
Here are all the answers to your
questions about irrigation! The
practical, versatile Rainbow Spray
Irrigation system can help you
make money, and this booklet tells
you how to get the most from your
Rainbow Irrigation plant.
With the booklet you get a complete
picture of Rainbow Spray Irrigation.
The Rainbow Company has given the
various problems of irrigating very
careful study, and this book is based
on the research of technical staff and
practical field experience. It tells you
how to plan an efficient and economi-
cal spray system, how to install it, how
to operate it, how to compute costs.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Bead Office; 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 3425.
Branch Offices: 0. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont,
Mildura; C. Beaumont, 64 King St., Melbourne;
230 Sheridan St., Gundagai, N.S.W.; Mr. N.
Peacock, Bridge St., Muswellbrook, N.S.W.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane; Ralph
Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Kor-
■will, 68 Hobbs Ave., Nedlands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent: Freshfields Limited, 118
Lambton Quay, Wellington.
the months on which a watch
had been kept, sometimes as
many as twenty or even thirty
sheets would flutter in the Love
Nest wash.
“As for night-shirts,” Miss
Loveday Boisragon had reported
to her sisters, “the effect of some
scores of them, all prancing
about in mid-air, was unnerving,
quite,” all Mallow's Marsh,
Dural, Doggett’s Patch and
Hornsby Junction could not
have supplied so many.
She had several times been
down to peep at the cottage, and,
today, talking to Victoria she
again expressed wonder.
“As a revelation of the
number of occupants of the cot-
tage, the number of sheets,
naturally, should be perfectly
illuminating.”
She waved the horsehair switch
which kept off the flies —some-
times.
“But I find the whole affair
baffling. We can go only by
averages: as far as 1 can make
out one person lives there, some-
times a second person stays a
few nights—under a week —and,
every two or three months, they
have a houseparty which would
tax the accommodation of St.
James’s Palace, or even Govern-
ment House in Parramatta.”
“But so many people change
only one sheet a week on each
bed,” Victoria protested. “The
lower sheet is put to the wash,
the old top sheet takes its place,
and a clean sheet is put on top.
Don’t you agree?”
“You completely amaze me!”
Miss Boisragon spoke with
energy.
The astonishment in her
charming voice was reflected in
the grey regard which looked
with penetration at the youth-
ful, glowing face beside her.
Victoria’s eyes, sloe-black, were
so shallow as to be without
light; even her brothers admitted
a resemblance to boot-buttons.
Devoid of candor, they told the
observer nothing; her mouth,
however, extremely sensitive,
having one corner curled up
more than the other, was always
revealing ; it gave her away.
“You know so much! Yet
your knowledge does not con-
taminate you! Someone in the
Apocrypha says, ‘The knowledge
of wickedness is not wisdom,’
yet there seems, dear child, to
be nothing you don't know.
What freedom your generation
is allowed!”
Miss Boisragon sighed.
“Was that want of freedom
your tragedy, dear Aunt?”
“Indeed, yes! Yet times have
so changed that I can speak of it
without a blush, and to a girl
of seventeen.”
“Tell me?”
“One Monday, long, long ago,
1 was so unmaidenly, so depraved
as they thought, as to read our
family washing-list. I was six-
teen, an ‘awkward’ age! My
parents, my dear father in par-
ticular, could not bring them-
selves to forgive me. They could
not forget a trespass so degrad-
ing. It was the reason, too, that
I never married.”
“Oh, surely not”
“Indeed, yes! The story got
about. So lascivious a curiosity
was considered to be ‘fast.’ The
gentleman who had been paying
his addresses to me would not,
could not, trust me.”
“You have lived it down?”
“Yes. But I have never for-
gotten him. I can never dip into
a blue eye without anguish. ’
SADLY the pair looked across
the swirling waters, now
sliding backwards to the sea
over rocks and sandbanks; the
tide was on the ebb. It was a
neap tide.
It was at that mysterious hour
of the late afternoon when the
shadows, darkly crepuscular,
appear to be longer than normal,
when a rosy light brightens the
tree-tops, emphasising the red
veins in each pendant eucalyptus
leaf, outlining each hissing wave-
let, now so languid, now so
fatigued after a long day’s work,
with a warm crease behind each
breaking crest.
The gulls were wheeling far
out to sea. The clouds bunched
round the declining sun were
apricot, stretching beyond the
estuary to a limitless horizon,
the ocean, heavy, inert, as if
stirred by each seventh wave
alone, was placid only in the
Greek sense, when the word
means depth as well as quietude.
Its color was so ambiguous as
to call to mind the phrases
Amarynthine purple, Tyrian
blue, or other such designations
that admit of no exactitude.
There was a breeze ; but it was
fitful, it allowed for moments of
inanition, pregnant as the silence
of lovers.
“A cherry-tree in flower is
lovely,” Victoria ventured, her
soul visible in her tremulous
mouth, “a pear-tree, too, in
moonlight! How bewitching!
A chain of hills —how ador-
able!”
She paused, looking with an
absent eye at what might have
been a seagull on the blue,
slowly-heaving ocean. Yet it
seemed not to be!
“Yes, dear child, you were
saying?”
“But a ship! A ship! Aunty
Loveday, how can I explain to
you all that a ship means to me?
A swan? A ship is lovelier!”
“Yes. Man has invented no-
thing. He improves. He copies.
He sees a swallow’s nest and
builds a palace. He sees a swan,
as you say, and creates a ship.”
Victoria re-established a shin-
ing top hat, heavily veiled, on
her thatch of short, vital, black
hair.
“Yes, man does copy, he does
improve on Nature. His ship
makes a swan look blowsy. Oh,
but do turn quite round!”
Miss Boisragon turned, horse
and all.
Their heads neatly inserted by
their drooping mounts amongst
the tops of blackened she-oaks
and saplings ; three years back
the bush had been burnt out,
the few standing tree-trunks, the
rocks, even wore widow’s weeds ;
the aunt and niece looked sea-
ward to watch a small vessel,
which, hitherto unnoticed, except
unconsciously, as being, perhaps,
a bird? perhaps a ship? as
their talk seemed to show, had
rounded the blue bay’s further-
most island.
“It blows up the estuary like
a lily before the wind.”
“How utterly I agree!” Miss
Boisragon was herself excited.
“He, dear, whom 1 shocked so
easily, he was a sailor.”
A girl in pink came out of the
cottage, a girl whose possible
good looks were not to be de-
ciphered, quite, at such a
distance. She stood waiting.
“A ship sailing into an arm
of the sea, into a purple inlet,
where a gay, gay cottage, its
veranda-posts made of Edin-
burgh Rock”
“No, no! Of barley-sugar!
No! Of something rarer, sa>
of Marzipan!”
“Of Marzipan, then —where a
girl in a pink dress is waiting foi
her sailor lover! Oh, what coulc
be more romantic?”
“Romantic? Yes! I agree
But I cannot profess to guess
why local opinion so insists or
the riches?”
“M a n Thomas and I k c
Peachey came down from Care-
free Farm to have, as they said,
a ‘look-see,’ and they told me,
with awe, that they saw a bunch
of bananas, as large as a wheel-
barrow, hanging up in the ver-
anda to ripen. There’s riches!”
“Pink, somehow,” the tone was
disparaging, the glance had
strayed back to the waiting
figure, “is such a plebian color.”
“A bit. It appeals too brazenly
to masculine taste.”
Was the ship a sloop? A brig?
A ketch? A cutter?
It finally revealed itself as be-
ing a sloop, with a single mast,
a fixed bowsprit, and a jib-stay
—a stay running from the mast-
head to the bowsprit-head. She
flew towards them, steering her
proper course under easy sail.
THE sun had dropped lower,
to shoot almost vertical rays
of light through the clear water.
The breeze had freshened.
“She is well handled for so
light an air of wind.”
Victoria spoke sagaciously.
She knew a great deal about
ships, having been permitted to
sail her own Victoria and Alber-
teena (in which her sister, being
younger, was allowed hardly a
share) from Sydney to New-
castle and back.
“She’s a sloop, possibly a
naval tender of some sort,” Vic-
toria decided. “Somewhere, out
of sight, there may be a larger
vessel.”
Still watching, she expressed
dismay.
“They cannot be so foolish as
to anchor just there, while the
tide is running out, and the sand,
as they must know, shifts about
in the channels. The wind is
freshening, too, and I think it’s
working up for half a gale. We
may even be in for a black nor’-
easter! ”
But, riding with a steep shore
on her larboard bow, a rock
and shoal extending on both
hands, the foolhardy sloop did
drop anchor with a rattle and
splash into a few fathoms of
water ; which, as Victoria well
knew, would momentarily lessen.
“That boat will be high and
dry in half an hour!”
The name, Amiable Nelly,
was now to be made out on her
stern ; she had swung-to almost
below their eirie,
“Hail them and tell them so.”
“They would not hear. How
queer the men look, fore-
shortened! So lively in move-
ment that they hop about like
Jacks-in-a-box whatever they
may be! ”
“Sailors use their arms and
lungs, don’t you see, more than
their legs, so, in any case they
have chests a bit too big for
them, you might say, but, of
course, they stand firmly—they
{Continued on next page.)


FROM YOUR
fyodMaf*TeHance
BK
H
is
*s«
;■
#cS#
ALLIS-CHALMERS
MODEL "D" GRADER
The Model "D" is the first of its size ever to be built
from the ground up. Functional in design and completely
free of all unnecessary gadgets, its appearance is stream-
lined and businesslike. Every detail was planned, produced
and job proven with just one idea in mind to offer you a
motor grader combining top performance in a host of ap-
plications, and real economy.
The Model "D" is a day in, day out, "big time" per-
former with many exclusive features such as: Tandem Drive,
Tubular Frame Construction, "Rollaway" Mouldboard, Rear-
mounted Engine, Arched Front axle, Extra Throat Clearance,
Grader-designed, Heavy Duty Power Train. All these, and
other proven performance features of large graders are
standard equipment on the big value Model "D."
THE "D" GRADER IS HO "ONE JOB" GRADER for it
• Handles Terracing
O Grades Shoulders
• Works and Spreads Oil Mix
• Levels Subdivisions
O Feathers Out Windrows.
• Cuts and Cleans Ditches
• Slopes and Banks up to 2:1
e Strips Sod
• Scarifies Toughest Surfaces
• Maintains Roads and Streets
EQUIPMENT FOR NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
7htt
Adelaide. Brisbane, Melbourne, Northern Territory, Perth, Sydney, Townsville
SERVICE CENTRES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
don’t roll in their gait! Do you
notice-? They stump about.”
How romantic the sound of
the masculine voices, carrying
across the water! Oh, Ido think
we are enjoying our afternoon,
don’t you?”
Victoria listened, a pleased
smile widening on her delicious
mouth. “They are singing ‘Abel
Brown.’ I recognise the tune!”
“Oh, Victoria! That shocking
chanty! Why, it’s never been
printed! It could never be!”
“Tra-la-la! Aunt Prunes and
Prisms! Nowadays girls are
not prudes!”
“It’s the little man who seems
to be ordering everyone about.
He is very brisk!”
J
They are putting some
bundles into the dinghy. The
two young men m coconut
dungarees are evidently going
ashore.”
Looking at the two well set-
up, handsome young men, Vic-
toria had a moment of exaspera-
tion.
“It’s really not fair that men,
who have everything —everything
—who are so clever and brave
and wonderful generally, should
have such good looks as well!
Look at their splendid physique,
elr muscles. Look the
ba f bs of f t J ie 1 l [„ even •
Beautiful. Miss Loveday-
unbenb. f t s the splendor of
P e £l? c , t health and strength.
Victoria ™ ade a decision.
We must certainly prevent
such s £P er J? mgs adom-
mg l a ship tha V s h ,‘ Bb a^ / clry on
rocks °. r sa ndbanxs. Will you
down to the shore with
, .. , ,
beir horses slipped and
sll Sf, red dow f ihe .
almost precipitous, river-
banb ’ bttered with so many
broken boughs and burnt trunks
trees. their transit took some
time an< i arrivi finally at the
water . s ,hey found the ide
indeed nir f ni ’ out
8 ’
\/ET the two men left in the
I sloop, leaning on the rail,
were talking in perfect uncon-
sciousness of the sloop’s peril.
They were quite absorbed, one
oldish, blue-eyed, the other
younger, brown-eyed, ruddy
under a deeply bumt-in tan.
They were obviously sailors —
almost sea-dogs—quite caked
with salt.
Just as at a review, at some
grand parade, a cur will appear
from nowhere, and, running be-
fore the troops, say, the House-
hold Brigade in all its glory,
bring an unwanted touch of
comedy to a splendid occasion,
so, apparently, to judge by their
remote air, their indifference, to
all attempts at intercourse, were
these two sailors accustomed to
find women springing up under
their noses ; unwelcome beings,
to be snubbed, to be ignored,
like dogs at a review. They
were perfectly aware of the
presence of the fair equestri-
ennes, who, so persistently,
hailed them. They scorned to
reply.
“Really, they are too ridicu-
lous! But a sloop is a sloop,
and well worth saving. Left
where she is our charming
Amiable Nelly will certainly be
damaged when the tide drops
even four or five feet lower.
I’ll edge Buttercup along to that
point, nearer the ship.”
Miss Boisragon, amused.
waited on the sandy spit a
hundred yards, perhaps, from
the ship.
Victoria, forcing her mount
into the river, guided it along a
shallow ledge until she was a
few yards—twenty or so —from
the Amiable Nelly.
“Hi!”
No answer.
“Hey, you!”
“Ahoy!”
Victoria, raising her clear
treble, became more nautical in
her appeals. They were un-
acknowledged. Regardless of a
trailing habit (it was fashionable
to wear a skirt almost touching
the ground), she let her mount
wade further across the deepen-
ing rocky shelf until the river
flowed strongly against her
stirrup, until her face was prac-
tically on a level with the averted
eyes of the chatting men; who
scorned, it seemed, to pay tri-
bute to her presence by shifting
their positions.
“Really!” Three yards from
them Victoria voiced her indig-
nation. “My good men. Unless
you bestir yourselves and get
into deeper water the tide will
leave you high and dry. I know
the river. I tell you, frankly, I
would not give a silver sixpence
for your little tub in an hour’s
time. Tid ebbing. Wind freshen-
ing. What on earth are you
thinking about?”
Indeed, a strong air was now
a little abaft their starboard
beam.
The blue-eyed man, the small
briskly-moving one, who had,
as Miss Boisragon had noticed,
been “ordering the others
about,” glanced an instant at
the swirling water (superficially
the river looked wide enough for
safety in all conscience), his
companion, too, glanced; dis-
may was registered in his face ;
anger on his companion’s.
“How soon do you expect the
crew back?”
The men who had toiled with
their bundles up the hill to the
cottage were now within doors,
out of hail.
“The bosun, who knows the
passage, may be an hour. I’ll
get the anchor up and work her
alongshore into deeper water.”
The tall man sprang up from
his lounging position on the
ship’s rail.
“Thank you for your warn-
ing.”
The blue-eyed man, without
thanks, was slackening a rope;
the sails had been furled.
‘< I HAD better take the wheel
1 —I know the channel well.”
The Amiable Nelly rode
dangerously close to a rock that
terminated sharply beside deep
water; and, by venturing, with
some intrepidity, to its limits,
the river almost to her saddle-
flaps, Victoria, leaning far out,
was able to clutch a rope, gain
a hanging ladder, and, helped by
the strong arms of the taller
sailor, make the deck without
disaster. Her mount, freed, was
caught by Miss Boisragon, who,
seeing her niece’s intention, had
followed her along the shallows
w'hich had befriended her pur-
pose. Withdrawing to the sandy
spit of shore, where she waited
with the two horses, Loveday
Boisragon, having twice search-
ingly observed the blue-eyed
man, had ceased to seem amused.
“Look to the sails, man!”
Like a pirate who had cap-
tured a prize, Victoria began
giving her orders, and she ran
gaily along the spotless deck, her
dripping habit scarcely impend-
ing her rapid flight.
The little man obeyed her;
sourly.
The anchor was weighed ; with
two to do the work enough sail
was soon set to bring the sloop
down-stream, and, Victoria at
the wheel, a safe berth was found
in deeper water. Here the sloop
was again made fast under the
lee of an islet to wait for the
dinghy’s return.
“After all”—running a cares-
sing hand along the smooth,
worn surface of the mast, Vic-
toria was gracious—“you two
work much better than I had ex-
pected. I took you for a pair
of guffies.” .
It had already been dimly
apparent to her, though, at the
time, engaged in watching the
color of the water, she had been
absorbed in steering the little
ship through a dangerous pas-
sage, the impression had not, as
it were, registered that the
taller man labored under strong
emotion. She realised, now that
she was less engrossed, that he
was agitated by suppressed
laughter.
“Your skirt is trailing on the
deck. Madam.”
The blue - eyed sailor, ap-
proaching nearer, spoke with-
out suavity.
Unaware that the deck, not
her habit, was his anxiety, the
young interloper, as she became
conscious of being, reassured
him with a bright “It’s dread-
naught. It’s waterproofed serge.
My father buys a bolt or two
every year from a naval quarter-
master he knows.”
Her answer brought no
responsive smile.
The sun, by this time about to
bed-down for the night, had,
like a Nautch-girl, shed its last
cloud. A bright red ball of
light, it stained the waters gold,
it splashed a dazzling glory over
the ship’s mast and stays and
rigging; making its ropes gold
and silver, its deck agate; there
was an exultation past expres-
sion in the beauty that renewed
every object on sea and shore
with a parting benediction.
Miss Boisragon, patiently
waiting on the radiant sands, sit-
ting her drooping horse with a
lissom grace, was a gold
statuette, something precious,
from Tanagra.
“Who is she?”
Leaning by Victoria’s side on
the rail, the brown-eyed man
was friendly ; he had got the im-
pression that the child was
“peaked.” She was, in fact,
anxious about the Rose.
“It’s my dearest aunt, Love-
day Boisragon. Isn’t she a sweet
little Pouter pigeon? She’s
always as neat as one of those
wooden figures of Mrs. Noah in
a toy Ark.”
“When that cormorant
frightened her horse and he
reared up on to two legs she
handled him well.”
He had noticed the incident.
“Oh, she’s a wonderful rider;
she’s a marvellous person. But,
of course, she’s old.” Sweet
seventeen was cruel. “She will
be twenty-nine next birthday.
But nothing daunts her.”
AND Victoria, being that kind
of girl, and used to taking
part in free discussions with all
her friends on the characters and
idiosyncrasies of all her
acquaintances, a diffuseness
rendered harmless by a general
goodwill, by an instinct that
recognised the basic untruth of
everything everyone said; the
victim of such gossip being en-
deared, rather than otherwise, by
all the imagined failings laid
bare, immediately embarked on
the tale of Miss Loveday’s
broken heart.
“And, do you know,” she
wound up, “that utter idiot, who
was a sailor, and sailors don’t
usually, do they? sheered off
just because, at sixteen, she read
the family washing-list. Yes,
she was pierced to the marrow
of the heart. She loves him still,
she says. She will always love
him. To dip into a blue eye
Aunt Loveday says, is anguish.
Anguish. It brings him so
clearly to her mind.”
Victoria found no difficulty in
catching her companion’s brown
regard, which remained glued
on her shallow, unshadowed
black eyes. Eyes as unreflecting
as slabs of chocolate, seeming,
too, to be all pupil and no iris.
Indeed, he was most flatteringly
attentive, his manner in direct
contradiction to that of his ship-
mate, who, from the first, had
betrayed a dryness, a dishar-
mony, rivalling that, say, of a
Gapelet, or even an Opelet,
jettisoned on hot sand by an
unkind tide; he was very stiff.
Used to a neighborly world,
Victoria could not make him
out. ,
“Oh, oh, oh! She read the
washing-list! ”
(Continued on page 24.)


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN WILLIAM EDWARDS late
of King’s Cross.—TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA MART EDWARDS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1603 of 1951 on
the grounds of repeated assault and cruel
beatings during one year previous to the
12th day of April 1951 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 10th day of September 1951 at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney and a copy of the Petition may be
had without chaise from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, of Bank Comer, Wickham, New-
castle, or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
4:
■■
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt,
now available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest
advance in rupture treatment. It supports not only the
hernia, but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving
the entire weight and pressure on the hernia area, and
prevents the spreading of the rupture. A feeling of
fitness and complete freedom entirely replaces the rigid
local pressure exercised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
/
ynu
Strong elastic panel
tor complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BEET
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “ The Rigiflex Method ”
NAME . J
ADDRESS
- STATE...
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
dxo
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
• Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
rr J i . C £C—tmroA (rr\rr%
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work—thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN it easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
S TIS"
i*** «c*
«** 1
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Helpful and informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Dolan (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box ISS2, G.P.0., Sydney.
I*/ 1**1
SUNDRY SHOWS
More Jubilation.
Confronted by the exceedingly
dismal lot of paintings which
New South Wales artists cyni-
cally sent into the National Gal-
lery to celebrate 50 years of
nationhood in the Jubilee Open
Art Competition, the adjudi-
cators, Lloyd Rees, Douglas
Dundas and William Dobell,
apparently lost their heads com-
pletely ; and, rushing blindly
away from the two best paint-
ings submitted, selected for the
final judging in Brisbane the
works by George Lawrence,
John Eldershaw, Mary Troy,
Sali Herman and Jean Bellette —
which indeed, though Harold
Greenhill’s “The Poultry
Farmer” deserves a mention,
were the best of the remainder.
The two outstanding paintings
were Arthur Murch’s “Fire” and
Lance Solomon’s “August
Day” ; the Murch a hot farm-
land scene in glowing crimson
and gold, the Solomon a study
of light coming through saplings
on to a bush creek, a spacious
and tranquil picture and one
which, instead of following the
fashionable trends of harsh-
ness, crudity, “monumentality”
or skittishness, dares to be
beautiful.
Of the five paintings selected,
it may be said, Without attempt-
ing to influence the final verdict,
that they all have quality in
their kinds. And with that, let
the judges in Brisbane do their
best; and then let the Jubilee be
forgotten as quickly as possible,
for history is not made by these
official functions but by the
painter of genius working
patiently and alone.
And if anyone wants proof
of that, let them look elsewhere
in the Gallery at Gruner’s im-
mortal “Spring Frosts” and
Lister Lister’s exceptionally
lovely “The Ever Restless Sea,”
both excluded from the official
Jubilee exhibition and both
remarkably unaffected by it.
Victorian Artists'
Society.
One thing demonstrated by
the Victorian Artists’ Society’s
show of watercolors and draw-
ings is that, generally speaking,
the casual and unpremeditated
sketches of artists are often
easier to look at than their
finished pictures, the reason
probably being that when they
are running off a sketch for
their own enjoyment they are
not thinking of anything but the
subject and can stick to their
first impression.
That may explain why Percy
Watson’s “Reclining Nude” has
a certain liveliness about it
which is conspicuously absent
from his abstract painting ; why
Esther Paterson’s good little
sketch, “Old Houses,” looks
freer than her portraits, and why
W. M. Underwood’s quiet study
in “The Inlet” is so atmospheric.
It may also explain why the
half-dozen lines in Mary Mac-
queen’s “The Student” are more
expressive than the multitude of
tones and colors in the “Washer-
woman” of Jennifer Purnell and
Ron Thackeray’s “Figure Com-
position,” which are, consciously
or unconsciously, influenced by
Picasso.
R. Malcolm Warner’s
“Suburban Street,” R. F. James’s
“Korea Patrol” and the “North
Queensland Town” of Joe
Greenberg have a similar
quality of freshness, as has the
glimpse of a mood of nature in
the “Twilight, Whittlesea” of
Peg Premills.
But it is hard to believe that
Richard Scales was thinking of
his subject when he put the
coarse brushmarks into the trees
and houses of his “Pinetree
House,” or that Henri Edelstein
had anything human before him
when he painted his “Secret
Female.”
A feature of the exhibition
is the sketches loaned by the
National Gallery, presumably
with the intention of showing
how the Old Masters would have
done it.
Art from Abroad.
Grace Cossington Smith’s
curious style, derived from
pointillism, of laying on the
paint in small thick oblongs of
color, like lozenges, so that the
picture at first merely dazzles the
eye but then gradually resolves
itself into form and meaning,
has always seemed like some-
one telling you a secret; but in
her exhibition at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries it always seems
to be the same secret.
True, the forms which mani-
fest themselves differ widely
enough; one may be a tree, one
a Devon village, one a sofa ;
and, hung separately in private
houses, each picture might have
its own story to tell. But when
they are all together the effect
is certainly monotonous, as if
style had come to matter to the
artist more than subject-matter,
and style were the only secret
each painting had to reveal.
Miss Cossington Smith’s
pleasant and distinctive work
has not given this impression in
the past, and possibly the simple
explanation for the comparative
pallor of this show is that all the
pictures were painted in Eng-
land and on the Continent, and
that both her style and her
temperament are happier with
the brilliance of Australian light,
the warm colors of the bush and
the serried foliage of the gum-
trees. Her best effects in the
present exhibition are in “In-
terior in Sussex,” “Autumn at
Ingram’s Green” and “The
Plain from Assisi.”
Nine by Fives.
A Nine by Five exhibition at
Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne,
apparently inspired by last year’s
Nine by Five show at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries, com-
memorates the “Nine by Five
Impression” exhibition of 1889
which gets frequent mention in
the art history of this country.
This was held at Buxton’s in
Swanston-street and arranged
and managed by Tom Roberts,
and among its exhibitors were
Streeton, Conder, McCubbin
and Withers, some of whom for
reasons of economy painted their
pictures on cigar-lids of the
dimensions that gave the show
its title.
The original exhibition is
generally regarded as marking
a turning-point in Australian
art and as ushering in impres-
sionism, though it didn’t do
either of those things, as is indi-
cated by a look round at the
Tye show, in which there are
several of the contributions to
the original exhibition mingling
with the moderns. It was a re-
action against the academism of
the day which drove artists a bit
closer to Nature, and it de-
veloped into a new academism
against which the moderns re-
acted in their turn, not towards
Nature but into new forms
which have become academic in
their turn.
The point that really matters
is how much of the universal
there is in all these movements,
and one thing is certain about
the Tye’s Gallery show—that the
dimensions of the tiny pictures
seem to have been a- benefit to
the artists, as nearly all their
work seems better than it is in
the larger and more pretentious
pictures that they usually hang
in exhibitions.
From A to Zinnias.
Alan Bernaldo, long estab-
lished as a popular painter in
Melbourne and now showing in
Sydney for the first time at the
Grosvenor Galleries, reveals in
a sense a quite remarkable tech-
nical accomplishment: framed
as oils, his large opulent flower-
pieces in watercolor have exactly
the effect of oils, a strange
solidity of form and texture and
sometimes, as in “Red Rhodo-
dendrons,” an astonishing vivid-
ness of color. It is very much
like an exhibition by Albert
Shermap.
But whether he is showing his
virtuosity in his strident masses
of zinnias or his versatility in
enormous watercolors of horses
standing pictorially beside hay-
stacks or gum-trees, it is all a
little vulgar, too commonplace
in arrangement and feeling, too
bright, too much on the sur-
face. It is Victorian in time
rather than in place; the sort
of painting that lingers on in
calendars and the windows of
popular art-shops.
The most surprising . thing
about it, since in the end the
technical accomplishment is lost
in shallowness of sensibility, is
that sometimes, when the artist
consents to subdue his exuber-
ance, the watercolors are
genuinely attractive. “Phlox,”
with its soft bluish drape, is a
quietly harmonious flowerpiece,
and in the smaller landscapes
such as “Autumn Fog,” “Morn-
ing Mist” and, particularly,
“The Lagoon” there are atmos-
phere, mystery, delicacy—some-
thing altogether finer in feeling
than the bulk of the exhibition.
Organ and Orchestra.
The Handelian spirit was well
captured when Dr. Thalben-Ball
collaborated with the Sydney
Orchestra under Goossens in the
Organ Concerto No. 10 in D
Minor, Op. 7, No. 4. This
arrangement of Handel by Sir
Henry Wood is a fine piece of
scoring for full orchestra, in no
wise detracting from the funda-
mentals of the composer’s music
and style. Dr. Thalben-Ball
showed his high quality in play-
ing of great verve, and, in the
extended cadenza of the final
movement, a complete and facile
mastery of the complexities of
the big instrument.
A first performance in Aus-
tralia of Darius Milhaud’s
“Suite Provenfale” proved to be
a turn-up. A contemporary
French composer and one of
The Six, Milhaud has in some
of his compositions tried to
inject much “wit” after the style
of Erik Satie, often with horrific
effect. But of his versatility
there can be no question. Here
he has turned to folk-music,
creating a suite of eight pieces,
all invested with delightful
rhythmic suppleness, melodic
appeal and with orchestration of
fine structural strength.
In this and in Schubert’s
Symphony No. 4 (the “Tragic”)
and Mozart’s “Don Giovanni”
Overture the orchestra’s work
was of its very best. Not quite
so happy was its delineation of
the alternating periods of bore-
dom and excitement that are
inherent in Ravel’s “Daphnis
and Chloe” Suites Nos. 1 and 2.
"Collits' Inn."
Mosman Musical Society’s
“Official Jubilee Contribution”
is T. Stuart Gurr’s and Varney
Monk’s “Collits’ Inn,” done with
all trimmings at Mosman Town
Hall.
Newcomer to the society John
Young gave the necessary color
and spirit to the role of outlaw
Robert Keane, and his pleasing
bass voice was heard to good
effect. As Mary Collits
Rhondda Baker found herself
with little time between songs to
make clear the real object of her
affection —Keane or Lenn Leslie
as Captain Lake, and that
despite the latter’s enthusiastic
love scenes. Gaynor Mitchell
as Sally and Cec Mackenzie as
Dandy Dick were deservedly
popular.
The play brings in interludes
of ballet and many songs with
chorus support, the best being
the “Bushrangers’ Song” and
“I’ve Got a Letter.” Apart from
those, however, the combined
chorus was not heard to the best
effect, and there were few oppor-
tunities for it to reveal the
quality which it has shown in
past performances.
Credits: Produced and
directed by Len Getting, musi-
cal direction by Herbert H.
Wyatt and ballets by Mavis
Sykes.
lan Hay’s “Little Ladyship,”
staged by Kuringai Theatre
Guild at Killara, Sydney, is a
pleasant little confection as easy
to digest as it is to forget. It
has all the high spirit, capers
and make-believe of a gift book
for the daughters of nice
suburban homes. The Kuringai
players handled it with the re-
quisite lightness, even if some
of the principals approached it
in a too casual matter-of-fact
way. Exceptions were Norma
Barker and Beryl Barnes, who
played their parts with a fresh-
ness and adolescent gaiety that
made life seem a jolly affair,
full of pranks and schoolgirl
schemings. Peter Richards pro-
duced the comedy and also
played the principal male role;
at no time did he appear to be
the brilliant young surgeon of
the play, but the fault was more
the author’s than his.


i®
§ y
ACHIEVEMENT
REFRIGERATORS
Australian railways and other systems about the
world are using or being equipped with English Electric's
Diesel-electric locomotives to speed passenger and
goods haulage. In the face of global competition, this is
an achievement resulting from the Company's research
and engineering resourcefulness. From those
factors, too, derive the lasting qualities and world-wide
favour of English Electric RITEMP Domestic Appliances.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
DOMLiTIC APPLIANCE DEPARTMENT • 51 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE BU 2088
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
ZJ
COOKERS
tMCMSM
electric
TP
WASHING MACHINES
FOOD MIXERS
PLATE WARMERS
AND FIRES
The brown-eyed man had
found a pretext for laughter.
How he laughed!
Though still standing near, the
blue-eyed sailor gave no sign of
having heard. He loitered,
though ; he did not move out of
earshot.
“Of course she could have
married. There was a widower,
for instance, but”
Was she being indiscreet?
Victoria wondered.
“About that widower?” She
was not to be let off.
“It was the horsehair sofa.”
As Victoria explained her com-
panion took notice of her
dimples. “When he came court-
ing every Sunday afternoon at
three o’clock sharp he and Aunt
Loveday and the little boy, his
son, don’t you know? sat on the
horsehair sofa the child always
cried. And so Mr. Tovey felt,
he told my grandfather—he was
Colonel Boisragon, of the
Indian Army—that perhaps his
son had taken a dislike to Aunt
Loveday; and he married Miss
Augusta Wirraway instead.”
“Did your aunt regret it?”
His young friend appeared to
give the question deep considera-
tion.
“A choice that might be said
to be made between the devil and
the deep sea—between making
a dull marriage or living a
spinster”—she finally allowed,
“is always difficult to make, but
it stands out, rather that Aunt
Loveday, who perfectly guessed
the reason for the child’s tears
—the pricking horsehair—did
not disclose it. She tells it now
as a joke.”
At this moment the boat,
manned by the two handsome
young sailors, was rowed briskly
round a bend and came along-
side, heavily laden.
“We came down today,” Vic-
toria remarked, watching the
men make the dinghy fast along-
side and begin dumping the
baskets it had carried on the
deck, “to peep at the Love Nest,
that cottage on the hill, which
everyone is so curious about
Something very wicked as far as
I can make out, is thought to be
going on there?”
Again the hearty laughter,
“Nothing more wicked than
the Admiral’s washing; and
sometimes, too, the wardroom
linen, of any ship in port. The
bosun’s wife lives there; she
washes for us, And of course,
the bosun gets leave, sometimes,
to wait a week with her. It’s
more convenient to send a boat
in here to drop or collect the
washing than to go into Sydney
Harbor.”
“Oh, have you a ship of your
own?” Victoria breathed.
“Certainly.”
He was not communicative.
“Has he ?”
No answer.
Victoria had slowly become
aware of a sinking of heart.
Were these two men, whom she
had so unceremoniously ordered
about, yes, and criticised, people
of importance? Not reefers.
Not Jack Tars? Not—above
all guffies? Chewers of
Bonded Jacky? Singers of Abel
Brown?
A S, trembling, she mused, she
** looked about her at the
shining brass, noticed afresh the
deference of the sailors who had
just come aboard; who smartly
saluted, it seemed, each time her
first friends drew a breath or
cast an eye upon them ; she then
observed that the trail of smoke,
apparent for some time as a
black indignity on the golden
air of evening, had chuffed it-
self fully into sight.
“A man-o’-war!”
Her delight in it brought an
answering smile.
“H.M.S. Grasshopper.”
“Oh! Your ship?”
“My little ship.”
Together they watched the
newcomer; smart as paint of
course. A funnel almost as high
as her two masts I elegant
P add lewheels piercing an iron
sulL5 ulL A graceful ship with stud-
sai s set ’
“Have yqu been in the China
Seas?”
“Yes.”
“Have you chased the Barbary
P irates from their nests?”
“Oh, y es ”
"Hid the Grasshopper destroy
the Russian fleet in the Bos-
phorus? Were you there?”
Stretching a point, he ad-
mitted to have been with the
® eet that wiped the Russian
Nav y °ff the map. The child
was 80 f ud °f a wild enchant-
ment - He had not known such
homage, even from the South-
sea fishing fleet, so feared by all
shy sailors,
He smiled at her. How de-
lightful her red, eager mouth!
How baffling her opaque eyes!
“I will take you back to your
aunt.”
Of course, the girl reflected
this was bound to end. “Will
you row me yourself’?”
The question the peri asked
St. Peter was not more pas-
sionately breathed,
“Naturally. Come and say
good-bye.”
The little man with blue eyes
had, of course, an air ; his nose
was set at a sharper angle sky-
wards than most noses, it
aspired, his eyes had a hard
glazed stare, without humor]
without humanity, but with
authority. Oh, yes! He was, in
truth, perfectly enraged at being
caught, a passenger, in the boat
that called for the ship’s wash-
ing ; he refused to unbend.
Into Victoria’s outstretched
hand he put a silver crown-piece
“For me?”
“With my thanks.”
He said no more, but turned
away. The series of accidents
that had led to the miscarriage
of his barge, and had necessi-
tated his transport to the Grass-
hopper by such a menial tender
as the Amiable Nelly was going
to make life difficult for some
unhappy midshipmite, that was
certain. The disgrace (as he
considered) of being caught out
by a girl of seventeen in so reck-
less an anchorage, he knew he
would never live down. In an
imagination that did not usually
function he pictured the ward-
room laughter ; behind his back,
yes, but he would be well
aware of it. Remembering, too,
the talk about his first love,
Loveday Boisragon, delighted
though he was to have escaped
so degrading a marriage. He
stuck his nose in the air, he
ground and gritted his teeth.
The dinghy put off, Victoria
steering, and in the Seventh
Heaven; her new friend, as she
thought him, rowing.
THEY found Miss Boisragon
walking the horses up and
down the sand, less a woman
than a silhouette, outlined
against a fading gold that, as the
three talked, became dusk; a
dusk washed with silver from a
rising moon; a dusk that was
the airy hunting-ground of some
sort of moth that, softly,
quietly, as the owl now stirred
in a near-by tall tree, would
brush, sometimes, with the sug-
gestion of butterfly kisses, their
cheeks.
The river, a moving tide, still
had its facets of light, a blink,
here and there, of phosphorus;
sometimes a fish jumped.
“Look, Aunt Loveday. A
present. A silver crown-piece.
For saving a ship.”
Victoria laughed as the man
with eyes of a color not now to
be determined lifted her into
the saddle.
“No one ever gives me
presents.”
Loveday Boisragon was wist-
ful.
The sailor, standing beside
her, taking a small hand offered
in farewell, said, as if he meant
it, “I will bring you a present.
Should you like a canary, a
parrot, a length of Chinese bro-
cade, a Spanish fan, an ivory
work-box from Golconda, a
phial of rose-attar from Persia?
Any of the things we poor
sailors bring back from sea?”
Looking mischievous, Miss
Boisragon leant from her saddle
to smile, in the illumined dusk,
into his eyes, and say “I should
like a canary, a parrot, a length
of Chinese brocade, a Spanish
fan, an ivory work-box from
Golconda, a phial of rose-attar
and a coral locket.”
The poor woman could not
actually ask for a wedding-ring,
but the question which then hung
in the air between them later
resolved itself.
He gave her one.
AS the Amiable Nelly put out
to sea to join The Grass-
hopper, which was beating off-
shore, Captain Jahleel Brattle
(whose eyes were brown), lean-
ing against the rail in talk with
(a blue-eyed) Sir Jason Popham
(Admiral of the Red) ventured
a criticism.
“Should you perhaps, er” —
he changed his text —“was it,
do you think, entirely right to
tip Miss Victoria McMurthie
five shillings for saving the
ship?”
“Perfectly correct.” Sir Jason
had regained his assurance.
“That girl was a person of no
family. You may trust me to be
the best judge of that.”
“Oh?”
“Yes. Did you not notice.
She said ‘my father,’ instead of
‘papa.’ ”
Captain Jahleel Brattle at this
moment made out the Rose hull
down on the starboard bow.
TWO SONGS OF MAD TOM.
(i)
I’ll sing to you, said the madman,
and you can sing to me.
I’ll sing you first of the red red bird
dancing in the tree.
That is not a red bird
dancing in a tree.
That is the fire of the world’s end
that burns for you and me.
I’ll rhyme to you, said the madman,
if you will rhyme again.
I’ll rhyme you now of the blue storm
above the silver rain.
That is not a blue storm
but the smoke of the world’s death,
and the rain that falls is an evil rain,
dark upon the earth.
I’ll sing to you, said the madman,
and I would hear your song.
I’ll sing the love of those lovers there
who lie in sleep so long.
Never look at those lovers
if you your song would keep.
It is death that holds them still
and poisoned is their sleep.
I’ll sing you now, said the madman,
of the place where the song grows;
of the red blaze of the furnace
where the world as a coal glows—
of the heart, that can turn its cancer
into heaven’a rose.
Of the heart, that can turn the world’s rage
into heaven’s calm
I shall sing till bird and lover wake
and time forget its harm.
(»)
Pausing at night on my long road I looked
and every star sprang to adorn my glance.
If I stand still and set my heart that way
I am the sun round whom those thousands dance.
Shall I go lonely then in the night—
I for whom every star puts off its veil of light?
When I stand still enough I am the star,
I am the wave of light, I am the word
spoken through me by earth to heaven. Fire
clothes me as close as feather clothes a bird.
How should my brilliant heart grow cold or die
that wears the double light of earth and sky?
Fire in the earth sprang outward through my bone;
fire in the stars leapt downward to my pole.
World married heaven, and their touch was I.
I am the spark that sets alight the sky.
I am the heat that keeps the living warm.
Crazy, withering, cold, alone
you think 1 stand. I am the universe’s soul.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
M
Circular Chart* (or all typ«*
of Recording instruments
(or Mijr clast o( Mi<hui«ry
or E<tulpm«n*
M€TE« CHARTS • SpocUKf
lakM 1 lltlUUll Ul «■ 0» fcM
J\t K W OSIJILI VAN % ltd.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
3
Cn
&
I
9.
cr
1$
If
£
7i
ss :::i**'in
llUlilUJi
the u)W\sM' 8
c %nft£^
“Trifles make perfection . . ,
but perfection is no trifle”
ini ri:i i i iii i n,iT!i
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Once
it was
only
galvanized
iron...
mm
m
*
%
M
"There was a time when the bulk
of Lysaght’s rolling programme was
centred around Galvanized Iron. It
still is, of course, but since those
days ultra-modern machinery and
streamlined methods of manufac-
ture have been introduced that have
stepped up output to levels never
dreamed of ten years ago! Our
range of steel sheets has also been
widened to meet the national needs
and to-day includes Zincanneal and
many special qualities such as the
new electrical and carbon steels.
And even greater expansion is
promised for the future!’'
LYSAGHT’S
Growing with Aus
John Ivscsght (Australia) - Ply.
S.VDN->V MHtOUftNE. BRtSBAST
aD'i'aVp;: rofMAM^lf
The Old mare
By
WILL LAWSON
“I jOU’LL take Number
\ J Eight north with the
\/ super-heater job tonight,
L Mack,” the steamshed
boss at Broadmeadow said to the
old driver who was cleaning his
engine. “She’s too heavy for
the Old Mare,” he added. “Too
heavy by ten per cent.”
Mack straightened up from
his inspection of a valve, and
with anger on his face de-
manded “And for why is she too
heavy for the Old Mare? Ten
per cent, or no ten per cent,
over, I’m taking the Old Mare.
I’ve no use for your newfangled
rigs.”
“You’ll take the responsibility,
too, then.” The boss said no
more. Anyway, it was no use
arguing with Mack. He had a
wonderful record as a driver.
“I will that,” Mack agreed
quickly, a slow smile coming
over his face. “And the Old
Mare’ll take the extra load.”
AN hour later Number Eight
came in with a new engine
wheezing like a tired horse.
Mack backed the Old Mare
down to the train. A shunter
said “The new job on the mail
wasn’t too good. She’s two
minutes late at that.”
It was a heavy train, no
doubt, to drag over Liverpool
Range and the heights of Ken-
tucky further north. But Mack
had no qualms. His fireman
Danny worked well, and had
steam sizzling from her valves.
But the steamshed boss watched
a bit anxiously as she pulled out,
with a boastful yell on her
whistle.
The yell soothed the boss’s
worries, however. He felt the
power there. And he was right
in his faith in Old Mack, for
when dawn was breaking the
Old Mare and her big train were
warbling over the grades on
Liverpool Range, steam singing,
and Old Mack humming the
song of Solomon, which was his
pet tune. To the mighty beat
and throb of funnel and pistons
and wheels, he sang it, to his
engine:
How beautiful are thy feet,
O Prince's daughter. The joints
of thy thighs are like jewels, the
work of the hands of cunning
men.
In the frosty air Mack leaned
out of the window of the cab,
and hummed his song while the
Old Mare sang, too. What was
an extra ten per cent, to them?
They were mates, they under-
stood and the Old Mare just
pulled. That was her job.
Even the fireman sang as he
swung his shovel and made her
fire roar. When he looked
behind as good firemen do, to
see that the whole train was
following, he grinned to see
what they were hauling and
keeping on time, too. He looked
at Mack and muttered “You
can’t beat the old cow. He's
a wizard, all right.”
Princesses may be accustomed
to high places, but the Old Mare
just revelled in them. Mur-
rurundi and Ardglen were but
preliminaries, breathers for a
galloper. From Ardglen the
grades fell steadily. Mack had
to hang on to her to avoid being
ahead of time. But past Tam-
worth the grades began to rise
again, steadily, almost secretly,
stealing up on the Old Mare.
The track looked the same, the
extra rise was imperceptible, but
Danny the fireman felt them.
He had to work hard while
Mack used every trick he knew
to save steam and get the power.
A hundred miles north at Ken-
tucky, the Old Mare was just
to three thousand five hundred
feet above the sea —and still
going. But her speed was down
to twenty miles an hour. The
weight of the three-hundred-
ton train was telling.
Danny got out the long
pricker to stir her fire, while
Mack swore a little. But they
kept her going, and at last they
were over the top and tearing
downhill through Kentucky and
Uralla and Kelly’s Plains to
Armidale, right on time.
MACK had not left his
engine, which was in the
hands of the cleaners, when the
shed boss came to him with a
wire in his hand. “Broad-
meadow wants to know how you
got on with the ten per cent,
extra load,” he said.
Mack looked up at the grin-
ning face of the boss and said
solemnly “Tell them just two
turns of the gear off the centre,”
which meant that her throttle
was not fully open. Then Mack
chuckled and went on with his
inspection of a leaky gland.
But as the boss moved away, he
called after him “And Danny!”
The fireman loved the old
man . . . Many a lad had his
first lesson in driving, on an
off-day, going a trip with Old
Mack. Cleaners and hostlers
and others in the sheds swore
that Mack talked to the Old
Mare; and, moreover, thal
when he chided her she answered
back.
“The Quid Divil, they shoulc
call her,” Lanky Tim said, wher
with some mates in the sun hav-
ing lunch. “Why, the other da>
Old Mack was going for her, as
if she was his missus.
“ ‘You messed things up on
the slippery patch at Dick’s
Crossing, old lady,’ he said, so
he did.”
“And what did she say?” a
youngster asked with bright
eyes.
“Look, as sure as I sit here,”
Tim said, “she hissed
‘Sa-a-n-d! Gimme sa-a-an-d!’
And Mack laughed, and he says
‘D’ y’ think I’ve got Newcastle
Beach in the boxes?”’
“She’s a great engine all
right,” a cleaner said, “but out
o’ date. They’ll scrap her soon,”
“Mebbe,” Tim agreed, “but
not while Mack’s about.” Tim
was a firelighter, and had
special knowledge of the inner
souls of engines, which is what
a good engineman has to have.
It was what Mack had. But the
years were closing in on Mack
and his engine and he knew it,
and fought all the harder for
her.
THE shed boss came one day,
and his manner was that of
a man who gives orders.
“McAuliffe” —he said sharply,
o Continued on page 32.)


=S3*S?
Fu Si tissue Service
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has, since its
inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to the provision of prompt, efficient and economical
service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) j Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W, Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) ; John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever*
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
O It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
O Its charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklef.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
tgfhd
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNB*
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AFTER INFLATION, SLUMP.
American miners’ leader John
L. Lewis, featured in a recent
cable as declaring that “the
United States might soon have
to choose between a war or a
depression,” is not alone in fore-
seeing prospects of a coming
slump.
In a London “Fortnightly”
article Paul Einzig, political
correspondent of the “Financial
Times,” has speculated on
possibilities of the slump which
he regards as a practical cer-
tainty to follow the present in-
flation, and in which the general
public, though few of them
might now believe it, “would be
even worse off amid falling
prices” than they are with
everything on the up and up.
The experts, he comments, are
all too busy trying to find a
solution of the problem of exist-
ing inflation to be searching for
remedies against the deflation
that may follow. On all sides
the memories of the deflationary
difficulties during the ’twenties
and ’thirties have faded into
oblivion in face of the acute
troubles caused by rising prices,
it being one of the characteristics
of human nature to believe that
the trend which happens to be
in progress at the moment will
continue indefinitely. “We are
undoubtedly caught in an in-
flationary vicious spiral; wages,
costs and prices are chasing
each other incessantly. On the
face of it there appears to be
no reason why it should not con-
tinue like this for years without
a major break.”
After examining causes of in-
flation and debunking sundry
“cures,” the writer insists that
the longer rearmament and
stockpiling continue the more
vulnerable the price-level will
become, and the graver will be
the danger of a violent slump
that will take place when ab-
normal requirements come to an
end. “Admittedly there is no
need to expect a relapse of prices
to their pre-Korea level. Prices
did not return to their 1914 level
after the 1914-18 war, nor did
they show any inclination to re-
turn to their 1939 level after the
second war. But prices may fall
heavily without returning to the
pre-Korea level.” And “the
moment the consumers begin
to feel that the tide has turned
they are certain to curtail their
purchases in anticipation of
cheaper prices.
“An announcement of an
agreement to relieve the inter-
national political tension would
be generally regarded as a turn-
ing point of the trend of prices.
Any such agreement would
necessarily contain provisions
for a limitation of armaments,
and possibly even for actual dis-
armament. This would mean
that buying for rearmament and
stockpiling would cease over-
night, which fact alone would
be sufficient to produce a re-
action in the markets. It would
then be found that supplies of
scarce raw materials are not,
after all, nearly as scarce as is
believed. Supplies from many
unexpected directions would be
thrown on the market, and
prices would tumble.”
It may be objected, the writer
further comments, that nobody
could possibly take it seriously
if Moscow and Peking con-
sented to sign a scrap of paper,
and that, even if rearmament
and stockpiling were suspended,
everybody would be convinced
that the improvement would not
last; a return of international
tension, and with it the rearma-
ment race, would be widely
anticipated:
“In reality, the longing for
peace in democratic countries is
so strong that most people
would wish to believe, against
their better judgment, that ‘this
is peace in our time.’ It would
then become politically and
psychologically impossible for
the Governments of the demo-
cratic countries to continue
piling up arms and strategic
materials, apart altogether from
any provisions in the agreement
preventing them. Parliaments,
depending on popular vote,
would not be able or willing to
approve any further expendi-
ture for that purpose. Even
those who could not believe in
the possibility of permanent im-
provement would expect the in-
terruption of the armament race
to last at any rate for some
time. They would act on this
belief by liquidating any supplies
which are not needed in the
immediate future.
“Industrial firms who hold
raw materials acquired at high
prices would suffer heavy losses.
So would commercial firms
holding stocks of manufactures
produced with the aid of high-
priced raw materials. They
would abstain from replenishing
their stocks, and demand would
fall. Unemployment would
rear its head. If the slump is
allowed to take its course it
might produce a very ugly situa-
tion. It would breed widespread
misery amidst which many
people would look back on our
days of rising prices as a time
when they did not know how
well off they were. The discon-
tent generated would provide
subversive elements with good
opportunities to exploit the
grievances of the victims of the
slump.”
The rulers of the Kremlin,
argues the writer, are no doubt
fully aware of those possibilities ;
are sufficiently Machiavellian to
realise the possible economic
consequences of a settlement
with the Western Powers. “Ad-
mittedly, at present the chances
of an agreement to relieve the
tension and bring the cold war
to an end do not appear very
bright But it would be a mis-
take to rule out the possibility
of a change in the Russian atti-
tude. Marshal Stalin and his
advisers are reasonably aware
that a suspension or reversal of
the rearmament race would pro-
voke a slump in the democratic
countries. And there is nothing
they would like better than a
slump that might go a very long
way towards facilitating the
bloodless victory of Communist
imperialism.”
Pointing to the well-known
fact that ever since the end of
the war it has been the duty of
every Russian writer on the sub-
ject to forecast such a slump in
the West as an absolute cer-
tainty, the “Fortnightly” writer
suggests that the rulers of Mos-
cow, if they had not been con-
vinced that the slump would
help them to achieve world
domination without having to
fight for it, might perhaps have
decided to risk a third war be-
fore now. He holds it conceiv-
able that the Kremlin is mark-
ing time, hoping that the longer
an agreement is delayed the
—“South Wales Echo.”
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
higher the West’s prices will go
and the sharper will be the
slump.
The West’s leaders he sees as
being in the awkward position
that if and when the Kremlin
changes front, they would have
no choice but to seize upon any
conciliatory gesture, irrespective
of the mental reservations and
after - thoughts the Russians
might have behind their offer of
a settlement. “Even if we were
certain that the settlement
meant a grave economic crisis
we should have no choice but
to accept it irrespective of its
consequences. After all, even the
gravest slump is preferable to
another world war. It would be
politically and morally impos-
sible to refuse to sign even if
we were certain that the agree-
ment would be worth no more
than the scrap of paper Cham-
berlain brought back from
Munich. It is true, in agreeing
to disarmament, or to a limita-
tion of armaments in the absence
of a genuine change of mind in
Russia, we should expose our-
selves to the risk of intensified
subversive activity as a result of
the discontent caused by the
slump. But even that risk
would be preferable to a war.”
However, “it would be pos-
sible for us to reduce the risk
by adopting the necessary mea-
sures to moderate the slump
when it comes,” which is why
he believes “it is essential that
those responsible for the shaping
of our economic policies should
realise in time the possibility of
a slump. In spite of their pre-
occupation with the problems of
inflation they should find time
for studying well in advance the
measures needed in order to
check it before it spells disaster.
To begin with, it is essential to
decide that the slump must be
checked instead of welcoming it
as a relief from the inflationary
pressure. The popular line will
be to allow prices to fall to the
lowest possible level. The lay-
man can hardly be blamed if
he were to expect his Govern-
ment to follow such a policy.
But experts, statesmen and ad-
ministrators ought to know
better. To some extent the fall
could and should be allowed to
take it> course. But a halt must
be cdled before it has assumed
such dimensions as to cause
wholesale bankruptcies and
large-scale unemployment. This
in spite of the unpopularity of
any official resistance to the fall
in prices.”
Even so, “A single Govern-
ment would not be in a posi-
tion to hold up the avalanche of
falling prices. Close co-opera-
tion among a number of Gov-
ernments would be needed. The
Western democracies,” the writer
concludes, “cannot afford to re-
peat the slump of the ’thirties.
In the interests of survival they
must prepare for such a slump
before it is too late.”
Malayan Optimism.
One of Edinburgh “Scots-
man’s” very able correspondents
has drawn up a remarkable list-
ing of “official optimism and in-
eptitude” in Malaya.
Here are some of his speci-
mens, dating from June, 1948:
“I am confident that order
will soon be restored”—the High
Commissioner for the Federa-
tion, Sir Edward Gent, on June
30. More than 1500 civilians
have since been murdered, some
after horrifying Chinese tortures.
The G.O.C. Malaya, Major-
General Sir Charles Boucher,
complained that “terrorism had
got more than its fair share” of
publicity (July 5). The General
decided “that with a few ex-
ceptions [there are] adequate
forces. ...to destroy the hostile
forces.” Mr. Malcolm Mac-
Donald, on July 8, said it was
possible to exaggerate the “tern-
porary emergency.” Within a
month Mr. MacDonald un-
nounced that reinforcements
equal to two brigades were corn-
ing and would restore Order
“within the next few months.”
Since then, 400 civilians have
disappeared, almost certainly
murdered.
The Communists would be de-
feated in October (1948), said
General Boucher on August 7
that year; three weeks later he
added that “things are improv-
ing.” But 11,500 people are
still detained under emergency
regulations without trial on sus-
picion of helping the enemy.
“We are getting on top”—
Secretary of State for the
Colonies, Mr, Creech Jones,
quoted with approval by the
Federation Chief Secretary, Sir
Alex. Newbolt, on October 3.
But more than 2000 Communists
have been killed and there is still
no proof of getting on top.
“Bandits will not attack a
vehicle if they know that a
second one is coming which can
engage them” —Gen. Boucher on
November 2. That same day
three police were killed in the
second of a line of three vehicles.
Police casualties now top 700,
many of them in ambushes,
“The bandits are short of food
and arms, their communications
are disrupted, and their morale
is low,” said Sir Alex. Newbolt
on November 19, echoed by
Gen. Boucher a week later. In
the two following years military


It’s that
Warns face
When "she" plays, Mister, her goal is that
Ingrams face! I . . . because an Ingrams
face is S-M-O-O-T-H . . .
Ingrams Shaving Cream marks up a cool,
comfortable shave every day for 120 days
from just one Jarl
Combines its own face lotion, tool Get
Ingrams from your Chemist to-day.
A Product of Bristol Myers
IS-25
a
SHAVING CREAMt
fbgh
SHAVUW
CRtM*
n
They’ve got
Australia’s
est jobs...
Here’s why
Men in the Services hold a place of
honour in the community, an honour
which they thoroughly deserve because
theirs is a valuable contribution to
Australia’s strength.
Australia, as a free democracy should
look after them well reward them
well . . . and Australia does!
An 18-year-old serviceman who has
completed his basic recruit training
(normally 3 to 6 months), is paid over
£B/7/6 a week (this rate is subject to
further increase during August). In
addition, food, accommodation, clothing,
medical and dental care, etc., are pro-
vided by the Services. Special extra
allowances for married men.
And here are further advantages which
make a career in the Services even more
attractive.
★
★
★
★
A pension or gratuity on retire-
ment.
At least 3 weeks’ holidays each
year.
Organized, on-the-job training to
increase your skill and pay.
Security continuity of employ-
ment and a regular income at all
times.
drthbbde
For full information enquire
at: —
Combined Services Recruiting
Depots or Information Bureaux
At the following addresses or send coupon;
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Streets: In
iftti ■ffisff 'STiaA “
Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
DR41.142.51
action in Malaya has cost the
British taxpayer £4,000,000.
“Conditions have improved
considerably and we are making
steady progress” ; the complete
overthrow of the bandits is
“merely a matter of time” —
C.-in-C. of the Far East Air
Force, Air-Marshal Sir Hugh
Lloyd, on January 26, 1949.
Two years later to the day, the
High' Commissioner, Sir Henry
Gurney, said that at last some-
thing was really happening to
stamp out the enemy.
“It will take two years more
to end terrorism,” said Mr. D.
Rees Williams, Under Secretary
of State for the Colonies, on
February 4, 1949, Bandit mur-
ders then averaged 31a month ;
so far this year they have
averaged more than 50 a month.
“Thanks to the dramatic and,
as events have proved, decisive
defeat of the open Communist
challenge.... .law and order were
maintained.” Singapore’s
Colonial Secretary, Sir Patrick
McKerron, in his 1949 report.
But Communist arson cost Singa-
pore more than £1,000,000 in
1950.
“Bandits are worthless as
fighters.”—Gen. Boucher in a
farewell message to his troops
on March 2, 1949. But 5000
bandits are still holding their
own against 16,000 troops, de-
spite the General’s comment
when he took command that it
was the easiest job he had
tackled.
“There is no doubt about the
progress the Government is
making in the war.” —Sir Henry
Gurney in September, 1950. But
two weeks later Mr. Mac-
Donald’s unkind verdict was:
“Only a fool would say that the
situation is definitely getting
better.” That year 19 British
rubber-planters were murdered.
The correspondent concludes
with his own terse comment:
“Now Government officials are
saying that the public must end
the emergency this year; it de-
pends also on how many more
miscalculations the officials
make.”
U.S. Air Strength.
Based on his personal obser-
vations during a recent visit to
America, a high tribute has been
paid by British Air-Marshal Sir
Robert Saundby to the U.S. Air
Force.
In the course of a London
“Daily Telegraph” article he has
stated that the U.S.A.F.
standards of flying, navigation
and airmanship have nothing to
fear from comparison with any
Air Force in the world. Their
standards of intelligence and
physique are outstanding, he
added; their discipline and
training are excellent:
“With regard to aircraft and
technical equipment the
U.S.A.F., in some important
respects, leads the world. They
still have something to learn
from us [Britain] on the subject
of jets and gas turbines, and
they are resolved to learn it as
soon as possible. They are going
to. build under licence our Can-
berra light bomber, and certain
of our newest types of jet
engines. Their fighters and
radar equipment are in the front
rank for quality and perform-
ance.
“But it is in the, realm of the
long-range bomber that their
greatest advance is to be found.
In the 8.50, and still more in the
8.36, they have bombers of out-
standing range, carrying capacity
and defensive qualities. The
American Strategic Air Com-
mand is a magnificently-
equipped and very well-trained
force, and its strength is rapidly
growing.
“I believe that the trouble-
makers in the Kremlin will
think twice, and more than
twice, before they embark on
aggressive action which will ex-
pose them to attack by the
Strategic Air Forces of the
Atlantic Treaty Powers.”
Various Voices.
Speaker at a British Press
Association lunch : “I wish Mr.
Morrison well in his new task
of pouring oil on troubled
waters, though in present cir-
cumstances perhaps it might be
better expressed by ‘pouring
water on troubled oil.’ ”
Anthony Eden : “In respect of
the Middle East I would say to
our American friends, if they
have any doubts in their minds,
if for any reason the flow of oil
from Persia is halted and the re-
finery at Abadan can no longer
function and offer its contribu-
tion to the economy of the Wes-
tern world, the difficulties are
not going to halt at the Persian
frontier. This is a matter of
concern and interest to us both
and the whole free world, be-
cause we are in it together and
we must solve it together. What
is going on in Persia today is
important to the economy of the
West, it is quite essential to the
future of Persia, and the final
implications go much wider
than mere questions of oil —
they are strategic also.”
Canadian Secretary of State
for External Affairs, Lester
Pearson : “Our common defence
is the immediate and urgent
goal of the North Atlantic
Treaty. May we not in these
past two years have taken at
least the first steps towards
something much greater and
more positive —a genuine com-
munity of the Atlantic? This is
a long-term objective which, of
course, has to be subordinated
at present to the exigencies of
the immediate situation in which
we find ourselves. We are de-
fending ourselves against a
threat which is not regional but
global.”
German Chancellor, Dr.
Adenauer: “It became clear at
the conference of Foreign
Ministers’ deputies that the
Soviet Union is not prepared to
alter its political course, but in
spite of the acute tension I do
not believe there will be open
war this year or next.”
General Matthew B. Ridgway,
Supreme Commander of Allied
Forces in Korea: “I believe
it quite possible that... . history
may some day record that the
crest of the Communist wave of
cold-blooded aggression was
broken against the arms and the
will to fight of the United
Nations battle-team in Korea,
and that this menacing flood,
reaching its high-water mark on
the Korean front, thereafter be-
gan its recession in Asia.”
Nigel Birch, 0.8. E., M.P.:
“Mr. Herbert Morrison is not
going to be a good Foreign Sec-
retary. When you hear him
speak in the House of Com-
mons you feel certain that his
order of priorities is, first, how
to do down Aneurin Bevan,
second, how to do down the
Tories, third, how to serve the
honor and interest of his coun-
try. Our greatness was not built
upon such stuff.”
Charles E. Wilson, director of
the U.S. Office of Defence
Mobilisation : “Actually, we are
already very strong, and our
strength grows daily, and of this
the enemy is well aware. He
knows about our mounting store
of atomic weapons. He knows
of our strategic Air Force....,
He knows of our mighty Navy,
which, along with the British, is
capable of controlling the seven
seas. He knows we are making
progress in guided missiles.
Finally, he knows that our land
forces and those of our allies
are already powerful enough to
strike terrible blows if it should
become necessary,”
President Truman: “China
was taken over by the Com-
munists because of the failure
of the Nationalist Government
to mobilise the strength of
China to maintain its freedom.”


rtg
3DN33ONNIJSMS
and winning ways
In childhood’s care-free, happy days,
Then youth and love their joys impart —
The Springtime, song-time of the heart!
Along green lanes where lovers stray,
When chill winds greet the fading day,
All springtime sweethearts know, be sure,
The worth of Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
mm
$3l
M
*S£
IP
More successful men use
He
WORTH SMART
mwr
mm/
PALMOLIVE
than any ather SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s a
credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will look good and
feel good with Palmolive — the Shaving Cream that gives
3 men out of every 4 a better shave. Proof? Here it is.
We asked 1,251 men to try it . . . 81% reported "Beards easier
to cut”... 76% said "Less razor pull”. ..71% said
"Closer shaves”,.. 80% found "Smoother feeling skin.” But
you be the judge. Follow the example of successful men.
Get smoother, more comfortable shaves with
Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
bdr
ONLY
.2'3,
The shaving cream
of successful men
PS3/121
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
Oo<y £■
12
UOVCIKK*
10
THERE IS ALWAYS A BEST 11
' j/te ypez/c/j
3%moubetl
CONSULT YOUR OWN JEWELLER
Sole Aust. Representatives: Segal & Company, Sydney and Melbourne
LW.1.16
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No! I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“A proposal to have General Mac-
Arthur proclaimed ‘King of all the
Nations’ was made this week at Hod-
gcnville, Kentucky.”
This can succeed only in
aggravating Dr. Evatt.
“When preparing a pot roast of
horse, the cook should remember that
the meat tends to be sweet.”
— “Time.”
If it’s an old racehorse it’s
certain to have had a lot of sugar
on it before.
•j*
“The Persian oil crisis is bad
enough, but what about the caviare
crisis yet to come?”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It is bound to be unpalatable
to the Soviet.
•p 4*
“I support the gospel of hard work.
Sport is not our most important
national industry.”
—Dame Enid Lyons.
Not even when it takes the
form of wharf-fishing.
•P 4* 'l*
“Tipperary (Eire) Council is offer-
ing farmers 7s. 6d. each for the heads
of foxes and a neighboring council
offers a similar sum for each tail.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
This will only lead to double-
dealing.
No Close Confinement.
“Prisoners will dine in an oak-
panelled banqueting hall, will be
allowed to catch trout in the lake and
roam the 400-acre estate, heavily
wooded with trees from all over the
world. But some of the British public
are asking ‘Where will this molly-
coddling of wrongdoers stop?’”
To sternness was the judge in-
clined,
And yet he spoke in tones
designed
To minimise the growing terrors
Of William Sykes who waited
there.
The very picture of despair,
About to pay for crimes and
errors.
“Have you a word to say, my
man.
Which can explain,’’ the judge
began,
“Your conduct simply atavistic
Before you set out for the Hall
Reserved for citizens who fall
From grace in regimes social-
istic ?
Or if you’ve some request, speak
out,
Ere you go off to haunts of
trout;
It can be anything in reason.”
The answer came: “I’ve one
alone.
Melud, I’d like you to postpone
My time until the open season.”
BERT.
Aftermath.
“At the marriage celebrations, last-
ing over a week, of Stalin’s daughter
Svetlana, and which cost £200,000,
toasts were drunk in pink champagne,
and there was plenty of American
peach-brandy.”
The great junketings at the
Kremlin were over.
In contradistinction to the
vulgar lavishness and ostenta-
tion that invariably mark the
celebration of the nuptials of the
daughters of big capitalists in
the Western plutocracies, on
which, as “Depravda” scorn-
fully attested, as much as
£201,000 is sometimes spent, the
festivities attending the marriage
of Joe’s daughter had set back
the Red Fiihrer, who still glories
in his simple peasant tastes, a
trifling £200,000.
As the party’s official organ
went on to point out to the
happy workers of the Paradise,
this humbleness on the part of
the Beloved Leader, the almost
puritanical determination to be
still one with the toiling masses
in his stern refusal to surround
himself or his-family with any-
thing even remotely suggestive
of luxury, gave added proof, if
any were needed, that all the
proletarian proclivities still
abided in the faithful breast of
“ I love dancing with you, David—you re so light
on your feet”
the little Red Father of all the
Russias.
There had been only one jar-
ring note in the arrangements for
the feastings. Joe had ordered
5000 dozen bottles of red cham-
pagne in honor of the world
speed records put up by the
glorious Red Army in its retreats
before Hitler’s hordes in 1941.
The Commissar for Collectivised
Vineyards had reported that it
had been found impossible to
develop a red champagne. Joe
had flown into a rage. The
Commissar, his deputy and 150
yignerons were thereupon shot
in the back of the head for
“counter - revolutionary acti-
vities,” and one of Joe’s nephews
was appointed to the post at an
extra 100,000 roubles a month
and a palaceful of ballerinas for
his delectation.
The new Commissar reported
that a red champagne was still
not evolvable. Despite all the
efforts bent to the task by a team
of Famous Soviet Scientists,
however, it had been found pos-
sible to get a pink champagne.
The Red Fiihrer decided that
the drinking of this at the feast
would be a graceful tribute to
fellow - travellers, eminent
counsel in the British Empire
who rushed to the defence of
Joe’s stooges in the courts,
gullible Western parsons who
gave earnest support to phoney
“peace” committees, and Aus-
tralian “Labor” politicians who
were stoutly fighting for the
preservation of the party that
was committed to their destruc-
tion.
The Russians had ordered
Persia to send 20 tons of their
choicest caviare as a wedding-
gift. At first Persia’s strong
man, Premier Mossadeq, had
howled with rage ; then he had
howled with relief to think he
hadn’t been ordered to send 50
tons; after that he just had his
ordinary daily weep.
The highlight of the celebra-
tions had been a great act of
clemency on the part of the Red
Fiihrer. As a very special con-
cession for such a happy
occasion he had ordered that
those of the 14,000,000 counter-
revolutionaries, Fascist beasts
and criminals in the slave-labor
camps throughout the Soviets,
whose failure to reach their
daily quota of work would
ordinarily entail flogging with
the knout, would, during the
celebrating-period, be flogged
only with lengths of rubber
hose.
It was a couple of days after
Joe’s daughter had gone off on
her honeymoon that the Com-
missar for Reclaimed Offal,
Boris Tartarov, who had been an
official guest at the wedding, was
arrested at 2 a.m. by N.K.V.D.
guards and taken to the great
Bortzk prison in the Grymm
Prospekt for interrogation.
Except that he had to stand
on tiptoe for 12 hours because
relaxing on his heels would have
meant their being beaten to
pulp, having a glass of water
pushed to within an inch of his
outstretched finger-tips after
two days without a drink, and
with a 100 c.p. bulb burning
within six inches of his eyes for
24 hours, absolutely no duress
was brought to bear upon him
to force any answers. What he
had to say would be purely
voluntary.
The examiners, stern-faced
men questioning in ceaseless
relays, kept up an unending fire.
Why did he select English
bloater to eat at the feast instead
of honest Soviet cabbage-soup?
Was he not aware that bloaters
were caught by minions of the
capitalists? He had been
observed drinking peach-brandy
instead of the national vodka.
Did he not know that to drink
the product of a plutocracy such
as America amounted to devia-
tional cosmopolitanism?
He had been seen looking at
the man seated next to him at
the feast-table, Colonel-General
Bumpdoff, smoking an Havana
cigar. He must have known that
Cuba was a satellite country of
the Wall-street warmongers, and
that to smoke anything that came
from there was a crime against
the State. Why had he failed
to report this breach to the
secret police? Tartarov had
also, it had been reported, eaten
two Norwegian sardines. Nor-
way was a signatory to the
Atlantic Pact anyone who
ate a Norwegian sardine could
not . but be guilty of harboring
anti - Stalinist, pro - Trotskyite
thoughts. Even at the end of the
feast he had picked his teeth
with a toothpick made in
Canada. Had he done this as a
deliberate flaunting of his
previous sabotage?
The Commissar’s answers
were not taken down. They
didn’t need to be, for his guilt
had been established to the com-
plete satisfaction of Beria’s
secret police before he could
give them, and even before his
arrest.
In view of the need for con-
serving bullets, which would be
needed for the Chinese “volun-
teers” fighting the American and
British aggressors in various
parts of Asia, the guilty Com-
missar was thrown in front of
the Moscow-Lvov express.
“Depravda,” reporting his
death from natural causes, said
he had been working hard lately
and was very much run down.
It was the one item of truth
in that day’s issue.
BO
Distracting.
The pretty girl with perfect legs
Deplored her dual grace.
“The men,” she moaned, “admire
my pegs —
And won’t glance at my face!”
B.B.


m
V„
.vjSSSs®
~„. ■■■'■"■■ V* A
*%c^ s^%Ss»
m
m
0
m
Don’t get OnbaiKUSftf" this winter
If your battery is weak, you can be sure that
it will pick the most embarrassing moment to
give up the ghost and put you on the end of
a crank handle—particularly in winter with
the extra strain of cold starting and longer
use of lights. There is only one way to avoid
this —have your battery tested regularly and,
if not in good condition, replace it with a
guaranteed Goodyear Battery. Then you’ll be
sure of ample power for quick starts and all
other winter driving needs. The Goodyear
De Luxe, insulated with Felted Fibre Glass,
is the finest battery that you can buy. For
long service at lower cost your Goodyear
Dealer recommends the
Goodyear Heavy Duty
All - Weather Battery.
See him for a battery
check-up NOW!
get
going
with
BATTERY
As good as
the name it bears
SHEAF
THE STOUT
THAT’S RICH
SATISFYING!
vS
»
V
<*OyL,
&
*op s
o
0
h
tf o, t
a «•
o/J*
•Of * .
Co
i a
® o
BS.iez.ia
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The current effort of Melbourne
owner O. R. Porter, or, rather, of his
horses, in notching up an Australian
stake-winning record for a season,
brings to mind another Porter, who,
in another country, another age and
another sphere of racing, raked in
stakes that make Mr. Porter’s win-
nings seem the merest peanuts. And
this was done in days when stakes,
on the whole, fell much short of
present-day levels.
The career of the famous English
trainer John Porter extended pretty
much over the latter half of the 19th
century, during which time his
equally-famous training establishment
Kingsclere housed at one time and
another the horses of a list of owners
which reads like a sizeable extract
from Debrett. Aside from H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales, later Edward
VII, Porter’s patrons included the
Duke of Westminster, their Lords
Stamford, Alington, Portsmouth,
Grosvenor, Spencer, Downe, Paget,
M. Beresford and W. Beresford,
Baron de Hirsch and a swag of
baronets, knights and mere esquires.
Between 1863 and 1895 (which is
not the complete story, but is, unfor-
tunately, as much as is covered by
Porter’s biography, published in 1896)
horses trained by Porter won a total
of £521,682, an average of £624 for
each and every one of the 836 horses
he handled. Actually, Porter’s care-
fully-kept records show that 321 of
the 836 horses were winners, bagging
among them 818 races. Of the
owners the biggest individual stake-
winner was the Duke of Westminster,
who between 1882 and 1895 collected
£166,685. That, however, was the
accumulation of 14 seasons’ racing;
the best effort for a single season was
Baron de Hirsch’s tally of £33,382
in 1892, when, among other win-
ners, he was particularly successfully
represented by the great mare La
Fleche.
After the Duke of Westminster,
Porter achieved greatest success for
the partnership of Lord Alington and
Sir F. Johnstone, whose bag over 15
years was £94,275. Third on the list
of satisfied customers at the Porter
establishment was the famous Turf
figure Sir Joseph Hawley, whose pat-
ronage gave Porter his first real start
in the game. However, while Haw-
ley’s stake-winnings of £72,707,
amassed in the 11 seasons up to
1873, seems a tidy amount, it would
represent very small change alongside
the betting plunges he landed on some
of his winners. When he fancied his
Derby candidates Sir Joseph cus-
tomarily had them backed to win
something round the £lOO,OOO mark,
and it might be mentioned that he
won the Derby on four occasions.
One of those wins, however, netted
him virtually nothing. In the Derby
of 1868 Hawley had three horses
engaged—Rosicrucian, Green Sleeve
and Blue Gown. He had them each
backed for £BO,OOO, but, against the
opinion of trainer Porter, who fafl-
cied Blue Gown’s chance, and of his
regular rider Wells, who plumped toi
Blue Gown when offered his choice
of the three, the owner took a set
against Blue Gown, hedged all ms
bets on the horse and ran him purely
as a gesture to the public, who were
more inclined to agree with the
trainer and the jockey. Blue Down
won by a half-length, with his stable-
mates unplaced.
Melbourne’s Mr. Porter is reputedly
a very big punter, and undoubtedly,
by present-day standards, he is; he
was reported to have laid £7OOO to
£4OOO on Chicquita in the Oaks. But
while the so-called leviathan punters
of today are accorded a deuce of a
lot of publicity, they’d have attracted
very little attention in Sir Joseph
Hawley’s day. In connection with
the Derby of 1867 Hawley, by way
of a side wager, bet Mr. Chaplin an
even £50,000 his own horse The
Palmer against Chaplin’s representa-
tive, Hermit, one to win. Little
wonder that in a day when jockeys
were seldom rewarded on the lavish
scale currently in vogue Mr. Chaplin
delightedly bestowed £3OOO on J.
Daley after that rider had landed
Hermit a winner by a neck.
Altogether there must have been
some pretty solid punting on that
particular Derby. The Duke of
Hamilton early in the piece laid
£lBO,OOO to £6OOO against Hermit, but
had the extreme good fortune to have
the bet declared off some days before
the race. Owner Chaplin was reported
to have won £141,000, aside from the
trifling prizemoney of £7OOO. Revert-
ing to the even-£50,000 wager, inciden-
tally, S’Joseph must have thought
he had much the better of the deal
when, on the day of the race, his
horse was a 7-to-l second-favorite,
while Hermit started at 100 to 1.
All of which has taken us a con-
siderable distance from John Porter
of Kingsclere, and a sight further
from Mr. O. R., Ossie, or “Lucky”
Porter of Melbourne, whose five-
year-old Enfield gelding Foxen landed
the aforesaid Australian stake-winning
record for his owner when he started
favorite and downed a poorish field
in Saturday’s Leamington Hurdle at
Caulfield. Winner’s cut of the Hurdle
prize was £7OO, taking the Porter
winnings for the season to £29,896,
against the £29,350 chalked up by
the late E. E. D. Clarke in_ 1927.
Punters vjfo landed the double in
Saturday’s jumping events by coup-
ling hurdle favorite Foxen with equal-
favorite Maelstrom in the Redleap
Steeple owed their success very much
to the herculean job of riding per-
formed by K. Wilson on Maelstrom.
At the half-mile Maelstrom and
Repeater passed the early pacemaker
Prestonholme, and the Steeple resolved
into a two-horse race; and when
Repeater was well clear in the straight
it looked very much a one-horse race.
However Repeater began to stop
badly, and, sensing a chance, Wilson
proceeded to give Maelstrom the
works. He got up to win by three-
parts of a length, with Faunus third.
The Tasmanian Garrick, who looks
big enough to carry the grandstand,
and very nearly jump it, too, finished
nearly last, but he is capable of much
better performances.
In the flat events punters had a
poor spin apart from the success of
Friar’s Hope, hot favorite for the
first Lillimur Two-year-old. A narrow
winner from the filly Audit, Friar’s
Hope gave Purtell his 64th winner
of the season.
The rot set in then with the run-
ning of the second Lillimur, which
saw Gay Carnival (K. Tresize), at
twenties, win handily from the 16-to-l
chance Burdindi. However, worse
was to follow in the shape of the
Yaralla four-year-old Great Actor
(W. Martell), who started at 33 to 1
and won the 6-furlongs Kambrook
Handicap by head margins from King
Richard and Mindrill. Backed-in
fairly well, but still 12 to 1 at the
finish, Generous (L. Lott) downed
Vrondi and Dashing Beau in the
Murrumbeena Handicap (12f.) and
Raysun (R. Hutchinson) took the
Malvina Welter to 9 to 1.
* * * *
The Sydney Turf Club endeavors
to wind up the season on an interest-
ing note with its £BOOO winter double,
but far more interest than could be
inspired by the most lavish prize-
money has been aroused as this sea-
son draws to a close by the rattling
close finish being fought out by W.
Cook and A. Ward in the jockeys’
premiership. One winner apiece at
Rosehill on Saturday saw the boys
still level-pegging with 41 winners
each and one meeting to go.
The main double of the day at
Rosehill produced a glorious justifi-
cation for those who pin their faith
in association of names, but it was
a grim result for the majority of
punters. The £3OOO Winter Handicap
(7f.) went to Fox Gold (J. Deely)
at 14 to 1 and the 10-furlongs Rose-
hill Handicap to Golden Bird (G.
Podmore) at 16 to 1. Coupled on
the doubles tote this auriferous pair
turned five-bob’s worth of silver
into the golden-sounding sum of
£132 9s. 3d., which is one formula
the medieval alchemists evidently
didn’t think of trying.
Fox Gold, who is a three-year-old
chestnut colt by Coronation Day
from Yately, really did the job
extremely well, and apprentice J.
Deely, riding the winner, thoroughly
justified the faith shown by connec-
tions in putting up a boy still entitled
to a 71b. allowance in a race in
which he not only couldn’t claim but
actually had to carry a couple of
pounds over. A very small, nippy
colt, Fox Gold was ridden a beauti-
fully-judged race, and, coming
through fast on the inside to take
the lead at the distance, he scored
by more than a length from Field
Boy, with Le Dauphin an un-
expectedly good third. An interesting
note on the Winter Handicap was
that 12 of the 16 runners were last-
start winners. In following up his
Moorefield win the previous week with
a game victory in Saturday’s Rosehill
Handicap Golden Bird did so at the
expense of the well-backed Wanfield.
The pair fought it out head and head
over the final furlong, and Golden
Bird had it by a nose in the photo-
finish.
The sole winning favorite of the
day was Ward’s winner, Colonel’s
Daughter, starting at 7 to 4 in the
Merrylands Mixed (7if.), a race which
punters had singularly well summed-
up; Piracy, Final Lady and Juani,
who followed Colonel’s Daughter in
the betting lists, also followed the
Mosaic filly in correct order past the
judge. W. Cook’s winner for the
day was not near so popular; Cook
bagged the 7-furlongs Two-year-old
Handicap on Dubious, a Double
Remove colt who had disappointed
at previous recent outings and con-
sequently started at nines.
* * * ♦
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old; Ahmed Khami, 1;
Flying Penny, 2; Channel Patrol, 3.
Australasian Mixed: AH Jeep, 1;
Video, 2; Comedy Belle, 3. Parra-
matta Mixed: Le Dauphin, 1; Vimy
Ridge, 2; Bifold, 3. Auburn Mixed:
Auld Acquaintance, 1; Barrymore, 2 ;
Sea Edge, 3. S.T.C. Cup: Crag Son,
1; Conductor, 2; Silver Buzz, 3.
Flying: Field Boy, 1; Fox Gold, 2;
Trover, 3. Welter; Veiled Art, 1;
Aden, 2; Alabama King, 3.
* * # *
Many southern visitors to Brisbane
for the recent Doomben meeting
dropped off on the way back at
Grafton (N.S.W.) for the Clarence
River Jockey Club’s always-popular
and very long-established Cup meet-
ing. First leg of the main double,
the £4OO Ramornie Handicap (6f.),
went to a local horse in Pullson, who
downed the visitors Freyberg and
Gold Fort. Second leg, the £1250
Grafton Cup (10f.), went to Bonny
Romance, who, on Ramornie Day,
had bagged the mile C.R.J.C. Handi-
cap. Bonny Romance won from
Northern Warrior, a very unlucky
customer who has now filled minor
placings in three Grafton Cups. The
Sydney horse Yeoval started an odds-
on favorite for the Cup, but finished
only a moderate third.
« ♦ * •
“Pass-it”: In Brisbane on Saturday
the New Zealand All Blacks won the
third and final Rugby Union Test
against Australia by 16 points to six.
Once again the Australian forwards
won more than their share of the
set play, only to be disheartened by
the futile attempts of their three-
quarters to pierce the defence of the
New Zealand backs, who stood up
close. Unfortunately most Australian
backs do not get the encouragement
to think out manoeuvres and tech-
niques whereby one or two of the
inside men squeeze every inch to
get an outside man in a reasonably
good position to beat his man; their
attitude seems to be that somewhere
along the opposing backline there
will be a weak link in the defence,
so it is only a matter of passing the
ball along the line so that each can
test his opposite. This style of back-
line play does pay dividends provided
you win sufficient of the ball, and
provided, also, that your opponents
line back deep enough to allow you
to carry out your plan. But when
the opposition line-up in close
defence, as did the New Zealanders
last Saturday, a little more thought
is required of the inside men. Kick-
ing is one of the means employed to
drive back this type of defence;
present writer has often seen this
method adopted, but can honestly say
that he has never seen it succeed.
However, there are many other possi-
bilities, and it is up to coaches and
captains to nut out the ways and
means which will best suit their par-
ticular players.
In the Sydney competition matches
on Saturday, Norths maintained their
position at the top of the table by
narrowly beating Eastwood, 6-3. In
other matches University scattered
Drummoyne, 17-6; Easts obliterated
Parramatta, 36-3; St. George downed
Wests, 11-3; and Randwick, despite
the absence of three of their top
players with the Test team in Bris-
bane, beat Gordon, 18-6. Manly had
the bye.
* * * *
Footscray downed Richmond on
Saturday, which left “the four” un-
changed and Carlton and Footscray
hovering round the next rung waiting
for someone to miss a step. ’Scray s
fast and youthful team bounded away
from the Tigers from the first bounce,
and were never headed, to romp in
by 9.17 to 6.9. Geelong, V.F.L.
leaders, galloped all over South Mel-
bourne for 18.11 to 9.8, and Fitzroy
treated St. Kilda in similarly cavalier
fashion for 11.10 to 4.16. Grounds
were sodden, the weather icy and the
scores low. Carlton could manage
but 7.13 against the improving Haw-
thorn’s 5.8 ; the rejuvenated Essendon
kept its place in “the four” by beat-
ing Melbourne, 10.14-8.6; and Col-
lingwood’s small men proved too good
for North Melbourne by 8.8 to 6.12.
* * * *
At Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday France won the third and
deciding Rugby League Test, 35-14.
The winning margin was a record
one. In contributing 7 goals the
brilliant French full-back Puig-Aubert
brought his total for the three Tests
to 18 goals, thereby completely shat-
tering the previous individual record
of 12 goals for a Test series which
was set by Dally Messenger in 1910.
The gate for the third Test, although
it , was a restricted “all-ticket” affair,
was, at £11,493, a record for a League
match in Australia. The gross gate
for the whole tour, £64,000, was a
record. The French team’s cut of
the gate, £34,000, was a record. And
the number of people who, in the
face of the Frenchmen’s record of
having lost only two of the 17
matches they had played, sent Aus-
tralia out a 5-to-4-on favorite tor
the third Test must also have con-
stituted some sort of a record.
At Leichhardt last week title-holder
Jimmy Hogg defended his
N.S.W. flyweight championship with
spartan courage, but he was even-
tually licked to a frazzle by the chal-
lenger, Johnny Gleeson, who scaled
Bst. It didn’t look likely to go any
distance when hard rights to the chin
twice dropped Hogg for counts of
“eight” very early in the piece. How-
ever, Hogg, living up to his name as
regards the receipt of punishment,
kept coming back for more, and
actually, for a few rounds, piled up
quite a number of points with straight
lefts. Gleeson, after winning the 10th
round from end to end, dropped
Hogg for “nine” with a right to the
body early in the 11th, repeated the
dose with a left to the chin, and when
Hogg struggled up, only to be im-
mediately felled again, the ref. inter-
vened.


FIVE HUNDRED CtEAH
SHEEP pe* gaUOM
TAUBMANS RUDIP 1*250 CONCENTRATION
DUAL-PURPOSE DDT JET AND DIPPING COMPOUND
* KILLS LICE AND KED (I GALL 250 GALL. WATER) * MIXES WITH SULPHUR DIPS FOR ITCH MITE CONTROL
it MAKES A PERFECT TIP-SPRAY OR JETTING SOLUTION PREVENTS BLOWFLY STRIKE (I GALL TO 62 GALL WATER)
it MIXES INSTANTLY WITH HARD OR SOFT WATER it IS NOT EFFECTED BY RAIN FOLLOWING DIPPING it ABSOLUTELY
NON-STRIPPING it NO UNPLEASANT ODOURS it FOR FULLER DETAILS SEE OUR RUDIP LEAFLET OBTAINABLE
FROM STORES, WOOL HOUSES AND STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
YOU CAN TRUST TAUBMANS AT DIPPING TIME I **
A PRODUCT OF. TAUBMANS LIMITED. CHEMICAL DIVISION. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep in New Guinea.
“Murrawong”: The first clip
from the Hallstrom farm at
Nondugl, via Lae, mainly from
Romneys and Romney-cross
ewes, was sold in Sydney re-
cently. The sheep were taken to
N.G. partly as an experiment to
find out if the climate and pas-
tures were suitable for sheep-
breeding, and also to provide a
source of clothing for natives
living at high altitudes. Present
method of keeping warm ap-
parently is to congregate the
family inside the hut, and, after
hermetically sealing off all venti-
lation, huddle up in a heap. This
is blamed for the high incidence
of lung trouble. The natives
are now being instructed in spin-
ning the wool and weaving it
into blankets on home-made
looms.
Australian sheepmen have
awaited the results of the sheep
experiment with interest. The
property is at a high altitude,
and the annual rainfall of lOOin.
is more often exceeded than not.
The wool sold in Sydney was
grown under 120in. rainfall.
Getting the wool to market
raises a barrier of costs. After
shearing and pressing the bales
are sent by air to Madang for
shipment to Sydney. Under
quarantine regulations they have
to be steam-fumigated on arrival
before they can be prepared for
sale.
To give the sheep a better
opportunity of standing up to
the heavy rainfall it seems likely
that crossbreds will have to be
shorn every eight or nine
months, and as a result the
staple will be short. The wool
was subjected to close inspection
at Grazcos’ woolstore by a
number of experts including H.
B. Carter, B.V.Sc., of C.S.I.R.O.
Wool Laboratory, Dr. P. R.
McMahon, Director of Sheep
and Wool at Sydney Technical
College, and the Department of
Agriculture sheep and wool ex-
perts E. A. Elliott and J. Cole-
man.
The first clip opened up
rather disappointingly. Color
was unattractive, much of the
staple was tender, and there was
a fair amount of canary stain
and cotted wool. Bulk of the
clip was 50’s quality with a
proportion going down to 46’s
and a fair amount of 56’s. Top
price at auction in May was
and the clip averaged
78d.
The second clip opened up
better and should average
higher, although wool prices
have dropped considerably since
the previous sale. The staple
was sounder and there was not
so much canary-stained and
cotted wool. There is, how-
ever, a very high proportion of
skirtings, due not to vegetable
fault but to heavy condition and
staining, which, no doubt, re-
flects the high rainfall and
resultant conditions.
Whether or not the Romney-
cross is the type of sheep most
suited to New Guinea is debat-
able. From a woolgrowing
point of view it leaves much to
be desired. The most attractive
fleeces in the two clips were
those of highest spinning quality
—comeback types of good staple
length and color. But other fac-
tors of local importance such as
a good mutton carcass and the
type of wool that lends itself to
easiest manipulation for manu-
facture by the natives must be
given consideration, and the man
on the spot should be the best
judge.
Contrary to general ideas on
the subject, fine-wool Merinos
might do better under the heavy-
rainfall conditions than British
breeds, but they could only be
considered if the venture aimed
at wool for export only.
The ideal sheep to meet all
requirements, local and export,
may be something between the
two extremes. A big-framed
comeback may be the answer.
In any case, there is scope for a
testing of theories, and while it
does not seem probable that
sheep-breeding in New Guinea
will ever compete with the in-
dustry on the mainland, suit-
able grazing areas may be found
and a suitable type of sheep
evolved.
Is Plainness Overdone?
“Archaps”; Records showed
that over the past 10 years not
one ounce of extra wool had
been placed on the Australian
Merino, D. M. Archer stated in
his presidential address to
Queensland Merino Stud Sheep-
breeders’ Association in Charle-
ville. This might not be so
serious as it sounded, he added,
but it could be if the stationary
aspect developed into a decline
in the next decade, which it was
reasonable to expect would be
the case.
It had been stated on good
authority that stud sheep were
becoming too plain, and that
graziers were carrying too many
sheep on the country. If they
were to carry fewer sheep the
possible decline of fleece cut per
sheep became of paramount im-
portance, and, as custodians of
the wool industry in Queens-
land, it behoved studmasters to
give careful thought to the
future from that angle.
Hybrid Maize.
“Hortus”: Maize is shallow-
rooted and so requires a deep
ploughing in autumn or early
winter. It’s not too late now to
prepare N.S.W. soil. Go as far
as the subsoil will allow and
leave in the “comb” through
winter months. There’s nothing
better for maize than to let the
sun, frost and rain penetrate the
soil. In early spring cross-
plough ; shallow this time. Fol-
low up by harrowing and cross-
harrowing.
Time for sowing depends on
locality. The general idea in
N.S.W. is to start early on the
North Coast in August. Later
sowing as you come south.
October has proved best for the
South Coast, Northern Table-
land and north-west; November
for south-west and December
for M.I.A.
Sowing “on the square” has
proved very effective in pro-
ducing larger cobs, filled with
straight rows of regular grain.
Furrows are made every 3ft.,
and then cross-furrows are cut
also 3ft. apart. Two grains are
dropped at each intersection.
You get fewer plants, it’s true,
but the advantage is you can
cultivate both ways. Thus keep-
ing down the weed-growth im-
proves the cobbing.
Field-maize competitions in
Gundagai-Tumut area, in con-
junction with R.A.S. and De-
partment of Agriculture, proved
that hybrid varieties are coming
into favor. In Tumut they filled
first, second and fourth places,
Hybrid D.S. 333 topped the poll
with an estimated yield of 142
bushels to the acre. Other
hybrids were D.S. 28, Regal and
Sterling.
r r.
For the Dogs.
“Shadow-chaser”: The only
body of pastoral workers who
have not benefited greatly by the
wool boom are the dogs,
Though their money-value has
risen, they are, as a rule, over-
worked, badly housed and
underfed.
Inarticulate, and without a
union to protect them, they are
too often literally “treated like
dogs.” Many are killed and
maimed yearly by careless
motorists, more go down to
distemper; others are tortured
by mange, ear-canker and
neglected feet. Since the wool
industry could not carry on
without them, it is surprising so
little has been done by the
C.5.1.R.0. in the way of re-
search into dog diseases.
A good sheep-dog is worth
anything from £lO to £5O, so
from the mere money point the
above suggestions are worth
considering.
Drovers, whether horse or
motor transport, are not always
the best of masters, and deserve
the attention of R.S.P.C.A.
inspectors.
Kidney-worm in Pigs.
“A.W.”: Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture says there
is no known cure for this
disease. A neighbor had a boar
paralysed in the hindquarters.
Sent the particulars to the Stock
Department. They diagnosed it
as kidney-worm from the symp-
toms and said there was no
cure. The boar died.
Replaced by another between
18 months and two years, it de-
veloped symptoms of kidney-
disease. A bushman told him to
rub the small of the pig’s back
with turpentine twice a day (not
mineral turps). He did this, and
though the boar was paralysed
in the hindquarters for a fort-
night he completely recovered.
Later another boar stricken the
same way got the same treat-
ment and recovered. Don’t let
the turps spread on the sides of
the pig. It’s worth a trial where
kidney-worms are suspected.
A Word for Goats.
“L.A.P.”: “John S.” (B.
4/7/’5l) doesn’t know much
about goats. Goats, like human
beings and other animals, don’t
like the rain, but can patiently
endure it if necessary. They
can go for long periods in cool
weather without water, but in
the warm weather need a drink
fairly frequently. If the goats
are milkers they need as much
water in proportion to their
size as a cow.
Does “John S.” know that a
good goat, properly cared for,
can give a gallon of odorless,
pleasant-tasting milk per day?
With our present and probable
future milk and butter shortages
lots of people are solving the
problem with a goat. Purchase
price is between £lO and £5O,
and, like most things, they are
in “short supply.”
Scrub Ticks.
“Bill C.”: A common fallacy
is that they do not harm dogs
unless they are embedded in the
ears, head, neck or between the
toes. Actually, a big tick will
cause sickness and paralysis
from any position.
For about four days a tick
merely sucks a little blood, but
afterwards it discharges this de-
composed blood back into the
host, and this causes the illness.
At first the tick is yellowish
brown, flat and hard to the
touch, but it turns blue or blue-
black and becomes bloated and
fat after four days.
Before the paralysis appears
the dog will appear slightly ill
and breathe with a snoring
sound. At this stage, if the tick
is located and destroyed, the dog
is sure to recover.
Be on the watch for a second
tick (half-grown) lurking near its
bloated parent. Give the dog a
dose of sulphur in treacle, as
sulphur is a blood-purifier, and
give him only finely-chopped
meat for a few days.
Money from Hens.
“My”: The longer birds are
kept in production (to the end
of the second or even the third
laying season) the more profit-
able the venture, as fowls cost
a lot of money to rear or
replace. Grade pullets in the
laying houses to size and avoid
overcrowding, allowing about
4 sq. ft. of floor-space per bird.
Provide plenty of clean straw
litter, and replace it every three
months so as to reduce risk of
disease. Cost of the new straw
will be partly offset by the
manurial value of the litter.
Keep down red mites (a major
cause of low production) by
frequent application of a good
disinfectant such as D.D.T.
1 per cent, suspension and tar
oil at full strength applied to
perches and crevices.
Feed a variety of clean, whole-
some food and a continuous
supply of greenstuff. It’s
scarcely necessary to add that
there should always be shellgrit
and clean, cool drinking water.
Milk-cooling.
“Big Billy”; Efficient cooling
is most vital in producing good-
quality milk. Points to watch
when installing this apparatus are
the cooler must be large enough
for the work it has to do, water
should flow directly from well
to cooler and the supply should
be connected to the bottom of
the cooler.
The quantity of water required
is at least five times the amount
of milk to be cooled (inlet pipe
should not be less than iin. and
outlet pipe not less than lin. in
diameter).
A bowl placed under the
machine releaser enables the
milk flow to be regulated. While
being cooled the milk should be
spread evenly over the cooler
surface with a sterilised bottle-
brush, The cooler must be quite
level. After cooling keep the
milk in a cool well-ventilated
place, away from direct sun-
shine.
Timber as a Crop.
“C. Pipe”: N.S.W. Rural
Bank has discovered the Sim
brothers, orchardists, of Run-
ning Stream, in the Rylstone dis-
trict. They have a 30-acre plan-
tation of Pinus radiata, P. pon-
derosa and Douglas fir —about
25,000 trees in all, from which
they cut as required the timber
to supply the 5000 to 6000 fruit
cases they need each year.
Original planting was made by
their father when a shortage of
suitable timber became evident
after World War I.
Sim, Snr,, was impressed by
the speed with which P. radiata
trees he had planted as a wind-
break grew. So he planted a
few acres of them, adding more
from time to time. All the
attention needed was thinning
out.
The country is basalt, with red
soil —rainfall 25in. to 30in. —and
growth of timber was so rapid
that during World War II a
quarter million super feet of
timber was cut and milled on
the property. The areas cut out
were reafforested naturally from
seeds shed by the trees. No
soil preparation was found
necessary.
Barkly Tablelands
“Agric”: In the opinion of
Felix G. Schmidt, of Alroy
Downs, N.T., it has the greatest
undeveloped beef potential in
Australia, but a beef-hungry
world won’t get the benefit until
the area is tapped by railway.
Alroy Downs, with an area of
1800 square miles, carries 20,000
Shorthorns.
Droughts are practically un-
known, and, with the exception
of two years, an abundance of
fodder for fattening has been
available every season since
1912. The monsoonal rains
come between December and
March and assure a good stand
of grass.
An equally important factor is
the absence of moisture through-
out the rest of the year, which
keeps grass in first-rate condi-
tion. When the grass matures it


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
dSUMJVA*
yj prtiro. *.
J 7 '*&«,«V
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Process Engravers
Stereotypers and Typefounders
Office Systems and Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Engineers
Jackson and
O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
MODERN
HERBAL REMEDY
(In Tablet and Capsule Form)
Preventative —Corrective —
Curative
One of the first white men to make
a study of the seemingly miraculous
bush-medicine remedies of the South
Sea Island natives was Monsieur Emile
Vidal. For 25 years Vidal has been
using this knowledge to restore health
to chronic sufferers, many of whom
had been classified incurable. The
treatment contains no drugs, only safe
and efficient herbs, minerals and oils
which cleanse and rejuvenate the
blood, nerves, glands and bones,
leaving the body in a healthy, natural
condition. The remedy has restored
the health of sufferers from many and
varied complaints, including heart
complaints, arthritis, rheumatism,
bronchitis, catarrh, asthma, derma-
titis, diabetes, stomach and worm
trouble, and blood pressure.
Write for full particulars to —
M. EMILE VIDAL,
Box 1326, G.P.O. (or 153 King
Street), Sydney, MA 7394.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement-
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
nnrr Call or send stamp for
F KLI-i FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Telephone
74387
Telegrams:
“Antiques, Dublin”
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Vic- €a£- &L
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
tg
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
9 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
® Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2jx —Eye relief 3£in.
to s£in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:,
“Esdaiison,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
drtgd
fbzxd
for Ease and Speed
of operation mark with
EL&STRATOR
nfadehnAfetAod
ELASTBATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
TALER
&
CASTRATOR
for
calves
lambs
&
Obtainable at all Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
125 William Street, Melbourne.
ELIS
lies on the ground ; there are no
dews, so the grass does not rot
or deteriorate in any way, and
cattle fatten on it.
Cattle fatten at Alroy Downs
every year, but by the time they
have walked the 400 miles to the
railhead at Mt. Isa they have
lost their bloom and are in only
forward store condition. Road
transport was tried, but was un-
economical, but, in any case, the
number of cattle which could
be transported to market by
road represented only a drop in
the ocean.
The key to the great beef
potential of the Barkly is a rail-
way connecting existing termini
in western Queensland and run-
ning through to Daly Waters.
Turkeys for Market.
“Mr.”: They bring best prices
when marketed as soon as they
reach prime condition, i.e., from
six to nine months, if feeding
and environment have been
right. For market, grade the
birds to size and crate the small,
medium and large in their
groups. They sell better that
way, and there’s less chance of
loss than if large and small birds
are crated together indiscrimi-
nately.
Another point to remember:
confidence at the selling end is
inspired if reliable weights are
marked on the consignment-
tags. If birds have to be trans-
ported long distances to market
confine them to small runs for
24 hours before crating and give
them all the food and water they
can consume. This will com-
pensate for loss of weight in
transit.
They’re an easy bird to bruise,
so that a little gentleness when
crating wouldn’t be out of place.
The crate should be a standard-
sized turkey-crate and not a
fowl-crate. Eight turkey cocks
are enough to put in one crate,
or, if extra large, seven. The
same-sized crate will hold 10
hens comfortably no more.
Cover the floor with 6in. of
straw to make the birds com-
fortable and as an insurance
against breast and leg damage.
Hints for the Farm.
“Old Crab”: B. J. Ostwald
(1950 Queensland dairy farm
competition winner), of Three
Moon, covers his bail-door-
handles with short pieces of
metal pipes which are easily kept
clean, and uses metal milking
stools which are easily washable.
“C.A.A.”: As a safeguard
against weevils in next season’s
grain see that harvesters are
thoroughly cleaned before next
harvest. Any grain in the boxes
should be removed and destroyed
(preferably burned). If any trace
of weevils is seen treat the
hoppers with a liberal dose of
commercial fly-spray.
“Girrawheen”: Neck moult
may be brought about by wrong
feeding, unsuitable housing, ex-
posure to severe weather, or up-
set. Underfeeding is the com-
monest cause, giving too little
grain or mash at a feed, feeding
too late in the evening, or giving
too much greenfeed in the mash.
The first sign is thinning down
of the neck feathers, and if stubs
of feathers —pushing through the
skin of the neck—are to be seen
by parting the neck feathers,
then neck moult is certain. If
the causes given above are not
remedied the moult may extend
to the body, seriously affecting
egg production.
“E.M.R.”: To catch fowls,
bend the end of a piece of No. 8
fencing-wire into a hook. With
this you simply reach out and
gather in your bird.
“A.F.”: One of the surest
ways of getting rid of insect pests
in the vegetable garden is to dig
the soil as deeply as possible
during autumn. Well-dug plots,
neatly ridged and squared, throw
untidiness elsewhere into relief
and thus comes the urge to clean
out all weeds and rubbish. All
this activity will destroy and dis-
turb many pests before they can
dig themselves in for the winter.
“Bill C”: When feeding a
few head of stock never cut too
much chaff at a time. In humid
weather mould growths soon
form on the chaff and make it
toxic. If the stock leave chaff
in their feed-boxes at midday
throw it out before giving them
their night meal.
“K.T.”: Don’t have fowl
roosts at different heights be-
cause the birds will all try to
perch on the uppermost, with
the result that overcrowding will
occur and many will fall down
and remain on the floor all night.
All roosts should be on the same
level, no more than 2ft. from
the ground. If they are high
there is a possibility of the
birds contracting bumble-foot.
Perches should be flat.
“Big Billy”: When sharpening
a crosscut saw use the following
files: For saws with five to seven
points to the inch, the 6in. to
7in. slim taper; for saw with
eight or nine points the 7in. extra
slim taper; for saws 10 to 11
points to the inch 4in. to
extra slim tapers.
“Wilco”: A clogged sink-pipe
may usually be cleared by pour-
ing about a pint of fairly strong
caustic-potash lye into it last
thing at night. The lye will turn
the refuse into soft waste which
can be flushed out with water
next morning. Caustic-soda lye
is not suitable, since it forms a
hard mass.
“Sarina”; Painted on regu-
larly, kerosene will usually re-
move warts from cattle.
“W. Court”: After handling
fencing-wire or splicing steel-
wire rope, wash your hands in
kerosene to disinfect the punc-
tures you may have. Kero, also
loosens and removes grease.
“Rooster”: Soft water is
generally preferable to hard
water when mixing sprays.
Don’t fill the sprayer with the
bulk of water before tipping in
the concentrated materials. With
tar-oil, D.N.C. petroleum and
white-oil emulsions the concen-
trate should be mixed with its
equivalent volume of water,
thoroughly stirred and the bulk
of the water then added. Be
careful with all spray chemi-
cals. They’re dangerous when
mishandled.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Prospects are for fine wintry weather over northern and
central Australia; normal winter rains in southern areas.
The great southern sunspot is a very active one, and could
eventually cause a cyclonic disturbance on the Queensland
coast and in the Coral Sea. The same sunspot group may
increase rains in the south and give some heavy falls of
snow on the highlands.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH /
< WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK. /
\ SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY. / i
JW. 1278.13
BRITISH JUPITER
WINS MONTE CARLO RALLY (VA litre class)
■
» s
»
" :i*s
il MMmm
,y\ ■
.
JOWETT JUPITER
Sports convertible with glass
side windows and all-weather
equipment. Cruising speed is
in the 60’s.
The Jupiter at Speed
In the Monte Carlo Rally last January,
Jowett Cars excelled in the 2,000 mile time-
controlled winter route, the acceleration and
braking, and speed and regularity tests.
They made spectacular wins for Britain:—
JOWETT
JAVELIN
Full 5-seater family saloon. Combines luxury
and perfect safety with high performance.
★ Jupiters were Ist and 2nd in the 1\ litre class.
★ The fast Javelin saloon de luxe came 4th in
the 1\ litre class.
★ Jowett Cars won the coveted Manufacturers
Team Prize in the litre class.
★ Jowett Cars shared the Stuart Trophy for the
best British performance.
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors ( Aust .) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd.,
Brisbane; B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western
Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
THE BRADFORD
The Bradford Commercicd range, available
with station waggon body, is known all
over the world for its amazing economy
and sturdy reliability.
Made in Britain by JOWE T T C A R S LI MI T ED, Idle. Bradford.
Yorkshire
“Production line” perfection
01 lliz'
- -
&
: /
sr\
mam
ax
7\
,///
it lasts years
longer if the
a
a
bodywork is
J/m SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OP LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
g IS/
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL
SALES AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE:
Corner of Short and Pakenham Street!. WELLINGTON, Nii
John Lysaght'i Brlitol Work* Limited.
CM-M
for he knew how Mack would
kick at what he was going to
say—“McAuliffe, you're taking
the Commissioner’s Special
north tonight.”
This job was the high-water
mark in the service. Mack
looked round from his gauge-
glass that he was adjusting with
a smile on his tough old face.
“Thank you, sir,” he said,
suiting his language to that of
the boss.
“And you’ll take the super-
heater job.”
The words hit Mick fair in
the eyes. He stared at the boss
with a grim look on his face.
“Is that a fact?” he said.
“It is.”
“Then ask somebody else,”
Mack said civilly. “I don’t
understand these new contrap-
tions. If a man can’t pull a
train with a straight steam job,
then there’s something wrong.”
“You mean you won’t do it?”
“Of course I’ll do it,” Mack
said fiercely. “But not with a
thing I don’t understand.”
“And don’t want to under-
stand.”
“Maybe,” Mack agreed. “I’m
getting old, I know.”
The boss stormed away, say-
ing, “You’ll hear more of this!”
But he was stumped. He did
not tell Mack that the Com-
missioner had specially asked
for Mack to take his train on its
northern trip. Like most rail-
waymen, he knew Old Mack and
liked him; he was sure of a
good run with Mack.
Telephones were busy between
Broadmeadow and Sydney, and
within an hour the boss came
again to Mack and said, “O.K.
You take the special north. Are
you ready?” No word about
the super-heater job.
Mack nodded. He had the
Old Mare tuned to racing pitch,
for he had known, with his
Scot’s second-sight, that he
would be going. The Commis-
sioner had said, “1 don’t care
what engine I have as long as
Old Mack is on it.”
The mechanical staff had
wanted to show the Commis-
sioner how good the new job
was. But the Old Mare pulled
out once more with Mack at her
throttle.
DUT things were changing on
*—' the railways. New engines
could pull bigger loads ; the old
ones had to go. And with the
increased traffic. Old Mack could
not be sure he would always get
his Old Mare. The shed bosses
did their best, but it was hard
to do this always.
Then Mack himself had to go.
He was sixty-six years old and
maybe he was not sorry, now he
had all sorts of engines to
worry with. The Old Mare had
been like part of himself. So the
day came when he went to get
his engine to make his last run.
And when he went into the shed
a cleaner came and said, ‘T’ve
dolled up the old devil best way
I can. There she is.”
When Mack saw her, he
almost wept, for there stood his
Old Mare. They had fixed it
for her to be on the last train
Mack would drive.
“Heaven bless them,” he said.
“She must’ve known I wanted
her on my last trip.”
All night he drove her, like the
old times with Danny firing. But
Danny was a driver now,
wrapped up in the new rigs. All
night Mack heard her galloping
wheels, her screaming whistle.
It was like a beautiful dream.
When they got back his fire-
man slipped away as soon as he
could, to let Mack say goodbye
to the Old Mare. Mack had not
left his driver’s-seat when the lad
went away. Mack sat there
dreaming. Hours later when
cleaners came to get her ready
for her next trip they found him
still there, sound asleep. When
the voices wakened him he got
stiffly down from the footplate.
“I fell asleep, lads,” he said.
“When you woke me I was just
sending her up Black Mountain
and she was doing fine. Well,
good-night.” Then he added,
“I mean, good-bye.”
“So long, Mack,” they said
kindly. “Good luck.” When
he had gone one said, “He’ll
never see her again. They are
scrapping her, I hear.”
DUT he was wrong. They
' were not scrapping her, and
Mack did see her again. She
had been rebuilt, but he knew
her.
It was at a level crossing,
when he was standing waiting for
the North-west Mail to pass.
She came swiftly along with a
yell of her old whistle. Her
number was changed, she had
new gear where her old-fashioned
side-rods had been, and her cab
was bigger. But Old Mack
knew her. Maybe she knew him,
too, for as she swept past, her
whistle yelled, with a cock-crow
in its call and her driver waved
to Mack. Then she was gone,
tearing away for the Liverpool
Ranges and Kentucky South and
Armidale.
Tears came into his eyes as he
muttered.
“Just two turns of the gear
off centre and no load ever held
her.”
Tim Casey had said that some
day the Old Mare would break
Mack’s heart; and she did, when
she went tearing away without
him that day.
OLD ENOUGH FOR
MEMORIES.
Old enough for memories, now
You may be wistful, sit
And build a day of love, and you
Dreaming under it.
Deep enough for sadness, this
Recalling is regret
And resignation falling as
You covet and forget.
Grave enough for laughter
though
The laughter thicken, sob
Along the laurel bough and flow
The outer side of hope—
Wise enough for shrugging, now
You may be prophet, tell
That as you grew to memories, so
You’ll grow till love is still.
n.s.w. David Rowbotham.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FLORENCE SCHMIDT also known
as SELLER late of Werris Creek New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARENCE JOHN SCHMIDT has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2337 of 1951
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First day of October 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WEBB & BOLAND, of Moree,
Solicitors for the Petitioner; or MESSRS.
WHITEHEAD FERRANTI & GREEN, of
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, their City Agents.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO WILLIAM ERNEST CRAIG, Re-
spondent, late of C 4 Regent Street, Liver-
pool, 5.—A Petition for Divorce has been
filed against you Upon an application
by letter to The Registrar of the Divorce
Registry (for Law Society Causes) Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London W.C.2 a
copy of the Petition will be sent If
within three months hereafter no appli-
cation has been made nor appearance
entered the Court may hear the Petition
and pronounce judgment.— H. A. de O.
PEREIRA, Registrar.
Missing Friends.
McKENZXE, Alexander Hugh, late of
Cobar, N.S.W., died 15th July, 1950, aged
78 years. —WOULD his next-of-kin or any
person knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Madam ”
m
'
mm
■ Y ••
#0
m
n
m
mmm
m
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by BENSON mdtiEDOES
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood .
r
BY APPOINTMENT
m
yen
f
TOBACCONISTS TO
km. kino oeorqe wi BENSON & HEDGES LTD
OLD BOND STREET « LONDON
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Scarlet Woman
and other novels by Joseph Hocking.
—5140.
To buy copy of The Great Escape ,
by Paul Brickhill. —5139.
Words of poem, “Lasca,” by Du-
prez.—sl37.
Words of poem by Oscar Walters
containing the lines;
And we wondered how he’d take it.
Would he knock a fellow back
When a fellow put it on him
For a bottle for the track?
—5138.
Information Sought.
I have a bridge over a tidal salt-
water inlet. Any means of counter-
acting “cobras’’’ which attack the
piles ?
At low tide the piles should be
swabbed, between high-water mark
and mud line, with creosote oil. This
process should be repeated once a
year. The oil should be worked well
into the holes and crevices in the
piles, using a coarse brush. If tar
can be obtained and applied to the
piles in a similar fashion while it is
hot, and then covered with fine sand,
a more permanent effect will be
secured. Several coats of tar and
sand can be given with advantage.
* * * H=
How to raise daphne from seed and
cuttings ?
(1) Thoroughly dry pods, remove
seeds and sow in boxes of soil made
from equal parts of sand, loam and
rotted leaves. Manure must not be
used. (2) Use short pieces of last
year’s wood, preferably those which
have just flowered, and set in tins or
pots in a glass frame or under glass
cloches.
» * * *
Method of cleaning out an iron
tank ? How can the water be
purified ?
Run all water out, scrape scale off
iron and wash down with scrubbing
brush and hot water in which a liberal
quantity of washing soda has been
dissolved. Finish off with clean water.
Tablets of alumino-ferric floated on
the surface will purify water.
» * * *
How to polish mulga wood?
Wood should be slowly dried and
the ends coated with linseed oil or
grease of some kind to prevent split-
ting. If using wax, the wax should
be thinned with turps, applied very
thinly, and polished by friction or
rubbing. Thin coats of french polish
or shellac look well; apply with a
brush and leave for a considerable
time between each coat to allow for
drying.
How to polish sea-shells ?
Many need only a wash in warm
soapy water, a second wash in water
made just sour with hydrochloric acid
and a polish with raw linseed oil and
a finishing pad. Dull shells may be
polished with Tripoli powder, a soft
brush and a chamois.
m * * *
Information about cattle mobs
brought from the N.T. during 1942?
No, 1 mob left Lisadell on June 14
with Alexander Potts from that
station. At Newcastle Waters it was
taken over by Ted Lewis, who de-
livered the cattle at Lake Marion on
Nov. 10. Mob 2 left Alice Downs
on June 24 with Alf Johnstone; Dave
Macindoe took over at Newcastle
Waters, and arrived at Morston
Downs on Dec. 27, Mob 3 left Newry
on July 6 with Jack D’Arcy, who de-
livered it to Morston Downs on Nov.
2. Mob 4 left Nevergne on July 7
with Alf Hansen, and was delivered
to Lake Marion on Nov. 6. Mob 5
left Lisadell on July 8, and was de-
livered to Morston Downs by Jack
Graham on Nov. 29. Mob 6 left
Argyle Downs on July 10 with Norm
Stacey, who delivered it to Dijarra on
Nov. 27. Jack Althaus left Inverway
with Mob 7 on July 24 and delivered
it to Lake Marion on Dec. 18. In
all, 9238 cattle left the yarding area
at Hall’s Creek; 6155 arrived at
pasture.
* * * *
Origin of Australian lllawarra
Shorthorn dairy cattle ?
The breed originated with the
early pioneers of the lllawarra district
of N. S. Wales as far back as 1790,
at which date the foundation was laid
by selecting from the importations of
European stud dairy cattle, and in
some instances ships’ cows, which
in the early days provided milk on
the voyages. The approved cows
were of a heavy milking type, and
from them the pioneer breeders made
their selections, at the same time
setting, as it proved, a world-famous
standard in dairy cattle.
si: * * *
What powers had the Common-
wealth for conscription for home
defence prior to Japan’s entry into
World War II?
Under the Defence Act the
Governor-General could by proclama-
tion call upon all persons liable to
serve in the citizen forces to enlist
and serve as prescribed. All male
inhabitants between the ages of 18
and 60 who had resided in Australia
for six months and were British
subjects were liable to serve.
* * * *
Treatment of tick fever (spiro-
chcetosis) in poultry?
The treatment is difficult and
expensive; better results are achieved
by eradication of ticks. Birds should
not be bought from known infected
areas, and newly-purchased birds
should be isolated for eight to 10
days in coops with wire-netting floors,
under which are trays containing
kerosene-covered water. Roosts,
houses, etc., should be painted with
sump oil, kerosene emulsion, wood-
preserving oil or strong sheepdip at
five-day intervals until mortality
ceases. Old, cracked timber in
houses, perches, etc., should be re-
placed and all refuse burnt.
Brief Answers.
M J.; Extensive inquiries have failed
to secure any information which would
help you. Suggest you write to the
Consul-General for the U.S.A., Bris-
bane, Q., and inquire if any known
booklet is available on the subject
8.L.5.: Skill and experience are neces-
sary, and the amateur will probably
achieve only indifferent results. Dis-
solve two parts crystallised chloride ot
iron, two parts solid chloride of anti-
mony, and one part gallic acid in four
or five parts of water; apply with a
small sponge and let dry in the air.
Repeat this two or three times, then
wash with water and dry. Rub with
boiled linseed oil to deepen the color.
Repeat process until satisfied with the
result.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertatken
re contriubtions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.M.: There is a special cell in our
dungeons for philosophical anarchists,
N.O’S.; “Could you find a corner
for this little piece that I dashed off
last night?” Yes, but there’s a great,
big basket in that corner R.W.M.:
A string of questions isn’t a poem
D.D.: You spoil it by conventional
moralising... .T.K.; No space for in-
terminable conversation in uncertain
verse with a swagman’s ghost....
E.S.: Usual remarks on the sunrise,
also the trees, and the breeze
8.5.: You seem to know the country
all right; now try to tell something
that happened there instead of talking
in generalities... .M.J.S.: You rely
too much on dots to carry you
through... .L.P.: Write about the
things you see and the life you know.
... .C.D.: Suffering from a surfeit of
henpecked husbands at the moment.
G.W.W.: Fifty poems in a
grubby notebook in almost illegible
pencil. Try ’em one at a time, typed
if possible... .L.R.S.: Many a poet
has hanged himself on a string of
rhetorical questions... .H.L.: Try a
definite story form with clear-cut
characters... .8.R.D.: If that’s what
drought does to you we will join you
in prayers for rain... .N.K.: You’ll
have to say something more original
about jackeroos than that... .8.R.:
Suitable only for a woman’s maga-
zine W.M.: “In an endeavor to
increase my income I have taken up
writing poems.” Brother, you’re not
in the race... .N.M.: Why do you
have to say “thou” when talking to
a gum-tree? ... .D.McD.: Come in
and sing for all last week’s composers
of jubilee poems, all this week’s and
all who may be meditating the felony
for next week:
B.M.G.: It would appear that
half Sydney is writing black-
out poems by candlelight. Yours
flickered out early like the rest.
M.H.: “As I had a couple
of hours to spare I put my thoughts
on paper.” You need, unfortunately,
a couple of centuries... .V.A.:
Matters of great interest to the author
and his family circle are not neces-
sarily entertaining to anyone else....
F.L.: Usual remarks about the dawn
and the dew... .0.M.H.: 252 George-
street is not a home for lost doggerel.
T.T.B.: Even if it were true that
an aboriginal rock-carving could be
“fully aware of a soul Which in a
hereafter believes” you haven’t put it
very melodiously P. 8.: You won t
make poetry by chopping up com-
monplace prose into stove-lengths....
J.W.: Same old remarks about the
desirability of living under a gum-tree.
... .F.P.: Hackneyed moral concealed
in pretentious jargon... .R.C.:
“Efforts at verse” just about describes
them H.L.H.: A touch of charm
in “The Old Road,” but it needs a
lot of patching... .E.McK.: Mur-
derer who remembers childhood at
mother’s knee is an old friend....
A.8.J.: Speak plainly in a natural
language R.H.: Only the title
shows a glimmer of originality....
C.H.8.: Can’t you find something
more interesting to say about a
mopoke than that it “weaves a magic
spell”? W.N.: “Murder in the
Brewery” put the Religious Editor off
his beer for a week.
Oh! Let there be revelry
In this year of Jubilee!
Oh! Let there be song and merriment
In this, our Island Continent!


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
New Northern State
There certainly is an urgent need to
subdivide the Northern Territory into a
northern and central State. While the
central (Alice Springs) portion could
probably get along quite well for a few
years as a Commonwealth territory,
however, the northern portion, with its
distinctive climate and immense resources,
should be created a separate self-
governing State without delay.
To it should be added the adjoining
Kimberley district of north-west W.A. *,
it is geographically aligned with the
N.T., and could be governed more
efficiently from Darwin than from Perth.
Thus I envisage a great new State of
North Australia, entirely within the
tropical zone, the 20th parallel its
southern boundary. It would embrace
possibly 436,000 square miles (almost one
and a half times the area of N. S. Wales),
The present population is only about
10,000 whites, but with an efficient State
Government centrally situated in Darwin,
the increase would be automatic and de-
velopment rapid. Within 20 years the
new State could have 500,000 people, and,
with irrigation from its many running
rivers, 1,000,000 acres could be under
grain crops, sugar, cotton and so forth.
There could be 5,000,000 cattle and
3,000,000 sheep. North Australia’s
resources are quite capable of that and
more. Nowhere would the annual rain-
fall be less than 20in.
C. L. A. Abbott, one-time Adminis-
trator of the N.T., claims that an east-
west railway from Mt. Isa (Q.) railhead
to Wyndham (W.A.) would be the logical
step to aid development. He points out
that all geographical features favor it,
and that a north-south railway would
traverse country that is much inferior.
Certainly an east-west line would follow
the existing stock-routes and bisect the
huge Barkly Tableland and Victoria
River country, which would then quickly
become agricultural as well as pastoral.
In a new State of North Australia such
a line would be essential.
For 30 years graziers have wanted this
line, including a branch to link it up
with the existing Darwin railway. With
such a railway, 1,500,000 sheep could be
grazed on the Barkly where now there
are only 100,000 cattle on stations the
size of European countries. Roads will
never supplant railways—both are
needed. The £4,000,000 the Govern-
ment is going to spend without a qualm
on the 1956 Olympic Games (“and
import materials if necessary”) would be
far better spent on railway construction
in our empty and highly-vulnerable
north. — Gip (Q.).
Owners and Agents
The “Labor”-dominated City Council
of Sydney has lately announced its inten-
tion of giving the workers a go. This
“go” is to be achieved in sundry ways,
one of them being the repair and renova-
vation of all dwellings in the council’s
area.
Councils are able to ensure the carry-
ing out of necessary repairs in several
ways. They may prosecute an owner if
he fails to obey their directions; they
may batten on to agents who collect
rents or manage subject properties on the
ground that these agents are “owners for
the time being” ; they may carry Out the
work themselves and make the cost a
charge on the property; or they may
authorise the tenants to carry out the
work and cut it out of the rent.
From sad experience the council has
discovered that many owners have not
the money either to carry out the work
nor to present reasonable risks to
councils who might do the job themselves
and later seek to recover from the
owners. Likewise, because of the low
rents of most places requiring repairs
and maintenance, tenants are not
prepared to stand the expense and cut it
out of the rent. Accordingly, the council
has fallen back on the definition in the
Public Health Act which regards a
managing-agent as an owner.
The council has gone so far as to
cancel a notice against an owner whom
they discovered to be unfinancial and to
reissue it against the agent managing his
property. The agent was prosecuted and
had no defence. The only chance such a
yictim has is to make the council prove
its case on every point in the hope that
it can be faulted on a technicality and,
in that event, renounce the agency before
a second notice can be issued. An agent
handling a large number of old properties
might well be bankrupted by such tactics.
Such laws—iniquitous under today’s
conditions —date from a day when an
owner or agent, if faced with heavy
expense to repair a property, could serve
notice to quit on the tenants and leave
the place empty or pull it down. Agents
were included in the definition of
“owner” in order to overcome the diffi-
culties encountered with owners of pro-
perties who lived beyond State boundaries
and outside the jurisdiction of the law.
Today such a law is a travesty, and
should be repealed or amended at least
to enable an agent to protect himself
against the default of his owner —some-
thing which he can in no way accom-
plish as things are now. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Dust-bowls
Cause of and remedy for dust-bowls
has been demonstrated in miniature in
the middle of S.A.’s famous vineyard
country in the Barossa Valley. A two-
acre sandpatch occurred where vines had
been blown out of the earth after their
roots had been left exposed by wind.
Other vines were covered by the drift.
A local company which extracts tarac
"When We gel in a tangle like that We get Jim in—hes a fisherman
acid from the wineries’ discarded stalks
and skins put the residue on the dust-
bowl, giving it a 9in. coating for three
years. Rye-grass was then planted to
bind the surface. Then vines were re-
planted and the area is now back in
good production.
It shows that, given enough organic
matter and a following binding crop, sand
or clay can be made productive and drift
stopped. —J. C. (S.A.).
New Levels
Because they are so closely representa-
tive of vested interests, political parties
are not likely to face up to the inevitable
fact that we are living on new levels. So
it is up to the community to demand that
action be taken to stabilise our economy
at these new levels, not by Parliament,
which would do no more than com-
promise with a view to meeting the
wishes of the sections they represent, but
by the vested interests themselves.
It should not be difficult for a panel of
economists to work out the new levels
of wages, prices, profits and returns to
primary producers. When that is done
their findings should be placed before a
conference of trade-unions, employers’
representative organisations, manufac-
turers, bankers and farmers.
The conference should then decide
that as from an agreed date wages, whole-
sale and retail prices, costs of produc-
tion in farming and manufacture and
profits should be fixed at rates and
quantities determined and agreed. The
agreement should be for at least three
years.
During that time wages, prices, re-
tailers’ margins and profits would remain
fixed. Should costs show that they require
to be increased to meet external
rises the difference should be met by
national subsidy. Should they fall
during the three years the subsidies
would be reduced.
If it were possible to work out such a
plan, get the agreement of all concerned
to its details and its operation, and get
Parliamentary approval of the subsidy
idea it would mean a measure of stability
for the Australian economy which is not
possible under our present insane system
of governing all economic factors by
basic-wage increases which, in turn, cause
living costs to rise again. Whether we
stabilise on higher, lower or the existing
levels, the result can only be of benefit
to the Australian economy and to the
individual. — Student (Vic.).
Fuel Shortage
Dr. F. E. Simon, Professor of Ther-
modynamics at Oxford, has estimated
(“Manchester Guardian Weekly,”
5/4/’5l) that, if half the households
which use open fireplaces were to install
simply designed stoves, homes would be
just as warm and there would be a fuel
saving of between 10 and 15 million tons
of coal (in Britain, that is) a year. He
went on to say that it would be worth
the Government’s while to provide such
stoves free and that it could be done for
about £3O million. It would be worth
the money and it might be sufficient in-
centive for householders to switch over
to stoves if the Government were to
defray but half the cost.
Diggers of the 1914-18 War need no
reminding of the warmth and comfort
generated by the stoves which stood well
amidships in all Belgian and Somme
kitchens. Many will recollect how they
used to sit around, warming up after the
discomfort of winter billets, waiting for
their “eggs ’n’ chips,” bandying wisecracks
with some good-natured and buxom
Flemish lass or the more pert housewife
farther south.
In Australia —at least in the southern
States —we still make a fetish of the open
fireplace, greatly to our discomfort in
these days of fuel- and power-shortages.
During the 1916-17 “freeze,” when coal
must have been hard to obtain in the
unoccupied areas of France and Belgium,
they managed along with all sorts of odd
scraps in the way of fuel, and their stoves
served to warm a room and cook their
meals, to say nothing of being used as
an incinerator for any unwanted scraps!
Families living within the ambit of the
N.S.W. Fuel Commission (or whatever it’s
called) might do worse than adopt some
such type of stove. They are clean,
simple'to operate, economical of fuel and
soothing to frayed nerves. — Briquette
(Tas.).
“Danger Ahead!”
Conway Seymour (B. 27/6/’5l)
apparently can’t see things from the point
of view of city-dwellers. Although all
prices are high under present conditions,
wool and certain other items which have
a large overseas market are fetching
prices far beyond reason, and do not, in
return, bring into the local market goods
which recompense local consumers for
this state of affairs.
The situation is aggravated by pro-
ducers of other essential items being
induced to change over to production of
these more valuable goods. Thus meat
and dairy products are pow desperately
short because so many growers have
gone into wool. The present shortages
are not just seasonal. It is only of very
late years that milk and butter have had
to be rationed in the winter-time. The
high prices of wool have taken lamb and
mutton off the market, while beef is like-
wise in short supply.
Since this changeover has benefited
only the woolgrowers it seems that, if the
country as a whole is to gain anything,
it must be in the nature of a rake-off
from the cash proceeds into consolidated
revenue to provide funds to reduce the
high cost of other rural products. We
are not all shearers and rouseabouts who
are able to batten on to the wool cheque
while the going is good. Therefore, the
country must secure its cut in some other
direction, and subsidising of food pro-
ducers at the expense of the wool pro-
ducers is as good a way as the next.
“C.S.’s” memory is short if he cannot
recall the monkey-business with the
exchange-rate during depression days—a
manoeuvre that could only benefit the
primary producer. Moreover, the
Farmers’ Debts Adjustment legislation
was also a prop pushed under the shaky
primary industries at the expense of tax-
payers. Special transport rates and con-
cessions were provided by the railways
for many years—for whose benefit?
There is danger ahead—a very real
danger indeed of this country sinking to
the stage where there will not be sufficient
food to go around, just as we have
reached the stage where there is not suf-
ficient coal and iron and houses and
steel and light and power. All these
shortages are more than “seasonal,”
although they stem from a somewhat
different root than that from which the
current food shortage springs.
Our standard of living is already de-
pressed. So many of the things the
working-man enjoyed in pre-war days
are so far beyond his reach today that he
is doing without or is turning to sub-
stitutes. The shortages are far from
temporary and call for drastic action to
restore a touch of sanity to the money-
grabbing masses, and to divert produc-
tion into the channels from which it will
serve the country best. A 50 per cent,
fall in the price of wool would help con-
siderably, A firm hand on the exporting
of all other commodities—primary pro-
ducts, ores and metals, hides and food-
stuffs —needed for home consumption is
also essential. — Cave (N.S.W.).
Planning
“Jindivick” (B. 20/6/’5l) is right—any
attempt to aggravate the present housing
crisis should be stopped, I’m all for
slum clearance and improvement, but
the idea of pulling down two old houses
now to build one new one at some future
date won’t help anyone.
The point all planners and housing
commissioners seem to miss is this:
married men must have accommodation
for their families, and they must have it
now. We can eat less meat, give up
coffee and be careful with tea, spread
our butter thinner and wear our clothes
longer, but we’ve got to have shelter for
our wives and families.
In Burma I often had no roof but the
rain, and I’ve passed nights in Sydney
Domain. It never did me any harm,
but I can’t take my family and camp
in the nearest park. Landlords have me
cold. If things get any worse they’ll ask
for all my salary as rent, and despite
every device of courts and commissions
they’ll get it. I can’t kick. I daren’t.—
Salt Horse Pom (Vic.).
P.M.G. Troubles
One thing wrong with the P.M.G.’s
Department is that it is the country’s
chief agent of Socialism. Around the
core of telephone, telegraph and postal
services have grown many excrescences
which hamper the true functions of post-
offices. There is an almost incredible
list of duties which the ordinary
suburban post-office performs for other
departments and boards.
The Army, Navy and Air Force should
pay their own allotments; Repatriation
should pay war pensions and handle
repatriation loan repayments and war-
service home rentals ; the Commonwealth
Savings Bank should do its own agency
work; and the paying of widow, old-age
and invalid pensions and child endow-
ment should be done by the social service
people.
That would be a start. Later a few
others could get off the neck of working
post-offices, and leave them to do the
work they should be doing.— Postmaster
(S.A.).
Literary Competitions
Do literary competitions achieve their
object in any way whatever (B. 27/6/’51)?
If a conscientious intention to help
Australian literature exists, there is no
need to offer munificent prizes with a
fanfare of publicity. All that is required
is for the publication to print Australian
work —with the emphasis on literature.
If we had more publications setting a
high standard and offering a constant
market Australia would produce better
writers. A weekly section allowing
3000 or so words to Australian writers
could improve our literature. Annual
competitions, as the judges admit have
not achieved any success at all, and there
is no reason to believe that they ever
will.— Sebak. (N.S.W.).


DYMOCK’S CATALOGUE
A guide to good, tasteful reading is yours every month in our
NEW AND RECENT BOOKS CATALOGUE.
More about new books and the best books than you 11 find
anywhere else.
Make sure your name is on our Mailing List. Write today.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone BL 3611.
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
er
HEINEMANN
here it is... the most helpful and
INSPIRING BOOK ON SALESMANSHIP
THAT I HAVE EVER READ.,..
Dale Carnegh.
\
"\
How I raised myself from
FAILURE to SUCCESS in Selling, i
by FRANK BETT G£ R
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
HEINEMANN
HEINEMAN.N
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
NOW READY
The Beautiful Is Vanished
By Taylor Caldwell
Author of “Dynasty of Death,” This Side of Innocence,
“Let Love 'Come Last,’* etc., etc.
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS
CARPENTER TO CABINET,
by the Right Hon. Sir George
Foster Pearce, P.C., K.C.V.O.
An Australian statesman’s 37 years
of Parliament.
18/9 (post lOd.)
BOOKS WE RECOMMEND
SHOOTING AND SHOOTING
BUSHCRAFT,
by S. H. (Barney) Edwards.
An expert’s advice to the game-
shooter. Well illustrated.
7/6 (post 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
“Handy Hints for the
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
239 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth.
The Lyrebird Books of
AUSTRALIAN POETRY
LANGUAGE OF THE SAND, by Roland E. Robinson
THE DARKENED WINDOW, by Nancy Cato
IMMINENT SUMMER, by Nancy Keesing . , .
(frontispiece by Norman Lindsay;
From leading booksellers or direct from
Roland E. Robinson, 18 Manion Avenue, Rose Bay, Sydney
of the Russians in opposition to
Churchill’s plan for the invasion of the
“soft underbelly” of Balkan Europe in-
stead of Northern Europe.
If we had rescued Poland, Hungary,
Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia as we might
well have done, what a different Europe
would exist today. But Mr. Gunther can
see nothing but brilliance and supreme
leadership of the world in everything
“F.D.R.” did.
When anything occurs which does not
support that thesis, he goes to almost
any length to defend him.
Of Yalta, that disastrous conference
which was mainly responsible for the
present condition of the world, and more
particularly for the dangers which beset
the Pacific, it is written that F.D.R.
“knew exactly what he was doing, and
his behavior stemmed from perfectly
rational and precise motives and aspira-
tions.” He adds naively: “If Roosevelt
lost the peace at Yalta, so did Churchill,
though the Prime Minister had to follow
him in most matters.” And this is the
essence of the matter— that Rooseveltian
policy lined itself with Russian wishes
against the British policy of the time, thus
making a two-to-one majority against
the Old Lion of Westerham.
Even Mr. Gunther cannot do better in
defence of the President than this;
Perhaps, all in all, the best summary is
to say that F.D.R. was gambling at Yalta.
His eyes were open, and he knew perfectly
well the risks he was taking. What he was
gambling for was permanent peace on a
moral, idealistic, one-world basis. Unfor-
tunately he lost.
“Unfortunately he lost” has also
appeared on the tombstones of many
gamblers and many idealists. A good
many journalists will produce essays of
this kind before Mr. Roosevelt finds some
such generally accepted and impartial
interpreter as the French revolutionists
and Napoleon found in Louis Madelin.
EK DUM.
Trains of Thought
It is realised by sociological writers
today that great industrial undertakings
have, besides a purpose, an interest as
spectacle: the Newcastle steelworks, for
instance, which to its workers and pro-
prietors is a machine for making rails,
is for the Newcastle citizen who doesn’t
work there a pink sky and a window-
rattling rumble in the night.
The Fascination of Railways, by Roger
Lloyd (Allen and Unwin), is a study in
this aesthetic-social side of a great modern
public utility; a survey of Mr. Lloyd’s
feelings about trains since, as a small boy,
he used to thrust his head through the
railed fences of railway bridges to try to
see down engine-chimneys as the trains
passed under him.
He has grown to know trains by their
numbers and fancy-names, and can dis-
tinguish types of engine by their sounds ;
he has followed out the intricate routes
of individual engines during a working-
day, and marvelled at the way in which
trains are made up from engines, carriages
and trucks requisitioned from the four
points of the compass ; he is an authority
on beautiful engines and ugly engines ;
despairs of ever explaining to himself why
a steam-engine is fascinating while an
electric train or a diesel is not; moans
a little at the thought that a crack
designer is reported to be working on an
engine that will look the same from both
ends ; has admiring words upon the hero-
worship of enginedrivers by their firemen ;
and a noble story of an enginedriver and
fireman who won the George Cross during
the recent war for detaching a truck of
explosives which had caught fire from
the rest of the train, also loaded with ex-
plosives, and towing the burning carriage
towards open country. It exploded in a
station, leaving a crater 15ft. deep and
65ft. wide, and killing the fireman, but
doing infinitely less damage than if the
whole train had exploded.
Mr. Lloyd thinks that British railways
will undergo a great change by 1960,
notably with electrification, though he
thinks that the steam engine will “domin-
ate the railway” for another 30 years at
least.
Reviewed Briefly.
It’s Bound to Happen : Professor A. M.
Low (Burke Publishing Co., Ltd., Lon-
don). Popular science for those who like
:o speculate —as who does not? on
voyages to the moon, brave new worlds,
etc.
* * * *
Summer and Autumn Flowers: Con-
stance Spry (Dent). A handsome book,
with 24 colorplates and 12 in mono-
chrome, showing how to arrange flowers
in vases and in the house; the letterpress,
besides discussing these matters, makes a
pleasant and informative gardening-book.
* * * *
The Dog Breeder’s Manual • Eric Fitch
Dalglish (Dent). Mr. Dalglish, who is a
recognised authority, writes for the
novice and expert alike, covering all
aspects of his subject both from the
theoretical and practical viewpoints, with
a scientific approach. Dogs, as well as
breeders, should find it extremely interest-
ing.
* * * *
The Vedic Age : A history of the dawn
of Hindu civilisation, supervised by the
Hon. Dr, K. M. Munshi, edited by R. C.
Majumdar and A. D. Pushalker, made up
of essays by 11 contributors, and pub-
lished by Allen and Unwin, Ltd. It is the
first of a projected series of 10 volumes,
each of 500 pages, organised by the
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, an educational
society founded by Dr. Munshi in 1938.
For the ordinary reader it is much too
prolix and detailed but doubtless it will
be invaluable to the specialist.
* * * *
A Woman of Means: Peter Taylor
(Routledge and Kegan Paul). A new
young American author, writes very
smooth prose. This novelette is of a rich
widow who married a widower —it gradu-
ally turns out, because she wanted a son,
and the widower had one by previous
marriage. The wife and the dependent
husband are very sensitively drawn ; the
graduations of’their married life, to where
the wife is put in a sanatorium, and the
husband goes back to commercial travel-
ling, are finely managed; altogether it is
quite an unusual little book.
* * * ♦
How Many Miles to Babylon: Nancy
Bodington (Wingate), In these four long
short stories Miss Bodington shows her-
self an expert in the mental workings ol
the middle-class Englishwoman. A chilt
goes to stay with her curious aunt and
uncle at Nice; a prim old schoolmistress
is dogged by the rising fame of a rejected
suitor, a miner who wrote poetry and
love-letters to her which, printed on his
death, surrounded her with scandal; an
heiress who married largely so that she
could make a home for a school-friend,
over whose life she wound possessive cob-
webs, the more so when she found thai
her husband and the school-friend had
been “making a dupe” of her; and —
not so middle-class—the career of the
kept woman of a respectable suburbanite,
how she managed to live after his death,
and took up with a stranger, who gave
her a fur coat from which he had
neglected to remove a pocket-book con-
taining the motor-licence of a recent
murder victim.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 131
Across.
I—Charles set about the Italian river,
so you get him in the gun. (9)
6—Belch is associated with this pre-
ceded by the ague. (5)
9_Ring to be a fish smell going out
of use. (11)
10— what some Americans drink on
Port Phillip Bay. (3)
11— Shingle or a “long-haired” pianist
who was here last year. (6)
12— Rio had changed this coiffure. (6)
14—Hope for money. (3)
16—Tempers the gables girl and
Albert, Algernon, Alcibiades,
Alban. (7)
18—Telephoned that it provides a
step up. (4)
20— Branch shows that I am in a
pound. (4)
21 — she is to call back for a finish. (7)
22 Bulletin artist of earlier days
helps to make beer. (3)
24 Madame Curie’s biographer and
the Kelly fellow levelled off. (6)
25 — Greek island where the French
weep in reverse. (6)
28— Beard of the corn, (3)
29 — Wanton ensures that a forme?
N.S.W. wicketkeeper is not kept
in the dark. (5-2-4)
30 — Its passengers are not necessaruy
canoodling. (5)
31— Pants to the summit with a brier
cessation on the baseball field. (?)
Down.
1 — irritable incubation to shade with
intersecting lines. (5-5)
2 Harmonious-sounding, but the
insect is more likely to be on the
brayer. (8)
3 Salute with the French hat as a
common cure for faintness. (3, °)
4 Mail conductor in Sydney. (4)
5 The lizard-fish book of quota-
tions. (9)
6 Snip the lines of a suit. (3)
7 Ornament suggests you give to
Menzies what Mark Antony
sought from each Roman in his
audience. (6)
8 — Like alterations in a canal. (4)
13 —Dripping to produce a tear before
the coppers blubber. (8, 3)
15 —Ne’er-do-wells traditionally ques-
tioned about the wool supply-
(s-5)
17—U-boat coalesces and goes down.
(9)
19 —suit to measure, notwithstanding
the deformity. (8)
23—Famous American Quaker on the
flag- (6) u re
26 Thanks to a number and its
double, this is bound to save
friction. (4)
27 — Perfume for Klemperer. (4)
29_Falsehood is to spinebash. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 130.


c.
$ STi7?''g’K)@?lKi
o
€4
ena
'/A
THE history of the M.L.C. is one of steady growth—both in
the field of operations as well as stature in the Community.
Today the M.L.C. has offices in every State of the Common-
wealth—and enjoys a fine reputation for public service—a repu-
tation well merited the M.L.C. —the largest Australian assurance
company—has over 1,000,000 policy holders.
The
MIC
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’ Assurance Co. Limited
Principal Offices:
N.S.W.: (Head Office) Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Queensland: Commercial
House, Queen and Creek Streets, Brisbane. Victoria; Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne,
South Australia: 101 King William Street, Adelaide. Western Australia: 179 a St. George’s Terrace,
Perth. Tasmania: Corner Liverpool and Murray Streets, Hobart.
