

The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Voi. 72-No. 3703
Wednesday, January 31, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
Tewkesbury Abbey,
Norman Stonework
at Its Best
HTHE ancient borough and market town
of Tewkesbury, standing beside the
Avon, near its confluence with the
Severn, is remarkable not only for its
picturesque streets and rich half-timbered
house-s but also for its famous Abbey,
one of the finest examples of Norman
architecture in Britain.
Tewkesbury derives its name from
Theuk, a monk who founded a monastery
there in the eighth century. This came
under the control of the Benedictines
about the year 980, and in 1087 the build-
ing of the great Abbey was begun. The
choir was completed in 1123 and the
nave and tower about 1150, although
frequent restorations have since taken
place. In the fourteenth century much
of the interior, particularly the choir,
was converted from the Norman to the
Decorated style of architecture, and the
magnificent stained-glass windows date
from that period. The 148 ft. high centra]
tower remains a perfect example of
Norman architecture. The last royal
personage to be buried in the Abbey was
George, Duke of Clarence, who, in 1478,
was executed in the Tower of London
and brought to Tewkesbury for burial.
• At the time of the Dissolution (1540)
the Abbey and monastery came into the
possession of Henry VIII. Near the
Abbey is “Bloody Meadow,” scene of the
Battle of Tewkesbury in 1471, the last of
the ill-famed Wars of the Roses.
Tewkesbury is mentioned in Shake-
speare’s “Henry IV,” and the town is the
“Nortonbury” of Mrs. Craik’s famous
novel John Halifax, Gentleman, written
in 1856. Owing to its universal appeal
this novel has been translated into thirty
languages, and modern Tewkesbury owes
much of its fame to this book, which
continues to draw many thousands of
visitors annually to the town, where
“Abel Fletcher's Mill” can still be seen.
The busy coaching traffic of medieval
days was responsible for the establish
ment of many hostelries, among which
was the Hop Pole, visited by Mr. Pick-
wick, Ben Allen and Bob Sawyer in their
memorable journey from Bristol to
Birmingham, related in the Pickwick
Papers.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEP PELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
sd
otHONE
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. Vic.
- —Ctrl’ HERE AND MAIL mmmmmmmmm
To STOAT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) . . i-'.V Age
The Red Page
THE FROGMEN.
One day in mid-1942, a weird,
helmeted creature like an elongated frog
felt its careful way along the hull of a
British ship in Gibraltar harbor, feeling
for limpet mines. There was no sound ;
the water gleamed eerily in the green,
filtered light from the “ceiling” above.
Suddenly the huge frog stopped, listen-
ing, his face staring in alert concentra-
tion over his shoulder. Through the murk
he saw another shadowy figure approach-
ing, garbed like himself, intent on the
ship’s passive hull. Lieutenant Bill
Bailey, the R.N. frogman, drew his knife
and made for the newcomer. There
ensued a weird Hollywoodesque fight-
only in this one the Italian frogman, his
rubber suit slashed, died on the English-
man’s knife. So ended the first under-
water fight in this unique form of war-
fare, ' the climax to several months of
blow and counter-blow between British
and Italian frogmen in Gibraltar harbor,
the history of which, with other incredible
feats of Britain’s new offensive arm, is
told in The Frogmen (Evans) by two
B.B.C. men, Tom Waldron and James
Gleeson.
One finds it hard to prevent the word
“weird” from recurring—it seems the
only way to describe the silent, deadly
and devastatingly effective method by
which magnificent swimmers slid in
through enemy booms, under enemy
ships, and left packages with British
trademarks (in the case of the Tirpitz, as
much as eight special tons of them) tick-
ing with malign purpose beneath the un-
suspecting ships to which, by magnets
and other devices, they had been
attached.
The term “frogmen” covers a wide field
—crews of midget subs which got the
Tirpitz ; mine-rendering-safe bodies ; the
men who, under intense fire, blew to
pieces the underwater obstacles laid to
welcome our D-Day forces off
Normandy beaches; the charioteers
(riders of human torpedoes); the X-craft
which ripped the bottom out of a Jap
heavy cruiser in Singapore—all were
frogmen, all were volunteers, all were
incredibly game and all were welded by
the finest disciplinary force in existence
into a hard- and far-hitting unit of silent,
uncanny efficiency. And of their small
and select company there were at least
four V.Cs. —D.S.Os. and D.S.Ms. were
as common as buttons.
The frogmen’s most sensational action
was, of course, Tirpitz’s crippling. Only
when one ponders, lulled a little by the
typical British restraint which charac-
terises the story’s telling, does one realise,
with something like shock, the immense
courage which accompanied these men’s
everyday jobs.
Assignments like feeling with numbed
fingers into the deep slime of enemy
harbors, in mud-stirred blackness, for
enemy mines left to harass the Allied
occupying forces; gingerly unscrewing
detonators (one exploded, but failed to
fire its mine), then moving on to the next,
groping for the tell-tale excrescences on
pier-legs under water; fixing their
explosive to the struts of massive under-
water obstacles off invasion-beaches,
shaken constantly by the water-pressuris-
ing explosions of enemy shells and
bombs; the stealthy poking into crowded
enemy harbors, the jockeying of a
human-torpedo beneath a great hull, the
final elation of securing charges to its
bilge-keels—tempered always by the
expectation, in their flimsy rubber suits,
of the chest-crushing blast of retaliatory
depth-charges.
One effort in this chronicle of cold
courage deserves particular mention —the
attack on the heavy Jap cruiser Takao in
Singapore harbor
Lieutenant Ian Fraser, in his special
craft, XE3, slipped from his towing sub-
marine off Singapore Roads at 11 p.m.
on a cloudy night in July, 1945, and
went on his lonely way at five knots.
Asdic reported a minefield ; Fraser put
lis sub-lieutenant on the controls (all his
small crew were experienced frogmen)
and himself mounted the craft’s casing,
conning her through the waiting ex-
plosive bulbs, any one of which could
have reduced the tiny craft to slivers.
Safely through, creeping past fishing-boats
and merchantmen, up Johore Strait, sur-
facing and fleeing to the bottom through-
out the nervous night, keeping awake with
benzedrine tablets, and, at 10.30 next
morning, under a calm, oily sea, slipping
tracelessly through the conveniently-open
anti-submarine boom. Then, at 12.50 p.m.,
target! And a motor-cutter chock-a-
block with Jap libertymen which swept
past 30 yards from their periscope.
Two o’clock, and the run-in to the
target; down to 22ft., bumping along the
ridged bottom, blind; a sudden,
shocking bump—the craft held fast; ten
minutes of frantic engine-movements,
then she staggered up the steep side of
the hole she’d fallen into. Another run-
in ; aiming-point the cruiser’s forward
funnel; splendid navigation; and final
settling at 22ft. under the centre of the
target.
Here enters, or leaves, Leading-seaman
Magennis, an Irishman as soft-spoken as
his nerves were steely. The supine sub.
spawned his weirdly-clad figure, noise-
lessly from its escape-hatch. He eased
along its deck, bent against the water-
resistance, then flicked his flippers and
glided to the hull above him, a vast,
static, stretching acreage of barnacle-
hung steel. Swiftly six limpet charges
were fixed, in groups 6f three, 45ft.
apart. Then back into the sub.
Shortly afterwards, Fraser prilled his
levers, and a healthy tonnage of special
explosive dropped from his craft’s
bilges and snuggled into the mud beneath
Takao’s belly. But the starb’d explosive-
carrier mulishly refused to drop. XI .3
dragged herself 30ft. from her target,
her touchy buoyancy upset by the hang-
ing charge, and out again went Magennis,
though almost exhausted from his earlier
work. Thrusting and prising with a large
spanner at the charge’s releasing-pins, he
finally got it off. It, too, sank, to wait.
Quietly and apprehensively the little
ship crawled away, out through the boom,
past patrolling anti-submarine ships, back
to her ocean-going mother. Some hours
later what she’d left went up in a shatter-
ing roar and forest of flung water, taking
the greater part of the cruiser’s steel belly
with it.
The British Navy is still training its
frogmen, developing, researching, perfect-
ing. Tom Waldron and James Gleeson
don’t tell their story as vividly as they
might, but the book is full of such en-
thralling material that the telling really
doesn’t much matter.
The Arts in New Zealand,
In New Zealand’s sixth Arts Year Book
(Wingfield Press, Wellington), edited by
Eric Lee- Johnson, there are 113 paintings
and sculptures by 64 painters, and 4:
poems from 19 writers: which is very
much like the art world in Sydney, where,
if you take the four major shows of the
Royal Art Society, the Society of Artists,
the Watercolor Institute and the Con-
temporary Society, there must be at leasl
1000 painters coming before the public
every year ; while, in Australian Poetry,
only about 20 poets are printed each year
—or, as it stands now, every second year.
This enormous preponderance of paint-
ings over poems has existed so long thal
we accept it without question ; yet it is
really very strange, for since everybody
who can speak English at all can writs
a poem of some kind —and most people,
when slightly demented with youth and
love, do—it is obvious that there must be
more poets in the community than there
are painters. The only conclusion one
can come to is that while the editors of
verse-anthologies are, as they should be.
rigidly selective, the art world today is
practically without critical standards,
And that indeed is the case.
One does not suggest, of course—
though it really would be rather a relief—
that only 20 of the 1000 Sydney painters
should be allowed to exhibit their wares.
An exhibition is rather different from an
anthology; it is a kind of open market,
where goods of varying quality may
legitimately be offered for the discrimina-
tion of the public. But Arts Year Book
is essentially an anthology, and it looks
far too much like a jumble-sale to do
credit to New Zealand overseas or to
set up a standard within the Dominion.
So far as one can tell from reproduc-
tions —which is not very far—there seems
to be genuine quality in Guy Ngan’s
“Study of a Head” (sculpture), in Stewart
Maclennan’s portraits, Doris Lusk’s
“Tobacco Fields, Nelson” (in color),
Russell Clark’s “Old Keata,” Joan Clare’s
pencil-drawing “Model,” A, Lois White’s
stylisations of Botticelli and Ida G. Eise’s
“Autumn Afternoon,” and there may be
others that would look better in the
originals. But most of the work is simply
imitation —imitation Matisse, imitation
Picasso, imitation Rouault and so on;
and while it is natural for young painters
to follow the fashions of their day, it is
extremely difficult to detect any sign of
originality in the mass of this work or
anything distinctively New Zealand. Even
the landscape is all seen through distort-
ing glasses, borrowed.
The poems are more impressive than
the paintings both because they have been
selected by A. R. D. Faifburn with some
discrimination, some insistence on crafts-
manship, and because they are not so
tediously derivative. If James K. Baxter
has borrowed “Gharm for Hilary” from
Shakspeare and “Dying Calvinist” from
Dunbar he has made his own variation on
the masters and in “Rocket Show” he
writes with original force and feeling;
And of man’s heart, that blind Rosetta
stone,
Mad as the polar moon, decipherable by
none.
Kendrick Smithyman, similarly, a com-
pletely incomprehensible poet who offers
a “Dirge for Two Clavichords and a
Bowler Hat,” probably owes something to
Dylan Thomas and the Apocalyptics, but
he seems to have come through to some
weird variation of his own . . . and may
be much heard-of when he decides to
write for other people as well as himself.
All the way through the poems, too,
because they are not so slavishly imita-
tive of European fashions, something of
the New Zealand scene, something of
New Zealand feeling emerges: in Merval
Connelly’s “Norfolk Pines,” for example,
and in Ruth Dallas’s “The World’s
Centre,” Jean Alison’s “Elegy in the
Suburbs” and J. R. Hervey’s “Glacier”;
The agile mind sits still, the spirit falls
Under the spell of an eternity.
For this is purpose unleashed, here in the
seen
The strong unseen, purpose breaking the
small
And mortal dream and through the care-
less days
And vast caress of night a purpose grind-
ing.
It is possible, of course, that Arts Year
Book is regarded by its editors more as
a market than as a critical anthology;
or, rather, not so much a market as a
meeting-place where. New Zealand being
a small and scattered community, artists,
writers, actors, potters and musicians may
learn what everybody has been doing. As
such no doubt it serves a useful purpose,
and one is glad to learn that the five
previous issues, from 1000 to 1500 copies,
have all practically sold out.
But surely it would be possible to make
it both critical and communal. By reduc-
ing the number of paintings, drastically
reducing the space given to the potters
and condensing the surveys of music and
little theatres space could be found for
some of New Zealand’s brilliant short-
story writers —Gloria Rawlinson, J. H.
Melville, Roderick Finlayson and A. P.
Gaskell —and for surveys of the year’s
publications in verse and belles lettres on
the lines of Patrick Macaskill’s interesting
survey of the year’s New Zealand fiction
—the novels by Frank Sargeson, Dan
Davin, James Courage and Greville
Texidor, and John Reece Cole’s collec-
tion of short-stories It Was So Late.
Eighth Division Story .
Because of several forewords and
personal articles (which could with ad-
vantage have been included in the text) it
takes quite a while to get through to the
essence of Through, the story of 8th
Division Signals in Malaya and the
Middle East. The first few chapters detail
—not particularly interestingly, though no
doubt for signalmen concerned they will
awake pleasant-enough reminiscences—-
the early training, and the movements of
the unit to Malaya, Darwin and the
Middle East.
Then, with the Jap contacted in
Malaya, signals and action come thick
and fast, sometimes stark and grim as
men tell in their own words their experi-
ences in the jungle.
Signals h.-q. is naturally a first-class
mine of information, and the Singapore
evacuation, the climax, is told concisely
and with dramatic restraint. Then: “At
half-past eight the shelling ceased. The
quiet was uncanny and it was some time
before it was realised that the war was
over as far as we were concerned and
that soon we would be behind barbed-
wire.”
They were, until “freed” for the un-
imaginable march 1 to the Death Railway
—200 miles covered in under three weeks,
sick and all. The unit had 19 action
deaths in the Malayan campaign. The
camps from Borneo to Burma, Siam and
Japan were responsible for almost 200.
(Copies from J. M. Ling, 133 Greville-
street, Chatswood, Sydney).
Novel of the Coalfields.
Harold C, Wells’s The Earth Cries Out
(Angus and Robertson), a novel which
took a prize in one of the “S. M. Herald”
competitions, is three kinds of book in
one: a novel, a documentary account of
the N, S. Wales coalfields and, thirdly,
quite frankly, a piece of propaganda
designed principally to inform the public
that the miners are human and also to
warn the miners of the folly of irrespon-
sible strikes.
It is not wholly satisfactory in any of
these three categories. As a novel, it is
the sort of thing that makes the reader
sigh for a Dickens or a Zola: for a
novelist, that is to say, who realises that,
while the novel may propagand for any
cause, expose or expound any social con-
ditions, its primary purpose is to enter-
tain ; to portray credible and exciting
human beings moving in a dramatic
action, whether the action is violent and
macabre as in the greatest coalmining
novel ever written, Zola’s Germinal, or
lit with comedy as it usually is in Dickens.
Mr. Wells’s method, far too common in
Australian writing, is that which might
be called the Happy Families method.
You take an ordinary decent young
fellow, show him courting an ordinary
nice young girl, and then going through
all the ups and downs' of a coalminer’s
life, finishing on a vague note of hope
because Mr. Chifley has brought in the
Coal Industry Bill, intending “to com-
pletely reorganise the whole industry.”
Thus you have what appears to be a
true picture of life, with its brief lyrical
moments of love, its little comedies, its
tragedies, its domestic trials and its in-
dustrial struggles. And as such it is
interesting. But then, remembering
Dickens and Zola, that is not a true
picture at all, but only a superficial
picture: life is deeper than that, infinitely
more comic, infinitely more dreadful in
tragedy, infinitely more subtle, infinitely
more dramatic ; and people are not “ordi-
nary” but, when the individual character
is fully" revealed, astonishing.
I The Earth Cries Out remains, despite
this criticism, a pleasant and creditable
novel. No doubt there is a public for
the Happy Families type of story, and Mr.
Wells, carried along by a warm sympathy
for the tribulations of mankind, has some
effective scenes of pathos when the family
fortunes or the family son go to the bad,
some vivid descriptions of the miners’
lives and work underground and some
I moving accounts of mining tragedies.
But since the book is chiefly intended
to be a documentary, and since the prob-
lem of the coalmines and the mysterious
behavior of the coalminers are matters of
such intense topical interest, the present
reviewer rather wishes that Mr. Wells
hadn’t attempted a novel but had simply
put down what he knows about the mines,
and what can be proved about them from
reliable documents, as a straightforward
factual history. A documentary account
in fictional form inevitably leaves one in
doubt as to how much is fact and how
much is fiction ; nor does it provide the
evidence to let the reader decide how
much is fact and how much may be propa-
ganda.
In the novel, for instance, the
acters may say that “the owners” are
responsible for some frightful disaster,
and they may continue to say so after a
court has held otherwise. But if this
refers to some actual, historical disaster,
what precisely were the facts? The evi-
dence that was put before the courl
would be much more interesting than the
comments of Mr. Wells’s fictional char-
acters. Similarly, when wage-cuts are
made and the owners say they are neces-
Isary and the miners say they aren’t, what
precisely are the facts? Mr. Wells, so
to speak, gives us gossip and emotion;
but these are not evidence.
Mr. Wells’s characters do not ring quite
true because they are too much dominatec
by economic motives —if a miner plays
two-up in this book it is not because he
likes to gamble but because he is short
of money. His picture of the Communists
(though his hero breaks from the party
as Mr. Wells himself is reported to have
done) is altogether too sentimental —Mr.
Wells, criticising the- “irresponsible
youths” who cause the “needless stop-
pages,” says nothing whatsoever about
the responsibility of the Communist party
for filling these youths with the spirit of
outlawry by preaching the ugly doctrine
of the class-war. As to any Communist
conspiracy to cripple the Common-
wealth’s defence plans and to bring the
(Continued on inside back cover.)


•TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'*
ntiony Horderns’
m
~ T. . '
|> •. „ ><v ' ‘'
|
fli
■
111
®, fegS
A
m
He
<9
<9
\
<9
>
feo*
sill
H
I#
NTs
a- < :
ii ■„... .
/
Ck nS
/
<r
y
X
The “MULCO”
A. —Gent’s “Mulco” 15 Jewel antimagnetic Swiss lever wrist watch. Centre
sweep second hand, Imported stainless steel case and leather strap. £l5/5/0.
B. —Gent's “Mulco” 15 Jewel antimagnetic Swiss lever wrist watch with
stainless steel case. Imported leather strap. Attractively finished and has a
centre sweep second hand. Priced at £l4/7/6.
C. —Gent’s stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with
a centre sweep second hand. Antimagnetic and fitted in an Imported case on
a strong Imported leather band. Priced at £ll/10/0.
D. —Two watches in one! Ordinary timepiece and a stopwatch. Gent’s
“Lorton” Chronograph 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with a stainless steel
Imported case on Imported leather strap. £2l/15/0.
The Beautiful "MULCO" Ladies Watch.
F.—Attractively finished in stainless steel and having a two tone
face the “Mulco” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch has a raised
optic glass, Imported case on a strong leather strap. Price £l4/3/0.
Watches to please EVERY Woman !
E- —Ladies stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch fitted
in an Imported case and on an Imported cordette band. Gold figures
and hands on face, raised glass, and Imported cordette band. £l2/5/0,
G. —Ladies stainless steel “Lorton” 15 Jewel Swiss lever watch with
Imported case and silver figures and hands, fitted on a cordette band.
Reasonably priced at £l2/10/0.
H. —Ladies stainless steel “Mulco” 15 Jewel Swiss lever wrist watch with
an Imported case and a raised optic glass. The watch is fitted on an
Imported leather band. Priced at £l3/15/0.
TELEPHONE M 2401.
MAIL BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY


POWER MOD UN DEPEND
* wAI
. .v»
*
H y*
mu
m
■
, |UiI ERNAT,0 NA
industrial power
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
Lighting
pushing
International
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL —
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
fs
7
"/////A
&
madS4sSc*\
A 069
y/y/y
•yy
z
1
»
S2SSI
srirs
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVILE
BRISBANE SVQNEV MELBOURNE HOBART ROELRIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERN ATiOHAI INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3703
Wednesday, January 31, 1951
df
kII
mMm
sd
/
fs
THE PIED PIPER OF KREMLIN.


The Bulletin
B
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man”
?
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adam.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.). Wellington.
TOWARDS THE DOLE.
The Australian public ought to under-
stand exactly how the latest industrial
rebellion on the coalfields started —an
attack on the community described by
the Coal Tribunal as “possibly criminal,”
and one which, if carried through, must
lead to a compulsory closing-down of
industry, widespread unemployment and
a return for many to the dole.
The coalminers celebrated the first
week of their return to work after three
weeks’ Christmas holidays with stoppages
which caused an unnecessary loss of
65,550 tons of coal. Not one mine on
the northern field worked the full five
days ; most worked less than four.
During the week before these holidays
began Mr. Gallagher, as Coal Tribunal,
made his award consequent on the Arbi-
tration Court’s increase in the basic wage
of £1 a week. Mr. Gallagher revised,
upward the wages of contract miners and
other mineworkers on scales which repre-
sented payment as for an extra shift,
but made these payments conditional on
the miners working normally for the 10
working days of each fortnight. The
award applied to N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania.
As soon as the miners’ holidays were
over the foreshadowed defiance of the
award began. The central executive meet-
ing Messrs. Williams, Parkinsop and
Grant present —called pit-top meetings of
protest throughout N.S.W. for the third
day of resumption of work. The meet-
ing described the extra payment for full
working time as “a swindle.” Messrs.
Cockerill and Neilly, of the northern
executive, were reported to have “deplored
the call for these stop-work meetings
without consultation with district officers,”
Next arbitrary action by the Federation
officials was to put forward by a week
the annual meeting of the Miners’ Central
Council and to ask it to “recommend to
the rank-and-file” that weekly strikes be
held as a protest against the Coal
Tribunal’s award because it
Offers a bribe to the workers to forgo
tbeir fundamental rights to industrial
action and destroyed their capacity to
struggle against the undermining of work-
ing-class solidarity.
To the prospect of general stoppages
one day in five of each week, the N.S.W.
“Labor” Government reacted in the usual
negative fashion of ordering drastic
power-restrictions forbidding use of
Electricity Commission’s power to all
commercial users except essential food-
producers for the first two working days
of this week. Already the blackouts
had reduced actual working-time in
many factories (especially small concerns)
to 20 or 25 hours a week, and production
was falling rapidly. Simultaneously prices,
were soaring under pressure of infla-
tionary influences, and the threatened
one-day-a-week stoppages on the coal-
fields can only boost that movement.
The Federal Cabinet in Canberra
promptly instructed the Joint Coal Board
to apply to the Coal Tribunal for a penal
order against anybody promoting, inciting
or taking part in such stoppages, which
the board duly did on Friday. Mean-
while Mr. Gallagher had called a com-
pulsory conference of all parties at which
he said he believed the miners’ action was
part of “an attempt to bring Australia
to ruination.” For the miners, only
secretary Grant attended; the other two
of the triumvirate which ordered the first
stoppage were “away at Wollongong,”
and though the Tribunal “had police cars
on the road from Sydney to Wollongong
to find Williams and Parkinson,” there
was no report of them. Mr, Grant
refused to call off the stop-work meet-
ings because, he said, “I cannot do any-
thing other than what the council de-
cides.”
Mr. Gallagher: It’s not that you can’t;
you refuse?
Mr. Grant: Yes, I refuse.
Mr. Davie (for the northern colliery
owners): At the end of an incident in 1949
Mr. Grant gave an undertaking to the
Arbitration Court that in future he would
regard the law of the land as superior to
the decisions of his union.
The Federal Cabinet took the initial
steps for issue of a proclamation by the
Governor-General under the Crimes Act,
and the Army was ordered to prepare to
enter the coalfields as during the coal
strike in 1949. Mr. McGirr in Sydney
had been too busy organising Jubilee
celebrations (to be held in the dark, so
far as his Electricity Commission was
concerned) to go to Canberra at Federal
Cabinet’s request, so Acting-P.M. Fadden
flew to Sydney, flattering himself with a
hope of Mr. McGirr’s co-operation in
action against the country’s wreckers,
which, of course, was refused.
As an earnest of measures vitally
urgent, Mr. Gallagher late on Friday made
an order providing for fines of £lOO or
six months’ jail, or both, for miners or
their officials striking or inciting strikes
against the award. Representing the
Attorney-General, Mr. J. D. Holmes,
K.C., said the Government had reason
to believe that the strike decision was
“part of a general plan of Communist-
led organisations abroad to hamper and
impede defence preparations in demo-
cratic countries.” He indicated that the
Government “means business.” It knows
that in action in defence against that
conspiracy it has the support of every
Australian who gives a thought to the
common welfare of his country.
Dr. Evatt's Monument.
When “S. M. Herald” dropped its salvo
on Dr. Evatt and the “scandal of Manus”
the other day, the architect of Our
Foreign Policy emerged from a shattered
edifice with bricks still falling around
him, and protested (a) that the “scandal”
was all a pack of lies and half-truths, and
( b ) that somebody must have been dis-
closing confidential documents from the
archives of his late department. He was
silenced with a rattle of small-arms fire
directed on these salient points: (1) That
the United States had been frozen out of
a great strategic naval base (built by
American engineers and with American
money) on the pretence that Australia
wanted the base for herself, and (2) that
thereafter the Chifley Government had
left Manus to rust and the jungle.
Manus is a fitting monument of Our
Foreign Policy, that creature of Dr.
Evatt’s which one of his diplomatic
servants at U.N.0., resigning in disgust,
likened at the time to a bird bred for the
limelight from “a larrikin strain” and
liable to change plumage in mid-flight.
That was Mr. Paul Hasluck, who, re-
turned as member for Curtin, deserved,
but did not get, from the new Government
an invitation to help clean up conditions
in the hatchery responsible for producing
this bird, a job which, it is to be
suspected, remains incomplete. True, the
Communist boss of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation no longer functions
as co-regulator (with the Minister) of
Australia’s international relationships,
though their association lingers in Com-
rade Healy’s briefing of Dr. Evatt to
bear his challenge in the High Court
against the Communist-party Dissolution
Act, by means of which the Menzies
Government aims at eliminating (in-
cidentally) the said waterside-boss from
control of that union, to say nothing of
his chances of interfering with Govern-
ment foreign policy.
Manus was, of course, only a detail in
the story. There was no excuse at all
for the uncouth fashion in which
American approaches were treated when
the Government for whom Dr. Evatt was
the mouthpiece in this matter had no
intention of doing anything to maintain
Manus anyhow. It did not count with
Dr. Evatt that the American naval and
air-fleets had but yesterday shattered
Japanese invasion forces, or that the
American Army had poured its conscripts
overseas to save this country, despite the
fact that the Curtin Government —unable
to avoid conscription of Australian man-
hood for self-defence in war —refused to
permit any but volunteers, enlisting in a
separate army, to join our American pro-
tectors in fighting the enemy outside Aus-
tralian territorial waters. It did not
matter that in the 1942 emergency the
“Labor” Government, in which Dr. Evatt
was a leading actor, had howled in funk
for American conscript divisions to be
sent here for Australia’s defence. When
victory was won and the Americans said
in effect; “What about a share in Manus
to round off our defensive sea-arc in the
.South-West Pacific?” Dr. Evatt said—
“ Nothing doing unless you give us equal
rights in bases in American territory.”
That might have been defensible had
the Chifleys kept up what the Americans
had prepared for them at Manus, instead
of letting it fall in ruins; and if the
Americans set impossible terms Australia
had, and still has, a right to be told.
Silence condemns Dr. Evatt even more
than his words, and that is saying some-
thing.
At the end of the war the Chifley-
Evatts were re-elected to office with a
majority in both Houses —inducing Mr.
Chifley to hail the arrival of his “Golden
Age.” This country then had offered
to it:
A firm ally In the United States, willing
to put down a tangible stake of its own in
defence of the S.-W. Pacific.
A firm ally in the Hatch, whose N.E.I.
naval fleet sacrificed Itself in battle, along:
with B.A.N. ships, to defend the
approaches to Australia through the Java
seas.
An unexampled economic opportunity to
boost this country’s industrial development
and win custom in a dozen hungry world
markets for our manufacturers, if we liked
to set ourselves to work.
What the “Labor” Government, with Dr.
Evatt as its world-wide advertising agent
in the person of himself, proceeded to do
was to put its boot through all these
prospects.
Even the late “Labor” Government
must be presumed, in a world by no
means settling down to peace, to have
desired to keep on good terms with the
pre-eminent Pacific Power. Yet, having
rebuffed the Americans and then left
Manus to rot. Dr. Evatt went crusading
in the Press for a Pacific Pact, to be
bolstered, of course, by American
military power and subsidised by
American funds; and on the develop-
ment side if there was anything his Gov-
ernment solicited more eagerly than
investment of dollar’ capital in Australia
it was dollars for current spending.
Otherwise the United States, as a capi-
talist countiy putting forth an astonish-
ing expansion in production, was a
figure of envy, as well as of reproach, to
all Socialist Governments, Dr. Evatt’s
included.
Our nearest active war-time allies,
neighbors certain to be included in the
mooted Pacific Pact, were the Dutch in
the Netherlands East Indies. The Dutch
had a particularly awkward deal to
negotiate in Java with a gang of Japanese
collaborators armed with Japanese arms,
and inoculated first with Japanese and
then with Soviet malignancy against the
Dutch and every other European people.
The leaders of this gang preferred to
take by force the self-governing freedom
which the Dutch, under the sympathetic
Dr. Van Mook, wished for Indonesia’s
own sake to introduce gradually; and
while Dr. Evatt at U.N.O. took sides
with Soekarno and his militant minority,
Communist Healy of the Australian
watersiders imposed a local boycott on
Dutch shipping which the Chifley-Evatt
Government tolerated without protest for
their entire term of office. Indonesia’s
sponsor on a U.N.O. “Good Offices
Commission” was Australia, Belgium
represented the Dutch and America pro-
vided the impartial chairman. That
“peacemaking body” brought about a
compromise agreement, promptly tom up
by the Indonesians as soon as signed.
Maybe experience taught the Indo-
nesian leaders that the U.N.O. which
Dr. Evatt worshipped was a fraud fit
for exploitation by those disposed to
violence, and that Australian foreign
policy as represented by Dr. Evatt was
a bad joke. Events in Palestine, Kashmir
and Korea can hardly be calculated to
dispel such ideas about U.N.0.; and Dr.
Evatt’s readiness to chase the Americans
away from Manus and to side with “our
Indernesian comrades” against the Dutch
doubtless seems to Soekamo, fresh from
his conquest of the deceived federalists
of Amboina, to leave Australia impotent
to do more than protest against a next
step to the conquest of New Guinea.
There is no mistaking the contempt
these friends of Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Chifley feel for our country. Soekarno
has just announced that he refuses to
submit the New Guinea question to the
U.N.O. Commission “because our sponsor
on the commission is Australia.”
Thus the eggs laid by that O.F.P. bird
of “the larrikin strain” during 1947-49
are hatching out horribly in the form of
problems for the years next ahead, with
a Soviet disciple in Indonesia making
ready to repeat in New Guinea Red
Chinese tactics in Korea, Soviet agents
in Australia engaged in sabotaging the
industries and services which Australia
must depend upon for her defence plans,
and the Australian “Labor” party, poli-
tical and industrial, unrepentant and
neutral.
“Neutral” perhaps flatters it, when
Communist executives are encouraging
strikes and go-slow in the unions, poli-
tical “Labor” is defending the Com-
munists, and not one “Labor” speaker
has appeared on a recruiting platform to
support the only form of military service
—voluntary enlistment—that the party
consents to tolerate.
Volcano.
At 10.42 p.m. on Sunday evening,
January 21, Russell Biddulph, a Qantas
pilot, was flying his DC3 well to the east
of the direct route from Lae to Port
Moresby as is necessary to avoid the
menace of the 13,000 ft. peaks of the
Owen Stanleys, when he saw Mt.
Lamington explode. He reported the fact
on his arrival, but there was nothing any-
one could do at that time. The only
means of access to the district was
Popendetta airfield, a tiny emergency
strip laid down by the Air Force during
the war, and maintained subsequently for
the benefit of a small community of
missionaries and planters spread around
half a dozen surrounding villages.
Confirmation of tragedy came in the
morning, some hours after Port Moresby,
88 miles south-west of the explosion,
awoke to a landscape smutted with fine
volcanic ash; gritty dust that penetrated
every crack and tainted exposed water.
Clem Searle, a cocoa-planter of Awala,
20 miles from the mountain, dismantled
his portable radio transmitter and took
it by truck to the airfield at Popendetta,
to flash the news to civilisation.
Mount Lamington, a small insignificant
volcano which had groaned into sullen
life some six weeks previously, one of
four peaks in the rugged country at the
northern end of the Kokoda Trail, inland
of the coastal Hydrographer Range
behind Buna and Gona, had exploded
with a force which paled the atom-bomb,
and with a heavy loss of life. Upwards
of 4000 people, including 38 Europeans,
had died. The country 10 miles around
the peak was seared and wasted like a
lost land.
From Lae (150 miles to the north-west)
and Moresby the rescue parties came in.
They found files of natives, wandering
dazed and sick, many of them soon to
die. Volcanic blast kills in two ways:
firstly by the explosion, which in this
case blew a jeep into a tree, lopped the
tops off the smaller hills and stripped the
forest; secondly by the heat of destruc-
tion and a vicious attack by the fine hot
dust on the respiratory passages. So
most victims who escaped the blast died
soon after, many of them in trees they
climbed to avoid the heat.
In the limited time there was to display
inhuman heroism was shown as magni-
ficently as in any emergency. The Rev.
Denis Taylor, safe from the first strike,
walked into death to try to rescue his
wife and four children; dying in agony,
shortly after saying with quiet gratitude
that a cup of tea would be a fine idea.
A native called Elliot Elijah helped in
every way he knew with the victims;
and then walked into the stricken area
to do what else he could. Very quickly
the rescue parties became burial parties.
No one knew what plagues might spread
from the deaths in that thickly-populated
district.
With the understandable human
impulse to blame somebody, some of the
rescued said that the Government
vulcanologist, Mr. G. A. Taylor, should
have issued a previous warning.
Volcanoes give notice of their intentions,
and Mount Lamington was no exception.
The natives had been uneasy for six
weeks at the rumbling noises, the earth-
quakes and the emissions of steam and
smoke that preceded the blast. On the
Tuesday before the eruption, Lamington
started belching smoke; on the Thursday
there was a preliminary explosion. But
Taylor, stationed at Rabaul, 415 miles
to the north-east, was in an area sur-
rounded by quiescent and semi-quiescent
volcanoes; at the heart of the most
scattered and broken and thickest part of
the volcanic chain that almost entirely
surrounds the great Pacific basin.
There was little reason to fear tragedy.
From Manam to the D’Entrecasteaux
group and north to New Ireland were
dozens of mountains idly steaming.
Heavy explosions in volcanoes are attri-
buted to the entrance of substantial
bodies of water into the internal
lava streams —as in the Krakatoa
explosion, which killed 36,000 people in
1883, after giving warning for six years.
Here there was no fear of that. After
the Thursday episode, District Commis-
sioner C. F. Cowley issued a statement:
“There is no loss of life, nor any
immediate danger.” He was killed on
Sunday.
Hardest blow to New Guinea institu-
tions was that administered to the growth
of Christianity. The Christian converts
placed their faith in the missionaries and
stayed in the villages round Higituru.
The others went bush, sometimes weeks
before. It will take years of patient work
to restore the faith that was lost in this
one blow.
PAPUA.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Why Coms Strike Now.
Evidence is plain that the Communis
plan of campaign for Australia is to con
trive now the utmost damage possible
under any pretext offering.
The position is different here from tha
in such countries as France and Italy
where the Soviet fifth-column is of such
proportions, with much of it armed, tha
it could on order launch and maintain
civil war.
In Australia its threat is not in its
numbers but in the positions some of
them hold. On the outbreak of a Soviet-
launched war they would go behind bars
as fast as they could be rounded up. No
doubt some would escape the net and re-
main free to do their traitorous worst, but
the fifth-column here is fortunately smal
enough to be locked up.
That is some sort of consolation ; but
it will be no sort of compensation for
wreckage done in the meantime by those
banded together by their common bond
of loyalty to a foreign country, which
here has to be implemented by getting in
now while the going is good.
Divided We Hang.
On account of Korea —of all wretched
causes! the Western side continues
divided to an extent that must be the
source of unholy joy in Moscow, And
it would be a rash prophet who would
attempt now to say what the harvest
will be.
The specially dangerous division, of
course, is that between Britain and the
U.S. A. The first sign of it was Britain’s
insistence on its recognising Communist
China. The fact that the gesture was, by
Communist China, treated with con-
tempt, as British faces were slapped in
the same country by the Japs; that
Britain’s appointed Ambassador is still
waiting in Tokyo, ignored by Peking, and
that Britain apparently continued to
hope, all clearly pointed an opportunity
for driving in a wedge between Britain
and a United States which was doing
none of these things.
It can be argued that if the U.S. had
done as Britain did things would have
turned out altogether different. It is a
debatable perhapser. And it does not
matter a chewed straw compared with
the facts as they stand.
The plain facts are that in Britain there
is a majority in favor of appeasing Red
China. The favored action would not
be called by that name, but by any other
it would smell as sweet. The whole
Korea business could be written off
tomorrow, and, barring the certainty that
such a fine stick for belting the Govern-
ment would not be neglected by the Gov-
ernment’s newspaper and other
opponents, there would be a practically
unanimous sigh of relief.
In the U.S., on the other hand, such
action would be politically ruinous for
whoever tried it. The Americans, in fact,
now want to brand Communist China
an aggressor; and the division widens.
Here it can be argued that the U.S.
proposal is a futility, and no doubt it
would be. It is nonetheless a plain facing
of reality. .And Australia’s support of
the U.S. can be put in the same category,
along with that of New Zealand and
Canada.
Meanwhile the division remains, and it
is deadly serious. Widening it is the
present major tactic of the Kremlin.
Latest figures from the U.S. show now
an increase to between a minimum of
40 to 1 and a maximum of 90 to 1 of
voters’ letters to Congressmen favoring
the Hoover prescription of “armed isola-
tion.” , With that is also reported “more
anti-Brjtish feeling than has existed in
America since 1939.”
Whether two men, Marshall as
Secretary of State and Eisenhower in
Europe, can with their great abilities and
wisdom bridge the division is the one
point of hope.
Picking on the Immigrant.
Twice in a month, “Sydney Morning
Herald” has argued that the flow of im-
migrants is exerting “strong inflationary
pressure” and therefore ought to be cur-
tailed.
How much this sort of thing inflames
insular prejudice against newcomers
needs no emphasising. The facts are that
if inflation is encouraged the fault is not
with the immigrants and the benefits they
bring far outweigh any “economic” harm
they may do.
Professor Copland placed immigration
fourth on a list of “inflationary factors
now operating,” though he did add that
this was no reason for ceasing to “pro-
ceed with it apace.” This gave “S.M.H.”
the opportunity to say;
We should not delude ourselves that in
the present uncertain world situation we
can keep the inflow of capital equipment
large enough to sustain the current rates of
migration and development.
By “development” is meant the large
State and Federal works now planned
or already begun, and the inference is
that immigrants are looked upon merely
as employees of these works. In other
words, we are importing capital equip-
ment for Government works so as to
keep immigrants employed at high
wages, and the further inference is that
these people do not produce essential
consumer goods and their wflges make
them competitors for goods in short
supply.
That false conception is based on the
doubtful and inhumane rule that assisted
immigrants must spend two years in
“training camps,” doing such work as
the Government orders them to do,
learning the language and other
“assimilation” lessons. This hampers
and irritates intelligent people, often
separates families, segregates new
citizens from old and psychologically
must tend to confirm, rather than break
down, racial grouping. It is a Socialist
conception, holding that a man is not
able to control his own destiny, but must
lean on the Government.
A very large number of these new
citizens came to Australia to get away
from camps and government orders. The
period of camp-care and “readjustment”
should be voluntary, not compulsory. If
a man believes he can take up his voca-
See Page 16—
"Power Without Action"
tion as soon as he gets here, there is no
valid reason why he should be prevented.
As long as he is in the camp he is a
foreigner among foreigners. Once free
in this wide land of opportunity he starts
to be an Australian, at liberty to make his
own way within the law, to rear his
children and begin his contribution to
the nation.
As for inflation, nothing can be said
against the immigrant on his willingness
to work. If others were as willing, in-
flation would quickly lose its terrors.
Cutting down immigration won’t stop it,
and to do so would be national folly.
Dead Scared of Thomson.
Both the Melbourne City Council and
the Victorian Government have allowed
themselves to be bluffed by the
Communist-run Building Trades Federa-
tion for 11 weeks.
When the Communists and their dupes
were running their phony “peace” meet-
ings late last year, a “peace group” sup-
ported by Don Thomson, Communist
secretary of the 8.T.F., applied for use
of Melbourne Town Hall for a meeting.
The council rejected the application.
Thomson and his tools then clapped a
ban on all City Council works, which
included additions to a powerhouse in
Spencer-street, two electricity sub-
stations, a bridge over the Yarra and
minor jobs. The City Council’s response
was to emulate Brer Rabbit.
Melbourne “Herald” became curious
about this attitude and discovered an
alderman who said:
I have a number of painters and car-
penters working for me, and any state-
ment 1 might make is bound to react on
my business.
The paper added that many City Coun-
cillors had observed a “keep-quiet”
attitude, though at the beginning they
spoke “strongly” against the Communist-
led union’s “stand-over tactics.” Lord
Mayor Disney contented himself with
the remark that Thomson and co. were
acting like “naughty boys.” All the
Deputy-Premier had to say after 10 weeks
of it was that the Government “could
not sit by for ever.”
Comrade Thomson’s dupes, like so
many other members of Communist-run
unions, are in the happy position of being
able to find plenty of other work to keep
them going. Otherwise they might use
their heads and ask what sense there is
in keeping on the ban, since the “peace
movement” has been long since exploded
and even if the Town Hall were granted
for a meeting the “peace” outfit woul
be lucky if it got a quorum.
The value of keeping the ban going, t
its Communist originators, is that i
delays things and causes trouble. Tha
is a fundamental part of the Communis
plan, but it doesn’t excuse the lily-liverec
cringings of City Council and Stat
Government.
Successful Housing.
Speaking for the State Governments a
a citizenship convention in Canberra las
week South Australian Premier Playford
got on to the subject of housing, on
which he happens to be peculiarly fitted
to speak.
Without a Housing Commission,
Minister for Housing or a Minister for
Building Materials, or their attendan
functionaries, S.A. manages to build
houses and sell or rent them at terms
seemingly incredible in other parts. Its
Housing Trust of seven members, only
the chairman of which is a Government
man, doesn’t build houses. It simply
buys the land, plans the buildings am
then calls for private tenders. Of build-
ing permits issued, the trust is limited to
one-third, the balance being for those
who wish to build off their own bat.
Housing progress under this system is
notable. In 1949, 4000 homes were built
5000 in 1950, and the estimate is for 750 C
this year. No other State can show com
parable figures.
These figures of increased building
material production tell their own tale:
1946. 1948. 1950.
Bricks .. .. 28.7 m. 41.3 m. 45.9 m.
Terra-cotta tiles 2.04 m. 2.11 m. 2.11 m.
Cement tiles .. .sm. 2.8 m. 7.7 m.
Cement (tons).. 74,703 84,859 113,950
Asbestos sheet
(sq. yds.) .. 669,763 540,547 717,666
Pine flooring
(lineal ft.) .. —7.76 m. 12m.
Three types of houses are built: (1)
For sale; the trust encourages everybody
to buy his own home; (2) for rental to
those unable to buy; (3) a new type of
emergency home. This emergency home
is an endeavor to get people out of tents,
bag shacks, caravans and general “Happy
Valley” types of hovels. They are de-
signed for easy and quick removal and
re-erection anywhere. The central part
is an 18 x 12 room, with laundry and
bathroom, and to that can be added any
number of 12 x 12 rooms. Each house
is equipped for electricity, water and
(where possible) sewerage.
Emergency houses are built from
imported precut materials by small
groups of carpenters usually engaged in
repair and renovation work rather than
building; both ideas being designed to
stop withdrawal of labor and material
from ordinary house-building. The rent
ranges from 21 s. to 255. a week according
to size, and the emergency houses are
allotted only to desperate cases. In a year
over 800 of them have been built and
occupied.
All of which seems to prove that in
refusing to take over the functions of
private industry in housing, and in other
things, the S.A. Government has backed
a winner.
A Tale About Onions.
This month both Melbourne and Sydney
ran out of the tearful bulbs. In Vic-
toria there is no road-transport tax on
perishable goods, so the Melbourne short-
age was quickly eased by a road-haulier
who loaded up 60 tons in Adelaide and
ran them to Melbourne. The Sydney
shortage was eased when another 60 tons,
picked up at South Australian farms,
reached the Sydney market 2% days later.
The point about the Sydney consign-
ment was that because the onions were
picked up at farms and not from
merchants, they came free of road tax
and were sold at the N.S.W. fixed whole-
sale price of £52 a ton (£4O cost of onions
plus £l2 a ton cartage). Had they been
obtained from S.A. merchants and been
forced to pay road tax, they would have
had to go to the Sydney blackmarket at
up to £5 a ton more—and the housewife
would have been stung for the increase.
In addition, penalties would have awaited
the carrier for delivering them to the
“black,” and the buyers for dealing with
the “black” under N.S.W. price-fixing
laws.
Adelaide merchants could have sent
many loads of onions to relieve the
Sydney shortage, in a third of the time
rail consignment would have taken, but
for the strange rule that those from
farms were free of tax, those of merchants
taxable and therefore beyond the fixed
N.S.W. price.
Which, like a lot of other things,
demonstrates the crying need in this
country for all-round reform and general
standardisation of road-transport laws.
The Wren Case.
Hearing of the charge of criminal libel
against Frank Hardy finished rapidly in
Melbourne last week.
After a couple of days had been spent
in reading over depositions, the hearing
was resumed on Thursday; but no
evidence was called for the defence anc
counsels’ addresses were concluded tha :
day.
For Hardy, Mr. Campbell ridiculed the
basing of a criminal libel charge on an
allegation of adultery. He said the
evidence of John Wren, Junior, showec
that John Wren was afraid to take action
himself and “used his wife as a stalking-
horse.” The allegations against John
Wren were much graver than those
against Mrs. Wren. There had been no
evidence that any breach of the peace was
threatened because of the libel on Mrs
Wren.
Mr. Galbally, for Mrs. Wren, said
there was a clear case of criminal libel
Mrs. Wren had been painted as a woman
who “ran off and had a hole-and-corner
affair with a bricklayer,” whom she did
not even know, and her son “naturally
regarded this as a grosser libel than the
charges of murder, race-rigging and cor-
ruption.” The reason for taking criminal
action was that civil action would have
been no remedy against Hardy, “a man of
no substance, and judgments could be
plastered around the wall against him
without avail.”
Mrs. Wren (said Mr. Galbally) had not
been called as a witness “because
authority showed that the falsity of the
libel was presumed in these cases.” She
was 75 years old. If the case went for
trial the issue of duress (by her husband)
would no longer be relevant because the
Crown would take over the prosecution,
and Mrs. Wren would drop out of the
case, except possibly as a witness. Mr.
Campbell should either withdraw the
allegation of duress or produce evidence
to prove it.
Magistrate Jackson reserved judgment
till next day. He then ruled there had
been no duress, that there was ground for
causing breach of the peace, and he
committed Hardy for trial.
Hardy’s counsel applied for uncondi-
tional bail instead of the £5OO bail and
like surety conditional upon not
distributing the book. Magistrate having
previously ruled he could not grant bail,
parties went before Mr. Justice Hudson
in Chambers, who, after a two-hour hear-
ing, granted bail in £250 with £250
surety, conditional as above.
Mod. Cons, in Darwin.
“Bullswool” reviews a record of
housing:
You wouldn’t think these Federal statistical
blokes could possibly spin out over 20 closely-
printed foolscap pages what is to tell about
the housing situation in Darwin and N.T. But,
by cripes, they can; and they call it a “sum-
mary.” It is Bulletin No. 24 of the census
of 1947.
Darwin is unique in many ways, but also
for being the only capital in Australia whose
population is only one-quarter that of the area ot
which it is the seat of government. Its white
population is 2538 (1566 in 1933), and that of
the whole N.T. is 10,730 (4775). Alice, with
1871 people, is running Darwin hard.
Dwellings are classified as dwellings other
than private, private house (one family), p.h.
(two or more families), share of p.h. (occupied
separately), flat (part of a house, self-contained,
with cooking and bathing facilities), tenement
(ditto, but not self-contained and without bath),
wagon, van and places of campers-out.
Of the 2538 people in Darwin 1798 lived in
houses, shares of houses, flats and shares of
flats, 723 in dwellings other than private and
17 in wagons, vans and camp-outs. For the
whole territory the last-named figure reads 444.
There are pages of numbers and percentages
of rooms to a house, inmates to a room, inmates
who do and don’t sleep in rooms, then all these
divided into tropical and non-tropical areas;
then all private houses are reclassified under
materials they are made of, to wit: brick,
stone, concrete (very few of these), wood, iron
(enormous majority), fibre, steel, calico, canvas,
hessian, bark, malthoid, pise, sun-dried bricks,
wattle-and-dab, bushes and rushes, “other
materials” and “not stated.”
They are also classified according to what
their roo(s are made of, and actually, perhaps
reminiscently, some of these are made of
concrete too.
As a sample, there are 209 canvas, calico or
hessian houses and 191 roofs of same; of bark
the figures are 26 and 28; of “bushes, rushes,
thatch,” 23 and 14; and of “other materials”
(well left to the imagination), 106 and 37,
Then another reshuffle and the statistics are
drawn out for “nature of occupancy,” which
divides into owner, purchaser by instalments,
tenant, caretaker (116 of these), “other methods
of occupancy” (198) and “not stated” (134).
Reshuffle again, and you get classification by
mod. cons. Astonishingly, there is one house
with gas, but that not in Darwin; there are
423 without cooking facilities, 1373 without
laundry and 806 without bathroom. Figures
under “flush toilet” are —“With (not shared),
241; without, 2022.”
Most of the tenanted houses in the N.T.
cost under 10/- a week to rent. The average
rental in 1933 was 12/6, and in 1947 that had
fallen to 12/2.


ii
mm.
■iw-
m
ssisii
M
;
■
ai'ii
m
m
■
11
m
m
■ ■
f;WSt
m®
ill
k-^ ; -
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’a & M’s
CARRERAS UP—OVER ISO YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
«748-B
POLITICAL POINTS
Announced in Canberra on Sunday
night, a visit here a fortnight hence of
President Truman’s envoy John Foster
Dulles, Having told General MacArthur
the latest American plans for a Jap
peace treaty and other points of U.S.
Pacific policy, he will personally convey
the same to Canberra, or so much as he
thinks good for it. His own party—
Republican—places Pacific policy very
high, if not first. He himself has sur-
vived such a wisecrack as “Dull, duller,
Dufies.”
In the thick of the Jubilee celebrations
on Monday, Australians had thoughts for
some darker things hovering around. The
volcano tragedy had as sequel another
violent eruption of Mount Lamington;
this time without any reported dreadful
loss of life and wretchedly suffering sur-
vivors ; Government vulcanologist G. A.
Taylor had warned for four days of the
new outbreak, and, anyway, all had fled
the area. Nearer home hovered the
threat of the new influenza epidemic
breaking in ; and right at hand the Com-
munist wreckers were getting in while still
free to do so, with scores of thousands of
workers certain to be drawing only part
of this week’s pay.
The strength in the Crimes Act is not
the provisions for either fines or imprison-
ment. The fines arc spread wide and
paid by the dupes; imprisonment can be
represented as martyrdom and many
gulled thereby. The strength is the de-
portation provision, under the threat of
which bluster and arrogance contemptibly
deflate.
The Miners’ Federation executive, in
deciding “to recommend to the rank-and-
file” on the coalfields weekly strikes
against the Coal Tribunal’s award of
payment for an extra shift provided 10
shifts are worked in each fortnight,
described it as “a bribe to the workers to
forgo their fundamental rights to indus-
trial action” and as “destroying their
capacity to struggle against the under-
mining of working-class solidarity.” This
should clear the way for the Communist
bosses of the coalfields to bring about
unemployment and privations, through
lack of coal, in every industry, transport
service and household in the Common-
wealth.
On January 2 Judge Mansfield found
that there had been “a flagrant breach
of the electoral Acts and a criminal
offence under the Criminal Code,” in
connection with the Bulimba (Q.) elec-
tion. Next day the Queensland Cabinet
referred the matter to the police for
“thorough investigation.” Last Thursday
“Courier-Mail” asked the Queensland
Minister for Home Affairs if he had any
information on the subject. His reply:
The State Government has nothing to do
with the matter of the Bulimba election
investigation. It is in the hands of the
Police Commissioner. We have washed our
hands of it.
Given a fair chance Queenslanders
would quickly wash their hands of a
Government which thinks like that.
Ships’ Painters and Dockers’ Union
and the A.E.U. staged a strike on the
almost completed (and very expensive)
destroyer Anzac. It was a good time, it
seems, to chisel something more out of
Williamstown dockyard, and the unions
demanded a 25 per cent, increased loading
on their pay—an extra usually allowed
only when a vessel is undergoing trials.
The Navy Boar 4 first refused, and then
surrendered five days later, even to the
extent of ignoring non-continuity of
employment (which counts for annual
leave), provided no statement was issued
to the Press showing that the board had
backed down. Evidently the union bosses
could not forgo that chance of advertise-
ment, for Melbourne “Age” had it all
next day.
Federal Secretary Junor of the
Trammies’ Union has come out with a
demand for Federal control of wages
and prices. This is a change. Hitherto
the union leaders and the “Labor” crowd
seemed to think they could have rising
wages and pegged prices. All the same,
a lot would have to be done before the
Canberra Government could assume
control of either or both.
State Treasury officials were in Can-
berra last week looking for more money
under the reimbursement provisions of
uniform taxation and bigger Common-
wealth grants to help them meet wage
increases. That’s the trouble—everybody
looking for more money, few trying
to make do on what they have and many
not earning what they get for the work
they do.
When the Vic. Pharmaceutical Guild
heard that the State proposed to remove
phenacetin, an ingredient of headache
powders, from the list of poisons, it sent
a deputation to the Health Minister
urging him not to do it. One chemist on
the deputation said use of headache
powders could become a “dangerous
habit,” another described Australia as “a
patent-medicine paradise,”
Casey blew into Hobart the other week
and told the astonished Tasmanians that
their island must grow rapidly in im-
portance and prosperity and that Can-
berra planned big things for it, includ-
ing large-scale construction work in
“preparation for the National Service
Training Scheme.” What National
Service Training Scheme?
When Norwood Council heard that
Adelaide Tramways Trust had paid
£21,823 in superannuation, accrued recrea-
tion-leave and long-service leave to the
trust’s former chief engineer and general
manager (William Goodman) it nearly hit
the roof. The trust’s secretary ex-
plained that as Goodman had remained
in service after the retiring age, the trust
had got back £6400 in interest on the
superannuation amount of £14,100. The
council still wasn’t satisfied, said the trust
had lost £lOO,OOO, that it was one of the
guarantors and wanted an inquiry. It
is to get it, Adelaide City Council
appointing a commission.
The A.W.U., being entirely free of
Communist influence and bitterly opposed
to Corns, has no illusions about the all-
round benefits of incentive payments to
workers. It has agreed with the Mel-
bourne Metropolitan Board of Works that
men on water-reticulation and extension
works should receive award rates plus a
special rate per chain for digging trenches
and laying pipes. The only row now
likely to occur is when the men find them-
selves short of pipes because Communists
control the coal and steel unions.
When Speaker Cameron told a
congress of the National Union of Aus-
tralian University Students in Adelaide
that every fit student of a university
should be a member of a University
Regiment, he was hissed for it Leader of
the hissers appeared to be a Clive Evatt,
son of the N.S.W. foundation-stone layer
and nephew of the other one. The
“ Tiser” says this Evatt was “loudly
cheered when he and others voiced oppo-
sition to Mr. Cameron’s suggestion on
national training.” Still, Cameron has
been yelped at by pups before and
survived.
Hobart is to get a new six-storey block
of Commonwealth offices, at a cost of
£1,000,000. This is supposed to help in
the development of Tasmania. If it does
it will be contrary to all experience; no
place has been developed by the erection
of costly offices.
Gair, the Queensland acting-Premier,
told the Press there would be die “usual
check” of electoral rolls pending the three
by-elections now due in Queensland.
Then a Commonwealth Electoral Office
man announced that whereas the Queens-
land electoral rolls showed 718,685 voters
last April, the Commonwealth rolls
showed nearly 20,000 fewer. To all
requests to have both rolls thoroughly
checked the crowd for whom Gair speaks
turns a deaf ear. It is the elected crowd.
The wool-price boom has hit South
Africa, along with a good season on the
Karoo. Wool which brought £2O a bale
four years ago is now making £l5O. There
are about 80,000 woolgrowers, whoT
whack up some £B7 million among them
this season. They’re reacting just like
their Australian contemporaries—buying
cars, fur coats, jewellery, City property
and trips abroad. We could send Prime
Minister Malan our Professor Copland.
At a uni. students’ conference in Ade-
laide Senator O’Flaherty got this off:
A society’s duty to universities is to pro-
vide students with the necessary training
which will allow all of them to be placed
in the country’s economy for the benefit of
the country, and not for just a few.
Then who’ll swab the horses?
Lloyd Ross, now writing Labor articles
for Melbourne “Herald,” holds that “it
would be misleading to accuse miners,
watersiders, tramwaymen and engineers of
being Communists.” Weil, is it mislead-
ing to call them Communist stooges?
Repeatedly last week N.S.W.
Opposition - leader Treatt called on
Premier McGirr to get the State Parlia-
ment together to do something about the
coal position. Why pick on McGirr? The
real Government of N.S.W., the Com-
munist-run Miners’ Federation, was de-
ciding what would be done.
The annual report of Lloyd’s Register
of Shipping for 1949-50 is the first to be
published since 1939. It reveals that of
the world’s merchant fleet of today (86.4
million tons gross in the aggregate) only
16.2 million tons (19.2 per cent.) is coal-
fired, Comparative figures in 1939 were
68.5 million tons, of which 31 million
(45.3 per cent) burned coal.
The unusual spectacle of the deputy-
leader of the Federal Labor Opposition
and the leader of the N.S.W. Liberal
Opposition both demanding the same
thing appeared last week. Evatt
wanted Menzies to call Federal Parlia-
ment together to discuss the “economic
crisis”; Treatt wanted McGirr to
call N.S.W. Parliament together to dis-
cuss the “industrial crisis.” Both
achieved the same result
Maybe Australia should have a felo-
de-se celebration rather than a jubilee
one.
Canberra has told the Tasmanians that
it plans to double the population of the
northern part of their island in 10 years.
If the Speck can make room for them
there are sundry politicians, miners,
Bunnerong blokes and gas-rationing
Ministers running loose.
At its Federal convention in Sydney
last week the A.W.U. emphasised its “im-
placable hatred of any form of conscrip-
tion in Australia.” Yet nobody can work
in the shearing, fruit-picking, opcncut
mining or any other industry operating
under A.W.U. awards without being con-
scripted into the A.W.U.
At least one wharfie was compelled to
do his duty irrespective of union orders.
It was in Melbourne and he was called
for jury service. He asked to be excused
because of the “acute shortage of men
on the waterfront.” Pressed by the judge,
he said “As a matter of fact, I am going
to a stop-work meeting.” The meeting
was held without him.
Informed by the Police Department
that certain taxi-drivers in Sydney had
criminal records, Transport Minister
Sheahan announced that he would see
what could be done about delicensing
them and that a careful check for such
persons would be kept on new licences.
It is not expected that the same
procedure is about to be applied on
Sydney wharves,
J. V. Stout, of the Melbourne Trades
Hall, considers that the Government will
be dishonest if it increases taxes without
first holding an election. Is Chifley pre-
pared to promise the electors he won’t
increase taxes if returned to power?
Boilermakers (there are no fewer than
70 of them employed to maintain and
repair boilers at Bunnerong and Pyrmont
power-houses) held a “stop-work” about
something or other, and then urged the
McGirr Government to “nationalise” the
Sydney County Council, which runs the
power-houses. How the McGirrs can
nationalise something already nationalised
is a bit of a mystery; anyhow, it’s as
good a way as any of blaming somebody
else.
Stonemasons in N.S.W. report a falling-
off in demand for foundation-stones since
Clive Evatt ceased to be Minister for
Housing.
The Sturt re-enactment expedition will
know when it reaches South Australia by
the absence of crows.
The export cheque from wheat will
be down this year; rain and floods have
cut about 40 million bushels off the
estimated 125 million for export. This
leaves about 85 million, slightly more
than the amount contracted for under the
International Wheat Agreement. N.S.W.
is the main sufferer, and only good crops
in Victoria, South Australia and West
Australia will keep the export-quota up.
In Sydney people no longer get shocks
from electricity—they get them from
non-electricity.
Here’s hoping, anyway, that the new
Sydney Blackout Bureau is more
accurate in its forecasts than the Sydney
Weather Station.
A Victorian soil-conservation authority
has discovered that an “alarming
amount” of land has gone out of cultiva-
tion because of water erosion. That is
true of almost every State of the Com-
monwealth, but it doesn’t seem to
“alarm” anybody save erosion-control
officers.
Evidently shaken by the revelation of
the British Food Corporation’s peanut
fiasco in East Africa, somebody asked
Queensland Premier Hanlon about the
same crowd’s great sorghum project at
Peak Downs, to the cost of which
Queensland is partly committed. All
Hanlon would say was that the Attlee
Food Ministry was “happy” about it.
Joyful Press announcement last week:
“Enlistments in the permanent Australian
forces last week were almost double the
number of the previous week.” At this
rate we’ll have another platoon by next
Christmas.


m
Hr
IT2OWWCH
TO - ,
d
fs
Y/y
is S
d
Trip*
pibwi^l
I
w#|
V<o y-, '-'r^/yy;
m rtes signal. /
'
/n //
lie Shears
"A.W.U. Conference motions
Seek spring beds, kapok pillows,
telephones, porcelain baths and
radio for shearers."
/ J i / L*s /
J?£AE7> /
ujeAf^y
When )6ur FmtS Bbgik 1b
m <0 B*^
Ine Shearing '
jiin
*ftfc
\ > r // ‘ ~ ~
fACtS (M I*H£ SfREgT
£ar/m'
( want one bottle
of been
please /
L «f:
' Says )6u/
SOME HENRY LAWSON TITLES.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Melbn”: An excellent bed, 40ft. long,
of French-beans grows on a nature strip
outside a Bentleigh (Melbourne) cottage.
The trustful gardener, Bruce Redpath, has
been blind for 25 years.
* * * *
“Brolga”: The phoned message seemed
straightforward enough. I was to go to
a guest-house, pick up Mrs. Magurkin-
shaw’s luggage and deliver it to another
King’s Cross residential where she had
“ Will you sign me autograph-book, Mister ?”
taken a room. As the lady would still be
in town when I delivered the luggage she
had left the money with the landlady of
her new lodgings. But when I went to
pick up the load the landlady at Mrs.
M.’s old abode refused to give me the
luggage there
was a financial
settlement to be
made before it
could be re-
moved. I tried
to salve a little
of my already
tarnished repu-
tation for re-
liability by call-
ing on landlady
No. 2 and tell-
ing her that I
had tried to get
the luggage, but
that it was not available. Landlady No. 2
was pretty quick on the uptake. “Then
Mrs. Magurkinshaw will not be getting
one of my rooms,” she declared. “Cripes,
that was a narrow shave for me.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Officers of the Pakistani
squadron hastened to assure Melbourne
that they eat meat and drink a little, the
notion having got around in Perth that
Moslems don’t eat meat, while in Adelaide
people carefully avoided having alcohol
at receptions because “Moslems did not
drink.” I sympathise with the officers,
who, no doubt, felt as thirsty as Mel-
burnians in the heatwave; but all my
authorities say that the Adelaide people
were right, at any rate, according to the
letter. My information is that Mohammed
put an embargo on images, infanticide
and indulgence in alcoholic liquor, though
in all the Islamic countries where I lived
I observed that the pious honored the
last-named prohibition more in the breach
than the observance. At Indonesian
weddings English whisky neat was the
tipple, but its consumption was always
accompanied with a propitiatory gesture
to the Prophet. One hand was placed on
the upper lip so that the eyes could not
see what the other hand was doing. I
don’t know whether our Pakistani friends
adopt this procedure, but it was correct
among the unsophisticated Javanese when
I was in their country.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A trade-union official
made a good reply to complaints that
barmen and barmaids were dishonest, but
ended with a glassy clink: “The over-
whelming majority of people who serve
behind bars,” he said, “are thoroughly
honest.”
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Perth man who
was searching in an aircraft for his
yacht found it near Rottnest Island close
to what looked like a reef. Believing
his friends on board the yacht to be in
danger, he persuaded the pilot to descend
to 500 ft,, ostensibly to gain a better view.
Instead, he climbed out onto a wing and,
with his arms clasped around his knees,
jumped. He landed within 100yds. of
the yacht, and the crew put off in a
dinghy to pick him up. Twenty-four
hours later his body was still being sought.
The pilot of the plane said that after
he hit the water he appeared to be in a
standing position, with his head resting
on his chest. His friends on the yacht
said that, from his attitude, he obviously
thought to strike the water feet first;
but when about a third of the way down
he turned over slowly and landed, still
doubled up, on his back. That sounds
right to me. At least, that’s how airmen
fell when their parachutes failed to open.
If they fell from a great height they kept
turning over, and, purely as an observer,
I’m hanged if I see how they could
prevent the roll. I imagine that the
motion would be imperceptible, since all
sense of direction would vanish without
some objects for orientation; and this
Perth man probably still thought he was
falling feet-first when he struck with
back-breaking force. From a greater
height, giving him time to make a com-
plete revolution, he might have survived.
Prisoners-of-war in a German camp were
told of a British airman who fell several
thousand feet into the English Channel
and lived —to be taken prisoner.
* * * m
“T.S.”: “Smilo’s” undertaker recalls a
Chinese traders’ custom of hanging a
motto outside their establishments. One
undertaker’s was translated for me as
reading: “Long Life to You.”
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bo”: The latest garbage-tin on the
market has a lid, indentations from the
centre of which radiate to the edge, giving
it a scalloped effect and a look remark-
ably similar to that of the old ordinary-
type lid after it had been at the gentle
hands of the council garbage bloke. It
is, in fact, a pre-bashed lid, and the can
fs
itself is also so constructed that it is a
clever simulation of one that has been
concertina-ed against the sides of the
council truck for some months. One can
well imagine the feelings of deep frustra-
tion and hopeless pessimism which will
prevail on municipal garbage trucks at
sight of an apparently new can that has
already been bashed before those ministers
of the malodorous have ever had time to
lay violent hands upon it. In this frank
recognition of things-as-they-are, though,
I see further possibilities. An almost
certain thing to come before long will be
.the sale of precrushed suits, specially for
the convenience of those who are com-
pelled to travel in Government vehicles.
* ♦ * *
“Aestur”: Some interesting souvenirs
have been unearthed by workmen clear-
ing up after the fire which burnt down
the big store of Ludbrooke’s in Laun-
ceston (Tas,). One is a cricket-bat used
and autographed by the late Joe Darling
(member of the Speck’s Legislative
Council and Test cricketer). Fifty years
ago he gave the bat to Inspector John
Fleming, grandfather of the present pro-
prietors of the cafe where the bat was
found. Another souvenir was the
brochure advertising the first sweep con-
ducted in Tasmania by George Adams
(founder of Tatts). The prizes were
property owned by the Van Diemen’s
Land Bank, which was in liquidation.
First-prize, Miller’s Corner, Hobart-
valued at £26,000; second, Hadley’s
Hotel —valued at £22,500. That was in
1893 ; what they’re worth now, your
guess is as good as mine.
• * * «
“Renot”; For some time now we have
been subjected to the unexpected “pop-
ping-in” of numerous acquaintances.
They drift in soon after the evening
meal and stay on yarning, playing cards
or just listening to the radio until almost
midnight. At first we were flattered. It’s
nice to be popular. But after months
of one-sided entertaining the visitations
have palled—especially since rising costs
are making supper and liquid refresh-
ments for a half-dozen or so guests each
night an expensive item. Over the last
few weeks the uninvited hordes have in-
creased, and I’ve been wondering how to
get rid of them without severing our
friendship. Last night luck was with us.
The last guest, his tongue loosened with
the liquid refreshment, hicced happily:
“You’re good friendsh! We’d be
blacked-out if it washn’t for you. You’re
lucky you don’t get blackoutsh.” So
that’s it! Well, I hope Mr. Conde isn’t
listening. We don’t ever have a black-
out ; but, tonight before the visitors arrive,
I’m going to turn the lights off at the
meter.
* ♦ * ♦
“B. A, Ker”; A non-smoker leads an
embarrassed life; a cigarette - profferer
makes you feel a boor; the match-
borrower leaves you under imputation of
being too lousy to give away the sixtieth
part of a penny-ha’penny. But I found
a magnanimous soul in Parramatta jail.
Working on a boiler, I and my mate had
got to speaking terms with two lags who
were doing their hard labor in that
department. With true crim. thorough-
ness they consolidated a jovial friendship
before unsheathing the stings. A goodly
portion of hard-to-get bacca went from
my mate’s tin before they switched their
patronage to me. I apologised, and con-
fessed that I had never smoked. Pained
shock swept across the “borrowers’”
faces ; if I’d confessed to being a top-off
and a phizgig they could not have been
more stunned. Several hours later, as I
worked inside the furnace, their V( ?' c •
drifted in on the draft: “He ain’t holm
out on us—his mate reckons he don
smoke, ’n’, come to think of & ,L nev !,
seen ’im smokin’.” Reply: ‘ff®
ain’t it? He don’t seem a bad Woke 1
other ways.” Pause. Then, excusmgiy-
“Y’ know, it mightn’t be his fault n*
old ma'n might've brought him up tn
way.” It was hardly fair to the dad, wn
had one smoke a day—one long one '
HOUSE OF QUESTIONS.
“Radio quizmaster Bob Dyer’s luxury three-story
home, including a large stone Mexican-type barbecue
in an adjoining allotment, separate maid’s and
gardener’s quarters, a large cocktail bar, sunken
bath, deep-freeze unit, a large ‘den’ with built-in
gunracks and a telephone with six plug-ins _ was
passed in at auction last week, the highest bid of
£16,250 failing to reach the reserve.”
A Yankee hillbilly called Dyer
Come out in the vaudeville biz.
His fortunes riz higher and higher,
An’ now he’s the King er the Quiz.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
With what do they alius crown Kings?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey 7
Now tell me: do flies fly with wings?
So long as yew give him five answers,
He does like ol’ Rahbin of yore,
He takes it away frum the sponsors
An’ gives it away tew the poor.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money 7
What play has Macbeth in the lead?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey 7
Air tortoises noted fer speed?
There’s radios an’ deep-frozen dinners,
An’ dear little diamond clocks,
An’ roadsters an’ traps for beginners—
Yew can take either money er box.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money?
Do yew know ef Queen Anne’s still alive ?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
How many small beans would make five ?
An’ there’s cameras an’ cufflinks an’ clothin’
Fer lettin’ Bahb make yew a fool;
Most often it’s money fer nuthin’ —
A very cheap deal as a rule.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Could yew make May a wig from March
hare?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Could yew walk up a basilisk stare?
Yew only get squirted with soda,
Er a lemon-cheese pie in yure pan;
An’ Bahb says, “Well, folks, git a loada
This guy! Kin he take it ? He can! ”
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Could a yacht make a tack with a nail?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey ?
Air blowlamps fer blazin’ a trail?
Now, Bahb had a hut at Balmoral,
A little three-story affair,
With a stone barbecue in the corral,
An’ telephones dropped hyer an’ there.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Is a billabong part of a creek ?
Yure next, dear; an' whut’s yure name,
honey?
Does a buck-rabbit bellow er squeak ?
The bath wuz a little bit sunken,
The den served as gunroom, though wide,
The bar weren’t as big as we’ve drunk in,
The servants wuz quartered outside.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Did Henry the Eighth have a wife ?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Is it right tew eat peas with a knife?
McCackie might sneer at this mansion,
But to Bahb ’twas the place he called “home,”
An’ the news he wuz puttin’ the ranch on
The block wuz disturbin’ tew some.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Is it mushrooms er toadstools yew cook ?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Is “Lamb's Tales Frum Shakspcare” a
book?
Perhaps he run short after givin’
So much of his money away,
Perhaps he wuz thinkin’ of livin’
A little more up to his pay.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money ?
Do yew know if the sea’s worth its salt?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Is beer made frum grapes er frum malt?
Jack Davey wuz sour on the look er
The chanct of him gettin’ a bid,
So they handed the auction tew Hooker
Tew do what he could, an’ he did.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money?
Can an elephant’s trunk be unpacked?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Do rock-bottoms yowl if they’re whacked
“It’s sixteen-two-fifty, they make it,”
Sez Hooker —“the house an’ two blahcks;
I’m askin’ yew, Bahb: Kin yew take it?”
“No! I’ll stick,” Bahb replied, “to the bahx! ”
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money?
Is a tennis-ball global or round?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
What makes this unusual sound?
The mob at the auction went frantic,
An’ loudly applauded Bahb’s nerve:
“Though learned, he’s never pedantic.
Though sportin’, he’s full er reserve!”
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money?
Is a barrel the same as a cask?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
Is there somethin’ yew’d like me tew ask ?
Some folk say there’s been a suggestion
He’ll pass on the house as a prize,
But others say that is a question
Which won’t, in Bahb’s quizes, arise.
Air yew takin’ the bahx er the money?
Do yew know why a right-angle’s right?
Yure next, dear; an’ whut’s yure name,
honey?
An’ that’s all the questions tonight.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Kelms”: That N.Z. record for fowl-
plucking—lssec.—(B. 3/1/’5l) didn’t last
long. A few days later in W.A, two mag-
pies alighted on adjoining high-tension
mains, leaned over and touched beaks.
There was a flash and “Uramao’s” record
vanished. The birds were plucked,
cleaned, cooked and disposed of without
trace —in one second, split.
•*• ■ •
“Ben Ari”: Ginger-beer as champagne
(B, 13 1 12 1 ’50)? I’ve seen worse mistakes.
The hostess at a Perth party was under
the weather, but she trailed her three
sheets in the wind with such grace and
decorum it was
difficult to be-
lieve her intoxi-
cated. “ ’Scuse
me,” whispered
a passing cele-
brant gleefully,
“Have a taste!”
He handed her
a goblet of
colorless liquid
topped with a
faint froth. She
sipped and ex-
claimed “M y
word, what ex-
quisite champagne.” Neither of the
merrymakers heard the remark of a
near-by ’teen-ager to her giggling com-
panion—“ Gee, they must be sozzled,
Molly. There goes another soap-and-
water special!”
• • ♦ •
“Laetitia”: Drawing on subconscious
mental recording (B. 10/1/’51): Twenty
years ago I heard John McCormack in
his first talkie, “Song of My Heart,” sing
the since frequently recorded “Little Toy
Dog.” It was, as far as I knew, the
first time I had heard it. Talkie record-
ing being then not as efficient as it is
now, the words were indistinguishable,
especially as recorded in the McCormack
brogue. Accordingly it was the melody
rather than the libretto which impressed
me. Yet, on the tram journey home, I
found myself humming the number and,
as I recalled the pictured scenes, finding
words for each complete stanza which
fitted them. When I told my mother of
this strange happening she told me she
had sung me to sleep with “Little Toy
Dog” in my cradle-days. It was 20 years
since she had last sung it.
* * * «
“Curate’s Egg”: Sydney and Mel-
bourne movie moguls’ ukase against
smoking in theatres considerably irks
transplanted Queensland worshippers of
Nick o’ Teen, who have offered their
incense in the kindly, hazy atmosphere
of Brisbane picture palaces without
restraint Tie mad interval dash to the
foyer for a two-linked chain-smoke by
almost the entire feminine patronage of
the house knocks out any argument that
the whiff of the burning weed is offensive
to non-smokers. The fire-hazard argu-
ment won’t hold water, as there has never
been a fire in a Brisbane theatre, while
in the month I’ve been in Melbourne I’ve
personally staged a largely unobserved
but painful one-man conflagration. This
was when the ex-Brisbane lass with me
smuggled a still-glowing bumper in from
the foyer after the interval. Her sin being
discovered by the duchess with the torch,
she resourcefully dropped the bumper
“ Mustapha—your dinner's ready!"
into my pocket. Nature healed the scar
I incurred in gallantly extinguishing the
butt, but it cost me 17s. 6d. for repairs
to the seat of my strides, an expenditure
which would not have arisen but for the
wowseristic ban on theatre smoking.
# * * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne abos, who
mainly congregate in Fitzroy under the
wing of Pastor Doug Nicholls, may yet
provide the most sensational item of the
Jubilee celebrations. Hurt that Old
Australians have been pointedly forgotten,
and that the great men like Namatjira, the
boxers Dave Sands and Jack Hassen and
ex-servicemen of their race haven’t
received an invitation to contribute to the
national demonstration, they have raised
their collective voice in protest. A
monster rally on Yarra Bank has been
suggested, in which three floats would
figure. One would be a canoe carrying
full-blooded aborigines to represent the
unspoilt indigene before the arrival of
the white man. The second would con-
tain a chained Binghi guarded by a white
man with a whip to represent the intro-
duction of Western civilisation. The third
float with aborigines in frock coats and
hard-hitters would represent modern pro-
gress, It is not known whether Chief
" HoW do you expect me to get a likeness , Miss Stripper, if you fidget so ?”
Secretary Bailey will have the show
suppressed, or on what ground ; maybe it
could be allowed “with reservations” —
reservations being the white man’s almost
invariable answer to the black man’s
complaints,
• • ♦ •
“Pat”: Among other characteristics of
our age some future historian might note
“They did not dance.” On a Saturday
night at a Blue Mountains pub
where I recently stayed a three-
piece band “swung it” blithely in a
charmingly-appointed ballroom. In the
adjourning room four young blokes were
engrossed with billiards. Around the
wall their wives sat gossiping and drink-
ing. The company of older vintage read
their papers, did their knitting, had a
drink and went to bed. Piano, sax, and
drums played on valiantly to an empty
floor. They were not completely ignored.
One young thing approached them to
request a particular favorite, and the most
depressing performance I have ever
attended was by that curly-haired,
black-eyed young man, crooning one of
1950’s soulful love-ditties to a starkly
empty ballroom.
* * ♦ ♦
“Simon”; About that convention of
editors to cut out the first “r” in February.
While they are at it they might cut out
the capital “1” except at the beginning
of a sentence, you don’t require a
capital for “me,” which is the same person
in the objective case. But the nominative-
objective in no other instance settles the
question of capital or lower case. An-
other; Why “No.” for “number”? This
is twice wrong; a capital letter is not
called for, and the contraction is wrong
as there is no “o” in “number.”
* * * ♦
“Pipt-tok”: When officers of the Indian
destroyer Rajput were entertained at
Government House, Darwin, it was
arranged that R.A.N. and Indian bands
should play their respective national
anthems. Unfortunately, no announce-
ment of musical items was made, so
when the Indian band struck up a slow,
stately dance tune the R.A.N. officers
thought “This is it,” and stood to atten-
tion. The Indian officers rose to the
occasion, under the impression that they
were listening to the Australian national
anthem (which, by the way, is still “God
Save the King,” despite the efforts of
Mr. Calwell and the A.8.C.). All joined
in the laugh when the mistake was
explained, A New York incident of the
early ’twenties proved more embarras-
sing. An Australian resident, who was a
pronounced Sinn Feiner, was being
entertained in a New York cabaret by
American hosts. He remained seated while
the band played the U.S. national anthem,
which, at the time, was not “The Star
Spangled Banner,” but “My Country Tis
of Thee,” the words of which are sung
to the same music as “God Save the
King.” Even when the guest explained
and apologised for his mistake, his hosts,
who were of Irish descent themselves,
still looked with bleak eyes on the
obtrusion of politics into a social evening.
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: Sailors in South
American jails (B. 17/1/’51)? In Vene-
zuela, foreigners’ bare knees being
immoral, I was put in clink and fined.
The jail stank; so did the near-by
cemetery in which, one would Imagine,
unboxed dead’uns lie a foot deep.
Released, I took a taxi to my ship, passing
en route some Venezuelans of both sexes
bathing together in their birthday suits.
An envious policeman gave them a
friendly wave as he sweltered in his
uniform. It was common for officers of
regular traders to go “inside,” whereupon
one of his cobbers toured the pubs to
raise bail from members of the fleet.
The trivial crimes were viewed by the
shipowner through a Nelson eye; it
being a point of honor to resign if,
through being a jailbird, three round trips
were missed.
* * ♦ *
“Pitt St.”: The time seems close when
the gardener, the golf-greenkeeper and
the cricket-ground curator, upon sighting
an unwanted weed among the vegetables
or on the sward, will simply go out and
shoot it. That’s what Curator Anderson,
of the Sydney Botanic Gardens, thinks,
anyway. He has just completed a deal
with Major Colin Martin, inventor of the
“Parajector Equipment,” a device easily
carried by one man and which, it is
claimed, overcomes the problem of
destroying weeds in lawns, vegetable-
patches and garden-beds without harm to
the valuable plants. With this device,
which works on a high-pressure prin-
ciple, the selected weed-killer is spot-
sprayed on the weeds, which promptly
turn up their toes —or, rather, leaves. If
it’s all it’s claimed to be, it will be
welcomed by golf- and bowling-club
secretaries.
* * • ♦
“R.M.”: The supervising architect left
his car before reaching Trickem’s job.
This strategy enabled him to procure a
sample of the concrete exactly as it was
being used. He placed the metal cone
containing the sample in his car and re-
turned to carry on an amicable discussion
with the builder about some variations to
the contract. His next discussion, a fort-
night later, was not quite so friendly.
When he had taken the sample, he had
thrust a 4in. nail into the heart of it.
There was no nail in the sample which
had just passed the crushing-test satis-
factorily. The builder was not perturbed
at the architect’s displeasure, neither was
his apprentice, who had already received
a substantial bonus for services rendered.
* * ♦ ♦
“Austin”; A woman was once a
member of the mysterious craft of Free-
masonry. In the days when the Irish
quality were richer than they are now, an
Irish Peer, Lord Doneraile, well up in the
masonic craft, entertained lavishly and
was a popular host. Meetings of the
Masonic craft were held at his home.
His daughter, the Hon. Miss Eliza
St. Leger, tried to persuade her father to
allow her to peep at the secret gathering ;
then she decided to dodge the sword of
The Tyler and clandestinely to penetrate
the Arcana. The lodge was opened with
due formality; solemn rites of the con-
clave were proceeding, when the decorum
was broken by either a sneeze or a titter.
The alarm was sounded and soon the in-
terloper was discovered. Miss St. Leger
was not sacrificed on the spot for her
foolish prying. She was, however, com-
pelled to join the craft. Why it remains a
mystery remains a mystery.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: To me Nowra (N. S
Wales) will always be a town without a
soul. Wandering down the shopping
centre I passed a radio-shop; a Tin Pan
Alley tune was being broadcast. An hour
or so lately I passed that shop again ; an
American crooner was wailing. During
the six hours I was marooned in the town
I returned to that shop a dozen times—
and strode away disappointed every time.
Towards evening a magnificent car drew
into the kerb. The chap getting out
smiled at my request, slipped back into
the seat and turned a knob on the dash-
board. A croonette’s throaty voice
rasped from the radio. “I was afraid so,”
he said, turning the row off, ‘Tea ad-
journment. But the position is; England
wants 30 to win and nine wickets have
fallen,’’ See whar I mean? I’ve never
been a real cricket enthusiast, but a town
that displays no outward interest when a
Test match is being won and lost by 28
runs is surely a town without a soul.
A WASHOUT.
“Paris beauty experts predict that dark-blue lip-
stick, the substitution of more sober tints than rouge
for the cheeks and straight eyebrows of a varied
color-range will be the vogue later tills year.”
You’re dowdy, dear, if you don’t prune the
hedges . , .
Above your eyes; it only needs some pluck.
You start by tugging hairs from near the edges,
Just like you do pin-feathers from a duck.
You could employ a blowlamp; it’s much
quicker,
Or use a razor-blade to devastate.
Whichever way you do it
Be assured you’ll never rue it,
For the bend is out. The eyebrow must be
straight.
Don’t be alarmed, dear, at your face’s nudeness
When the last hair’s been either pulled or
felled.
What if it lends that look of longitudeness,
That air of vacancy, when first beheld?
You’ll find the pencil-line, attenuated,
An air of ultra-smaxlness will impart.
It must not be matter-of-factly
Horizontal, but exactly,
For Nature never did come up to Art.
To ensure this, dear, do use a spirit-level,
Otherwise you may give it upward slant;
You’ll note this same on pictures of the Devil.
So an expression, fierce and arrejmt,
You’d have to wear, one not at all conducive
To tender thoughts inspired in passing males.
Your color-scheme may vary
From off-black to deep canary,
But you must avoid its clashing with your
nails.
Now, let’s shift down your face, dear, say three
inches.
The Cupid’s Bow’s important, you’ll admit,
For that is where you take the labial clinches,
And where you make the real romantic hit.
You’ll not achieve that with encarmined daubr-
ings,
And even cyclamen has “had” it, dear.
Dark-blue may look depressing
And unsuited for caressing,
But you will simply love to look severe.
Don’t worry, dear, about the facial dolors.
Your “rouge,” concomitant to labial hue,
You soon, presumably, will buy in colors
That range from lightest grey to deepest blue.
It will, of course, render your look quite ghastly.
An apparition tallow-faced and wan.
But what is that when Fashion
Calls (and that’s your ruling passion)!
March onward with your progress, Eve,
march on!
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Billy T”: I’m afraid I’ll have to sell
Janie. I don’t mind a cow seeking my
company and gazing soulfully in my face
as I hoe in the garden just through her
fence; I can even forgive her belching
over me while there, for clover does catch
her that way. I can stand her calling to
her calf long after other matrons have
subsided for the night, for she’s a senti-
mental old beast and must be allowed
her emotions. I
am prepared to
share the blame
when she
dampens the pre-
cincts during
milking, for I
wash her with
cold water and it
is not cows alone
that are affected that way. She is entitled
to nibble the stalk or two of maize she is
able to reach, for she has contributed
substantially towards its flourishing
growth. I can suffer in comparative
silence a swipe across the neck when the
flies are worrying her, and if she chooses
to change her locality while being milked
in the open I am prepared to follow. All
these little matters can be adjusted by
mutual understanding; but what does get
me is when I am squatting in front of
Janie as we plan her future feed and
her blasted willie wagtail comes along
and perches on me.
• ♦ ♦ •
“Shadow Chaser”: Not many bush
pubs owe their existence to the local
Band of Hope, but one on Queensland’s
north-coast line does. Practically all of
the town’s youth were ardent members
of the band, and all had gone to a big
rally at a township 20 miles away. Arriv-
ing home after midnight they found the
store ablaze, and the adjoining pub
threatened. A bucket-brigade was
organised, and the pub and contents were
saved to the spirited singing of “Onward
Christian Soldiers”!
9|; $ $ $
“Salmon Gums”: “What,” I asked (B.
27/12/’5O), “do staghorns five on?”
Well, for that matter, what do any plants
live on? I’d say mostly water. The sand
of Westralia’s coastal plains repelled
Dampier and later voyagers, and broke
the heart of many a staunch pioneer, but
it will produce crops, given water. As
witness the forests of jarrah, redgum
and whitegum, not to mention banksias
which are giants of their species and lusty
sheoaks. That sand now produces some
of the State’s finest fruit, and much of
Perth’s vegetables. On the coast, even in
the sand-filled rock crevices at the water’s
edge, salt-loving plants thrive. Even the
Sahara blossoms where it is watered, to
produce excellent examples of Western
fruits and vegetables. The biggest and
finest-flavored oranges and tomatoes I’ve
seen or tasted were grown at Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), which is getting perilously
close to “desert” country. All they
needed was water. Admittedly certain
chemicals must be present, but they may
not be as important or in as great
quantities as would be thought. Nor
are plants as “choosy” in their food as
their different textures imply. I have a
tree on which is grafted peach, apricot
and nectarine. Each branch bears its
own fruit, there is no “foreign” taste in
any of them, and yet each is manufac-
tured from identical sap—it all comes up
the main stem. Which, despite explana-
tions, always seems a miracle to me.
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: Mid-January, and
within 100 yards of the camp—elevation
3000 ft. —the complete nesting cycle can
be seen. The young maggies are practi-
cally mature; they have ceased squawking
as they trail Mum, and except for their
greyer plumage are adults. The rosellas
are a little less advanced; the colors are
not clear-cut and their conversation still
includes infantile remarks that lure a
bloke over to make sure that no rare or
strange parrot has appeared in the district.
Dusky woodswallows have just left the
nest, and even if you aren’t near enough
to see the stripey breasts, the hungry
fluttering after the overworked old couple
tells you which are the chicks, A pair
of flame robins work long hours to satisfy
the demands in a certain sheltered
branch; while a solitary brown tree-
creeper has no visible mate, yet raises
merry hell when anyone approaches one
particular hollow spout. The diamond
sparrows either are late starters or reckon
the season is still good enough for another
flutter; for whenever one passes on the
wing it is trailed by a bit of grass five
times as long as itself. The hooded robin
must have arrived back late from the
north or lost his calendar or both; any-
way, by the attention he’s paying his
missus these days he reckons he has'some
catching-up to do.
« * * «
“Spud”: The name Kulgera (see
“Kulgera’s weathered hills,” B. 3/l/’5l)
is another instance of the euphonious and
often poetic names given by the blacks to
local features. Kulgera (pronounced
with the accent on the first syllable) means
“weeping eye,” and describes a bald hill
of granite visible from the homestead of
Kulgera station. According to the owner,
Roy Coulthard, the eye-shaped depres-
sion half-way up the knoll contains a
small spring which runs after rain, and
causes a trail of green blobs of vegeta-
tion to sprout in a fine below the corner
of the “eye,” which then seems to be
weeping green tears.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: Our fruit-picking gang
was made up of four young university
coves on holiday. Mat and me. When
the young blokes weren’t rioting about
the place after work they used to talk
about books and I liked listening to them.
“Elsic! — ah, struth, NOW how am I to get the gaft!”
They lent me one or two —books of the
kind knockabouts like us seldom read —
and discussed them with me. Mat used
to sit around, not saying much, for he
had his own thoughts about life and men
and women, and he was slightly scornful
of the young blokes. In asides to me he
confided he got a lot of fun out of listen-
ing to them, saying, “Gripes, there’s a few
shocks cornin’ to them kids.” One of
them became interested in Mat, tried to
draw him, told him episodes, but became
“Hurry up, Dad. Mum wants you to do the carpet's."
disgusted with him in the end. “Don’t
you like books?” he demanded. “Aw,
I don’t mind ’em,” Mat admitted, “But
surely some book or other has made an
impression on you,” the other suggested,
in exasperation. “Well, I reckon one
did,” Mat admitted. “Ah, what was it?”
“A book 1 struck in South Oss.” Every-
body waited. Mat looked round slowly.
“Yair,” he said. “I had a quid each way
a horse that won and paid eights an’ the
cow cleared out without payin’ me.”
After that they let him alone,
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I would suggest, “Wobbly
Kelly” (B. 17/1/’5O), that a snake, like a
human, hisses when sufficiently annoyed.
I first heard it when, with the joyous
abandon of youth, I coursed a copper-
head into our woodheap, then had to fling
the tea-tree stumps aside in a final effort
to overtake Joei before he got under-
ground. It was when my blucher
descended upon a stump just as the
wriggler was slithering under it, thus
sandwiching him against another, that he
became vocal —in the circumstances I
would have myself; but it wasn’t a real
hiss, just a sort of “pahh, pahh,” not at all
loud, but packed with passion. The only
other snake I heard make a sound—the
same sound —was a big red-bellied black.
He was sunning by the roadside as I rode
past, but by the time I’d hitched the
pony and come back he was gone. An
erosion gutter some way through the
fence seemed a likely hideout, so I went
over quietly and looked down. There he
was, and before the end he, too, told me
what he thought of my kind. But when
anyone says that all snakes hiss( I expect
them to add that they also poison you
with their forked tongues—unless they
are first captured by the wily kookaburra,
who drops them from a dizzy height on to
a dead tree, were they bounce from
branch to jagged branch until they are
bashed to bits.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Throughout last
winter my section of the big swamp was
visited daily by two blue cranes—herons,
if you wish —who appeared to have some
proprietary right to it. Their territory
was never invaded by others of their
tribe, and when their hatching was
successful they brought their solitary
offspring there to teach him to fly and
to forage for himself. There he practised
his clumsy aerobatics, progressing to his
first croaking take-off and his first
perfect side-slipping landing. Right up
till a few days ago
I never saw more
than those three
cranes on the
swamp. Then,
towards evening,
there arrived a
horde; at least
100 in strength,
coming in some
hard - to - define
formation, but
seemingly moving
to set rules. Fly-
ing in circles,
they approached the swamp, suddenly
breaking ranks and swooping down to
the water. They fed around, sorted them-
selves into pairs and quietly left. Within
an hour the swamp was clear of them.
They have not returned in numbers. Was
the gathering in celebration of the
youngsters’ coming-of-age, was it to give
the young folk of the district, where
swamps abound, an introduction and a
chance to pair off for the next breeding
season, or was it the cranes’ Christmas—
the day of goodwill? I don’t know.
The evening of their visitation was sultry,
and the following day it rained.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bo”: One of the now-rare fraternity
of the road, he went into the farmhouse
for a handout and a billy of tea. While
his wife was making the tea the cocky
gradually worked the conversation round
from the weather to other subjects, with
one ultimate matter in view. The peri-
patetic one, drawn out, said that a love
of nature had led him to adopt the
nomadic life. “You like to see things
growing, eh?” put in the cocky. Yes, he
liked the trees and the birds, the quiet-
ness. “Well, you could get all those
things here,” the agriculturist went on,
“and while you were workin’ you could
be makiri things grow—wouldn’t that be
more satisfaction to y’ than to just think
about ’em growin’?” The itinerant one
appeared to ponder—until the cocky’s
wife handed over the filled billy. Then
he became vocal. “Well,” he said, “I
meant trees an’ things. They grow
natural. The stuff you’d grow y’ have
to plant an’ that’s artificial. So it wouldn’t
suit me."
THE STATION HACKS.
Beyond the ridge where their bones still
lie
Yellowed and dried by the sun
The tired old horses were led at last
When their useful days were done;
Up there on a stony barren slope
Away from the roads and tracks,
A short sure aim and the end came swift
To the worn-out station hacks.
It was their fate when the time had come,
The same with the good and the bad,
The mongrel-bred that was rough to ride
Or the best the station had,
The treacherous brute with the white-
rimmed eyes
That none but a horseman rode.
The stockman’s pride and the boss’s hack
And the moke the cowboy strode;
The trusty nag that for years and years
Had followed the boundaries,
The tussocked miles where the cattle
grazed
Or bunched ’neath the sheoak trees.
Past where the rocky outcrops rose
Through the heat-haze moving slow
The plovers crying across the plain
Saw the horse and the rider go.
And horses died on that worthless patch
Of hillside stony and bare
That rounded the stock on the fiery run
When a mustering time was there—
Sharp they swung when the cattle broke
And, galloping strong and hard.
Wheeled them again ’neath the noise and
dust
And ran them into the yard.
Oh, the land is fenced into farming blocks,
The tussocks upturned by the plough.
The hollowed tracks that the cattle made
Are lost where the crops grow now
But still in my mind the echoes ring
To a volley of stockwhips’ cracks
And rich with life is the ridge that holds
The bones of those game old hacks.
VICTORIA.
JOHN G. GILBY.


/ d r y-j
For food perfectly served. For hot meals for
late-comers. For piping hot second helpings.
For hot coffee after dinner. For hot buffets.
For your greater pleasure and convenience#
Gentle heat keeps the whole meal hot, but it
will not damage the surface of your sideboard.
ENGLISH
ELECTRIC
>4 RITEMP PRODUCT
yHS ENGLISH ELECTRIC company limited [incorporated in England] • 51 nxx sxreex, Sydney • bu 2088
“Amdee”; Taking an afternoon snooze
in the shade of the big tree at our camp,
I heard a thud and a rustling of wings
and came
out to sight
a big brown
fish - hawk
soaring over
the tree-
tops, with a
sizeable fish
in his
talons. The
thud, I
found, was
caused by another fish, a nice
grunter-bream, that had fallen almost in
the campfire. My pick-and-shovel mind
could come to only one conclusion. The
hawk had apparently dived on and cap-
tured two fish swimming close together.
This awkward slippery bundle proved
too much for his lordship, and he’d lost
half the catch, though no doubt he was
able to spin a good tale to Mum and the
brood about the big one that got away.
* ♦ * •
“Old-timer”: Do you remember the
plaster-plaque craze? You cut out a
picture from a paper, laid it face down
in a saucer or shallow basin, poured
plaster of Paris over it, inserted a wire-
hook for hanging, waited till it dried,
tapped it free of the mould and hung it
on the wall. Well, Little Curl caught it.
In no time the hut walls were hung high
and low with white ovals and circles
featuring the faces and figures of girls,
racehorse-heads, jockeys, pugs, flowers
and lesser objects. We thought it would
die down, but it got worse, for Little
Curl’s girl in the town also became
infected, and what she couldn’t hang in
her own home or give away to friends
was inflicted on our hut. When all the
walls were full, L.C. took to replacing the
works with new ones, stacking the old
ones carefully in a corner. Then Curl’s
girl went to Mildura for a holiday, got
herself photographed and the photo
tinted, had about 50 prints mdftfc, and
the next thing was the wall hung with
tinted pictures of Curl’s girl. Then
Pocketknife took action. All one Sunday
while Curl was in town Pocketknife, with
enthusiastic helpers, worked. Curl re-
turned late at night and fell into bed.
Next morning his howl of indignation
was heard at Tammit, 11 miles away.
One wall of the hut had been stripped
of plaques, except for four grouped in
the centre, each the picture of a station
cow wearing the head of Little Curl’s
“ Don't forget, Dave — it's on'y rounded on one corner."
girl. It caused three days of war; after
that there was peace without further
plaques.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Chink”: Is there any land-bird any-
where so thoroughly social, so given to
“apartment” life, as the tropical Aus-
tralian known as the shining starling, or
whirlwind-bird? In my days in North
Queensland I never attempted to count
the number of nests, looking like so many
fibrous flasks, that I sometimes saw hang-
ing together in a single tree, but I’ve
recently come upon figures on the point
recorded by early ornithologists. Harry
Barnard, member of the Coomoo-
boolaroo (central Q.) family of natura-
lists, states that in the 1890’s he once
totalled 296 starlings’ nests in the one
tree, and Dr. E. P. Ramsay, sometime
director of Sydney’s Museum, says his
count went to over 300 nests in the one
tree. In addition, Ramsay quotes George
Masters, museum zoologist, as having
seen in a treg on Yule Island “a mass of
nests that completely covered and bore
down the branches, and must have
weighed over twenty tons.” These
colonial-nesters of our tropics are, of
course, quite distinct from the go-
getting imported starlings, although the
two species bear a general resemblance in
size, in color and in the remarkable
evolutions of their company flights.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Hurdles cramping the
style of the Australian birdologists’
vernaculars committee —which is trying
to straighten out the names of our
feathered fauna —include those created
by such well-meaning but misguided
citizens as “B. A. Ker” (B. 27/12/’5O).
He, apparently, attempts to remove
the name “storm-bird” from where it
belongs —to the channel-bill and
plaster it on to the smaller pallid cuckoo,
and then he proceeds to do the same
thing for some vague “moon-bird.”
Also, he introduces the English name of
jackdaw for the scrub-magpie, as a
useless addendum to the perfectly sound
Australian name of currawong. It is this
kind of thing that causes ornithologists
to sigh and say “Save us from our
friends.” Incidentally, when Australia’s
bird-names were previously under official
revision The Bulletin rallied to the
cause with an article which caused
readers to tender many spirited sugges-
tions. Further aid of the kind, in the
light of later experience, would be
welcome. The need is for simple and
appropriate names to replace those that
are either too mouth-filling or too
indefinite.
m ♦ * *
“Zake”: X know a near-city agricul-
turist who, wishing to have a stand of
gums along a drive, transplanted
eucalyptus seedlings. Each one was
relentlessly attacked by hares and rabbits.
He switched the types, but all fell to the
rodents’ ravenous teeth. A cobber of his
advised him to put the seed straight in
the ground. The resultant seedlings were
never touched. Now, why should bunny
regard as sacrosanct the latter, yet
sharpen up his tombstones at sight of the
transplanted eucalypt?
♦ * * *
“Chuck” : No one had ever seen Bert
in anything but an open-necked shirt,
and no one knew why. Young Ron
picked him on the subject. “Don’t talk
t’ me ’bout them ridic’lous frills,” snorted
Bert. “I tell y’ it ain’t nothin’ but a
collar ’n’ tie ’s kep’ me pore all these
years.” “Aw, go on,” baited Ron. “I
heard a rumor you could have married
Fanny Woolrich twenty years ago
if you’d wanted, and owned half the
district.” “Yair, an’ so I nilly did,”
growled the bachelor. “An’ what stopped
it, eh? Tell me that. Huh! Had
everythin’ arranged, I did, when she
comes out with some rot about me
puttin’ on a collar ’n’ tie fr the weddin’.
‘Whaffor?’ I says, an’ she tells me all
the folks’ll ’spect it. ‘Well, I ain’t
marryin’ none o’ them / I says,
‘an’ I don’t care what they thinks,
neither.’ Then she reckons her fambly’d
like the collar ’n’ tie job, so I up an’ point
out they’d seen me plenty o’ times with-
out. But it ain’t no use, she still insists,
so I says ‘Look ’ere, is it me y’ want t’
marry, or a collar ’n’ tie?’ an' she sez:
‘No collar ’a’ tie, no weddin’, see?’ Gripes,
an’ was she pig-’eaded about it, too,’
Bert grumbled. “Argued with ’er for a
flamin’ week, but it weren’t a scrap o’
good. Jus’ shows y’,” he sighed, “how
set about some things women c’n get. 9
DAY'S END.
Day's ending had enough beauty without
this,
The full moon rising slow in honeyed light:
Fantastic suns that set in separate shapes
Through bands of distorting cloud, as
streamers, lanterns.
Lozenges orange and red; and a pure sky
Distilled to luminous green.
Where the dripping tap
Has made a small pool for the thirsty
birds,
1 lean on the rusted railing and idly stare
Over the vineyard’s waveless sea of leaves
At diamonds pricking out along the rim
Of the wide plain, and, two-dimensional.
The cardboard city floating in the air.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


a
m
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
■*—* worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view' with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its cnvn Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and af Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
U.T.6
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australia and New Zealand Bank, Ltd.
This is the new co. in which the A’sia
and the Union, two sturdy more-than-
century-old Anglo-Australian banks,
whose businesses spread throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand, are to
merge their interests. Negotiations for
the purpose began in 1946, but were
interrupted by the Chifley Government’s
bank-nationalisation legislation. This
legislation failed to pass the test of con-
stitutionality before the High Court and
the Privy Council, thus reopening the
road for the two cos. to proceed With
their plan.
The declared aims of the merger are:
(1) Formation of a “markedly stronger
bank particularly well-equipped to meet
all competition,” etc., (2) further develop-
ment of improved services to customers,
(3) widening of the field of operations,
(4) reduction of cost of present building
programmes confronting the two banks.
The amalgamation will reduce the
number of big private trading-banks
operating in Australia from eight to seven
—that excludes the little Ballarat Banking
Co. and the Brisbane Permanent Build-
ing and Banking Co. Still, the merger
seems more likely to strengthen than
weaken competition in the field of branch
banking. Both the A’sia and Union,
neither of which has ever closed its
doors or failed to pay a dividend during
the 100-odd years of its existence, are
very proud of their long record and
prestige. The new bank will rival in size
the oldest and largest of Australia’s
banks, the ’Wales, with the National, now
second on the list, dropping back to third
place.
The amalgamation is to be effected by
an exchange of shares on a pouhd-for-
pound basis. The new bank is to be
registered in London as soon as a
majority of shareholders (75 p.c. in value)
in the two old cos. agree to and the
English court sanctions the proposals. It
will kick off with an issued capital of
£17,000,000 in £2 shares, of which £1
will be callable only if needed in the
event of liquidation. Paid capital will
be £8,500,000. Shareholders in the A’sia
axe to get five of the new £2 shares paid
to £1 each for each £lO share paid to
£5 now held —the other £5 is callable
only if wanted on liquidation. Those
on the Union’s register are also to receive
five of the new co.’s shares for each £l5
share paid to £5 now held —the remain-
ing £lO is a similar reserve liability.
Since the beginning of 1950 prices for
the two cos.’ shares on Sydney ’Change
have moved in this way;
Net
1950. —y 1951. Tangible
High. Low. Jan. 24. Yield, Cover.f
£, £> £> p.c** &
'Asia .. 12/15/- 11/1/- 13/4/- 2.60 10/9/6
Union .. 12/8/- 10/18/- 13/4/- 2.60 11/9/10
* At Jan. 18, 1951, price on a 6.87 p.c. div. basis,
after allowing for English income tax of 9s. in £
and for exchange at the current rate, t Book-value.
Each co. paid a nominal 10 p.c. div. last
term and 9 p.c. for the two preceding
years. English income tax of 9s. in the
£ reduces a declared 10 p.c. to 5.5 p.c.
(stg.), which is equal to 6.87 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency at the current rate of
exchange. The actual yield to the
investor is subject to adjustment in con-
nection with double taxation. Net tan-
gible cover is shown at book-value, and
the inner strength is known to be sub-
stantial, especially in connection with the
older properties, and there are un-
specified provisions for contingencies in
the deposits, etc., and advances items in
each co.’s published accounts.
Net earnings and their relation to
capital and shareholders’ funds in each
co. compare as follows over the last five
years:—
r — Ratio to
Profit. Paid Shareholder
’Asia; £stg. Capital. Funds.
1946 .. 223,014 4.95 p.c. 2.40 p.c.
1947 .. 243,588 5.41 „ 2.62 „
1948 ~ 271,033 6.02 „ 2.90 „
1949 .. 278,290 6.18 „ 2.96 „
1960 .. 290,874 6.46 „ 3.08 „
Union:
1946 .. 191,590 4.78 „ 2.12 „
1947 .. 218,864 5.47" „ 2.41 „
1948 .. 245,032 6.12 „ 2.69 „
1949 . . 255,066 6.37 „ 2.78 „
1950 .. 267,228 6.68 „ 2.90 „
Last term’s combined net earnings were
£558,102 (up £24,746), equal to 6.56 p.c.
on combined capital (£8,500,000), or
2.99 p.c. on combined shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves).
At the moment there is no sound
reason to suppose that the new co. will
pay less than a nominal 10 p.c. div. The
Commonwealth Banking Act of 1945 pre-
scribes neither floor nor ceiling for
trading-bank dividends, but it does
subject their activities to a large measure
of central-bank control in relation to
advances, interest-rates, investments and
the freezing of deposits, all of which react
in one way or another upon warnings.
The controls are being used mainly in an
attempt to curb inflation. Bank earnings
and dividends have been allowed to
advance at a moderate rate as trade and
industry generally have expanded.
The new co., in common with the other
big trading-banks, will be well-equipped
to expand its advances (chief earing
asset) as soon as the need arises;
’Asia. Union. Total.
£stg. £stg. £stg.
Paid capital .. 4,500,000 4,000,000 8,500,000
Reserves .. 4,927,595 5,197,276 10,124,871
Notes .. ~ 2,619 2,619
Deposits,
etc.* .. ..138,751,767 143,852,487 282,604,254
Acceptances,
etc 23,023,916 22,993,080 46,016,996
Final div. .. 160,876 143,000 303,875
Liquids .. 81,846,695 89,148,324 170,995,019
Advances, etc. .. 65,027,207 63,246,905 128,274,112
Acceptances,
etc 23,023,916 22,993,080 46,016,996
Premises, etc. .. 1,468,954 797,534 2,266,488
* Includes balances due to other banks and an
unspecified provision for contingencies.
The figures follow the familiar pattern
of banking trends today. Combined
totals show an expansion over the
previous year of £56,869,238 in
deposits and amounts due to other
banks, etc. This is accompanied by
growths of £15,585,314 in advances and
£40,883,968 in low-interest-earning liquids.
The latter includes £92,833,000 (up
£31,000,000) frozen on “special” account
with the central bank at \ p.c. interest.
From a banking point of view the posi-
tion is an exceptionally strong one.
Shareholders in the two old cos. will
be notified when the time arrives for them
to send in their old shares in exchange for
new scrip, and customers will suffer no
inconvenience by use of old cheque-
forms, which will be honored if
presented without alteration of the name
of the bank to the new^itle.
Ansett Transport Industries, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
f — Dividends
June 30, Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Deficit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 .. 9,189 5 8,088 22,706
1946 .. 14,829 6 11,628 19,505
Cost of re-establishing Pioneer Tourist
Coaches, £12,329 81,834
Profit on sale of assets, £289 .. 31,545
1? PQPT’i)P<i *
1947 .. 54,935 5 6 21,635 1,75*5
Profit on sale of assets, £3OOO .. 1
Less Share-issue expenses, £14,261.. }■ 33,110
1948 . . 91,249 5 7 48,633 J
Share-issue expenses, £6028 .. 27,082
1949 .. 115,100 5 7£ 70,813 71,869
Share-issue expenses, £BOO6 .. 63,863
1950 . . 129,600 5 8 88,843 t 104,620
* Subject to intangibles, now £274,286.
f Includes pref. divs. of £1250 to Barrier Reef
Islands, Ltd.
The remarkable post-war development of
this tourist, air- and road-transport,
motor-coachbuilding, etc., organisation is
due partly to fortuitous economic and
other circumstances and partly to the
foresight and enterprise of managing-
director R. M. Ansett. Originally it was
Ansett Airways (formed in 1937) operat-
ing over the s.-e. comer of the continent.
After a faltering start war intervened,
the service got firmly on its feet, and a
run of divs. averaging 5.3 p.c. were paid
for the six years to 1945. Paid capital
was then £180,816 ; at June 30 last it was
£1,394,340, and will presently advance to
£1,762,250.
In 1946 the name was changed to
Ansett Transport Industries, Ltd., which
became a holding co., whose string of
subsidiaries now numbers 13:
Ansett Airways Pty. —Operates air-
passenger and -transport services in the
eastern and southern States,
Pioneer Tourist Hotels Pty. —Owns or
controls 31 hotels in the various States.
These have all been bought since 1946.
Pioneer Tourist Coaches Pty.—Runs a
fleet of about 200 tourist cars covering
scenic routes.
Pioneer Tours (N.Q.) Pty— Has a simi-
lar fleet of coaches in north Queensland.
Ansair Pty. Manufactures tourist
coaches for Pioneer and for outside clients
in its large Melbourne workshops.
Barrier Reef Islands, Ltd.— Owns the
Daydream and Hayman Islands off Queens-
land.
Eastern Roadlines Pty— Runs non-
tourist bus services in eastern Victoria.
Similar subsidiaries are Healesville Road
Services Pty. (Vic.) and Rometch Astor
Motors Pty. (Tas.).
Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. —Has
franchise for American Kaiser and British
Jowett and Allard cars and certain
mechanical equipment.
Transport Acceptance Corp. Pty.—
Finances purchase of vehicles made by
Ansair for the organisation and for out-
side operators.
Ansett Trading Co. Pty. —Looks after
buying, etc., for the organisation generally.
Barrier Reef Airways Pty.— Operates
flying-boat service between Brisbane and
Whitsunday Islands.
Attention was first turned to development
of coach tours, which became very
popular and now extend from Adelaide
around the south and east coasts of Aus-
tralia to Cairns and Darwin in the north.
Last term the co. had nearly 200 coaches
on the roads, and they carried 1,574,087
passengers and covered an aggregate of
8,048,099 miles. Approximately 20 p.c.
of shareholders’ funds is invested in this
section of the business. Then it was
decided to assault the vexatious accommo-
dation problem by establishing a chain of
the co.’s own hotels along the coach
routes. A subsidiary was formed for the
purpose, and it now owns or leases 31
hotels —the three occupying pride of place
are the Lufra at Eaglehawk Neck (Tas,),
the Cecil (Brisbane) and the recently-
established Royal Hayman on Hay-
man Island (N.Q.). Over 35 p.c.
of shareholders’ funds is employed
by this offshoot, which is show-
ing a satisfactory return on capital, the
board says. The co.’s next largest in-
vestment (14.7 p.c. of funds) is Barrier
Reef Islands, Ltd., and then come the
airways offshoots (9.8 p.c.), Ansair
(8.8 p.c.) and other subsidiaries.
Last term the co. bought a 60 p.c.
interest in Barrier Reef Airways, further
developed its tourist attractions in N.Q.,
opened an office in San Francisco, and
tightened up the organisation generally
to the benefit of overhead and efficiency.
Turnover of the group (£3,899*300) in-
creased by £553,600, all sections contri-
buting to the improvement. After allow-
ing £189,345 (up £42,199) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation, the board
wrote profit £14,500 stronger at £129,600.
That leaves out of the reckoning £15,559
added to “road licences and goodwill”
(£161,819) and £62,701 capitalised on
account of deferred expenditure
(£112,467). The £129,600 was enough to
pay pref. requirements (£11,463) and show
12.7 p.c, on average ord. capital as against
13.1 p.c. and 14.7 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The £104,620 of reserves
is subject to £274,286 of intangibles.
The financial position improved, but the
outside debt was still substantial when the
books closed:
„ ~ . , 1946. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. .. 199,480 659,940 897,500 1,172,340
Pref. ~ 200,000 200,000 222.000
Outside
interests .. 21,581 25,713 92.664
Mortgages .. 89,000 209,225 252.801
Overdraft .. 48,305 327,637 603,111 431,752
Creditors, etc. 112,084 463,951 670,382 967 880
Final divs. .. 25,733 35,900 41.480
Freeholds,
etc. .. 39,121 508,395 930,709 1,250,856
Plant, etc.*.. 120,673 722,622 857,978 985,935
Stocks, etc... 07,774 278,695 418,748 457,808
Debtors .. 09,672 105,509 156,732 199.562
Cash, etc. .. 3,140 54,395 53,607 118 090
Intangibles .. 45,918 151,336 196,026 274.286
* Includes vehicles and aircraft.
A reduction of £171,359 in the overdraft
and additions of £319,647 to freeholds
(largely on account of hotels) and
£127,957 to aircraft, vehicles, plant, etc.,
were accompanied by growths of £397,498
in the amount coming to creditors, etc.,
£43,576 in mortgages and £274,840 in the
share capital.
Since the close of accounts another
hotel was bought and paid for in scrip
(30,000 £1 ords. issued at 225. each), and
205,750 new £1 ords. and 100,000 new
£1 5 p.c. prefs. were issued at par for
cash. Paid capital will thus become
£1,762,250 in 322,000 prefs. and 1,440,250
ords. On that lot the pref. div, and
8 p.c. to the ords. will call for £131,320,
or £1720 more profit than was claimed
last term. Major developmental projects
are nearing completion, and the board
intends to follow a policy of consolida-
tion, The immediate outlook is bright,
but the background is inflationary, which
makes the co.’s long-term prospects diffi-
cult to assess.
With reasonable caution, the market
sums up the whole position by pricing
the f.-p. ords. at 225., giving an immedi-
ate return of 7.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at par yield 5 p.c.
Including the new issues, net tangible
backing is £4 18s. lid. prefs, and 17s. Bd.
ords,
Bruce Pie Industries, Ltd. (Bris.)
To Be- Defl-
June, Profit. , Dividend serves. cit.*
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £5747 5,747
Prelim, exes. & brokerage, £10,184.. 15,931
1947 .. 8,305 3 p.c. = 4,690 3,615 12,316
1948 ~ 12,200 3 „ „ 9,000 8,200 9,116
Added goodwill, etc., £3917 .. .. 13,033
1949 .. 24,031 5 p.c. = 18,428 5,608 7,425
1950 .. 28,446 6 „ „ 22,600 5,946 1,479
•After deducting intangibles, £11,664 at
June 30, 1950.
Considering the delays in delivery of
equipment, shortage of skilled labor
and dislocation caused by the coal strike
in mid-1949, this four-year-old textile and
bedding manufacturer has put up an
encouraging performance, and the busi-
ness continues to step along in fine style.
The co. kicked off with £300,000 of
capital, of which £59,073 (in scrip) was
used to buy two existing businesses—
Bruce Pie Bedding Co. £8823 and Queens-
land Textile Co. £50,250. The public
put up the balance to erect a new
worsted-spinning and -knitting factory at
Kedron, near Brisbane, which didn’t get
into full swing until the last five months
of the 1949 term. Meanwhile, a further
£150,000 of capital was got in to finance
additions to building and plant, carry
more stock and book debts, buy the
small bedding factory of F. Heatley and
Sons at Townsville, and strengthen the
holding in the textile subsidiary. Share-
holders got 3 p.c. for each of the first
two years, and 5 p.c. for the next two.
Now, in order to keep in step with the
growing demand for its products, the co.
is erecting two new bays with basement
at Kedron, and more plant is to be
installed. To meet the outlay and finance
the bigger trading, those on the register
at Feb. 12 are to be offered 225,000 new
£1 ords. at par, one for two. When the
issue is fully subscribed and paid, there
will be £675,000 of share capital to feed,
and a 5 p.c. div. will call for £33,750, or
£5304 more profit than was shown last


SYDNEY GUARANTEE CORPORATION
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act. 1936, of the State of New South Wales.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL : : £500,000
Divided into 2,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
1,000,000 SHARES AT #/- EACH
1,000,000
1,000,000
Ordinary Shares of 5/- each at par are offered for
public subscription payable 1/- per share application
and allotment money and the balance by calls of not
more than 1/- per share per month
Ordinary Shares of 5/- each are held in Reserve.
250.000
250.000
2,000,000
£500,000
Objects of the Present Issue
The Company is being formed to accept the large volume of Hire Purchase
Finance business offering and to engage in the financing of motor car purchases
under Hire Purchase conditions. , ._ , . , , ,
The Company’s Managers already have adequately staffed premises and control
investments exceeding £500,000 in this business. The existing Dealer and other
connections established by the Company’s Managers ensure an immediate and
profitable investment of the Company’s funds.
The whole of the Working Capital will be employed immediately in the earning
of income, and it is not proposed to employ any of the Company’s funds in the
purchase of buildings or fixed assets.
No amount is payable as goodwill, and there are no founders, management or
deferred shares.
Dividend Policy
It is proposed to prepare quarterly accounts and to pay dividends quarterly.
Stock Exchange Listing
Application will be made as soon as practicable for listing on the Sydney Stock
Exchange and the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Directors
JAMES HUNTLEY KNOX, 17 Lodge Road, Cremome, Chartered Accountant
(Aust). WARREN WALLACE ALDERTON, 15 Doohat Avenue, North Sydney,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.). JOHN STEWART McCALLUM, 62 Ryrie Street,
Geelong, Company Director.
Managers of the Company
KNOX A ALDERTON, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 12 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Underwriting Broker
The whole of the issue of shares of 6/- each has been underwritten
by GORDON D. WHARTON, Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange, 117 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
(This is an abridgment of the full prospectus, and the requirements of Section
137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales have not been
fully complied with. The minimum amount to be raised by the issue is £250,000.
Applications will be received only on the forms of application included with the
full prospectus, which are available from Members of Recognised Stock Exchanges.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
m
...aecidm&
Mddmfy
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether, from
accident or specified illness—and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS AUDITIONS.
AOSTR A L » A N
ASSURANCE COMPANY lIP
MUNTfk AH# ftlltrM SIRIfTS . S¥ PM 11*
If any ‘‘Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
the Union bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
BALANCE SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1950
Presented to the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
held on 18th January, 1951.
LIABILITIES.
Capital Authorised
and Issued .. .. £12,000,000
£
(800,000 Shares
of £l5 each.)
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon. 8,000,000
Paid up . . 4,000,000
Reserve Fund:—
General Reserve . 2,220,000
Share Premium
Account .. .. 1,030,000
3,250,000
Final Dividend payable January,
1951, less tax 143,000
Balance of Profit and Loss
Account 347,276
£
Total Shareholders’ Funds .. 7,740,276
Provision for Currency Deprecia-
tion 1,600,000
Deposits, Bills Payable, and
other Accounts, including pro-
visions for Taxation and
Exchange Adjustments and
Contingencies Reserves .. .'. 136,005,995
Balances due to other Banks .. 7,846,492
145,452,487
153,192,763
Acceptances, Outstanding Credits,
and Engagements on behalf of ■
Customers 22,993,080
(1) Full provision has been made for the
Bank’s liability for Australian, New
Zealand, and United Kingdom taxes on
all profits to date irrespective of when
(2) With the exception of the Bank Premises,
which are recorded in United Kingdom
Sterling, the Australian and New
Zealand Assets and Liabilities are
included in the Balance-sheet at the
original par rates of exchange and the
net difference which would have arisen
if they had been converted into United
Kingdom Sterling at the rates ruling
at the date or the Balance-sheet is
covered by Provisions for Currency
Depreciation and Exchange Adjust-
ments.
These assets amount to
£A131,320,121 (1949 £A99,297,450)
and £NZ30,663,295 ( £NZ28,750,346)
and the liabilities to £A121,370,467
(£A89,655,820) and £NZ29,869,244
( £NZ28,080,343) respectively.
The annexed Profit and Loss Account
is expressed throughout in United
Kingdom Sterling, Australian and New
Zealand items having been converted at
the rates ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet.
s£ 176.185,843
ASSETS.
£/
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers 13,616.137
Cheques of other Banks .. .. .. ■ • •• ••
Balances with and due from other Banks ..
Money at Call and Short Notice in London 250,000
Quoted Investments at or under
Market Value — &
British Government Securities 2,071,350
Australian Government Securi-
ties .. 8,452,891
New Zealand Government
Securities .. .. .. .. • • 1,482,856
Other Securities .. 187,867
Tax Reserve Certificates —British Govern- -
ment 212.025
Special Deposit with Commonwealth Bank _ AAA
of Australia (Central Bank Division) .. 47,892,000
Balances of Remittances and Drafts in
transit and Bills Receivable at London QlO
Office and Branches lo,ob»,»i*
Loans, Advances, and Bills Discounted (less
provision for doubtful debts) ~ .. ..
Fixed Assets—
Bank Premises. ,
Australia and New Zealand,*
at cost less amount writ-
ten off , ..
London, at cost less provi-
sion for Amortisation ..
753,095
44,439
89,148,324
63,246,905
797.534
153,192,763
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances,
Outstanding Credits, and Engagements per
contra 22,993,080
London, 21st November, 1950.
HUGH FLOWER
O. S. ANDERSON I Directors.
J. W. HELY-HUTOHINSON J
C. E. MURCH, Manager.
L. A. MULFORD, Accountant.
£176,185.843
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st AUGUST, 1950.
To Salaries, Allowances and General Expenses
at Head Office, Branches, and Agencies 1,730
„ Directors’ Remuneration—
„ As Directors £11,700
„ Other Services 3,808
321
15.508
Provision for Taxation on Profits of the
year as ascertained after making appro-
priations and provision indicated per
contra and Land Tax
Net Profit for year
030
228
£2,418,087
„ Interim Dividend paid July, 1950, at the
rate of 3i% actual, less Income Tax at
9/ in the £1 ;; •• •• •• ,7 ’ ooo
Provision for final Dividend, payable
January, 1951, at the rate of 6i% actual,
less Income Tax at 9/ in the £ 1
143,000
Balance
carried forward 347,276
£567.270
By Balance for the year after making appro-
priations to Contingencies Reserves, out
of which Reserves provision has been
made for Bad and Doubtful Debts and
after providing for Tax on such appro-
priations
£2,418.087
Balance brought forward August, 1949 ..
Net Profit for year
500.048
267.228
import OF THE AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
obtained .1. the »d «*■*. to the boot o< «r M “* >»>“'•
were necessary for the purposes of ou * aul - , B K g 0 [ar as appears from our examination of those
b00..r S’„°t ssrusir s-‘ **-* •***»«»•-»
’-s: btr^x b s.^SeS^p r r s . - ys-s,«?f z
SSnntLrX r.r tar..ld I ”.c?“n.. P l i.e , he
manner thereby authorised for Banking .On the jae 81gt August 1950,
of the proflt ascertained in the ffianner
stated, for the year ended on that date.
London, 21st November, 1950.
WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
term. Still, prospects of the 5
p.c. being maintained are en-
couraging.
Last term production and
costs suffered during the first
half, owing to the mischievous
nation-wide coal strike, the
effects of which were only partly
offset by prompt installation of
emergency-power plant. And
wages and the cost of raw
materials kept on rising right
through the term. However,
gross earnings (£129,996) in-
creased by £22,538 and exes.
(£101,550)' by £18,123, leaving
the net result £4415 stronger at
£28,446. The allowance for de-
preciation was £12,302 (up
£2931) and for taxation £12,300
(up £800). The ratio of profits
to capital was 6.3 p.c. as against
6.5 p.c. for the previous term,
when the average amount of
capital at work was £368,460.
The textile subsidiary, in which
the holding (now 100,000 £1
shares) was increased by £5OOO,
earned 8.3 p.c. on its capital
and sent along £7500, same as
for previous term. The Towns-
ville business is reported to be
developing satisfactorily.
Principal balance-sheet move-
ments were net additions of
£24,442 to stocks, £26,668 to
book debts and £47,804 to the
overdraft:
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 800,000 450,000 460,000
Overdraft .. 45,784 78,051 120.855
Sundry creditors 27,756 58,325 64,770
Final div. .. 9,000 18,423 22,600
Freeholds ~ 80,022 99,589 103.864
Plant .. .. 70,760 121,094 124.198
Shares subsidiary 86,142 111,142 116,142
Stocks .. 117,037 187,637 212.079
Debtors .. 19,464 72,687 99,305
Cash .. .. 325 1.068
Intangibles ~ 11,747 13,664 11,664
Excluding shares in the sub-
sidiary, the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£104,327) was £6472
less than at the previous bal-
ance, owing to a net addition of
£7419 to fixed assets.
Before announcement of the
new issue the f.-p. pound shares
stood at 255. 3d. in the market
as against 225. 6d. a year ago.
After exercising the rights and
allowing for brokerage, the net
price at 255. 3d. is 235. 9d.,
giving a return of 4.2 p.c. on a
5 p.c, div, basis. Net tan-
gible cover (including the new
issue) is 19s. lid. a share.
North Kalgurli’s mine, on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
is shaping well. Development is
running nicely ahead of produc-
tion, which should get a further
boost when the new shaft (27ft.
by 7ft.) comes into operation. It
is now being sunk not far from
the North Kalgurli shaft, is to
go down 1500 ft., and will service
die southern and downward con-
tinuation of ore-bodies recently
opened up in the co.’s Croesus
leases. In May, 1949, three
leases formerly separating the
Croesus and Kalgurli areas were
bought from North Kalgurli
United, one of De Bernales’s old
group, thus giving the co.’s
holdings a continuous run of
1-l miles. For the year to Jan.
3, 1950, 232,393 tons of
s.B6dwt. ore were treated for a
profit of £87,744, and divs.
totalled H2i p.c., subject to
English income tax of 9s. in the
£. Better is expected for the
year to the beginning of 1951,
despite the continued rise in
costs. A year ago ore reserves
were put at 1,533,438 tons,
averaging 5.87dwt., positive and
806,060 tons, averaging 5.15dwt.,
probable. Recent drill results
suggest that the reserve tonnage
should soon be considerably
increased. Chairman C. X. Ley
thinks a life expectation for the
mine of a further 20 years is
not unduly optimistic. Every-
thing depends upon what
happens in connection with costs
and the price of gold. The Aus-
tralian market prices the f.-p.
2s. shares at 245. as against
28s. 3d. a year ago,
* * * •
Despite the fixed price of gold
and spiralling costs, the market
for the f.-p. ss. shares (not yet
listed) in Kingston (Open Cut)
Gold Mines, Ltd. (Q), is at ss.
9d. or thereabout. It is a small
but attractive proposition in the
mining category. In July last
the co. took over some 64 acres
of auriferous leases at Kingston,
14 miles from Brisbane. Drilling
disclosed about 370,000 tons ore,
averaging at least 3.5dwt., with
overburden varying from a few
inches to 50ft. A 70,000-ton-p.a.
plant, for which there is over five
years’ work measured up, is ex-
pected to begin in March next.
On the basis of a 90 p.c.
recovery, and with gold at £l5
10s. an ounce and all-in costs
(including 4s, Id. a ton to the
vendor) at 235. 7d. a ton,
aggregate profits work out at
£467,125. So, on prospectus
figures, costs could increase by
approximately 17s. a ton and
still leave enough profit for share-
holders to get their money back
plus 10 p.c. p.a. for five years.
♦ * * *
The directors of Enterprise of
New Guinea Gold and
Petroleum Development, whose
application for an oil prospect-
ing permit for the co. in the
Sepik district (New Guinea) has
been repeatedly turned down by
the Federal Government, still
hope for the best; but the
market refuses to share their
optimism. The co. hasn’t
enough funds to re-equip and
operate its goldmine at Edie
Creek, which is claimed to be
developed to the production
stage. A prospective buyer is
reported to be nibbling at this
project, and, from the share-
holders-’ point of view, much de-
pends upon the result. At end
August last co.’s current assets
totalled £3477, and there was
£4OB coming to outsiders. Paid
capital is £81,320 in 21,122 £5
shares paid to 775. each, which
recently changed hands at 10s.


A
■ 1
Urn
LEADERS FOR 107 YEARS
What Prayer
ean do
There are no limits to what
prayer can do. But if your
prayers are to be answered
you must meet God half way.
In February Reader’s Digest
well-known author Fulton
Oursler tells how great men
scientists, philosophers,
statesmen, businessmen in
all the ages have turned to
God for help. “I talk to God,”
Lincoln said. “My mind seems
relieved when I do, and a way
is suggested.” “God make thee
beautiful within,” was Plato’s
prayer for those he loved.
“What Prayer can do” Is
just one of the 29 stimulating
articles In February Reader's
Digest. Read and enjoy your
copy today. One shilling and
sixpence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
How much will your
family receive from
your Estate?
Have you worked it out?
Many a man, who has consulted a specialist in Estate
Administration in regard to his Will, has been surprised to
find that his family mil receive considerably less than he
anticipated.
There is a simple pro-
cedure to ensure that your
Estate will yield its maxi-
mum lor your dependents:—
Firstly: Discuss your af-
fairs, in confidence, with a
Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s 64 years
experience is available,
through him, to guide you
in the wise planning of your
Will.
Secondly: Have this plan
embodied in your Will by a
Solicitor and keep your Will
up-to-date.
Thirdly: Assure the ef-
ficient and economical
management of your Estate,
when your guiding hand is
withdrawn. You can do
this by appointing Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited
as your Executor and Trus-
tee alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend. In 50
doing you will follow the
lead given by many of our
wisest and most successful
citizens.
Public acceptance of die
high standard of service
rendered by Perpetual Trus-
tee Company Limited and
the appreciation of depen-
dents, who have found in it
a valued guide and friend,
are responsible for the Com-
Siany’s position to-day a* the
argest Trustee Company in
the Southern Hemisphere—•
with Trust and Agency
Funds under administration
exceeding £70,000,000.
If you would have par-
ticulars of the service*
offered by the Company,
ring B 0377 and make an
appointment. A Senior
Officer will be pleased to
give the information you
desire.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY UNITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC-
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. B. LYSAGHT!
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. a. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT VTAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGt
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Power Without Action
It has taken Australians, in-
cluding many businessmen, a
long time to realise the main
implications of the inflation
which has followed the war and
the post-war “new social order.”
Many people were slow to
grasp the inevitability of steep
price-rises in a world in which
paper-money was at present-day
Govejnments’ abundant dis-
posal, in which the gold-standard
(with its own “disciplining”
properties) had virtually ceased
to exist, and in which consumer
demand*had been increased by a
wider redistribution of paper-
money wealth, but in which
rates of productivity per man
employed, especially in countries
outside the United States, had
been slow to increase.
For several years The
Bulletin has forecast a con-
tinuance of rising costs and
prices, and has advocated in-
creased productivity as being
the principal means by which
the inflation might be arrested.
So far as Australia is con-
cerned, there is still no evidence
that inflation is likely to be
checked soon. A sudden reversal
of the present trade-union
policy would be too much of a
revolution to contemplate. It
is a policy which must be
reversed —“go-slow” will ruin
us otherwise —but many things
will need to be done politically
before effective results can be
expected.
Proclamation and enforce-
ment of the Anti-Red Act, or
something equivalent to it, is
one of the essential anti-
inflationary measures. And
drastic treatment of wanton
“Labor” loafing, as at Glen
Davis, will probably be neces-
sary.
The rotten apple in the labor
box must not in future be
allowed to pollute the rest of the
apples if we are to get anywhere
in our efforts to increase produc-
tion. Introduction of the secret
ballot would give the right-
thinking unionist his chance to
prevail over the “militant” —
usually treacherous —minority.
The return to adequate pro-
duction and stable costs and
prices will be found, after full
analysis along these lines, to
call for an all-in national effort.
The theory of “what goes up
must come down” no longer
applies to prices expressed in
terms of money produced by a
central-government politically-
controlled paper - money
machine.
Other countries may have
more regard, ultimately, for the
gold - standard and other
monetary controls of economic
policy. But, economically, Aus-
tralia is at present adrift on a
buoyant ocean of paper-money
prices and wage - rates prin-
cipally of its own creation, but
fed by large rivers of overseas
income—all being converted
into our own paper-money
ocean as soon as the flow
reaches us.
A thing to be noted is that we
are adrift, on this sea. We have
no strong golden anchor to keep
us in a certain position regardless
of the economic weather around
us. Our golden anchor is a very
light one, and we have been pay-
ing out political cable every
time the economic weather has
been adverse or the political
barometer has looked threaten-
ing. This instability is what so
many people with pre-war ideas
have failed to understand. A
revolutionary change in our
economic methods has taken
place.
Apart from the flow of over-
seas income, factors having a
great deal to do with our
buoyancy and drift are the
form and size of the Federal
Budget, decisions of the Arbitra-
tion Court (especially on such
far-reaching matters as hours to
“Still, I like to see a Woman with a bit of spirit, don't you?"
be worked and basic rates of
pay), and the policy of the
A.C.T.U. (or individual unions)
in regard to rate of output per-
mitted per man per hour.
The Federal Budget influences
the Budget of every State Gov-
ernment in the Commonwealth,
Central-banking policy affects
the policies of all the trading
banks. Interest rates are strictly
controlled, and borrowing and
lending policy perhaps not so
strictly. All private financial
transactions are influenced by
the one central authority.
All Australia, too, is affected
by decisions of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court. The
influence of the £l-a-week basic-
wage rise only need be studied
to demonstrate this. And
A.C.T.U. policy is almost simi-
larly continent-wide in its effects.
In a physical industrial sense
the policy of the Miners’ Federa-
tion in one State alone —N. S.
Wales —has a vast influence on
the amount of black coal avail-
able to the whole of Australia.
And coal is necessary to nearly
all our industrial activity.
Wrong Budget policy, unjusti-
fied awards by arbitration courts
and go-slow by trade-union
bodies have thus all a profound
effect on the rate of our national
drift. Communist policy in the
trade-unions has perhaps the
greatest, farthest-reaching influ-
ence of all.
If there is one thing that this
dissection of the politico-
economic scene points to it is that
the central Government of
Australia at Canberra, which
has taken to itself such great
powers of a financial and legis-
lative character, has similarly
great responsibilities.
No longer do the private banks
exercise their traditional sway in
respect of key economic factors.
No longer is an employer free
to enter into a private fight with
employees who make outrageous
demands or commit industrial
sabotage in his factories or
mines. On the coalfields —that
source of so much of our vital
industrial power production
and marketing are subject (in
N, S. Wales) to the control of a
Joint Coal Board.
Arbitration laws govern the
fundamental relations between
wage-payer and wage-earner;
generally these laws, in practice,
bind the employer more than
they do the employee. State
Governments have their own
arbitration systems where the
Commonwealth writ doesn’t
run ; and they also have laws to
regulate private road transport.
States enforce price-control,
too, and, notwithstanding the
clamor that is now being heard
from “Labor” quarters about the
need for Federal price-control,
the State Governments are
strictly (sometimes almost
severely) policing prices for
essential manufactured goods.
The time-lag in Prices Branch
decisions is in all cases against
the manufacturer, not the con-
sumer.
From an economic point of
view most Australians need re-
educating. In a nutshell, the
industrial and financial position
in Australia today is one in
which private initiative, in its
major aspects, is strictly con-
trolled. In 20 years the powers
of Governments over the rest of
the community have grown at a
pace equalled only by the rate of
growth of trade-union strength
and powers for good or evil.
Let all Australia look this posi-
tion squarely in the face. And
let the first to look at it be the
Federal Government. For the
usurpation of power by Govern-
ments without the right kind of
action following the usurpation
means a decline in our national
strength. Necessary powers must
not be taken from sections of
the people and then put on the
shelf by Governments, or only
used by them in cases where the
results are considered likely to
be politically palatable. And
trade-unions, which have been
given a high political status in
our community, have an ever-
present responsibility: to give a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay. That responsibility they
are not at present accepting.
The power they have gained is
often grossly abused.
The Sharemarket
Probably the chief factor in
present sharemarket buoyancy is
the large amount of money avail-
able for investment that has comb
directly or indirectly from the
increase in wool prices over the
last two seasons.
The second factor is un-
doubtedly the desire, spreading


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTROAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN PR A ZEE.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION. General Manager
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter 183$ .
ms s
LIABILITIES
& £
CAPITAL AUTHORISED AND
ISSUED—
-900,000 Shares of £5 each, fully
paid . .. .. 4,500,000
(There is under the Charter a
reserve liability of the Proprietors
of £5 per share.)
RESERVE FUND 2,500,000
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
BALANCE 427,595
7,427.596
NOTES IN CIRCULATION .. .. 2,619
CURRENCY DEPRECIATION
PROVISION AND RESERVE 2,000,000
CURRENT, DEPOSIT, AND OTHER
ACCOUNTS
includingp'Bills Payable and Drafts
in Transit, reserves and provisions
for contingencies and taxation .. 134,097,274
BALANCES DUE TO OTHER
BANKS 4,653,993
AMOUNT DUE TO SUBSIDIARY
COMPANY 500
DIVIDEND PAYABLE 19th
JANUARY. 1951,
less Income Tax 160,875
ACCEPTANCES FOR CUSTOMERS,
as per contra 1,608,651 142,518,912
149,946,507
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES—
Forward Exchange Contracts,
Confirmed Credits, Guarantees and
other Engagements on behalf of
Customers, as per contra .. .. 21,420,205
NOTES:
(1) Pull provision has been made for Taxation
in Australia, New Zealand and the United
Kingdom on Profits to date.
(2) Assets and Liabilities in Australia and
New Zealand are included at par rates
of exchange. These Assets amount to
£A124,728,986 (1949 £A101,414,729) and
£N.Z.24,713,088 (1949 £N.Z.22,650,948)
and the Liabilities to £A124,492,543 (1949
£A93,069,580) and £N.Z.21,062,289 (1949
£N.Z.19,310,863) ; the Australian figures
are arrived at before taking into account
the outstanding currency exchange settle-
ment with the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia which settlement would, it is
estimated, result in an increase in the
net assets in Australia of approximately
£A10,000,000 (1949 £A1,750,000) by
transfer from sterling assets. The net
difference which would have arisen had the
Assets and Liabilities, after taking into
account the outstanding settlement, been
converted at the rates ruling at the date of
the Balance Sheet, viz., £AI2S 10s. Od. to
£lOO Sterling and £N.Z.IOI to £lOO
Sterling, is covered by currency depreciation
provisions.
On behalf of the Court.
G. C. GIBBS, Chairman.
ROBERT FOOT, Director.
£171,366,772
BALANCE SHEET, 11th OCTOBER, 1950
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting held oa
Thursday, 18th January, 1951.
ASSETS
SPECIE, BULLION, GOVERNMENT
NOTES AND BANK BALANCES
INVESTMENTS AT OB UNDER
MARKET VALUES—
Quoted in Great Britain:
British Government Securities
Other Securities ..
£ £
13,104,391
1,759,375
201,770 1,961,145
Quoted outside Great Britain:
Australian and New Zealand
Govt. Securities ..
Other Securities
3,499,564
141,221 3,640,785
Unquoted Investments
TAX RESERVE CERTIFICATES ..
SPECIAL ACCOUNT WITH COM-
MONWEALTH BANK OF
AUSTRALIA
BILLS RECEIVABLE AND RE-
MITTANCES IN TRANSIT ..
ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (less
provision for Doubtful Debts)
and other Accounts
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS FOR
ACCEPTANCES, as per contra
FIXED ASSETS—
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and London,
at Cost, less amounts written oS
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company, at Cost
(The Subsidiary Company has not
traded at any time and has made
neither profit nor loss. Its only
asset is a deposit of £5OO with
this Bank.)
626,697
253,075
44,941,000
17,819,602
65,027,207
1,603,651
148,477.553
1,468,454
500
1,468,954
149,946,507
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS
ON FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACTS,
CONFIRMED CREDITS, GUARANTEES
AND OTHER ENGAGEMENTS, as per
contra 21,420,265
Q. C. COWAN, Manager.
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
£171,366,772
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have obtained all the information and explanations, which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were
necessary for the purposes of our audit. In our opinion, proper books of account have been kept so far as appears from
our examination of those books. We have not visited the Branches in Australia and New Zealand, but Proper returns
adequate for the purposes of our audit have been received therefrom. We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet
and* annexed Profit and Loss Account which are in agreement with the books of account and returns. In om opinion
and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us the said accounts, including
particulars concerning the Subsidiary Company, give, in the manner required, the information required of
company by the Companies Act, 1948; as authorised thereby the accounts do not show the aggregate amount of
reserves the movement thereon and the market value of investments. On this basis in our opinion the Bdance She
(rives a’true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Bank and its subsidiary company as at 11th October, 1.. ,
and the Profit and Loss Account gives a true and fair view of the profit for the period from the 13th October, 1 • ,
to the 11th October, 1950.
London, 80th November, 1950.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO. j Auditors .
Chartered Accountants. 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT from 13th OCTOBER, 1949, to 11th OCTOBER, 1950.
(Expressed In Sterling)
To Interim Dividend paid 28th July, 1930, at the
rate of 3* per cent, actual, less Income Tax
at 9s. in the £ • • ••
To Final Dividend payable 19th January, 1901, at
the rate of 6} per cent, actual, less Income Tax
at 9s. in the £ • • • • • • •; • •
Balance carried forward per Balance sheet .. ..
86.625
160,875
427,595
£675,095
By Profit tor the period after payment of all
expenses (excluding Directors’ fees), providing
for taxation on profits earned to date and
making transfers to reserves and provisions lor
contingencies, out of ■which accounts pro
has been made for any diminution in
of assets
Less Directors’ Fees
By Balance brought forward from October, 1949
303,288
12.414
290.374
384,221
£675,095
(The liability of the members is limited.)
A. K. L. WILTSHIRE, General Manager.
through all sections of the com-
munity now, to be protected
against inflation’s ravages into
monetary savings.
It is no longer easy to buy
pastoral or other properties at
attractive figures ; house property
is being bought at soaring prices
by would-be occupiers rather
than investors (landlords are get-
ting a poor deal under the “fair-
rents” laws); and, apart from
other considerations, the buying
and selling of shares is an easy
operation, the scrip lending itself
to convenient locking-up without
the attention of a caretaker or
manager. That is, provided the
buyer regards the snares as be-
ing of a kind that may be safely
locked up and forgotten for the
time being.
The scope of sharemarket deal-
ing in recent years has been
widened by the addition of
many new companies to the
Stock Exchange lists. McPher-
sons, the tool and machinery
concern, was one of the early
post-war additions; and since
then there has been a steady
stream of conversions from
private to public ownership,
many of the concerns represent-
ing key industries (such as Asso-
ciated Leathers), while others
have been additions to already-
existing classifications.
Some new listings have had an
outstandingly spectacularmarket:
Waugh and Josephson was put
on the market at 255. a share,
against last week’s price of 85s.
6d, Tutt Bryant shares sold as
low as 345. 6d, After several new
issues, the scrip last week stood
at 80s. Both these concerns
handle earthmoving equipment,
for which there is a big present
demand. Hence the great market
interest in the shares. High
future dividends are needed to
justify present prices.
The flow of conversions has
been stimulated since the Chifley
amendment to the private-
company-tax la w, and the market
has quickly absorbed all offer-
ings. A brand-new issue of
£1,000,000 was that of Main-
guard, a Sydney underwriting
and investment concern. Its ss.
shares have been changing hands
regularl> at around 6s. 6d. It
has got quickly to business by
buying the “Smith’s Weekly”
assets and underwriting a large
public-body loan.
Actual new capital raised, as
distinct from the release of old
scrip in a private co. to a new
circle of investors among the
general public, has grown to
around £5O million a year.
Most of the new money has
gone into factories and plant.
But, so far as essential indus-
tries are concerned, there are
few signs that consumer demand
is likely to be fully satisfied for
some time yet.
Every investment, however,
has to be considered on its own
particular merits and on the con-
ditions in the particular industry
in which it is engaged.
Abnormal, often unhealthy,
influences are at work in the
sharemarket at present; but,
subject to proper selection of
stocks, there is much to be said
for the purchase of sound equity
shares. True, prices may suffer
reverses from time to time, but
many people are prepared to
take that risk so long as, in the
end, they protect the buying-
power of their capital.
There is widespread oppor-
tunity for almost all types of
essential productive industry.
Main problems are to get suf-
ficient coal, materials and man-
power to keep such industries
working at capacity. Industry,
in fact, if it can be brought to
vigorous health, has big poten-
tialities ahead of it. Present
high share prices (and low
yields) are not so much an in-
dication of the present vigor of
our industries as of the com-
paratively poor health of the
money side of our economy.
Broken Hill Prop.
This giant of Australia’s in-
dustrial enterprises, which has a
promising future, has just an-
nounced a new issue of 6,527,311
£1 shares, one for three, at a
premium of 10s. each on a date
yet to be fixed. The issue will
bring in £9,790,966, of which
£3,263,655 will be share
premiums and the balance capi-
tal, which will raise the total on
the share register to £24,999,967.
The premium will make an 8|
p.c. div. (rate paid for the last
three years) worth 5£ p.c. The
new money is wanted to help
finance the big programme of
expansion at Port Kembla and
elsewhere, details of which have
been previously given in The
Bulletin.
Co.’s pound shares, which
rose from 61s. 3d. at end 1950 to
655. 9d. on January 12, stood at
625. 6d, immediately before an-
nouncement of the new issue last
weekend. After exercising the
rights and allowing for broker-
age the net price at 625. 6d. is
545. 9d., giving an immediate
return of 3.04 p.c. on an 8i p.c.
div. basis, with prospects.
Investment interest will now
centre largely in the rights, for
which there promises to be a
wide and active market On the
basis of the last-mentioned price
for the shares and again allow-
ing for brokerajge, the rights
have a theoretical value of
245. 3d. What they will actually
fetch in the market—the figure
is likely to fluctuate and will
probably be below 245. 3d. —de-
pends largely upon day-to-day
pressure of the supply-and-
demand factors, which will be
affected by a variety of influ-
ences, and upon the dates on
which the new capital is to be
called up. The co.’s scrip has
all the essentials of a sound
industrial equity.
Money in Maoriland
Money is still cheap in New
Zealand, but rates have been
hardening since the Holland
Government ended the Socialist
practice of issuing IOUs on the
Reserve Bank, put Maoriland on
a pay-as-you-go basis and
turned its back on easy money.
Before this, for a decade or
more, M.L. gilt-edged rates were
as fixed as the stars. During
the post-war spending spree the
Socialists borrowed as much as
they could —£20-odd million
yearly for four years —in “tap”
loans and conjured up about the
same amount in new credit,
while costs and prices soared and
the pound shrank. Without
realising what was happening,
Maorilanders were loaded with
a rising indirect price for cheap
money, and the effects have got
so deeply into the system that
they’ll take a long time to work
off. Today New Zealand, like
Australia, is grappling with
prices that still refuse to be
reined in and hasn’t even begun
to get to close quarters with the
problem of squeezing out pent-
up inflation.
When deposits mounted in the
banks the Socialists claimed this
was a sign of thrift and confi-
dence, but the truth was that
Maorilanders had no choice be-
cause millions earmarked to buy
homes, motor-cars, equipment
of all kinds for domestic, busi-
ness or industrial use, or to buy
controlled or prohibited imports,
couldn’t be spent because these
things just weren’t there. It was
an age of enforced saving.
Now interest-rates are harden-
ing some Socialists (in Opposi-
tion) with only a smattering of
understanding have been seeing
red and haven’t been able to
trace the change to the new
credit policy. So far the move-
ment is only slight—gilt-edge
stocks have drifted down to give
a yield around three guineas for
long-dated—and, with goods and
services still short, the swing
isn’t likely to be rapid. Outlets
for money are still governed by
material and manpower bottle-
necks, and immediately ahead is
the seasonal inflow from wool,
meat, butter and other exports,
which must swell the total of in-
vestible funds, while demand re-
mains partly throttled.
Wealth from exports may have
a seasonal bullish influence over
the whole of the price-front in
the coming months, and A. Hay-
ward, chairman of the world’s
biggest dairy organisation, the
N.Z. Co-operative Dairy Co.,
Ltd,, has warned: “If N.Z. is
to retain its standard of living,
which is not nearly as high in
comparison with some other
countries as New Zealanders
think, there must be greater in-
dividual effort —in other words,
a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay.” Lately farming costs
have been getting above the
guaranteed price for butterfat,
partly because weak spots in
other industry have loaded farm-
ing with overheads which
couldn’t be passed further and
couldn’t have been carried today
but for export buoyancy.
It will take time to get the
poison of inflation out of the
system, but when most of the
rank-and-file realise that the
pound is no longer being
chiselled away and whittled
down, there should be more
willingness to put their backs
into the job of building-up pro-
duction. Mismanagement of
money and credit destroys pros-
perity ; production repairs the
damage.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
Sydney has its sorrows, but it also has
its harbor, which is looking lovely at the
moment, full of craft of all kinds, includ-
ing a submarine. Many are outlined in
lights at night, and the sight makes up
good deal for blackouts and the weather.
The capricious weather had a restrain-
ing effect on the dressing at the
Governor’s Jubilee garden - party.
Umbrellas replaced parasols, much to. the
sorrow of the parasol-owners, who get so
few chances to display them. Small hats
had to take the place of the picture type
which generally mark the guests as de-
finitely “garden-party.” However, lots of
the men took a chance and wore their
toppers, black or grey, and very fine they
looked. Otherwise the weather gave
many a chance to say “I had the loveliest
turn-out to wear, but didn’t dare.” The
rain held off for practically two hours,
and when it did come down women
gathered up their skirts and hared off for
the gates in a quite undignified rush.
The prettiest raincoat belonged to Mrs.
C. M. Guiney, who said she had walked
the world for it, finally tracking it down
in Edinburgh. It was pale-orchid
gaberdine bound with black. Madame
Jean Strauss wore one of the few long
dresses, navy taffeta with a lime feather
cloche. Lydia Fernandez Yayle’s little
black hat with the bobbing heather-spray
was bravely glamorous. Lady Plowman
wore a handsome but wintry costume of
smoky-blue with a perfectly matching
fur-felt hat. Mrs. Tom Bateman wore a
cream lace coat. Her three sisters were
there: Trixie, Nona and Gwen (Mrs.
Michael Fitzpatrick). A large black hat
was worn by Mrs. Noel Vincent, whose
black duster with the deep tucks is very
much up to the minute.
The sun shone hot and brilliant for the
Jubilee procession, the streets were gay
with flags and all Sydney that could came
to see the record of our country’s 50
years’ progress. It was a splendid pageant,
with practically every aspect of play and
industry represented. The crowd cheered
all the New Australians who marched in
their national costumes and laughed up-
roariously when the really very attractive
Electricity float came by. To pick one
float out as the best would be hard, but
the Wheat Industry’s golden sheaves and
golden girls was something to remember.
The most amusing section of the proces-
sion was the parade of motor-cars dating
back to 1902, and the fire-brigade that
announced itself as belonging to 1841.
Everything went well to schedule, except
that a magnificent mechanical elephant
stalled near the Conservatorium and the
soldiers that followed had to divide into
two columns to get round it. The effect
was amusing, but in keeping with the
happy feeling of the whole spectacle.
The arrival of the Pakistan frigates Sind
and Shamsheer started off a round of
parties in the high-spirited manner for
which the Pakistan commission is becom-
ing known. The ships are dear little
things (don’t let the naval men hear us
saying this) painted “peace-time grey”
and with slender guns painted pale-blue.
During a reception on board the ships
last week, these self-same guns fired off
crackers from time to time with startling
effect. The fo’c’sle deck was roofed over
with canvas to make rather exciting-
looking tents, which, however, were not
quite proof against the spasmodic torrents
that Sydney heavens spill out from time
to time these days.
The Begum Haroon, wife of the
High Commissioner, was like moon-
light in white and silver with pearls
in her hair. Zcenat Haroon was celebrat-
ing her birthday and wore a luscious out-
fit of beaten gold tissue. The younger
set was conspicuous by its presence, and
included the Rowland Smiths (June and
Janet), Anne McCauley in midnight-blue,
effervescent Joan Kennedy, the Blanshard
sisters from Brisbane with the romantic
names Olivia and Elaine, beautiful models
Pat Firman (in gold-gleaming brocade),
and June Dally Watkins, in black.
Graziers and their families seem to be
streaming overseas. In the Orion, which
sailed for England last week, were the
Robert Blacks, of Braemar, Greenthorpe,
the Bruce Campbells, of Goorianawa,
Gular, the Cliftons, of Keronga,
Ulamambri, the W, H, Cribbs, from
Maxwelton (Q.), Harry Evans, of Cun-
ningham (Q.), the Rogersons, of Rosyth,
Mungindi, and George Tranby-White,
from Winton (Q;),
The Piddingtons, who read one
another’s thoughts in a most eerie
manner, were introduced to the Sydney
Press last week, Leslie, who is small and
pretty, wears her hair in a long bob.
Sydney told us of their struggles to get
a „. hear,n , g t m Lond °°- Unt°rt™ately,
nobod l‘ akes / ny “ otl “ ,‘ here °J “P 6 "'
ence uhlamed in Australia, and all the
a B ents say c °” e back when you ve had
engagement, a most frustrating state-
en * , T be on Y way le Piddmgtoos
sucreeded in getting an engagement was
b y,dogged persistence, going back again
and again until the producers gave them
a c lancc l ust 10 get rid of them. As we
*” ow > of course - they were a wonderful
Sydney theatregoers will hear with
[ e S re t that Ada Ferrar, who was leading
w hh Julius Knight, has taken her
h na i curtain-call she died in London
She also played lead to Sir
Philip Ben Greet and Sir Frank Benson,
appearing at the Old Vic. and with lead-
m S est End managers,
That man’s here again—Lieut.-Col,
Adkins, conducting the Military Band
for us. At the concert on Saturday night
b * s l° n g"Skirted coat was adorned with
mas ?f. s S°ld braid, and he wore spurs
,? n bis boots. Lt.-Col. Adkins is quite
S a Y es t conductor we have ever seen,
a PP eariI }g to have the friendliest and
prideful interest in the members of
the ba nd. Even if the music played were
not of the j oiliest, most popular type, the
s *Sht of the red-coated musicians and
their ebullient conductor would be a re-
freshing experience,
Webster’s is a dictionary whose word
cannot be questioned, according to most
people, but the officers of the Pakistan
ships say that it gives the wrong definition
of the word “begum.” Webster’s defines
this as “A princess, a lady of exalted
rank.” The officers, however, say that it
must apply only to a married woman, and
that all women of good background
should be addressed as “begum.”
This is a picture of Mrs. Tony Gray,
who until last Saturday was Mary
O’Mullane, of Randwick. Her wedding-
dress was lace over tulle over satin, made
high to the neck with a little stand-up
collar, and bearing a train three yards
long. Her flowers were gardenias. The
bridesmaids, Shirley Gray, Margaret
O’Mullane and Maureen Callaghan, who
wore buttercup broderie Anglaise with
picture-hats, carried little yellow roses,
The wedding was celebrated at the Sacred
Heart Church, Randwick, followed by a
reception at Florida House. Mary is
the daughter of the Arthur O’Mullanes,
of Randwick, Tony the son of the
George Grays, of Rose Bay. Photo by
Clarice Boyce.
The N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation
should take a lesson from the union in
Queensland which has just installed a
woman as president. Miss Ruth Don,
who has just taken over, was vice-
president for two years, but is believed
to be the first woman to be appointed
president of any Teachers’ Union in
Australia, Teaching is a profession in
which women don’t receive the recogni-
tion they should, being paid (at least in
N.S.W.) only 80 per cent, of the wages
paid to men, although there can be no
possible difference in the work they do.
Even when an entirely new job is created
in the Public Service, an appropriate
salary is fixed, and then, if a woman is
appointed, she is paid only four-fifths of it.
We had a visit last week from little
bright-eyed Beatrice Walker, of
Woolooga (Q.). Just returned from a
tour of New Zealand with her brother,
she was on her way home to renew her
charge of the school at Wonga Lower
until April, when she marries Teddy
Dray, also of Woolooga. They plan to
go to the Barrier Reef for their honey-
moon. Beatrice has such a keen and
lively outlook on life that we were not
surprised when she showed us a picture
of herself on the motor-bike she rides
to her school every day—a great
improvement, she says, on the push-bike.
From Melbourne
Australian flags and the blue-and-gold
banner of the Australasian Women’s
Association loomed large in the decora-
tions used in Nicholas Hall for the Aus-
tralia Day celebrations arranged by the
metropolitan committee. Lady Brooks,
wife of the Governor, was guest-of-honor,
and also at the function were representa-
tives from Victorian affiliated women’s
organisations. Vice-president of the
Housewives’ Association, Mrs. Gladys
Hain, Mrs. H. Whittaker, of the National
Safety Council, Mrs. R. B. Lording,
representing the Honorary Justices’
Association, and Mrs. W. Smallman, wife
of the chief president of the Australian
Natives’ Association, were also among
official guests. Cr. Mrs. Gordon Wallace
proposed the first toast, “Australia and
the Day We Celebrate,” which was
responded to by Mrs. R. Nixon, chief
president of the A.W.A. The second
toast, “Women’s Organisations,” was pro-
posed by Mrs. Joan Rosanove and
responded to by Mrs. S. V. Northcott,
representing the National Council of
Women.
Newman College Chapel was the setting
for the marriage of Dympna, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
O’Collins, of Frankston, with Kevin
Francis, only son of Cr, P. L. Coleman,
M.L.C., and Mrs. Coleman, of Aspendale,
The bride’s uncle, Bishop J. P. O’Collins,
assisted by the Rev. W. O’Collins, S.J.,
and Rev. G, O’Collins, also uncles of
the bride, and Father Murphy, Rector of
Newman, officiated at the Nuptial Mass
wmch followed the marriage ceremony.
The bride’s lovely gown of gold French
satin was cut on classical lines; the skirt,
cut straight in front, featured a folded
back which extended into a train. Her
Limerick-lace veil, which had been lent
by a cousin, flowed over her gown, and
she carried a sheaf of white waterlilies.
Attending her were her two sisters, Moira
(Mrs. Jim Peters) and Maev, her cousin
Deidre Lewis, and Patricia Hutchinson,
Their bouffant gold tulle skirts made over
gold satin were allied to gold lace bodices.
Waist-length white tulle veils were caught
to tiny Juliet caps, and they also carried
sheafs of waterlilies. Best man was Peter
Wister.
Reception was at Rock Lodge, home of
the bride’s parents. Gold and white
flowers filled the reception-rooms, lights
twinkled in the garden and dinner was
served in a gold-lined marquee. A gown
of pearl-grey satin brocade was chosen
by Mrs. O’Collins, diamente trimming
being a feature of the modified off-the-
shoulder bodice. Mrs, Coleman’s gown
of brocade was patterned in blue and
brown, its floral design outlined in brown
beads and sequins. Among the guests
were Sir Charles and Lady Lowe, Sir
Clifden and Lady Eager, the Lord Mayor,
Sir James Disney, John Cain and Mrs.
Cain, and Trevor Oldham and his wife.
With John O’Driscoll was his wife, in
deep cream chiffon gown and matching
stole. Smoky-grey chiffon fashioned the
gown worn by Mrs. Robert Lane. Mrs.
J. Ferguson’s shot taffetas were emerald-
green. Mrs. Con Curtain’s bouffant
gown was of off-white chiffon. Mrs. H. G.
Furnell, whose husband. Brigadier
Fumell, was master of ceremonies at the
reception, chose dove-grey chiffon. Mrs.
Gordon Coulter’s black crepe gown was
slim-fitting. Mrs. John Galbally was in
black lace, Mrs. F. Galbally in white
blouse and deep-blue skirt, contrasted with
a wide red belt.
It is doubtful if any visiting conductor
has received a greater reception than that
accorded Sir John Barbirolli at the Com-
memoration Celebrity Concert in the
Town Hall, when he piloted th
Victorian Symphony Orchestra througl
an exacting programme with great vigor
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, wore
formal dress and decorations, and Lady
Brooks wore a pastel-blue, self-patterned
full-skirted organza gown. She wa
attended by Betty Everard, whose white
faille gown featured a peplum attached to
the slim, slightly-trained skirt. Mrs
Conrad Charlton’s gown of flower-printec
gold satin carried a short matching jacket
Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth’s full-skirted gown
was of soft shell-pink chiffon. Lady
Knox chose deep-cream lace. Gertrude
Johnson was in black-and-gold-spanglec
tulle. Lady Beaurepaire wore black
crepe, Mrs. Guy Bakewell pale-pink
chiffon.
Barbara Elsbeth Fettell, who has
announced her engagement to lan
Campbell Tregonning, is the daughter o:
Rev. Canon N. S. Fettell, now vicar of
Warrnambool, and the first padre of the
Red Cliffs soldier-settlement. Barbara
who was formerly on the staff of Mel-
bourne Public Library, is now city
librarian of Mildura. Her fiancd is the
only son of Mrs. H. C. Tregonning, ol
Kintore, Irymple, and of the late H. C
Tregonning, who was one of the early
settlers there. The young couple jflan to
build their future home at Irymple.
Australian ballerina Dorothy Stevenson
back from England, has joined the newly-
formed Borovansky company. Balleto-
manes will remember her for her work
with the old Borovansky company in
1944, She married Dr. Aldridge Rumsey
and made her home in Crowborough,
Sussex. Dorothy, danced with the Inter-
national Ballet company in London for
three years, later making an intensive
study of choreography there and on the
Continent. Her ballet, “Sea Legend,”
which was first seen in Australia, was
produced in London. She hopes her
husband will join her before the season
ends and that they will be able to travel
back home together. Dorothy is the
daughter of the late Bishop W. Stevenson,
of Grafton (N.S.W.). Mrs. Stevenson will
travel with her daughter during the forth-
coming season, which opens in Sydney
in April.
Guests-of-honor at the late-afternoon
party given by Mrs. L. M. Dunne in her
St. Kilda-road flat were her daughter,
Mrs. Ron Findlay, and Florence Hyams,
both of whom returned recently from a
trip overseas. The hostess wore a frock
of black crepe studded on the shoulders
with black sequins. Her daughter chose
a frock of clover-pink crepe highlighted
with pintucks at the high neckline.
Florence wore a black pleated frock
carrying white Swiss embroidery. Among
the guests were Mrs. R. Youlden, her
powder-blue crepe frock having a sash
of powder-blue satin striped in black and
London tan; Mrs. Des Connor, her bal-
lerina frock of pale beige filmy lace;
Mrs. John Eldon, in black frock and
large natural straw hat; Mrs. D.
Sawers, her crepes in lime tonings; and
Mrs. George Wise, her powder-blue crepes
having for company a small black hat
with a scalloped brim.
On the Australia Day holiday the
Moonee Valley Racing Club gave to the
racing events names which are honored
in Australian history: the Matthew
Flinders Handicap, Governor Phillip
Hurdle, Pioneer Handicap and the
Captain Cook Highweight. Men in the
uniforms of the three services stood
smartly to attention as the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, performed the cere-
mony of flag-raising. Boys from the
Williamstown High School re-enacted the
landing in 1835, when John Pascoe
Fawkner stepped from his boat to the
beach at Williamstown, but because the
exact spot of Fawkner’s landing is now
occupied by the Naval Dockyard the
re-enactment took place some distance
from it.
The party given by Mrs. Mary Lewis,
of Pasadena Mansions, St. Kilda-road, in
honor of Mr. and Mrs. Peter Law, who
are sojourning here for a few months
prior to visiting New Zealand before re-
turning to their home in England, was
quite a happy affair. Mrs, Law, a beauti-
ful brunette, who hails from California,
wore a casual primrose silk frock cut on
tailored lines. The hostess was in aqua-
blue pleated crepe. Among the guests
were Mrs. Norman Lynch, her tailored
frock of soft-blue silk patterned in black
stars; Corrine Keegan, who wore a frock
of lime-green silk patterned in white,
Alison Ball (she marries Russell French
at All Saints’, St. Kilda, in May) in an
off-the-shoulder sun-frock of scarlet-and-
white seersucker ; Mary Coles, her pale
blue-and-white frock topped by a large
white straw hat; and Elizabeth
Schleicher, niece of the hostess, who re-
turns to her family in England in June,
and who wore a black-and-white- pat-
terned silk frock.


PERSONAL ITEMs
Pastor Douglas Nicholls, whose fight
for a place for “old Australians” in the
Jubilee celebrations has been rewarded by
an invitation from the Victorian Govern-
ment to sit on the committee, is a full-
blooded aborigine who ministers to the
350-odd members of his race who have
drifted to Fitzroy (Melb.). His eloquence
as a preacher is known to more than them.
Although domiciled in the U.S., James
McGregor, brought to Australia by the
Firm to produce the very Scotch musical
play “Brigadoon,” is a Scot of the deepest
dye and owns a couple of hundred medals
and trophies for Highland dancing. It
follows that, in addition to producing, the
McGregor will take the role of leading
dancer. He wifi also, no doubt, be
speech-instructor, as most of the dialogue
is spoken in Burns’s tongue, with the story
centred in a Scotch village, Mac and his
father and mother have taught multitudes
of Americans Scottish dances.
Homeward bound from Washington,
Captain James Cairns Morrow, R.A.N,
A destroyer man universally known as
“Copper” (stemming from his head-color-
ing), he had a couple of years with the
Scrap-Iron Flotilla early in the piece—
command of destroyer Voyager and
D.S.O. Shifting to the more heavily-
gunned Arunta, he picked up a Jap sub-
marine round about Moresby in 1942, and
let go with everything—one up to the
Allies, D.S.C. to Morrow. He finished a
very lively war in cruiser Shropshire up
north, her second-in-command. Launched
in Melbourne 45 years ago, he’s been
captain since 1947.
Moving from Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne (Q.M.G.), to take over Eastern
Command from Lieut.-General Berry-
man (who is guiding Royal tour arrange-
ments), Major-General William Bridge-
ford is a two-war Digger, As Q.M.G.,
Ist Australian Corps, he did a mammoth
supply job through the Western Desert,
Greece, Crete and Syria. He returned to
Australia to command the 3rd Armored
Division, was in New Guinea, and
finished the war leading the 3rd Aus-
tralian Division. Supply-boss in Mel-
bourne since 1946, he’s had 35 of his
56 years in uniform.
Air-Vice-Marshal D. V. Carnegie, New
Zealand’s new air-chief, is now there
ready for his job. An experienced pilot
as well as administrator, he has a record
going back to the Kaiser’s war, when he
did much flying in the biplanes of the
day. In the late shindy he had charge of
a fighter-station in Britain, supervised
pilot-training in the U.S. and headed the
British air-mission in Canada. His latest
job in Britain was commanding No. 18
Group, Coastal Command, and senior
air-officer in Scotland. Carnegie’s job in
Maoriland will be to convert present
obsolete aircraft into modern fighters,
equipment for the purpose being on
order.
Returning the compliment paid by con-
ductor Colonel Adkins, an Australian
Highland pipe-band, complete with four
female Highland dancers and three
champion whipcrackers, will skirl their
way round the world under the skilled
baton of Drum-major William Darwin,
F.R.G.S., of Ascot Vale, Melbourne, who
took an Australian pipe-band composed
of women overseas in 1925. The band
will sound its laments in England, Europe,
U.S. and Canada, resplendent in the
Royal Macdull tartan and a white tunic
with scarlet facings. The average height
of the stalwarts is over 6ft.; all have
had to sign the pledge as a condition of
selection, and every State is represented.
The essential leopard-skin awaits the
drum-major at Colombo.
Ray Whiting follows up:
The name of H. M. Bateman (B. 24/1/’5l)
has long been linked with comic situations.
Should a retired colonel slip on a banana-skin
at his daughter’s fashionable wedding it was
generally agreed to be “just like a Bateman
drawing.” When American papers sought his
work they sent envoys across-Atlantic —and that
doesn’t happen to many humorous artists. I
first met H.M.B. in England in ’29, when he
invited me down to Reigate for the weekend.
He met me at the station in an old but shiny
Minerva: a shortish chap, with a grand fore-
head over twinkling eyes, and clipped, greying
moustache. His shyness was mistaken by some
he met in Australia for superiority. Hie Web
was the name of his tree-hid villa, where you’d
often find figures like Heath Robinson, Frank
Reynolds (then art-editor of “Punch”), Blake
the author and others of like calibre around the
studio stove, talking of drawing, jokes and
writing. When the exhibition of English comic
art was opened last year by Princess Elizabeth
it was H.M.8., as the grand old man of the
game, who was chosen to meet her and show
her round. Coming to the famous “Guards-
man” drawing H.R.H., very amused, asked the
artist if he’d actually seen it happen; he had
to admit he hadn’t. “Well, I have,” replied
the Princess, and went off into peals of laughter.
America is reharnessing more than
machines following Marshall and
Eisenhower came, last week, Chester
Nimitz, the Coral Sea man. He left his
high-velocity mark on the Marshall,
Gilbert and Wake Islands, and was Chief
of Naval Operations when he went ashore
in 1947. He up-anchors to become
chairman of the new Internal Security
Commission, its object to crush treason
and sabotage.
A graduate of New Zealand University,
Dr. J. W- Davidson, who will go to
Canberra next May to the Chair of
Pacific History in the Research School at
the Australian National University, has
been spending a holiday back in N.Z.,
for whose Government, in 1947, he
drafted Western Samoa’s Constitution.
The doc. was for a time lecturer at Cam-
bridge University, to which he will return
for a couple of months before taking on
the job in Canberra.
Burly John Doyle, Westralia’s Police
Commissioner, is calling it a day. A
County Wexford Irishman, born in 1887,
he had his first experience of beat-pound-
ing in the "uniform of the Royal Irish
Constabulary, that highly efficient force
which passed out after the 1922 Treaty.
Coming to Westralia in 1914, he
immediately joined the local force, was
transferred to the C. 1.8. two years later,
and had a nose in several investigations
which brought murderers to justice. The
best of these was the unravelling of the
murders of Inspector Walsh and Sergeant
Pitman, near Kalgoorlie in 1926. Doyle
became head of the C. 1.8, in 1936, Chief
Inspector in 1940 and Commissioner five
years later. A firm disciplinarian, he has
brought the Westralian Police Force to a
high degree of efficiency—this being
especially true of the C. 1.8., which Doyle
claims has little to learn from other
forces. He intends making a. trip to the
“Quid Sod” somewhere about the end of
April.
Roland E. Robinson, who writes poems
and short stories for The Bulletin, is
about the only Australian poet you could
really class as a big capitalist: he is a
member of the Waterside Workers’
Federation and works around the Sydney
wharves from Pyrmont to the ’Loo. He
has shown the same acute business-sense
by publishing his own poems. Language
of the Sand, and—the book cost him £5O
—making a profit on it. He is the moving
spirit of the Lyrebird Writers, an organisa-
tion which exists simply to publish good
poetry and which, having recently brought
out Nancy Cato’s A Darkened Window,
has Nancy Keesing’s Imminent Summer
next on the list. Born in the north of
Ireland in 1913, Robinson has been
wandering all over Australia ever since
POEMS.
he was 14: houseboy on a sheep-station
on the N.S.W. western plains, rouseabout,
stationhand, horsetrainer (one of his
proteges. Malt Girl, won the Ladies’
Bracelet at Sandy Camp yeps ago), fruit-
picking around Griffith, posing as a model
for Sydney artists, a cleaner in Helene
Kirsova’s studio, two years as a dancer
with the Kirsova Ballet for which he
wrote the book of a three-act aboriginal
ballet called “Legend of the Waratah,”
to the Northern Territory with the C.C.C.,
back to the Territory after the war with
the snakecatcher Eric Worral —catching
snakes, crocodiles, fish, poems and abo-
riginal legends and bringing them all back
alive for the appropriate zoos and
periodicals—a fettler on the Central Aus-
tralian railway at Deep Well, a green-
keeper at Woollahra Park links in Sydney,
a wharfie, a publisher and a poet. More
will be heard of Mr. Robinson.
Not entered for the Archibald Prize
(which the subject won for the sixth time
recently), this portrait by Prior is of
William Dargie, who has crowded more
exhibitions, the winning of big prizes,
and the execution of commissioned
portraits into his 38 years than most
painters have into their lifetimes. He
won his first Archibald at 29. Portraits
aren’t his sole metier —appointed official
war artist early in the late shindy, he
painted scenes of violence from the
Middle East to India, Burma and New
Guinea, many of which annually come
to light in the Canberra War Memorial’s
service publication, As You Were. Also
in Canberra hangs his George Pearce,
PORTRAITS.
in King’s Hall, Parliament House.
Appointed head of the Artists’ School at
the Victorian National Gallery in 1946,
Dargie is more interested in the paint-
ings he hopes to do than in those already
hung.
Professor J. I, Graham, since 1949
Professor of Coalmining at Otago Uni-
versity (N.Z.), recently received recogni-
tion of his work in the interests of health
and welfare of U.K. miners by award of
the Douglas Hay Medal. Professor Hay
was president of the Society of Mining
Engineers ; Graham had directed the work
of the British Colliery Owners’ Research
Station before moving to New Zealand
, In his 30 years in the Victorian State
Electricity Commission —he went into it
straight from a brilliant passage through
the University of Melbourne —W. H.
Connelly has had some big jobs, and
the biggest of all he has now —top com-
mission executive, assistant to the general-
manager, administrator of the chief-
engineer’s department and head of the
design, construction and production de-
partment, Born at Benaila in 1921, he
is one of the few Victorians to hold
an engineering as well as a commerce
degree. A big man, standing 6ft. 2in, in
his bare feet, he is a colossal worker, and
needs to be, faced with the largest expan-
sion programme in the commission’s
history. Victoria has a colossal tonnage
of brown coal, mainly sequestrated in the
Latrobe Valley, whose hills were visible
to Cook when he made his Australian
landfall. To exploit this immense deposit
is Connelly’s main job. Tennis, at which
he is a dab hand, is his relaxation.
South African frigate Transvaal, the
lean length of overall blue snuggled
alongside a pier at Sydney’s Circular
Quay (her color is that worn by the
British South Atlantic Squadron), is
captained by Lieut.-Commander James
Johnson, a veteran of the war-time
Mediterranean who won his D.S.C. for
some consistently stout work supplying
Tobruk with the valiant Inshore
Squadron. A big man and genial (as
befits a small-ship sailor), Johnson hails
from Johannesburg, and is The Owner of
one of the smartest men-o’-war seen in
Sydney since the spit-and-polish of pre-
-1939.
Making a return landfall in Australia
next month, Charles Musgrave Ford, who
has the distinction of being a double-
barrelled commodore —of the Cunard
Line, and of the Royal Naval Reserve.
In the latter capacity he was A.D.C. to
the King early in War 11, and in the
former commanded Queen Elizabeth,
Mauretania and Aquitania, alsb in that
war. Then, naturally, he met many
Diggers bound for the Middle East;
while here, he hopes to meet ’em again.
Visiting New Zealand, where an uncle
settled at Arrowtown in the early ’fifties
and established a newspaper, H. Patchett,
book-director of George Newnes, the
London publishers. The firm recently
launched a great venture, in the vicinity
of £soo,ooo—publication of Chambers’
Encyclopaedia. The visitor reckons
Maorilanders are the greatest book-
readers in the world per head of popu-
lation.
The Kemsley Scholarship, providing
for a year’s experience in the U.K. for
one working journalist from Canada,
South Africa, Australia and Maoriland,
goes, in the last-named, to H. C. Lane,
chief Parliamentary reporter for the
Wellington “Post.” A son of the late
A. B. Lane, manager of the M.L. Press
Association, he is vice-president of the
Parliamentary Press Gallery and a former
vice - president of the Wellington
Journalists’ Union.
At the Roper River Mission hospital,
at 76, Charles Blittner, known for years
to Territorians as the “Freshwater
Admiral,” lately passed hence. A 50-mile
stretch of treacherous rips and shifting
sandbanks in the Macarthur River, up-
stream from Borroloola, was the pilot’s
course, with the changing channels marked
by mangrove-poles. The “admiral’s”
barge was a steam-launch, with boilers so
leaky that their wooden plugs gave them
a unique porcupine effect. Blittner was
claimed to be one of the very few whites
who could approach Binghi in tracking
and spear-throwing ability.
One of the tasks Sir Apirana Ngata,
Maori scholar and politician, set himself
but left uncompleted was translating into
English 300 Maori songs. He had com-
pleted 23, with historical notes and
references. There is a probability of Sir
Apirana’s great work being taken up by
another Maori authority on the song and
folk-lore of his race: Pei Te Hurinui
Jones, of Taumarunui. Johannes
Andersen, formerly librarian of the Turn-
bull. Library, Wellington, poet and
author, has been sub-editing the work
and thinks it would be a fine memorial
to Sir Apirana, who had done so much
for his countrymen.
“C.Q.”; Several Victorian provincial
centres run art galleries and give annual
prizes. On every occasion to date metro-
politan artists have got the prizes, and
the latest event in Bendigo was no excep-
tion. George Lawrence, of Sydney, won
£75 for the best oil-painting and Nornie
Gude, of Melbourne, got £25 for the best
watercolor. Arnold Shore, of the Mel-
bourne National Gallery, judged.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 72, Henry Thomas Bertie
Drew, N.Z. Government publicity-officer over
there since 1921. Footing the Inky Way on
Wellington “Post,” the “Dominion” and
Dunedii) “Star,” he served with the M.L. forces
in the Kaiser’s war, ended as captain and wrote
a volume of their history. In Hitler’s war he
was liaison-officer with the M.L. Ministry of
Information.
In Melbourne, at 90, William Howard
Peagram. The artist Holman Hunt was his
uncle.
At 91, in Brisbane, John Reid Hamilton, one
of Queensland’s commercial pioneers. He
arrived in Moreton Bay in a square-rigger in
1861, to run, with his brother, steamers between
Brisbane and Southport (.then known as
Nerang). J.R. was in the Croydon goldrush
63 years ago, transferred to a shipping firm at
Port Douglas and Cooktown, and then had a
shot at sugar-growing at Gin Gin. He joined
Garricks, Ltd., in 1908 as accountant, and was
chairman of directors from 1939 until 1942.
At 71, in Melbourne, George Upward, at
whose backcloths, curtains and sets theatre-
goeis have gazed for half-a-century. Upward
became assistant to Phil Goacher, J.C.W.’s
scenic painter, as a youngster. Later he became
the Firm’s chief-designer. Well trained as a
painter, he got a quality into his work which
put it in a higher class than most imported
stage-scenery. In the last few years he had
given up the brush and pot-with-handle, which
is traditional in the craft, but continued to
make models. The scenery for “Brigadoon,”
soon to open in Australia, will be done from
the last of his models.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 76, H. A. Young,
former senior stipendiary magistrate in New
Zealand. Admitted to the Bar in 1898, he
practised at Westport till 1902. After the Boer
War he went to South Africa, to become public
prosecutor in the Transvaal and later a magis-
trate there. He returned to N.Z. in 1909, was
for 16 years a magistrate in Christchurch, and
retired in 1942, though he came back to harness
as Chief Justice of the High Court of Western
Samoa for a time.
In Brisbane, at 69, Dr. Walter Frederick Coe,
one of the city’s oldest practising dentists. A
Brisbane Grammar product, he graduated in
dentistry from Pennsylvania University (U.S.),
and had been practising since 1907.
At Point Lonsdale (Vic.), at 80, Hugh Paton,
doyen of Australian advertising men, who
started the first agency in Melbourne, and
probably in Australia, in 1903 by founding the
Paton Advertising Service. He was first presi-
dent of the Advertising Service Agents’ Associa-
tion of Victoria and general president of the
Australian and N.Z. Association.
In Perth, at 56, Harry Vivian Shearn, M.L.A.,
one of the two Independents holding the balance
of power in the Westralian Assembly since the
last election. He won the Maylands seat as
an unendorsed Nationalist in 1936. A short,
genial chap, with a big capacity for public
service, he was a council-member of the W.A.
Institute for the Blind.


m
S
HI-MILER
Truck &l Bus Tyres
BY
GOODYEAR
Highway hauling is getting tougher on tyres—heavier,
faster schedules mean more wear on tyres. It means
you want the best tyres built. And that means
HI-MIUERS, the famous Goodyear Truck and Bus
Tyres that are specially engineered to master to-day's
hauling problems. They cost you less per mile.
See your Goodyear Dealer tor expert advice and
service.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recommended
wherever
greater trac-
tion it needed.
Hi-MiLER RIB
For long, fast
hauls and for
service where
long mileage it
required.
Misting Friend.
LAMOND, ANGUS GEORGE, born Col-
ling wood, 1878, son of ALEXANDER
LAMOND, married MABEL MARGARET
WINCH at Hobart in 1007. Died at
Speers Point, Boolaroo, in 1948. Would
the next of kin of ANGUS GEORGE
LAMOND, or any persons knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Box 660, P. 0.,
Newcastle, N.S.W.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
» TEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIA# PVBLW
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Bobbed
Aromatic Fine Cot Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2os, Pick*.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
82/- per lb.
“PACIFIC" Fine Cot Beady Bobbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2os.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON." That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 2H/-
per lb. Loose.
Bemember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL OBDBB DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 11, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
CU&RD/
Ca<ovy
Soluble for ererj type of borlnesr II record*
all Sato*. Credit*. Payout* eu. strongly OoHW
NtUMf la oppcaraoce. Sand tor lull dalaN*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DistrthttSmg d|Wli
BYDNTV / W. CL rcafoM * Co. rtf. Ut
MKI.BODBN* , , Barman Broo. Pty. US,
DDnTC/'TA '
ADBLAHM
* Tvita 41 Mtd
I Mil a«ft*.«****MU
fs
The JUBILEE at SALTER'S SOAK
by GAVIN S. GASEY
I T was a dull day at the Soak,
just before (he mine pay-
day, when almost nobody
had any money. Among the
few who had small amounts
were the pensioners, who had
collected early in the afternoon;
and the bar was full of whiskers
and gnarled sticks, and ancient,
smelly pipes. Shorty Mullingar,
the publican, found little trouble
and little profit in keeping the
beer up to them, and he regarded
them with a sort of patronising
and affectionate scorn. As usual,
they were chattering away about
a world that was gone, but
suddenly old Jim from the Half-
mile, whose second name was
Salter, and who claimed to have
discovered the place, brought a
new note into the talk.
“What about this here
Jubilee?” he asked,
“Fifty years,” another of the
old-timers told him. “Fifty
years since Billy Hughes built
Canberra,”
“It wasn’t Billy, y’ old goat.
It was King O’Malley,” Jim
corrected him. “Anyway, that’s
not what I mean. What I mean
is what are we goin’ to do about
it?”
There was a stunned silence
for a moment, as people tried to
adjust themselves to the idea of
Salter’s Soak doing anything at
all. “Aw, I suppose Shorty ’ll
turn on free grog for the town,
an’ that’ll be about all,” some-
one said sarcastically. “What’s
it got to do with us, anyway?”
Old Jim seemed to have done
a lot of preliminary reading and
thinking on the matter, and he
had his speech ready. “Do you
blokes know that over in Noo
South Wales they’re celebratin’
the centeenary of the first dis-
covery of gold at th’ same
time?” he asked.
“Aw, they never got much gold
in Noo South,” said Joe the
Juggler, He always disagreed
with everybody, on principle.
“That ain’t the point,” old Jim
snorted. “There’s somethin’ else
you blokes couldn’t hardly be
expected to remember. It’ll be
fifty years next year since Irish
Macgregor an’ meself came over
the breakaway there, an’ dis-
covered gold here. What d’ you
think o’ that?”
“Don’t think much of it,”
grunted Joe the Juggler, “Pity
th’ pair of y’ didn’t walk in the
other direction.”
Jim challenged him to fight,
and the Juggler made passes at
the discoverer with his stick, and
all the other old boys got excited,
and it took Shorty Mullingar
some time to sort things out and
restore peace. When he did, it
emerged that what old Jim
wanted was a jubilee for Salter’s
Soak—not just participation in
the national event, but a real,
fifty-years’ celebration of the
birth of the town.
“Them cows in Kalgoorli
have what they call a Back t
Goldfields Week about every fiv
minutes,” he declared wit i
passion. “Kalgooriie ain’t go ;
nothing that we ain’t got, excep.
maybe a bit o’ size. It’s time w
done something big an
spectacular here. Look how
good it would be for business,
he appealed to Shorty.
A T the mention of trade
**■ Shorty woke-up. There wa
a lot more talk, and he began
think that old Jim might hav
had a good idea for once. As the
afternoon wore on, and th
bank manager and Swifty
Snider, the main storekeeper
and the two young chaps frorr
the garage lined up at the bar
they formed themselves into an
informal committee to conside
it.
“It’s a great idea,” stated one
of the garagemen. “We coulc
have a big motor-rally up hero
from the coast.”
“Give the city cove some rea
tough driving,” agreed his mate
thinking with satisfaction of the
number of broken springs anc
dust-choked carburettors thai:
should result from such an event
“Visiting football teams!
Maybe we can get a team from
the Goldfields League to come
up for a game or two with our
boys,” contributed the bank
manager, president of the strug-
gling local club, which seldom
had anybody to play within fifty
miles.
Then Redmond Arthur
Whistler-Jones, J.P., arrived,
swinging his stockwhip. He was
the biggest sheepman in the
district, and had for many years
been a haughty but poverty-
stricken object of furtive
derision, because his dusty plains
carried only about one sheep to
every ten acres. Now, however,
when each healthy sheep seemed
to be worth about two pros-
perous goldmines or one thriving
hotel, his swagger had less make-
believe about it, and he was
greeted with grudging respect.
Given a broad outline of the
plan, he became enthusiastic.
He forgot that in his circles of
society tall, solid-leather riding
boots had given place 10
jodhpurs, and dealt himself a
turn-of-the-century crack on the
calf with his whip that sent him
jumping around the bar, and
nearly lamed him for life.
“By gad! ” said Whistler-
Jones, J.P., when he had re-
covered. “Best damned idea
anybody’s had for years. Put new
life into the whole bally district.
We’ll have a picnic race-meeting,
that’s what we’ll do.”
OLD Jim’s original notion had
vaguely envisaged oceans of
beer, lots of yarn-spinning with
The Discoverer as master of
ceremonies and centre of attrac-
tion, and maybe a few flags in
the street to show it was officia
All the talk about motor rallie
and football had seemed to
getting away from the true spirii
of the thing, and now he, anc
others, became very suspicious o;
Whistler-Jones, J.P. There wa
no doubt that, if the loca
squattocracy had their way, al
the rest would be overshadowed
by the picnic race-meeting, wit
the sheepmen on their flash
horses as the riders and heroes
and the townsmen and miner
nowhere. It was early for ope
warfare, however, and though
various private resolutions wer
made to “keep those glorifiec
cockies in their place,” they wen
on to discuss the time and perioc
of the celebrations,
‘‘All th’ year. It’ll all b
Jubilee year,” old Jim proposec
grandly.
“It’li have to be winter, in the
football season.” The bank
manager was crisp and de
termined.
“Those mug drivers from the
city would never get through in
winter,” complained one of the
garage boys. “Must be a summer
event.”
“To hell with the lot of you!*
snorted the undergrount
manager of the mine, who hac
drifted in and discovered whai
was going on. “I have enough
trouble persuading the mob to
stop celebrating and work the
mine as it is. If you want any
support from us you’d better
have your damned Jubilee
Carnival while the mine is closet
for the Christmas holidays.”
Shorty Mullingar did some
quick thinking, and saw
glorious opportunity to do some-
thing about what was normally
the dullest part of the year, when
two-thirds of the population was
usually away wasting money on
coastal holidays, “That’s right,’
he applauded. “The only time
to have it is when the crowd is
free to make the most of it. Say
the first week in January, the
week before they all go back to
work, eh?”
There were ruggedly opposite
points of view, but the influence
of the one big mine that sup-
ported the town, the eloquence
of Shorty, and the agreement of
the garagemen won the day. Ihe
Road Board secretary became
also the Salter’s Soak Jubilee
Carnival Committee secretary,
and things were set off with a
somewhat disorderly but most
emphatic bang. Some people
were more amused than im-
pressed, but the only one who
expressed outright disapproval
of the whole thing was Mrs.
Shorty Mullingar, a feverishly
busy brown woman with a
mulga-wood .liver and a snake-
juice tongue who used a large
number of fiery adjectives to in-
sist that it was all fight for
Shorty, who never did any work,
anyway, but that she wasn’t
going to something-well spend
the only part of the year when
she usually had a rest serving
grog to a lot of fancy so-and-so
drunks from the city.
AS time jogged along in its
sun-drenched inland way,
tempers grew hot and simmered
down again over various pet
plans, and cold hostility between
various factions threatened long-
term feuds. But the one thing
of which nobody could complain
was the publicity given to the
great Salter’s Soak Jubilee. The
Road Board secretary showed
unexpected advertising gifts, and,
since city newspapers generally
have a fancy for making back-
country people look as much
like hillbillies as possible even
some of the quarrels got
facetious but effective space.
And some of the publicity was
first-class, as, for instance, when
papers all over the country
picked up and used a cleverly
written piece pointing out that
they must still breed big tough
men in the back-country, be-
cause the minimum weight for
jockeys at the great picnic race-
meeting that would be run dur-
ing Salter’s Soak Jubilee Week
had been set at twelve stone.
Shorty and the other traders
began to rub their hands, antici-
pating a burst of real prosperity.
Many townspeople who had
been more-or-less scornful made
arrangements to cut their city
holidays short by a week, so they
would be back in time for some-
thing that looked like being too
good to miss.
Christmas hangovers were just
about cured in time for the
jubilee fun to begin. People
arrived from all quarters, in
satisfying numbers. They were
mostly elderly folk, who had
memories of the place cither in
its very earliest days, or in the
great boom period when there
had been four big mines work-
ing, and six pubs, and three
churches. The only trouble was


df
State Electricity Commission of Victoria
((Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria)
FIFTH
KIEWAMORWELL
LOAN
(LOAN No. 68)
Opens for public subscription
THURSDAY, Ist FEBRUARY, 1951
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance capital works
associated with the expansion of the Commission’s undertakings, in-
cluding the Kiewa hydro-electric project and the Morwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
in
3%
8
per Annum
Price of Issue . . PAR (SIOO) Currency .. IS Years
(Repayable at Par xst March, 1963)
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be
obtained from and applications may be
lodged with any office in Australia of
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
(including The Queensland National
Bank Ltd.) or the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia; members of recog-
nised Stock Exchanges in Australia;
the Head Office of the State Elec-
tricity Commission of Victoria, at
22 William Street, Melbourne, or
at any of its offices in Victoria.
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the Commission.
The principal and interest are guaranteed by the Government of Victoria.
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania.
The loan will close on or before February 21st, 1951
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission (. Financial) Act, 1937
No. 4512 (and Amendments ) of the State of Victoria.
22 William Street,
Melbourne.
R. A. HUNT,
Chairman.
Loan Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne..
46318
that the people who had left
Salter’s Soak many years earlier
seemed since then to have gone
very far up in the world, or very
far down.
Two days before the show was
due to begin two aged and
ruffianly - looking characters
crawled, quarrelling fiercely, out
of a goods-train truck. They
threatened violence on each
other, and swore a lot; and
when old Jim Salter discovered
what the row was about he be-
came more indignant than either.
Each was claiming that he, and
none other, was The Discoverer
of Salter’s Soak.
“You’re a lyin’ pair o’ dogs,”
old Jim roared. “I’m Salter.
The original Salter.”
“I’m Salter, too —the particular
Salter that located this here
joint in 1900,” stoutly swore one
of the men, “His name isn’t
even Salter/’ he added, scorn-
fully pointing to the other.
“Of course it’s not,” the
second man shrieked in a frenzy.
“My name’s Mcßafferty, an me
fambly come from Clunes, an’ I
named this discovery o’ mine
after the Salter Brothers, the
hotelkeepers ar Southern Cross,
th’ men that grub-staked me
when I made the find.”
The noise of that dispute raged
through the night, and until then
nobody would have believed
that three feeble old men could
have kept the whole town awake.
The local Salter had a small
points lead by breakfast-time,
but thereafter he wore a haggard
look, and only snarled instead of
arguing.
What broke his spirit wasl the
arrival in town, in the early
hours, of a small, highly-polished
man in a £2OOO limousine and a
£3OO watch-chain of linked gold
nuggets. He, too, claimed, with
earnest politeness, that he was
The Discoverer,
“Of course my name’s not
Salter, sir,” he replied when
questioned. “My name is
O’Tavish, Salter merely dis-
severed the soak which is named
after him. I found the gold. The
original Salter went to South
Africa, and was killed by
natives in a small Johannesburg
riot in 1904. He was a tall man,
quite unlike me, and he had the
biggest ears I’ve ever seem”
I JNFORTUNATELY, these
W vulgar quarrels seemed to
set the note for the week. People
like Discoverer Number Four,
who had been used for many
years to great comfort, criticised
Shorty Mullingar’s pub and the
local boarding-houses in loud,
unhappy voices. Mrs. Mulligan
and the various landladies swore
at them and took every care to
see that their potatoes were raw
and their beer was warm. There
was no co-operation from the
women in the whole affair, and
nasty suspicions developed and
grew among the men in the
sweltering, thirsty heat. Such
events as the night cycle-racing,
illuminated by car headlights, the
grand ball and the Bush
Kangaroo Hunt —in which the
kangaroos, like the women, re-
fused to co-operate —went off
with moderate success ; but there
was no real joy in any of them.
“I could put up with them two
lying hoboes,” old Jim confided
to a crony. “But that flash cove
was the last straw. Fancy him
ever claimin’ to have found gold,
’cept in his teeth!”
“Most of the rest of ’em are
pretty much the same,” his
cobber said, “I don’t say some
of ’em wasn’t here in the early
days, though I’m damned if I
can remember any of ’em. But
even if they was, they ain’t the
ones that stuck by the town
through good times an’ bad, an’
kept it going.”
“What’s that I hear?” a well-
dressed stranger behind them at
the counter said sharply. “Let
me tell you something, old man.
I was here before the boom and
through it, and it’s my opinion
that those who stopped here
after the crash were just the
ones who didn’t have the guts,
the energy or the intelligence to
get out.”
A nasty atmosphere was de-
veloping, and it extended
through the whole community.
Honest miners who had never
been the victims of class distinc-
tion found themselves being
looked down upon by those with
claims to be “old originals,”
despised as “blow-ins,” mere
new-chums who had contributed
nothing to the glory of the hot,
bare, desolate place, except work
for wages. They didn’t like it,
and went around with chips on
their shoulders, drinking together
and regretting the fact that they
had not stayed at wherever they
had been on the coast for the
rest of their holidays.
WHEN the final day—the day
of the great picnic race
meeting—arrived, the only really
happy people were the traders,
whose tills jingled just as merrily
whether people bought gaily or
in anger. On that day the shop-
keepers became disgruntled too,
for what they had feared hap-
pened ; and the sheepmen,
mounted over gleaming leather
and polished horsehides, stole the
show.
Even the sheepmen were far
from pleased, for most of them
had envisaged an affair of
dignified and social sport, with
shiny sedans lining the course,
and ladies and gentlemen sipping
drinks elegantly in the marquee
between races. They found that
the traders, and even the miners,
had worked themselves in every-
where.
As the programme progressed
slowly under the blazing sun
people seemed too busy bicker-
ing to watch the events. Before
long there was a great, thirsty,
unhappy multitude in the pub.
It was there at the bar that things
finally blew up.
The polite and polished little
Discoverer Number Four had
found a crony; and he shoved
his way through the milling
bodies to the bar. Behind the
counter, Mrs. Shorty Mullingar
was snarling at all and sundry.
"Two beers, Mrs. Mulligar,”
said the Discoverer with the
watchchain. “One with a dash
of lemonade, please.”
The lady reeled back from an
array of glasses as if she had
been shot and planted her fists
on her hips. “What do you
thipk I am?” she yelled. “Do
you think I’ve got time to mix
bloody cocktails?” Then she
thrust two straight, warm beers
across at the little man and
turned aside to scream a little at
one of her helpers.
The Discoverei turned purple,
and all the fires of his reckless
youth rose in him. “Woman!”
he bellowed. “I want one with a
dash, and you’ll get it for me, or
I’ll come over the counter and
get it myself.”
There was a short, stunned lull
in the rumble of talk, and out of
it an anonymous voice piped up:
“Nice way to speak to a lady!
Shows up these damned blow-ins
in their true colors, don’t it?”
“Blow-in! ” The Discoverer
screeched. “I discovered this
horrible. God-forsaken place,
didn’t I? I wish 1 never had! ”
“You didn’t, you old liar. I
did,” shouted one of the other
contenders, from the back-
ground.
THE limousine-owning Dis-
coverer forgot caution, and
rushed at his challenger. The
other Discoverer hit him heavily
on the watchchain and skinned
all his knuckles. In a split-
second everybody was involved,
and the pub was rocking with
the violence of the battle. Wild
cries and crashes attracted
attention, and more people
poured in to join the fun.
Out on the ground, a son of
the squattocracy, mounted on a
nervous horse, was demonstrat-
ing his versatilitv with the stock-
whip to a small, admiring audi-
ence. At a critical moment a
young miner who had, earlier in
the week, pinched the sheep-
man’s girl-friend went saunter-
ing past with a superior look on
his face. The rider could not re-
sist the temptation, and let his
long lash “accidentally” fall
stingingly around his rival’s
ankles. The miner dragged
him out of tin saddle, and an-
other free-for-all started on the
dusty, temporary racetrack.
After a while, recurring rumors
that each fight was better than
the other one caused a swift
traffic between the two battles,
and in one place or another the
whole town, except a few timid
males and the more ladylike
females, fought until exhausted.
Wheg the sheer lack of breath
and strength brought the turmoil
to an end, the city-dwelling Dis-
coverer looked at his dirty,
blood-stained image in a cracked
bar mirror, and felt a new re-
spect for himself. “There’s life in
the old dog yet,” he thought,
with pleasure. His main
opponent examined his skinned
knuckles, felt a swelling eye,
and said happily to his crony,
“He don’t want no more. Look
at him puffing. Nothing like a
bit of lash to show how soft
these city blokes really are.”
In the dust outside the seeds
of a new friendship were being
sown in the fertile ground of
mutual respect between the
sheepman’s son and the young
miner, who would thereafter
hunt girls together, instead of
trying to steal them from each
other.
In the bar, somebody laughed
breathlessly and said, “Now
that was like the good old days.”
Nearly everybody laughed, and
Shorty Mullingar, had
made plenty of profit and didn’t
want to lose ft all in broken
mirrors and bottles, leapt into
the breach. “It certainly was,”
he roared. “Come on, every-
body! Line up and have one on
the house, for old times’ sake.”
Mrs. Shorty snarled with
weary anger, because she would
have to serve most of the
hundreds of drinks, but every-
body else was suddenly happy.
Even the rival Discoverers some-
how found themselves drinking
together amicably, and talking
about the early days in general,
while carefully avoiding any
mention of the specific,
dangerous topic. A squatter
with ripped riding breeches and
a black eye found himself
downing one with the local
undertaker, a man he had never
expected to meet this side of the
grave. “Well, that done us all
good,” everybody agreed. “But
y’ can’t fight as long as y’ can
drink. Come on. Have another
one,”
IN fact the great fight, which
t will discussed for years, did
more to restore youth and life to
the old, almost dead town than
anything else could possibly have
done. It was so enjoyed, and so
changed the atmosphere that the
management of the mine could
not get things running properly
until the end of the following
week. The Prosperous Dis-
coverer missed three important
directors’ meetings in the city
and lost a considerable sum with-
out regret. The two Disreputable
Discoverers liked the town so
well, once the official celebration
was over, and they could enjoy
the unofficial one, that they de-
cided to stay there for ever and
contest the claim of old Jim,
hitherto the only Resident Dis-
coverer.
The city papers, of course, got
news, of the doings, and took
pleasure in items making the
back-country people look more
than ever like hillbillies. And
the men who handled the news
never even suspected that the un-
scheduled and disorderly event
that concluded the Jubilee at
Salter’s Soak was, in fact, the
triumphant success of the whole
programme.


Your STAFF wi appreciate
TUBULAR FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
sra
p*
\S
n
fcc®
o^ef
Gr®
«ic'«
L«*»
ob'e 1 * 1
>
flit*®'
e 6 e«°
and
&££
FITTINGS
Whan replacing
your fluoratcant tuba»
or lamps, insist on
OSRAU, tha
Wondorful Lamp,
To speed up work, reduce
mistakes and increase
efficiency all round, instal
OSRAM Fluorescent Tubes
and B.G.E. Fittings. Their
pleasing appearance com-
bined with a greater light
output and glare-free
illumination, renders them
eminently suitable for all
types of installations.
For full particulars consult your local Electrical Con-
tractor, or the B.G.E. Fluorescent Lighting Department.
Smetoii€&s&ie
(Sol* Australian Representatives of*
The General Electric Company Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY . NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE, PERTH. HOBART, LAUNCESTON. TOWNSVILLE
, BG.B
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRY HERBERT PEATE late of
127 Robey Street Maroubra. —TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY MAY PEATE has
filed a Petition In Divorce No. 4651 of
1950 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the ninth day of April 1951
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. BRAYE & MAL-
OOMSON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.— (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCY RICHARD COLLINS late of
Lismore. TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE COLLINS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4149 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 12th day of March 1951 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE, QILLIB &
CO., Solicitors, of 18 Martin Place,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
AMD W&vmmo ßvl»
t
fly Constellations
exclusively to London
FASTEST ROUTE WITH THREE NIGHT STOPS
Hi
Tour famous cities
as our guest
m
Book by air to Britain on the Kan-
garoo Service fly by luxurious, com-
fortable Constellation the most inter-
nationally-famous, proven, long-distance
aircraft. Enjoy air-conditioned comfort,
complimentary meals, superlative service.
Fascinating Eastern cities with exotic
scenes, strange customs, make this the
world’s most colourful travel route.
Expense-free conducted tours of Singapore
and Rome. First-class accommodation,
no tips, no extras.
Relax on three night stops on your 4 day
flight or stopover anywhere at no extra
fare.
Five services weekly from Sydney, regular route via Calcutta,
alternative service via Colombo and Bombay . . . Consult your
travel agent.
k» i'E'A and B'O'A't
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS In parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
FLY TO THE FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
The HOBNAILED BOOTS
By JAMES HACKSTON
(HAVE always felt grateful
to my parents for having
been poor enough not to be
able to buy boots for me
until I had grown up a bit, and
I give credit to my early bootless
youth for so exercising and
acclimatising my feet to the
hard earth, that, ever since then,
I have never had any trouble
with them in their bare, pristine
state.
I used feet then unshod, no
laced-up leather prison, and
found them most serviceable
when used bare. Running up
and down granitic hills after
game gave them a natural and
protective covering of hardness
that made them heat-proof to
hot dusty roads, and, in winter,
immune to frozen mud.
My toes I could spread out
like a fan and I could pick
things up with them, which came
in very handy in school when my
pet goanna would slither down
from off my desk. I could grab
the goanna with my toes and so
stop it from again running up
the teacher’s back (which it was
very fond of doing) without
having to withdraw my hands
from shoving my ruler down the
back of Emily Whittle, the big
girl who sat right in front of me,
and who could wrestle two boys
at once, and wanted to wrestle
six boys at once. This prowess
on my part gave me an ascend-
ancy over less fortunate boys
whose parents could afford to
buy boots for them.
As for my big toes, never
have they weakened; this was
brought about because of the ex-
treme muscular exercise they
had when I used to milk our
cow. Having been hard put to it
to drag the slobbering, pig-
headed calf from its mother, I
had to let it have it under the
belly with my foot, and, the big
toe being the spearhead and
main force of the punishment de-
livered, or administered, they (I
was equally deft with both feet)
grew into sturdy big toes.
Such energetic and ardent
training left them as serviceable
to me as hoof is to horse, and I
would like to add here (if I may
be allowed to again blow my
own trumpet) that I developed
the kick of a mule and —but of
this later.
ALL the trouble I have had in
connection with my feet has
been due solely to boots, and to
boots only, and the first instal-
ment came when Mother’s
Uncle Harry died and left her a
small sum of money, and, to
keep in step with the family’s
sudden rise in financial, and
thereby social, stature, I, as the
oldest son and a young person
who was getting too big to go
about barefooted like a black-
fellow, joined that long harassed
band whose unhappy members
are told daily to go and clean
their boots.
Boots! I’d never been told
to go and clean my feet.
My first pair (hobnailed
boots for economy reasons—
even though Harry had died at
last) had been forged to last.
They reminded me of a picture
I’d seen of Dartmoor with
criminals in irons wearing mas-
sive boots. They also reminded
me of pictures I’d seen of our
own early historical days
wherein chain-gangs slumped by
in their boots. The soles of
mine, too, were studded like the
steel girders of a bridge, and
the soles must have used up a
whole bullock’s hide in the
making.
When I put them on first (I
had to get used to them in shifts)
I felt anchored,
“Go on, walk!” they cried.
Still anchored, I gazed down
at the heavy weights.
“Move your feet!” they
ordered.
I lifted the right foot up first,
about six inches, gingerly, and
as it left the floor it felt as if
I’d lifted the whole floor up
with it. Then I eased the weight
down again and lifted the left
weight up, also as if lifting the
whole floor up with it.
“Walk across the room,” they
said, and I walked, lifting my
feet high, stiffly, carefully, with
a sort of hesitant or convulsive
motion of the ankle before put-
ting them down again,
“He’s got the stringhalt! ” they
all roared. “He’s got the string-
halt!” And the family held a
corroboree and danced joyfully
round me.
NOT the quiet, dignified fall
of the bare human foot
now ; not the light, airy, nimble
tread. My feet, unused to such
handicaps, seemed to hang on
behind me instead of leading
me. Hot days I’d halt and come
near to rolling my sleeves up
and spitting on my hands be-
fore advancing another stage.
Walking into the town now was
made up of a series of depots
where I’d rest to gain enough
vigor to see me on to the next
depot. At bedtime, when I’d un-
done the big, heavy, leather laces
(you could have driven a team
of bullocks with them almost)
and taken my clodhoppers off,
my toes would suddenly spread
out like our fowls’ did when I
let them out of their pen for a
run.
They were pugnacious-look-
ing boots, and, with their rows
of hobnails and their snub
snout, might have growled at a
pinch. I kept on rubbing drip-
ping from Mother’s dripping-jar
into them to soften them.
Then a most miraculous thing
happened the left boot
vanished. Now, where could it
have got to? Who could have
taken it? Suspicious eyes fell
on me. I must have deliberately
got rid of one of them so that I
would not be able to wear them
any more. There was no other
reason for its strange disappear-
ance. Had I not openly made
faces at my boots? Had not my
sisters seen me poking my tongue
out at my boots? Had not my
brother seen me putting my
fingers to my nose to my boots?
Had I not said I hated my
boots? Yes, I had.
“Now, yOung sir, you will go
and find it —where you hid it!”
And I was innocent. I did not
know where that boot was any
more than I knew where Cadi-
barrawirracanna Lake was. But
it was no use. They regarded
me with grave and confirmed
suspicion until they found me
sitting in the fowlhouse crying.
Now, had they found me cry-
ing in our own house, instead of
in the fowlhouse, they’d have
probably said my tears were no
more than crocodile tears ; but
to find a boy crying to the fowls
was evidently a different matter.
Tears in a fowlhouse must have
been genuine, and so they were
convinced that, even though they
knew I would have been happy
to see my boot jump down the
deep mine, still, I had had no
hand in the mystery.
THEY held a conference and
sat round discussing the
phenomenon. Then Theodosia,
who had theories about every-
thing, suddenly jumped to her
feet and yelled excitedly “I’ve
got it!”
“Got what?” they all yelled,
also excitedly.
She rushed out of the room
and then came back with the
other boot, her nose pressed to
it and smelling it noisily as she
came. “It smells like roast-
mutton,” she said. “Smell it.”
The rest of the family clustered
round her, pressed their noses to
the boot and also took ferocious
smells of it. “Yes,” came the
chorus. “Roast-mutton.”
Theodosia called to Towser,
our unfaithful and most disap-
pointing watch-dog, held the
boot out to him and the always-
hungry Towser wagged his tail
just as he used to wag his tail
when we gave him our roast-
mutton-bone every Sunday, took
it in his jaws, turned his tail on
the company and prepared to
saunter out of the room with it.
“Towser’s buried the boot!”
Theodosia yelled.
“Towser’s buried the boot!”
came the family chorus.
They took the boot from him
and placed it up on the mantel-
piece.
I now had the long and un-
satisfying job of finding the boot
that was supposed to be buried,
and, although in my secret heart
I could have prayed that it re-
main buried (if it had been
buried) for ever and for ever,
still, to clear myself to the full
and prove Towser the culprit, it
was my duty to myself to dig
up that boot, rain, hail or shine ;
fire, flood or drought; feeble or
faint; in sickness or in sorrow ;
and go on digging for ever and
for ever, too, until I found it.
SO, instead of being as clever
as a blacktracker and find-
ing where our cunning Turkey
was then mysteriously and
evasively sitting, I now had to
apply myself to the idiosyn-
crasies of dogs and their prac-
tice of bone-burying, and,
during these burning summer
days, set to work on what was
surely the most unique and un-
believable mission ever under-
taken by a boy: that of delving
in the earth to find one of his
boots.
Theodosia, as propounder of
the Towser theory, set me pros-
pecting where our vegetable-
garden had once provided tender
green food for two thousand five
hundred appreciative district
rabbits; but this claim turned
out a duffer, and, save for a
rich find of fish-tins, no boot
turned up. Next I tried where
our flower-garden had died in
the great drought, and, save for
a rich find of treacle-tins, no
boot turned up. After these
failures I worked our many
(Continued on page 32.)


New Transformation
For Dry Skin !!
NEW CONTINENTAL
FORMULAE
RENI-E BEAUTY
CREAM
Acclaimed as the Perfect
Nourishing Cream and Powder
Base for Dry Skin—DIRECT
from Laboratory to you.
4oz. JAR 10/6, POST FREE
2oz. JAR 5/6, POST FREE
Raymona Laboratories,
1435 Botany Rd., Botany,
N.S.W.
Please forward 40z./2oz. Jar.
M
State
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARBERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27X), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALLEN HIND late of Manly.—TAKE
NOTICE that PEGGY BEAULEY HIND
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1303
of 1950 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 15th February 1951 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. A. J. McLACHLAN
HOARE & CO., Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. — (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE PALKENMIRE NICHOLS
late of Ballina.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELLEN FRANCES NICHOLS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1571 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 16th April 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. J. McLACHLAN HOARE 3t
CO., Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street,
Svdnev, Sydney Agents for MR. JAMES
SMALL, of Ballina. (1.5.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SHARYN PHEONA HOAD late of
Gunnedah in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that a Decree for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights has been
made against you in a suit No. 3754 of
1948 wherc-m MERVYN JOHN HOAD
was the Petitioner and you were the
Respondent requiring you within twenty-
eight (28) days from service of the said
Decree to return home to the Petitioner
and render to him conjugal rights and
further requiring you within four (4)
days after the expiration of the said 28
days to file in the Registry of this
Honourable Court a Certificate of Com-
pliance with the Decree AWD FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the home of the
Petitioner to which you are to return is
No. 12 Rosemary Street Gunnedah in the
State of New South Wales AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the pos-
sible consequences of your non-compliance
with the Decree is that the Petitioner
may at once present a Petition asking for
a Decree against you for judicial separa-
tion or for dissolution of your marriage
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that bn
application to MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN HOARE & CO., of 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney, Solicitor, who is the Sydney
Agents for Mr. W. A. BAXTER, of
Conadilly Street, Gunnedah, the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, or on application to
the said MR. W. A. BAXTER personally
you will be supplied with a copy of the
said Decree for Restitution a Notice of
the said home to which you are to return
and a Notice of the Consequence of your
non-compliance with the said Decree and
of your reasonable expenses for your
return to the Petitioner AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that service is to be
taken as complete on the 26th day of
March, 1951, from which day the 28
days in which you are to return home to
the Petitioner will commence to run. —
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN COOKE BAILEY" late of Long
Jetty N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELLEN BAILEY has filed a Petition lor
Divorce No. 3721 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 30th March 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY", 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
wiAtehitohiz#!
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
"’White lobd
Sfumous. SCOTCH
awar
WMED
■■■
50 Cold
aai
Prize MeDol*
50 Cola
<a»
Prize Medal*
BY APPOINTMENT
scotch wHfSKrwsmteM
JOHN OCWAft * SONS. CTO
JOU.O rUP
N
***** BRUSSELS AMTWEPP
LvC:i»*eaS
. White Label
k Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE.
Dewar & Sons b
DISTILLERS
PE SCOTLA^ D
WT - •CONTENTS tP/ItT. cClfflU*
*«*WBO WHOUY OtSTIUEO.MATURED AMD EIEHDEP
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Winchester 73."
At the beginning of this
shooting beano at Sydney State,
James Stewart and Stephen Mc-
Nally pot it out in a well-con-
ducted test of rifle marksman-
ship in Dodge City under the
watchful eye of Sheriff Wyatt
Earp. After each of them has
practically chopped the bull out
of the targets, thus eliminating
all other contestants, they
nominate such marks as a
dollar piece spun in the air, and,
once again, each of them
mangles the U.S. coinage.
Finally Mr. Stewart wins the
contest by shooting the eye out
of a postage stamp as it flicks
skyward.
Noteworthy shooting, no
doubt, but the most remarkable
thing about it is that, at the end
of the film, when the same pair
take to each other instead of
selected inanimate targets, they
seem to use enough ammo to
last a Vickers for half-an-hour
before Mr. Stewart eventually
scores a bull on Mr. McNally.
In view of their earlier per-
formances one would have ex-
pected them to dissect each
other with the first couple of
shots.
There are two reasons for
Mr. Stewart and Mr. McNally
spending most of the running-
time in trying to blow the day-
lights out of each other. In the
first place Mr. McNally ap-
parently shot their father in the
back some years earlier, since
which time Mr. Stewart has
spent most of his days and
nights trying to get within rifle
range of him; in the second,
Mr. Stewart’s prize for winning
the shooting contest in Dodge
City—one of the famed and
coveted “one of one thousand”
Winchester 73s —is swiped from
him by his brother. (In the
cause of logic it must be paren-
thetically recorded that neither
of the brothers can finish the
other in Dodge City because
Sheriff Wyatt Earp compels
everyone in the place to check
their hardware at his office.)
Anyway, Mr. McNally lights
out of Dodge City slightly ahead
of his vengeful brother, and
thereafter the film sticks pretty
close to the history of the rifle
until such time as it brings the
argumentative pair together
again for their final match.
Before it does that Mr. McNally
loses it in a poker game to an
Indian trader, the trader loses
both the rifle and his scalp to
an acquisitive Indian and the
Indian does pretty much the
same to a contingent of U.S.
cavalry.
With a turnover such as
Uncle’s hock-shop never saw, the
rifle passes very smartly as a
gift from the Army to a young
settler who almost as smartly
loses it, along with his life and
girl-friend, to a trigger-happy
gunman, and in no time that
gentleman has to pass it over to
Mr, McNally, of all people,
which, of course, makes the
time overripe for the reappear-
ance of Mr. Stewart to claim
everything, girl included.
As westerns go, it’s a good-
’un, with Mr, Stewart and Mr.
McNally giving very business-
like performances, and Dan
Duryea, Shelley Winters and
sundry other dusty, sweat-
stained individuals keeping up
with them.
Sydney Savoy, currently
showing a screen version of
Gounod’s “Faust,” has some in-
teresting items lined up for the
coming months. A two-hour
version of O’Neill’s “Mourning
Becomes Electra” —with such
likely starters as Rosalind
Russell, Michael Redgrave,
Katina Paxinou, Raymond
Massey, Leo Genn and Kirk
Douglas—is due for early re-
lease, after which will come
Marcel Pagnol’s trilogy on life
in Marseilles—* Marius,”
“Fanny” and “Cesar.” The late
Raimu is the main figure in each
of the three films, and to those
who saw him in Pagnol’s de-
lightful comedies, “The Baker’s
Wife” and “The Well Digger’s
Daughter,” he needs no recom-
mendation. “Marius,” the first
of the trilogy, is over 20 years
old, and, like the other two, has
been showing pretty well con-
stantly since it was made and
still draws ’em in droves. After
Pagnol’s trilogy the Savoy has
another French touch lined up —
a melodrama, “Panique”—and
after that, a revival of the
Disney marathon, “Fantasia.”
Altogether a most promising
list; the only additions one
might suggest are Carl Dreyer’s
“Day of Wrath,” a Danish film
hailed by a respectable number
of commentators as one of the
finest films ever made, and a
French screen version of Ben
Jonson’s “Volpone,” which
should, to say the least, be
highly interesting.
* * * *
Most Sydney filmhouses have
been enjoying comfortably long
runs, the longest of which, at
the moment, can be credited to
the Century with “Our Very
Own,” which has persevered into
its third month. M.-G.-M.’s mag-
nificent technicolor splurge on
“Annie Get Your Gun,” which
opened at three theatres at once,
is still running at one of them
(the Liberty) and filling the
house. Three or four pleasant
comedies —“Happiest Days of
Your Life,” “The Chiltern Hun-
dreds” and a film of Eric Link-
iater’s “Private Angelo” being
the brightest of them —have also
stayed for considerable welcome.
♦ * * *
“Oklahoma! ” winds up its
list of impressive seasons with a
final performance at Sydney
Empire tonight (Wednesday);
tomorrow, a vaudeville pro-
gramme of which the main
features are the Piddingtons,
with their demonstration of tele-
pathy, thought-transference or
what-you-will. Dr. Cardamatis’s
production of Goethe’s “Faust”
is also due to finish this week
at Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre, with Moliere’s “The
Miser” coming up next
Wednesda y—produced by
William Orr, one-time stage
manager at the Old Vic. and
currently spending a year or so
in Australia. The cast is headed
“SELF-PORTRAIT."
Ivor Hole’s striking self-portrait in the Archibald Prize exhibition .
by Miss Fitton, in her first ap-
pearance since she returned
from inspecting the stage and its
wares in England and Europe,
and includes Alan White, Leon-
ard Thiele and Diana Davidson.
At the St. James Hall the John
Alden Company’s production of
“Before the Party,” a comedy
by Rodney Ackland based on a
Somerset Maugham short-story,
will also finish its well-merited
long run on Saturday, to be
followed by “King Lear.” The
Alden concern has been turning
on some excellent Shakspeare,
mainly of the lighter variety,
and “Lear,” its most ambitious
project yet and its first approach
to the great tragedies, will really
put the test on it and on Alden
himself.
* * * *
Ladislaus Hegedus, a Hun-
garian artist, is showing some
watercolors, pastels and wood-
cuts at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries. The watercolors,
which form the bulk of the show,
are slight and patchy, something
after the style practised by Enid
Cambridge in Australia. “Lan-
deck,” one of the best of them,
has a slapdash evening sky which
looks more like paint than
weather and a lovely big blue
hillside which, if it doesn’t quite
look like a hill, does look like
a large sapphire. There are
touches of atmosphere in “Lido
di Napoli” and “Beach at
Naples,” some warmth of color
in a sketchy “Nude,” and a park-
seat sits coolly under the green
trees of “Park in Vienna.”


EXIT VAMPIRE---FIGHTING
by MACNELL
JUST over eight years ago The
Bulletin reported: “Exit Vampire
-r-Fighting.” The “string, rust and
wire” contemptible of Goebbels’s
sneer could have exited no other way—a
habit of years is hard to break.
Since the steel-hardened gnat firs
tasted salt water in 1917, when her razor
stemmed bow and accompanying lea
1090 tons slid with a streamlined splasi
into its native element, she had steamec
scores of thousands of miles, in all sort
of weather in all sorts of places. Acquiree
by Australia in 1932, she continued fo
another seven years steaming solidly
across to New Zealand in the summer, up
to Singapore and points east in winter
By the time she had docked in Malta
six months after Hitler beat the drum, she
had clocked another 26,000 miles.
All that grim year she fought through
the Mediterranean, valiant company o::
the Scrap-Iron Flotilla; in at the Battle
of Calabria, where the British Battle
Fleet chased the Italian Fleet, sinking
destroyer and damaging battleship
Cavour ; in and out of Tobruk countless
times, ferrying men, their food and
munitions ; establishing an advanced base
at Suda Bay; and, before she left for
brief spell in quiet home waters, in anc
out of the savagery of Greece anc
Crete.
In the Mediterranean she was under the
flag of Admiral (“Old Close-the-range”
Cunningham. Just before Matapar
Vampire’s motorboat was alongside the
landing-stage in Alexandria,, her stoker-
driver fiddling with the engine—like her
mother-ship, the boat seldom did more
than one trip without a breakdown. A
slight man dressed quietly in a grey
civilian suit stepped on to the pier anc
asked the cox’n to take him out to Queen
Lizzie. Cox’n cocked an eye at the
battler, noted her position and replied:
“0.K., cobber. I’ve gotta pass her. Soon
as this blasted engine’s fixed I’ll shove off.
Hop in.”
They cast off and chugged across the
harbor, the young stemsheetman in earn-
est conversation with the passenger on
the demerits of life in the service, in hard-
worked destroyers in particular.
Approaching the battleship’s gangway,
the one reserved for junior officers and
libertymen, the cox’n cupped his hands
and shouted aft above the roar of the
engine: “Hey, there! You’ll have to
jump as I come alongside; this old
blankard won’t go astern!”
The one addressed acknowledged with
a wave of his hand, and as Vampire’s
tattered craft surged alongside the glitter-
ing ladder he leaped to the platform and
ran nimbly up its steps. As he reached
the quarter-deck there was a frantic rush
of marines, quartermasters, midshipmen
and the officer of the watch from the
Admiral’s gangway on the other side
where they’d been drawn up to receive
him. But Vampire’s cox’n saw it not.
Next day the destroyer received a signal
thanking her for assistance rendered to
the C.-in-C. “Commander-in-Chief,”
gulped the motorboat cox’n. “ ’Struth!
I thought he was their canteen manager.”
Even danger can become monotonous;
her life (and the constant threat to it) in
the Mediterranean was much the same as
Nestor’s and Stuart’s, already covered.
This account will concern itself with her
life and death nearer home.
Commander William Thomas Moran,
fresh from comparative peace-time
routine in cruiser Canberra, took over
from Vampire’s Mediterranean coaxer,
Lt.-Cdr. J. A. Walsh, in September, 1941.
Hailing from Kalgoorlie, donning
uniform in 1917, Moran was a short,
dumpy, quick-stepping officer who had
served in battleship Valiant before coming
back to command the College at
Flinders. Though he lacked the personal
magnetism of men like Hec Waller of
Stuart and John Collins of Sydney,
Moran was seaman enough, and a con-
sistent disciplinarian. He was well-
rigged to drive Vampire, being a
specialist in the steel cigars, each pack-
ing in its 500-lb. warhead the blast of a
cruiser’s broadside, housed in her triple
tubes amidships.
Like all destroyers. Vampire was all
guts, 27,000 h.p. driving her turbines in a
whining blast that spun her huge clover-
leafs of bronze at revolutions to give her
34 knots, the lot packed in a shell just
strong enough to hold it, and to with-
stand the hammer-blows of snoring at
speed into any sort of sea. Just about
anything heavier than a .303 bullet could
pierce her skin, which is why she was
built low in the water, to make a difficult
target for enemy guns, and given her
speed, to whip round on her tail and
dodge them.
Newspapers christened her breed
“maids of all work” ; they worked, all
right, day and night for months on end ;
but there was little of the maid about ’em
—with her four 4in., shooting a
311 b. shell at 2600 ft. * per second,
smaller a.-a, guns, six 21in. torpedo-
tubes and depth-charges aft, Vampire was
a termagant, in protection a mother with
chicks, in offence pitilessly vicious.
Moran joined her after she had under-
gone a much-needed refit in Sydney;
with an almost new crew he sailed her to
Singapore, In her company Vampire re-
tained a backbone of staid permanent-
service hands, Mediterranean veterans.
The rest were Reserves. One had been
a grocer’s-assistant, another a railway-
porter ; there were a bus-conductor and a
car-sprayer, a public-schoolboy, a kan-
garoo-shooter from Queensland, a shoe-
maker and a lad from Hobart who had a
few months before been putting patterns
on silk for ladies’ dresses. But her cap-
tain had a set of tough petty officers, the
real strength of his command. He had
some good officers ; he had a few who
were green. But his navigating and
torpedo-control officer, a most important
young man, as subsequent events in
Endau Bay were to prove, was a lieu-
tenant almost as battle-wise as himself.
lan Cartwright got his destroyer legs
in H.M.S. Grafton, a 1300-ton sister-ship
of Glowworm (who rammed the Hipper),
and in her was fighting in the Western
Approaches and North Sea; he left her
shortly before she went under at Dunkirk.
Cartwright’s geniality and unhurried
calmness made him the ideal destroyer
man.
Moran was constantly studying his
men; this, tallying his forces as a poker
player would consider the laws of chance
in a deck of cards, was what kept him
awake at night in his new ship, and gov-
erned his drill-orders for the all-too-short
trip up. This was what command meant;
not the flamboyant, Hollywoodesque dash
of a 30-knot greyhound, but the insistent
consideration of a hundred changing
elements. At 38 it was a burden that
formed his mouth into a thin line. It was
a thing you couldn’t tell anybody; it was
something a man knew only after long
years of experience. And the 100 or so
men under him, whose lives rested on a
single command from his lips, knew, and
trusted. Such, as Conrad saw it, is the
prestige, the privilege and the burden of
command.
She still had a few precious days of
peace left her to work-up; all that her
seasoned hands had learned from the
Luftwaffe and enemy submarines was
ground daily into the butchers and bakers
and silk-pattem makers. Daily, and
through the night as well, guns’ crews
drilled, damage-repair parties shored up
bulkheads, ammunition-supply gangs
whizzed their metal food up to the guns,
masts of friendly ships were cut and
spliced together in range-finder lenses,
and, almost without cease, Moran drilled
the brains of the ship’s fighting organisa-
tion —his bridge and gunnery-control
teams. Which is why she got out again
from Endau Bay.
Apart from the never-ceasing drill, she
did convoy duties. Once she carried the
G.O.C. Malaya (Lt-General Percival),
with his staff, to Sarawak. En route,
lookouts sighted a small group of lights
low down on the horizon. She altered
course towards and increased speed: the
lights disappeared. Though she searched
diligently, no sign of a surface craft was
found. It was presumed, therefore, the
lights belonged to a dived Jap submarine.
Things were pretty tense when she was
assigned to escort battlecruiser Repulse
to Darwin. Half-way there a signal was
received ordering both ships back to
Singapore with all dispatch. On approach-
ing base another signal told them “to
open fire without hesitation on any sus-
picious aircraft sighted.” In this atmos-
phere 1941 drew towards its close.
When without warning Singapore was
first raided, the navigator was asleep in
his cabin. He was awakened by the
steward clamping down the steel dead-
lights over the cabin scuttle. He asked
him what the devil he thought he was
doing.
“Air-raid, sir,” answered the stewarc
briefly in the noncommittal tones of
man who knew the shelters of Malta
well. To Pilot’s rude reply, he held up
his hand. “Listen,” he said.
Just then a son of Nippon, aiming a
the waterfront’s oil-tanks, plonked hi
load in the harbor. The slamming thus
against Vampire’s plates brought the
navigator out of his bunk in one muscular
contraction. Morning light broke through
a sky smudged with the smoke of burn
ing oil. Japan was in ; Vampire was
ready.
Her first big job was a sweep north
ward in company with Prince of Wales
and Repulse to smash a reported enemy
landing. On December 8 the big ships
steamed to sea down the island-clutterec
channel, as they passed Vampire Morse
lights flashing from three places on their
rearing bridges at once, signal halliards
a whipping mass of brightly-colored flags
In obedience to the latter’s order the de-
stroyer took station ahead.
Coming up-channel loomed the bulk of
armed-merchant-cruiser Kanimbla. She
flashed a peremptory signal to the little
destroyer—brief and to the point.
“Get out of my way! ”
Vampire slunk to one side while her
Majesty steamed past. A few minutes
later the signal yeoman, grinning under
his telescope, spoke to the captain.
“Prince of Wales to Kanimbla, sir.
‘Keep clear to starb’d. Can’t you see I am
under way?’ ”
Grins were exchanged on Vampire’s
bridge.
Late next day the clouds lifted, and
revealed miles astern a lone plane,
shadowing backwards and forwards
across their wake. All that night
Vampire’s men got ready for the dawn,
and what they knew it would bring. They
wore an odd assortment of clothes, from
old grey flannels and long khaki trousers
to clean overalls, but all covering arms
and legs from the green-hot flashes from
guns, shells and bombs
At 8 a.m. on the 10th radar contact
was made with a, large formation of
approaehing aircraft. The British Fleet
promptly turned east, to position itself
as far as possible in its own element, and
as far away from the bombers’. At
10.25 the bosun’s mate piped in Vampire
that old familiar tune:
“Hands will go to action-stations in
five minutes’ time.”
They came over high, in tight formation
of nines. Throughout the resultant party
Vampire was not directly attacked, ex-
cept for a few strafing efforts of rear-
gunners, and she had a stall-seat view of
the whole tragedy. At its peak, with
planes snarling in at mast-height, bombs
exploding, the British heavies erupting in
almost solid sheets of repelling flame, the
whole back-clothed by roiling black
smoke and white curtains of flung spray.
Vampire’s navigator, watching Repulse
carefully so as to maintain correct
station through all her gyrations, suddenly
called:
“Repulse turning, sir.”
Moran had his glasses up, ant
answered grimly.
“No, by God, she isn’t. She’s going!
The great ship heeled, as though unde
full helm. Leaned, till the bright red o
her bilges showed clear against the se
Over, further, a frightful, unnatural lean
then she was right over, and gone,
huge patch of boiling oil-black water wa
all that remained where a minute befor
32,000-tons of battlecruiser had floatec
and fought.
When Prince of Wales had followec
her, slamming her great bilge-kee
against destroyer Express as she tiltec
Vampire was ordered to pick u
survivors. She collected 225, black wit
oil, choking and vomiting, among them
Captain Tennant, of Repulse. F
staggered to the tiny bridge, and hunj
coughing, over the windbreak. The
followed a scene the Australian seame
never forgot. From below in the scumm
water, from whaler and rafts and floatini
spars, Tennant’s men sighted him. On
sailor in the water, hanging on to th
whaler’s lifelines, raised his voice in
shout:
“Three cheers for Captain Tennant.”
From oil-blinded faces, from mouth
caked with salt, blood and the acru
stench of burnt cordite, the cheers floated
hoarsely up. Tennant waved, and, blink
ing, turned away.
Vampire made Singapore at 2 a.m. nex
morning. Moran and Cartwright had
been on the bridge since 10 the mornin
before, with a 10 minute break for supper
In port ambulances were waiting; th
wounded went first, thpn the rest, with
Tennant supervising their quartering
Then, almost dead-beat, he came bad
aboard to thank Vampire’s men for thei
assistance. Little wonder his men
cheered him from the sea.
In the next six weeks Vampire had
little time to remember the Royal Navy’
worst tragedy for centuries. Her convoy
run was from Singapore down to Batavia
and Sunda Strait, shepherding back more
troops and supplies to stopper the Jap
tide welling, it seemed irresistibly, down
through the Malayan neck. When a fresh
enemy landing was reported at Endai
Bay, on the east coast, Vampire and
Thanet (a small 900-tonner with only two
four-inch and a brace of tubes, but with
31 knots in her boilers), forgot their con-
voying and leaped together up-coast to
have a go.
It looked like a destroyer’s picnic—a
dogfight inside a small harbor crammed
with troopships. But neither British ship
knew then what else it was about to
tackle.
The jungly promontory protecting
Endau Bay from the south was raised
about six in the evening. Both ships at
once altered course out to sea, to wait till
the moon went down. With the betraying
yellow plate sliding under the horizon, the
two little ships, impatiently keeping
station in the friendless dark, settled their
low tails in the water and got down to
business.
Not a chink of light lightened their
black silhouettes —with deadlights tightly
clamped over scuttles, all mess-deck
lighting except that necessary for
ammunition-supply parties doused, black
canvas screens over all upper-deck doors
and hatches that weren’t shut, galley fires
out, instrument lights on bridges and
guns a dim, merging blue, stoker petty-
officers in their ’tween-deck Hades
watching so that not a spark from those
roaring, boiler-washing jets of super-
heated flame reached the night air—com-
pletely darkened, they slid through the
harbor-mouth. Moran had no need to
check his darken-ship routine —Vampire s
old hands remembered the night on
Bardia when a carelessly-laced screen on


dfobe
my word, I do like an
m fl ICE COLD ffe
Uickers Gin
Squash
It’s the perfect answer to temperatures that soar
round the nineties—the greatest cooling drink I know.
A fellow finds himself putting up with the heat when
he knows he’s in line for a Vickers Gin Squash or
two —take my word for It. But mark you—the
gin must be Vickers. Pop this recipe in your book.
VICKERS GIN SQUASH
Into a long glass put half oz. lemon squash,
2 oz. Vickers Gin.
Add small pieces of ice. Mix well, fill with soda
water and put a slice of lemon on top.
HH4 fOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
“~RECIPE BOOK
fs
A request to The United Distillers Pty, Ltd., P.O. Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE,
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipes for
cocktails and long drinks. Write for it now.
ICKERS GIN
fAH 0 U S S I HCE 17 5 0
VG 41/16
Good Memory Guaranteed
IN FIVE HOURS
Without Study or Practice
TYPICAL
WORLD-WIDE
SUBSCRIBERS
NATIONAL
" CASH
REGISTER
CO.
GENERAL
MOTORS LTD.
DALOETY &
CO. LTD.
ASPROS LTD.
P. & O. SHIP-
PING CO.
NATIONAL BANK.
BANK OF
SOUTH
AFRICA.
THOS. COOK
<Se SONS.
GOODYEAR
TYRE CO.
UNION
CASTLE
SHIPPING
CO.
BARCLAY’S
BANK.
COLONIAL
MUTUAL LIFE.
FARMERS’
TRADING CO.
SINGER
SEWING
MACHINE CO.
STANDARD
TELEPHONES
LTD.
LEWIS BERGER
& SONS.
RONEO LTD.
WAUGH &
JOSEPBSON.
HADFIELDS LID.
ALLEN <fc
BANBURYS.
BANK OF N.Z.
LINDEMAN
LTD.
BRITISH GEN.
ELECTRIC.
KODAK LTD.
ARTHUR YATES
& CO. (NJZ
At present you can remember, off-hand,
only five or six unrelated things. (Test
yourself.) By "Controlled-visualisation
you are guaranteed that you can re-
member, virtually at sight, not less than,
but probably many more than, TWENI Y
things of any kind —facts, figures, things
to be done, office memoranda, prices and
locations of stocks, details of your speech,
music, cards, racing data, lodge rituals,
etc., and can also ... REMEMBER
PEOPLE’S NAMES.
♦ ♦ * •
"Controlled - visualisation is fully ex-
plained in two brief parts, and requires
neither study nor practice. Merely read
the instructions through carefully, and
forthwith put them INTO practice. The
immediate results will amaze you.
Simple, Practical, Inexpensive.
“Controlled-visualisation” shows you the psycho-
logically correct way to apply certain natural
functions which control your memory, r.nd which
you and every other normal person possess. It
you follow the instructions, then, irrespective ot
your education or age, you MUST REMEMBER.
“Controlled-visualisation” is as effective with a
child of eight, as an adult of eighty. It is simple,
practical, and effective because it is NATURAL.
Good Memory
Is Merely “Know-How”
Thousands of well-known people and /
firms throughout the world have sub- /
scribed for “Controlled-visualisation. ,
Why not TRY IT? Good memory /
depends on “knowing how." If /
you follow the simple instructions /
your success is guaranteed. /
Write NOW for full particu- /
lars, including names and full /
address of typical users, /
and their grateful letters /
tof praise. USE THIS
FORM.
V
NATIONAL INSTITUTE
FOR VISUAL LEARNING
Operating in England, America,
Canada, South Africa. Australia.
7th Floor, Baking House, Sydney.
If coupon been used address
inquiry to
Box 280, G.P.0., Sydney
TEAR
OFF AND
POST
The National
Institute for
Visual Learning
BOX 280, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Without obligation to
me please send me by
return. FREE details of
•Controlled - Visualisation
under plain cover.
Name (clear)
Full Address
B.
an Itie supply-ship flapped, and
brought a slamming blast from
sister Waterhen’s ready guns that
blew her to flaming pieces.
Inside, and almost at once.
Vampire, leading, sighted two
Jap destroyers under way fine on
the starb’d bow. They were so
close that Cartwright, torpedo-
control-officer as well as navi-
gator, almost whispered his
orders as he trained his sight on
the leading ship’s bridge. He had
to be quick ; two torpedoes leapt
out and speared for the target.
They watched the twin tracks of
luminescence reach out and dis-
appear beneath the other
destroyer. Nothing happened.
The range was so close neither
fish had had time to regain its
correct depth-setting after its
initial deep plunge.
Incredibly, the Britishers were
still unsighted. Eyes straining,
Vampire’s bridge made out an-
other destroyer 3000 yards
ahead, dwarfed between the
shapeless bulk of half a dozen
troopers. She emptied another
tub©; this time the Japs saw the
red tongue of flame in its mouth.
A challenge flashed peremptorily
across the water. The Australian
replied with a broadside, echo
to the brilliant stab of red flame
which marked the violent expen-
diture of 500 pounds of Aus-
tralian T.N.T. against the Jap
destroyer’s bilges.
At once a searchlight opened
its baleful eye; with the glare
of a disturbed enemy upon them
all hell broke loose in the harbor.
The sea spouted. The Jap boats
missed by the torpedoes opened
up with full broadsides, joined
by guns from ashore and a
cruiser further in.
A rabbit in a car’s headlights
enjoyed relative obscurity
compared with the hard
brilliance which outlined Vam-
pire and Thanet, whipping and
spitting like Kilkenny cats round
that silvered, spouting harbor,
urged to full thrust in a cluttered
waterway whose greatest depth
was about five fathoms.
Cartwright, busy on his charts
under the weather-dodger,
queried the signal-yeoman behind
him.
“Why the hell aren’t our guns
firing?”
The navigator was normally
sane enough, and the surprise
in the signalman’s answer was
natural.
“Firing, sir? We’ve been
firing rapid broadsides for the
last five minutes!”
Now he listened, of course,
the din beat on his ears with an
almost physical violence. But
till then the whole of his brain
had been absorbed in his navi-
gating, and he hadn’t heard a
shot.
They all heard the next one
—gallant little Thanet (in this
mad arena of noise, flashes,
smoke, cordite stink and ships,
brief vehicles of reflected light
in the blackness, dashing in and
out of the steady silver swathes
fastened on Vampire), still in
her correct station astern, caught
a shell in one of her boilers.
The frightful, disciplined force
of steam under superheated
pressure was unleashed abruptly
in a giant blast that lifted the
ship’s midship decks, huge leaves
of steel twisting in the search-
light’s glare, and burst her sides
open to the sea. Siding with the
enemy, her own strength had
ruptured her like a battleship’s
broadside.
Most of her crew had time to
abandon her before, still making
way and vomiting plumes of
white into the night, she
staggered under.
Still flat out, and sftill the
miraculously-alive target for a
score of concentrated guns, Vam-
pire burned a smoke-float on
her fo’c’sle. The wind of her
passage chased the thick, whitish
vapor far astern, writhing silver
along the searchlight’s finger,
like cotton-wool winding a swab-
stick. Then Moran had a
brilliant idea. He leaned over
the fore windbreak and shouted
to the toiling shadows round
“A” gun.
“Heave that smoke-float over
the side!”
It was this simple operation,
undoubtedly, which saved her
life. Thinking another enemy
ship had got in, and was on
fire, both Jap destroyers shitted
target to the smoke, now also
light-held, and opened heavy
fire. Unaware of this, and
sighting the smoke, a third Jap
ship nosed in to investigate. The
first pair’s belief in another
enemy ship was naturally
strengthened when their binocu-
lars sighted a vague ship shape
through the smoke. Exultantly
they increased an already heavy
close-range bombardment; to
such good effect that one of his
Imperial Majesty’s own
destroyers just managed to
beach herself before she sank,
Qfpm first
Vampire took immediate
advantage of this disharmony in
the enemy ranks. There was
only one obstacle barring their
escape. Moran rested his chest
against the windbreak and
bellowed above the din: “ ‘A’
gun and ‘B’ gun—local control!
Take the searchlight!”
No need to designate which
light. Layers and trainers of
both forrard mountings squinted
their eyes to slits against the
magnified glare through their
telescopes, and let go almost as
one. The great glaring eye ex-
ploded in a burst of orange light;
darkness rushed in over Vam-
pire. At top speed, as fast as
ever she’d gone in her life, she
crashed out into the open sea,
slewed round like a terrier-chased
cat, and, nose up and tail down,
scuttled for home.
Even then, she beat Thanet’s
men by only a few days. After
the Jap search-parties had
collared Thanet’s motorboat-
load, other survivors on rafts,
floats and their own bellies,
reasoning that where the Jap
had looked once he wouldn’t
look again, pulled themselves
aboard the motorboat. Paddling
with bits of wood ripped from
her woodwork, they cleared
the harbor and headed for
Singapore. With sails made
from lifejacket-covers, labori-
ously stitched together, her
crew made a jungly island
down-coast. Here they landed,
commandeered a Malayan junk,
set sail and made Singapore
four days later.
Except for the unlucky few
taken prisoner, the party had
ended happily.
We meet Vampire next
in Trincomalee, then the
British Navy’s base in Ceylon.
After her night action she
ran a convoy to Batavia,
then gave two Dutch ships
the doubtful comfort of her
presence on the lonely and
dangerous run across to
Colombo. Ducking south round
the island to the huge, boom-
defended spread of Trincomalee,
she was given to carrier Hermes
as her crash-destroyer, her job
to hang on the big ship’s flank
ready to dash up and pull out
of the sea any pilot unfortunate
enough to land in it.
The writer knows Trincomalee
well, and remembers the hours
he and his shipmates spent
quietly paddling in its warm
blue waters alongside the ship—
-10 minutes at first, 20 the next
day, then an hour, gradually in-
creasing the immersion period
till we could stay afloat with
minimum effort for two or three
hours. Every afternoon, 20 or
30 of us, paddling, like ungainly
ducks, quacking as well, with
the rest of the ship’s company in
the cool of the upper-deck
watching, and finding nothing
incongruous in this watery tea-
party —every now and then one
of them Would join it. We had a
very good reason for condition-
ing ourselves to staying afloat,
the same one which, that hot
sunny afternoon the signal came,
had half of Vampire’s company
over the side, gazing up as they
paddled in meditation of
Hermes’s rearing side, with their
own pint-sized home snuggled
against it.
Suddenly the signal-yeoman
bustled across the flag-deck,
clattered down the fo’c’sle ladder
and hurried importantly aft, a
wb ; te f j n his hand A dozen
»hhe form m lustond.
at the quarter-deck, scan the
ofiicers-ashore board, then dive
down to the wardroom. The
swimmers were already heading
for the scrambling net over the
side when the bosun’s mate
stepped to the guard-rail, blew
a shrill blast on his pipe, and
yelled: “Swimming-party clear
ffie water!”
By the time Commander
Moran, with Cartwright behind
him, walked forrard to the
charthouse, all watches were
fallen-in in the ship’s waist near
her tubes, being detailed to
secure for sea. In the chart-
house the captain laid his signal
on the table, pushed it aside,
and laid out a black-and-white
chart Cartwright read the
signal as he handed Moran a
pair of dividers.
.‘‘Force enemy earners
sighted 350 miles east of Ceylon,
anticipate attack. Ships in
harbor are to proceed at mid-
mght and remain 40 miles off-
shore.” . ....
At five minutes to midnight
Vampire slipped her last wire,
shot a smother of white from
her throbbing tail and swung
her nose seaward. Behmd her as
she passed the boom-
gate the bulk of Hermes, a
tumble of white at her nose,
loomed against the starlit sky.
All night both ships cruised in
the ordered position, waiting for
the dawn.
At 0800 they were wirelessed
that Trincomalee had been
raided by about 50 Jap aircraft.
Sighted black dots low down on
the hue of horizon.
“Hands will go to action-
statio ns in five rmnutes time
It took the 48 dive-bombers
about 15 minutes to close the
range They clawed up mto the
stretching blue, straightened out,
kicked over on one red-balled
wing and came plummeting out
of the sun, engine-notes a snarl
of sound. Hermes was the
One second the carrier’s
acreage of flight-deck stretched
bare and quiet, an ordered reach
of tarmac, bulkheads and sup-
porting steel girders. The next
it was converted violently into a
cratered mess of smoke and
fl ame and bent-up sticks, like a
rumpled crow’s nest. A stick of
armor-piercing bombs had hit,
penetrated, and, their fuses
started, ruptured her ordered
neatness into steel slivers. Mess-
tables, paint, contents of kit-
lockers, books, clothing, fired
instantly by the terrific heat
generated in each burst, made
half a dozen pouring chimneys
of her flight-deck.
Again and again the bombers
struck , each a winged b at pre-
ceding a snarling wh ine, zoom-
ing hig h aga in into the blue and
laying its egg at the base of a
bursting column of flung smoke
and spray In 2 0 minutes
Hermes ’ s captain ordered
aban don-ship. She went down
under a white pall, her high
mastj with its ensign, sticking
a second above the cloud. She
too k five Jap planes with her.
Now Vam ire increa sed to
full d preparing to fight
for h £ Uf e . With the little ship
shudderi with speed, her
gunners aited for the re-
£orming p i aneS( oerlikon-layers
bebind tbe ] r i ong black shell-
firing barreis, pom-pom moving
slightly as it nosed at the
a ching black dots .
hnmher let so at
Two bombs struck off
shot over
* cleared the whaler
dav its and exploded along-
blast 0 f water that
h d the rt oer likon’s crew
OV er their mounting and
tbe U pn e r-deck, the phone-
» bei ng brought up hard
uuu “~ &
. ,
( Continued on page 3~.)


.
■
frvsaber
m
m
w
m '' _■ » v '.♦*••• '•• T ‘ ' ■
t/ihte'
B FINE HOTEL
A hotel. certainly one of Sydney (
leading hotels, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In.
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
G D. Maclutcan, Managing Director
DRY
SWEET
OR
avnoua
j&iwce
/m
UNCABLED
ADDITION'S
J. BULL THE UNREADY.
Cabled reports of “a master
plan” for “a great new build-up
of Britain’s arms and forces”
follow a column-length letter
featured on the London “Times”
leader page in which L. S. Amery
trenchantly criticised the Attlee
Socialists’ defence record.
Prior to the Amery letter, the
following comment appeared in
the “Nineteenth Century and
After” (incidentally, this cumber-
some title seems to have been at
last belatedly changed to the
“Twentieth Century”):
“The present state of British
defences is extremely disturbing.
Against a steadily deteriorating
international background, the
Government permitted the
strength of our armed forces,
serving with the Colors, to fall
from 1,019,000 on January 1,
1948, to 692,000 on July 1, 1950.
Today, for example, the total
strength of the British Army is
only equivalent to six and a half
divisions.”
They are, of course, spread
over the world, and, in any case,
the estimated total is considered
flattering.
The Amery letter, by showing
the serious general state of J.
Bull’s unreadiness, makes under-
standable the U.S, signs of im-
patience and consequent isola-
tionism, though* Britain would be
regarded in America as not in
nearly so bad shape) as some of
the other prospective allies. Mr.
Amery wrote (in part):
“Have we [British] even begun
to face the scale, as well as the
urgency, of the effort required
of us? In Europe Russia con-
fronts the West with an over-
whelming superiority of force on
the ground and in the air. She
can march to the Rhine or the
Channel ports whenever the
Kremfin decides the time has
come. The Kremlin alone knows
how far it still regards America’s
lead in the atom-bomb as a
conclusive deterrent. What is
certain is that we are far more
vulnerable to it than Russia,
with her vast spaces. Nor is it
any protection against the men-
ace of strangulation by Russia’s
fleet of more than 300 sub-
marines.
“For us the defence of Western
Europe is today the indispens-
able condition of our own sur-
vival. Yet Europe is at this
moment almost defenceless and
neither can, nor will, defend itself
unless we and the United States
provide, on the spot, the spear-
head of fighting force which will
make that defence worth while.
Our share of that spearhead can
hardly be put at less than 10
London “News Chronicle."
WEATHER OUTLOOK: CHANCE OF THAW?
divisions on a permanent war
footing in Germany or at im-
mediate call.”
Pointing out that Europe Is
not the only danger-spot; that
the Near and Middle Eastern
sector from Yugoslavia to Persia
is also of vital importance to the
whole free world and that out-
side support there must mostly
fall on J. Bull, whose respon-
sibilities in south-east Asia also
cannot be abandoned, Mr.
Amery added:
“Can our [Britain’s] require-
ments in the shape of perman-
ently effective divisions, or their
equivalent, be safely put at less
than 15 divisions? Over and
above that we must be prepared,
if war should unhappily come,
speedily to reinforce the troops
on the spot by something like
the same number of second-line
troops mobilised to meet the
emergency. There is nothing in
that beyond our capacity. On
January 1, 1945, we had 28 divi-
sions, 22 of them active fighting
units. What have we at this
moment? Two weak divisions
in Germany, one in the Middle
East, and some 45,000 men, or
the equivalent of two divisions,
between Korea, Hong Kong and
Malaya. At home, out of
220,000 men we have not even
one complete operational divi-
sion.
“So far for the requirements in
terms of ground troops. But our
requirements in the field of air
warfare and air transport are no
less, if not in manpower at any
rate in the demand upon our
engineering industries and upon
our technical skill. On top of
all this demand comes the un-
escapable fact that all our other
measures of defence will have
been in vain if Russia’s sub-
marines can starve us out. We
need only recall the tremendous
effort which the Navy, the Mer-
cantile Marine and our ship-
yards had to make to realise what
is needed.
“What indication is there in
official statements, let alone in
action, that our leaders realise
the urgency?... .Are we to
lengthen still further the term
of compulsory service? Should
we call up unmarried reservists
from less essential industries?
Should we raise a Foreign
Legion or additional colonial
forces? Some, or all, of those
steps should be taken now.
“For the rest.... .the immense
volume of munitions and equip-
ment required.... .is a problem
of production which can be
met in only two ways. One
is by an increase in the
total volume of our produc-
tion. Can this be secured with-
out greater intensity of work,
without the spirit with which
men and women ‘went to it’ in
the war? Can it be secured
without working longer hours?
Can it be secured without
a much fuller employ-
ment of all the horsepower
already available or easily made
available? But here we come up
against the fundamental fact that
horsepower, in whatever form
applied, in the last resort means
coal. There lies one master key
to the whole situation. Some-
how or other that problem must
be tackled with far greater energy
and imagination that has been
displayed so far by those who
so confidently undertook to
handle it. [ln point of fact,
England has been importing
coal.]
“The other way of meeting
our problem is the restriction of
less essential production and
consequently of less essential
consumption. Can this now be
secured without giving definite
priority to war production over
all but the most essential exports
required to purchase indispen-
sable raw materials and food-
stuffs? Can it be secured with-*
out a much stricter limitation of
imports? Can it be secured
without the reimposition of many
physical controls? Can it be
secured without the direction of
labor by the allocation of raw
materials or the control of en-
gagements? Can it be secured
without a drastic combing out of
Government and, indeed, indus-
trial establishments?
“Can we afford to treat ‘full
employment’ as a supreme con-
sideration without making cer-
tain that it is effective employ-
ment both in the quality of the
work done and in its direction?
Can we, in the last resort, meet
the situation without some tem-
porary reduction in our social
services and in our real standard
of living (whatever the nominal
wage-rates)? All these ques-
tions are as urgent as they are
unpleasant. But the nation is
entitled to have clear and un-
equivocal answers to them from
its leaders. How long are we to
wait for them?”
Much of which, of course, has
a most urgent Australian appli-
cation, too.
Middle East Outcasts.
Ronald Storrs, who wrote that
grand book Orientations, and
who knows the Middle East as
well as any man living, depicts
the lot of the Arab refugee out-
casts (from Palestine) in the
course of an appeal on their
behalf in London “Times”:
“Nearly a million homeless
Arab outcasts (half of them
children, 48,000 under 12
months) found themselves some
two and a half years ago flung
upon the neighboring Arab coun-
tries, which, though they did
what they could, have been over-
whelmed by the immensity of the
disaster.
“In the Arab world of today
one Arab in 40 is a refugee. The
United Nations, the Christian
Churches, Muslim charities, and
voluntary societies —international
as well as national —have for
two and a half years kept them
alive.
“Each refugee has since 1948
had perhaps one garment from
charity, now worn out A
Unesco official who lately hap-
pened to pass through the Middle
East wrote: ‘We went to see the
refugees—thousands of men and
women exposing their suffering
in mood of utter despair beneath
a grey winter sky. Children by
the hundred, most of them half-
naked, shoeless, shivering, con-
veyed the depths of their misery
in gestures that were more elo-
quent than words. The parents
showed us the camp. They
showed us the holes in the ground
—deep, like wells —where the
children were living in total
darkness, piled one on top of
the other against the icy rock.
They implored us to succor
their children, but what help
could we improvise?’”
Another visitor to the Middle
East has written in London
“'Economist”:
“In camp after camp—most
of them tented, a few hutted,
with ragged cloths serving as
partitions between the families
—men, women and a swarm of
children expose their misery
under the bleak sky. Most are
shoeless. All are shivering. The
summer clothes in which they
fled two-and-a-half years ago are
all worn out, and this winter’s
U.N. purchase of garments can
run only to one article of cloth-
ing for every two refugees, plus
one blanket per family....
“It is difficult if not impossible
to convince these victims of war
that the vast majority can never
go back to their former homes,
which are now inside Israel.
Most were filled with false hopes
by the U.N. Assembly resolu-
tion which said that they ought
to return ; those who are living
within sight of the lulls of home
spend hours gazing at their
native land
“There are at present 470,000
refugees in Jordan, 120,000 in
Lebanon, 200,000 in the re-
sourceless Gaza strip and some
82,000 in Syria.”
It sufficiently accounts for the
reports others have made of the
present bitterness throughout the
Arab world. It is stony ground,
but dragon’s teeth sprout there
as well as anywhere.
Socialist Fallacy.
London “Time and Tide’s”
comment on the Attlees’ peanut
flop, which has cost the British
public a cool £36,000,000:
“The great modern fallacy,
underlying all Socialist planning,
is that if a sufficient number of
fallible individuals are gathered
together and given a sufficient
amount of power they will in-
fallibly be right.
“The latest demonstration of
this is provided by the ill-fated
groundnut scheme. The work-
ing party sent out by the Over-
seas Food Corporation recom-
mended that the costly attempt
to produce oil-bearing seeds and
nuts at Kongwa, hitherto the
main seat of the enterprise,
should be virtually abandoned
in favor of the kind of large-
scale experiment that ought to
have been conducted at the out-
set.
“Millions of public money
sunk in over-hasty and ill-con-
ducted mechanisation have thus
been thrown away. The tax-
payer foots the bill, but those
who ran it up, as usual under
bureaucracy, suffer no inconveni-
ence.
“We have reached a point
where the squandering of 30 or
40 millions, which would have
brought any Government down
in the bad old days, passes all
but unnoticed.”
U.S. Production Secret.
Pointing out, in a “Foreign
Affairs” article, that there is a
world of difference between
European and American capital-
ism, Lewis Galantiere makes
some interesting comparisons
bearing on employer-employee
relations and the effects on pro-
duction :
“The European capitalist has


FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
MAY 3 SEPTEMBER $0
0
0
PROGRAMME
EXHIBITIONS
LONDON May 4— September 30
South Bank Exhibition
May 3 —October 31
Festival Pleasure Gardens, Battersea Park
May 3 —September 30
Exhibition of Science, South Kensington
Exhibition of Architecture, Lansbury, Poplar
Exhibition of Books, Victoria and Albert Museum
GLASGOW May 28 —August
Exhibition of Industrial Power, Kelvin Hall
BELFAST June I—August1—August 31
Ulster Farm and Factory Exhibition
■July 30 —August 18
.July 18—August 10
July 2-14
June 24-30
Aug. ip—Sept. 8
. June 17-30
July 22 — Aug. 12
FESTIVALS OF THE ARTS
There will be a Special Festival Season of the Arts in London
May 3—June 30
Aberdeen Festival . . . . July 30 —August 13
Aldeburgh Festival of Music and the Arts . June 8-17
Bath Assembly .... May 20—June 2
Belfast Festival of the Arts. . . May 7 —June 30
Bournemouth and Wessex Festival . . June 3~*7
Brighton Regency Festival. . .July 16—August 2$
Cambridge Festival ,
Canterbury Festival .
Cheltenham Festival of British Contemporary
Music ....
Dumfries Festival of the Arts
Edinburgh International Festival of
Music and Drama
Inverness 1951 Highland Festival
Liverpool Festival
Llangollen (International Musical Eisteddfod) .July 3-8
Llanrwst (Royal National Eisteddfod of Wales) Aug. 6-11
Norwich Festival ..... June 18-30
Oxford Festival ..... July 2-16
Perth Arts Festival .... May 27 — June 16
St. David’s Festival (Music and Worship) . July 10-13
Stratford-upon-Avon (Shakespeare Festival) . Apl. — Oct.
Swansea Festival of Music. . . September 16-29
Worcester (Three Choirs Festival) . .September 2-7
York Festival ...... June 3-17
Included in the programme are special events in>~-
SCOTLAND
Edinburgh: Gathering of the Clans . . August 16-19
Exhibition of 18th Century Books . Aug. 3 — Sept. 15
Exhibition of Scottish Architecture and
Traditional Crafts , . • July — September
Glasgow: Exhibition of Contemporary Books
June I—July 28
WALES
July 23 —August 6
Cardiff: Pageant of Wales .
Exhibition of Contemporary Painting
St. Fagan’s Folk Festival . . • July 16-28
Dolhendre, Merioneth: Welsh Hillside Farm Scheme
May — Sept.
NORTHERN IRELAND
Belfast: Royal Ulster Agricultural Show . May 23-26
Combined Services Tattoo August 29 September 1
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details
“the ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post free.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
df
The Nation’s Needs
come first
Our nation is committed to
many tasks - it may be that
it is committed to too many
but, even if one or two of them
be stood over and peace be
preserved the fulfilment of
the rest will call for more
manpower and equipment and
materials than are at present
available.
The need is for the devotion
of every man and woman to
the development of Enterprise
and Production.
In so far as its national duty
permits, this Bank’s duty lies
along the road of service and
encouragement to the Enter
prise that is the source of all
progress.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
been slow to see that money is
to be made, not by grinding the
faces of the working class but by
devising means to produce goods
cheap enough in price so that
they constitute an incentive to
the worker to collaborate in the
processes of production, to re-
frain from putting obstacles in
the way of mechanisation and
thus earn the surplus with which
to hnv and eniov those coods
to buy and enjoy tnose goods
This is the true meaning of
those statistical measurements
which demonstrate that the indi-
vidual American worker’s out-
put is so much higher than the
European’s. This is why, for
three venerations the American
three generations, me American
worker has not had the same
cause as the European to envy
bis employer ; since, on the
whole, both have had the same
material advantages in America,
both have had bathrooms,
motor-cars, telephones, meat,
green vegetables, orange-juice
and the rest.
“In 1948 the British railwavs
ran 19,631 miles of track with
648,740 employees; the Santa
Fe Railroad ran 13,081 miles of
track with 66,169 men. In 1948
we mined three times as much
coal as the British with only
little more than half the num-
ber of miners. These parallels
are not at all points a fair com-
parison, but we may still reflect
how many workers might have
been released m Britain for the
production of consumer’s goods
if the British operated with the
efficiency of the Americans.
“European observers have re-
marked reneatedlv that there is
„incc- ; ,1 T r
no class warfare in the United
states. We have already seen
w hv First there is the constant
co „cern 0 f the American bust-
nessman, under the pressure of
competition, to keep his costs
i ow desnite a mine level of real
„„„ . _,i tbf.ro ic
wages ; and, secondly, there is
the superior awareness of
American labor that nroduc-
tivity must be kept high because
social security without mcreas-
jjjg productivity merely means a
i ower standard of living a
’“ng of ihe
quantity of jam.”
Tanks the Best Bet.
In facing Russia’s 175 divi-
sions the West, as viewed by
tank expert Lieut.-Gen. Sir
Giffard Martel in a London
speech, still has a great ad-
vantage in its ability to build
up armored forces.
“I am quite sure that even
today the Russian Army is still
mainly a horse-drawn army, and
as such is extremely vulnerable
to armored attack,” he said. “It
is possible that they have been
able to build a large number of
tanks, but these, including the
Stalin —a slow and lumbering
weapon—have been mainly de-
signed for defence.
“The West’s armored forces, if
prepared now,” he believed,
“would have no difficulty in by-
passing these tanks and attack-
ing the very vulnerable armies
in the rear.”
U.N.O. Solomons.
Eritrea was captured from
Mussolini by the sth British and
4th Indian Divisions in 1941.
Nine years later, 46 affirmative
voters (principally Latin Ameri-
cans and Moslems who were
neutral at the time of the con-
quest) decided that it should be
neither divided ethnographically
nor awarded to Ethiopia. As the
result of a vote taken in full
Assembly at U.N.0., it is to be-
come an autonomous unit,
federated to the Ethiopian
crown.
On which U.N.O. achievement
London “Economist” comments
that historians in the 21st
century, writing of the 20th, will
no doubt remark that it con-
ducted some curious experiments
in framing peace settlements.
“One of these,” will run their
record, “was the allocation of
conquests according to the vote
of States that had nothing to do
with the fighting. These voters,
moreover, usually shouldered
none of the responsibility for
giving effect to their vote.”
Jets Too Fast.
In a London “Sunday Times”
article, British Overseas Airways
chairman Sir Miles Thomas,
apparently basing his remarks on
recent American experience,
raises the question: “Are modern
jet fighters too fast for ground
strafing?”
In Korea it had been found
that in hill country and certain
weather “the jet speed is too high
to avoid overshooting”:
“And so the old controversy
of propeller versus jet-driven
aircraft takes on a new phrase.
For ground attack, aircraft
[crews] find that the braking
effect of an airscrew is valuable.
“In [U.S.] bomber design, too,
the claims of the straight jet and
the turbine-driven propeller are
being contested. The pace of
technical discovery of behavior
at high altitudes —10 miles or so
above the earth—is confusing
decision. One jet-propelled
bomber already in production is
admittedly so fast that no fighter
can be used as a camera platform
to obtain photographic record of
its detailed behavior. But range
—range sufficient not merely to
reach an objective and return,
but to overfly the target and land
on a friendly portion of the
world’s globe—is the objective.
Here the turbine-driven pro-
peller seems to hold promise of
superiority because of its lower
fuel consumption at critical alti-
tudes.”
All the new U.S. bombers.
Sir Miles adds, have bomb-bays
that are referred to with mysteri-
ous respect as being of a “suit-
able size.”
Dragnet Digest.
The Chinese Pray. —Earlier, “Man-
chester Guardian” shared the fairly
general British optimism on the
Chinese Corns. Recently it has run
a very striking series of articles by a
correspondent lately resident in
China, anything but optimistic. One
of the articles winds up: “The
Chinese can see no hope for the
future —no hope except the third
world war. While the rest of the
world talks of it with fear and
anxiety, the Chinese eagerly await it,
praying that it may break out soon.
Every incident between Russia and
America is hailed with joy as bring-
ing it one step nearer.”
* * * ♦
The Unpopular Gyppo. —As seen
by a London correspondent of New
York “Herald Tribune,” few coun-
tries and few kings or national leaders
are more unpopular in Britain than
Egypt and King Farouk. “Britain’s
top Ministers, however, understand-
ably, are seeking to softpedal this
feeling of animosity.” The corres-
pondent notes a good deal of sus-
picion “that the Egyptians would do
nothing to aid the British in the
Middle East in the event of trouble,”
which, if anything, would seem to
understate the case.
* * ♦ ♦
Soviet Agents in the U.S. A
Washington correspondent of London
“Economist”: “There has been, since
the end of the war, a tendency in
other countries to think that the
United States has become hysterical
about its own Communist party.
American opinion, on the other hand,
believes that other countries, and the
United Kingdom in particular, have
been too lax in their treatment of
their own.” The correspondent points
out that “the United States, as
Russia’s chief antagonist, is logically
the main objective of the Soviet
Union and the destination of its best
agents.” Still, with Nunn May and
Fuchs they seem to have appointed
one or two fairly effective ones in
Britain in the past, whatever they
may have there now.
* * ♦ *
Purges Inclusive. —Comparison of
life-expectancy ratios in the United
States and Russia indicates that the
Soviet Union “would appear to be
about 50 years behind the United
States in its progress in improving
the health-status of the population,”
according to the U.S. Public Health
Service. Estimates based on avail-
able statistics put the average future
lifetime for an infant born in the
Soviet Union at 52 years, the health
service says. In the United States,
an infant “can expect to live 67
years.” Furthermore, “the average
future lifetime in the U.S. has been
higher than 52 years since the begin-
ning of the century.”
* ♦ * *
Middle East, All Quiet. —Though
the East-West struggle is being waged
in Germany, in the Balkans and in
Asia, London “Economist” notes that
the Middle East has been almost
completely free from the din which
rages elsewhere: “Even its local war,
in Palestine, never took on the
familiar colors of East versus West.
Why? Is this escape due to tf:e
peculiar nature of the Middle East,
or is it simply a freak of fortune?
The evidence points to the latter con-
clusion.”
♦ * ♦ *
Kremlin Brush-up. —Reporting that
in two miles of Kremlin walls masons
have set 600,000 new bricks,
while steeplejacks gilded its Oriental
towers, and even the bells which twice
a day sound the “Internationale”
across Red Square may have been re-
tuned, New York “Herald Tribune”
comments: “Inside, of course, the
concealed heart of governmental
Moscow shows no sign of having
changed one totalitarian beat. In
the shadow of bulbous towers 600,000
new bricks have left unaltered that
system of Eastern duplicity and
evasion which confounds the Western
mind and has made the Security
Council the scene of antic language
which would be laughably absurd
were it less dangerous to a world
struggling for some straightforward
approach to peace.”


Vanishes
r
Vil ARE EASY . . .
&
I ®
§&
r*
with the
4-OVEN
Yes. it’s cleaner . . . cooler . . . easier with an AGA! Here is
a Cooker that is almost automatic —no gadgets to watch, no
switches to turn, no matches to strike. Twenty-four hours a
day. its 3 hot-plates and 4 ovens are ready for instant service,
for the AGA burns continuously ... yet its guaranteed
maximum fuel consumption cannot exceed 3i tons of coke per
year! Each of its 4 ovens automatically maintains an exact
temperature (1) a roasting oven for joints (2) a baking oven
for bread and cakes (3) a
simmering oven for soups, cas-
seroles, porridge, etcetera (4) a
warming oven for keeping food
and plates hot. The vitreous
cream enamel and chrome finish
is easy to keep sparkling.
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE ’AGA* OR WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING ST.. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET. ADELAIDE; CNR.
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. G.
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH
AX/.ieo
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
British-built, the AGA Is guaran-
teed for 10 years against faulty
materials and workmanship.
4 U cs» la’vl
V'i
~k
*
Ample supplies of
this fine old French
liqueur are note avail*
able from leading
Clubs, Hotels and
I Fine & Spirit
Merchants.
Chartreuse is distilled
from a secret recipe
which has never been
divulged, and whose
distillation has been
carried on by the
Carthusian Monks of
Dauphine since 1605.
GREEN OR YELLOW
Agents for Australia; McLaughlin & Co. Pfy. LM.. Sydney
Distributors—Victoria: Stephen Kina Pty. Ltd., Taylor Ferguson
Will* & Co. Ltd. Western
Ltd. South Australia:
George
Brown &
Dureau Ltd.
ONI41
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
THE No. I Drink
for wise men
T Tr T
“General Franco has again called
for a return of Gibraltar to Spain.”
Wouldn’t it Rock you?
-I- 4- 4*
“Barden left his kneeboots out in
the water overnight, and when he
emptied them in the morning out
came a 4|lb. yellowbelly.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
He had a couple of soles to
boot.
4* 4* 4*
“Young couple, genuine home-
lovers, seek neat cottage, rent or buy
Mr. Smith.” — Suburban paper.
The bidding certainly is get-
ting keen.
4* 4* 4*
“Women can be young or old to
order.” — Beauty article.
And they can order at any
age.
“For sale, gas stove, good aviary
on legs 3 x 3 x 4 5 20’ gal. pipe,
good 2 20 foot iron and fittings.”
—Suburban paper.
Guaranteed to keep birds
from leaving you cold.
4* 4* 4*
“The average man appreciates a
smart, well-preserved wife.”
— Women’s paper.
Especially if she isn’t his to
keep.
Jfa Jfa
“A Cornell (U.S.A.) University
professor has made a record of a
female mosquito’s voice which, when
amplified over a loudspeaker, attracts
every male mosquito for miles.”
They are then finished off with
a crooning record.
4* 4* 4*
“A machine which can clean a
12-carriage train, inside and out, in
20 minutes has been recommended
to the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment.”
Even if it’s a washout it will
be a success.
Sporting Compromise.
With pants at eighty bob a lick,
A tailored suit at twenty quid,
And shirts at quotes that make
you sick
And sixty shillings for a lid;
With meals around the dollar
mark
And sandwiches a shilling
each.
And chops and steaks at prices
stark
And sixpence for a pear or
peach,
I must retrench. Though I’ve
more dough
Than heretofore, it soon gets
spent;
In fact, a tenner's pushed to go
As far as once a fiver went,
So, I’m resolved, this year of
grace,
Tq back 'em only for a place.
P.O.M.C.
Fatal.
“Parisian girls intrigue a man by
appealing to his memory with per-
fume. They spray perfume on their
hair, hats, dresses, hemlines, gloves,
stationery—everything. ”
I can nevair forget ze day I
knock on ze door of mademoi-
selle’s apartment in ze Rude de
la Paix.
“Zat you, Alphonse?” she call
from ze bathroom.
"Oui! Ouil” I say. She tell
me to come in and ’ave ze
drink. I sit down. I ’ave ze
vin rouge. It is so nice. I ’ave
ze vin blanc. Mademoiselle still
splash. Zen I ’ave ze creme de
menthe for ze chaseur. Zut! I
am fuzzy; but when mademoi-
selle come from ze boudoir in ze
diaphanous negligee—Oh! La!
La!
Zen mademoiselle take ze par-
fum and spray ze hair with ze
rare odeur of La Nuit de Pong.
It is so nice. Zen she spray ze
hats, ze dresses, ze hemlines, ze
gloves, ze stationery. La! La!
She spray everything and
voild! Before I know what ’as
’appen I am intrigue!
JONAS DILL.
t t *r
“Advise me please what type of
jacket to wear in the evening.”
—lnquirer in woman’s paper.
Bed, dear.
4* 4* 4*.
“Women make their voices heard
on items close to feminine hearts.”
—“S. M. Herald .”
They just love getting things
off their chests.
jle&m
“Just Wait till I get you home again, you coward!”
“Conditions in many pubs are dis-
graceful.”—Press item.
In some you can float a
schooner on the bar.
On a Bender.
It was Publius Syrus, I think,
who remarked that no man has
really lived until he has loved,
smoked a re-lit cigar, strangled
a lion with his bare hands and
looked for a gas leak under the
house. Of these four major
sports the last-named undoubt-
edly holds the greatest fascina-
tion for the man of action.
His initiation into it will be
due to commence approxi-
mately ten seconds after emitting
a bull-roar on finding his latest
gas-bill is up about 70 per cent,
on the last one. A heated de-
mand to know the reason for
its wasteful use will be met by
the cool rejoinder that she has
been telling him repeatedly for
weeks of the smell of gas in the
kitchen. All the taps of the
stove then being off and the
smell of gas unmistakable, he
becomes immediately seized
with a fierce desire to deprive
gas co. shareholders of some un-
earned increment. Leaping into
some old clobber, he sets out.
As he is going under the house
in a confined space where there
is possibly an accumulation of
the insidious gas the first thing
is to turn the supply off at the
meter. He attempts to turn the
tap from the vertical to the
horizontal, but after 10 min-
utes and a bruised hand he be-
comes convinced that the world’s
champion strong man would get
buckled digits trying to shift it.
It obviously calls for the foot-
prints. One tremendous heave
and the tap snaps off, what’s left
of it still adamantly vertical.
The thought of the meter rac-
ing madly round all night and
shooting his bill up overcoming
his caution in the matter of any
possible accumulation of gas,
he gets, with lighted candle,
through the little door that leads
to the sub-floor recesses, and
before he begins his battle
with the long - undisturbed
cobwebs, pauses for orientation.
He is under the front bedroom.
If he turns right it will take him
under the second bedroom, past
the bathroom under the hall to
the kitchen.
Greater zest is lent the sport
as his mode of progression de-
velops from the crouch to creep-
ing along with chin about an
inch off his knees, the joists
getting lower and lower and
hazards from jutting wall-ends
and heaps of old half-bricks
getting higher. At last his un-
erring sense of direction will tell
him he should be directly under
the , kitchen, and he will knock,
as prearranged, to get guidance
from above as to the stove’s
actual position. By then he will
have inhaled about six cubic
inches of cobwebs and is
thankful that the black-widow
type is confined to the U.S.A.
A dim sound comes from
somewhere above. Well, that’s
it. Then by the dim candle-
flicker he sees a pipe overhead.
He runs the candle along it to
locate the leak. None. He tries
where a bend sends it vertically
up through the floor. Still no
leak. The candle sets alight
some hemp bound around the
joint, and it spreads to a cobweb.
Panic seizes him as he visualises
himself trapped beneath the
burning house. As the flame
flickers to nothing he seizes the
footprints and gives the bend a
sharp tap. A few seconds later
water begins to drip from it.
Well, dammit, the gas-pipe
should be around somewhere.
Then a distant knocking back
in the direction he had come
brings realisation that he has
traversed the house right to the
laundry. Four dozen cobwebs
later he is under the kitchen,
pushing the candle forward a
few inches at a time as he crawls
along on his stomach to save his
head, from which he has to claw
the cobwebs every few feet so
he can still see. Just then his
bugle involuntary revolts
against the accumulated dust in
the nostrils, and the subsequent
sneezes blow out the candle,
leaving him in Stygian black-
ness. The remaining few
matches left in the box will all be
used ones, he having grabbed up
foolishly the box his wife uses in
the kitchen.
About five minutes later his
spouse, becoming alarmed at the
silence, will set rescue operations
in train, and Joe, his nextdoor
neighbor, will do the honors.
The total bill will approxi-
mate this:
£ s. d.
Afnbulance 1 1 0
Hospital (iron lung) ..330
Doctor’s visits . • • • 15 0
Plumber (mending gas-leak,
mending fractured water-
pipe, supplying and fitting
new gas-meter tap) ..350
£8 14 0
Of course, he could have got
the plumber to fix it in the first
place for about a quid, but look
at all the fun he’d have missed!
Bo.
Snapshot.
When street-photographers way-
lay
Me, Vm engulfed with sudden
pique.
Indeed, sometimes I’d love to say
I think it’s like the fellow’s
cheek.
But when one lets me pass,
polite-
Ly choosing someone else, I
see
In his disinterest a slight —
I feel he should have "taken”
me I
MISS SMITH.


a
>1
Ssw^'&v- V *
h.
m
i 1
SM
wft
/tAaiWymlA
Blue Gillette
Men who matter, men in the public eye, take no
chances with their daily shave. Others too, with
less conspicuous jobs, know the importance of per-
sonal appearance. A fresh, well-shaven face helps
them to look and feel their best through the hardest
day. It’s not surprising then, that most of these
men shave with Blue Gillette Blades for close,
comfortable shaves and longer blade life.
• SO DURABLE —each
blade gives you extra shave*.
• SO SHARP—they stroke
your beard atcay.
• SO FAMOUS—they have
made the world dean shaven .
S for 1/8
10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8
(In plattic ditptntnr)
*Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
— 4/190
!-N : -THt‘s ER IE S "B UI ID ING B ETTER TY R E ; 1
’'■■■ ; ;V;. ■, •'■■X'-r- t', »;
V O.J! ■ ■ ■.•••: I .i'-v...
eft
ril
•d :/
; V
-C/T -*
A ’
I” iJK J
1
m
© Measuring, with accuracy and precision,
the chemical components that are blended
with raw rubber to give the famous Olympic
"Air-Ride” tyres qudity you can trust.
OT«.wSiP'
TYRES
sdf
sd
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL BUM.
A cool, dull day, occasional
showers and soft, though not really
heavy, turf on Saturday made Rand-
wick a home-from home for S.
Wootton’s imported horse Donegal.
Revelling in such nostalgia-inspiring
conditions, the French-bred six-year-
old made a handsome job of cleaning
up the smallish but smart field which
contested the 6-furlongs Challenge
Stakes.
With the field bunched early, and
Pantomime, Titian, Acquittal and
other speedsters keeping the pace
lively, Donegal began rather poorly;
he had only San Domenico behind
him after they had sorted themselves
out in the first furlong. Approaching
the turn Donegal was still near the
rear, but had settled down to be
going very comfortably. He quickly
gathered speed when Munro began to
urge him along, and once he sighted
daylight in the straight he mowed
them down in royal style. Midwise
roused her supporters’ hopes when
she moved up in the straight to take
the lead from Pantomime, who also
gave her backers a good run, but,
although both were receiving a packet
of weight, neither had any answer
for Donegal’s finishing burst. At the
post it was one-and-a-half lengths to
Midwise and a further length to
Pantomime.
Attempting to win his third suc-
cessive Challenge Stakes, San
Domenico found 9.13 on a soft track
just a trifle too much. It was really
asking a lot for him to tackle such a
job without the benefit of a run under
his belt, however well he may be
reputed to go first-up. It was San
Domenico’s first run since contesting
the Craven Plate early in October,
and he really did quite well to come
from last at the turn to finish a
handy fourth.
By the same token, Donegal had
his share of weight; he carried 9.5
and conceded others, excepting San
Domenico, half-a-stone and upward.
Time for the Challenge was 1.125,
which compared pretty favorably with
the respective times of 1.13$ and
1.15$ recorded in a couple of two-
year-old events over the same journey
earlier in the day.
Donegal is no stranger to heavy
weights. In England, prior to coming
here, he won four races over spnnt
journeys; twice he won with y-£
and twice with 9.7. In Australia he
recorded his first win in a 7-furlongs
quality handicap, into which he was
able to sneak with 8.6. Winning
again at bis next start, under open
handicap conditions, he earned 9.1.
Seven furlongs remains the longest
journey over which Donegal has won,
but no doubt connections are dream-
ing dreams of .Doncasters and the
like. He made a poor showing in the
last Epsom, but subsequently, it
might be recalled, finished a close
third behind San Domenico and Grey
Boots in the mile George Mam
Stakes. However, regardless of what
further races he may win, Donegal
looks a very useful acquisition for
stud purposes. He’s a bay horse by
Dogat from Philomela; a real beauty
in appearance and stamped with that
indefinable air of real class which
distinguishes the best thoroughbred.
Donegal’s win was not unantici-
pated. His price fluctuated, but he
was always favorite, and started firm
at threes. Having had the misfortune
to be standing pensively a trifle too
close to a rails bookmaker who
inadvertently called a point over the
ruling odds, present writer is of the
belief that a squad of professional
wrestlers and a number of Rugby
League forwards were among those
who backed Donegal. If not, then
there is a wealth of talent going to
waste in the Members’ Stand at Rand-
wick. Less boisterously-inclined mem-
bers no doubt wish that it could find
an outlet elsewhere.
A gay deceiver of many unhappy
memories, the MacArthur mare Per-
sist finally came to light on Saturday
with a very comfortable win in the
10-furlongs January Handicap, for
which she started favorite at threes.
Opposed by a particularly weak field,
Persist gave her jockey (A. Ward)
the proverbial armchair ride; she
had them covered all the way, and,
moving up to take the lead at will
near the distance, went on to beat
Crown Street by a couple of lengths,
with Belle Amber third.
With the early leader, N. Sellwood,
off the scene for the remainder of
the season, the jockeys’ premiership
has the makings of a very close race.
Prior to Monday’s racing Sellwood
still led the field with 21 winners.
Close on his heels were D. Munro
(19$), W. Cook (19), A. Ward (18)
and B. Smith (17). Arthur Ward
rode his way into the picture with
an excellent treble on Saturday. In
addition to winning on Persist, Ward
took both two-year-old events. The
Sledmere Handicap for fillies he won
on Shelltom, a daughter of White
Ensign, and the Sunnyside Handicap
he took out with the Delville Wood
colt Hydrogen.
At 3200 guineas Hydrogen was one
of the top-priced lots at the last
Sydney yearling sales, and he looks
likely to prove a fair buy at the
price. As he is by Delville Wood
from the Magpie mare Sweet Sound,
Hydrogen’s name doesn’t appear to
bear much relation to his breeding.
He is owned by E. R. Williams, who
has another successful two-year-old
named Nitrogen, and has evidently
decided to solve the increasing diffi-
“Up y' get, Tiger. You'll be getting housemaid's knees."
culty of finding names for his horses
by taking a run through the 92
elements. Some of them make quite
fair-sounding names, but it is to be
hoped Mr. Williams calls a halt before
he has the broadcasters trying to
cope with Dysprosium, Neodymium,
Praseodymium, Protoactinium and
Ytterbium.
• ♦ • •
The sight of a real champion over-
coming difficulties to win (or even,
sometimes, be beaten) like a real
champion is a spectacle that can make
the most phlegmatic racegoer get on
his feet and cheer. Certainly the
majority of those at Moonee Valley
on Saturday seemed to be risking
extensive damage to their lungs as
they watched Comic Court add the
William Reid Stakes to his grand
record —and do so in grand style.
What a real champion he is! His
Melbourne Cup win alone would
stamp him as such. Yet, having won
the two-miler with 9.5 in Australasian
record time, a performance which
would be a fitting climax to any
horse’s career, this fellow comes out
at his next start, first-up after a three-
months’ spell, and shatters the course
record for the odd Moonee Valley
distance of six furlongs less 20yds.
He knocked out the journey in 1.95.
The previous course record was I.los
and the previous race record 1.11,
set, oddly, by Comic Court’s full-
brother Comedy Prince.
Regardless of what time had been
recorded, Saturday’s win would still
have been an outstanding perform-
ance. From the start Dornoch made
the pace a sizzler; Comic Court
could not stick it, and he was stone-
last with three furlongs to go. As
they rounded the turn Comic Court
gathered in a number of the others,
but he was still five lengths behind
the crack three-year-old Flying Halo,
and the short Moonee Valley straight
is not the place to concede classy
opposition that much start. Never-
theless concede it Comic Court did,
and 251 b. to boot; a tremendous
finishing burst bridged the gap and
gained a short-half-head decision.
Iron Duke was an excellent third and
Chicquita fourth.
Comic Court now has had 24 wins,
10 seconds and 2$ thirds from 48
starts. He is very high now on the
list of Australian stake-winners.
Saturday’s win raised his total to
£43,245 and took him past Gloam-
ing’s £43,100. Ahead of Comic Court
now are only Amounis with £48,297
and Phar Lap with £56,425 won in
Australia.
• • • • •
Also having his first run since the
Melbourne Cup, the dual Derby
winner Alister was not greatly
troubled to dispose of a weakish field
in the mile Park Handicap. Alister
carried the fairish plaster of 9.9, but
he was racing well within himself all
the way, and, striding through the
field as they came into the straight,
he won on the bit from Daksha and
Lohengrin.
Coming from Adelaide with a
record of four wins and a third from
her only five starts, the two-year-old
filly Peak of Arran (H. Patching)
went out a red-hot favorite for the
first Melba Handicap, and she lived
up to her reputation. Nevertheless
those who had laid the books 2-to-l-
on had some nasty moments as the
favorite, after leading all the way,
was very fast being overhauled by
Echo Star near the finish. Peak of
Arran just lasted it out to win by a
half-length; she is a daughter of
High Peak-Moonya, and certainly has
a neat turn of speed.
The second division of the Melba
saw another odds-on favorite success-
ful—-this time the Dhoti filly Theka,
who, with Purtell up, comfortably
disposed of La Novia and Vanacara.
To record briefly other results, Bar-
tonge (K. Tresize) won the mfle
Blarney Handicap, Bold Bell (R.
Irons) the Monash Trial (13f.) and
Winlake (L. Lott) the Banjo Paterson
Highweight.
* * * ♦
M.C.C. skipper Fred Brown last
visited these parts with Jardine in
1932. Recalling the damage inflicted
on the opposition during that memor-
able tour Brown must now be wonder-
ing if Nemesis is not relentlessly
pursuing him as he surveys the grim
array of casualties his own chaps
have suffered during the present tour.
Latest addition to a lengthy list, the
M.C.C.’s grand little wicketkeeper
Godfrey Evans, who, in a match at
Renmark (S.A.), committed the classic
error of forgetting to duck; in con-
sequence he stopped the tail-end of a
blind swipe with his nose.
Tire Renmark match was one versus
South Australian Country, and was
marked principally by the hefty
bowling performance turned-in by
a hitherto unheard-of trundler
named Lou Curtis. Bowling prin-
cipally a medium-fast outswinger,
Curtis scuttled nine of the visitors at
a cost of 60 runs off 14 overs. It
seems a mite tough on the tourists
to pull an item like Mr. Curtis from
up the sleeve after inflicting Iverson
upon them in the Tests. Neverthe-
less, despite Curtis’s almost unique
effort, the Englishmen were able to
win reasonably comfortably by an
innings and 25 runs —M.C.C., 233;
S.A. Country, 84 and 124.
* * ♦ ♦
The N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion’s fantastic ill-luck with the
weather really surpassed itself in the
early stages of the Australian Cham-
pionships, which have been played
intermittently at White City, Sydney,
over the past week or so. With post-
ponement after postponement, and
the American visitors Larsen and
Savitt booked to return home tonight
(Wednesday), the situation was fast
becoming impossible. Finally the
powers-that-be were moved to take
the unprecedented step of giving per-
mission for play to be held on Sun-
day and admission to be charged.
It was stressed that such action was
taken in consideration of the extra-
ordinary circumstances and that it was
not to be looked upon as a precedent.
No doubt it will not be as far as
concerns the tennis people, but it will
surprise if the not-distant-futurc does
not see partisans of some other sports
leaning a little weight to push in this
thin edge of the wedge.
Theoretically Australia should be
sitting on top of the tennis world.
We hold the Davis Cup, have a good
crop of young players nearing their
top and a promising bunch of
younger youngsters coming along.
America has lost to the professional
ranks such players as Kramer, Parker
and Gonzales, while Schroeder seems
past his best. Yet, after watching
play in earlier rounds of the Aus-
tralian championships (with the finals
still to be decided at time of writing)
a few doubts crept in. Certainly it
is impossible at this time to name
with any confidence our team for the
next Cup defence. Sedgman, yes.
But outside of him the field is wide,
open and definitely below his stan-
dard.
• • • • •
Possibly two of the most pertinent
matches in the championships, with
the testing medium each time the
American Larsen, were those in
which Sidwell and, later, Rose were
eliminated. Both took Larsen to
five sets. Sidwell might yet play his
way back into the Davis Cup team.
He has been having a spell from big
tennis, and was in need of a good
gallop, but nevertheless gave Larsen
a pretty torrid time before the
American clinched the match at 5-7,
6-2, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1. Leaving Sedgman
out of the discussion, the young Vic-
trian Merv Rose is much the most-
improved of the youngsters who
toured with the last Cup team. A
left-hander, he has the strokes and
the mobility. As well, he uses his
head. Others of the young players,
while brilliant stroke-makers, seem
content to just take each point as it
comes along, and to play without any
planned system or method. Rose
impresses as thinking all the time.
Particularly noticeable is his quick-
ness to change a losing game—to do
something different when things are
going wrong, instead of simply allow-
ing them to continue to go wrong to
the inevitable conclusion. Rose, at all
events, went close to beating Larsen,
who finally won 6-2, 3-6, 5-7, 6-4,
6-2. All credit, incidentally, to
Larsen for winning as he did after
being badly down in the vital fourth
set and having to contend with a
shamefully-partisan crowd.


MAKING ■ AUSTBftII-tf STRONG.
WOOL
c/othes the World
Illustration shows Wor-
sted Combing In an
Australian Woollen Mill.
(Noble Comb).
RonaWssn-lippett
Play their Part!
The National call Is
for Production. Develop-
ment and Defence. The
Ronaldson - Tippett
Organisation inserts
this announcement in
a spirit of good
citizenship.
w*
WOOLGROWING Is the nation's greatest strength. The
Industry has a proud record in the past . . . and will
play an immense part in strengthening the Nation
against the adversities ol peace and war in the future.
We are privileged to serve the Woolgrower with
Engines (Petrol, Kerosene and Diesel), Shearing and
Jetting equipment, Woolpresses, Electric Lighting Plants
and thus, by aiding his efficiency, play our part in
making Australia STRONGI
RONALDSON BRC3. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 638 Bourke Street. N.S.W, Distbrs.;
Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Fraser House, 43
Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’land Distbrs.: Ronaldson
Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 137
Eagle St., BRISBANE,
mam
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLT RAXESs
Single Booms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 33/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
m
mm
«*
■ s
a
lUII!
fgm
11
■
HH k | t mrn&mm
_
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
•*
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sioh t s,
Prismatic Comp&sses*
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
fs
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fighting Fruit-fly.
“Nedrium”: Victoria, spend-
ing £25,000, aims to eradicate,
not “limit” or “control,” fruit-
fly (B. 10/1/’5l). The State
knows the job must be absolutely
complete or it is useless.
Victoria is not so badly in-
fested as neighboring States. In
the last half-century there have
been very few outbreaks—the
most notable being at Mildura
in the mid-’twenties. Lately the
Sale district of Gippsiand has
been invaded by Queensland
fruit-fly.
This fly has caused great Havoc
in South Australia, N.S.W. and
Queensland, Nearly £500,000
has been spent in S.A. in the
last three years to combat it.
Essentially there is little differ-
ence between the Queensland fly
and the world-wide Ceratitis.
Both thrive in Mediterranean
zones, being the most serious
fruit pests known, attacking
every kind of edible fruit. Host
plants include boxthorn and
blackberries, which must there-
fore be included in any eradica-
tion campaign.
The main barrier to fruit-
fly spread is climatic. They are
not resistant to cold—complete
mortality follows exposure of
two weeks to freezing-point con-
ditions. It has been found that
they cannot become a serious
pest in any country where the
mean monthly temperature falls
below 10 degrees centigrade for
three or four consecutive
months. This is why fruit-fly
can never become permanently
established in England, and why
the Tasmanians haven’t much
worry about it. In Hawaii, the
climate allows up to 16
generations to breed every year.
In non-infested southern areas
of Australia stringent control
measures are essential to pre-
vent the fly making the most of
the occasional favorable clim-
atic seasons.
Strip fruit from all trees
within miles of the outbreak.
Mere burying, without boiling,
is of no use whatever. On the
borders of the eradication areas,
control areas are established
where D.D.T. spraying every
three weeks is the rule. Sweet-
baiting is also a good routine.
Fruit-fly eradication means
absolute quarantine, more
rigorous than that W.A. uses to
keep codlin-moth away. In-
spection of airways cargoes is
becoming more and more im-
portant. The nation-wide way
is the only worth-while way of
attacking the two fruit-flies, as it
also i§ in soil-conservation,
where conflicting State advice
and services can cause a first-
class muddle within a dozen
years,
Footrot in Cattle.
“J.R.D.”: Heavy rainfall in
eastern Australia has caused
one of the worst outbreaks of
footrot in cattle—particularly
dairy cattle —for many years.
This disease —also known as
“foul in the foot” —while not
serious enough to cause deaths
without secondary infections,
affects the cream cheque by put-
ting cows off their milk and
spreads rapidly through a herd
where muddy conditions keep
the hooves soft and liable to in-
jury on stones or sharp sticks.
First symptoms are lameness,
by which time swelling of the
foot and lower part of the limb
can be detected. Cattle lose con-
dition chiefly through disinclina-
tion to put any weight on the
affected foot, and the resultant
drop in milk production is
seldom regained unless early
treatment is effected.
Standing the animal in a blue-
stone footbath is of some little
value but gives best results when
used in conjunction with other
treatment. Aim at prevention
by clearing the cow-yard and
gateways and immediate ap-
proaches of sharp, protruding
rocks or of any other objects
likely to injure the softened
hoof and facilitate entry of the
footrot wog. Concrete floors in
cow-yards may appear a need-
less expensive to many dairy-
farmers, but they pay dividends.
A trough or footbath between
the holding yard and the en-
trance to the bails can be
charged with bluestone at the
rate of lib. to Igal. water and
will not only keep down feet
infection but will go far toward
keeping the bails clean.
Sulphapyridine (60 grammes
dissolved in 16 fl. oz. of water) in-
jected into the jugular vein
arrests the disease within a few
days, but is not suitable for
general use. Intravenous in-
jections are a vet.’s job—
particularly with a dose of this
volume —and unless carefully
handled, this drug causes irrita-
tion and scalding if it comes in
contact with the skin of the
animal.
Sulphamezathine is safer and
simpler to handle. It is available
in a number'’of forms, but the
most suitable for footrot is
sulphamezathine 33| per cent,
solution. The dose is 15 c.c. per
1001 b. bodyweight—the average
dairy cow needs approximately
3 fl. oz. to 3i fl. oz. (90-105c.c.).
Inject it under the skin of the
neck, taking care not to damage
the flesh. Inject slowly, and if
too much pressure is required to
put it in one spot, withdraw the
needle and inject half in an-
other part of the neck.
If a 20c.c. syringe is used,
sterilise it and the needles
thoroughly by boiling before
use. It will take five syringefuls
to complete the dose, so after
the first injection detach syringe
from needle, leaving latter in the
skin, refill syringe and fit it to
base of needle again. If a metal
or all-glass syringe of sufficient
capacity to hold the full dose
can be obtained, so much the
better. One injection is usually
sufficient for a complete cure
within a few days, but if the
disease persists after three or
four days, give a second dose.
Sulphamezathine 33 j per
cent, solution is usually put in
single dose bottles (100c.c.) and
five-dose size (500c.c.). Don’t be
tempted to use 16 p.c. sulpha-
mezathine solution, which is
specially prepared for the treat-
ment of coccidiosis in chickens.
Zebu Dairy Herds?
“Oxo”; Dr. John Hammond,
animal-husbandry specialist of
Cambridge University (Eng.),
contends that crossing Jerseys
w T ith Sindhi Zebus, as is being
done in the U.S.A., or Friesians
-with Sahiwal Zebus, as is
being done in Jamaica, would
be worth trying in the northern
areas of Australia.
Dairy cattle, he points out,
can stand very low temperatures,
but when night temperatures
rise above 70 deg. F. they
generally show signs of distress.
This lack of heat adaptation had
prevented dairy breeds becom-
“An' give us a straw , mate—he Won't drink unless I drink
with him.”
ing established in the tropics,
and it seemed that the only
solution was to cross certain
dairy breeds with the zebus,
which could withstand tempera-
tures up to 100 deg. F.
The basic reason for lack of
heat tolerance is that the
standard dairy breeds have no
sweat glands in the skin, and
the fibrous material which forms
the bulk of their food provides
more heat than is required to
maintain body temperature.
Breathing and the evaporation
of moisture from the lungs,
mouth and tongue does not dissi-
pate this surplus heat.
The heat tolerance of the
zebu is due to the presence of
sweat glands in the skin and the
mass of loose skin forming the
big dewlap. By virtue of their
color, Jersey cattle are more
heat-resistant than other British
breeds, but their resistance is
small compared with zebu cattle.
First-generation heifers from
a Red Sindhi-Jersey cross are
comparing favorably in quantity
and quality of milk with their
Jersey dams at the Belleville ex-
periment station (U.S.A.), and
have shown that they can stand
higher temperatures than Jerseys
or Friesians of the same age.
These heifers are from matings
of Red Sindhi zebu bulls and
high-producing purebred Jersey
cows, the heifers being then
mated back to the Sindhi bulls.
These three-quarter zebu dairy
calves show a slight hump, and
have the large ears of the zebu,
but in color resemble Jerseys.
Cure Your Own Bacon.
“Koo-wee-rup”: Brine-curing
is effective if the following pro-
portions of ingredients are used
in the curing mixture. For
every 1001 b. of meat mix 121 b.
of coarse salt, 51b. of brown-
sugar and 3oz. of finely-crushed
saltpetre. Take sufficient of the
mixture to rub well into the
meat, then let it drain for at
least a day. Dissolve the re-
mainder in a cauldron or cop-
per, taking care to cover com-
pletely with water. The right
density and salinity is assured if
a potato will float in the brine.
Bring slowly to boiling-point,
removing scum as it rises. Strain
into a clean pickling-tub, and
when cold pack the meat in and
keep it submerged with weights.
Bacon, being thinner than
hams and shoulders, will be
cured first, and should be taken
out of the brine earlier. To
counteract the hardening effect
of saltpetre add 3oz. of pearlash
to the pickle. Time of opera-
tion is determined by size of
side, about three weeks on the
average.
For dry salting use 121 b. of
coarse salt, 61b. of brown-sugar
and 6oz. of saltpetre for every
1001 b. of meat. Crush the salt-
petre fine, and before mixing it
with salt and sugar rub some
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The floods on the Hunter make it appear that a distortion
in the series has been occasioned by the recent strong sun-
spot outbreak. Such distortions often occur. Normally
there should be a pause after the mid-January rains, with
heavy rains later, and it is possible that the great spot
increased the rains and put them in a new way in com-
bination with the flood group which I had predicted for later
on. If that is so, the quiet period should now take place
and the next disturbance wait for a fresh sunspot outbreak,
of which at the last sunspot 'observation just taken there is
no sign. Southern heat and fires are part of the cycle, and
seem likely to continue, except for occasional storms. This
season should not be as wet as last, and a normal fine frosty
winter seems to be coming, except for a gale on the central
Queensland coast late in July. Late in February the cycles
show further heavy rain in the tropics and down the eastern
margin, but not elsewhere to any great extent.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
a
Consult us foT
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MU-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
HEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pita and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, SO/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. 0.0.D.’g plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
-,o treat a Cylinder Engine. I
snclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 31/1/’6l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY*
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7230
\ * y
M
MM
mm
>
m
/
s\
smamma
omsanE
6uf~
COOL AS A C&CUMBEn
MME
Thanks to
8.1 St/iqwo of Insulation
ill
l&Oa
•mmmm
B.I
i
cW DOt/
SI*
/
■
TELEPHONES; SYDNEY, MA931.1 • MELBOURME-; MU3SOE
BRISBANE, 83504 • ADELAIDE,’ C 7257 • PERTH, 121Q7
you CAN -HAVE A
IN yOCTR COONTRX HOME
m
with
ELECTRICITY
THE WIND
WITH QUIRK’S WIND-DRIVEN LIGHTING PLANT
Here's the end of washday drudgery
for every country housewife. With this
modern electric Laundretfe you can
wash— r i n se —and spin dry your clothes
without touching them. And, best of
all, this wonderful machine operates
from a Quirk's Wind Driven Lighting
Plant. ,
Operating in winds as low as 5 m.p.h.,
this plant will provide economical elec-
tricity for all your lighting and house-
hold appliances.
Supplied as a complete unit with
batteries, or as an addition to your
present engine-driven plant, the saving
in fuel and upkeep will amply repay the
purchase price of Windlite.
Quirk's Windlite plants cost nothing to
run —need no attention whatever, apart
from a yearly change of oil. Available
in either 12, 32, or 50 volt sizes.
Windlite is a necessity that no country
man or woman can afford to overlook.
Quirk’s are also suppliers of electrical
goods which can be operated by Wind-
life—fans, radios, cake mixers, vacuum
cleaners, dishwashers, and washing
machines.
Obtainable from
QUIRK’S VICTORY
229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LIGHT CO
Phone M 3114
■
W"
on the fleshy part of each side
to draw out blood. Mix the re-
mainder thoroughly and put a
layer of it on a clean bench.
For the first two days give
each piece a good rubbing with
the mixture and place one on top
of the other on the salting bench,
reversing their positions daily.
Place some of the mixture under
and on top of each piece, keep-
ing the fleshy side always upper-
most.
Opening the shoulder and
buttock joints and working some
of the mixture well in ensures
even curing. There’s less risk
of meat going bad if shoulder-
blade and haunch-bones are re-
moved. Average time of curing
(dry) is 14 to 21 days. To pre-
vent rustiness and salt encrusta-
tion soak the cured sides or
pieces in clean water for 12
hours, scrub well, dry with cloth
and hang out in airy, shady spot
to dry.
Salt-licks.
“K.Mc.”: Tests by agricul-
tural officers in N. S. Wales
show that under ordinary con-
ditions sheep gain no benefit
from salt-licks. At Wagga three
groups of five- to seven-months-
old Dorset Horn lambs were
used. After experimenting 307
days the results were:
Av.
weight
Group. gained.
No lick 82.81 b.
Salt lick 82.0 „
Salt and limestone .. .. 79.8 „
The second group consumed
2401 b. of lick and the third group
3961 b. Despite these results the
department recommends a salt-
lick (or preferably 2 per cent,
ground limestone mixed with
feed) when sheep are fed on
grain or cereal chaff.
I once saw 400 sheep die out
of a mob of 1100 which had
been moved from sweet, undu-
lating country on to somewhat
sour tableland pastures. The
change of feed upset their diges-
tive systems, but salt immedi-
ately remedied hundreds of sick
survivors. The way they
responded to the salt-lick proved
to me that under some condi-
tions salt is essential for sheep.
Ticks Bad in the North.
“Outback”; Charles N. Aplin,
of Huonfels, Georgetown, says
1950 was a terrific year for
ticks, and because of this
graziers didn’t get the benefits
they should have from such a
splendid season. Despite con-
stant dipping ticks are still
plentiful on Huonfels, but where
it had been possible to keep the
commercial cattle fairly clean
they were generally in good
order. However, it needed a de-
lay of only a couple of weeks
in dipping and the trouble again
hit hard.
The Aberdeen-Angus, though
loaded up with ticks, had
always survived to date, and
Aplin thought he would prob-
ably go completely “black” from
now on. He has had many cases
of other breeds lying down as
soon as they were mustered, in
some cases not travelling more
than 200yds,
Huonfels lost heavily in bulls
this year, but there were no
losses among the young
Aberdeen-Angus crossbreds —
a remarkable tribute to the
“blacks,” which were intro-
duced to Huonfels a couple of
years ago by stock from
Sarum, Texas and Abington.
Pine-trees.
“Nota Bene”: Some confu-
sion has arisen regarding the
terms Pinus radiata and Finns
insignis for the commercial pine
grown successfully in Australia
and New Zealand. This has
been caused by two botanists
publishing independent descrip-
tions of the same tree under
differing names.
The tree was first described
by D. Don, who published his
report in 1837 and named it
Pinus radiata. In 1844 D. Doug-
las published a more detailed
and accurate description under
the name of Pinus insignis. How-
ever, in accordance with the
rules of botanical nomencla-
ture, the earlier name has
priority and is therefore the
correct one.
These are not the only names
by which this pine is known;
many people still refer to it as
remarkable pine, or Monterey
pine, the last referring to its
land of origin, the Monterey
Peninsula, California.
Pinus radiata grows bigger
and matures more rapidly in
Australia than in its native
U.S.A, Here it attains a height
of 100 ft. in 20 to 25 years,
whereas in the U.S.A. double the
is taken to reach that
height. In South Australia
alone, something like 120,000
acres are under this pine, with
at least 8000 acres being planted
each year. A large percentage
of the area is owned and con-
trolled by private companies.
Hints for the Farm.
“A-Jay”; The butter-fat test
of skim-milk is of importance to
dairyfarmers. If skim-milk
shows a test of 0.06 per cent,
there is little to worry about, but
any figure above that represents
an avoidable loss. Either the
separator needs attention or con-
ditions, such as the temperature
of the milk or the speed of the
separator, are not suitable. A
dairyfarmer separating 150
gallons of milk a day would lose
about £5O a year if his skim-
milk tested 0.13 per cent, instead
of 0.06 per. cent.
“Inver”: Topping of broad-
beans should be done when
they’re 3ft. or 4ft. high. Pinch
out the growing tips of the stems.
The first stems seldom produce
many beans, so nip their tops
when they’re about 12in. to 18in.
high. This will cause the for-
mation of more side stems, on
which most of the crop is borne.
If the tops are chopped and
cooked like spinach they are
palatable,
“C.A.A.”: Soybean is a good
stock-food, but because of its
high oil content it can be fed in
limited quantities only. For
horses and cattle the bean
should be ground, though it can
be fed whole to other stock. One-
quarter of the concentrate ration
as a protein and general food
supplement is advised. Sheep
can absorb larger quantities, pigs
up to 10 per cent, in their ration
and poultry 5 per cent.
“Beau Forte”: Most ex-
perienced dairymen have trained
themselves to detect a cow due
to calve in the next 12 hours.
The beginner can watch his cow
carefully and feel for the char-
acteristic softening of the liga-
ments along the tail-end that
indicates close approach to
calving. Knowing when to be
present may save a calf’s life.
“Big Billy”: It is now a good
time to replace silver-beet and
other spring-grown greens with a
new sowing for use from late
summer to the following Sep-
tember. Fortnightly applications
of manure made from sulphate
of ammonia loz. to the gallon
or liquid manure will promote
good growth. Don’t overcrowd.
When harvesting pull with a
downward motion so as not to
leave a butt. Six plants are suffi-
cient for average needs; where
more are sown the leaves can be
used with advantage for poultry.
“M.”; Feed pumpkins, mar-
rows, squashes and cucumbers
with liquid animal manure,
diluted about eight to one, and in
hot weather keep them well
watered. Hand pollinate the
blooms early in the day, prefer-
ably before sunrise. Failure to
set fruit is often due to faulty
pollination.
“K.T.”: In hot weather keep
a watchful eye on poultry.
Plenty of shade should be pro-
vided, preferably with trees. All
water utensils should be kept in
the shade, so that the birds will
have cool water. Losses are
more likely to occur in heavy
breeds during hot weather, so
give them a little extra atten-
tion.


NUFF
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
FARM-PROVED THROUGHOUT THE COMMOHWEALTH
/OEM. /UfSntAMW COA/O/T/OA/S
pit
li
p'p- :
I i i ;l
*
'%■ ' ';
m
3 f i y i
'(VWVX>V ! ' » F f., jf'-XWM ,Ok < >*,'V v ™Cy » ' fv
> «.. &• / ! > v '?^ v^' ,!s vfv / #
: ; •;* • • -: : ’;'
: " : - y
vfej; . '' .•/ . ••/<• •;
?4 : , , , - '
i .. :
M
I • kim
iH
wsrk
mm
iM
The NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL HAS
EVERYTHING . . . 6-way power, 5
forward speeds, independent fuel cir-
cuits, anti-hunting governor, adjustable
track.
It is an exceptional Tractor built
and backed by a name you can
trust!
Full details and specifications
available from State distributors.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR VICTORIA & SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd., 208-218 Russell
Street, Melbourne, C.l 'Phone; JM 1555. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR QUEENSLAND & NORTHERN RIVERS
(N.S.W.); Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd., 457 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. 'Phone: B 2420. Branches at: 1
Railway Street, Toowoomba. 'Phone: 2733. 126
Woodlark Street, Lismore. 'Phone: 1802. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND BROKEN HILL;
Kingsway Limited, 118-120 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
'Phone: Central 6870. DISTRIBUTORS FOR WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.. 926-928 Hay
Street, Perth (Temporary Premises). 'Phone: B 7913. DIS-
TRIBUTORS FOR TASMANIA: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., 38-38
Argyle Street. Hobart. ’Phone: 4061. DISTRIBUTORS FOR
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited. 213-217 Elisabeth
Street, Sydney. 'Phone: MA 6357. (Next to
T. & G. Building.)
(Above.) NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL
TRACTOR trailing 3-furrow mould-
board plough. Width of cut 12 in. Cut-
ting to a depth of 5 in. (The NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL works all types of equip-
ment, mounted or trailing.)
The Nuffield Universal Has
Everything ... Does Everything
NAP/M/N2/
Also Sold and Serviced
by Authorised Nuffield
Dealers Throughout the
Commonwealth.
DEALER
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
or
T
Drink and enjoy
WOLFE’S schnapps
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR ME N _
rubbish heaps, also without re-
• suit, with Towser sitting by,
tongue out, and as if deliber-
ately poking it out at me.
Then, much to Theodosia’s
artistic satisfaction that the
soundness of her theory had
been proven, and while they
were bemoaning the sad and in-
convenient fact that the iron-
monger in the town did not stock
odd hobnailed boots, Towser,
wagging his tail furiously, came
across the yard with the lost
boot in his mouth, promptly sat
down, poised it between his
paws and, sniffing its succulent
muttony flavor, made ready to
chew it. I retrieved it.
Bar a few light teeth-marks,
he hadn’t made any impression
on it—my aromatic, hobnailed
boots were dog-proof. It was
placed beside its mate up on the
mantelpiece.
AND so I continued to clump,
clump about again, and,
walking along the dusty roads,
volleys of dust exploded and
went drifting away as I cannoned
on. When I walked across the
paddocks the small flowers fell
slaughtered, squashed and for
ever flattened. Under my bare
feet they used to shake them-
selves and get up again; but not
now. And I couldn’t run a rab-
bit to its hideout, jump over
high logs or leapfrog tall stumps.
Heavy going now.
At night-time I now kept my
boots slung high up over one of
the rafters away from Towser,
for we used to keep him inside
the house of a night so that when
any prowler came round Towser
would tear frantically round and
round inside the house barking in
a most terrifying manner as if
frothing at the mouth to get out
and tear anybody to pieces;
which looked and felt good for
us, whereas, when we left him
outside of a night, he’d chum-up
with any straggler and do no
more than lick his hand.
One night, inside, he woke us
all up with loud and persistent
barking, and I got up to investi-
gate, and there he was sitting in
the middle of the room barking
just like when he used to go out
and tree a possum at night.
The moonlight was slanting into
the room through the top of the
window and showed my boots in
silhouette, hanging on the
rafter like a possum. Towser
had scented them, and he was
set for a night’s barking. I had
to get them down and hang
them up outside the house, and
Theodosia said I’d better put
them in the safe so that the
blowflies couldn’t blow them —
another one of her theories.
ONE day, though, one of the
nuisances called instead of
at night (an Indian hawker) and
kept smiling at Mother, took no
notice of her when she said she
didn’t want to buy anything, and
kept saying “Per-etty face.
Per-etty face.”
“Go away, sir,” Mother said.
And then I said “Go on, get
away from our place!”
He took no notice of me, and
as Mother was looking a bit
frightened, I thought of my
boots, my terrible boots, and I
rushed at him and kicked him
as hard as I could on his thin
shin; kicked him like I used to
let the calves have it in the belly
with my bare foot. I must have
hurt him terribly, for he
screamed out and began to hop
round and round on one foot,
holding his hurt leg in his hands
as he kept yelling.
My boots felt bigger, harder,
stronger, heavier.
I was walking round and
round him, ominously, threaten-
ingly, my right foot ready to let
him have the hobnails on his
other thin shin.
“Get! ” I yelled, “or I’ll smash
your shins in!” X think I could
have.
He thought so, too, I think.
He danced away, revolving
round to shake his fist at
me and yell out in his own
language as I followed slowly,
threateningly; stood watching
him until the bend in the road
swallowed him,
THEN I looked at my boots
and thought of the*swaggies
who used to come hanging
round—just wait until Dirty Bob
came again asking had we pen
and ink, could he come in and
sit down at our table and write
to his mother m Sydney!
Theodosia, proud as Punch of
me now, retired Towser to the
outside of the house of a night,
and that untrustworthy watch-
dog returned to his old habit of
treeing a possum and sitting
barking at it all night long.
The family morale was up
without Towser’s company, they
had the hobnailed boots in his
stead, and it only needed the
least commotion around the
house and I’d pull on my wea-
pons. If Theodosia heard any-
thing that sounded the least bit
suspicious she’d wake me up and
whisper “Ssh! Put on your
boots!”
They’d been cast in England,
British bulldogs they were, and,
after they’d seen service for
many years, were retired to our
shed, where they brooded, still
ferocious-looking, their old’hob-
nails glaring, their upturned
snout still as pugnacious as
ever; so much so that I think-
our cat used to give them a wide
berth when she had occasion to
pass their way, and even
Speckles, our game fighting
rooster, trod warily past them
it was Theodosia who put the
old warriors in the shed—
another of her theories She
sa id they’d keep the foxes away
from the fowls,
A ND now, still at it, Thco-
** dosia has a theory that
when I’m old my mind will go
back to my early barefooted
days when I roamed the roads
and paddocks like a blackfellow,
felt the earth between my toes,
the soft grass under the soles of
my feet, and that some day, on
my birthday, all the members of
our family will be congregated
and sitting up stiff and proper,
when, all of a sudden, there will
be looks of horror, disgust and
consternation as one of my
grandchildren calls out exult-
ingly “Ugh, look! Gran’pa’s
sitting at the table without any
boots and socks on!”
by the lead on his head.
Quickly they scrambled back.
Most sailors know the stoker
who, a bit out of station, opened
the breech of a 4in. gun in Mel-
bourne to show his popsy
“where the bullet went,” and
found he couldn’t shut it. He
overcame his difficulty with an
airy “She’s right! All breeches
are left open till sunset.”
Vampire’s pom-pom crew, all
stokers, in the next few seconds
wiped out the stain.
In charge was the chief-
stoker, a veteran of Greece and
Crete. He was watching for a
good target. There came sud-
denly the screaming banshee
wail of a diving plane. It
pulled out 20ft. above the sea,
a colorless streak. A crash of
cannon shells and bullets slashed
a powdery path, into the sea
hundreds of yards ahead. The
fighter whipped over in a tight
turn and came driving in again,
brown balls of smoke breaking
from his nose and wings. Still
the stokers waited. Then as he
hauled his nose up, exposing his
dirty under-belly, the chief
shouted. The lines of tracer
reached out and nailed him ; his
smooth streamline erupted in
scores of vicious little ex-
plosions, the flying pieces plain
to see. He hit the water in a
slewing rush, sprayed a great
wall of water fan-wise before his
nose, and ploughed under.
Mentioned earlier was the
shell-like thinness of a de-
stroyer’s hull; the next bomb
sheared through to “A” boiler-
room and exploded among the
high-pressure steam-pipes. Super-
heated steam is a marvellously
efficient servant, and a frightful
master; its hot blast can peel
human skin like skinning a
soaked beetroot. From her
deck, and shattered hatches,
gouts of steam spouted up, till
her after-part was hidden in a
blanket of white.
That bomb finished her.
Almost stopped, the sea cream-
ing in hungrily over the starb’d
gunnle, rudder jammed hard-a-
starb’d, she staggered on through
a convulsed sea. Moran
ordered abandon-ship.
A bomb landing in the
vegetable-locker rained spuds
on the bridge and blew the
wheelhouse door in. The cox’n
stumbled to the break of the
fo’c’sle, and, joined by Cart-
wright, prepared to jump. As
they did a stick of three blew
her almost in halves abaft the
funnel. They surfaced in a
scum of black fuel-oil pouring
from her ruptured belly, and
struck out desperately through
the clinging, blinding muck to
clear the suction. Fifty yards,
and a plane caught “X”
magazine. The ship’s after-part
rose bodily in the air, then shat-
tered to pieces. One compart-
ment was left intact, and its air-
lock kept the rudder and screws
clear of the water, and the torn
red, white and blue of her
ensign. Then the air-lock col-
lapsed, and what was left of her
shuddered, heeled, then dropped
quickly under the scummy sea.
Clinging to rafts and spars, her
company watched her go. The
first-lieutenant kept himself up
with a football in his arms; on
one raft they hauled a ghastly
figure out of the sea. It was a
stoker from “A” boiler-room.
The ship’s doctor, Surgeon-
Lieutenant Russell, swam from
raft to raft doing what he could.
Others, conditioned by those
calm hours in the water of Trin-
comalee harbor, kept their oil-
blinded mates up on arms and
shoulders.
About 4 p.m. a hospital-ship
hove in sight and lowered boats.
She was the Vita, whose crew
destroyer Waterhen had rescued
one day off Tobruk, when she’d
been opened by Stukas. Ex-
hausted faces lit up as she
approached; the bosun’s mate
pulled a pipe from his overalls
pocket and yelled with cheery
hoarseness:
“Swimming-party clear the
water!”
At 10 the next night the Vita
pulled in to Colombo. Moian
and nine stokers stayed with
Vampire.


KatmblMted 1888
Comtrmeton to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jAcmsm*
iiftia aj
WlBlTe**** MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Inoorporatln*
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, taper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
OKAS OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
UTTZinUS A OFFSET PRINTER*
UTBOGRAFHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVBSS
•IE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS. BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
df
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Coawoy Stewart fir Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Missing Friends.
Estate of ENA MAY MILLER, deceased.
—Would MARY JANE HOOK McPHER-
SON, or ANDREW ALFRED McPHER-
SON, or any person claiming to be
entitled through them, or any person
knowing their whereabouts please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
FOR VICTORIA, 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, where money is awaiting distribu-
tion.
Reed.
HAVE YOU TRIED THE
“HAPPY" MANTLE?
THESE ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
GENUINE "TILLEY” MANTLES WILL SURPRISE
AND DELIGHT YOU
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
ADEQUATE STOCKS ARE NOW AVAILABLE
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALERS.
IF IN ANY DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES;—
T. H. BENTLEY, Ptjr. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
ONLY
“ HAPPY ”
BEAR
fWS
* - f
REGD.
GENUINE
MANTLES
THIS SEAL!
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. ENGLAND
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Difficulties by
Seymour Hicks. —4976.
To buy two copies of Prendergast
by Lock. —4975.
To buy The Intimate Journal of
Paul Gauguin. —4974.
To hear from anyone able to
identify the 49 persons caricatured in
a double-page Alf Vincent drawing
“On the Sydney Block” which ap-
peared in The Bulletin, December
31, 1903- —4973.
Whereabouts of Norman Lilley and
Geoffrey Cumine, old-time Bulletin
poets.—4970.
Words of verse containing the
lines: —
What’s the vote of talkin’ _ .
When you’re stony broke and walkin 7
—4969.
Copy of London “Punch,” No-
vember 8, 1950, —4971.
Words of verse “A Party Down at
Cudmorc’s.”—4972.
To buy copy of How to Uve to Be
300 by S. Stefanon.—4981,
To buy copy of Teaching Iris
Auction Bridge. —4977.
To buy The Hay System Cookery
Book by Doris M. L. Grant and
Health via Food by William H. Hay.
—4980.
To buy copy of Fair Girls and
Gray Horses by Will Ogilvie.—4978.
Words of verse containing the
lines: —
You cannot fall however high your flight,
For you are always in your Father’s sight.
—4979.
Information Sought.
How are points allotted in a boxing
contest ?
Points are given in boxing contests
for clean hitting, aggressiveness and
cleverness. Referees usually allot five
points to a round, so that if one
boxer wins a round easily he gets all
five points, or the points are awarded
4 to 1 or 3 to 2, according to how
the round is won. Clean hits mean
jabs, counter-punches, blows to head
or body after breaking up a lead
and feinting your foe into a lead,
then following up with a clean punch.
For punches to be clean they must
be delivered with the knuckle part of
the glove. Aggressiveness is attack-
ing and constant leading. Crowding
an opponent without leading at him
is not real aggressiveness, but if the
attacker connects with clean leads he
gains many points. Fancy footwork
and consistently backing away is not
cleverness, but making a .boxer fight,
a fighter box, or causing an opponent
to perform at a disadvantage is con-
sidered clever. A boxer who blocks
or ducks leads and connects with
counter-punches also scores well.
Simply making leads miss, without
connecting with ft counter-punch,
gains no points, and credit goes to
the attacker for trying to fight
♦ * • *
Some details about the largest
astronomical telescope in the world,
and where is it housed ?
It is housed in Mount Palomar
Observatory, in California, at an
altitude of 5600 ft. The telescope is
of the reflector type; its mirror, made
of glass, with a film of aluminium,
has a diameter of 200 in., and weighs
14i tons. It will collect about half
a million times as much light from
a celestial object as does the human
eye, and reveal stars 1,000,000,000
light-years away. It will thus give
anew impetus to the study of cos-
mography and astrophysics of
phenomena outside our stellar system.
♦
Slang terms for the various persons
to. be seen at a two-up school?
Figures in the two-up world are the
centre, centre-man or ringie, the ring-
keeper ; the spinner, who tosses the
coins; the alley clerk, a battler who
arranges bets for a player, especially
if the latter is inexperienced; the
sleeper-catcher, a person who picks up
bets that have been left on the floor
too long (this is regarded as a legiti-
mate perquisite, the sleeper being a
bet or winnings not picked up by a
tardy backer); alley loafers, money-
less players who are never allowed a
seat round a ring; the toe-rag, a
hobo or deadbeat; a head, a profes-
sional gambler; a grouter, a gambler
who passes until the chances are in
his favor and then bets that the
spinner will throw out on the main;
and the virgin or mug, as any non-
professional player of the game is
known among the experts.
* * * •
Some particulars about Woodlark
Island, off the coast of Papua?
Woodlark Island was at one time
the chief goldfield of Papua. It was
here that the first payable goldfield
in the Territory was worked. It
received its name from Capt. Grimes
of the Woodlark, of Sydney, around
1836. The island, which is situated
north of the Louisiade Archipelago,
is about 38 miles in length, from
east to west. The two main centres
are Kulamadan (on the north coast),
where the principal mission-station is,
and Bonagai (on the west), which is
a police post. The island comprises
a succession of hills and valleys, and
is covered by dense tropical jungle.
The natives are of the Melanesian
type, but there is an admixture of
Papuan blood. The goldfield has
not been worked since the war,
although some prospecting is still
being carried on in the hope of
further good finds. From Woodlark
Island was obtained so-called “green-
stone” for axes, adzes, chisels and
ceremonial stones. The stone is an
impure serpentine almost as hard as
the nephrite (jade or greenstone) of
New Zealand.
* ♦ * •
Whaa is a lucernal microscope?
An optical instrument invented by
George Adams, and so called because
the image of the object observed is
thrown on a screen by the rays of
light from a lamp. An Argand lamp
is used to give the required light; it
is placed beyond the object, and a
light, after passing through a hemi-
sphere of glass, falls on a small
concave mirror, which reflects the
light on to the object. By the refrac-
tion of the light in passing through
the lenses, a highly-magnified image
of the object is formed on the screen.
* * * *
What are layer maps?
Maps in which the spaces between
different contours are tinted in dif-
ferent colors, and first introduced, in
1806, by Carl Ritter. Contour maps
immediately became easy to visualise.
Improvements in the mechanical pro-
cesses of color-printing and the use
of transparent colors have led to a
great development of layer maps. The
system of using colors in the order
of the spectrum, now almost universal,
was introduced by E. G. Ravenstein
in his map of Ben Nevis. In some
of the finer examples of modem
cartography the layer system is
supplemented by hill-shading in
transparent colors, giving the effect
of a relief map. The main drawback
to such maps is the cost of printing.
The specimen plate attached to the
report of the International Map
Conference of 1913 was printed at
the British War Office. It is a
masterpiece of layer-printing.
Brief Answers.
J.W.: Red Poll Cattle Breeders’
Association of Australia, care Royal
Agricultural Association of N. S.
Wales, Endeavour House, Macquane-
Place, Sydney C. 8.: Australia’s
Frontier Province by C. L. A. Abbott,
price 165., published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney H.E.C.: Aus-
tralia won the 1882 Test at The Oval
by 7 runs, but your story of the
Spofforth-Grace incident doesn’t fit
the facts. Spofforth took 7 for 46
and 7 for 44. In the first innings he
scored 4 not out, and in the second he
was bowled for a duck by Peate.
England required 84 runs m the
second innings, but could only manage
77 K.M.: York Fiction-Feature
Service, 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
J.W.: Write Secretary, Royal
Agricultural Society of N. S. Wales,
Endeavour House, Macquarie-place,
Sydney... .C.L.: From Frank Ham-
bridge Pty. Ltd., 22 Bridge-street,
Sydney M.M.: The Australian
Primary Producers’ Union, 101
Regent-street, Sydney R.McL.:
Leg-irons on Wings by J. F. Dwyer,
Kublished by Georgian House, Mel-
ournc, 1949 H.L.M.: In its
biography of Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, The Australian Encyclopedia
says “His attempt to banish snakes
from the precincts of Vaucluse by
surrounding the house with turf from
Ireland, and therefore endowed by
St. Patrick with antiophidian proper-
ties, is probably true. The bill of
lading for the imported soil was in
existence late in the last century”
G.C.M.: If you will give us the name
and address of the jeweller we will
make inquiries....K.P.T.: Joe Louis
was born at Lexington, Alabama,
U.S.A., on May 13, 1914. His real
name Joseph Louis Barrow... .C.M.:
Write Cement and Concrete Associ-
ation of Australia, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney....P.V.B.: (1) No. (2) Make
inquiries at the Exchange Control
Section, Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia, Perth... .M.McK.: Mary
Grant Bruce, care National Bank,
Melbourne 8.J.8.: National Art
Gallery of N.S.W., Sydney, states that
they have been unable to find in
their reference material any mention
of a painter signing himself Alexander
working in Australia.... W.G.R.:
Write Department of Immigration,
Canberra, A.C.T P,D.McC.: Aus-
tralian Books, 1949, issued by the
Commonwealth National Library,
Canberra, A.C.T A.M.W.: “An-
glers’ Digest,” official organ of the
Amateur Fishermen’s Association of
N.S.W., 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
Pars are not usually
acknowledged in this column; to» do
so would require pages. One of yours
is now in print J.A.BJ.: weu,
here goes: —
J.W.: “Tent Door” rather thin.
... .Bellerive: Enter a frolicsome
frog: —
B.S.G.L.: Quite nicely done, but
you’re hardly the first to have a cut
at red fingernails... .Hebridean:
Come again with something Aus-
tralian L.S.: Thanks for the
seasonal compliments. We return
them —with, alas, the poem A.E.:
You have a glimmer of poetry
there, lost in a horrid fug of jargon.
NJ.McG.: We don’t love babies
as much as we should... .D.A.8.:
Two lines then, which seem to
embody a profound truth: —
The students practise removing the brain,
The patients never go there again.
H.W.: Liked the bit about the
wallabies seeing the films, but your
Pegasus needs a lot of curry-combing.
....E.H.: The kookaburra got a
second reading... .C.N.G.: Sydney
poem neither good nor bad, but, like
Pinchgut, somewhere in the middle.
R.J.: Sorry; can’t place the
Anzac ballad... .R.N.:
Rushing, lashing, dashing, crashing.
Whirling, swirling, curling, coiling.
Playing, eddying, rippling, lapping.
Beckoning, calling, crying, drawing,
Whispering, lulling, cooing, sighing.
Roaring, bellowing , . .
Going, going, gone. -. .8.J.R.: You
really should take more care with
Miss Filbert M.L.: They all have
merit; but we prefer something more
directly Australian G.P.: Not for
us P.S.: Some feeling in it, but
the form’s loose. And why cobras
in the bush —haven’t we snakes of
our own?.. •. A.W.W.: Thousands
will be with you:—
If you travel to Spit Junction
From Manly at the sea
You’ll observe a scene of grandeur,
Nothing lovelier ever'could be.
S.O.M.: No, but it sheds a pleas-
ing light at the end J.G.: Nice of
its kind... .H.H.W.: Only in the final
couplet does it flow smoothly
W.H.R. (London); “Lucerne’s” a long
way off... .P.H.: Ballads too rough.
A.W. (Hobart): Seems promising.
Can’t you borrow a typewriter?....
Cris-Cross: In itself it’s not much of
a ballad; a pity you haven’t more
definite information on its origin—
it is not often we get a contribu-
tion from a bushranger L.L.H.
(Korea): Verse not up; you might
do better with pars... .S.J.R.: It got
a grin R.G.8.: Come up and
thunder then:
On the road to Watson’s Bay
Where you do nought else but pay
The fare that once was fourpence
Is now ninepence all the way.
... .R.L.K.: Even in our double-
Dutch dictionary we couldn’t find the
faintest clue to its meaning.
THE LUCK OF THE GAME.
Born out of wedlock, he made his debut.
His father a tyrant, his mother a shrew.
No choice in his birth, and no right to a
A misftTin life —’twas the luck of the
game.
Parental affection to him was denied.
His infantile longing for love was decried ;
As he sailed the rough seas of internecine
“Not 8 wanted on voyage” his label through
life.
Attaining to manhood and seeking a mate.
Attempting, poor devil, to conquer his
He found’ in his marriage, instead of relief,
New causes of sorrow, frustration and
grief.
At the end of the journey, neglected and
old.
The last struggle ended, the last chapter
told, ....
Unwept he returned to the dust whence
he came,
Unsung and unhonored —the luck of the
game.
THE F ROG AND THE TOAD.
“You drowsy good-for-nothing,”
Said a frog unto the toad,
“Get out in the open,
Out of your own road.”
“Freak,” the toad did answer,
“You’re active, bold and free.
I eat up little insects,
The fanners value me.”
“What you need’s a frolic,”
The sharp frog did reply,
“You live in dark seclusion
Till you pine away and die.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Power Crisis
The lack of illumination in many
N.S.W. homes and the frequent closure of
industrial plants for want of the power is
well matched by the utter failure
of the power of the Press and the
power of public opinion, which in other
years would have created such an uproar
over such a state of affairs as exists today
that no Government could have with-
stood the onslaught.
Where today are the criticisms which
such failures as the McGirrs would have
evoked pre-war? Where are the public
meetings which in bygone days would
have howled at the complacency of a
Government which permitted such a
national catastrophe as a permanent one-
third blackout of industry at a time when
the nation needs every moment of pro-
ductive time?
When a politician rises and states —as
did Mr. McGirr during the 1947 election
campaign—that he would not tolerate
blackouts and then proceeds to appoint a
highly paid official to “regulate” them,
then he invites the strongest condemna-
tion by his victims and dupes.
Today—in a new year promising to be
more troubled than any preceding it—we
find politicians more worried with dog-
racing inquiries and investigations into
the bona tides of businessmen’s clubs than
with the inability of the State’s generating
stations to supply the power necessary to
make our industrial works tick over and
light our homes in the winter evenings.
Bad as that is, infinitely worse is the fact
that we as a people have suffered such a
state of affairs to exist for so long and
have done so little about it.
The reason is not very hard to see.
Since 1939, when war-time conditions
provided opportunities for bureaucrats io
exercise their powers, our lives have been
so regulated and ordered that we have
lost the individuality that we were once so
proud of and have become ripe for taking
over by any totalitarian mob which cares
to assert its authority by the appointment
of commissioners and directors.
We, as a people, appear prepared to
accept without protest anything put over
us by any and every iack-M-office whose
edicts are backed by gazettal of regula-
tions or sponsored by a Minister.—
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Green Firebreaks
At the end of last year the shade
temperature went up to 103 degrees in
S.A., and there was a hot north wind with
gusts up to 40 m.p.h. A fire broke out in
the Nangwarry pine - plantation, and
within a few hours 3000 acres of pine-
trees, some of them 24 years old, were
destroyed. Damage has been estimated at
£200,000, but you can’t measure the loss
only in terms of money ; the S.A. Woods
and Forests Department is trying to make
a steady increase in the time between
planting and milling in these forests, with
the target set at ultimately milling only
big 40-year-old trees. Fires such as this
must retard that programme, and the soft-
wood shortage is bad enough in any case.
These pines are planted in 10-acre com-
partments separated by strips of bare
ground, with wider breaks of the same
type each forest block. Personal
observation, however, has convinced me
that the open-strip type of break is of
little use in tall timber. The open strip
seems to act as a draught-funnel along
which the flames are sucked to ignite the
foliage of the trees on the other side.
It is a mystery to me why we don’t
adopt the “green-strip” firebreak which
has proved so effective in other countries.
Instead of strips of bare ground, kept
ploughed, there are belts of trees with
fire-resistant foliage; these trees also
provide commercially valuable timbers.
There are many species of trees of which
the foliage will not carry a running fire—
the Californian redwood is one, others
are the aspen-poplar, the birch and the
ash.
When a fire roaring through the tops of
pines or eucalypts, which are inflammable
because of the oil in their leaves, en-
counters one of these strips, the outer
rows of trees in it are severely scorched,
but the flames no longer leap from tree to
tree. Instead they are checked in exactly
the same way as a fire in dry grass is
halted when it encounters a strip of green
lucerne. I once saw a fire in standing
eucalypt scrub roar up to a belt of self-
sown Caucasian ash-trees, and the way in
which those tongues of flame were
damped down was an object-lesson. Not
one gum-tree on the other side caught
fire.
People who live in mountain country,
where their homes are surrounded oy
eucalypt forest, are becoming aware of
the folly of allowing tall native trees, such
as the stringybark, or pines which have
been planted, to grow close to the house.
Many of these landowners are now fell-
ing the potential menaces and are plant-
ing in their stead the fire-resistant species
of trees.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Bottled-beer Bottleneck
The scandalous aspect of Sydney’s
bottled-beer supply is not so much that,
despite normal production and supply, it
cannot be bought legitimately over the
counter at the legitimate price, but that it
can be bought in or out of legal hours in
small or large lots at side doors of pubs
and clubs (especially clubs) at prices re-
turning profits of immoral proportions to
the vendor.
It would be silly to suggest that the
police don’t know what is going on ; it
would be even sillier to suppose that,
given the word, they couldn’t stop it.
There may or may not be a law to prevent
licensees of hotels selling their entire
quotas of bottled-beer at inflated prices to
"You hear tales, for instance , of bamboo
growing like mad out here—bunkum!”
clubs, licensed retailers or to private
persons, but the police are certainly em-
powered under the Act to prevent the
latter from reselling the stuff at even more
exorbitant prices to non-members or
other persons outside their institutions
during illegal trading hours.
Why such flagrant breaches of the
regulations are permitted to continue un-
checked when even schoolboys know they
exist is an urgent mattei on which the
general public would like to hear either
the Chief Secretary or the Minister for
Justice give a satisfactory explanation.—
P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Capital-issue Control
Capital-issue control and limitation of
overdrafts could be useful parts of an
overall plan to combat inflation, but as
things stand their reintroduction would
prove futile.
Governments apparently assume that
capital expenditure is inflationary only
if it is financed by credit or outside sub-
scription. Actually it is the purpose and
management of investment that aggravates
or allays inflation, A topical instance
is the farming land adjacent to the capital
cities. Financed on bank credit to grow
food, a small near-urban property can
help to stabilise the currency. Financed
from a bookmaker’s profits and lavishly
improved to carry racehorses, it can be
a factor making for inflation. Unfortu-
nately, credit-control tends to divert
money from the first type of activity to
the second; from the controlled field to
the non-controlled.
In industries producing necessities, new
capital rations itself. A man thinks hard
before he borrows money for a new
venture —and the lender thinks even
harder. No such sanctions are exercised
on luxury spending from profits. Yet the
activity most in need of supervision goes
scot-free.
Like all controls, capital restriction
must operate over the whole economy to
achieve results. Applied sectionally, it
failed to hold inflation during its previous
term of enforcement —“It’s a good sort
of brake, but it hasn’t worked yet.”—
Robert Howie (W.A.).
The Australian Way of Life ?
“Ceg” (B. 3/1 /’5l) is not talking about
the Australian way of life at all, but
about the obnoxious excrescences, cankers
and microbes which have become growths
upon it. The way of life as lived by the
vast majority and desired by most others
is still all right.
“C.’s” hark-back to the early days and
the poets envisages only the glamor,
romance and adventure —the trials, priva-
tions and semi-barbarous mode of life of
a large proportion of earlier populations
are forgotten. The enormous strides in
education, vast expansion in primary and
secondary industry, developments in trans-
port, distribution, modern home con-
veniences, entertainments and other
things have built a way of life undreamed
of by earlier generations; and who
would go back?
Granted the overcommercialisation,
the money lust, the graft and dishonesty
which sometimes go with them, the
booze, bad manners and other human
delinquencies, there is nothing in them to
despair about provided we take means to
attack the root causes of
such things.
One sees no stream of
migration of our Corns to
Russia, our Italians to
Italy, Germans to the
Fatherland, Britons to the
Old Dart or other Euro-
peans back to the land of
their origin. The traffic is
the other way with those
whom we desire to admit.
Would we swap for the
high-gear American way?
Or for the low standards
and mass misery of the
teeming Asiatic millions?
Canada and South Africa,
which are most akin tc us,
have similar unhealthy
growth and some bigger
problems.
Our way of life is not
going into the discard, but
it does need some major
operations. The surgeons
for the job are not in the
present legislatures in suf-
ficient strength and at the
moment they can’t get
there, because the pro-
gramme necessary to
rectify the ills of inflation,
loafing and underproduc-
tion, profiteering and all
that arise from them will
not, until strongly de-
veloped outside, win
enough votes. And vote-
catching is one of the
troubles. Budding Parlia-
mentarians on the one side look to it as a
career and must make the maximum
noise from the soapbox, competing in
agitation, class propaganda, vituperation
and promises of gain upon gain without
end. On the other side there are too
many dilettantes, one-track misfits and
class-fighters. But in both camps there
is a sound, honest nucleus which would
support soundly-based plans developed
outside Parliament.
Such a movement is well overdue.
Menzies’s Advisory Committee and
Monk’s proposal for a conference
between leading employers and union
representatives tend in the right direction,
and there is other evidence of the; desire
of sound men to get together to find the
cure. There are some wise and influential
men among the union leaders, as there
are also in the ranks of the employers,
professions, etc., to lead, the way in over-
hauling our way of living. Some degree
of control would doubtless be necessary,
for Governments must govern and ad-
minister the prescribed medicine for ills
which will not cure themselves. The laws
of supply and demand are temporarily
out of gear and must for a time be con-
fined within safe traffic channels.
A starting-point might be the basic
wage. Accepting this as recently-
determined by the court, we still have to
find the basic-wage-earner. We will
always have the hewers of wood and the
drawers of water, and for the purely un-
skilled or the man who can’t or won’t
give a fair day’s work the basic wage
should be rigidly applied. From that
starting-point appropriate and not
niggardly margins for skill and effort
could be devised and adherence enforced.
At the other end prices and profits
would need that measure of control
which, without removing incentive to
enterprise, would ensure the worker that
his extra effort in production would in
reality go to reduce living costs and not
merely put more intq the pockets of the
employers.
After years of the steadily insinuated
policy of less work and more money it
will take a while to re-educate workers to
the idea that best efforts pay best and to
convince some employers, in a time of
strong demand and inflationary prices,
that their own as well as the national
interests will be best served by larger
production with more reasonable profi
percentage and settled conditions in in
dustry. All successful men, whether
artisans or captains of industry, know tha
their best work is done, not leisurely, bu
when they are in top-gear and that it
only by consistently putting forth their
best that their best becomes still bette
and they attain to big things and satis-
faction and pride in their works.
In reverse the time-server and menta
or physical sloth deteriorates until he
can’t do a decent job an«- becomes one ol:
the mob behind the agitators for stil
easier conditions and handouts. Similarly
if large returns come too easily, the
manufacturer, producer, distributer, etc.
decline in initiative and enterprise.
What a field there is to be worker
upon by a panel of the right men, anc
what a result to be attained if approach
and action are on the right lines. No! The
Australian way of life is not for scrapping
but for rehabilitation. — Emjai (Vic.),
Supply and Demand
Now that the basic-wage-earner has
become a myth, it is worth recalling that
in the 1930’s the award wage was becom-
ing fictitious in the opposite sense. Jobs
were so scarce that many men and women
used to sign for the full amount while
receiving only half. Government offices
and big companies paid the full lawful
wage, but, loan money being scarce and
most businesses being unprofitable, “re-
trenchment” was the order of the day.
For those out of work it was sustenance,
with pay at a fraction of the Arbitration
Court ruling. Many parents had un-
employed adolescent sons and daughters
to keep, so that in effect their wages were
lowered. \
Today the picture is reversed. To
many workers, a new award means little,
as they are already receiving a higher
rate.
The law of supply and demand, much
despised by the newer economists, has, in
fact, dictated the wages paid, despite an
elaborate machine, the sole purpose of
which is to defeat that law. Is the
machine worth its keep?— Robert
Howie (W.A.).
Shipping
One of the greatest transport problems
in Australia today arises from the virtual
disappearance of the efficient and regular
coastal shipping services in operation
before the war. Apart from the overall
rise in cost, this has meant that the State
railways have had to take over and cope
with a volume of traffic for which they
lack the equipment over routes for which
their track layouts were never designed.
That in turn has meant farming out all
their best and most profitable stuff to
road transport, with the consequent
destruction of the public roads.
The reasons for all this are obvious
and are known in shipping circles the
world over—the inability of Australians
to discipline two Communist-run unions,
the Seamen’s and the Watersiders’. Yet
in the article “More Room for Ships”
(B, 18/10/’5O) these two obvious factors
are ignored and the State railways accused
of “sucking” traffic away from the ports.
Does anyone really believe that the
Queensland Commissioner is deliberately
“sucking” Blair Athol coal away from
Port Alma or Gladstone and hauling it
all the way to Brisbane at a huge loss to
his service? Or that freight would be
off-loaded from overseas ships into trains
at Brisbane if coasters were available?
The crux of the whole matter is that
ships are not available and those which
do operate spend 90 per cent, of their
time in port either because the wharfies
won’t unload or the seamen won’t man
them. Similarly, overseas ships serve the
very minimum number of ports because,
at any port at any time, they may be
deprived of labor, tugs or even pilots if
the local commissars feel so disposed.
Until you can break that deadlock,
until you can see existing ports being put
to use, all talk about the need for new
ports is so much eyewash. Break that
deadlock and most of our so-called trans-
port problems would solve themselves.—
Transporticus (Singapore),


NOW AVAILABLE
Catherine Gaskin’s new Novel
ALL ELSE IS FOLLY
. (Price, 12s. 6d. net)
This young author’s new novel just published has been accepted for pubhcation
in Gt. Britain, U.S.A. and Canada. Undoubtedly her best book.
Available at all booksellers,
COLLINS
ARE YOU TROUT-CONSCIOUS?
Then you MUST read:
The Quest of the Trout, by R. L. Blackwood. Where to fish, assembling
tackle, casting, etc. Price 2/6.
Studies of an Angler, by L. J. Wackett. All that the professional or amateur
angler needs to know, ince Zo/-.
Concise Handbook of Australian Fishing, by ‘‘Taggerty.” A very compre-
hensive book. Price 1/b.
At all Booksellers, or—
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
DON’T MISS THESE BOOKS
I SAW A STRANGE LAND, by Arthur Groom.
Central Australia in vivid text and superb camera studies. (pogt 9d )
SELECTED VERSE OF C. J. DENNIS.
HigJiHghts from -The Seagal B.o k =" a„ d o.W boob., 11.^
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers; Librarians
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PREPARE FOR SCHOOL
Visit DYMOCK’S
• All the necessary books for Primary and Secondary Students now on
display.
Call in—Expert Attention and Advice.
9 Shop early for your School Books and School Stationery and avoid the
usual School rush.
9 Send for our Educational Catalogue. Comprehensive list for Student
and Teacher. Free on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone 8L3611.
A BOOK YOU CANNOT BUY
The Folio Society edition of “Incognita," Congreve’s sparkling novel of
Florentine intrigue. Gaily bound in cloth and leather with engraving® in full
colour by Van Rossem. This beautiful book is not for sale.
Free to Members
It is being produced by the Society for
presentation to all its membeis.
joining The Folio Society you can. at
low cost, build up a collection of finely
bound editions of the world’s best
books.
The Folio Society,
1 Room 90. Third Floor.
360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
1 Please send me FREE the Folio Society
I Prospectus for 1951.
NAME
ADDRESS • • • ■ • v
99
“Handy Hints for the Farm
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
# Embracing "VFheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne.
nation to that state of ruin and anarchy
in which revolution can arise, Mr. Wells
doesn’t seem to have heard of it.
He depicts the miners as a tribe largely
cut off from the rest of the community,
suspicious of the cities ; and, though he
goes out of his way to demonstrate to
the miners that city people can be quite
pleasant, too often he fails to lift his
own gaze beyond the walls of politics,
coal and distance behind which his miners
live. In the depression it is only the
miners who suffer wage-cuts ;in a general
strike it is only the miners who are in
misery ... it is all too incomplete as
social history, too much weighted in
favor of the miners to be wholly satisfying
$s a documentary or wholly effective as
propaganda.
And yet, as The Earth Cries Out has
considerable merit as a novel in spite
of its weaknesses, so it has merit in these
other categories. Naturally it succeeds
in its fundamental propagandist aim, in
persuading the reader that the average
miner is a decent fellow. As Mr. Wells
depicts him he seems excessively conser-
vative, keeping on striking from mere
force of habit; but, of course, a human
being in his home and full of splendid
courage when a disaster calls up the spirit
of mateship. And equally the book suc-
ceeds —with reservations- —as a docu-
mentary. You learn from it how the
average miner lives, wln-i he thinks, why
he goes on strike. You see,;, in rough but
serviceable prose, the dim and dangerous
caverns in which he works, the precarious-
ness of his finances under the burden of
accidents and strikes, the continual in-
dustrial unrest which is always liable to
culminate in a Rothbury, You see such
compensations as the pub and the two-up
school afford, the normal human pattern
of his domestic life, the holiday escapes
to lake and seaside. In some of the
scenes of underground disaster and in
the description of the riot at Rothbury
there is genuine force; and throughout
the book, criticising the miners as well
as the owners, Mr. Wells seems to have
made an honest, if not completely success-
ful, effort at impartiality.
MACH.
Cold-war Books.
General Lucius Clay is the latest U.S.
soldier turned political administrator in
Europe to write a book on the “cold
war” — Decision in Germany (Heine-
mann). He was there as commander-in-
chief of the American zone for four
years; seems to have been slow, like
former Secretary of State Byrnes, to
appreciate the Russian game—called in
Moscow “chess without vodka”—of
diddling their allies of the Potsdam
Agreement ; but was firm enough when
lie became aware of its inherent malice.
His great hours were those when he
refused to be daunted by the blockade of
Berlin in 1948, and the air-lift scheme was
as much his child as anybody’s. He has
no remedy for the “cold war” but stand-
ing up to Russia at every fresh provo-
cation, meeting strength with strength,
and not giving away an inch.
Of like mind is James Burnham, in
The Coming Defeat of Communism
(Cape), a former American trade-unionist
leader who 'once believed in some sort
of Marxism “independent of the Stalinist
party,” but recanted in 1940 when he
“broke definitely with every variety of
Communism.” In this book he says the
“cold war” is just a Soviet war in its
opening phase, but thinks there are
enough resolute numbers in the demo-
cracies to make Communist hopes of
victory a delusion. He writes with a
vehemence against Communism cus-
tomary among converts from the theory,
and declares that Russia is more vulner-
abie ( to a i r attack) than many people
suppose. . , , , . .
The central theme in both these books
and in Dr. Vannevar Bushs Modern
Arms and Free Men (Heinemann) is that
the democracies must be strong, which
seems so obvious as hardly to require all
this torrent of print,
The Age of Terror, by Leslie
Paul (Faber), continues the flood
in a sermon in something like
100,000 words on how Europe has
got itself into such a fix in its pur-
suit of materialism that it lives in per-
petual terror. There is a lot about the
Russian “Heartland” of Professor Mac-
kinder’s geophysical theorising, on which
Hitler and his Professor Haushofer built
some of their theories of world-domina-
tion.
There is little comfort for any peace-
loving citizen in this book, unless he
accepts this sort of stuff as comfort:
“Only when European man throws up
the struggle for material advantage and
exchanges it for the pursuit of the
immortal life of the spirit—only when he
grows careless about the distribution of
daily bread so that the bread everlasting
is not denied to him—only then will it
be possible to decide his bloody and un-
ending struggles in a spirit of justice,
equity and love.” But it is a relief to
know that the author does not have much
faith in U.N.O. as a means to this end.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Savoy Stories; Transcribed from
the Gilbert and Sullivan Operas: Evelyn
Gatliff (Melbourne University Press). A
new and revised edition, with illustrations
by Wolfgang Cardamatis, of the book
first published in 1935. The plots of the
operas are related in a light and simple
style, presumably so that children going
to the theatre may learn what awaits
them. There is no attempt at a critical
appreciation.
* * * *
The Puppet Book: Edited by L. V.
Wall (Faber). A book prepared for the
Educational Puppetry Association “with
the special object of introducing the art
to teachers and developing it for those
who have already begun to use it, as a
valuable and stimulating method of
education.” How to make all kinds of
puppets glove, shadow, rod and
marionette —how to make theatres for
them and how to play with them; with
some puppet-plays dramatised from
“Hansel and Gretel“ Rapunzel” and
Alice in Wonderland.
* * * *
My Favorite English Poems: John
Masefield (Heinemann), Mr. Masefield
has printed none but English poems, none
that are less than 100 years old and none
that “I have not loved or admired for
50 years.” It makes a pleasant renewal
of acquaintanceship with the standard
poets from Chaucer to Tennyson, but it
has not the beautiful singleness of
purpose that distinguished W. H. Davies’s
anthology of short lyrics. Mr. Masefield
has tried to cover too much ground
printing only a single line from “The
Duchess of Malfi” or a solitary couplet
from “The Prelude”—two lines from
Marvell and only the final couplet of the
“Ode on a Grecian Urn”—inevitably
leaves the reader dissatisfied. However,
there remains a good deal to be said
for an anthology that brings up for
inspection, out of the mass of Keats, the
line “Thrilling liquidity of dewy piping,”
and from Ben Jonson’s “The Alchemist”
the remarkable observation of Ananias,
“Thou look’st like Antichrist, in that
lewd hat.”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 106
Across.
I—Reptile1—Reptile gaming cubes take a
famous queen of the Iceni. (8)
6—Mast thanks the address for
some ancient people of stern
fortitude. (6)
10 —First unsanctified item of vegeta-
tion. (3)
12— The young fish for a dish from
the pan. (3)
13— Rather like a fellow who kills
legally every day, nevertheless
treat him with the warmest
affection. (10)
16—Practises the play about vehicles
necessary for successful under-
taking. (9)
lg_island takes the study away from
the concrete. (5)
19 —Sleep, O zodiacal sign turning in
before 100 are like the Corsican.
(10)
23 —Smart mates found in outdated
transport. (5, 5)
26 But do reorganise a ground for
disbelief. (5)
27—The sudden touch with a wet
cloth with a sun-god vamp of old
Hollywood. (5, 4)
2&—Act in advance while I stand
between the caper and the head.
d°) •
30 —Bridget heard at auction. (»•
32 Exist in a superficial measure. Ut
33 — Menzies on the organ providing
an item of personal adornment, (o)
34 Being of high ambition with a
sedative letter for the legless
creature I telephone. (8)
Down.
2 Half the cricket field duck loud
music. (3)
3 Tunes joints for blimps. (8)
4 Some wines, no matter how wet
they may be, are thus. (3)
5 Running bird. (3)
7 jetty on that French pink. (.6)
8— Bantered and sent by tram. (6)
9 Tree married the north-east s
Laraine on this day. (3, 9)
11 —Successful services—just in case.
(4)
14— One coin is pence to a libertine
admiral. (7,5)
15 — Alley girl provides an outbuist
of wit. (5)
17—Closed around nothing to cry
out and stand host. (5)
20 — Furious one to tax. (5)
21— Scent at a sailor. (5)
22 — Ceremonial self-disembowelment.
(4-4)
24 Goat produce of the dairy. (6)
25 Cuts up the firm material tor
decorating walls. (6)
27 —Strikes a feature of bathrooms
and kitchens. (4)
29 Sit up for it is quite poetical. (3)
30 — Barristers and drunks are called
to it. (3)
31 — The German hideout. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 105.


m
mm
'*'v
? : '"
.
mm
,
MARS
No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
Rapid Power Traverse, all movements
—lB speeds—l 6 feeds Built-in
Electrics—Schlesinger Standards of
Accuracy Generated Gears
Complete with all accessories.
SHAPER
>mplete with Swivel Vice
Motorised Drive —T-slotted Work
Table and Main Brace.
sd
fsd
*<
ii
♦ > r*
s-i
ms
fs
a TOi-INCH ALL-GEARED-
HEAD LATHE
Long Angle Vee-ways—Wide Speed
Range—All-Geared Headstock Fitted
Cylindrical Roller Bearings—Fitted
with Remote Control Built to
Schlesinger Standards of Accuracy.
HIGH SPEED PLANER
Designed for the precision workshop,
the “MARS” Planer is of a proved
design and capable of obtaining
maximum output from high-speed
cutting tools.
4
mmmp.
' isi
n
p
w.
mm
mm
" " ?
m
'sssMmSffl*.
1
i
lr : ■-•> rkW
MAR
4
No. 2 PLAIN MILLER
Integral Motorised Drive —Generated
Gears —High and Low Speed Range—
Table Traverse Power Driven
Complete with Semi-Universal Divid-
ing Heads Schlesinger Accuracy
Standards.
5 H.P. DIESEL ENGINE 3^
Also available in 3 H.P., 8 H.P. and
10 H.P., Marine and Stationary—
Almost Vibration Free—Dynamically
Balanced Detachable Cylinders
Replaceable Liners —Economical Fuel
Consumption.
. VI
? >
Vs»,*
ssa
*»•
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS AVAILABLE : 5-inch to 15-inch Lathes; Horizontal and Vertical Milling Machines; Radial Drills; Lathe and
Miller Attachments ; Machine Vices ; Universal Dividing Heads ; Triple Drum Sanding Machines; Paper Cutting Guillotines ; Carton Folder and Gluing
“ MARS MACHINES Will AID
AUSTRAL!AS PRODUCTION DRIVE
OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF "MARS" MACHINE TOOLS
niTIIT ITMnPR r.IIARAMTFIT
TEST CHART.—Showing tolerance against Schlesinger standards, supplied with
each machine. BALANCE.- —All necessary revolving parts are Dynamically
Balanced. FINISH.—AII main working surfaces Machine Ground. MAT ' RIALS.
—“Meehanite’* (Regd. Trade Mark) Castings throughout. VERSATILITY. All
MEEHANITE (Reqd. Trade Mark) CASTINGS
All castings are produced in the Mars foundry, under the
supervision of highly trained metallurgical and laboratory staff.
We manufacture 21 grades of MEEHANITE IRONS.
Lathes have generous Detachable Gap Bridges and Large Hollow Spindles.
SMOOTH RUNNING.—AII Gear Teeth are “MARS” Lathe Lead
Screws are cut from a tested and certified Master Lead Screw.
1
Distributing Agents
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth; S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134
Wavmouth St., Adelaide; QUEENSLAND: Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing ■ vo.
Pty. Ltd.; INDIA-BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers, ton,
Bombay; PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Docks and Honolulu Iron Works, Manna.
SALES REPRESENTATIVE: C. Evans, 0/- Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, rapua.
OUR MACHINE TOOLS OPERATE IN EVERY STATE IN AUSTRALIA
AND EIGHT COUNTRIES OVERSEAS
MARS
<
*
MACHINE TOOL
MAHFO.CO.PTY.LTD
BRISBANE'
BRIDGE ST.
VALLEY
, c Advert*
