

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72-No. 3729
Wednesday, August 1, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
SONS OF BOSTON BLAZED MANY AN AUSTRALIAN TRAIL
STANDING beside the River Witham and surrounded by the Lincolnshire
Fens is the busy port and market town of Boston, namesake of the great
American city. Boston’s history reaches back to the days of the Roman
occupation of Britain when a fort was established there by the invaders. In
a.d. 654 St. Botolph, the patron saint of mariners, founded a monastery, and
around it grew “St. Botolph’s Town.” Owing to its commercial importance
the growth of the settlement was rapid during Norman times, and in 1204
King John granted its first charter. During the thirteenth century it was one
of the chief seaports of Britain.
Great quantities of wool were exported from Boston to almost every
European country, and it was during this period that warehouses of the
German Hanseatic League were firmly established. The one lasting result of
this prosperity was the magnificent Church of St. Botolph, which was com-
pleted in 1460. It is one of the largest Parish churches in England, and its
lofty tower, almost three hundred feet high, is a superb masterpiece of Gothic
design. Its crowning glory is the beautiful octagonal lantern which serves as
a landmark for miles around. Owing to its blunted appearance when seen
from a distance the tower is known throughout the world as Boston Stump.
From its summit the view includes Tattershall Castle, fourteen miles to the
north, Lincoln Cathedral, thirty-two miles north-west and eastward to
Hunstanton, thirteen miles across the Wash. __
Among the Pilgrim Fathers who reached Massachusetts in 1620 were
many settlers from Boston, Lancashire, of whom several became Governors
of the American State or were numbered among the founders of Harvard
'other' Boston men whose adventurous spirit is commemorated in St.
Botolph’s are George Bass, Flinders, Banks, Gilbert and Franklin who played
a prominent part in the exploration of Australia in the eighteenth century.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LOND


Learn
Sloni Writing
OWt y at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL— ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
I
I
My Name
Address .
(5.8.251)
Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields for book hunting.
The Red Page
A BOOK ABOUT BOOKS.
To anybody interested in book-
production, printing and the technical
processes of journalism Sean Jennett’s
The Making of Books (Faber) should be
fascinating ; and it is done in so clear
and pleasant a style, with a vein of quiet
wit running right through it, that it should
also interest the general reader.
The present reviewer, for one, found
in it the explanation of all sorts of tech-
nical terms which he has been using for
years in journalistic talk without ever
knowing their origin; and also many
colorful terms which went out of use
when handsetting gave way to the lino-
type ; what a “tang,” a “beard” and a
“kern” are, for example ; what a “hell-
box” is—the place where you throw
battered or defective type; how the
“stone,” which is where the compositors
make-up the pages and which today is a
steel bench, got its name —of course it
was originally a stone table ; why letters
which are not capitals are always called
“lower case”—because, in the handsetting
days, they were kept handy to the com-
positor’s reach in the lower of the two
cases in which he stored his type ; how
the compositors and their companions—
not, as a rule, more than ordinarily
religious men —came to call their
fraternity, as they still do, a “chapel”:
In the tradition of printing the stone
plays an important part, for around it, once
or twice a year, or whenever special circum-
stances warrant it, the meeting of the chapel
is held. The stone forms the table of the
meeting, and at it the father of the chapel
stands, with a wooden mallet in his hand,
with which he beats upon the stone to keep
order... .The companionship is an organisa-
tion principally directed to the satisfactory
performance of the compositor’s work, and
there is another organisation that concerns
itself with the conditions in the printing
house and generally with the common
interests of the men. This is the chapel;
its name is said to be derived from the
fact that the first printing press in England
was set up in the precincts or in a chapel
of Westminster Abbey—Caxton’s press.
So from a ceremony that still takes
place in a modern newspaper office you
go back to Caxton ; and then some years
further back to John Gutenberg of
Mainz and Janszoon Coster, both of the
early 15th century, who are credited (with
arguments as to their precedence) with
introducing printing to Europe and, with
it, the Renaissance and the modern
world ; and away beyond them to China,
where printing seems to have originated
in the 7th century a.d. — the earliest
printed book that survives was produced
in China in a.d. 868 — and where paper
was first manufactured probably in the
second century a.d. (the Egyptian
papyrus was not, properly speaking,
paper, but consisted of split sections of
reed side by side in layers at right
angles).
Then you come back to Europe
to learn that the first paper mill to be
established in Christendom seems to have
been that at Fabriano in Italy about 1270
—a fact that should especially interest
artists since many watercolorists believe
that the finest paper for their purposes
is that which still comes from Fabriano ;
some of Norman Lindsay’s best water-
colors are on this paper. It is unprocur-
able in Sydney today, supplies never
having been generally available since they
were cut off by the war.
From the discussion on paper you go
to the actual making of books; what is
meant by “octavo,” “large crown” and
all the rest of those puzzling measure-
ments ; the different kinds of type, their
history and their characteristics
Granjon, Caslon, Bodoni, Garamond,
“The Times” type in which The Bulletin
is printed, Eric Gill’s Perpetua; the lay-
out of the title-page, that agonising point
on which criticism is always first focused,
as the painting of the hand is always first
denounced in a portrait; problems of
punctuation, problems of margins; all
the craft of binding ; and—leading natur-
ally to a survey of the most modern
methods of color-reproduction—the prob-
lems of illustration and the dust-jacket:
The picture-jacket, indeed, is capable of
infinite degradation. We have become
satiated with the gaudiness, and even
salaciousness, of some jackets put out by
less reputable publishers, with startling pic-
tures in startling colors to goad the
appetite of a jaded public
Mr. Jennett’s opinions on binding, typo-
graphy and design will give the layman
the greatest assistance in learning to
judge the format of a book; they will
interest the expert; and they deserve the
closest study by the trade. The best
thing about his book, apart from its be-
ing so readable and so informative, is
that it is eminently practical. While he
has a lingering affection, mixed with sus-
picion, for handsetting, handmade rag
paper, antique types, leather bindings and
all the rest of the trappings so dear to
the lovers of “special editions,” he points
out that a book is not really more read-
able in ragged type or more durable in
shoddy rag or leather, and essentially he
is of the machine-age; interested chiefly
in producing a harmonious, durable and
legible volume for the ordinary reader,
using every technical advantage which the
modern world can supply. Also, he holds
the highly proper opinion, too often dis-
regarded by makers of “de luxe” editions,
that “the starting-point of typography is
the subject, the author, and his style.”
Drysdale Paintings .
A book of reproductions, even in color,
can never be a wholly reliable guide to
an artist’s true achievement. Thus in
The Paintings of Russell Drysdale (Ure
Smith Pty., Ltd) the oil-painting “Bush
Fire,” an interesting but rather empty
collection of pieces of old iron in the
original, takes on weight, richness and
drama because it is compressed into a
very small color-block about 4in by
Bin.; which suggests, incidentally, that
the original is too large for its subject-
matter.
In The Drover’s Wife,” on the other
hand, the limitations of otherwise very
pleasant color-reproduction have lost the
impression of immense hot distance which
is the great compensation for the wooden
and grotesque distortion of the woman’s
figure. Instead of a monster, toil-worn,
long-suffering and imbecile, set against
the immense and burning earth and there-
fore, possibly, as Joseph Burke sees her,
“heroic,” you have little more than the
monster.
Particularly, since in this case there is
nothing except the distance to “carry”
the picture—distance is its whole theme
—does this failure of reproduction affect
the dramatic quality in the tiny color-
plate of “Home Town,” a picture which,
in the original, is a most striking image
of the colossal spaces of the North
Queensland outback.
“The Rabbiters,” too cumbrous in
style and too animistic in its treatment
of rock-shapes and dead frees in the
original, gains force from compression
into a fairly large reproduction. “Joe,”
on the contrary, brooding over his news-
paper and waiting in the outback store
or post-office for customers who never
come, has been unkindly treated by the
color. His shirt is too mauve and his
whiskers much too green, while, instead
of focusing on the drama of the desert
outside his window, the attention is forced
on to the clumsy—and surely unneces-
sary—distortion of his hand. “Anthills,”
red on the cover, pale pink and yellow
inside the book, never quite recaptures
the weird drama and limitless space of
the original, though it remains the most
impressive of the reproductions; it is in-
deed a memorable picture.
But reproductions can always be
criticised; and, except that some are
too small, and some, such as the pleasing
but loosely-drawn variations on the back-
bedroom nudes of Sickert, have been
printed many times before, the color-
plates do give a reasonable impression,
on the whole, of Drysdale’s development.
What one chiefly misses from this volume
are the paintings which were exhibited
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries last year,
and later at the Leicester Galleries in
London ; in particular (though “Anthills”
is a notable compensation) “War
Memorial,” which the present writer
thought Drysdale’s best picture to date
and which was bought by the Tate
Gallery. One misses, too, his picture of
ragged children dancing in the desert
which had a tender, lyrical quality and a
grace of execution too rarely seen in his
work; an aspect of his mind and of his
art which, except in one of the drawings
singled out by Joseph Burke for special
praise, is not represented at all in this
book.
One cannot quite agree with Professor
Burke, admirably temperate and per-
suasive though his foreword is, that
Drysdale’s art has always been “heroic”
in concept, setting man against the titanic
forces of nature in the defiance, the reso-
lution or the tragic defeat which makes
drama instead of mere squalor and misery.
Whether or not his outlook was influ-
enced by the American painters of the
Middle West or by Henry Moore —Pro-
fessor Burke regards the resemblances as
“coincidental”—the general contemporary
tendency towards decay, monstrosity and
morbidity, reflecting the collapse of
France, is surely everywhere apparent in
his earlier work. Indeed, the influence is
still in evidence—if it was a recent
picture—in the study of old buildings
which Drysdale lately exhibited with the
Sydney Group, the interest of which was
focused on a gloomy cavity left by the
decay of the bricks: the impression, as
in the intestinal caverns of the sur-
realists, was of horror. And while, unless
one calls up Yeats and Matthew Arnold
to affirm that “passive suffering, mere
misery” is not a subject for art, a
painter’s right to depict any subject he
pleases is hardly to be questioned, an art
limited to morbidity is undeniably
limited.
Nor, again, considering such a picture
as “Man Feeding Dogs” with its lean
long hillbillies and lean long kangaroo-
dogs among lean long dead trees, can
one agree with Professor Burke that there
is no caricature in Drysdale’s early paint-
ings. “Man Feeding Dogs” seems to the
present writer pure caricature. And, as
such, admirable. It is at once humorous
and macabre, an alert mind commenting
on life in amusing symbolism ; and, if it
is distorted, that particular humorous
comment on longness and leanness prob-
ably could not have been made in any
other way. But you would not dream of
comparing it as an outback landscape
with Heysen’s oils of the Centre nor, as a
study in character, with, say, Joshua
Smith’s portrait of his parents or the
ferocious realism of Eric Wilson’s
“The Inmates,” nor, as a picture of
life, with Dobell’s “Saddle-My-Nag.”
It is altogether in a lighter cate-
gory. The distortion, comic here or
“monumental” in “The Drover’s Wife,”
is doubtless deliberate, for Drysdale can
draw when he wants to ; but mere in-
capacity might give precisely the same
result; and certainly an art of this kind
evades all the difficulties of realism, the
conquest of which is the prime guarantee
of craftsmanship.
But Drysdale in the show he sent to
London seemed to be coming out of all
that ; discovering himself and what he
really felt about the outback at last
and perhaps these later paintings, in Pro-
fessor Burke’s mind, have cast a retro-
spective warmth over the earlier experi-
ments.
At any rate there is a genuine humor,
and much human sympathy, like that of
a Lawson short-story, in “Local V.D.C.
Parade”—only the figures are still
American hillbillies and in “Joe’s
Garden of Dreams,” the absurd and
heroic Greek cafe in the deserted out-
back town. And, in such paintings
as “The Dancing Children,” “War
Memorial” and “Anthills,” the color, if
one prefers the direct method of the
Impressionists, is attractive in its deep
warmth ; the facile stylisations have dis-
appeared ; the feeling is vitally Aus-
tralian.
Thinking of all Drysdale has not
attempted, as well as of what he has done
—the simple outlines of rocks and dead
trees and country hotels, with nothing of
the intricate and varied poetry of the green
earth and the foaming sea—it is impos-
sible seriously to compare him as a land-
scapist with such subtle and delicate
painters as Gruner or Lance Solomon ;
nor, in the field of genre painting where
he has most clearly made his mark, has
he attempted anything remotely
approaching the scale of “Fire’s On,”
“Across the Blacksoil Plains,” “The
Shearing Shed” or “The Breakaway.”
But if he has been overrated by some of
the partisans of the day, that is no reason
for underrating the vigorous and highly-
individual contribution he has made to
Australian art; and there is much truth
in Daryl Lindsay’s summing-up as quoted
by Professor Burke:
Just as in their generation Streeton, in
“Golden Summer” and “Fire’s On,” gave
us our first true interpretation of the hard
clear Australian light, and Roberts, in “The
Breakaway,” a fresh and dramatic angle,
Drysdale today has looked at the back
country and the fife of the small inland
town with an entirely new eye. Behind his
pictorial comments on the drovers, the
rabbiters and the small selectors of the
drought-stricken areas of the west is a
seriousness of purpose that has brought
home to us for the first time in paint a side
of our country and people that unfortu-
nately is too little understood and realised
by the town dwellers, and up to now was
not thought worthy of .being put on canvas.
The book, with 15 color-plates, has
been printed in the handsome style estab-
lished by Waite and Bull for the Ure
Smith publications, and the first edition
is limited to 1000 copies, signed by the
artist.
Andrew Young,
Whether it is Crabbe or Clare, Davies
or Edmund Blunden, there is always, from
generation to generation, at least one
poet in England making a specialty of
describing the countryside. And why not?
There must still be as many people in
England interested in the blackbird as in
the shiny steel furniture of Auden.
Andrew Young, who seems to have
been elected by common consent the suc-
cessor to Edmund Blunden, from' whom
little is heard nowadays except in prose,
is rather a lightweight to mention in such
solid company. A curious pointlessness
mars many of his images in Collected
Poems (Cape; Australasian Publishing
Co.).
The weakness is partly in an undis-
tinguished technique; principally in a
personality which is amiable without the
underlying robustness of Davies or bleak
wintry force of Blunden ; without indeed
the impassioned worship of the earth
which animated the Tasmanian land-
scapes of Norma Davis. But there is
surely something to be said for an Eng-
lish nature-poet who, after De la Mare
and Davies seemed to have closed the
subject in final perfection, can discover
a fresh image for the robin:
The long lean thistles stood
Like beggars ragged and blind,
Half their white silken locks
Blown away on the wind.
But I thought, not once of winter
Or summer that was past
Till I saw that slant-legged robin
With autumn on his chest.
Reviewed Briefly.
Garden Trees and Shrubs in Austra-
lasia : Harold Sargeant (Colorgravure
Publications, Melb.). A handsomely
illustrated manual for the home-
gardener compiled by a journalist whose
hobby for 45 years has been gardening.
There is an extensive list of species,
including many rare ones, and enthusias-
tic accounts of their characteristics. The
numerous photos of trees and shrubs in
flower should act as an inspiration to the
makers of new gardens. There are many
valuable hints on plant propagation.
* * * *
Tomorrow’s Comet: Lewis Sowden
(Hale). A mopl unconvincing first-person
attempt at describing the 10 days or so
left the world before its predicted collision
with a comet. The narrator, a reporter
on a South African daily who manages
to dash off a 300-page book in the 10
days in between thinking up screaming
headlines, writes with schoolboyish en-
thusiasm and. uses capitals and cliches
with unreporterlike abandon.
♦ * ♦ •
An Inch of Taper: Hugh Talbot
(Wingate). A retired and invalid clergy-
man, near death, relives his life in flash-
backs; the girl who unaccountably left
him, when he was a curate, to marry
another curate Who was a flashy bounder
(and became a bishop); her sister, who
married him and became a drunkard;
their son, killed in the war; the scenes
of hunting and shooting around a country
vicarage; and the denouement —why
Lavinia married the bounder: it is
precise and charming; and its air of
ineffectuality is not of technique, but of
its subject.
* * * *
Gold in Their Hearts: Will Lawson
(Invincible Press). A “blend of fiction
and fact,” says Mr, Lawson; about
Charleston, the now-deserted mining town
on the west coast of New Zealand, which
towards the end of last century was pro-
ducing some £200,000-worth of gold a
month. Chris Black, baby of a migrant
drowned coming ashore in a heavy surf,
is adopted by Mary Smith, proprietress of
a pub famous by that name in Charles-
ton’s real-life. His mother goes off with
a bloke, and somewhat unaccountably
leaves Chris to be brought up as barman,
champion prize-fighter, and mining in-
vestor ; he marries a dancing woman 14
years his senior, but when she unaccount-
ably leaves him he finds that Nancy has
always been the one. Prime Minister
Seddon hovers about; there are some
good pub brawls in the style of the times;
but altogether the story moves a little
scrappily—no doubt the result of the
dancing-girls and the conduct of Chris’s
mother. Mr, Lawson has been told that
some women are not as good as others;
he doesn’t really believe it; and so he
cannot make it credible.


,
W S' IzKiti a l ®-., H i
;v ; -
-< ■ • ' - :
Mss
: m
r : :
f, I *#
- *4 pi
~* i. •'
-I , ' "/ ysV
.-<;s
mmm
\, ■* ■*'.s
#»
2* %»#■
warn i
gaSi Hla If i
; \
ilia
Keeps ALL insects out
Sturdily constructed
Bicat designs
Seasoned Timbers
Expanding Wire Screens
Don’t let them sneak in through the windowsl
14in. x 19in. expanding to
14in. x 36in. Galvanised
Wire, 10/6; Bronze
Wire, 12/3.
mss
m
muk
FROM A DANGEROUS ENEMY
Longing for the warmer weather—for the days when you can wander in the country or
doze on the beach? Your health and your children’s health will be guaranteed for further activity if you
insist on installing these Wire Doors throughout your home. Flias, those
and you’ll find that the hard-wearing wire lasts through the seasonsl
carriers of so many irritating and serious summer diseases, will be barred from your home,
Fittings ( handle, bolt and spi'ing hinges) , 3/- set extra.
m
" ? - v '••. '*
i-t®s
*S
!
m
'mmrnmWlmi
mm
t
v.
'
5T1
■
1
I
m si
m m
■ ■
fg
fg
f
Design .Vo. 9
Galv. Bronze
2ft. 6in. x 6ft- 6in. 52/- 64/-
2ft.8in.x6fL.8in. 52/9 64/9
2ft. lOin. x6ft. lOin. 54/- 66/-
Designs Nos. 8 , 11 and 13
Stock size Holland Hlinds
Stock size in best quality Holland Blinds. 3ft. x s£t. 6in.
complete with all fittings. These blinds in colours, Beige, Nigger
Brown and Dark Green. Priced at 25/6 each.
Wmm
iN ADVERTISING
Horderns’
HORDERNS’ WIRE SCREEN DOORS—THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.


State Electricity Commission of Victoria
(<Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria)
POWER AND FUEL DEVELOPMENT
LOAN
(No 85)
Opens for public subscription
WEDNESDAY, Ist AUGUST, 1951
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance
capital works associated with the expansion of the Com-
mission’s undertakings, including the development of the
Kiewa hydro-electric project and the IMorwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
Interest Rate
3
■%
per Annum
Price of Issue . . . PAR (£100)
Currency ... 10 Years
(.Repayable at Par i st August, 1961)
PROSPECTUS MD APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from and applications
may be lodged with any office in Australia of The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland National Bank Ltd.)
or the Commonwealth Bank of Australia ; members of recognised
Stock Exchanges in Australia; the Head Office of the Commission
zz William Street, Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
■ /- ... y, ; ’
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the Commission.
Principal and interest guaranteed by Government of Victoria. ,
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania.
The loan will close on or before 21st August, 1951
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission (Financial)
Act, 1937, No. 4512 (and Amendments) of the State of Victoria.
zz William Street, R. A. HUNT,
Melbourne. Chairman.
Loan Underwritten by j. B. Were & Son,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
3231
LEAD ON, WHITE MAN
by ART HAUSLER
THE night was so blanketed
over by the scudding cloud
and high wind that Dankes
felt more than discerned
the sudden movement in the
grass of the roadside. He
twisted in the cabin and peered
back through the lattice of the
loading-rack, then thrust at the
brake-pedal.
A short, ticking quiet; the
moody engine muttering deep
into the exhaust and the lank
grass weaving and waving in the
poor, yellow light of the one
headlamp. Then the quiet voice
from the darkness.
“Could you spare us a lift to
Gil-gai, Mister?”
The catlike quiet of his
approach, his instant self-efface-
ment and a tentativeness of de-
mand indicated to Dankes the
man’s origin.
“How many of you?”
“Three of us.”
“Hop up, then.”
There was a shuffling in the
dark, a sheet of crumpled news-
paper blurred whitely for a
moment; bottles clinked, and a
voice called “All right. Mister.”
“Sit in the centre,” shouted
Dankes, remembering the
bottles, “and hang on.”
OVER the ridge of Postle’s
Hill the truck slowed and
turned off the road, Dankes
thumbed in the ignition-button.
The shadows moved jerkily over
the truck side. He cut off the
quiet “Thank you, Mister,” of
the spokesman with:
“I live down this road a bit,
but I don’t like dumpin’ you
fellers off here,” Then, hastily,
to cover up his weakness,
“Drivers are hard to get on with
as far as you blokes are con-
cerned. If I leave you you’ll
be walking till midnight.”
Quiet assent from the spokes-
man. The other two shadows
hung on to the truck-rail.
“I’d run you along a bit—to
the end of the tar, say.”
Dankes wrestled for the right
words. “What X mean —it’d take
a couple of gallons to run this
wagon that far. I’m only a
straggler ... if you could put a
couple in her I wouldn’t mind
helping you out.”
“ ’Ere, let me talk to this
man! ” One of the obscure
figures spoke; one who had
hitherto held his peace. He held
on to the truck side for a guide,
or maybe for balance. He came
forward slowly and silently;
tall, loose-limbed and with a
queer formidable aspect. Like
—Dankes thought a prize-
fighter coming in to kill. The
man broke into the reflected
headlight, and Dankes ob-
served his beardedness, general
unkemptness, the sunken cruel
eyes and the hard, bitter lines
round his mouth. The man
came close.
“Lissen, mate. These other
two are blacks, but I’m a white
man. See? I left me port at
the eight-mile peg on the Tingha-
road yiss-day ’n’ I was walkin’
out to get it, see ... I been
drinkin’ an’ boozin’ . . . maybe
you can see that. There wouldn’t
be two-bob between the three of
us, but I’ll pay you, mate, what-
ever you say—a quid, two
quid, three quid—tomorrer.”
Dankes thought of the long
road winding ahead, the three
men shuffling along the side-
track, dusted up by the passing,
heedless, more fortunate men.
The port with the few miserable
bits of clothing, a blanket or
two and half a dozen letters and
snapshots. This fallen-down
man’s world. “Don’t worry,
we’ll work out something. Hop
up again.”
“I’ll fix you up,” said the
white man very confidently.
“Ef he don’t we will.” The
last of the trio had moved into
the night now, a small, spry
man, three-parts black. A
bright, alert man, ready in a
moment to throw back his head
and laugh. A sociable sparrow
of a man. “We’ll put in . . . an’
t’ank you. God bless you all
the way through Eternity,” he
finished up, scrambling back.
THE truck-engine, insatiable
for petrol, for distance, for
the miles of corrugations, of pot-
holes, rotted bridges, gullies and
washaways, thrust itself along
the yellow beam of light ahead.
The white mile-pegs crept up
slowly, flashed by, then crept up
again. Gil-gai, sleeping now,
unaware of its worthlessness,
fell behind the thrusting engine.
More mile-pegs. Then a voice
from the running-board. “What
was that number?”
“Eight,” said Dankes.
“Go slow. It’s not far from
here ... a bark hut . . .”
Dankes slowed, then stopped
the truck. The engine folded in
on itself, breathing quietly, like
a train-engine banked up wait-
ing for the daylight. The mani-
fold cooled quickly, crackling.
“I was drinkin’ an’ boozin’,”
said the white man. “See? I
was walkin’ from Tingha an’ I
couldn’t carry it no further, so
I hid it behind this bark humpy
hereabouts. There was a house
on this side an’ a house on that
side an’ the mile-peg with eight
on it down the road.”
The men scattered, deploying
through the wind-tossed timber,
“This it?” queried Dankes.
Further on a bark shelter for
those who wait for regular buses
had been built. Well-defined
tracks from the houses arrowed
into its shelter.
The tall, white man moved up
quickly. “That’s it!” he said
gladly. “I put it behind . . .
here.” He stooped at the rear
of the building and struck a
match. The gusts of wind
snuffed the feeble light immedi-
ately. The man bent forward
blindly, feeling with his hands.
Dankes had seen in the quick
flame that only dried wisps of
grass were there to meet the
groping hands. The white man
slowed ; his seeking hands telling
his slow brain that all he had
in the world had been filched
from him. He stood up abruptly
and swung off down the road.
“I hate to see a man, ’speci-
ally a mate, lose his port like
that,” said the little sparrow of
a man. “Bad place to leave it,
though— at a bus stand.” He
shook his head. “Drunk, y’ see.
Drinkin’ an’ that. But you’re a
wunnerful lad. Coming out here
all this way . . . God bless you
all the way through Eternity,
boy. We’ll fix you ef he don’t.
Me an’ Jim here will throw in.
You know Mrs. Bott—we’ll leave
it there. How much . . .? Two
quidt. T’ree quidt. The baker-
shop . , . you know. You tell us
how much.”
NOW the white man was
humped along the loading-
rack. His drinking mates
climbed on the truck. “I hate
to see a man lose his port”
Dankes heard above the wild
wind as he climbed into the cab.
He hunched over the wheel,
weaving and lurching to avoid
the worst of the potholes, his
eyes aching under the strain of
the inadequate lights.
A sudden affrighted clamoring
on the cabin-roof, a shouting in
the teeth of the high wind jerked
Dankes back to awareness. His
blood ran cold; with hands and
feet he skidded the truck to a
standstill.
“Who’s off?” he cried
hoarsely, already out on the
running-board.
“Mister,” said the modulated,
music-filled voice of the spokes-
man. “Have you got a match
you could lend me?”
For the first time on the re-
turn journey the white man
spoke. “What are you thinkin’
about? Stoppin’ him f’r a
match. D’ y’ think he’s a taxi?”
Dankes’s nerves closed like a
fist, then relaxed. He handed
back a box in the darkness.
“Keep them,” he said. To the
road ahead, to the creaking
cabin, he said, “Black or white
~. they’re tough. Puffin’ a feller
up for a light. They just don’t
seem to sense what is the right
thing. They’re hanging on back
there now, abusing me because
the road is not fit for a sledge,
because the old wagon was built
to carry logs—-not people.”
Yelling and clamor bn the roof
shattered the bitter-sweet of his
thought again. This time the
wagon ran itself to a pause.
“What now?” Dankes queried,
from within the cab.
It was the “half” with the
radio-voice who replied.
“We get off here. Mister. We
take our frien’ home wit’ us.
Thank you very much . £ . we’ll
pay you . . . tomorrer. We’ll
give it to”
“God bless you all the way
through Eternity! ” exclaimed the
little sparrow of a man, hopping
on quick steps, peering so that
he could discern Dankes’s
features. His eyes shone white
in the black countenance, edged
by the little, white beard. “Yo’
is a wunnerful boy . . • We’ll
fix it all up. We’ll pay Mrs.
how much did you say?” He
took off his felt hat, held it on
his chest. “Well, goodbye ’n’
t’ank you, an’ God”
And from the blackness of the
night, like the snarl of a jaguar,
from the trees bordering the
roadside where he had immedi-
ately shambled, the tall white
man spat the words.
“C’mon, you bloody black
crawler. Let ’im get t’ hell out
of it or Til knock your woolly,
black skull in. D’ y’ hear?”
The black man’s smile faltered.
He looked up at the white blur
of Dankes’s face, battling to
assure the truck-driver that the
words hadn’t been uttered. A
moment dragged away. Then
the black man turned towards
the darker rim of night.
“Orright,” he said. “Lead
on, white man,”


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3729
Wednesday, August 1, 1951
-r rzfmff Qht_
■^^ire7*r—
■CTjON
NOT CO-OPERATING.
“What about turning that on and helping to save your own home!”
“That’s your job, ain’t it? I’ve knocked orf f’r th’ day.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
BREAKING THE ICE.
The Prime Minister’s representative anti-
inflation conference met just as The
Bulletin was going to press. The invita-
tions were to the six State Premiers and
to delegates from organisations of em-
ployers, employees, chambers of manu-
factures and commerce, primary indus-
tries, churches and women’s bodies. The
A.W.U. refused to attend; the Com-
munist-led unions and Mr. Ferguson for
the Railways Union declared anathema
any gesture of co-operation with the
Government; the A.C.T.U. alone on the
“Labor” side accepted, and stuck to its
acceptance, despite howls of dissent in
“the movement.”
With “Labor” the inflation menace—if
regarded as a menace at all—takes second
place to the need to patch-up the bitter
divisions within the fleabitten Socialist
party. Whpn Messrs. Dougherty and
Davis of the A.W.U. are disposed to sing
in chorus with Communist Williams of
the coalfields and Mr. Janus Ferguson
of the A.L.P. Federal Executive, hopes
of “solidarity” are apparently aroused.
If it were not for the A.C.T.U.’s having
the courage of its convictions, no con-
ference aspiring to be representative
would be possible. Of course, one reason
why the A.W.U. will not attend is that
the A.C.T.U. accepted.
The A.C.T.U. could hardly have
shunned the conference without expos-
ing to derision its chief executives. On
the morrow of the basic-wage rise of
£1 awarded by the Arbitration Court last
October, its president issued a public
statement suggesting a co-operative effort
to make the wage good. Mr. Monk said:
We particularly urge upon workers in
the basic industries such as coal, steel
and transport the necessity for improving
their production and handling, not only
in their iiwn interests, but in the interests
of the rest of the workers and of the de-
velopment of Australia as a nation
It is essential for a stable economy that
Governments, employers and workers'
organisations should realise how they fit
into the economic position. Each must do
its part....
The A.C.T.U. had said it would not
not tell the workers to strive for all-out
production unless it knew the workers
would participate in the benefits accrning
from their efforts. Now the A.C.T.U. feels
the matter should be reconsidered in the
light of the court’s judgment in favor of
a £l-a-week increase in the basic wage,
the trade-union movement does not wish to
shirk its share of the responsibility to
ensure that the increase will be effective.
Mr. Clarey, M.P., supported him with
the declaration that:
Until production equates demand, in-
flationary tendencies are bound to con-
tinue. Greater production, especially of
basic raw materials, is essential to secure
effective increase in the purchasing-power
of wages.
The Prime Minister at that time com-
mended Mr. Monk’s statement and sug-
gested a conference of all interests. Mr.
Clyde Cameron, M.P., for the A.W.U.,
said Mr. Monk was speaking out of his
turn, and Great Panjandrum Ferguson
cursed the very idea of a national con-
ference in these words:
Mr, Menzies seeks the help of the Labor
movement and the Labor Governments, but
our answer is all the support he will re-
ceive is nil.
That was last October at the mere
mention of joint action. The answer
today of A.W.U. president Davis is
equally contemptuous.
“Labor’s” political leaders can’t do a
thing without Mr. Ferguson’s directions.
They had proposed to hold a meeting
with trade-union leaders to discuss the
Commonwealth Government’s anti-
inflation moves. In the distraction of
counsel within “the movement,” however,
this was frowned on by the Victorian
A.L.P. executive and the proposal was
dropped as disrupting. That executive
then published an “eight-point plan”—
presumably as a conference brief for the
A.C.T.U. delegates—demanding (1) freez-
ing of prices at once, (2) transfer of
price-control to the Commonwealth, (3)
price-stabilisation, and then four points
more or less covering action already pro-
posed by the Prime Minister for capital-
issue control, profit-control (taxation),
review of immigration programme and
co-ordination of Government develop-
mental expenditure. The eighth point, a
pretty illustration of the mental processes
of these fanatics, urged (1) a ban on
exports until home demand for exported
goods is satisfied, and (2) adequate import
of consumer goods “to relieve shortages,
without disadvantage to Australian in-
dustry and living standards.”
In the midst of this hubbub Mr. Mc-
Girr, mindful perhaps of his “success” in
jumping the gun in the 40-hour-week
case and thereby giving the signal for
the loosing-off of the entire battery, sud-
denly decreed a standstill of all prices in
N.S.W., except those of its own services
and business undertakings. “It is absurd,”
he said in effect, “to try to peg my own
prices, but I order that everybody else
shall peg his.” The impeccable Senator
McKenna has already declared for
“Labor” on this matter—“l am asked
whether I think that the power over prices
would compel persons to sell at the
prices fixed. My view is that it will not.”
This background to the assembling of
the conference should show just how
hollow was “Labor’s” election promise
that with a “Labor” Government
running central prices - control the
unions would overcome the constitutional
wages hurdle by agreeing voluntarily to
“stabilise the economy” in the matter of
wage-pegging. It also confirms the
“Labor” aim of government of the coun-
try by the unions; and once that hap-
pened the unions would, like Mr. McGirr,
fix everybody’s commodity prices except
their own (their wages). If even a
“Labor” Government could halt infla-
tion through controls of prices and profits
alone, why has not the British “Labor”
Government, after six years of trial, man-
aged to do so? If subsidisation through
the Treasury of household prices were
the answer, how is it that the British
economy is bogged down by inflation and
soaring subsidies have now had to be
pegged in their turn?
This anti-inflation conference is really
a testing-ground and also a pre-
liminary to a (prospectively) more fertile
meeting, that of the Loan Council on
August 13, “to determine a national policy
based on co-operation between the Com-
monwealth and the States to arrest in-
flation.” There all Government works
will be pruned, and Mr. Menzies has said
that central-bank credit will be denied to
works programmes—a corollary to re-
striction of capital issues for commercial
industry. To some extent co-operation will
be enforced at the meeting of Govern-
ments, even if it cannot be won at the
more general conference now sitting. The
National Security Resources Board will
“within the next few weeks” take up
the recommendations from Common-
wealth-State consultative committees for
the diversion of materials from non-
essential to essential industries. Decisions
formed from the Loan Council meeting
will crystallise Budget proposals, among
which are foreshadowed increased taxa-
tion, both direct and indirect on “non-
essential” commodities.
The Commonwealth Government is
committed to paying off 10,000 members
of its swollen departmental service-rolls,
and once it has taken that plunge it
should find its morale wonderfully re-
freshed. Its spokesmen have said for long
enough that increased production is vital
and that straitened times and hard work
lie ahead of this nation if it is to survive.
Those words must now be made to mean
something. How far compulsion and
controls can be avoided depends on the
people’s response to the appeal to their
intelligence.
Socialism at the Cross-roads.
Amid a welter of controls, price-fixing,
goyernment-by-regulation and budgetary
adjustment of the economy, only
occasional voices have cried out against
the Socialist tendencies of the time. And
the sound of these has almost been
drowned by the demands for the omni-
potent Government to “do something.”
Socialism appears at the moment to be
poisoning civilisation. It is stifling the
healthy competition in industry from
which the virility of British Common-
wealth industry was born. It is repressing
natural laws and forces which in turn
are generating a great explosive economic
power. It is also destroying the character
of the race, giving the young the view-
point that whatever they want will come
to them without effort or striving if they
will only fall into step with the union-
regimented mob.
At present even a large section of the
Liberal party has reached the position in
which it can see no remedy for Socialism
but more Socialism, and is alarmed when
its leaders act differently.
In Britain Socialism exists in a tem-
porary form; but there it is not still
political suicide, or supposed political
suicide, for a man to call himself a Con-
servative or even to be called a Tory. Mr.
Churchill is still the very vocal leader of
the anti-Socialist party in the United
Kingdom, and he speaks in accents
which are never heard in Australia.
Last week he declared that six years
of Socialist rule “had hit Britain
economically harder than Hitler.” It had
“cost her her rank among the nations,”
he said, and so it has temporarily. U.K.
Labor is so busy and bustling in
the domestic sphere drilling its masses,
in its preoccupation with the task
of regulating this and controlling that
and fixing this and fixing that, that it has
little time for external affairs. It has given
up the command of the oceans to the
Americans. It has abandoned the stabilis-
ing of European politics in its desperate
effort to stabilise its own. It has time
for a glance only now and then at the
Dominions, to which its manufacturers
have begun to flee. And though the
Motherland is better off than Australia,
since its people at least have some rooted
convictions, which come to the surface
whenever they are needed and will
presently no doubt lead them to slough
its Socialism like a skin, the position still
remains as Mr, Churchill has stated it —
that “there is scarcely any country in the
world where it isn’t believed you have
only to kick an Englishman hard enough
to make him evacuate, bolt, or clear out.”
Those whom Britain has saved in the
past feel little cause for gratitude to her
under the Socialist regime and have little
cause to feel any. The Poland for which
Britain went to war has been allowed to
become a Russian military province by
the very men who were most vocally
eager in 1938-39 to fight Hitler; the men
who did most to destroy Mr. Chamberlain,
whom they raucously described as “an
appeaser.”
Again to quote Mr. Churchill in some-
thing which is largely true even to the
least-biased observer:
Countries we bare defended from Nazi
and Fascist violence; countries we rescued
after they had been subjugated; countries
which found us strong and steadfast com-
rades and allies are watching with aston-
ishment a Britain which they think—and
will think until once again we prove them
wrong—ls in retreat or in decline. Egypt,
Persia, Albania, the Argentine and Chile
compete with each other in insults and
humiliations they inflict upon us.
He adds that the cause of it all is “the
attempt to impose doctrinaire Socialism
upon an island which has grown great
and famous by free enterprise.”
There seems to be little cogent to add
to that summary, which is becoming as
true of Australia as it is of Britain. The
tough country of the Anzacs, whose in-
habitants took pride in their ability to
pioneer and to put up with the rough
side of life and slug it out with allcomers,
whether in a bayonet charge or on the
football field, are becoming a nation of
doctrinaire talkers. They are too busy
proving that social well-being and the
pursuit (not too strenuously) of happi-
ness is the one objective worth while
to train for security. Even their most
friendly critics are beginning to turn
against them. The Canberra corres-
pondent of the “Times” says that
State Governments are launching hap-
hazard vast (socialistic) development
projects with too little thought of ways
and means in money, men and materials ;
that employers are selfishly competing for
labor to feed the luxury trades at the ex-
pense of essential production ; that trade-
unions are insisting on shorter hours,
rising wages, stiff overtime and a pro-
fusion of holidays on full pay and that
the community is insisting on good times,
security of employment, accompanied by
woeful indiscipline, inefficiency and shirk-
ing of hard work.
He might have added that Govern-
ments, while humoring the people over
the past few years with the belief that
with the right party in power no natural
law can operate against their comfort and
their will to have as much pay and leisure
as they care to demand, have denied them-
selves nothing in the way of luxurious
administration, magnificent schemes of
Socialist expansion, Ministerial travel
abroad, and civil-service expenditures
crushing to the taxpayers.
But now the honeymoon is almost over.
With wool prices coming down and with
production in the export industries shrink-
ing and wages and costs still rising, the
outlook would be sobering even if there
were no imminent threat of war and no
defence burdens to be assumed- Govern-
ments realise this, and have begun to find
ineffective the stopgap panaceas which
they have been in the habit of using to
stave off the reckoning consequent on
inflation. Mr. McGirr’s price-fixing regu-
lations can have about as much effect as
Canute had upon the advancing tide.
The warnings of Mr. Fadden will be
regarded in some quarters as almost im-
pertinence, an outrage against the estab-
lished order and against the theory that
everything can be put right by a little.
official juggling. The idea that a
Treasurer should speak of his intention
to introduce a Budget which will contain
“unpleasant and unpopular things,” an
anti-inflation programme which “will hurt
every section of the community,” belongs
to an almost forgotten age along with
frugality, economy. Governmental respon-
sibility and the idea of a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay.
Little as the country may like Mr
Fadden’s measures or his stark manner
of stating his intentions, Australia will
have to suffer the remedies which are
the inevitable penalty for a gorge or
guzzle—“a strong dose of medicine, hard
to take but ultimately beneficial.”
It is to be hoped that Messrs. Menzies
and Fadden intend to add to their pre-
scription a lethal dose for the tapeworm
of established Governmental Socialism
with which even they have begun to be
infected.
Legacy's Silver Jubilee.
The Legacy Movement is 27 years old.
It was founded in Melbourne two
years before the N. S. Wales body,
which is celebrating its silver jubilee’
began to function after a meet-
ing of 12 men held at the Imperial
Service Club in Sydney, At that
meeting it was decided to form a
voluntary society, anonymous as far as
the general public was concerned. Its
objectives were to include the “care of
the dependants of comrades” who had
died in World War I and the “safe-
guarding of the interests of their
children,” particularly “their mental,
moral, vocational and physical welfare.”
The new association adopted as its
badge the now well-known torch with its
surrounding laurel wreath, of which the
leaves are reversed in symbolic memory
of the dead:
To yon from falling hands wo throw the
Torch,
Be yours to hold It high .. .
Legacy has held the torch high. It
has brought to the task of caring for the
fatherless war orphans and the widowed
wives of active-service soldiers the best
brains and the warmest hearts among the
services of two wars. It has succeeded
because it has made its work a mark of
personal effort and has carried it out not
merely as an obligation but as something
to be enjoyed, and which has made the
lives of those who have participated in it
—“legator” and “legatee”—the richer.
Many a man who has been roped in
timidly to Legacy has found himself
with an interest in those whom he has
seen through the difficulties of their lives
as personal and as affectionate as if they
were actually his own flesh and blood—
which, in a sense, to men who saw the
fathers of legatees killed beside them at
Bullecourt or Fromelles, they were.
When Legacy began it was specifically
intended to serve so long as the after-
math of World War I remained. But
just as the Legacy members had disposed
of most of their first batch of responsi-
bilities to the point at which they had seen
small orphans turned into barristers,
engineers, clergymen, doctors and good
sound young businessmen and tradesmen
—had seen them christened and seen them
married —they found themselves fare-
welling batches of their charges bound
for World War 11, which arrived bring-
ing even greater responsibilities. And
now World War 111 seems to cast its
shadow. In some cases there is a second
generation of war widows and children
in the Legacy family.
Already Korea has begun to add
its burdens. While there are grown-up
legatees heading fast for the days when
they will be grandfathers and grand-
mothers, the youngest are children in
arms, the latest addition an infant girl
born a week after her father was killed
in action somewhere in the Han River
region.
Legacy does not do things by half.
No legatee wants for anything which he
or she would have needed if the father
had lived. The best education, the best
medical attention, the most efficient
physical culture, business and domestic
advice for mothers, social life and
fatherly supervision are all brought to
them in an atmosphere of personal affec-
tion and as a right in a manner which is
unique in the world.
On the day this article was written a
woman loaded with shopping parcels,
struggling with an oversized infant,
fought her way into a North Sydney
tram. All eyed her indifferently, as usual,
and clung to their seats like limpets—
except for one youngster who sat read-
ing a book. He was a tall, clean-cut
lad. He rose promptly, gave the woman
his seat and stowed her parcels for her.
Somebody beside the writer in the next
seat remarked “Well, there’s one father
in Sydney who has brought his son up
well.” And there obviously was. The
boy was wearing two badges on his lapel.
One was the medallion of Sydney
University.
The other showed that he was a son
of Legacy.
EK D.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wool Must Be Free.
Opponents of the proposal to set up a
post -J O. wool - marketing plan have
selected six points which they consider
should be enough to persuade any wool-
grower not to have a bar of the proposal.
From the national rather than the grower
viewpoint, objections to the plan go even
deeper.
The “No” committee opposes the plan
because (1) it involves risks not offset by
possible benefits, (2) does not provide
grower-control of price and policy, (3)
only two Australian growers and only
four growers altogether would be on the
central controlling authority of 10, (4)
Australian growers are asked to find 58
p.c. of the necessary capital for 20 p.c.
representation, (5) there is danger of
Government or international control of
the wool industry, or both, and of dis-
location of the market through errors of
the central authority, and (6) the plan is
condemned by a majority of wool-
growers’ organisations throughout the
Commonwealth.
Wool being the main basis of their
economic health, the Australian people
PRODUCTION AND
DEPRESSION—Page 10
are vitally concerned in this plan. For
them the inherent threat in it is that wool
will become more involved in politics,
both at home and abroad, than it already
is. That is a threat much more dangerous
than any the industry faces from artificial
fibres, market slumps, droughts, blowflies
and the rest of it.
Recently the American Government
hinted broadly that it would like wool to
be made available to itself and other
Governments by allocation. In other
words, it would substitute for the free-
auction system Government-to-Govern-
ment buying and selling, a form of deal-
ing in necessary commodities which
might be necessary in war, but is mighty
undesirable in peace. A central authority
controlling minimum prices, and managed
by four Governments, could easily mani-
pulate this sort of thing when the oppor-
tunity arose.
Despite increases in population and a
rapid development of secondary indus-
tries, despite “full employment” and
rising wages and prices, and despite an
astonishingly wide variety of income-
earning sources now available to Aus-
tralians as compared with 10 years ago,
wool is still the barometer of our national
fortunes. A quick decline in wool prices
would bring that home with a punch
that would be felt from the Federal
Treasury down to the youngest office-
boy. For 50 years the state of the wool
industry has been reflected in the national
economy, and it looks like being that
way for another 50 years.
Wool has maintained its position
as our greatest single source of national
income because, except for two brief war
periods, it has been bought and sold on
a free market governed by supply and
demand. Give Government authorities
even the lightest grip on it, as this post-
J.O. plan proposes, and it could be
reduced in a year or two to a plaything
for politicians. Wool has stood on its
own feet from Waterhouse’s first fleece to
Wanganella’s latest, it is stronger now
than ever it was, and it should remain a
free industry.
The Snivellers.
On Monday week, the day the Australian
Loan Council meets to hear the Common-
wealth Government’s plans for imple-
menting its prior defence calls on works-
materials, the United States Government
will be making public the final draft of
the Japanese peace treaty.
There may be some minor changes as
a result of comments from the 15
countries of the Far Eastern Commission
among which the draft has been circu-
lated, but the shape of the treaty as now
known is unlikely to be altered, and the
signing of it at San Francisco on
September 4 is planned as a purely
ceremonial affair.
Both the Prime Minister and the
Minister for External Affairs have
explained that the draft treaty is not one
which Australia would prefer, had she
the power to change it; but that she has
not the power. It is doubtful whether
any combination of States in the world
could keep Japan permanently in sub-
jection by force; and there can be no
re-establishment of a nation with portion
only of its sovereignty—at least as a
permanent arrangement.
It should also be obvious to the
dumbest intelligence that no Power on
earth is either willing or rich or crazy
enough to offer to provide and keep per-
manently in Japan sufficient armed forces
—as a corollary to any treaty require-
ment that Japan should never again re-
arm herself —both to enforce such a
requirement and to defend the Japanese
people against outside attack for ever
more. But in the Philippines and in the
Australian “Labor” party there are
people crazy enough to demand, appar-
ently, that the Menzies Government,
alone if necessary, shall do just this
impossible thing, or resign.
The Evatt brothers have, with a
readiness now natural with them, taken
up this cry from the local Communist
headquarters. One of them, leader of
the Federal Opposition, in one breath
derides the Government’s preparations to
restore this country’s defences because
(he says) thsre is no danger of war what-
ever ; in the next depicts Japanese aggres-
sion as the modern bogy of the Pacific.
But the choicest comments come from
the other —Duntroon’s bad bargain and
the glamor-boy of the Parramatta Girls’
Home—who at a Sydney Town Hall
meeting ranted like this:
This treaty means war; It means death;
it means destruction... .The most in-
iquitous, the most infamous document
ever brought into existence It does
not contain a provision that if Australia
were attacked military aid would be given
her.
If we work together for Australia and
democracy, then this craven Menzies Gov-
ernment will bo frightened to go on with
this wicked thing.
He meant of course “this craven
American Government.” Every primary
schoolboy knows that America is running
this Japanese treaty, and is to maintain
an occupation force in Japan (to which
the Evatts will approve not one man from
Australia to help), and that the U.S. Gov-
ernment and the “craven Menzies Gov-
ernment” have already initialled a
Pacific Pact for mutual aid in defence
against any war contingency.
What the mob that the Evatt brothers
speak for doesn’t like about that
corollary arrangement, of course, is the
mutual obligation. What they conceal
is that the British Government and the
U.S. Government are in complete agree-
ment on the treaty. What they are doing
is simply to make Australia’s name stink
abroad.
Evil Communications.
At a Sydney Town Hall meeting, organ-
ised by a body calling itself “The Com-
mittee Against the Rearming of Japan”
and graced by the voluble presence of
those doughty fighters for any cause in
which the fighting can be done with the
tongue —Clive Evatt and Eddie Ward—
a Sydney clergyman, criticising the
Japanese treaty and the Pacific Pact, said
that a great fear was sweeping over Aus-
tralia so that the word “peace” could
not be mentioned even by a clergyman.
The Rev. R. van Eerde is the super-
intendent of the South Sydney Mission,
with a good record of practical Christi-
anity in the area his mission serves;
his qualifications as an authority on
foreign affairs are less well founded —
though probably no worse than those of
the two politicians (even though they be
ex-officials of the Austrahan-Russian
Society) with whom he was associated on
the platform at the Sydney Town Hall,
In making his remark regarding the use
of the word “peace,” Mr. Yan he 1 tie
was exaggerating in a manner unwouhy
of his cloth. He must know that every
week thousands of clergymen use the
word without the slightest fear or reper-
cussions ; he must know that it is
only when “peace” is used as a raise
front to cover the advancement ot soviet
policy—as in the ‘‘Peace Co^ ncl ’
dared by the A.L.P. to be a Communist
auxiliary, and the so-called Five-power
Peace Pact Petition —that the word be-
comes suspect. This is because the Com-
munists have debased it as they nave
debased other words which once
conveyed lofty meanings.
“Democracy” was a word which could
once hold its head high in any company,
but since the Communists began using it
to describe the tyranny of the Red
Kremlin and elevated the subject States
of Eastern Europe into “Peoples’ Demo-
cracies” it has fallen on evil days.
“Comrade,” before the Moscow blight
settled upon it, was a word exuding
warmth and loyalty ; it is now almost a
synonym for traitor. “Freedom” and
“liberty,” words which once held a magic
that impelled men to die gladly in their
name, are tainted by the same Red smear,
for Communism touches nothing it does
not pollute.
Russian policy is that the proposed
peace treaty with Japan should not be
signed and that Japan should be kept
permanently disarmed. This policy is
accordingly being urged by the “Aus-
tralian” Communist party, which is
organising meetings of protest against the
treaty, making use of well-meaning but
misguided folk outside the party and
playing upon the quite understandable
detestation which so many thousands of
Australians have for the Jap,
If Mr. Van Eerde is prepared to lend
his assistance to causes sponsored by the
Communist party, to sit on the platform
with known Communists and with Left-
wing “Labor” politicians whose views on
foreign affairs are seldom far from the
Communist-party line, he should not com-
plain to the world at large when the
English language is degraded by those
with whom he is associating. If evil
communications corrupt good manners
they also corrupt good words. In time
they can also corrupt good men.
Co-operation Needed.
The Commonwealth Government appears
to be falling down badly in its handling
of public relations.
Australians are good co-operators if
they are asked to co-operate, but they
react badly to being treated as a blind
mob, and at the moment they are not
being taken into the Government’s confi-
dence. There is little or no explanation
of what is happening or going to hap-
pen. Schemes are thrown down two or
three times a month, grimly necessary,
most of them, but hard to swallow. As
with the Defence Preparations Bill, there
are no preliminaries, apart, perhaps, from
an almost forgotten reference in the Prime
Minister’s policy speech—policy speeches
in these days being rarely taken seriously.
There is no careful preparing of the
ground beforehand. The result is frustra-
tion among the public and a loss of sup-
port for the Government.
One of the worst cases involved the
offer of Government shares in A.W.A.
to the public. First announcement was
in a curt statement that the Government’s
shares were to be sold through two firms
6f brokers at 45s. —a price well below the
market’s rather speculative view of value
in ordinary day-to-day restricted trading.
No explanation was given save that what
was being done was in accordance with
the Government’s policy of desocialisa-
tion.
It was a gift to Dr. Evatt and his
“Labor” propagandists. They rushed in
hurriedly 'to leave on the public mind
the impression that the Government, to
satisfy the rapacity of its “fat-man” sup-
porters, was handing over control of
Australia’s overseas wireless services to
its friends at a greatly-reduced figure.
The actual fact, of course, is that since
1946 the Beam and other services have
been divorced from A.W.A. and em-
bodied in the Telecommunications Com-
mission and that all A.W.A. does is to
manufacture and sell radio parts and run
some commercial broadcasting-stations.
It is no more a public utility in its present
condition than any other manufacturer
of wireless gear or owner of commercial
radio-stations. There is neither rhyme nor
reason in the Government’s retaining con-
trol of it. Also, there is some good
reason for selling in the fact that A.W.A.
may tender for television installations,
which might embarrass the Government
if it remained a majority shareholder.
If the public had understood this from
the first the announcement would have
had a different reception. As it is, it
will take Mr. Menzies and his supporters
much effort to catch up with the convic-
tions which an ignorant Press and a
malicious “Labor” Opposition hastened
to drive into the public mind.
"Smashing Arbitration."
The humbug and hypocrisy which taint
“Labor” propaganda were never better
illustrated than by Senator McKenna’s
statement on arbitration made on July 29.
He said that powerful trade-unions were
planning to seek deregistration in order
to evade the new amended Commonwealth
arbitration laws which empowered the
court to fine unions, their officials and
members for contempt if they continued
a forbidden strike.
He pointed out that the 8.W.1.U. (a
Commupist-led union) had long since
been deregistered in the Commonwealth
Court and had carried on, using its State
branches and State arbitration machinery,
and that the unions now considering
action would follow suit, playing the
awards of one State against another and
otherwise “exploiting the labor scarcity
by free bargaining outside all tribunals.”
Senator McKenna seems to have
a very poor opinion of trade-
unionism. If his statement means
anything, it means that he thinks it
a completely immoral movement, devoid
of all ethics, unheeding of the interests
of the community, a greedy and un-
scrupulous movement concerned only
with how much it can get out of the
community irrespective of the means used
or the cost to others. It means that the
unions, rather than obey the law (the
basic principles of which the “Labor”
movement has always claimed to have
formulated), intend to take measures
which they know beforehand will (in
Senator McKenna’s words) create “con-
fusion and chaos” —that is, unless it is
admitted by the Government that trade-
unions are above the law and are a
Government by themselves, untouchable
and permitted to adopt any device to gain
their ends, strikes organised by the agents
of an enemy country included.
Arbitration, the supposed brain-child
of “Labor” on which its whole industrial
principle supposedly is built, is, of course,
no longer in its policy. The 1948 Federal
A.L.P. Conference unobtrusively adopted
as a new plank:
legislative enactment of hours and wage
standards on the Commonwealth possess-
ing full powers on industrial matters.
This means, in effect, under a “Labor”
Government, wage-fixing, by the unions
themselves through their agents of the
A.L.P. Executive, which gives Senator
McKenna and his political colleagues
their orders.
The Commonwealth has cause to dread
the day when that happens. The moment
it is inaugurated it will be goodbye to the
British system of government and to all
freedom. The power to fix wages and
hours by legislation is the key to the
establishment of the Soviet Socialist
Government at which so-called “Labor”
aims. _
"Planning" in Sydney.
At a moment when the country is being
hastily geared for war the Cumberland
County Council scheme has been “in-
augurated” at a dinner in Sydney. For
years its sponsors have been tying-up
building, roadmaking and the normal
routine of city expansion in Australia’s
greatest wen while they persuaded the
State Government to endorse a fraction
of their programme.
Hitherto their achievement has con-
sisted of a map and the most magnificent,
most bureaucratic and most visionary
scheme of city planning known to the
Antipodes. The map was, and is, a
masterpiece, full of huge express-roads
driven straight through suburbs after the
fashion of Hitler’s autobahnen, public
convenience and cost completely dis-
regarded. “Green belts,” reserved areas,
parks and playgrounds were all placed
on the map, and everything upon it was
frozen stiff, ready to be grabbed at the
council’s own valuation when permission
(Continued on next page.}
"THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
In The Bulletin next week the first large instalment of The Letters
of Rachel Henning will be published. These letters have been kept intact
for nearly a century by the relatives of the .writer, and it is by arrange-
ment with a niece of Rachel Henning that The Bulletin is able to
announce first publication of them.
There is a freshness and frankness in the writing of the letters which
brings the atmosphere of England and Australia of the 1850’s right into
the present. People and customs are vividly described; grandparents of
many present-day Australians are mentioned in the letters, which, in their
entirety, make a fascinating story and an addition to our written history.
Rachel Henning had a flair for description, and was a writer of talent.
In The Bulletin the letters will be illustrated by superb pen-drawings
by Norman Lindsay, which reproduce the atmosphere of the period with
charming fidelity.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” Begin Next Weds


:
m
For your throat’s sake
CRAVEN A
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
m
■
y%sim
fg
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUAim)
should be given and the money should be
available.
The original estimate provided for
about £5O million in expenditure, but the
buoyant spirits in which groups of aider-
men and bureaucrats enter on this sort of
enterprise was shown when it was an-
nounced that one mile or so of short-cut
across the city from Darling Harbor was
to set the community back about
£2,500,000 before the last couple of basic-
wage rises.
The council now proposes, inter alia, to
proceed at once to resume about 10,000
blocks of unoccupied land at current
values. It proposes to draw on the labor
market at this pressing time for the staff
(including hundreds of university students).
This at a time when the “Labor” Govern-
ment opposes compulsory training on the
ground that it will sap the labor supply.
Australia, of course, as a whole, is
paying for Sydney’s extravagance and con-
gestion through the diversion of money
and workers and material of the kind
which is important for defence and
development of reproductive schemes.
And what makes the matter worse is that
the Cumberland County Council seems to
have no responsibility. It is merely a
body with legislative authority to make
other authorities do things its way,
It is about time Australian public
opinion took a hand to point out that
Canada, which has a third more people
than Australia, hasn’t a single city with
a population more than two-thirds that
of Sydney.
All national effort at this juncture
should be concentrated on decentralisation
and the expansion of essential production,
with food given a high priority.
POLITICAL POINTS
As anticipated, the by-elections in
Balaclava and Macquarie did not disturb
party strengths at Canberra. Alderman
A. S. Luchetti, at his fourth attempt for
the seat —the first away back in 1931 —
retained Macquarie for “Labor,” and
Liberal P. E. Joske did not have much
trouble in holding Balaclava, since 1929
the stronghold of T, W. White, now Aus-
tralian Minister in London. In both
electorates there were other candidates in
the field, but the winners had clear
majorities, though not so large as those
of Chifley and White at the general
election.
Evatt’s “final word” on the issues in
the Macquarie by-election campaign:
“The Federal Parliamentary Labor party
is having a great struggle at Canberra
against arbitrary government,” When
the Great Democrat’s party is in power
it governs in accordance with the
arbitrary instructions of the Outside
Dozen who form the A.L.P. executive, a
body which has no responsibility to the
electors and which changes its policy as
the expediency of the moment suggests.
Pooh-Bah Ferguson, man of many
jobs, was apparently using only one, or
possibly two, of his personalities when
he urged non-co-operation with the
Federal Government in its inflation con-
ference. He wasn’t speaking as president
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. or as president
of the Federal A.L.P., or as a N. S. Wales
Legislative Councillor, but in his capacity
as N. S. Wales secretary and acting-
Federal president of the A.R.U. The
authority for this statement is Lloyd
Ross, himself a former secretary of the
A.R.U., now “Labor Writer” for Keith
Murdoch’s Melbourne “Herald.” In
making future pronouncements, the man
of many jobs should take an example
from commercial radio and preface his
remarks with something like this; “This
is J. A. Ferguson speaking, and his voice
comes to you by courtesy 0f..,.” In
the blank space could be inserted which-
ever organisation he decided to saddle with
the blame for his current indiscretions.
Reason given by the A.W.U. for not
attending Monday’s anti-inflation con-
ference, as contained in a telegram to the
Prime Minister:
We believe your Government should
immediately take the necessary action to
bring about Commonwealth control of
prices and profits. Consequently, this union
does not accept the invitation to attend on
July 30.
In other words: Agree to our proposals,
and we’ll deign to listen to yours—with-
out, of course, committing ourselves in
any way to agree with them.
If only a misguided public had let the
Socialists nationalise all industry Mc-
Grrrr would not have been able to peg
prices at all, under the sacred rule which
he expressed when announcing the freez-
ing of “all prices”—“The Government is
not bound by price-pegging. No Gov-
ernment would be,”
It’s called diplomacy. In Melbourne
there is an agitation for official approval
for the playing of amateur sport in the
public parks on Sundays. When a
deputation waited on Lands Minister
Lind he seemed favorable to the idea
and told the Parks and Gardens Com-
mittee to draw up a plan detailing the
grounds to be used and the sports to be
permitted. But they mustn’t use the
words “Sunday sport.” “Sunday recrea-
tion” would get by, but not the other.
Bert Evatt did not attend the Sydney
Town Hall meeting of protest against
the Japanese Peace Treaty, but Eddie
Ward was there explaining that he spoke
not only for himself but for Bert and
the Parliamentary Labor party. Evatt
minor was there, too, protesting in im-
passioned vein against the rearming of
Japan. Neither gentleman attempted to
explain how he proposed to keep Japan
demilitarised for all time, neither is in
favor of compulsory training and neither
believes in sending Australian troops out-
side Australia. Both fulminate against
America, both describe the Menzies Gov-
ernment as Fascist and warmongering and
both are violently opposed to its defence
measures. In short, their policy on all
these points is indistinguishable from that
of the Communists, And the chairman
of the Town Hall meeting was Comrade
Wellard,
Ward argued that before it signs the
Japanese Peace Treaty the Government
should get the people to express an
opinion by referendum. He well knows
that there is no provision in the Consti-
tution for such a referendum,
Oldham, Deputy Opposition-leader in
Victoria’s farcical Parliament, alleged that
details of a new transport bill got out,
and a lot of people were thereby enabled
to get rid of transport property before
any axe fell. All Transport Minister
Hyland could say was that a previous
transport bill had got loose and had been
“used against the Country party.”
Up in Queensland the “drys” are ask-
ing for a State referendum on hotel-hours
and for introduction of local option.
They want the closing-hour pulled back
from 10 p.m. to 6 p.m. If they get it the
“five-thirty swill” will be general from
Cape York to Cape Otway, much to the
gratification of the breweries.
Federal rolls for the Red referendum
close at 6 p.m. on August 10.
In illustration of the Communists’
advertisements of their world-wide avidity
for peace, it took the Chinese negotiators
in Korea five weeks to agree to the
simplest form of the armistice which the
Soviet suggested, and their Press spokes-
men in Kaesong said it would probably
take two or three more weeks to work
out an armistice and another two weeks
to put it into effect. And then the busi-
ness of making any stable peace at all—
about which nobody would express any
confidence —would be only at its begin-
ning.
In the party of Communist journalists
who arrived at Kaesong from Peking to
cover the armistice talks was an Aus-
tralian, Wilfred Burchett, said to be
acting for the Paris “Ce Soir,” a Com-
munist paper. A Melbourne newsman
asked the opinion of Professor Zelman
Cowan, Dean of the Faculty of Law at
Melbourne University, on the legal posi-
tion of Burchett. The reply was that
Burchett was acting quite legally, as
“Australia was technically not at war
with North Korea or China.” A technical
point.
Bright thought from Victorian Hansard
report on the Milk Board Bill debate:
Mr. O’Carroll (Clifton Hill): On the
farm the hens give eggs, the bees honey,
and so on, but the milk has to be taken
from the cows.
As an attempt to explain the milk
shortage and the high cost of that com-
modity the statement deserves commenda-
tion, but how does Mr. O’Carroll account
for eggs, obligingly donated by the hens,
being 4s. 6d. a dozen?
Hamilton Knight, one-time Minister for
Labor under McKell and McGirr, has
listened to some weird and wonderful
reasons for maritime hold-ups since he
became a Conciliation Commissioner, but
the case put up by the crew of the collier
Kooralya, at present idle in Newcastle
with a full load of coal for Port Augusta,
just about takes the bun. The crew re-
fused to take the vessel to sea unless their
menu was changed to give a choice of
two sweets and a fruit allowance of two
pieces daily instead of one. Their other
demand was for a different brand of
toilet-soap. This last request may have
meant that the men’s sales resistance had
been broken down by too-consistent
listening to certain radio programmes—
or it may have been that their choice
reflected their wives’ taste in soap. What-
ever it was, Hammy described the dispute
as “frivolous,” The reasons may sound
frivolous ; the hold-up is not. The Con-
ciliation Commissioner should know by
now that the reasons advanced for tying
up a ship are, in nine cases out of 10,
so much eyewash. Ships are tied up be-
cause Elliott and company want them
tied up.
Moscow, having now an annual “Navy
Day,” has told the world that Nelson was
only an imitator of some Russian Ad-
miral called Ushakoff. Fame is being
handed to him very late, but the gentle-
man seems to have been conveniently
named.
Road, rail, tram and air transport in
Victoria is to be “co-ordinated” under a
bill to set up a Ministry for the purpose.
The same fate was visited upon N.S.W.
transport under the Stevens-Bruxner
Government some 20 years ago and chaos
has increased steadily ever since. Being
co-ordinated by a Government is about
the worst fate that can befall any in-
dustry—and the people it is supposed to
serve.
Control of building materials in
Queensland expires next December, but
nobody need start cheering ; the Hanlons
are getting ready to re-enact it, “high-
level Government authorities” being
convinced that controls should continue.
Run to earth, these birds would most
likely be found roosting in the building-
materials control department.
Tipping the date for a general election
has been a favorite indoor game in
Britain ever since Attlee just scraped
home in February last year. It’s on
again now, with October as the most
favored month.
On Friday a Crimes Act charge
against G. A. Doyle and M. J. Donegan
of the Ship Painters and Dockers’ Union,
in connection with the hold-up of the
New Zealand ship Glenlyon, was dis-
missed on the grounds of insufficient
evidence. Two Federal investigation
officers gave evidence that the two men
had urged their union members to boy-
cott the ship; three dozen members of
the union swore they had not been influ-
enced by Doyle and Donegan, This
means apparently that there was no con-
certed move to ban the Glenlyon ; it was
just that the idea occurred simultaneously
to a large number of painters and dockers.
Le Bon, the authority on crowd psy-
chology, would have been interested in
this case.
Pearce, M.H.R. for Capricoraia, blames
the Queensland Government railways for
troubles caused in North Queensland by
the shortage of shipping. His argument
is that the railways carry at a loss goods
which it would be more economical to
carry by sea —the taxpayers, of course,
bearing the expense. In consequence,
coastal shipping has been discouraged to
such an extent that there are no longer
sufficient vessels in the trade to service
the ports.
Victorian Egg Board, which is sup-
posed to be reformed or reconditioned or
something, is to start an “eat more eggs”
campaign. With hen-fruit at 4£d. each
it has the job in front of it. Before
these boards began “controlling” com-
modities nobody had to be induced to
eat good food.
Since the war over 350,000 European
workers have gone to jobs in Britain,
Many have merely stayed on a two- or
three-year contract and then returned to
their own country ; others have migrated
to Australia and Canada, but more than
200,000 are making Britain their per-
manent home. Polish soldiers form the
biggest group, but almost every nation-
ality in Europe is represented among
the 80,000 d.ps. admitted from camps in
Western Germany,
Victorian Agriculture Minister Moss
said that while Melbourne housewives
hunted for butter more than 1.7 million
pounds of it was held in cold store for
a price-rise. At the same time Sydney
papers published pictures of 3000 bags of
potatoes held in store for a similar pur-
pose, Not so long ago Brisbane was
entertained with similar pictures. That
sort of thing will go on so long as officials
control prices of commodities which,
whatever their price, were seldom really
scarce in the days before officialdom
took over.
With everybody howling for bricks it
would be reasonable to assume that a
brickworks would pay. The McGirr one
doesn’t. It lost £6193 in 1949-50,
making accumulated losses £35,943 since
it was taken over in 1946. So far, there
is no sign of any improvement, though
the employees are working on an incen-
tive system which gets them up to 22\ p.c.
above award rates on “targets being
reached.”
Strange that the people who urge full
recognition of Communist China on the
grounds of “realism” are the very ones
who refuse to accept “realism!” as a
reason for closer intercourse with
Franco’s Spain.


r
I?
f
D **<s.e*
gde
t>flN4 6s
t-
IMMOVABLE OBJECT.


Mtn^
m
m
KO/52
aSi
iL aii
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWIIRTH
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
fg
df
*■*
m
5
THE PRESENT
IS HAPPIER WHEN
THE FUTURE IS
SECURE...
If you want to get real pleasure out of
living there’s nothing like the secure
knowledge that you have A.C.A. protec-
tion for the future. Perhaps you cherish
the thought of providing a University
career for a child —or providing a lump
sum for your child’s future —a planned
early retirement for yourself—peace of
mind that in the event of your death your
family will never be short of money.
Whatever your future plans are you can
be sure that an A.C.A. good Policy will
meet your individual needs.
A.C.A. POLICIES ARE GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Head Office; 66 King Street, Sydney.
J Branch Offices throughout the Commonwealth
\f\o
\VS
«»■
SW‘ v r *
meV^VJ
The Manager,
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.,
66 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Please let me have full details concerning LIFE,
ENDOWMENT, EDUCATIONAL POLICIES.
Please underline the type of Policy required.
NAME
ADDRESS
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Production and Depression
Australia seems rapidly to be
approaching the crisis so long
forecast in these pages. The
“costs” weeds are flourishing
even more vigorously than the
forced growth of prices and
wages; and, with basic prices
starting to wilt slightly, the
tendency of the weed-growth is
to strangle them and overrun
the whole garden.
Prices, too, though high, have
been controlled in many cases to
an extent that there is very little
reserve of profit-margin left to
act as a shock-absorber in any
freezing of prices and charges.
We are approaching the point
where prices will have to go still
higher or more production will
have to be turned out for each
£ paid in wages. Otherwise
production will become com-
pletely unprofitable and industry
will collapse.
There is a lot of side-stepping
of the issue going on at present
in many places. The Associated
Chambers of Manufactures,
which did not want revaluation
of the pound a couple of years
ago, now doesn’t want emerg-
ency controls over industry
either. And all too frequently
in cases where one section of
industry has been singled out for
a trade - union “doing - over,”
other sections have been only
too happy to give the industrial
outlaws jobs for the duration of
the strike, thus adding to their
striking power.
It is of little use beating
about the bush in our present
crisis. We must produce more
per head. That is more than
half the answer to our prob-
lem. There are many theorists
who say that more production
of itself will not stop inflation.
And it is true that monetary
management is necessary during
a period of inflation, as it is a]
any other time. But it is also
absolutely true that withou
adequate production we wil
never stop inflation —unless we
are prepared to cut down money
wages to correspond with pre-
sent cut-down production, and
to accept the fact that our
present living standard is only
husk of what it used to be.
In a few words, monetary
deflation is not the full answer
to our present inflation. And it
can only become part of the
answer if such deflation creates
a stimulation of the will to work
harder and longer in the minds
of trade-unionists as a whole
and they are permitted by their
union bosses to do so.
Obviously our objective should
be to increase production first
of all and to avoid, as far as
possible, hardship (through de-
flation and unemployment) to
trade-unionists who all along
have been prepared to co-
operate in the recovery effort.
What is more, this country
badly needs increased produc-
tion just as much as it needs
stable money. And it needs that
increase as quickly as it can
possibly get it. Increased pro-
duction is not merely the first
answer to inflation. It is the
requisite of our whole industrial
future —perhaps our future as a
white nation.
It is easy, perhaps, to call a
militant unionist or a Com-
munist saboteur an industrial
outlaw, but often it is no over-
statement of the case. Where
it is no overstatement we should
not be prepared to let it go at
merely calling him an industrial
outlaw. He should be treated
as one, in every court of the
land and in every place of em-
ployment. Otherwise our whole
legal, social and industrial
structure will be in danger of
collapsing.
The trade-union movement
has become a vast organisation.
Under proper leadership it is an
organisation for good. But
under bad or treacherous leader-
ship it becomes an instrument
for great evil. Its individual
“This is my new husband. Daddy. Margot Jones got
the old one.”
members in many cases are vic-
tims of their own inertia or
their own cupidity. It is prob-
ably not untrue to say that the
majority of trade-unionists to-
day see the evil that their unions
are creating, but feel helpless,
without leadership from a
supreme quarter, to do much
about it.
It is equally probable that those
unionists who helped vote the
Menzies Government into office
twice within the past two years
saw the real issue in all its
bluntness and without the com-
plications with which every
aspiring economist and political
leader delights in embroidering
it. That is not to say the com-
plications are not bewildering.
They are. But the average voter
in this or any other British
country likes to see his problem
in a nutshell. And if that prob-
lem so presented obviously
means bringing the trade-unions
to heel, then most trade-
unionists will be for it. The
solidarity and comradeship in
many unions, as unions, is in
most cases phony. Underneath
it all the individual has a soul
of his own, and the more soul he
has the more he must recoil
from trade - unionism - gone -
mad as he sees it today.
In the depression of the
1930’s the cry of the militant
unionist was that the money in-
terests were withholding finance
in order to prolong the depres-
sion, increase their holdings in
industry and “take it out of” the
worker. It may have been the
object of isolated financiers to
achieve something of the sort,
but it was certainly not the
policy of any Australian or
British bank, including the
Commonwealth Bank or Bank
of England. The whole objec-
tive of the Australian banking
system was to restore economic
equilibrium and the fullest pos-
sible employment.
Now, 20 years after the middle
of that depression, we find our-
selves in a production depres-
sion. And this time there isn’t
any doubt that Communist-
controlled trade-unionism, at
any rate, is withholding produc-
tion with the deliberate inten-
tion of prolonging such a pro-
duction depression. In the
1930’5, it was said, we were
starved of money—“poverty
amidst plenty.” Now we are
being deliberately starved of
coal, steel and other production
by the trade-union movement
itself, with the result that we are
facing a far graver crisis, since
in real national assets our posi-
tion is rapidly deteriorating.
Whatever our financial, eco-
nomic or political arrange-
ments may be in order to cope
with this approaching crisis,
underneath it all must be the
principal aim of getting greater
production from all those who
today are not even doing a
decent 40 hours’ work a week.
And that means some hard
political slugging on the trade-
union front, including the speedy
introduction of the secret ballot.
Even if, for a while, the results
of secret ballots do not favor
industrial and economic sweet
reasonableness, once the ballots
are in operation they are always
there to indicate it when sanity
does prevail. At the present
time many trade-union ballots in
no way indicate the real feelings
of the unionists.
Selectively Weaker
In its readjustment following
impending controls, wider price-
fixing and increased taxation,
the Australian sharemarket has
been selective in its marking-
down of stocks. 8.H.P., for
instance, has suffered only a
small decline over the past three
weeks. Electricity Meter and
Bradford Cotton have been
strong. But comparatively heavy
falls have occurred in motor-
discount firms and finance
houses, to mention only one
section singled out for marking-
down.
There is very little inducement
at the moment to take money
out of good-class industrial
equity shares and to put it into
Government loans or fixed de-
posits. Speculators rather than
investors are concerned about
the present shakeout.
Potential buyers of industrial
equities should note that Ford
Sherington (with large tax-free
reserves), Frederic Ash, A. Hall
and Co. and Goldsbrough Mort
shares may now be bought at
below previous price-levels.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Union Bank
Business is Built on
Frlendlif Service/
lll**
Goodwill has always played a major part
in the building of the Bank's constantly in-
creasing business. In many cases up to four
generations in a family have had the willing
and helpful financial advice of the Union
Bank.
Whether your means are small or large, you
wiU find that friendly discussion with your
local Union Bank Manager frequently assists
to solve an apparently difficult financial
problem.
The
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England )
Shortly to be merged with Bank of Australasia in
Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
. and in London.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
three
gd
famous
companions
, "*„ M
xS--:.
jM"'.
mL./^ fc*»
THE JOWETT JUPITER
4 ‘Jupiter litre Sports Con-
vertible with glass side win-
dows. First and second in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally , 1i
litre class.”
fgd
THE JOWETT JAVELIN
“Javelin litre full 5-seater
Family Saloon. Fourth in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally, ii
litre class”
fg
THE BRADFORD
Available with station waggon
body.
These three have come from the same famous Yorkshire stable of Jowett
Cars Ltd., who have been making cars for nearly half a century. Each, in its
own class, has an outstanding performance. Thus the Jowett range ca !f rs or
every taste. The Jupiter is the fast litre sporting car. The Javelin is a
remarkably comfortable, well sprung and economical fami y car wi a
lively performance. The Bradford Commercial range, aval a ewi s 10
waggon body, is known all over the world for its amazing economy and sturdy
reliability.
DISTRIBUTORS; Bradford Vehicles Pty., Ltd., Sydney; Liberty Motors
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd., Brisbane; B.E.A.
Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Perth; Dona
Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made in Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Trans-Tasman Reaction
Australian anti - inflationary
moves were the orange light for
Maoriland investors, after un-
easily watching trends across the
Tasman for a matter of weeks.
When they scented coming
changes demand was quickly
switched to New Zealand securi-
ties —or, more correctly, was
concentrated more on their own
limited field, where pressure was
already strong.
The first wave of new specu-
lative fervor was stimulating.
Holders, who had been calling
the tune for a good while, were
more in command than ever,
and thirst for capital gains left
interest in div.-yields miles be-
hind. Maorilanders figured out
that share - values wouldn’t
escape some form of blood-
letting when the feverish Aus-
tralian economy was put on the
operating-table and the doctors
gathered around, and the first
guess was that share-limits, re-
laxed a little more than 3i years
ago, would come back. After
that the market would lose a
good deal of life.
If M.L. shares move further
away from real values now
they’ll be more sensitive to
shocks later on, but that isn’t
worrying Maorilanders today.
With their sterling-value pound
they’re not so much up in the
clouds as Australians, and their
paper prosperity hasn’t run so
much to seed. Still, they’ll have
to keep a close watch on trends.
A couple of decades ago, in the
depths of depression, when the
£A and £NZ were, roughly, on
a common level, M.L. shaped its
emergency measures on the Aus-
tralian pattern. Today it’s prob-
ably as ready to learn as it was
then, and not much further from
having to call in first-aid.
Credit and Work
New Zealand’s Reserve Bank
has been allowed to think more
freely since the Socialists were
booted out, and doesn’t have to
speak in a whisper now when it
discusses inflation. In its latest
warning to Maorilanders that
something will have to be done
about costs and prices, it points
to three causes of the malady
—booming export income, bal-
looning prices for imports and
scarcities.
On internal troubles, it says
production costs, the volume of
money and spending habits have
been boosting prices until it has
become a “vital feature of eco-
nomic and financial policy” to
check the upward pressure.
Monetary and fiscal methods
that is, credit-controls and taxes
—are the quickest forms of first-
aid, and, although the R.B.
doesn’t say it, the former could
be applied more firmly. The
country might wince, but the
effects would do it good.
On production the R. 8.,
strictly orthodox, calls for more
efficiency and co-operation and
smoother distribution. It chalks
up partial decontrol of imports
and exchange as gains, but keeps
clear of the ticklish problem of
tight control over transfers of
funds to Australia.
The trouble here is that for
three years M.L. has been ex-
posed to a powerful gravita-
tional pull from across the Tas-
man which would have drained
away its exchange surplus if it
had opened the door. Even with
the Australian pound drifting
the pull is still there, and the
door has to be carefully guarded.
Farmers are among those
who would like to see the R.B.
take a more determined hold of
the reins instead of allowing the
trading banks so •much latitude
in lending, but they’re on the
box-seat because the biggest
growth in incomes has come
their way. Traders and manu-
facturers, who have to lay out
more capital in plant, premises
and stock, would be up to their
necks in difficulty if farmers
called the tune.
Still, there’s commonsense in
the viewpoint of W. N. Perry,
president of Dominion Federated
Farmers, who boils down the
problem to one that can be
solved in only two ways—by
controlling the flow of money
and by more work.
Maorilanders may agree, but
they’re not prepared to put their
shoulders to the wheel. If
credit-controls diverted funds
more towards essential industry
there would be squeals from
workers and managements left
high and dry. Perhaps they’ll
have to choose smartly soon
whether some should be hurt to
help others who are doing a
more necessary job if they want
to cling to their 40-hour five-day
week, easygoing pace and over-
full employment. In the end
there’s no way of gaining the
fruits except by working for
them.
High Cost of Cheap Money
New Zealand is still clinging
to a 3 p.c. gilt-edged rate while
the rest of the world is flirting
with tighter and dearer money,
and there’s not much likelihood
of a change now before 1952,
which should be the year for a
real attack on inflation, after
the Holland Government gets a
new mandate, with sterner
orders to do something about
the shrinking pound. The worst
part of it is that costs and prices
will jump in the meantime, and
this won’t make the job easier.
A bit over a year ago, when
Holland and Co. borrowed £2O
million-odd for national develop-
ment to carry on where the
Socialists had left off, money
was one-eighth p.c. cheaper in
Maoriland than in Australia,
and today the gap is one-quarter
p.c.; but M.L.’s latest national
loan of only £lO million, which
netted £l3 million, wasn’t a full
test of the market.
Like Australia, N.Z. has a
huge programme of works to
tackle, but labor and materials
are bottlenecks. This set limits
for borrowing and helps to keep
money cheap, which doesn’t im-
prove things when it comes to
inflation. There’s a prospect
that labor performance will be
better from now on, after the
lessons of the four-months’
waterfront, shipping and coal-
fields strikes, but the results
aren’t coming with a rush. Unit
costs haven’t stopped rising, and
sterling depreciation, whipped
along by the world famine in
materials, is beginning to rock
Maorilanders.
It’s no use pretending that
dearer money would be a
“wonder” cure, for even an out-
size rise wouldn’t be nearly as
powerful in swelling idle funds
as shortages which make it im-
possible for many people to buy
cars, homes, refrigerators, wash-
ing-machines, factory and farm
machinery and plant, carpets
and a host of other lines, but it’s
equally clear that keeping
money cheap isn’t the way to
help recovery.
If money were the thing
Maorilanders needed most
there’d be some sense in tread-
ing in the footsteps of the
Socialists, but this leads only to
forced thrift, paper prosperity,
falling real wages and robbery
of everyone who trusts the
pound.
Tariff Problem
New Zealand’s Board of Trade
is just beginning to realise how
big a job it has on hand to sweep
away import-controls and put
trade on a tariff-protection basis.
Until now, Maoriland has had
nothing but a revenue tariff,
which falls a long way short of
needs to safeguard infant or
adolescent industries.
When an unofficial delegation
of M.L. manufacturers spent a
few weeks lately exploring the
Australian tariff they had an eye-
opener, and returned with mixed
hopes and doubts about prospects
of building up a system that
would soon give them as good
shelter. They’re a generation
behind Australia, and there’s a
good deal of toughening-up
necessary after more than 12
years of import-rationing. The
young board knows their fears,
and knows it has to win their
confidence, but it has orders
from the Holland “free-enter-
prise” Government to push on
with import-decontrol as fast as
it can, which means that it must
be ready to take some risks, it
is feeling its way, has plenty of
problems to work out, and has
more work at the moment than
it can cope with.
One of its puzzles is how to
deal with “dumping” dangers,
which could be disastrous for
firms behind their low tariff wall,
with their sterling-value pound.
Another worry is the N.Z.-
Australian exchange gap, and a
third is competition from low-
wage countries in Asia and
Europe. The transition won’t be
easy, and it would be surprising
if no one got hurt.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; Sydney’s Department of Road
Transport, which year after year piles up
astronomical deficits, defies all the
accepted rules of commerce by refusing
to go broke. Is there any sober reason,
then, why the department can’t at least
appease one long-suffering section of the
community by adding to its already
bloated staff a few dozen specialists?
These could be either mechanics who
have achieved Conservatorium diplomas
or musicians with mechanical minds,
who could be trained to tune the brake-
linings of the double-deckers which
screech to a stop in the purlieus of the
Town Hall. They could be handed
advance programmes of symphony con-
certs or instrumental recitals, thus
ensuring that when Beethoven’s C Minor
Listen! If I went out with you I'd need danger-money!”
Symphony or Brahms’s C Major Piano
Sonata is being played the brake-shriek-
mgs which penetrate the venerable pile
so easily shall be in a like key and not
create an awful dissonance by squealing
to a halt simultaneously in F Sharp
Minor and E Flat. The evolution of a
silent horn, too, could also allow the
department’s back-room boys to earn
almost a portion of their salaries.
♦ * * *
“Hattie Hop”: Individuality in form-
filling (B. 18/7/’51)? When I handed my
last census-form to the collector, he
stared at it, glared at me, and barked,
‘This document has been mutilated.” He
pointed to where a tiny strip had been
sliced from the top margin. “What is the
explanation of this defacement?” he de-
manded. “I wrote something there, but
afterwards decided not to leave it, so I
snipped it away with the scissors,” I
answered. “What was it?” he asked.
‘Only a question.” He insisted on know-
ing, so I told him, “I wrote ‘Why should
a woman’s age be considered more im-
portant than her religion?’ One is exempt
from declaring one’s religion, yet liable to
a heavy penalty for not stating one’s age.
I consider my age and my church are
equally my own business and no concern
of anyone else.” I thought that would
close the conversation, but, placing the
form up against a picture, he wrote in
pencil the question I had removed. Then,
muttering that I might expect to be fined
£5O for mutilating a Government docu-
ment, he took himself angrily away.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Few human impulses are so
impelling as the urge to help somebody
find something. Even the bom grump
seems to take pleasure in helping a
stranger find “Emoh Ruo, Whatsaname-
street”; and a coin dropped in a shop
will bring everybody in the vicinity into
the hunt. I once tried vainly to stop six
fellow-travellers from squinting under the
seats of a train in search of something
that had flicked out of my pocket with
a handkerchief. That night a sixpence
fell out of the cuff of my pants as I
folded them. But recently, walking along
a Sydney street, I was interested to see
an elderly derelict dive down and pick up
something off the pavement. A few more
steps and he repeated the move. This
time I saw the object—a cigarette-bumper.
The amazing thing was that from then
on I found myself looking through his
eyes. In spite of myself I stretched my
stride a foot to avoid treading on a likely-
looking butt. A shuffle behind told me
it had been gathered in. Hurrying past
came a girl. Several paces later she gave
a quick skip, turned, looked down on
the pavement and then back to the col-
lector. Her lips didn’t say: “There’s a
beauty for you”—but her eyes did. The
derelict gave her a haughty stare —and
walked past a full two-incher! Even a
bumper-shooter has his pride.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Many world leaders, wise
after the event, have given their opinions
how the First World War and all the evils
flowing from it might have been pre-
vented, but the most original I came
across recently in Dr. John Plesch’s Janos,
the Story of a Doctor. Plesch, who re-
garded Hitler as “a case of maniac de-
pressive lunacy,” and got out of Germany
before the second storm broke, was, in
earlier days, intimate with the Kaiser’s
household and attended, with Professor
Kraus, the Kaiserin and Prince Eitel
Friedrich. According to Plesch, the
Kaiserin seems to have been a pain in
the neck to the Hohenzollerns, Crown
Prince Little Willie, who died the other
day, once said to the doctor;
“You know, Plesch, if my father had kept
himself a clever and sophisticated French
cocotte on the quiet, the world would
have been spared all the trouble, and
Germany her disaster..” Who knows?
# * * *
“Vingter”: Grand Old Lady of all
female masqueraders was James Barry,
Inspector-General of her Majesty’s
Medical Services, a post-mortem on whom
sent Whitehall brasshats into a flat spin—
it showed that the deceased general was
a woman, and, at one stage of her life,
had given birth to a child. After passing
through Edinburgh Medical School,
young Barry joined the Army as a
medical orderly and on July 15, 1813, was
posted to the Royal Horse Guards at
Capetown. Rapid promotion resulted in
gazettal as assistant surgeon two years
later. Probably as a result of an urge to
overcompensate for the hidden femininity
the young surgeon was rather free with
challenges when chaffed. The governor’s
aide-de-camp was among a succession of
officers who, seeking to take, the effemin-
ate young whippersnapper down a peg or
two, learned to their discomfiture that
Barry was an accomplished swordsman.
These swashbuckling tendencies earned
Barry one period of recall, but surgical
proficiency led to further promotion and
reposting to Capetown, where his services
among the civilian population included a
Cassarean operation, which produced a
child named James Barry Munnik, whose
grandson James Barry Munnik Hertzog,
sometime South African Prime Minister,
was not noted for Anglophilia tendencies.
After service in various overseas garri-
sons Barry was retired as Inspector-
General of Medical Services on half-pay,
July 19, 1859, The finding of the retired
officer dead in his bed six years later
led to the post-mortem and the exposure
of the near-lifetime masquerade.
* * * *
“Ray W.”: During the Island cam-
paigns a mate of mine had a habit of
staggering his section by producing a
bottle of the dinkum stuff at the most
unexpected, if appropriate, moments; in
the middle of a scrap, for instance. From
all accounts, the inscription “Bottled in
Scotland” suddenly appearing in the Jap-
riddled jungle helped morale along no
end. The mellow contents helped even
more. Once a week from a base camp
back in Aussie a sar’-major who should
have known better posted him a bottle
of Scotch embedded in a loaf of bread.
Every parcel arrived in fine order and
condition. As I said, I should have known
better, but there was plenty of bread in
the cookhouse.
♦ ♦ • ♦
“Eve”; We had bought steak-and-
kidney pies at the beach—luscious things,
but so full of gravy we had to lean over
while eating! them. We were seated along
the promenade doing the lean-over-and-
gorge act when a youngster sat down
opposite us and took his pie out of a
paper-bag. He poked a pen-knife point
into each end of the pie, drained the
gravy into the bag, and ate the pie with
comfortable unconcern. Then he up-
ended the bag, through which the gravy
was just beginning to soak, and drank
the gravy from one corner. We went on
leaning-over, but there was a general air
of inferiority about us.
* * * «
“Cauboy”: A music critic, commenting
that not many concertgoers in Australia
follow the performance from a score,
adds that the practice is more widely
evident in Europe and America, where
miniature scores can be bought at the
door of the hall. Still, there are plenty
of these solemn pests in Melbourne, and
most concertgoers have had the unfortu-
nate experience of sitting next to one, and
of trying to listen to the music between
the turning of the pages. Such nuisances
are not confined to the art of music. You
can see them up at the National Gallery
with notebook and pencil, checking up on
Rembrandt’s use of chiaroscuro and
Rubens’s knowledge of composition in
terms of what some “authority” has told
them in his last lecture. Analysing the
notes in a piece of music won’t give you
the meaning of the music any more than
knowing all the verbs and adjectives in
“Macbeth” or “Hamlet” will give you
the meaning of the play,
* * * «
“Clooter”: It stirs my ancient soul to
bear these psychiatrists telling married
couples to have a row now and then for
their health’s sake, the argument being
that if you’re too gentlemanly or too lady-
like to open up on your mate the result-
ant bottling-up does your spleen no good
and you collect ulcers and other things.
This might be all right for the first five
years or so of wedded bliss. After that
it’s pretty hard to have a satisfactory
barney, for by that time one partner or
the other will have established an
ascendancy in such matters, and the
other will either take refuge in silence
or go and get drunk. Again, if there are
children, decent parents won’t stage brawls
in their presence. You can no more
generalise in this than in other things
concerning human emotions, for man is
built to a pattern only in his basic physical
parts; even twins have different person-
alities and viewpoints. And you can bet
your life that if either partner deliberately
picks a row there’s some end behind it.
My view is that a man is more likely to
get ulcers from a quarrelsome missus
than from a placid one —and the placid
ones can be dashed maddening at times.
♦ ♦ « •
“Melb’n”: Discussions are taking place
in Melbourne’s official circles on an
underground-railway system to relieve
traffic congestion, and Railways Commis-
sioner Wishart says that it would take
from seven to ten years to complete such
an undertaking. Melburnians are receiv-
ing that estimate with cynical smiles. The
Degraves-street subway, a matter of a
tunnel 100 ft, long, was first mooted 25
years ago. Two years ago a plan was
approved, yet the job hasn’t been properly
started yet.
* • ♦ ♦
“Sebak”: You could hardly call the
shopkeeper on the corner of my street
a New Australian—having come to this
country long before the war he can never
claim to be anything but a dago—but his
young son speaks like an Aussie and is
accepted a s
such. While
the father was
serving me the
youngster
lifted down a
box of ice-
cream - cones.
Suddenly the
shop rang to a
startled yell,
the cardboard-
box fell to the
floor behind
the counter,
and the boy
stood gaping as though he had been leapt
upon by a death-adder. Senior looked up
with a frown. “Whata da matta?” he
demanded. The lad shot a quick glance
at me, then answered—in Italian. It was
quick thinking, and also displayed a good
business sense. There is really no nice
way of saying in English: “A dirty big
rat just jumped out of that box.”
WARNING TO MIGRANTS.
Commenting on charges of ‘appalling conditions’
in Australian hostels for migrants, some intending
migrants said that, far from misleading them, Aus-
tralia House officials had been extremely frank.”
*k e Papers were squalling
Australia don’t treat our folk right;
Ine hostels are simply appalling— \
Oh, pity the emigrant’s plight!”
Then up spoke a bloke from Australyer,
He saj d> “I refuse to concur—
If migrants are talking of failure,
It s because they are not what they were:
once set a high valuation
On migrants who never complained,
You granted them free transportation,
And sent them out heavily chained;
The pains that you took to secure them
Were well justified in those days;
Ev ®n such as could never endure them
Admitted they had taking ways.
**TJ® need was for men of this temper—
A They had a whole country to take:
All hard-bitten builders of Empire—
At any rate, all on the make;
They didn’t run home to their mothers
When nothing was left to be found—
Each took what he could from the others
To pass their prosperity round.
“Th er f’ s been a big change in conditions,
And most of the old hands are gone,
But still their inspiring traditions
Are leading Australians on;
The squatter who squats on his squattage,
The Lands-Acter kicking him out,
The builder who builds you a cottage
For the price of a castle-and-moat,
“Tbe butcher, the grocer, the baker,
The candlestick-maker, McGirr,
The tramway or railway faretaker,
The Board and the Blackmarketer—
They’ve all got their eye on your handbag,
They re quick, hopping in for their whacks,
And always, behind, with a sandbag
Is the Pay-As-I-Pieaser of Tax.
So it’s no use to send our Dominion
A man who expects a fair deal,
If you do, in my humble opinion,
He’ll end up as anyone’s meal;
No migrant should come to Orstrelly
All hopeful and smiling and sweet—
He’s got to be game as Ned Kelly,
For that’s who he’s going to meet.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


* V
« I
■. • <?
H/H’lfOt cd WfMf£RM4jtS C/fors
M Imported from Holland to ANDREW McGEE
You’ll never know how soothingly mild and flavourful a cigar
can be until you light up a HENRI WIN TERM AN S from
Andrew McGee. This grand cigar of Holland—made from
riper, sweeter leaf—has countless adherents throughout the
world. If you like your cigars mild, then we are confident that
you, too. will like HENRI WINTERMAN’S.
Obtainable from
ANDREW IVTGEE
1 CASTLEREAGH STREET - 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Established 1887
Petit Bouquet 10d. f
Captains 1/3,
Generals 1/5, Unlek
1/6, Fine Fleur 1/7,
and many other
shapes to choose
from.
Mail Orders
fibrilcaat
enp iWnt
wuiinx
Wm
“Findy”: There’s no doubt about it;
science is a wonderful thing, and if a
scientist has patience enough and intel-
ligence enough he can, through diligent
application in his chosen sphere, find out
almost everything. A case in point is
the amazing discovery made by an
American professor who has been study-
ing the problem of why people wear
spectacles. Most people, observing a
man reading a newspaper with the print
held about an inch and threequarters in
front of his nose, would merely conclude
that the cove was naturally shortsighted—
and let it go at that. That, apparently, is
all wrong. People don’t hold the paper
close to their nose because they need
glasses. On the contrary, they need
glasses because of their habit of holding
the paper close to their nose. As a
corollary to this proposition, people with
short arms need glasses sooner than
people with long arms, and women, being
shorter in the arm, have to go to the
eye-specialist earlier in life than men.
I’m glad the professor has revealed his
discovery to the world. It’s a little too
late to save me from the optician,
but I’m starting in on my children right
away. As from tonight they are to be
trained to read lying down, with the legs
stretched out to their fullest extent and
the book or paper held between the toes.
That way they should never need specs.
* * * *
“Ike Holler”: The case of the man
who was picked up 30 hours after falling
overboard from one of the yachts in the
California-Honolulu race shows how the
sea, which can be very cruel, has some
queer mercies. Another example was
that of a man who fell off the leading
transport, Marathon, Al 3, in a convoy
taking Aussie troops overseas in 1917,
The convoy was ploughing through a
nasty Indian Ocean storm, and there was
no chance of launching a boat, though
all ships were alerted to look out for
him. Shropshire, further back in the
convoy, wallowed into the mountain of
water; the wave surged' along her
counter and poured an avalanche of
water into the after-well deck. As the
water gurgled away down through the
scuppers a man’s body was seen rolling
about in the water that remained. The
man who had fallen off one transport
had been washed on board another. He
responded to resuscitation treatment and
was well enough to be passed back to his
own ship when the convoy reached
Durban.
* * * *
“P.T.”: Nearly a century ago —before
oil became a factor in world politics—
Britain found it necessary to take armed
action in Persia. Towards the end of
1856, Persia, at Russia’s instigation, tried
to take forcible possession of Afghani-
stan’s western province, Herat, thus
menacing Afghanistan’s position as a
buffer State between India and her north-
western neighbors. An Anglo-Indian naval
and military expedition went up the
Persian Gulf and seized Bushire, War-
ships bombarded the river port of
Mohamraerah, the guns engaging the
forts at point-blank range, while land
forces under Sir James Outram won two
victories over Persian troops. Persia sued
for peace, and agreed to respect the in-
dependence of Afghanistan, whereupon
Britain withdrew without demanding any
further concessions or indemnity. The
expedition returned to Bombay on
May 29, 1857, just in time for the Indian
“Which is you, Miss Corbet? These bi-focals are a bit tricky."
Mutiny, That little war is interesting
from the fact that three V.Cs., the first
to be won after the Crimea, were gained
by officers of the East India Company’s
troops during the campaign.
* * * *
“Bass”: Memories of Westralia’s most
famous lottery were revived when two
different parties lodged claims for the
second prize of £5OO. The lottery was
drawn some years ago, and the second-
prize was not claimed until the
commission announced the fact and
added the information that the winning
ticket had been taken in the name of This
Time, Perth. Then claims rolled in.
Newspaper reports did the rest, and over
5000 people convinced themselves that
they’d purchased a ticket in that name
and from the agent mentioned. When the
commission announced that a hand-
writing expert would be engaged to de-
cide which applicant’s handwriting most
nearly resembled the original, the im-
pression got around that this was a com-
petition, and more claims rolled in. The
handwriting expert failed to find any
claimant whose caligraphy resembled that
of the original, and the money was held
for distribution to charity. The present
cases are a distant echo.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Another of those human
junk dumps has turned up, this time in
Melbourne, It seems he complained of
feeling queer, was opened up by a surgeon
and there came forth from his innards a
sin. spanner, a drill-bit, a watch-spring
and a bike-wheel axle. Stitched up and
recovered from the anaesthetic, he was
contemplating recent events when the
surgeon came to check on him. Then,
somewhat diffidently, the patient said,
“Wish I could have spoken to you sooner.
Doc. 1 was holding a bit of a hacksaw-
blade in my mouth when the pain got
me and I haven’t seen it since.”
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: Female shoulders (B.
25/7/’51)? A magazine has selected a
young socialite whose shoulders allegedly
illustrate the ideal in woman’s appearance.
A statement from an orthopaedic surgeon
says of the “model” that “her shoulders
are good, the bones are fine and well-
covered and her carriage of them is not
drooped, slooped or slopped.” A
physical-culture expert also declared of
the shoulders that “there is beauty in
them,” adding that girls were now grow-
ing taller and that most females towered
“head and shoulders” above the men in
deportment. If the Arbitration Court
accepts this evidence of woman’s physical
emancipation it may, perhaps, more
readily grant the female equal pay, en-
suring father, busy with the household
chores, of economic sufficiency.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Fremantle Harbor Trust
has found a new use for an old prison.
It is taking over the ground floor of the
old Round House at the end of High-
street, which was erected 119 years ago,
and used as a prison for many years.
Long neglected, it fell into disrepair, but
renovations were made in 1936 and the
building has been maintained as a public
memorial by various civic bodies. Now
the Harbor Trust is to occupy the ground-
floor cells and use the “cooler” as a
cool storage.
* * * *
“Nailil”: Only a few years ago a
bloke caught doing the washing for the
missus wore the badge of the lowest
degree in male degradation. Today there
are legions who, taken in by the novelty
of the washing-machine, actually wheedle
their way into being entrusted with the
household laundry. After three wash-
days the novelty
wears off, but the
unthinking one
finds himself
chained to the
m.a chine every
Saturday morning,
which bankrupts
him mentally by
depriving him of
intellectual stimu-
lus he formerly
derived from the
conversation at the pub. Emancipation
of this new type of slave is impossible
since the time-bomb, a perfectly legiti-
mate device in such all-in war, would
but leave the slave faced with the job of
doing the laundry job by hand. It’s too
late, now; the bomb should have been
used before the first contraption left the
assembly-line.
* * * *
“Bump”: On Melbourne’s coldest day
for 50 years a new use was found for a
horse-trough. A truck-driver leapt hastily
from his truck and sat in the trough for
half a minute, then got into his vehicle
again and drove off. A spare battery had
toppled over and spilled sulphuric-acid
over the place he sits on.
* * ♦ *
“Curtain Raiser”: Another point Aus-
tralian City Fathers might learn from
Paris is the way in which the French
capital derives revenue from its famous
boulevards. Louis XIV and Napoleon
laid them out, and every day 100,000
tables from 20,000 cafds are placed on
the pavements. The cafe-owner pays a
fee ranging from one pound a year in a
by-street to £3 in a main street for each
square metre he occupies ; in the Champs
Elysees alone the tables bring in more
than £3OOO a year. This probably ex-
plains why the ratepaying citizens so
cheerfully step into the gutter when your
‘ waiter, if you ask him for a drink, picks
up chairs and tables and plonks them
down outside upon the pavement.
» * * *
“B. A, Ker”: No question is more
likely to bring sorrow to a homing
husband than the kittenish wifely utter-
ance: “Do you notice anything different
about me?” The only safe course is to
immediately remember a juicy bit of
scandal that will sidetrack her; if that
fails, the nearest thing to a safe answer
is “No.” A young benedict of my
acquaintance was foolish enough to think
he could hit the jackpot. “Oh, of course,”
he guessed brightly. “You’ve done your
hair” His bride’s face told him he’d
miscued. He broke off—which made it
worse, “Don’t I always do my hair for
you?” she demanded frigidly. “Yes, yes,”
he floundered. “But I mean it’s different
—sort of fluffy.” The lady was not molli-
fied. “It’s just the same as I always do
it,” she retorted, and added bitterly:
“And I used to think it was the way you
liked it,” If the young idiot had given
in then he might have escaped with a
couple of reproachful sentences, but he
still thought he could win. He guessed:
“That’s a new dress.” “Huh, that just
shows how much interest you take in
me!” ‘‘No, no, dear. Oh, I see, that
brooch,” “I’ve had the old thing for
years,” And so on, with desperation on
one side and tears on the other. Too
late he surrendered —and had the job of
turning off the waterworks. The girl had
put on the earrings she was wearing the
night he proposed.
A MOOT POINT.
"Fashion-designers consider that the Irreducible
minimum has been reached in swim-suits.”
When this century was young
And the “bathers” that they wore
Were shortened to reveal an inch of ankle,
Bitter protests then were flung,
And the wowsers raised a roar—
Such shamelessness of hussies had to rankle.
But the season after that
Caused another grim survey,
For designers had been getting greatly daring.
The thin ones and the fat
Were accused of going “gay”—
Bare forearms showed in togs that they were
wearing.
Up the limbs they slowly crept,
All the righteous ones to goad—
The calf-displaying, evil knickerbocker;
Then into our ken was swept
The Canadian two-piece mode;
That costume proved a veritable shocker.
It was freely prophesied
That the limit had been reached
When the “latest” thing almost revealed a
shoulder.
Then the men looked goggle-eyed
And the Jeremiahs screeched
As the neckline showed that girls were getting
bolder.
They have pruned off lots since then,
But ne’er enough, you’ll find,
Curvaceous beach-de-mermaids to embarrass.
To the joy of all the men
They wore swimsuits of a kind
That raised “Oohs!” and “Oo-la-lahs! ” from
Perth to Paris.
The Bikini suit was one
Which, could he have seen it filled,
Would have made old Nero sling away his
fiddle.
Each designer is outdone—
Just a wisp of nothing frilled.
With two halves almost meeting in the middle.
And, going by all the past
(Which is logical enough)
It’s difficult to conjure any reason
Why there won’t be stares aghast
And a shocked “That’s pretty tough!”
At the latest for the beach-parade this season.
That the trend they might reverse.
Putting more on, I dismiss,
Though much is possible in Fashion’s crucible
When in billows they immerse.
But will someone tell me this:
Is there a minimum that’s irreducible?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Reims”: A curator at the Perth
museum is able to give a firsthand descrip-
tion of the effects of tiger-snake poison
on the human body. A snake was in-
cluded in a consignment of lizards from
a country naturalist who didn’t take the
precaution of killing it before putting it
in the bag, and it and the curator found
each other at the same time. For a while
he thought that the snake had just nicked
him, but three minutes after being struck
he felt a hot, glowing sensation —“as
though I’d been lit up by flame.” Two
minutes later the venom hit him properly.
He had terrific palpitations of the heart,
as though it had been removed from his
body and was trying to pump the blood
through him. His head felt as though it
was going to burst, there was a terrific
noise in his ears, and he saw double.
The estimated time for tiger-snake poison
to cause death is 20 minutes. This victim
got to the hospital—and slerum —with
three minutes to spare.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Mac Fergus”: I had mustered a pad-
dock, shifted the sheep, and was riding
back to the homestead about sundown
when in a belt of dead timber a bird
alighted on my shoulder. It remained
there for about six paces, when I brushed
it off. By the peculiar whirr when taking
off I knew it for a topknot pigeon. Re-
lating the incident to the overseer at tea,
he advised me to tell the boss. “He’s
very interested in bird-life, and that will
appeal to him. In fact, it might put you
in good.” Well, I could do with a bit of
that, so when I saw the boss going across
“I can't Wait any longer , Miss — I'm starvin'."
to the office in the morning, I told him.
“Remarkable,” he said. “Most remark-
able. Never heard anything like it in all
my years in the west. I would say it’s
a lucky omen. Where did you say it
occurred?” “In the ram paddock,” I
answered. “Ram paddock! What on
earth were you doing in the ram pad-
dock?” “Why,” I said, “I shifted the ewes
in there.” “Shifted ’em in there, did
you?” he stormed. “I told you to put
’em into the dam paddock—the tank pad-
dock. You’ve boxed things up com-
pletely. Here, get to hell out of this.
Tell the overseer 1 want him urgently and
then go to the bookkeeper and tell him
to make out your time, plus a week. Of
all the” Distance and dust blotted out
the rest. The next topknot that perches
on my shoulder will get its neck screwed,
* * * . *
“Bogaduck”: I have been staying oppo-
site the Waite Institute (S.A.), which is
one of the world’s leading agricultural
research stations. Near by is a paddock
in which ewes graze, accompanied by
lambs at the playing stage. The sheep
are in wonderful condition, being on
beautiful pasture; but one thing is lack-
ing—there is no log or rock in that
paddock on which the lambs can play.
On my own small farm every paddock
has a log lying in a spot well sheltered
from the wind ; I put them there after
an old cocky had given me the tip to do
it. “Lambs are happier and healthier
when they have something like that to
play around and jump on,” he said. He
mightn’t have known much about science,
but he knew his larrfbs.
♦ * • ♦
“Brick E.”: The two travellers dropped
in around about 4 p.m. on Sunday; they
seemed very tired, as though they had
come a long way. No doubt they were
hungry, too, but our friendly attempts to
entice ’em into the hut, where we were
enjoying a “cuppa,” only seemed to make
the pair more shy. The dark one was
especially nervous —he cleared out alto-
gether when Charlie proffered a piece of
cake. His white-headed mate remained,
keeping aloof from would-be friends.
Night found the newcomer preparing to
doss in a corner of the roofless building
under construction. That worried Charlie
so much that he finally slipped out in the
dark and brought the vagrant in to the
warm, lighted hut. It was wasted hospi-
tality: Snowy appeared to be too be-
wildered to relax and too nervous to
eat. Charlie did a spot of stickybeaking
before deciding you can take a horse to
water, etc. However, he took a bit of
tucker out to the dossing-place in the
building. The visitor was still there when
we had to leave next day, but if the
owner of a prettily-marked pigeon—white
head and body, pink eyes, black wings,
wearing a metal ring reading “S.C.F. 50”
on the left leg, and a rubber racing-ring
on the right—is wondering what has
become of the homer, I assure him that
we left the bird in good hands. No
doubt, when sufficient tail-feathers have
grown again to give him steering-way.
Snowy will take off for home—wherever
that may be. In the meantime he is
convalescing on the South Coast
(N.S.W.).
* ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: A week after Little Curl
bought the wild-eyed chestnut he wasn’t
so sure he’d done well for himself. In
town he met the seller and said, “Hey,
that horse y’ sold me pig-roots too much.”
The seller looked astonished. “Well, he
never pulled that on me,” he stated,
which was a reflection on L.C.’s horse-
manship. A few days later they met
again and Curl complained, “Cripes, that
thing heaves like a busted bellows.” The
seller gazed at him and shook an amazed
head. “He never done that while I had
him,” he declared. He gave the same
answer when Little Curl complained that
the chestnut shied on the off-side as
though he was short of sight in that eye,
and again on hearing that the moke had
cow-kicked while being saddled. Then
Little Curl got up one morning and found
the chestnut dead at the horse-paddock
gate. That afternoon, still mourning the
£l5 he’d lost on the purchase, he en-
countered the seller. “Well,” asked that
worthy, doubtfully, “how’s that chestnut
goin’?” “He ain’t,” L.C. retorted. “The
blankard went an’ died last night.”
“I TOLD him he Wasn't using enough cement!"
“Strike me roan,” marvelled the seller.
“He never done that in the two years I
had him.”
* * * *
“Espee”: The Government inspector
was examining our transoms and girders
for faults. A small hole about lin. in
diameter and about 3in. deep, probably
caused by a witchety-grub, had caught
his eagle eye. We knew the flaw was in
no way detrimental to the usefulness of
the girder. However, the inspector was
down on his knees and with his opened
pocketknife was testing the depth of the
hole. In an instant he was on his feet
again, staggering around, his hands held
to his eyes. A toad, crouched in the
bottom of that hole, had got a bull’s-eye
with a squirt of the acrid juice which is
its only means of defence when it got
the prod with the knife.
* * * ♦
“H.A.L.”: An outback malady which
now seems to be quite rare is sandy’ blight,
but when I first went bush it was one of
the biggest curses of the inland. I struck
it out west in Queensland ; the flies were
maddeningly persistent and in great
numbers, and no doubt they carried the
infection. The first symptom of s.b. was
a feeling as if hot grit had found its way
beneath the eyelids, followed by an acute
inflammation which nearly drove one mad
with the ceaseless pain. We had sheep
on the track at the time and there was
no medicine available save Epsom-salts ;
just when I was thinking that I would
have to throw the job in and ride off to
seek medical attention we met an old boy
driving a sulky who had a small bottle of
zinc-sulphate solution. The first few
drops of it placed in my eyes stung like
tobacco-juice, but never have I forgotten
the wonderful relief which followed.
Thereafter I never travelled without a
bottle of that magic fluid. That one ex-
perience of it left me with about a quarter
of the normal number of eyelashes and
permanently-reddened eyelids. But it was
nothing compared with the effects of it
which I saw on some veterans; one had
eyelids which looked as if they had been
turned inside out, and, as he put it, his
eyes looked like “Two holes burning in
a bit of gunny-sack.” Sandy blight, by
the temporary blindness which it can cause
if not treated, has led to many deaths
outback; the late Bill Oliffe once saved
a man who had been blinded by it and
who was wandering around near the Lake
Torrens (S.A.) vermin fence. Oliffe
deduced what had happened by looking
at his tracks and followed them until he
found the man.
* ♦ * ♦
“Ringwood”: A cocky who runs sheep
on his place just south of the Murray
also has a holding about 14 miles on the
N.S.W. side of the river. For years,
when things got tough at home, he moved
his flock across the river-bridge to this
holding, for which a permit was essential.
When the water and feed failed on the
N.S.W. side he would bring them home,
where they could get water in the dam
filled from the domestic channel, but
again a permit was essential. This went
on for years. Last year, thinking the
sheep would have enough feed on his
N.S.W. holding, he left them there while
harvesting was on. One morning, after
a hot moonlit night, he awoke to hear
sheep bleating, and was amazed to see
the whole flock drinking at the dam. He
discovered later that, the water having
given out across the border, they had
“jumped” the place; travelling at night,
without shepherd or dog, to avoid the
heat and burden of the day. Later the
stock inspector complained that whoever
was in charge of the flock that crossed the
bridge at midnight had no “permit.” To
which the cocky replied, “You’d better
see the old Dorset-horned ram about that
—he was in charge.”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: We’d been down-country,
and the old bloke had caught himself an
outsize in colds. Returning, we ran into
Larry Conder. “Cold, eh?” said Larry.
“What you want is a bottle of eucalyptus.
Best thing out for Colds.” Seventyfiver
nodded, and we went on. At the turn-off
we found Trapper Ted. “Y’ oughter do
somethin’ about that cold,” he told the
old bloke. “Call at the store and tell ’em
to give y’ some of the dope they gave me.
Tastes pretty crook, but it’s good. Cure
y’ in no time.” Closing-in on the store
it was Charlie Blain. “ ’Struth, that’s a
bad cold y’ve got,” said Charlie.
“You want to call at Watson’s and get
a few lemons off his trees. A hot lemon-
drink’ll have y’ right in a few days.”
“Yes, I suppose you’d better get some-
thing for it,” I advised as we moved on.
“Aw, don’t be mad,” he grunted, “The
quacks tell y’ there’s no cure for a cold.
I’ll be all right.” I left then, riding on
to see a bloke about a pup, and arrived
at the hut that night half an hour before
Seventyfiver dragged in. “What’s that?”
I inquired as he placed a parcel carefully
on the table before shedding his coat.
“Aw, it’s for me cold,” hie returned.
“Y’re right, Sol, it’s up to a man t’ take
somethin’. An’ Bung sez a good thing
before goin’t’ bunk is t’ swaller a couple
o’ real big whiskies.”
* * * ♦
“Blime”; “Yair, I’d like t’ buy
another dog,” remarked Dill, glancing
down at the little yellow tyke at his feet
“One’s hardly enough. He’d have to be
a quiet sort, though, like Ginger here. I
wouldn’t have a fightin’ mong.” Bill
climbed slowly from the top of the yard-
fence. “I’ve got one in the shed might
do you, Dill,”
he offered.
“Black and
tan. Not bad.-;
Like to see |
him
sure :e'
quiet
“’Co
Bill opened the
door, WmaucU,
and a dog shot out. It spotted the ginger
hound by the fence; there came a snarl,
a yelp and a cloud of dust that travelled
round the yard. “There you are,
announced Bill calmly. “Mow'd that one
do?” “I told y’ I didn’t want a
howled Dill. “Look at him chasm
Ginger.” “No, he ain’t,” scoffed the dog*
owner. “Your mong’s chasing him, that!
what. Only he’s so flamin’ slow. CripeSj
mine’s run clean round the yard an
caught up to your Ginger’s tail again;
and now he’s yappin’ to get past so W
can run away further.’*
UNRIDDEN.
I would like to have ridden on Britomarte,
That mare with the pluck unfailing,
Who stole from the guards a narrow start
And sailed o’er the tall park railing.
I would like to have handled the Maltese Cat
In the wake of a well-hit ball
When the Skiders skittled their foemen fiat
In the last wild chukka of all.
I would like to have mounted Mancha, too,
Tschiffely’s most faithful friend,
And learned the courage that brought him
through
To that wonderful journey’s end.
I would love to have bridled Volonel,
That beautiful Arab grey,
That carried the famous “Bobs” so well
In many a hard-fought day.
I would love to have stroked the warm wet
neck
Of that filly, the green grass-fed,
Which Lindsay Gordon rode “From the
Wreck”
Till she fell on the roadway dead.
If a ride on the best is still forbidden,
And horses like these out of reach,
Let us think of the brave we have loved and
ridden
And drink in a toast to each!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


gd
ROYAL
MILITARY COLLEGE
DUNTROON CADETSHIPS
Exceptional professional career opportunity for young men 16 to 19.
The Royal Military College, Duntroon,
announces the early commencement of a
new course for Staff Cadets. A strictly
limited number of Australia’s most prom-
ising young men will be selected for this
outstanding career opportunity. An im-
portant point to note is that cadets will
be selected on their merits alone. Ability
anH assessment of their potential capacity
will be the decisive factors. Financial,
social and occupational background will
neither help nor hinder selection.
This means that every boy who is a British
subject has equal opportunity for selection
for this coveted opportunity to become an
officer of the Australian Regular Army
at no expense to his family.
Here briefly are the conditions
The entire cost of the training is borne
by the Commonwealth of Australia. This
includes four years at the College during
which time cadets receive not only a
through training in military subjects but
also an advanced civil education of
standard.
Boo? , equipment, food, uniforms, sporting
recreational facilities, medical and
dental attention, are all provided. Ac-
commodation is of a high standard, each
cadet having a private room which serves
BS bedroom and study. Annual recreation
leave of approximately six weeks is granted
with free travel to and from home, plus a
living-out allowance.
Additionally, during the four-year course
each cadet is paid at the rate of
First year £197
Second year - £220
Third year £261
Fourth year £284
On graduation he is immediately appointed
to the rank of Lieutenant at a commencing
salary of over £7OO a year plus substantial
allowances. This appointment is perman-
ent. He becomes an officer of the Aus-
tralian Regular Army with the prestige
and privileges attached to it. He is then
on the threshold of a highly successful
professional career. Industry, ability and
enthusiasm quickly earn promotion, and
there are many high-ranking posts in the
modern specialized army.
Applicants for entry to the Royal Military
College must be unmarried British sub-
jects over 16 and under 20 years of age
on 9th February, 1952. They must also
be medically and dentally fit and have
passed the Leaving Certificate. (Senior in
Queensland, Matriculation in Tasmania.)
APPLICATIONS CLOSE: AUGUST 31st, I9SI
Intending applicants and Interested parents are asked to write
promptly for Informative literature and application forms.
Address letters to;—Army Recruiting Officer, Box XYZ in your
Capital city.
DC2.83.71
Comem
I
&
please;
J
K.
I
k
/
£C4
y
era
■vx.
r^s«
THIS is a friendly invita-
tion to you from your
nearest Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank.
In the Manager’s office
your financial position, your problems, y our P “g
be discussed with complete frankness and with the
assurance that the information will always be kept
confidential. _ f
Prt
drafts, Letters of L.r«ut Loans for
#ome ° f *•
facilities available.
The staff of your nearest Branch says, Come ill
please and let’s get acquainted.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
«T H E
bank you
O W N«
“Shadow-chaser”: The spoonbill had
surprised a mussel with its front-door
ajar and was standing vigorously bashing
his prey on a log in a vain attempt to
break through the bivalve’s defences.
Round One ended with honors partly
even. Round Two opened disastrously for
the longbill. Somehow the mussel
secured a Chancery hold on his under-
bill and clamped tight. Throughout the
day the bird vainly endeavored to dislodge
its “victim.” It sat mournfully on a tree,
no longer trying to shake off its tor-
mentor, whilst the latter just kept on
keeping on. When I called again next
day bird and oyster had flown, and a
thorough search of the battlefield was
fruitless. Probably Bill would starve to
death with a luscious meal on the tip
of its tongue.
« * * *
“Bo”: Fred had been working at
Minter’s small mixed farm for about two
months, and during that time there had
not been one meal that hadn’t been graced
by the presence of the 71b. tin of “cocky’s
joy.” With the burgoo it formed the
staple diet for breakfast. Bread-and-
syrup was the almost-invariable substi-
tute for the pudding at the midday meal,
whilst it formed the major portion of
the evening repast. Fred had borne the
infliction with great stoicism, but at last
he was moved to revolt. He broached
the subject as he and the boss were wash-
ing in the dish by the tankstand before
"I'll start from the right , and you say when.”
going in to dinner one day. Wasn’t it
possible for them to have some jam for
a change? Minter ipondered for a minute
in his deliberate way, then in his slow
voice said; “Yair, I s’pose we could. But
the trouble is y’ never know what they put
in jam. Y’ might be eatin’ pie-melon,
for all y’ know, an’ y’ve paid for peach
jam or nectarine or somethin’. It might
make y’ crook. But golden syrup’s
diffrent. Trouble with you, y’ ain’t got
used to it yet —why don’t y" give it a
fair trial ?"
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Four of us were emu-
bobbing on a run nor’-west of Moama
when the boss sent out his nephew to
join us, declaring that he wanted him to
get experience. Mat hailed the advent
with joy, for we were on contract and all
we were expected to give that nephew
was experience. But he was a washout,
contenting himself with ambling around
looking on, occasionally picking up a
stick. He was lazy about the camp, too.
One day the boss turned up and wanted
to know how newy was getting on, “I
hope,” he said, “that he’s quick to pick
up anything y’ can teach him.” “Well, I
dunno about that,” Mat drawled. “But
I’ll say he’s quick at one thing—he gets
tired faster'n any man in this camp.” The
doss took the nephew home with hinrK
* * ♦ *
H. A. Lindsay talks of a Polynesian
legend:
Kupe, who has been the subject of® some tme
Bulletin verse by Gloria Rawlinson, was
of the great navigators of his race; in ms mg
canoes, manned by a dozen or so of “i
seamen, he had made many notable voyages.
One of them took him to the island of Niue,
where he saw brown birds with long tails arrive
from the south, weary after a long migrato y
flight. The people of Niue told him that tho
cuckoos always arrived at the same time ea
year, to fly south again a few months late .
Migrating birds were one of the chief
used by Polynesian navigators when seekmg
new lands —the golden plover probably
to discover and to colonise the Hawaiian
Islands—and Kupe knew that a g reat *.
lay somewhere to the south, so he resolved to
sail oil in search of it. Accompanied by
Ngahue, another canoe chief, he set on,
hi? course by “keeping the planet Venus and
the setting sun a little to the right of the bow
of the canoe,” and after a voyage acr °ss som
1500 miles of open sea s wife sighted the
clouds which hung over the hills of the Norm
Island. They named the new land Aotea-Koa,
which does not mean “'The long whitecloud,
but can be translated as Land of long bright
days.” Coming from the tropics, where the
day and night are of nearly equal length all
through the year, the length of the midsummer
day in the higher latitude of New Zealand would
strike them as strange. They sailed right
around both islands, and returned to their
homeland with many treasures—feathers from
strange new birds, some moa meat preserved
in a calabash of fat and, most valuable of alt,
some pieces of pounamu (greenstone), which
made better adze- and chisel-blades man any
stone found in their home islands. Centuries
later other canoes set out to carry Polynesians
to Aotea-Roa; they settled there and became the
ancestors of the Moriori and later the Maori.
Kupe’s sailing directions were their guide.
Wonderful as that voyage was, made in an open
canoe centuries before Columbus ventured to
cross the Atlantic, Kupe’s feat was excelled by
that of another Polynesian, Ui-te-Rangiora.
In his canoe Te-Ivi-o-Atea, he and his com-
panions sailed south from the island of Ora pa
(marked as Rapa on modem charts) until tney
encountered ‘‘lmmense waves, islands on which
no plants grow and which are white, like
scraped arrowroot, great seaweeds which float
on the waves like the hair of a swimming
woman and deceitful creatures which swim m
the sea and dive to great depths.” On his
return to his people he described those regions
as a “foggy, cold, dark place not seen by the
sun ” Ui-te-Rangiora was therefore the hist
human being to visit the Antarctic and return
with recognisable descriptions of icebergs, buli-
kelp and seals. Only those who take the
trouble to study the legends which the Poly-
nesians preserved so carefully can realise what
wonderful seamen those old canoe-chiefs must
have been.
SONG IN THE MOUNTAINS.
When wind about the throat is a black vice,
The inarch of road-rut pools slinks under
armored ice,
And the hooded, mossed gums, each solitary
in a throng,
Feather themselves with snow, take silence for
a song.
With thought a drag on the climbing feet of
time,
A cold sun dances through the rainbow rime;
Water plaits silver ropes, and over the green
rocks
Leaps down to flowerless ferns and a mist-
curtained cave that mocks
Voice after voice of searchers through the sullen
dark.
When death in the mountains is sleeping, is
sleeping—
Lark .
Ascending with brimmed throat on a pillar of
song
Is shallow as Babel’s tower raised to an ancient
wrong,
Where sleet shafts the gale through Tonjio Pass,
dud wheels
Are a fine-weather fantasy man must forget, his
Holding the road with the iron of will, while
over
Down from the summit of Feathertop pours
the white smother.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.B.E.j G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young} W. Sydney
Jones j J. Cuming Stewart.
General Managers W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Motshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Hcffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Managers C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Are fon ff&inff abroad 9
Before going abroad it is well to consider the advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent. It
supervises business affairs and interests, remits income regularly, collects rents, dividends
and interest, prepares Land and Income Tax Returns, attends to the investment of moneys,
the payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services.
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obligations. An interview can
be arranged to suit your convenience.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
Ip/ft
n '
'M
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. ATOMIC EMPIRE.
Facts and figures in a London
“Economist” report from
Washington might well have a
steadying influence on anyone
thinking of world war.
They add up to a terrifying
picture of what any future war
must be like.
Thus, more than 90,000 people
are now engaged in America on
atomic energy work, a sub-
stantial number of them housed
in three new cities the Govern-
ment owns.
The land area now sealed off
for atomic energy plants and
testing grounds amounts to 2800
square miles, an area almost as
large as the States of Rhode
Island and Delaware together.
Only two private businesses in
America —the United States
Steel Corporation and the
American Telephone and Tele-
graph Company—have greater
investments in plants and equip-
ment than the Atomic Energy
Commission; and even their
lead may be overtaken before
long.
Altogether something like
$6.5 billion has been voted for
the commission’s work, and the
commission has already spent
about $4.8 billion of this fabu-
lous fortune. Its installations
alone have cost $2.5 billion. It
owns the famous plant at Oak
Ridge, Tennessee, where
uranium 235 is produced, a plant
which cost $5OO million to build
and is undergoing a $2OO million
expansion. It possesses the great
plutonium-producing plant at
Hanford, Washington, to the
original cost of which ($350
million) is now being added a
further $2OO million for en-
largement.
At Paducah, Kentucky,
another $5OO million plant to
produce U 235 is being built, and
work is under way near Aiken,
South Carolina, on a still bigger
one, costing $9OO million. Here
materials for atomic weapons,
hydrogen bombs and nuclear
reactors are to be produced.
Also, there are the nuclear-
reactor testing station in Idaho,
which covers 400,000 acres,
huge research - centres dotted
about the continent from
Brookhaven and Schenectady in
New York to Los Alamos in
New Mexico and Berkeley in
California, laboratories and
other installations at more than
a dozen universities, and all
manner of privately-operated
laboratories and plants.
While, the report adds, the
size and scope of the A.E.p.’s
activities is, and long has been,
quite staggering, what it has
been doing will probably look
quite modest by, say, the
summer of 1953. It is calcu-
lated that by then production of
atomic energy will be consum-
ing something like 2,5 per cent,
of all the installed electric power
in the United States.
The A.E.C. in the year end-
ing June 30, 1950, spent $550
million; this year it has spent
$B5O million; next year it ex-
pects to spend $1275 million.
The whole thing is a striking
example of Government and
private-enterprise combination.
For instance, of 90,000 now
working on atomic energy in
the U.S., rather fewer than
5500 are paid directly by the
Government. The rest are work-
ing for private firms —the 500 or
so “prime contractors” and the
sub-contractors. All installa-
tions are owned by the Govern-
ment ; but it is the Du Pont
Company, which first built and
then operated the Hanford
plant, which will build and
operate the tremendous new
plant in South Carolina. It is
the Union Carbide and Chemi-
cals Corporation which is pro-
ducing the U 235 at Oak Ridge.
Such instances are further
quoted in the report, which as
well points out that all of the
A.E.C.’s big laboratories, ex-
cept the one at Oak Ridge, are
operated for it by universities or
groups of universities.
“Such co-operation in a vast
and largely unexplored field,”
the commission scientist Dr.
Smyth is quoted as saying, “is
new in the history of America.”
About four-fifths of the
A.E.C.’s work is now dedicated
to the provision of weapons, the
McMahon Act of 1946 making
everything the commission does
subject to “the paramount ob-
jective of assuring the common
defence and security.”
The details of the results so
far achieved in the military
sphere are well hidden behind
the security curtain; neverthe-
less, the A.E.C. has done enough
and said enough to make it
plain that there is an immediate
prospect not only of atomic
bombs of much greater destruc-
tiveness than the two which
killed well over 150,000 people
in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but
also of atomic artillery-shells
and guided missiles, the use of
which against enemy troops
might have consequences that
no military commander in the
field has yet had to deal with.
And all this, the report con-
cludes, is one of the direct and
ironic outcomes of the behavior
of the Russians, which has
spurred the Americans to spend
so much more money and to
work so much more intensively
on the atom than would have
been possible if there had been
nothing but peace in sight.
Korea Reaction.
A Washington report in Lon-
don “Economist” expects there
will be no stopping the U.S.
Congress, already in an econo-
mising mood, if the Korean
talks result in a real, even
though strictly local, settlement,
and if the Administration yields
to political temptation and hails
it as a great peace.
Then, a cut in the combined
domestic military and foreign
aid appropriations of $lO to $l5
billion would not be impossible.
In that case, the Tax Bill
would be cut by $2 or $3 billion
more.
And the effect of that (the re-
port adds) could quite easily be
a recession. The second
quarterly report of Charles E,
Wilson, Director of Defence
Mobilisation, showed very
clearly that it is only the antici-
pation of very heavy defence
spending to come that is prevent-
ing a down-turn here and now.
The Missing Diplomats.
Reporting that the disappear-
ance of the two British Foreign
Office officials, Mac Lean and
Burgess, “rocked the British
Isles,” a staff correspondent of
New York "Herald Tribune."
“ALL RIGHT—WHOSE IDEA WAS IT?”
New York “Herald Tribune” in
London has commented:
“From a security point of
view, Britain, until recently, was
considered as strong as the Rock
of Gibraltar. If Russia has suc-
ceeded in penetrating the inner-
most councils of Britain, it is a
fair assumption that it has had
as much, if not more, success in
France, Italy, Belgium, Holland
and other countries of the West.
“There is no longer any cer-
tainty that confidential informa-
tion which the United States
turns over to Britain, or vice-
versa, is not speedily transmitted
to the Soviet Union. The same
is true of any secret information
which is exchanged between any
of the allies of the Western
world The United States is
expected to be more reluctant in
sharing its confidential reports
with them until there has been a
general tightening up of security
by all.”
In view of very much comment
in the British Press, either hugely
enjoying or holier-than-thou-ing
American (and also Australian)
efforts to cope with the fifth-
column of Communists serving
Moscow, the correspondent has
some warrant for in turn seem-
ing to relish a turn of poetic
justice in the changed attitude he
reports:
“Level-headed Britons have
been critical and scornful of the
‘witch-hunt’ in the United States
following the Alger Hiss case.
It was the last thing they wanted
to see in their own country,
which prides itself on its toler-
ance and its sweet reasonable-
ness.
“They were upset by the dis-
covery of atomic spies in their
midst, but they were somewhat
comforted by the fact that Fuchs
and Pontecorvo had been aliens,
distinct from true-blooded
British - bred citizens.” But
“Communism and sympathy for
Russia in the mistaken belief
that it represents Communism
cut across blood and national
ties. They can be found in the
best families and in the best
countries and they breed traitors
to Russia. How they are to be
smoked out before they inflict
more damage to the West is a
problem which weighs heavily
on Britain.
“It may be reduced to the
humiliating need to undertake a
witch-hunt of its own.”
Eisenhower’s Doubts.
Edinburgh “Scotsman,”
usually well-informed on such
matters, has reported General
Eisenhower as thinking seriously
of resigning his command.
It declares that he had to be
persuaded to carry on for
another three months.
Evidently Eisenhower had be-
come increasingly annoyed by
the bickering between the Euro-
pean members of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
and by the reluctance of certain
Governments, including the
British, to “go all out” in lend-
ing the maximum military force
to his “Deterrent Force” which
is to hold the Central Front in
Western Europe.
Also, the report stated, he had
been particularly annoyed at the
arguments between America and
some European countries re-
garding the Atlantic and Medi-
terranean commands. As a
result of these ‘ neither Greece
nor Turkey, with armies totalling
nine divisions, has been brought
into the treaty structure. General
Eisenhower is also said to be
greatly concerned over the con-
tinued exclusion of Spain.
Dragnet Digest.
Stalin Fears. —London “Daily Ex-
press,’’ which has through the past
several years of alarms persisted in
its “No war” forecasts, remains
optimistic. Stalin, it’s convinced,
really fears that “one day Russia will
make a slip and be left face to face
with the might of America. Stalin
knows well that no matter how great
the intermediate havoc, there could
be only one end to such a struggle.
His regime and Russia would
crumble into rubble.”
♦ ♦ * *
Recovery Extraordinary. —London
“Times’s” Bonn correspondent thus
opens a long article detailing Ham-
burg’s rapid recovery from the pasting
it took in the war: “In 1945 the
population of Hamburg had declined
to 700,000. Today, six years later, it
is 1,630,000 —roughly what it was in
1936, which may be regarded as a
normal year. It is estimated that the
port had 200,000 of its citizens killed
in the war on active service and that
between 60,000 and 80,000 lost their
lives in the bombing raids alone.
Men and women still speak in awe
of the raids —how thousands were
literally cremated in the inferno of
1943. Yet today Hamburg may claim
pride of place as the most populous
city of northern Europe.”
* * * *
“Last Word in Rifles." —There is,
comments London “Daily Telegraph,”
no dispute as to the intrinsic merits
of the new .280 rifle. It is under-
stood to be no heavier than the Lee
Enfield (which itself is lighter than
the American .300 semi-automatic
Garand), and being automatic has a
greatly-increased rate of fire. Its
lighter ammunition enables the
soldier to carry more of it without
becoming overburdened. Its accuracy
and penetrating powers (at any rate
, up to 600 yards) are said to be excel-
lent. “In short, it combines fire-
power with mobility, and is doubtless
the last word in rifles.”
♦ * * *
New Kind of Peace.— -In comment
on the coming Jap peace treaty, a
New York correspondent of “Man-
chester Guardian” has reported John
Foster Dulles as having often said
that his mission in Europe was to
convince the British and the French
to accept a new kind of settlement
with a defeated enemy: a treaty of
reconciliation: “Old habits and expec-
tations had led them to expect a
treaty of revenge, and he hinted that
the United States had stood firm
against any attempt to incorporate in
the draft economic provisions which
would, in fact, help to put Japan out
of business.”
* * * *
Persians in the Refinery. —Quoting
an official Persian report showing
that there are, anyway, few Persians
competent for the work, London
“Economist” states that the problem
before such Persians as are available
is not so much whether they can work
bits of the refinery as whether they
can synchronise the parts that they
operate. The delicate network of
pumps and mixtures that goes to
make a refinery, it adds, depends on
synchronisation for its safety. Per-
sians are notoriously unable to trust
fellow-Persians, and therefore to work
together. They say that: “If com-
panions were to be trusted, Allah
would have had a companion.” What
is doubtful is whether, under manage-
ment that is both Persian and only
partially expert, any one operator
will trust another sufficiently to obey
orders.
* ♦ * *
Indonesian Aims. Proclaimed
policy of Indonesia’s Government:
(1) “Neutralism” in the ideological
struggle between Communist imperial-
ism and the free world. (2) A revi-
sion of the basic relationship with the
Netherlands, meaning the possible
dissolution of the agreed Netherlands-
Indonesian Union. (3) Annexation of
Western New Guinea by Indonesia.
“These policies,” “New York Times”
has commented, “may well be the
expression of a self-conscious
nationalism, but they will not be
designed to win the friends and
influence the persons that Indonesia
needs.”


Fly Brit.—
to 51 Countries
by an all-pressurized Speed bird Fleet
Your visit to England or America will be made the more
memorable and complete with a 8.0.A.C. Stratocruiser
crossing of the Atlantic. Pressurized, air-conditioned
Speedbird Stratocruisers, flying above the weather, main-
tain low-altitude conditions and provide luxury flying for
60 passengers between London and New York and
Montreal. Superlative dinners —complimentary wines,
liqueurs and cigarettes—full length night berths breakfast
in bed if desired —de-luxe cabin service.
SPEEDBIRD ROUTES LINK 165 CITIES AND TOWNS
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane , Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and tozons.
nnlTT c «nfgm AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
..mm empire AIRWAYS ÜB. AMD SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
CET THERE SOONER • STAY THERE LOl
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIONEL THOMAS MUTTON late of
Tocumwal in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
MADELINE MUTTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2529 of 1951 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the sth day
of October 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HADDOCKS,
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
KM 14
FONOE
£
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.8.0.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
m
*
/More Ple
i from Motarutf _
fg
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge.. .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrul “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
-
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England,
Agent in Australia:
MR. K. O. JONES,
40.4 a Hardware St, Mds, OA,
O.P O. Boa tt.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
V *P T
“Women who use ‘cold perms are
warned in the current ‘British Medical
Journal’ against keeping the solution
in milk-bottles.”
The practice might result in
a wave of illness.
4* 4* 4*
“It is a pity that clergymen can t
have families of 10 or 12. That is
the only real kind of family.”
—Archbishop of Canterbury.
But how could he feed them
all from the one plate?
4* 4* 4*
“It appears to be one of the deadly
sins today to make a small profit after
a hard year’s work.”
—lronmonger J. F. Carpenter.
Meanwhile the Taxation
Department is doing its best to
save our souls.
“The horn was blowing con-
tinuously and it continued to swerve
all over the roadway.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
A swaying siren.
“Some of your best-dressed women
in the best hotels speak like Cockney
charwomen.”
— Mrs. Yehudi Menuhin.
This criticism will floor them.
►h ,
“ ‘Will you have this next dance
with me?’ Lois put her hand in his,
and they walked to the flood.”
—Short story in women's paper.
After that things went swim-
mingly.
Holding Their Own.
“It would help toward a better
world if fathers took a turn at bath-
ing the baby and got to know their
offspring at an earlier age than is
usual.”
—Psychiatrist Dr. Alfred Torrie.
Don’t leave all household jobs to
Mum,
You youthful fathers who play
dumb
When babes arrive; take over
some
Among the tasks you count as
hers.
Put soapy water in a tub.
Pick up your son-and-heir and
scrub
Him while you hear him goo and
glub,
And all that’s best within you
stirs.
That way you’ll get to know
your kid
Far better than our fathers did,
You’ll find, though, as around
they skid, t
Your offspring slippery cus-
tomerSi
BERT.
The Radio-serial Characters
Get Together.
“Well,” said Colossus to the
Hooded Horror, flexing his
wrists and admiring his 17in.
bicep as it rippled beneath his
satin skin, “you certainly stacked
up a few bodies in tonight’s
episode. Must be a bit of a
relief after that long run of
drearily dull nights.”
“Radio life’s like that,” re-
plied the Hooded Horror sadly.
“Here am I trying to live up to
my name, rearing to go as soon
as our session hits the ether, and
what happens? I’m pushed into
the background while a fruity-
voiced compere yaps for a
couple of minutes about the
miraculous curative properties of
Bunk’s Geebung Ointment,
guaranteed to wallop acne,
freckles, warts, wrinkles, hang-
nails, the d.t. shakes, cowlicks
and a perpetual frown, and re-
lieve water-wing ears, overlapping
toes and a sunburnt grummet.
“All I get is about six minutes
to work in, what with the
romantic mush and the juggling
around it takes to get me to a
place in the dead of night where
there is a wind moaning through
the trees.
“And my own horrific appear-
ance is put over so tamely it
wouldn’t make your elderly
Aunt Maggie look up from her
tatting. I used to visualise all
the kids sitting beside the radios
with their hair stuck up on their
scalps like a Chow’s and their
eyes sticking out like organ-
stops when I was let loose on
’em at six-fifteen p.m., but if
any of them ever left his second
helping of pudding to go and
listen to the feeble tripe they put
in my mouth they’re not right in
the head.”
“You’ve got little to • growl
at,” put in the Phantom Jockey.
“I got it all out of a yard and a quarter !”
“I have to listen while my
cove on 9BC describes the
wonderful meals of grilled steak
and eggs and peche Melba they
peddle at the Apollo Belvedere
Restaurant —and all I can have
for dinner is a finger of dry
toast and a shot of lime juice
to keep my weight down to six-
stone-seven so I can pilot to vic-
tory an unlovely moke of
exceptional velocity, the prize-
money from which will allow
little Ronnie to have a very
rare and expensive operation to
correct the vertical eyebrows he
was born with.
“The adventures I have are
about as exciting as a lan-
tern-slide lecture on the im-
pact of industrial law on
mushroom-raising. I used to
think that all the followers of
the turf would lap up the serial
avidly. So far as I’ve been able
to find out the only ones who
ever listen to it are the sponsor
and a few sadistic-minded old
ladies who only do so in the
hope that one night I’ll come
round too sharply on to the rails
and crack my neck. Even the
author himself doesn’t listen to
it.”
“Well,” said Gertrude the Girl
Detective, “I’ve been following
hot clues four nights a week for
over eighteen months, and you
all know I couldn’t even make
a correct deduction on an in-
come-tax form, let alone a case.
“I’ve protested repeatedly I
can’t tell the difference between
the footprints of a sixteen-stone
man with a pronounced limp
and those of an eight-stone
flapperette in stilt heels, but they
will persist in trying to build me
up as a Composite of Einstein,
Sexton Blake, the Human Fly,
Hackenschmidt, Lana Turner
and a bloodhound. I couldn’t
shadow a seven-foot man who
had a bulbous nose and a red
beard down to his chest through
a Hindu city—what girl could?
“All I want to do is look at the
fashion and movie mags, have
eighty-minute telephone conver-
sations with someone who wears
trousers, varnished hair and a
cleft chin and pull the ears of a
miniature Peke in a comfortable
flat. Instead I’m dragged around
on cases the ending of which
wouldn’t tax the prognosticatory
powers of little Shirley, who’s
just been put up into the big
school.
“On top of that I’m expected
to be gladly associated with
someone’s jelly—l couldn’t tell
you whose make any more than
could those who are feeble-
minded enough to listen to the
serial —a revolting food, any-
way, which should be used only
in the early stages of its prepara-
tion, when it’s a boiling-hot
liquid, to pour over an ants’
nest.”
“My job of rushing around
and getting nowhere in space-
ships and atom-powered sub-
marines which can operate at
five thousand fathoms,” said
Captain Gallant, “gains its chief
delight from the gratifying fact
that I’m always in too much of
a hurry to pack a tube of our
sponsor’s product—Dr, Glubb’s
Famous Synthetised Globular
Toothpaste which contains
uranium two - three - five, the
miniature radioactive particles
from which are guaranteed
to blast away the germs of
dental decay which lurk in the
crevices and which no other
toothpaste is able completely to
destroy.
“In consequence of this, I
use common salt on my teeth,
which is about one-fiftieth the
price and a hundred times the
germ-destroying value of Dr.
Glubb’s boosted product. One
thing buoys me up to face the
adventures designed to appeal to
the intellects of the four-year-
olds: the hope that the author
will dump me on a far Pacific
isle where I won’t be compelled
to listen to the tone of imita-
tion sincerity which our com-
pere tries to inject into his pre-
liminary plugging.”
Bo.
I Little Thought-
A speaker rises to address the
meeting:
“Ladies and Gentlemen /” he
smugly rumbles.
O dupe! O false and feeble
form of greeting!
He falls for our pretence. He
never tumbles.
What! Are we Nature’s own
aristocrats ?
Are we the stuff of heraldry and
banners ?
WE’re neither (a) nor (b). Our
soul in spats
Sweats, cramped in small-talk,
corseted in manners.
Now here’s a hint for orator-
beginners :
Be less suburban; change your
fixed address.
Shout: “Warts!” or “Goats I”
or “Miserable Sinners I”
Or “Rogues and Vagabonds!”
or simply, “Mess I”
For speeches nowadays are only
right )
When thick with color* Never
mind the light.
NEIL MILLAR.


To prolo
tyre life
m,
o
tyres give a mileage bonus when you give
them this little extra care—and correct
tyre pressures can make all the difference to
tiding comfort and safety tod.
/ “If a tqre Is under Inflated the
/ walls are subjected to overflexing
I which. If prolonged, causes the
cords to break.’
)
PROPER
INFLATION
TREAD CONTACT
WITH ROAD
J
UNDER
INFLATION
TREAD CONTACT
WITH ROAD
“When qou bend a
piece of w/lre It heats up
then snaps that’s u/hat,
happens to the
cords in an
underinflated
tqre.”
&
‘Another result of under
inflation Is that the tread
wears rapidlq on
ribs."
FULL MILEAGE
CORRECT AIR
:SS U REj
(f, "if a ti|re Is V 4 under
Inflated gou are nobbed
Of Tough 1 1/ one quarter
of t/our total mUeageJ'
a . AM
tS?
and for greater mileage ...
DUNLOP
;
TYRES
■■ OB mm BUB Hr
Check your tyres once a week with your own pressure gauge
OUhLLOJ* &UJULEA A4J4T4UUJ* UHiTtO UNC. CM VIC-J
TODAY YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PR O DUCT”
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Jackson*’
dsumvAn
nxa
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORkI
BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David Low.—5142.
To buy any numbers of Volume One
of “Meanjin Papers”; also Nos. 6,
8,9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of “Manu-
scripts.”—sl4l.
To buy books of verse by Norma
L. Davis.—5143.
Information Sought.
Australian copyright conditions ?
The term of copyright in a literary
work first published in a British
country is the life of the author, plus
50 years after his death, or, in the
case of a posthumous work, 50 years
from date of first publication. The
copyright vests in the author or his
transferee. The effect of copyright of
a play is to grant to the owner the
sole right to produce or dramatise and
perform the work or any substantial
part thereof.
* * * *
Any information on why words such
as “honour” and “tremor” are spelt
differently, with and without a “u” ?
In Middle English, says the Oxford
English Dictionary, words derived
from a Latin word ending in “or”
w'ere spelt either “or” or “ur.” By
about 1300 the style “our” seems to
have been generally adopted in place
of the “or” and “ur” endings, which
were both dropped. At the Renais-
sance, however, the “or” ending came
back into the language, but many
words retained the “our.” Since then
there has been a continuing trend
towards eliminating the “u” from
all “our” words, “errour” and
“governour” having only compara-
tively recently lost their “u.” The
Americans have, of course, cut out the
“u” altogether, and The Bulletin
follows this style. It spells all such
words with “or”—honor, favor, valor,
endeavor; the only exception is
“Saviour.” The “u” serves no pur-
pose whatever, and is probably better
omitted.
* * * *
Is a banker compelled to observe
the directions on a crossed cheque ?
The Bills of Exchange Act 1909-36
provides that if a banker pays a
cheque crossed generally otherwise
than to a banker, or if crossed
specially pays it otherwise than to
the banker to whom it is crossed or
his agent for collection, being a
banker, such banker is liable to the
true owner of the cheque for loss he
may sustain owing to the cheque
having been so paid. It has been
held that the paying bank has nothing
to do with the application of the
money after it has once been paid to
the proper receiving bank.
* * ♦ •
(1) Name of the Act under which
co-operative organisations operate in
Queensland ? (2) What authority con-
trols the operation of the regulations
of the Act ? (3) Are the constituent
members’ names and other particulars
open for public inspection?
(1) and (2) Primary Producers’
Co-operative Societies Act, 1923-34,
is administered by Queensland
Agricultural and Stock Department,
Brisbane. Co-operative Societies’
Act of 1946 is administered
by the Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, Justice Department, Bris-
bane. (3) Primary producers’ co-
operative associations are not required
to lodge returns of shareholders’ or
members’ names to the Registrar. As
far as the other co-operative societies
are concerned, a return of share-
holders is furnished every three years,
and, for the payment of a small fee,
the information is available. ■
* * * ♦
Were boxers Ed Williams and Merv
Williams brothers? What division did
they box in, and did either win an
Australian championship ? When and
where were they born?
Ed Williams and Merv Williams
were not brothers, as Ed’s real name
was William Eddy. Both were middle-
weights, and Ed won the Australian
championship of that division by out-
pointing Arthur Cripps over 20 rounds
in Melbourne on April 26, 1909. Ed
Williams, or William Eddy, was born
in Melbourne around about 1887.
Merv Williams was born in Aramac
(Q.), on March 12, 1902.
* * * »
How to waterproof canvas?
(a) Dissolve soz, alum in one gallon
of boiling water. (6) Dissolve 4oz.
sugar of lead in one gallon of boiling
water. Mix (a) and (6) and stand
overnight, then pour off clear liquid
and throw away sediment. Soak
canvas in solution until thoroughly
wet, then squeeze but do not wring;
partly dry, repeat the dipping, squeeze
out again and dry.
Brief Answers.
F.T.G.: See article “The Hobart
Town Magazine” in “Biblionews” tor
July, 1951, obtainable from Walter
Stone, 12 Pameil-street, Strathfield
(N.S.W.) A.J.K.: The Common-
wealth Jubilee literary competition
for a long poem associated with the
occasion closes on September 28,
, 1951. Particulars from the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, 264 Pitt-
street, Sydney D.P.: Write Gaston
C. Renard, bookseller, Box 5295,
G.P.0., Melbourne G.T.: To im-
prove the coat and skin of a two-
year-old colt give following powder
mixture in the feed each day for a
week: Exsiccated iron sulphate,
Idrm.; soda bicarbonate, Sdrms. ;
powdered nux vomica, £drm.; pow-
dered gentian root, Idrm A.G.8.:
Estate duty would be payable only
on such part of the money as was
yours K.L.: Mint stamps are
generally preferred, as they always
retain their face-value. However,
used stamps of some places with a
small population where there is little
use for them may have a greater
value than those in Mint condition.
C.D.: As an allevient for prickly
heat use a calamine lotion containing
1 p.c. of carbolic acid. The follow-
ing preparation is sometimes useful:
Three parts each of lanoline and olive
oil, two parts each of glycerine and
limewater. Apply this cream very
thinly H.N.A.: The chief com-
mercial uses of paradichlorbenzene
are in the manufacture of insecticide,
deodorants and mothproofing com-
positions W. 8.: There are no
authentic records of snakes jumping,
though death-adders have been y*"
to leave the ground by a few inches
when striking..PJL- His only
remedy is to institute a suit in equity
based upon a breach of trust. Ser-
vices of a solicitor would be essential.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
L.J.: Your king of the roos who
“leaps the chasms wide on the wings
of the centaur” is an interesting addi-
tion to Australian fauna J.O'S.:
“Wintry Days” came very c105e....
J.S.C.: But how could you address
the editor of The Bulletin as “Dear
Sir or Madam”? Jacash: Bodgies,
sausages, etc., coming back G. 8.:
Except for your gallant attempt to
rhyme “bonhomie” with “economy”
you have nothing new to say on
inflation... .M.G.: So many poems
about the aborigines say the same
thing J.A.1.: Shearing ballad
w0011y... .P.M.: Again the usual
remarks on the departed aborigines.
G.W.A.; We shoot fairies
J. : If you really know something
about storms at sea you might be
able to tell it in prose; it’s all very
vague in your verse P.S.: Not
“you may have knew ” but “you may
have known"-— you may not have
known but it’s time you knew....
E.S.W.: Seldom has the atom been
hailed in such accents of rhapsody:—
E.H.: Take away that burnt
chop M.R.N.: Why didn’t your
“Smiling Through” win the prize?
Give you one guess....L.R.B.: So
your dream home turned out to be a
leaky caravan. But would you care
to let it to a member of The Bulletin
staff, sober, honest, reliable, father
of 17? KJ.M.: “I am informed
that your concern deals explicitly with
the compiling of matters for various
journals.” Inat’s not quite how we’d
describe it; but anyhow we can’t
place your 13 poems P.T.: Sensi-
tive enough; but the lightest wind
would blow that sort of free verse
away W.J.: Not for us; yet it’s
a pretty little lullaby in spots
K. : Comment from letter passed
on and appreciated. Verse studied
with profound sorrow... .G.M.T.:
Poem on a neon cow advertising
butter is at least original and harrow-
ingly topical E.M.W,: If it had
all been as striking as the first line.
R.W.: May your swagman, who
died while singing “Waltzing Matilda,”
rest in eternal peace F. 8.: You
hardly struck more than a chip off
“The Old Black Stump”... .J.Y.: A
dreary frame for what may be some
very lively memories Plenty:
Well, it puts it in a nutshell:—
(Netherlands Antilles):
Doubt if you have written the perfect
national anthem for Australia.
The mighty Einstein we must bless
Whose try to split you met success;
Tho’ nations rise and nations fall
His glorious name shall never pall.
Since first the earth upon her wheel
revolved
No greater puzzle hag lor sure been solved,
A poser truly through the world which
rings
As how to change the present course of
things ?


-9
GUARANTEED'NEVER TO FADE C- STVMN-K
BRANDAlliR’-S
r®
*c.v'*
dfg
PtNS
guaranteed*"*
donot 6xpeSih«st with imitation*
* co,tro, m
Divorce Notice.
IN THE
SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
TO WILLIAM GAVIN WALKER of Hobart
in Tasmania Labourer.—TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition
of BLANCHE ELIZABETH WALKER of
Church Street Bellerive Tasmania no
occupation praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the Petition
mwed and pronounce judgment in re-
spect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart.—J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
CLERK, WALKER & STOPS, 116 Collins
Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
9
Vi
*
AFTER 40,
WINTER TAKES
A HEAVIER
TOLL . ..
AFTER the age of 40—when winter seems more
bitter and colds and ’flu strike more severely—
most people find their health needs extra care. Proved
for generations, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits,
a safe stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal
properties found in no other spirit.
In large, half and quarter-size bottles.
THE CELEBRATED
WOLFE'S
chromatic
FOR YOUR HEALTH'S SAKE
LFE's
S¥«nc
W*.1
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Bell, Book
and Candle."
What with “Dark of the
Moon,” “Brigadoon” and this
play by John van Druten at
Melbourne Comedy, J.C.W.
seems to have become obsessed
with the subject of witchcraft.
Mr. Van Druten is the least
serious about it and the most
highly artificial. His story con-
cerns the beautiful Gillian Hol-
royd, her brother and her aunt,
who occupy a smart apartment
in the Murray Hill district of
New York city and who are all
practitioners of the Black Art,
and Shepheard Henderson, their
tenant, who becomes the helpless
victim of Miss Holroyd’s super-
natural powers and deserts his
girl-friend.
Since the witch in question is
Evelyn Laye and the tenant is
Frank Lawton there was no
justification for dragging in the
witchcraft. He’d have succumbed
anyway in terms of his senti-
mental associations, which she
fulfils without the witchcraft. If
she had been a foul old beldam
there would have been some
justification for it. As it stands
the talk of love between them
loses all point. If it is, as stated,
the unconditioned love that
Tannhauser felt for Venus and
which is not of this world, it
looked extremely like the con-
ditioned love of this world, in
fact, like calf-love.
It was this discrepancy that
made some of the goings-on of
the two lovers rather heavy
going, and the metamorphosis
in the last act, when Miss Laye
voluntarily gives up her dark
powers for the sanctuary of
marriage and Mr.. Lawton be-
comes an ordinary expectant
husband, something of an anti-
climax.
Mr. Van Druten’s thoughtless
joke is funny in spots, and, as
an endeavor to please his public,
it is eminently successful. Miss
Laye has the versatility to be
arch, seductive and sinister when
needed, and dominates the even-
ing, Mr. Lawton is plausibly
efficient. Letty Craydon, as an
old \yitch, is inconsequentially
amusing, and John Edmund is
cynically sardonic as a warlock.
William Rees supplies the best
humor as the literary man who
has taken up the study of witch-
craft from a rationalistic stand-
point and finds himself in a
community of real witches.
"The Cradle Seng."
This play by Gregorio and
Maria Matinez Sierra, put on by
Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium
Drama Group on the miniature
stage of the Tallis Theatre, pro-
ceeds in the precincts of a
Spanish convent of enclosed
Dominican nuns.
The calm contemplation of
the cloisters is disturbed by the
advent of a baby left upon the
doorstep, and there is an excited
debate as to what is to be done
about it. The Mistress of the
Novices wants it rejected because
it will divert the young nuns
from contemplation of their last
end. Some of the younger nuns
take a contrary viewpoint, and
the vicaress finally accepts the
Christian viewpoint. The baby
is adopted by and takes the
name of the convent doctor.
The foundling grows into a
beautiful girl as completely
ignorant of the world as any
high-school young lady until, at
eighteen, sex rears its ugly head,
or would seem to, in the shape
of a handsome young architect
who appears at the grille in the
convent parlor. But the young
man is not a Shelley, a Boc-
caccio or a Cervantes. He is as
romantic, sentimental and other-
worldly as if he had been
brought up in the convent him-
self instead of some Andalusian
suburb. The nuns bless her, the
convent doors open and she
walks out into marriage.
As a sort of pious idyll the
piece was pleasant, and it was
well played by the Con. people,
but the absence of any conflict
made for lack of contrast, and
one longed for a burst of Boc-
caccio’s roaring laughter. The
only ferocious thing about it
was producer Norman Smith's
lighting.
"Musical Chairs."
latest new reper-
tory group, the Tana, set off to
a good start with its presenta-
tion of Ronald Mackenzie’s
“Musical Chairs” at the Mel-
bourne Repertory Theatre. The
author is said to have written
only one play, and if so he was
a loss to the drama. He shows
potentially the qualities of a
Chekhov, and his story of the
tempestuous emotions and
marital aberrations of a house-
hold of Austrian, American
and Polish people on a Polish
oilfield has some of the objec-
tivity, if not all the penetration,
of that writer.
A Czech actress-producer,
Hana Pravda, two other Czech
actors, an English actress and
five Australians gave the piece
a cosmopolitan atmosphere
which would have been better
without the pseudo-American
accent affected by some of the
players. George Phillipe gave a
seasoned performance as the
father in love with his peasant
housemaid and trying to rule his
shrewish wife, while his family
is following his example rather
than his precept by getting itself
into sentimental relations which
inevitably end in despair and
disillusion.
Alex Scott did well as the ex-
airman son who flew on the
raid in which his girl-friend was
killed and who solaces his ill
conscience at the piano. Zdena
Fantl was excellent as the
peasant housemaid.
Three Artists.
While the painters who slap
about in Ripolin or tempera can
readily fill David Jones’s big
gallery in Sydney singlehanded,
George Duncan, Alison Rehfisch
and Arthur Murch, who have
been long in the field and who
deal in the depth and integrity
of oils, have divided the wall-
space, like Gaul, into three
parts.
In George Duncan’s part are
the big landscapes in which his
talent always seems to thin out,
his decorative orchard scenes of
blossom against old buildings or
dark trees, his Berrima land-
scapes brilliant with color and
glittering with arbitrary light,
and his sombre landscapes of
evening; none quite real, but
many with genuinely attractive
qualities of color and rhythm.
A novelty—and a surprisingly
successful one—is a demonic
plough-horse against a windy
grey evening sky.
Alison Rehfisch offers no such
surprises. Though she paints a
formula for landscape with
some force, her real strength is
in her flowerpieces, which, with-
out pretending to drama in
arrangement, have a pleasant
warmth about them; a feeling
for glowing color and, what is
less often met with, a feeling for
flowers.
Murch, painting in a style
equally familiar, moves in a
world of lyrical vision in which
he still achieves some astonish-
ingly beautiful effects. One
misses the more solid quality he
showed in such paintings as
“The Flea” and “The White
Calf,” but the grace and deli-
cacy of his naked babies in the
sunshine, his bathers in the
foam of a breaking wave, his
“Sea Mist” and the serpentine
angophoras he paints with such
fidelity, all caught up in the
silvery haze in which his vision
expresses itself, show an artistry
of a very high order.
The N. S. Wales Travelling
Art Scholarship Committee
announces that a competition
for figure-painting or sculpture
will be held in 1952. Applica-
tions to enter must be lodged
with the secretary (Mr. -t. S.
Thompson), Department of
Education, Box 33A, G.P.0.,
Sydney, not later than 3 p.m. on
Wednesday, January 9, 1952.
Exhibits must be sent in be-
tween the hours of 10 a.m. and
3 p.m. on Tuesday, April 1,
1952, to the National Art
Gallery, Sydney. The scholar-
ship is for £395 a year, tenable
for three years, and provides for
travel and study abroad. The
rules have been amended since
the last competition was held,
and candidates should refer to
the new rules, particularly with
regard to examination require-
ments.
Music.
Judging by the demonstrations
at the fifth subscription concert
of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra at Melbourne Town
Hall, the general verdict of the
audience was that in Alceo Gal-
liera the city has a magnificent
conductor and that the Brahms
Symphony No. 4 in E Minor
was a wonderful performance—
a fine interpretation by a fine
conductor given such fine
players. Yet they don’t always
play like that, so it must be that
they have it in them but not
everybody can bring it out. If
the A.B.C. doesn’t wear the
young man out with its fantastic
schedule he should go far. The
same might be said of Beryl
Kimber, the young Australian
who was soloist in the Violin
Concerto No. 5 in A Major of
Mozart. She is almost in the
student category as yet, but has
what some students lack intelli-
gence and feeling. The graceful,
rhythmic and charming Sara-
banda of Corelli brought
“bravos” from the packed house,
and the Borodin Polovtsian
dances concluded the proceed-
ings.
*s* 's*
Alceo Galliera followed up
his first concert of the new
series at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, with a second in which
the highlight was a new work by
a fellow-countryman, Ildebrando
Pizzetti. It was pictorial and
melodic and bad all the ingredi-
ents of the sort of dish the con-
ductor delights in and which he
knows how to bring out to the
best advantage with a flick of
his baton towards this instru-
ment or that one and a stern
command with his other hand
to the rest of the ensemble to
take a temporary backseat. The
result was a pleasant succession
of rare sensations. Violinist
Beryl Kimber came out with an
outstanding performance of the
Bruch Concerto in G Minor.
v ■i* ,
The worst freeze in Victoria s
history didn’t deter Melbourne
music-lovers filling the Assembly
Hall for the latest concert
(which was repeated in Sydney)
of that admirable organisation,
Musica Viva. It was the fare-
well appearance of ’cellist Theo
Salzman, who is leaving for
U.S.A., to be replaced by John
Kennedy, of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra. The pro-
gramme was distinguished-—a
Haydn string quartet, a Brahms
concerto and a lovely ramble
through the beauties and intri-
cacies of the piano, the violin
and the ’cello in the company of
Tschaikowsky. The Sonata No.
2 in F Major, Op. 99, of Brahms
was a delightful item, played
with a sensitiveness of feeling
and a depth of tone that never
faltered. .
4* * *
A rather long-winded work by
Herbert Howells—with a title
like a short story—was the
dullest item of Dr. Thalben-
Eall’s two Sydney recitals. In
Bach’s Toccata and Fugue m D
Minor the organist showed his
true worth —there were speed
and clarity, with a wizardry of
swirling sound in the Fugue,
which was almost breathtaking.
Another great work by Bach, the
Prelude and Fugue in A Minor,
was the piece de resistance or
the second recital —a wonderful
piece of writing, thi§, in which
elegance flows into great hyeli-
ness—this was playing which
could scarcely have been bettered
bv any living exponent of the
art. Dr. Thalben-Ball’s own
“Elegy” for Walford-Davies
was cleverly-embellished light-
weight fare.


Your Estate will be Safer
in these Skilled Hands
ap
r
ii»ii MnHfcgi nirtiiQt.i fc-pf Tiunii
M» m«i _ itici « «mio«
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
CT7
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not ot one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 188 S)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)*
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 37,413 8&5 10 p.c. = 22,020 15,393 250,240
Profit sale assets. £1570 .. .. 251,810
Unexplained additions, £4892 net . . 256,702
1948.. 38,477 8&5 10 p.c. = 34,641 3,836 260,538
Profit sale assets, £672 .. .. 261,210
Unexplained additions, £28,060 .. 284,270
1949.. 66,523 8& 6 10 p.c. = 36,517 30,006 314,276
Replacement res. disclosed, £243,797.. 558,073
Stock res. disclosed, £120,017 .. 678,090
Profit sale assets, £3183 .. .. 681,273
Unexplained reduction, £6773 net .. 674,500
1950.. 85,948 8&5 12jp.c.= 48,711 37,237 711,787
Revaluation assets, £190,116 .. 901,853
Reserves capitalised. £194,994 . . 706,859
Share premiums, £139 net .. .. 706,998
Profit sale assets, £2285 .. .. 709,283
Unexplained additions, £42,599 .. 751,882
1951.. 259.8 & 5 10 p.c. = 57,243 65,016 816,898
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
f Subject to intangibles, now £17,420.
This enterprising textile group—parent
and five subsidiaries —is stepping along
like a thoroughbred. The 29-year-old
parent is one of Australia’s leading pro-
ducers of high-grade women’s hosiery
and lingerie, turned out from a well-
equipped factory at Brunswick (Vic.),
with decentralised units at four country
centres. Associated activities are handled
by the subsidiaries —Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd.,
leading hosiery producer in New Zea-
land ; Prestige Fabrics, Ltd., at Ararat
(Vic.), spins worsted yarns and weaves
fine woollen and rayon fabrics ; Dyecraft,
Ltd., operates textile-finishing, printing
and dyeing plants at Brunswick and Sun-
shine (Vic.); Dapco Pty., at St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.), is in the roller- and screen-
printing section of the trade; Johnson
Bros. Pty., are silk-throwing and -creper
specialists at Brunswick and Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.).
With the emphasis on quality, the
management has combined imagination
with practical care for detail and sound
finance. Over the last 26 years the parent
has never failed to pay a div., average for
the period being a shade over 11 p.c. The
story since the war has been one of
marked expansion, due partly to rapid
growth of the economy and partly to
inflation. The parent has installed a lot
of new plant for production of nylon
hosiery, etc., and the subsidiaries have ex-
panded their plant capacities, too.
Last term the parent’s own output,
sales and net earnings all increased. The
N.Z. co., established in 1927, has been a
steady 10-percenter of recent years, with
wide margins. The other offshoots, set
up after the outbreak of war, are still
more or less in the development stage.
However, in its last year Dyecraft earned
enough to pay Is. a share. Dapco re-
corded a loss of £17,621 —late delivery of
plant and reorganisation were the chief
troubles —but is henceforth expected to
make a satisfactory showing. The Fabrics
co. paid a maiden 6d. a share, and better
is expected to follow. On an annual basis
its output of rayon fabric rose from a
million yards just before the big December
lift in the tariff to lj million yards a few
weeks ago, and is expected to reach five
million yards within two years. This
increase has been planned on a popula-
tion basis, not on present boom condi-
tions, the board says.
Declared net earnings of the group
(after eliminating outside interests) were
£36,311 stronger at £122,259, of which
£68,967 (up £29,698) was earned by sub-
sidiaries and £53,292 (up £6613) by the
parent. That was after allowing £75,704
(up £16,719) for depreciation and £72,953
(up £8104) for taxation ; it disregards an
unexplained addition of £42,599 to re-
serves and profit of £2285 on sale of
assets. The div. dropped from 124 p.c.
to 10 p.c.; but the 10 p.c, was sweetened
with a four-for-five bonus-scrip issue
(£194,994) in Feb., which participated in
the final 74 p.c., of which a shade over
1 p.c. was tax-free. The bonus scrip was
provided partly from a reserve of £190,114
created by revaluation of the parent’s
freeholds and partly from share-premium
account.
Also, following the bonus issue,
517,178 new 10s. ords, were issued at a
premium of ss. each, three for five. Only
£86,196 of the new capital and £43,098
of the premium money had come in when
the books closed. When fully-paid the
issue will lift capital to £1,000,375 in
103,050 8 p.c. and 200,000 5 p.c. prefs.,
all of £1 each, and 2,789,300 ords. of ss.
each—the old 10s. shares have now been
split into ss. units. Pref. divs. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £87,977, or
£34,282 less profit than was claimed last
term.
An extra £85,000 was raised on loan
from the National Mutual Life, £512,408
was added to the overdraft and £150,349
to the amount coming to trade creditors:
Prestige and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £485,708 £534,388 £546,792 £827,982
Outside
interests .. 206,098 213,970 214,652 214,778
Loan .. . . 400,000 485,000
Overdraft . . 170,339 293,982 163,362 675,770
Creditors ) 9ntJ „ . $ 266,691 417,040
Taxation ) 208.050 254,566 90i052 g 8>759
Final divs. . . 28,101 28,317 38,987 47,778
Freeholds . . 260,622 313,907 425,155 668,618
Plant . . 273,201 432,075 698,671 981,562
Shares .. 29,100 34,480 36,980 40,696
Stocks , . 579,285 693,325 1,009,456 1,585,385
Debtors . . 148,078 114,303 122,241 245,053
Cash, etc. .. 49,557 38,989 121,276 35,271
Intangibles,
etc.* .. 18,991 17,420 18,494 17,420
* Includes excess cost over par value of shares held.
Stocks increased by £575,929, book debts
by £122,812 and plant by £282,891. Of
the growth of £243,463 in freeholds,
£190,116 was in respect of the revaluation
already referred to. There was a con-
traction of £138,803 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£192,058), owing to the
outlay on fixed assets.
As for prospects, the outlook on the
demand side is encouraging, even allow-
ing for some decline in personal con-
sumption on defence account. Greatest
danger lies in the inflation of costs through
increased money incomes. This is likely
to develop into a repetitive process,
which will end in an economic rather
than a military war, if a heavy defence
programme is superimposed on an
economy already at full-stretch without
reasonable and adequate controls. Failure
to keep costs and prices down will
finally spell unemployment and a lower
standard of living through inability to
compete with overseas manufactures.
The market, which likes the way the
co. is shaping, prices the f.-p. ss. ords.
at 13s, 6d., giving an immediate return
of 3,7 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis. The
5 p.c. prefs. at 21s. yield 4.7 p.c. The
8-percents make infrequent appearance
on ’Change. Net tangible cover is
£6 4s. sd, prefs.—both classes rank
equally for capital—and 11s. 3d. ords.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. f Dividends serves, serves.*
& £>£>£>
1946 .. 9,700 10 p.c. = 5,970 3,730 28,899
Reserves capitalised, £9602 .. ~ 20,297
Unexplained addition to res., £2947.. 23,244
1947 .. 21,448 15 p.c. = 12,000 9,448 32,692
To inner reserves, £21,996 .. .. 10,696
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c. £
1948 .. 50,089 5 15 13,500 36,589 47,285
1949 .. 107,272 6 15 13,500 93,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 ~ .-. 111,057
1950 .. 379,427 5 50 41,500 337,927 448,984
To stock reserve, £150,000 .. .. 298,984
Revaluation property, £49,500 .. 348,484
Surplus sale assets, £4032 .. .. 352,516
1951 .. 303,446 5 30 62,000 241,446 593.962
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 543,962
* Excludes special stock reserve, now £250,000.
The phenomenal prosperity of the
motor trade rivals that of the wool
industry. Larke, Hoskins, which has been
in the trade for close on half a century,
is sole distributor in N. S. Wales (except
portions of the Northern Rivers and
Riverina) for the popular Austin cars,
trucks and marine engines. The co.’s
vehicle deliveries stepped up from 719
units in the 1947 term to 1324 in 1948,
reached 3868 in 1949, shot up to 10,384
in 1950 and to 12,920 last term. The
inflationary boom and economic expan-
sion created a hungry market, from
which American vehicles—sales of which
predominated pre-war—have been virtu-
ally cut off, owing to the dollar problem.
Sales of British vehicles have kept pace
with the flow of chassis and outturn of
bodies —last-mentioned has been chief
bottleneck on the retail side. To help
quicken retail deliveries Austin Motors
(Eng.) bought the former Ruskin co.’s
body-works at Melbourne about three
years ago.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its turn-
over, but appearances are that the
figure exceeded £l4l million last
term as against approximately £lO
million for the year before. On
the other hand higher prices for
goods and materials and the increased
cost of manufacture, distribution and
administration took proportionately
deeper bites than in 1949, and
net earnings were £75,981 less at
£303,446. The figure was written
after allowing £41,318 (up £2391) for
depreciation, £450,000 for taxation
(previous year’s allowance not disclosed),
paying an unstated cash bonus to the
staff and making a larger contribution to
the staff superannuation fund.
The £303,446 covered the small pref.
div. and 150.7 * p.c. on ord. capital as
against 472, 132.2, 60.7, 26.8 and 16.4
p.c. back to 1946. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined, includ-
ing the special stock reserve of £250,000)
the year’s profit was 29.3 p.c. The div.,
lifted from 15 p.c. in 1949 to 50 p.c. in
1950, dropped to 30 p.c., money being
wanted in the business. Of the
£241,446 of profit ploughed back,
£50,000 was sent to the stock reserve, now
equal to 20.4 p.c. of the inventory total.
The £191,446 that remained, together
with £4032 surplus on sale of assets and
a paper gain of £49,500 on revaluation
of the older freehold, lifted free reserves
to £543,962, or two and a quarter times
the size of paid capital.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that
chassis came forward faster than bodies
could be made and vehicles assembled,
and that queue of buyers is still a large
one;
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £240,000 £240.000
Creditors,
etc. .. 150,330* 886,223* 1,122,4761,946,756
Tax provision 873,526 473,619
Final divs. .. 12,750 12,750 34,750 41,000
Freeholds ~ 21,908 90,000 103,576 197,945
Plant, etc. .. 24,493 89,651 60,395 49,244
Stocks .. 183,700 545,155 683,980 1,221,897
Debtors .. 32,274 46,830 115,499 145,971
Investments .. 19,598 28,797 28,856 190,154
Cash, etc. .. 38,293 86,9.597 1,077,7301,440,126
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet net additions of £537,917 to
stocks, £30,472 to book debts and £161,298
to investments and strengthen the big
holding of cash, etc., by £362,396 the
amount coming to creditors, etc., was
increased by £824,280. Altogether there
was a visible improvement of £161,760
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£536,773).
Since the close of accounts the co,
bought the “Mill Block” at Pyrmont for
£250,000 —it is to house the head-office
and a spare-parts store and workshop.
The body-building and assembly works,
at Surry Hills, is presently to be trans-
ferred to a new and larger assembly and
production factory on a 20-acre block
at Enfield. There are delivery, repair and
servicing stations at East Sydney and
Camperdown. A new subsidiary, William
Hiles, Ltd., has taken over all the co.’s
properties at book-value.
As for the future, the position of the
motor trade will become less obscure
when the Government’s plans in respect
of taxation, allocation of materials and
hire-purchase finance are definitely
known. New forces are now coming on
to the stage which threaten to restrict in-
flationary demand by a redeployment of
the nation’s resources to meet combined
defence and essential public-works re-
quirements. All that can be said definitely
at the moment is that the co, is well-
equipped, financially and otherwise, to
withstand a jolt. Short of war, there is
nothing in either the national or inter-
national outlook at present to suggest a
collapse of ordinary industrial activity.
In a hesitant market the co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares fell from 275. Id. a month ago to
245. 9d. last week. At the lower figure
the return is 6.1 p.c. on a 30 p.c. div.
basis. The pound prefs. at 2 Is. yield 4.7
p.c. Excluding the stock reserve, net
tangible cover is £l9 11s. lid. prefs. and
18s. 7d. ords.
Brooklands Accessories, Ltd, (Melb.)
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiary.
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. f Ord.——, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1946 .. 13,409 1750 10 4,500 24,736
Goodwill increased, £BOOO .. .. 16,736
1947 .. 13,405 1750 12J 8,716 19,676
From tax provision, £11,814 .. 31,490
1948 .. 34,456 1750 12$ 8,716 65,480
Share premiums, £22,087 .. ..]
Unexplained addtn. to res., £14,264 i
From tax provisions, £2006 .. .. |
Net intangibles of new subside., £5605 J
1949 .. 42,037 1750 12* 11,871
88,232
116,648
Share premiums, £13,121 .. .. 129,769
Surplus sale assets, £lOOl .. .. 130,770
1950 50,201 1750 15 14,245 164,976
Share premiums, £10,517 .. 175,493
Revaluation assets, £13,335 .. 188,828
Surplus sale assets, £634 .. 189,462
Capitalisation reserves, £35,561 .. 153,901
1951 .. 75,613 1750 17* 24,892 202,872
* After deducting intangibles (now £20,632).
This 28-year-old handles a wide range
of well-known agencies for, and does
a large business in, motor-vehicle replace-
ment parts, accessories and garage equip-
ment, etc. The main business is in Vic-
toria, there is a branch at Sydney, and
a subsidiary. Starting Lighting Ignition
Pty., handles the Lucas electrical equip-
ment with which many makes of British
cars are fitted.
Since the public became interested in
1938, shareholders have had a very satis-
factory experience, especially during the
last five years, when turnover bounded
along with the boom in the motor trade.
A steady 8 p.c. div. was paid for the five
years to 1942, followed by four lots of
10 p.c., three of 12} p.c., and then 15 p.c.
and 174- p.c. to the close of last accounts.
And more has been ploughed back into
the business than was distributed.
Early in Sept., 1950, 63,105 new £1
ords. were issued at a premium of 10s.
each. When the books closed at April 30
last, there was still £42,070 of the new
capital and £21,034 of the share
premiums to come. On the day the
books were ruled off £35,561 of bonus
scrip was issued, of which £23,638 came
from share premium account and £11,923
from a capital assets reserve of £13,335,
which was created by a revaluation of
freeholds. The bonus shares will rank
for dividends from the beginning of the
current term. When all the money on
the contribs. comes in, paid capital will
be £244,875 —it was £70,000 as recently
as 1946—0 n which the pref. div, and
17} p.c. to the ords. will call for £35,385
less profit than was shown last term.
The business has hummed like a hive
of bees in summer-time. Profitable
employment was quickly found for the
money put up by shareholders and more
besides. The leap in the year’s gross earn-
ings (£333,228) was £117,116. Including
£75,979 (up £43,180) for taxation and
£14,651 (up £3893) for depreciation, exes.
(£257,615) took £91,703 of the gain, leav-
ing the net result £25,412 stronger at
£75,613. That was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 51.9 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 50.1, 42.4, 47 and
25.9 p.c. back to 1947.' Shareholders were
handed an extra 2} p.c., making 11} p.c.
for the year, of which 1} p.c. was labelled
bonus. And then nearly two-thirds of
the net earnings remained in the business,


Missing Friend.
WILL TASMAN CAREY, son of T. G.
CAREY, of Sydney, or anyone who may
know of his address, please communicate
with M. W. CAREY, 42 Empire Street,
Haberfield, N.S.W.?
Tradition;
, , . a custom handed down
WHEN this bank made its first
public announcement, in 1834, it ex-
pressed the intention of affording the
Community “a greater facility in the
transaction of money matters”.
Thus, the bank began by giving the
best in banking service. It continued
to do so - and its service became a
tradition.
To-day, this proud tradition is
carried on in the provision of the facili-
ties and conveniences of a complete,
world-wide banking service.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Are
p
vom
:
41
im
n
n>
NOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT COID
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for all
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold in winter. You save on
heating costs tool Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modem
insulator—B, I. SLAGWOOL
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MAB3II • MELBOURNE, MU3506
8R158ANE,,83504 • ADELAIDE, §7257 • PERTH, L 2107
gd
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
How Never to
be Tired
Most people are tired
occasionally or frequently, or
all the time. Yet contrary to
popular belief, there’s no such
thing as chronic fatigue due
to over-work. So little under-
stood is this simple truth that
people who are never tired
are considered abnormal.
In August Reader’s Digest,
Marie Beynon Ray tells how
we all have energy enough to
keep going at top speed for a
lifetime —if we learn to set it
free. Here is the secret of
busy, successful people who
“never tire.”
Get your Reader’s Digest
today. 31 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
"rrr* ■'
i •••• • '•
mm
II
m
Fireplace
Harmony
DESIGN: No. 8
HEIGHT: 3'7|"
WIDTH; 6'6|"
A Wunderlich Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surround
gives the finishing touch to the modern living
room. The ceramic cream mottled buff glaze
finish is in harmony with present day furnishings,
and affords freedom from discolouration.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0,, Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs.
mm
■
P
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
WOOLGROWERS!
These are our objections
to the Post-War J.O.
Marketing Plan
It is clear that the plan, if adopted, will in-
volve the wool industry in major risks and, at best,
promises only uncertain and limited benefits which
are not comparable with such risks.
The Plan does not provide for grower con-
trol. Under it FOUR GOVERNMENTS will control
the level of the reserve price and the policy of re-
offerings. The Central Authority in London will
be the main body; the Australian Wool Organisa-
tion will NOT; it will not control policy and will
take its instructions from the Central Authority.
3 The Central Authority will have TEN directors:
THREE for Great Britain; TWO for South Africa:
TWO for New Zealand; and THREE for Australia.
Of Australia's THREE representatives one will be
appointed by the Australian Government as its
representative, so that there will be only TWO
wool grower representatives. South Africa and
New Zealand will each have a Government rep-
resentative AND THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT
WILL APPOINT ITS THREE REPRESENTATIVES.
There cannot be more than FOUR grower rep-
resentatives in the TEN directors. HOW CAN
SUPPORTERS OF THIS PLAN SAY THAT IT IS
GROWER CONTROLLED?
4 Australian woolgrowers will put up 58% of the
capital and have only 20% of the representation.
5 For the uncertain benefit that the Plan may
be able to reduce price fluctuations when the
market is at a low level the J.O. reserve was
30d. during the last season woolgrowers are
asked to risk:—
(a) the definite danger of Government control and
the possible danger of International control of
wool marketing.
(b) the complete dislocation of the wool market
and loss of growers’ funds that could ensue
as a result of a misjudgment of price trends
by the Central Authority.
6 The Wool Marketing Plan was evolved after
conferences and Government discussions extending
over two years. As details were published it
became clear that it must contain a strong element
of Government control. It has been condemned
by the majority of grazier associations and organ-
isations including the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W., the Victorian Graziers’ Association, the
West Australian Pastoralists’ Association, the
Stockowners’ Association of South Australia, the
Farmers' Stockowners* fit Orchardists Association
of Tasmania, the Pastoralists’ Association of West
Darling, and the Graziers’ Association of Southern
Riverina. Other Primary Producer Organisations
such as the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association of
N.S.W. and the Australian Primary Producers’
Union have declined to support the Plan officially
and have left decision to their individual members.
We urge
io vote
Inserted and authorised by
THE WOOL STABILISATION
REFERENDUM COMMITTEE
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney
J. P. ABBOTT, Chairman
lifting reserves £202,872 in excess
of intangibles (£20,632).
The financial position im-
proved :
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £119,967 £146.209 £202,805
Creditors .. 57,536 145,169 170,018
Tax provision 30,915 33,500 99,216
Final divs... 7,998 10,372 19,707
Freeholds .. 26,788 42,288 61,794
Leaseholds.. 17,055 16,674 16,095
Plant and fit-
tings .. 15,694 22,261 24,946
Stocks .. 161,038 236,118 290,937
Debtors .. 104,912 181,810 300,309
Cash . . 7.148 483 546
To carry an extra £118,499 of
book debts and add £54,819 to
stocks the co. increased its trade
debt by only £24,849. Most of
the increase of £19,506 in free-
holds was on account of the re-
valuation already mentioned.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
was £73,481 stronger at
£302,851.
The f.-p. pound ords, at
61s. 6d. (665. a couple of months
ago) return 5.7 p.c. on a 171 P-c-
-div. basis. The prefs. at 30s. 9d.
yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £lB 15s. prefs. and 40s. 4d.
ords.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd.
Considering the difficulties in
the path, rehabilitation of this
big Malayan producer has been
speedy and efficient. The co. —
a merger of the old Kuala Kam-
par, Malim Nawar South and
Tanjong Tualong cos. in the
Kinta Valley—got its No. 3
dredge into production again in
Oct., 1947, No. 1 in May, 1948,
and No. 2 in Aug., 1949. No.
2, a big deep-digging machine
which had been capsized, badly
damaged and half-buried in silt,
had to be dismantled and re-
erected.
Earnings and profits have
responded as the yardage
handled increased and the price
of tin strengthened. Combined
treatment and recovery figures
for the three dredges compare
as follows:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Treated.’ooo, c.y. 5815 8419 10,105
Recov’d, t. 0., tons 999.5 2412.0 2514.2
Yield, lb., c.y... 0.44 0.64 0.56
Costs, pence, c.y. 6.08 6.25 6.61
Last term’s bigger yardage and
increased recovery of t.o. were
due entirely to the performance
of No. 2 dredge, which handled
4,722,000 c.y. of 0.711 b. ground
for 1495 tons t.o. The aggre-
gate recovery of t. 0., which
assayed 75.6 p.c., was equal to
1902 tons (up 57 tons) metallic
tin.
It was the big leap in the price
of tin —sales averaged £910.5 (up
£344) per ton metal that
bumped up earnings and profits:
1950. 1951.
Gross ~ .. £1,057,890 £1,769,149
Exes 749,817 1,152,014
Profit .. ~ £308,073 £617,135
Divs.*— 30 p.c,— 100 p.c.=
£147,600 £448.950
* Rate of div. is the nominal rate de-
clared, and the amount the sum actually
paid after deducting Malayan tax, now
30 p.c.
Including taxation (£371,375, up
£283,375), exes, were equal to
£605.7 (up £199.4) per ton, leav-
ing a profit of £304.8 (up £105.7)
per ton metal. Including sundry
income the year’s profit was
100.4 p.c. on the £615,000 of
paid capital as against 50.9 p.c.
for the previous term. Three
divs. totalling 73 p.c. (after de-
ducting Malayan tax, which was
lifted from 20 p.c. to 30 p.c.)
took £448,950, and £22,000 was
written off restoration exes, and
£25,000 reserved for con-
tingencies.
Ore reserves aren’t mentioned
in the report, but appearances
are that there is about 660 acres,
averaging around 0.51 b. t. 0., yet
to be treated. Area worked last
term was 107 acres.
At end March last current
assets totalled £787,856 and
current liabilities (including
final div.) £213,876. The assets
include £505,815 of cash and
£245,863 of stores and spares, a
sound investment in these days
of growing scarcities. There is a
rehabilitation loan of £261,199,
most of which is likely to be off-
set by the co.’s war-damage
claim, expected to be assessed
and paid during the current
term.
The current term’s operations
are likely to be less profitable,
owing to the sharp drop in the
price of tin, following cessation
of American buying on stock-
pile account and continued rise
in costs. Average London spot
price of the metal dropped from
£51207 per ton for April to
£S9B3 for June. On July 25 the
quotes were spot £SB63 and for-
ward £SB36.
The f.-p. 10s. shares sold at
435. 6d. last week as against 325.
in Nov., 1950.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The handwriting reproduced in our
page this week is from one of the letters
of Rachel Henning, which are to be pub-
lished in The Bulletin starting next
week. Its elegant facility and confident
femininity caff up a vivid picture of the
writer who came to Australia nearly 100
years ago, and who set down her im-
pressions with delightful candor. The
letters were written from England first,
then from Sydney, Appin and Bathurst
in N.S.W. and later from Queensland,
where the strange charm of Australia
first began to grip this English lady of
Victorian days. There is an enchanting
picture in the letters written from Eng-
land of the “vicarage” type of life and
its preoccupation with needlework (they
made “ottomans” in those days, too),
family affairs and social life, which is
contrasted later with life in the new wild
land she came to.
Many readers will find references to
customs recalled by their mothers or
grandmothers, as in the letter written on
September 29 which starts; “Michaelmas
Day, and 1 the girls have been pestering
Aunt to order a goose for dinner, and
she replies, ‘My dears, the housekeeping
is beyond all reason already,’ which I do
not doubt, as no one ever looks after the
servants, and from Priscilla’s account they
ate enough butter last week to supply
most families for a month. No doubt
you will be favored with geese on board
ship, though I do not know where the
sage and onions are to come from.”
It was the custom in England at the
time always to serve goose on Michaelmas
Day, which was known as goose-summer,
and it is from this that the word
“gossamer” is derived because of the
many cobwebs that were to be found in
the fields and gardens in that season (this
should be a useful bit of information if
you’re ever in a quiz, by the way).
Rachel Henning’s letters are in the pos-
session of Mrs. Gerald Dampney, of
Newport (N.S.W.), who is a niece of the
author, and to whom this Letter, for one,
is very grateful for allowing The
Bulletin to print them.
The enormous cost of telegrams nowa-
days might well bring back an *era of
letter-writing. To say “Arrived safely,
weather fine, having a wonderful time,”
costs about 3s. ordinary rate and 7s. to
urgent types. Even the telephone is
beginning to take on a “don’t-touch-me”
attitude, particularly repellent during the
couple of weeks after the bill has arrived
and the family arguments about who was
responsible for “all those calls” are still
re-echoing round the house.
Even letter-writing, however, has its
hazards. One Sydney girl confessed to
this Letter recently that she jilted her
admirer because he wrote her too many,
too long letters from New Guinea. “My
dear,” she said, “I never had time to
read them, and they mounted up and up
until I felt I couldn’t bear the sight of
them!” After a time the task became
too great for her, so she married some-
one else at the first available opportunity,
and the poor boy in N.G. never knew
why his suit had faffed.
One somehow expected that the Law
Ball would be characterised by majesty
more than merriment, but that was not
so. The emphasis seemed to be on youth
more than anything else, with students
abounding and many sprightly young
barristers dancing a dance, though not in
a “semi-despondent fury.” Nona McGirr
announced her engagement at the ball to
Peter Willis, who formerly lived at
Tam worth, and who is now associate to
Judge Maxwell.
The Garden Club held its first out-
door meeting during the week on the
roof-garden at Farmer’s, which is being
painted and prettied-up generally for the
flower-show on September 18. There was
a particularly good attendance on the
sunny afternoon, which seemed highly
conducive to producing ideas. Mrs.
R. J. F. Boyer offered to arrange an
early Australian flower setting for the
show, which should be especially
interesting.
About 150 people turned up to see the
garden belonging to Professor and Mrs.
Waterhouse at Gordon, which looked
very beautiful with its camellias, orange-
trees and azaleas. An interesting feature
of this garden are the Chinese ornaments
which one comes across from time to
time, and the large flat Japanese bowls
holding two or three cut camellias. Mrs.
Waterhouse’s flower arrangements were
very much admired (of course, she has
more camellias to work with than
ordinary mortals dream of). She follows
the Japanese line of arrangement com-
bining the flowers with sparse dried
boughs and in bamboo-type of wall-vase.
The Garden Club was to have visited the
home of Miss Margaret Gillespie on the
same afternoon, but this pleasure has
been postponed until August 11.
Mr, and Mrs. Arthur Davis gave a
pleasant luncheon-party last Saturday at
their Cammeray home, when Elizabeth
Northcott was present with Sheila Collitt.
Among the guests were Mr, and Mrs.
Henning Hergel, Mr. and Mrs. Rahman,
the Alan Sharpes, Nigel Lovell and Judge
and Mrs. Regala, who went on later to a
World Federation meeting. Mrs. Regala
wore one of her Philippine dresses,
black with stiffened sleeves embroidered
in pink and burgundy.
There were 150 guests, including six
foundation-members and eight past-
presidents, at the 21st birthday dinner of
the Red Cross Headquarters Auxiliary,
which was held at the C.E.N.E.F. Audi-
torium last Wednesday. Mrs. Nigel
Smith, who has taken an active interest
in the auxiliary since its foundation, pro-
posed a toast to the club. Lilian Lundy
arranged the musical programme, and
booklets dealing with the history of the
auxiliary, which had been compiled by
Gwen Walker Smith, were given to the
guests. The birthday-cake was cut by
Miss Ruby Storey, M.8.E., deputising for
the patroness of the auxiliary, Mrs, John
Moore, who is in England.
John Casson, recently arrived in Aus-
tralia for J.C.W., says that audiences
should not have to think during the per-
formance of a professional play, whose
function is to entertain and to do so
purely through feeling and emotion.
Well, John should know. He is the son
of Lewis Casson and Sybil Thorndike,
and the stage is his home. Still, a doubt
must remain in many minds about the
soundness of his opinion. If all thought-
ful, imaginative and experimental plays
must be left to amateur groups today
our ideal of free, universal and com-
pulsory education must feel its founda-
tions crumbling.
Anyone who doubts that they’re tough,
mighty tough in the West should read
the report by the mobile dental clinic of
the Far-West Children’s Health Scheme,
which says that country children, far
from dreading a visit to the dentist,
actually revel in it. The boys surrep-
titiously aggravate cavities and smear
extra blood over their faces so that they
can boast how much it hurt and that it
didn’t draw a tear from them. Most
unhappy child encountered by the clinic
on its recent tour was a 12-year-old
aboriginal girl at Goodooga, who wept
because her teeth were perfect, and she
couldn’t persuade Dr. Wearn to fill the
front ones with gold “to show the others.”
Adults, too, regarded the tour as an
event, and local branches of the Far-West
Scheme in many towns held public
receptions.
Those who are interested in handwork
should go along to the Education De-
partment’s Art Gallery this week to see
the exhibition of the Society of Arts and
Crafts, which will be open from 10 a.m.
to 5 pan. every day except Saturday and
the bank holiday next Monday.
The date of the August meeting of the
National Council of Women has been
altered to Thursday, the 23rd, as Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Federal president, will
be in Sydney on that date and will be
the guest-speaker. Mrs. Brookes is
anxious to meet as many members as
possible and a good attendance is
expected.
Talking of birthdays, the Overseas
League’s Ball at the Trocadero has been
set for August 21 so that it can celebrate
both the 21st birthday of Princess
Margaret and the 41st birthday of the
league.
From Melbourne
Speaking at the annual meeting of the
Victoria League the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, impressed members with
the important task before them in help-
ing to preserve the democratic way of
life, and in strengthening friendships in
the Empire, in America and in Europe.
Senior vice-president Mrs. Cairns Officer
presented the report, which showed a
record membership of 4421. Introduc-
tions for members overseas totalled 527
and had been issued to the league in
Great Britain, Canada, South Africa and
New Zealand. The league’s bush library
had circulated over 22,000 books, and a
library had been opened at Brooklyn for
British migrants. The Food for Britain
committee had sent off !896 parcels. For
this purpose, the Empire Ball, held last
November, had raised over £5OO. Mrs.
H. F. Maudsley is the new president of
the league.
After the meeting Sir Dallas and Lady
Brooks were entertained at afternoon-
tea in the clubrooms. Fruit-blossom and
pale-pink stocks decorated the rooms.
Lady Brooks wore a hip-length dyed-
ermine coat over a slim-fitting frock of
ruby-red wool georgette ; her matching
velour cloche was softly draped. Special
guests included Lady Collins, Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs, G. Harcourt Smith,
Professor and Mrs. G. W. Paton, Mrs.
S. F. Rowell and Miss Sybil Irving. Mrs.
Cairns Officer, who has retired from the
chairmanship, will make her home in
Tasmania, Former secretary of the
league, Margaret Williamson, was present
—she is now a major in the W.R.A.C.C.
The childhood conceptions of the
wicked witch were far removed from the
witchery of Evelyn Laye, who stars in
the Van Druten comedy, “Bell, Book and
Candle,” for she is the most beautiful,
bewitching and beguiling witch ever to
step out of a family steeped in witch-
craft. In getting her man she wears a
succession of beautiful gowns. In the
first act she appears in one of garnet-
red duchesse satin with an off-the-
shoulder bodice and a sheath skirt over
which swirls a full overskirt, open in
front. A stole of lime-green chiffon, and
later a flowing emerald silk velvet coat,
goes with it. In the next act Miss Laye
wears a pale-mustard coat lined with
black to match her satin sheath frock,
the skirt of which is draped to one side
and finished with a large bow. The black
hat worn with this has a large scooped
brim. A full-skirted house-coat of pale-
mauve crepe is highlighted with a cycla-
men chiffon scarf in one scene, whilst in
another she wears a beige crepe frock
which has a high neckline finished with
a white Swiss organdie collar. These*
lovely clothes were made at the Le
Louvre Salon in Collins-street.
Air-Vice-Marshal F. R. W. Scherger,
R.A.A.F., leaves shortly by air to take
up a new post in Washington, and his
wife and daughter Jill will follow him
by sea. To say goodbye to their friends
this very popular couple gave a late-
afternoon party at R.A.A.F. head-
quarters mess in St. Kilda-road. The
hostess wore a black ensemble and blue
fox cape, her daughter a scarlet velvet
ballerina, which had a strapless bodice
of white lace, and a tiny scarlet bolero.
Air-Marshal George Jones and his wife
were among the guests, Mrs, Jones in a
rust-shot spotted tie-silk frock and a gold-
sequin-studded black velvet cap. Large
pearls outlined the brim of the white
grosgrain hat Mrs. Eric Hewitt wore with
her black suit. Mrs. Charles Probert’s
junior-blue suit gained contrast from her
small cap of lime-green felt, Mrs. Dal
Charlton’s choice was a black frock and
a black hat which had tiny pearls out-
lining the tall felt mount, A caped coat
of carbon-blue and a rust-red beret were
worn by Mrs. Stan Gardner. Mrs. John
Davoren had black accessories for her
scarlet wool suit. Mrs. W. Taylor’s beige
coat was fur-trimmed, her wide platter
hat black. Mrs. Adrian Perry swathed
beige ostrich-feathers round her hat,
which she wore with a beige frock and
mink cape.
With tickets at three guineas each, the
Women’s Hospital will benefit greatly
from the big attendance at the Cali-
fornian Fashion Fiesta, held at the Myer
Emporium. The president of the Women’s
Hospital, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot, wore
blue brocade. Mrs. Harold Holt’s black
tulle gown featured an apron front of
heavy white lace. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer allied a black velvet bodice and a
red-sequin-scattered black tulle skirt
Over her black wool lace gown Mrs,
A. H. Tolley wore a full-length snow-
leopard coat. Jeanette Brooks wore mul-
berry satin. Mrs. Phillip Dare’s lace
frock was white, her full-length coat of
emerald satin. Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s
black tulle had large pink roses scattered
over the bouffant skirt. Bright-red chiffon
fashioned Mrs. Athol Shmith's gown,
which revealed one bare shoulder. A
white ermine stole was worn by Mrs. Don
O’Donnell with her full-skirted gown of
pale-grey brocade. Mrs. F. Vigano
teamed apple-green velvet and floral
marquisette. Mrs. D. Stewart wore grey
lace. Pink beads and sequins were
splashed on the bodice of Mrs. Ross
Shelmerdine’s tulle. Lady Clarke’s black
chiffon gown swirled at the knees. Mrs.
George Mendes’s gown was white and
silver.
The beachwear shown at the fiesta
included shorts, pedal-pushers, frocks and
jackets with gay and amusing touches.
One outfit in shrimp-pink terry cloth is
all in one, the trousers caught in at the
ankles, whilst to the tailored bodice is
attached a hood. Aprons finish many
frocks; these may be just two wide side-
panels or go right round the waist. A
grey organdie pinafore worn over a
sheath frock had two large patch-pockets
embellished with gold sequins. Over a
pink suit was worn a navy-sequinned
stole, finished with long white fringe-
ends. A navy-and-white-spotted frock
with a full skirt had one bare shoulder, a
large bow adorning the other; with it
was worn a large drooping hat laden with
white flowers. Across the back of a
summer silk frock, from shoulder to
shoulder, was a wreath of field-flowers,
a cluster of which dangled over the brim
at the back of the white sailor hat.
Unusual was the white linen patterned
with red poinsettias and green cacti.
The Opportunity Clubs for boys and
girls are appealing for funds to carry on
their excellent work. President Eugene
Gorman aims at £31,000 to do the job
well, and to this end many functions are
being arranged. “The Cock Crows
Again” will be the title of the cocktail-
party and parade of model frocks and
jewellery which will be held at the Dor-
chester on August 21. Lady Clapp, who
arranged a similar parade a few years
ago, will also produce this with the
assistance of Mrs. lan Potter, who is
president of the organising committee.
Mrs. Harold Holt will design the frocks
to be shown, Mrs. Bruce Rose is secre-
tary, Paddy Wilkinson treasurer, and
committee-members include Mesdames
Maurice Nicholas, Leo Curtis, Arthur
Laver and Tom Carlyon.
Heather Moran, wife of Dr* Paddy
Moran, of Toorak, is a charming
American who, since her marriage, has
made her home in this city; she was
born Heather Walker but called Polly.
Brought up in Kentucky, she won, while
at school, an art scholarship but did not
take it up, for the call of the stage, derived
from theatrical parents, was too strong.
Musical-comedy was her choice. In New
York she played opposite George M.
Cohan, later starred in “Billy,” and then
went to London, where she played at the
Hippodrome with Clifford Mollison and
Stanley Lupino. After doing films she
came to Australia, where she appeared in
Ben Fuller productions. Back in London
she met the man who became her hus-
band —incidentally. Dr. Moran had one
of the featured roles in the Australiar
film “Sons of Matthew.” A portrait sh»(
made of Claire Luce created a very favor-
able impression and brought a staff offer
from a New York paper. She did net
accept, but now finds an outlet for her
artistic talents in painting murals in her
home.


A light and
mellow Port
Qilaivh
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
With his A Century of British
Monarchy, just out. Hector Bolitho adds
another to his 36 books, making his
Royal biographies nine. Born in Auck-
land (N.Z.), 53 years ago, he joined the
old Sydney “Evening News” in his early
twenties as literary editor, then left for
England to biographise professionally,
mainly on Royalty, though now and then
he descended to lesser mortals —Marie
Tempest, and, with the Dean of Windsor,
a life of the eighth Earl of Elgin, son of
the ambassador who brought the Elgin
marbles from Turkey to the British
Museum. Bolitho is probably the only
newspaperman from these parts to be
elected to the august Athenaeum.
Herewith, the man who will launch
Brisbane’s Royal Show this week. Old
Digger J. A. Heading took on the presi-
dency of the Q. Royal National Associa-
tion only a few weeks back, but he has
a load of experience behind him —11
years R.N.A. council membership, 30-odd
years of organising and judging shows,
both in Queensland and the Ma State, and
the working-up of an Illawarra Shorthorn
stud recognised as one of the best in the
State. Chairman or director of three
SHOWS.
large co-operative societies, he’s also
M.L.A. for Marodian. Other initials —
D.C.M. and M.M.
“Morehead”: Eighty-two next Tuesday, E. J.
Brady wrote, until a few years back, more or
less continuously for The Bulletin from 1891
on: the May 23 issue of that year included
his first Bulletin poem, “The Wage Lord.”
Brady was born in N.S.W.; his Irish father
fought Indians in America, seas and whales in
the Pacific and the Arctic, southerners in the
American Civil War and bushrangers in
N.S.W.; a life of tremendous adventure which
the son recorded with spirit in Two Frontiers.
published in 1945. The father intended the son
to be a civil-engineer, but Fate decreed that he
work in thd clerical division of a mercantile
house. Ted’s work led him daily to Sydney’s
Circular Quay, where lay the clipper ships, and
to the wharves of Darling Harbor, where craft
of all kind from all the seas of the world
found mooring space. He mingled with sailors
and hefty workers of the waterside, and in
1899 The Bulletin published his first book
of sea-songs and -chanties, The Ways of Many
Waters, which moved John Masefield to say
that Brady was “the only poet who has seen
the sailor in the dingy intimacy of the foVsle
and sung him in verse which is more clarion
than doggerel.” Reference-books do not reveal
whether Ted ever served before the mast, but
old files of “The Lone Hand” show him as the
skipper of a motor-skiff which made a leisurely
journey down the Murray over 40 years ago.
The story of that trip was serialised in “The
Lone Hand” and appeared in a book called
The River Rovers. An earlier journey made
by wagon from Parramatta to Townsville was
described in The King’s Caravan. Back in the
’nineties he edited “The Australian Workman,”
and, in the early years of this century, “The
Australian Worker.” He also ran, at Grafton
(N.S.W.), a trenchant paper aptly named
“Grip.” Poet, journalist and publicist, with a
list of 12 books to his credit, Ted is still as
“aggressively Australian” as he was in his
prime. The little post-office at Mallacoota
(Vic.), where he lives, should be busy next week
with birthday telegrams from his wide circle
of friends.
Having made enough sugar—the cane
variety—in his 40-odd years with C.S.R.,
general-manager Christian Rothe turns
over to Enzedder Dr. Roy Harman.
Rothe served in mills on the Clarence
River, in Queensland and in Fiji, and for
five years from 1915 served with the
Royal Field Artillery in England, India
and Afghanistan. He now golfs. The new
man hails from Nelson (M.L.), got his
science doctorate in London, learning of
another kind with the N.Z.E.F. in the
Kaiser’s show, was chief chemist of C.S.R.
by 1931, and is now vice-president of the
council of the N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology.
“Macnell”: In 1942 Australian dailies
printed an arresting photograph, released
some months after the violent event it
portrayed. It showed a U.S. carrier off
the Solomons, heeled over under a
torpedo blow so that great cascades of
burning petrol spilled from her uppers
into the burning sea. A vast tombstone
of black smoke towered above her,
through which men could be seen jump-
ing from her wall-like sides. The ship
was the 14,700-ton Wasp, then the newest
carrier in service ; a few weeks previously
she had been helping, with her 77 planes,
to succor Malta. The last man off her
was Forrest Sherman, her captain, who
survived to get his own back as war-plans
officer under Chester Nimitz. After he’d
seen those plans come to fruition, with
U.S. warships at peaceful anchor in Tokyo
Bay, Sherman led a U.S, Task Force on
its showing-the-flag cruise through the
Mediterranean, and last year became U.S.
Chief of Naval Operations. “See Naples
and die” had special significance for the
battle-wise admiral —he succumbed there
to a heart attack, aged 54.
Prophets are not without honor, save
in their own country—or adopted coun-
try. Cyril Jenkins, the English composer,
who, for the past 20 years, has lived a
precarious existence off and on in Mel-
bourne as a critic and teacher and who
could always be recognised at a concert
by the deep indentation in his forehead
produced by a piece of shrapnel during
the 1914 shindy, went to the U.S. some
years ago and was given a remarkable
reception. He had his works performed
and broadcast and was promptly dubbed
by Melbourne newspapers an Australian
composer. He returned to Melbourne
and continued to live obscurely, un-
detected by local musical organisations.
Now he’s back in the U.S., and for the
second time within a fortnight Columbia
has transmitted over its coast-to-coast
network his “Fierce Raged the Tempest”
and “Triumph of the Storm.” The famed
Salt Lake City Tabernacle Choir has his
compositions regularly on its Sunday pro-
grammes,
Robert S. Close, now in Paris, will
shortly see his Love Me, Sailor, at a
London firstnight. The rights were
bought by Benjamin Fuller immediately
after the play lost thousands in its ill-
fated tent-show in Sydney, and when
the Australian entrepreneur decided to
launch out as a full-blooded producer in
the Big Smoke he picked on Close’s book
in play form. Fuller, who started as a
blackface comedian on the sands at
Brighton (Eng.), has done spectacular
things in a big way before—having had
the honorable distinction of losing £33,000
on a grand-opera season when he
brought out Florence Austral, then the
leading Wagnerian singer in Berlin, and
produced the works of the German com-
poser at the Palace Theatre in Bourke-
street, Melbourne. Old-timers shook
their heads, and they were right—from
the financial aspect; but the season was
an artistic triumph, and Fuller would
scarcely have missed the money, being as
near to a millionaire as is possible in
these taxy days. He’s 76.
Sir John Pratt, who has been removed
from his post as Foreign Office repre-
sentative on the Universities of China
committee because of his criticism of
United Kingdom attitude to Communist
China, is one of the very old China hands
—he is 74 and was called to the Bar of the
Middle Temple in the ’nineties. He went
out to China shortly afterwards as a student
interpreter, and by the end of War I had
become one of the best-known British
Consular officials in the East —he was
Consul-General in Shanghai round the
early ’twenties before he was transferred
to the Foreign Office. In 1938 he visited
Australia for the Lapstone Conference
and retired the same year from regular
diplomatic life, thus depriving the F.O.
of the only man in it who really looked
like what he should have looked like as
a diplomat devoted to the handling of
the mysterious East. He is, in fact, very
like (though a much older edition of)
his brother Edwin, better known to
the world as Boris Karloff. Sir John was
tall, dark and slightly cadaverous even in
the years of his prime, an exterior which
belied an inner warmth and kindness of
heart.
Lieut.-Governor of W.A. from 1933
till 1948, when he became Governor,
knight James Mitchell has passed on at a
shade over 85, with his relief. Sir Charles
Gairdner, on the way. Born at Bunbury
(W.A.), whence fared forth John Forrest,
explorer, statesman and the first Aus-
tralian-born peer, the late Governor
(known to all hands as Jimmy) entered
politics from banking through the
Northam seat in 1905, and held that seat
28 years. Then the victorious Labor Gov-
ernment appointed him Lieut-Govemor.
In those 28 years he had held many port-
folios, and was Premier twice. The
Bulletin recorded of him 23 years ago:
“He rarely replies to his critics. If they
get too warm in the House he spreads a
newspaper—preferably a hostile news-
paper—over his beaming countenance and
goes to sleep.” It was a very light sleep
—he was acutely alive to the possi-
bilities of his State, and would expound
on the least provocation his unshakeable
belief that, properly handled, it could
treble its population and give the world
all the food it needed.
Leading up to an inside story:
This is Norman J. Johnston, victim of his
own hand. He takes more than a passing
interest in art and letters, but, being a Scot,
and sensible, he relies on an insurance job for
his living. General manager of the Scottish
Union and National Insurance Company, he
normally resides in Edinburgh; at the
moment he’s in Australia looking over his com-
pany’s interests, and next week he might be in
London, or perhaps New York, doing the same
thing. He called in at The Bulletin office the
other day with a letter of introduction to the
editor while the editor himself was talking to
the girl at the reception counter. The lass
didn’t bat an eye. “Will you wait, Mr.
Johnston?” she asked. “I’ll see if he’s in.”
She discreetly drew the editor off to more
private territory and presented the letter. (She
is always careful about visitors, particularly
those with strange accents.) But of course Mr.
Johnston was welcome—in fact, awaited. He
SELF-PORTRAIT.
was whisked off to a cup of morning tea, and
all went smoothly. On parting, however, his
last words, in a soft Scottish accent, were a
little disconcerting: “And congratulate the girl
at your counter for me, will you?” he asked.
“She handled that situation very neatly.” And
with that he was off —on his way to Brisbane.
One-time president of S. Australia’s
Bacchus Club, A. J, Manning (here
presented by Coventry) is S.A. State
Bank’s g.-m. Opening his account at
Kerang (Vic.), 54 years ago, he left the
Castlemaine School of Mines for the
National Bank in 1913, and has been con-
nected with coffers ever since, crossing
the border in 1932, rising to managership
SHEKELS.
of the State Bank by 1944. When not
in the vaults he’s to be found in the Royal
Yacht Squadron or a bunker^
Allan Victor Maxwell, J., Royal Com-
missioner on N.S.W. liquor, has already
headed three Royal probes since 1939 —
two Federal and one State. Born in
Balmain, Sydney, a Sydney University
graduate admitted in 1913, he’s been on
the Supreme Court Bench since 1934. Out
of court he presides over the State Rowing
Association and the Blind Institution.
“F.S.”: Dr. Albert Barnes, who
recently died in Pennsylvania (U.S.), left
behind him one of the world’s largest
private art-collections. He was tempera-
mentally the opposite of Australia’s gentle
Alfred Felton —a big, bluff, explosive
man of business who made a fortune out
of argyrol and toothpaste. Like Felton,
he loved art but, unlike Felton, he hadn’t
the slightest belief in critics, connoisseurs
or experts. When, having made his pile,
he went to Paris, he knocked about the
cafes and mixed with artists ; the more
unpopular and unfashionable they were
the more he liked them. There is no
reason to suppose he understood them
any more than the experts and he cer-
tainly bought a lot of junk; but he also
bought, for a small part of their present
value, an amazing number of works —
100 Renoirs at a time when Renoir was
being kicked out of the salons, as well
as Matisses, Picassos, Van Goghs and
Gauguins. Barnes allowed only a few
hand-picked students into his magnificent
gallery at Merion, Penn., and refused
admission to most other art-lovers,
regardless of their wealth or importance ;
but under his will it will be thrown open
to the public.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 63, Captain H. Lancey, who
stowed away at 14 in a sailor’s kitbag hanging
behind a door in a clipper, while his parents
searched fruitlessly, and who clewed up with his
master’s ticket in sail. He came ashore to
manage two steamship companies, and did
salvage work on the side —the collier Paterson,
aground at Norah Head (N.S.W.) three years
ago, and considered hopeless by the under-
writers, was one of his resurrections.
At 63, in Brisbane, Rev. Daniel Alexander
Brown, who, ordained in 1924, became
Moderator of the Church in Queensland. For
12 years he had been the hard-working sec-
retary of the church’s missions throughout the
State.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 79, Captain George
Prictor, a native of South Africa who had been
soldiering almost all his life. He was under
Kitchener in India, fought in the Boer War,
was associated with Baden-Powell in forming
the Boy Scout movement, and did his bit in
both World Wars as an embarkation-officer.


Kb
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE’
INSULATION
r
9
vi
J)
ikr
'rtf'CSQ
fg
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
w
HOS 6
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction, Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses. Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£>* VJgS> v
£4O/12/6
dfg
ANO ‘if'NS
fj. ■$ X??-’
df
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
n&isis
c
to'"
O,STI tVtf
oo*!
GO
m
m
mm:
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VL
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
(y444ZU&
f
**SsrfaMat tiasfc
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Misunderstood.”
“J.R.D.”: A lot of abuse has
been hurled at C.5.1.R.0., but
much of it is unmerited. Some
criticism would not have been
made had the speakers checked
their sources of information.
Claims that all C.5.1.R.0. funds
are provided by the grazing in-
dustry are wrong. Apart from
grants and bequests for specific
purposes C.5.1.R.0. revenue
comes from Government funds.
Relation of this to the grazing
industry is that the amount put
up by the Government is equal
to the 2s. per bale levy for wool
publicity, but to all intents and
purposes the working funds of
the organisation are found by
the taxpayers.
Where the C.5.1.R.0. misses is
in its publicity, which is woeful.
Until a year ago the results of
its work were published in
journals and bulletins, which
were, on the whole, fairly com-
prehensible to the layman pro-
vided he knew of them and how
to get them. But that method
has been scrapped and replaced
by “Journals of Scientific Re-
search” (Series A Physical
Sciences and Series B—Biologi-
cal Sciences), a “Journal of
Applied Science” and a “Journal
of Agricultural Research.”
The work outlined in these
journals may be of great interest
to some scientists here and
abroad, but quite a few local
scientists have confessed that
many of the articles are too
difficult for them to follow, so
the man on the land, who ought
to be deriving some benefit from
them, hasn’t a chance.
C.5.1.R.0. publishes an annual
report of its year’s work. It is
usually a year late, but those
with the time and patience to
wade through it will find that
C.5.1.R.0, is doing a lot of im-
portant work that will benefit
not only landmen but those en-
gaged in commercial fisheries,
canning, building, metal trades,
textiles, irrigation, mining, in-
dustrial chemistry, radio, elec-
trical work and radar, and even
rain-making.
Chief function of C.5.1.R.0.
is basic research—it finds things
out, then it passes on the facts
to others to test in the field for
the benefit of the ultimate user.
For the land the organisation’s
work should be taken up and
carried on by State Departments
of Agriculture.
For example, C.5.1.R.0. find-
ings on fertilisers are of tre-
mendous interest and benefit to
farmers. If they’re correct we
may have to revise all our ideas
about superphosphate as a ferti-
liser. Apparently the phosphate
content is not nearly so, im-
portant as we imagined, whereas
sulphur is doing a job that it
has never been credited with,
which may lead to new and
cheaper sources of fertiliser.
The study of trace-elements —
minute quantities of copper, or
cobalt, or molybdenum—will
make first-class grazing land out
of millions of acres previously
regarded as unsuitable.
C.5.1.R.0. has found that in-
stead of applying super, once a
year, or even double quantities
on alternate years, equally good
results are had by applying the
total needed for four years at
one time. Time and labor thus
saved is tremendous.
In drought-feeding experi-
ments C.5.1.R.0. proved that it
is better to give sheep a week’s
rations at a time (after getting
them accustomed to feeding)
than to feed them daily. By the
latter method strong sheep get
more than their share and poor
sheep miss out, but with weekly
feeding every sheep gets its
whack.
These and other important
findings are briefly recorded in
the annual report. There is
sufficient material to be written
in plain language that can be
absorbed easily and would fill a
monthly magazine for landmen.
What landmen need is a bridge
between them and the scientist.
That bridge could consist of
informative articles simply writ-
ten, educational films, talks and
discussions. At present the gap
between the C.5.1.R.0. and its
beneficiaries is too wide—and
wordy.
How to Lose Cash.
“San Luis Rey”: So Barcal-
dine Downs blocks are to be
thrown open at a rental of Bd. an
acre.
Like the Bourbons, the
powers-that-be know nothing
and can learn nothing.
On a 20,000-acre block you
are up for £BOO a year for rents,
survey fee and shire rates. Then
there are the improvements,
ranging fom, say, £2OO to £2OOO,
to be paid for. Boundary fenc-
ing alone will cost over £2OOO.
Water is anybody’s guess. Also
a house, which will cost at least
£lOOO, even if you build it your-
self out of iron and masonite.
Then there is plant, a car, shear-
ing machinery, etc., and quarters.
Finally, stock, 2000 ewes at, say,
£3 off shears.
If you want to do £6OOO of
your own cold and another
£6OOO of the bank’s, then there
is your proposition. In 1948
there were droves of sheep off
similar country on agistment in
the Desert, and last year up to
50 p.c. of stock were lost in
Central Queensland through
flies. There isn’t a place there
fully stocked-up or anything like
it, but rent goes on just the same,
Shylock was a piker compared
with the Crown as a landlord.
The State gets its own land im-
proved, taxes every article used
by the lessee, takes income tax
if he makes a profit. If they had
thrown such land open at Id. an
acre, with the proviso that the
rent would not be raised if the
owner could grow enough fodder
to carry him through a drought
in five years’ time, that would be
sense. I have been in the graz-
ing business in C.Q. over 20
years and I wouldn’t pay Bd.
an acre rent for the best grazing
land in Australia.
/Implement Shortage.
“C.S.”; A survey of 94 wheat-
farms in the Parkes-Forbes
district by N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture shows that there is
an acute shortage there of nearly
all implements used in wheat
production.
“Although the shortage of
headers was found to be par-
ticularly severe,” states P. C.
Druce, economics research
officer, “the demand for all trac-
tor-drawn implements is greatly
in excess of the supply.
“Average delay in delivery of
headers appeared to be approxi-
mately five years, and is almost
as great for most other imple-
ments.
“Although American tractors
are still in short supply, there is
no real shortage of tractors suit-
able for wheatgrowing, and none
of the farmers interviewed was
in urgent need of a new tractor.
“Large kerosene tractors are
hard to get, but ample supplies
of large diesels are available.
Smaller tractors are readily
obtainable. Most tractors avail-
able are of British or European
manufacture.”
Spare parts are almost as
scarce as ever, though there has
been a slight improvement
during the past two or three
years. Plough-disks and parts
for headers are hardest to get.
The “Wallum” Country.
“W. Court”: Queensland
Agricultural Department is
inspecting the so-named useless
areas along the Queensland
coast with a view to finding their
mineral requirements. It is
hoped that if certain soil de-
ficiencies can be rectified this
country, now carrying inferior
grasses and timber, could be
used for grazing.
It is already known that
phosphorus and copper are
"Dave's changed a lot since he first got those Argentine
ants in his pants!”
scarce in these soils, and their
absence is responsible for
pasture poverty. Shortage of
phosphates causes cattle grazing
there to chew bones and other
rubbish, but worst effects are
general unthriftiness, infertility
and poor disease resistance.
In tests, a course of copper
salts fed to cattle running on
wallum country resulted in a
great improvement in their
condition. The department is
working out the best methods of
treating the pastures with these
vital chemicals.
Ageing Sows.
“A-Jay”: As a sow ages she
generally becomes more clumsy.
It is not advisable to keep sows
for more than three litters.
Prices of backfatters today will
more than cover replacement
with a younger one. After
farrowing, sows are often weak
and not as careful as they might
be of slow-amoving, newborn
pigs. With sloping floors the
little pigs gravitate down the
slope under the hover as they
are born. There they are able
to keep warm without having to
nestle too closely to the sow.
Correct feeding of sow and
litter has a marked bearing on
the number reared. Largest and
heaviest litters at birth are from
sows well fed during gestation.
On weaning feed the sow so
well that she quickly regains any
weight lost while suckling a
previous litter, and then keep
her in good store condition.
Some concentrates will be needed
to supplement grazing. In this
include milk or meatmeal and
mineral mixture, in addition to
grain.
Once the sow settles down
after farrowing give her all she
will eat of a balanced ration and
sufficient drink for maximum
secretion of milk.
Dairy Production.
“Inver Jay”: Given good
cows there is no reason why the
present low average production
of both milk and butterfat could
not be increased at least 25 per
cent, by so managing the pas-
tures that good grazing is spread
over a much greater portion of
the year. This should, of course,
go with conservation of more
and better hay to supplement
the pasture when it cannot carry
the milking herd in full produc-
tion.
Young grass contains much
water, but is rich in protein,
which stimulates milk produc-
tion. It needs balancing with
energy-producing foods, such as
hay and crushed oats, if high
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The southern sunspot group has passed, its effects are
subsiding, and more or less rainless weather is likely for
some time over the northern areas and most of the inland,
with a great deal of cold weather.
Further rains are likely in the south about the beginning
of August, but are not likely to be severe. The next main
general rain seems likely about the middle of September.


Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
46/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
OKDEB FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. l/8/’51
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
1st Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
A
a
sa
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. K1TCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Si YEARS OP SERVICE
TO I BE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28G), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
COARD
PROTECTA
StU Rig*
TILL
Suitable for every type *> f buslne** it record*
all Sale*. Credit*. Payout* etc.. Strongly built,
pleasing lo appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O'SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE • • Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH • ■ . • Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH O’CONNpLL for-
merly of Yenda in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
MADGE KATHLEEN O’CONNELL has
filed a Petition No. 4556 of 1950 praying
for a Divorce from you on the grounds
of your desertion. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 15th of October 1951
A copy of the Petition may be obtained
without charge from P. L. NOLAN, the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, 11c Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Telephone:
74387
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
Telegrams;
"Antiques, Dublin”
STRING FELLOW’S MODEL AEROPLANE 1848
I Construction : Wooden framework, silk-covered monoplane.
I Tapicred wing with flexible trailing edge. Single tail-
plane without fin. Dimensions : Span 10 ft. Chord 2 ft.
tapering to zero. Wing area 14 sq. ft. Power Plant'.
Horizontal double acting steam engine f in. bore, 2 in.
stroke. Spirit fired boiler. Propellers : Two four-bladed
16 in. diameter pusher airscrews. Performance ; The
first aircraft to fly under its own power. Its best flight
was 40 yards indoors after launching down an inclined wire.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing ground
1 service symbolised by the green and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD.
\
X. AVIATION
gd
t
SERVICE^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All State*.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
MOBI L C O
FELLS and CROSS-CUTS
20,000 TREES
IN JUST UNDER 7 MONTHS
★ The Ganmain Sawmilling Co. of Narrandera, N.S.W., advise
that since taking delivery of their Mobilco Tree Feller, just
under 7 months ago, they have felled and sawn 20,000 trees.
This performance is just typical of the light, fast, hardworking
Mobilco Saw. The Mobilco is a rugged one-man machine, and it is
the only shaft-driven power-saw on the market. It is powered by a
7 b.h.p., air-cooled, B.S.A. engine which will give long and reliable
service. For fast, efficient felling and cross-cutting this is the
machine for you. And, if the need arises, your Circular Saw becomes
a felling and cross-cutting Drag Saw in ten minutes -—that s all the
time needed to take the Circular Saw shaft but and fit the Drag Saw.
There's a Bench Attachment also to fit your Mobilco. Yes, when you
buy Mobilco you get the lot. You are doing well when you buy t s
popular, shaft-driven Mobilco; no better saw is made.
fg
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT Pty. Ltd,
252 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE - Phones C. 4799; After Hours, WF3ll*
production is to continue.. As
grass matures it provides more
and better-balanced feed, but it
is physically impossible for a
cow to produce more than three
gallons of milk daily for any
length of time. If she produces
more she will rapidly lose con-
dition ; this is where hay should
be fed.
Oaten hay or chaff is better
than pasture-hay where there is
plenty of green pasture. Grass-
hay is very valuable, but it must
be palatable, leafy, a nice green
color and full of protein, not the
kind which only starving stock
will eat.
Every dairyfarmer should
conserve at least two tons of
hay per milking cow each year.
Give each cow as much as she
will eat without waste. Chaff
some of the hay and feed it in
the bails during milking through-
out the year ; give the remainder
in troughs or racks or on the
pasture. The better the hay the
more the cows will eat and the
more milk they will produce.
Using Poor Soil.
“Hortus”; Grow rye on poor
patches of ground. It will thrive
on soils too poor for wheat or
oats, and it is extremely hardy.
It will stand exposed situations,
high altitudes and rather severe
climatic conditions. As it is
fairly deeply rooted it is
drought-resistant.
Grow rye for early winter
feed or as a green-manure crop.
One of the best ways to improve
a poor patch or orchard ground
is to sow a bushel of rye and
half a bushel of field-peas per
acre, with |cwt. of super.
Prepare the ground as for
wheat. It’s best to sow in
autumn, but it can be sown in
spring. Rye has a great advan-
tage over other cereals. It’s a
quick grower and matures early.
Some farmers won’t plant rye
for green fodder, as they say it
has a poor nutritive value.
Compare fodder analyses of
wheat and rye, the first figure is
that of wheat in each case:
Water, 72.0, 75; ash, 2.0, 1.7;
albuminoids, 2.6, 2.2; crude
fibre, 9.5, 9.1; nitrogen-free
extract, 13.2, 11.5 ; ether extract,
0.7, 0.5; albuminoid ratio,
1:5.7, 1:5.7 ; nutritive value,
17.4, 14.8. All these figures are
only approximate.
B.H.C. and Grub Control.
“Archaps”: Experiments
being conducted by the Bureau
of Sugar Experiment Stations
indicate that application of
gammexane (B.HiC.') with fer-
tiliser for protection against
grubs requires some care.
Experiments at time of planting
showed that the B.H.C. was kept
away from the plants by a layer
of soil, and until the final results
of the experiments are known
it is advisable not to mix
B.H.C. with fertiliser, or to
apply it in the drill at planting-
time when using the quantities
required for grub control, which
is heavier than for wireworm.
Application of 101 b. of 20
per cent. B.H.C. per acre with
fertiliser is considered sufficient
for wireworm control, but
further experiment is necessary
with heavier quantities for
grubs. The proved practice of
spreading on the surface with the
drill just before the paddock is
due to be worked level with
cultivating implements is recom-
mended for the time being.
Hints for the Farm.
“A.J.”: Piglets will not re-
quire any supplementary food
before they are about three
weeks old if they are running
in the open. If, however, they
are being reared in concrete
pens they will require some iron
to guard against anaemia. Iron
is best given by placing a fresh
sod of earth in the pen daily
from the day of birth. At three
weeks of age provide a creep
where dry feed and fluid is made
available in troughs at all times.
“Sam”: Two flowerings from
the one gladiolus bulb can be
had in summer. In August keep
the bulb in a warm place, plant
when life shows. Lift and dry
when the plant shows signs of
dying, keep bulb in
warmth, then replant when
ready.
“Rooster”: Don’t confuse
boils on teats with cow-pox;
boils are usually caused by dirty
milking. Prevent them by wash-
ing teats and hands thoroughly
before each milking. Use a mild
antiseptic like Condy’s crystals.
Treatment for boils: Apply
iodine ointment after every
milking, but wash the area first.
“Malvern”: A maiden apple-
tree planted in winter or early
spring should be promptly cut
back. A two- or three-year-old
tree planted in May should have
the shoots cut back to the de-
sired buds; no damage will
result. A late-planted tree is
best left alone for its first year.
“Big Billy”: An experiment in
controlled grazing in N.Z.
promises substantial increases in
carrying capacity and butterfat
production per acre. It consists
of cutting off, by an electric
fence, a section of fresh paddock
of an area sufficient to give one
day’s grazing.
“Big Billy”: Old bags make
a mulch for strawberries, etc.
Lay them end to end between
the rows, leaving a space 6in.
wide for plants. If soil is sandy
the bags will prevent sand splash-
ing on to the fruit during
watering. The bags retain mois-
ture in the soil and eliminate
weeds.


V,
A?
m
A
W
v'i-.V
s
• . 3
Ample supplies of
this fine old French
Uqueur are now avail -
able from leading
Clubs,' Hotels and
Wine & Spirit
Merchants.
Chartreuse is distilled
from a secret recipe
which has never been
divulged, and whose
distillation has been
carried on by the
Carthusian Monks of
Dauphine since 1605.
GREEN OR YELLOW
Agents for Australia; McLaughlin & Co. Pty. lid., Sydney
Distributors—Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd., Taylor Ferguson
& Co. Pty. Ltd. South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd. Western
Australia: Brown & Bureau Ltd. Queensland: Harbottle Brown
& Co. (Q’ld.) Pty. Ltd.
CH1.82
w
r
f
a tomyeißL
in crepe-de-chine,
A joy-ride in a limousine,
A ''throw” of Cupid’s loaded dice,
A plunge for pearls-at-any-price;
A sudden sneeze, a parting pair,
A chill caught in the wintcry air.
An anxious ma, a maid demure,
A dose of Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure.
t(Uew2..ite
******
ms
No water, oil or grease can
get through or under the new
plastic Waterproof Elasto-
plast Dressings. Waterproof
Elastoplast keeps cuts and
injuries safely dry and clean,
and its medicated pad assists
healing. These new elastic
dressings stretch sympathet-
ically with skin movement.
Ask at your Chemist.
ii
H
■
:
• Elastic adhesive.
• Does not ruck up, catch
or fray.
• Always washes clean.
FA BRIC ELASt 6 PLASf
fs stil! available for those who
do not require protection
against liquids. These well-
known dressings keep cuts and
abrasions clean, and aid
healing.
2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST.
Fabric and Waterproof
Products of WT if. J;' SMITH &' NEPHEW itO., Hull, England - '
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The S.T.C.’s meeting which wound
up the racing season at Rosehill on
Saturday saw the final round of what
has been the closest tussle for the
jockeys’ premiership in many a day,
and Arthur Ward won the title, as
the golfing fraternity would phrase it,
“two up and one to play.” Ward
and Cook started the day level, with
41 winners each. Although punters
exhibited a profound faith in their
several mounts, neither took a trick
until Ward won the fourth race, and
main event of the day, the £5OOO
Sydney Turf Club Cup, on
Yeoval. Ward pressed home his
advantage by winning the Flying in
a desperately-close finish on Aerofoil,
and when Cook then missed out in
the sixth of the seven events the issue
was decided.
The S.T.C. had armed itself with
two trophies against the possibility of
a premiership deadbeat, and it was
not surprising that the club decided
to present both in any case. Cer-
tainly the Ward-Cook duel, much
more than the fact of a £5OOO main
rvent, contributed to Saturday’s record
attendance of 28,200. And all con-
cerned were pleased to see Ward win
the premiership. It was his first win;
Cook, on the other hand, has won
half-a-dozen premierships.
The S.T.C. Cup winner, Yeoval,
evidently benefited greatly by his
recent trip to the Clarence River dis-
trict of N-S.W, He was specially
leased for that occasion by S.T.C.
vice-chairman H. Tancred, who was
imbued with a notion to win a second
Grafton Cup. Yeoval started an
odds-on favorite for the Cup and
finished a just-moderate third. He
started equal second-favorite at 11
to 2 for Saturday’s S.T.C. Cup, and
jockey Ward, with the premiership in
sight, practically hurled the Bourbon
four-year-old across the line, just
ahead of the 50-to-l shot Revenue
and the hot favorite Wanfield. Ac-
tually Yeoval looked more than a
shade lucky to score. Either of the
minor placegettcrs might have won,
and won comfortably, with a spot
more luck in the running. However,
the horse whose performance in the
Cup really took the eye was the
Genetout colt Le Dauphin. The
previous week he had impressed with
a splendid run to finish third over
seven furlongs in the £3OOO S.T.C.
Winter Handicap, and on Saturday
he finished-on generously to just miss
a place at 12 furlongs. This fellow
is still eligible for mixed stakes events,
but it will not surprise to see him
land something in the way of a really
decent race in the coming season.
He is nicely treated in the major
spring handicaps, with 7.2 in both
Epsom and Metrop. and 7.5 in the
Cups.
Ward’s other winner at Rosehill,
Aerofoil, won the Flying at the
expense of the Valiant Chief four-
year-old Botany Bay. Botany Bay
was beaten by only a head, which
was pretty stiff luck in view of the
fact that due to unusual circumstances
he was carrying 9st., against the
7.9 which he had been allotted in
the original weights. When accept-
ances were declared on Thursday
drastic scratchings left Botany Bay
with his 7.9 topweight for the Plying.
An Australian rule of racing stipulates
that when necessary in handicap
events weights must be raised all
round so that the topweight carries a
minimum of 8.7; thus, in this case
it would normally have been neces-
sary to raise weights 121 b. However,
in the meanwhile, Botany Bay had,
by winning at Hawkesbury on
Wednesday, incurred a 71b, penalty
for Saturday’s race. Thus a nice point
was raised as to whether the penalty
should be added before or after his
weight was hefted to the minimum
8.7. The authorities adopted what
seems, whether technically correct or
not, a harsh course.
With due respect to winners of
the two principal events, very prob-
ably the best winner sighted at Rose-
hill was the three-year-old gelding
All Jeep, a son of The Jeep-Pharaoh’s
Daughter and carrying the colors of
V. J. Byrnes, who not so very long
back brought another more-or-less
unknown quantity from the bush to
clean up the very best of them in
the city—a mare named De La Salle.
San Domenico’s brother Video is a
considerably better-than-average colt,
but in the Australasian Mixed (6if.)
All Jeep gave Video 41b. in the
weights and an indisputable hiding.
# * * *
The success of Student (K.
Denham) in the Mia Mia Hurdle at
Moonee Valley on Saturday rounded
off a rather striking example of
history repeating itself, and compara-
tively-recent history at that. Just on
two years ago the very good cross-
country performer Latani, having at
the time his first run over hurdles in
nearly a year, contested the Leaming-
ton Hurdle at Caulfield and finished
second. Following an inquiry into
the performance Latani’s trainer and
his rider were each outed for two
years. No action was taken concern-
ing the horse, and the following
Saturday Latani made a good job of
winning the Mia Mia Hurdle at
Moonee Valley.
The week before last Saturday’s
Moonee Valley meeting the Beau Son
gelding Student, having his first run
over the hurdles in nearly a year,
contested the Leamington Hurdle at
Caulfield and finished second. Fol-
lowing an inquiry into the perform-
ance stewards last week outed both
“Any luck, mate ?"
Student’s trainer, G. McCormick, and
his Leamington Hurdle jockey, J.
Kennedy, for two years. On Saturday
Student completed the chapter of
strange coincidence by winning the
Mia Mia Hurdle. McCormick and
jockey Kennedy have lodged appeals
against their disqualifications.
In one respect Student’s win did
not quite duplicate that of Latani.
Latani started a warm favorite for
his Mia Mia Hurdle, but Student
went out only moderately fancied at
eights. O. R. Porter’s recent acquisi-
tion, Tiercel, started a 6-to-4 favorite
for Saturday’s race, but he gave his
supporters scarcely a glimmer of hope
at any stage; Student won by a head
from Councillor, with Two Ales third.
Saturday’s principal event, the A.
V. Hiskens Steeple, produced one of
the best cross-country races seen this
season, with the grey gelding Grey
Morn eventually winning in a thrilling
finish after giving a simply beautiful
exhibition of practically faultless
show-ring jumping all the way. Grey;*
Morn led pretty well throughout, and’
battled it out at the finish to win by
a neck from Lesgar, with a further
neck to the third horse, Faunus.
While the jumping events at the
Valley unearthed a strange instance
of history repeating itself, the flat
events produced an oddity unlikely to
be repeated in many a day, and one
which jockey T. Unkovich certainly
would most fervently hope might
never happen to him again. Twice
Unkovich was first past the post only
to lose on a protest—almost incredible
when one considers how compara-
tively infrequent are protests and what
a very small proportion of them are
upheld,
Unkovich first savored prematurely
the fruits of apparent victory when
his mount Solar Streak pipped El
Sovino by a half-head in the mile
Coo-ee Handicap for two-year-olds.
Protest on behalf of El Sovino (S.
Ralph) was upheld, and, since the El
Golea colt was a red-hot favorite at
2 to 1, the decision met with general
approval. Then, on the Golden
Sovereign filly Glamour Rose, Unko-
vich “won” the 6-furlongs Sunset
Handicap by a half-length from Con-
juror (K. Tresize). Since Glamour
Rose was a 12-to-l chance and
Conjuror not much better fancied
at eights, punters were able to
take a less biased view of
the ensuing protest, and there was
general astonishment when it was
upheld. Oddly, Conjuror, too, is a
son of El Golea. In the understand-
able chagrin of the moment Glamour
Rose’s owner was reported as declar-
ing that he intended to appeal against
the decision and to claim the winner’s
share of the prize, but it is difficult
to bring to mind any precedent which
would lend hope of success to such
a procedure,
* * ♦ ♦
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances); —
Three-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Fetch, 1; Golden Slipper, 2; Garden
Glory, 3. Three-year-old Maiden
(colts): Ahmed Khami, 1; Flying
Penny, 2; Fair Spin, 3, Ashbury
Mixed: Video, 1; Vimy Ridge, 2;
Edward, 3. Campsie Mixed: Insur-
ance, 1; Colonel’s Daughter, 2; Mr.
Ajax, 3. Frederick Clissold Handi-
cap : Serenity, 1; Aerofoil, 2; The
Duchess, 3. Canterbury Park Handi-
cap: Karangi, 1; Kymac, 2; Grey
Theo, 3. Welter: Caribbean, 1;
Admetus, 2; Peace Treaty, 3.
* ♦ * *
Geelong is ’way ahead of the field
in the V.F.L. competition, and showed
such form in walloping Fitzroy by
11.10 to 4.5 on Saturday as to ensure
them the “minor premiership.” Col-
lingwood, second on the list, beat
the anaemic Melbourne, 18.21-12.10,
and will meet Geelong next Saturday
in what should be the match of the
day. The Dons, having pulled them-
selves out of an early slump and got
into third position, had Hawthorn to
deal with, and managed them easily,
16.18 to 8.11. The fast Footscray
side, only two points out of “the
four,” staged a flying finish to down
Carlton, 9.11-8.14; St. Kilda. beat a
faded North Melbourne team by 13.20
to 10.10, and South Melbourne fell
upon Richmond Tigers and “ate ’em
alive” to such order that Tigers got
only four points in the first half;
“Sowth” won by 13.17 to 8,8, and a
lot of dark questions about “running
dead” were hurled at the Tigers.
♦ * * *
“Pass-it”: With Rugby Union rep-
resentative matches over, interest is
now centred in the Sydney competi-
tion. Striving for a place in the
semi-finals, Randwick on Saturday
scored a good win (28-11) over the
erstwhile leaders, Northern Suburbs,
who now drop back to third place
in the competition, one point behind
the co-leaders Easts and University.
The remaining four matches of the
round will see a clashing of all the
leading teams, and it would call for
something extraordinary in the crystal-
ball department to predict the final
outcome. Easts are favorites to come
out on top because of their con-
sistently sound displays. University
have not been so convincing in their
recent matches, and Norths seem to
have lost their drive; Manly are
showing a return to their early form.
For Randwick or St. George to make
the final four they would have to win
every remaining match, while Manly,
the fourth team, would have to lose
two. However, on Randwick’s form
last Saturday it would be a pity to
see them miss the semi-finals. In
other matches on Saturday Easts
shattered Eastwood, 28-8; University
tossed Parramatta, 17-6; Manly
thoroughly licked the wooden-
spooners, Western Suburbs, 32-6; St.
George beat Drummoyne, 19-9; and
Gordon had' the bye.
* * * *
Jack Read takes a glance at the
new heavyweight champ:
“Jersey Joe” Walcott’s defeat of
Ezzard Charles in seven rounds at
Pittsburgh, Pa. (U.S.A.), a couple of
weeks back was the biggest upset in
a world heavyweight championship
bout since James J. Braddock took
the title from Max Baer at Long
Island City in June, 1935. Few of
the experts gave Braddock the ghost
of a chance on that occasion, but he
outpointed Baer over 15 rounds.
In the course of 26 times success-
fully defending his title Joe Louis
twice met Walcott. The first time
Louis won a narrow points decision,
but the next time he made no mis-
take about, k.o.’ing the challenger,
and when Louis “retired” unbeaten
in 1948 Walcott was not really promi-
nent among those considered likely
to win the vacated title.
Walcott’s actual age is something
of a mystery, but he is certainly
nudging 40, and he has been actively
engaged in pugilistic pursuits since
September, 1936, when Billy Ketchall
outpointed him in his first 10-rounder.
One “Tiger Jack” Fox then k.o.’d
“Jersey Joe” in May, 1937, but
Walcott kept his nose to the grind-
stone (and as far as practicable from
opponents’ gloves), and a series of
victories earned him those two title
fights with Louis.
Ezzard Charles outpointed Walcott
over 15 rounds in Chicago on June
22, 1949, and then clinched his claim
to the world title by outpointing
Louis, who had ventured upon the
inevitable comeback, in New York on
September 27, 1950. Walcott clamored
for another crack at Charles, and
they met again, in Detroit, in March,
this year, when Charles outpointed
Walcott over 10 rounds. Yet again
Walcott pleaded his cause, and again,
since he was the only person in sight
with any pretension to a right to
challenge, he was given a match, the
outcome of which brother Charles is
now ruefully contemplating. Walcott
won the hard way, by a knockout.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Diesel and Steam
It’s stated (B. 30/5/’5l) that Queens-
land’s Transport Minister Duggan, after
four weeks in the U.S.A., has announced
his conviction that Queensland must
have diesel-powered trains. Even Duggan
should know that they’ve been running
them there for 20 years, but I gather
the idea is to substitute diesel locos for
coal-burners, and no politician whose
only claim to fame is the control of
possibly the worst-run and worst-
equipped railway in the civilised world
should be allowed to make such a
decision..
That should only be done by a panel
of experts of unquestioned integrity who
would be able to weigh all the facts in a
judicial manner and discount propaganda
entirely, for it would be a most important
decision with far-reaching consequences.
Strategically it would mean that the
whole of the State’s transport would be
placed at the mercy of foreign politicians,
foreign oil concerns and foreign tankers.
Economically, in addition to our rail-
way rolling-stock requirements which
we’re now forced to buy abroad, we’d
have in perpetuity a big increase in our
oil imports, already too high for comfort.
Can we, in the face of our declining
export surpluses, afford to do that while
our own resources remain undeveloped?
Can we afford to abandon and render
derelict the score of small mining com-
munities stretching from Mount Mulligan
near Cairns to Warwick in the south, all
dependent on the railway market for
their existence?
What compensation for such drastic
steps would the diesel offer? To listen
to laymen like Mr. Duggan you’d think
it was a panacea for all railway ills. It
isn’t. It possesses certain well-defined
technical advantages, not the least of
which is independence of water-supplies,
but set against them are the enormous first
cost (up to five times that of a steam
loco.), the need for a standard of elec-
trical and mechanical maintenance which
Queenslanders couldn’t give, and, under
local conditions of cheap domestic coal
and expensive imported oil, a very high
operating cost as well. Could the com-
pletely bankrupt Queensland railways
afford to raise their locomotive costs
while at the same time wrecking much of
the State’s all-too-trifling rural industry
in the process?
Queenslanders are always complaining
about the failure of other people to
extract and use their coal. It would do
them no harm to set an example them-
selves, and they could start by building
modem and efficient steam locos instead
of perpetuating 35-year-old designs as
they are doing today.— Transporticus
(Singapore)
Uniform Gauge
A new type of railway axle to enable
freight trucks to cross the break-of-
gauge at the French-Spanish frontier has
come into use, with the result that the
same trucks now run smoothly over both
systems. French railways are built to
standard gauge—actually about iin.
wider —while those of Spain are mainly
63in.
Before this satisfactory invention all
goods had to be transhipped at the
frontier. Perhaps the device could be
used in Australia ; it might prove less
costly than relaying existing railway-lines.
It’s a long time since we’ve heard any-
thing from Mr. Ward about a standard
gauge—he could use the French-Spanish
idea as propaganda when next facing
East Sydney electors. — Obelist (Tas.).
A Soldier’s Lot
“F.C.J.” (B. 4/ 7/ ’51) is apparently
glamorising the days of his early youth.
Barrack-rooms at Warley Barracks
(Eng.) usually accommodated 25 men, a
corporal sleeping in a single bed at one
end, the sergeant in a cubicle at the
other. At reveille the corp. would cry
“Show a leg,” and any daggard would
get extra duties. At 9.45 p.m. men stood
to their cots for roll-call and any man
a.w.l. was crimed. Lights out at 10 p.m.
The heavy linen sheets were more like
"It's your turn to go back and turn Tortoise over.”
canvas, no pillow-slips were provided,
and one can imagine the state of the
pillows, particularly if the owner used
hair-oil.
Men did not have a separate messr
room as is the practice today, but ate and
slept in the one room, which, as well as
the tables and forms, were scrubbed spot-
lessly clean every day. In winter the
rooms did not dry very well and were
often very damp. At the entrance to
these rooms was a large can for use at
night—the mess and smell can be
imagined.
In the canteen beer was a penny per
pint, and if a man bought four pints at
once he was given bread and cheese free.
It was customary for four men to club
together so that the so-called good
rations could be supplemented. At
Warley Barracks, the two billiard-tables
were in the sergeants’-mess only. The
pipeclay-room was too small to accom-
modate the 1000 men usually quartered
there, so most of the cleaning of equip-
ment was done in the barrack-room.
Army schools were certainly good.
They were necessary and could be
adopted with profit in Australia.
“F.C.J.” does not mention the strict
discipline in the English Army of his
day. A private soldier had to stand to
attention when speaking to a lance-
corporal, and could not mix socially with
an n.c.o. Brothers of different rank could
not walk out together.
Pay of Is. a day made even Id. fines
very severe, more so if the soldier were
assisting his parents. Punishments were
very tough—what serving soldier has not
heard of the notorious Glasshouse, that
infamous corrective establishment at
Aldershot (Eng.) where men were made
or broken.
The soldier of today is far better off
than his civilian mate; he has more
chance of advancement and his old age is
more secure. — Sgt. A. (N.S.W.).
Butter Famine
Heth’s “Magic Sequence” (B. 11/7/’5l)
expresses what a lot of people are think-
ing, but, as a practising dairyman, I am
not sure that they are right. Butter must
be expected to keep in step with other
rising prices, and the price to the pro-
ducer has doubled in the last five years—
a whacking Commonwealth subsidy has
held down the price to the consumer —
but in that time dairying itself has steadily
declined.
Relatively, dairymen today are more
prosperous than ever before. Many of
them were brought up in slab-and-bark
huts and learned to milk almost as soon
as they could walk ; they worked for a
pound a week and tucker, sleeping in the
barn on a pile of corn-husks or old bags ;
even 15 years ago they thought they were
on top of the world when they could
afford a secondhand utility.
Now they own farms worth £15,000 or
£20,000. They drive late-model cars;
their homes are fitted with lighting plants,
washing-machines, hot-water systems and
radios. Some have built grand new
homes; many more would do so but
for building restrictions. And they, who
worked once for little more than their
keep, now pay their employees a clear
£7 or £8 a week, with comfortable
quarters, days off, annual holidays and
other amenities.
Yet dairymen continue to turn to other
occupations, while employees are hardei
to find each year.
A really substantial rise in price, say
to ss. or even 6s. a pound, might cause a
temporary boom in dairying, but it would
almost certainly cause an unhealthy
increase in speculation in the industry
already evident in prices being paid for
farms A man would buy a farm with
the intention of making as much as
possible out of it for a few years and
then selling and turning to something
more attractive. That is happening in
odd cases already, and the results in soil-
erosion and the growth of noxious weeds
are alarmingly evident.
One of the main roots of the decline
in dairying is that the 40-hour week is
contagious. I don’t pretend to know the
answer to that one, but it will have to
be found and quickly, or in 10 years
time none of us will be able to get a
little bit of butter for hig bread. —
Magnoon (Q.).
Egg Boards
D. Spencer (B. 20/6/’5l) should attend
to the beam in his own eye. It was he
who condemned the private buyer for
chilling eggs bought at low prices and
selling at “a handsome profit to himself,”
and, in the next breath, commended egg
boards for doing the same thing to the
benefit of the consumer. I merely ques-
tioned the benefit at 4s. Id. a dozen.
Since writing on this subject I have
discovered that retailers are allowed a
margin of sd. a dozen on eggs. Before
the advent of the egg boards, there was
not a retailer in Australia who would
have dared charge such a rate. —F. W. H.
(S.A.).
Interest Rates
Apparently “Sher” (B. 27/6/’5l) is not
in sympathy with the widely-accepted
“monetary theory” for the control of
prices and national economy. If he were
he would understand that high interest
rates are necessary to reduce the demand
for loans. Undoubtedly the Government
should control capital-issues and direct
investment to approved projects. But on
the subject of low interest rates “Sher”
would be well-advised to study the
monetary policy adopted by Sir Hugh
Dalton as Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and the reasons for his dismissal.
The price of goods is governed by the
number of goods sold and the amount
of money spent. The amount of money
spent on goods can be calculated by
multiplying the amount of money (cash,
current deposits, etc.) on hand at any
one time by the number of times it circu-
lates from hand to hand. If prices are
to be reduced steps must be taken to
increase the number of goods sold and
decrease the amount of money spent on
them (the amount of money in circula-
tion). The latter is done by making it
harder for borrowers to borrow money
(higher interest rates); by inducing
people to cut down on expenditure and
save their money ; by preventing wage
increases ; by high taxation ; and by cut-
ting down on Government expenditure.
To increase the number of goods avail-
able for sale production must be
increased and (or) more foreign goods
must be allowed on to the Australian
market.
The only way we can increase produc-
tion is to work harder, and the only way
we can get foreign goods into Australia
at low prices is by lowering our tariff
barriers and (or) revaluing the £A. In
this last step we have the additional anti-
inflationary effect of decreasing the
amount of money available to Australians
by reducing the receipts from exports
(mainly primary products). That would
probably cause an outcry in some coun-
try districts, but economist Colin Clark
says:—
I believe the real substance of the opposi-
tion to revaluation of the pound is coming
not so much from country interests, but
from certain manufacturing interests, who
are scared of competition from other coun-
tries.
Perhaps this step may not be neces-
sary. With the “certain manufacturing
interests” already hard hit by a lowering
of the tariff barriers, more labor would
be released for other fields of industry,
and production would naturally increase.
No doubt Australia must expand in
the field of manufacturing, and tariff
walls will be necessary. But this is a
time of emergency, and the Australian
economy cannot afford to be burdened
by labor-absorbing industries which must
seek protection from outside competition.
—Llewellyn (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 132
Across.
I—Weight on a girl well versed in
syntax, parsing and suchlike. (10)
6—An area of ground that has often
been invested in the Levant. (4)
10 — Hollywood Johnson takes sick
with a flavor. (7)
11— Three-cornered .trial is the most
commonplace. (7)
12— Railed the wrong way and set
down once more. (6)
13— Counter is at the ends of the
profits. (7)
16— Agua crosses the Pyrenees. (3)
17— Oriental east behind the ship. (7)
19 —Pinch the devil. (4)
21— dispenses with it when capital,
Dorothy. (3)
22 It is to sit back. (3)
24 N.Z. bird. (3)
25 Gipsy captures the heart of
amazing Arians. (7)
26 Swallowed the impulse that drives
men to ruin in Greek tragedy. (3)
28-Can I? (7) ■
30—Measure the French to fiddle
about in a trifling way. (6)
33 — Open art can be capable of
assuming innumerable forms. (7)
34 Characteristic of Ginger. (3, 4)
35 Emerged from bed, not without
some bloom. (4) . ,
36 He waits for a snick current that
runs behind a plane. (10)
Down.
1— Idol swallows Jules when ruled. (8)
2 Historian offers a catalogue of all
the namesakes of the Christie Curl
and Karenin’s wife. (8)
3 Girl, do I put a rough edge on
an American coin? (9)
4 Raise the behind. (4)
5 Insect to cause painful feelings
and cause enmity. (10)
7 Alderman takes his comfort, ana
can’t be run out if he stays in it.
8— Tucker tucks in. (4)
9 Pacific island group. (4)
14— Thanks, the rent is rising for a
vSouth American creature. (5)
15— Caper has nothing up witn
Capone concerning a form ot
geological fold. (10)
18—A crumb' and a large artery. (-1
20—Study the rope at a treaty. (9)
22 Chemical tax on disreputable
women? (8)
23 — Acted like a partisan drink some-
times battered by a tympanist.
(4-4)
27 —It upsets me, master, to produce
a raised pattern. (6)
29 —Kiss by a monkey is “tops.’ (4)
31— Box strikes up a mast. (4)
32 — Leave out a globule piece of
published music by a medico. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 131.


»m;h
•-
mm
Ti'-Mt
iatei?
m
!#PI
M‘K :
WM
m
PiiiSl
r a
Mmk
0 rt
y l it I
t m
li
iii
lil-4
"-■mb*
'' tt "Hj
lIP-
m
‘if
? 5
m
li
m
3M;
: :
minim
liM
flit
Ejiip
iii.
:
-and is Australia's mos
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS
HASTINGS PEERING BUILDING LIMITED
/. v *
The Directors have recommended that an interim dividend at
the rate of 7% per annum for the half-year ended 28th
February. 1951. be paid forthwith to the holders of both
Ordinary and Preference shares in Hastings Peering Building
Limited.
With the payment of this interim
dividend, of capital invest-
ment has been returned to original
Shareholders of Preference shares in
actual dividends paid since the Com-
pany was incorporated in 1937.
to
4
m
-7
2 /o
RECORD OF
DIVIDENDS PAID
Dividends have been paid with clockwork
regularity right from the inception of the
Company in 1937.
Including the 3|% half-yearly interim divi-
dend (at the rate of 7% per annum) to be
paid during July to the shareholders of
Hastings Deering Building Limited, dividends
paid since the inception of the Company will
have totalled £142,004/17/8.
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE ORGANISATION IN SYDNEY FOR
HASTINGS PEERING SALES AND
SERVICE CENTRES
VALUATION: LAND AND
BUILDINGS £500.000
The value of the Land and Buildings
owned by Hastings Deering Build-
ing Limited exceeds £500,000 on an
extremely conservative basis of
valuation.
LIDCOMBE:
Great Western Highway.
BA^KSTOWN:
Hume Highway, Yagoona.
SYDNEY: Hastings Deering Building,
William Street. Crown Street, Riley
Street, Kennedy Street, Suttor Street,
Broughton Street.
BSE is
000
BBS
CAMPERDOWN:
79 Bridge Road and Chester Street.
OWNERS
NIU93Q S3NUSV
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
WILLIAM STREET. SYDNEY
Telephone: M 0412 (33 lines)
