

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, 1 ” Vcl. 72—No. 3899
Wednesday, January 3, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
In Gloucester Cathedral
Is England’s Largest Window
GLOUCESTER, county Mown and
cathedral city of greal antiquity,
stands on the east bank of the Severn.
From earliest times it has .bten a place
of importance, originating as a settle-
ment of Iron Age men (300 b.c.-a.d. 43)
named Caer Glow. The Roma is fortified
it under the name of Glevun, and to-
wards the end of the sixth cen ury it was
one of the important cities of vlercia.
Christianity was introduced nto Glou-
cester before the sevepth century, when
monasteries and other sanctm ries were
established by the Saxons. In the tenth
century the city was frequently attacked
by the raiding Danes, who sailed up the
Severn to pillage and slaua|htci t tie
inhabitants. I
In 1089 the first stone of tile Abbey
Church of St. Peter (now the Cathedral)
was laid by Abbot Serlo, and here was
crowned, in 1216, Henry 111, at- the age
of ten years. His crown was merely a
chaplet of gold, as his father, Ki|g John,
had lost the original crown of thefcountry
when crossing the Wash.
Most of the pre-Tudor kings held their
courts at Gloucester, and here Richard
111 issued the order for the murder of
his two nephews in the Tower of Lon-
don. Edward 11, who was mui dcred at
Berkeley Castle in 1327, was billed at
Gloucester, and pilgrims flocked |.o his
shrine from all over the country. This
provided a source of revenue fvhich
enabled the Great Cloister, the Choir and
the magnificent East Window to be built.
The central tower, with its delicate
tracery, is 225 feet high and was built in
1450.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
n CFPPELT & SONS LTD.
roPMANTI F AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
.ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BKUK '


lEj-'iiin
I
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
•CUT HERE AND MAI
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address .
(5.8.351) Vgc
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
Th* Beltafie Book Bureau. P.O. Box 906. Wellinfrteu.
X jbecialwM in rare and current K.Z. and Ausr
tiilian books, also in bookish Items of general in-
Mtl; Our Bulletins art Supplants give advance
news. and hook sale prices. (Annuli sun.
Kork fists on MauSfieldiaWa, Caxton Press, “arly and
recent A'sian poets (Douglas Stewart, WIT- I*"®"
and others). Specialised fields tea bo*sk !«J#W
The Red Page
SPENCER BUTTON .
Nothing can be more pleasant than
going back to school, as long as you don’t
really have to do it: going back, that is
to say, in such a novel as Brian James's
The Advancement of Spencer Button
(Angus and Robertson).
It brings back times of joy, such as
when one persuaded the classics master
not to talk about Caesar’s Gallic War
but about the Great War in France, in
which he had taken part and which
seemed infinitely more interesting than the
information that Ccesar in Bntdnniam
transire statuit; and it brings back with
even more joy, because one has escaped
from mathematics for ever, the incredibly
dismal hours when one groaned over the
insoluble problem of what happened when
any rational integral function of x was
divided by x minus a until the remainder
no longer contained x —what on earth was
all that roaring nonsense about, anyhow?
Brian James’s schools ring true, terribly
and harrowingly true, and his lesson-
periods are quite the most delightful part
of his huge novel. There are the speeches
and flag-waggings on Empire Day, 1913 ;
there is the crime of making a remainder
bigger than the divisor; there is the joy
of bouncing a stone on the school roof,
the alarming obligation * to accept a
“dare,” the terror and delight of having
to fight under the pepper-trees when one
is not quite certain one can win . . . There
are the appalling visitations of the in-
spectors ; there is the soothing, artistic
pleasure of carving holes and initials in
the desks ; there is the fearful exultation
of passing notes to the girls and the awe-
inspiring spectacle of those citizens who
weie tremendously whacked for passing
the kind of note that was known as a
“beaut,” a “stinker” or a “trimmer” and
of those still rarer citizens whose
depravity, like that of Brian James’s June
Me Crawley, passed the bounds of im-
agination. There is the study of Shaks-
peare, word by word, line by line, meta-
phor by metaphor, character by character,
problem by problem, until the remainder
no longer contains Shakspeare, and “they
longed for the time when they could tell
Shakspeare, and all who peddled him, to
go to hell and stay there.” There is the
grand revenge, which almost compensates
for all the years of imprisonment in a
classroom, when a weak master can be
mocked and guyed and fooled as is Brian
James’s Mr. Whitelaw and when, in an
innocent chorus of “Good morning, Mr,
Whitelaw,” the roar of the triumphant
mob can be unloosed.
Brian James’s most amusing portrait
from the schoolroom —if it isn’t Mr.
Whitelaw, or the equally feeble and
delightful Mr. Finger, or the estimable
Miss Gore, who can spend a whole lesson-
period teaching an unfortunate bumpkin
that the correct and courteous answer to
a question is “My name is Jonas Tickle,
Miss Gore” —is his titanic whacking head-
master, Mr. Goodman, who once gave a
nervous pupil-teacher “six of the best”
by mistake and also whacked a message-
boy from one of the big stores. Mr.
Goodman, prowling the Scripture and
singing lessons, is a figure who will long
be remembered ; and everybody who has
ever been to school has known someone
very much like him:
The next boy went on, in a high-pitched
tone, “And the Lord said unto Moses” —-
“Stop, Wilson! What part of speech is
‘and’?”
Wilson hadn’t calculated that the writers
of the Word had really been preoccupied
/ with grammar. But he answered quickly,
/ “Adverb, sir!”
1 “Adverb, huh! I’ll teach you, Wilson,
to tell me that ‘and’ is an adverb! Office,
Wilson! Thomas, what case is ‘Moses ?
“Masculine, sir!”
“Office, Thomas! Huh! You, Forsyth?’
“Objective case, sir!”
“Why?”
“Governed by the verb ‘unto,’ sir!”
“Office, Forsyth!”
These three were well-known weak links
in the class, and Mr. Goodman was intent
on strengthening them by the tempering
process of “six of the best.” Before he
left, Mr. Goodman admonished the class-
“You can’t understand the with-
out understanding every word —huh!”
Then he left to resume his march.
In the long room Mr. Brown was taking
the three classes for combined singing.
There was at the moment the lilting line —
“Merrily, merrily, shall I live now’’ . . .
Mr. Goodman cocked an ear, looking
something like a hen that watches an eagle
soaring a mere speck in the blue sky. He
didn’t interrupt the merriness of living
now, but pointed rapidly to four boys in
different parts of the room. They under-
stood, and trooped to the office. Then,
for more accurate detection of false notes,
he went up the aisles between the long
desks and gathered in another half-dozen
villains —some of whom were trying too
hard and singing beyond their powers. The
rest went on living merrily, merrily . . .
But, delightful though it is thus to go
back to school with Brian James, The
Advancement of Spencer Button is not
intended to be, like Saturdee, a comedy
of schoolboys. Nor—though all the way
through it there are richly humorous
characters outside the schools, such as
Spencer’s cheery and staccato Auntie
May, her husband Fred who has a pro-
to and passion for beer and who believes
that the Pope lives in the Cardinal’s
Palace at Manly, the lodger who kills the
neighbor’s rooster or Flo who kills cock-
roaches —is the novel intended as a whole
to have the mellow and tolerant humor
that is the distinguishing quality of Brian
James’s short-stories in Cookabundy
Bridge. It is essentially a sociological
satire, a big and deeply sincere book,
containing a full experience of life,
so crowded with characters, so wide in
scope, so true and moving in its mixture
of tragedy and comedy that it seems more
like a world than a novel.
It is a world that lies in three con-
centric circles. The first and smallest
circle, the core of the book, is the story
of Spencer Button’s relations with his
wife Susie, a hard and bitter story of a
pale love changing into hatred. En-
closing that circle, again edged with
bitterness, is the story of Spencer’s career
as a schoolmaster in Sydney and a variety
of country towns in New South Wales,
which makes the specific documentary
interest of the novel; the loves, hates and
bickerings of the teachers under a bureau-
cratic system where there are many con-
tenders for a few plums, where ambition
is thwarted and humanity frequently cor-
roded. And beyond that again, because
one bureaucracy is much like another,
and because New South Wales schools
are much like schools anywhere, and be-
cause the people of the schools, as well
as living their own private lives, are con-
tinually in contact with the larger world
outside, the novel becomes a picture and
a criticism of the whole range of Aus-
tralian life from the ’nineties to the
present day.
One of the most admirable things about
it, corresponding to the way it moves
from the ’nineties, through the First World
War and the depression to World War 11,
is the large and generous ease with which
it moves about New South Wales, from
the country to Sydney, back to an inland
town of dust and heat, to Sydney again,
away to a pleasant town on the coast
where there are foam and moonlight and
a river and where Spencer has a love-
affair with a lady schoolteacher, and back
to Sydney again for SpenceLs head-
mastership and death. And within the
confines of Sydney the novel again ranges?
freely from Redfern to the North Shore,
from the Western Suburbs to Manly, so
that here we have neither a regional novel
about a pocket in the country nor the
other familiar kind of regional novel
about a pocket in the Sydney slums but
something in the vein of Kylie Tennant’s
Ride On, Stranger, Eleanor Dark’s Water-
way, the contemporary parts of M.
Barnard Eldershaw’s Tomorrow and To-
morrow and the early chapters of Christina
Stead’s For Love Alone, and something
more expansive, vaster than any of these
novels —a broad picture of modern Aus-
tralian life in which town and country
are caught up in one comprehensive
pattern. Once again, except in the coastal
town, this book is hard and harsh and
bitter as compared with Cookabundy
Bridge, hard in landscape as in much of
the characterisation—the whole thing
might be described as the work of a
mature mind contemplating an immature
civilisation —but how true, how vivid the
descriptions are! The approach to the
city;
In the grey murk of morning there was
the first sight of Sydney, sprawling over an
uninviting countryside, wooden houses,
brick houses, silent pubs at corners, and
milk-carts here and there. There were
suburban stations, but the Selkirk Mail was
suddenly remembering that it was in a
hell of a hurry, and tore past them so fast
that Spencer could not read the names.
There were jolting over points and tearing
paa trains sneaking along in the opposite
direction There were cuttings with houses
on top of them, and bridges over the line,
and roads be rowing under it. The houses
wer- packed closer and closet together,
v bo. r ;, .?le houses, dirty, grimy, unpamted,
two-storied crazy and dilapidated, with
yards as big as -ms. dmrden paling-
fen and decrepit do:’ .' bn . people
huirying alreadv along the streets (hat ran
up to the ?; ne • more mill.dogs
cruising and slinking , ."the Mail ci.iv/led
through Redfern, nosed its way through the
Cleveland-street tunnel, hesitated about
which line to take, made up its mind, and
slid into Central station.
And the dusty town of the West:
Barden, in common with most of the
west, had its dust-storms. Local dust and
grit and sand, unanchored and given to
travel, were always there for every breeze
that blew. But the dust-storm was different.
It came mighty distances and approached
the town from the westward as a mighty
visitation. The dust came in a solid wall,
columned and pillared, red and yellow. It
might have been the end of the world, the
coming of general doopi and judgment; a
sight fascinating and terrible, with a wild
and awful beauty in its resistless march.
Not les.s convincing than the grim
realism of these landscapes is the realism,
sometimes equally harsh, sometimes
warmed with laughter, of the characterisa-
tion.
In the portrayal of Spencer himself
Brian James seems half to have intended
to show him as a sneaking careerist, and
half as an ordinary decent fellow doing
his best in the difficult profession of
schoolteaching and the still more difficult
profession of marriage ; and, sometimes
the one, sometimes the other, and mostly
a silence and an absence, Spencer never
really comes to life. But he serves, ai! I
the same, to illustrate how a negative|
decorum can find its way to the top underl
a bureaucracy; and he serves very we b
indeed as a kind of Everyman: if you
do not quite believe in Spencer Button
you certainly do believe in all the people
he encounters and you are moved by his
struggles, his petty vexations, his quarrels
with his relatives, his triumphs and
humiliations in his career, his dramas of
iove and hate because—with variations —
they are the common lot of mankind.
It is, on the whole, a rather melanc r oly
novel. Its purpose is truth more dan
entertainment, satire more than comedy.
And it can hardly avoid melancholy when
it follows from birth to death the career
of a man who has little joy in his pro-
fession, little interest outside it, little
happiness in his marriage and only one
brief flash of happiness outside it and
whose first love, Winnie Ogg, goes
through the book as a symbol of joy,
innocence and youth all lost and degraded
years and years ago.
But in the figure of Winnie, who be-
comes a prostitute in Sydney and is
drowned drunk in the Harbor, Brian
James has achieved something more than
melancholy: the deep, profoundly
humane note of Balzacian tragedy ; and
so it is, too, with the story of Spencer’s
sister Thelma, who left her husband when
he killed her prize turkeys, and the story
of old Foil, the dignified, pathetic school-
master who builds all his hopes on a son
who betrays him, and the more lyrical
episode, ending in sardonic disillusion, of
Spencer’s love-affair with Miss McCree.
And always, balancing these figures of
tragedy and offsetting the note of melan-
choly, are the richly humorous figures of
Flo and Auntie May and Fred and all
the rest, and the sparkling comedies of
the schoolrooms.
With a livelier figure than Spencer at
the centre this novel might have been
received as an Australian Babbitt; with
old Foil or Winnie at the centre it might
have kept company with Old Gorioi.
It remains, though lacking in .this
central interest and tension, k novel
full of the highest qualities, and
there are very few Australian novels that
have painted so mature, so comprehen-
sive, so diverse and so completely
authentic a picture of Australian life.
Philosophy for All .
Bertrand Russell is no doubt guilty cl
intentional irony in calling his latest col-
lection Unpopular Essays (Allen and
Unwin); he is one of the few philosophers
and mathematicians who can simplify bis
subject for the lay reader and at the
same time keep it clean—i.e., he can
translate the technical gabble of philo-
sophers into plain, unornamented prose
which has something of the stylistic
simplicity of Swift, as with Hegel’s
“Absolute Idea”:
The idea, as unity of the subjective and
objective Idea, is the notion of the Idea —
a notion whose object is the Idea as such,
and for which the objective is Idea —an
Object which embraces all characteristics in
its unity.
This, >ays Lord Russell, means “The
Absolute Idea is pure thought thinking
about pure thought.” That such drastic
clarification may often reduce philo-
sophical propositions to absurdity causes
him no dismay. “Philosophy,” he says,
“has Seen defined as unusual^
obstinate attempt to tffi dearly’;
should define it ratnc- as unusualp
ingenious attempt to think Graciously,’
and this by way of it • ction to
consideration of the ciiificuiii into whic i
philosophers have ! alien by being human
Descartes could not end me geometry
without religion, Leibniz hr d to belies -
that all w is for the bo&i, Berkeley, having
constructed the simplest and most im-
pregnable of philosophical castles, walked
out of it into theology, Kant “wanted
to be sure of an invariable routine, and
he wanted to believe the moral maxims
that he had learned in infancy,” Hegel’s
“Absolute Idea is exemplified by the
Prussian State, which had given Hegel a
professorship at Berlin,” Marx shared
with Hegel “the feeling of being on the
side of irresistible cosmic forces,” Bosan-
quet found it “hard to believe, for ex-
ample, in the likelihood of a catastrophe
which would overwhelm a progressive
civilisation like that of modern Europe
and its colonies.” But Hume was
‘peculiar in having no metaphysical
ulterior motives.... and he perhap s
derived as much pleasure from annoying
the perpetrators of fallacies as he could
have derived from inventing fallacies of
his own”: a remark Russell would no
doubt like ftp'- have inscribed on Ms own
headstone ; indeed, it is included in his
“Obituary” at the end of the book, differ-
ently worded:
Professor Whitehead, a man who, as
j his subsequent writings showed, was |
possessed of that insight and spiritual
depth so notably absent in Russell; for
Russell’s argumentation, ingenious and
clever ■as it is, ignores those higher j
, considerations that transcend mere logic. |
In these present essays we learn that
Plato was a Nazi and is still a Com-
munist; that a victory for America in a
war with Russia is to be preferred be-
cause America has “freedom of thought,
freedom of inquiry, freedom of discus-
sion and humane feeling” ; the reason for
“The Superior Virtue of the Oppressed” ;
what ideas have helped and harmed man-
kind ; and what are “The Functions of a
Teacher.”
The longest essay in the book is “An
Outline of Intellectual Rubbish,” but
about the pleasantest is on “Eminent Men
I Have Known.” As a child. Lord Russell
met Queen Victoria and Robert Brown-
ing, saying, of Browning, “I wish that
man would stop talking.” He often saw
Tennyson “acting the poet” ; he found
Rupert Brooke “beautiful and vital, but
the impression was marred by a touch of
Byroriic insincerity and a certain flam-
boyance.” The poet who most impressed
him was Ernst Toller. From the time
of his grandfather, Lord |ohn Russell,
he has known seven Prime Ministers, but
the public men who most impressed him
werel Gladstone and Lenin:
fienin supposed himself to be an atheist,
but in this he was mistaken. He thought
that the world was governed by the
dialectic, whose instrument he was; just ?
as much as Gladstone, he conceived of
himself as the human agent of a super- -
human power. His ruthlessness and
unscrupulousness was only as to means,
ndt as to ends; he would not have been
willing to purchase personal power at the
expense of apostasy. Both men derived
their personal force from this unshake-
able conviction of their own rectitude.
|ut “Lenin was cruel, which Glad-
stone was not”;
; When I put a question to him about
socialism in agriculture, he explained with
glee how he had incited the poorer peasants
against the richer ones, “and they soon
hanged them from the nearest tree —ha!
ha! ha!” His guffaw at the though! of
those massacred made my blood run cold.
Himself, Lord Russell sings the praises
of Liberalism, “the empiricist’s theory of
knowledge half-way between dogma
and scepticism”—-“The essence of the
Liberal outlook lies not in what opinions
are held, but in how they are held: in-
stead of being held dogmatically they
are held tentatively, and with the con-
sciousness that new evidence may at any
moment lead to their abandonment ”
To read a stylist like Russell is to soar
upon the wings of the eagle and share
some of his easy familiarity with ideas.
One finds that one has been a philosopher
all one’s life, and not known it. One
finds another philosophical work just out
of the press, Knowledge, Reality and Life,
by C. A. Richardson (Harrap), and sets
out to “review it with Russell’s,” One
opens the book:
Yet, as I have said, I do not think that
psychological hedonism, stated simply in
terms of pleasure, can be sustained; but
what of the wider thesis that all the activity
of human beings and other organisms is
such as to tend to result in eutonic situa-
tions, even though, owing to opposing
factdrs, this result is not always achieved?
Or:
Knowing or knowing “about” is thus
essentially a relationship within an mdi- -
vidual experience—ultimately between the
symbolic and the non-symbqhc, though
generally with many intermediary [? latlo ik
ships of the symbolic to the symbolic and
no? that of some entity (the “knower ) to
an independent “external’ reality.
The certainty with which Lord Russell
(Coni' on *nside back cover.)


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'*'
nthony Horderns’
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALE
dfg
FROM TOWN HALL STATION
>... ......... .......
m
-n
l Mi < - '
—»
i
Saw
f.
SS>
:
sws*
H
SP:' s
r c
.«'r^TV
,y>w-v'
««
I •>
B 5
/J?
NJ
nX. .. r T
ii
SS-' I
■ A-W-:-' *J*
X
> / j. . \ . . ./ v s ffl
:'£;&&:;i;:i:#; : i : & : & > WK : iv£i : :^
Furniture to Grace Your Home
Good furniture is the beginning from which tasteful, harmonious interiors are built!
Regard its selection and weeding out as the touchstone to your standards . . .
aim for a consistent style in all your rooms.
Below: A beautifully finished eight-piece Suite in Natural Maple colour. Chairs are
covered in a variety of attractive coverings. Priced at
m
_L
J-
m
g
m
*
SWSPS
:
h
A: China Cabinet
for that precious crystal,
richly enhanced by a mirror
back. Priced at £4O/4/-.
B: Beautifully styled
Occasional Table. Graceful
legs. £l4/14/3.
Eight-piece “Kennington”
Dining Suite of selected timbers,
finished in a rich, lustrous Cedar
colour. The chairs, with
drop-in seats, are upholstered in
Period tapestry. Price, £93/8/6.
r :
'M
C: Cedar colour China Cabinet
Two-plate glass shelves.
Height 45in., width 37in.
Priced at £l7/12/3.
3: Nest of Tables in an attractive
iValnut colour. Features
licely turned legs and shaped
op. Priced at £B/8/9.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA.


ALL THAT THE CROW SAW
by CECIL MANN
PERCHED high on the thin
oak spire above the island,
like the Old Boy himself
skewered on a steeple, the
crow sent a question shaking
itself through the morning light.
“Caw?” demanded the crow.
“Caw?” he repeated. “Caw?”
he insisted once more.
There was no answer. Nothing
of all he could see knew ; and
from that lookout he could see
the entire morning.
The tallest oak itself, which he
perched on, didn’t know. Nor
the rest of the oaks lining the
channel-side of the island. It
was not the sort of thing they
worried about, anyway. They
towered straight in their tight
formation above the lately-cut
deep channel, like a parade of
tall soldiers proud of their past.
As they had every right to be.
They had withstood the flood.
Almost alone they had stood up
to it, and hadn’t given back an
inch. While the bank just across
on the other side of the channel
had been undermined and
brought low and washed clean
away ; now no more a green
slope, but a staring black cliff,
with half-a-dozen fat-faced pigs
looking over it at their reflections
in the water, after the manner of
Narcissus.
They—the oak battalion —had
stood ; and the island’s founda-
tions with them. While not the
opposite bank only, but so much
else that had been the Valley had
gone under and been changed.
The crow tried again: “Caw?”
Not so confidently. Merely the
question to the morning at large.
Still no answer; he made
peace with the silence. Evidently
what he wanted to know didn’t
have an answer. As a matter of
fact, it is still unanswered ; or
rather it will be argued about as
long as the bunyip himself.
The crow, nonetheless, kept on
puzzling his black head over it ;
darting and bobbing his beak
about; without moving his perch,
seeing the whole scene spread
out there in the lighted stillness.
Up the River to the white
wooden bridge and the skewed
wharves draped still with the
tawdry of the flood. Down the
River to the cheese-factory at the
bend, whence, in the flood, the
armada of Gorgonzola (that
luckless captain) had gone bobb-
ing unsafe to sea. Across to the
flats on one side or the other,
fence-deep under the sun-
cracked levels of silt.
The River, for its part, now
itself again. But half one entire
street gone altogether from the
Town. Leering dwellings still
joined in the unholy consumma-
tion the flood had contrived for
them. The depraved old rake of
a weatherboard hall below the
Town butter-factory leaning
tipsily there against nothing.
Telegraph-posts along the road
leaning right and left, as struck
the flood ; held up from utter
downfall by the grass-draped
wires.
ALL of this which the crow
saw a sardonic caricature of
a placid past. And, of course,
they blamed the River. They
said, “The bloody River comes
up and there goes all me bloody
pigs,” and other things in the
same vein that even a crow on an
oak spire might almost blush to
repeat. Always the River. The
River this, and the River that,
and “To hell with the River —
I’ve had it!” and all sorts of
other scandalous and shocking
libels.
As if the River had had any-
thing to do with it! There it was
itself now, as the crow up on the
oak spire saw it: a silvery quiet;
a friendly, agreeable, loitering
wayfarer, without a thought of
evil for anyone ; indeed as intent
on good works as Mr. Weston
himself ; and moreover carrying
whole sackfuls of fish, enough to
have ted the multitude twice
over without need of miracle, ex-
cept for the bread.
On a morning like this the
crow could —as he already had
done more than once —fly up
and down over it seeing his own
flight all the way, like an airman
watching the ghost of his
shadow. He could swoop down
and scare the wits out of the
waterhens and satin-black
squeaking redbills along the
reedy banks, or make the big eel
slide under from sunning his
black back in the quicksilver sur-
face. Or draw wagtail up in a
spiral of chittering fury ; make
the red and black and white hens
the flood couldn’t reach scatter
clacking for cover. All sorts of
good clean fun for crow on a
morning like this, with the River
itself again.
No questions to ask about any
of this. All of it usual and
familiar. For that matter, even
all that the flood had done ; the
whole spidery-scrawled neuro-
caricature it had left —all of this
by now familiar enough, too. In-
cluding the bedlam-caricature it
had made of the near-Town
farm where the fishing fellow
lived, or where he used to live.
This was the doubt crow sent
his question inquiring into. He
tried it again: “Caw?” Not
seriously. Just force of habit.
No answer, of course. Question
just bumping headfirst into the
wooden bridge and staying there
stunned.
TT was some time before the
1 flood and all that—though not
such a very long time before —
that the fishing fellow from fhe
farm had become just another of
the very interesting things the
crow saw. Even so, the fishing
fellow remained different. With
the rest a crow knew where he
was all the time ; but what are
you to make of a man who puts
up an umbrella when it isn’t
raining, and when you drift
down to find out the answer to
that one, it turns out to have a
double-barrel gun planted in it
and darned near pots you? Who
ever heard of anyone trying a
trick like that? Even Launce's
dog wouldn’t have done it.
Anyway, it established rela-
tions between crow and the fish-
ing fellow ; crow giving him a
very long range thereafter. Still
—and for other than precaution-
ary reasons—crow found him
worth watching.
A tall, long-striding young
fellow, addicted to leggings,
riding-breeches, wide-brimmed
and larey felt hat, and shirts
camouflaged with palm-trees and
other singular vegetation, he
knocked that near-town farm
into real shape in less than no
time. While a house was going
up on it near the bank, where
there’d be a clear view of the
River to right up under and be-
yond the bridge and downstream
to the island, the new-come fel-
low had ploughed-out and
harrowed-up the massed matting
of paspalum-grass, had drilled
and planted the whole lot of it
himself, and in due course had
growing about as even and pretty
a crop of maize in tassel as any-
one could wish to set eyes on.
Also, he’d straightened up the
fences, which maybe hadn’t re-
covered from a flood that had
hit them sometime in the remote
past, or else maybe had just got
tired of standing up and had
taken to leaning instead; not
altogether a novelty of behavior
thereabouts. As well as all this,
while the two carpenters were
putting up the new and very
womany sort of house (with no
woman in it yet) he, by himself,
had put up the garage near it
and made the two concrete
wheel-tracks out to the road.
This sort of daylight-to-dark
energy—especially in anyone
addicted to vegetable shirts —
was itself quite uncommon
enough among the things the
crow saw. But (apart from the
unpleasant matter of the con-
founded umbrella-gun) what
more than anything else made
the new-come fellow different
and worth a crow’s while watch-
ing was that he’d got himself a
red-cedar pulling-boat, which he
kept tethered with a rope up the
bank to the garage, and in which
he actually came out, pretty well
every day, either early in the
morning or late in the afternoon,
to drop pick in the channel by
the island and do a spot of fish-
ing.
Nobody else, as far as the
crow saw, ever did anything like
that. The river might have been
Rubicon itself; when they
crossed it they did so, like Caesar,
to get to the other side. As far
as any other use of it went —
well, maybe they were just used
to its being there; or maybe
they didn’t like fish ; or it might
have been that it was fishing they
didn’t like. Or perhaps they
just couldn’t be bothered.
At all events, the new-come
long fellow had the River and
all the fish that were in it to
himself. As the crow would see
him, he’d come in a couple of
leaps and strides down the slope
of the bank, bringing the looped
rope dragging behind him. He’d
step in and the boat would float
out of its own accord while he’d
be fastening the end of the rope
to the foot-long block of grey
granite he used for an anchor.
The favored spot, just midway
out in the channel a safe
distance above the oak where the
crow sat. And —much more to
the point for man and bird—
he caught fish.
He’d come ashore on the
island and clean them. Nice
pickings of jewie heads with big
eyes in them ; titbits of gristly
gut; even a small fish or two.
Not to the taste, maybe, of every
crow; but when you’ve been
brought up within sound of the
convent bell . . .
Waiting, of course, till new-
come had got back into the boat
and gone home ; watching him
all the way; not being ever
likely to forget such a remark-
able weapon as an umbrella-
gun. Back at the time that that
astounding instrument had gone
off, crow had asked all hands
and his Maker a very direct
question indeed.
“Caw?” he had asked. “Caw?
Caw? Caw?”
It had really been more than
a question. It was an accusa-
tion, The accused made no
response*. Perhaps somewhere
there was a sparrow falling.
THAT umbrella-gun had been
a puzzler enough at the
time. But it wasn’t a patch on
the present puzzler.
Umbrella-gun and all these
activities of the making of the
farm and the daily fishing be-
longed to the age Before Flood.
They were how things stood at
the time flood came along. The
one day, there was the River,
sauntering along on its road of
quicksilver. The next, and it was
invaded by the forces of flood
swarming down over it and over
the land from rains and snow
back in the mountains.
There was no River. It lay
mudded all five fathoms down.
There was no land. The whole
Valley a filthy swirling waste.
Prospero had dropped asleep, as
no doubt he couldn’t help doing
watching Miranda playing
chess. Chess! With Caliban
loose, smashing the gorges and
pouring it down.
Houses and all going along
with it; though not the one
built for the new-come fellow.
By a freak it still stood there,
hanging half-out over the bank.
All of his that went was the
maize and what it grew on. Not
enough of the black soil left to
make a monument of a crow. A
deep-scored, red-brown furrow-
ing of gravelled clay. Even now,
as the crow saw, not a blade of
grass on the whole of it. Not
a stalk of any kind ; nor any-
thing left there to grow one.
Nothing but a new house. At
least, till they brought back the
boat. Till then the new house
was lord of all it surveyed—
fifty-four acres torn bare and
stony out of the first page of
Genesis.
They brought the boat back
from somewhere down the river.
Garage having gone, it was tied
to a corner of the overhanging
veranda.
All this sort of thing might
take some of the heart out of a
farmer; but it takes a bit to
stop one addicted to vegetation
shirts—and fishing. Certainly on
a morning like this.
The River its real self again.
Caliban back in a riven iron-
bark ; and may he stay there —
upside-down. Except for the
scored-out farm, everywhere
else miraculously green with the
new spring of growth. Even the
sprawling caricature given new
form by the dancing light. The
River and the whole Valley clean
and warm in the morning sun.
The fishing fellow from what
had been the farm came
scrambling down the washed-
out bank below the overhanging
house. The boat, feeling his
step, shot out into midstream,
while he set about fastening the
rope to the block of granite.
Watching from the oak spire,
this is what else the crow saw.
The quicksilver ripples making
for the banks from the oars dip-
ping slow and shallow. On to
the usual fishing spot. Oais
pulled in. Boat rocking lightly
as he steps to the bow, lifts the
granite block, drops it in.
A huge splash; a violently
rocking red-cedar boat; a great
circle of ripple-ways sweeping
away in its widening arc.
SO much the crow saw. It was
too quick even for him. He
perked his head and looked
down in utter bewilderment.
Then he raised his question to
heaven.
“Caw?” he demanded.
“Caw?” he asked again.
“Ca-a-a-a-w?”
No answer. Nothing. Noth-
ing but the empty boat anchored
out in the channel.
Crow was ready to try again
when the voice spoke. Remark-
ably like the umbrella-gun, right
in his ear.
“Well,” said the voice, “you
black old fiend, are you going to
sit there and caw all day? Get
to hell out of it!”
“Caw!” cried the crow, flying
up-River for the lick of his life.
“Caw! Caw! Caw! Caw!
Caw!”
So that was all that the crow
saw. Not that anything else he
might have seen mattered such a
lot. When they, too, got round
to wondering why the dickens an
empty boat should be anchored
out there in midstream, what
they dragged up at the end of
rope had, just above the block
of granite, a tight half-hitch fast
round the ankles.
As the coroner, a man of con-
siderable experience, remarked;
“Could happen, I s’pose, A man
standin’ amongst the rope when
he dropped it overboard. I say
it could happen. Takin’ all th
circumstances into account, open
verdict.”
SANDY SWAMP.
From the marble-dazzling beaches
or the tame hills where cattle pasture
the eye that ranges never reaches
the secret depth of that storm-cloud,
the bitter and thorny moor
that sets its bar between
hill’s green and sea’s glitter.
No visiting traveller crosses
by the pale sanded tracks that vanish
under the banksias hung with mosses.
In yellow evenings.when the sea sounds loud
night rises early here,
and when white morning sings
here clings the darkness longest.
Who walks this way, then? Only
the rebel children who fear nothing
and the silent walker who goes lonely,
darkness his goal, out of the holiday crowd.
And these, if they go far,
will find the clustering moons and stars of white
that jealous night saves for her wanderers.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72.—N0. 3699
Wednesday, January 3, 1951
THE RUINATION STONE.
“If you’re worried about that other stone, Clem, you’re welcome to this one, you know.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
D .
H. K. Prior °"p. H. Prior
David Adams
up*n nTTUTrc
Box 2521 f ’Phon°e r , 8 8 u 5971 S
victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
OUT ON A LIMB.
The Commonwealth conference meets in
London tomorrow in an atmosphere more
grave than any which has developed since
1939.
The way in which this continent has
been shielded in two wars has given the
Australian people a false sense of security.
This has been fostered by “Labor”
leaders, some merely because their
political instinct tells them not to further
any idea which might cause electors dis-
comfort or unease through their initiative,
and others with deliberately seditious in-
tent in line with Moscow policy of dis-
arming future victims from within.
There are signs, however, that our luck
may not hold as it held in the past two
wars. In the first, the fact that the might
of the British Empire and France were
able to hold the total strength of Ger-
many pinned in Europe kept the country
(and particularly the Labor party and
its more vocal adherents) as remote as
Venus from the actual conflict, the land
knowing prosperity and the embarkation
of a large body of volunteers guaranteeing
jobs for all.
In the second war the “Labor” Govern-
ment and a large number of its followers
were in a state resembling panic when a
one-man reconnaissance aircraft flew over
Sydney. By means of peace cam-
paigns initiated by the Communist
party, taken up by the Trades Hall
councils and the silly clergymen and
parlor pinks who appear never to learn
their lessons, and urged on by the jeers of
Eddie Ward types, the Commonwealth
had been almost stripped of its defence
potential by 1937 and had not been able
to make up the leeway before Hitler
invaded Poland, or even before the
Japanese began their war in 1941.
So divorced, in fact, was the “Labor”
Government of 1941 from knowledge of
realities (though its members had been
loud-mouthed and assertive in giving
military advice during the previous three
years) that it actually believed it had
merely to ask for 25 divisions of British
and American conscripts to defend these
shores and they would be forthcoming.
Its Ministers did not know that,
at the moment when they uttered
their nerve-shattered bleat for aid, 25
fighting divisions of British-American
troops were not available for use on all
fighting fronts put together, much less
to a remote land governed by a party
which, since 1939, had been bitterly
resisting the sending abroad of Australian
volunteers to help our Allies. “Labor’s”
slogan had been “Australian youth must
not again be slaughtered in the quagmire
of Europe.”
“Labor,” of course, has not leamt
any lesson from all this because its
military policy is an entirely dishonest
vote - buying expedient. Its policy
is not made, as it should be, on the
advice of military experts but by union
leaders, ex-Communist secretaries and
other opportunists of the same kind who
form the Federal “Labor” conference to
which Mr. Chifley appealed to give him
defence plans (“You tell us what you
want and we will do it”) after the end
of World War 11. As a result, the
present perilous position is being faced
in the usual shameful state of unprepared-
ness and with the usual half of the people
persuaded to inertia by leaders who are
in the grip of the Communist union-
leaders, the agents of our potential enemy.
The Menzies Government has found
itself powerless to mend this position even
to the extent of the compromise schemes
which it has had in mind.
Unfortunately the signs on the verge of
the London conference, and perhaps also
of another world war, are not as pro-
pitious for us as in 1914-18 and 1939-45.
While those Americans who shared battle
honors with our A.I.F. remember our
fighting men with admiration, other
Americans also remember without en-
thusiasm the “Labor” policy which kept
vast numbers of young Australians tied
to training-camps in accord with the
slogan “no conscription for overseas
service.”
Coupled with this still - existing
tendency to look after ourselves while not
moving an inch to help our Allies further
than is dictated by selfish policy is an urge
developed here during World War II to
support with glee plans for breaking up
the British Empire. There was eagerness
to back the ill-informed demands to let
India and Burma go their own way and
to push the British out of China and
Malaya, though, curiously enough, there
was no such antipathy to American pene-
tration of Asia.
The chickens hatched from this policy
are now coming home to roost. Britain,
bereft of her special interests in Asia,
almost driven out of China, menaced in
Malaya, her staunch and friendly ally
and commercial partner the Dutch
thrown out of the East Indies in favor
of a half - communised, Japanese-
collaborator Government, her Navy re-
duced to a low level, has no longer the
incentive which she had before to stay
in the Indian Ocean and Pacific areas.
She might feel otherwise if Australia
and New Zealand were willing to join in
giving full co-operation in the defence of
British interests wherever aid was needed.
But though New Zealand, as of yore,
remains staunch both to the British
peoples and to commonsense, and will
undoubtedly have her division or two in
the fray wherever the main battle is
fought, Australia is sinking further into
the depths of a one-sided isolation
dragged down by “Labor” and by the
domination of Communist policy in
industry.
Already an influential conservative
journal, the London “Observer,” which
a few years ago would have closed its
doors rather than advocate such a policy,
is canvassing the possibility that Britain
may withdraw from Asia altogether
and concentrate on defending Europe, the
continent which holds the main switch-
board at which the lights of civilisation
can be turned off. Though this is merely
a matter of newspaper opinion, it is a
pointer to the direction in which the
thoughts of a lot of Britons are running.
They will run more strongly if Russia’s
5,000,000 immediately available armed
men, along with their 20,000 tanks and
an equal number of aircraft, are suddenly
turned against Western Europe’s few
half - equipped and quarter - trained
divisions.
In extremity, help will go whence help
comes. The country which sits out on
the rim of the world, content to sell its
produce to combatants, unwilling to con-
script its citizens even for local defence,
much less for overseas service where they
are needed in the cause of civilisation,
may remain the last plum to be picked
by the aggressors, but it will also be the
easiest.
That is the position to which “Labor”
policy would logically lead us ; and it is
a tragic and wicked thing that Mr.
Menzies should still be the victim of
“Labor” Senate dictation when he goes to
the conference in London tomorrow.
Which is all the more reason why the
Government should use every available
weapon to force a double-dissolution of
Federal Parliament at the earliest possible
moment.
Inflation Humbug.
It is to be doubted whether New Year
good resolutions (if any) about checking
inflation are widely prevalent in the com-
munity, and whether, if they are, a com-
munity so deliberately divided politically
—with “Labor” and the Communists
intent on preventing the Menzies Govern-
ment from governing—is in a condition
for a task so obviously requiring unani-
mous effort.
Among economists, straining to advise
Governments well stuck in the business of
condoning the so-called New Order, there
is no difference on one point—that “full
employment” (which is maintained on
“money pressure”) and inflation now go
hand-in-hand, in Australia at any rate.
A second point on which there is no dis-
agreement anywhere is that there can be
no checking inflation without either (1)
higher production of demand-goods in
short-supply or (2) —inglorious alterna-
tive —controls which will ration the
distribution of what volume of such goods
is available, however insufficient.
Among all the remedies advocated for
“stabilising prices” caught up in a now-
alarming inflationary spiral, high produc-
tion is a constant ingredient. Proponents
of this course or that differ in what other
action may be required, but “more pro-
duction” is a common factor in all
recipes. It is urged both as a means to
fight inflation and as the prime aim in
itself.
Yet the very cry of “more production”
creates dispute because it is not in all
regions true. The country does not, for
instance, want more production in the
lines of what Professor Copland has justly
called “the milk-bar economy” of
“Labor’s” post-war pride. Nor is it true
of the output of many luxury articles.
Some manufacturers are as content as
their work-people with a policy of caution
about raising output. Yet they know
that rising inflation cannot last in-
definitely—that the boom must burst when
the pressure of costs becomes irresistible.
This point must be made because it is
perfectly obvious that inflation will not
be checked unless its causes and the job
of combating it are faced honestly.
Hitherto it has not been faced honestly—
with rolled-up sleeves —by leaders in our
political or commercial life. Leaving
aside as 100 contemptible for discussion
at this hour the utterly dishonest “Labor”
pretence that the trouble can be over-
come by simply voting ourselves out of
it —by voting for central controls through
pegging of retail prices at some arbitrary
figure—there is remarkable public and
political indifference so far to what the
call for “more production” really implies.
No prolonged argument is required to
demonstrate that first, last and all the
time the supreme, overriding, übiquitous
shortage in output which has crippled, is
crippling and will continue to cripple
every effort to check inflation is under-
production of coal . There is ample coal
to be got, and got easily—great stacks of
it like city-street blocks waiting only to
be rooted out and dragged to the surface
by machinery. In the presence of these
huge vaults of coal the ruling famine is
as silly as a family starving for lack of
money to buy food while every hiding-
place at home is stuffed with golden
sovereigns.
Along with the shortage of coal —a
shortage maintained by the policy of the
Miners’ Federation —the other auxiliary
basic services to which the demand for
“more production” applies are shipping
and wharf-handling of cargoes. An all-
out drive to clear the man-made restric-
tions in these three basic industries would
clear away in short time the worst
hindrances to national development. It
is not too much to say that without the
excision of these cancers in our industrial
life no combating of the current inflation
has the least hope of success. Even a
restoration of war-time controls, price-
pegging, wage-pegging, universal rationing
and direction of labor would not cure the
trouble in Australia unless it destroyed
the opposition to “more production” in
coal and wharf-services and maritime
transport.
Is it seriously proposed that only
another war, necessary to give the Com-
monwealth Government emergency
powers to control everything and every-
body under the strictest regulations, can
check inflation? Why, the seeds of this
inflationary disease were sown and
nurtured in the last war; and that is
true of every organised nation in the
world, of course, as well as our own.
Inflation began with the regimentation
of national life under the rule of a war-
time bureaucracy, the inhibition against
all enterprise save in channels dictated by
the national Executive, even Parliament
being gagged, and the appropriation by
the Government of most profits and sav-
ings. It was done by ruthless financial
pressure and the creating of “money” to
keep it up. Everybody knows that. But
the real evil was that which the war-time
Socialist Government maintained after
the war ended. As a matter of Socialist
policy the same acute financial pressure
was kept in operation nominally to tide
the country over the reversion to a peace-
time economy—“until supply should
catch up with demand” —but really in
order to destroy the “capitalist society”
and instal the Socialist revolution.
Therein Socialist Government and
Communist outriders in its van were
of one mind and aim. They
wanted inflation as a weapon for this
new war within the community, and the
flaring destruction of money’s value, of
working incentive, and of public morale
in which we are living now is primarily
their work and their deliberate design.
Inflation, the gradual extinction of private
ownership through destruction of all
thrift and investment values, was their
selected means of levelling everything in
the national society. Thereafter the revo-
lution would take care of itself.
If there is any falser cry among the
Socialist propagandists than that of price-
controls to stop inflation, it is the cry for
continuance of artificial “full employ-
ment” by means of Government-
controlled money-pressure (inflation’s
other name) as an assurance against a
depression. In a state of affairs when
there are not only vastly more jobs avail-
able than workers, a condition without
prospect of alteration in this land for the
next half-century at least, the abuse of
the Keynesian theory for curing unem-
ployment, an abuse perpetrated through
all the post-war years by Australian Gov-
ernments, is not even yet appreciated as
perhaps the supreme injury done to Aus-
tralia. The Communists’ “cold-war,”
damaging as it has been, has here received
full and ample support.
“Full employment,” to be enforced by
pressure of monetary expansion, is
accepted now as proper and salutary for
times of depression, or incipient depres-
sion, but to apply it in times of boom-
employment and inflation, when there is
more work demanding to be done than
the labor market can satisfy, is just play-
ing the fool with Keynes’s theory. As
Professor Hayek points out in the Vic-
torian I.P.A. Review, it is inculcating the
entirely wrong-headed beliefs that
employment cannot be sustained without
artificial money-pressure—that is, infla-
tion—and that, since inflationary condi-
tion assures (such is the creed) universal
employment, no matter at what cost to
the money-structure, it must therefore be
on the balance beneficial. At what stage
in this devil’s dance do the public begin
to lose these beliefs? When do they
expect the balloon to burst —when the
basic-wage is £lOO a week, or something
less?
The cynic may at this stage opine that
perhaps the majority in the recent Arbi-
tration Court judgment which raised the
basic-wage by £1 a week in one hit may
after all have justly washed their hands
of responsibility for so boosting an infla-
tionary condition, while the “other
authorities” of the court’s reference refuse
to act and inflated wages and prices are
what the community, judging by its in-
action, prefers. It has been said that
Australia is now in effect governed by the
Arbitration Court. But it is at least no
less apparent that the judges of that
Bench have expressly refused to accept
that notion, whatever else—and there is
plenty—is being said about the con-
sequences of their decision.
Just before the Christmas break the
miners received from exalted political
quarters the annual encomium for hav-
ing done a good job of work. The facts
are that denial of coal lamed the steel
industry throughout the year, that about
1,400,000 tons of coal was lost in 1950
through irresponsible stoppages, that if
it had not been lost the year’s under-
ground output would still have been short
of the “target,” and that if the miners
had worked all the year as well as they
did in the final fortnight the nation’s
factories and services would have had
some 3,000,000 tons more coal, and their
requirements for continuous working
time would have been met. There would
still have been some inflation had Aus-
tralia received that coal; but what a
difference!
Wine and Taste.
“Barossa’s” survey;
Visitors who swiftly come to appreciate the
fine qualities of our Australian wines must
wonder at the churlish way some of our native-
born are inclined to speak of the excellent
products of our vineyards.
By many Australians our clarets, burgundies,
ports and champagnes are lumped together, and
with superb indifference to the niceties of
taste —and language—described as "plonk.”
Diggers of World War I brought the ugly
word back from France, and plonked it into
our language.
The Diggers drank a lot of wine in France,
because there was plenty of it—and the French
beer was too wishy-washy for their taste.
In line with the good old Australian custom
of murdering a language, they soon found a
name for the vin blanc, the light white wine of
France —their favorite beverage in those days.
Left to the mercy of the Diggers’ French,
blanc (rightly pronounced “blong”) became
"plonk”—and “plonk” it remained.
That is its origin, according to Sydney J.
Baker, author of The Australian Language.
Our skilled and experienced winemakers
justifiably shudder when they hear their
cherished products described uncouthly as
“plonk.” Since wine is a favored beverage of
cultured people the world over, the word
“plonk,” with its implied sneer against wine,
merely brands the speaker as outside of that
class —in other words, just boorish.
Because of our wowserish attitude towards
drinking and our ridiculous licensing laws, the
average Australian has never had the chance
to educate his palate, as have people in lands
where wine is of equal importance with food.
In France, for instance, every peasant and
manual worker is something of an epicure. He
knows and appreciates his wines as he does
his foods. Wine is served in every household,
every restaurant.
The average Frenchman would no sooner
drink too much wine than eat too much food,
and it is the greatest rarity to see a drunken
Frenchman.
Although more and more of us are learning
about wines and their proper use, as proved by
the great increase in the national consumption
since the war, many Australian families, through
lack of wine knowledge, still miss one of the
most delightful and healthful pleasures of life.
This is very sad, seeing that we produce
some of the finest wine in the world —and our
climate makes almost every year what would
be regarded in Europe as a vintage year.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Creed Outworn.
If those responsible for the shaping of
“Labor” policy during the second half
of the twentieth century want the party
to get anywhere they will have to shake
off some of the “traditions” handed down
from the first half. Federal debates last
year showed “Labor” to be still in the
grip of two so-called traditions, one of
which conditioned most of their thinking
on external affairs and the other on
domestic matters. The first is that the
greatest victory of World War I was the
defeat of the conscription referendums ;
the second that the private banks in
collusion with the anti-“ Labor” parties
wilfully engineered the 1930 depression.
Between the two wars the anti-con-
scription tradition was preached fer-
vently ; no “Labor” function was com-
plete without a mention of those who
“fought” against conscription, and as the
ageing men of the party repeated, the tale
again and again they came to believe
themselves the real heroes of the Great
War. World War II should have con-
vinced them of their error ; in their hearts
it probably did, though few would admit
it; and the Old Guard is still vocal on the
virtues of voluntary service. Younger
men of the party, though giving lip-
service to caucus policy, are not so sure.
Though “suckled in a creed outworn”
they had no part in the 1917 “victory,”
and they saw compulsory service applied
and accepted by the community during
their own war —though, thanks to the
traditionalists, within set geographical
limits. M
As to the general mass of “Labor’
voters, a Gallup poll has shown a
majority of them to be in favor of com-
pulsory training. There is nothing re-
markable in tins. A Gallup poll takes a
cross-section of voters, and the old men
of the A.L.P. no longer represent a cross-
section of “Labor” opinion ; they repre-
sent “Labor” thought of 30 years ago.
To the young trade-unionists of today the
1914-18 war is only slightly less remote
than the Crimea or Waterloo. “Labor”
leaders have cynically commented on the
short memories of electors, but they have
overlooked this factor as far as their
policy is concerned.
The same trait is evident in the ever-
lasting depression-talk of Federal
“Labor” men. During the last session a
Government member commented that
to hear the Opposition talk one would
gather that it considered that to qualify
for membership of the House of Repre-
sentatives one should have been on the
dole during the depression. “Labor’s”
misconceptions on the causes of the 1930
depression more than anything warp its
judgment on contemporary industrial
policy, but although the young men ol
the trade-union movement have been
thoroughly indoctrinated with the policy
of go-slow, the principle of don’t-work-
yourself-out-of-a-job must be almost
meaningless to a generation which has
never known a time when jobs couldn’t
be picked up for the asking.
To the youngsters of the nineteen-
twenties the depression of the eighteen-
nineties meant absolutely nothing ; it was
just something their fathers talked about.
The 1930 depression means no more to
the youngster of 1951 ; it will mean still
less in a few years’ time.
At the next Federal elections there will
be young people voting for the first time
who were not even born when the crash
came in 1930, and who were barely in
their teens when Prime Minister Curtin
won from the “Labor” movement grudg-
ing consent to extend, ever so slightly, the
boundaries inside which conscripts might
be called upon to serve. Traditions based
on memories of 1917 and 1930 are not
going to cut much ice with that genera-
tion. The leaders of the anti-conscription
and dole-queue schools of thought rely
on fear and hate. What the country needs
is a creed based on service and faith —
a faith in the future of Australia and a
recognition that prosperity can come only
through work. That is a creed which
“Labor,” on its past record, will never
preach.
The Stoon From Scoon.
From a descendant of Bloody Rothes:
The most refreshing story of 1950, a year of
gabble and United Nations nonsense, is that
which tells of the pinching of the Coronation
Stone from Westminster Abbey. It looked
like one piece of rock which nobody was ever
likely to pinch. It had been in the Abbey,
despite the protests of every Scot who had heard
about it, since 1296, when it was deposited
there through the initiative of Edward I, who
apparently kept it in the most dastardly fashion
after having made a treaty to return it to Scone
—which, for the information of Sassenach
aborigines, is pronounced “Scoon” —a village
outside Perth in which only teetotallers live
because there are more and better pubs in
Perth.
The stone has always sat in the base of the
Throne which Edward I had made to hold it,
and for several hundred years has been an
unaccepted challenge to every tourist who has
ever paid sixpence to walk round the chapel
of Edward the Confessor, in which it is nor-
mally lodged. In order to facilitate its theft
the polite English even put handles on it, but
though attempts have been made on the Crown
Jewels in the Tower, and George II once had
his watch grabbed in his own garden at Ken-
sington, nobody has ever tried illegally to make
away with the rock of destiny, possibly because
it is over 2ft. long, thick, and weighs the
best part of 4cwt., while looking like any other
calcareous sandstone gibber that can be picked
up for nothing on the west coast of Scotland
or round the Isles.
However, it appeared from circumstantial
evidence that, having gathered strength by
attending evensong in the Abbey (a rite calcu-
lated to send any Jacobite into hysterics),
a Scottish nationalist and his wife or lady-friend
removed the bauble and spirited it away in a
waiting motor-car. Why the Scot troubled to
accompany his better-half on this simple enter-
prise is difficult to understand, and the fact that
initials were found carved on the Throne after
the outrage suggests that he was probably
there merely in an advisory or supervisory
capacity, and that he occupied himself in this
historic memorialising while his spouse nipped
smartly across the Sanctuary (in the sight of
Gladstone, Chatham, Pitt, Peel, Castlereagh,
Disraeli, the Cannings and Charles James Fox
in the North Transept), sneaked through Poets
Corner, and, changing the pebble to her other
arm as she rounded the Chapter House which
used to be home to England's first Parliament,
gained the outer air and did a smart 150 yd.
sprint to transport.
The excitement subsequently was intense. It
was reported that a Scottish Nationalist lady
named Wendy Wood, interviewed at her home
at Salen in Argyll, a village founded by
Governor Macquarie in the Maclaine country in
Mull, had danced with excitement at the news,
waving her loaded rifle. Various Hibernians
raced into print to prove that the stone was
not Scottish at all, but actually the Stone of
Destiny, from Tara, in Meath, home of ancient
Irish kings and stamping-ground of Daniel
O’Connell; but this is evidently a mistake, since
visitors to Tara are shown another stone which
is called the Stone of Destiny, though without
the charge of sixpence which is made at
Westminster.
Sydney’s leading journal frantically sent out
a distinguished war-correspondent to find and
interview the leader of the Scottish Nationalist
movement in Australia. The Scottish border was
virtually closed, and every person in the United
Kingdom with a bulge in the kilt or the smell
of shortbread on his breath became liable to
search. But all that had been produced a week
after the theft was a fine, noisy advertisement
for the Scottish Home Rule movement and a
rumor that Scotland Yard —a grisly spot named
for the long-destroyed London home of King
Kenneth, who allegedly brought the stoon to
Scoon —had smelt out a large and seemingly
immovable object resembling the missing gibber
at the bottom of the Serpentine. It wasn’t “the
Stone”; but the chances are that it will one
day turn up in Scotland ready for the time
when the King shall come into his own again.
When that happy climax is achieved and the
relic is once more on show in Scotia's ancient
capital instead of in the lair of 'he oppressor,
the price for viewing it will no longer be
saxpence. It will be raised to a shilling.
Action in Prahran.
Burning of the Prahran (Melbourne)
market on Boxing Day was a blow to
housewives in one of Victoria’s most con-
gested areas, for people from probably a
dozen suburbs on the south side of the
Yarra shop there.
Prahran was the largest of Melbourne’s
suburban markets, and its importance to
its area is best illustrated by the speed
with which Prahran City Council set
about cleaning up the fire mess, restoring
business as rapidly as possible in a tem-
porary open-air market in an adjoining
street and calling a special meeting on a
holiday and adopting plans for a new
market, all within 24 hours of the fire.
The fire loss is estimated at £250,000,
part covered by insurance, and the fire
itself is another of those mysterious
blazes which have caused heavy losses
during recent months in Melbourne,
Sydney and even Port Moresby. In
Prahran’s case, however, it is local-govern-
ment, not State Government, that is
concerned, and that probably explains the
speed of recovery.
Sydney has one market only, central-
ised in one of the most inaccessible and
crowded parts of the city. It is controlled
by a queer mixture of State and muni-
cipal officials, is frequently the scene of
brawls, seems to be the haunt of “fore-
stallers” and other racketeers, who are
repeatedly charged with blackmailing
retailers, and is generally regarded with
suspicion by the citizens it is supposed to
serve. If it got burnt out nobody would
expect to see another for years, what
time planners of ail kinds had a glorious
time arguing about it. But then it takes
hours to get a stalled train out of a tunnel
in Sydney, while other trains are allowed
to run in behind it and their passengers
face suffocation and heart-failure.
An Idea For a Joke.
One present in the packed Sydney Town
Hall on Thursday night, while the
audience waited calmly for an hour while
Barbirolli and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra were held up because the music
had been stolen, was impressed with the
crowd’s exemplary patience.
The Australian public may by now be
calculated to stand anything—from daily
blackouts of power services, indefinite
imprisonment in tunnels on the city
underground railway, destructive fires
once or more a week in stores of irre-
placeable materials, strikes in some trans-
port service at the drop of some walking-
delegate’s hat, dips into the Government
tills by M.Ps. whenever they want higher
salaries, and any other “jokes” of the
same sort. The fellow who stole the
music no doubt expects to become a
hero, in the category of “bodgies” and
masqueraders in women’s clothing, and
believes himself very smart and clever.
It would be a crying shame, of
course, to grab such young fellows for
compulsory military training against the
day of some international affront on Aus-
tralia —the same sort of “joke” enlarged
beyond all tolerance. The day may be
expected, and not far ahead, when some
specimens of the same moron’s kidney
from outside Australia will bethink them-
selves how easy it is to steal some
property of national value like the town
of Darwin or the iron island of Yampi.
No malice, of course; just the other
fellow’s idea of a joke.
Glass Tower of Babel.
In the last week of the old year the
“United” Nations Organisation com-
pleted a four-months’ business of house-
moving from Lake Success to its new
39-storied glasshouse in Manhattan. In
the same week Secretary - General
“Trigger” Lie, on a visit to his Norwegian
home town of Oslo, delivered himself of
opinion that the 23-million-dollar edifice
was likely to be a mausoleum unless
U.N.O. could pull off the test of its
authority in Korea.
If Communist aggression in Korea is not
repulsed or stemmed [he said] it will be
impossible to realise other U.N. aims. If
we lose in Korea the only question is which
country will come next.
Then, evidently thinking of the glass-
house to which he would be returning,
and remembering an old adage about
dwellers in such places, he added rather
weakly that “a realistic view of the situa-
tion gives me a hope that a solution will
be found satisfactory for both a free
Korean people and for the U.N., which
will lead to peace in Korea.”
Which of these two sentences is based
on “a realistic view” will not require
more than a moment’s reflection. Mr.
Lie’s Oslo newspaper doubtless told him
what the public journals were printing
o Continued on next page.)
A JUBILEE CANTATA.
This curious work was written as a prologue to the ceremony at the Centennial
Park obelisk (Sydney) on January 1, when the N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. James
McGirr, read Queen Victoria’s proclamation granting an Australian Constitution
to an audience including the present Governor-General, Mr. McKell, the N. S.
Wales Governor, Sir John Northcott, the Right Hon. William Morris Hughes
(who was present when the first Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun, read the
proclamation for the first time on January 1, 1901), and members of the armed
forces, State and Federal Parliaments, and of the church. The prologue was to
have been enacted by those present, with a chorus of citizens and morris
dances round a maypole by members of Parliament; but certain parts were
considered a little difficult of presentation by the principals the modesty of
our politicians is notorious, for they can act any part at the shortest notice.
In short, rather than allow so many notable Australians to be reproached for
neglect of a masterpiece, it has been decided to publish it here and now.
Chorus.
Offering incense and oblation,
This impressive congregation
Waits to hear the Queen’s oration
Forming the Australian nation:
Fifty years ago she made it;
Now the Premier will read it.
This is the regal contribution
To Australia’s Constitution
By a Queen whose dissolution
Mars her gracious elocution:
Hearken, though, to James McGirr
Reading it instead of her.
Recit.: An Old Lady.
0 people gathered round this obelisk,
1 beg you pause. Continue at your risk!
Relax awhile your oratoric pose,
And listen to an aged woman’s woes.
Recit.: Mr. McGirr.
Now is no time, old woman, for dissension
Or argument about the old-age pension;
Besides, in coming here, you are in error —
The fault is with the scoundrels in Canberror,
Not those here.
Recit.: Old Lady.
The rage that makes me trembly
Is fostered by the New South Wales
Assembly!
Aria: The Old Lady.
Hearken, hearken to the song
Of a suppliant British Queen,
How she suffered cruel wrong
At the hands of William Sheahan:
Rather would I join a workhouse
Than be turned into a circus
By that sinister, sinister, sinister,
Sinister, sinister Transport Minister.
At the Queen’s Club, all my friends
Of the Civic Beauties group
Mourn disaster that perpends
Royalty in Sheahan’s loop;
James’s Church, the city’s pride.
Also takes the awful brunt:
Why, with Justice on its side,
Bear a circus out in front?
Trams approach, and trams retreat,
Like the members of a joint
Further down Macquarie Street,
Going round and round the point;
But, alas, the point is I:
Hearken, hearken when I cry
Vengeance on that sinister, sinister,
Sinister, sinister Transport Minister!
Recit.: Mr. McGirr.
And so, Madame, you wish it understood
That you are Queen Victoria —the Good?
Recit.: Queen Victoria.
And so I am. I know you too, my lad.
Yes, you are Premier James McGirr —the Bad.
Recit.: Mr. McGirr.
Do not repeat that slander. It’s untrue.
I am as much admired, and feared, as you.
Aria: Mr. McGirr.
When first they made me Premier
I felt impelled to speak,
I limited the laborer
To forty hours a week;
And cheerfully he followed out
The statute I had made;
It must have seemed severe, no doubt:
I ordered —he obeyed.
N.s.w.
When horses needed exercise
In Sydney beauty-spots,
I felt inclined to sympathise
And ordered nightly trots;
Though this concerned my dearest pals
No anger was displayed,
They tended those poor animals:
I ordered —they obeyed.
Two years ago I gagged the Press
Before election-day,
And voters talked about duress
And went the other way;
So then I bade newspapermen
Resume their deadly trade;
They readily attacked again:
I ordered —they obeyed.
At Christmas, too, I told the folk
How cheerful they should be;
They really seemed to see the joke
Despite their misery;
Despite the rising H.C.L.
To which they’d been betrayed
They laughed and laughed at me like hell:
I ordered —they obeyed.
Recit.: Mr. McGirr.
And so, Victoria, it is no disgrace
That such a power as I should take your
place;
I have your proclamation well-rehearsed.
Recit.: Queen Victoria.
Proceed. But let me make a statement first.
Aria: Queen Victoria.
When we proclaimed the Commonwealth
We did it for the nation’s health,
And everyone enthused;
The Common Wealth so well begun
Became a Socialistic pun—
But we are not amused.
Our Ministers envisaged then
A Senate full of grand old men
Whose knowledge might be used;
We won’t remark on what you got,
Except that they’re a funny lot—
But we are not amused.
Your Constitution, full of flaws.
Written to limit Federal laws,
And not to be abused,
Developed into swings and sticks
For Doctor Evatt’s monkey-tricks—
But we are not amused.
For Governor-General we ensured
The service of a noble Lord,
Wisdom and glory fused;
But our great-grandson’s delegate
Is one who’s neither grand nor great—
And we are not amused.
Recit.: Mr. McGirr.
Silence and peace! Madam, begone at once!
I conjure you, become immortal bronze!
Resume your meditations in Queen’s Square.
And never circulate again from there!
Chorus.
O happy Queen, poured out of bronze,
Above the weary travellers’ moans.
Who have no itch to travel where
Only the rich have got the fare;
O happy Queen, raised up on high
Above the lean-faced passer-by,
Continuing ever great and good,
And never, never needing food;
O Queen, surveying with aplomb
The Senate and the Atom-bomb,
How very truly it was said
We’re never happy till we’re dead!
SWILLIAM.


JWS
7741E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
to I
cbavbna
They nevek Mtiy/
mm?-
that day in every other country of the
free nations that the Communist
Chinese Government had refused the
cease-fire resolution of Mr. Lie’s
organisation, that some 500,000 Chinese
invaders were about to launch an assault
into South Korea against 200,000 U.N.
troops, and that one of the U.N.O. Big
Five, Soviet Russia, had announced that
if the U.N. command bombed any
Chinese supply-bases on the Chinese side
of the Yalu, Russia would go to the
assistance of the Chinese.
These Communist allies’ terms for
“peace” are that the U.N. forces shall
abandon Korea (a U.N. member-country)
forthwith, that U.N.O. shall eat all its
principles and forbid any American
interest in preventing the similar over-
running of Formosa, and that, having
surrendered to a form of blackmail which
pays the late Hitler the sincerest form
of flattery, U.N.O. shall then admit the
successful blackmailer into a permanent
executive seat alongside Russia in U.N.O.’s
Security Council.
His “realistic view” gives him “hope,”
says the chief executive of the interna-
tional glasshouse. A glasshouse is, of
course, a supreme expression of arti-
ficiality, also a most poetic shelter for
the pleasures of hope. As the poet
Campbell sang:
Can Fancy’s fairy hands no veil create
To hide the sad realities of fate?
A rhetorical question, for that is exactly
what Fancy’s fairy hands were made for.
But it is high time to cut out the fancy
stuff from this U.N.O. business. The
very name “United Nations” has become
a veil to hide sad realities from wishful
thinkers among the free nations, and the
perilous policy of maintaining world
peace on mere hope—how perilous the
whole Korean episode in peace-enforce-
ment has shown —is perfectly illustrated
in the transfer of its operating machinery
to the great glass-temple in Manhattan.
The “United” Nations experiment
seems doomed to run the full course of
futility before the free peoples, hypnotised
by “peace-loving diplomacy” as con-
ducted in the modern Tower of Babel,
take its own realistic view of the complete
farce which it has become.
POLITICAL POINTS
Just to settle any arguments. The
second half of the twentieth century
century began last Monday.
January 1 was the 50th anniversary of
the swearing-in of the first Commonwealth
Ministry, under the leadership of
Edmund Barton, although there was at
that time no Federal Parliament. The
first Federal elections were held on March
29 and 30, 1901, and the first Federal Par-
liament did not open until May 9. Two
members of the first Ministry did not sit
in the Federal Parliament; James Robert
Dickson, ex-Premier of Queensland, was
sworn in as Minister for Defence, but
died 10 days later; Neil Elliott Lewis,
Premier of Tasmania, doubled that job
with the post of Minister Without Port-
folio in Barton’s Cabinet. He did not
contest the election, and resigned from
the Cabinet on April 23, 1901,
Only member of the first Federal Par-
liament still in politics, W. M. Hughes,
was guest of honor on the A.B.C. national
network on New Year’s Eve. Billy
sounded a warning against unprepared-
ness, pointing out that in 1914, with a
population of 5,000,000, Australia had a
militia force of 89,000, whereas today
with our numbers grown to over 8,000,000
the militia has shrunk to fewer than
20,000, On the home front the veteran
has one remedy, a sound one, for all our
troubles—steady, unbroken and effective
work.
The general impression of the doings
of the Federal Parliament during 1950 is
that it talked the whole year, but agreed
on nothing. This is not quite the truth;
the list of Acts passed is an imposing
one —until it is examined more closely.
There are 72 on the list, but Appropria-
tion, Supply, Customs and similar heads
account for most of ’em. More interest-
ing is the list of bills not passed; there
are four of these. Three of them —the
Bank Bill, the Constitution Alteration
(Avoidance of Double-Dissolution Dead-
locks) Bill and the National Service Bill
—were held up by the “Labori’-controffed
Senate’s action in referring them to a
Select Committee. The fourth, the Con-
stitutional Alteration (Prices) Bill, was
introduced by the Senate Opposition
against the wishes of the Government.
Brought in at a time when the Senate
should have been debating the Anti-Red
Bill, it cannot be regarded as anything
but a time-wasting measure. Passed by
the Senate, it was shelved by the Govern-
ment when it reached the House of
Representatives,
Menzies becomes the sixth Australian
Companion of Honor. The order was
conferred on Viscount Bruce when he
was Prime Minister in 1927; other poli-
ticians with the right to use the C.H.
after their names are Hughes, Earle Page
and Casey. Essington Lewis, of 8.H.P.,
is the only Australian outside politics to
be admitted to the order; he received the
honor in 1943 in recognition of his
services as Director - General of
Munitions.
Americans have been warned of a new
nerve gas which “might be sprayed over
the United States in a war.” But surely,
like us, they are immune to this sort of
thing, having survived it in election after
election?
Up in Mackay (N.Q.) a Soviet freighter,
the Omsk, lies idle while wharfies are on
strike concerning a petty dispute over
the unloading of fertiliser. Judge Kirby,
in the Federal Arbitration Court, had
granted wharfies the basic-wage rise on an
undertaking that the strike would end.
The ship’s captain, asked by a “N.Q.
Register” reporter to comment on the
strike, said, “It’s none of my business.”
Then he added reflectively, “We have
no strikes in Russia.” There’s also no
appeal to arbitration courts or concilia-
tion commissioners in the Socialist Father-
land, Russia has only two authorities to
deal with strikers —the forced-labor
camp and the firing-squad.
New Guinea timber is in the news
again. The Commonwealth Government
intends to form a joint company with
Bulolo Gold Dredging to work the pine
forests at the rate of 10 million super,
feet a year, replanting the cut-out area to
ensure reserves. Other leases will be let
by public tender.
Note from Paris in London “Spectator”
re that phony “peace” petition which the
Communists and their friends have been
hawking in many countries, including
Australia;
A lady named Helfcne professionally
walked the pavements of the Rue Bel-
homme, but being politically-minded as
well as otherwise she also collected signa-
tures to the now-notorious Stockholm
peace-petition, and, it is said, allowed a
professional discount to every signatory.
But the 14th Correctional Chamber taking
a jaundiced view of all this, Hdtene has
found herself faced with fifteen days’
imprisonment and a fine of 10,000 francs.
The A.C.T.U. and Melbourne Trades
Hall Council want union membership
fees increased all round, claiming that
the basic wage has risen but not the fee.
Of course, the A.L.P. will be up for big
publicity and election expenses this year,
though that hasn’t been mentioned.
By - elections in Britain during 1950
followed the same pattern as during the
five years of the previous Parliament —
Labor retained its seats, but with reduced
majorities ; Conservatives held theirs with
increased majorities. Leaving out of the
reckoning two Irish Nationalists who
have never taken their seats, Attlee has
six votes to spare in the Commons, So
far this has been sufficient to pull him
through a succession of censure motions,
though more than once he must have
waited rather ahxiously for the result of
the count.
Neither these narrow escapes nor a
tardy realisation of the menace of world
Communism has deterred Attlee and Co.
from sticking blindly to the path of
Socialism, In September they announced
their intention of going ahead with the
nationalisation of the steel industry; an
arbitration tribunal was set up on
November 1, its function being to deter-
mine the compensation value of securities
taken over, and on February 15 the
securities of the 92 “specified” companies
will be transferred to the Iron and Steel
Corporation.
Churchill has declared that if his party
gets a majority at the next election
“whether before or after the vesting date,”
it will repeal the “wrongful and mis-
chievous Act.” It is unlikely that any
election will be held before the vesting
date, but one could easily happen shortly
afterwards.
N. S. Wales power-chief Conde holds
out hopes that Sydney’s blackouts will be
fewer this year because of new power-
units which are to be imported from
America. The new plant should certainly
ease the situation —provided the miners
give it the coal. On the rare occasions
when Bunnerong is in condition to give
full output the spectre of coal famine
always seems to bob up.
Melbourne “Herald” runs a story to
the effect that the retirement of G.-G.
McKell “is predicted” for some time late
this year. The appointment of the ex-
Premier of N.S.W. by the Chifley Gov-
ernment in 1947 was for five years, which
would “expire in 1952 during the Royal
visit.” Since .a Governor-General could
hardly of his own volition leave office
in the middle of such an occasion, among
senior Ministers “it is being taken for
granted that Mr. McKell will retire in
time for a successor to take office late in
1951,” in order to get into the vice-regal
harness in advance of the Royal party’s
arrival. No overtime for the present
incumbent?
As a matter of record the following
table shows the position of the political
parties in the State Parliaments at the
end of 1950:
Libs Vic.
Labor, and C.P. C.P. Ind.
N.S.W. 48 46
Q’ld ..42 31 2
Vic. ..25 27 13
S.A. 12 23 4
W.A. 23 25 2
Tas. 15 14 1
The N. S. Wales “Labor” total includes
two “unendorsed” members whose votes
have so far kept McGirr in power. In-
dependents in most cases are anti-
“ Labor” in sentiment, though in the
Queensland Assembly T. Aikens consti-
tutes a “Labor” party of his own.
Liberals and Country parties have a
working arrangement in most States, but
in Victoria the Country party broke
away from the coalition last year and,
after the May elections, formed a
minority Government with the support of
“Labor.” Tasmanian “Labor,” in a
minority of one after appointing a
Speaker, has survived seven months,
mainly because no one in the Speck wants
an election—three in four years being
considered enough for anyone.
An inebriated man on a Sydney tram
dropped a parcel which burst, to reveal
two mutton chops. He is being held until
he satisfies an official inquiry as to where
he got the chops.
Poverty amid plenty. With a record
rainfall of more than 86in., and with all
reservoirs full, Sydney’s water authorities
are discussing the imposition of restric-
tions on the use of garden hoses. That’s
the sort of thing that can be expected
when half the population of a State is
cooped up in one small paddock.
British Communists have been treated
very tolerantly by the Attlee Govern-
ment, but it is hard to see how even the
Socialists can ignore the latest move of
the Reds. This is a call to party members
to go flat-out to cause trouble and unrest
in industries engaged on war production,
which in Communist parlance means
everything from bed-socks to bomb-
sights, but with special emphasis on trans-
port and heavy industry. With this
ultimatum the Comrades have come right
out into the open. There is no suggestion
that the policy has any industrial .basis;
it is a purely political move designed to
assist Russia. The “manifesto” is strictly
in line with Cominform policy; Austra-
lian Reds have received similar instruc-
tions.
Tact is not a distinguishing attribute of
Victorian Government departments. Two
of them selected the festive season to put
up prices. The Tram Board raised its
fares to threepence between Christmas and
the New Year, and in the last mail before
Christmas the Water Board posted its
bills calculated at the new rate.
“C.A.L.”: Reminiscent of a war-time
convoy are the many ships nowadays to
be seen anchored outside Fremantle
harbor in the shelter of Rottnest Island
waiting for berths. The port could handle
them all right but for the go-slow tactics,
stop-work meetings and overtime bans
which slow the turn-round of ships. Until
the Red-controlled wharfies realise that
they are the dupes of a world-
revolutionary movement the Rottnest
Queue and its counterpart in other ports
will continue as a standing reproach to us,
Ex-President Hoover’s plea that
America should concentrate on preserv-
ing itself as a Gibraltar of Western
civilisation is singularly inept. The
Rock is a fortress outpost of a free
Britain; if America wants to become a
Gibraltar surely it must be of a free
Europe, not of one enslaved by Moscow?
The commissioners appointed to redraw
boundaries for the Victorian Legislative
Council have been asked to speed-up the
job in case the McDonald-Cains are
faced with an unexpected election. The
next council will be elected by adult
suffrage.
Dr. Lloyd Ross, who puts the “Labor”
angle in Melbourne “Herald,” holds that
because the Menzies Government has
“failed to prevent inflation,” his party can
win the next election if “three conditions
are fulfilled”:
Labor must prepare a comprehensive and
bold plan to prevent inflation.
Labor must avoid being used in indus-
trial disputes by Communists.
Labor must explain its policy to the
people.
As a prescription for the politically sick
it might work —if only “Labor” had any-
thing but Socialism with which to cure
inflation, could shake off the Corns, and
had a policy.


'Aw
df
* I ,
If AMVeoPT?
OV&R, THIS Sank.,
i\eo. it's cjoino to
6e ME / '
R)R. TH£
"S^ S6ANE Line/
hHW»C^
■gs
fegf
T <Z y
*/T
1-H6 Voc, Sat op 4
Iwg luck£R.-B oxf
(Anprew)
V Fisher's
GHOST.
V -1
( uamc/
'■—'of th£
Qv&RB-OW.^
OPPOSITION
V IjJe of tue Neveß-Mevef^f
v Last tijpe-f
A NATIONAL JUBILEE PAGEANT.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“K.”; The Stone of Scone was not the
only antique whose theft enlivened the
news last week. In Italy some people of
Verona had stolen from Vicenza the bed
in which Juliet is said to have slept while
dreaming of Romeo, and the infuriated
Vicenza people organised retaliation in
the form of a raid on Verona Castle and
the purloining of a suit of armor there
treasured among relics of the ancient
nobility. The feud arose over a dispute
about which of the two towns Romeo
and Juliet lived in. It was settled in an
upsurge of the Christmas spirit by an ex-
change of the looted articles and an agree-
ment to join in a gala presentation of the
play next month. The Press report which
records this settlement states that it does
not mention which town is to have the
honor of providing the entertainment.
* * * *
“Becks”; Joy, fear, sorrow, relief —all
emotions, in fact —are relative. A pre-
Christmas dinner-party at a Sydney hotel
was delayed through the non-arrival of
“My wives don't understand me.”
one of the guests. Her husband, who
had gone to the hotel straight from his
office, couldn’t account for her absence,
and began to worry. Urged on by
pessimistic friends, he rang police-
stations and casualty-wards with-
out any result. More time passed, and
the whole party became worried, so the
husband went to the Central police-
station. The officer-in-charge took par-
ticulars of suburb, approximate time of
wife’s leaving home and so on. “How
would she be coming to the city?” he
asked. “By train,” replied the husband.
“That explains it,” said the cop. “She’ll
be down in Wynyard tunnel.” It was the
night of the hold-up in the Harbor Bridge
tunnel. When the officer explained the
position, back rushed the husband to the
hotel to buy champagne for all the party.
It wasn’t till afterwards that anyone
realised the incongruity of celebrating the
fact that their friend had been imprisoned
for three hours in the stifling atmosphere
of Sydney’s underground.
♦ * *
“F.S.”: Mr, Menzies has announced
two major projects in the field of art as
part of the 1951 Commonwealth Jubilee
celebrations. Seven leading Australian
artists have been commissioned to
execute realistic or symbolic works in
sculpture, mural painting, figure com-
position, landscape or stained glass, the
artists being William Dobell, Ivor Hele,
Charles Meere, Lyndon Dadswell, Hans
Heysen, Lloyd Rees and D. Taylor
Kelloch. One work will be bought by
the Commonwealth for £lOOO, and the
other participants will get £l5O apiece.
In addition there will be a competition
open to all Australian artists for a work
depicting the Australian scene, and the
essential character of the country or its
people—prizes; £5OO, £3OO and £2OO.
This fine cultural gesture would have
been even finer if the selection of artists
had been left to a committee of non-
Australians. The “open” competition
should be open to the whole world, and
judged by an artist with an international
reputation. After all, we engage over-
seas judges to adjudicate at our dog-
shows.
* • * •
“Uramao”; Christmas produced a
queer “record” claim from Timaru
(N.Z.), where A. W. Robertshaw, a
poulterer, is said to have plucked a fowl
in 15 seconds. He’s not the only slick
feather-puller in Timaru, In filling an
order for 200 plucked and dressed fowls,
two poulterers tackled one batch of 42
chocks and plucked and dressed the lot in
seven minutes. That set everyone in
Timaru crowing.
• * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I strongly deprecate
the statement of Mr. Clive Evatt, Chief
Secretary of N.S.W., that Victoria is a
“literary police State.” I mean, I de-
precate the disparaging inference that
therefore writers in Victoria don’t get a
fair go. As everybody in Melbourne
knows, the laws governing literary ex-
pression, having been made by the most
cultured pack of legislators with which any
State has ever been endowed, are the most
enlightened in the world, and every writer
in Melbourne knows he can write what
he likes provided he writes nothing that
violates the moral conscience of a police-
man, and our policemen are well-known
to be as cultured and enlightened as our
judges and legislators. If a policeman’s
notice has been drawn to a book and he
buys it and finds it upsets him, it must
be an obscene libel because the legal de-
finition of “obscene libel” is precisely
stated as anything written by a person
who publishes any indecent matter tend-
ing to the destruction of the morals
of society and to deprave or corrupt
those whose minds are open to moral in-
fluences. It is recognised, however, that
the policeman might be mistaken, so he
is obliged to make a report to the Chief
Secretary, who sends it to the Crown Law
Department, whose lawyers decide
whether or no the matter should be sub-
mitted to a judge and jury. As our
“For Pete's sake—turn that lonesome-cowboy record off, Jan!”
juries are composed of persons as culti-
vated and enlightened as our lawyers,
legislators and policemen, it logically
follows that their verdict will fulfil the
definition. All the judge has to do then
is to fine or jug the author, as he richly
deserves if his book offends against the
definition. It can thus be seen that Mr.
Evatt’s statement that Victoria is a
“literary police State” is actually most
complimentary to its object.
•♦♦ * *
“Sam”: A dense crowd of people was
waiting for buses at the stop in the busiest
sector of a busy suburban shopping
centre. Out of a near-by shop, laden
with Christmas parcels, came two young
women with a little girl who was crying
petulantly. Her mother vainly tried to
soothe her. Then, handing her friend her
parcels, she administered several sharp
smacks. There was an audible chorus of
“ohs,” accompanied by disapproving
facial expressions on the part of several
women. Turning on them, the mother
demanded “What are you staring at?
Haven’t you ever seen a kiddy spanked
before?” Then, retrieving her parcels,
she marched off, a now-quiet youngster
in tow, before any of those addressed
had recovered from their surprise.
* * * *
“Uco”: Christmas-gift choosing is a
troublesome problem in most households.
An aunt who stayed with us recently
thought she had found the answer as far
as I was concerned. Noticing that my
first-favorite and second-favorite pairs of
socks seemed to be always in the wash, she
assumed they were the only pairs I
possessed, and decided that socks
would be her Christmas gift to me.
Not only that, but she apparently circu-
larised all my relations and broke the
good news. My parcel-opening on
Christmas morning was a most mono-
tonous business —one pair of socks
after another. If the Australian sock-
industry closes down tomorrow it’ll be
15 or 20 years before I notice it. And the
sad thing is that there is not a
pair in the whole collection that even
remotely resembles my first-favorite or
second-favorite pair, both of which have
been darned so often that they are almost
falling to pieces.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Teaching young ex-
servicemen to become efficient tradesmen
had its minor headaches, but they were
overwhelmed with the compensations.
And the greatest compensation was
appreciation from the trainee. That s
why a Christmas-card from one of the
old boys brings to me a warm feeling
that the whole thing was well worth while.
But those cards have also brought a
realisation that there is a bad flaw in our
traditional custom. Nobody would write
a letter without putting his address on
the top ; why, then, isn’t it customary
to put the same information on a card?
Four years ago I said farewell to Mick.
He has never failed to send me a card
every Christmas since ; but he is probably
married now, and the address 1 have is
of the place where he boarded four years
ago. I wonder if the cards I send back
ever reach him? Then there’s Claude,
the postmark on his current envelope is
“Queensland.” I know he married a gu*
from up north, but has he gone there to
live, is he on holiday there, or is he
working his way from town to town?
Perhaps an address four years old will
still track him down. Jock’s postmark
still indicates the same country town.
Good old solid, reliable Jock! The
Scotch thistles in his roots haven’t pre-
vented him from embedding deeply in
the Australian soil. But he has got my
address slightly wrong. Every year his
card goes to a fellow down the road, who
makes an annual pilgrimage to bring it
to me. Looks like he’ll be doing it for
the rest of his life. Why is it irregular to
put an address on a card?
* * * ♦
“Columba”: A strange hysteria some-
times seizes amateur fire-fighters. When
the detached kitchen of the house oppo-
site caught fire neighbors and passers-by
rushed in, and by the
the time the brigade
arrived they had
dragged out and
thrown into the
garden a lot of furni-
ture from the front
of the house, the
frailer things being
ruined. A moment’s
reflection would have
told them the house
itself wasn’t
threatened. But the
worst example
occurred in Gympie
(Queensland) when a
two-storied tailor’s shop caught fire.
Enthusiastic helpers rushed to the top
floor and heaved over the balcony, one
by one, five large sewing-machines, paus-
ing after each effort to peer intently
below as costly cast-iron met concrete
yard.
* * * *
Jim O’Keeffe: What’s all this con-
jecturing about the size of the bows
carried by mounted archers in the Middle
Ages? Scott made the size of a bow
best suited to an archer on horseback
pretty clear in his description of the fight
between the Crusader and the Saracen in
The Talisman. If a bow that size suited
a mounted warrior in Palestine it suited
another in Western Europe. In a later
day the North American Indians attacked
just as Scott’s Saracen did, by circling
their foes and letting fly their arrows
while at full gallop. It’s pounds to pea-
nuts their bows were much the same size
as the Saracen weapons, and of those of
the European horse-archers. There must
be plenty of Indian war-bows in American
museums. Why not measure them and
get the answer?
* * * *
“Nailil”: When a wandering piper cast
up on Thursday Island it was a blessed
event to a master-mariner of Scottish
birth and ardent persuasion. Non-Doric
locals were also pleased at the start, but
their feelings changed when, for seven
days and nights, the pibrochs thrilled,
sometimes weakly, but never completely
expiring. Many there were who jumped
off the water-wagon and joined the potted
piper and his patron, not under stimulus
of the instruments, but as an escape from
frayed nerves. The result was a pub-to-
pub procession which continued into the
small hours every morning. The relief of
Lucknow, heralded by the pipes, was a
small matter to the relief of Thursday
Island, accompanied by the farewell notes
of the same instrument, when, at the end
of the frenzied week, the Merkur sailed
to the lament of “Will he no’ come back
again?” rendered by the piper perched on
the nose of the vessel.
FIRST EDITIONS.
“Collecting books is a life’s work and first editions
a collector’s main interest in life.”
— lnterview.
Some men are connoisseurs of wine,
And some prefer the beer.
Others there are who live to dine,
And some with hobbies queer—
Collecting bugs
Or pewter mugs—
But these, despite their style or mission,
Aren’t in the race
With those who chase
After a first edition.
Some chaps take on the nags and dogs
And mostly live to bet.
And others hunt for shells and wogs—
But these will never get,
Howe’er they try,
One half so fly
In the art of acquisition
As does the soul
Who shrinks his roll
To get a first edition.
Look! See his bloodhound’s nose for books.
He’s on the scent; he’s keen.
Notice his grim detective looks,
See where the sleuth has been?
This Sherlock Holmes
’Mid books and tomes,
This haunted apparition
Who lives to find,
Rare of its kind,
Another first edition.
“Like one who on a lonesome road’’
Who fears to look behind
In case somewhere in its abode
He missed a famous find —
Oh, blighted life,
For a loving wife
Who feels a premonition
That one day she
Will second be
To another first edition.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


“Sackfair”: Five minutes after my
long-haired Legree had shut me in the
kitchen to pull up the worn-out lino. 1
was an archeologist absorbed in the
wonders of an Egyptian tomb. Here in
the dust of ages were records of a lost
world, forgotten people and things
absolutely unbelievable to modern eyes.
When my spouse returned I was still sit-
ting in the red dust, old newspapers
strewn around me. “Listen to this,” I said.
“ ‘June 13, 1937. Roosevelt Wishes Bon
Voyage To Lyons.’ ‘May 16, 1937.
Swagmen Go North To Look For Winter
Work. Workless \ outh Problem.’ Look
at this portrait of the Princesses —they’re
merely children! And this: ‘Big Drop In
Relief Figures.’ Get this: ‘The new
crown pieces issued last Monday have
almost, disappeared from circulation in
Melbourne.’ ‘Now that the Coronation is
over N.S.W. can settle down to* its usual
business, and resume the s.-p. inquiry.’
April 25, 1937, ‘ls War Likely In Four
Years?’ ‘Sydney Council has been offered
£625 as a trade-in allowance on a motor-
car used last year by its chairman ; for an
additional £144 10s. it can obtain three
commercial roadster models.’ ‘Garden’s
Position In Doubt. Mr. Heffron says
Communist issue a bogy.’ ‘Nazis
Rounded Up In Austria.’ ‘Living Costs
Rise In New Zealand.’ ” But my wife
was not listening. On her knees, eyes
fixed on the “poor man’s underfelt,” she
chipped in: “Look! ‘Flannelette Nighties
—ls. lid.’ ‘Girls’ All Wool Velour
Coats —11s. 6d.’ ‘Sheets 3s. 6d. a pair.’
‘Suits tailored to measure —£3 9s. 9d.’ But
look at this: ‘British Inlaid Linoleum —
Bs. 6d. per yd. Genuine Cork Lino. —
ss. 3d.’ Five-and-three! That’s what I
paid for this stuff, and it lasted 13 years.
The new rubbish cost 21s. 6d.’ ” I don’t
think there’ll be much fun when we come
to replace the new lino—newspapers
about 18 months old are not generally
very interesting.
* * * *
“Ginger”: Though the little beach pub
was out of bounds it made no difference
to the troops who
made it their
nightly rendez-
vous. One night
Bung hadn’t had
time to store the
latest consignment
of booze, and in
the smoke-clouded
semi-darkness o f
the bar it was an
easy matter for
five heroes to
prise open a case
and pass a score
or so of bottles through the window.
Jubilantly weaving campwards in the
small hours, they forgot they were a.w.1.,
and bestowed on the astonished guard a
bottle apiece and hilariously awakened
the sergeant with a similar token of their
regard. Loud yells for a bottle-opener
brought the occupants from adjoining
tents, and presently 15 bottles were simul-
taneously raised to 15 thirsty mouths.
Simultaneously the bottles were lowered
and the revellers stared at one another in
mingled dismay and disbelief. The silence
was broken by the sergeant’s roar. “You
blanky fools! You pinched the lemon-
ade.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Almost every young artist
I meet in Melbourne these days tells me
he is off to Paris to finish his art educa-
tion. I tell them that when I was in
Paris there were thousands of talented
young men walking around calling them-
selves artists who had never put a brush
to canvas since they’d been there. One
young American told me that he had
been there eight years and hadn’t done
one day’s work at the Beaux Arts,
although he had been signed up as a
student by his millionaire father. The
first morning he attended the Beaux Arts
he invited the model out to lunch, and
what with the wine and the food and the
conversation it was too late to go back
again that day. There was a different
model almost every day, and they didn’t
“What do you think of our harbor?”
mind going out with the rich young
American —it was much more pleasant
than posing. Young artists to whom I
tell this story unhesitatingly assure me
that the allure of Paris for them isn’t the
cafes or the models, but the Old Masters
in the Louvre, They are going to study
them. When I tell them that the National
Gallery in Melbourne has one of the
finest Rembrandts in existence, an excel-
lent El Greco and dozens of Old Masters
just as good as any in the Louvre and
ask them how often they have been to
the Gallery to study them I find in nine
cases out of ten that they’ve been once,
and the tenth not at all.
* * * *
“Hamer”: My old friend’s death was
certainly not unexpected. Members of
his family phoned that they would re-
gard it as a favor for me to call and see
him, asj he had just come back from the
hospital and needed cheering. He looked
amazingly well; but before I saw him his
son and daughter-in-law had told me that
the old chap was on his last lap—he was
going back to hospital in a couple of
weeks and was not expected to return
home again. They were keeping the news
of his approaching end from him, and
asked me to take a share in keeping up
the deception. I did my best, and the
evening was cheerful; but there came a
time when, for a few minutes, the doomed
man and I were alone. He then told me
—though, he said, his family did not
know it and he wanted to keep it from
them —that his number was up. He was
going back to hospital to die ; the hand-
clasp we exchanged would be our last.
The family doctor grinned sorrowfully
when these circumstances were men-
tioned ; the patient hadn’t a chance in a
thousand of surviving. My old friend has
just died —exactly 20 years after these
happenings. But the five members of
the family who were present in the house
on the night of my visit, another visitor
and the doctor have all been dead for
years.
* * * *
“Transporticus”: Dangerous cargoes?
My first experience was with some-
thing the deadliness of which was
quite unexpected. We arrived at Le
Havre from California with a full load of
oranges, and the first Frenchman down
the hatch had to be hauled up in a hurry.
I never found out whether or not he re-
covered. Onions can be just as bad ; in
fact, anything which over the course of
a voyage can absorb the oxygen from a
closed hold will make conditions
dangerous. Our local bugbear here in
Singapore is calcium carbide. Loaded in
leaking drums in even more leaky wooden
lighters, we’ve had several go sky high,
usually with a considerable amount of
destruction and loss of life ; but nobody
ever seems to learn much from the ex-
perience.
*****
“Ilex”: It was one of those modern
toys for the kids —a luridly colored out-
size in eggs which, when you turn a
handle, obligingly recites a verse of
Humpty Dumpty —that gave me the idea.
A cunningly contrived loudspeaker at
each end of my car and a set of buttons,
each operating an appropriate disk, and 1
take the road equipped with ready-made
objurgation and repartee for any occasion
that may arise. When a smart alec cuts
in front of me, I just press button five and
my front loudspeaker scorches him
with aspersions on his ancestry and his
road manners. When I stall my engine
in a traffic-jam, do I get red in the face
when the fellow behind impatiently toots
his horn? Not so. My rear loudspeaker
bitingly inquires who he thinks he is, Toe
Stalin or J. J. Brown, and states that I’ll
move when I’m good and ready, and
meanwhile he can go and eat hay. My
disks are not all recriminatory. There is
the polite acknowledgment of courtesy
shown, and the “After you. Madam,” for
the chivalrous occasion ; there’s the mild
request to the fellow hugging the crown
of the road to pull over a bit, followed
in the case of non-compliance with a
threat to torpedo his old crate if he
doesn’t. And, of course, the disk
sarcastic for the lady driver who signals
and then changes her mind. The multi-
plicity has proved my undoing, for when
a copper whistled me into the kerb for
failing to notice his august presence at an
intersection, instead of pressing 41 which
says ingratiatingly “Certainly! De-
lighted!” I inadvertently pressed 51 re-
served for a drunken pedestrian stagger-
ing off the footpath.
* * * *
“T.L.”: As quizmaster I asked a con-
testant if she could name the six coun-
ties of Northern Ireland. The lady
frowned upon the question, upon me,
upon the audience. She then confessed
she knew “nothing at all about Northern
Ireland.”’ I’m puzzled. Was the lady
an ignoramus, or did she merely share
the view of a listener-in who accused me
of false pretences and explained “There’s
no such territory as Northern Ireland.
The place is part of Scotland, attached to
Ireland for rations.”
* * * ♦
“Vingter”: In the arty atmosphere of
a “continental” eating-house in Mel-
bourne, the big bloke from Queensland
seemed a bit out of his depth, and let his
mates pick the menu for him. After he
“Can you reproduce one of those American wolf-calls for me. Meadows?”
had devoured the first dish with evident
relish his mates admitted they had had a
slight fear that his stomach might revolt
at “Tasmanian whelks.” The big bloke
scoffed at the imputation. “ ’Strewth! ”
he said. “I’ve eaten witchety-grubs, and
a bloke who can stomach those can come
at anything. It’s all a matter of psy-
chology. Just because some blokes think
they ought to be sick at the thought of
eating grubs they are sick. Show me the
feed that other blokes are attacking and
I’ll be in it, too.” “Glad to hear that,”
said one of his hosts. “Now I can tell
you that those whelks were genuine
French snails.” The cove from Queens-
land knocked over the Italian waiter in
his dash for the gents’ washroom.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: To get a true angle
on class-distinction, come to the school
my daughter attends. The scholars are
drawn from families of all classes in a
variety of suburbs. The most respected
children are those whose parents are both
employed and who can, consequently,
buy their lunches every day and boast
of delicatessen teas each night.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Photos featured in Sydney
dailies showing university students using
the Archibald fountain as a swimming-
pool and small boys sailing boats in it
raised, as far as I am aware, not a single
protest. If someone had climbed on the
Cenotaph there would have been a storm
of protests, yet the Archibald fountain is
really a war memorial, and is entitled to
the same respect. It was donated by The
Bulletin’s J.F.A. as a memorial “com-
memorative of Australia and France
having fought side by side for the liberties
of the world” in the 1914-18 war.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: In my youth I
fought to prevent the tyrant Habit getting
a grip upon me, but the struggle has long
been abandoned. Today I look for the
seat I am in the habit of taking when
catching my morning tram; another
habitual seat waits me in the bus in which
1 finish my journey. In both vehicles
the same people for the most part occupy
the same seats day after day; their pro-
prietary rights are respected by the other
habituals, and if an ignorant casual jumps
their claim they feel that their order of
life has been put
out. There is a
scramble every
morning on every
tram, train, bus
and ferry by
people who want
to get the par-
ticular seat they
regard as their
own. All of which
helps to explain
the assault case
that cropped up
in a Sydney suburban court recently. '1 lie
assailant, finding someone else in pos-
session of his accustomed bus seat, had
asked him to make way, and, receiving an
insulting answer, had been moved to
heave the trespasser out of it. In court it
came out that the assailant had been away
on holidays for three weeks and in that
time his seat had become a habit to the
interloper. The magistrate who dismissed
the charges assault and insulting
language—suggested the two should toss
up for it.
* * * ♦
“Clo”: A sale of lost property moved
a newspaper scribe to mention that 90
per cent, of the goods offered for sale
were those obviously lost by women; he
queried the reason. It’s not hard to find.
Despite the high wages allegedly being
earned, the male is worse off than ever
in the matter of spending-money. He
therefore has little to lose; any lucky
male who has a couple of bob left over
after satisfying the demands of his spouse,
plus the butcher, the baker, etc., makes
sure of his homeward-bound purchase by
carrying it inside his skin. In this
writer’s case anything he might leave on
the tram-seat wouldn’t bring mufh at a
lost-property sale unless there was a
demand for overdue bills, dunning letters
or income-tax assessments.
NOT SO “TONEY.”
“Some New Zealand visitors have praised Sydney
barmaids, who, they said, were ‘keeping up the tone
of the hotels.’ ”
Across the Tasman, where our kin
Seek eager consolation
From life’s increasing burdens in
Thoracic lubrication
They take their slapped-down giggle suds,
Not from some glamorous fairy,
But one clad in a shirt and duds,
Whose hands are coarse and hairy.
Superlative, indeed, must be
That golden wassail foaming,
Which pins them there, reluctantly
To leave and be a-homing,
Without the potent lure of one
Whose tossed-off quip and sally—
With touches of flirtatious fun —
Would tempt them long to dally.
How very fortunate are they
Who, in the pubs of Sydney,
Foregather at the close of day
With others of their kidney!
Their privilege, when beer is slopped
By fair hands wielding middies,
To have their elbow-sleeves well mopped
By Marjorys and Biddys.
But, “keeping up the tone!”— well, well!
That’s scarcely compliment’ry
To Hebe. Didn’t someone tell
These touring Enzed gentry
That when our hog-sty rush-hour starts,
With swillers milling, mauling.
While more squeeze in and none departs,
The loudness is appalling? _ _
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lower Tops’!”: Around Port Phillip
Bay for years old-timers have been saying
that the snapper “don’t come here like
they used ter.” All, too, had their
theories about it—the blasting at the
Heads, the dredging, the influx of motor-
boats, etc. —but this season the old-timers
have had to alter their tune. Last
October, when the beach tea-tree
blossomed, these kings of all Victorian
sea-fish came into the bay in droves and
they continue to come. Off Portsea and
“The Cliff,” where ordinarily you hook
only a passing one until after New Year,
when the fish leave the top of the bay and
settle down in the South Channel and
The Rough-up, everyone’s now catching
the big red fellows by the bucketful. And
it’s the same everywhere in the Bay, even
off Frankston, where those master-netters,
the McComb brothers, cast their outsizes
I'PffWJfc On
I eAKTH
“Look, Pop! Santa left you some skittles .”
in seines well offshore and bunt more
than 1000 fish at a time Why this visita-
tion of snapper again after all these
years?
* * * *
“Shamuseen”; Torres Straits abos have
been caught in the web of mechanisation,
and now use dress-diving apparatus in the
quest for m.-0.-p, shell instead of the
birthday suit. This will probably mean the
disappearance of the practice of open
confession, which was the rule prior to
setting out on a drift. In communal circles
the Binghi crew members squatted on
their haunches whilst each declaimed
aloud the secret sin troubling his soul.
Generally this had to do with amatory
indiscretions, sometimes enacted at the ex-
pense of a crew mate, but by custom no
form of vengeance could be taken on the
information gained by the open-confes-
sion ritual. The ceremony had its origin
in the belief that “bad luck” in the form
of shark attack would be certain if any
crew member began the drift with the
weight of unconfessed sin on his soul.
The dress-diver is virtually immune from
shark attack, and the rite may soon drop
out.
* * * *
“Chuck”; The stranger pulled up at
the pub. “I’m looking for a bloke named
Simpson,” he explained. Bung nodded.
“You’ll find him five miles out on the
main road.” The stranger rode to old
Bill’s. “I’m Herb Rawlings,” he in-
formed. “I’ve come about those rams you
have for sale.” “Me, I got no rams,”
said the old bloke. “Must be young
George y’re lookin’ for. He’s about
three miles up the next turn-off.” The
stranger made George’s place and again
stated his business. “Rams?” puzzled
George. “Yair, but I’ve got none for
sale. Who sent you? The local agent?
Aw, well, it’ll be J.S. y’re after, I reckon —
’less it’s Sam. Sam’s eight miles the other
side of the pub and J.S.’s place is on
Stoney Creek, Try them.” The stranger
tried, drew two more blanks and bedded
down at the pub. “Must be Harry
Simpson you’re after,” explained Bung
next morning. “I heard he had rams for
sale. His farm is at the nine-mile turn-
off.” The horseman reached the nine-
mile. “Can’t be me you want,” he was
told there. “Must be me brother Wally,
or F.C., or Uncle Ted Simpson. Could
be one o’ Ted’s boys, o’ course —he’s got
six of ’em on farms of their own now —
or it might be Bob, or Stan, or
Hey, that ain’t the way,” he called,
“Where you going?” “Well, it’s this
season I want the rams,” came back the
reply, “so I’ll fly over to Tassie an’ get
’em there.”
v * *•
“Terry L.”: “Salmon Gums’s”
swamp-visiting pelicans (B. 18/10/’5O)
must have been overawed by the avian
cacophony and, in
consequence, stricken
dumb. The big
fowls emit a soft,
deep-throated croak,
especially when they
are lazily fighting and
squabbling over the
fish-offal tossed to
them on the S.Q.
beaches where I see them. A chorus of
them, in fact, is quite attractive.
Jp * * *
Joe told us what happened to
his brother. “Me and Ted were up die
paddock. He’d found a good lump o’
wood for kindlin’ and was cutting it. I
saw the axe move closer and closer to his
thumb as he split the piece down. He’ll
cut it off next time, I reckoned, and blow
me down, he did!”
“Kelvin”: In the Torres Straits Islands
a Brobdingnagian cousin of the English
bumble bee is fairly common. About
four times the bulk of the English
specimen, it flies like a heavy bomber and
leads an aimless existence, not build-
ing a hive, and working with the small
native bees in gathering nectar. It
appears to be stingless, and probably de-
rives protection from its appearance, the
disproportionately large belly and head
being jet black, the thorax marked with
black stripes on a golden background.
The impression of indolence is well-
founded, as the big bee prefers to get
honey from the jar on the breakfast-
table rather than gather it from the
blossoms. When I circumvent my visitor
by putting the lid on the honey-jar it
squats disconsolately thereon, seemingly
resigned to a lifelong wait. Only at sun-
“Excuse me —are you Mr. Kelly?"
down, does it give up. I don’t know the
life-span, but it appears that the same bee
has visited me for a month at least.
* * * *
“Eureka”; “Have you ever seen a
centipede about lOin. long?” Toby asked
Nugget, as they sat on the bank of the
river. “No,” Nugget replied, “and I’ll
bet a quid you haven’t either. Cripes, a
centipede that long would be worse than
a death-adder.” “Well, I suppose you
know more about these things than I do,”
Toby said, “seein’ you was reared in the
bush.” “The only blokes who see centi-
pedes that long are blokes who’ve been
on the plonk,” Nugget assured him.
“Well, I might be wrong,” came back
Toby, “but I reckon the one that just
crawled up your trouser-leg was ten
inches if it was an inch.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; From what I can
gather it appears that Mat was staying at
the pub in some little place in western
N.S.W. and was due to catch a mixed
train at four o’clock in the morning.
There was one other guest, a wideawake
young schoolmistress, and she, too, was
due to catch that train, and was “thrilled
to bits” to discover that Mat was to be
her fellow-passenger. Mat thought things
over, then went to the station and learned
that there would be one carriage only
on the train and that, as far as the station
staff knew, he and the lady would be the
only passengers. Mat thought some
more, went back to the pub and made
inquiries about being awakened. “I’ll
give y’ an alarm-clock,” said the publican,
“an’ when it goes orf you wake the young
lady in room six. I’ve told her about it.”
“Have y’?” said Mat, and thought some
more. Later on Mat got the clock and
took it to the girl, “Look,” he said, “I
sleep like a log. Mightn’t hear it go off.
You take the clock an’ you can wake
me.” Like most bushmen Mat could
wake when he wanted to, and he was on
that train on time. When the guard came
to check his ticket he seemed surprised
to find only one passenger. Mat didn’t
tell him how he’d put that clock back 40
minutes, because he considered it was
none of the guard’s business. As he put
it to me, “Cripes, a man had t’ think of
somethin’ or find himself gettin’ dragged
across the plains in the dark on his own
with a girl.”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was on his
way home when he remembered the
shortage of dog-tucker and rode round
by old Joe’s paddock. Bunnies were
plentiful there, and with his feet propped
on the fence the dog surveyed all the
dinners running everywhere, till a whistle
from the old bloke sent him to scatter
them more hastily. Presently he ran one
to earth in a soft chalky burrow that
looked shallow, “All right, all right, take
y’rself out o’ the flamin’ road then, if
y’ want me t’ get it for y’,” growled
Seventyfiver, borrowing a trap-setter that
was stuck in a fence-post. He dug for
a few minutes, grabbed a stick and felt
down the burrow. “That’s him. Blue,”
he announced, prodding' gently. “Can’t
quite reach him. ’Bout two feet in.”
He returned to his digging, then used
the stick once more. “Blast it, he’s moved
on or somethin’,” he complained. “Three
feet ahead, now.” He chopped out an-
other foot of earth, felt down the hole
with a longer stick, looked puzzled, and
put an ear to the ground. The result
was a sudden mad assault on the burrow
by Seventyfiver, and an equally enthusi-
astic and entirely misdirected attack on
the loose dirt by the old cattle-dog. Ten
minutes, then further investigation by
the old bloke, and watchful intentness
from his offsider, as the stick tapped
hollowly round in the tunnel. “No good,
Blue. Y’ll have t’ find another.” The
old bloke returned the setter to the post.
“This here bloke’s diggin’ faster ’n we
are!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; The other side of Gil-
gandra (N.S.W.) recently I overheard one
small boy eagerly trying to assure another
of his veracity in some matter or other.
“It’s fair the dink, I tell y’!” he shouted
indignantly. It set me thinking how long
it was since I’d heard that before. Once
a common Australian expression, it seems
to have gone into the long silence with
“fair do’s,” “straight wire,” “square
griffen,” “the office” and similar varia-
tions of the old English “honest Injun.”
“Dinkum” itself seems to have survived,
though with some peculiar modern mean-
ings, and is kept alive largely by writers
and radio playwrights, who throw it into
dialogue to prove that they know Aus-
tralia or something, though generally the
character who uses it in radio-plays
speaks more like a Cockney than
an Australian bushman. In years knock-
ing about the bush I heard many varia-
tions of “dinkum,” but the most purely
localised one was in Lang-Lang, a Gipps-
land cow town, where, on doubting a
bloke’s statement that another bloke had
run away with a waitress from the pub,
he assured me that it was “pure milk,”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Hal had never done sheep
work but was determined to learn, and
took a job at Bob Hanlon’s shed. “Want
this mob of woollies put into the shed,”
instructed Bob. “You drive ’em in and
I’ll slip inside and keep ’em moving. I’ll
leave you Rover. He won’t take orders
from you, but he knows the job.” The
boss worked inside till presently there
was a break in the sheep. He shoved
his head out inquiringly and saw Hal
gazing stupidly at the mob and rubbing
his leg. “Er, I s’pose you wouldn’t like
this dog inside there with you?” Hal
suggested. “Rover? No; he’s better
helping you,” called the boss. “Keep
those sheep
coming.” The
woollies
surged in and
again
stopped. This
time the boss
found Ha 1
seated in the
middle of the
yards. He
voiced his impatience. “Well, I reckon
I’d get on better on me own,” ventured
the newchum. “Perhaps if I didn’t have
this dog” “Yair, then you’d never
get ’em in,” snapped Bob. “Don’t worry,
Rover knows what he’s doing. You
watch the sheep and don’t mind him.”
At the next stoppage Bob was in time to
see the new hand pick himself off the
bottom rail. “AH right,” came his voice,
“he might know what he’s doing, but I
wish he wouldn’t keep on baiting that
big ram, then ducking behind me.”
WEST OF ALICE.
We are travelling west of Alice Springs, and
Sam is at the wheel;
Riding the diesel-grader I am watching its blade
of steel
Roll back the dark-red sandy loam or grinding
the limestones grey,
And the wheels whirl m a red-dust swirl along
the new highway.
We pass where Sturt-peas clothe the earth with
a scarlet sweep of flowers,
And burst through green acacia-trees that send
down golden showers;
The parakeelia’s purple blooms are crushed in
the dry, red sand
When the bright blade sweeps as the grader
creeps over the stern, strange land.
The mulga, malice, desert-oaks fall prostrate as
we pass,
The lizards, pigeons, porcupines crouch low
’midst stone and grass;
We brush the spinifex aside, tear down the
bush-rat’s shade,
And the desert mole in its sandhill hole digs
faster from our blade.
The honey-ants are rooted out to roll amidst
the sand,
But ever the ramping, stamping fiend goes
roaring through the land;
The tyres grind and the steel blade cuts the
pads where camels trod
And claws at the ground of a stony mound
where tribesmen praised their God.
We crossed dry desert rivers, formed when the
world was new,
And churned to dust the fossil-bones of the
giant kangaroo;
I waved to naked native kids upon Erldunda’s
plain,
And we filled our tank where the black men
drank from rock-holes filled by rain.
We camped ’midst Kulgera’s weathered hills,
scarred core of an ancient range,
Where the camp-fire flame throws out its light
on a scene that is ever strange
As a dingo wailed by the painted wall of a
sacred cave near by
And the stars shone bright as we lay at night
beneath a frosty sky.
We rise as mulga-parakeets go whirring through
the dawn,
We see old Manbuk —star-man —rise from
depths of midnight drawn;
We hear the grader’s engine roar with Sam
behind the wheel,
And I sing my song as we plunge along to
the chatter of wheel and steel.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


FROM SCULLIN TO MENZIES—EIGHT AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTERS
By Contemporary "Bulletin” Cartoonists
J. H. Scullin, 1929-1932.
(Scorfield caricature.)
A. W. Fadden, 1941 (39 days).
(Heth.)
F. M. Forde, 1945 (7 days).
(Frith.)
Earle Page, 1939 (19 days).
(Dennis Connelly.)
J. B. Chifley, 1945-1950.
(Scorfield.)
J. A. Lyons, 1932-1939.
(Scorfield.)
John Curtin, 1941-1945.
(Dubois.)
R. G. Menzies, 1939-1941, 1950-.
(Modelled by Frith.)


Safeguarding Estate Investments
demands this specialised knowledge
The only Truster company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and manaricment in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
pAMILIARITY with legal requirements, invest-
ment values, taxation and property details is a
paramount responsibility of the Executor or
Trustee charged with the duty of administering
an estate involving commercial or pastoral
interests. Such knowledge is far beyond individual
capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified by
nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this responsi-
bility, and will act either jointly with, or in place
of, those who seek relief from such onerous
tasks. Charges are moderate; service is most
comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Import-
ant Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in
333 Collins
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Victoria)
St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 18SS)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 288,408 10 p.c. = 143,017 145,391 1,530,119
Reduced intangibles, £3l .. ..1,530,150
1942.. 258,465 10 p.c. = 143,017 115,448 1,645,598
1943.. 279,880 10 „ „ 143,017 136,863 1,782,461
1944.. 237,180 10 „ „ 143,017 94,163 1,876,624
1945.. 330,575 10 „ ~144,742-185,833 2,062,457
1946.. 215,952 10 „ „ 145,317 70,635 2,133,092
1947.. 327,886 10 „ „ 145,317 182,569 2,815,661
1948.. 333,536 10 ~ „ 160,000 183,536 2,499,197
1949.. 329,299 10 „ „ 150,000 179,299 2,678,496
Unexplained reduction. £1855 ..2,676,641
1950.. 438,061 10 p.c. = 172,500 265,561 2,942,202
•After deducting intangibles (now £51,464).
Popularity of the scrip in this big
jam-making and fruit-canning and
-preserving organisation rests upon the
co.’s performances as a profit-earner and
dividend-payer, upon its strength at home
and abroad and financial and otherwise,
and upon the quality of the control.
Shareholders have never failed to receive
a div. since 1909, when the co. was
formed. For the first 20 years the rate
averaged 10.8 p.c. —sweetened with
£455,492 of bonus scrip issued in 1927 —
followed by an average of 7.5 p.c. for
the next half-dozen difficult slump years,
and then a steady 10 p.c., with 1} p.c.
added in 1939, for the 15 years to the
close of last accounts. The £1,800,000 of
capital (£300,000 of it was gathered at
par in May last) was then entrenched
behind £2,942,202 of visible reserves ; and
the inner strength is known to be sub-
stantial, too.
Of the 24 operating units in the group,
12 are in Australia and the balance, in-
cluding four merchandising offshoots, in
S. Africa and New Zealand. Australian
output of jam fell from 88,600 tons for
1947-48 to 59,400 tons for the following
year and to 56,900 tons for the 12 months
to June 30 last—the drop in the latest
figure would have been greater but for
a revival of U.K. demand. However,
turnover increased, thanks to bigger sales
of canned fruit, adjustment of selling-
prices and reduction of stocks, which had
been taken into the books at a conser-
vative figure. And the gains more
than took care of the rise in wage,
fruit, sugar, fuel, tinplate, transport and
other outgoings.
After allowing £139,208 (down
£32,899) for depreciation, writing off
£11,804 (up £2057) on account of capital
expenditure and making an unspecified
provision for taxation, net earnings of the
group increased by £80,987; of the
increase £49,646 came from Australian
sources and £31,341 from ex-Australian
interests:
Net inpome— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Australian . . £164,524 £233,270 £198,386 £248,032
Other sources 147,907 95,598 158,688 190.029
Total .. £312,431 £328,868 £357,074 £438,061
The record £438,061 of profit claimed
was 25.4 p.c. on average capital as against
21.9, 22.2, 22.5, 14.8 and 22.7 p.c. back
to 1945.
The chairman, however, points out
that:
This report would be incomplete without
mention that discussions have been taking
place with taxation officers as to whether
our consistent and standard system of stock
valuation has resulted in a too-conservative
value being placed on our stocks.
The auditor of the S. African offshoot
also points out that:
Stocks having been decreased in quantity
compared with those on hand at August 31,
1949, and having been valued at the same
prices as in previous years, the profit shown
as a result of the decrease, exceeds,
in our opinion, the actual profits made
during the year ended August 31, 1950.
It is thus plain that the board has given
itself plenty of elbow-room to deal with
any fall that might occur in selling-prices
by strengthening the co.’s shock-absorbers
in the form of an inner reserve, created
by conservative valuation of stocks in the
published accounts. It is a sound practice
with which discerning shareholders will
have no quarrel, and one likely to be
modified rather than abandoned. The
board favors neither asset-revaluation
nor share-subdivision at present.
Apart from a drop of £43,207 in stocks,
aggregate balance-sheet figures of the
group reflect all-round expansion of busi-
ness :
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital . . £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,800,000
Outside interests* 75,010 72,860 79.302
Creditors, etc. .. 856,494 884,438 842,642
Tax reserve, etc... 415,967 597,090 684,205
Freeholds, etc. . .. 1,041,038 1,096,624 1,160,603
Plant, etc. . . 615,978 625,508 706,310
Stocks .. .. 1,960,273 1,807,986 1,764,779
Debtors .. .. 1,291,860 1,453,177 1,467,436
Shares .. .. 126,224 133,664 150,354
Cash, etc 417,128 698,850 1,244,645
Suspense account. . 6,667 29,575
Goodwill, etc. .. 51,464 51,464 50,935
* Includes proportion reserves.
The large holding of cash, etc, (up
£545,795 —£245,795 more than the new-
capital gathered) is well in excess of
normal trade requirements, thus placing
the co. in a strong position to further
expand activities.
The pound shares, which sold at 60s.
9d, in June, recently fetched 725. The
immediate return at the higher figure is
2.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis ; so the
investor who looks for a shade under
4 p.c. on his money counts on the div.
going to 14 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 525. 6d.
Bradford Cotton Mills
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943. .103,820 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944. .107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 23,962 265,623
1945. .106,483 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 23,109 288.732
1946. .100,659 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 17,285 306,017
1947. .114,492 6 „ 10 „ 89,079 25,413 331,430
1948. 6 „ 10 „ 94,085 22,706 354,136
Share premiums, £282,435 .. .. 636,571
Removal exes., £43,554 .. .. 593,017
1949. .145,858 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 125,840 20,018 613,035
Share premiums, £41,176 .. .. 654,211
Removal exes, £30,138 .. ~ 624,073
Capital assets reserve, £514,283 .. 1,138,356
1950. .187,018 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 173,565 13,453 1,151,809
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles ( £2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £802,475).
This 24-year-old and its nine subsidiaries
—five in N. S. Wales and four in Victoria
—are in the forefront of Australia’s infant
cotton-textile industry. Last term a ready
market awaited an expanding output at
rising prices (selling-prices are officially
controlled), and a lot of fresh money was
introduced to help finance expansion of
the undertaking.
But the going was far from smooth.
The N. S. Wales plants all closed down
for nearly two months early in the term
owing to the coal strike; intermittent
power blackouts interrupted production
for as much as six hours a week ; much of
the.new money was represented by plant
and other fixed assets that didn’t have an
opportunity to contribute to the pool;
removal of the main weaving mill from
Sydney to Rutherford (near Maitland)
was completed without serious interrup-
tion to production ; the N.Z. offshoot, in
which Felt and Textiles was also in-
terested, was wound up without overall
loss, and the ~otton section of the plant
was transferred to Rutherford ; three
new cotton-spinning subsidiaries were set
up—one at Rutherford, another at New-
castle and the third at Bendigo—all of
which have come into production since
the close of accounts; and equipment in
the older mills was modernised and ex-
panded.
So, all things considered, the
year’s £187,018 (up £41,160) of
profit ‘was a commendable achievement.
The figure was written after charging
£30,138 of removal exes., etc., against
share-premium reserve, allowing £96,096
(up £6719) for depreciation and £52,255
(up £7066) for taxation. It was enough
to pay pref. divs (£9186) and show 10.8
p.c. on average ord. capital as against
11.7, 12.6, 13.2, 12.3, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. has been main-
tained at a steady 10 p.c. for the last 11
years ; for the four years before that dis-
tributions averaged 13.1 p.c. On the last
£564,871 of capital, however, 10 p.c. is
worth only 6 p.c., because the issue was
made at an unwarranted premium of 13s.
a share by direction of the capital-con-
trol authority, not the board.
Incidentally, now that capital control is
to be reintroduced the Government
would be well advised to recognise
the fact that no worth-while financial or
economic purpose is served by setting up
the Treasury as a dictator to boards of
directors and their skilled advisers con-
cerning the terms on which new shares
are to be issued. Genuine differences of
opinion exist about the merits of issuing
new shares at a premium. The question
is really one of domestic policy, and
should therefore be left to the discretion
of directors in exercise of the powers
delegated to them by shareholders as
owners of a business.
During the year freeholds were inde-
pendently revalued and written up in the
books by £514,283, which was placed to
capital assets reserve (now £666,852).
This book entry will not affect earning-
power one way or the other ; it might
have advantages connected with official
allowances for depreciation and taxation.
The final £286,075 of captal and £41,176
of premiums on the 1948 new share-issue
came in, and £1,200,000 was raised on a
25-year mortgage-debenture at a “favor-
able” rate of interest from a leading life
office:
Consolidated Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £1,139,860 £1,569,109 £1,855,184
Outside interests. . 12,657 12,658 12,658
Mortgage loan .. 1,200,000
Creditors . . 865,801 1,383,008 1,390,443
Staff fund .. 10,000 10,000 9,080
Depreciation reserve 670,893 734,935 802,475
Tax reserve . . 89,356 74,977 78,266
Final divs. .. 49,387 69,367 89,752
Freeholds . . 462,500 582,059 1,424,491
Leaseholds , . 6,529 48,566 48,403
Plant, etc. . . 1,445,379 2,443,768 3,224,889
Stock, etc. . . 734,395 1,081,079 1,372,841
Book debts . . 335,952 253,641 514,424
Cash, etc. . . 208,174 57,986 4,623
Intangibles . . 2,863 2,863 2,863
The new share and mortgage moneys,
and more besides, went into freeholds (up
£842,432, of which £514,283 was on
account of the writing-up already referred
to), plant, etc., (up £781,121), stocks (up
£291,762) and book debts (up £260,783).
Excluding the mortgage, the more-or-less
liquid surplus at June 30 was £324,347,
an improvement of £468,993 over the
twelvemonth.
The trade outlook is one of expanding
demand, on both commercial and defence
account, and the new subsidiaries promise
to give a satisfactory account of them-
selves, once they settle into their stride,
which is likely to b,e beyond next bal-
ancing-date. For these and other reasons,
and despite the fast-rising costs-gradient,
the 10 p.c. div. does not appear to be in
danger at the moment.
At 50s. (465. 9d. a year ago) the
pound ords. return 4 p.c. on the basis
of last term’s distribution. The first and
second 6 p.c. prefs. at 30s. and 295. 3d.
yield 4 p.c. and 4.1 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover is £5O 2s. firsts, £3l 13s.
seconds and 335. 6d. ords.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
( Dividends N
A Pref. B Pref, Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 61,084 11,723 8,611 124 p.c.= 30,813 65,301
1941.. 59,913 11,723 8,611 10 „ „ 28,286 76,594
1942.. 53,206 11,724 8,610 10 „ „ 28,287 81,177
1943.. 44,887 11,724 8,610 74 „ „ 21,216 84,514
1944.. 45,365 11,724 8,610 74 „ „ 21,215 88,330
1945.. 42,046 11,724 8,610 74 „ „ 21,216 88,826
1946.. 51,452 11,724 8,610 74 „ „ 21,215 98,729
1947.. 53,664 11,724 8,610 74 „ ~21,591110,468
Share premiums, £42,052 .. .. 152,520
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 74 „ ~24,781 167,862
1949.. 55,519 11,724 8,610 7| „ ~ 27,034 176,013
To contingencies reserve, £lO,OOO .. 186,013
1960.. 67,074 11,724 8,610 74 p.c.= 27,033 205,720
* After deducting goodwill ( £42,070).
From Melbourne headquarters the co.
runs a chain of 41 shops, scattered
throughout all States except Queensland,
and trades mainly in women’s and men’s
clothing, furniture and manchester goods,
partly on a t.-p. basis. Towards the close
of last accounts new stores were opened at
Canberra (A.C.T.) and Box Hill (Vic.),
and the old-established drapery business of
Charles E. Burton Pty., Burnie (Tas.), was
bought at an unstated figure.
The year’s turnover stepped up by
£400,000, reaching an undisclosed but
record figure. Gross margins were
the lowest yet, but a tight hold
was kept upon operating exes.,
and the net result was £11,555
stronger at £67,074. That covered
pref. divs. and 12.9 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 9.7, 12.1, 11.5, 11, 7.6 and
8.8 p.c. back to 1944. The p.c. to
the ords. was repeated for the eighth year
in succession ; for seven years before that
the average was 13.2 p.c. The £19,707
of the year’s net earnings that remained,
together with £lO,OOO from excess tax
provision, lifted reserves £205,720 in
excess of goodwill (£42,070). Paid capital
was £650,932 when the books closed.
Expansion has been the keynote of the
co.’s figures since war ended. Over the
last five years £1,116,886 net has been
added to freeholds (up £332,186), plant
(up £96,130), stocks (up £359,357) and
book debts (up £329,216). Over the same
period shareholders put up £77,574 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£42,052 of share premiums, £376,500 was
added to mortgages, the co. went to its
bankers for £343,234, added £66,334 to
the amount coming to trade creditors and
drew upon cash, etc., for £159,702:
1945. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £573,358 £650,932 £050,932 £050,932
Mortgages . . 23,600 258,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft . . 134,210 116,943 343.234
Creditors . . 24,191 49,634 77,920 90,525
Tax provision 32,500 45,500 40,500 30,000
Final divs. . . 21,150 23,684 23,684 23,683
Freeholds . . 194,048 460,111 474,402 526,235
Leaseholds . . 3,139 11,901 14,869 26,895
Plant . . 35,131 66,524 90,164 131,261
Stocks . . 186,105 414,583 521,382 545,462
Debtors . . 179,450 369,060 373,687 508,666
Cash, bonds.. 165,277 7,634 11,488 5,575
Last term the overdraft was increased by
£226,291. This, and more besides, went
into book debts (up £134,979), stocks (up
£24,080) and fixed assets (up £104,956).
There was a slip of £75,249 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£172,261).
When the books closed there was 19s.
sd. of outside money in the business for
every pound of tangible assets belonging
to shareholders. To ease the position
£223,892 of fresh ord. capital has been
since gathered at par. Paid capital thus
becomes £874,824 in 167,475 £1 A and
123,015 £1 B prefs., both 7 p.c. cumula-
tive, and 2,337,336 ords. of ss. each. On
that lot the pref. divs. and p.c. to the
ords. would call for £64,159, or £2915 less
profit than was shown last term, and there
will be more stores contributing to the
pool. Erection of the new store on a
vacant site at Hobart, bought a couple of
years ago for £60,000, has been delayed
by shortage of materials. Owing to the
low gross margins on controlled lines, and
continued rise in operating costs, and the
present high cost of construction, the
board is considering whether it is worth
while going ahead with the work at the
moment.
The ords. at Bs. 9d. (7s. 7d. a year ago)
return 4.3 p.c., and the A shares at 30s.
6d. and the Bs. at 28s. yield 4.6 p.c. and
5 p.c. respectively on the basis of last
term’s distributions. Including capital
issued since the close of accounts, net
tangible cover is £6 9s. As, £7 Bs. Bd. Bs
and 6s. 9d. ords.
Mountain View Gold
Until a few weeks ago it looked as
though the profitable life of Mountain
View Gold, N.L., which is working part
of the northern end of the Great Fingal
reef at Cue (W.A.), was about to end —
the rich ore-shoot had bottomed above
the 640 ft. level. Geologist H. J. C.
Conolly was called in, and he


€ru 3a ° e Z
St
m
V
H
GUARANTEED never to fade or shrink
m
“Didn’t you
know?”
“Yon entertain a lot—you
ought to have a useful opinion
about Whisky.”
“Yes, I’ve had a lot of exper-
ience, and an ounce of exper-
ience is still better than a ton
of theory.”
“Well, what would you say was
Australia’s best Whisky ? ”
“Oh, unquestionably Corio
Special wins, no matter what
standards of comparison you
take ! Everything’s the same
at Corio Distillery as overseas.
Nothing used but pure malt,
pure grain and Anno Domini.”
“How do you mean, Anno
Domini ? ”
“Age ! Ageing ! That’s what
makes a pure whisky a good
whisky.”
“How long do they age it ?”
“At least five years —nearly
three times as long as Common-
wealth laws require. They
absolutely guarantee it against
flavouring agents or adulter-
ants. Do you drink whisky ? ”
“Thanks—l don’t mind if I dol’
“Here, you come and try a
Corio now. It has real char-
acter and it’s Australia’s best
whisky.”
CORIO SPECIAL
Whisky at its prime
“It’s 5
years old”
IB
<* dr
C35/I6
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
I'rade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts', Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Mining.
Anglo - Westralian Mining Pty.
Limited,
Big Bell, Western Australia,
Require crew of, or individual, con-
tract miners for development work
at Ragged Hills Lead Mine in the
Marble Bar district. Western Australia.
Contract earnings supplemented by
Lead Bonus. , .
Good single quarters free of chaige
and reasonable mess tariff.
Air fares to employment arranged,
bat chargeable unless six months
satisfactory service completed.
Work commences early in New Year.
Please apply—
General Manager,
BIG BELL . . . W.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
o. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manage!.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
The Big Customer
oi To-morrow
The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited has
always striven to give its business
“the personal touch”.
Its officers keep in mind that
the small depositor of to-day
may be the big borrower of to-
morrow. The talent and ex-
perience of its officers, brought
to bear on a customer’s problems,
rarely fail to suggest a solution
of them.
This policy of “the personal
touch” is carried out in more
than 300 offices of the Bank.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OE SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
TODAYS PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-five years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
cmim~sPiOMpA tfae
m
■
m
W.M
m
m
rrnnnill
L&l
df
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD*
HIJNTEP AND BIIGH STREET SYDNEY!
reported that the best chances
of resuscitation lay in explora-
tion to the south, where broken
ore, pillars, etc., left in the old
Great Fingal mine might be
met with, and also below the
present workings. So the main
shaft has been deepened to
108 ft. below the 640 ft. level, and
a full face of quartz is show-
ing for the last 100 ft., the reef
having reformed. But what
values are likely to be it is impos-
sible to say at the moment —
gold mineralisation has been
very erratic throughout the mine,
and has decreased with depth.
Working south on the 430 ft.
level, the co. has now broken
through the old workings on
No. 5 level of the Great Fingal,
which have yet to be thoroughly
examined. Co. has approximately
£50,000 in kitty. The 4s. shares,
which sold as high as 10s. in
1949, recently fetched 2s. 9d.
“Sumting Nutting”: At the
recent annual meeting of Aus-
tralian Development, N.L., the
company’s Noble’s Nob Mine at
Tennant Creek was described as
remarkable. So it is, and so, by
the way, is the annual report and
balance-sheet. Some of the ore-
shoots intersected during de-
velopment yielded high re-
coveries over sizeable parcels.
This is brought out in the re-
port, and makes cheerful read-
ing, somewhat offset by the lack
of a statement of working costs
of mining and treatment. The
mine-working account to June
30, 1950, seems to itemise every-
thing except these debits, and it
is left to the shareholder to
adopt the time-honored method
of dividing the tonnage treated,
in this case about 10,000 tons,
into the total costs shown in the
working and overhead accounts.
One shareholder naively sug-
gested to the chairman that in-
creased throughput would re-
duce the working costs. With
regard to positive ore reserves,
it is noteworthy that when the
bottom level of the mine was at
about 104 ft. a report by the co.’s
consulting - engineer, dated
February 2, 1948, said “A con-
servative estimate of the positive-
ore position now stands at
81,104 tons” (note the four).
This was above the 104 ft.
level. Since then several other
levels have been driven. The
same authority, under date of
October 31, 1950, puts the re-
serves this way: “A very con-
servative estimate of ore de-
veloped and blocked out for
stoping can be safely assessed
as follows:
Tons.
Above 135 ft. horizon .. .. 12,000
From 135 ft. to 183 ft. horizon 42,000
Below 183 ft. to 235 ft. horizon 15,000
Total 69,000
To avoid confusion in the minds
of shareholders statements of
ore reserves should bear some
relation to previous statements
on the same subject. A good
example of what a mine report
and balance-sheet should show is
afforded regularly by a mine in
the same field, namely the well-
managed Eldorado.
* * * *
Sunshine Gold Development,
which is sluicing an area on the
Watut River (New Guinea),
made a profit of only £279 from
a recovery of 1464.50 z. gold for
the year to June 30, 1950. Ex-
cessive rains, which caused
floods and damage to the area,
were the chief trouble, work
being intermittent during the last
half of the term. Subject to the
weather, prospects for the cur-
rent year look much brighter.
No. 10 elevator, in the centre of
the main channel, is expected to
begin work any day now, with
“considerable” benefit to gold
returns. The plant and race are
reported in good order, the labor
position has improved and “a
good face of wash carrying satis-
factory values” has been opened
up on the Widubosh tribute,
which is being worked on a
profit-sharing basis with Bulolo
Gold Dredging. The co.’s 10s.
shares, which touched 17s. in the
market a couple of years ago,
recently sold at Bs. lOd. Last
div. was 6d. a share in 1941.


mm
ms,
S3*
5® ■ S -
wSfeS
■■Vi
■am.
mm
mm
S 3
BP
How much will your
family receive from
your Estate ?
Have you worked it out?
Many a man, who has consulted a specialist in Estate
Administration in regard to his Will, has been surprised to
find that his family will receive considerably less than he
anticipated.
There is a simple pro-
cedure to ensure that your
Estate will yield its maxi-
mum for your dependents:—
Firstly: Discuss your af-
fairs, in confidence, with a
Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s 64 years
experience is available,
through him, to guide you
in the wise planning of your
Will.
Secondly: Have this plan
embodied in your Will by a
Solicitor and keep your Will
up-to-date.
Thirdly: Assure the ef-
ficient and economical
management of your Estate,
when your guiding hand is
withdrawn. You can do
this by appointing Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited
as your Executor and Trus-
tee alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend. In so
doing you will follow the
lead given by many of our
wisest and niost successful
citizens.
Public acceptance of the
high standard *of service
rendered by Perpetual Trus-
tee Company Limited and
the appreciation of depen-
dents, who have found in it
a valued guide and friend,
are responsible for the Com-
pany’s position to-day as the
largest Trustee Company in
the Southern Hemisphere—
with Trust and Agency
Funds under administration
exceeding £70,000,000.
If you would have par-
ticulars of the services
offered by the Company,
ring B 0377 and make an
appointment. A Senior
Officer will be pleased to
give the information you
desire.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, BTC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Robbing the Savers
Among the things very badly
wrong with Australia today is
the way people with savings are
being affected by inflation. At
no time was the need for saving
more urgent; at no time has
saving had less encouragement,
either from the point of view
of security of buying-power or
the rate of interest one may
earn from gilt-edged invest-
ments.
Inflation of the kind we see
at present is utterly demoralis-
ing. When thrift has no virtues
you begin to have a spendthrift,
improvident State. And without
thrift you have no national de-
velopment—no new essential
public works and services, no
new factories, no new shipping
services.
What happens to a nation’s
money usually happens to its
production also. If money is
spent on consumer goods, then
goods are consumed; if money
is saved, then money becomes
invested in goods and assets of
a reproductive nature, which
makes the production of further
consumer goods much easier.
If too much money is spent
on consumer goods eventually
the means of making those
goods becomes inadequate, and
without the necessary additions
to factories and other equip-
ment the means of production
becomes totally unfitted to cope
with demand. At that point we
see hopeless inflation, real
poverty and utter national
decrepitude.
In Australia today millions of
holders of Commonwealth
bonds, life policies and bank
deposits are being cruelly
robbed by inflation. The best
people in the community—those
who have endeavored to protect
their families by saving and life-
assurance, and who have tried
to be independent of State aid
in their old age—are being
treated the worst.
People who, because of old
age or ill health, are being
forced to live on savings, or the
income from savings, have to
suffer the burden of increased
living costs without the aid of
any basic-wage increase.
Since 1939 the basic wage,
allowing for the recent £l-a-
week rise, has more than
doubled. On the other hand,
holders of 4 p.c. Government
securities, issued in the depres-
sion, were recently obliged to
convert into 3| p.c. stock or
else be paid off in cash.
Protection of the thrifty is
something which cannot be
evaded by any responsible Gov-
ernment. At present too much
political attention is being given
to the irresponsibly selfish sec-
tion of the community. Pres-
sure-groups seek only the votes
of the majority and ignore the
rights of vital minorities. Thus
we see people who let a house
or two limited in their rents re-
ceivable to a percentage of the
1939 value of the property.
Sometimes they are permitted a
small increase above 1939
figures, but nowhere is the in-
vestor in house property (unless
the house be in an “uncon-
trolled” holiday area) allowed an
increase in his income equal to
the rise in the basic wage.
Even where the owner of a
rented house is able to evict a
tenant and then sell the house at
present-day inflated values for
vacant possession, the new
owner will be quite unable to
let it to give a reasonable return
on the inflated present-day price.
Thus it is hard to get current
values for a rented house with-
out a guarantee of vacant pos-
session. And fewer and fewer
homes are being built for letting
purposes. So the number of ill-
housed members of the com-
munity increases.
There is more in the matter
of preserving the rights attached
to thrift than mere equity to the
citizen. Unless thrift is en-
couraged there will be fewer
'%* cP p
“V><
cirf
you?
4+Alj?
A-f
■ANT? tfEAf
*/
i'WoMBCUPPEK
Vfc'OOoW-SuPW-OOOPEe
vbkenti^
. vu* A aMRCUff
and fewer new factories, less and
less national development, and
at the same time the housing
shortage will be a never-ending
problem. No economy will
function for long without proper
safeguards being provided for
thrift.
Costs and Prices in Britain
A year after the revaluation
of sterling, the Economic Infor-
mation Unit of the British
Treasury reviewed costs and
prices in the United Kingdom:
The prices of imported raw
materials rose from September,
1949, to September, 1950, by
7s. 7d. in the pound. The rise,
which began with devaluation
and lasted well into 1950, has
been reinforced since June by
the Korean conflict and its effect
on international demand. Sep-
tember price-movements overseas
brought little sign of relief.
The Board of Trade index of
wholesale prices—reflecting costs
of both imports and home-pro-
duced materials—reached new
high levels in September, rising
by just over 3 per cent., or 7d.
in the pound. This was the
biggest monthly increase since
1940, and the rise compared with
September, 1949 —the month
of devaluation —was 3s. 7d. in
the pound.
The present index does not in-
clude the changes in prices of
finished manufactures —the ques-
tion of including them is now
being studied —but it covers a
wide range of commodities
from foodstuffs to metal goods,
textiles, building materials, etc.,
at earlier stages of manufacture.
It therefore shows the effect of
rising prices on an important
part of the costs of all finished
goods.
As at present constructed,
roughly one-third of the index
covers food and tobacco, the re-
maining two-thirds industrial
materials and manufactures.
These latter went up more than
the average in September—9jd.
in the pound—and over the
twelve months 4s. sd. in the
pound.
Coal and steel account for
nearly a quarter of the index
and a third of the industrial
items. These and other home-
produced commodities such as
bricks, etc., have risen scarcely
at all, and have had a steadying
influence on the index as a
whole. Most of the other
materials are imported, and the
prices of these have risen by
nearly two-fifths.
The non-ferrous metals have
gone up 10s. Bd, in the pound
since devaluation —copper being
the main reason—but they have
only 4 per cent, of the total
weight in the index, while iron
and steel play nearly five times
as large a part.
Textiles account for 15 per
cent, of the total index. With
the exception of wool they have
risen over the year at about the
average rate for materials and
manufactures generally be-
tween 4s. and ss, 6d. in the
pound. Wool prices, however,
have risen no less than 245. in
the pound—and wool represents
H per cent, of the total index.
The movement of wholesale
prices also shows the direction
in which retail prices are likely
to move. They do not show
much more than that —how far,
for instance, retail prices will
follow them or with what delay
—for the two indices, wholesale
and retail, are quite differently
made up. One includes mostly
materials, the other takes ac-
count of costs of finished goods
(which do not rise proportionally
with materials), rent, services,
travel, entertainment, and so
on ; one is based on total im-
port and production, the other
on the pattern of domestic ex-
penditure shown by a pre-war
inquiry into family budgets.
Even for a particular com-
modity, copper, say, or cotton,
there is no fixed relation be-
tween the two indices. Qualities,
for example, may change, or
profit margins; or prices may
rise in anticipation of higher re-
placement costs. So that the
only useful generalisation that
can be made is the obvious one
that a big rise in wholesale
prices will, sooner or later, affect
the prices of goods in the shops.
For some items the time lag may
be a matter of days—for others
more than a year.
There can be no doubt, how-
ever, that in a period of rising
import and wholesale prices, a
great deal gan be done to mini-
mise the effect on the cost of
living if productivity can be
raised and increases avoided in
those costs of production which
can be directly influenced by
action taken in Britain.
Maoriland’s Import Problem
With New Zealand’s wool
cheque for the season heading
for £NZISO million, on latest
estimates, against £l6O million
from all exports last year,
Maorilanders have overcome
their main worry on the import
front, and could decontrol trade


% *
A
iMTi
jTh
m
mm
r\'
/
swEtrsmm
OUfTSSVB
6uf~
COOL AS A CUCUMBER
MNK
Thanks to
8.1 SlaqwooL Insulation
1
dg
df
f/rmfMfum
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 • ADELAIDE. C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
rlt
4
M
;
w
nj?>
a*
<« s
12&
4?
s'
.5
mv?9y (%upu£‘
Men and women everywhere are realising how
much this safe, convenient method is streamlining
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make out the
cheque. A few more strokes address the envelope.
The postman does the rest. In modern business or
in the home, a cheque account in the Commonwealth
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open and
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer at any
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be pleased
to open one for you.
Other services include: —
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS: LETTERS
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES; HOUSING
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY; LOANS FOR PRIMARY
PRODUCTION, ETC.
Commonwealtbßank
ofilustralia.
C.G.8.18.82
E2X3EI3IE3
you own
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
11
THE
CANBERRA
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
A Church of England Boarding and Day School
for Boys from Primary to Leaving Certificate.
Rural and Agricultural Courses available. Excep-
tionally good Air Communication with all States;
one hour from Sydney. Excellent Climate.
For Prospectus and Particulars apply to
REV. DAVID GARNSEY, B.A. (Syd.), M.A. (Oxon.).
HEADMASTER
important Auction Sale
“MOONBRIA” STATION
JERILDERIE
Under Instructions from F. s. Fnlklner St Sons Ftr. IM-, who
have held “Moonbria” Station since 1884, the following land will be
offered for sale by: — ....
PUBLIC AUCTION—ABOUT 47,000 ACRES—IN SUBDIVISION.
AT SCOTT’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE,
at 11.30 a.m., FRIDAY, 2nd MARCH, 1951.
SITUATED: , ~ ..
28 miles west of Jerilderie, 20 miles north of Conargo, and 44 miles
from Deniliquin; 60 miles east of Hay, 439 miles from Sydney and 2
miles from Melbourne.
AREA: . .
Approximately 46,513 acres, in Subdivision, comprising;—
Block C. Homestead Block approx. 11,607 acres
Block D. Euroka Paddock £,626 acres
Block B. Adjoining Block C. »,005 acres
Block G. Yanko Creek Frontage .. ». l i’Yio
Block H. Yanko Creek Frontage ~ „ 9 > 148 acres
COUNTRY:
“Moonbria” comprises some of the choicest Merino breeding and fat-
tonina country in the celebrated Bivenna, and all classes ol stocs.
reared on this country are remarkable for their size and constitution,
WATER: . , , , a
The property is splendidly watered by good wells windmills and tanks
•ind each block on inspection will be found to have ample vat r
facilities, while two of the blocks have long frontages to the conserved
water supply of the Yanko Creek.
TERMS:
Cash: 10% on signing Contract, balance on completion.
DELIVERY DATE:
On or about 31st March, 1951.
REMARKS:
blocks are eminently suited for intense cultivation of fodder ciops,
lucerne and citrus crops by spray irrigation.
VENDORS' SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Norton Smith & Co., 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AGENTS NOTE;
20% of total commission on the sale of respective blocks will be
introducing successful buyers in writing and arranging inspection prior to the sal .
For further details or arrangements to inspect apply to Vendors' Agents.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England in 1863)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, DENILIQUIN AND BRANCHES
DALGETY & CO. LTD., MELBOURNE AND BRANCHES
(Incorporated in England) Agents in conjunction
NOTE;
Surplus Station plant. Furniture and Fittings will be offered at public auction
on “Moonbria” Station on 7th March, 1951. Watch the press for full details.
\s
utfv
c
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Stands Sup*t&w&
ivsSi
DIS
««gs
►xJ5
Go
m
9®
®u
gs®
6.®
tomorrow if buying capacity
were the only obstacle but the
position isn’t as simple as this.
It isn’t just a matter of having
enough exchange funds to go
round, although until lately
Maorilanders thought this was
the only major barrier.
New hurdles looming up are:
The tangle of trade pacts nego-
tiated by the Socialists, inspired by
the spirit of the 1947 Geneva agree-
ment on trade and tariffs;
N.Z.’s low tariff wall, which would
be almost useless as a protection for
local industry if import controls
were suddenly swept away;
The uneasy position of many local
enterprises in N.Z.'s high cost-price
economy, aggravated by shortage of
manpower; and
Danger of irresponsible importers
rushing in with large orders, over-
buying, burning their fingers and
“cruelling” the market for everyone,
as happened in the short, sharp
slump in 1921.
A leading Maoriland
economist (Professor C. G, F.
Simkin), overlooking the
hurdles, recently called for a
bold policy of import decontrol
now, but the Holland Govern-
ment, with its hands tied by
trade treaties inherited from the
Socialists, can’t go so fast.
Walter Nash, Maoriland’s
leading Socialist planner, who
was main architect of these
treaties, looked on tariffs as only
part of the complex system of
trade defences, to be backed
permanently by import ration-
ing, and he went a long way to-
wards transferring power to
bureaucrats who controlled
import licences. The balance
can’t be tipped back by waving
a magic wand because the
Dominion has its treaty obliga-
tions to honor. It might take
years to get out of this fix, and,
meanwhile, import relief, it
seems, will have to come by
gradual steps, on the Australian
pattern. The first major move,
in freeing 326 items, worth
£42i million yearly —a third of
M.L.’s total imports —for pur-
chases from soft - currency
sources, was taken four months
or so ago, and the results are
being closely watched.
New Zealand trade boils down
to exchanging wool, butler,
cheese and meat, with a range
of other lesser exports, for a
host of manufactured goods,
raw materials and capital equip-
ment. Estimated needs for im-
ports and other payments in the
coming year have been put at
£NZ2OO million. It should be
possible to stretch this figure
quite a bit and still keep enough
back from the wool windfall to
give some useful padding to
exchange funds, for the export
target may be £250 million. The
country would be much more
comfortable if its exchange pool
were built up to £lOO million,
against the recent average of a
shade under £5O million for the
Reserve Bank and £l3 million
for the trading banks—barely
£63 million in all. This, of
course, was in the off-season for
exports, when funds always
touch their lowest ebb, but that
doesn’t cover up the weaknes_s.
In reshaping its tariff policy
New Zealand will have to tread
warily, and knows it, but its new
prosperity should place it in a
much stronger position to talk
business.
At the moment it would be
rash for M.L. to throw its doors
wide open and allow goods from
all quarters to flood in like an
avalanche, engulfing local in-
dustries and glutting markets.
To those who remember the
early ’twenties the risk isn’t so
far-fetched as Freetraders sug-
gest. Then prices had to be
slashed, old-established busi-
nesses were brought to their
knees, and Maorilanders spent
many sleepless nights. The last
full-scale overhaul of N.Z.’s
tariff was completed in 1934,
under the retreating shadow of
the depression, and four years
before the Socialists clamped
down import restrictions. It will
take at least a couple of years
or so to complete the tariff
revision that is being undertaken
now.
The 10s. shares in W. C.
Penfold Holdings, Sydney, print-
ing concern (the prospectus was
reviewed in B. 22/11/ ’5O),
opened in the unlisted market at
18s. originally. The scrip was
offered at par.


SHORTEST way to London
FASTEST with night-stops
CHEAPEST by air to Europe
Fly by the world’s finest
long-distance aircraft.
Fly the ail-Constellation
route to England and Europe—
ever-changing scenes but never
changing ’planes. You fly by
one aircraft —your luxurious air-
conditioned Constellation all the
way. Combine fascinating variety
with unsurpassed air travel com-
fort. You enjoy the relaxation of
sight-seeing on expense-free con-
FLY IN FOUR DAYS
to the
FESTIVAL OF
BRITAI N
From May to September,
1951—a1l Britain will be on
show. The 1951 Festival of
Britain, staged on a nation-
wide basis in London and
country centres presents a
fascinating programme of ex-
hibitions and musical and
dramatic events, demonstrat-
ing Britain’s achievements in
the arts, science and industry.
Everywhere you’ll be “Wel-
come to Britain”! Plan your
trip NOW.
ducted tours of such famous cities as colourful, cosmopolitan
Singapore and historic Rome, world-centre of art and religion.
You may stop-over anywhere on the route —at no extra fare.
Perfect service and excellent food —aloft and aground. No tips, no
currency problems.
or
'progress
MSA
Five services weekly from Sydney. Regular route
via Calcutta—alternative service via Colombo.
Consult your travel agent.
HE-ABOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
HEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc,, use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
87/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 3/l/’5l
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
WHEN A COCKTAIL
CALLS FOR ABSINTH
USE—
FEBHOD
Leading Wine
and Spirit
Merchants,
Hotels and Clubs
will supply you
with this essen-
tial to many
of the world's
most exciting
cocktails.
mz
m
V
Ms
m
PIJ2
Agents for Australia:
McLaughlin & Co. Hy. Ltd., Sydney
Distribuion— Victoria: Stephen King Ply. Ltd., Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty,
Ltd. South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd. Western Australia:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM ' S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Once I saw through a telescope
(very powerful) a beautiful beer-
garden on the moon.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
There was more moonshine
than beer, however.
4* 4* 4*
“Required, with experience, sort-
hand-typiste.”—Advt.
Only good sorts need apply.
“If we have the courage and
patience, the energy and skill, to
take us voyaging to other planets,
then let us first use some of these to
tidy up and civilise this Earth. One
world at a tipie, please.” —Author
J. B. Priestley—Sydney “Sunday
Sun.”
In fact, let us keep to our
own sphere.
4* 4*
“Motor-cycles, new or used, from
£29 10s. deposit. Pay it off and own
it —you will never own a tram.”
—Suburban paper.
But you can’t ride standing
on a motor-cycle.
Broadly Speaking.
“Why should it be considered
ridiculous and impossible for a
woman in her forties or middle life
to have any romance?”
—“New Idea.”
I cannot see romance confined
To youth alone, for love is
blind,
And sends his feathered arrows
flying
To set impassioned lovers sigh-
ing
Amongst the ranks of those near
fifty
As well as maidens young and
nifty.
Nor can I reach the false con-
clusion
That riper years leave no delu-
sion
Of strength sufficient to arouse
An interest in marriage vovvv
In spinsters settled in their
ways;
In fact, if some could merely
raise
A husband bald and over-stout,
You’d hear them gush, I’ve little
doubt:
Let others say romance is dead
And far horizons ever fled;
Such cynicism I deride —
While you’re my world the world
is wide.
BERT.
Old Bore’s Almanack for
1951.
Jan. : A Soviet worker will answer
the call made by the Corainform to
workers throughout the world to
refuse to produce armaments, and his
widow will receive a bill from the
N.K.V.D. for 4000 roubles for cost
of his burial. Neville Cardus will
explain that had Washbrook played
a cover-drive rititardemdo. and on the
principles of the classical sonata-
form, it would have flashed to the
pickets supersonically instead of
crawling to a fieldsman like a
spherical infant suffering from mal-
nutrition. “Gorgeous Gussie” Moran
will wear a pair of her new mono-
grammed diaphanous lace briefees,
and her cut of the gate will be raised
to 85 p.c.
Feb.: In a report on a couple’s
60lh wedding anniversary “S. M.
Herald” will fail to refer to them as
Darby and Joan or describe their
residence as “a neat suburban cot-
tage.” A check-up will reveal that
there are more parsons writing for
the Press than there are of the other
sort, and one of the former will cause
a sensation by not referring in his
Sunday-paper article to the sex-
problem. An international tennis-
player will hurl his racquet at the
line-umpire who called an “out”
against him and then burst into
tears, and it will take the combined
soothing efforts of seven officials to
persuade him to resume play.
“Izvestia” will disclose that “Paradise
Lost” was written in 1552 by one
Ivan Miltonov in Kiev, over 100 years
before the English literary thief
Milton used his translation of the
Russian’s work to arrogantly claim
it as his.
Mar. : Aneurin Bevan will proudly
reveal that under Socialist Britain’s
health scheme the combined cost of
“falsies” and wigs for the previous
month exceeded the loss on the
nationalised airways. One of Schu-
bert’s immortal songs, which the
composer had to sell for the equiva-
lent of three dollars, will be re-
arranged in rhumba-time by Abe
Spinkelstein to the lyrics of Hank
Spokane, and disk royalties for the
first week will gross 32,000 dollars.
Joe Stalin will be reputed as having
been seen to smile, and seven foreign-
correspondents will immediately pre-
dict that the Soviet is about to
develop several new trouble-spots for
the Western democracies.
Apl. : A N.S.W. coalminer will
complain of having a furry tongue
after being on a bender, and a pit-top
meeting will vote for a day’s stop-
page as a protest against the brewers
being allowed to sell beer which
produces fur. Rumania's Foreign
“The secret is a LOT of nails.”
Minister, Anna Pauker, will go to
Moscow for a rest-cure, it having
been discovered by a Soviet physician
that she is muscle-bound. Seven
Sydney Parliamentarians will have to
receive mass medical treatment, and
it will later be explained that they
had gone into hysterics after a
“Labor” member had sought leave
to introduce a bill to control the
activities of the breweries. In a 15-
minute talk over the party radio-station
Dr. Evatt will use the word “I” only
67 times.
May: M. Vyshinsky will reply to
a charge in U.N.O. that Russia is
still holding 400,000 German p.-0.-w.
by counter-charging that Australia is
brutally exploiting her native popula-
tion by using 150,000 aboriginals as
forced labor in corroboree mines. A
Melbourne judge will ask a witness
what he meant by saying he was"
“dominoed.” To show that he is not
the man to be dictated to by the
“Labor” party, which keeps him in
power, Victoria’s Country-party
Premier McDonald will flatly refuse
to bring down a bill which his own
party wants but which has been dis-
approved by the State A.L.P. execu-
tive. In a chess match a player will
discover that his opponent has died,
and at the subsequent coronial inquiry
a doctor will testify that death had
occurred six hours before.
June: A N.S.W. coalminer will
complain of not having a furry tongue
after being on a bender, and a pit-top
meeting will call a lightning strike as
a protest against breweries being
allowed to sell beer which is
under strength. A new member
of a bowling club will use a piece
of cheesecloth to polish his bowl, and
his skipper will be so overcome with
emotion he’ll forget to order his
whisky for afternoon-tea. Following
her seventh marriage, a famous
Hollywood star’s Press agent will start
a publicity stunt by announcing that
she intends to wear her six previous
eternity rings in her ears; three in
each one.
July : The Joint Coal Board will
supply N.S.W. miners with free
two-up kips, hockey shin-pads, polo
ponies and sets of 16-footer sails in
its new coalfield s-amenities pro-
gramme. The president of the
Vegetable Growers’ Association will
explain that the current high prices
of vegetables is caused by lack of
rain. A Brisbane wharfie will be
found in a drunken sleep on a wharf
late at night beside an opened case
of beer, and the union will threaten
to lie the port up unless he is given
overtime at double rates from knock-
off time to the time he was found.
Aug. : The central executive of the
Miners’ Federation will threaten a
nation-wide strike unless the Joint
Coal Board makes polo-fields avail-
able and supplies gratis to all miners
16-footer masts and tillers. A young
man living in King’s Cross who wears
a Van Dyke beard and affects san-
dals, yellow corduroy-velvet trousers,
a puce safari-jacket and an enormous
floppy tie will be discovered who
can almost paint. A Sydney house-
wife will be offered a set of brains
by her butcher, and she will have to
be treated for shock. The president
of the Vegetable Growers’ Associa-
tion will explain that the current high
prices are being caused by the rain.
Sept.: With the N.S.W. “Govern-
ment” being threatened by its
majority over the vital question of
supplies of bottled beer, there will be
talk of a general election, and Mr.
McGirr will immediately announce a
new gigantic Master Plan, which will
provide for rest-homes for worn-out
bookmakers and indigent publicans,
a 30-hour week for all and establish-
ment by legislation of the right of
workers, under the principles of the
Atlantic Charter, to call the boss by
his Christian-name. An individual-
hair-styled “bodgie,” called-up under
the Compulsory Military Service
scheme, will be found who is able
to expand his chest from its normal
28in. to 28£in.
Oct.: An amateur fisherman will
underestimate the size of his catch.
Someone will find out what barbers
do with the day’s clippings. A sound
will be heard in a delegation-room
at Lake Success as of someone
crying, and it will later transpire that
it was Jakob Malik, the Russian
delegation leader, laughing. Melbourne
“Argus” will partly decide which
political party it will be safe tem-
porarily to back. An American
“croonette,” whose contract is being
endangered by the improvement in
her voice, will seek to have a throat
operation so that it can be kept in
its original condition.
Nov.: A Sydney suburban train
will stop between stations, and, after
four -hours’ delay, a railway official
will curtly inform inquiring passen-
gers to mind their own business. A
vaudeville comedian will present an
original sketch. Refusing to pay the
35 guineas to which the two-piece
suit has risen, a short Adelaide
father will successfully have cut down
for his use the suit his tall schoolboy
son has grown out of. An alderman
will fail to avail himself of a free
banquet. The Retail Traders’ Asso-
ciation will launch Grandmother’s
Day. A man will be tried for the
attempted murder of a small girl at
her violin lesson, and the jury acquit
him amid wild applause.
Dec.: The N.S.W. “Government’s”
lottery will make a half-million more
profit than last year, and the unpaid
debts of its hospitals will rise by
£1 million. A department-store Santa
Claus who has been registering 104
in the shade of his ersatz ziff all day
will have to comb 17 pieces of
chewing-gum out of his chin-accoutre-
ments, and will afterwards tell a
reporter how he loves his job. An
Australian author will hit an all-time
high by earning an average of almost
half the basic-wage throughout the
year.
By Proxy.
Out of a shop there rushed to
where
I’d made a moment’s stand
A woman whose excited stare
Surveyed me while she waved a
pair
Of trousers in her hand.
She measured them from waist
and thighs
Down to my feet, then ran
Back in the shop. “They’ll fit,”
she cries.
“That chap outside is just the
size
And shape of my old man.”
BRIAN BUREAU.


Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing’ the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such
companies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending 81st December,
1950 ; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1961; subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forma upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
218 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Persons, etc..
Insuring with any Insurance
Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State: are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property to such
insurance companies during the year 1950.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st Janu-
ary, 1951, subject to a penalty not exceed-
ing £1 per day for every day of default.
NOTE: Returns are required only of
the proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Birth
the Universal
Miracle
Why does the mother body
decide to rid itself of an in-
fant it has sheltered for nine
months? What makes the baby
take its first gasping breath
on which its life depends?
In January Reader’s Digest
a leading authority brings you
the fascinating account of
Nature’s supreme miracle
the process by which a new
life comes into the world.
Read and enjoy January
Reader’s Digest today: Thirty
stimulating articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
Unparalleled reading value at
one shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD EDWARD WATSON (also
known as HARRY EUGENE SQUIRE)
late of Chinderah, New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that BEATRICE MAY
WATSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4131 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion for 3 years and upwards without
just cause or excuse find is praying for the
exercise of the discretion of the Court
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an Appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of March
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from FRED A. NEWN-
HAM, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUG HAN, Registrar,
4?
FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN i 9S i
MAY 3—SEPTEMBER 30
THE ART
The Calendar below shows the dates of the many Arts
Festivals which, with the exhibitions and other events
throughout the United Kingdom, make the Festival
programme the greatest ever planned.
* * MAY * *
jtd London Festival Sea-
son, two months of gaiety and
colour in the theatres, con-
cert-halls and art-galleries of
the capital (till June 30).
Stratford-upon-Avon
Shakespeare Festival, with
outstanding new productions
in the famous Memorial
Theatre (. till October).
7th Belfast Festival, in-
cluding exhibitions of paint-
ings, books, architecture and
photography, symphony con-
certs and plays ( nil June 30).
aoth Bath Assembly, coin-
ciding with the Sheridan
Bi-Centenary, with concerts,
opera, ballet, music in the
Abbey and a Gainsborough
Exhibition {till June 2).
27th —Perth Festival, cen-
tred around the contemporary
Scottish theatre movement
{till June 16).
* * JUNE * *
jtd—York Festival, with
performances of medieval
miracle plays, music in the
Great Mmster, and a Festival
Architectural Exhibition {till
June 17).
jtd—Bournemouth and Wessex
Festival, including sporting and
New Forest events as well as
Festival performances in the
theatres and concert halls of
Bournemouth {till June 17).
Bth Aldeburgh Festival,
based on the work of Ben-
jamin Britten and the English
Opera Group {till June 17).
17th Inverness Festival,
the most northerly of the
Arts Festivals, presenting a
composite picture of Highland
life {till June 30).
18th —Norwich Festival,
with music in the Cathedral,
plays in an Elizabethan-style
playhouse, and exhibitions of
the famous Norwich school
of painting {till June 30).
24th Dumfries Festival,
with concerts by the Scottish
National Orchestra and the
newly formed Festival Chorus,
ballet, and a ‘ Burns night ’
{till June 30).
* * JULY * *
2nd Cheltenham Festival of
British Contemporary Music,
with concerts by the Halle
Orchestra, ballet, opera and
chamber music {till July 14).
2nd Oxford Festival,
focused on I7th Century
England, with lectures and
performances of Milton,
Shakespeare and restoration
comedy (till July 16).
jrd—Llangollen International
Eisteddfod, where scores of
choirs meet for a world occasion
of choral music {till July 8).)
loth St. David’s Festival,
a programme of music, wor-
ship and ceremony in Wales’s
oldest Cathedral {till July 13).
r6th Brighton Regency
Festival, set in and around
the fantastic Pavilion built by
George IV when Prince
Regent {till August 25).
xBth Canterbury Festival, in
the ecclesiastical capital of
England, with a specially
written drama, music and
opera in the lovely Cathedral
{till August 10).
22nd Liverpool Festival of
Music, drama and art, present-
ing a various and many-sided
Festival programme set
against large-scale ceremony
and spectacle {till August 12).
joth— Aberdeen Festival,
with orchestral and choral
concerts, painting exhibitions
and outstanding British films,
in Scotland’s third largest
city {till August 13).
joth—Cambridge Festival,
with symphony concerts in
College Courts; and con-
temporary and classical con-
certs and plays in the famous
University centre {till August
18).
* AUGUST *
6th—Llanrwst Royal National
Eisteddfod, the national festival
of Wales, devoted to song,
poetry and performances of
great choral works {till August
ID.
19th —Edinburgh International
Festival of Music and Drama,
one of the outstanding occa-
sions of the artistic world, now
held annually in the Scottish
capital {till September 8).
* SEPTEMBER *
2nd—Worcester Three Choirs
Festival, presented since the
18th Century by the combined
Cathedral choirs of Hereford,
Gloucester and Worcester {till
September 7).
16th—Swansea Festival of
Music, staged in the magnifi-
cent concert hall and drawing
on the long tradition of Welsh
choral singing {till September
29).
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details c
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES.-
Single Rooms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 22/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
lilll
ni 2
iH«aii
TROUT FLIES
TIED TO ORDER!
By arrangement with the makers of RISE Trout
Flies we can supply special types, to your
own specifications, at short notice
Forward sample fly with order.
The makers’ long study of flies and
fly-tying ensures excellent quality. Minimum
quantity I doz. of any pattern.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD.
624 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. M 6261
(9
IFU^S
*m.
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Lost Chords.
The removal by an “irre-
sponsible person” how ex-
quisitely at short notice the
A.B.C. announcers choose their
phrases!—of the music for Sir
John Barbirolli’s first Sydney
concert a few hours before the
performance put our dis-
tinguished visitor, and his critics,
in a unique spot; for the sub-
stituted overture, “The Master-
singers,” had not been re-
hearsed ; and the Second Sym-
phony, by Brahms, though it had
been rehearsed, was given from
music which had not Sir John’s
markings.
There is little a conductor can
do to shape a work to his con-
ception of it during a public
performance ; it must be ham-
mered out, phrase by phrase, in
the rehearsal-room. So there
was poor Barbirolli, making all
the gestures with impressive
vehemence, and the musicians
tootling away with their noses
in their scores, and the critics
asking themselves many ques-
tions, notably: who did “The
Mastersingers” overture in Syd-
ney last? For, clearly, if, as
Sir John was reported after the
concert, “If we had rehearsed
the ‘Mastersingers’ for five years
we could not have done better,”
then Eugene Goossens, Sir
Bernard Heinze and Mr, Joseph
Post should have been included
in the encomiums.
However, these disturbing
thoughts vanished with the per-
formance of the Brahms
symphony, beautifully planned
and played, especially in the
quiet section of the last move-
ment, which seems to come from
another world or, at least, from
another room, an effect which
Barbirolli rendered almost ven-
triloquial—still, the honors of
the evening went to Sir John’s
voice, as beautifully modulated
as the tone he got out of his
violins, speaking with wry
humor of the “Thieving
Magpie,” and asking for his
music back so that “your magni-
ficent orchestra,” which had
given a rehearsal performance
“second to none” of Vaughan
Williams’s Sixth Symphony,
might play it; and these honors
were shared by the audience,
which stayed and sat patiently
from eight until nine o’clock for
its concert, maybe to make up to
Sir John for the indignity thrust
upon him, but also certainly be-
cause, being a Sydney audience,
it would rather have been at that
concert than have taken Quebec.
Carols.
The ladies of the Methodist
Ladies’ College Choir assembled
in their white costumes in the
organ-loft of Melbourne Town
Hall for the purposes of the
A.B.C.’s Christmas concert, and,
as they haven’t any official
musical reputation, it came as
a surprise and a blessing on a
dreadful heatwave evening to
find their fresh young voices,
perfectly trained by Miss R.
Flockart, following the delicate
line of the old Flemish, Ger-
man, English and Dutch carols
with a sensitiveness you don’t
often get with the great estab-
lished choirs.
Almost as lovely as the tradi-
tional carols was a modern one,
“In the Bleak Midwinter,” with
music by Gustav Holst and
words by Christina Rossetti. Its
images of frost, snow and frozen
water did more than the air-
conditioning plant to lower the
temperature of the building.
Other beautiful items were the
Coventry Carol, from an old 15th-
century play, and the Dutch carol
“King Jesus Hath a Garden.”
Mendelssohn’s “Italian” sym-
phony was given a spirited ren-
dering by the Symphony Or-
chestra under the Heinze baton.
Student Exhibition.
The current display of student
work and entries for the travel-
ling scholarship at the Mel-
bourne National Gallery is, if
anything, worse than the previous
one. The work of almost every
student seems to be derivative
of somebody else’s, and, with the
exception of some of the work
of William Dargie’s pupils, none
of them is derivative of nature.
The judging is as difficult to
understand as the painting.
First-prize in “genre” was given
to W. Collins for a girl with a
mirror, a dead piece of work
alongside of which is a picture
twice as lively. First-prize in
nudes went to L. Sampson for
the back of a man, which doesn’t
look in the least like flesh,
though next to it is a girl by
Cliff Pugh which is freshly
painted and looks quite fleshlike.
The travelling scholarship worth
£9OO went to Rod Clarke for a
fashionable piece of work no
deader than dozens of others
with which it was surrounded.
In the landscapes all the prizes
have been allocated to more
victims of prevailing fashions.
Three landscapes by Joe
Hannan, a Dargie pupil, seem
to have got into the exhibition
by accident —they are so fresh
and sensitive.
"Fools Rush In."
“Cauboy”: William Walsh,
who since May last has had
complete control of the Mel-
bourne Repertory Theatre and
who has embarked on a “practi-
cal” policy of attracting the
public by presenting plays they
will enjoy, i.e., comedies and
thrillers, put this one on at the
Middle Park Theatre, and, on
the occasion that the present
commentator saw it, it was
attracting exactly 30 people.
It is a frivolous comedy about
a girl who is reluctant to take
the plunge into matrimony and
leaves her fiance standing at the
altar, and it was just as good of
its commonplace kind as any-
thing you will see on the films
and in the commercial theatre,
and just as well acted by
Maureen Scott, June Brown,
Penelope Kerr, William Walsh,
Peter Norton and others; but
few people are likely to want to
travel out to the suburbs to buy
confectionery when it is avail-
able in the city.
One might ask, therefore, is
Mr. Walsh’s practical policy
practical, either from the artistic
or the financial viewpoint? He
might just as well go back to
the artistic, which he does so
well, like Bridget Boland’s
“Cockpit,” one of the best plays
and most remarkable produc-
tions seen in Melbourne for a
long time.
"Present Laughter."
Coward’s comedy, “Present
Laughter,” presents with good
humor and a little malice a
chronicle of the intrigues and
infidelities of an extremely vain
actor and the cluster of social
barnacles that have attached
themselves to his keel during his
long theatrical voyage. The
successful treatment of such a
plot is plain sailing to Coward,
and, despite the artificiality of
the whole sorry crew, their petty
lives become excellent comic
theatre.
Brisbane’s Repertory Theatre
ended their year with the play,
and so successful was their pro-
duction that the season had to
be extended to cope with the
crowds —a heartening business
for any repertory group. The
success was not due to Mr.
Coward alone. Attractive light-
ing and particularly well-designed
sets lifted the entire play well
into the professional class, and
the acting by Mervyn Eadie as
the vain hero, Betty Ross as his
wife and Coila McCracken as
the usual wise secretary such
actors collect was extremely
competent. Reg Watson, cast as
a kind of young Aldous Huxley-
looking genius, looks like an
excellent find,
Melbourne Tivoli, which
threatens to become a long-run
theatre —it has just closed a 23-
weeks’ season of traditional
vaudeville disguised as “The
Tourist Trade” —is now accom-
modating the Maurice Colleano-
John Calvert programme, which
has moved down from Sydney.
Colleano is a highly amusing
comedian, and Calvert a
magician who, after producing
a year’s ration of gaspers from
the air, a girl’s hair and other
unlikely places and supplying
the more fortunate members of
the audience with real beer from
a pewter-pot of small dimen-
sions, then saws off a woman’s
head, commits a murder and
levitates a lady amidst a pageant
of pulchritude which diverts the
audience’s attention from too-
close inspection of what he is up
to.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
To celebrate the Federation Jubilee
properly this Letter thinks that we should
also celebrate the Federation Girl of
1901.
She was a magnificent creature, sft.
7in. high, weighing 10 stone, yet achiev-
ing in spite of this a 20in, waist. In her
bearing, her clothes and her general
silhouette, she rather suggested the figure-
head of a ship—a true; symbol of a new
century and a new nation.
Her silhouette was determined by a
corset like a letter S, allegedly reproduc-
ing the Greek line of beauty. She walked
with the fashionable, swan-like “Grecian
bend,” her head held high and back (in
the interest of balance), her hair puffed
|out and swept forward. A comment in The
Bulletin Letter of the day says, “Two
|Beardsley sisters sat alongside their
Beardsley mama, and all three suffered
smilingly the New Woman’s complaint,
swelled hair.”
Souter’s drawing, reproduced here,
shows the Federation girl, rather more
racy and dashing than the average, per-
haps, but typifying the high-hearted
I spirit of the time. For she was a “New
Woman.” She took jobs in offices, learned
“this new machine, the typewriter,” went
on bicycling trips, was dispensing with
chaperones, trying to enter the profes-
sions. Many of the girls smoked (in
private), but cosmetics “came in plain
containers.” She was restive about not
having the vote, laying most of the
blame, it seems, on the Apostle Paul.
Less touchy than the modern girl, she
took in good part comments from
columnists, who sprinkled their remarks
freely with lemon-juice, and even acid.
The Bulletin “Woman’s Letter” of the
day (written by Louise Mack) was, in
keeping with the times, spirited, pungent,
witty and frank. The men were criticised
as freely as the women. For example:
“Captain Better-Not Wallington was seen
at the races in blue serge and an im-
mensely unbecoming blue sailor hat.”
“Sulky Wilfred Smith was reckoned by
Sydney as the most disagreeable aide to
date. He scared people off Government
House with a glance. Also he was the
hero of the famous Blue Ticket Ball who
stopped a guest at the supper-room with
‘You’ve been in before’!”
All comment was not unkind. Sir
Robert Garran, who last Monday gave
the commemoration address in Canberra,
was referred to 50 years ago as “Popular
Bob Garran, who stands six-feet-four in
his socks, and has the lovely reputation
of never having refused an invitation to
anything in the shape of tea-parties,
dances and at-homes.”
The Woman’s Letter is illuminating on
the clothes of the period. “The black
hat, with or without feathers, is every-
where. Of all the indispensable things in
a woman’s wardrobe a black hat is the
one that really cannot be lived without.
To this add the white frock (or six white
frocks) and there you have the Sydney
woman as she likes herself best today ;
and she repeats herself —oh Heavens, how
she repeats herself!”
Later on Lady Hopetoun (“as a
snubber, she is sublime”) tried to intro-
duce pink, which, “though universally un-
becoming,” was welcomed as a relief from
turquoise, of which everyone was “tired
to death.” Both pink and blue wearers,
however, abandoned these colors for
black when the Queen died in January,
1901. “People known to be without a
penny are going about in elegant black
toilettes. How is it all managed? We
know that a purple silk petticoat and
crepe-de-Chine costume can’t be had for
the asking, but evidently the woman who
can’t get a new dress when she wants it
is fast fading into oblivion.”
These petticoats were quite a feature
then. The fashion expert, James Laver,
describes one of pink satin with a deep
flounce of ecru Breton net, a full ruching
of pink chiffon and baby ribbon wander-
ing all over it. Another was of yellow
brocade with flounces of black lace,
caught up by yellow ribbon rosettes
fastened with tiny diamond buckles in the
centre of each. He adds, “One can only
wonder what could be the possible use
of such elaborate undergarments for a
respectable woman.”
The dressing of the day was altogether
lush and rich. Ostrich-feathers waved in
hats and encircled swanlike necks in
feather boas. Lace and Irish crochet
abounded, exquisitely-worked embroi-
deries decorated blouses. Long white kid
gloves and parasols were items to cripple
anyone’s budget. This was a time when
a fashionably-dressed woman was some-
thing really worth describing.
The theatre played a big part in the
life of the woman of 1901. In Sydney
there were seven shows to be seen, in-
cluding the pantomime, which was a thing
of gorgeousness and splendor. In one of
the choruses the dress of the year 2001
was foreshadowed and included skirts high
in the front and long at the back (which
filled Louise Mack with horror). It took
only 30 years for this fashion to become
popular and it is threatening again at
this very moment.
Grand Opera was showing, “Carmen”
and “Lohengrin,” but there were no sym-
phony concerts. In those days girls had to
provide their own music, playing and
singing to their sweethearts in a most
bewitching manner. Although musical
appreciation was probably lower, its prac-
tice was considerably higner.
Altogether, the girl of 1901 looks very
fine from where we sit. What will be the
impression 50 years hence when the
Letter of 2001 runs a critical eye over
us?
Coming back to the modern day, we
see the great event of the week as the
coming of Sir John Barbirolli. At the
reception given to him by the orchestral
committee one looked in vain for any-
thing so sensational as a blue sailor hat,
although Sir John’s mane of straight
black hair (which he tosses about savagely
when he is conducting) was quite pic-
turesque. Lady Barbirolli, who is his
third wife, is tall and vivid ; she laughs
a lot and wears pleasant but unsensa-
tional clothes. The nearest approach to
a magnificent hat was worn by Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones. It featured what
looked like bird-of-paradise feathers, but,
of course, couldn’t be in this age. Mrs.
A. N. Finlay wore no hat, which showed
off her madonna-like hair-do and thick
chignon. The dressing, on the whole,
was mild and mannerly. Lady Anderson
received the guests, who included
Charles Moses and his wife, the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. E. O’Dea, who was
accompanied by Deputy Lord Mayor
Byrne, as her husband is in London,
and Mrs. W. Hope Gibson. Manners
were much better than in 1901. Cer-
tainly no one queried how often one
came round for supper.
The hiding of the music at the Bar-
birolli concert was certainly deplorable,
but no one could deny that it was excit-
ing. The Town Hall was packed and
lively with anticipation of the concert,
but no orchestra appeared, which
seemed strange, to say the least of it.
Then the cryptic announcement that the
concert might not take place and that a
statement would be made in five minutes.
The audience looked at each other in a
wild surmise. Could Sir John have got
stage-fright? Was he being tempera-
mental? Had an epidemic stricken the
players? The announcement that the
music had been stolen rocked everyone
back for a moment, then during the
interval till nine o’clock people really got
their money’s worth in conversation, con-
jecture and amateur detection. Only five
people asked for their money back, and it
was a very happy and responsive audi-
ence that listened later to the improvised
programme.
The J. C. Williamson New Year party
called back somewhat the flavor of
Federation days, at least in the number
of picturesque personalities and colorful
characters. Most of the stars from “Song
of Norway” and the Gilbert and Sullivan
company were there. It was fun to see
Robert Bernard (that curly-headed baby
from Baltimore) practically annihilating
a columnist who had said he hammed
his lines. His eyebrows worked overtime
as he jumped and gesticulated, his spotted
bow-tie leaping about in time to his
gestures. In a corner the hypnotist
Franquin (who must be the handsomest
man in Sydney) talked to wonderful
Evelyn Gardiner. It was even money
which one would end up in a trance. Little
ballerina Phyllis Kennedy wore a wicker
Dolly Varden (1901 never thought of
that!). Dancer Harry Naughton looked
gentle and pale, Max Oldaker the perfect
matinee idol. Doreen Wilson and Nina
Cooke supplied the beauty. Tom Hudson
(he plays Papa Grieg) was as mischievous
as his wife would let him. Harald
Bowden did the honors, and a happy time
was had by all.
From Melbourne
The festive season goes merrily on, and
many have discovered that Christmas
really ends on January 6, the eve of
Epiphany and also Shakspeare’s “Twelfth
Night.” For some days King Cricket
ruled the city, and those who returned to
work, listless after the holidays, were
roused by the tenseness of the game.
Cricket and sunburn were the two most
popular topics of the day. For the
moment, the grim fact that, at the
beginning of a new year and a new half-
century, men were contemplating blowing
the earth to pieces was. forgotten.
Tall, graceful and as lovely as a
Christmas-lily, Jean, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Darragh, Downton
Grove, Kew, was married at St. Mark’s
Church, Camberwell, to Warwick,
younger son of the late George and Mrs.
Wathen. The bride wore a handsome
gown of chalk-white silk lace with the
fullness at the back of the skirt falling
into a short train. From a Dutch bonnet
of the same lace fell the shoulder-length
tulle veil, and in her ivory prayer-book
was a marker of gardenias. There was
only one attendant, the bride’s small
niece Annette, whose Kate Greenaway
frock of shell-pink marquisette was
matched by her large shirred poke
bonnet; she carried a basket of pastel-
tinted flowers. After the ceremony Mr.
and Mrs. Darragh entertained many
friends at a reception in the Kew home
of their son, Alan. Mrs. Darragh’s mist-
blue crepe frock was worn with a match-
ing jacket and her mist-blue straw hat
was trimmed with deep pink ribbons.
Navy faille made the duster coat worn
over a hyacinth-blue frock by Mrs. Alan
Darragh, Mrs. P. Banbrook chose a
currant-red velvet coat and her eggshell
cap was trimmed with matching velvet,
Mrs. R. Wathen’s ballerina frock whs
of grey shot taffeta, Mrs. W. Holman
wore a floral frock in tones of green and
red on a white background, and lime-
green crepe and matching eggshell cap
was the choice of Mrs. Michael Commins.
The bridegroom had Frank Cornall as
best man.
Pictured here is Gwen, wife of stock-
broker lan Potter and mother of small
schoolgirl Caroline. Charming and
elegant, Gwen also has acting ability. For
some years she was a leading amateur
actress, appearing in numerous Tin Alley
and Little Theatre productions. For
months after she had given a notable
performance in the title role of “Lady
Precious Stream” her friends called her
by that name. Gwen is a member of the
Australian-American Association, and
recently returned from a trip to England,
the Continent and the U.S.A.
Glorious weather lured city-dwellers to
the beaches, and bayside homes are full
of young things enjoying swimming and
entertaining their friends. At Glynt, their
Mt. Martha home, Mr. and Mrs. Len
Buxton have their daughters, Mrs. Ross
Batten, Beverley, and Carolyn, with them.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell is entrenched with
her family at Billabong, Long Island, and
next door are Charles and Noel Lane
with their family. Major and Mrs. Dick
Noone, with their daughter Anne, are
enjoying their first holiday in their beach
house at Mornington, and the Bill Winter -
Irvings are at Lome. Mrs. Jean Davies
and her daughter, Shirley, are at Peter-
borough. The lan Potters and their small
daughter are at the Hotel Man-
yung, Mornington, as are Mrs. Constance
Day and her son, Neville, and daughter,
Deanna. Neville Cardus, noted English
writer, was the guest of Sir Bernard and
Lady Heinze at Mornington, and Major
and Mrs. Robert Lindsay are at their
Frankston home, Netherplace, until
March. The mountains also had their
allure, and at their Mt. Macedon homes
are the Lionel Newtons, with a family
party, and the W. H. Horsfalls.
First of the parties for Dympna
O’Collins was given by her prospective
mother-in-law. Setting was the lovely
garden of the Coleman home at Aspen-
dale, where guests were received under a
canopy of colored fairy lights. Slim and
graceful was the midnight-blue tie-silk
frock worn by Mrs. Coleman, who later
donned a smart little matching jacket.
The guest-of-honor was as picturesque as
a Joshua Reynolds painting in a bouffant
frock of pastel-blue marquisette. Her
sister, Mrs. Jim Peters, was attractive in
a frock of steel grey organza. Dympna’s
mother looked as fresh and lovely as her
daughters in a checkerboard pink and
white organza frock. Mrs. Robert Lane
contrasted her smart black crepe frock
with the creme-de-menthe cocq feathers
trimming her black velvet cap. Mrs.
James Ferguson wore a white crepe frock
lavishly trimmed with gold sequins, and
pastel-toned flowers wreathed the crown
of her small white hat. Beige crepe with
the full skirt inset with bands of matching
lace fashioned the frock worn by Mrs.
W. Scarfe, and over a black frock Mrs.
John Galbally wore a white sharkskin
bolero. Mrs. Mary Lewis, aunt of
Dympna, and over from Sydney for the
holidays, was in a grey crepe frock on
tailored lines and highlighted it with
Parma violets at the waist. A white
guipure lace cocktail frock enclosed Mrs.
Bernard Shillito. Poinsettia-red crepe was
worn by Mrs. Joff. Smiley under a blue-
fox bolero.
The Australia was chosen for a delight-
ful party which welcomed home from
Colombo Mrs. H. Silk, and farewelled
Mrs. S. Aarons, who leaves shortly for
overseas Mrs. Ray Joseph was hostess,
and her London-tan frock, patterned in
faintly-etched black flowers, was worn
with a large-brimmed, black velvet hat.
Mrs. Silk contrasted her navy faille coat
with a small white grosgrain hat, and
Mrs. Aarons chose a French beige jacket
suit and small matching silk straw hat.
Among the guests was Mrs. R. Honey-
man, in a London-tan, coin-spotted in
white, sun frock. The wide, deep collar
was edged with linen embroidery. Mrs.
C. Curtain topped her navy linen frock
with a white linen bolero and highlighted
them with a red-and-white pin-spot silk
sash. Mrs. Norman Lynch wore grey
silk faille, patterned in lighter grey tonings
and contrasted with a black velvet picture
hat. Mrs. N. Hutchinson’s light-brown
silk ensemble was worn with a deep-brown
straw hat trimmed with white birds.
Brigadier and Mrs. Walter A. Stirling,
of Polstead, Suffolk (Eng.), came on the
Strathmore with their youngest daughter,
Doreen, who was recently married at St.
John’s Church, Toorak, to Lieut. Michael
A. Higgs, R.N., who is on loan to the
R.A.N. For her wedding the bride chose
a full-skirted gown of white organdie
broderie Anglaise, fashioned with a tight
bodice and small bolero. Her circular
net veil was held in place with a diamente
tiara and she carried white roses and
gardenias. Small Anne and James
Cunningham, children of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Cunningham, of Malvern, were
flower girl and page boy. Anne wore a
blue broderie Anglaise frock with a
taffeta underskirt and James was dressed
in a white sailor suit. The bridegroom
is the youngest son of Dr. and Mrs. James
Higgs, of Chelsea, London, and he had
Surgeon-Commander Ben Crawshaw,
R.A.N., as best man. Later, Brigadier
and Mrs. Stirling held a reception at
Grosvenor, Toorak.
Commander Loudon Shand, 0.8. E.
(R.A.N. retired), blew breezily into this
Melbourne office through the week, ex-
tending to The Bulletin all good wishes
for its continued prosperity. The com-
mander and his delightful wife have just
returned in the Otranto from an eight-
months’ trip overseas. He went to England
in the aircraft-carrier Sydney, reports “a
wonderful time” with many old ship-
mates and some of those who passed
through his hands while he was in charge
of training at Flinders. They got back
in time for the shearing on their property
at Oberon (N.S.W.).


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
(falanjk
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Of the three senior British officers re-
tiring from the Pakistan Army in a few
days to make way for the local talent,
two are Australians. The Chief-of-Staff
has been Lieutenant-General Ross Mc-
Cay, C.8.E., D. 5.0., one of the first flight
of Duntrooners, whose service included
Egypt, Gallipoli and France and who
joined the Indian Army with the 17th
Cavalry in 1918 and rose to command
Peshawar area before the British left.
Major-General W. J. Cawthorn, the
retiring Deputy C. 0.5., hails from Rokeby
(Vic.), served with the 22nd Battalion,
A.1.F., in World War I, and was head
of Middle Eastern Intelligence, 1939-41,
then Director of Intelligence for India,
1941-45, before moving to Melbourne.
Here he was the Indian C.-in-C.’s repre-
sentative on the Joint Chief of Staffs
Committee, before taking up the post
which he is now vacating.
Natimuk, in the Victorian Wimmera,
has farewelled its editor. At 83 A. W.
Lockwood, editor-owner of the “West
Wimmera Mail,” has given the flat-bed
a farewell pat, proofed his last auction-
sale advertisement, and withdrawn with a
bottle of printer’s ink to spend the rest
of his life in peace. He ran the little
paper for 50-odd years, which must be
pretty near a record.
There’s a lot of iron about Cecil Harold
Hoskins —and it’s not all in his Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Co., from which
he recently retired as general-manager.
Belonging to a family which developed
Lithgow into Australia’s first big iron-
and-steel production centre, as well as
establishing the huge Port Kembla works
of the company, Cecil went straight from
Newington College into steel, with Briscoe,
Drysdale and Co. When his father’s
firm took over the Lithgow works
in 1908, he moved with them, and at
22 was a director. With the Lithgow
concern amongst Australia’s largest,
Charles Hoskins, Cecil’s father, acquired,
with characteristic foresight, a 400-acre
site for a new steel plant at Port Kembla,
in addition to about 15,000 acres of coal-
bearing land near by, as well as iron-ore
leases at Yampi (W.A.); on his father’s
death Cecil took over the chairmanship of
directors, and, with brother Sidney,
developed the new project into the
present lusty concern. In 1928, Australian
Iron and Steel was formed, and, in 1935,
merged with B.H.P. Now 61, directorally
connected with Southern Portland
Cement, two insurance companies and
the A.M.P. (chairman of the last), the
ironmaster takes up his “recreation,”
farming. He remains on the board of
A. I. and S.
Slipped in and out of the country,
almost unnoticed, Henry Wyndham
Stanley Monck, 6th Viscount. A Cold-
stream Guardsman whose title goes back
to 1797, he is vice-chairman of the
National Association of Boys’ Clubs in
England, breeds pedigree livestock on his
900 acres at Basingstoke, and is a director
of Portals, Ltd.—they make banknotes.
“Wiri”: The fine bunch of New
Zealand artillerymen who marched
through Brisbane the other day on their
way to Korea were a mixed bag; many
wore pilots’ or other air-crew wings from
the Air Forces of Britain, Australia and
New Zealand. One of the outstanding
War II veterans marching with them was
the Rev. Father Jesse Kingan, one of the
most popular chaplains with the Kiwis
in the Middle East and Italy, last show,
and Marist Father and sports-master at
St. Patrick’s College, Silverstream, near
Wellington, before the war. He was one
of the best referees seen in the big
divisional Rugby Union matches in
Egypt. Badly wounded at Monte Cassino
(Italy), he won M.C.
“Macnell”; Recent admission to the
Order of the British Empire of British
medico Horace Wright, B.Sc., Ph.D.,
indicates the unpublicised, constant seek-
ing after improvement by the Royal
Navy. On arduous experimental work to
do with submarine-rescue, the doc.
deliberately shot straight to the surface
from 300 ft. down, a ride which could
have easily resulted in a severe attack of
the dreaded “bends.” Other pleasantries
included exposure to underwater explo-
sions in order to ascertain the reaction
of water-borne survivors to underwater
blast, either from enemy bombs or own
depth-charges. Three times he suffered
concussion on these tests. In the latest
trials Dr. Wright, after noting unexpected
reactions by other observers working with
him, exposed himself to a greatly in-
creased charge before allowing his
colleagues further experimentation. The
result was his being hauled out of the
water unconscious and suffering from
spinal concussion and contusion of both
lungs. He’s earned that 0.8. E,
Dr. S. L. Townsend, who succeeds the
late Professor Marshall Allan as Pro-
fessor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at
Melbourne University, is, at 38, one of
the most brilliant of the younger
members of his profession. Graduat-
ing in 1936, he practised at hospitals
from Bendigo to Tennant Creek,
became a member of the Royal
College of Obstetrics in 1940 and
then joined the Navy, where his
progress was as rapid—he ended as a
commander and won the King’s Com-
mendation for Bravery. After the war
he was made Fellow of the Edinburgh
Royal College and served at West Middle-
sex Hospital. Fellow of the Royal Aus-
tralasian College of Surgeons, he was
senior-lecturer at his Alma Mater.
The Bulletin had a look at the first
planetarium to operate south of the
Equator, in the Sydney Museum of
Applied Arts and Sciences (.they like you
to get the new name right); was
immensely impressed by the sight of a
night passing in five minutes, and of the
sky which Cleopatra saw (it looked much
the same as last night); then had a yarn
with Arthur Penfold, the incredibly
energetic boss. The 15,000 exhibits worth
about £130,000 include one of Watt’s
own steam-engines; oldest in the
world and just about priceless. An
accountant to a firm dealing in essential
oils, Penfold decided he couldn’t do his
job without expert knowledge of the com-
modity—now he’s one of Australia’s
COLLECTOR.
foremost oil authorities and has written a
chapter in the fourth volume of a series
recently produced by Dr. Guenther, vice-
president of one of America’s largest oil
firms, in New York; he has written
altogether over 100 papers on essential
oils. Now 60, he has been with his
museum since 1919 (chemist), and has
been its director since 1927. He is justi-
fiably proud of his display of synthetic
fibres and plastics (claimed to be as good
as anything anywhere). Likeness by
Prior.
Herewith, by Orme, Australian Test
captain Arthur Lindsay Hassett, who,
born in Geelong 37 years ago, was
schooled at its college, which he captained
not only at cricket but also at tennis and
football. He first played for Victoria
at 20, first hit an English fence in
1938, was his country’s vice-captain in
1946, and has altogether notched well
over 10,000 runs in first-class cricket.
Quiet, unassuming, he is, withal, remark-
CAPTAIN.
able for a singularly restless eye, a Mont-
gomery power of command and an
embracing knowledge of just about all
the wrinkles in the game. In his most
recent book, From the Boundary, Ray
Robinson, a particularly acute observer,
credits Hassett especially with the two
very useful assets for a cricket captain,
tact and a sense of humor. A War II
Digger, with the 2/4th A.-A., he saw
service in the Middle East fighting and
in New Guinea.
Made his last port in Sydney at 69,
Engineer-officer Ben Ethell, D.S.M. and
bar, who spent 53 years' driving the big
trawlers into the Irish Sea and Atlantic
off the British west coast. He got the
D.S.M. when on mine-decontamination
and patrol work against the Kaiser’s fleets
in 1914-18 and running a courier ship in
the fights on Dogger Bank and off Jut-
land. Against Hitler’s ships he held R.N.
rank as skipper of one of his Majesty’s
“small ships” on Atlantic and Channel
coast patrols. After that he retired, went
to New Zealand for a short spell and was
settled in Sydney when the end came.
His ashes are to be scattered on the broad
Atlantic.
At Metung, near Lakes Entrance
(Vic.), Gordon Gilsenan’s family last
week received the annual influx of
aborigines who converge on the home-
stead every Christmas, and have been
doing so for three generations of the
family. On Christmas Eve the property
was a blaze of campfires, and 100 or
more Binghis, their wives and children
squatted about, having footed or hitch-
hiked it from as far away as the N.S.W,
border. Cora Gilsenan, daughter of
Gordon, and known to the. abos as
Mother Santa, bossed the festive prepara-
tions, which included a distribution of
presents by a Father Christmas appro-
priately equipped with a black face, the
singing of carols in tribal dialect,
corroborees and demonstrations of
boomerang-throwing and fire-making.
The shebang lasted a whole week.
“Conda”: Due here for the Common-
wealth Jubilee junketings this year, the
Most Rev. Cyril Forster Garbett, Arch-
bishop of York and Primate of England,
once described by a colleague as “very
much an ecclesiastical cat who invariably
walks by himself.” After 19 years at the
parish church of Portsea, famous as the
training-ground of bishops, Dr. Garbett
became, in 1919, Bishop of Southwark,
and spent 13 years in that South London
diocese. Here he came daily in contact
with the tragedies of foul sanitation and
sub-standard living, and he became, as
he has remained, the fervent champion of
housing reform. In 1937 Dr. Garbett
shifted to Winchester, which, with London
and Durham, ranks as one of the three
most distinguished of the English dioceses
—with the two Archbishops, the Bishops
of these sees alone have - the right to a
seat in the House of Lords, In 1942,
when William Temple was elevated from
York to Canterbury, Dr. Garbett became
Archbishop of York, and the second man
in the Anglican Church. Quiet, un-
dramatic, but, withal, very individual, the
visitor is over 70, and directs his still-
ample energy to domestic problems, in-
fluenced still by his early Southwark
impressions.
“C.T.H.”: The travelling-companion to
Washington of S. C. Leslie is not Robert
Lowe (B, 13712/’5O), but Robert Lowe
Hall, also Rhodes Scholar and now chief
economic adviser to the British Govern-
ment. Hall is one of a trio of
Rhodes Scholars who sat together in the
same senior form at Ipswich Grammar
(Q.), in 1918. The others are Dr. H.
Burton and Dr. A. J. Foote. Other
notables in this same form were G. A.
Fisher, now headmaster at Armidale,
W. G. Henderson, headmaster at Ipswich,
and H. McCulloch, of the large hydro-
electric scheme in Tasmania.
Dr. Thomas Logan Robertson succeeds
Murray Little as Director of Education
in Westralia. A red-haired six-footer, a
mighty smiter on the tennis-courts when
he was younger, he is a product of the
department he will now control. Joining
it as a student-teacher in 1920, he went
through all the grades before appoint-
ment to inspector in 1941. On the
academic side he gained a Carnegie
Fellowship, studied the practice of educa-
tion in England, Europe, Canada and the
U.S., and while over there received a
Doctorate of Philosophy (Education)
from the University of London. Early
in War II he tried to enlist in the A.1.F.,
but was manpowered. Released for
special work with the Army Education
Service in 1942, he went up to major.
After the war he did another good job
in planning a special Commonwealth Re-
construction Training Scheme for teachers
coming back to the classroom from the
services, and for other ex-servicemen
desirous of becoming teachers. Since
1948 he has been assistant-director of the
Commonwealth Education Office in
Sydney. He’s 49.
“F.S.”: Melbourne National Gallery
Art School’s £9OO travelling scholarship
this year goes to Roderick Clarke, a 24-
year-old student whose parents intended
him for the church. Mrs. Amelie
Colquhoun, Eric Thake and Professor
Burke, Melbourne “Herald” Professor of
Fine Arts, were the judges. So Clarke
treads the same path to Paris trodden by
previous winners Max Meldrum, John
Longstaff and James Quinn, among a
host of others.
Into the Silence:
At Heidelberg Military Hospital (Vic.), at 52,
Rupert Curnow, M.L.A. for Ivanhoe; he was
badly wounded when with the Light Horse in
the 1914 war. Taking up a soldier-settlement
block at Corryong, he built himself a house
out of adzed timber, made a success of farming,
and devoted his latter years to the interests of
returned men. He was elected to Parliament
in 1947.
In Sydney, Percy Arnott, a director of the
biscuit-firm. A front-rank cricketer in his day,
he played in Sheffield Shield matches, and in
1913 represented his country at the game in
the U.S. Captain and president of Concord
(Sydney) golf club and member of the Royal
Sydney and Prince Alfred yacht clubs.
In Toowoomba (Q.), at 78, Fred Gould,
advertising man, art connoisseur and ardent
bowler. Associated with the late James Clark,
the “Pearl King,” in the rubber and copra
industries of the islands in his earlier days,
he was later, for more than 30 years, on the
advertising staff of the old Brisbane “Courier.”
He accumulated a collection of water-colors,
oil-paintings and antiques, valued at £20,000,
which he presented just before his death to the
citizens of Toowoomba. Winner of many
bowling championships.
In London, at 81, Frank Vaughan Siedeberg,
a native of Otago (M.L.), and a noted chess-
player in his day, twice winner of the M.L.
championship. A great feat recalled by old
chessmen was that of 1893, when he played
four games simultaneously while blindfolded,
winning three games and drawing the fourth.
He studied electrical-engineering in Berlin, and
practised in England and America.


VVWv
.'V
sw
mm
wm
mw
Wk
m
)))
£<
yOvK*
vs
v>
7 ~^hS '
KpJ
€
&
A'%
&/V
%■<)
3
raj
Mt
))
&
a
a
£)
U
Mi
v
m.
J gWj. C ' £ ..: Vd&—
N
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER— Brewed and bottled by .
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
BRANDAUER3
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER * CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENQ.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM
OSUUJVAIV. '/
< B.rtX*- Vf*
trade
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating'
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER*
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURER*
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDER*
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHER*
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHURCHILLISMS.
Over a week before General
MacArthur tardily clamped
down a censorship on Korea
Mr. Churchill emphasised its
need.
“When,” said Mr. Churchill,
“one sees set forth, day after
day, the exact position, num-
bers, condition and intentions of
the United Nations troops, very
often unit by unit, one cannot
but feel that it is hardly fair to
the soldiers who are fighting that
the enemy should be presented
—London “Daily Mail.”
STICKY WICKET.
with such complete intelligence,
whereas,” he dryly added, “so
little seems to be known by us
about the other side.”
A few other Churchillisms
from the same speech:
“Progress in European de-
fence, which was tardily begun,
continues to be lamentably
slow.”
“More than nine months ago
t pointed out that no effective
defence of Europe was possible
without the armed strength of
Germany, and the movement of
opinion in that direction has
been continual, but nothing has
been done.” (Like the Korean
censorship demand, this urging
also seems to have produced
definite results.)
“While the fullest priority
should be given to the defence
of western Europe, it would be
a great mistake to lose our sense
of proportion and cast every-
thing to the winds elsewhere.”
“I am strongly in favor of
every effort being made by every
means to secure a fair and rea-
sonable settlement with Russia.
I should, however, be failing in
frankness if I did not make it
clear at this stage that we must
not place undue hopes upon the
success of any negotiations
which may be undertaken.”
“There must be no appease-
ment through weakness or fear.
Appeasement in itself may be
good or bad, according to
the circumstances. Appease-
ment from weakness and fear is
alike futile and fatal. Appease-
ment from strength is magnani-
mous and noble, and might be
the surest and perhaps the only
path to world peace.”
“When nations or individuals
get strong they are often trucu-
lent and bullying, but when they
are weak they become better
mannered. But this is the re-
verse of what is healthy and
wise. I have always been
astonished, having seen the end
of these two wars, how difficult
it is to make people understand
the Roman wisdom, ‘Spare the
conquered and confront the
proud.’ I think I will go so far
as to say it in the original:
Parcere subjectis et debellare
superbos. The modern practice
has too often been —punish the
defeated and grovel to the
strong.”
“The argument is put forward
that we must never use the
atomic bomb until or unless it
has been used against us first. In
other words, you must never fire
until you have been shot dead.
That seems to me undoubtedly
a silly thing to say and a still
more imprudent position to
adopt.”
“The deterrent effect of the
atomic bomb is at the present
time almost our sole defence. Its
potential use is the only lever
by which we can hope to attain
reasonable consideration in an
attempt to make a peaceful
settlement with Soviet Russia. If
they had superiority, or even
something like equality, in this
weapon with the United States
I cannot feel any assurance that
they would be restrained by the
conscientious scruples or moral
inhibitions which are often so
vocal in this country. It would
certainly be a poor service to
the cause of peace to free them
from all cause of apprehension
until they were in every respect
ready to strike.”
It all bears out the British
Press comment (already quoted
here) that “what sticks in the
gills of the Attlee Socialists is
that Mr. Churchill is the real
leader of the country, and they
know it.”
Uncle Sam’s Role.
Commenting on the general
Western European, including
British, attack of the jitters over
the reverse in Korea, New York
“Herald Tribune” interprets
Uncle Sam’s all-stage role:
“The United States cannot
look upon Korea in precisely the
same light as do Europeans.
“For one thing, its military
and political commitment is
greater.
“For another, lying between
the Atlantic and the Pacific, it
must watch the shores of both
oceans and weigh the con-
sequences of any sign of weak-
ness in either area.
“For a third, it bears the
heavy responsibilities which its
economic and military power
entail.
“It cannot simply acquiesce—
it must take its own position.
“The problem is to reconcile
that position with the legitimate
interests of America’s allies,
without jeopardising either the
men who are fighting in Korea
or the basic needs of the free
world.”
From Australia’s point of view
it would seem perhaps just as
well that Uncle Sam necessarily
has a greater interest in Asia and
the Pacific than most of the
jittery ones have lately evinced.
Much-involved Bull.
Editorially previewing this
month’s Commonwealth Con-
ference in London, “Manchester
Guardian” pictures J. Bull as no
longer a free agent able to
pursue an independent policy in
world affairs:
“In the old days there was a
certain relationship between
[British] foreign policy and the
defensive system. In theory at
least, an objective in foreign
policy might be abandoned if
the military risks proved to be
too great. But now it may be
found that the support of weak
countries against aggression will
involve this country in cam-
paigns from which she could
not withdraw without the
consent of the United Nations.
To some extent we have lost
control of our own course.”
To this picture of J. Bull with
a ring in his nose, the
“Guardian” adds the related
moral:
“Now that the Dominions
have secured a greater measure
of freedom —and indeed real
independence—the obligation is
the heayier on them to make full
provision for individual and
common defence as well as for
those military expeditions that
may be called for by the United
Nations.”
Dragnet Digest.
The"Peace-lovL'r*. —London “News
Chronicle” contributes a helpful line
to the Communist “peace campaign”
which the ungrateful Corns probably
won’t use: “In every part of the
globe today where armed forces are
in conflict Communists are involved
and Communists struck the first
blows.”
* * * *
The Muse in Arms. —When those
who went from these parts to the
“peace-lovers’ ” congress return they
should be able to produce from
pocket or handbag a tender poem by
a Czechoslovakian Homer making
the following kindly suggestions:
“Wherever the American G.I. sets
foot he will be murdered, poisoned,
set aflame, beaten, starved, baked as
in hell, and this will happen in
France, in Greece, in Bulgaria, in
China, in fact, everywhere.” London
“Observer” quotes the Czech delega-
tion as announcing that it would give
everyone present a copy.
* * * *
Napoleon Say. —“ This,” says “Man-
chester Guardian,” “may be one of
INapoleon’s sayings most relevant to
our time: ‘China is a sleeping giant.
Let it sleep. It will be an evil day
when somebody wakes it.’ ”
* * * *
The Reluctant Fritz. Apparently
basing its finding on the electioneer-
ing statements of the majority of
candidates successful in the German
local elections a few weeks back,
London “Time and Tide” comments:
“The elections confirm what has long
been evident, that the reluctance of
the Western Powers to rearm the
Germans is exceeded by the reluctance
of the Germans to be rearmed.”
* * * *
Enthusiasm the Right Oil. —F. A.
Martin, chairman of the Productivity
Committee of the British Stebl Foun-
ders’ Association, in the course of
an article in the “Financial Times”:
“The machine which is British
industry is now being required to
run at higher pressure and to produce
goods faster than ever before in
times of peace. If it is to do so
the essential lubricant is enthusiasm-
enthusiasm in management, enthu-
siasm for technical improvement and
control and enthusiasm on the floors
of shops and factories. Without this
ingredient, plans, policies and per-
suasion are alike vain and higher
productivity a will-o’-the-wisp.”
% * * *
The Woolly Pandit. —“Washington
Post” assessment of Nehru: “An
academic word-splitter in world affairs
with no comprehension or no
willingness to recognise, realities.”
“Perhaps,” it also comments on the
Pandit, “he has too much on his
plate at home to be depended upon
for anything more than oratory, and
is too bemused by his fealty to chip-
on-the-shoulder nationalism to see the
world situation in perspective.” No
doubt fair enough, but it isn’t so
long since, with J. Bull holding India,
the Pandit and others of his land
were all heroes to the American Press.
$ * * *
Sorry, No Rice. —A London “News
Chronicle” correspondent in Saigon
turns another small point of light on
why rice is still, to put it mildly,
scarce: “In addition to the destructive
effects of protracted war [in Indo-
China] the peasants have been
deprived of their main source of
income by the French refusal for the
past five years to allow the export of
rice, except for a few thousand tons
to French possessions, lest the pro-
ceeds find their way into the hands
of Ho Chi-minh.”
$ $ $ $
“Unpurged” Japs. —A board ot
review set up in Japan has cleared
over 10,000 formerly “purged” Japs.
Finding this “a little ominous,
“Manchester Guardian” has com-
mented: “The chairman of the
appeal board has suggested that
many more applicants will later be
reinstated; their chance, he said,
would come after the conclusion ot
the peace treaty. This will hardly
encourage the countries which are
suspicious of Japan to fall in with
the American proposal to abolish all
supervision.”


m ,
■M'/.
IF YOU KNEW
THE FUTURE
.... yon could act with cer-
tainty to secure your depend-
ants’ security. However, as
the future is obscure to us all.
your wisest action is to assure
your family’s security with
" The Equitable”. This com-
pany is fully experienced in
these matters to expertly advise
you. ACT NOW 1.. . . write,
’phone, or call.
. R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
MA
gdf
Mead 0/f/ce 37Z-373Queen ft, Brisbane
WINCELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
3BQ COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbbre DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27V), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
CUARD
Oa&tv
PROTECTA I
6Urtl- Sdi RiyiiiiAiyfuf
Till
gdf
Suitablr for every type of bnslnes* »t record*
all Sales. - Credits, Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Agrnte~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE
PERTH .
W. C Fenfold A Co. Fly. Ltd.
, Norman Bros* Fly. Ltd.
, Pardon A Son* Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. 4Aost.>
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
%
JJJMi
Established 1808 in Reign of
George HI,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATI.AS BTOLDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, STDNET.
F, V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Chinese Move.
“Ek Dum”: Censorship has
clamped down tightly over the
Korean front Correspondents
are briefed, allowed half an
hour to write their dispatches
from the briefing, and their
efforts are then carefully
scrutinised.
General MacArthur himself is
taking a far greater hand than
previously in the U.N.O.
Army’s publicity.
In his report on the month’s
operations issued on December
26 he made some bewildering
statements. His description of
the Chinese attack in Korea as
being “without warning” was
surprising, since the H.Q. of his
Eighth Army reported the num-
bers of attackers within a day
or two of the actual stoppage of
the U.N.O. Allies’ “home-by-
Christmas drive,” and for weeks
before that Chinese prisoners
had been coming in, and Chinese
divisions were being identified.
Far from the attack being with-
out warning, Peking Radio
trumpeted its plans loudly in ad-
vance. And, anyway, as early
as November 6 General Mac-
Arthur himself had referred to
the strength of the Chinese.
However, the General, on De-
cember 27, declared that the un-
expected Chinese attack was
thrown against the Allies, “but
without attaining a decision.”
This seems to have been largely
due to the conditions under
which, fortunately, U.N.O.
forces were better equipped for
movement than the Chinese, and
very sensibly took advantage of
their superiority. The Chinese
seem to have been mechanised
only up to Shanks’-pony stage,
with the result that both the
bulk of the X Corps on the
eastern wing and the Eighth
Army on the western wing were
able to escape and redeploy “at
less cost in men than in the
comparable period of fighting
round the old Pusan defence-
box.” It seems that “we ex-
posed before it was too late the
secret political and military de-
cisions of enormous scope and
threw off balance enemy mili-
tary preparations aimed at sur-
reptitiously massing power cap-
able of destroying our forces
with one mighty extended
blow.”
There is, as yet, no sign that
the Chinese forces have ever
been off balance, and the state-
ment that “the real test of the
U.N.O. command is that, when
it was confronted by the over-
whelming force of China, it sur-
vived without much loss of re-
sources or ability to manoeuvre”
is rather premature. Except in
the east sector, out on the limb
at Chosin reservoir, where the
Marines and the British com-
mandos were caught in the
Communist onrush, there was
little real contact between the
Chinese and the U.N.O. troops
in sustained action. The full
weight of the “overwhelming”
Chinese force has yet to be felt,
and its advance with mobs of
troops unarmed save for small-
arms and light mortars, a few
handfuls of ammunition and a
few pounds of rice is scarcely
consistent with the dealing of a
“mighty, extended blow” at the
stage of the first advance, which
showed that it had little momen-
tum.
Intelligence Statistics
The General, on December
27, placed the Communist
strength at 27 divisions, covering
about 500,000 men, with ele-
ments of the Third Army Group
immediately in their rear. This
was supplemented by his state-
ment that, all told, including the
troops in Korea, the enemy
numbered 1,350,000.
Next day “General Mac-
Arthur’s intelligence staff” was
reported to have told the Press
that there were 446,406 enemy
troops massed along the 150-
mile Korean front, and of this
number they had confirmed that
277,173 were Chinese, together
with 900,000 Chinese and North
Koreans in Manchuria. With
the regrouped armies of the
North Koreans and Chinese the
Communists could have about
600,000 troops in North Korea
under arms, the officers said.
And, of course, these do not in-
clude the mobs which the re-
treating Americans are supposed
to have mown down at the rate
of ten Communists to every
American casualty. It seems
that the more you kill off the
bigger and better the Communist
forces get. General MacArthur
has this week stated the number
of Korean guerrillas behind the
Allied lines at 30,000 to 35,000.
Chinese Move Forward
Immediately following General
MacArthur’s statement the
Chinese began to show signs
that the period of the “phony
war” was over. They began to
appear in small bodies, especially
on the South Korean part of the
front which stretches across the
peninsula along a “line” of de-
fences roughly 140 miles long.
The Allies are said to have
250,000 troops to hold this “line”
now that X Corps has been re-
deployed from the Hungnam
beachhead, and they will need
them all, seeing that if H.Q.
figures are right the Chinese and
North Koreans have 4000-men-
to-the-mile average along the
whole length of the frontal de-
fences, the advantages of abso-
lute initiative as to time and of
being able to choose their own
points of attack and mass a
maximum force behind any in-
dividual blow without the
U.N.O. command daring to un-
duly weaken any other part of
its line to counter it. Two to
one in numbers over-all, plus
initiative, gives the enemy much
greater superiority than appears
on the face of the bare figures.
No sooner had General Mac-
Arthur’s statement been issued
than the Chinese screen began
to inch forward into no-man’s-
land attacked by U.N. Air
Forces. The tactics, as eluci-
dated by correspondents, were
simple—the Chinese were sup-
posed to be aiming a huge fist
with concentrated manpower at
the centre of the Allied line
north of Seoul. But within 24
hours of this bit of “aiming”
the only impact of the sup-
posedly immense attack was the
occupation of Kaeson, two miles
inside the South Korean border,
which the U.N.O. forces had
left empty when they retired last
month. It is about 35 miles
from Seoul.
Flank Attack Organising
Next day the fist theory went
by the board when, after re-
ported enemy concentration in
the Yongchon area on the Im-
jin River road to Seoul, General
MacArthur declared that the
enemy was apparently preparing
a flank attack on the U.N.O. de-
fence-line, and mentioned the
chance of co-ordinated assault
by 19 Chinese divisions between
January 1 and January 19 with
the support of the Chinese Com-
munist Air Force.
If the enemy is deploying
armies of the extent for which
American Intelligence vouches,
that will certainly be the earliest
that major attack could have
been achieved unless prepara-
tions were at an advanced stage
earlier than believed. To get
500,000 troops and 900,000 re-
serves into position, to prepare
their communication-lines, to
keep food and ammunition up
to them when they begin to
move is a giant task even if the
main battlefields are likely to be
only a few miles away and the
enemy does not have command
of the sea.
But a campaign begun in the
depth of winter against an en-
trenched adversary with a deep
rear, air superiority (when the
Air Force can be used) and sea
communications on each flank
presents a frightening task for
any general, who must begin
work on the assumption that his
quarry will count retirement
cheaper than loss and the
lengthening of the attackers’
lines of communication as an
advantage.
The fate of the campaign will
depend on the ability of the
Chinese to develop the advan-
tages of their superiority of num-
bers at the very outset and to
punch their way to the rear of
the Allied forces with their very
first major blow.
Offensive Moves
By the weekend all the signs
of the coming offensive of the
Reds were visible, both locally
and in the strategic operations
designed to distract attention to
Europe and Indo-China, where
General Lattre de Tassigny has
just been installed in the Viet-
nam-French command, after
having relinquished the com-
mand of the Atlantic Pact
nations’ land forces in Europe.
Late in the week Marshal Tito
had occasion to refer to the
dangers threatened to Yugo-
si avia by the massing of
Rumanian, Bulgarian and Hun-
garian satellite troops along the
border of Yugoslavia, those
countries having acquired huge
armies, Russian-trained, in com-
plete defiance of the peace
treaties. There had actually
been some firing over the
border earlier in the week due
to the shooting of a Rumanian
in Yugoslav territory.
As these events were being
publicised the Chinese-North
Korean armies opened their
artillery preparations on the
Allied lines south of the 38th
Parallel after they had probed
forward along all four roads
which lead southward across the
whole width of the peninsula —
two from Pyongyang and from
the central area to Seoul and
two on the east leading down to
Chongju and following the east
coast through Samchok to
Pusan.
Their movements were
shrouded in mystery by the cen-
sorship, but their penetration of
10 miles by December 29 was
made obviously only through
the screen of U.N.O. outposts,
though they were in force with
greater air cover than had been
seen for a long time. They
seemed to be making a feint
with an eastward shift of troops
designed to bewilder the U.N.O.
command and transfer their
attention from the west to the
east flank.
On December 29 the most
important fighting was going on
in the air, where the real test
of efficiency between the Russian
M.I.G. fighters and the U.S.
Sabres had begun. According
to U.N.O. sources, the results
had been all in favor of the
Sabres, but the Chinese had a
different story.
In the weekend, as the Maori-
land artillery units came
ashore their equipment, evidence
accumulated that the Chinese
feel strong enough to attack at
all points of road approach, and
the Allied forces, withdrawn at
points as much as 11 to 15 miles
since Christmas Day, were pre-
paring to meet a general on-
slaught from two directions on
Seoul, accompanied by strong
operations on the east to turn
the flank of the defence-line.
Rearming Japan
It became certain on Decem-
ber 31 that the coming fortnight
will be a crucial one in the his-
tory of the Pacific, little as the
Korean events have been noticed
in an Australian Press devoted
to the celebration of Australia’s
jubilee and to the honors lists,
sporting results and the Sydney
taxi strike. Its promise was
made more ominous by General
Mac Arthur’s New Year mes-
sage—following the Russians’
Note protesting on the subject to
the U.S. Government —which
prepared the way for the re-
armament of Japan, an event
inevitable in the circumstances
which seem to lie on the horizon.
The alternatives are that
Japan be armed as a friendly
Power or that the Allies are
forced to withdraw and that she
be armed either under her own
steam or as a new Russian
satellite. Rearmed she will be
as Armageddon comes nearer,
and the fact must be faced as
in the case of Western Ger-
many. It is only a question of
who arms her and the nature of
her rearmament.
The situation arising from the
failure of the Netherlands and
Indonesia to agree about the
future of Western New Guinea
has become serious. A dis-
tinguished Australian who
landed in Djakarta a few weeks
ago en route from Europe was
told there that if an absolute
deadlock was reached there
would not be a European alive
in Java 24 hours after the news
leaked out. Dr. Soekarno’s
Government apparently feels
there is something in this, and
alerted the Army “to prevent
anti-European riots last week,”
but as past experience of that
gallant force shows, it won’t be
much use except to the rioters.
The Dutch are holding out for
control of the area by a Dutch-
Indonesian condominium, but
the conquerors-by-force of Am-
bon, with a huge bloc of Com-
munist-controlled trade-unions
behind them, are not prepared
to compromise. It is a matter
on which Australia cannot com-
promise either if it values its
security.
* * * *
The Allies in Korea suffered
a severe loss in the death of
Lieutenant-General Walton H.
Walker, in command of the
Eighth Army, who was killed
when his jeep overturned as the
result of a collision on a crowded
road. The stocky, determined
60-year-old commander, who
was on the verge of promotion
to full general’s rank, was popu-
lar with Australians, who had
known him in. Japan since 1948,
when he took over the Eighth
Army command there from
General Eichelberger. He has
been succeeded by Lieutenant-
General Ridgway, hitherto a
corps commander. U.S.
casualties passed the 38,000-
mark before New Year, show-
ing an increase in the last week
recorded of 1904.


EVERYWHERE PRIMARY PRODUCERS PROVE IT
IDCAI for AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
mm
msm
mmmm
m
• ./:<
t M
X ■■
\. .m
■ y --y
...........Vo-- &is&Bjk
ju *-*f-r ■■••■
H S / - —^
/i4
" V ~/x '*>''<>•
•i, \ ■■'; •'
ImPI I
«T J=S
SS? J
pnrniai^
gdf
6-way Rawer (Bell-pulley, P.T.0., Adjust-
able Swinging Draw-bar, 3-point Hydraulic
Power). 5 FORWARD SPEEDS (I to 18
m.p.h.). ADJUSTABLE TRACK. FULL
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT . . .
. . . the NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL HAS
EVERYTHING! DOES EVERYTHING!
IT IS BUILT AND BACKED BY A NAME
YOU CAN TRUST!
NUFFIELD
DEALER
Sold and Serviced by
Distributors and Authorised
Nuffield Dealers throughout
the Commonwealth.
(Above): Nuffield Universal puff-
ing 18 Plate Offset Disc Culti-
vators; width of cut, Bft. Sin. This
is a particularly heavy draught
implement for orchard work,
enabling close cultivation to fruit
trees, and was pulled in 3rd gear
at 3j m.p.h.
NAP/24/N/BO
DISTRIBUTORS FOR VICTORIA & SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd., 206-218 Russell
Street. Melbourne, C.l. Phone: JM 1555. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR QUEENSLAND & NORTHERN RIVERS
N.S.W.: Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd., 457 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. Phone: B 2420. Branches at: 1
Railway Street, Toowoomba. Phone; 2793. 126
Woodlark Street, Lismore. Phone: 1802. DISTRIBU-
TORS FOR SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND BROKEN HILL;
Kingsway Limited, 118-120 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Phone: Central 6870. DISTRIBUTORS FOR WESTERN
AUSTRALIA; Park Lane Motors Pty, Ltd.. 926-928 Hay Street, Perth (Temporary Premises)
B 7913. DISTRIBUTORS FOR TASMANIA: Metro Motors Pty, Ltd., 36-38 Argyle Street,
Phone: 4061. DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited, 213-217 Elizabeth Street.
Phone: MA 6357 (Next to T. & G. Building).
. Phone:
Hobart.
Sydney.
mn
»W
NUFFIELD ’ (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD,. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH
WALES
relief from
CHOKING ASTHMA
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of suiferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. hams
jy i 3f.fr
E
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
T a^ri&ud
j^-ayi€e
z. me
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
rm
109®
g
AN
PT
v :v
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Dying Race.
“Outback”: “It is sad to see
the good old cattleman of the
outback fast dying out, and it is
my guess that within the next
20 years there will be fewer
cattle in Queensland than at
present unless something is done
very soon to get boys leaving
school back into the cattle coun-
try. Well-bred cattle and horses
are not much use without stock-
men to work them.” This view-
point, expressed by C. P.
Edwards, of Abingdon Downs
station, 75 miles from George-
town, in the Gulf country,
should be taken to heart by
those people, particularly at
Canberra, who talk glibly about
the increase in cattle produc-
tion expected to follow the
signing of a 15-year meat agree-
ment with Britain.
People with any knowledge of
the industry realise, of course,
that it will be some years be-
fore there can be any increase
in productiop, even if the cattle-
men concerned could get all the
labor and essential materials
they require, but far too many
people apparently regard the
signing of a U.K. long-term
meat agreement as being in the
nature of an Aladdin’s lamp.
The breeding of good cattle in
the Gulf country as a contribu-
tion to more and better beef was
being offset by the drift to the
cities, said Edwards, who pre-
dicts less beef-production unless
stockmen can be held in the out-
back cattle areas.
Abingdon Downs plays its
part by buying stud bulls each
year for its high-class stud, it
being the opinion of Edwards
that any station worthy of the
name in the Gulf country
should have its own stud and
buy fresh blood of the right type
each year to breed its own hejd
bulls. That policy had paid
dividends at Abingdon Downs.
This year they bought four
high-priced sons of Fenhampton
Broadside (imp.), from Percy
Reynolds’s Hobartville stud, two
of which cost over lOOOgns.
each, for a station which is 100
miles from the nearest railhead.
That the station is efficiently
conducted is shown by the fact
that 75 per cent, of brandings
are turned off the property. Four
dips charged with Rucide elimi-
nate the buffalo-fly and help to
check cattle-ticks. Culled heifers
are spayed as weaners, and to
overcome the water problem be-
tween wet seasons many dams
are being built.
Pig-housing.
“Rooster”: In East Gippsland
(Vic.) practically every trick of
the weather unfolds each year,
so that housing must be rain-
proof, yet airy. Conflicting
opinions on concrete or earth
floors are still rife among pig-
men, but the former have this in
their favor —they are worm-free.
In cold, wet weather, plenty of
dry straw, renewed daily, will
eliminate the risk of pneumonia.
A pig-pen should have plenty
of height. Low, squat structures
defeat the purpose for which
they are built; the animals stifle
in ffie heat, and in wet conditions
the floors remain damp for lack
of air-stream. Go up 10ft, or
12ft., wall half-way, so that air-
currents may pass over the
pens. Hessian screens could be
used should driving rain threaten
to swamp the floors.
Choose high ground so that
drainage is simplified. Concrete
feeding-troughs will stand wear-
and-tear better than wooden or
metal types, and are more
hygienic. Don’t cram too many
pigs in one pen ; better to build
more pens and raise healthier,
more marketable pigs.
One passage serving all pens,
opening each end on to a ramp,
makes handling easier. Conserve
all manure, but dispose of it
once a week.
Cannibalism in Chicks.
“K.T.”: It includes toe-pick-
ing, feather-picking, eyelid-pick-
ing and tail-picking. There are
a number of supposed causes,
but the main ones are deficiency
in diet or overcrowding. After
it has begun the trouble becomes
a vice and is hard to check.
When chicks in the brooder
are idle toe-picking is likely to
occur. The sun shining on the
toes encourages other chicks to
pick at them. Once blood is
drawn on one chick the chicks
will pick at each other until
many more are injured. All vic-
tims should be isolated. I have
had some with toes almost
picked off, but when isolated for
a few days they recovered and
grew up just the same as the
rest.
Keep the chicks active and
have them on free range as soon
as possible. Toe-picking begins
when they are only a day or two
old.
As to feather-picking, a
Queensland poultry handbook by
C. Kidd says: “Whilst no con-
clusive evidence is available,
feather-eating seems to be asso-
ciated most commonly with
soaked wheat or all-mash feed-
ing, where the birds are con-
fined to intensive houses. In-
cluding a higher percentage of
fibre in the ration is often effec-
tive in minimising the trouble.”
Eyelid-picking usually begins
with an injury to one chick’s
eye. If the victims are not re-
moved the eye is eventually
picked out.
Tail-picking begins in chicks
from four to six weeks of age,
and often follows toe-picking.
The tail may be picked off com-
pletely. If this is not checked
quickly the victims may be
eaten, because other parts of the
body are often attacked in addi-
tion. A good dressing for picked
parts is Stockholm-tar. These
abuses are usually confined to
chicks which are artificially
reared. Those on natural con-
ditions very rarely indulge in
cannibalism.
Twin Calves.
“Ngad u r i ” ; “Bass” (B.
18/10/’5O) is out in his state-
ment that twin calves —a male
and female —will result in a
sterile female which is actually a
freemartin, although his explana-
tion of a freemartin is accurate
enough. However, a freemartin
only occurs when the embryo
twins have a common umbilical
cord or are both contained in
the one caul —so that hormone
substances secreted from the
male circulate in the nutrient
mucus, which is also available
to the female. This occurs only
within one caul, a common um-
bilical cord —branched to each
calf —or in the case of identi-
cal twins, which are the result
of cell division occurring after
fertilisation of the female egg.
This, however, is impossible
in cattle, since cattle have an
unequal number of chromo-
somes—the absence of one de-
termining a female ; its presence
determining a male. Therefore,
if the egg divides after fertilisa-
tion the twins will, of course, be
identical in sex as well as in all
other ways. And if both are the
same sex, then there can be no
freemartin, since the production
of such depends on sex opposi-
tion. Actually, in a lifetime
with stock I have never seen a
freemartin in cattle, nor a sterile
female of twins, though I have
seen hundreds of these pigeon-
pairs. However, they are very
common in sheep, and are often
erroneously called hermaphro-
dites.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: Pigs do best running
in small paddocks with movable
shelters and feed-troughs, but, if
they must be penned, see that
the sties have well-drained, con-
crete floors sloped to turn mois-
ture into a drain running outside
the pens. There’s nothing can
transmit disease quicker in a
piggery than' drainage running
from one sty through another.
It only needs a pig in the higher-
situated sty to contract a disease
and they’ve all got it.
“Beau Forte”: Full feeding of
pigs up to time of dispatch for
sale is not favored by bacon-
factories. Full feeding over the
latter stage of the pigs’ develop-
ment usually means excess back-
fat, which means an overfat
bacon—a loss to the processors.
“K.T.”: If a chicken is sick
or off color during the first
month of life it is generally not
worth worrying about, even if
it manages to survive. Bad
management of the chicks can
make culls of many excellent
ones. Once these youngsters
have a setback they are better
killed. An ailing chick can bring
disease to a bunch of healthy
ones if left with them.
“Myrrhee”: To make a palat-
able and nourishing dog-biscuit
boil a sheep’s pluck (heart, liver
and lungs), mince and mix with
81b. of finely-ground wheat. Add
a tablespoonful of salt and knead
into a firm dough, using the soup
from the meat to moisten. Roll
into a slab yin. thick, cut into
Sin. squares and bake hard.
This will make about five dozen
biscuits.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
In the cycle now come two important astronomical points,
first the solstice and about a fortnight later the perihelion,
and after those the season changes, and although it is
normally a wet part of the year the rain will become much
less and remain so for about the first few weeks of January,
unless a sudden sunspot outbreak is noticed. This is possible
but not predictable. Otherwise, these conditions continue
till about 2 1 st January, when clouds come up and rains fall
along the coast. In February strong monsoonal rains should
come, and near Cooktown (N.Q.) there seems a possible
danger of cyclone early in January, but this is not certain
owing to lack of previous data.


IT’S FASTER BY FAR
BY SPEEDBIRD TO
(via Egypt) W
and almost anywhere in 6 Continents
From Australia you can fly on 8.0.A.C. Speedbird routes to 51
countries by the world’s most comfortable pressurised airliners . . .
enjoying 8.0.A.C.’s unsurpassed standards of personal service all-
thc-way. Expense-free transport and accommodation, complimentary
meals, including drinks, en route. No tips; no extras to pay for
countless comforts and courtesies.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • FAR EAST . HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA
ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C .
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Towns-
ville, Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
GET THERE SOONER • STAY THERE LONGER
Fir to A C
AlB/AU
&
&
/
||9
>! •
/I '
\
N
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Igm-
ic:
dfg
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
i»er lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's rood
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
iftts 1 m TH E SER ItS ‘B U lipfw G BETTER TYRES *
■
A
WMml
SS V
■r&Si
- a
■:?
df
O Measuring, with accuracy and precision,
the chemical components that are blended
with raw rubber to give the famous Olympic
"Air-Ride” tyres quality you can trust.
OT 44.16.50
gdf
gdf
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With the principal events won,
respectively, by Field Boy (10 to 1)
and Ballroom (12 to 1), the Villiers-
Summer Cup meeting at Randwick
was singularly devoid of Christmas
cheer for most punters. One marked
exception, however, was trainer
Charles McLoughlin, who turned out
the winning double —the first time in
some 20 years that stablemates have
bagged the Villiers and Cup.
In discussing the Villiers here,
doubt was expressed as to Field Boy’s
ability to run out a solid mile, but
evidently his stamina has improved
out of sight in the course of a year’s
absence from racing. Certainly he
won the Villiers so extremely well as
to suggest that he would now be quite
at home over any middle-distances.
Trailing along most comfortably in
second place behind the pacemaker
Hava Chat, Field Boy had the
Villiers plainly in his keeping all the
way. In the straight he moved up at
will to take the lead and run on to
an untroubled win. Though safely
held at the finish, Golden Wedge ran
an unexpectedly good race for second
money, while this page’s selection,
Freedom, after being far out of his
ground to the turn, came home
strongly for third money; Freedom
just shaded the equal-favorites Hum-
ming Top and Hesdin.
Field Boy seems to be quite the
best yet sighted of the otherwise dis-
appointing stock of the dual Derby
winner Nuffield. Like the progeny
of another famous son of Heroic in
Ajax, most of the Nuffields possess a
ton of early speed but little stamina.
A four-year-old chestnut gelding by
Nuffield from the Grand Joy mare
Queen Joy, and a cheap buy at the
525 guineas he cost as a yearling,
Field Boy has now won eight races.
His best previous win was the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes.
A. Ward rode Field Boy in the
Villiers, but for the handling of the
second leg of his double trainer
McLoughlin sent to his own home
State of Queensland for leading
apprentice F. Clarke. It seemed a
somewhat risky move (and doubtless
deterred many punters and improved
the odds), for Clarke had not pre-
viously ridden at Randwick. He flew
to Sydney only on the day of the
race, after riding his track work in
Brisbane in the morning. However,
it took young Clarke just 2 minutes
48 seconds to show Sydney race-
goers how he had earned his position
as leading Brisbane apprentice.
Clarke rode an absolutely perfectly-
judged race to land Ballroom a
winner by a neck from Great World,
with Crown Street third and the
screaming-hot favorite Yeoval a
joyous sight for the bookmakers in
fourth place. Betting was 10-to-l-
-bar-one, with Yeoval at 11 to 8 on.
Altogether fillies and mares gave
an excellent account of themselves
over the A.J.C. summer meeting.
Ballroom, of course, was one case in
point. On Villiers day the three-
year-old filly Putoko, starting an out-
sider at 25 to 1, easily won the 10-
furlongs December Handicap. Oddly
enough, in that event Great World
and Crown Street filled the minor
places, as they were to do three days
later in the Cup; after observing this,
connections of Putoko must have
greatly repented their over-hasty
scratching of Putoko from the Cup.
On Cup day the fair sex had a par-
ticularly good day. The White Ensign
filly Sunshine Express made hacks of
the two-year-old colts in the December
Stakes. Winning by three-parts of a
length from Ocean Bound, Sunshine
Express cut out the five furlongs in
a smart 59|sec. As well, the Ajax
mare Pantomime added to her
recently tiptop record with a narrow
but classy win in the 7-furlongs
Chisholm Handicap.
* * * *
Sydney Tattersall’s Club’s two-day
summer meeting kicked-off at Rand-
wick on Saturday, when the main
event, the 6-furlongs Carrington
Stakes, was won by the warm favorite
Warrah King. Newcastle-trained
Warrah King, with J. Thompson up,
started at 7 to 4, and won running
away from Acquittal and Pantomime.
On a pretty fast track Warrah King
cut out the six furlongs in 1.11.
Despite that the favorite won the
Carrington, and another favorite in
Artois (W. Cook) was successful in
the mile Pace Welter, punters, on the
whole, had rather the worst of the
battle on Saturday. Winners at
double-figure odds were Widgee Lass
(J. Rincheval) taking the Novice for
two-year-old fillies, Informal (B.
Killian) winning the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap and Fresteem (D.
Munro) bagging the 10-furlongs
Novice.
* * * *
The three days of Randwick racing
mentioned briefly above yielded one
observation which may be worth
keeping in mind. Over the three days
five topweights were successful. Four
of the five were ridden by D. Munro.
* * * *
Over the Christmas period the set-
tings for Melbourne racing were
Moonee Valley and, on Boxing Day,
Caulfield. Performances which im-
pressed at the Valley were the victory
of Dhoti filly Theka over fellow
two-year-olds; Lohengrin’s game win
against fellow three-year-olds and
Colin’s solid exhibition of stay-
ing ability in winning the
13-furlongs Fairfield Handicap. At
Caulfield the staying honors were
with that game mare Saxony for her
pitch, which later became a bog, was
the deciding factor.
In one respect, at least, Australian
skipper Hassett has his predecessor
Don Bradman licked hollow; Hassett
is an absolute dabster at winning the
toss. In Melbourne Australia again
batted first, but the crowds’ smiles
of pleasurable anticipation were
gradually erased as the boys were all
bundled out for a total of 194.
Faced with the job of beating such
a paltry effort the Englishmen went
to work full of confidence, but soon
found that the seemingly easy pitch
was full of guile, and they had to be
“ ‘Phase send refund on bottle to Mulga Island — signed ,
Bill Slocum .’”
good win in the 12-furlongs Hope-
toun Handicap; Beefeater was an
impressive winner of the mile Too-
ronga Handicap; over the same dis-
tance Clipper made a fair fist of
winning the Malvern Handicap; and
the Dhoti colt Bahadur, carrying top-
weight of 9.1 (next in the weights
had 7.13), gave fellow two-year-olds
a lesson in the Holiday Stakes.
On Saturday the Melbourne scene
shifted back to Moonee Valley, and
again it was one of the Dhoti breed
that impressed in the two-year-old
events. This time it was the colt
Risala (out of Narada), who, with
Purtell up, won the Granville Stakes
by a couple of lengths. Again, also,
the Mayfowl colt Lohengrin impressed
as a potential stayer of quality by
winning the mile Monomcith Handi-
cap. The 13-furlongs Gladstone
Handicap produced a freakish result
in the shape of a deadhcat between
Our Love and Land Tax. With the
camera in general use deadbeats in
themselves have become quite a rarity,
but in this case the dcadheaters were
half-sisters, both out of the Virgin
Gold mare Glodomar. “Last-race ’
Purtell’s mount would have seemed
an obvious choice for the 6-furlongs
Regent Handicap, since it was not
only the last race of the day but
the last of the year. At all events,
those who were prepared to risk
money on such omens duly collected
when Bernarlow downed Scotwyn by
three-parts of a length.
* * * *
In the history of England-Australia
Test cricket it has seldom happened
that a match has produced four com-
pleted innings each of less than 200
runs. When such a famine did occur,
in the second Test, which was com-
pleted in Melbourne last week, the
army of experts covering the present
M.C.C. tour searched high and low
for an explanation. Some put it
down to excellent bowling on both
sides; others declared that the batting
was lousy; a host of minor theorists
raked up a corresponding host of
minor theories. It doesn’t seem to
have occurred to anybody that Aus-
tralia, from top to bottom and east
to west, has just experienced about
the wettest year on record, and,
regardless of immediate local leather
conditions, the good earth in general
must be very considerably affected.
Like the first Test in Brisbane, the
Melbourne fixture was a thriller all
the way, and was finished in half the
allotted time. However, it was a
fairer test, as conditions were about
the same for both sides throughout
the match, whereas in Brisbane Aus-
tralia’s fortuitous first use of a good
contented with a very narrow first-
innings lead of three runs. Again
Australian hopes soared, only to
descend, and again English hopes,
after falling low, soared high
as Australia again seemed to collapse,
this time for an even more miserable
181. Then, of course, the battle was
on in earnest. It was a desperately-
close go, but Australia managed to
dismiss the visitors for 150, and the
Test was won by 28 runs.
Cricket authorities must be very
much in two minds about the present
Test series. On the one hand
the fast and furious action and the
excitingly-close results of the first
two Tests have given a new lease of
life to a public interest which was
beginning to wane in the face of
Australia’s overwhelming cricket
supremacy of recent years. On tha
other hand, the completing in three
days of matches scheduled for six
days has a most painful immediate
effect on the gate-receipts.
* * * *
Jack Read pays a farewell tribute:
“Hop” Harry Stone, who passed
on in Sydney recently, was more than
a very fine exponent of the Noble
Art; he was one of those rarities of
the ring a striking personality and
a real “character.” Harry will bo
missed by folk all over the globe
and by a host of Australian friends
in particular, but by none more than
Fred Kay and Tommy Uren, with
whom he had, respectively, 11 and
eight fights.
Harry was born in New York on
March 4, 1889 —his real name was
Self stein. After making his pugilistic
debut in 1909 he rose rapidly to the
top class, and met such well-remem-
bered boxers as Leach Cross, Young
Ahearn, Abe Attell and Jack Britton
before coming to Australia, where he
immediately made his mark by sur-
prisingly outpointing Hock Keyes at
Sydney Stadium in April, 1913.
I recall from that period a little
incident which typified Harry Stone.
Following his win over Keys, an
army of kids used to wait for him to
leave the Stadium whenever he fought
there; they always got a shower of
shillings. One night one little chap
was spotted crying in the gutter, and,
when asked what was the trouble,
mournfully told Stone that he hadn’t
been quick enough to get anything
out of the shower. Harry’s immediate
and typical reaction was to hand over
every bit of silver he could find in
his pockets.
On a second visit to Australia
Stone, although never scaling more
than 9.9 himself, met, and tossed,
middles, light-heavies and heavy-
weights. Usually when a lightweight
starts fighting that far out of his
own weight-class he strikes trouble
in large helpings, but Harry got away
with it because of his amazingly agile
evasive tactics against the bigger men.
Soon these tactics had earned him
his sobriquet of “Hop Harry,” and
the crowds were wont to clamor for a
demonstration of his “Kangaroo Hop.”
Stone won the Australian light-
weight championship from Llew
Edwards in 1920 and lost it to Sid
Godfrey in 1921. In all he had nearly
500 contests. Eventually he retired,
to open at Marrickville (N.S.W.) a
garage business, wherein he prospered.
Right to the end Stone always found
time to spend one night a week
teaching boxing, in an honorary
capacity, at Leichhardt Police Boys’
Club. Only a few months back he
presented this club with an expensive
set of scales, on the typical under-
standing that there was to be no
mention of the donor of the gift.


•a£»
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
{Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee,
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80*82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W YEARS OP SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Legal Notice.
TO MICHAEL JOHN O’NEILL formerly
of Moree in the State of New South Wales
Commonwealth of Australia.—TAKE
NOTICE that proceedings by Originating
Summons have been instituted by EMILY
BLANCHE O’NEILL against you in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction for the deter-
mination by the Court of the question
whether a certain Deed of Conveyance
dated 30th June 1937 executed by the
Bailiff of the District Court of the
Northern District of New South Wales
was effective to transfer to Emily Blanche
O’NeiU all your right title and interest
to the one-fifth share in the real estate
comprised in the Estate of WILLIAM
MICHAEL O’NEILL deceased given to
you by his will AND THAT by an order
of a Judge of the said Supreme Court
leave has been given to the plaintiff
Emily Blanche O’Neill to substitute for
service of the Originating Summons upon
you notice thereof by the publication of
advertisements in the Sydney Bulletin and
the Auckland Weekly News AND THAT
by the said Order you are allowed until
30th April 1951 to enter an appearance
to the Originating Summons at the office
of the Master in Equity Supreme Court
Elizabeth Street Sydney AND THAT a
copy of the Originating Summons to-
gether with copies of the affidavits filed in
support thereof may be had by you free
of charge on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitors either in person or
by letter giving an address to which such
documents are to be sent AND THAT if
no appearance is entered within the time
mentioned such order may be made and
proceedings taken as the Judge thinks fit.
—PURVES MOODIE & STOREY. Soli-
citors, lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Public Notice.
WILL the next-of-kin of KATE OAUSLET,
also known as KATE TRIMMER, believed
to have died in Melbourne about 1918, or
any person knowing their whereabouts,
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 2204, Auckland, New
Zealand ?
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
LEISURELY LUXURY MOTOR
TOURS TO THE CONTINENT
OF EUROPE
at inclusive rates from LONDON back
to LONDON in latest model British
ARMCHAIR Motor Coaches with British
Drivers and Tour Managers who know
every inch of the road.
LUXURY LAND CRUISERS LTD., a
Company founded in 1932, gives you here
the solution to your Continental visit
problem.
Many Australian visitors travelled with
us last season and were enthusiastic •in
their praises of our organisation. We
confidently expect you to follow their
example.
Leisurely Tours at regular intervals to:
The ITALIAN LAKES; SWITZER-
LAND, SPAIN, ROME, DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL. RHINE,
BLACK FOREST and DENMARK and
SWEDEN.
You are strongly recommended to make
your reservations prior to arrival in U.K.
Cablegrams: IMBLEGRIP, LONDON.
Letters to; —
LUXURY LAND CRUISES, LTD.
(Brochure 0),
0/11 Princes House, 190 Piccadilly,
London, W.l, England.
Phone: REGent 4680 and 5241.
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
An Australian
You can still find the Big
Australian, in the outback.
Rains had swollen the waters of
Taylor’s Creek, about 240 miles
north of Alice Springs, and at
the ford on the road the flood
was running in a spate about
50ft. wide and 2ft. or 3ft. deep.
Half a dozen cars were held up,
waiting to cross the creek ; some
of them, having waited two days,
getting worried about missing
the one-weekly train from Alice
Springs to Adelaide.
Two cars turned back, intend-
ing to spend the night at
Wauchope, and on the way met
with Ted Styles, who was on the
way to the Alice in his new
seven-ton Commer. One man
asked Styles if he could give him
a lift across Taylor’s Creek, to
which Ted assented. When they
reached the creek, all hands set
to and cut a piece out of the
road-bank to form a ramp, while
Styles drove back along the road
to get stones and rocks to make
a firm foundation for it. They
soon made a serviceable ramp,
and all the cars were loaded on
to the truck and driven across
the creek. Here another ramp
was built and the cars un-
loaded again. Styles stayed with
his convoy until it reached Alice
Springs so as to be at hand if
any further trouble developed.
It was a generous gesture.
Styles willingly risked the danger
of bogging his big truck in the
soft soil while helping to load
the cars, and he also ran the risk
of his being washed off the
road while crossing through the
floods all to help folk
whom he never had met before.
Not only did he give willing help
to the stranded motorists, but he
refused to make any charges for
his services, and, when the hat
was passed round, it was only
with difficulty that he could be
persuaded to accept the pro-
ceeds. The old bush spirit still
survives.— Wingella (NT.).
The Australian Way of Life?
Exhortations, ranging from
Government proclamations to
brewery advertisements, all
plead with us to do everything
possible to maintain what they
call “The Australian Way of
Life.” Well, such advice sounds
capital until one analyses what
our way of life really amounts to
these days. No doubt in the
early days there was a distinc-
tive way of life and fairly easy
to define. Lawson, Gordon,
“Mine tinkit dis pfeller debbil-debbil."
Kendall and Paterson all cap-
tured something of the atmos-
phere of their days.
Things have moved since
then, and with the greatest
portion of the population now
living in the capital cities the
way of life for most is nothing
to sing or write about. Most
noticeably the- age of good
manners has gone, and the
popular motto today is “Hop in
for your cut and kick where you
see a head.” There is too much
booze and professional sport
and all the gang which totes
along with it. There is a dearth
of honest men and certainly a
scarcity of men who could be
placed in the statesman class,
politicians’ promises are not
worth a cracker, the standard of
debates broadcast from Parlia-
ment is about as low as it could
be, and minority groups all over
the place are exerting effective
pressure to preserve their own
selfish interests.
Churches are mostly empty;
jazz music, crooners, blaring
wireless-sets and juke-boxes vie
with maudlin sentimental
rubbish on the movie screens.
Housewives are struggling with
family budgets against increas-
ing inflation, and there is an
appalling housing position, with
people living on top of each
other in crowded houses.
Savings and life policies are
worth about 6s. Bd. in the £, and
hundreds of thousands are now
looking to old-age pensions—
careful prudent people, many of
them, who in their gloomiest
moments never envisaged such
a plight.
Everything is heavily com-
mercialised —even Christmas —
with the shoddy and second-rate
reigning supreme. A poor
standard of craftsmanship and
loafing on the job prevail.
Communist - controlled unions
hold the rest of the people to
ransom, with transport regu-
larly paralysed and gas rationed
or off altogether every winter.
Pubs and drinking conditions
are the worst in the world, and
no political party is game to
tackle the matter. In the cities,
fast - growing colonies of
foreigners, many of them of
Hebrew origin, are engaged in
useless or luxury trades.
Divorce courts are unable to
cop© with the “business” offer-
ing, and home life seems to be
going into the discard. Boys
are growing into manhood with
little sense of discipline, and the
result of the recruiting cam-
paign is a disgrace. Rubbish
litters streets and public places ;
vandalism is rife and the general
outlook is that this is anybody’s
business but one’s own.
What a picture! I sometimes
wonder if this much-vaunted
way of life is worth preserving.
Probably it is—the majority
seems to prefer it that way.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Labor
For its own sake and for the
sake of immigrants whom it
hopes to recruit, the Australian
Labor movement should set
about straightening out its con-
fused affairs. It is native-born,
and has flourished in this soil
to such an extent that now it
chokes out in some fields the
very things it sought to propa-
gate.
First came the unions formed
to combat real injustice. The
movement found in those
early days that it needed more
than the strike weapon; it
needed liberal laws. So in
N.S.W., before Federation, the
political branch was born. For
a time the industrial and politi-
cal wings lived happily together,
and one liberal law followed
another on to the statute-books.
Although not strong enough to
govern alone, its compact
minorities were a power in the
land. On the industrial side the
unions took full advantage of
the power of their political
brothers and set up organisa-
tions of great wealth and
strength.
It is difficult to say when the
rot set in, but on both sides
there were early indications. In
politics began to appear both on
the platform and behind the
scenes men of wealth and little
scruple who used the movement
for what they could get out of
it and who called the tune. Later
appeared the intellectuals full of
ideas borrowed from hooks.
Then came the first Labor Gov-
ernment. Even if it had not been
split into factions by its various
components its lack of experi-
ence in the art of lawmaking—
a different art indeed from that
of ranting on the workers’
wrongs—shortened its life.
As it grew in experience the
political side concerned itself
more and more with lawmaking
and moved further away from
union affairs; it did, however,
put the famous socialisation
plank in its platform—a plank,
by the way, for which the
majority of unionists care
nothing. Ultimately the political
branch divided itself into Left
and Right, the one too advanced
for the Australian worker, who
has little use for totalitarianism,
and the other too conservative.
In the unions international
revolutionaries found ready-
made seed-beds for their activi-
ties —every union had some sort
of periodical in which they
could carry on their propaganda.
As they came to be elected to
office their power increased
almost beyond that of poli-
ticians. As some unions went
Left, others went Right. So that
now nobody knows exactly
what a member of the Labor
movement is. He may be more
conservative than Menzies,
wealthier than John Brown, or
redder than Stalin; he may be
in favor of strikes and
nationalisation, or in favor of
putting strikers in jail and of
private enterprise. It is very
confusing.— Mikyo (S.A.).
Pensions
The pound has decreased in
value during the last few years,
while the value of property has
risen by about three times since
the war. So, while I know that
a means-test is necessary, it does
seem that the restrictions on the
value of the property owned by
pensioners needs revision.
Property bought during the war
years for less than a thousand is
now worth nearly £2OOO.
No one can obtain a decent
house at present-day prices for
less than £lOOO. No person at
retiring-age can afford to sell his
house, because his pension
would be far from sufficient to
maintain him in rooms.
Surely it is only fair to old
people to bring conditions into
line with present values of
property. — Critic (Vic.).
Money Responsibility
Australia’s economy (blessed
word) today has far too much
wind in it, and instead of a
gently-deflating movement, more
and more wind is being pumped
in. Most people remember the
colored balloon which gave so
much pleasure until that little bit
of extra blowing resulted in a
loud bang, tears and the end of
the toy.
Every day we hear of Aus-
tralia’s “prosperity”; of course
the correct word is “boom,” and
the end of all previous booms
has been bust. History will
repeat itself. There is an amaz-
ing absence of money respon-
sibility in quarters which should
be most alive to it, and that goes
for wage-earners, too. Such
responsibility is of prime im-
portance to any country.
Money may be “the root of all
evil,” but nevertheless, unless
barter is to be resorted to, we
must have it as a medium of
exchange. That being so, it
behoves us all, and particularly
the Federal Government, to
realise and accept responsibility
for the protection of our present
medium of exchange the
emaciated Australian note. A
proper realisation is definitely
lacking, with the inflationary
spiral whirling merrily on its
deathly way.
Of course there must be an
end to this foolish business of
waiting hopefully for something
to turn up. It may be, of course,
that a considered view has been
taken of it, and the opinion
formed that it will be wiser to
let the thing continue until the
inevitable bust, when we can
start all over again, X doubt
that, however.
One thing seems clear, and
that is that costs will beat us.
Locally - manufactured goods,
even allowing for the 25 per
cent. London rate and the tariff,
are costing so much already
that many will soon have to face
fierce competition from abroad.
That’s the way the first relief
may come. Poor seasons (one
or two must be overdue) will
look after the inflationary wool
cheques, etc. So far, apart from
the abortive wool-tax, no real
steps have been taken.
Surely the recent report of the
Tariff Board will bring home the
immediate need for a reduction
in the London Exchange rate.
It’s a step over which we have
hesitated too long.
DRAG
(Vic.).


PAN BOOKS
A Selection from the List of 100 Titles Available
THE MASK OF DIMITBIOS
GREENMANTLE
THE SAINT IN NEW YORK
THE STABS ABE
TEN KITTLE NIGGERS
I)B. THORNDIKE’S CASE BOOK
WESTERN UNION
THE CREW OF THE ANACONDA
THE SQUEAKER
MEN NEVER KNOW
THE LOST WORLD
SO WELL REMEMBERED •
GREEN APPLE HARVEST
HUMOROUS TALES
MANTRAP
KEEPING UP APPEARANCES ~
GOING UP (stories)
DUNKEBLEV’S ■ •
THE DIRECTOR •• C-
POMFRET TOWERS
THE SONG OF BERNADETTE . . . . 1
SUMMER LIGHTNING
ESCAPE (three plays)
DOWN THE GARDEN PATH ...
ERIC AMBLER
JOHN BUCHAN
LESLIE CHARTERIS
PETER CHEYNEY
AGATHA CHRISTIE
R. AUSTIN FREEMAN
/.A N T E GREY
A. G. MACDONELL
EDGAR WALLACE
VICKI BAUM
SIR A. CONAN DOYLE
JAMES HILTON
SHEILA KAYE-SMITH
.RUDYARD KIPLING
SINCLAIR LEWIS
ROSE MACAULAY
J. B. PRIESTLEY
HOWARD SPRING
L. A. G. STRONG
ANGELA THIRKELL
FRANZ WBRFEL
P. G. WODBHOUSE
JOHN GALSWORTHY
BEVERLEY NICHOLS
2/4 Each Available at all booksellers 2/4 Each
Australian Agents; Win; Collins (Overseas) Ltd., 24(1 Kent Street, Sydney.
TWO THINGS TO REMEMBER
ABOUT YOUR HOLIDAY . . .
1. Good Books add so much to a good holiday! And an up-to-date knowledge will
enable you to take along with you those books you’ll enjoy more.
2 It’s easy to acquire that knowledge of books if you read Dymock’s Catalogue of
' New and Recent Books each month. It’s full of interesting reviews of the latest
and best.
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List. Now.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone 8L3611.
AUSTRALIAN VERSE
POETICAL WORKS OF HENRY LAWSON
The work of a poet whose verse has a direct appeal to the heart and mind of
every Australian. 12/6 (post 9d.)
THE COLLECTED VERSE OF A. B. PATERSON.
Contains all the famous writer’s bush poems, including The Man from Snowy
River and Saltbush Bill. J.P. 12 / 6 <P ost Bd ->
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
“BETTER CRICKET”
By Lindsay Hassett and lan Johnson
The practical cricket book—written and illustrated by the Masters. Oyer
160 action photos illustrating every stroke and bowl; plus held placing
diagrams, etc. Learn the hne points of the game get YOUR copy NOW.
PRICE 5/-
At all Booksellers or the Publishers —
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, C.L
COLD WAR IN GERMANY
by Wilfred Burchett
A factual report of the struggle taken place between East and West on both
sides of the German Iron Curtain. Essential reading tor those wanting
reliable information about developments in this European storm
The author is the world-famous Australian “Daily Express war
correspondent, who for more than 18 months was the Berlin correspondent
of the London “Times.’'
AT ALL GOOD BOOKSHOPS —13/6
Joseph Waters
Sole Australian Distributor:-
Room 90. Third Floor, Collins House. 360 Collins Street. Melbourne.
inspired us, even if it was only the cer-
tainty of uncertainty, fades before these
incantations, and this is a pity, because
the cover says that “Mr. Richardson de-
velops his arguments with skill and con-
tinuity, providing much food for con-
troversy and consideration, and setting
forth conclusions aimed at providing a
satisfactory philosophy.”
It is only fair to add, since we have
mentioned his book, that Mr. Richardson
is seeking “to determine the implications
of the usages of such words as ‘truth,’
‘reason,’ and ‘probability,’ applying the
results of this inquiry to the main fields
of human study and thought.”
Frank Morton.
Like Rudyard Kipling, Frank Morton
was an Anglo-Indian who began writing
in India. He landed in Melbourne in
the early 1900’s, and crossed the Tasman
to Dunedin, where he was employed by
the “Otago Daily Times” as a special
writer, to describe Dunedin as he found
it. His brilliant work both pleased and
startled the citizens who, despite their
strict Presbyterian upbringing, liked
snappy writing and fun in its proper
place—there are more night-clubs in the
hills around Dunedin than anywhere else
in Australasia, except Adelaide.
Morton was a complete success in
Dunedin. His story of how Diana the
Huntress strolled down Princes-street in
scanty attire was a winner ; and the paper
decided to send him to Christchurch to
write up the great exhibition from
original angles. But, he tired of that and
went to Wellington. I met him there soon
after he arrived, when I was a clerk in
the A.M.P. Society.
It was Saturday, morning and I was
called from a secluded corner where I
wrote notices by the thousands urging
folk to pay up, and, incidentally, writing
notes for verses,
“Some fellow wants you. Bill,” some-
one said. When I \ went I met Frank
Morton, beaming through big glasses,
and carrying two books.
“Will Lawson?” he asked. “I’m Frank
Morton, just landed, thought I’d look
you up. Now I’m in a bit of a jam—
temporary, of course. Can you lend me a
couple of quid? I don’t ask you to trust
me. These books are worth a tenner.
I’ll leave them with you.”
“That’s all right,” I said, pulling out
the money, I had just been paid my
monthly wage of £7 10s. Things were
bad in those days.
“Thanks,” he said, “but take the books.
Worth reading—Herrick’s poems, un-
expurgated. See you in a couple of
weeks.”
He departed jauntily, swinging his
walking-stick.
They were great books, and I wished
he might never come for them. But he
did, again on a Saturday morning. We
walked up Willis-street together—he
wanted me to go with him to meet some
people, but I was a shy lad then, about
45 years ago. I lived pretty quietly on
that screw.
Morton went back to his job in Christ-
church, I heard. Later he returned to
Wellington to write for the “Critic,” a new
literary and social weekly run by an
American whose name I forget. But I
remember Hiscocks was the artist, a
brilliant black-and-white man ; and he
and Frank Morton worked together on
the paper and outside, too. Cartoonist
Rayner, of Dunedin, was another good
artist whose work was reproduced in
many books. Rayner is still living, now
in North Sydney, and still walks with his
quick step, as if he had an urgent appoint-
ment to keep. His daughters are famous
the world over as entertainers.
Morton and Hiscocks made a great hit
with a book of skits titled King Dick
Abroad. It dealt with a trip by Seddon
and his Finance Minister Joe Ward to
England.
Just after this, Morton linked up with
Bayertz on the “Triad,” then a purely
local musical publication with stinging
critiques by Bayertz as its main draw.
After a concert he went round to the
morning paper of the town, and sweated
blood for hours. Morton soon widened
its scope. He could write well on any
subject, in any literary form. He was
never short of ideas or words.
It was said that he derived much from
reading American and European
magazines, of which he received a large
number. He could read French and
German and speak them, too. Whatever
his sources, Morton was most versatile.
Scarcely anything written escaped him, it
seemed.
Once he took me to his office, which
was over a shop in Lambton Quay, and
showed me a well-illustrated' magazine
published in a mid-western American
town. He opened it at a page, and
handed it to me.
“Read that,” he said. “Ever see that
before?”
I looked and saw it was my verse
“Stokin’,” complete in every word,
signed by one McTavish.
“That fellow’s blacklisted in the U.S.
for life. The editor thanked me and sent
me this.” “This” was another verse of
mine, a railway one called “Drivin’.”
After that I had a deep respect for
Frank Morton’s omniscience.
The “Triad” under Morton became a
huge success, so much so that it was de-
cided to extend its scope to Australia.
That was the big mistake. It was a purely
New Zealand paper, and after that it
steadily went downhill. But Morton
carried on, writing for papers all over
Australia, probably the whole world.
The last time I remember him clearly
was in the Star Hotel, then next door
to The Bulletin office. Randolph Bed-
ford and C. A. Jeffries were with him. It
was my first meeting with the two last-
named. And having just arrived from
New Zealand —it was in 1912 —I was im-
pressed when Morton, explaining metro-
politan newspaper work, said:
“You’ve got to remember, Will, that all
journalism is just blackmail.”
In this the others agreed, and I felt like
a conspirator in crime. It reminded me,
in fact, of a somewhat similar meeting
with three great men in Wellington when
I was writing an article about the Young
Maori Movement, then very active in
trying to bring the two races together.
The big men —literally—were Pomare,
Ngata and Timi Carroll, all Maori
Ministers of the Crown. Their talk
drifted back to the old cannibal days, and
Carroll said, humorously looking at me,
a mere pigmy beside them: “Our friend
here would have been a tough mouthful,
nothing more.”
After that I wanted to get away ; and
I felt the same with the three in the
Star. But then I was very green.
I’ve often wondered why C. A. Jeffries’s
stories which ran in The Bulletin as
serials were never reprinted. Shepherd
Kings of Canterbury and By Rail and
Semaphore were their titles. The only
railway yarns that came near them, in my
opinion, were those in Frank Packard’s
Held For Orders published in the U.S.A.
What a store of good stuff is hidden away
in the old-time Bulletin!
Whatever others did, I found Morton
a joy, even when he had been drinking
vodka or absinthe, both favorite drinks
with him,
WILL LAWSON.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 102
Across.
I—Hamlet’s mother with any wood.
(8)
4—Six-footer had a meal and com-
plained querulously. (6)
9—Figure of a horse during 12 a.m.
(7)
11— Faces of six wise men. (7)
12— Stone a laboratory flower. (9)
13— Plenty to finish off a card-game.
(5)
14— Doctor, we are upset when
sketched. (4)
15— Sty tenant to age a Sydney con-
ductor for a means of communi-
cation. (6, 4)
19—Deter a record with nothing you
anger. (10)
21—Count. (4)
25 Drink after tea for binding. (5)
26 Spoilt haberdashery from Chaldea
for a crosseyed comedian. (3, 6)
27 — Lace the honorable one with
weight. (7)
28 — Place in Wales accompanies the
hide-out with H, not h. (7)
29 French of an excursion on horse-
back is to scoff. (6)
30—Sarah’s suoport may lead to
marriage. (8)
Down.
1— Kind of roof fellow with blood-
red quartz, rhymes with a team
of shorthand-writers. (7)
2 Poison the pet aversion of a
layer of society. (7)
3 A middle-class philistine cart-
driver. (6)
5 Pen broken about the gram-store
letter of the Hellenes. (7)
6 Just the instrument to fatigue
Klemperer. (7)
7 Serve the food and let Diana
stand a round of drinks. (4, 3)
8— Finished a spell with the ball. (4)
10—Neater row with Nathaniel. (7)
16— Needing alterations, but'having a
motor. (7)
17 — Rasher future in store for it. (3)
18 — Edward has skin-blemishes on
his head when harmed. (8)
19 — Five hundred had cause for
scratching when jettisoned. (7)
20 — Spider might be bowled by
McCook (7)
22 — Answers material statements
never uttered by Washington. (7)
23 — Madeira business is done here
with a hundred standing between
merry-making and Henry. (7)
24 —Pi obeys this vegetable; (6)
26—Distorted from die normal shape.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 101.


:
tM
yw
I
ft
i
%
S'
I
>s
1 ; ■
s
“
•s-
-#4
sr»
&
S 3
Si-v •
*. .
you build
or buy a hom
consult The
*
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information if
freely available from any M.L.C. Office oi
Representative,
fSk
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co.Lld
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
1 79a St. George's
T errace.
HOBART:
M.L.C. Building,
Liverpool & Murray Sts.*
Hobart.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)»
M.L.C. Building, Lambto*
Quay.
