

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3705
Wednesday, February 14, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, (or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
See St. James’s Palace
for THE
Changing of the Guard
AT the foot of St. James’s Street, in
London’s West End, is St. James’s
Palace, which, until 1837, was the
principal London residence of British
sovereigns. To the present day official
documents are dated from and ambassa-
dors accredited to “the Court of St.
James’s.”
This historic red brick building, which
is clearly visible from busy Piccadilly,
occupies the site of a former leper hos-
pital which existed as early as the
eleventh century. In 1532 Henry VIII
took over the hospital and turned it into
a hunting lodge. JjR that remains of the
original structure is the Chapel Royal,
the Presence Chamber and the Gatehouse,:
with its four octagonal towers.
One of London’s popular ceremonials
—the Changing of the Guard —lakes
place within the Palace walls in Friary
Court when His Majesty the King is not
in residence at Buckingham Palace.
The children of Henry VIII —Edward
VI, Mary and Elizabeth—all lived
periodically in St. James’s Palace, and it
was the birthplace of Charles II in 1630,
James II in 1633, Queen Mary II in
1662, Queen Anne in 1665, Prince James
Edward (the Old Pretender) in 1688 and
of George IV in 1762.
It was in this palace that Charles I
spent his last night, 29th January, 1649 ;
on the following morning he walked to
the scaffold in Whitehall, where he was
executed. Among the many noteworthy
marriages which took place in the Chapel
Royal were those of Queen Victoria and
Prince Albert, Edward VII and Queen
Alexandra and George V and Queen
Mary.
Nearby is Clarence House, the London
home of H.R.H. the Princess Elizabeth
and the Duke of Edinburgh.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


fd
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Ct/T HERE AND MAIL mmmmmmmmmm
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.351) Age
The Red Page
SINCLAIR LEWIS.
[Sinclair Lewis died in Rome on January 10
this year. The Red Page invited Norman
Lindsay, who met the novelist in America, to
write this summing-up.]
Though American biographers have a
remarkable facility in presenting a candid
portrait of their subject from all angles,
they are going to have a puzzling job
in giving us a clear, unbiased and reveal-
ing picture of Sinclair Lewis, because he
presented so many different portraits of
himself that only a painter with the
psychological astuteness of an Orpen
could be trusted to pick out the most
revealing one. The only basis on which
to look for a convincing portrait is to
start off with the acceptance of Lewis
as a novelist of great power and, at his
best, immortal greatness. I think from
that aspect the confusing facets of his
personality may be rationalised.
Before I met him in America I was
given many versions of that personality,
mostly disparaging; he was a soak, a
poser, a buffoon, noisy, polemical and
quarrelsome. I discounted most of these
labels, because the writer of Babbitt and
Martin Arrowsmith could not be only
one of them and certainly not all together.
Contemporaries of a man of genius must
belittle him to preserve a sense of con-
sequence in themselves.
Yet when I met him I had to concede
that there was a certain element of the
lightning-change impersonator in him that
might account for some of the stories.
Even Mencken, the most devastatingly
astute mind produced by America, said
of Lewis on first meeting him, “Of all
the idiots I ever met, this fellow is the
worst.” But of course Mencken dis-
carded that estimate of Lewis the moment
he read Main Street.
Certainly, one could hardly conceive
the author of such an admirable novel
performing Lewis’s antic of mounting the
pulpit of a Kansas City church and defying
God to strike him dead. Another story
I heard of him exhibited a state of mind
only comparable to that of a sulky small
boy. At a dinner given to a visiting
novelist, Lewis was asked to speak.
Present at the dinner were Heywood
Broun and another critic who had written
unfavorable reviews of a Lewis novel.
When Lewis was called on to speak he
rose, and, ignoring the subject of litera-
ture and the guest of the evening, said
with a scowl, “There are two men at this
table who have attacked me and I’m
damned if I’m going to put on a
brotherly-love act with them present”;
and on that walked out of the room,
leaving an extremely embarrassed dinner-
party behind him.
On the other hand, he was not above
a posture of literary grandiloquence.
Saul Flaum, the publisher, told me that
on a visit to London he called on Lewis,
who had rooms at the Temple. They
went for a stroll about its historic associa-
tions, and Lewis, leading Flaum to
Goldsmith’s grave and indicating the slab
with histrionic reverence, said, “What
more can a man ask of fame than that?”
On which Saul retorted, “Don’t be a
damned Babbitt, Red.”
Flaum told me of another disrupted
dinner-party, in which a row broke out
between Lewis and Dreiser over a new
book on Russia by Dorothy Thompson,
who had recently married Lewis. Dorothy
Thompson had been Dreiser’s secretary
on a visit to Russia, and he accused her
of filching material from the -book he
was preparing on Russia, and rushing it
into print first. The truth was that Soviet
propagandise! had handed out the same
material to both Dorothy and Dreiser,
though Dreiser would not admit that
explanation.
In the course of the squabble with
Lewis he smacked Lewis’s face. Lewis
turned the other cheek and said, “Have
a smack at that.” Here Lewis comes off
rather better than Dreiser, but the inci-
dent appears typical enough of his trick
of dramatising himself in public. I
daresay his biographer will have plenty
of such material to deal with.
I had only one long conversation with
Lewis, and that was during my last week
in New York. I had met Dorothy
Thompson in Johnny Farrar's office and
she asked me to dine with them. As I
could not manage a dinner appointment,
she sugjgested breakfast next morning.
I arrived at their flat to find Lewis in
a bathrobe, in which he remained all the
morning. We had an excellent breakfast
of grilled fish, and I complimented
Dorothy on her cook. She said “As a
matter of fact, I’m the cook. Our cook
is laid up at present.” But Lewis, I
noticed, did not manifest pleasure over
his serving of fish, and kept pushing his
plate about in a pettish way, which in-
vited Dorothy to ask, “What is it, Red,
anything wrong with the fish?”
“You’ve given me the smallest one,”
said Lewis in a hurt voice.
“Very well, my dear, you shall have a
larger one,” said Dorothy, and served a
larger fish.
I detected Lewis giving me a swift side-
ways glance during this little scene, but
I was too discreet to be aware of it.
Lewis, in short, was doing a Babbitt act;
the head of the family to whose appetite
not sufficient deference was being paid.
But with breakfast over, when he and
1 retired to the loungeroom, a very
different Lewis emerged. We talked of
books, of course, of the problem of the
novel, and of personalities in the Ameri-
can literary scene, and in all of which
Lewis was the creator of Babbitt, and
not an impersonator of him. Such talk
goes back and forth on literary values
and can hardly be recorded in sequence.
When Hemingway’s name was mentioned
he said, “Ah! yes, Hemingway,” and got
up to look out of the window, repeating
“Hemingway” in a slightly distrait voice.
Returning to his seat, he restored his
voice to a brisk intonation of one getting
back to an interesting topic with, “Well,
now, as to Hemingway.”
I saw that he did not like Hemingway.
Nor did I, though I had been interested
in his first novel, Fiesta, as an experiment
in outline-writing. I said so to Lewis,
but added that I couldn’t see Hemingway
doing much with the novel, as he had
only one character, himself, and no sense
for character-creation. Lewis agreed, but
refrained from further opinion on Hem-
ingway, which might have been construed
as competitive jealousy. When I said
that Hemingway’s impertinence to
Mencken in Fiesta was unpardonable,
Lewis said, “Mencken could wipe the
floor with him if he cared to.”
Our talk shifting to Mencken, Lewis
said of him, “Mencken is damned de-
pressing, though. He laughs at every-
thing.” That let me loose on Mencken.
All through my contacts in America, I
had been irritated by the casual way
Mencken was accepted, the general retort
to my insistence on his magnificent ser-
vices to American literature being “Oh,
he’s only a journalist.” I spoke of this
to Lewis, and when I said, “It seems to
me that if Mencken had not cleared the
way by laughter there would hardly have
been space for you and Cabell and
Dreiser and Hergesheimer to function,”
he said in a surprised voice, “Yes, I
suppose there’s something in that.”
Our talk was interrupted once by
Dorothy bringing in the doctor who had
been called in to attend the cook.
Straightway Lewis ceased to be Lewis the
novelist, talking in a free and unaffected
idiom, and became tense, emotionally
restrained, obviously one in desperate
anxiety for a sick-bed verdict. “Tell me,
doctor, how is she?” The doctor gave
his diagnosis of the case, to which Lewis
listened with impassioned attention. That
over, he said, “Doctor, I put her in your
hands. Do everything that can be done
for her,”
Of course he didn’t care a damn for
the cook. He was enacting the part of a
worthy citizen, deeply concerned for the
welfare of a faithful servant. The
moment the doctor had gone he returned
to talk with me in his own character,
the creator of babbitt.
When I was going he said to me, “I
only come to New York for three months
in a year to read the newspapers. We’re
going back to my country place next
week. Come and stay for a while with
us there.”
It may have been just politeness, but
Americans are amazingly hospitable. I
wish I could have seen more of him. He
was a fascinating personality.
I hope no one supposes that I am be-
littling Lewis in noting the above in-
stances of a seeming aptitude for
fraudulent poses. He wasn’t posing at
all. It was the novelist in Lewis that
made him play out at a moment’s notice
any material that might be of use to a
novel. And as his special faculty was
concerned with a revelation of the
national ego, he had to be that ego in
order to reveal it.
In tbit respect Lewis had much in
common with Dickens, who also had a
remarkable capacity for impersonating
characters essential to the novel. His
whole life was devoted to an impassioned
impersonation of Dickens, and it is just
as difficult to get at the real Dickens
underlying the stage presentation of him-
self as it is to get behind Lewis’s mask.
Both had other qualities in common
outside their ability as lightning-change
artists. Neither responded aesthetically to
the arts —even the art of novel-writing.
I see no evidence in Lewis’s novels that
painting, poetry or music had any
special appeal to him, nor did I ever
hear him referred to as having had
aesthetic taste, though I may be wrong
about that. Dickens was a pure vulgarian
in his response to the arts generally. In
fact, he had a contempt for them, as one
can infer by the way he makes a
joke of artists and poets.
Again, both Dickens and Lewis in-
variably defaced their work when they
allowed humanistic problems to intrude
on the idiosyncratic presentation of
humanity as a spectacle. Both wrote
equally bad novels when thrown off their
emotional balance Kingsblood Royal is
just as false and oyerstressed as Hard
Times.
Both had the trick of taking one of
their own characters from one novel and
reversing it in another. Having created
a bad Jew in Fagin, Dickens must make
a conscience-problem of manufacturing
the stuffed dummy of a good Jew in old
Riah. Fearing he had libelled the pro-
fession of undertaker in Mr. Mould, he
re-establishes its repute in the good Mr.
Omer. Lewis, having stamped his
immortal Babbitt on the American
national ego, tries to deface the image of
Babbitt by creating him in reverse as the
hotelkeeper in Work of Art —I forget his
name; the novel itself is not worth
remembering.
But this anomaly of bad novels by
good novelists is an annoying subject for
meditation. It is only given to a Conrad
or a Maupassant to exhaust care and
patience over the precise word that defines
the image sought, the perfect turning of
a phrase that clarifies the idea. And above
all, to keep that perfect balance of mind
which views life with detachment, yet
with a fascination over its psychological
profundities. Neither could have written
a bad novel, even if either had set out
to dp so as a commercial venture. But
nearly all the other novelists of high
standing have perpetrated bad dr mediocre
novels.
All Lewis’s early novels are only up
to magazine standard, and some of his
late ones pretty poor stuff. But in Main
Street, Martin Arrowsmith, Babbitt and
Elmer Gantry, he reaches full stature as
a novelist. And, after all, Balzac’s early
novels are outright potboilers, Scott’s
later ones are unreadable, and Dickens
mixed good and* bad so indiscriminately
that he is Balzac at his best in one chapter
and Mrs. Braddon at her worst in the
next.
The truth is, Lewis was not a thinker,
using the term to define the clarity of
mind which sees both sides of a question
and refuses to let emotion sway judgment.
Lewis had a satanically bright eye for the
minutiae of everyday life, a brilliant
power for visualising it in swift, pungent
phrases, and an inexhaustible memory
for all the gestures, habits, conventions,
prejudices, codes and taboos of common-
place humanity; the best material for
the novel. When he writes by his eye he
never goes wrong. Only when he forgets
to view life as a spectacle and starts
thinking of it as a procedure does he
get into an emotional fluster and make a
mess of a novel.
No matter. He has left us a sufficient
number of major novels that will endure.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
GYMEA.
Blue, and still, and dark,
steeply the gully falls.
I crush curled leaves and bark,
crash from sandstone walls.
Grotesque torsos bleed;
fire-blackened forest-gum
and spear-armed blackboy lead
down where all is dumb.
Is this the mind's ravine,
the Hell I must descend,
where never foot has been,
Abyss that has no end?
Is there not bird with source
to start, well up alone;
not, in this chasm’s course,
flower to star the stone?
Sudden, the lowrys' scream:
a blue and crimson flash,
sears across this dream,
chills all my timid flesh.
The rocks are split apart
with flame, where burns the spear-
tall lily at the heart
of darkness: the Gymea.
N.S.W.
Roland E. Robinson.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Velpke Baby Home Trial : Vol. VII
of the War Crimes Trials series, edited
by George Brand. Velpke was where
the Nazis sent the babies of Polish and
Russian slave-laborers ; through deliberate
neglect at the Home 96 children died
between May and December, 1944. Two
of the accused were hanged, one was
sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, on-
to 15 years’, and three were acquitted.
* ♦ * *
Home Is Where I Find It: N. J. Man
(Museum Press) Mrs. Marr, with
husband and small daughter, found
herself in Japan in 1933, then in China,
then in Malaya for the outbreak of the
war in the Pacific, then to Perth (W.A.),
with a shipload of evacuees, then to
India, then to the US. and Canada.
When she finishes the book she is off to
Jamaica. She writes lightly, brightly and
frankly about places and people, and she
is extremely polite about Perth.
* * *
A Grammar of American Politics:
Wilfred E. Binkley and Malcolm C. Moos
(Cape). The authors are both professors
at U.S. universities ; they give a complete
and readable account, chiefly for the
student of politics, of American political
procedure. The volume runs to 760 pages.
* * *
The Great Stnderesis; a Translation of
Tao Te Ching: Orde Poynton (Hassell
Press, Adelaide). The present reviewer
cannot claim, alas, to have read Li Erh
(or Lao-Tze) in the original, and there-
fore begs to be excused from estimating
the accuracy of the translation. But at
least it reads clearly and interestingly, as
do Mr, Poysiton’s notes on this great
storehouse of Chinese poetry and
wisdom; and the Chinese themselves
would do well to study it: “Weapons
are devices of ill omen ; they are not the
instruments of noble men.” The trans-
lation was made, says Mr. Poynton in his
preface, “from a cheap text during a
period of three and a half years as a
prisoner-of-war.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
Marco Polo : Maurice Collis (Faber).
Mr. Collis has written this account for
children but says that, had he written for
adults, “it would have come out much
the same.” Using the various transla-
tions of the Travels lie has “summarised
the main events and supplied a running
commentary.” It is a clear and compact
account but without the period flavor of
a direct translation and without the rich-
ness of Mr. Collis’s prose when he has
been free to record his own impressions
of the East.
* * * •
Figure It Out For Yourself: James
Hadley Chase (Hale). The author of
No Orchids for Miss Blandish can still
produce novelty gloats and terrors —
unclothed marihuana addicts, and swarms
of sleek, two-foot-long man-eating rats
in a deserted mine—but the best thing
in this book is a study of a beery, cynical
house-detective. The plot is good enough
to have dispensed with much of the
melodrama.
♦ * * *
Milk and Honey : George Mikes (Win-
gate). A Hungarian who came to
England in 1938, Mr. Mikes has written
three popular travel books, concealing
much wisdom and humanity under a light
and humorous style. This time he goes
to Israel, proposing to write about the
Jews as he finds them; in the spirit of
“What about treating the Jews as any
other nation in the world? Not better
and not worse.” It is the only sensible
way to write any travel book; and Milk
and Honey, if Mr. Mikes feels obliged
to live up to his reputation as a humorist
and so sometimes treats serious matters
too lightly, is both entertaining and con-
vincing,
♦ * * *
San Martin : J. C. J. Metford (Black-
well). The spirit of the Liberator of the
Argentine, Chile and Peru seems to be
walking all over the earth, no doubt be-
cause 1950 was the 100th anniversary of
his death. Mr. Metford, in a short and
sober history, lacking the color of Emil
Ludwig’s Bolivar but none the worse
for that, makes it quite clear why the
general should be revered in South
America and honored wherever there is
respect for liberty and high courage;
but why the N. S. Wales Government
should have renamed Coal and Candle
Creek-road —so appropriately and beauti-
fully Australian among the wildflowers
of Kuringai Chase —General San Martin
Drive will remain for ever a mystery
General San Martin himself would prob-
ably have approved of the liberator from
one of the Sydney dailies who removed
the new signpost.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'’
nthony Horderns’
I
ijßi^XiOCvvx^,
-
™ssy
W~"~
:
0,-
r. , ;_.. ;
:
'■ . t
llplp»kp
X'S:
m
i
■
’
■■
11111
11
: : .
m
m
i itpii|l|S
■Ma-
il
■Hi
m mm
I
■ ■:
y:
■
I : I
wmmmm
-■wmm
iiii
Wmmm
wmm
M
in
111
gPH
■■■M
■
■
iss
«
g|Pfflf|a||
■. -1
B
m
m H
m
m
■ iiii
MiM
■■l
- -
WM V-'r
■^w
!sf 11
■ Hi
H
Smart well wearing
TRAVELLING CASES
Left; Striped English Tweed Cabin Case, reinforced with two wooden battens.
Two secure locks, strong handle. Size 28in., £5/9/9; and 30in., £5/17/9.
Centre: Leather Suitcase of selected dark tan plain hide is reinforced with
overturned edges and is nicely lined and finished with two English locks.
24in. priced at £B/4/6; 26in. priced at £B/18/3; 28in. at £9/11/9.
Right: Leather Cabin Case of best quality selected hide, tan colour, with two
supporting leather straps, is finished with two English safety locks and
centre clip. Size 26in., £lO/18/6; 28in., £ll/15/3; and 30in. priced at £l2/12/-.
f
Grained Hide Travel Bag with 2 supporting straps .
lock and strap fastening. 20in., £6/8/9.
i r
~\i ;|n
■ m
HHH
■
m m
BSSS ■ B
■■■ '■
iii
H i |
* m
mm
m
mmm iii
v-r r
;
■■■
:
laiM
*
a
$ K>. '^Af*
Honey Croc Air-way Suitcase, rounded front corner.
Attractive lining. 20in., £l2/6/6; 26in., £l3/7/-; 28in.,
V- t f
»■» A j
H
9 !
.. • *
wm
Lightweight Hat Case of attractive leather cloth finished
in smart leather binding. Size 18, 98/-.
£l4/7/6.
■
■Bil
BRIGHT TRAVELLING RUGS
English made All Wool Rug with fringed ends and smart check designs
in Brown, Blue, Fawn and Green. Size 58jn. x 68in., 47/6 ea.
Merino Wool Travel Rug in self colours of Green, Fawn and
Blue. Fringed ends. Size 72in. x 60in., priced at 66/3 ea.
TRAVEL WEAR DEPARTMENT-GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET —PHONE M 2401 —MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


FIRE
PROTECTION
ENGINEERED by WORMALD BROTHERS
df
"GRINNED." AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
Grinnell Automatic Sprink-
ler Systems protect millions
of pounds worth of the
world’s property. When an
outbreak of fire occurs, heat
causes the sprinkler head
above to open, localising the
outbreak, extinguishing the
fire and, at the same time,
calling the Brigade.
,
f 'i
iilips
tmr
''' '. ■
g
"MULSIFYRE" SYSTEM
The “Mulsifyre” System ex-
tinguishes oil fires. A power-
ful spray of water converts
burning liquid into an emul-
sion incapable of burning.
Widely used to protect oil-
filled transformers, oil cir-
cuit-breakers, turbine lubri-
cating oil feeds, also all
general oil risks.
m
Wm
mm
mm
s pMlM»lWliiiHWM
INSTALLATIONS
The “Lux” System, using
CO 2 (Carbon Dioxide) Gas,
extinguishes fire instantly.
It can be used on intricate
machinery—electrical wiring
—delicate fabrics—valuable
documents volatile and
highly inflammable liquids
with no harmful effects.
ƒd
f
df
"NATIONAL"
AER-O-FOAM SYSTEMS
The National System of fire
protection provides continu-
ous foam production for ex-
tinguishing fires in oil tanks,
buildings where types of in-
flammable liquids are pro-
cessed, ships’ boiler and
engine rooms, etc.
dfd
Wor maid Brothers ’ long-experienced engineers will make a survey of your premises or building
point out the danger spots give you advice as to the system of fire protection suitable to your
class of risk. A complete Fire Protection Service is maintained in all States and New Zealand .
WORMALD BROTHERS
fd
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville, Orange
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED Melbourne, Geelong, Perth, Ballarat, Hobart
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED Adelaide
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED Wellington. Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
STEELBILT LIMITED KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LIMITED


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3705
Wednesday, February 14, 1951
sBMPLOYMENt
THE DOG IN THE MANGER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney,
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THIS AGE OF SHODDY.
This is an age of shoddy. Not merely an
age of smart-appearing but structurally
shoddy homes and motor-cars, but of
shoddy political and moral standards and
public service.
Our taxation system, which for long
has demonstrated that it ignores every
equitable or economic consideration
except that of raising revenue according
to the most convenient (from the depart-
mental point of view) formula, is a con-
tributor to our shoddiness. And the
monstrous complexity of rules and regu-
lations imposed on producers by Govern-
ment departments and trade-union
executives enforces shoddiness through
the despair of those trying to carry on
under them.
Even our money is shoddy, though at
present abundant. Its shoddiness is most
noticeable to thrifty people who are now
getting back shoddy pounds for the good
pounds they invested 10 or 20 years or
more ago. In Australia at present a high
income from our exports of wool, wheat
and metals has added to our volume of
shoddy money. The unsatisfied demand
for goods is growing. And goods tend
to become- dearer and shoddier still as
the public scrambles eagerly for what-
ever is offering.
Expressed in terms of shoddy money,
our wealth and income appear
tremendous. But our prosperity is of a
shoddy, unsubstantial nature. Even the
great income we receive from abroad
for our still-excellent wool has become
an embarrassment in our dilapidated
economy
The shoddy politician has a lot to do
with it all. He began it, and the
“militant” and Communist union-boss
moved in on him and saw to it that the
drift towards shoddiness was accelerated.
Trade-unions ceased to be trade-guilds.
Smaller craft guilds have been swamped
by large unskilled unions, and limitations
placed on the number of apprentices who
may be trained. Tradesmen and artisans
of the standard of skill we once knew
are a diminishing race. Unskilled unions
dominate the skilled tradesmen in nearly
every key industry.
Amidst all these forces more money
than goods has been created, and in
making more goods in a hurry, with
output per man-hour on the decline,
goods have had to be shoddy to go round.
No time for quality, no pride in work-
manship allowed by the trade-union
demand for more money and shorter
working time above all else.
In countries where medical services
have been nationalised the profession
itself has tended to become shoddy. This
is notoriously so in New Zealand, where
socialised medicine has been pioneered
amongst British countries. What has hap-
pened in Maoriland is now happening in
Britain to some extent.
In Australia we are in grave danger
of becoming a shoddy people, with
shoddy ambitions and a sense of national
responsibility shoddier still. It is not
really our nature to be so. Looking
back over the development of Australia
during the past century there is much
to be proud of. The roads, the railways,
the farms, the factories and the, great
(but congested) cities were by no means
the result of overseas borrowing alone.
Borrow abroad we did ; but Australian
sweat, Australian brains and Australian
thrift were predominant in the splendid
development of a fine young country.
One needs to be a visitor from another
land to appreciate the amount of work
that is represented in the development of
any of our more closely settled districts.
It is all too true that we take for granted
the things we see every day. That is part
of our trouble. But as one casts an eye
round Sydney or Melbourne —or, for
that matter, round most N. S. Wales, Vic-
torian or Queensland cities or towns —it
is hard to pick any major construction
activity of more recent vintage than what
is described by “Labor” as the “depres-
sion period.” Port Kembla may be an
exception; but it is one of the very few
exceptions.
Acknowledging that the war took
nearly six years of what would normally
have been our developmental energies,
we must not forget that war has now
been over almost five and a half years.
Yet we cannot keep our main highways
even in good repair, let alone build
essential new ones. Rail transport with
each passing month grows more in-
adequate, and coastal shipping services
are entirely unable to cope with the de-
mands imposed on them. Coal produc-
tion is shamefully inadequate.
It should be clear to everyone that
this country cannot keep going on its
present apparently feckless way. But
there are people who will say that it can.
During the festive season Mr. McGirr,
Premier of N. S. Wales, spoke in almost
ecstatic terms about the “great pros-
perity” the country was enjoying. And
Mr. Chifley earlier promised the country
a “Golden Age.” Both these “Labor ’
leaders have been prime factors in bring-
ing us to our present pass.
Mr. Chifley has, of course, ordered
his Senate majority to block Government
legislation in the Upper Chamber. It held
up the Anti-Red Bill for vital months,
and, war-clouds notwithstanding, is now
delaying the conscription legislation. In-
flation, topped-off by the 40-hour week,
got out of hand during Mr. Chifley’s term
of office, and neither he nor Mr. McGirr
did anything forceful or effective about
increasing production, which is the only
counter to inflation of the kind which
now threatens to consume us.
Mr. Chifley and Mr. McGirr are both
part and parcel of that force for chaos
and confusion, for shoddiness and shab-
biness—the Communist-controlled trade-
union movement in Australia. Obviously
they speak for the party, not for the
State. And when they speak it is, almost
without exception, calculated humbug, no
matter ho>y grave the issue or the
occasion.
Let us at once accept as a fact some-
thing which becomes clearer the more
it is studied; that the “Labor” Socialists
have set a new low standard in Parlia-
mentary misrepresentation, in economic
deception, in wholesale vote-buying and
in political racketeering. It is in every
way necessary that this should be recog-
nised, since only by full recognition can
we estimate how much cleaning-up and
repair-work have to be done.
Cleaning-up, repairing and political and
industrial delousing are jobs to which
the Menzies Government has fallen heir.
All the jobs taken together represent a
colossal task. This task has to be tackled
forcefully, as soon as the “Labor”
Senate obstacle is effectively hurdled.
The Senate has been the barrier to many
vital features of a campaign against
national disintegration, and “Labor’s”
delaying tactics have been calculated to
take the heart out of the present
Ministry. But the Menzies Government
should not accept defeat by such strategy.
It should be using the time to perfect its
plan of attack on the evils of our
present industrial situation.
With time fast slipping away, drastic —
even short-cut —measures may be neces-
sary. The Chifley Government, in its
trade-union affiliations, had the tiger by
the tail. The Menzies Government has
to prepare to make a frontal attack on
all that is vicious and treasonable about
this tiger. It may seem a formidable
operation. But only the racketeers in
trade-unionism need to be dealt with.
The average unionist is neither militant
nor treasonable —just apathetic or timid,
acquisitive, and often stupidly envious.
He is easily led by whoever is forceful
enough to lead him.
To be envious of the success of others
does not signify that the envious have the
same rights or qualities as the successful.
Envy is not ability. Yet on mere envy
and wishfulness —not on hard work,
thrift and skill —has the Australian poli-
tical economy been ordered for the past
decade.
No wonder we are now a down-at-heel,
shoddy nation industrially. Unless we
change we shall become utterly decrepit.
To effect a change it may be necessary to
do things that will give some sections of
the trade-union community and the
Leftist “intelligentsia” a violent shock.
That as it may be, the change will have to
be made. We are a young country, and
we should use our vigor and initiative
to the best political as well as industrial
advantage.
Occasion For a Cake.
On Canberra invitation, inspired or
otherwise, Mr. John Foster Dulles is
visiting Australia as the U.S. President’s
special envoy, and there are unassailable
reasons why he should be welcomed with
open arms, open minds and open speech.
The occasion calls for a cake —with spice
in it.
Simply in his own right Mr. Dulles
merits warm-hearted greeting. He is one
of the world’s distinguished statesmen of
the moment; an outstanding thinker on
world affairs; in himself, moreover, a
man of exceptionally high principles,
notable at a time when crookedness
and double-dealing and lying and bad
faith have been exalted, or degraded, as
cardinal elements of diplomacy.
As well, on this mission Mr. Dulles
represents America, and, apart altogether
from considerations of the future security
and safe-keeping of this country, mere
common gratitude for past preservation
of Australia’s existence ensures a special
warmth of welcome for any such Ameri-
can representative. As to the future, Aus-
tralia for a long time to come will be
vitally dependent on the presence of a
strong U.S. in the Pacific.
Hearing Mr. Dulles with open minds
pertains specifically to Canberra ; all that
he has to say is unlikely at this stage to
be made public. His mission at large,
however, is no secret, and on it he will
expect to hear frankly open speech.
Like his mission—concerned with a Jap
peace treaty —the views of Mr.
Dulles himself in regard to Japan are
no secret. A few weeks back he said
there: “I have returned to discuss the
situation further at Tokyo, for we look
upon Japan as a party to be consulted,
and not as a vanquished nation to be
dictated to by the victors.” He further
stated that the purpose of his mission
was to find the way “to an early restora-
tion of full sovereignty to Japan.” The
proposals would “require the Japanese
nation to assume responsibilities for its
own destiny.”
Now all those are high-sounding cull-
ings from the diplomatic lexicon, and one
phrase among them —“full sovereignty”
—is the key to them all. There has since
been some hedging, including the station-
ing of some American troops in Japan ;
how many and for how long unstated.
At least the proposals should wake Aus-
tralia up to the craven cowardliness of
“Labor’s” hollow-log “defence policy.”
For “full sovereignty” means full and
unhampered freedom for Japan to jettison
“democratic government” if it wishes and
to rearm as it decides up to any point
unless challenged by force. And who
would challenge? America? On the
contrary, the American mood, as well as
it can be judged from here, seems fairly
reflected in the recent editorial comment
of one of the leading newspapers, the
New York “Herald Tribune”:
Japan is the most important available
reservoir of manpower and fighting know-
how in the Pacific theatre capable of offer-
ing any appreciable check to the Russian
and Chinese Communists. The crisis is
such that we must try to build up Japan
militarily as quickly as possible.
Australia, naturally, has to be out-
spoken on that prospect. It is, frankly,
a damnable one. That this country may
be left no choice does not alter the issue,
nor lessen the need for open speech.
There may be no alternative but to bow
to the American decisions, but there is no
reason to subscribe to the strange Ameri-
can delusions that the Japs have been
miraculously converted to democracy and
that they will never again be a menacing
militarist nation.
Mr. Dulles is welcome to the finest
cake that can be baked for him —with no
stint of this spice in it. And may his
digestion be as good as the cake.
Half-century Sidelights.
It would be hard to picture another
Australian 50 years packed with so much
development beset with so much doubt as
the years 1901-51. The beginning of the
century certainly was a more confident
time than the present, even if for a large
proportion of people it was not a happier
one.
In the Commonwealth’s birth-year
blackboards stood outside auctioneers’
shops as the normal media for the propa-
gation of great news to a world without
radio, motor transport and universal
telephone services. Universal education
had been achieved under a more
solid system than at present, though there
was still a large segment of illiteracy
among the older generation. Speech was
generally cruder and more expressive,
and art and literature, with its “Hops,”
Dysons, young Lindsays, Lamberts,
Streetons and Robertses, “Banjo”
Patersons and Lawsons and Boldrewoods,
had a gayer and more spontaneous atmos-
phere. Politics had a livelier tone and a
greater public appeal because of the fight-
ing quality of a galaxy of genius which
nature has not seen fit to duplicate.
Let any modern politician read, say, the
debate on the Immigration Bill which
introduced the White Australia policy as
a national measure and hang his head at
the degree in which standards of debate
have fallen. Any old-timer can look
back with wonder at the changes which
have taken place in methods of cam-
paigning since that bygone halcyon age
when Premiers visiting country towns
were drawn through the streets behind
marshals on white horses, while an ardent
Opposition tried to hit them in the eye
with bags of flour or spare eggs.
The country, six weeks’ journey from
Europe, as a whole was still something
of a wilderness. Men still carried rifles
between telegraph-stations in central
Australia, a visit to which was regarded
much as a modern Australian might look
on an expedition to the nether regions
of Tibet. Cape York was still a haunt
of wild blacks. The last of the gold-
rushes in Queensland were on —the Dee,
Etheridge, Kidston and some more —
while the last of the Westralian dis-
coveries were soon to come, marking the
final golden decade of the continent. New
Guinea was a savage, foreign land with
which most Australians preferred not to
be familiar.
In the cities there was less leisure and
men worked harder, and there was con-
siderably more home life, A woman’s
place was in the home (except on Sun-
days, when she went to church) looking
after as many youngsters as the home
would hold, wangling ten-pound sauce-
pans and attending to a stove like a blast-
furnace with all the aplomb and
muscularity of a navvy. The cities and
offices were almost wholly male pre-
serves. ,
Beer was still a poor-man’s drink.
Honest workers scorned the effete middy
and schooner. They bought the stuff by
the three- or four-quart billy, went forth
into God’s air, instead of standing in a
foetid pig-trough, and passed the bucket
down the line in the gutter in comradely
fashion until the first fight started.
Fights, incidentally, were more
frequent than in this more effete age.
Sometimes, as on St. Patrick’s or Orange
Day, which still existed as institutions,
they were conducted en masse, and were
more enjoyable when the police could
be encouraged to join in and take a
pasting from both sides. Life in general
was more violent, so that nobody thought
much of a black-eye, raw steak being
cheap. The last of the bushrangers were
still preparing for work —the Kenniffs and
the Dora Dora blacks are almost for-
gotten now.
There are brawny old schoolmasters
still alive who remember their prowess of
50 years ago when the first qualification
of a good preceptor was a powerful
wrist and forearm ; when 40 cuts were
the wages of real sin and a sixer the
penalty for such small misdemeanors as
heaving blue-metal at a Chinese gardener.
If the pedagogues of 1900 were let
loose for a week in the Australia of
1951 without warning about the change
of standards, national life would be
paralysed, the courts clogged with assault
cases, the jails clogged with pedagogues
and parents and editors dead all over the
place from apoplexy and indignation.
The years of our national beginnings
formed a more sturdy age in most ways
than the present. Yet it was full of song,
and of a robustness of enjoyment and an
independence of outlook which seem to
have departed —the regimentation of two
wars having produced a national docility
which has made possible State regula-
tion of almost everything in life which
50 years ago was considered as a strictly
personal affair. .
On the whole, the half-century which
has gone by has been one of great gain
to the general welfare, even though nature
compensates for the wiping-out of fatal
fevers which normally produced a huge
annual deathroll and debility among the
young by killing off the equivalent
numbers under the wheels of motor-cars.
The average life is longer and softer
than it was 50 years ago, but less adven-
turous and red-blooded than that of the
carefree, hardy people who took pride in
the rudeness of their living conditions
and whose songs were the lusty ballads
of the campfire.
EL V.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Contempt Case.
When in July, 1949 —the proceedings
extending over several days —the Full
Bench of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court sentenced (among others) Idris
Williams, William Parkinson and George
W. S. Grant to 12 months’ imprisonment
for contempt over the concealment of
union funds, Grant refused to give any
undertaking, pending compliance with
the court’s order, not to dispose of
£15,000, for which he had signed a with-
drawal cheque, and Williams, interposing
from the body of the court, said:
I don’t know where the money is. I
have no power to give any undertaking,
and if I had the power I would not give it.
On August 23 following the court
heard applications from the three men in
jail applying for release on grounds that
fines levied had been paid and they were
ready to give undertakings to purge
their contempt Judge Dunphy, in a
minority, accepted the undertaking on
behalf of Grant, but said he did not
believe those of the others were sincere.
Both Mr. Dovey, K.C. (for the
Registrar), and Mr. Miller, K.C. (for the
Chifley Government), said the applicants
“appeared genuine in their desire to
purge their contempt.”
The court reserved judgment till next
day and then announced by majority
(Dunphy, J., dissenting) that the three
miners’ officials (and certain waterside
and ironworkers’ leaders with them)
should be released on undertakings
henceforth to respect the decisions of the
court and the law of the land, which,
they recognised, “must take precedence
over the rules of their organisation.”
Chief Judge Kelly, giving judgment,
said of them:
The circumstances in which their decla-
rations have been made and the unreserved
nature of those declarations mean, and I
believe the applicants realise that they
must mean, that any future retraction of
such declarations made in support of appli-
cations to regain their freedom will at
once rebound to their discredit and brand
them as persons prepared to descend to
perjury and falsehood simply for the sake
of avoiding or reducing the term of im-
prisonment ....
The court has demonstrated that it will
take strong action to protect and pre-
serve its authority, which is a vital ele-
ment in the rule of law. It will do so in
the future should the occasion arise.
Last week the Full Arbitration Court
(Acting Chief Judge Foster, and Kirby,
Dunphy and Wright, JJ.) sat for two
days, and then adjourned hearing, on
summonses issued on behalf of the Com-
monwealth Government against the three
miners’ officials for contravening the
undertakings given in August, 1949. Dr.
Evatt for the defendants argued that
there had been no breach of any alleged
undertakings. The court adjourned to
Melbourne.
Flying Portholes.
Portholes —real ones, of heavy glass
in brass frames, some with brass dead-
lights fitted —have been piled up in the
S.A. Brass Engineering Co.’s factory in
Adelaide. In the manager’s office the
pile of orders, pleas, demands, queries
and forms concerning them is just about
big enough to sink the ship the portholes
are for.
They were ordered by the N.S.W. State
Dockyard at Newcastle, and were
“urgently needed” for two ships already
late for launching. There was no ship
to take them. The S.A. railways refused
to carry them. S.A. Transport Strangu-
lation Board was asked for a road-
transport permit. The permit was refused
(Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution notwithstanding). So they went
by air—at a cost of £2 a porthole.
Road transport could take them for
about 10s. each. Road transport is taking
a consignment—by dodging a way to the
Victorian border, thence by more dodg-
ing and back-roads into N.S.W., where
the N.S.W. Government will proceed to
collect 3d. a ton a mile tax on its own
goods.
Each porthole weighs about 601 b.,
which limits air-freighting, apart from
the cost. By road it is three days from
Adelaide to Newcastle; by ship, in the
S.A. Brass Engineering manager’s words,
“It would take months.” By rail?
“Weeks, if the flamin’ train would take
them.”
Just one of many examples of how
State restrictions on road transport add
to the cost of goods in Australia.
Crows the Stone!
Stone the crows. Professor Julius Stone
has emerged from Sydney University to
start a powwow on “German Migration”
in the “S. M. Herald” correspondence
column!
“Mr. Holt’s plans to bring masses of
Germans to this country.... Mr. Holt’s
disastrous notion of bringing 100,000
Germans here.” Thus the infuriated Pro-
fessor of International Law and Juris-
prudence in sulphurous anathema.
Mr. Holt does not appear to have been
scorched. Possibly he stood armored in
the more than ample protection of the
German record here in Australia.
Armored also, perhaps, in a few good
hard facts of this country’s population’s
composition.
On the German record here, South
Australia, of course, contains the most
evidence. But the story of Germans as
settlers there, and their ready assimila-
tion into the population’s composition,
can be found up along the Murray well
into N.S.W., on the Clarence in this
State’s North Coast, in southern Queens-
land and elsewhere about the Common-
wealth. It is a record not only for those
of German descent to be proud of, but
one that Australia can be proud of, too.
Up on the Clarence the legend is that
a boatload of Scots found their way
there, then a boatload from Germany.
There are Schwinghammers, Strausses,
Busches and Zeitches, Camerons, Mc-
Lachlans, Macphersons and Mac-
Donalds ; and if Mr. Stone could
go there and say which is which
he would have a fair claim to his
institution’s Chair of Anthropology
whereon to hoist his fevered feet when
suffering from an overdose of jurispru-
dence.
Has Mr. Stone ever heard of the old
43rd Battalion, A.1.F.? It was largely
recruited from the Murray Valley and
the Barossa Valley and was nearly all
German. In France at the end of that
war the 43rd’s commander was asked to
supply some German speakers from
among his men. He paraded 200 of them!
Moreover, he spoke of the men of Ger-
man stock in the unit as “The best Hun
fighters there are.”
As for the composition of this country’s
population, of its 8,200,000 close on the
8,000,000 rank as British. Even if Ger-
mans were —like some other racial
groupings—non-assimilable, the contem-
plated importations of them would have
the job ahead to affect that essential
national character; the fact is they
assimilate quickly.
And those proportions in the composi-
tion are being maintained. The proposal
which brought forth the rumbles from the
Stone’s nest is to take some 25,000 Ger-
mans a year, probably up to the stipu-
lated number. Last year alone the
British migration here totalled 80,000.
Scotland, incidentally, is the No. 1 target
for the current year. By 1960 nine per-
sons in every 10 in this country will still
be British. Stone the crows, that ought
to be enough to make even the stones
crow.
A Good-Sooking Lady.
Of South Australian origin, these days
domiciled in Sydney, Oswald L. Ziegler
has added to his always finely done pub-
lications marking and recording Aus-
tralia’s notable occasions an exceptionally
fine one for the Jubilee. Edited by
Ziegler, with Angus and Robertson’s
imprint, it is the official commemorative
book. It has other value.
A documentary record —in Depart-
ment of Information and other photo-
graphs, and in most of the brief, concise
and chiefly factual letterpress —it presents
an Australia that exists and is well worth
looking at. It puts only the best face on
things, certainly; but a good-looking
woman is none the worse for that. The
Australia here presented is very good-
looking indeed.
Perhaps when a lady has passable looks
to work on it might be a good rule that
the implements used in decking her out
should not include anything heavier than
a trowel. Some of those lending a hand
in presenting this one go for the shovel.
To take one example, this is surely using
the “banjo” a little freely, even though
something of truth hovers about it:
The sophisticate from Europe or the
Americas who might imagine that Aus-
tralia’s isolation carried with it an inevitable
lack of entertainment would be agreeably
surprised. He would find —in what he
thought barren and somewhat rugged
ground—concerts of world class, theatres
presenting the latest plays (often as not
with “name” actors and actresses in the
leading roles), cinemas galore, nightclub's,
and an ever-increasing variety of restaurants
which, mercifully, are becoming better in
quality year by year.
In the main, however, this is Australia
no more than decked out in her best—
presented in the kindly light of warm
enthusiasm. And just now there is a
particular value in putting some emphasis
on, and taking some note of, that better
aspect. It would take a very rosy pair
of glasses to make the present and the
looming future seem other than dark and
doubtful. But other times have been like
this, and courage and faith in this country
have won through them. In which
victories the men of courage and faith
have had, and can still count on, an ally
of still unmeasured strength—the figura-
tive and quite decorative lady herself.
Where Does "Labor" Stand?
Whether or not “Labor” actually
believes in upholding the Arbitration
Court’s authority, the immediately vital
question is: Does “Labor” even believe
in getting coal to keep industry going?
In Sydney last Friday 200,000 opera-
tives were thrown out of work ; in Mel-
bourne last week 60,000 were stood down
during three days; thousands of small
factories were preparing to shut down
permanently if the blight of deprivation
through lack ®f coal and power continues.
These were the first consequences of the
miners’ weekly strikes. In the chief in-
dustrial State the working week was re-
duced to three days with blackouts inter-
vening on those days also.
In N.S.W. the head of the “Labor”
Government, joint coal authority with
the Commonwealth Government, con-
tinued to mutter that the coal crisis was
one for the Commonwealth Government
only, and talk of “zoning.” Mr. McGin
has no policy till the State A.L.P. execu-
tive tells him what it is, and the head of
that executive doesn’t know till the
Federal A.L.P. executive meets and fixes
it. In Victoria the McDonald Government
(13 in a House of 65) can’t produce a
policy till “Labor”-leader Cain tells it.
and the stick there that beats the dog that
bites the pig—the Victorian A.L.P.
executive —is at odds with the N.S.W.
body on the Communist issue.
It is a safe bet that these shaky Gov-
ernments will not summon their State
Parliaments to discuss the crisis, even
under the shadow and the shame of
union-made unemployment. The Com-
monwealth Parliament’s reassembling
should now be expedited ; there any
further obstruction by the “Labor”
Senate majority of Government measures
to deal with the rebellion of the miners’
executive will stamp “Labor” policy as
no less inimical to the national economy
than that of the Communist union bosses.
Papuan Mission.
Last year being the centenary year of
missionary work in the Pacific the Aus-
tralian Board of Missions set itself the
commemoration task of raising £lOO,OOO
and training 50 new missionaries. Plans
included rebuilding of stations destroyed
during the war, erection of churches,
hospitals and schools, and establishment
of a training college.
When the Japs invaded New Guinea
more than a quarter of the European
staff of the A.8.M., as well as several
native teachers, died at their posts in the
same spirit of sacrifice that animated the
Rev. Denis Taylor when he perished last
month in the Mt. Lamington eruption.
This volcano disaster, coming before
the mission field had properly recovered
from the Pacific-war setbacks, was a
specially severe blow to the Anglican
missions. Under a province agreement
with other churches that portion of Papua
is their spiritual territory; in one day
the work of years was destroyed, and the
movement lost, as well as the Rev. Taylor
and his family, his Papuan colleague (the
Rev. John Rautamara), Miss defiibra
(headmistress of its schools), and 16
trained Papuan teachers and their families.
At Sangara stood the Martyrs’ Memorial
School, at Isivita a hospital, schools, a
church and mission house. In the last
three years the church had built up co-
operatives in the 60-odd villages in the
area. These have all gone ; 3000 natives
are buried under the volcanic dust, and
most of the others have fled the district.
The objective of the Australian Board
of Missions is to regather its people,
o Continued on next page.)
THIS IS WHERE WE CAME IN.
This little puppet play has been written
given to tbi Arts Council of N. S. Wales by
performance last week in the mining town of
ACT I.
A village on the edge of the bush. Enter the
Seven Dwarfs, singing:
We strike, strike, strike, strike, strike, strike,
strike,
We strike the whole year through;
To strike as often as we like
Is what we like to do .. .
They break off as Little Red Riding Hood enters.
Grumpy: What a sweet child; I’ve never
seen a finer.
Goodmorrow, girl.
Red Riding Hood: Good morning, Mister
Miner.
I go tonight to take her weekly ration
To my invalid Grannie, Arbie Tration;
So, as a favor, will you keep the light
Burning along the bushland path tonight?
I know it’s foolish, but forebodings trouble
me
That in the dark a wolf may spring and
gobble me.
Grumpy: I fear we’ve often given Gran
a miss—
We can’t deny her such a Miss as this.
All: Rely on us, dear child.
Exit Red Riding- Hood.
How sweet! How pure!
Enter the Wolf.
Wolf: So flowers are brightest
growing by the sewer!
As fair her features, infamous are her joys;
The girl is nothing but a common burjoys,
And what is more (you must have heard the
rumor!)
She’s sunken to the state of a Consumer:
The coal you picked and bored and blew
with fuses lit
No sooner gets piled-up, and that girl uses
it!
I wonder that you’ve never grown sus-
picious—
Grumpy: That face so fair should cover
mind so vicious!
Wolf: No lights tonight, then; and by
light of day
I’ll serve you all Consumer Consomme.
Grumpy: I’d hardly care for liquidated
donah . . .
Wolf (insinuatingly): I hear the girl’s
engaged to a Mineowner . . .
Grumpy: My father often said, “Before
1 die,
I’d like to hear a rich mineowner cry,”
And so would 1.
Dumpy: And I!
Boozy: And I!
Oozy: And I!
Wolf: No lights tonight?
Grumpy: We will—or, rather, won’t.
For when we say we’ll act, it’s then we don’t.
ACT 11.
A bushland path in darkness. Enter Red Riding
Hood, singing:
Fumbling, stumbling through the dark,
Knowing I’m an easy mark,
Shaking leaf and scurrying rat
Make my heart go pit-a-pat,
N.S.W.
for performance in the travelling theatre,
the Joint Coal Board, which gave its first
Helensburgh.
And my head is in a whirl —
Heaven help the Working Girl!
Enter Wolf, and grasps Red Riding Hood’s basket.
R. R. Hood: Oh!
Wolf: Aha! Aha! Well may you quake
and cower,
Red Riding Hood, I have you in my power!
But lam merciful; 1 shan’t illtreat you—
My one progressive purpose is to eat you;
Tomorrow, dear, how happy you will be
To think that you’re a splendid wolf like
me!
R. R. Hood: Will no one save me from
this ravenous beast?
Enter a Lawyer riding a harnessed mule.
Oh, Mr. Lawyer, speak to him, at least!
Lawyer: I can’t. My mule —he’s bucking
something awful!
I hope there’s no-
thing going on
unlawful!
Still, someone’s
bound to come
to your relief.
Meanwhile, I’ll hold a kind of watching-
brief.
R. R. Hood: Oh, help! Help! Help!
His fangs are at my throat!
Enter Grannie, followed by miners and villagers.
Grannie: Be brave, my child! Here’s
Gran to help you out.
What! You again, foul fiend of foolish
slaughter?
Take that and that, for scaring my grand-
daughter !
She beats Wolf with her stick.
Lawyer: This is no
time for punitive
displays;
The wolf, poor fellow,
still may have a case.
Some evidence of an historic feud I see —
Let no one comment; it is now sub judice.
Exeunt Lawyer on Mule, followed by Grannie,
Red Riding Hood and villagers leading Wolf.
Grumpy: Well, well; that’s that —I don’t
know how or why.
I’ve yet to see a rich mineowner cry.
Dumpy: And I; but now we’d better
move along.
We’re not dead yet, boys—start our cheery
song.
Exeunt dwarfs, singing:
We strike, strike, strike, strike, strike, strike,
strike,
We strike the whole year through . . .
Curtain ; and as the curtain falls, the Theatre
Manager appears before it.
Theatre Manager: Don’t leave your places,
ladies and gentlemen—
The play you’ve seen will soon begin again.
We know, of course, it’s rather short and
slight,
But then, we give it twenty times a night.
The cast’s carousing round the coffee urn —
Ah! Now I hear their cheerful song return.
The curtain rises on a village at the edge of
the bush. Enter the Seven Dwarfs, singing:
We strike, strike, strike, strike, strike, strike,
strike,
We strike the whole year through;
To strike as often as we like
Is what we like to do . . .
They break off as Little Red Riding Hood enters.
SWILLIAM.


l'"*' -
T
IK
h
5728 E-R
Keep
io—
CRAVEHA
Obtainable
In 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS
REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
•zsr-
rebuild its schools and hospitals and
re-establish itself, either in the old loca-
tion or somewhere near. There has been
no lack of response to the call for new
missionaries. Fifty were asked for;
already more than 80 have been accepted,
40 of whom are at work in the islands.
Money, too, has been given for this ex-
ceptionally fine cause —something like
£56,000 in cash and £7OOO more in definite
promises.
This is, however, far from enough for
the job undertaken. Headquarters of the
fund are at 14 Spring-street, Sydney, but
donations may be sent to the offices of
the Australian Board of Missions in any
capital city. The Bulletin’s cheque has
been forwarded.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Attlee Government can add two
more to its long list of narrow escapes
—one on steel nationalisation, the other
its handling of meat-rationing. On the
first question, when both sides had
gathered in their halt and ailing from
sanatoria and sickbed, the Socialists had
10 votes to spare. On the second motion
the margin was eight, two of the Govern-
ment’s invalids having gone back to bed.
Churchill, attacking the Steel Steal, said
the Government’s decision to go ahead
with it in the face of all criticism was a
“deed of partisan aggression,” the action
of a man “walking towards a precipice
impelled by some deep and dark motive.”
Winston’s words recalled the words of
Lord Milverton, when he resigned from
the Labor party over this very issue:
The road on which we are travelling
leads to a precipice, at the foot of which
clearly emerges the totalitarian State....
I am unwilling to be a silent passenger on
this sinister journey.
Although Milverton was unwilling there
were plenty more in the Labor party who
were prepared to be silent passengers, so
the steel industry follows coal and the
railways into nationalisation.
In the course of the Commons debate
on meat it was mentioned that the present
ration was less than the normal poor-
house ration before the war. Of course,
today there are free spectacles and free
medicine, but it seems at least possible
that if the Attlees were to spend a little
more on meat they mightn’t need to
spend so much on medicine.
The Senate “Select Committee on
National Service” began its proceedings
last week. Its alleged intentions were to
investigate the Government’s proposals
for compulsory service and examine “all
the relevant defence, manpower and
economic needs and capacities of Aus-
tralia.” That sounds quite a job and one
that could keep them busy for quite a
long time. In practice they will probably
manage to spin out proceedings until
early next month when the A.L.P. Tri-
ennial Conference meets. The “Select
Committee” consists entirely of “Labor”
Senators, and the futile body was set up
as an excuse to allow the Opposition to
mark time until the conference told them
what to do about compulsory training.
When the three Service chiefs, acting
on Government instructions, refused to
appear before the committee, there were
dark threats of calling them before the
Bar ex the Senate and questioning them
there. There is not much likelihood of
that happening, as by the time the Senate
meets the A.L.P. conference will have
decided the party’s policy. Every member
of the committee knows that even if every
witness it examined favored compulsory
service and every scrap of evidence
presented showed the necessity for com-
pulsion it still could not recommend it
without the consent of conference.
Queensland is to have an inquiry into
another disputed election —the Nash seat,
which was won by “Labor” candidate
T, Dunstan last April with a 25-vote
margin over Liberal R. Witham, Mayor
of Gympie. Grounds on which the
appeal is based are similar to those used
in the case of the Bulimba electorate.
The Queensland Parliament will reopen
on February 27, and it is anticipated that
almost the first business will be the con-
sideration of Justice Mansfield’s report
declaring the Bulimba election null and
void. If the Nash appeal goes the same
way as Bulimba Queensland will be
having four by-elections shortly. The
other two are in Warrego, vacant since
the death of “Labor” member H. O’Shea,
and Kedron, from which Bruce Pie
recently resigned,
Melbourne Ports, Holloway’s Federal
seat since 1931, is one of the safest seats
on the “Labor” list, so the news that the
old man would be retiring at the end of
the present Parliament caused a corned-
beef rush for the preselection which,
subject to toeing the party line, meant a
job for life. Frank Crean, M.L.A. for
Prahran, struck the jackpot. At 34 he
looks like being the youngest rep. the
district has ever had. He’s a graduate of
Melbourne University in Arts and Com-
merce and he put in 12 years with the
Taxation department before turning to
politics in 1945.
A dust-up in one branch of the elec-
torate preceded the ballot. There were
allegations of bogus votes and fake mem-
berships, and the secretary of the
Montague branch claimed that in 1947
“a politician”—he would not say whether
State or Federal —had offered to pay the
membership fees of 100 “recruits” if they
could be found. The Victorian A.L.P,
executive suspended the Montague branch
and supervised the preselection.
An English history professor, comment-
ing on the fact that Peter the Great was
fond of English ale, has suggested trying
it out on Stalin. He “wonders if a
barrel or two delivered at the Kremlin
might not do something to assuage the
cold war.” Depends on what’s put in it.
Airlines carrying freight out of
Adelaide for inter-State destinations don’t
have to ask anyone for permission or pay
any State taxes. The airlines challenged
the States’ power to tax or restrict air-
traffic under Section 92 and won their
case. Private road transport also chal-
lenged the same power and lost the case
—an anomaly which the law has still to
explain.
A. F. Block, L.C.P. candidate for Ivan-
hoe (Vic.) by-election on February 24,
has earned the right to have a stab at a
seat where there is a reasonable chance
of victory ; he carried the Liberal banner
in forlorn hopes—Melbourne Ports at
the last Federal election and Carlton in
the State Parliament last year. Added to
that he won his preselection against 11
triers. At the general election last year
the late Rupert Curnow won Ivanhoe for
the L.C.P. by nearly 5000 votes. There’s
an Independent in the field this time as
well as a “Labor” man, but Block
shouldn’t be unduly worried.
Communist union officials shelter be-
hind lip-service to democracy and claim
that in declaring strikes on or off they
are merely carrying out the wishes of
their members as expressed by vote —
though they avoid like the plague any
suggestion of secret ballots. How does
it work out? The miners’ executive
recommended one-day strikes ; the men,
by show of hands, voted for one-day
strikes ; the one-day strikes were “on” —
“by democratic vote.” The watersiders’
Red leaders “recommended” a ban on
overtime ; the wharfies, “exercising their
democratic rights,” agreed to a ban on
overtime, Newcastle wharfies, in an ex-
cess of zeal, began a private strike on
their own. Communist Roach, boss of
the waterfront in the absence of Com-
rade Healy, said he would end it. He flew
up to Newcastle, and the wharfies,
“exercising their democratic rights,”
called off the strike. Vote or no vote, the
pattern is always the same. The Com-
munists pull the strings and their puppets
dance.
Wheatgrowing in South Australia de-
pends on superphosphate, and super,
can't be produced without sulphur, so
the decision to commence quarrying iron-
pyrites at Nairne, about 40 miles from
Adelaide, should be welcome news to
S.A. cockies. B.H.P. and three fertiliser
concerns are each putting £50,000 into
the project, and the Playford Govern-
ment is guaranteeing an overdraft up to
£600,000. Output aim is 360,000 tons of
ore a year, yielding 30,000 tons of
sulphur.
Next Saturday’s by-election for the
May lands seat in the Westralian Assembly
could be a vital one for the McLarty
Government. The L.C.L. and Country
Democratic League between them hold
25 seats, “Labor” has 23 and there is
one Independent. Mr. Shearn, whose
death made the by-election necessary,
was also an Independent, but on most
major issues he voted with the Govern-
ment. A “Labor” win on Saturday would
mean a virtual deadlock and probably a
general election. There are four
candidates; Oldfield (L.C.L.); Hartley
(Lab.); Spence (Ind.) and Kevin Healy,
who has apparently got permission or in-
structions from the Communist party to
describe himself as an Independent
Socialist. The change of label is not likely
to save his deposit.
Neville Cardus, reporting the Fourth
Test: “I was wondering now whether
Iverson would be called on by Hassett,
even if wheeled out in a bath-chair.
Come, come, Neville. It was cricket you
were watching, not a no-confidence
division in the House of Commons.
The five-point plan for “Australian De-
fence and Development,” produced by
the N. S. Wales executive of the A.L.P.,
takes the tripe medal for futility. It re-
iterates” the party’s opposition to any
form of military conscription for overseas
service; it “agrees” to compulsory train-
ing for home defence, but doesn’t think it
should be introduced “at this time of
acute manpower shortage.” Instead, “a
form of voluntary military training
should be established, on popular lines.”
All that after a preamble which speaks
of “a threatening world situation,” and
admits that the possibility of a third
world war “has increased.” Of course,
the A.L.P. “plan” doesn’t rely entirely on
the voluntary systenji. It urges a national
survey of resources and an investigation
of atomic and biological warfare, and
“in the event of attack, we approve the
mobilisation of the entire resources of
the nation.” The plan doesn’t say so, but
presumably it assumes that after his
initial attack the enemy will sportingly
squat on the beaches for a few months
while we do our mobilising.
Two members of Federal “Labor”
caucus have criticised Dr. Evatt for under-
taking the defence of Williams, Grant and
Parkinson in the Arbitration Court.
Peters, M.H.R. for Burke (Vic.), wants to
knows whether Communist organisations
employ the Doc. because of his legal
ability or because of his political stand-
ing. He asks:
Surely Dr. Evatt has enough to do serving
the Labor party as its deputy-leader, with-
out engaging in political or semi-political
cases as the instrument of members of the
Communist party?
Another Victorian member, Mullins
(Gellibrand), has expressed his intention
of bringing up the matter at the next
caucus meeting. His complaint is that
by appearing for Communists Evatt
“identifies the ‘Labor’ party with the pro-
ceedings.”
The annual report of the Cairns
Regional Board contains an item which
is hard to believe. It announces that a
reduction has been made in the charges
for electric power.
West Australia can more-or-less take
an onlooker’s view of the coalfields
schemozzle in the Eastern States. The
Collie miners have refused to be the dupes
of Communism and will have nothing to
do with the one-day strikes. McCarty's
State is using its local coal more and
more, and before long maj be able o
rely on it even for gas. For over 12
months a small plant at the Fremantle
gasworks has been giving first-rate service,
and experts see no reason why Perth
should not ultimately become independent
of imported gas coal. One by one die
N. S. Wales miners are losing all their
inter-State customers.
Ward Price is a writer whose opinions
on world affairs are to be respected, but
he used an unfortunate phrase the other
day when he referred to Hong Kong as
the “Gibraltar of the Far East.” Isn’t
that what they used to call Singapore?
Moves are being made in two States to
bridge the cement shortage by importing
supplies. In Victoria the Builders and
Allied Trades Association is interested in
a scheme under which it is hoped Gov-
ernment assistance will enable the impor-
tation of sufficient cement to keep the
building industry working at full
capacity ; one estimate is that 20 per cent,
of builders have almost ceased operations
through the shortage. The South Aus-
tralian Government has already placed
orders abroad for 18,000 tons. The two
companies producing cement in S.A, are
both expanding their plant, but the full
effect of this will not be felt until next
year.
A £300,000 fire amongst dilapidated
sheds lining the Yarra between Queen-
street and Spencer-street bridges removed
one of the river’s eyesores, and provided
an opportunity for the civic authorities
to beautify one of the most depressing
stretches of the water which is fast silting-
up anyhow because the Harbor Trust’s
dredges can’t get under the bridges some
other department erected. For the same
reason the trust’s fire-fighting fleet
couldn’t get at the latest blaze.
“Nakh”: Melbourne citizens being
now in the position of not being sure on
any given day whether they are rendering
themselves liable to a fine of £2O for
turning on a water-tap or similar
penalties for lighting the gas or plugging
in the radiator, it has been suggested that
when the abos come to town for the
Jubilee celebrations they instruct
the whites in how to get fire by rubbing
two sticks together, and how to make
waterholes in their backyards.
Since the census in 1947 the popula-
tion of New South Wales has increased
by 260,000. That’s enough to fill 10 or
a dozen large-sized country towns, but
when the figures are analysed it will prob-
ably be found that the net result has been
that overgrown Sydney has increased its
numbers by 260,001.


O^x ick y say when
The Hospitality ' •
Was Not Too Much
—Melbourne "Age"
i
Preference for Navy
—Perth "Wsst Australian"
Apples May Reach Is. Each r
—Sydney "Daily Mirror"
Big Farm Test
—Brisbane "Courier-Mail"
Chifley Back in Harness
—Sydney "Sun"
Prime Lots
in Demand
at Cooee
—Hobart "Mercury"
Minister’s Statement
Stopped By Clock
—London "Times"
IN THE HEADLINES.


"Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Howie Wing”: Painted on a fence at
Midland (W.A.), the last letter possibly
added to the Commo’s screed by some-
one who had sampled the local home-
brew: “Ban Atomic Bombo!”
* * * *
“S.”; Angus and Robertson’s February
catalogue astonishes me by advertising
“a best-seller in German” —Wettlauf mil
dem Traum by Adrienne Thomas. The
advertisement goes on to inform me that
“Nun laesst das neue Werk Adrienne
Thomas’s aufhorchen. Mit feinera
psychologischen Einfuehlungsvermoegen
und....” Even if I can’t understand a
word of all this I feel vaguely pleased
to be living in so cosmopolitan a country
as Australia has now become.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The Australian bush has
moved countless numbers of poets,
balladists, rhymesters, versifiers and
jinglers to sing her praises, but the word
itself has never given them much co-
operation. There are very few rhymes
for “bush,” a fact that most verse-
carpenters seem to have recognised, and,
in consequence, carefully avoided leaving
the word lying about in positions that
called for a soul-mate. Lawson wasn’t
so cowardly ; he tagged it on the ends of
lines whenever it suited him, but shame-
lessly worked to death the noun “push,”
meaning mob. Once he got a bit of
variety by having the rain come down
“with angry ‘whoosh’ ” —a piece of
poetic licence that only a Lawson or a
“Bellerive” could get away with. How-
ever, a yodeller in a recent radio pro-
gramme proved that you can’t keep a
determined rhymester down. He sang:
“I work in the bush, and never wash me
‘moosh,’ in the good old bushman’s
way.” Whatever critics or indignant
“ It's rubber , dear — it CAN'T damage your Wedding-ring .”
bushmen may think about it, nobody can
deny that the rhyme was original.
V * * *
“Scribe”: Both the convention of
editors and “Simon” —who, apparently,
applauds their efforts —would be wrong
in making a change to “Febuary” (B.
31 /1 / ’5l). Such word has no meaning
whatsoever; February has. It is derived
from the Latin word februa, and means
the “month of purification.” Likewise,
No. has a definite meaning, and would
be meaningless in any other form. No.
10 is just as much the name of a house
as is The Pines, and is derived also from
Latin ; the first and last letters of numero
being used as an abbreviation. As for
the other deplored capital, I am I, and do
not wish to be changed.
* * * ♦
“Exdig”; Memory-training? When
Billy Hughes invited Diggers, towards the
end of World War I, to let him know of
any grievances that might be rankling he
brought upon himself an avalanche of
strangely assorted complaints. One was ,
from a Digger who, in spite of his pay-
book being well in credit, had been
“knocked back” in Franc© for a draw of
several pounds. The policy was not to
allow the troops to have too much money
to squander in France. His letter ex-
plained that while he was in hospital in
England he had started on a course in
memory-training and he desired to con-
tinue it —that was why he wanted the
money. “I made splendid progress, and
my memory was greatly improved,” he
remarked, “but I forgot to pay my fees
before leaving England.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”; I find in Joseph Hone’s
life of W. B. Yeats that once when the
poet and the fanatical and beautiful lady
he loved so long and so vainly were in
Westminster Abbey Maud Gonne
thought of pinching the Stone of Destiny
from under the Coronation chair because
of the tradition that kings of Ireland
used to be crowned on it —“ Tt is very
heavy,’ she said, looking at the iron
clamps by which the chair is attached to
the stone. Tt would require several men
to lift; we could scarcely steal it. Have
you no magic'to get the spirit of the stone
to Ireland?’ ” I don’t suppose they could
have returned to earth and, literally,
spirited it away?
* * * *
“Spasebo”: According to a Swiss paper,
Melbourne University once missed having
no less than the first president of the
Russian Republic as its lecturer in
Russian. Alexander Feodorevitch Keren-
sky became Minister of Justice in the
Government formed by Prince Lvoff in
March, 1917, when the Tsar’s Govern-
ment was up to putty. Then he became
Minister for War, and a couple of months
later formed a coalition, made himself
Premier, proclaimed the Republic, and
took command of the Army, then busily
engaged making hotfoot for home away
from the Germans. Lenin and Trotsky
upset his applecart two months later;
the U.S.S.R. came into being and Keren-
sky fled the country. Some years later
he turned up in Brisbane to make
acquaintance with the family of his wife,
who had been born there. The arrival of
the ex-revolutionary caused a mild sensa-
tion. He applied for the job of lecturer
in Russian at the University of Mel-
bourne, but that institution preferred to
give the post to a girl who had just
graduated from another Australian
university.
* * * *
“Sackville”: If all men received their
just rewards a monument would be
erected in the local park in honor of a
pioneer who, with noble disregard of the
whispered derision all about him,
pioneered a reform and lived to see it
firmly established. Mrs. Bloomer could
not have caused more local comment
than did this intrepid pioneer of short
pants for men. People passing him as
he worked in his garden giggled, whis-
pered that he was a big boy for his age
and made more or less humorous remarks
concerning the contour or fuzziness of his
legs and the knobbiness of his knees.
That was nearly 30 years ago. And now
me a man who doesn’t wear
shorts when working in his garden!
* * * *
“Billy Like most barmaids these
days she was well-dressed, ready with a
quip and a jest for the regulars, and a
stony stare for the strangers. Also, like
most pullers of the pump, she was
generously built. It was this question
“ Help!”
of size which caused a difference of
opinion when our cricket-team dropped
in for a cooler. Our star bat voiced the
opinion that the barmaid was “just the
shot.” Our fast bowler thought for a
while, then said “You can have her, she’s
too fat for me,” a remark which our
budding Bradman smashed over the fence
with his retort “Oh, I dunno. You can’t
beat a bit o’ buxomity.”
* * * *
“Terence L.”: Last Monday my
laundress apologised for being absent
from the wash-tubs the previous week.
She had had some sort of infection in
her back and her doctor had given her
divers needles. She had had, she told
me, “two sulpha needles, and one of those
insolent injections!”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Sydney Piddington, who
claims to have developed telepathic
powers while a prisoner in Changi, re-
calls another prisoner, a Dutchman, who
anticipated by years the recent use of
hypnotism as an anaesthetic. He did
amazing work in alleviating the sufferings
of the men operated on for tropical ulcers
in the hospitals on the Moulmein-
Bangkok “death”-railway. He came along
one day and offered to help the Australian
doctor. The doctor, a sceptic, but horri-
fied at the awful situation, was ready to
try anything, so the Dutchman stood at
the foot of a patient’s bed for a few
minutes, made soothing gestures with his
hands over the soldier’s body and then
asked him how he felt. “I feel better.”
A few more passes and the patient said
the pain had vanished. Soon the hypno-
tist was putting to sleep in a few minutes
patients who had been screaming with
pain. The men called him “doctor.” He
died of dysentery, poor devil.
* * * V
“Taswegian”: A variation of the well-
known goat-galah menu was provided by
a boarding-house in the Speck. Two
husky boarders sat down to breakfast;,
the waitress asked “Soup?” The first
h.b. declined. “Mince?” “Yes, please.”
The second h.b. accepted the soup, a thin,
colorless liquid supporting a few scraps
of meat and vegetable. The first h.b.
finished his mince, and went, tightening
his belt, to work. No. 2 finished
his soup, and sat waiting patiently. At
length the waitress came up. “Well, what
are you waiting for?” “I’ll have some
mince, please.” The waitress explained
tartly Its soup or mince, not soup and
mince.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Simon”: Ginger-beer and champagne
(B. 31/1/’51)? I once got a champagne
reputation cheaply myself; the only
correct equipment I had was a half-dozen
of those long-stemmed, wide-mouthed
tingly goblets that struck a B flat when-
ever you stroked them. The new job I
was in called for a little entertaining.
The rustics knew not champagne nor yet
Tasmanian cider, but they did know the
glasses. With the cider labels washed
off and the tinsel tops ashine, they would
deceive Bacchus. When poured out a
pearly necklace of bubbles hung round
the lip of the glass pleading to be carried
to lips more warmly responsive, and this
was repeatedly done to the convivial satis-
faction of ail.
* * * *
“Findy”: I thought modern mother-
craft had put an end to the old indoor
game of walking the floor with a howling
baby, but apparently the housing shortage
has revived the custom. It’s all very
well to let an infant bawl its head off if
you have a house of your own, but if
your “home” consists of a furnished
room, other roomers and your landlady
soon give you their opinion of the prac-
tice. This is how one father solved the
problem after being hounded out of two
hoarding-houses. He noticed that baby
always fell asleep when travelling in a
motor-car, so he now keeps his car parked
in the street overnight. When Junior
starts his wailing in the small hours Pa
crawls out of bed, takes him out to the
car, drives around the block until the
kid falls asleep and then returns him to
the cot. He claims it works like a
charm.
* * * *
“Ceg”: It was a warm, sunny day and
the prosperous-looking car, with driver
to match, arrived at the river-bank to
find that it was first in the queue and the
ferry on the far side. The driver pulled
his hat over his eyes and dozed off.
Gentle snores
soon rose in the
air as he slept,
blissfully uncon-
scious of the fact
that other cars
arrivin g—and
there were plenty
of them —immedi-
ately turned round
and headed back
to Melbourne and
the long alterna-
tive route to
Williamstown. An
hour went by;
the driver woke and, noticing the ferry
still on the other side, and oblivious to
the time that had passed, lit a cigarette.
After a couple of puffs the fag was hurled
away, the engine started up and the car
made off at top speed. Had it not been
for the dashboard-clock I daresay he’d
still be there. The notice “Ferry not
working today” was very small in-
deed,
THE PUBLIC FACE.
He who would hold the ruler’s place
And sway the destinies of his race
Must cultivate the public face
As tough as any turtle’s carapace;
And when he hears his enemy speak
He must not show concern or pique
But still preserve the placid cheek,
The physiognomy like carven teak;
He must submit as day by day
The bold cartoonist has his say,
Bedevils his features —all in play,
Prolongs his nose or planes his chin away;
He must accept without surprise
Youth’s ribaldries and calumnies
Nor flinch before the batteries
Of many thousand hard and hostile eyes—
Let me not murmur, pine or groan,
My undistinguished state bemoan,
Though humble and to fame unknown
While I can call my private face my own.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


“Aerogenes”; Down our way we are
very progressive and public-spirited.
There are good works going on all the
time, and hardly anyone is not on some
committee or other. The Returned
Soldiers are raising £lO,OOO for the new
memorial hall, the shire council is invit-
ing suggestions as to how it might get
some money for new council chambers
—combined with one of those new com-
munity centres and with a place at the
back for bulldozers and trucks. There
are also the More and Bigger Trots com-
mittee, the fund for the Forcible Restraint
of Truckdrivers and the £4OO to send
Mrs. Jones’s little Willie to the Conserva-
torium. It is all very hopeful and excit-
ing ; one day our little town will be 10
times the size! But after a hard after-
noon of meetings and garden-parties, as
we pick our way home between the ruts
and the bogs, the blackberries and the
rubbish dumps we wish —oh! how
earnestly we wish —that the Government
would give us some money to mend our
roads!
* * * *
“A.1.D.”: Reform of the wrongdoer?
At the high school I attended the punish-
ment for minor offences was relegation
to the detention-
line, caning by
form-masters be-
in g forbidden.
The punishment
was a farce, for
boys could bring
their lunches on
to the line, and
offenders were
never kept there
for the whole
lunch interval.
There was always
a good muster;
threequarters o f
an hour standing in the quadrangle held
no terrors for hardened incorrigibles. It
was a different story after a retired R.N.
petty-officer became physical-culture in-
structor. An enthusiast for his work, he
suggested that detention should involve
an hour’s physical training after school.
It was not long before there was a decided
dearth of candidates.
jjc ♦ H* ♦
“Dudleigh”: Weekend prospectors
and several syndicates made a payable
proposition of small shows in the district
surrounding a Westralian mining town;
crushings averaged about lOdwt. When
a detective from the Gold Branch was
permanently stationed in the town the
values in a few concerns mysteriously
dropped to nil —or very near it. Among
these was a show backed by a town
identity. His previous crushing had gone
9dwt.; now he got about one and a half.
The detective, commenting on the decline,
remarked “Seems funny your show peter-
ing out like that. It looked as if you
had a good one there. What do you
think is the reason for the sudden drop
in values?” He took a few minutes to
wake up when the owner replied, “You!
Y’ big so-and-so.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Two figures, a tall one
and a short one, might have been seen
the other evening going on in a rather
peculiar fashion in the vicinity of the
bridge that spans the rails at the entrance
“'One-hit ’ Winnie always gets her man.”
to the liner wharf at Port Melbourne.
One, carrying a large box, was dodging in
and out under the archways, peering out
and stepping backwards and then going
to another position ; the other was acting
somewhat in the same manner. Finally
they met under a dark archway. The
small one, somewhat seedier-looking than
the tall one, said: “D’ you know of a
good place anywhere about here?” “A
good place?” queried the other. “Yes,”
said the first one, flourishing a bundle of
old newspapers. “Oh, I see,” said the tall
man, one of Melbourne’s best-known
painters. “No. I was just looking for a
good spot from which to paint the
sunset.”
* * * ♦
“8.A.”: A rather unusual claim is
made by one of Hobart’s old-timers:
his two brothers died over a century ago.
They died when very young children
before he was born ; he’s now 96.
* * * *
Two from among the many youngsters
who have rushed to defend their genera-
tion’s honor:
“Tut”: “Bamekaw’s” smug statement (B.
24/1/ ’5l) about modern youngsters being soft
cuts no ice with me. While I was at school,
during the latter part of the war, “High-
cockalorum” was our favorite sport; one team
had to hold the other for the “count,” or keep
on backing-down until this was achieved. Cock-
fighting was also played occasionally, but was
considered quite tame compared with high-
cockalorum.
“Bubble”: In Victoria, at least, the games
“Baraekaw” mentions still survive—when they
can be played out of teacher’s sight. “Cock-
fighting” and “sacks on the mill” retain those
names, but “high-cockalorum” is known as
“saddle-me-nag.” Can’t speak as to the popu-
larity of folk-dancing; I left school four years
ago.
* * * *
“Don”; Some girls who went swimming
at Port Mac Donnell (S.A.) suddenly
turned and broke records for the shore.
They said they had seen a large, fearsome-
looking animal with staring eyes. Every-
one was relieved when it was found to
be the head of a horse —probably all that
remained of one of the 300 farm horses
which “T.McN.” recorded (B. 24/l/’5l)
were to be used for crayfish bait.
* * * *
“Irving”: The McTavish who was not
a Scot (B. 24/1 /’5l) had a much earlier
New Australian prototype in a man
named Murphy, who spoke explosive and
excitable Castilian. He was one of the
three shepherds whom John Macarthur
imported from Spain along with his first
batch of Merinos. There is more than
presumption in the supposition that this,
the first of a thousand Australian sheep-
minders with Celtic patronymics, was
descended from one of the “Wild Geese,”
who formed the Irish Brigades which
fought under French and Spanish flags
in the latter half of the 18th century. The
name Murphy in the officers’ lists of the
Irish Brigades in Spain is as common as
it is among the members of committees
of Irish Clubs in Australian capitals
today.
* * * *
“Drong”: Our suburb is stricken every
now and then by a plague of fleas. They
are a hardy variety and have, in the past,
always managed to withstand all my
attempts to eradicate them. Recently,
however, I chanced upon something that
“puts them off the bite” as soon as they
get a whiff of it. It is a backache lotion
issued to me at the local hospital. The
stench that emanates from it stonkers the
fleas, and if there are any survivors among
them they vacate the bed hurriedly and
hop outside to get some fresh air. So,
too, as swiftly as the lumbago will let
me, do I.
* * * *
“Dahaka Las”: I was down at Lae
from the goldfields, staying with a friend
employed in one of the stores. His wife
was away in Sydney, and on the Saturday
evening he entertained a number of
friends at a beer-party. In the small hours
the guests left us and we retired to bed.
When I awoke a cup of tea was by my
bed and I could hear my friend making
a lisping request to the houseboy to go
into the garden and find his teeth. A
few minutes later I heard the boy come
back. “Plenty teeth stop, master,” he
remarked. There were, too. He had
picked up several sets in the garden,
* * * *
“Clooter”: There is something so
dashed practical and conservative about
the mature feminine mind that, in
moments when I contemplate the future
of society with despondent alarm induced
by a survey of the idiocies of man, I
think of woman and am immediately re-
freshed with new optimism. All of us
who have been associated with some good
woman, whether mother, wife or friend,
can recall incidents which, though they
startled and amused us —or even alarmed
us —revealed how directly the feminine
nous can penetrate straight to the heart
of a matter which happens to be singu-
larly feminine in itself. There is a Bris-
bane woman I would like to know.
Called as a witness in a court-case, she
failed to appear. A police-sergeant tele-
phoned her home. “I have visitors com-
ing for dinner,” she told him, “and get-
“You ARE breathing! Well, what do you know about that!"
ting the dinner just won’t wait. You’ll
have to go on without me.” Justice
blinked, pondered the matter graveily,
then issued a summons. The woman duly
appeared and the mills resumed their
grind. But O ye magistrates, what would
ye not give to have heard her when she
got back to her ruined dinner and
sympathetic guests, among whom, it may
be right to assume, none would be more
suavely sympathetic than the lady the
dinner was expected to put out of
countenance.
* * * 4=
“Bo”: As one who has long taken a
modest pride in the possession of our
suburb’s most disreputable pair of
gardening strides, I view with deep con-
cern the latest innovation now on the
market: the streamlined, stainless-steel
garden-spade. The consequent threat to
the Old Order is easily foretold: some
idiot along the street will buy one. To
wield one of these resplendent aristos of
the implement world while clad in an
object of sartorial decadence will seem,
at least to the possessor’s wife, as in-
congruous as swigging champagne out of
a tin pannikin. He will therefore be
ordered to forgo the torn, frayed and
patched but comfortable rammies and the
ancient shirt from which he has ripped
the sleeves off at the shoulder and don
“respectable” clothes. I have seen respec-
tably-clad gardeners. I have even known
cases —pitiable in the extreme —where
they delve and fork and mow in collar
and tie! Gardening is, by its very nature,
a recreation of comfort and of un-
obtrusiveness, of philosophy in rags, as it
were. Is all this to be sacrificed on a
stainless-steel altar? I issue the clarion-
call to all who could be pardonably mis-
taken for the figure put to scare the birds
off their young lettuce to boycott this latest
whim, or, at least, to see that those who
buy the things splash quickly some black
paint over the shining faces of the spades.
* * * *
“Kala”: After a few days in hospital
we were all getting thoroughly bored.
Then one night a pretty Italian girl was
wheeled into the ward. She spoke little
English, but she seemed friendly. She
was very young,
with a husband
past middle-age,
who seemed
devoted to her.
When sh<? was
wheeled back into
the ward, as is
not unusual after
an operation, her
face was ghastly.
When her hus-
band saw her he
wrung his hands
and wept and
moaned and called on all the saints to
save her. It was embarrassing to watch
him, but after she recovered we teased
her about it, saying how lucky she was
to have a husband who loved her so
much. “I don’t know about the love,”
she said. “But he has just paid two
hundred pounds to get me over from
Italy.”
* ♦ * *
“0.W.W.”: These days Maoriland
Army camps, where 18-year-olds are
training, have a large percentage of World
War I Diggers doing excellent jobs as
mess-hands, spud-barbers and cooks. One
veteran, Frankie, watching the young
soldiers on church parade l° udl V de-
clared, as the boys marched past, Eng-
land should never tremble!” An officer
rushed up. “Don’t you know you must
never speak to troops on parade/ he
roared. “I wasn’t,” came the quick retort.
“I was talking to myself,” Pips let il
pass.
MAKING IT RESPECTABLE.
“Asked by the magistrate in a police-assault
case to explain his statement that he was suffering
from ‘circumorbital hcematoma,’ a detective-witness
raised a bandage and revealed a black eye.”
When you grabbed the axe (oh, you were a
dill!)
And into the woodheap started bashing
With a maximum of the right goodwill,
But lacking, alas! the commensurate skill,
And a second after the downward crashing
A piece flew up and you copped it direct,
A real beaut in the starboard blinker,
Which bestowed a polychromatic effect —
Your new acquisition, I expect,
Was hailed hilariously as a “stinker.”
And perhaps in the deep of the vasty night
When kitchenward groping in gown and
slippers,
Refraining from snapping on any light,
For (yes, you’ve been caught before) it might
Arouse to full wakefulness the nippers,
You’ve walked straight into the edge of a door
And thereupon sighted a brilliant comet.
Next day, as they’ve looked sympathetic’ly o’er
Your damaged lamp you’ve heard from a score
Of friends: “What a shanty you’ve got
hanging from it!”
No matter just how you came by the eye
That varies in color from orange to sable:
If you didn’t stop still when your wife let fly
With the first thing she’d picked up from the
table
But tried to dodge—what a foolish thing!
Or if out of your turn you’d been loudly
yapping—
Whatever it was the sight will bring
A spatter of human whinnying
And a whale of a lot of undignified
“rapping.”
Perhaps the fact that the treatment makes
(It’s a true touch, this, of old barbarity)
It needful to use on the orb some steaks
Lends it that air of jocularity.
Just take a judge in nis full-bottomed wig:
Do you think his look some tough would be
dreading
Despite the dignified rest of his rig
If on one eye he’d a thingumajig,
AH multicolored and slowly spreading?
In view of the fact that the annual crop
Of blackened eyes is rather terrific,
It’s a happy thing, it’s in fact tip-top,
That somebody’s thought of a way to swap
The old descriptions for one scientific.
So if you cop one, and you’re “in Dutch,
Having recognised some cove’s fistic diploma,
You can ring the boss and say it’s not much,
But you’d better stay in bed, you’ve a touch
Of circumorbital hcematoma.
N.s.w.
* * *
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Salmon Gums”; Myxomatosis is
doing a thorough job among the rabbits
along the Murray Valley, but I’m
hanged if I find the prospect pleas-
ing. Call the rabbit what you will,
he was the saviour of hundreds during
the depression. At a time when wheat
was hardly worth harvesting and skins
weren’t worth selling I carried a trap in
my bluey and found the Westralian
wheatbelt the friendlier for it. No
matter where night found me I could set
a trap and be certain of a feed within an
hour, and a gourmet’s menu holds no
more succulent item than a rabbit,
cooked anyhow and eaten after a 20-
mile jaunt since dinner. Brer rabbit kept
many a man on the track, and kept him
in good enough condition to tackle any
job that offered, from kelly to banjo. He
went a mighty long way, too, towards
sustaining the families of hard-hit
farmers. For at least the last two genera-
tions cockies’ kids have made their pocket-
money out of his skin, and the same
source has provided many a cocky’s wife
with a trip to town. The wheatbelt with-
out rabbits might be a highly prosperous
area, but it’ll be a mighty hard country
for tramps, and it’ll be no place to bring
up kids.
* ¥ * ♦
“Vet.”: Dad Waller had never seen a
wool-sale, and having a couple of bales
extra this year proudly announced he
was going down to see his clip go under
the hammer. Hearing it. Bob reported
that he was going to the city by car the
day before Dad’s sale, and offered him
a lift. “Sure we’ll get there t’ see me
wool sold?” came the anxious query.
Bob assured him, and they duly set off.
Sixty miles down, on a lonely stretch of
road, the car broke down. “Can’t fix
it,” confessed Bob after an hour or more.
“Have to leave it and walk on. Any-
way, it’s only twenty miles to The
Crossing, and we might get a lift from
there to the station to catch the all-night
goods.” “Yair, but will we be in time f
me wool-sale?” wailed the old bloke.
“C’mon, then, we’ll hurry.” They walked
most of the afternoon and a bit of the
night, and caught the goods train with a
groggy sprint. After that they proceeded
in jerks and bumps, and, arriving some
hours late, grabbed a taxi and dashed
for the wool exchange. “Here y’ are, sit
here, Dad,” puffed Bob. “And here’s a
catalogue, and your numbers. Your clip
comes up in about half an hour, see?”
Bob retired to the balcony rail, where
he waited till the old bloke’s wool went
through. “Well, what did you think of
your sale?” he grinned, returning. “Did
you hear that buyer? Hey! Hey!
Dad! ” No use. Tired out, the old bloke
had slept soundly through it all.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Shadow-chaser’s”
white-breasted shag—l take it he means
the pied shag—which dives waterwards
“in perfect formation,” then “snatches its
spoil and spirals skywards again in split-
second cohesion” (B. 10/1/’5l), is new
to me. I doubt if any part of this con-
tinent is more thickly shag-populated
than the Swan River Estuary used to be,
and, of the thousands I’ve seen, Fve
never known one to dive for fish from
the air and ascend im-
mediately. Shags alight
on the water and then
submerge, finding a
feed while under water.
Hasn’t “S.C.” ever seen
shags drying their
feathers by perching on
a post and holding their
wings outstretched?
They do that from
necessity. Unlike ducks, their feathers
are not water-resistant, and after a few
submersions they become waterlogged.
After a prolonged spell in the water they
find it practically impossible to rise, and
they certainly couldn’t fly any distance,
or at any speed, without drying out.
Watch shags and ducks take off from
water simultaneously when disturbed.
The ducks are in the air well ahead of
the shags, who appear to pause, and
quickly shake the water from their
feathers before rising. Such a bird isn't
equipped to dive into water from a height
and become airborne again quickly.
“ Whacko! A piece of prime brisket at last!”
Whatever the bird is that “S.C.” has been
watching it wasn’t a shag.
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: The ground-plates
of the building which was The Miner’s
Rest in the roaring days were of iron-
bark, and they rested on low ironbark
stumps —except one corner, which was
securely based on a sawn-off box-tree.
The walls of the building were of heavy
pit-sawn redgum slabs. The original
“I suppose I should have explained first how you blow it.”
roof of shingles had had one of gal-
vanised-iron superimposed on it when
the shingles decayed. It all added up to
a weighty building long deserted and
used as a camp by drovers and travellers.
Noticing that the corner based on the
box-stump was about 6in. above the level
of the floor I investigated and found that
termites had occupied the heart of the
box-stump (they always bypass ironbark),
building up their nest with such relentless
pressure that it had actually lifted the
corner of the building. Apparently these
high-pressure wreckers are able to gener-
ate the power of a hydraulic-jack,
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: There’s nothing new
in maggies building among phone-wires
in the Cabbage Garden (B. 10/12/’5O).
For more than 25 years in treeless plain
country the Victorian railways have sup-
plied special wire brackets on their tele-
graph-poles to divert nesting birds from
the wires, and during any spring Mel-
bourne-Sydney express passengers may
see, about Wallan, a nesting ’pie in these
containers on every second pole. The
black-and-white fliers also + rouble the
P.M.G. in the western district, though
in the plains of sou’-east South Australia,
where the trees have gone and there aren’t
enough phone-poles, the carollers nest on
the ground. But I noticed something new
on the electric-power-poles along the high-
ways leading to Shepparton recently.
Every pole had a steel screen around it
half-way up to stop goannas going aloft
and short-circuiting currents and them-
selves.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Night on the
Campaspe. The great stars seem to be
within hand’s reach, the universe little
more than a large room. Below us the
river talked to the trees and the trees
whispered in reply. There was a faint
glow from our fire and I could see Mat,
flat on his back, his hands under his
head. “Makes y’ think, don’t it?” he
observed. “Yair,” I said. “There’s
blokes,” he went on tentatively, “reckon
the stars work on a man. Reckon if a
man’s bom under some star or other he
can be lucky or run inter trouble all his
life. A bloke was tellin’ me once he was
a Uranus, or somethin’, an’ always had
t’ wait till his star was right before doin'
anythin’.” Silence. “Well,” I offered,
“reckon ol’ Kidman an’ Henry Ford an’
all them millionaires must ha’ got born
under the right stars. Look at the dough
they got.” Mat snorted and sat up.
“You an’ me,” he stated, “is a dam’
sight better off an’ luckier than them.
We ain’t got much dough, but by cripes
we still got the stars an’ we can loaf here
an’ look at ’em every night, if we like.
That’s more’n any millionaire could do.
Lucky stars? It’s blokes like us is gettin’
the real luck from the stars.” I leave it
to you; it’s a bit out of my line,
* * * *
“Fairf”: This is a time of plenty
for all free seed-eating birds. Paspalum
and native grasses are bowed down with
luscious green and ripening seeds. But if
the sparrows take advantage of the
bountiful harvests they do it at odd times
—I never see them dining. Instead, they
prefer to hang around \be aviaries like
poor relations, squabbling over the grains
of millet that blow through the wire.
Millet that has been soaked by driving
rains becomes soggy, with a tendency to
ferment; my budgerigars won’t eat it.
Spags have no such fads: the moment I
throw the mess out a feast-and-fight is in
progress. On the other hand, the budgies
—who are notoriously reluctant to sample
any new item on the menu —will swarm,
chirping, to the wire whenever they see
me approaching with a handful of seeding
grass. The budgerigars are, of course,
merely following their instincts and re-
verting to their natural food —years ago.
before this district became too darned
civilised, the little green birds used to
flock here whenever the grasses were seed-
ing. But what is the reason for the
spags’ preference? An inhibition bom of
generations of scrounging? Laziness? Or
do they suffer from that human failing
of thinking the thing out of reach is better
than the one there for the taking?
♦ * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: Whoa, hold ’em, “Phil
Anthus” (B. 31/1/’51)! / didn’t call
the currawong a jackdaw; I merely
pointed out that hundreds of people do.
And “moon-bird” was one man’s name
for a bird he had never seen, but whose
call he imitated on a radio programme.
“Phil” himself would have identified the
call as that of the pallid cuckoo. On the
credit side, too, I must be elevated a
little for having refrained from giving the
bird its other popular title: “The brain-
fever-bird.” X admit that the channel-
bill is known as the “storm-bird” —where
he is known at all. He is not known
within a radius of, I’d say, 75 miles of this
eastern N.S.W. district; but his smaller
cousin, the pallid cuckoo, is as übiquitous
as Commo propaganda. If the piper who
whistles so shrilly before a storm and
acts so crazily during the disturbance is
not entitled to be called “the storm-bird,”
then “Phil” will have his job in front oi
him trying to convince a whole army of
people. But his real trouble will start
when he tries to convince the pallid
cuckoo.
BARKER’S KNOLL.
When the southern plains lay lost in unawakened
Dreams of the future, and the Isabella sailed
Up the narrow Gulf, and followed its sandy
shore:
The soldier Captain Barker, seeing the blue
Curve of the wooded ranges, did he feel
That this was the last coast that he would sail?
He said, “Tomorrow I climb that tallest peak
Named Lofty by Flinders (though as mountains
go
But small, it’s the highest seen for a thousand
miles),
Climb it, and build on top a cairn of stones;
The first white man to tread the mountain’s
brow
And see like a map the wide plains spread
below.”
So up from the Onkaparinga to Holdfast Bay,
Up the winding spurs of the stringybark-clad
range
He climbed, and built at last his cairn of stones.
Black shadows slipped from tree to tree, or
froze,
Motionless; Barker, eyes on the distance, stood
And felt no cold foreboding chill his blood.
This mountain was an easy foe, soon cowed.
What could he conquer now? . . . Away to
the east
A blue hill beckoned, but a soldier follows
orders:
To find if the Murray opened to the south
\ wider mouth than the one that Sturt had
found.
But no river gleamed, and southward lay the
land,
A long, dark curve of hills that met the sea.
But the stuffy Secretaries back in England,
Colonial officers, must be satisfied . . .
He’d walk to the mouth, and prove there was
no other.
From the Bay to Goolwa the party blazed their
path
Cross-country, to the landscape of his death.
In an endless line the breakers beat inshore.
The sandhills are lost in flying spume; the beach
Lies long and white, and even in the surf’s roar
Is a core of silence. Where does the beach tend?
On one side, waves of sand; on the other, sea;
Between them a narrow path to infinity.
But here is a break in the sand 1 And deep and
strong
T lie River runs, after what long journeying
From distant Alps, through deserts of ochreous
stone
Windings through weary plains, gum-shadowed
reaches
And yellow-clifi-bound deeps; at last is come
To a shallow coast, snapped short by the teeth
of foam.
Well, Barker, the point is proved. No other
way
But this dangerous outlet where many men will
drown
Exists, and here the Murray meets the sea.
But what may be hidden there, by that sandy
knoll?
(The true explorer wishes still to win
Beyond the farthest point his eyes can gain).
The river ran between, and he alone
Would brave the unknown waters. Compass on
head,
He slid down the crumbling sand and struck
across
The stream. And did he think, “The first white
man
Who has ever done this?” Climbed out beyond,
and ran
Up the steep sandy slope, turned, and was
gone . . ,
Many hours, by the quietly-sliding river,
Many hours by the sounding surf they waited
him.
Night fell, and the party slept uneasily;
And day returned, but not their absent leader.
Wild shouts were heard, and strange fires seen.
At last they turned to join the ship again.
So by the spears of the fierce Narrinyerri
Fell the Queen’s soldier, his blood spilled in
the sand,
Staining the white foam. The cold south sea
Took him at last. He died on a strange coast,
A wild and lonely death; and left his name
On that blue hill he did not live to climb.
S.A,
NANCY CATO.


FORDSON MAJOR
FARMS AUSTRALIA
in every type of job, in every type of soil
Read these reasons why Fordson
Major is Sales Leader among tractors
Because of their complete suitability and versa-
tility in every kind of Australian farming there
are now over 22,000 Fordson Majors working
throughout the Commonwealth. Every day
the preference for Fordson is growing because
only Fordson provides all these features:
|« Choice of Diesel or Kerosene power.
2* Wheeled or half track units.
3« Choice of gear ratios. “Special” ratios for
work where soil conditions and size of imple-
ments demand extra pounds pull at the drawbar.
“Standard” ratios for conditions where extra
miles per hour and normal drawbar pull are
desirable.
4* Range of wheel and tyre equipment.
5, Lowest cost per horsepower.
6* Specialised Fordson Service available in
districts all over the Commonwealth.
I
%
&
in
4
'll
m
I
mm
/ v/i
Ratings by official Nebraska-type Tests
Diesel power : Rated 28 drawbar horsepower —
which is better than a 12 horse team. In
second gear at 1500 r.p.m. rated load travelled
at 3.5 m.p.h. when equipped with special ratio
gears and at 4.6 m.p.h. with standard ratio
gears. In both cases fuel consumption was
1.79 gallons per hour.
Kerosene power: Rated 21.5 drawbar horse-
power —equal to a good 10 horse team. With
special ratio gears, in second gear and at 1200
r.p.m. rated load handled at 2.88 m.p.h. and,
with standard ratio gears, at 3.64 m.p.h. Fuel
consumption at rate of 1.96 gallons per hour m
both cases.
Advice from your local Fordson Dealer
Your Dealer will be glad to give you all details of the Fordson combination that is best for your job.
He will also arrange on your property, a demonstration under your particular working conditions.
Enquire from your local Fordson Dealer
FM62-BHF
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG, VICTORIA.
“James W.”: A Brisbane woman’s
method of killing a snake brought almost
as much anguish to her husband as to the
ophidian victim. She had spotted Jofc
near the lettuce patch and coursed it
across the back lawn. Her spouse left
his tyre-changing job and charged into
the hunt leaving an almost new tyre on
the grass. Then Joe doubled back and
slithered into the empty tyre. The missus
grabbed up the tyre, scurried across the
yard and dropped it, snake and all, on to
a fiercely-burning heap of rubbish.
Despite frantic rakings and recriminations
the tyre was a total loss. So was the snake.
* * * t*
“Sackville Si.”: Big Jim is an easy-
going sort of bloke; but he’s got one of
those old-fashioned ideas that Britons—
and their descendants —never shall be
slaves. Working at his first job in the city,
he’d got two hours in when the union rep.
approached him with: “Are you a
member of the union?” Jim replied that
he was not. If the fellow had adopted a
less domineering manner things may have
been different, but the miniature Stalin
snapped: “Well, you’ve got to join!”
Jim breathed heavily through his nose
and answered that he hadn’t got to do
anything. The little dictator got nasty.
Jim told him what he was. At the sub-
sequent meeting the big fellow repeated
his remarks, told the mob what sheep
they were, and left to find a job that
didn’t smell so rotten. At his next start
the same thing happened, beginning with:
“Are you a member of, etc.” That’s when
he decided to go back to dairy-farming.
Jim had come from a coastal district and
he loved the surf. He was having his
final dip on a city beach when a girl got
into difficulties. Big Jim didn’t wait for
lifesavers. When the beltman reached
them the girl was out of danger. On the
beach a wandering reporter came sniffing
around for a “human-interest story.”
“And are you a member of a surf-club?”
he asked. It was unfortunate that the
big fellow mistook the meaning. “Yes ;
you dopey idiot!” he roared. “As soon
as I saw she was in difficulties I strolled
down to the Trades Hall and got me
flamin’ ticket!”
* * * *
“Bo”: The car was whining up the
steep hill in second gear when it struck
a big patch of greasy clay. The wheels
flew around, but couldn’t grip. The car
“I Wouldn't get back if you begged me — I’m quite comfortable."
slid back a few yards and the driver
braked, then came at it again, this time
over to one side. Same result. After
about four or five more futile attempts a
voice from under a tree at the side of
the road said “Why don’t y’ go back up
the other hill an’ try takin’ a run at it?”
The motorist looked across to where a
long lean cove reclined on one elbow
chewing a stalk of paspalum. “Be-
cause, you blasted idiot,” exploded the
motorist, “the potholes at the bottom’d
bust an axle if I went over ’em more
than five miles an hour.” The other
calmly surveyed the scene. "Pull y’ over
it fer a quid,” he offered. “You thieving
swine!” roared the frustrated one. “I’ll
go round the other way.” “Bridge is
washed away and there’s a landslide
coverin’ part o’ the road. You could go
back an’ round by Tobulga, but that’s
over eighty miles out o’ y’r way. Pull
y’ over for a quid.” The motorist was
trapped and he knew it. “How can y’?”
he asked, looking around for a vehicle.
“Got a winch on a tree at the top o’ the
hill,” replied the recumbent one. “Get
you over on to solid ground in a coupler
minutes.” Later, as he parked the “flag”
with the other four he had that day
similarly earned, he reflected that, as a
shearing contractor, he must have had the
cheapest plant ever devised: an old winch
and chain, a crowbar for enlarging pot-
holes, a cart to transport the clay and a
44-gallon drum to hold the water to keep
it in the requisite greasy condition,
“Jimmo”: The four peewees which
have bed-and-breakfast at my place more
than earn their accommodation by doing
self-imposed guard duty. They’ve
drubbed magpies and butcher-birds into
the next parish times without number.
They give hawks, large or small, equally
short shrift, and when one of those yahoo-
ing murderers, a kookaburra, cocks a
speculative eye at the very junior chooks
he seldom gets time for a second look.
One day a whistling eagle sailed in and
broke his journey on the chookyard-fence,
but the pied peepers had him in full retreat
before he’d got his wings properly folded,
and what’s more, they kept him going.
$ * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Blacksmiths
on farms something new (B. 10/1 /’51)?
Why, 20 years ago every western Queens-
land station had a smithy’s shop besides
a visiting smith for part of the year.
There, too, every ringer was his own
farrier. On Sunday you cleaned your
saddle and began trying to tack slippers
on two not-too-quiet mokes —your trans-
port on alternate days for the coming
week. In those days a spell at the home-
stead assisting the smithy to shrink
wagon-tyres, etc., was like a day in
heaven, especially as an abo. used to do
the rouseabouting.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was propped
against his horse’s shoulder, one arm
draped along its neck, waiting while Blue
brought the mob out of the side gully.
On the road behind came a huge, black
shining car with strapped suitcases and
rugs, and as it slid to a stop a sports-
dad figure emerged and approached
Seventyfiver. “Er —how far is it to the
next town?” he inquired. The old
bloke’s gaze never left the cattle.
“Sixteen-seventeen miles.” “And what
sort of place is it?” asked the
stranger. “Damn’ fine town,” came
the reply; “pub, store, blacksmith,
everything.” “We’ll be able to get some
tobacco, then?” continued the stranger.
“Not now y’ won’t.” A note of sorrow
was in the old bloke’s voice. “Sweets,
then? Anything like that? Or some
pea-rifle ammo?” “Shouldn’t think so.”
The motorist looked impatient. “Oh,
well, at least we can get a bed at the
hotel, and a drink or two,” he muttered
scornfully. “Might get the bed,” said
Seventyfiver. “Dunno about the drink.
They ’ad none two days ago.” The
stranger loosed a small, refined snort.
“Damn’ fine town,” he mimicked. “If
you ask me, I’d say it’s on the nose.”
“Yair.” Seventyfiver gathered himself
together, and shoved a boot into the near
stirrup. “Yair,” be repeated, “but that’ll
wear orf before long. Jus’ now, it’s
crawlin’ alive with flamin’ tourists.”
* * * *
“Heresone”: If “Rooster” looks a bit
more closely at his next spiderweb (B.
24/l/’5l) he will find that two materials
are used in the construction. The main
frame and spokes are made of a fine,
strong silk, which, incidentally, is
unaffected by water or moist air. That
is why it is used for the crosswires in
surveyors’ telescopes. Superimposed on
this is the spiral, made of a finer thread,
soft and clinging and decorated with
blobs of gum. Insects blunder into this,
but the spider herself walks only on the
framework. Also, her feet are slightly
oily, so that, if she makes a misstep,'she
can disengage herself.
LATE AFTERNOON.
Where the sunlight drops like a sigh
The purple, creeping shadows curl
Lightly across the lazy plain
Where warming light had lain.
And the earth cradles carelessly
The lithe line of an opal creek
In one long, lovely, liquid sweep;
And clusters of sun-dusted sheep.
Burnished horses with golden tails
Dream in the pools of amber light;
Curving across the saffron sky.
Dark ibis, fanning westward, fly.
Upright, striding across the light,
A man is walking purposely,
Arms swinging sharply from his side,
And urgent, stumping, stumbling stride.
The earth and sky, content with day,
Stretch to the night in unity;
The man, incongruous, out of place,
Still strides across the languid space.
n.s.w.
ANNE BELL.


a
The only Trustee company having
offers each with its own Board of
Directors and manairement in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution • • *
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
■*—“ l worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent, The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
md attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney: 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 188 S)
St., Brisbane
u.
"The WILD
CAT
COLUMN"
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
i —*— Dividend;, A
Ist 2nd Re-
June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1947.. 23,726 8 8 15,741 99,694
Tax arrears, £6694 .. .. ~ 93,000
Reduction reserves, £4040 .. .. 88,960
Added intangibles, £651 .. .. 88,309
1948.. 25,771 6 5 6 24,260 89,820
Less reserve adjustments, £352 .. 89,468
1949.. 34,957 8 5 8 30.780 93.645
Revaluation reserve, £181,455 .. 275,100
Add net adjustments, £754.. .. 275,854
1950.. 65,291 8 5 8 30,780 310.365
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 307,365
•After deducting Intangibles, now £27,643.
This now-51-year-old heavy-engineering
organisation consists of parent, eight
wholly-owned subsidiaries and two associ-
ated cos. The subsidiaries are integrated
units specialising in the production of
particular types of equipment. The asso-
ciates are K.L. Tractors Sales Pty. (50 p.c.
ipterest) and K.L. Tractors, Ltd. (121 p.c.
interest), which turn out a crude-oil
tractor and handle the Australian
franchise for Lenz tractors.
After the public became interested in
1939 production was, of course, switched
mainly to war requirements. When
defence contracts tapered six years later
the scope of manufactures had been con-
siderably widened. Pre-war the co. had
won a reputation for centrifugal- and
axial-flow-pumps, air and gas compres-
sors, condensers, steam and internal-
combustion engines, rail trucks and bridge
and other structural-steel work. Addi-
tional lines turned out today include
electric-motors and -generators, switch-
gear, pneumatic tools, laundry and dry-
cleaning equipment, sectional-steel poles,
repetition parts, etc. And the list of
overseas agencies has been lengthened,
too.
Since war ended the story has been one
of expansion, stimulated by the backlog
of demand, a buoyant economy and
inflation, and limited by shortages of
materials and skilled labor and interrupted
by industrial upheavals, with increasing
overhead pressing heavily upon net earn-
ings. However, over the last decade
profits have been sufficient to meet pref.
requirements and hand the ords. a steady
8 p.c., except in 1948, when a strike in
the metal trades slowed down the rate
of earning and 6 p.c. was paid on
increased capital—l3o,69s £1 ords, and
94,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. were issued in
the previous term to help finance expan-
sion.
Earnings improved in 1949, but it was
not until last term that the costly pro-
gramme of expansion and development
began to bear much fruit. Turnover,
which went up by £400,000, approached
the £2,000,000-mark, to which the co.’s
overseas agencies contributed substan-
tially. Despite spiralling costs, net earn-
ings of the group nearly doubled, reaching
£65,296. That covered pref, divs.
(together £8380) and 20.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 9.5, 6.5 and 13.3 p.c.
for the three preceding years. The allow-
ance for taxation was £11,438 (down
£1267) and “adequate” provision was
made for depreciation, a hungry animal
in this class of business.
Independent revaluation of property
and plant showed a surplus of £227,972,
of which £28,517 was written off on
account of development and £lB,OOO was
labelled “special discount” and passed to
inner reserves, leaving £181,455 to add to
visible accumulations. Of the last-
mentioned amount £28,000 was capitalised
in a one-for-ten bonus-scrip issue to the
ords. after the close of accounts.
The year’s net additions of £llB,llO
to freeholds and £116,976 to plant were
due mainly to the revaluation just referred
to:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £420,000 £420,000 £420.000 £420,000
Mortgage .. 130,000
Overdrafts .. 64,784 292,026 322,783 169,591
Creditors . . 103,248 107,407 144,863 189,796
Tax provision 10,292 12,602 12,979 18,136
Final divs. .. 9,882 12,130 18,650 18,650
Freeholds .. 68,539 68,645 65,078 183,188
Plant .. 132,056 144,921 149,442 266,418
Stocks, etc... 307,160 487,391 537,931 513,839
Debtors ~ 102,638 174,153 186,772 212,285
Investment* .. 52,000 52.000 61,976 62,001
Cash, etc. .. 41,255 6,876 11,721 15,807
During the year £130,000 was raised on
mortgage and £153,192 slashed off over-
draft. Despite bigger trading, stocks, etc.,
were down £24,092. The more-or-less
liquid surplus was £277,759 (down
£21,166).
Turnover has continued to increase
since the close of accounts. To help
finance the bigger business, especially on
agency account, those on the ord. register
at January 18 last were offered 159,200
new £1 ords., one for two, at 255. each,
and 70,000 new £1 5 p.c. prefs. were
offered at par to existing pref. holders.
That will lift paid capital to £677,200 in
46,000 6 p.c. and 164,000 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 467,200 ords. The pref. divs.
and 8 p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£48,336, or £16,955 less profit than was
claimed last term.
The 6 p.c. and 5 p.c. prefs., at 30s.
and 21s. 10d., yield 4 p.c. and 4.5 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 345. 6d. return
4.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. The rights at 6s. 9d. are worth
consideration. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is £4 17s. 7d. prefs.
(both lots rank equally for return of
capital) and 345. 10d. ords.
Oversea# Corporation (Aust.), Ltd.
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
/ — 1 Divs.
Pref. To Re- Defi-
June, Loss. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, cit.*
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 25,460 Nil 62,618
Net addition intangibles, £9572 .. 72,190
Profit sale assets, £10,684 .. .. 61.506
1948.. 267 Nil 61,773
Net reduction intangibles, £947 .. 60,826
Profit.
1949.. 56,836 6 p.c. = 27,000 29,836 30,990
Net addition intangibles, £37,133 . . 68,123
1950.. 53,975 3000 6 p.c. = 33,480 17,495 50,628
* After deducting intangibles, now £65,658.
This co. set up as a proprietary con-
cern in Melbourne early in 1945 with the
prime aim of acquiring rights to new
technical developments, etc., overseas and
of passing them on to Australian in-
dustry. Then, as the result of experience,
it was decided to widen the field of
operations to include development of
small enterprises (subsidiaries) by provid-
ing financial and management assistance
and to engage in import-export and other
merchandising activities. So, in Novem-
ber, 1946, the public was invited in and
put up £140,000 of fresh capital, making
the total £200,000. The chairman
recently summarised the co.’s activities in
this way:
In general terms, we have no hesitation
in purchasing a small business, using it for
a particular and current need, and, when
the need has passed, of disposing of it.
Additionally, we purchase in order to
develop and sell when the opportunity
arises, and, of course, we aim to expand
and hold permanently subsidiaries which fit
into a general long-distance plan of develop-
ment. As a management-investment co.,
additional to our normal import-export
activities, the purchase and sale of sub-
sidiaries is not necessarily of any particular
significance.
The co.’s first year resulted in a loss, the
second in a small profit, and in the third
and fourth more than enough was earned
to pay the pref. div. and 6 p.c. to the
ords., as the introductory table shows.
Since formation the co. has become
interested in eight subsidiary and/or
associated undertakings, of which three
have been sold at a profit. Specialised
Engineering Co. Pty. was acquired in
1947 and sold last term for cash —its
most profitable line was Namco pressure-
cookers, rights to which the Corp. still
holds, and their production on a reduced
scale has been arranged. John Bentley
and Sons (Aus.) Pty., a small cotton-
weaving business, was taken over in 1947
and sold in 1948 at a profit of £13,736.
Diamond Wholesalers Co., importers of
industrial diamonds, was a partnership
with Mineral Drillers Pty., to whom the
Corp. sold out last term.
Present subsidiaries, etc., are Aero-
nautical Supply Co. Pty. and Airflite
(Training) Pty., both acquired at the be-
ginning and both reported to be showing
“satisfactory” profits—the former deals
in spare parts for aircraft throughout the
Commonwealth and the latter has an
engineering- and repair-shop at Banks-
town aerodrome (N.S.W.). In 1948
Downyflake Food Corp. Pty. (slightly
less than 50 p.c. interest held) was formed
in association with American interests;
it turns out prepared mixes for making
doughnuts, earned a small profit last term,
but hasn’t yet reached the dividend list.
Early last term the National Art Metal
Co. Pty. (Sydney), which makes industrial
and aircraft furniture, was bought, and is
showing a “very good return on the in-
vestment.” Bester Bros. Pty. (Melb.), a
small confectionary business, was also
taken over, and new factory premises
are being erected and more plant
installed.
Purchase of the two last-mentioned sub-
sidiaries involved the issue of 45,000 f.-p.
ords. To help finance extension of Singa-
pore branch-activities to Siam, Burma
and Indonesia, and growth of the parent’s
own merchandising operations—mainly
importation of prefabricated buildings,
steel products, tractors, household equip-
ment and clocks and watches —£250,000
of fresh cash-paid capital (120,000 5 p.c.
prefs. and 130,000 ords.) was gathered
early in 1950.
Combined net earnings for the year to
June 30 last were £53,975 (down £2861).
That was after allowing for depreciation
(£20,600, up £9071), taxation (£22,421, up
£8401) and remuneration of executive
directors, parent and subsidiaries
(£21,716, up £8903). The £53,975 covered
pref. requirements and 9.1 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital as against 12.6 p.c. in
1949, when profit included £6701 surplus
on sale of interests. The year’s net addi-
tion to intangibles was £37,133, of which
£5998 was on account of development,
etc. When the books closed £50,628 of
the capital was unrepresented by tangible
assets.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect
purchase of the two new subsidiaries and
importation of prefabricated buildings,
etc.; —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £450,000 £450,000 £745,000
Mortgage ~ .. 3,925 50,000
Overdraft .. .. 62,223 276,187 338.273
Sundry creditors .. 73,361 221,004 824,057
Tax provision .. .. 13,910 34,855
Final divs 27,000 33,480
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 25,832 147,962 271,927
Investments, etc. .. 262,344 58,434 104,479
Stock 99,865 481,494 993,899
Book debts, etc. .. 145,095 264,613 537,239
Cash 20,614 4,608 67,493
Intangibles, etc. .. 21,303 35,208 65,658
The additions to capital (up £295,000),
sundry creditors, etc. (up £603,053), over-
draft (up £62,086) and mortgages (up
£50,000) were used to cany extra stocks
(up £512,405) and book debts (up
£272,626), as well as more freeholds and
plant (up £123,965) and to strengthen
the interest in associated cos. (up
£46,045). The more-or-lesa liquid surplus
(£422,445) was £151,397 stronger. The
creditors item should be substantially
reduced as the prefabs are erected and
paid for.
In December last the co. issued 125,000
new £1 ords. at par, raising paid capital
to £870,000, on which the pref. div. and
6 p.c. to the ords. will call for £51,250.
At 235. 9d. the ords., covered by 18s. 6d.
in net tangibles, return 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs., held by a financial
institution, are not listed.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
_ , _ To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit- Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 23,502 10 p.c. = 17,977 5,525 103,611
Share premiums, £23,438 .. .. 127,049
1947.. 29,379 10 p.c. = 19,531 9,848 136,897
1948.. 29,132 10 „ „ 24,610 4,522 141,419
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 163 919
1949.. 36,116 10 p.c. = 28,880 7,236 17R155
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 193,655
1950.. 43,080 10 p.c. = 32,224 10,856 204,511
The scrip of this 54-year-old has been
a very satisfactory component of any
investment portfolio. For 20 years after
the public became interested in 1910 divs.
averaged 9.7 p.c. Slump was ushered in
with an empty basket in 1930, but 4 p.c.
was paid in 1931, and a point was added
for each of the next half-dozen years,
raising the rate to 10 p.c., and it has
remained steady since. Moreover, during
the last five years the 10 p.c. has been
sweetened with two gift issues in the
ratio of one-for-twelve and one-for-five
respectively, and with three new issues
for cash, two of them at a premium of
ss. and the other at a premium of Bs.
a share.
The one-for-five gift (£78,500) was
made last month, and came from a
surplus on revaluation of properties. It
will lift paid capital to £472,500 and
make the 10 p.c. div., which is not likely
to be interfered with, worth 12 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the time of the gift
The co. has a close association with
the Paragon organisation overseas, and
specialises in manufacture of office equip-
ment and commercial stationery, turned
out from factories in all States except
Tasmania, where a sales branch looks
after the local market. Completion of
the new Kingsgrove factory (near Sydney)
has been delayed by shortages of
materials, especially steel, but plant is
scheduled to be installed early in 1951.
Additions have been made to the Adelaide
factory, and the one at Perth, operated
by a subsidiary, is in process of being
enlarged. Also, a new subsidiary, Lamson
Paragon (N.Z.), Ltd., is being set up in
New Zealand, where the co. has acquired
the trading rights it sold some years ago.
The outlook for the organisation is one
of expanding turnover.
The profit shown in the table is the
net amount available for shareholders.
Last term’s £43,080 (up £6964) was the
sum remaining after sending £12,502 (up
£2383) to the staff fund, as well as allow-
ing £22,647 (up £5062) for depreciation
and £20,000 (down £5000) for taxation.
It was 13.4 p.c. on average capital as
against 12.5, 11.1, 15,13, 13.8 and 15.1 p.c.
back to 1944.
The financial structure is sound:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £281,250 £811,384 £365,044
Liabilities .. . . 129,341 124,856 187,773
Tax reserve . . . . 35,284 44,881 43,921
Staff fund .. .. 7.877 14,881 85,000
Final divl 19,531 28,880 32,224
Premises .. .. 83,952 104,258 162.296
Plant, etc 149,828 184,408 282,486
Stock 263,667 259,605 282.044
Book debts .. .. 101,287 120,873 168,709
Cash and sundries . . 2,667 8,385 8,813
Shares 27.563 84,125 84,125
Latest figures reflect all-round and well-
balanced expansion. When the books
closed there was still £28,706 of capital
to come on the last new cash issue in
June, 1949.
At 555. (465. 6d. a year or so ago) the
pound shares return 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The market expects that
shareholders might be asked for a bit
more later on. Including the recent
bonus issue, net tangible cover is 28s. Bd.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
f Dividends <
Sept. Pref. To Re- Re-
-30, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord, serves, serves,
1944.. 11,127 2800 7 p.c. = 10,600 74,814
From tax reserve, £2OOO .. . • 76,814
1945.. 13,617 2800 7 p.c. = 10.500 317 77,131
Profit, sale assets, £786 .. .. .. 77,917
1946.. 14,079 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 779 78,696
From tax reserve, £2750 .. .. 81,446
8 p.c.
1947.. 16.529 8200 8 p.c. = 12,000 1829 82,776
1948.. 18,208 3200 8 „ ~ 12,000 8003 88,003
From tax reserve, £B5OO .. .. 91,503
Profit, sale assets, £879 .. .. 92,382
1949.. 16,082 8200 8 p.c. = 12,000 882 93,264
Sundry additions reserves, £7122 .. 100,386
1950.. 22,050 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 6850 107,236
The coalminers were less troublesome


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
O&UIJJVA\
l-v mm >
bw*s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■BAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTTPS
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
CINZANO
SWF FT OR DRY
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRBRE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebb DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27Y), 243 Elizabeth St„ Sydney
Position Vacant.
QUARRY SUPERINTENDENT,
to control open-cut mining section Schee-
lite Mine, King Island, 5000 tons p.w.
output. Duties include instructing and
assisting Quarry Foreman on working de-
tails, running monthly surveys and plans
quarry faces, keeping sampling plans, etc.
Applicants must possess mining engineer-
ing Degree or Diploma and have had
sound practical experience of large open-
cut mechanised operation. High salary
according qualifications, plus unfurnished
rent-free house, removal expenses allow-
ance, firewood and electricity allowance,
annual bonus at Directors’ discretion and
three weeks’ annual leave. Written appli-
cations, with full details qualifications,
previous positions, copies refs., etc., to
the Secretary, King Island Scheelite
(1947) Ltd., 450 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person who can furnish any
information as to the present whereabouts
of any of the children of the brothers
and sisters of JAMES GUMMING HILL,
who married MARY ANN PEART at
Launceston in 1864, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
O. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
GALA OPENING—FRIDAY, 16th MARCH
with Special Ring Events, DAY and NIGHT,
including Trotting
Come to the Royal Easter
Show! Enjoy 10 event-
packed days and 8 brilliant
nights. See the cattle-judg-
ing, wood - chopping,
primary and secondary in-
dustry exhibits and the
wealth of other events
which combine to make the
Royal Easter Show the
greatest single attraction in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Don’t miss this, the 1951
“Jubilee Year” Show, at
the Showground, SYDNEY,
Friday, 16th March, to
27th March, 1951.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
(G. C. Somerville, Secretary )
Earn £40.10.0 interest
on every
of your savin
s
For every £lOO you invest in this gilt-edged
Loan you secure a Government-guaranteed
contract to pay you interest
every year for 12 years
fd
Your savings will grow faster if
deposited in this Government-
guaranteed investment that is as
safe as a bank and returns you
much better interest. Thous-
ands of prudent people will
seize this gilt-edged oppor-
tunity to make their savings
work harder for their benefit.
You, too, can obtain this assured
income that will be paid regu-
larly every six months. Interest
will be automatically credited
to your bank account if you so
desire. The opportunity will
be open to you for only a
limited period.
You get all these advantages .
IYOU obtain a
guaranteed gilt-
edged investment
The Loan is guaranteed by
the Government of Victoria.
2 YOU will receive
much higher than
bank interest.
Interest rate is jf per cent, for
12 years, payable half-yearly.
3
YOU can invest
any amount from
£5O upwards.
Large or small amounts can be
invested in multiples of £5O.
4
You
and
YOU can pay
your subscription
by instalments.
may pay one-tenth deposit
balance in three months.
5
YOU can realise
on your securities
for cash.
Yout securities are always
saleable on the Stock Exchanges
6
YOU help create
more power for
Australia.
The Loan is needed to buH;,
great electricity & fuel asseti.
LOAN NOW OPEN
It’s quite easy to invest. You simply go to any National Bank branch, any
Commonwealth Bank branch, or to any Stockbroker’s office. You fill in your
application, pay your deposit (or the full amount if you wish) and your securities
are forwarded to you, or to your bank if you so arrange.
Make you savings grow faster in this
£6,000,000 POWER LOAN
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF VICTORIA
Head Office : 22 William Street, Melbourne.
4681
last term than during the previ-
ous one, which means that the
co.’s plants all got a better run.
And a hungry market awaited
the increased output, gains from
which more than took care of
advancing costs. So, after set-
ting aside £12,804 (up £1613) for
depreciation, an unspecified
amount for the taxgatherer and
something for other con-
tingencies, the board wrote net
earnings £5968 stronger at
£22,050, best since the present
co. took over R. Fowler’s old-
established pottery business 31
years ago. And there might be
a bit more wheat in the ear than
the eye can see; nothing was
received from subsidiaries, which
sent along £2500 in the previous
term. The £22,050 was 11.6 p.c.
on the £190,000 of capital—it
includes 40,000 £l7 p.c. prefs.,
which advance with the ords. be-
yond that rate —as against 8.4,
9.6, 8.7, 7.4 and 7.1 p.c. back to
1945. The £6850 that remained,
together with £7122 added to
reserves from other sources,
lifted the lay-by to £107,236. So
shareholders’ funds need turn in
only 5.1 p.c. to cover an all-
round 8 p.c. distribution.
The co.’s principal works at
Marrickville, near Sydney
(N.S.W.), make drainage and
sewerage pipes, household and
other earthenware, floor and wall
tiles, insulators, etc. Other fac-
tories at Melbourne (Vic.),
Alderley, near Brisbane (Q.),
and Cudmore Park, near
Adelaide (S. Aus.), concentrate
mainly upon production of sani-
tary earthenware and household
crockery. The Adelaide factory,
operated by a new subsidiary,
only came into production to-
ward the end of 1949. Initial
difficulties always associated
with the running-in of new plant
are being overcome, and the new
offshoot is soon expected to
earn profits.
Although the co. ran into
trouble during the slump of the
early 1930’5, when Bs. a share
(£100,000) was slashed off ord.
capital, the position was tidied
up, financially and otherwise,
well before the war. And the
board has since followed a
policy of consolidation, keeping
the div. moderate, strengthening
reserves and improving plant and
efficiency. Demand continues to
run ahead of output, and seems
likely to do so for some time to
come. Chief factors limiting pro-
duction have been shortages of
skilled labor and coal and the
rationing of electric power,
while competition, price-control
and spiralling costs have kept
margins narrow.
The co. is trading well within
its own resources, and fixed
assets are conservatively valued
in the books;
1948. 1949. 1950.
£,£,£>
Paid capital .. 190,000 190,000 190.000
Creditors, etc.* 37,150 34,080 52,023
Due to subsid. 4,586 20,099
Final div. .. 8,550 7,600 7,600
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 113,834 122,019 119,219
Shares subsid. 40,658 60,658 60,658
Stocks . . 58,823 72,524 75.032
Book debts . . 36,784 35,577 67,721
Adv. to subsid. 5,252 20,802 47.106
Cash, etc. . . 68,352 17,950 7,222
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term’s bigger trading shows
up in net additions of £32,144
to debtors’ balances, £26,304 to
advances to subsidiaries and only
£2508 to stocks. To help meet
the outlay amounts clue to
sundry creditors, etc., and to
subsidiaries were increased by
£17,943 and £15,513 respectively.
The f.-p. 12s. ords., which had
dropped to 19s. in the market in
1949, recently fetched 335. as
against 245. about six months
ago. At 335. the return is 2.9
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or
3.6 p.c. should the distribution
rise to 10 p.c. The cover is
visibly 20s. 7d. in net tangibles.
The prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Western Mining Corp., the big
prospecting and holding co.
which is interested in half a
dozen gold ventures in Westralia
and Victoria, has passed the
interim dividend payable this
month. Central Norseman
(W.A.), principal contributor to
the pool, deferred payment of its
div. usually sent out in Dec., and
commencement of operations of
Central Victoria Gold Dredging’s
second machine has been further
delayed. Also, Great Western
Consolidated (W.A.), another
member of the group and still
in the development stage, has
had to lean upon W.M.C. for
more assistance than was ex-
pected, owing to the stiff rise in
costs and delays in delivery of
plant. For the year to March
31, 1950, W.M.C. netted
£154,204, derived mainly from
divs. from Central Norseman
(£82,031) and G.M. of Kalgoorlie
(£23,082) and profit on sale of
shares in Great Western
(£58,751). Two 6d. divs.,
together 20 p.c., called for
£139,718. For the previous year
the co. paid 25 p.c. from a
profit of £271,345, which in-
cluded £248,001 from sale of
properties.


PENFOLDS
BRANDY
& -k & M
i i
AySTRAUAM
HOSPITAL BRAIN£>V
»«■>» u»» mp»w *-»!»
apWW «'**/«(; >■»■*,>••■:>«. «*«»*«- «WS
>.« 1 I Pf <> »i. <5S*
» '
"WELCOME
STRANGER"
NUGGET
&
if
i M
rL
m
m
JOHN DEASON and RICHARD OATES,
the discoverers of Australia’s largest nugget
the “Welcome Stranger”, hid their treasure
in a fireplace and kept the fire alight until they were
able to move the nugget to safety.
Found in 1869, about an inch below the ground
surface at Moliagul, near Bendigo, Victoria,
the “Welcome Stranger” was 24 inches long,
contained 2284 ounces of fine gold, and,
on today’s price of gold, would be worth £35,000.
Fifteen years earlier, in 1854-5,
the Bank of Australasia had opened branches in the
f
Victorian gold-mining centres of Ballarat,
Castlemaine and Sandhurst (now known
as Bendigo). Today, these and the many
other branches of the Bank serve
large and prosperous communities
in all States of the Commonwealth
of Australia and in New Zealand.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia , New Zealand and in London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
df
Business.Rollery.Etc.
B.H.P. and the Market
B.H.P. shares have weakened,
as generally anticipated, since
size and terms of the new issue
were announced. The shares
have been as high as 655. 9d.
this year; last week dealings
were transacted at prices as low
as 58s.
The new issue is of 6,527,311
£1 shares at a premium of 10s.
each, in the proportion of 35 for
each 100 now held. Total new
money to be raised is £9,790,966.
One aspect of the issue is that
it indicates the rise in the cost
of carrying out the Port Kembla
tinplate, steel-strip and colliery-
mechanisation project since the
previous lot of capital was raised
in 1949. Even this issue will not
complete the co.’s programme.
Sterling has been revalued
since the 1949 issue was made,
and the Australian pound now
buys fewer dollars’-worth of
goods. Some of B.H.P.’s tin-
plate and other machinery was
to come from the United States.
In 1950, too, the Korean war
had the effect of making U.S.
domestic prices go higher,
regardless of the Australian
exchange factor. Ample dollars
should be available to 8.H.P.,
because the project is essentially
one requiring capital goods, for
which the Commonwealth’s
dollar loan was specifically
negotiated.
B.H.P.’s costs of expansion
have no doubt risen very con-
siderably, hence the reason for
repetition of the 10s. premium
on the new shares. Very large
provision has been made for de-
preciation in the past, but costs
of plant-replacement have now
risen beyond all previous antici-
pations.
Like so many smaller
concerns, B.H.P. has become the
victim of the costs-inflation now
rampant throughout the world,
especially in Australia. Past
provisions for depreciation are
not proving to be so adequate
as at first believed, and the ever-
increasing costs of production
are making it less easy to pro-
vide proper depreciation out of
current profits.
B.H.P. is better fixed to cope
with this situation than most
concerns. But Australian
industry has swift - moving
financial currents to navigate
during the next couple of years
at least, and investors cannot
expect to reap the full benefit
from their investments until our
economy starts to stabilise.
That is why 8.H.P., like so
many other concerns, has to be
regarded as a long-term invest-
ment. But, when regarded as
such, it has outstanding attrac-
tions.
When the rights to the new
issue are available it is likely
that they will be offered at
20s. or less, representing 50s. or
under on a fully-paid basis.
Anything under 50s. represents
an attractive price for B.H.P.
shares. The new shares will be
offered to those on the register
on February 27. Payment will
be asked for in three instalments
of 10s. each on April 10,
October 9 and March 31 (1952).
The scrip will not rank for
dividend until fully paid, but will
participate fully in any div. pay-
able in May next year.
Sydney Guarantee Corp.
A new entrant to the motor-
finance and hire-purchase field,
Sydney Guarantee Corporation
is offering 1,000,000 ss. shares
to the public. No goodwill is
involved, and there are no
founders’, management or de-
ferred shares. Underwriting
brokerage on the issue (2kd. per
share) and other preliminary
exes, are put at £10,500.
The prospectus says that “the
existing dealer and other con-
nections established by the com-
pany’s managers ensure an im-
mediate and profitable invest-
ment of the co.’s funds.” The
extent of these connections is
important, since many agents
for new cars have their own
p@®
ADULTS 3/-
GHILDIIEN <|-
coos
WANTED
cooo
WA^ES
CowifmoMS
“How many, madam ?”
finance affiliations already and
tend to steer car-buyers to their
established associates. It is not
proposed to employ any of the
co.’s funds in the purchase of
premises or fixed assets, but to
use the working capital wholly
in earning income.
Hire-purchase finance, when
carefully conducted, can give a
reasonable return to the investor.
The prospectus of Sydney
Guarantee speaks of “at least
10 p.c. per annum net to inves-
tors.” Some old - established
N. S. Wales finance cos. give
that return, or more; many
others don’t.
A higher-than-usual return is
asked from finance companies
in the prevailing sharemasket
atmosphere because of infla-
tionary forces. Investors these
days are chiefly attracted to con-
cerns owning profit-earning fixed
assets and not so much to money
investments.
Ve-Toy Biscuits
Ve-Toy Biscuits Holdings,
Ltd., is a new public company
formed to acquire all the shares
in “Ve-Toy” Biscuits Pty., Ltd.
(46,814 ords. of £1 each), and
“Ve-Toy” Biscuits (Queensland)
Pty., Ltd. (30,005 £1 ords.), and
is now offering the public
160,724 ords, of ss. each. Its
present capital is £77,319 in ss.
ords., so that when all the new
money is in the share-register
total will be £117,500, all in ss.
shares. Consideration for the
shares acquired in the operating
cos. was £76,819, satisfied by the
issue of 307,276 ss. shares.
The Sydney operating co. has
been manufacturing biscuits
since 1936, and the Queensland
co. has been established over the
past two years. The object of
the present share-issue is to pro-
vide funds for extending the
Sydney (Leichhardt) factory and
for installing a modern mass-
production biscuit-making unit.
There is another factory at
Redfern.
The Sydney co., says the pros-
pectus, has quadrupled its sales
since 1946. The Queensland co.
did not commence trading until
October, 1948, but it has contri-
buted to the joint earnings for
two years past.
Joint profits, after allowing
for public-co. taxes, have risen
from £2089 in 1946 to £10,720
in 1949 and £11,471 in 1950.
Capital has increased, too, the
Queensland co. issuing 10,000
bonus £1 shares from plant-
revaluation reserve and the
Sydney co. 23,407 bonus £1
shares from freehold and plant
revaluation.
Combined profits for 1949
were equal to 25.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as it then stood; for 1950
earnings represented 14.9 p.c. on
present capital. Profits for 1950
amount to just under 10 p.c.
on capital as it will stand when
all the new money is in, making
no allowance for what the new
money will earn.
Taking freeholds and plant in
at revalued figures (£127,761,
up £27,411 on June 30, 1950,
book-values), net tangible back-
ing for each ss. share, after sub-
scription of the new capital, will
be ss. Bd.
There has been a scarcity of
many types of biscuits for the
past 10 years, and the demand
is not satisfied yet. The co. has
thus had a favorable period, on
the marketing side, for expan-
sion and consolidation. Though
more biscuits are now coming
from all manufacturers, there is
still no general over-supply. The
Ve-Toy management seems well-
advised in entrenching itself
more securely by extending its
production facilities at this still-
favorable period of business
conditions.
Felt and Textiles
Under pressure of high prices
for wool and everything else,
and with the tightening of capi-
tal and credit controls. Felt and
Textiles, one of the largest users
of raw wool in the Common-
wealth, is asking shareholders to
put up a further £1,424,836.
Those on the ord. register are
to be offered 949,891 new £1
ords. at 30s. each, one for three.
The issue, underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son, will lift paid capi-
tal to £5,299,565, of which
£1,700,000 is 4-6 p.c. pref. money
and the balance ords. On that
lot the pref, divs. (£64,800) and
12k p.c. to the ords. will call for
£57,335 less profit than shown
last term. So the new capital
holds no direct threat to the
12 i p.c. distribution, but the
premium reduces it to 8k p.c. in
the hands of shareholders. At
575. 9d. the ords. have an ex-
rights value of 51s. Id. and the
rights a theoretical value of
20s. 9d., after allowing for
brokerage in each case. Co.’s
accounts were reviewed B.
7/2/’5l.
Petrol and Platforming
“Petro”: The re-election of
Sir John Butters to the board of
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
(BORAL) makes certain that the
proposed “platforming” unit will
be installed in the co.’s Sydney
refinery.
“Platforming” has nothing to
do with platforms —political or
otherwise. The process it
describes consists in “reform-
ing” straight-run and natural
gasolines by means of a platinum
catalyst in the presence of
hydrogen. (A catalyst is a sub-
stance which increases the rate
of a chemical action without it-
self undergoing change—the


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Eire ami Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
MAY 3 SEPTEMBER 30
©
PROGRAMME
EXHIBITIONS
LONDON May 4 —September 30
South Bank Exhibition
May 3 —October 31
Festival Pleasure Gardens, Battersea Park
May 3 —September 30
Exhibition of Science, South Kensington
Exhibition of Architecture, Lansbury, Poplar
Exhibition of Books, Victoria and Albert Museum
GLASGOW May 28—August
Exhibition of Industrial Power, Kelvin Hall
BELFAST June I—August1—August 31
Ulster Farm and Factory Exhibition
FESTIVALS OF THE ARTS
There will be a Special Festival Season of the Arts in LONDON
May 3—June 30
Aberdeen Festival . . ■ •July 3° —August 13
Aldeburgh Festival of Music and the Arts . June B—l 7
Bath Assembly .... May 20 —June 2
Belfast Festival of the Arts. . • May 7 —June 30
Bournemouth and Wessex Festival . . June y-17
Brighton Regency Festival. . • July 16—August 25
Cambridge Festival . . • •July 3° August 18
Canterbury Festival . • • • July August 10
Cheltenham Festival of British Contemporary
Music July 2-14
Dumfries Festival of the Arts . . • June 24-30
Edinburgh International Festival of
Music and Drama . • • Aug. 19 Sept. 8
Inverness 1951 Highland Festival . . June 17—30
Liverpool Festival .... July 22 Aug. 12
Llangollen (International Musical Eisteddfod) . July 3-8
Llanrwst (Royal National Eisteddfod of Wales) Aug. 6-11
Norwich Festival . June 18-30
Oxford Festival . . July 2-16
Perth Arts Festival .... May 27—June 16
St. David’s Festival (Music and Worship) . July 10-13
Stratford-upon-Avon (Shakespeare Festival) . Apl. — Oct.
Swansea Festival of Music. . • September 16—29
Worcester (Three Choirs Festival) . .September 2-7
York Festival ...••• June 3-17
Included in the programme are special events in:—
SCOTLAND
Edinburgh: Gathering of the Clans . . August 16-19
Exhibition of 18th Century Books . Aug. 3— Sept. 15
Exhibition of Scottish Architecture and
Traditional Crafts . . . July—September
Glasgow: Exhibition of Contemporary Books
June I—July 28
WALES
Cardiff: Pageant of Wales . . . July 23— August 6
Exhibition of Contemporary Painting
St. Fagan’s Folk Festival . . . July 16-28
Dolhendre , Merioneth: Welsh Hillside Farm Scheme
May — Sept.
NORTHERN IRELAND
Belfast: Royal Ulster Agricultural Show . May 23-26
Combined Services Tattoo August 29—September 1
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details
v;v>: r i.v
V/X*
yiVf.*,
Vi-'.-
i '>*■***
No. 1807 a
JJJJJ.
MM -1-
JJJJJ.
jjjjj:
No. 1662
Imifafion Wall
Tile
NOW
ALUMINIUM
CEILINGS AND
WALL LININGS
Stamped from rust-resisting,
light-in-weight aluminium in
patterns suitable for both
interior and awning ceilings,
also imitation wall-tile for
bathroom and kitchen walls,
and roughcast for exterior
use as gable and verandah
linings, window hoods, etc.
Wunderlich Aluminium Ceil-
ings and Wall Linings are
permanent and easy-to-fix.
Phone MX 2411 or write tor
details, prices and delivery
to:
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Box 474, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
K
Aluminium ceilings
1 V AND STAMPED WALL LININGS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
df
d
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
\ \ v x \ -V -sZza
'
m
r'Vfp
Af*-. //MvV• '! • i>'
:
i
TOP—Side view o£ Babcock-Detrolt
KotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types o
stokers, or any other known firing method, Ba co 3
have the experience necessary to advise on t e ng
equipment most suitable and economical to your nee
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AMD CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS • • REGENTS PARK. N.SJ.
Branch Offica* and Agaicln ta aU Statai
household gaslighter uses plati-
num for this purpose, which, by
increasing the speed of oxidation
of the gas in contact with it,
becomes incandescent and
ignites the gas.)
In platforming the heavier
constituents of straight - run
petrol and the heavy products
of thermal “cracking” and re-
forming are broken down,
hydrogenated and reformed in
such a way that a marked in-
crease in octane rating (for ex-
ample, from 53 to 94) occurs, so
that a high-quality petrol suit-
able for aircraft is produced,
with a yield of around 95 p.c.
There is also a marked reduc-
tion in sulphur content.
As the reaction takes place at
comparatively low temperatures
(below 900°F.), the “hydrocrack-
ing” does not tend to carbon
formation —as in the case of
thermal cracking—and the plati-
nnm catalyst does not require
regeneration while the plant is
on stream.
During four months’ opera-
tion of the plant in U.S.A. the
catalyst gave no indication of
deterioration, and, for this rea-
son, operating costs are stated
to be low. It still remains to be
proved, however, whether the
installation of the plant by
BORAL in Australia will justify,
commercially, the capital cost
involved in purchase and instal-
lation. There can be no two
opinions as to the strategic ad-
vantage of producing aviation
petrol locally.
Stresses and Strains
Manufacturers and traders in
New Zealand have been warned
to go easy in passing on higher
wage costs —or else. With in-
flationary pressure stronger than
Maorilanders have ever known
before, the Government is in
belligerent mood. Industry’s
nerves are a bit strained, too,
and retailers, many of whom are
not making more than decent
wages, are beginning to kick.
Profit-margins are narrowest on
foodstuffs, where price rises are
hitting domestic budgets in a
steady stream.
For months, M.L. industrialists
and businessmen have been
battling against costs and lean-
ing a heavier elbow on the banks
for overdraft accommodation as
materials for production have
grown dearer and the pound has
shrunk. Today many firms are
short of capital to finance opera-
tions as overheads take heavier
toll, taxes skim off more, and all
supplies, local and imported,
soar to new price peaks. Last
year profits were hard enough to
earn, but they’ll be harder this
year. Where capital outlay on
deferred development schemes,
plant modernisation and exten-
sion of factories has to be em-
barked on because it can’t be
postponed any longer, industry
will have special and ordinary
depreciation —a double load —to
shoulder, apart from sky high
costs for materials, and
altogether the outlook for many
is grim.
Clothing and leather-goods
manufacturers are among the
most uneasy, for John Bull can’t,
or won’t, give them firm quota-
tions for scarce materials, and
there’s nowhere else they can
turn for supplies to keep their
plants going. It’s in the clothing
field that M.L. has experienced
most mushroom development,
which has produced a motley
group of enterprises, and it’s
here that a lot of companies will
have to prove they’re economic
if they’re going to survive in the
struggle ahead. They’ve got to
prove this in conditions of over-
full employment, when the man-
power market is badly over-
strained by the 40-hour week
and the effects of years of import
rationing. Man-hour perform-
ance has slumped badly in
factories, in building and other
trades, on the wharves and else-
where —except on the farms,
where “cockies,” their wives and
families have been putting their
backs into it to keep prosperity
flowing.
Price-control in N.Z.
Price-controls, as operated in
Maoriland in the past, have
never been a very protective
umbrella, because of “cost-plus”
methods of price-fixing, and if
these were given a new lease of
life now M-L. would be putting
its faith in a broken reed. Under
“cost-plus” in the post-war
Socialist spending spree, costs
gathered momentum as they
went along until they reached
consumers, or farmers, who
could pass them no further and
had to pay. The vicious system
sent house-building costs sky-
high, and they’ll rise a further
£BO to £l6O for modest-to-aver-
age-size houses under the new
wage-scale. Price-control has
been slated as clumsy, slow-
moving and extravagantly costly,
and its abuses in the shape of
black-marketing and evasion
have been many, but, with plenty
of money about, Maorilanders
have tolerated it in spite of all
its faults.
Even when it became thinly-
veiled profit-control towards the
end of the Socialists’ reign there
wasn’t much of an outcry.
Efficient businesses and manu-
facturing enterprises couldn’t
get a fair run, and in the end
prices were higher instead of
lower. Price-inspectors seemed
too blind to recognise competi-
tive power and managerial skill
when it stared them in the face.
If a co, was prospering and
earning more than average
profits, they were immediately
suspicious of overcharging or
other shady practices and got
busy on detailed investigations
which seldom revealed anything
of value. Their effort directed
towards less efficient firms could
have paid well. M.L. will have
to strike out on new lines if
price-control is to yield divs.
now.


Enjoy happy
holiday motoring
1.
'WM-
y>
«s=
s
3>
I
fa
with
GOODYEAR
TYRES
There's more built-in safety
as well as more built-in miles
in Goodyear De Luxe Tyres.
Fit De Luxe and get the
peace of mind that comes
from knowing your tyres are
safe . . . you'll appreciate
the economy of their
extra mileage, tool
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
fd
518-16
Billy Miske's
last fight
Even after doctors told
Miske he was dying, the famed
heavyweight fought 70 bouts.
The money he made was to
be security for his wife and
children when he was gone.
Too weak to train, his last
fight was to give his family
a real Christmas.
February Reader’s Digest
brings you the dramatic true
story of how Billy Miske
kayoed tough Bill Brennan
just one week before he died
of Bright’s disease.
Get your February Reader’s
Digest today. 29 stimulating
articles condensed from lead-
ing magazines and current
books. Unparalleled reading
value at one shilling and six-
pence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
8.0.A.C. SPEEDBIRD SERVICES
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
f
You can book to almost
anywhere in the world by
8.0.A.C. Service on one
ticket all the way. Your
8.0.A.C. Agent makes no
charge for expert advice
and trip planning help.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • FAR EAST • HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA
ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information 6c Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia ) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Towns-
ville. Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
B.O.A.C.TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY* BO AC
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYb
"SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men"
“What do husbands and wives
argue about most?”
—lnquirer in Sydney “D.T.”
Most anything.
+ 4* 4*
“The Maharajah Gaekwar of
Baroda became a trade-unionist this
week.”
A nice howdah y’ do!
4* 4* *l*
“Leather-dressers in Rushden, Nor-
thants, hit by the leather shortage,
are processing dog-skins for shoe-
linings.”
Heelers, no doubt, will be at a
premium.
4* 4* 4*
“Another interesting lot to be
offered at the sale will be Alister’s
half-brother, a colt by the new
English sire Kerry Piper from New
Flower.” — Sydney “D.T}”
Shamrock, shall we say?
“The play ends with the death of
all the characters through suffocation
by frying-pan fumes.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Something about it seems a bit
overdone.
4* 4* 4*
“Is love lasting?”
—Letter to Dorothy Dix.
Yes, for a matter of daze!
“A worried American theatre-
manager, fearing that some citizens
might object to the title of a film,
‘The Damned Don’t Cry,’ billed it
as ‘The Darned Don’t Cry.’ ”
Unless somebody stops the rot,
We’ll soon be getting “Out,
darned spot!”
“Why, oh why, is it that trades-
people will not shut the front gate
behind them.”
—Correspondent in “New Idea.”
Because they’re all out for an
open go.
-I- 4* 4*
“Would person seen taking tartan
umbrella from Orpheum Theatre,
Monday, please return to manager.”
—Suburban paper.
We’ll take a shade of odds
against his turning up.
Trimmed.
“You can never ‘get even’; at best
you become at odds,” writes a clergy-
man.
A half-truth, this. And, further-
more,
Behaving like a bunny,
You wait for two’s, miss six-to-
four
And then take even money.
But when (in spite of price and
pelf)
Unfavored by the gods,
The “cert” runs last it’s with
yourself
That you become at odds.
P.O.M.C.
The Game Isn’t the Thing.
“During a series of baseball games
against various Chinese teams a tour-
ing Soviet team brought not only
their own special ball but their own
rules. The Russians won all games.
The Chinese, used to playing under
American rules, were confounded.”
The Moscow Chisellers, the
champion Soviet basketball
team, which, drawn from the
Fatherland’s collectivised car-
penters, had won the Stakhano-
vite Cup in the grand inter-
industry final of the U.S.S.R.,
were on a goodwill tour of the
latest of Joe’s satellites.
Already they had scored a
notable victory of 73 goals to
two over the famous Whangpoo
Whaffors. After the match the
captain of the Whaffors, Sling
Hi, had hotly protested against
the Soviet team’s insisting that
the home team play in the boots
which the Russians specially
provided them with. These had
oiled soles. The protest was dis-
missed by the Russians on the
ground that, as the visiting team,
they were entitled to play under
the rules of the game as speci-
fied by Moscow. These laid
down that the Russians, being of
far superior skill in basketball
to any other nation, must handi-
cap themselves in a sporting
manner by playing in crepe-
rubber soles, and must therefore
give the initial advantage to
their opponents by giving them
the privilege of playing in boots
having oiled soles, and thus
rendering them speedier. Fol-
lowing the dismissal of the pro-
test, the Moscow team’s political
commissar decided that Sling
Hi’s splendid sportsmanship in
questioning the Russians’
action should be rewarded by a
“I left my umbrella in the train."
long holiday in a uranium mine
in the Urals.
And now they were to play
the crack team of the New
Peoples’ Republic, the Red
Chows, for the grand champion-
ship of the Russian Far East
Co-prosperity Sphere.
The Muscovites went into the
most rigorous and intensive
training for the great game. For
two hours after breakfast each
day they were given instruction
by the team’s political com-
missar on the importance
and methods of disseminating
Communist - party propaganda.
This was followed by a limber-
ing-up for an hour and a half
with the principles of Marx and
Engels and marching up to and
saluting with clenched fists
enormous photos of Lenin and
Stalin. After lunch they got
down to the more serious busi-
ness of training by listening to
a two-hour talk on the rapidly
falling industrial output of the
decadent capitalist imperialist
warmongers and the almost
frightening way in which output
of all consumer goods was soar-
ing in the Workers’ Paradise.
After that there came a long
lecture on the necessity to main-
tain a high output of goals with
the purpose of providing an
object-lesson for the Chinese that
this high output should be emu-
lated by the satellite nation in
other spheres for the greater
glory of Russia. A feature of the
lecture was the promise of special
rewards, including that of
enjoying American-brand thick
soup once a week for the Stak-
hanovite goal-getters and punish-
ment in “correction” camps for
those failing to achieve the set
quota. The day’s training wound
up with a quarter-hour practice
at basketball.
Came the day of the great
match. After the Red Chows
had trotted on holding their
arms up in the traditional
manner as if they were still
carrying their baskets on the
bamboo pole, the captain of the
Moscow Chisellers, who was
wearing an iron glove, shook
hands heartily with his vis-d-vis.
As the skipper of the Red Chows
was taken away to have his three
broken fingers attended to, the
Chisellers’ political commissar
announced that no substitute
could be allowed for the injured
man, as a rule made only the
week before by the Chief Com-
missar for Collectivised Sport in
Moscow forbade it.
The Russians had insisted that
only the special net goals they
had brought with them could be
used. The one they fixed at their
opponents’ end had a mouth
four feet in diameter; that at
their own end, and into which
the Red Chows would have to
put the ball, had a neck through
which the ball could just be
squeezed.
The ball had been heavily
greased in conformity with the
rule laid down by Moscow for
all matches in which Soviet
teams met others from Iron Cur-
tain countries. Under another
Russian rule, the teams of all
inferior countries —that is, non-
Russian —had to use bare hands,
Soviet teams being allowed to
use special sandpaper gloves.
After the first few minutes’
play the Russian referee,
specially appointed by the
N.K.V.D., penalised the Red
Chows for not bouncing the
ball every six inches, as
prescribed under Russian rules
for opponent teams. The Chisel-
lers were allowed to bounce it
every 20 yards, as allowed
specially by the Recreational
Secretariat of the Politburo.
When the manager of the Red
Chows asked about provision of
gloves similar to those used by
the Chisellers he was informed
that this could not be allowed, as
it might be contrary to the
teachings of Confucius, and
therefore inimical to the best
interests of the New Socialist
Republic.
When the teams changed ends
at half-time the Russians insisted
on changing the goals around so
that they would still be shooting
into the large-mouthed one.
After the match, which the
Moscow Chisellers won by a
bare 132 goals to nil, the
manager, Sing King Lo, who
was a yellow Chow first and a
Red Chow second, asked the
manager of the Moscow Chisel-
lers could a return match be
played under American rules.
Reporting later the liquidation
of the “pro-democratic, anti-
Soviet” Chinese team-manager,
“Pravda” referred bitingly to the
“wretched unsportsmanship” of
the satellite team, and mentioned
that all its members had, with
the complete approval of the
New Chinese Peoples’ Republic,
been drafted into Soviet labor
camps “to learn the principles
of true Soviet sportsmanship.”
Bo.


Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and lour times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube lor each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
87/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 14/2/’5l
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPAM,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7350
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
n
A
u
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ARTS
fcular Cham for all typo,
of Recording Instrument,
lor *ny cUu ut Mach.n«ry
or Equipment
MfTEft CHARTS • tpadaliy
JACM&W O'siillLl VANfi-*IL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Missing Friend.
OTTO —Anyone knowing whereabouts of
next-of-kin of KATHERINK SOFIE OTTO
{nee WURZ), at one time living near
Melbourne, are asked to communicate with
T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 60 King Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO MARY CAMPBELL RODGERS late
of'Concord N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
NOEL RODGERS lias filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 188 of 1951 on the grounds
of your desertion for three vears and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wisli to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Bth May 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164 Phillip Street
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
Let these owners
tell you about
Read the extracts below
from just a few of the
letters from enthusiastic
Vauxhall owners. These
actual experiences compare
more than favourably with
our Vauxhall advertising
claims.
df
WYVERN
12 h.p., 4 c/I. O.H.V.
Lowest priced 12 h.p.
car in Australia.
Caleche (Tourer) £615: Saloon
(Imp. Pan.) Bolster Trim £695:
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) Leather
Trim £705.
VELOX
18 h.p. 6 cyl. O.H.V.
Lowest priced 6 cyl. Sal-
oon or Tourer in Australia
Caleche (Tourer) £665: Saloon
(Imp. Pan.) Bolster Trim £745;
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) Leather
Trim £755.
All prices plus Sales Tax
Enquire about the "Air Chief” built-for-Vauxhall radio
also the convenient G.M.A.C. Purchase Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE ■ ADELAIDE • PERTH
or buy from your local authorised dealer
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
IJpiP
m
m
m&V ■'' rf<
m
pa
» Ml
m
:v ■;>■
m
SUNDRY SHOWS
"King Lear."
If the John Alden Company’s
performance of “Lear” at the
St. James Hall, Sydney, doesn’t
prove that the tragedy can be
done on the stage—done com-
pletely, that is—neither does it
prove that it can’t. Which is
probably all that most perform-
ances have proved and are likely
to prove.
There was no doubt about
some things in Alden’s produc-
tion and his performance as
Lear. The opening scene went
off very well and credibly,
bathed, as it was, in an atmos-
phere of royal pleasure and in-
dulgence ; the terrible cursing
of Goneril became even more
terrible on the stage, and it would
be hard to conceive any im-
provement on the mood of ex-
haustion and aching sorrow of
the last scene as the stricken
Lear mourns over Cordelia.
Unproven was the defiance of
the elements, and how, despite
the Jury and magnificence of the
voice, to prevent the harsh
mechanics of the stage from
rupturing the poetry and drama.
And, difficult as it may be, one
would like to see the note of
tragedy more surely held as the
king capers madly by the Dover
cliffs.
There were other things one
would have liked to see and
didn’t. Although he was obvi-
ously aware of the need for it,
Alden did not always manage to
preserve the essential majesty of
Lear through all his foolishness,
fury, madness and grief, and,
whenever that quality fell away,
with it fell the great rising tide
of tragedy. Just as the secondary
tragedy of Macduff can wrest the
attention from Macbeth when
the essential ingredients of the
latter’s character are let slip, so
can the tragedy of Gloucester
do to Lear. On the opening
night Atholl Fleming played
Gloucester quietly, sincerely and
almost faultlessly, with the
result that that subsidiary tragedy
had found the heart while the
mind was still examining the
problem of Lear in all his sound
and fury.
As Goneril and Regan, Ruth
Cracknell and Dinah Shearing
were as fine a brace of nastiness
as one might wish; Paula
Denyer’s Cordelia was a little too
much of the 20th century;
Alistair Roberts’s sad Fool was
a cleverly-subdued and rather
graceful performance; Paul
McNaughton, as Kent, sauntered
a little too easily through the
piece and didn’t quite close the
tragedy as it should be closed
with “Break, heart; I pr’y thee
break!” —he should have taken
example from the perfect
manner in which Norman Wool-
land sounded the last, soft falling
notes of “Hamlet” with “Now
cracks a noble heart,” etc.
Owen Weingott’s Cornwall
was as faultless a performance
as Fleming’s Gloucester —Wein-
gott has a force of personality
which strengthens his craft im-
mensely without overshadowing
it. Frank Waters’s Edmund came
alive in a slippery villainous
way, and there was a kind of
negative virtuousness about
Walter Sullivan’s Albany.
"The Miser."
How do you like your misers
done? A miserable Scrooge? A
malevolent Shylock? Or the
great rascally appetite of a Vol-
pone? There seem to be touches
of all three in Alan White’s por-
trayal of Harpagon in this
Moliere comedy (produced by
William Orr at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney), and,
ungrateful as it may be to ques-
tion such generosity, the mixture
is not altogether successful.
True, White makes a rich and
colorful job of bellowing with
anxiety when anyone passes
near his hidden hoard ; of send-
ing up a great cry of agony
when it is stolen ; of wincing
with pain for every penny and
falling into rage and panic for
every pound that goes out. He
is by turn crafty, rapacious and
vengefully vicious. Yet, despite
all that, and despite his stick, his
staggers and clutchings, he never
quite gets away from a suspicion
of physical vitality, an almost
healthy jolliness, that does not
altogether latch with Harpagon’s
diseased spirit.
Some of the trouble may lie
in Miles Malleson’s “free adap-
tation” of the original, and some
with William Orr’s production
'—in his overboisterous stirring of
the comedy which dulls the sharp-
ness and clarity one expects in
Moliere, and which allows a
peculiar note of burlesque to
creep into the closing scene —
but, from a pew in the stalls, it
seems most likely that the fault
rests mainly in White’s inclina-
tion to be humorous—of trying,
with his roaring and rushing
about, to make comedy out of
the character instead of relying
on a full and faithfully-drawn
character to produce the comedy
the author intended. It’s not an
uncommon fault —this destruc-
tively humorous interpretation
of a role simply because it is a
part in a comedy, and the ignor-
ing of the fact that some of the
richest of human comedy springs
from the interplay of the most
solemn characters —and it might
be described as being funny at
the author’s expense.
Still, that is the worst that
might be said about the per-
formance —that its humor tends
to rest in the wrong places.
Otherwise it’s funny enough,
with old Harpagon keeping his
family and servants alive on the
smell of yesterday’s meal, try-
ing to pinch his son’s beloved
for himself and engaging his
daughter to a wealthy old seig-
neur who’ll take her without a
dowry, and finally being neatly
diddled himself by the lifting of
his hoard and by two or three
vigorous twists of the over-
extended arm of coincidence.
And, whatever criticism might
be levelled at Alan White’s in-
terpretation of Harpagon, it’s
still a considerable stretch of
acting in itself and the main ani-
mation of the play. Doris Fit-
ton, as the shrewd wench who
does most of the spadework for
the assorted machinations, also
turns in a lively performance,
except for some odd vocal
changes—her early Gallic accent
gives way to something like
Cockney, and finally both are
replaced by the unmistakable
and beautifully modulated tones
of Doris Fitton.
The two girls in the piece,
Diana Davidson and Rosamond
Waring, are both sufficiently
alive and lovely to make one
wonder why Anthony Ward and
Leonard Thiele couldn’t make
their respective infatuations
slightly more convincing
although it should be recorded
that Thiele was, to some extent,
preoccupied with controlling a
wig of wandering habits and of
a size which would have prob-
ably satisfied Lady Godiva,
Six-guinea Pictures.
It is a convenient but not
always a sensible custom for
artists to regulate their prices by
the size of their paintings ; so
that at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries’ show of six-guinea paint-
ings you are sometimes offered
scraps and sketches hardly worth
bothering about, and sometimes,
as in George Lawrence’s and
Roland Wakelin’s landscapes,
compact and forceful paintings
worth three times the money
asked.
Yvonne du Moulin, T. J.
Santry, Arthur Nichol, Treania
Smith and Amie Kingston also
offer a solid six-guineas’ worth ;
and, so far as one can respond
to nursery paintings, there is a
mild and sprightly charm in
Cedric Flower’s rockinghorse
and Elaine Haxton’s toy sea-
gulls.
Except for Wakelin, who is in
a brighter mood than usual, the
best landscapes represent the
dark and wintry school of Syd-
ney painters ; for Lawrence, if
colorful, is hard and scratchy
like Lloyd Rees in his less for-
midable moments; Santry’s
painting looks very like a
sombre George Lawrence ; Amie
Kingston’s “The Bay” obviously
derives from Dobell’s “Storm
Over Wangi” ; and Yvonne du
Moulin, as usual, is interested
in sinister nightfall.
New Australians.
Even if there were no first-
class painters among the New
Australians showing arts and
crafts at David Jones’s Gallery,
Sydney, it is certain that the
stream of European life now
flowing to our shores will
enormously enrich the Aus-
tralian culture.
The deepest results won’t be
immediately apparent. They will
gradually reveal themselves in a
more cosmopolitan culture and
a more cosmopolitan subject-
matter when the newcomers are
assimilated: what America got
from Dreiser and Hergesheimer
in prose literature and what Aus-
tralia is beginning to get in the
rich Russian-Jewish stories of
Judah Waten.
But, apart from this long-term
profit, the David Jones exhibi-
tion demonstrates that Australia
has already been given two or
three, if not more, genuinely
accomplished artists who could
take their place immediately in
the best company. In particu-
lar there are the clear cold
watercolors, rather like Rah
Fizelle’s, of A. Molder, an
Estonian artist now living in
Sydney; also a lovely fluid
flowerpiece in watercolor by H.
Hermann, another Estonian.
So far as one could discern in
the blackout with which Aus-
tralia had greeted the new-
comers’ exhibition, and so far
as one could detach good work
from a very mixed lot, there are
other pleasant gifts to this coun-
try in the gay “Street in Mel-
bourne” by L. Meilerts, of
Latvia; the bush landscape, not
unlike a blend of the styles of
Howard Ashton and Lance Solo-
mon, by E. Solamovs, of Latvia ;
two drawings of heads by I.
Chapoff, of Czechoslovakia;
and the works by M. Porulski
(Poland), H. Limmits (Estonia)
and J. Eras (Latvia and
Adelaide).


Women's Letters
From Sydney
This is St. Valentine’s Day for turning
over in his grave, which he has been
doing annually for some hundreds of
years now, for it seems that he really
had no interest in lovers whatsoever and
it was just an accident that his feast-day
fell in early spring when lovers give voice
most freely. Sydney shops report that
lots of people buy Valentines to send
their sweethearts here, which is taking a
very long-sighted view of spring, indeed.
The lighting restrictions stole some of
the glamor from the opening night of
“The Miser” at the Independent, although
the play itself cheered everybody up. In
the shifting gloom we glimpsed Deborah
Winchcombe and Annette Dunlop, whose
white ballerina brocaded with pink roses
and gold thread made the other ’teenagers
sigh, Mrs. Keith Vyden in grey faille,
and Elizabeth Baring in petunia georgette
and a good deal of white shoulders. If,
as seems possible, the lighting is to con-
tinue restricted, first-nighters will have to
adapt their dressing to it, wearing silver
lame. Arctic-fox, white silk jersey and
anything that will shine in the dark.
At the opening night of “King Lear”
it was the dressing of the actors that
took all the honors away from the audi-
ence. Lear’s kingly cloak in the opening
scene, cream, wide and flowing, printed
with gold, Goneril’s startling dress of
orange, elaborately draped, Regan’s silky
black dress printed with gold circles and
worn with a vermilion headcloth, were
outstanding. But all the clothes were
breathtakingly beautiful. Cordelia’s
second dress, white with bands of blue
and deep turned-back sleeves lined with
cyclamen satin, though lovely, was rather
too obviously innocent, but as the forces
of good and evil in this play are so clearly
marked, perhaps it is right that the clothes
should also emphasise the fact. It did
one’s heart good to hear the ovation the
actors received at the end of this wonder-
ful play. One seldom hears such spon-
taneous applause and such cheers from
our blase first-nighters.
Alistair Roberts, who designed the
clothes for the play, also takes the part
of the Fool, a role which was omitted
from performances for nearly 200 years
as being too difficult to fit in with the
general temper of the play. Alistair
brought it off beautifully, just as he made
the dressing so noteworthy. A special
clap for him. We hear that he is to
design all the costumes for the National
Opera season, too.
Christian Dior, whose word is law now
in the fashion world, has introduced some
revolutionary ideas in his time, but none
so highly original as his latest, which is
to emphasise the natural lines of the
figure! He doesn’t say whose figure, so
probably we’ll have to spend pounds on
foundation garments in order to achieve
these same natural lines. The general
verdict for next spring is that shoulders
are smooth, waists small, hips round and
skirts short.
Ex-students of the two North Sydney
High Schools and Cessnock High will hear
with great sadness of the death of Miss
Nella Ryan, who taught English and
history at those schools. Nella was a
woman of high culture and deep under-
standing. A teacher, she left no written
works behind, but in the minds and hearts
of the students she trained we will look
for her monument.
During the week we met Miss Joyce
Allan, a distinguished Australian whose
new book on shells is of world-wide
importance. Miss Allan, who is Curator
of Shells at the Australian Museum, says
that the study of shells is the best thing
for making you feel happy and contented,
and she is herself a good advertisement
for this statement. Indeed, to be with
her for half an hour is enough to make
one feel that things are not so bad after
all, she is so genial and calm.
Miss Allan said that, when she first
began training (not so long ago), cadets
for the museum were selected by the L.C.
results, then worked full-time at the
museum while studying with a scientist
there. It was just by chance that she was
appointed to the shell section, but found
it so enthralling a subject that she made
it her life-work. Although she didn’t attend
the university as cadets do now, she
passed in a paper specially set for her
by Professor Dakin which was equivalent
to the Zoology Honors paper. She is
the first and only woman to receive a
Fellowship of the Royal Zoological
Society of N.S.W. She is married and
lives at Cremorne. Her husband, H. W.
Kirkpatrick, is, she says, interested in
everything but mostly in sport, being
formerly an inter-State tennis-player and
now an A-grade golfer. She herself plays
golf, and is at present trying to get back
to her handicap of 13 which slipped a
little whilst she was engaged on war
work with the N.E.S.
It was interesting to hear from Miss
Allan of the greatly increased interest
there has been in shells in the past 10
years. She attributes it to the new type
of education and the broadcasts on
natural history. At any rate, there is a
constant stream of people coming in to
the museum to get information about
shell-life, boys more than girls, but about
as many women as men. One little boy,
however, always makes a point of re-
minding her that it is really insects he
is interested in ; the shells are just a side-
line, in case perhaps she might get an
inflated idea of herself.
The exhibition of Arts and Crafts by
New Australians at present at David
Jones’ Gallery is brilliant and stimulating
although some of the designs are rather
on the stark side. In embroidery, its main
contribution is in the interesting blending
of many colors in the cross-stitch work,
which, indeed, is the only stitch in which
the exhibition has anything to offer Aus-
tralian needlewomen. The leatherwork
is quite inspiring and the wrought-silver
jewellery attractive. In knitting the New
Australians have much to learn, both in
craftsmanship and design. Fine, intricate
work is mostly represented by the work
of earlier days, one beautiful exhibit in
the Polish section being 200 years old.
Work from eight countries is shown
in this exhibition, each in its separate
section having a distinctive character. For
this reason and the general vividness of
the display, the exhibition is one of the
most interesting we have seen for some
time.
Paula Denyer, who plays Cordelia in
John Alden’s production of “King Lear”
at St. James’s Hall, is a great-niece of
Australia’s famous Nellie Stewart and
daughter of Mione Stewart, who was
associated in many musical comedies with
Gladys Moncrieff. She’s now 23, and has
already played in “As You Like It” and
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” with the
May Hollingworth company. Her first
appearance in Shakspeare was as Mistress
Ford in “The Merry Wives of Windsor”
while she was still at school at Abbots-
leigh. Photo by Montgomery Dunn.
Last week the University held a com-
memoration of the first meeting of the
Senate, while the carillon played a wide
variety of tunes, including the “Gloria in
Excelsis Deo” and the “Highland Fling.”
The teacups clinked vigorously, but a
vigilant bulldog indicated that the Press
were not invited to the social doings; so
this is all we know about the function,
and all we need to know.
Lady Hermione Cobbold, in Sydney
this week with her husband, who is
governor of the Bank of England, has
met the large-house, no-servant problem
in England in an ingenious way. Her
home, Knebworth House, is being re-
modelled so that the front part is quite
separate as an eight-room modern house,
easy to run, while the rest of the house
is to be maintained as a showpiece for
visitors interested in the famous houses
of England. Lady Hermione is the great-
granddaughter of novelist Bulwer-Lytton,
and Knebworth has been the home of the
Bulwer-Lyttons for many years. She has
three children: Susan, who is studying in
Paris, David, who is at Eton, and Roland.
She will be away from them only eight
weeks, during which she and her husband
will have flown practically round the
world.
From Melbourne
Sir John Barbirolli must have felt well
repaid for his determination not to let
illness stop him from piloting the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra through his
second concert when he bowed to the
storm of applause at the end of the night.
Lady Barbirolli, wearing a striking strap-
less gown of black velvet and chiffon, sat
with the Conrad Charltons. Mrs. Charl-
ton contrasted her full-skirted gown of
rust velvet with red and yellow flowers
on the low-cut bodice. Mrs. Guy Bake-
well was in floral chiffon. Bernard
Heinze’s lady favored black lace. Mrs.
Dal Mein’s gown of white crepe had black
embroidered bows scattered over it.
Dorrie O’Neill’s ballerina frock was of
embroidered black net over taffeta.
Bonnie McCallum, who wore an ankle-
length black frock, was with Mrs. Charles
Borritt, who also wore black.
Joyce Graeme, an English girl, came
out as a member of the Ballet Rambert,
but liked this country so much that when
the Ballet returned to England she decided
to stay. Since then she has danced with
the National Theatre ballet in every
capital city and in large country towns.
Joyce is Director of the National Theatre
Ballet.
Great enthusiasm marked the conclu-
sion of the complete presentation of
“Swan Lake” at the Princess. Henry
Danton, who came specially from London
for the National Theatre Arts Festival,
danced the part of Siegfried, with Lynne
Golding, of Sydney, in the role of Odette,
Queen of the Swans. This was the first
time the entire ballet has been performed
in Australia. It was a tribute to Joyce
Graeme, who was responsible for its pro-
duction, and for Leon Kellaway, who
trained the corps de ballet. Noted in the
audience were Lady Knox, her bouffant
gown of pale mauve broderie Anglaise;
Mrs. Rupert Downes, her choice pale-
blue, floral-patterned chiffon; Mrs.
Garnet Carroll, in strapless black velvet
gown and matching stole ; Mrs. Robert
Hamilton, who had midnight-blue sequins
splashed on her gown; Mrs. Paddy
Moran, wearing black crepe; Mrs.
Maurice Nathan, her short white linen
cocktail frock having a beaded bodice ;
and Gertrude Johnson, whose elegant full-
length flared coat of tangerine faille was
trimmed with wide white lace motifs.
At the annual meeting Lady Dixon was
re-elected unopposed as president of the
women’s group of the Royal Empire
Society. Mrs. A. Michaelis and Mrs. F.
W. Dennett were elected vice-presidents,
and Mrs. W. B. Edwards re-elected hon.
secretary, a position she has held for five
years. Last year, while Mrs. Edwards
was overseas, her place was filled by Mrs.
I. Morris. At the meeting plans were
discussed for the annual fete, which is
to be held at Lady Dixon’s home on
March 17. As in previous years, the pro-
ceeds from it will be divided between
the Women’s Group and the Food for
Britain Fund.
When Carmel, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. M. J. Lynch, of Caulfield, wed
Lyndsay, second son of Mr. and Mrs.
N. N. Hughes, of Northcote, at Newman
College Chapel, she wore a gown of white
nylon tulle over satin. The deep-square-
cut, long-sleeved bodice was attached to
a bouffant skirt, and from an unusual,
pearl-trimmed crown the nylon tulle
billowed into a veil. She carried an ivory
prayer-book and one white orchid. Three
friends of her schooldays at Mandeville
Hall ’maided; they were Margaret
O’Grady, Anne Wilton and Judith Silk.
Frocked alike in white nylon marquisette,
tiny capes fell over their shoulders to
form sleeves; the skirts were very full.
They also wore tiny white feather-sprays
in their hair and carried posies of white
flowers. Best man was Dr. Harry Bray.
Eugene Lynch and Graham Hughes were
ushers at the chapel.
Afterwards the bride’s parents enter-
tained at a buffet-luncheon at 203
Domain-road, South Yarra. The festive
frock chosen by Mrs, Lynch was of grey
crepe, and her matching picture-hat was
of grey tulle. Mrs. Hughes wore a dusty-
pink frock with a wide-brimmed hat of
black straw lined with soft pink chiffon.
Among the many guests were Mrs. H.
Way, in powder-blue frock and large
black hat trimmed with a matching blue
ostrich feather; Mrs. Colin Long, her
blue-and-white-patterned frock worn
under a navy coat and with a white straw
hat; Mrs. G. E. Hanger, whose deep-blue
frock had for company a rose-trimmed
hat; Judy Chisholm, in large off-the-face
red straw hat and blue-and-white-striped
frock ; and Corinne Keegan, a black, rose-
trimmed cloche hat topping her muted
floral frock.
Melbourne, which in the past has often
adopted a rather smug attitude when
reading of blackouts and power-cuts in
Sydney, is experiencing the same blight.
Shops have sold out of kerosene, it is
almost impossible to buy candles. Cook-
ing is a nightmare, but fortunately it is
the season for salads.
The fashion nabobs have decreed bright
colors will replace the dull and the drab
this winter, and this will raise a cheer.
The star color is purple in all its radia-
tions right through to a soft pink. Ruby
is next on the list, and wine-red will also
be seen in tailored suits and top-coats.
Grey, that strong conservative color, will
be lit by the addition of chunky clear-
stone earrings or a clip which features a
pair of colors. The new coffee-brown,
sanka, is a color which could be chosen
for accessories or for a single-color
ensemble. That it isn’t necessary to spend
lavishly to be well dressed was shown at
the Foy and Gibson parade. Styles are
austere. The top-coat hem is Min. from
the ground. Frocks are clear-cut, service-
able, hug the figure and can be worn with
ease in office or home. The vogue for
separates still continues. Blouses button
to the neck and for office wear are worn
with a tailored skirt cut on the cross,
and made in overchecked English tweed.
Several skirts were in tartan and plaid
wool; others, for the slim figure, were
straight and tight in the new season’s
woollens. Corduroy-velvet and velveteen
fashioned smart frocks for dual-purpose
wear. Rainwear, which came mostly
from England, was attractive. Hoods,
storm-collars and large patch-pockets and
various belts were features of these gay
weather-proofed raincoats. Fur as a
trimming for coats has been displaced by
velvet, with the same used also for cuffs.
Mrs. H. G. Connell, who leaves for
England in the Orcades shortly, has been
guest-of-honor at many parties, the latest
being that given by Iris Williams at the
Wattle. Tiger-lilies decorated the buffet-
tables and the food served to guests was
a triumph for the hostess, for most of it,
although served cold, had been cooked
outdoors over an open fire. The hostess s
almond-green silk frock had a draped
bodice; her cloche was of pale-toast
straw. Mrs. Connell combined navy
French crepe frock and a wide-brimmed
matching hat piped in white. Among the
70 guests who wished Mrs. Connell bon
voyage were representatives of the many
organisations and societies with which
she has been associated. Mrs. Agar, who
with her professor-husband had earlier in
the week given a party for the same
guest -of - honor, wore muted floral
chiffons. Mrs. Charles Allum, formerly
president of the War Nurses’ Comforts
Fund, of which the guest-of-honor was
a committee-member, chose dove-grey
crepe with a tiny matching cloche. Mrs.
Edward Rigby wore pastel floral, Mrs.
I. Pinkard black with small matching hat,
Mrs. Margaret Saker floral silk with a
natural straw hat, Mavis Hotmer a
frock with a pegtop skirt in honey-toned
satin, and Mrs. Connell, Jnr., a white-
and-navy-striped jacket-suit and white
off-the-face hat.
A southerly dissipated the week’s heat
and made things very pleasant for the
Melbourne Racing Club’s meeting at
Moonee Valley. Silks and the linen suit
were popular sartorial fare. Mrs. Neil
Rogers took top honors with a long fuh
navy coat with collar and long revers of
white grosgrain, and a large shallow hat
of red straw. , Mrs. George Davis wore
a tailored navy frock, its floating panel
of blue-and-white-check taffeta matched
by a smart little boater. Mrs. George
Mendes’s Molyneux frock of black crepe
had for company a small cloche of lime-
green-and-black felt. Mrs. Alfred
Fowler’s black frock, swathed at the
waist, was finished in a back floating
panel; her tiny Dutch bonnet with
slightly squared crown was of white
melusine. Almond-green crepe and large
black velvet picture hat formed Mrs. Kay
Joseph’s outfit.


A light and
mellow Port
df
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Touched down here to look over the
Woomera range, distinguished rocketeers
Sir Harry Garner and Air-Chief-Marshal
Sir Alec Coryton. Garner’s dish is aero-
dynamics, and in Hitler’s war he was
assistant-head of the Ministry of Aircraft
Production’s scientific research team;
now he’s chief scientist of the Ministry
of Supply. . His companion was with a
rifle-brigade in the Kaiser’s war, shifted to
the R.A.F. just before it ended, taught
the King to fly in 1919 and the following
year won the D.F.C. on the North-West-
Frontier. In the middle of the late scrap,
when the bombing offensive against
Germany was mounting to its violent
climax, he commanded a heavy-bomber
group, and at the cease-fire was Mount-
batten’s leader of the Third Tactical Air
Force, giving the Japs curry over Burma,
Now he’s the Supply Ministry’s chief-
executive on whatever it has in the way
of guided weapons.
Just as it was stepping out on the most
ambitious arts festival in Australia’s
history, the National Theatre Movement
in Melbourne got a welcome £2OOO
cheque from Dr. Alfred Rowden White.
It’s not his first benefaction. Respon-
sible for the annual Sir Richard Stawell
Oration, which has regularly brought dis-
tinguished scientists to Australia, he
installed also the Rowden White Library
at Melbourne University, the browsing-
ground for students. Born in Tassie 75
years ago, one-time vice-president of the
Royal Australasian College of Physicians,
he put in two and a half years as a
medical specialist, ranking major, with
the first A.I.F. His Jubilee gift coincides
with his own jubilee as a graduate of
Melbourne University.
New captain of the Orcades (he re-
lieved Captain Charles Fox last month),
and Commodore of the Orient Line, Cap-
tain I. E. G. Goldsworthy is a 56-year-
old mariner who served in the Grand
Fleet’s minesweeping flotilla in the
Kaiser’s war, and in Hitler’s as captain,
R.N.R., commanded convoys in the
mighty unpleasant little stretch from the
Thames to the Firth of Forth. Earlier
he had been staff-commander in the
Oronsay when, evacuating troops from
St. Nazaire in 1940, she collected a bomb
in her chart-room, withstood four more
air attacks the same day and saw the
Cunarder Lancastria go down. Landings
on the Normandy beaches and at Cher-
bourg and Havre occupied him later.
Like most of his line’s commodores,
Goldsworthy reefed sails before joining
a steamship.
Tom L. Mills: Who remembers George
Powick Brown’s ballads in The Bulletin and
the “Bookfellow”? In the office of the Levin
(N.Z.) “Chronicle” recently Bob Billens —who
is interested in the “Chronicle” as well as being
editor-manager of the Manawatu “Times” —
showed me a copy of Brown’s The Lay of the
Bantry Bay and Other Verses, Humorous, Senti-
mental, Philosophical (Levin, 1917; price Is.
6d.; Horowhenua Publishing Co.). Brown
owned and edited the “Chronicle,” in the
jobbing room of which his little book was
printed, and it was while going through the
pile of George’s debris in the office that Bob
Billens came across this stray, which is now
one of his collector’s pieces. In the collection
of 60 ballads, most of them published for the
first time, the author acknowledges permission
to reprint 15 from journals in all parts of New
Zealand, some in Australia, and a dozen from
his own “Chronicle.” From The Bulletin,
“The Austral Curse”:
But now, in later days, the hallowed soul
Of Austral swaggics feels the double good:
Each morn, like Sisyphus, their curse they roll;
And then, like Atlas, stagger ’neath the load!
That was written at Goodiman (N.S.W.) in
1898, when George himself was humping his
bluey. In the same year The Bulletin pub-
lished “Digger Dave,” written at Avisfend
(N.S.W.):
We’ve dug a grave for Digger Dave, beyond the
gold-lead valley
The river ripples near him and the songsters o’er
him rally.
The J. K. Moir Natural History
Medallion for 1950 goes to Bernard
Cottow, conchologist, of the South Aus-
tralian Museum. Born in Sheffield (Eng.),
he joined the museum as a cadet in 1923.
Herewith the fapade which fronts the
driving personality of Colonel Daniel
Evans, of the big Queensland shipbuild-
ing firm of Evans, Deakin. An engineer
who has played many parts in his 65
years, Evans began in the workshop of a
Bundaberg (Q.) foundry, helped to build
Adelaide’s Outer Harbor, then took on
cable-laying in the deep sea round Malaya,
junior-engineer, at 19, of the cable-ship
Restorer. The early 1900’s found him
boss of all engineering construction work
on the Pacific U.S. naval base of Midway
KEELS.
Island. Shipping sea-legs again, he be-
came a chief-engineer at the very early
age of 22, had three more years’ engine-
room time, then swallowed the crank-
shaft (or whatever the Black Gang
swallows) in Brisbane, to set up business
with Deakin. The Kaiser intervened and
Evans took his mechanical know-how into
the Australian Engineers ; he came out
with his majority, D.S.O. and a
“mention.” With Hitler loose, the firm
began shipbuilding on Kangaroo Point
(Brisbane) in a big way, turning out 14
warships, corvettes among ’em, a floating-
dock and four 10,000-ton merchantmen.
Evans himself conducts all trials of ships
he builds. He also has a hand in train-
ing young engineers through his member-
ship of the Queensland University Board.
The recently published report by Lord
Louis Mountbatten on events in Asia,
1943-45, is not his first literary effort.
One of the late war’s most outstanding
servicemen, the much-liked admiral,
though a normal executive officer, has
written a textbook on wireless-telegraphy
(still used in the R.N.), an engineering-
instruction book, and, as further indica-
tion of his diverse interests, a standard
work on polo-playing.
“C. 8.”: John Tremearne, for 30 years
one of Melbourne’s best-known music
critics, was bom at Creswick, the Vic-
torian township which has produced more
than its quota of distinguished Austra-
lians. His grandfather, who brought rhe
first prefabricated houses to Australia,
was editor of the Creswick “Star” when
the Lindsay brothers were schoolboys
there, and Tremearne junior was a con-
tributor to the school magazine which
contained Norman’s and Lionel’s first
sketches ; it may have been their influence
which made him into a more robust critic
than most. He, not Billy Hughes, was
the author of a celebrated phrase in Aus-
tralian political history. Accosting the
statesman when he was leaving Parlia-
ment House, Melbourne, after an exhaust-
ing battle with the war-time problems of
the country, Tremearne asked for an
opinion on something or other; Billy told
him to go to a place which Tremearne
translated into “blithering blazes.” For
20 of his years as critic Tremearne, who
died last week, was with Melbourne
“Herald.”
Visiting Australia, Sir Alexander Mc-
Coll —the main mainly responsible for
supplying the gallon or so of petrol used
by Great Britain in the late war. He
knows a bit about that sort of thing—
having been, till he switched firms
recently, managing-director of Vacuum
Oil in London. Still in harness at 72,
he’s a director or chairman of four big
London concerns.
“King’s Pawn”: Young John Purdy’s
recent win in the Australian Junior Chess
Championship is a remarkable example
of the development of an inherited talent.
In a single year Purdy, whose maternal
grandfather was the Spencer Crackenthorp
who first put Australia on the world chess
map, passed from an indifference
which was the despair of his father,
the Australian chess champion Cecil
Purdy, through a phenomenal progress
once his interest germinated, to the highest
juvenile honor in the game. The victory
was against strong opposition, too.
Back in Melbourne after an American
sojourn of 13 years, Baron D. Snider is
renewing acquaintance with his birth-
place. His name bulked large in the news
during the late war when he was executive
of Henry Kaiser, who built ships like
mushrooms. Snider speeded up con-
struction of “Liberty” ships by making
the workers’ job simpler and easier. He
is in Australia to direct a “training-
within-industry” programme for the
Victorian Institute of Industrial Develop-
ment.
Few men ever did more for the
development of Westralia’s gold and cattle
industries than Andrew Gibb Maitland,
lately passed on in Perth. A Scot, born
and educated in England, he came to
Queensland at 24 and took on his first
big job in 1891, a geological survey of
New Guinea for the British Government.
This earned him the post of Govern-
ment Geologist in Westralia, which he
held from 1896 to 1926. With the gold
boom of the ’nineties still gathering
volume, he wrote official geological
bulletins and made a systematic survey of
the mining areas, which must have been
a godsend to many a prospector. His
other great contribution to the West’s
development was the discovery of artesian-
water supplies in the north-west cattle-
country. His awards included the Von
Mueller Medal of the Australian and
N.Z. Association for the Advancement of
Science, the Clarke Memorial Medal of
the Royal Society of N.S.W., and the
Kelvin Medal of the Westralian Royal
Society. In his prime a neat wiry man
with the close-clipped moustache and
carriage of a soldier, he was 86 at the end.
The main assets of Cameron Froman-
teel Cobbold, governor of the Bank of
LUCRE.
England, here accounted for by Prior, are
his informality, genial manner and an
outsize measure of reticence. As well,
he owns a brilliant mind which put him
in the governor’s chair at 44, the
youngest there for 100 years. To scotch
a popular furphy —the day The Bulletin
met him his trousers were hung on braces,
not the old school tie. Forty-five, son of
a colonel.
Retiring from the general-managership
of the Bank of New Zealand, P. L. Porter.
He had London and Australian experience
(inspector here), and is well known in
Sydney and Melbourne,
“Fitz”: Bulletin black-and-white artist Sid
Black broke into art the hard way, and is
thoroughly at home with the rough-and-ready
bush characters who enliven his sketches every
week. Born in a mining village not far outside
Newcastle-on-Tyne (Eng.) 39 years ago, he left
Tilbury with a brand-new suit, a yellow suitcase
and 15s. Arriving in Westralia at 17, he became
a farmhand. Came the depression, when he did
anything on offer —fencing, clearing, wood-
cutting and a bit of shearing with the blades, with
frequent calls for the tarpot. A job as a steward
in a swanky club soon ended when he was found
joining in the toast of the evening at a dinner
to some celebrity. Sid next carried his swag
through the goldmining areas of the West,
getting a very occasional job and frequent
handouts. On one trek his boots gave out
and he had to cover the distance in bare feet.
In War II he enlisted in the R.A.A.F.,
and served for more than 5$ years in various
parts of Australia and the Islands, finishing-up
at Balikpapan. Sid Black has had no art-
training; he mastered the game by studying
the methods of favorite artists like Ted Scorffeld,
Unk White and Stan Cross. His first Bulletin
submissions earned answers to correspondents,
and it was not until early in 1942 that he had
his first Bulletin success. Nowadays he holds
down a white-collar job, but he still looks
back, without regret, to the long period when
he lived as hard as any of the outback workers
in his joke-blocks.
Retiring to his gardening, George
Boykett, secretary of the South Aus-
tralian Employers’ Federation, and, as
well, of half a dozen concerns whose
wares range from jam and cordials to
motor-cars and migrants. Employers’
representative at the 1.L.0. conference in
Geneva in 1936, he’s been with the
Employers’ Federation for 43 years.
“Dick Turpin”: Out here with their
famous puppets as part of the Piddington
show, lan and Honor Robertson (known
professionally as the Laureys) are two
English youngsters who have already
made a name for themselves in films,
television and the theatre. Teamed to-
gether for the past two years, they carve,
paint and dress their puppets, write their
own dialogues and design their own stage
decorations. Having done that much,
they present their puppet-shows, singing
when the act demands it. A Cambridge
undergraduate with a degree in English
Literature, lan dumped the idea of a
career in the Foreign Office to make
puppets his life. His wife, a member of
an old theatrical family, has been making
and presenting puppets since she was a
child. They’re puppeting at Sydney
Empire before moving to Melbourne.
Into the Silence:
In England, at 70, Vice-Admiral C. V.
Osborne, who invented the paravanes which, in
a modified form, all cruisers and above of the
British Commonwealth Navies streamed as
protection against mines on approaching land.
A gunnery specialist, he also designed a pom-
pom and a target-bearing indicator.
In Sydney, at 41, War II Army captain
Thomas Griffith Parsonage. Admitted to the
Bar in 1934, he had been for some years Crown
Prosecutor at Darlinghurst (Sydney) Quarter
Sessions.
At 77, one of the best-known cattlemen in
Queensland, William Thomas Carr. Founder-
owner of the Carlyle Jersey stud of Long
Pocket (Q.), he was a foundation member of
the Queensland Jersey Cattle Society, and had
judged at just about every show in Queensland
and N. S. Wales at some time or other.
In Melbourne, Mrs. H. B. Mattingley, after
a lifetime dedicated to the sick. She was a
life-governor of Melbourne’s Prince Alfred and
Children’s hospitals. The blind will miss
her most.
In Los Angeles (U.S.), at 71, Alfred Cohn.
A 1 Jolson’s “Jazz Singer” of 1927 will be long-
remembered by the older generation as their
first introduction to the exciting new entertain-
ment medium. The film, the first full-length
talkie, won the first motion-picture Academy
Award. Cohn wrote it.
In Sydney, Miss Etta Cowan, one of the city’s
leading early social writers. Sister of Theo
Cowan, the sculptress, she had lived in Florence
(Italy) and was a fluent linguist. For years
she was the energetic secretary of the Society of
Women Writers of N.S.W.
In London, at 57, Dr. L. J. Comrie, a
Maorilander and one-time superintendent of
the British Nautical Almanac Office. A graduate
from Auckland University College, he was with
the N.Z.E.F. in the Kaiser's war, after which
he graduated Ph.D. at Cambridge, to become
assistant Professor of Mathematics at Strath-
more College, Pennsylvania (U.S.), followed by
a year as assistant Professor of Astronomy at
North-western College, Chicago. His war
service in the realm of ballistics and climatic
and mathematical calculation was of consider-
able value in beating Hitler.


12
UJJICW**
10
8
■
.
'THERE IS ALWAYS A BEST'*
S^meubed
vr-^v
CONSULT YO U R OWN JEWELLER
FASTEST
to LONDON!
d
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayf at II a.m., arrive London
for breakfast on Tuesday! No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-4.
For no additional fare, you may
break your Journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 bn,
4S mins.
a*
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
SE"**
t Departures every Wednesday and
Saturday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
mCUh (pom
8CA.41.12
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD FIFTH-COLUMNS.
In fifth-column discussions
abroad Australia is known as
the country where Communists
are able to produce the maxi-
mum of industrial havoc. The
general view is that, with the
security measures that could,
and would, be taken when war
broke out, the active fifth-
column here could be reason-
ably easily rounded up and
interned.
That latter notion prevails
also regarding Britain’s Corns.
In a survey of the fifth-columns
in Western countries generally,
a London “Daily Telegraph”
staif writer finds that within all
of them, “in the event of war
involving Russia, would be a
focus of treason, of active or
passive defeatism represented by
the Communist organisation.”
Britain, however, he finds in a
comparatively healthy state.
In Britain the Communist
party claims to have about
40,000 paying members, but this
figure “masks a great instability
of membership ; there is a con-
tinual procession through the
ranks, from enthusiastic entry
to disillusioned exit.”
In the event of war, “the core
of fanatics” in Britain who
would put doctrine before coun-
try would, the writer of the
survey thinks, be found to be
small: “In the trade-unions
some 30 Communists hold im-
portant executive office, backed
by about 200 party stalwarts
among the shop-stewards. Their
prominence in disputes exag-
gerates an apparent influence
which would be seen in its true,
and very small, proportions if
exercised in a plainly Com-
munist cause.”
Turning to the U.S., the writer
quotes the F. 8.1. head, Edgar
Hoover, as stating that the num-
ber of card - holding Com-
munists in that country was
54,174. On the same authority
fellow-travellers in what are
classed as Communist - front
organisations totalled about
540,000. As in Britain, the turn-
over of membership is very
heavy.
In the American trade-unions
“the story is one of continually
dwindling Communist influence.
It is estimated today that Com-
munists and sympathisers in all
unions do not number more than
300,000. That anti-Communism
is not merely passive has been
shown by the refusal of dockers
to handle Soviet and satellite
cargoes.”
Canada, the survey finds, also
shows small and declining Com-
munist influence. Full party
members are believed to num-
ber about 15,000 and fellow-
travellers a further 35,000.
Canadian Labor organisations
are purging themselves of Com-
munists. Unions still Com-
munist-led have a membership
of some 50,000, but very few
of these are party members or
even sympathisers.
In France, of course, a for-
midable fifth-column, with arms
hidden since the liberation, is
already in being. There are, in
fact, two parallel organisations,
one French and the other
manned by resident foreigners,
chiefly Poles and Spaniards. To-
gether they are estimated to
number 100,000 men, organised
not only for fighting as a
potential maquis, but also for
sabotage in factories, ports and
mines. The party organisation
now has in all about 800,000
members, of whom perhaps half
are active.
The survey-writer holds that
it is Italy’s Communist column
which really constitutes the most
serious potential weakness in the
Atlantic front. It is larger than
the French, better armed, and
based on an extremely well-
organised party. Out of a mem-
bership which probably falls
somewhat short of the 2,000,000
which the party claims, there are
estimated to be 200,000-300,000
“activists” who would cause
trouble behind the lines in the
event of a Red Army invasion.
The main strength happens to be
in the Po valley, where deter-
mined guerrilla action might— at
least temporarily—virtually sever
north-south lines of communi-
cation. Also, Communist leader-
ship of the largest trade-union
body would facilitate industrial
sabotage by strikes.
Elsewhere the fifth-column
menace is present, but in less
formidable form. Disclosures
after the anti-Leopoldist dis-
orders in Belgium proved the
Communists there to be in pos-
session of arms and ready to
use them in a civil uprising. The
Dutch Government has formed
a national reserve to combat
fifth-column activities in case of
emergency.
Of other countries looked
into, Norway’s Parliament has
had before it a bill providing the
death penalty for assisting
foreign plans of aggression
against Norway, even though no
«gss
London “News Chronicle.”
RISKY THRESHOLD.
actual attack may have taken
place. The core of fanatics
ready to obey Kremlin orders
is estimated to number 18,000-
20,000. Danish Communists are
neither numerous nor tough. Ob-
servers believe that not 5 per
cent, of the party’s estimated
30,000 membership would give
security preoccupations in an
emergency. Nevertheless, legis-
lation on similar lines to that in
Norway is before Parliament.
Despite all this the survey
writer, viewing the other side,
sees cause for some optimism:
“These facts and estimates pre-
sent for the nations of the
Atlantic Alliance a picture
which has its incalculable
counterpart in the Soviet-
dominated lands. War, which
might bring into action fifth-
columns within the democracies,
would also stir to hope—and
eventually to action—the parti-
sans of liberty behind the Iron
Curtain.”
Commonwealth Cant.
In papers like the London
“Daily Express,” enthusiastically
“Empire - minded,” or rather
“Commonwealth”-minded, last
month’s gathering of the Prime
Ministers was treated to all-round
praise, with a garnishing of gush.
“Manchester Guardian” was
almost alone in throwing in a
doubt or two. “A great deal
of cant,” it editorially com-
mented, “has always been talked
about the Commonwealth. The
[British] Labor party used to
promise to dispel the mumbo-
jumbo; but it has substituted its
own brand.
“That a free India, Pakistan
and Ceylon should have con-
tinued in the Commonwealth by
their own volition is no doubt
remarkable. The [British] Labor
Government earned great credit
by making this possible. But
on the strength of it the [British]
Labor party has invented a
string of new axioms: The Com-
monwealth has never been as
healthy as it is today. It has
never had so much force in
world affairs. The complete lack
of any Commonwealth Constitu-
tion or federal organs is one of
its sources of strength. And so
on.
“To challenge any of these
statements is thought to be
slightly sacrilegious. In the eyes
of the [British] Labor Govern-
ment the vagueness and infor-
mality of the present organisa-
tion of the Commonwealth are
regarded as something ‘mystic,
wonderful.’ They are its new
aura. Perhaps this is a good
thing. Bagehot said that public
business was often best tran-
sacted in a kind of fog. But
....questions about the chang-
ing nature of the Commonwealth
are bound to intrude. Nothing
is gained by mealy-mouthed
replies.
“We do not want to get back
to the temper of Lord Baldwin,
who said: ‘We have never been
guided by logic in anything we
have done.... If we try to define
the constitution too much we
may split the Empire into frag-
ments.’ The Commonwealth is
a group of very diverse coun-
tries. Except for historical acci-
dent, some of them would
have few interests in common ;
their geography, their economic
interests, their cultural and
ethnical ties, suggest that they
should align themselves in dif-
ferent groups. They continue to
associate together in their
present loose way partly out of
old habit, partly because they
like the general ideas of the rule
of law, liberty and democracy
which are the root of Anglo-
Saxon civilisation. But has their
union still got a great deal of
political force? Will it continue
in the future?”
The editorial conclusion:
“We have devised an organisa-
tion so delicate that we hardly
dare talk about it. It is a sen-
sitive plant. It is certainly not
‘solid union,’ and most of the
members have not yet decided
whether they want it to be so.
The question is whether the
present cult of informality will
best nurse the partial union into
something stronger.”
Dragnet Digest.
Circumstantial Evidence. • U.S.
Senator Connally speaking: “In Texas
we are strongly of the opinion that
when a person shoots at you he is
being unfriendly. The same reasoning
leads me to regard Moscow’s present
policy as hostile.”
* * * *
J. Bull Going Strong. —London
“Daily Mail” assessment: “When it
comes to world trade the British
countries are still streets ahead of their
nearest single rival, the U.S. In 1949
they sold 29 per cent, of the exports
of the earth, as against the 21 per
cent, of America. A great record.”
* * * *
Television Made Easy. While
American television screens rattle with
the violent action of the sport,
vaudeville, Wild West stuff and general
light entertainment demanded by
American audiences, London “News
Chronicle” reports the findings of
rather stunned British TV planners:
“They have learned a lot in 1950.
Most striking lesson is the discovery
that all they have to do to please the
viewer is to put four speakers and a
chairman round a table and let them
talk for half an hour. This has
shocked the boys who have talked
for so long about the problems of the
new medium, and sought so earnestly
for ‘something different.’ ”
* * * *
When East Meets West. —Observa-
tion of a London “Daily Mail”
correspondent in Korea; “One thing
demonstrated by the Korean cam-
paign is the handicap which a high
standard of civilisation imposes on
the infantry soldier. The American
expects his machines to fight for him.
He is at his best in a tank or aero-
plane. On the ground his adversary’s
ruthless expenditure of life is difficult
to match.”
* * * *
Tarnished Golden Age. —“lf,” com-
ments London “Sunday Times,” “we
peer into the economic future, assum-
ing no general war, we see little to
encourage us unless we have faith in
the ultimate victory of the virtues and
truths on which our free society is
built. Shortage of food, fuel and
commodities, with consequent con-
trols ; high taxation; ever-rising
prices which gnaw at savings; the
fruits of progress diverted to ensur-
ing survival through defence —these
are the prospects for peoples who
fifty years ago seemed to be entering
an age of plenty, and more lately
were promised a world of welfare for
the common man.”
* * * *
Telegrams Galore, But. —Whereas
London sent 5656 telegrams to Com-
monwealth countries in 1938, the
figure for 1949 was 21,790, while at
the present moment they are going
out at the rate of over 60 a day.
However, in London “Economist’s”
view, “It is far from certain that the
members of the Commonwealth are
obtaining the maximum value from
this contact in terms of world
influence.... The evidence would cer-
tainly seem to suggest that mere
written communication, for all the
increase in its volume, is not proving
to be enough.”


WAYS WITH HORSES
by ROBERT A FINDLAY
50ME men will do a lot for
their wives. But Mr.
Godfrey Bearle, one year
out from England, felt he
had gone the limit when he
agreed to live in a peanut-
growing district in Southern
Queensland. It came about
when Mrs. Bearle, on a visit to
a squatter’s place in the district,
became convinced that the dry
inland air would be good for
her asthma ; and as the Bearles
“had money” and no family,
then asthma became a ruling
force in their idle lives.
Godfrey Bearle bought from
the local stock-agent a horse,
which turned out to be an excel-
lent hunter. If he had bought
the animal direct from the owner
he would have paid less and,
what was more important, he
would have been told the trick
of catching his purchase. In
England it had always been
somebody else’s job to catch the
horse, and his specialised job to
ride it. He rode well, too.
"P HE paths of an impoverished
1 ten - year - old fourth -
generation Australian and a
wealthy English expatriate
crossed when Artie Anderson,
munching an apple, happened to
be languidly riding a bicycle
past Mr. Bearle’s property.
Artie pushed the half-eaten
apple into his pocket and
climbed through the wire-fence.
For his experienced eye could
see that this newcomer to the
district had little idea of catch-
ing a horse. Two worlds met;
and Artie Anderson, the
youngest of eight children, had
known only the cruel world of
competition against entrenched
position.
“Thanks, lad, frightfully good
of you to offer, see if we can get
him down in the corner.”
Artie had never heard any-
one speak before in this clip,
clip, clip way of Mr. Bearle, and
he wondered if this New Aus-
tralian had something wrong
with his mouth.
“Look, mister, you give me
the bridle and stay away a bit.
I’ll have a go on me own.” For
a certain possibility had come
into Artie’s alert mind when he
remembered the partly-eaten
apple in his shorts pocket.
“Nonsense, lad,” scoffed the
jodhpur-clad owner. “If two
can’t manage it, then I fail to
see how one can catch him.
What!”
“There might be something
about you he don’t like, mister,”
sagely warned the native-born.
“Horses are funny like that;
they know what they like,mister.”
Mr. Bearle’s plump red face
registered annoyance as if he
found it unflattering, not being
liked by a colonial horse.
Artie quietly worked the horse
into the far corner and gave it
time to settle down while Mr.
Godfrey Bearle stamped about
crossly in the distance. If he had
done less stamping and more
watching he would have seen
Artie take the half-apple out of
his shorts pocket and let the
reluctant animal get wind of it.
He came forward at once with
his eyes wide-open, knowing
precisely what he was doing ; he
was willingly sacrificing liberty
so as to get a piece of apple.
There was something about
apples that always got him in.
“Beats cockfighting, beats
cockfighting, what!” clipped an
astonished cry from the end of
the paddock.
Artie surrendered the reins to
the owner.
“How did you do it, lad?”
In a quick flash Artie's
adversity - sharpened brain
realised he had not been seen
giving the horse the apple, and
he saw certain possibilities. His
thin vital face grinned.
“Just a bit of a knack, that’s
all, mister.”
“The devil it is, lad, beats
cockfighting, beats cockfighting,
what!” The strange un-
Australian expressions puzzled
a colonial who was hearing them
for the first time ; yet when Mr.
Godfrey Bearle handed him a
shilling, Artie Anderson began
to recognise the farsightedness
of Australia’s immigration
policy. And his instincts quickly
told him that the preservation
of his secret should carry the
highest priority. Artie Ander-
son, who used no business-card,
gave his name and address
before leaving.
A T dinner Godfrey Bearle
** mentioned the matter.
“Funny little chap, Beatrice.”
He lowered his imperious voice
out of compassion. “But a bit
simple, I’m afraid—in these back
areas you frequently come across
pathetic cases like these—but a
wizard with horses, absolute
wizard, seems to have the knack,
and when he was going said to
me as serious as you iike, ‘We
might be able to help each other
some time.’ Don’t think I’ve got
it yet; beats cockfighting the
way these colonials express
themselves, what, what.”
Two days later Mr. Bearle’s
saloon - car was outside the
Anderson homestead. He had
forgotten Artie’s name and asked
for “the young fellow, the wizard
with horses, little fellow with the
knack of catching them, what?”
Then Artie, who had ducked out
the back to get an apple from
the orchard, put in an appear-
ance and was driven away, to
the envy and consternation of his
seven older brothers and sisters.
On the pretext that the horse
mightn’t like the jodhpurs its
owner wore, Artie suggested
that Bearle stay right out of the
paddock. Artie sneaked the
apple out of his pocket and
macerated the surface to bring,
out the aromatic tang. The
horse fell for it again, and with-
out any regrets ; and Artie tried
to hide his munching by keep-
ing his head down.
“Beats cockfighting, beats
cockfighting,” clipped an
astonished response from the
far fence.
“I can’t get it yet, lad,”
marvelled Mr. Bearle. “Must be
a knack, what! How is it I can’t
catch the damned animal?” In
innocence Artie stated the posi-
tion as he saw it.
“Well, you’re a New Aus-
tralian, aren’t you?”
“Nothing of the damned sort,”
snapped Bearle, shocked to the
heels of his hand-made riding-
boots. “I’m an Englishman,
what! Wouldn’t be living in the
country only my wife has
asthma.”
“Well, I was born here,
mister,” explained Artie, “and
I’ve spent ten years now in Aus-
tralia, and your horse kind of
knows that.”
“I see your point, lad, you
mean that makes you about ten
years ahead of me in some
things.” Artie Anderson thought
this estimate conservative,
though out of politeness
amended that there could be a
slight advantage in his favor.
“But your horse mightn’t like
that hairy coat you got on,
mister, horses are funny like
that.” Mr. Godfrey Bearle
squirmed at the coarse classifi-
cation of his Harris-tweed
jacket. Only for this urchin
being part-idiot he would have
joined issue over the matter. He
gave him a shilling with grudg-
ing grace.
Artie Ander-
i son never moved away from
home without having an apple
in his pocket. The town had
many old men who carried
potatoes in their pockets to
checkmate rheumatism, and now
the town boasted a very young
one who carried an apple to
ward off bankruptcy.
As the weeks of summer
moved into autumn the local
Hunt Club’s point-to-point drew
nearer. Bearle’s hunter had be-
come so conditioned to being
caught by Artie that his equine
brain worked out the position:
the little fellow in bare feet was
running a livery stable, and the
big fat fellow hired him for
rides at a shilling a time. He’d
seen the money change hands.
Artie Anderson made his first
mistake. On the pretext that the
horse might not like the gay
tartan scarf worn by its owner,
Artie had left Mr. Bearle out-
side the paddock. In a fit of
irritation, and unnoticed by
Artie, fylr. Bearle followed him
into the paddock. When he
had caught the horse and turned,
Artie saw his employer not fifty-
feet away. The horse was still
munching as a red-faced catcher
handed him over and waited for
the sack. Godfrey Bearle paid
up under strain and said
nothing.
Artie went home very
thoughtful. His sharp, young
brain, so constantly exercised in
competition with seven older-
entrenched relatives, reasoned
that his boss was staying his
hand only to find out next time
what the horse was being given.
Artie knew no outsider could
help him. He decided to send
Mr. Bearle up a dry gully for
his water.
“Cunning little beggar,”
stormed Bearle to his wife. “All
these weeks he’s been catching
him with a carrot or sugar or
something and keeping me out-
side my own horse paddock so
that I couldn’t see what he was
doing. But I’m going to find
out next time. I hate being taken
for a fool by damned colonials,
what!”
“But it’s only a shilling you
give, Godfrey,” soothed Mrs.
Bearle; “and a shilling’s more
help to the poor little chap than
it is to us.” Mr. Godfrey Bearle
hit the dinner-table with a
closed fist to make the noble de-
claration which man has been
making from time immemorial.
“It’s not the money involved,
it’s the principle of the thing.”
A RTIE had been detected on
the Thursday before Satur-
day’s point-to-point race, and
Mr, Bearle came for him on
Friday. The call found Artie
not unprepared. In the blouse
of his faded blue shirt he
carried a small apple. In the
pocket of his khaki shorts he
carried a small brown onion.
And Mr. Bearle, who noticed
the bulge in the pocket as he
drove back his crack horse-
catcher, could hardly wait for
the showdown.
Mr. Godfrey Bearle was a
self-important man, but was not
cruel, and he felt a little sorry
for the coming exposure. It
was only the principle at stake,
and he honestly felt that no
colonial empire could be built
on dishonest principles. And
while he was living in the out-
posts of Empire he thought he
might as well show this little-
known flag of principle.
Artie Anderson sensed a com-
ing test of strength. He started
off with the bridle. He knew he
could no longer bluff this Eng-
lishman to stay behind. Walking
toward the horse he was nearly
screwing his eyes out at the
corners to see if he was being
followed.
“Just a minute there, lad, just
a minute,” Mr. Bearle called out
in an imperious voice.
Artie stopped and waited for
a resolute-faced employer to
join him. Mr. Bearle came with
a loaded sporting proposition.
“I’ll make a bet with you,
lad.”
“I’m not a real proper bettin’
man,” said Artie ; “and besides
I haven’t got any money.”
Bearle fished a shilling out of
his well-cut fawn breeches.
“You’ve got money now,” he
declared, throwing the shilling
to the wizard with the knack.
“I’m paying you in advance for
services rendered.”
In his ten hard, competitive
years in Queensland Artie
Anderson had been rolled on by
a horse, come up the second
time in a lagoon, and been bitten
by a black snake. This situa-
tion was worse than any of the
three, as in this game for high
stakes he had no idea what was
trumps.
“I’ve heard a lot about you
Australians and how game you
are at betting on anything, so
now I’ve got a chance to try
one out.”
“What odds yer givin’,
mister?” sparred Artie.
“Even money, of course,”
snapped Bearle.
“What! ” squealed Artie in
genuine annoyance. “You want
me to bet all the money I got in
the world on something I don’t
know what it is and you offer
me only even money! That must
be some English way of betting.”
A slow flush spread over Mr.
Bearle’s broad face, and it
deepened in color as with shak-
ing hand he took out his
morocco wallet. He peeled off a
ten-shilling note and dropped it
on the red soil of his horse
paddock.
“Give you ten to one,” his
strangled voice managed to say.
ARTIE threw his shilling on
top of the note and the
King’s head on the coin fell next
to the King’s photo on the paper
as two British subjects backed
their fancies.
“What’s the bet, mister?”
“I bet you’re not game to
empty your pocket in front of
me.”
Artie ejected a sigh of relief.
“Isn’t that a mad kind of a
bet to make, mister?”
“I’m the best judge of that,”
fumed Bearle ; “and I’m giving
you ten to one, what?”
“All right,” warned Artie.
“But I don’t think it fair you
New Australians betting with us
old Australians like this.”
Mr. Bearle looked smoking-
hot. Artie Anderson put his
hand in his shorts pocket and
brought out a knife.
“That seems to be all,” he
confessed.
“I said empty your pocket—
I can see something bulging
there yet.”
Artie reached in again and
removed an onion.
“Gripes,” he exclaimed in
alarm, “a nonion. I wonder
how that got there?”
“I’ll tell you how it got there,”
stormed Godfrey Bearle, releas-
ing at last a safety-valve of
temper. “You put it there to
catch my horse with because you
know he can only be caught
with an onion, what?” He had
a lot more to say; and Artie
was puzzled at the repetition of
one word, “principle.” For he
didn’t know what principle was.
Finally he picked up the note
and coin.
“I don’t think you’ll catch him
with this principle you’re talk-
ing about. I think you’ll still
find there’s a bit of a knack in
it,” he said.
FOR the point-to-point hunt-
ing event the following day
Mr. Godfrey Bearle was by far
the best-dressed entrant. He
had been over the course many
times, and he had a horse who
loved the work ; yet, good as he
knew the pair of them were, it
looked as if he might have to
cover the hard three-mile,
seventeen-fence course on his
own. And he had trained only
for the walk from the homestead
to the stables.
At ten o’clock that morning
Mr. Bearle had entered his horse
M
paddock with a brown onion.
At eleven o’clock he changed
over to a white onion. At noon
he wondered if it would be any
advantage opening a jar of
pickled onions. Mrs. Bearle
came out to help him with that
cruellest of all assistance —■
advice.
“It’s idiotic carrying on in
this way, Godfrey. If you won’t
go and get that lad then I will.
He’s a wizard with horses.”
“Don’t use that word
‘wizard.’ ”
“All right, but you must ad-
mit he has the knack.”
“Don’t use that word
‘knack’!” he stormed. Then
Godfrey Bearle swore a dramatic
oath. “I swear I’ll never use
that word ‘knack’ so long as I
live, so help me God! What!”
“I think it’s quite petty, your
bearing a grudge against the poor
little fellow. Why, you your-
self said he was a halfwit.”
Mr. Bearle flinched and won-
dered why ever he had married
this fool woman ; for she had
asthma and a good memory, a
horrible combination in a wife.
At twelve-thirty Mr. Godfrey
Bearle wanted to win that Hunt
Club Cup so much that he sac-
rificed a principle laid down for
colonial empires. As his
saloon-car drew up at Ander-
son’s farm Artie came out of the
kitchen. In his shirt was an apple;
in his hand was a brown onion.
“Frightfully sorry to trouble
you, lad, but I don’t seem to
have the —er —er —knack.”
Mr. Bearle’s plump face was
red; but Artie Anderson was
not one to rub in the dirt. His
ten hard competitive years had
taught him that those who are
on top today are often down
tomorrow.
“Horses take a lot of under-
standin’, mister; they know
what they like, and it’s no use
tryin’ to force ’em to take what
they don’t like.” Artie played
with the brown onion in his
hands as the saloon moved out of
town. He had something to say,
but was shy about bringing it out.
“I hope you win this arvo,
mister.” It took Bearle com-
pletely by surprise. It had never
occurred to him that in this
country someone other than
himself, and perhaps that diffi-
cult wife of his, might be on
his side.
“You’re such a good sport,
mister, that’s why I’d like to see
you win.”
A most peculiar feeling came
over Godfrey Bearle, and it was
that even without a horse he had
an excellent chance now.
AT the paddock gate Artie
took the bridle in one hand
and the brown onion in the
other.
“You’d better stay here,
mister,” he warned. “He
mightn’t care for that hard black
hat you got on. Queensland
horses are funny like that. ’
Close up to the hunter Artie
dropped the onion in his shirt
and sneaked out the apple. And
as he pushed the bit into the
munching mouth an amazed
clipped voice in the distance,
passed comment.
“Beats cockfighting, beats
cockfighting, it must be a knack,
what! ”
Mr. Bearle took the reins
and fished out a two-shilling
piece. But even at the age of
ten years Artie Anderson had
learned never to press his luck
too hard.
“No, mister, I can’t take any-
thing today. I’ve been bettin’ a
bit lately and doin’ all right.
You have this one on me.”


■
w
I
t-m
m
m »
SY4O
»»»
tS**s'
•iSVs&s Jfft “;„ «nHW
cover n 9 can be °Ln
ho* en nV
in^ ran p C e,
im«¥s
***•
4*
%
%
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fogging Sheep.
“J.S.”: “Outback” (B.
24/1 /’5l) was interesting, but he
admits that “a few of the older
stud ewes are now showing a
few lice” after fogging. My tip
is that a thorough examination
of the other sheep will show a
few more lice, That unfortunate
admission has had to be made
so often that there should be a
review of claims and perform-
ances by some recognised
authority.
The possibilities in a fog
charged with minute particles of
insecticide are many and varied.
Good work has been done con-
trolling grasshoppers (in the
hopper stage) and fumigating
buildings. As a sheepman my
interest lies in its effectiveness
in controlling lice and flystrike—
there are no sheep ticks in this
district.
Lice have been bad of late,
and fogging seemed to offer re-
lief from the dipping muster
after shearing, with the pros-
pect of lousy sheep being missed
and reinfesting the dipped ones.
If the sheep could be fogged—
say, at the end of each run, or
even once a day as they left the
shed, we would know that every
shorn sheep had been treated,
and it would be easy to pick up
unshorn stragglers.
If the treatment would pro-
tect against flystrike so much
the better. Body-strike has
never been worse, and has been
heavier among short-woolled
sheep than in woollies. Some of
the early claims made for the
fogging machine—such as run-
ning it round the paddocks and
letting off a blast of fog at every
mob of sheep—sounded too tall.
Before we planked down £7OO
for a fogger we decided to see
how others got on, and in three
years we learned a lot. Here is
the position as it affects a wes-
tern N.S.W. grazier. We have
proved that dipping in an
arsenical dip will kill lice. If
done properly and a clean muster
made it is 100 per cent, effec-
tive. A new method must be at
least as effective and have the
advantage of an improvement
of application.
With regard to flystrike we
have practically cut out crutch
strike since we adopted the
Mules operation. Body-strike
has been controlled by spraying
the backs of sheep with D.D.T.
and 8.H.C., using an old jetting
plant with special nozzles. We
still got a few sheep struck, but
the strikes did not spread.
If we could get as good re-
sults with fogging it might be
worth the price, as there should
be a saving in time and handling.
But for every good report on
fogging we have had five or six
of complete failures. The fault
was not in the insecticide —
B. —although the fogger
used it at a much higher
strength. We are still hoping
that someone will hit on a way
of using the fogger that will give
100 per cent, kill of lice and
lice eggs and four weeks’ com-
plete protection against fly-
strike. “Outback” considers the
C. should revise its
opinion following the results
claimed with one small mob of
sheep at St. George (Q.).
Frankly, I hesitate to buy a
machine on one man’s single
result, and the C.5.1.R.0. has
better means than I of finding
out more about fogging.
Let the advocates of the fogger
run a number of experiments on
the same lines but in different
parts of the country, and cover-
ing at least 12 months, under
conditions when lice and fly-
strike are serious. Use a big
mob of lousy sheep. Shear them
—although this will remove
most of the lice there will be
enough left to work on—and
divide into mobs of at least 200
each. One mob of 200 should
be fogged and put into a pad-
dock where they have no con-
tact with sheep in adjoining pad-
docks. This is a bit of a con-
tract, but it’s the only fair way.
Another mob should be dipped
in arsenic and paddocked
separately. It should be worth
while dipping another mob in
one of the new B.H.C. dips, per-
haps with a shower - dip, for
comparison. The balance of the
sheep should be left untreated
for comparison with the treated
mobs. This is the essential fea-
ture and is where most private
testimonies fall down. The en-
tire experiment should be under
the control of an officer of the
C.5.1.R.0. or Department of
Agriculture, and each mob
should be inspected once a
month for 12 months or until
the presence of lice has been
confirmed.
In addition to freshly-shorn
sheep we would be even more
interested in some way of treat-
ing lousy sheep with six months’
or more wool on, A swim dip
will do the job, but, as it’s nearly
always ewes in lamb that get
lousy, dipping is dangerous and
makes a mess of the wool,
A similar experiment to the
above should be made with fog-
ging, spraying with various in-
secticides and spray-dipping to
get a comparison of effectiveness
and cost in controlling flystrike.
If fogging can produce results
in’ a properly-conducted. and
-controlled experiment, as good
as any other method, the makers
of the machine will be able to
take their salesmen off the road
and put them on to help the
packing staff.
Moving the Earth.
“C.S.”: The earthmoving-
equipment manufacturing in-
dustry in Australia is the second-
largest of its kind in the world,
second only to that of the
U.S.A. and larger than any
similar industry in Great Britain,
Europe, South Africa, Canada
or the rest of the Americas.
Equipment vital for Australia’s
water- and soil - conservation
schemes, irrigation and hydro-
electric projects, aerodrome and
road - building programmes,
forestry and housing needs is
being manufactured in Australia
by Australian companies.
The range of equipment in-
cludes road-graders, cable-con-
trolled and hydraulic scoops,
bulldozers, compacting rollers,
rippers and rooters, power-con-
trol units, concrete-mixers —in
fact, a full range of road-building
and heavy construction equip-
ment, as well as more specialised
equipment such as winches and
logging machinery, tractor-
mounted loaders, excavators,
hoists, etc.
This industry is still expand-
ing rapidly to cope with the de-
mands of contractors and de-
partmental users. Although
token overseas shipments have
been made by Australian manu-
facturers, almost their entire
output is going to satisfy the
home market.
Mosquito Allies.
“Graz”: Some years ago a
virus, myxomatosis, was tested
on Kangaroo Island (S.A.) as a
means of rabbit destruction. It
did good work in the warrens
where it was introduced, but
failed to spread to other bur-
rows. Scientists have given an
assurance that the virus is harm-
less to bird-life or to other
animals.
Last year further tests were
conducted by the C.5.1.R.0. at
Corowa (N.S.W.) and Gun-
bower (Vic.). Again the
official report said the disease
failed to spread. But in Novem-
ber mosquitoes began transfer-
ring the virus from affected
bunnies to healthy ones, and by
January along parts of the Mur-
ray banks the rabbits were
dying.
Next Griffith, on the M.1.A.,
reported that rabbits were dying
in thousands. A few days later
Warren, on the Macquarie, re-
ported that the pest was being
skittled by some disease.
It would be nice to think that
mosquitoes, infected with myxo-
matosis, were blown by strong
winds 200 miles north of the
Murray to infest rabbits on the
Macquarie, but it’s hard to be-
lieve. Anyhow, the scientists are
looking into it.
Cementing an Old Tank.
“Dusty Mile”: Clean the tank
and seal all small holes with
blackjack. Patch the large holes
on the inside with one of the
several brands of asphaltic felt-
based roofing. Secure the patch
in place with blackjack. This
will take several days to dry.
Then make a heavy mixture of
slurry, to which add a couple of
handfuls of washing-soda. Paint
the inside wall with this. For
the concrete use one part cement
to two parts sharp, well-sieved
sand. Don’t use wire-netting as
a reinforcement; this is not only
troublesome and unnecessary, it
makes a good job impossible as
the wires which must pass
through the wall to hold it in
position will always allow a seep-
age of water. It hinders the
main technique of plastering a
tank, that of squeezing, not
throwing, the cement into the
corrugations.
Have a strong bottom of about
3in., then work upwards filling
the corrugations by squeezing
“Cheer up, Mat, We'll git some tobacco Tomorrer."
downwards with a steel float.
After the corrugations are filled
in, go over the whole about 12
hours later with a coat about
lin. thick. Next day, if possible,
put the hose in the tank and fill
it up. If any fissures have been
missed by the blackjack and
show dribbles, they will prob-
ably take up as the cement ex-
pands, In any case they can be
effectively dealt with by rubbing
dry cement into them. It will
take two men approximately two
days to do a 2000 gal. tank, and
they will use about six bags of
cement and half a yard of sand.
The result will be almost as good
as a new tank.
For the Inland Garden.
“Pat O’Day”: One of the
most effective - looking shrubs
for the inland garden is the
tamarisk (called the flowering
cypress). A circular drive of
tamarisk growing in a Riverina
garden adjacent to a highway
running through the property
provides one of the most beauti-
ful sights imaginable.
The three types of tamarisk
(all deciduous) growing in the
drive are Aestivalis, a bright pink,
12ft. high, with lovely feathery
foliage, the Gallica, with its
attractive bright plumes, and
Japonica plumosa, a rich deep
pink with very large plumes.
Tamarisks are hardy, and
where a drive is planned in an
exposed position they will with-
stand the most trying condi-
tions. In these days of mechan-
ised farm management there is
usually a post-hole machine
which can be adopted to sink
tree-holes.
The tamarisk should be cut
well back after flowering.
Eggs (or Hatching.
“Bill C.”: Cleaning eggs in-
tended for incubation is in-
jurious to the eggs. Moisture
cuts the gluey coating on the
shells, causing infertility. Cleaned
eggs which hatched during ex-
perimental work gave a high
percentage of weakly and back-
ward chicks,
The incubator may harbor
disease germs if not kept
hygienic. The germs may be in
the eggs themselves or in the
air that enters the incubator,
Use a vacuum-cleaner to draw
out all dust and fluff. Then
wash out the machine with
warm soapy water containing
disinfectant. Fumigation will
settle germs that may be present
after the cleaning. Do it by
burning a formaldehyde candle
in the incubator with the door
closed fairly tightly. Air the
machine thoroughly before set-
ting more eggs.
Disease of Onions.
‘‘Sundowner”; White-rot of
onions—it also affects leeks and
shallots to a lesser extent —is
usually found in cooler climates.
As the fungus survives for long
periods, it is best to avoid grow-
ing the plants until the soil is
purified. However, if seedlings
are planted don’t raise them in
soil which has carried infected
plants.
If in doubt sterilise with a
solution made with one part of
formalin to 49 parts of water.
Loosen the soil to a foot deep
and water-in the solution at half
a gallon to the square foot.
Cover the area with bags or
thick paper for several days,
then remove bags and leave soil
for about a fortnight before
sowing seed.
If the soil is not heavily in-
fected control by calomel-dust.
Thoroughly mix one part of
calomel with 24 parts of talc.
If seed is sown 11b. of the dust
should be distributed along
each 50 yards of drill-row. If
planting seedlings mix water
with the dust and dip each seed-
ling in the paste as it is planted
out.
Swede Turnips.
“Hortus”; Choose a soil with
a fair percentage of sand; the
swede is a shallow rooter. The
land should be ploughed deeply
a fair while before sowing.
Don’t let weeds grow. Break
down with harrows and keep
cultivating until planting-time.
Success of the crop depends on
early treatment of the soil.
January-February-March sow-
ing brings the crop to maturity
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The recent rains here seem to indicate a return to the
longer Uranian Cycle, and this Is quite possible, as I have
often stated. If that is so there should be further heavy
rains late in the month, with broken weather now, rising
temperatures and a heat wave in the middle of the month
before the heavy rains begin. These heavy rains are
mainly along the eastern coast and inland, but are lighter
in South and Western Australia. There are no records
for the far west in that cycle, so that the heavy western
rains of the main cycle may be reduced, although that effect,
too, is uncertain in the absence of complete records.


FACING H PACK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. ... The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely ’round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WEHTWOBTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Your vacation
self-drive car -
anywhere Britain
and continent -
J, Davy
Europe’s most reasonable rates!
Most friendly service from £1 per
day for 30 miles, then 6d. a mile.
150 new Jaguars, Austins, Fords. Also
chauffeur-driven. Brochure from J.
Davy, 9 Logan Place, Kensington.
Cables: Jaydeecars, London.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements. /
fd
f
d
m
fd
£4u/ I^/6
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
“ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
inching time > s
f
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
PHENOVIS
Phenothiazine Drench
fd
fd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
INSURANCE —for your protection -
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 13 1 (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
fd
BEHIND THE
AUSTRALIAN SCENE
THE LION-HEARTED
tsven
THE ENGINE THAT LASTS
World-famous Lister
engines are available
in a variety of types
and horsepowers (2 to
40 h.p.) for petrol, kero-
sene and diesel fuel.
Distributed in Australia by
NEW SOUTH WALES
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
MallocK Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
VICTORIA
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Limited,
12-36 Cross Street, WEST FOOTSCRAY.
QUEENSLAND
Winchcombe Carson Limited,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)>
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Horwood Bagshaw Limited,
78 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA
A. G. Webster and Sons Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
at a time when it is of greatest
value. Succulent feed is wanted
in the winter and early spring for
ewes approaching lambing or
with lambs at foot.
Seeding at the rate of fib. to
lib. to the acre is sufficient for
a good stand. This allows plenty
of room for expansion and
growth of each plant, with a
well-developed root. Use super,
fcwt. to lewt. per acre.
As soon as the plants are about
2in. in height, thin them out to
about 12in. or 15in. apart in the
drills. Keep soil cultivated be-
tween drills. Nothing must pre-
vent quick, early growth of
young swedes. Any slowing-up
will bring aphis.
If there is aphis infestation,
turn the sheep in if the turnips
are well developed. Grazing off
the tops will not cause any set-
back to the growth and root
development. Use kerosene
emulsion or tobacco wash as
soon as the first aphides appear.
Purple Top White Globe does
very well, with Champion
Purple Top running a good
second.
Store the turnips in pits in the
ground, stacked in long pyra-
midal heaps. Cover first with
dry straw and then with soil.
Make these coatings fairly thick.
Above all, see that you put your
heaps in a well-drained spot.
Make drains all along to take
off drainage water.
Curing a Hide.
“M.”: After it comes off the
beast allow the hide to cool
thoroughly and sprinkle the flesh
side liberally and evenly with
coarse salt —151 b. will be suffi-
cient for the average-sized hide ;
a big one will need more. It’s
better to oversalt than the re-
verse. As a general rule allow
lib. of salt to each 31b. of hide.
Give special attention to the
legs, neck and edges, as these
are first to show signs of inade-
quate salting. Fold by throw-
ing one side over the other, then
turn the outside edges back
almost level with the backbone
ridge ; turn over the neck and
tail each about one-quarter way
towards the centre, then the
neck end, finally folding the tail
over the top to make a neat
bundle.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: To scour wool
mix four gallons of hot water,
three tablespoons of soft soap
and four tablespoons of wash-
ing soda, for every 31b. of wool.
Place wool in solution ; soak for
six hours. Squeeze gently at
intervals and avoid matting.
Drain the fleece and immerse in
a weaker solution for a further
six hours. Rinse thoroughly in
several lots of water. Dry on
wire-netting, shaking occasion-
ally, and fluffing the wool.
“Sarina”; When drenching
calves for worms, the pheno-
thiazine mixture should be well
stirred to maintain the drug in
suspension. Have the solution
in an old billycan or similar
vessel to save time. Mark each
calf after drenching so as to
eliminate risk of double drench-
ing.
“W. Court”: Logs may be
handy as silt-holders in earth
drains, but they are a nuisance
in creeks. Between floods, drag
out logs that could block the
waters. Most damage is done by
heavy logs that lodge against
tree-trunks, become waterlogged,
and sink. Water-borne gravel
collects behind the obstructions
and causes the holes to shallow.
A badly-silted stream overflows
its banks quickly during heavy
rains, and it does not hold wate*
in a long period of dry weather.
“C.A.A.”: When catching
poultry don’t chase them around
the pen. Separate the wanted
bird from the flock and snare it
with a string-net or wire catch-
ing-hook. With the former the
bird must be caught running
away, with the latter manoeuvre
against a fence and net as it runs
ahead. Net should be 2ft. deep
with hoop 15in. in diameter and
a handle long.
“Billjim”: Salad crops benefit
from liquid manure. Suspend
animal manure in water at lib.
to 21b. of fresh manure per
gallon. Other good preparations
are sulphate of ammonia and
nitrate of soda, loz. to 4gal.
“Bass”: W.A. Agriculture
Department has evolved a rust-
resistant bean. It is a cross be-
tween a brown-seeded strain of
Kentucky Wonder and Golden
Harvest, and in a tryout under
field conditions it was unaffected
where an adjacent crop of
Golden Harvest failed. Called
Westralia, it’s a good yielder and
should soon be available for dis-
tribution.
“Metax”; A piece of red
pencil is handy in the workshop.
On some surfaces—for example,
timber that has been weathered
—red will show up well while
lines made with an ordinary
lead-pencil are hard to see.


toow
S3®
iluA
<m
ycm
vJMwiMt
(when they’re warm)
“It’s as cooling as an ocean
breeze on a hot day—and popular!
—one of the most popular of all the
Vickers Gin coolers.
The gin gives it a wonderful
flavour. I won’t take a moment to
prepare it—then you taste it. Make
a note of the recipe too—add it
to your collection.’’
“SHADY GROVE
COOLER”
Into a long glass put
half tablespoon of
sugar, juice of half
a lemon, 2 oz. Vickers
Gin.
Mix with plenty of
ice and fill with cold
ginger beer.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
fd
A request to The United Distiller* Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you FREE
an attractive book containing 60 tested recipe* for
cocktails and long drink*. Write for it now.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SI NCE 1750
VG 40/16
For the treatment of
RHEUMATIC
DISORDERS
Dolctn has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic dis-
orders in America, Canada and
England. Now it is made available
for you. Dolcin Tablets give prompt
relief from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism,
including people who had given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work—thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin
Tablets have brought them.
fd
fd
fd
OOLCIN Is Non-Toxic and
has no harmful effects
on the heart or any other
organ.
OOLCIN has been approv-
ed in clinical tests and is
prescribed by the Medical
profession.
OOLCIN is easy to take
in Tablet form.
OOLCIN is obtainable from
your Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
7 -40
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per ib. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
"PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/«
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Writes MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
LOOK YOUR BEST!
v
style
fd
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look”
and colour throughout its long, all-
weather life.
F,or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
Qmtify
"SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM."
If there was need for Comic Court
to add further to his reputation
he did so with yet another splendid
win in the C. F. Orr Stakes at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. It was
his sixth win from his last seven
starts; his fourth win in succession;
and, for the third time in succession,
he ran record time.
As usual, Comic Court did the job
in true champion fashion, giving an
impression of dominating the field at
every stage of the race. In point of
fact he was never really far from the
front. When the barrier rose he
jumped out so smartly as to lead by
a length or so within the first 50
yards until Purtell eased him back
into the field. Iron
Duke, Matterhorn
and Achilles held
the lead at various
stages, but from the
moment Purt e 11
kicked Comic Court
away in the straight
it was quite clear
that he was the one
who was going to
stay in front. Chic-
quita gave the more
optimistic of her
sunnorters a momen-
tary thrill when she moved up to
challenge for the lead at the turn;
in the run home, however, the mare
was most comfortably beaten by
Comic Court, and was herself, in
fact, hard put to beat Achilles for
second money.
Weights were issued last week for
the rich A.J.C. double of Doncaster
and Sydney Cup. The handicapper
was restricted to a maximum top-
weight of 9.7 for both events, and,
of course, Comic Court was accorded
the honor in each case. The doubles
bookmakers have quickly conjured up
a “market” on which, at time of
writing, they have Achilles ruling
favorite for —tile Doncaster and
Comic Court a seemingly immovable
favorite- for the Cup.
By his performance in Saturday’s
race Achilles impressed as likely to
be better than ever this time up, and
certainly he seems very well treated
in the Doncaster with 8.12, consider-
ing that he won the last Epsom with
9.2. It must surely be almost un-
prcccdentcd for the winner of either
an Epsom or a Doncaster to get into
the next either Doncaster or Epsom
with 41b. less than his previous win-
ning weight. To take the most
recent case in point, Grey Boots,
after winning the last Doncaster with
7.7, was bumped up a stone to 8.7
for the following Epsom. But the
most striking illustration of the favor-
able handicapping of Achilles is pro-
vided by a comparison with Over-
sight. When he won his Epsom
Achilles conceded Oversight 301 b.,
and beat him by a half-head. Yet
now, in the Doncaster, Achilles will
meet Oversight on 17lb. better terms
for having beaten him.
As to the second leg of the big
double, it seems almost heresy to
raise any serious doubts about Comic
Court’s chances in what, with the
"You WOULD eat too many frogs, Jany."
weight limits provided, amounts to a
form of quality handicap. However,
in present observer’s mind a very
solid query is raised by the recollec-
tion of Comic Court’s performances
on two previous visits to Sydney.
Indeed, so complete a dislike for the
Sydney way of going did he seem to
evince in the course of a thorough
trying-out on those occasions that it
really rather surprises to find even
so rich a prize as the Sydney Cup
tempting connections to venture upon
another trip north. If, in the course
of preliminary runs in Sydney, Comic
Court shows any evidence that he
has overcome his dislike for the
going there, then, of course, he must
merit the highest consideration. In
the meantime, to support him for
the Cup with any confidence would
be to completely ignore the substan-
tial evidence of the past.
Regarding the matter of Comic
Court as being in abeyance, a double
which does suggest itself as an
attractive possibility at this early
stage of prognostication is Achilles
and Grey Boots.
Reverting from contemplation of
the future to the more down-to-earth
business of recording the past, punters
had a noble day at the Valley on
Saturday, with four favorites success-
ful and the other two winners of the
day both well in the betting. Comic
Court, of course, was an odds-on
proposition. So, too, was the Law
Maker-Viennese colt Usage in the
Sturt Handicap for two-year-olds,
and he justified the odds in no uncer-
tain fashion. Ridden by W. William-
son, and ending a longish trot of
outs for that rider, Usage, who is
a full-brother to Ungar, scored by
four lengths from the 100-to-l out-
sider Silver Nib.
Really, the best winning perform-
ance of the day was put up by the
three-year-old St. Magnus colt Flying
Halo, who enhanced his Newmarket
prospects with an astonishing win in
the Chelsea Handicap (6f.), albeit it
cost him a 31b. penalty for the big
sprint. Flying Halo (L. Lott) started
a warm favorite, but his backers were
prepared to sell out cheaply after
seeing the colt left at the start and
ahead of only a couple of the 19 run-
ners at the half-mile. The perform-
ance necessary to win after incurring
such a disadvantage on the tight
Moonee Valley course can be
imagined; Flying Halo had to go
right round them at the turn, but a
brilliant burst in the straight saw
him the winner by three-parts of a
length from unlucky and consistent
Scotwyn.
* * * ♦
At the recent Monday holiday
meeting at Randwick the six-year-old
Binnia Hero gelding Drastic started
at 25 to 1 for the seven-furlongs
Australia Day Handicap, and con-
founded all and sundry by downing
the hotpot Donegal. Evidently the
effort did not altogether convince
punters. For Saturday’s Glenfield
Handicap over the mile course at
Randwick Drastic was allowed to
start fourth in the betting at sevens;
nevertheless he repeated the dose, with
a nice win over Playboy, Mona’s
Choice and an unplaced brigade
which included such fair performers
as San Domenico and Buzmark. In
view of these two good wins it might
not be amiss to observe that Drastic
has won previously at a mile, as well
as scoring at nine and 10 furlongs;
that Grey Boots last year won the
Australia Day Handicap prior to
taking out the Doncaster; and that
Drastic has 7.2 in the coming Don-
caster.
Apart from its being a day of
splendid handicapping, with cracking
close finishes in several events, there
was little of .note in the Randwick
programme. Potential St. Leger
candidates turned on the best finish
of the day in the mile Three-year-old
Handicap, which saw Aristocrat,
Tapoaki, Careless and Sea Wolf hit
the line practically on terras, and,
at that, hard pressed by a couple of
others. On the photograph exhibited
there wasn’t a decent pig’s bristle
between Aristocrat and Tapoaki, but
after microscopic examination the
judge sorted them into the order
mentioned. A similar finish was
recorded by Yamboon, School Belle,
Fair Recruit and Captain Theo in
the 12-furlongs Warwick Farm Handi-
cap. Again there were four horses
in it; again they finished (in the
order mentioned) with half-heads
between them; and again, signifi-
cantly, D. Munro was on the winner.
When it comes to riding a really
tight finish “Darb” is a dabster.
¥ * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Handicap: Main Sail,
1; Smuggler’s Hoard, 2; Swift Cur-
rent, 3. Three- and Four-year-old
Maiden: Wambo Chief, 1; Ananzi,
2; Dolphin, 3. Punchbowl Mixed:
Lady Rosetta, 1; Perfect Chatter, 2;
Manifold, 3. Burwood Mixed: Can-
ning Downs, 1; Golden Tan, 2;
Heroic Bachelor, 3. Flying: My
Request, 1; Buzmark, 2; Hava Chat,
3. Frank Underwood Cup: Air
Flare, 1; Great World, 2; School
Belle, 3. Welter: Fire Ship, 1; Sea
Wolf, 2; Kymac, 3.
For the Oakleigh Plate: Scotwyn,
1; Spitfire, 2; Riptide, 3.
♦ * * *
It is somewhat to be feared that
the present M.C.C. cricket tour is
going to lead to another outburst
against the “hard” way Australians
play the game. Recalling their efforts
on past occasions, it is not difficult
to visualise the line which will be
taken by some overseas critics: “One
would have thought that the Aus-
tralians, with the rubber in the bag
after winning the first three Tests,
would have etc., etc.”
Whatever it was, the Australians
certainly didn’t do it in the fourth
Test concluded in Adelaide last week.
They stuck to the same 12 men
nominated for the previous two Tests,
although this time they gave the
Sydney youngster Jim Burke a game
as reward for his services as drink
waiter in previous matches. They
played as though it was the first
match in the series, with all at stake.
And, regardless of the weird notions
some critics seem to entertain regard-
ing Test cricket, it is certain that
neither spectators nor opposition
players would have wished otherwise.
The story of the match is soon
told—a deuce of a lot sooner than
players and spectators found it took
to play it in fierce Adelaide heat.
Australia (371) just missed establish-
ing a first-innings lead of 100 over
England (272). The Australians
scored at will in the second innings,
and eventually declared at eight for
403, giving M.C.C. 502 to chase.
Hassett could well have closed much
sooner, but he forbore in order to
allow young Burke to achieve the rare
distinction of scoring a century in
his first Test, which it was obvious
that he would eventually do if given
sufficient time and an adequate
number of players to hold up the
other end. After trembling on the
brink for some time, Burke was
finally presented with a no-ball, which
he smote to the boundary, bringing
his score to 101 and the Australian
innings to an overdue conclusion.
Miller, incidentally, was not quite so
lucky; trying really hard for a cen-
tury, he had the stiff luck to go at
99. The prospect of trying for a
fourth-innings score of 500-odd would
be enough to make the stoutest
hearts give up the ghost. M.C.C.
managed 228, and Australia won by
274.
* * * *
Sometimes criticised for the infre-
quency of his ring appearances,
Empire middleweight champion Dave
Sands made up for some lost time
by having two scraps last week. Well
might he have done sp, for neither
afforded him any serious opposition.
At Sydney Stadium on the Monday,
Sands (11.6|) met the American Irvin
Steen (list.). Sands tackled the job
in pretty leisurely fashion, but was
nevertheless a very easy winner on
pionts. Letting his weight build up
in the interim to 11.11, Sands on
Saturday at Newcastle met one
Henry Braye, billed as the Fijian
heavyweight champion and scaling a
generous 13. Henry bit the dust
hard and often until the ref. even-
tually intervened in the seventh round.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Native Camps
A Perth magistrate, referring to a
native camp in a Perth suburb and speak-
ing to a representative of the Native
Affairs Department, said “These
aborigines have been terrorising the
neighborhood for too long, and. it is time
you people did something about it.”
The next day the Minister for Native
Affairs pointed out that his depart-
ment’s duty was “to exercise general
supervision and care over all matters
affecting the interests and welfare of the
natives and to protect them against in-
justice, imposition and fraud.” He
added that it had “neither the obliga-
tion nor the desire to usurp the func-
tions of the magistracy, the police, the
Prisons Department or of any other
authority.”
- That seems to leave the question of
native guidance or control up in the air.
No one can do very much about it, and
the natives continue to be a nuisance to
whatever district they are established in ;
breeding, drinking, being jailed and ruin-
ing their children’s lives.
As usual, the children are the worst
sufferers. In the environment in which
they are reared they have no hope or
prospects. A girl reared in the atmosphere
of a native camp, mured to scenes of
drunkenness and debauchery and forced
to seek a mate from the precocious males
of the camp, quickly sinks into the life
from which she has never been given the
opportunity to escape. Her brothers,
taught to admire their drunken, cop.-
fighting elders, easily carry on the tradi-
tion of degeneracy.
: There’s good in those natives —some
of them—and it would show up under
different conditions. The worthless adult
natives should be strictly segregated and
denied all contact with the juveniles,
however closely they are related. If they
can’t be saved from their own im-
morality they should not be permitted
to contaminate their children.
Those children, cared for under
correct supervision, would yield a per-
centage of decent citizens. They would
require understanding. They have an
outlook different from that of white
children, and they are, particularly the
girls, more precocious. But they should
be given a chance to live respectable
lives.
As it is, we herd them together in little
communities where they haven’t much
hope. If one-hundredth of the money
that has been spent on taking Christianity
to foreign natives had been allotted to
the rehabilitation of our own aborigines
Australia would have some fine colored
citizens and a clearer conscience.— Bass
(W.A.).
Ship-manning
“Salt Horse Pom’s” statement (B.
17/1 /’5l) that the present shortages of
crew are artificially produced is true
enough, but he doesn’t cover the whole
scene.
True, conditions at sea have improved
out of all sight during the last 20 years,
but there was ample room for improve-
ment. “Full and plenty” at all meals is
a long way from the old “pound and
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
pint” days of not so long ago, with the
weekly dry store issue, which really
meant a weekly issue and no returns.
Even the drinking water was on the
ration, a bath being a luxury taken in the
well-deck during a suitable rain squall.
It is only as far back as 1936 that we saw
the disappearance of the old four-hour-
watch system —14 hours on watch one
day and 10 the next, seven days a week,
with no overtime. Four A.Bs., two
ordinary seamen, a couple of appren-
tices, bosun and carpenter to man a
9000-ton ship! No, we don’t want to see
any more of those conditions.
I don’t know about “duty done and
integrity maintained” as being everything.
Certainly the old hands knew their jobs,
but even at only £8 a month (1932)
paying-off day still counted, and at that
wage some niggling was surely not amiss.
—X. M. N. (Tas.).
Statesmen
We badly need them, but would we
tolerate them if we had them? A Gov-
ernment composed of statesmen would
remove all known Communists and
extremists from positions of power;
immediately freeze the funds and liquidate
"I' m dying to meet your husband—I believe he's a great practical-joker."
the assets of any organisation guilty of
inciting industrial sabotage; replace the
present wages system of doing “as little
as you can for as much as you can” with
the American methods of payment by
results; introduce compulsory military
training for the defence of Australia at
home and abroad; make a complete
review of all Government departments,
retrench unnecessary servants and cut ex-
penditure to the bone.
What would happen to a Government
if it introduced these reforms? Wouldn’t
it be swept from office at the first appeal
to the people? Granted that the Menzies-
Fadden Government has had considerable
public support for its anti-Communist
bill and the National Service bill, but
such support has arisen through Com-
munist disruption within and aggression
abroad.
Mr. Spender says the introduction of
the 40-hour week was equal to the loss
of 250,000 employees from industry. If
his Government attempted to revert to
44 hours it would be branded “anti-
working-class” and defeated. The average
elector doesn’t want statesmanship. His
idea of a statesman is one who gets for
him security of a good job, easy working
conditions, good pay and plenty of
holidays. While this type are in the
majority statesmen are not wanted, though
they are certainly needed. —K. Me.
(N.S.W,).
History in the Schools
With “Wilken” and “Hebridean,” I de-
plore the fact that less history is being
taught in the N.S.W. secondary schools,
but I don’t agree with either of them as to
the reasons. It’s certainly not a Com-
munist-inspired plot on the part of the
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation.
I can’t remember that it ever was a
compulsory subject even for the Leaving
Certificate —English is the only com-
pulsory subject in either the Leaving or
the Intermediate. History was simply one
of a group from which it was necessary
to select one subject for matriculation.
And, as “H.” points out, history is the one
subject that would lend itself to propa-
ganda, so why cut it out?
The move has been to replace history
by “Social Studies,” a hotchpotch of
history, geography and current affairs, a
subject that still needs much revision, but
one that will give the average secondary
pupil a far better understanding of the
world and its affairs.
The complaint from most parents, and
particularly from employers, is that our
education system is. too liberal, with a
weakening in the three “Rs ” The em-
phasis is on activity and culture rather
than skills. The child leaving school
today might be able to make a speech on
United Nations Day, but finds it hard to
write a decent letter i he knows what a
fugue is, but fails to add a column of
figures.
In teaching history we have moved
away from dates and kings and battles,
and have tried to teach the significance of
historical movements, industrial, social,
economic, political and colonial. The
object of history today is to try to help
the pupil to appreciate contemporary
movements in the light of what has
passed, and we can’t do that merely by
stressing how any one country became
“great.”
I did three years’ history for an Arts
degree at Sydney University The courses
covered ancient history, foundation and
early history of Australia, industrial
history of England and the colonial ex-
pansion of Europe. As for breeding a
feeling for Communism, it did the
opposite. It intensified a dislike already
held —history, truly studied, makes-one
realise the value of personal liberty and
the dangers that lie in such ideologies as
Communism.—R. W. (N.S.W.).
Road Toll
Slogans and exhibitions are a waste of
time and money in this war against the
dreadful toll of the road. They have no
influence whatever on the class of driver
who causes serious road accidents.
The fault lies in the sentimentality of
magistrates and judges. A doctor charged
with drunken driving need only put over
a story about his car being so essential
to him and it’s a million to one he’ll get
off with a bond. A businessman engages
a good lawyer and likewise gets off with
a bond and keeps his licence.
Before there is any tightening-up on
drivers there should be a tightening-up on
magistrates and judges. At present it
must be very disheartening to any
conscientious traffic-policeman who does
his part in arresting an offender only to
see him get off. —W. P, T. (N.S.W.).
Inflation
In the spate of words about inflation
Liberals call for more production, Labor
for more controls (prices, not wages), the
exporter for depreciation and the im-
porter for appreciation of the pound.
One fact of inflation stands out.
Beyond doubt Communism is gaining be-
cause of it. As well as gaining power, the
Communist is helping it along all he can.
Strikes, one-day stoppages, poor produc-
tion and the need for rearming, with its
draining of manpower from industry to
the Army, are all increasing the infla-
tion. All these can be blamed on Com-
munism. And surely now we have
reached a stage bordering on a state of
national emergency.
As The Bulletin has pointed out,
the country’s need is leadership—
leadership of statesmanlike quality, not
only to tackle the problem in a manner
that might be unpopular, but to arouse
the public out of the lethargy into which
it has fallen. One of the great dangers
of inflation is our tendency to regard it
and its hardships as inevitable. Although
we grumble at rising prices and feel that
something should be done, few of us are
prepared to face up to drastic cures.
For the cure for inflation has to
be drastic. Abhorrent as controls are
to all of us, controls are the only things
that can meet the problem. Not control
only of prices—that would be useless —
but control of everything: currency re-
valuation, wages, prices, manpower and
production. If men won’t work in an
emergency such as this, well, there is
room for them in the Army ; if the manu-
facturer will not produce to his full
capacity, then let him hand over to some-
one who will. There is no room for
unproductive parasites.
What Government is game to assert
itself in that manner, and how would
it fare at the ballot-box? With a friendly
Senate the Menzies Government could
do the job, and possibly would, for there
would still be two years in which to
show some results, though as things stand
at present it would be playing with politi-
cal dynamite. The sooner there is a
double-dissolution the sooner the prob-
lems of inflation and Communism can be
tackled in earnest. —O. R. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 108
- Across.
: I—Bloke and I turn up behind
schedule to work. (10)
The dimensions of a kind ot
- glue. (4‘)
: 9—Nodding hard fruit and emmet. (6)
10 — Equality weapon in a manner of
speaking. (8)
11— Whale. (3)
14—Depressed gatekeeper of heaven
is hoisted when leaving port.
(4, 5)
16— Haircut for gravel roofing dis-
guises the English. (7)
17 — Also neckwear and feet in baby-
talk. (7)
18— Belgian resort. (3)
19 — Fabric has a meal which men-
tions a matter again. (7)
20 — Putting a quirk in relations with
majesty. (7)
22 —Lamb’s mother. (3)
24 Making the least of the note
which I intone Caruso-style. (10)
25 — “E pluribus ” (4)
26 — Ram in the damp has fatigue
unexceeded by others. (8)
27 Drum-roll ornamentation of the
skin. (6)
30 —A course of special feeding for
the legislature. (4)
31—Name a figure for a medical
examination. (6, 4)
Down.
1 — Fruit chap skedaddles. (7)
2 Barrel upset a titbit for a
monkey. (3)
3 Quill enclosure. (3)
4 Horrify dad to turn up with a
friend. (5)
6 On it in Turin (anagram). (11)
7 Peers no longer concealing real
sex. (2-5)
8— The wool “harvest” and the week-
end meat in a profiteering night-
club. (4, 5)
12— A small piece of firewood to
hang over beer and a furniture
maker. (11)
13 — Mendicant to be a horse and to
fortify assistance. (10)
14— -Pronounces a benediction. (7)
15— A disorderly aunt has knowledge
to be still free. (7)
19'—Cut the lawn again concerning
Roy Rene after his marriage. (7)
21 —Color of the morass in the sport.
(7)
23—Queensland town to register a
victory by a heavyweight. (6)
28 — A specific State in America —
or none in particular. (3)
29 New Zealand bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 107.


PRODUCTS OF THE
GROU
Humber-Hillman
plant at Coventry-
One of the Rootes Group’s
seven huge factories,
totalling 5 million square
of floor space.
feet
Rootes Australian Assembly
Plant —a fourteen-acre factory
employing over 1,000 people.
Rootes’ Assembly Plant,
Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria
Rootes Group Distributors have
headquarters in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Launceston,
m
m
iL
v " ■ *
<&44Wk 1
w ss?'% >" ’M
si
%
%
,
*
r\
;'K
saa
\
zxr
u
,
/m
cm
fZ
Q
£a«
■
£\
Mil*
□.
i£T
V s ?
££
t—,
■*!&’
A Nation-wide chain of
dealers sell and Service
Rootes Group vehicles.
Wherever you go throughout
Australia, or anywhere else
in the world, you can be
sure of courteous, efficient
Rcotes Group service.
The VITAL
in an unbroken chain
of Service
Every owner of a Rootes Group vehicle is assured of con-
tinuous service by the presence of the great Rootes Group plant
at Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria. This 14-acre factory—the first
established in Australia by a United Kingdom motor manu-
facturer —is an integral link in the chain that begins at the
huge Rootes parent plants in England and reaches directly to
the Rootes Distributor or Dealer who supplies your car or truck.
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
KARRIER
PRODUCTS OF THE
AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST FACTORY
r\
EE
52
1
Humber Imperial
Humber Super Snipe Humber Hawk Hillman Minx Sunbeam-Talbot
Comma/ and Karrier Commercial Vehicles
