

Jl
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt con arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
113dd3S 30 asnOH 3HI
i?L m
X ■:
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST.. LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3737
Wednesday, September 26, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
NEWSTEAD ABBEY, WHERE POET BYRON LIVED HIS HAPPIEST HOURS
NEWSTEAD ABBEY, Nottinghamshire, the ancestral home of Lord Byron,
was originally a twelfth-century monastery founded by Henry 11, who
endowed it with a church and a large tract of land within the Forest of
Sherwood. At the time of the Dissolution of the Monasteries in the reign of
Henry VIII, Newstead came into the possession of the Byron family, who
converted some of the monastic buildings into a palatial residence.
The illustrious poet, Lord Byron, was born in 1788, his mother being
Catharine Gordon, of Gight, in Aberdeenshire, an heiress whose fortune her
husband squandered. At the age of six years Byron succeeded to the title
and to the estate at Newstead. - Here he was able to indulge in his favorite
pastimes of boating and bathing in the lake within the Abbey grounds. It
was in this expanse of water that his great-uncle, the “wicked Lord,” was
reputed to have thrown his lady in one of his fits of fury; she was rescued
by the gardener. A description of Newstead and the lake appears in Byron’s
unfinished “Don Juan”:
“Before the mansion lay a lucid lake,
Broad as transparent, deep, and freshly fed
By a river, which its soften’d way did take . .
From Newstead the future poet was sent to a preparatory school at
Dulwich, and later, m 1801, he entered Harrow, where he stayed for four
years, and where he was known throughout the school as the ringleader of
any possible mischief.
Byron resided at Newstead at intervals between 1806 and 1816, and in
1818 he sold the estate to his friend, Colonel Wildman. The mansion stands
today very much as the poet knew it. Over the cloisters, which are in a
perfect state of preservation, is a range of galleries which lead to the great
drawing-room, seventy-two feet in length, where may be seen a Gothic roof
decorated in 1633 by early Italian artists. Byron’s bedroom remains much as
he left it, and some relics of the great poet are exhibited. Lord Byron died
in 1824 in Greece, at the age of thirty-seven, and was buried at Hucknall
Torkard village church, near Newstead.


HT'l'Jil
RTfflnsSSiMl
w
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GET HEBE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name tv....
Address
(5.8.351) ......Age......
The Red Page
WALPOLE'S LETTERS.
As America may claim a special
interest in the Folio Society’s Letters of
Horace Walpole because the selection of
73 letters has been made by an American
scholar, W. S. Lewis, who was editor of
the Yale Edition, so may Australia, per-
haps, find some poignant local signific-
ance in at least one of the letters: that
which deals with the disembowelling of
Archie Cameron ... so barbarous were
English manners as late as 1753:
Cameron is executed, and died with the
greatest firmness. His parting with his wife
the night before was heroic and tender: he
let her stay till the last moment, when, being
aware that the gates of the Tower would be
locked, he told her so; so she fell at his
feet in agonies: he said, “Madam, this was
not what you promised me,” and, embracing
her, forced her to retire: then, with the
same coolness, looked at the window till
her coach was out of sight, after which he
turned about and wept. His only concern
seemed to be at the ignominy of Tyburn;
he was not disturbed at the dresser for his
body, or at the fire to bum his bowels.
The crowd was so great that a friend
who attended him could not get away, but
was forced to stay and behold the execu-
tion ; but what will you say to the minister
or priest who accompanied him? The
wretch, after taking leave, went into a
landau, where, not content with seeing the
Doctor hanged, he let down the top of the
landau for the better convenience of seeing
him embowelled.
But however pleasing it may be to
speculate on what dim ancestral con-
nection, if any, there may be between the
Speaker of the House of Representatives
and this earlier Archibald Cameron, who
was supposed to have been sent over by
the King of Prussia to organise a new
Jacobite rising, one does not, of course,
read Horace Walpole for his relevance to
our own age—except that men and
politics have not really changed very
much—but for the brilliance with which
he painted backstage politics and
literature in the 18th century and for a
certain cat-like grace of style and outlook
which has made him a minor classic.
Mr. R. W. Ketton-Cremer, the English
authority who writes the introduction to
the present selection, hopes that it will
help to dispel that unfortunate impression
of Walpole left by Macaulay, who re-
marked of his review of the letters “I
have laid it on Walpole so unsparingly
that I shall not be surprised if Miss Berry
should cut me.” He should rather have
observed, ‘I grew so interested in dis-
cussing the politics of Walpole’s father
that I forgot that I was supposed to be
writing about the son”—structurally, the
essay on the letters is one of Macaulay’s
worst.
In the opening section, before he was
carried away on the tide of his own volu-
bility, Macaulay does indeed “lay it on”
to Horace and his letters unsparingly and
with obvious injustice. Swelling with
rectitude—even when he changed sides
and defended the Restoration dramatists
—Macaulay loved to find a human weak-
ness in his authors and give them a
thorough moral trouncing for it; and
Walpole could do no right in his eyes. He
was not, like Boswell and Byron, a rake ;
but he did not take politics seriously ; and
so was “the most eccentric, the most
artificial, the most fastidious, the most
capricious of men The conformation
of his mind was such that whatever was
little seemed to him great, and whatever
was great seemed to him little.”
The reader of the letters will readily
forgive Walpole for this great crime; he
had seen enough of politics in his father’s
time, first of bribery and then of
treachery. If Macaulay finds him “vain”
and if, like most authors, he was indeed
pleased with his own works from time to
time, one remembers that he wrote to the
Rev. William Cole, “A page in a great
author humbles me to the dust, and the
conversation of those that are not
superior to myself reminds me of what
will be thought of myself.”
If Macaulay finds his literary judg-
ments “altogether perverted,” and if
sometimes they were, one remembers that
at least —and in the 18th century—he
wrote very well about Shakspeare’s
“touches of nature,” ptai s i n g his
simplicity and directness against “the
teeth-breaking diction of Johnson.” To
this day literary biography has not taken
fully into account, as it should, his in-
sistence that the poet Gray, for all his
“Elegy” and his moods of melancholy,
was essentially a humorous man:
Gray never wrote anything easily but
things of humor. Humor was his natural
and original turn—.and though from his
childhood he was grave, and reserved, his
genius led him to see things ludicrously and
satirically; and though his health and dis-
satisfaction gave him low spirits, his melan-
choly turn was much more affected than his
pleasantry in writing.
There remains to disconcert a modern
reader that cat-like touch in Walpole. He
tells malicious stories about women,
gossiping and tittering like some dis-
appointed old maid. But at least when he
was in Paris and free to give his malice
full scope it inspired some of the very
best of his letters; the brilliant portrait
of the Marechale de Luxembourg, for
instance, who “has been very handsome,
very abandoned, and very mischievous.
Her beauty is gone, her lovers are gone,
and she thinks the Devil is coming”—a
piece of description which goes beyond
mere gossip into the realms of art.
Besides, the felinity is only one aspect of
Walpole’s complex and sensitive nature,
in which the sense of responsibility which
Macaulay missed showed itself in his
determination to paint the manners of his
time for the information and the enter-
tainment of posterity, and which he did so
well that he stands, though a lightweight
by comparison, with Boswell and with
Pepys. Possibly the best of all his letters
in this selection is the description of the
funeral of George 11, in which, somewhat
before James Joyce and Henry Lawson,
he saw so much of the human comedy
that can enliven these solemn occasions.
The Folio Society (10 Ryder-street, St.
James’s, London, S.W.I) is apparently
publishing a series of illustrated editions
of the classics on the lines of Letters of
Horace Walpole, and the dust-jacket tells
you how you become a member of the
Society. This volume has Roman type
rather inartistically mixed with italic in
the preface and too many jarring capitals
in the footnotes, but is otherwise a very
pleasant production, beautifully bound.
Points on Pope.
One may pay Professor W. L. Mac-
Donald, a Canadian scholar who has
written Pope and His Critics (Dent), this
compliment: that he knows far too much
about Pope to have written a good book
about him.
The questions examined are: to what
extent did Pope deserve the reputation
of “malignant toad” which his contem-
poraries fastened on to him ; and to what
extent did the personal malice of his
enemies affect their judgment of his
poetry.
These questions seem to the present
reviewer largely academic, of little signi-
ficance for the present day; for surely
time has so securely established Pope’s
position as a prince of English satire
and a master of his particular kind of
versification that nobody today is likely
to worry very much about the attacks of
John Dennis; nor, at this distance, can
the belief, correct or otherwise, that
Pope was a “malignant toad” adversely
affect our opinion of his writing—in fact,
the more malignant he was the better
satirist he was likely to be.
What would, of course, still be signi-
ficant today would be a clear apprecia-
tion of Pope’s poetry, reinforced with
copious quotations, to reawaken interest
in it; or a lively biography, showing us
the man as he was, amiable and malig-
nant by turns, among his enemies ; or a
study on the lines of Professor Mac-
Donald’s, but .simpler, less cluttered with
detail, more generous in explanations for
the ordinary reader, more vivid in the
presentation of clashing personalities, de-
signed to show, with particular reference
to Pope, how a great man is always de-
rided by the envious.
Pope and His Critics does indeed move
on all these lines and deal with all these
themes. The courageous reader will find
Professor MacDonald extremely interest-
ing, for example, on the relation of
reader to writer, picture-lover to artist;
Augustan writers ignored an element that
should be taken into account when good
taste is postulated as the basis of good
criticism: the vivid perception of beauty
in a work of art by one who knows nothing
of technique or of the opinion of the right
people, but who, nevertheless, stands breath-
less in the presence of a noble picture, the
opening scene of “Hamlet,” a Beethoven
symphony, or even a sterling silver spoon
of chaste design. Such a person has in him
the essential character of the true critic.
His- perception of beauty is, in effect,
potentially a second act of creation: in his
admiration for the specific object of his
wonder he becomes in a sense its creator,
experiences some of the exhilaration of the
original creative artist, and is momentarily
stirred with the desire to fashion a similar
work of art.
And the same courageous reader, who
has struggled through a maze of person-
alities about whom he knows nothing
and about whom Professor MacDonald
never tells him enough, and who has
admired, while stumbling amongst them,
the 70 or more scholarly footnotes which
adorn every chapter, will find the pro-
fessor a little severe on Pope’s “Pastorals”
but admirable in his defence of “The
Rape of the Lock” from the charge that
it should have conveyed a moral; and,
generally, informative on all Pope’s
poetry.
So, too, may the reader balance for
himself Pope’s measure of benevolence
and malignancy by comparing the in-
genious mathematical tabulation by which
Professor MacDonald discovers that the
poet named 71 friends against 63 enemies
with the indubitable malignancy of the
lines on Lady Mary Wortley Montagu;
From furious Sappho scarce a milder fate,
P x’d by her love, or libell’d by her hate.
But the reader, other than the specialist
for whom the volume is primarily in-
tended, will undoubtedly find it formid-
able. It needs clarifying, dramatising,
selecting. Professor MacDonald never
takes all his mass of learned information
into his hands and says “Now I will
shape it into a book.”
"The Strong and the Weak."
The rise of Socialist and Communist
theory, that the welfare of the individual
is the complete responsibility of the
State, has been met by the extreme Con-
servative growl against people who
believe that “the world owes them a
living,” Between these two extremes,
Dr. Dora Peyser, in The Strong and the
Weak (Currawong), inserts a theory that
will strike many people with the force
of paradox: that from the earliest times,
and even among animals, kind has natur-
ally and instinctively assisted kind.
As with most theses, the one idea hav-
ing been stated, the rest is a set of facts
and arguments, for the most part
extremely sober; though for the sturdy
Briton it is something of a shock to find
that the father of Social Insurance was
Bismarck, 1881;
In 1881 the German Emperor, under
Bismarck’s guidance and advice, issued his
“Imperial Message,” announcing the first
social-insurance scheme. This proclamation
marks, in my opinion, the birthday of the
modem State’s creative co-operation in the
field of assistance. The political motive
behind it was the desire to promote internal
peace, in view of the conflict between the
State and the incipient Labor movement.
The German social-insurance system
was on a contributory basis. It was really
a compulsory insurance, with the State as a
third partner, besides employee and em -
ployer.... It covered sickness, old age and
invalidism, and accident in industry. Later,
unemployment was added.
Dr. Peyser demonstrates that the family
is the archetype of social assistance ; and
goes into the problem of the order in
which a social group faces the struggle
for existence: for instance;
The principle of sharing is stronger than
that of differentiation 1 can remember
times in Europe of extreme shortage when
milk was only given to children under a
certain age, and a small quantity at that.
In hardly any family I knew did this milk
go only to the small children. It was
usually in some form used by all. The
same happens with special rations for
expectant and nursing mothers.
When it comes to a real showdown—
“where the group’s existence is in danger,
the helpless members have to be
sacrificed”:
I was told of one of the Nazi concentra-
tion camps where there was some kind of
self-government. They had only a meagre
supply of food for the large number of
prisoners. A committee had the tragic task
of allocating this food. There were three
groups of inmates: children, adults able to
work, and the old and sick The largest
ration went to the children. The second
share went to the able-bodied adults, and a
miserable minimum to the old and sick.
Nobody had enough to eat. But an attempt
was made to save the children and to keep
the adults fit for work.
The book brings home to us the early
situation of the stranger:
In primitive society assistance was
restricted to the group. The stranger, the
outsider, could not expect any help. He
was regarded with fear and hostility. If he
was assisted, for instance with food, water
or shelter, he was usually adopted into the
group.
The Jewish moral code, Dr. Peyser
says, was the first to enjoin assistance to
the stranger within the gates; but
Christianity spread the theory of assist-
ance to strangers outside the gates, incit-
ing its adherents “to love the world in
God.” And because “only equal objects
can be organised,” State-organised assist-
ance still leaves plenty of scope for the
church, which can deal with individual
and special cases, and “has powers of
assistance of such intensity and vastness
that she often takes over responsibilities
with which other groups are unable to
cope.”
There is a chapter on U.N.R.R.A. and
other international organisations of
assistance, and a conclusion on the duties
and qualifications of the trained social-
worker.
Brains-truster's Thriller.
VVhen the chairman of a Brains Trust
writes a detective novel, we are liable
to expect the skilled assembling of
evidence and all the machinery of
academic demonstration, as in the works
of Dorothy Sayers and S. S. Van Dine.
But Mr. Allan Aldous, chairman of the
A.B.C. Brains Trust, has other models
f lic Lady s Eyes Were Green
(Skerangton); there is a Cheyneyish all-in
go between the amateur dick and a Mel-
bourne razor-slasher; and some of the
low-life venues are reminiscent of Sydney
Horler, notably the home of the Mel-
bourne two-up-school proprietor.
But, overall, there is a good, intricate
problem. A young ex-R.A.A.F. pilot
disappears during a commercial flight
over the Tasman ; the police find the
plane’s wreckage, and proof of sabotage,
whereupon they grill (metaphorically) the
beautiful young widow, and discover
that the young pilot had been previously
reported missing, on active service, that
she had married within three months of
this, and that on his reappearance he had
not taken it well.
Then it develops that the second
husband had been a disreputable
character, a keeper-of-company with a
radio-actress, and that the second
husband had had something to do with
the parcel in which the bomb was con-
veyed into the aeroplane. By the time
we are made aware of the relationship
between the second husband and the two-
up proprietor, and the beautiful widow
is suspected of the murder both of her
first husband and her second husband,
and then of the two-up proprietor, the
amateur detective is madly in love with
the radio actress—so that when we say
that the resolution of the mystery came
as a surprise, it will be realised, against
such a background, what a big surprise
it must have been.
"Aurora Australis."
Dear Red Page.—ln your issue of
5/9/ 51 you write: “It has been left to
the Hungarian community in Australia
to hit on what is probably the best title
yet found for an Australian magazine:
‘Aurora Australis’.” I thought I should
write to say that the title “Aurora
Australis” was adopted by the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College, of Croydon,
N.S.W , for its school publication away
back in 1893, and it is still published
under this title.
Only recently did we know of the pub-
lication under the same title by the
Hungarian Literary Society of Australia
and in regard to which correspondence
is now proceeding with Dr. Doczy. But
the real point I want to make in this
letter is to suggest that someone other
than the Hungarian community in Aus-
tralia-hit on what is probably the best
title yet found for an Australian
magazine,” With compliments and good
wishes —F. L. Thompson, chairman of
the council, Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
Croydon. A
IThe Red : Page acknowledges its error with
appropriate grief, and suggests that it probably
wouldn’t do any harm if both magazines retained
the title of “Aurora Australis,” for it would be
hard to imagine any two journals less likely to
come into competition with each other.]
"Golden Years."
Golden Years, published by the Vic-
torian Government to celebrate the cen-
tenary of the discovery of gold in Vic-
toria, is an exciting and excellently-told
story.
Victoria had 70,000 people, exclusive
of the vanishing aborigines, at the time
when the first great goldfield was dis-
covered and that event, by a coincidence,
occurred on almost the same day that
the State got its liberation from the loathly
tyranny of what The Bulletin used
to call the Ma State. In its golden heyday
Victoria was the world’s greatest gold-
producing area, and directly and indirectly
the long rush of goldseekers from every
country, but mainly from U.K., added a
million to the population. The
£321,000,000-worth of what the “Argus”
called the “virgin metal’’ also brought
momentary economic disaster to Mel-
bourne, shortages and famine, boom
palaces and bushrangers and a minor
attempt at a republic.
The admirable illustrations, most of
them drawn from the works of S. T. Gill,
Skinner Prout and other contemporary
artists, make a handsome showing. These
pictorial chroniclers depicted every aspect
of the revolution and did a good job a
job that only the photographer does now.
If the future historian has to depend on
modernistic art for his illustrations oi
present-day Melbourne he will curl up
and die.


•
grr*"*
■
Wk
;
X
he
B
: :
- :
■s
;?Xn.i
*>
;
8M
I ■
; lEE
X
m
MSmmm
iP-Jiw&l
Hi
it
a
■
■ill
■Hi
5”^ : : ; :;: i; : -E
i e-?:• ••
H i ■:
11 m.
11
m
■n
m
Ki
H
SMBIIIBI
. •
■
: ■ ■ ;
m
%*&;>* '
5
... ;■•:■
HHI
■
wm
m
m
mp
' * !
iff 13
I
m
m
m ' I
M
ii
HRiS
: ,- ; : .. . •;
, ; , ;V -
-m
«I
I
] r ‘.
■ • r i iii— ■
I ■
*w,.
M
: :W
I
■ ; ■
I
H B
Hi
■: - i wm.
■I
/ix v •■■" >■■■■'
1j.%
:<. \ v '
•.■; :■•-.- ■ '■
I:
■■• m Hi
V
m&Sa
m
■
■
::
.
HHB
BMIMIBM
■■■■„■•■■■■ -W
■ :■■■
fmr.
' ■ '. :
h|hl
m
mm
■::■ ■■■
.<:■
n
m
.'.. ■v-y-
-■■■■■Mi
H
X
■■HHiHHn
iv !>
■
H
--:
mmmry.y- ■ '■
V :. ■ -'■■■
Hi
* «*-** ; / .. . , /
A* ■* • * * . *, j
n
1 -
m *
m
Hi
>,> »
: v
‘r
lx..
-I*.- *-w
/ v
The Trout
are rising ... rising
The Trout season, as you will be aware, opens on Monday, October. Now is the time to examine your
and see that everything is in order for what promises to be a very good season. May we suggest
a visit to our Fishing Tackle Department situated on the Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
I
mt!
-r |
:,.i
Trout and Perch Flies
Red Spinner, Black Gnat, Olive Dun, Red Ant, White Moth, Cockybondhu, Coachman,
Royal Coachman, Zulu, Blue Dun, March Brown, Black Ant, Wickams Fancy, Red Tag, Black Hackle,
Olive Quill, Pale Evening Dun, Hardys Favourite, Water Cricket, Brown Beetle, Greenwells Glory,
Silver Doctor, Burrenjuck Wonder. Dry flies, priced at 12/- dozen; Wet flies, priced at 9/- dozen.
Plastic Fly Box, priced at 4/11 each.
Cruises Diver Bait for perch, 2|in.,
priced at 5/6.
Cruises Jitterbug or Tango Bait, 2Jin.,
priced at 4/-.
Fishing Bag. Six compartments, priced
at £7/10/-.
Fishing Creels, leather bound, 12in.,
priced at 47/6; 16in., priced at 67/6.
Bellbrook fresh water spinner, Sin. for perch.
Priced at 10/9.
Baby Fly Spinner for Trout or Perch. Size I,
priced at 2/-.
Vj
It i
w
ŵ
ẁ
FISHING TACKLE—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE: M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


• -< : 111,.
CARELESSNESS DID THIS!
1
d
ii
r
lm}h
w
ill:
p^o»
hove
\d
it
a
COW
an* 6
prev
As long as there is human carelessness there will be
fires. You can’t prevent fires. But you can prevent
them from spreading and causing material damage—
with Grinnell Protection.
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers control a fire
whenever and wherever it strikes, night or day,
automatically, without fail. Competent authorities all
over the world have attested that it is the surest way.
That’s why Grinnell Protected buildings carry a
rebate of up to 50 per cent, on Fire and Loss of Profits
insurance premiums.
If your business or property is not Grinnell
Protected today—you’re carrying a grave risk. Why
wait for fire to strike? Wormald Brothers experienced
engineers will help you plan protection for your specific
risk.
A complete fire protection service is maintained
by Wormald Brothers at all branches throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
Automatic Sprinkler
and Fire Alarm System
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Wellington, Auckland
and Branch Offices at
Broken Hill, Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin, Christchurch
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. STEELBILT LIMITED


The Bulletin
Vol. 72—No. 3737
Wednesday, September 26, 19S1
TIME TO GET OUT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE KING.
The official statement on the surgical
operation, which emphasised the King’s
obviously dangerous sickness, was:
Whilst anxiety must remain for some
days, the King’s immediate post-operative
condition is satisfactory.”
These carefully-chosen words were to
be read in the light of an operation on
the lung which his Majesty’s doctors ad-
vised should be undertaken without delay,
and the summoning of the whole Royal
Family to London. Clearly the bulletin
after the protracted examination of the
lung—that “a structural alteration” had
taken place—referred to a condition in
the medical view highly anxious; and
then the use of the term “re-section” to
describe the operation performed on
Sunday meant that at least part of the
lung had been removed.
There can be no minimising the gravity
of these medical statements, and the deep
concern and sympathy they arouse have
gripped people in every part of the British
Commonwealth.
All Win—Except Australia.
The tendency of Australian voters has
always been to deny fresh powers to the
Commonwealth Government —only four
of 11 previous referenda had been
carried. The Communist referendum,
however, was one which might have been
expected to be carried. The proposal
put forward did not involve any novelty
in government or the creation of any
new powers in government. The electors
were merely asked to agree to the transfer
of powers which the States already
possess to the Commonwealth so that
they might be applied to the defence of
the Commonwealth—and its electors —
in a period of stress and peril.
Four of the States had been willing to
transfer those powers. The Government
had been returned to office only a few
months ago with a mandate to deal with
the Communists, and with the full know-
ledge of the electors that if it were
returned it would ask for the powers
which it did ask for under the
referendum. Three months ago the
Gallup polls were estimating that 80 per
cent, of the voters were in favor of the
legislation proposed by the Government.
Yet ever since there has been a drift, and
when the electors eventually were called
upon to vote they denied the Government
the authority which it believes it needs
to deal with Communism.
Mr. Menzies says he believes the
electors voted honestly, but that they
were the victims of a “wicked and un-
scrupulous campaign.” Never has a posi-
tion been put more accurately. Wicked
and unscrupulous it was. And Mr.
Menzies might have added that it was
also frightening as a demonstration of
how utterly false is “Labor’s” denial that
it has any association with Communism.
It is not the first time that it has been
shown how closely the two parties can
associate when the Communists of the
great trade-unions which form the core
of “Labor” are in danger and how on
such occasions they speak with one voice.
On the “No” side the result of the
unfinished count was described by Dr.
Evatt as having “saved civil liberties” —
a phrase which, like most of the arresting
phrases which he used to frighten
electors, came straight out of the lexicons
of Communism. It had been an axiom
during the campaign that what the
Cominform organ in Bucharest said one
week the Australian Communist party
said next week, and Dr. Evatt and his
“ex”-Communist bosses of the A.L.P. the
week after.
Whatever “civil liberties” Dr. Evatt
has saved have not been those of Aus-
tralia or its people. Actually he succeeded
in denying the Commonwealth the liberty
to deal with an insidious enemy planted
in the very heart of its industrial defence
system. The only people for whom he
“saved” anything are the Communists,
against whose treasonable operations he
himself was compelled to legislate in
order to prevent them from sabotaging
the Rocket Range project, and whom he
then described as operating “for the sole
purpose of defeating the Australian
defence policy in the interests of a
foreign Power.”
He has saved the “civil liberty” of
these people to conspire treasonably, and
to use the trade-unions to commit
sabotage in war industries. He has saved
liberty of action in sedition for an
organisation whose head is Mr. Sharkey,
fresh from jail, where even a “Labor”
Government felt compelled to have him
immured for advocating on behalf of the
Communist party that if Russia should
invade this country Australians should
turn traitor and welcome the enemy. He
has preserved the civil liberty of a body
which cynically says that it will only obey
the law when it serves its ends, which
rejects patriotism as a bourgeois vice,
which admits that its objective is the
violent overthrow of the State, civil war
and the destruction of all classes which
dare to oppose its insurrectionary plans.
He has secured for this party a con-
tinuance of its right to organise spying
for the U.S.S.R.
At the Royal Commission on Com-
munism in Victoria in 1949 the party
about whose “civil liberties” Dr. Evatt
has been so concerned did not attempt to
deny that it had sent the plans of an
Australian anti-submarine device to
Moscow just before World War 11. And
in June, 1940, it could not deny that, at
the most perilous moment in the history
of the British Commonwealth, when the
Scandinavian countries were being
attacked, it was advising its members to
infiltrate civil defence for the purpose of
spying ; that it was collecting informa-
tion about A.I.F. units for transmission
abroad, and that it was circulating advice
from the Comintern —then working for
Hitler’s Germany, which had given it a
haven in Vienna to which it had trans-
ferred its headquarters from Mosbow —
asking Australians to sabotage the war
effort. It could not deny these things
because its agents were convicted of them
in a court.
Moreover, Dr. Evatt and his associates
(in conjunction with the Communist party
itself) have saved the civil liberty of
Comrade Joseph Stalin to soften up this
country for his purposes and for those of
the Chinese and North Koreans, who, on
referendum day, as for a year past, had
been killing young Australians in the first
phase of World War 111. And in the
campaign whereby they have done it
there has been inherent a set presumption
that it is not the Communists, the agents
of our foreign enemy, who are the
Fascists, the bloodthirsty warmongers, the
totalitarians, the people who should be
anathema to all decent people, but that
those who should be the subject of
universal detestation and horror among
their fellow-citizens are the Menzies
Government and its supporters, who have
been intent on defending this country
against people whom Dr. Evatt has him-
self admitted to be traitors.
Dr. Evatt is welcome to what satisfac-
tion he can get in saving “civil liberties”
for the kind of people he has saved them
for —traitors, saboteurs, organisers of
violence. And so are the soft-shelled
clergy who interfered in the campaign
and who, existing in their offices ex-
clusively as promoters of the moral law
and belief in God, are now being laughed
at by way of thanks by those for whose
“civil liberty” they have been pleading—
those Communists whose dicta were
quoted by Mr. Justice Lowe, Royal
Commissioner in Victoria in 1949:
In what sense do we deny ethics,
'morals? In the sense which.... deduces
these morals from God's Commandments.
Of course we say we do not believe in
God: We know perfectly well that the
clergy speak in the name of God to pro-
tect their interests as exploiters... .We
deny all morality taken from superhuman
or non-class conceptions. We say that
this is a deception, a swindle, a befogging
of the minds of the workers and peasants
in the interests of the landlords and capi-
talists. We say that morality is wholly
subordinated to the interests of the class
struggle of the proletariat.
There may yet be a time not far
distant when both Dr. Evatt and his
clerical supporters may deeply regret their
enthusiasm for the preservation of the
“civil liberties” of an association which
accepted its charter openly from Moscow
on the express condition of its promoting
insurrection, treason and the replacement
of Australian democracy by a ruthless
dictatorship—one, in their own words,
“based on violence and untrammelled by
law.”
At this stage Dr. Evatt has won. The
Communists have won. Dr. Burgmann,
Bishop Moyes and the wandering Rev.
Soper also have won. “Civil liberties” —
for treasonmongers —have won. Comrade
Stalin has won. And so in a sense has
Mr. Menzies, for he has the satisfaction
of knowing that he has tried faithfully to
do a duty utterly distasteful to his nature
but which he came reluctantly to believe
necessary. That is a satisfaction wholly
denied to Dr. Evatt, whose campaign was
the most specious and dishonest and
hysterical fought by the leader of a great
political party in recent years.
About the only element concerned in
the polling which has not won something,
in fact, is the Australian people. Be-
cause a section of it has allowed itself to
be intimidated or frightened or persuaded
into following Dr. Evatt and his Com-
munist beneficiaries the grip of what Dr.
Evatt’s esteemed (though of recent weeks
very silent) colleague, Mr. Sol Rosevear,
describes as “the leprous hand” of Com-
munism has by the referendum results
been tightened on Australia’s defences.
Paying the Price.
In the vanguard of the array of hard
facts now asserting themselves with the
Australian public are these, presenting a
common and unmistakable feature:
Wool prices are still unsteady and the
erstwhile luxurious Australian export in-
come from staples is contracting severely.
The real-estate market has weakened.
Other property markets —the Stock Ex-
change and Government loan Issues—are
registering the same trend.
The retail trade is going tbrcOgh ils
sharpest setback since the end of the war.
Bank advances have been tightened, and
the coming Eederal Budget may tighten
them again.
Even a 20 per cent, rise in Government
interest rate for the last loan did not get
£40,000,000 sought for Government works
programmes.
It is more than two years since the late
Mr. Chifley, Prime Minister of the policy
of cheap money and lots of it, declared
that “the honeymoon is over.” But he
did not behave as though he meant it,
and the country at large paid no attention
to his words. The “Labor” party was
then, and is still, without a policy save
that of high wages and less work to be
assured by Socialistic controls and the
government of the country under the
trade-unions. During the past four years
two general elections and two referendum
campaigns have presented open political
brawls over any question of correcting
the economic drift and Socialist efforts to
befog every political question with the
claim that easy times can be assured for
ever by the simple expedient of legislat-
ing for fixation of commodity prices at
home and the passing of fancy resolutions
at U.N.O. meetings abroad.
The bottom is now falling out of all
that. At home the era of the “milk-bar
economy” is on its last legs. All that
easy money has done for a money-drunk,
work-shy post-war generation is to bump
up competition for an insufficiency of
consumer-goods and establish vested
interests in a roaring blackmarket. Gov-
ernments and private citizens alikp have
during the past six years spent as though
all that mattered was the volume of
paper-money at command and not its
value. Those most vocal on every poli-
tical stump for prices-control as the
panacea of “ending inflation” were them-
selves the original boosters of inflation
as both the vehicle of “national develop-
ment” and the surest means of “soaking
the rich.” In such an atmosphere high
moral appeals for a united effort to
“restore value to the pound” became a
mere football of party politics, and warn-
ings that frugality and harder work are
the only means of correcting the infla-
tion boom were simply crying down the
wind.
The common feature of the develop-
ments cited above is that cheap money
has come to an end, and the restriction
of bank credit—which all political parties
agree is necessary to combat inflation —
is compelling the public to attach more
value to the cash at its disposal. That
itself may do more than any political
exhortations of the past to “put value
back into the pound.” The failure of the
latest “security loan” is being attributed
to several causes, including resentment
against the Commonwealth Treasurer for
the way he bit investors’ ears over the
previous loan ; but when it is put along-
side the drop in real property auction
values. Stock Exchange falls, and the
marking-down in the softgoods shops, it
seems that the primary cause is the
tightening-up of the average citizens
purse-strings.
Undoubtedly the big money-earners of
recent years, the woolmen, are now
economising. Apart from the wool slump
(still a relative term by comparison with
all pre-war years) they know from experi-
ence that a drought-cycle must be 12
months nearer than it was a year ago.
As for the ordinary citizen, he is having
his credit-resources restricted and has
been warned that taxation must go
up to pay for rearmament and enhanced
social services which are his political
bread-and-butter. He is fed-up with high
prices and is hearing world-wide advice
(including that from a leading Socialist
Minister in the British Government) to
stop buying in order to bring prices down.
He is buttoning-up his pocket either
because he no longer has the money to
spend or he has decided to try the effect
of holding off from buying. It is a safe
bet that he has not entirely missed the
premonitions of cheaper prices to come
from restored German and Japanese
trading competition.
The falling wool returns and the under-
subscription of the loan for the financing
of State Government works will greatly
complicate Treasurer Fadden’s Budget,
due this week. Last year’s awkward
Budget hurdle—the obligation to pay out
some £7O million of military deferred
pay—is followed this year by the require-
ment to repay to woolgrowers some £lOB
million of .1.0. profits and wool-levy
money under the stabilisation scheme
recently rejected by the industry. Only
a few weeks ago there was airy talk about
“budgeting for a surplus” with a Budget
for the first time touching £lOOO million
With the greatly-reduced wool cheque
for taxation in 1952-53 and the certainty
that revenue-receipts will have to meet a
heavier drain for defence works, there
will have to be some hefty pruning of
expenditure if Budget surpluses are to
be kept in the Treasurer’s picture.
All the hullabulloo from the Evatt
party against both cutting the swollen
Commonwealth public service by 10,000
temporary hands and increased taxation
can be dismissed as frivolous. The first of
the seven Australian Governments to take
action on both these lines is the McDonald
Government in Victoria, which exists
only by control of its every move by the
“Labor” party. Early last week Premier
McDonald announced that on top of
heavy increases in State taxes bis Cabinet
had decided to dismiss nearly 6000 Gov-
ernment employees. His complaint
earlier that Budget retrenchment was
forced on him because the Menzies Gov-
ernment would not assist him with special
credits was rudely answered by the public
in the failure of the recent loan for
State works. Somehow production in
basic industries has got to be increased
in this country, and hands wasted in non-
reproductive employment, especially in
the swollen ranks of Government depart-
ments, must be diverted to essential
work.
The governor of the Commonwealth
Bank (in his annual report) adds that
Australia is unlikely to be able to sustain
the big volume of imports of recent years,
and that the level of production costs at
home must be reduced.
Falling markets, falling Government
loan investments, declining taxation
resources all tell the same story of insuf-
ficient production. Money-power is fail-
ing, too, because there are not enough
coal, steel, cement or transport services.
All the world is feeling the pinch, but
in other industrial countries, among
whose ranks Australia aims to be counted
for investment —in U.S.A., Britain,
France and most war - devastated
European States —post-war production in
essential industries is rising fast to meet
increased demands of home and foreign
custom. Only here is man-hour output
in shameful contrast to that of pre-war
performances. Only here have coal and
steel output, the bases of all industrial
output, been cut by the 40-hour week to
a travesty of the volume necessary to
meet the country’s needs, let alone any
export margin; and there arc no other
ports in the world where trading ships
are so shamelessly marooned at anchor
through the economic follies of the
unions which control their servicing.
If shortage of buying-power added to
shortage of goods is awakening the public
to the falsities of the whole economic
position, the ultimate outcome should be
all for the good, though there may be
much hardship on the way. The pro-
tracted obstruction by “Labor’ of every
effort for reform means that a political
party representing half the electorate is
determined that the lesson shall be learned
in no other fashion.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Evatt's Fighting Win.
Leaving out all other considerations, full
credit is due to Dr. Evatt for a fighting
campaign.
He began it weeks before the other side
fired a shot, and he was still going after
they had finished. Immediately the
referendum was launched he took the
initiative in the fight; he held it to the
end, vigorously campaigning in every
State, and by sheer personal earnestness
and force making the other side’s effort
in general look careless and lethargic.
If such things as public-opinion polls
are approximately reliable what the
fighting campaigner accomplished was to
swing an 80 per cent. Yes intention round
to a winning No majority. Irrespective
of methods, motives and the ultimate
national effects of the campaigning, that
remains a considerable personal success.
Even in the elections which established
them as a Government in Senate and
Representatives the Liberal-Country side
invited the charge of taking things too
easy. They won their mandate to govern,
but they lost a seat or two, and they
learnt nothing.
The referendum should have wakened
them up to two things at least: that the
fight is to the keen; and, if they did not
know it already, that in Dr. Evatt the
Socialist-Communist combine has for
leader as dangerous a politician as the
opponents of the one-party State here
have had to face
The Commos 1 Part.
Commos were deadly quiet during the
referendum campaign, for the very good
reasons that the Evatt party were doing
the “No” work for them and the “joint
action” arrangements between official
“Labor” and its Communist allies obvi-
ously required that the latter should,
while passing up the ammunition, keep
well out of sight.
On the occasion of one or two excep-
tions to this order the results were im-
pressive. Down in the township of
Heywood (population 900) in the corner
between Portland and the S.A. border,
right out of the track of political inter-
course, Communist secretary Bird, of the
Victorian Seamen’s Union, ventured to
address an open-air meeting from a latest-
model Chev. truck. News of his coming
ran ahead of him and the local public
awaited him with a tin of rotten eggs.
At the first words “Good evening,
friends!” pandemonium started.
The barrage of rotten eggs died off
when a member of the visiting party ran
to the crowd and kicked the tin over ; but
others then dug up the good earth and
the clod-barrage put an end to the meet-
ing. Comrade Bird started up the truck
and fled for the bush, to the chorus from
local Diggers that if he came back he
would be tarred and feathered.
The other intrusion was by Communist
Healy at a meeting at Wickham Park,
Brisbane, which the Press widely reported.
He said he knew, “from the position I
hold,” where the ships were and the
wharfies were “almost certain” to ban
Japanese imports (including, incidentally,
steel and cement, both in short supply
through Communist sabotage of produc-
tion in Australia). Next day Healy denied
he had said it; that the matter had “not
yet been considered” by his executive,
which would define any policy in due
course.
No doubt about what happened. Com-
rade Healy had broken the agreement
with the Evatt party that no Commo
should be seen or heard for sake of the
“No” case. This was also the technique
for taking over by the Reds in Czecho-
slovakia, and the Socialists fell for it
there, too.
British Elections.
On St. Crispin’s Day, anniversary of the
date when the English archers won Agin-
court with the cry of “God for Harry,
England and St. George,” the Attlee
Ministry will go to the polls to resolve
the virtual stalemate from the polling of
18 months ago and to clear its own con-
fused deck.
No doubt the defection of the Bevan
section, the exhaustion of leading
Ministers during 11 gruelling years, and
the disillusionment of the party generally
from the long chase after the mirage of
the Socialist utopia, must all be accounted
factors in Mr. Attlee’s decision that the
Government’s position is too unstable to
last out its five-year term or anything
like it.
Stafford Cripps was obliged to confess
‘hat the gilt was off the gingerbread before
be left the Treasury, broken in health.
His successor revealed only a few weeks
ago that “redistribution of wealth” was
virtually at an end until somebody
created more wealth to redistribute. The
Blackpool Trade Union Congress demon-
strated the refusal of the unions—Ernest
Bevin no longer there to curb them —to
consent further to the standstill in wages,
which was the Government’s sheet-anchor
against the rising wind of high prices. And
Marshall Aid from U.S.A. is almost due
to dry up.
There is still strong public support for
the “welfare State”; but the Conser-
vatives have never made “social security”
a party issue, and with that matter the
really bitter bone of contention —the
nationalisation of the steel industry at a
time when its production-performance
was the mainstay of British trade recovery
—had no relation.
Inevitably, however, these elections
must turn on other issues as well as
those of the home front. The long-
expected crisis in the relations between
the North Atlantic treaty partners (headed
by U.S.A.) and the Communist Eurasian
bloc is coming to a head, and no develop-
ment has been more damaging to the
cause of world-peace than the decline of
British power and authority in inter-
national society. An Anglo-American
understanding, with the closest co-opera-
tion in securing resistance to the Com-
munist threat of another world-war, is
the only hope of Western civilisation.
However much the difficulties between
Washington and the British Socialist
Ministry have been glossed over, there is
obviously little prospect of co-operation
between the Americans who have been
thrust into leadership of a free world
rearming against Communist aggression
and a Socialist Government in Britain
run by the Bevans and the Daltons.
The Attlee Government’s conduct of
the Persian crisis seems to have been the
last straw.
Mr. Hasluck and the Abo.
New Minister for Territories Paul
Hasluck, who has shown a sure touch in
getting down to work, made an excellent
move in the appointment of former
Westralian Premier Wise as Northern
Territory Administrator, irrespective of
the appointee’s being a Labor man.
It placed Territorian affairs in the
hands of one thoroughly experienced in
the north and thoroughly conversant with
the kind of “Labor” official with whom
he will have to deal when he comes into
contact with the North Australian
Workers’ Union, a hotbed of Com-
munism.
Nobody is likely to envy Mr. Wise his
task, but all will wish him well, and under
his hand it should soon become clear
whether it is possible to restore normal
communications with the south and
replace colonisation by civil servant with
colonisation by producers and workers.
At present there is little industry in
Darwin apajt from gambling and selling
to public servants and the interior, and
little industry in the interior that would
not be on a poor level if the prices of
primary products were not in the skies.
A second matter on which Mr. Hasluck
has been active is the native problem,
and a Commonwealth and States confer-
ence held at Canberra early this month
defined a policy which covers agree-
ment on most issues of controversies of
the past few years.
In principle aborigines are now to be
regarded as Australian citizens in the full
sense, but “persons to whom special
legislation applies are wards of the State
who, for the time being, stand in need of
guardianship and who should auto-
matically cease to be wards when they
are able to assume the full citizenship to
which they are entitled.” It was agreed
to recommend amendments in existing
legislation so that the law will apply only
to those classes which need State
guardianship or tutelage—a wise move.
Health care is to be systematised by
provision of a sick-bay and trained nurse
at every mission, and missions and Gov-
ernment stations will be expected to have
sufficient personnel with medical know-
ledge for accident and prevalent-disease
treatment. Defaulting missions will lose
their licences ; Government abo. stations
will be subject to the direction of the
Native Affairs Department.
An educational policy now to be
adopted provides for assimilation of
aboriginal children into State schools
when their standard permits, and where
it is necessary to provide schools the
standards of these will be those of white
schools, plus facilities to teach rural and
pastoral work, trades ' and crafts,
domestic science and the use and value
of money. Special farms for training in
outback areas are mooted ; there are to
be facilities to provide employment for
children reaching working age and for
higher education through scholarships for
those capable of taking advantage of it.
Also provision for equal rights of
employment and equal wage and
privileges of trade-union memberships,
where the abo. is free of wardship. State
wards will have their minimum wages
and conditions fixed by the controlling
authority, along with standards of
accommodation and health facilities.
The native problem will not be settled
until Binghi has been completely assimi-
lated into the general population. And
there are many tribes, now fast
dwindling, whose mental standard is so
near that of the cavemen that with them
extinction will probably beat civilisation.
But there are some tribes, such as the
Arunta, capable of high mental develop-
ment and multiplication of numbers.
These might one day provide more
abundant populations for our desert
interior if they are nursed along.
At any rate there is now a unified
national policy.
Great on Ceremonies.
In the Act which constituted the N.S.W.
University of Technology it is set out that
the objects are “(u) to provide facilities
for higher specialised instruction and ad-
vanced training in the various branches
of technology and science in their appli-
cation to industry and commerce ; and
( b ) to aid by research and other suitable
means the advancement, development
and practical application of science to
industry and commerce.”
The wanderer in the Kensington
district of Sydney in the last year or so
might have noticed a low brick rampart
on the old “Kenso” racecourse. That’s
the N.S.W. University of Technology,
announced with as much blare by the
McGirrs as were their Awaba coalmine
and their Electricity Commission. Just
as much technology has come out of
“Kenso” as coal out of Awaba or power
out of the Electricity Commission.
But a lot of money has gone into it.
The N.S.W. Auditor-General finds that
for the year ended June 30, 1950, the
thing cost £50,992, the largest item being
salaries and staff charges of £36,414,
though the blank brick walls at “Kenso”
haven’t yet seen a professor or a student.
And though the A.-G. notes that of the
£4265 charged to travelling expenses
£3898 was “incurred in bringing members
of the professorial staff from overseas,”
it is doubtful if any of them know just
where the scene of their endeavors is
situated.
Still, the N.S.W. taxpayer should be
comforted by the knowledge that at least
two items in the year’s cost won’t be re-
peated—£27o for a “foundation-stone”
and £147 for “inauguration” ceremonies.
The McGirrs are great layers of
foundation-stones and holders of in-
auguration ceremonies, but what the
people get out of it all is another matter
—they certainly don’t get butter and
electricity.
Songs of Yesteryear.
Old dogs, in addition to being reputedly
better than young ones at negotiating
hard roads, are notoriously difficult to
teach new tricks. It is therefore not sur-
prising to find Senator Donald Cameron,
Postmaster-General in the last “Labor”
Government, still going through the
routines he learnt in the long ago.
There have never been any half-tones in
Donald’s picture of society; like the
children at play, he deals in only goodies
and baddies —the former being “the
workers,” still down-trodden and de-
fenceless and with their faces ground in
the dirt, and the latter the capitalists, the
bankers, the bosses and, of course, their
hireling representatives the Liberal and
Country parties. The tolerance which the
mellowing influence of advancing years
sometimes brings to fiery crusaders is not
for Donald ; in his seventies the one-time
secretary of the Victorian Socialist party
sings the same ranting song he favored
in his prime.
He sang it at a Melbourne meeting of
public servants convened to protest
against the Federal Government’s reduc-
tion of departmental staffs. The burden
of the ballad tells of a sinister plot to
bring about a depression. The Menzies
Government, it seems, has had secret dis-
cussions with private bankers at which
they decided on a depression so that
“leading creditors” can reap “a rich
financial harvest.” The way the reapers
will garner in their harvest from the
fields of sin is “by reducing wages,
salaries and pensions to the lowest
possible level.” The old trouper went on
to relate how “a similar secret confer-
ence was held in the 1930’s when the
Commonwealth Bank Board and the
associated bank boards conspired to
bring about the depression.”
That old ballad telling how the Aus-
tralian banks engineered a depression
which this country shared with every
other in the world has been exploded so
often that the Performing Rights Associa-
tion should do something about getting
it expunged from the song-book, while
the suggestion that they are plotting to
do the same thing again should be
treated as barefaced plagiarism. Singers
of advancing years are entitled to be
treated with respect so long as they enjoy
their memories in private. When they are
tempted into public performance they
deserve all they get.
The Fate of One—Smith.
“C.S.”: “In the latter days a man
named Smith was sitting in the water.
The water was not deep but it showed
signs of rising.” About 40 years ago
The Bulletin’s James Edmond began
an article with those words and it turned
out that Smith was sitting in the water
because there was nowhere else to sit, all
the land having been dug and farmed,
and washed and cropped, and otherwise
dealt with by man until it had all eroded
away and left Smith nothing dry on
which to sit.
The article was part history and part
prophecy and was written with a wry
humor. It is easy to be humorous about
a prophesied disaster when the humorist
feels certain that the event is too far
ahead to involve the prophet or his
immediate descendants. But were
Edmond alive today he’d have been
appalled to realise that scientists, econo-
mists, agriculturists and other people
hold that the very disaster Edmond fore-
cast is actually happening.
After reviewing man’s history on the
earth, Edmond went on:
The nineteenth century was a turning-
point in the world's history. During that
century the world threw the old order
of things overboard and started afresh
It devised the idea that unless the human
race increased all the time something
dreadful would happen. It began to be
troubled about the Birth-rate In great
haste there were invented drains, sanitation,
hygiene, improved medical science, and all
manner of new departures. And truly the
inventors had their reward —how vast
nobody appeared to realise at the moment.
England and Wales possessed 8,000,000
inhabitants at the beginning of the 'nine-
teenth century—as the accumulation of
countless asons of history and all the time
previous to history. But when the nineteenth
century ended, the same little kingdom had
32,000,000, and it was still lamenting about
its Birth-rate In 100 years it added to
itself three times as many people as it had
previously done in all the innumerable
caravan of the ages....
After remarking that if the U.K. popu-
lation had increased at that rate since
Edward the Confessor it would have been
520,000 million by 1900, and that if the
birth- and death-rate continued as in
1910, within 400 years the U.K. would
have 8000 million, Edmond pointed out
that most of the European States were
increasing population at greater rates. So
much so that each became alarmed about
the other and hastened to still further
increase its own.
In the year 1800 there was no State in
the world so crowded that it could not
grow enough food for its own consumption.
A hundred or 110 years later there is hardly
a State in Europe which does not depend
largely on imported food, and the countries
from which the food is imported are filling
so rapidly that it is plain they will soon
require all their foodstuffs for themselves.
Well, only 40 years after that was
written Australia is being told that if it
goes on increasing population at the
present rate it will have to import food
very shortly. But from where? Edmond
had a thought about that:
There were, of course, undeveloped coun-
tries from which supplies of food might
be looked for later on But the age of
philanthropy and missionary enterprise hap-
pened along [aye, groundnuts in Africa
and teaching New Guinea natives to develop
their land]. The white man reached a stage
of development at which he couldn’t keep
still. He resolved to wash and drain and
uplift his brown brother... .and the results
exceeded his most sanguine expectations.
And Edmond instanced Java, 4,000,000
people in 1801, 33,000,000 in 1901, with
similar instances in all the white colonial
possessions and also in those Asiatic
countries which adopted Western ways, as
Japan, India and Russia. He apparently
missed the point that in that same century
excess Europeans flooded into North
America until today there are probably
200 million people between Panama and
Alaska, still multiplying.
The result of all this, as Edmond saw
and as is now being demonstrated, is that
the earth has been exploited more and
more for food to feed these multitudes
and will have to be exploited more and
more, and the more science comes into
it the more people will breed. He even
foresaw what we’ve been reading about
recently—attempts to reach other planets
from our overcrowded globe. And his
forecast of a universal war that
{Continued on next page.)


[For referendum matter requiring signature,
David Adams, of 252 George-street, Sydney, i»
responsible.]
&
4204
craven*
7tev#i faiu/
CABRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION TOR QUALITY
w
slaughtered millions but did little to halt
the ruinous process bears a strange re-
semblance to the foreseeable shape of
World War III —if and when it comes.
And so, in the end, he comes back to
Smith, the last man left alive, with all
the earth eaten away, as it were, and only
the seas left and nothing for Smith to do
but put “a seaweed garland round his
hat” and wade out into deeper places.
Edmond called the tale “A Fool and
His Inheritance,” and suggested that good
management could have prevented the
earth from becoming a dead planet with
even “its ghosts homeless among the
stars.” Perhaps it isn’t too late yet for
good management to step in; it must be
about the premises somewhere —if it can
only get a hearing.
POLITICAL POINTS
More than 50 per cent, of the electors
voted against giving the Government
power to take the Communists off their
backs. Truly, Australians are gluttons for
punishment.
It is easy enough after the event to
find reasons for the defeat of the refer-
endum, but when they are all added up
they still don’t make sense. Dissatis-
faction with the Menzies Government,
a tendency to blame it for not stopping
inflation, acceptance of the canard that a
“Yes” vote meant a vote for a police-
State, reluctance of States’-righters to give
the Federal Government any further
powers, reaction to the Government’s
reduction of p.s. staff, an ingrained habit
of voting “No” —all these, and more, in-
fluences were doubtless concerned, but
they don’t make up a logical explanation
why the electors who only five months
ago returned a Government pledged to
hold a referendum on banning the Com-
munist , party should reject the Govern-
ment’s proposals.
One thing is clear, however—the indus-
trial cities voted “No.” Those under the
direct influence of the Communist-led
unions most strongly ; the rest of Aus-
tralia voted strongly in favor of “Yes.”
The “Yes” position was at its worst with
only 46.82 per cent, at 11.1.5 p.m. on
Saturday night when nearly all the
industrial-area votes were in, and from
then onward till Sunday night “Yes”
polled 57.29 per cent. Another striking
demonstration of the fact that the
destiny of 3,000,000 square miles of the
Commonwealth is basically determined
by the spoilt and crowded denizens of a
few hundred square miles of city areas
who batten on the regions which grow
wool, wheat, dairy products and meat
from which our export income is derived.
The Doc. may well congratulate him-
self on the result of the poll, and his party
has him to thank more than anyone for
Saturday’s win. Whether it will still feel
like thanking him a year or two hence
only time will tell.
“Labor” will no doubt face today’s
opening of Parliament in more jubilant
mood than for many a long day. The
more exuberant of the boys will be wise
not to be too cock-a-hoop; the Doc.,
of course, will realise that they are cele-
brating a triumph for British justice, but
those of their colleagues who didn’t take
part in the campaign may think the re-
joicing is over the saving of the Comrades’
skins.
Evatt should be magnanimous in
victory and explain to Menzies how the
Reds can be dealt with under the Crimes
Act. At the same time he could explain
why he has pledged himself to have that
Act repealed.
Two contributing factors to the “No”
victory—red herrings and Russian salmon.
After 18 months of hesitancy Britain’s
Prime Minister Attlee has given up trying
to govern with a scarcely-visible majority,
and there is to be a general election on
October 25. Clem’s broadcast announce-
ment of the election said that he con-
sidered the time had come “to ask the
electors for a renewal of confidence in
the Government, and to give it adequate
Parliamentary support to deal with the
important issues with which the country
is faced at home and abroad.” The
phrase “renewal of confidence” is rather
choice.
In plain truth Altlee realises that in
Britain Socialism has come to the end of
I the road. The Utopia promised in 1945
is as far off as ever, and the saner ones
within the party know in their hearts that
their credo is not the infallible thing they
were brought up to believe it. Those
with consciences and a sense of responsi-
bility are ready to call a halt, but find
themselves frustrated by fanatics of the
Bevan mentality who are prepared to
wreck the party and the country rather
than admit that their dreams are
dreams.
When Socialism came to power in 1945
the Attlees had a majority of 140, and
when they went to the country four-and-
a-half-years later they could boast that in
the 52 by-elections held in that period
they had not lost a single seat. What
they did not advertise was the declining
Labor vote recorded in every by-election
—where the former member had been a
Labor man the party won all right, but
far less comfortably than in 1945 ; Con-
servative seats, on the other hand, were
held with increased majorities! This
trend, continued at the general election
in February, 1950, brought the Govern-
ment almost to the point of defeat, its
majority being reduced to six in a House
of 625.
By-elections in the present Parliament
—there have been 16 of them—have fol-
lowed the same pattern, and Attlee will
get no consolation from a study of the
figures. Nor will he be comforted by the
news that the Liberal party will be con-
testing far fewer seats than in 1950, when
three-cornered fights gave Labor more
than 60 seats. At the last election the
Liberals, with visions of making a come-
back as a major political force, put 475
candidates in the field, won 10 seats (in-
cluding one Independent Liberal) and
strewed the kingdom with lost deposits.
There must be a touch of old-world
courtesy about the Shah of Persia. No
sooner had the British Prime Minister
announced the date of the general ele<~
tion, than he proclaimed that Persia
would have one, too. Still, with the
lachrymose Moussadek at the head of
affairs it was only a matter of time before
the whole Persian Parliament was dis-
solved in tears.
Melbourne “Argus” was visibly affected
by the spectacle of some Victorians los-
ing their jobs because the McDonald-
Cains haven’t the cash to finance them:
Over 6000 men have been sacked, and
thousands more have lost a large part of
their incomes by the overtime ban. Public
confidence has received a body blow, reflect-
ing itself disastrously in the bond market.
In the same issue the paper’s own re-
porters were allowed to say:
Short-handed private and State enter-
prises can easily absorb the 6000 men likely
to lose their jobs in Victoria’s economy
campaign More than 30,000 jobs in all
types of industry are available in Victoria.
You pays your money and you takes
your choice.
On the same subject the “Argus”
accused Menzies of “mangling” Mc-
Donald by refusing him more money
than his share out of public funds:
The hard factors of the situation would
not allow him [McDonald] to play politics
if he wanted to. He is in the grip of simple
arithmetic.
That’s the first time John Cain has been
called that name.
Our politicians don’t always realise
how fortunate they are in their choice of
country. Since McGrrrrr and Gair
decided to march out of step with the
other Premiers in the matter of butter
prices there have been continual reports
of dairyfarmers withholding butter as a
protest. Neither Premier has found it
necessary to seek police protection, and
there have been no attempts to storm
Parliament House in Sydney or Brisbane.
Contrast the news from Maranhao State
in Brazil, where the Governor is reported
to be a virtual prisoner in his palace as
a result of 12,000 armed farmers who
don’t like his ways. They claim he came
to power by “electoral frauds.” Those
would be strong words to apply to our
two butter-heroes. “Electoral accidents”
would perhaps be nearer the mark.
The Victorian Government has dis-
covered a new way to put private enter-
prise out of business. When 94 operators
of private buses sought fare increases, a
Id. increase was granted to 67 and 27
applications were refused. Those who
got the increase are folding up because
their passengers are going to those who
didn’t.
The French Minister of Commerce,
M. Pflimlin, suggests that the 30 nations
subscribing to the General Agreement on
Trade and Tariffs should lower their
tariff barriers by 30 p.c. in three annual
stages of 10 p,c. He says this will in-
crease production and lower prices. He
doesn’t expect a decision at the present
G.A.T.TX conference. His chances of
getting one at all are rather pflimsy.
As this “Vote No” habit is so strongly
ingrained it seems the only way to get a
' constitutional amendment accepted is to
frame the question something like this:
Are you against amending the Consti-
tution by inserting the following section?
“We Labor Premiers must stick to-
gether” seems to be the argument the
McGrrrrr used to convince caucus that
butter must stay at 2s. Bd. a pound, even
if N. S. Wales went without it altogether.
His henchman Cahill argued that the Ma
State would be breaking a “gentlemen’s
agreement” with Queensland —he meant
with the Queensland “Labor” Govern-
ment —if it increased the price. If the
gentlemen concerned have an agreement
it must be a rather one-sided one, as
Harry Bate of the Producers’ Co-op.
pointed out next day. Cheese usually
rises automatically with the price of
butter, but- when the two States fixed
2s. Bd. as the price of butter Queensland
upped cheese 4Jd. while the N. S. Wales
price stayed put. A few days after Bate’s
comment McGrrrrr shuffled into line.
Gallup polls, crystal-gazers, necro-
mancers and Old Moore have nothing
on Norman Noel Dodds, Parliamentary
secretary of the British Ministry of
Labor, who foretold the date of the 1950
general elections, announced immediately
thereafter that the next elections would
be in the autumn of 1951, and six weeks
ago (B. 22/8/’5l), at a public meeting,
tipped the election date as October 25.
His silence to date on who will win is
—considering his party affiliation —re-
garded as anything but a tip for the
Socialists,
Those Founding Fathers were good,
all right. They must have been to
persuade a majority of voters in every
State to vote “Yes” for Federation.
Some excitement was apparent when
news came from Darwin that a bunch of
Indonesian fishermen were camped on
uninhabited Brouse Island, 200 miles north
of Derby. In these days of mounting
populations and decreasing food sup-
plies all empty areas attract people.
Members of the Communist party
don’t seem to share the belief so often
heard that driving a party underground
makes it stronger. The Comrades worked
flat out for the defeat of the referendum •
their party sheet claimed that in Sydney
alone they stuck 140,000 posters on
telegraph-poles and distributed 5,000,000
leaflets. Communist-controlled unions
were the biggest contributors to A.L.P.
campaign funds, and Communist slogans,
phrases and jargon, judging by the use
“Labor” speakers made of them, were
apparently made available to Evatt’s meii
free of charge.
At the weekend the fate of the Greater
Melbourne Bill, part of the payoff for
“Labor’s” support of the Twelve farmers
of Spring-street, was still undecided. The
Libs believe they can rake up sufficient
votes to defeat it in the Legislative
Council. If so, the next move is on Mc-
Donald.
Federal regulations enabling union
members to ask for Government-
controlled secret-ballot election of officials
are now in force. First applications under
the new law are from members of the
Sydney branch of the Ironworkers’
Federation and the Melbourne branch of
the Clerks’ Union. Both these unions arc
run by Reds.
“C. Pipe”: My wife, called suddenly
from Sydney to Wollongong, telephoned
the McGirr railways. “The through train
leaves at 9.25 a.m.,” she was told, “but
you won’t get on it unless you have a
seat.” “What, couldn’t I stand?” “No,
madam, you can’t get on without a scat.”
“Very well, will you book me a seat,
please?” “Who, me? [gasp of sheer
horror!] Oh no, madam, I couldn’t do
that!” “Well, how can I book one?”
Pause, apparently for thought. “Look,
madam, ring this number.” Number duly
noted. Wife dials number and gets it.
“I want to book a seat on the 9.25 to
Wollongong, please ; have you seats
available?” “I don’t know, lady. That
isn’t my job. You’ve got the wrong
number.” “That’s the number I was
given.” “Sorry, lady, but try this one.”
Another number given and duly dialled.
“Yes, they book seats on that train. You
book the seat when you buy your ticket.
No, we don’t book them. You book it
when you buy your ticket, in here at
Central. That clear?” “Very clear, thank
you.” No wonder McGirr and his
Ministers travel by car.
In 50 years of Federation only four
out of 24 proposed amendments to the
Constitution have been agreed to by the
people. If an elderly voter noticed at a
Sydney booth on Saturday had had his
way the score would be nil. Refusing
“How-to-Vote” cards from canvassers for
both sides he announced that he didn't
need a card ; back in the ’nineties he’d
voted “No” on Federation ; he’d voted
“No” at every referendum since and he
hoped to vote “No” a few more times
before he died.


J(&A
\}s *
< *
i “t^
Jai^^ST
sr?..ry^
Su«U**\&37
'■ V *; ucMl^fw.
ŵ
MM
teT«:
> ONW
lf%
ẁ
no
w
Hr_ fN
I
I TO TKE MEMRey
I *<IMES RUSSvnc.
Wxs LiF£
Jtv. pjj TffE
Hy 'Moths? rerf APmel^
Z2t.g*ZSSi
WteWLYTW>«R
ER TO remain. n
A GHOST WALKS.
"In the year fellowing the arrival of the First Fleet, James Ruse, a former convict, became Australia'e first successful grower of wheat and maizc and
so impressed Governor Phillip that he received the first land grant issued in Australia. He died in 1837, ann was buried in St. John's churchyard,
Campbelltown. His epitaph tells [?] own Story."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Macnell”: Troopship Wahine ripped
open on a sub-surface reef; the J. P.
Webb reef-clutched off the Westralian
coast; the Stanfirth battered by gale
seas off N.S.W. and rescued only after an
unremitting fight; the Paterson, a War
II minesweeper, a total wreck off Norah
Head; not a bad couple of months"
harvest for the Old Man. He still is a
vengeful, ever-ready enemy, notwithstand-
ing radar, gyro-compasses, automatic
steering and the rest of the modern aids
to navigation. And his toll is a steady
one. A ship can break down in heavy
seas with discomfort but little real danger
—so long as she keeps herself in the
open sea. But once the Old Man gets
"Here—have this before y' unload an' git back to Work .”
her on tesistant ground, on to his allies
the reefs and rocks, her steel sides can
be buckled like paper. The power in an
on rushing wave against a resisting side
is enormous. I remember going aboard a
sh!p °n Kmwma Island when, as in
Wahme s case, a side-set had put her up.
The triumphant seas beat against her
coral-imprisoned hull with bone-shaking
force, punch after pounding punch, so
that her whole rattling innards were a
vibrating roar of sound. And I’ve seen,
in a monsoon in the Indian Ocean, when
our 10,000-ton cruiser was doing 11 knots
below and two up top, and washing-
down, an Arab dhow bound from Mom-
basa with a wisp of foresail up, riding
the ridges easily with no way on, hardly
taking a bucketful inboard. But if she'd
grounded . . . Yes, they’ve got a long way
to go yet before they finally subdue the
Old Man.
❖ * # *
“Sebak”: I have been set wondering
by the actions of a group of people who,
apparently on some roster system, spend
Saturday mornings standing at attention
on the kerbs at each side of our shopping
centre. Of both sexes, they face the
hurrying throng, look neither to right nor
left and make no sound audible above
the din, although their lips move occa-
sionally as though in whispered sales-talk.
Held across their bosoms they display
booklets about a foot square which used
to bear one large word, “Watch.” It was
excellent advice, but 1 hardly think the
campaign was organised by the Road
Safety Council. For months curiosity
fought with my patriotism: presuming
the books were for sale, a couple of bob
spent should establish who, or what, re-
quired watching. On the other hand, my
two deeners might go to assist some sub-
versive organisation. I dilly-dallied too
Jong. Last weekend the silent strangers
were on the job again ; they flaunted the
booklets as usual, but there was a differ-
ence—“ Watch” was gone ; in its place
was “Er Wachet.” Now, if I am ever to
know the answer to the riddle, I’ll have
to become a linguist.
* * * *
“Hist”: Philatelists are finding it hard
to keep up with the Government’s habit
of upping postal rates a ha’penny every
six months or so. Universal Postal Union
regulations lay down that three colors,
green, red and blue, shall be used for
the stamps representing the basic rates
on second-class mail, inland letters and
foreign letters respectively, so that, irre-
spective of language or currency, the
franking value of those stamps can be
recognised anywhere. Consequently,
every time the postal rates change, so do
the colors of the stamps. A year ago,
when an ordinary letter cost tuppence
ha’penny, we had a red stamp of that
face value. The rate rose to threepence
and the printers began turning out red
threepenny stamps. But July’s rise to
threepence ha’penny caught everyone
napping, and no red stamp has yet
appeared. It’s reported to be on the way.
In the meantime stamp-dealers have been
caught short on a stamp that was so
common that none of them bothered to
lay in stocks—if you have any unused
red tuppenny-ha’penny stamps, don’t use
(hem up on your mail, but give some
dealer a chance to give you a profit on
them.
Clinical tests suggested
that Mr. Childless was to blame for the
lack of family, but after treatment he
was told all was now well. Three months
later Doc. sent in his bill, only to have it
returned with “No results, no pay”
scrawled across it. A few months passed,
then Doc. happened to see Mrs. C. in
the distance. After that he watched the
birth notices, and in due course read “To
Mr. and Mrs. Childless—a son.” Out
went the bill again, with the birth-notice
pinned to it and “Results—you pay” on
the bottom. Following day back it came
with the cheque and “All right—you win.”
«-. p, XT * , * . * ,
u J , J N ° Wadays ’ as dunng the
buildmg doldrums of the early ’thirties,
it is extremely rare to see a bag of lime
being transported to a job ; but the
“Be careful , Sir — it's loaded."
reasons are completely different. Then it
was because so very few people wanted
building-lime ; now it is because so very
few people are able to get it. I had just
qualified as a fully-blown bricklayer when
the building-trade collapsed. My bike-
tyres wore out as I chased jobs and
rumors of jobs. One day a truck rumbled
past our place carrying—yes, a bag of
lime! I raced for my bike and set out
after the cloud of dust. It was a fast
race, but fortunately not a long one. The
carrier was humping the lime into a house
as I caught up. Hoping nobody had
beaten me to the job I followed him in.
“Have you fixed up for your bricky?”
My question seemed to puzzle the man
taking delivery, so I went on “That bag
of lime ; you’ll want a bricky to use it,
won’t you?” An understanding grin
came to the chap’s rather sympathetic
face. “Sorry,” he said, “but 1 bought it
for my cabbages.”
* * * *
“Squid Shay”: A problem of how to
save some of the trees along the river
Cam, doomed to perish by the woods-
man’s axe, was solved by Cambridge
undergraduates with resource and
sagacity. Doomed trees had been circled
with white paint. A nocturnal squad from
St. John’s pussyfooted out with paint-
buckets and ringed every tree along the
bank. Then for good measure they
ringed the legs of benches as well. “Irre-
sponsible! Childish! Discreditable!”
declaimed a college official. But the
respite gained was sufficient to save the
trees.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Municipal water-trucks
(B. 12/9/’51)? Back in the Hungry
’Thirties I helped lay stormwater pipes
for a Sydney suburban council. We
toiled particularly well in a quiet avenue
for a particular reason. One sizzling
morning, the natty, light-grey-clad inspira-
tion for our remarkable industry came
out of his gate, paused near the opposite
kerb to pass the time of day with the
ganger and got drenched from his panama
down by the passing water-cart, one wheel
of which, striking a baulk of six-by-six
hardwood, canted sharply, shooting about
four gallons out of the hole in the top
of the tank. Jobs were lost for less in
those lean days, but the driver survived
the incident, despite our rude laughter
and the fact that his victim was the mayor,
* * * *
“Aestur”: I was proud of our two-
year-old the other day. She was sicken-
ing for measles, had a nasty cough, sore
eyes and was in almost constant pain
from earache. She was in no mood to
be examined, and when the doctor prised
open her mouth, looked in her ears, and
dabbed the cold stethoscope on her back
and chest, she fought, squirming and
bawling. After he had gone she
astounded us by saying “Doctor got
brown eyes.” To think that in the midst
of her agony she’d had the detachment to
observe the color of her tormentor’s eyes
made me proud. When the doctor came
next day 1 took a good look at him. His
eyes were grey-green.
* * * *
“Macquarie”; Half an hour after I’d
entered the Esperanto Society’s exhibition
of children’s art at Sydney Town Hall I
was suffering from a deflated national ego.
It wasn't that our schoolkids’ work was
so inferior—for their ages it wasn’t bad,
really; certainly equal to the exhibits
from New Zealand, Japan and Finland—
but contrasted with the work of the
German kids! You didn’t have to be an
authority on art to appreciate the color-
sense, the sharpness of the outlines, the
shading in the pencil sketches or the per-
spective and draughtsmanship in the street
scenes. I found myself trying to make
excuses: after all, this w'as a young coun-
try—art and culture was being cultivated
in Europe centuries before Captain Cook
was born, etc. Thinking along those
lines I came to two exhibits that stood
out like gems among glass. Both forest
scenes in semi-darkness, one was lit by
the glow of moonlight filtering through
the dark treetops, the other by a breaking
dawn. Patriotism went overboard before
talent like this. In honesty I could not
do otherwise than mentally hang the blue
ribbon over those two pictures. I looked
around for information on the artists,
They were aboriginal children between
11 and 13 years old!
* * * *
“Mr. O’Roo”; An old lady, not quite
in the “dear-old-soul” class, contacted
ra e and my mate early in the war to shift
he r houseful of furniture, plus about a
fernery of pot-plants and a huge cat, to
her daughter’s place. The daughter’s
husband having joined the Army, the two
women had decided to tackle the job of
running his property—some thousands of
acres of good saltbush country. Running
on charcoal, our truck performed willingly
until, well up in the back-country, we
stopped at a tank to fill the radiator,
stoke the gas-producer and stretch the
legs. At the end of half an hour we
called to our passenger, but got no
answer. Diligent search found her about
three miles across the plain, at a steady
trot, heading for the horizon. By the
time I caught her the distance was nearer
five. Her explanation for this junior
marathon was that she’d seen some of
those lovely big birds “the same as there
are in the zoo,” and thought they’d like
an orange. What the emus thought about
such kindness I never found out.
* * * * .
“Clooter”: Strange how attractive
clever villainy is, particularly if the villain
succeeds in despoiling the Egyptians. The
other Saturday somebody got at a Sydney
bookmaker for £9OO in broad daylight by
a trick with forged tickets which had all
the appearances of careful thought and
planning. The news “hit the headlines"
at once, almost silenced the referendum
noise, and continued to be news for the
better part of a week. Bigger sums taken
by burglars and embezzlers of one sort
and another have attracted far less atten-
tion. But then the news editors know
their public, or is it that they are human,
too, and like the rest of us, wish they
could work out some similar plan for
taking down the gent, who bawls the
odds? He, though plainly robbed of
£9OO, gets little sympathy in such cases—
all the sentiment is in favor of the robber.
VERY TRIFLING.
“A fussing over trifles and an exaggeration of
minor faults are the greatest barriers to domestic
happiness, says a clergyman.”
It is sad, but you’ll find
That a wife’s often blind
To the merits her husband possesses.
1 hese she’ll rarely exalt;
When it comes to a fault,
Though, how vocally she effervesces!
The veriest grounds
For complaint may be mounds
Which she'll build into big mountain-ranges
Whose singular use
Is to yield an excuse
For her passion for verbal exchanges.
For instance, he may
Keep the bulk of his pay,
Spending two hours a day in the boozer.
But does that justify
Her in telling a lie,
Of becoming an unjust accuser
When she says; “All his cash
Goes on drink!”—That’s a rash
Allegation. Some must go on getting
His quota of smokes.
And what about mokes
And the dogs? She forgets about betting.
Let him grab up his hat
And depart from the flat
Only six nights a week, to go playing
Gin-rummy or “swi”
(And he isn’t thereby
Any strict marriage-vow disobeying).
Now, you’d really expect
That she wouldn't neglect
To give credit for some abnegation.
But no. She’ll recite:
“Harry’s out every night!”—
Indefensible exaggeration.
They will chew the rag
And incessantly nag
Over trifles. Why! I knew one fellow
Who strolled out one night.
When he came back—not tight—
His better half raised quite a bellow.
He’d just been away
Seven weeks and a day.
But instead of some gratitude showing,
She shot off her jaws,
All merely because
He hadn’t said where he was going!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Curate’s Egg”: Judson, a muscular
type, was scornful of those timid motorists
who fear to give lifts to strangers be-
cause of the frequent reports of good
Samaritans being attacked by their
chance-acquired passengers. His attitude
changed the evening he gave a lift to a
plausible bloke who explained that his
own car had broken down while he was
on the way to an important meeting at a
place close to that for which Judson was
bound. Judson stretched courtesy to
deliver his passenger to his desired destin-
ation and thought it was just a case of
ships that pass. How wrong was his
assumption was shown an hour later when
Judson’s tete-a-tete with a lady who had
forgotten to inform him that she was
Married was interrupted by an irate spouse
accompanied by a gentleman, acting quite
dispassionately in his profession of private
detective. It was the stranded one.
* * * *
“Beelusk”: The efficiency of present-
day hearing-aids brings memories of old
Sandy, C.O. of our war-time R.A.F.
station. Sandy, whose wings were of the
R.F.C. 1917-sprouting and who wore
without inhibitions a hearing-aid of levia-
than proportions, broke the bonds of
wifely dominance on mess guest-nights.
At the beginning of the evening he in-
variably warned us that we must not pre-
vail upon him to remain after 11 p.m.
“because my good lady, though she does
not mind my having a little relaxation, is
a little hurt if I’m not home at that hour.
Equally invariably we found it hard to
dislodge him at 11, and, judging by his
subdued demeanor next day, we con-
cluded that the old man himself had been
hurt a lot more than his good lady. His
tactful launching on the home run was
eventually managed when, with seemingly
“I’m worried about my heart, Doctor. Hear it?”
mysterious regularity, his hearing-aid
developed engine-failure at a quarter to
11 on guest nights, leading to Old Sandy’s
sulphurous comments about useless
batteries and, shortly afterwards, his de-
parture. In actuality he maligned a per-
fectly good apparatus, the seeming failure
of which was due to prearranged tactics
by which every occupant of the mess
commenced at the appropriate time to
mouth mutely his words in such a manner
as to produce a deceptive appearance of
articulation.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: As a student of the idiom
of my fellow-natives of the Speck, 1 was
delighted with “Pedant’s” acute observa-
tion that, unlike mainlanders, we Tas-
wegians don’t call streams “creeks.” Not
that I boast of the fact; to me it seems
quite reasonable that the early Cornish
settlers “P.” mentions, familiar only with
their coastal creeks, should refer to all
streams as such. Nor does it seem any
more praiseworthy that we, in the Speck,
safeguarded against such corruptions by
the barrier of Bass Strait, honor them with
the name of “crick.”
* * * *
Another of British-hating
William Randolph Hearst’s passionate
hatreds was for vivisection. Some years
ago Hearst, who regularly published
violent attacks on “dog-torturers,” plugged
a medical film made by his personal
physician, a leading heart specialist. It
depicted completely exposed hearts, photo-
graphed in action and showing that the
traditional theory of the heart disease
auricular fibrillation was wrong. It made
a good story, but none of the Hearst
dailies mentioned what every doctor who
saw the film knew—that the hearts were
taken from dogs. Hearst, the anti-
vivisectionist, was being kept alive by a
vivisectionist.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”; In what a variety of ways
are we summoned to our meals!
There is, if the films can be believed,
the suave manservant, his face as
emotional as a block of granite, with his
just-perceptible bow and a grave “Dinner
is served” ; there is the brassy blare of
the bugle blowing “Come to the cook-
house door, boys” ; the backwoods “Come
an’ git it, or we’ll throw it out” ; the
sweet hotel chimes that float upstairs with
the smell of undercooked meat and over-
cooked cabbage ; and the carrying clang
of the farmer’s cowbell. My favorite is
one heard in an outback construction
camp where most of the families were
emigrants from Oireland, and the workers
were called from toil by their womenfolk
with a leather-throated “Come home;
they’re b’iled!”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A friend is
chuckling over a recent find in a second-
hand bookshop. He had just received his
basic-wage rise, supposed to be 135.; the
taxation had taken a one-and-elevenpenny
bite from it; his landlady had put up his
board by 7s. 6d.; increases in lunches
at the works canteen were nipping another
two-bob, and he was mentally warning
himself not to be reckless with the balance
when he made his discovery. It was a
copy of an old-time best-seller “How to
Live on Sixpence a Day —And Earn It.”
Its 1951 price was Is.
*.* * *
“Emjai”: These “guess-your-weight”
chaps at country shows have to be accu-
rate to make it pay ; but they take the
precaution of running their hands over
you to test for solidity, and for dead
weight in pockets an advantage which
the bloke to whom 1 award the leather
medal did not have. The notice on the
ancient hydraulic, rope-hauled lift in a
Melbourne building said “Limit five pas-
sengers.” Five of us, strangers, converged
on the landing as the lift came down. The
lightning calculator took a quick look
around the group a■nd
Right? Im eighteen Seventeeynd
a wee bit, me, sa a * ne “P*,
six” and “Fifteen” the other*
~ cS
over to the next load.” # #
“A.J.E.”: In one of out-
back towns, built on a y ,
the undertaker was haid put duung the
’flu epidemic of a generation ago to cope
"Now THERE's a shapely ankle!”
with the situation, though he used much
gelignite. During a temporary lull in the
epidemic he managed to get eight graves
ahead, but then disaster overtook him.
The rains came ; the ’flu magically ceased ;
the holes filled up with water, and, as a
last bitter blow, the council fined him
£2 12s 6d. for breeding mosquitoes.
* =f= *
“Googoo”: X disagree with “Betcha”
(B. 22/8/ *5l) in his panegyric of the ride
home at night as being the best hour of
the day. My nomination is when you
wake at 6 a.m. on a bleak winter morn-
ing, with the knowledge that the gas is
cut off, firewood is scarce, and what
you’ve got is mostly half-green. After a
hasty breakfast you’ve miles to go to the
scene of your day’s labor —and you sud-
denly remember it’s Sunday!
* * * *
“Bethune”: Hard things are said at times
about the post-office boys, but whatever
their shortcomings they always seem able
to rise to the occasion when confronted
with puzzle addresses. Last week the air-
mail brought them from Rhiwbina in
Wales a card addressed: Stock and Shares
Book, Called the Cat’s Eye, Chief Office
Dept., Sydney, Australia. It was child’s
play to the G.P.O. puzzle department,
they sent it straight along to The Bul-
letin’s “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
# * * *
“Kelms”; The caretaker of a Perth
sportsground on which three hockey
matches are played simultaneously
thought confusion would be avoided by
using boundary-flags of red, white and
blue respectively. You can guess how
a modern firm would execute an order
for red, white and blue flags, but, any-
how, they looked nice, so it was decided
to keep the tri-colored pennants and use
them. They were still in use when the
French Rugby team played there, and the
visitors were delighted with what they
took to be a neat gesture in their honor.
They souvenired the lot.
* * * *
“Lou”: Another sign of these new
times —householders snapping up copies
of a handyman’s carpentry book at 14s.
9d. as though they were saws and chisels
at tuppence a dozen. It wouldn’t have
happened a few years ago, but now,
when you need to be a man of means to
call in a painter, plumber or carpenter,
we poor plodders are doing our own odd
jobs, and books that help us along are
cheap at double the price. We stuff into
our shirts a tome marked at the
appropriate page and have a shot at any-
thing. We’ve survived the agony and
terror of using a blowlamp from an
extension-ladder and the sickening still-
ness of the heart as we reached the dizzy
heights of the roof to fix the flashing
(we’re learning the jargon, too). Now
we’re knocking up a cupboard for the
sink. They’ll be sorry yet, these lordly
tradesmen, that they pushed us into doing
their work.
“Ex-R.M.”: How is this for speedy
justice? In Samarai (Papua) back m
1934 we were worried by a coon hotel
barber” who, while guests were asleep,
ratted their ports and dressing-tab es,
stealing cash and small articles. We trie
all sorts of dodges to catch him, without
avail. Then, at midnight on October 16,
Sergeant Daguna, of the native police,
was posted in an empty bedroom in
hotel. At 5 a.m. he caught a native
helping himself to silver from a
pair of cants on the bed-rail of
a spare bed, the guest being a
member of the Legislative Council, the
late J. Gusth Nellsen. At nine the
native appeared in the Petty Sessions
Court before magistrate W. R. Humphries
(later to lose his life when Lamington
blew its top); by 11 was committed tor
trial and, before the lunch-hour, was
sentenced by Mr. Justice Murray to three
years’ hard labor. Governor Murray had
just happened along that morning from
Moresby.
i * * •
“Helldud”: I recall yet another
“Goose” who, 40 years ago, when public
servants were paid monthly, drove a
thriving business in advancing money to
colleagues financially embarrassed in the
second half of the month. His nickname
undoubtedly derived from the golden-egg
legend. Although his interest charges
were appreciably less than the professional
usurer’s, he was more sure of his instal-
ments, as he couldn’t be dodged like the
outside shark. The “Goose ’ had an ex-
tensive clientele and eventually retired,
full of years with a fat swag, after selling
his “business” at a high figure.
♦tj ;J:
“Hoppy”: My host on the station out
west was overjoyed when I praised the
excellence of his table, and seized the
chance to elaborate on the gadget-
equipped cookhouse ruled by a dusky
cook, wellnigh
perfect. “O u r
Harriet is a gem,”
he enthused, “but
she has her fail-
ings ; loves the old
wood stove, loves
her lazy husband
and insists that he
stay as offsider.”
One morning as
we were awaiting
the bell for break-
fast the aroma of
toasted home-bake stimulated the host
into leading the way for an inspection ot
the kitchen. We burst in brightly on a
white-clad Harriet, busily beating eggs,
but the smiles fell away as we set eyes
on her scruffy Jacky seated with long
legs outstretched before the open stove.
He had drawn from the fork a lightly-
browned slice of toast such as I used to
relish, and was adding it to the offers
resting in the racks Nature provided
his toes.
* * * *
“Garfunkel”: Freud’s theory that mis-
takes in writing, and typographical errors,
are never mere accidents, but really express
the subconscious sentiments of the writer,
possibly goes a bit too far, but I recently
came across a specimen which supports
it. Reporting the arrival in Sydney of a
disabled vessel one paper said “The
freighter wus without power und hud no
lights until a case of condles was found
in the carpenter’s shop.” Sydney readers,
at any rate, will see what I mean.
SIR ORACLE.
‘‘The general secretary of Wayside Workers’
federation’ha'd not yet considered ‘our likely attitude
on the arrival ot the first Japanese ship m this
country.’ ” ,
Though studious Quiz-Kids often look
For knowledge in many a ponderous book,
Their cyclopedic ABCs
Are bound to terminate in Dease,
But when we adults seek instead
Opinion that is categorical
On everything from A to Z
Jolly Jim Healy is our oracle.
Our brave Press-barons print the news,
No matter what their private views,
However, on the leader-page
Alternately they coax and rage;
Brit whether our mentor be Sir Keith,
Or only Ezra, Frank or Warwick, all
These wordy warriors vainly seethe —
Jolly Jim Healy is our oracle.
From time to time we all elect
A group of men we half respect,
And then these notables are sent
To speak for us in Parliament;
But any question they debate
May be regarded as rhetorical,
For on all points of Church and State
Jolly Jim Healy is our oracle.
He taught us not to worry much
When Indonesia bumped the Dutch;
Maybe he’ll teach us better than
To sign a treaty with Japan;
But one thing’s certain on the whart,
Touching a liner or a coracle :
Whether the goods go on or off,
Jolly Jim Healy is our oracle.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: Expert evidence on
cyanide poisoning in a recent trial must
have been rather staggering to a lot of
possum-poisoners. The authority gave
evidence that he had put cyanide in beer,
swished the beverage around in his
mouth, then spat it out again. According
to most bush-Borgias the man who did
that would be dead instantly. On numer-
ous occasions I have been gravely in-
formed that cyanide is a “brain poison,”
the fumes going to the brain and causing
death before the poison is actually swal-
lowed. One old chap went to great pains
to explain his technique to me, giving
the quantities of cyanide, sugar and water
in which the raisin-baits should be
soaked; and the one point he stressed
most emphatically was: “Don’t on any
account get your face over the dish —the
faintest whiff will give you a blinding
headache, and if you breathed it in
properly you’d just as likely go out like
a light.” His method of poisoning was
to pin a poisoned raisin on the bark of
a tree, and the fact that the possum would
be found dead with the bait showing
scarcely a nibble was proof enough to
him that his “brain-poison” theory was
correct. The evidence of the medical
witness puts a different aspect on it. Evi-
dently the poison must be swallowed, but
a minute quantity can kill, the action is
very quick, and, in the case of a small
animal, almost instantaneous.
He H= * *
“Salmon Gums”: A miner in the
Marble Bar (W.A.) district has organised
about 200 abos in a co-operative mining
venture —and it’s shaping so successfully
that the stations are kicking about the
shortage of native labor. Mining is prob-
ably the one occupation in which the
natives are able to compete with whites,
and it’s one in which their propensity
for “walkabout,” a fatal disadvantage in
“You can't beat a hot floor to make 'em dance!”
any other occupation, can be useful.
Natives can spot gold, or any other metal
or gem, where a white man often won’t,
and they can live off country where a
white man will perish. What’s more, they
can handle a dryblowing-pan, or yandi-
dish, in a way that will draw admiration
from the most accomplished prospector.
A gin with a yandi-dish can separate
sugar from sand, and she’ll get every
speck of gold from crushed quartz. They
should excel at locating tantalite deposits.
This mineral isn’t readily detected by
geological observation —it’s more or less
stumbled on —and natives who know it
can find it. One of the richest samoles
“Come and get me!”
of this ore seen in Wadgina, near Marble
Bar, was brought in by a Chinaman who
had been guided by an abo. When Ah
Yik realised the value of his find the
native was missing—“gone walkabout” —
and Jimmy, like all his race a bad bush-
man, hadn’t the faintest idea where he’d
found it. The native was still missing
when I left the district, but it’s a safe bet
that if this co-operative scheme continues
it will uncover some of the richest fields
of all metals that the West has known.
* * * *
“Paringa”: Where did “Akrabo” (B.
12/9/’5l) get the experience out of which
he says the saddle was never a bush
stockman’s pillow and that the only horses
known to the blokes who Wrote about
it “must have been of the rocking
variety”? He says he tried sleeping with
his saddle as a pillow once and the “strong
effluvia” from the saddle-lining drove
sleep away. First of all, I’ll bet he never
knew a stockman in the old days on any
station in the lower Murrujnbidgee or
Darling country who rode without a
saddle-blanket under his saddle. Any
“effluvia” —grand old bush term that,
ain’t it! —belonged to the blanket, not
to the saddle. A hell of a stockman he
rpust have been in those parts, too, if he
preferred the mosquitoes to a bit of
“effluvia.” Suffering snakes! 1 remember
as a kid being with the old “Breaker”
and another on a fortnight’s mustering
and droving of store-cattle from the dry
backblocks into the river frontage. We
slept with our heads on our saddles every
night and burnt a smudge of cow-dung
on the windward side to keep the
mosquitoes off. “Effluvia” indeed! A
whiff of good old horse-sweat kept
“Akrabo” awake all night, did it? Did
he never borrow a horse and, having re-
turned it, walk home carrying his saddle?
And how did he carry his saddle but on
his head? It sounds more like borak
than “akrabo” to me.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was just on eight o’clock on a
Saturday night, and the little bow-legged,
whiskered old swaggie on his way into
the township had stopped outside the
Mechanics’ Hall. As he stood gazing
through the door a couple of young coves
cast up. “Thinking of coming in for a
hop, old-timer?” one of them asked,
winking at his cobber. The swaggie
looked his interlocutor up and down, let
his eye wander to the notice outside which
announced that it was to be Old Time
Dancing, then, with scorn in his eye,
said, “What, do that old-fashioned, one-
two-three, one-two-three hick stuff?
Square up! Put on a decent slow fox-
trot or the samba an’ I wouldn’t mind
shovin’ the hoof around.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: For years prior to
the discovery of vitamins, scientists had
noted a periodicity in the occurrence of
“lemming years” —the years when the
lemmings swarmed down from their
Norwegian mountain homes on their
famous march to the sea and mass suicide.
Scientific investigation revealed that some-
thing in their diet had stimulated their
sex-activity and caused overpopulation of
their habitat. It was also proved that
this same stimulus was passed on to each
succeeding generation and to the animals
which preyed on them. This mysterious
substance was described as x. until the
discovery of vitamins supplied the key
to the problem and, incidentally, disposed
finally of “K.R.’s” theory (B. 5/9/’5l)
that the overpopulating was “due to
favorable weather conditions and abund-
ant food.” “K.R.” is astray, too, in think-
ing that during these seasons the over-
stocking is due solely to the fact that
there are fewer deaths. There are also
infinitely more births. The scientists in-
vestigating the lemmings found, by
anatomical examination, that the
animals’ internal sexual organs had under-
gone remarkable changes ; such a change
as, it was later proved, is induced by an
overdose of some vitamin. During these
“lemming years” the animals produce
more and larger litters. Strictly speaking,
lemmings don’t migrate—they emigrate.
But birds migrate, travelling from Arctic
and Antarctic regions to warmer parts,
returning with the summer. Why? The
most logical explanation—and it is
advanced by scientists —is that, while they
flee from the excessive cold, they return
to the prolific feeding-ground which
springs to life as the snow recedes. The
defrosted polar regions are the most
fertile areas of the globe, and the birds
find in them some stimulant —presumably
a sex-stimulant —which they crave like a
drug. So, too, with animals like whales.
They practically fast in the tropics, re-
turning to the polar regions to feed and
breed. In other words, they, and birds,
seek a source of vitamins, with such
avidity that they’ll travel thousands of
miles to reach it.
* * * *
“Sack”: The knowall of the camping-
area was yet another of those blokes who
had remained calm on discovering a Joe
Blake in bed with him. What his young
wife thought of it came floating out of
their tent later: “I must say you pick
good subjects for bedtime stories; I'll
be dreaming about snakes all night now.”
The reply was the mocking laugh of the
dauntless man. We woke to a freezing
cry of terror, followed by a commotion
from the tent and the same voice gasp-
ing: “Shirl, Shirl, there’s a s-snake in
the b-bed!” More commotion and a
stifled feminine scream. Male voice
stuttering, with cold —or something—
“ W-where’s the torch?” Feminine ditto:
“On —on the box —no ; I remember, I
put it between the t-two pillows.” Mascu-
line groan. Then, “Where’s the
m-matches?” “In your p-pants-pocket—
on the b-bed.” Gasp of despair. That’s
when Happy George grabbed our torch
and dashed in to their tent. His probing
beam failed to discover a reptile on the
two camp-stretchers placed side by side.
“Sure you didn’t dream it?” he asked
doubtfully. “Dream it!” exclaimed the
jittery one. “My face still feels cold
where it touched me! ” George’s light fell
on the silvery torch lying between the
two pillows. “Do you always have that
torch there?” he queried. “No, but 1
was frightened tonight—all that talk
about snakes,” the woman began. George
grinned his good-natured grin. “1 think
you can go back to bed,” he chuckled.
“Nobody ever got bitten by a torch.”
* * * *
“Kros”: Mention on “Red Page” of
the Aucklands (B. 12/9/’5l) recalls that
these desolate islands were the scene of
a famous shipwreck. The Ameri-
can 1200-ton sailing-ship General
Grant, with gold valued at £50,000
and a rich cargo of wool and other
produce, left Melbourne for
’Frisco in May, 186& It was
nearly two years before there was
any more news of her. She had
been blown right off her course
far to the south, till one night,
in ugly weather with mountainous
seas raging, she had been driven
right up into a huge 500 ft.-high
cavern on Disappointment Island, one of
the Aucklands. Her masts were snapped
off at the cavern’s mouth ; she finally be-
came wedged on the rocks, but next day
she slipped off and sank in six fathoms.
Of over 100 passengers and crew, only 14
men and one woman got off safely.
Soon afterwards three of the men set
sail for N.Z. in a small boat —but never
got there. The other survivors were
finally picked up by the whaling-ship
Amherst in November, 1867. When news
of the wreck reached Australia it was
decided that the Aucklands be regularly
visited, in case there should be castaways
from other wrecks. Several attempts to
recover the General Grant’s treasure have
since been made, all unsuccessful because,
apparently, the exact location of the wreck
has never been found. There is more than
one of these caverns on the island.
* * * *
“Nimmo”: When it comes to bullies
men are quite mild, decently-conducted
creatures. Was watching a cageful of
monkeys the other day. One male
dominated the lot: had all the others so
bluffed that not one dared to accept a
peanut in the bully’s presence. But that
was a trifle compared with my pen of
White Leghorn cockerels. While still in
the fluff they were all chummy enough;
but directly wing-feathers began to
sprout the
bullies
sorted
themselves
out, fining
down ulti-
mat e 1 y
to one
b o u n cer
who hunted
all the others around so that they spent
most of the day with their heads in various
corners, afraid even to look round lest
they be charged with “dumb
Naturally the bully, having the pick of
the food, grew rapidly. It would be a
relief to the other poor wretches, I
considered, to use him for next Sunday s
dinner. But no sooner was the bully
gone and apparent relief granted when
one of the persecuted, corner-hiding
wretches stepped into the middle of the
yard and began to give the others exactly
what he himself had suffered from his
predecessor. With this second bully taken
to the pot, yet another of the down-
trodden became dictator. Now there is
only one left. And I despair of fattening
him up for Christmas, since he spends
his strength racing up and down the
dividing netting that keeps him trom
challenging the sedate old rooster nex
door.
ORDERLY ROOM.
Drunk one night in Tel Aviv,
Drunk a week before,
Picked up by the picquet in Sister-street —
How you cursed and swore . . .
All your sins were written down
In legible red ink,
And the years will cherish them
Longer than you think.
The R.S.M. tears off your hat
In histrionic rage,
The officer behind the Book
Turns a furtive page.
“In that, at 0900 hours”—
Same old rigmarole—
“ Did say to Sergeant-Major Smith,
“Go and so-and-so.”
Prisoner and escort
Smartly turn about,
March into the morning;
Hear the blueness shout!
You and the sergeant-major—
The escort think it queer—
Go away together
To the sergeants’ mess for beer.
You and the sergeant-major
Remember older things;
A lift of the heart at daybreak,
Fear on screaming wings.
A young platoon is drilling
Under the ironbark-tree,
The red-nosed sergeant-major
Is starting on a spree.
For we are but the ragged bark
That yet, ignited, lights the dark
Leaving the whole heart free.
N.S.W.
JOHN FOUNTAIN.


IXL-AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:-~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
“55&
Sr«Ti y«t\£>S
State;
ess]
R
m
m
r OBA
ccoa
State Express 555’s are made
especially for smokers who
demand that extra touch of
quality.
Made slowly, and with
particular care, from their
own hlend of finest Virginia
tobaccos. State Express 555
Cigarettes maintain their fine
reputation established for over
50 years.
• 8 1 C-8 51
§weophesssss
MADE FAMOUS BY THE HOUSE OF STATE EXPRESS.
(three fives )
210 PICCADILLY
LONDON
“E. & 0.E.”: That native art which
Namatjira and his fellows (B. 22/8/’5l)
have brought to full fruition recalls that
the Tasmanian natives, usually considered
inferior to those of the mainland, could
also draw, even things they had never
before seen. Thomas Scott, a Van
Diemen’s Land Company surveyor, tells
us 130 years ago that “some natives had
observed the two carts belonging to the
company, each drawn by six oxen, with
their drivers. Shortly afterwards one of
the company’s servants, passing that way,
found in one of their huts a piece of
bark, with a rough drawing of the whole
scene. The wheels of the carts, the
bullocks drawing them and the drivers
with their whips over their shoulders,
were all distinctly depicted in their rude
but interesting manner.”
“Old-timer”; Twas spring, and all
along the sandspit the little stilts were
T ..
nirtmg in the bright dawn air. In the
gums above the sand a choir of magpies
poured out their liquid melody, and along
1,.,, .
and round the bend iang the
rollicking reveille of kookaburras There
"No need to overdo it, Trooper !”
was Vf ir a c '“ m P ° f *“™, and
out of his blankets came Calico Charlie.
He stood a moment, listening to the bird
sounds, then pulled on his boots and went
down to the river. There he pulled in a
night-line, disgustedly swore at the empty
hook, licked his lips, frowned at the
rising sun and the broad bosom of the
stream, then muttered, “Cripes. It’s goin’
t’ be hot an’ it’s nine mile t’ Euston. A
man’ll die of ruddy thirst before he gets
there.” He spat into the river and turned
back to his camp, for ’twas spring and
C.C. had a £25 shearing cheque in his
pocket and still nine miles to go before
he could celebrate the advent of the new
season.
* * * *
“Amdee”: A World War II Army
booklet on living-off-the-land omitted
mention of a method of obtaining a
meagre but life-sustaining supply of
nourishing moisture from coastal country
wherein blady-grass grows. Digging at
the base of a tuft of such grass, one will
find long, white, sharp-pointed shoots
probing in all directions, from a few
inches to a foot beneath the surface.
These shoots, normally thicker than a
match, are jointed, with rootlets. The
shoot itself is sheathed with a loose
fibrous husk, that acts as a wick to absorb
moisture from the soil and lead same,
via the joints and roots, into the smooth,
clean shoots that travel for yards in their
search for water and food. A handful
of these shoots stripped of the husk can
be chewed with mouth-refreshing satisfac-
tion. The sugar content is quite notice-
able to the taste, and would doubtless
supply energy to those “doing a perish.”
Sje 3k 4s 5k
“Bass”: Yes, “Naturala,” I’ve seen that
frog (B. 29/8/’5l) which fills itself almost
to bursting-point with water before
burrowing down in a claypan to sleep
throughout the dry inland summer. I’ve
never been reduced to looking for one
to get a drink from its supply, and I
wouldn’t have known where to look if
I had, but the natives seem to know and
have dug them up for that purpose. One
that I struck while fencing out from
Mukinbudin (W.A.) was bedded down in
a cement-like clay that I found it hard
to chip with a heavy crowbar. He was
in perfect condition, almost round, and
didn’t mind being lifted out and placed
under some dry bush. Later I showed
him to anyone who cared to look, and
he was universally called a toad. Of
course we were all wrong. But the point
is he looked like a toad, and under that
description he could be easily recognised
throughout the locality, just as we all
knew the bird we spoke of as a magpie.
But in speaking of toads I am in scientific
company. An encyclopaedia published
by Angus and Robertson says that in
Australia “There are about 60 species of
Anura (frogs and toads).” It lists
“Bufonidce" as “typical toads,” and the
Catholic “frog” is given its alternative
title of Holy Cross “toad.” Is
“Naturala” prepared to accept, with me,
the encyclopaedia’s ruling that “the
genus Bufo (tree-toads) is not represented
in Australia,” but that we have some
perfect examples of Bufonidce —typical
toads?
* * * *
“Blime”: Came on Dill Peters the
other morning staggering up Long Hill
with a loaded gunny-sack in each fist.
“Carrying a bit of weight. Dill?” I
greeted. “Y-yair. Got t’ sp-split fence-
posts t’day,” he puffed. “So I have t’ take
up all me wedges an’ big hammer, and me
axe an’ things.” “Why not carry them
on your shoulder?” “Well, I do some-
times,” he replied. “Only one shoulder’s
bruised, so 1 got t’ spell it this way. Me
crib’s on top o’ the
wedges, too, and me
billy an’ things.”
“Decent load. And
what’s in the other
bag?” I inquired,
taking hold of it and
squinting inside.
“Blime, a worn-out
mattock-head! What
do you want that
for. Dill? And the
big drag - chain?
And ... for Heaven’s
sake! . . . two bricks! What do you
do with those?” “I don’t do nothin’ with
’em, o’ course,” he scowled back. “But
cripes, a bloke ain’t lopsided. He’s got
t’ have somethin' t’ balance the load in
his other hand, don’t he?”
“OPENING DAY.”
Will you think of us when you walk beside
Those old Monaro streams,
R°d in hand and with stealthy stride
Fulfilling your winter dreams?
Remember us with our ball and chain,
Still slaves to the daily chore,
Be it nursing stock on a rain-soaked plain.
Or a trudge to an office door.
Oh far in the passes wild and steep,
Where wildflowers dance and shine,
You will unbar some granite keep
To wet a tapered line,
Where mottled pools of amber fill
Their depths with precious jade
And broken water turns the mill
Where fairytales are made.
Through manna-gum and mountain-ash,
Down where the sheoaks throng,
You’ll see the Goodradigbee flash.
You'll hear its welcome-song
That’s echoed by small feathered throats,
Or at the bellbirds’ gorge
Is hammered into anvil notes
To tinkle in the gorge.
By Yaouk Bill, the Half-moon Peaks,
The plains of Currango,
By Bimberi when you fish the creeks.
Oh gladly you will go;
For though perchance Dame Fortune mocks,
Pours little from her ladle,
The days are gold where slow time rocks
The Murrumbidgee's cradle.
Oh, think of us when your campfire's smoke
Glows in the oaks by the river,
And, glass in hand, you yarn and joke
And catch your fish twice over;
While there in the soft star-embered night
The river’s nocturnal sweet
Moves with its music of shadow and light
To blend with your own heart’s beat.
N.S.W.
STUART HUME.


THIS BOOKLET
OK BEQUEST
L 2:
CUTo
Vs
Its
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland,
UTB
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
T\o you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how yon can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 188 S)
333 Collins St,. Melbourne;. 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Albifry. Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
r Dividends
Ist 2nd Re-
June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.*
„ £ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1947.. 23,726 8 8 15,741 99,694
Tax arrears, £6694 93,000
Reduction reserves, £4040 ~ .. 88,960
Added intangibles, £651 .. .. 88!.309
1948.. 25,771 6 5 6 24,260 89,820
Less reserve adjustments, £352 .. 89,468
8 f* 957 8 5 8 30,780 93,645
Revaluation reserve, £181,455 .. 275,100
Add net adjustments, £754.. .. 275,854
1950 -- <>5,291 8 5 8 30,780 310,365
To staff fund, £3OOO 307 365
Share premiums, £35,460 .. ~ 342,825
Reserves capitalised, £30,800 .. .. 312,025
Less reserve adjustments, £179 .. 311,846
1951.. 88.120 8 5 10 47,552 352,414
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. .. 842,414
* After deducting intangibles, now £27,043.
The heartening leap in profits over the
last couple of years is the fruit of the
board’s carefully-planned and patiently-
developed programme of expansion,
which began soon after war contracts
were out of the way. The parent, its
eight wholly-owned subsidiaries and two
associated cos. are a carefully integrated
group, which pre-war had won a wide
reputation for production of centrifugal-
and axial-flow-pumps, compressors, con-
densers, steam and internal-combustion
engines and bridge and other structural-
steel work. Additional lines turned out
today include crude-oil tractors, electric-
motors and -generators, switchgear,
pneumatic tools, laundry and dry-cleaning
plant and sectional-steel poles, etc. Also,
profitable overseas agencies are held for
diesel-electric locomotives, Lanz tractors
and other equipment.
To help meet outlay on additional
plant, stocks, book debts, etc., share-
holders put up £224,695 of fresh capital,
of which £94,000 carried a cumulative
5 p.c., in 1947. Three years later an
independent valuation of old properties
and plant showed a surplus of £227,972,
of which £28,517 was written off on
account of development, £lB,OOO was
labelled “special discount” and passed
to inner reserves, and £181,455 was added
to visible accumulations. Of the last-
mentioned £30,800 was capitalised in a
one-for-10 bonus share-issue shortly after
the close of accounts in 1950. Then, in
January last, 159,200 new £1 ords. were
issued, one for two, at a premium of ss.
each, and at the same time 70,000 £1
5 p.c. prefs. were put out at par. The
share premiums (£34,800) were added to
reserves, total on the share-
register rose to £680,000 in 46,000 6 p.c.
prefs. participating to 8 p.c., 164,000
5 p.c. prefs. and 470,000 ords.
Meanwhile a lot of attention was given
to strengthening the sales organisation,
and turnover stepped up as output
increased and the overseas agencies—
especially for diesel-electric locos,
tractors and earth-moving equipment—
were developed. Sales advanced from
around £1,500,000 for the 1949 term to
£2,427,000 last term, when the improve-
ment was £596,000-odd. The only lame
duck of the group is K.L. Laundry
Machinery Co. Pty., which made a loss
of £2558 last term. After allowing for
this, and making adequate provision for
depreciation and taxation, combined net
earnings were £22,829 stronger at
£88,120. That was enough to pay
maximum pref. divs. (together £9838) and
show 20.7 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 20.3, 9.5, 6.5 and 13.3 p.c.
back to 1947. The div. was lifted from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c., and £lO,OOO (up £7000)
was sent to the staff fund.
All-round expansion and improvement
in the financial position are the features
of balance-sheet figures:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £420,000 £420,000 £420,000 £680,000
Mortgage . . 130,000 129,500
Overdrafts .. 292,026 322,783 169,591 137,539
Creditors . . 107,407 144,863 189,796 285,351
Tax provision 12,602 12,979 18,136 54,120
Final divs. . . 12,130 18,650 18,650 84,498
Freeholds .. 68,645 65,078 183,188 210,782
Plant ~ 144,921 149,442 266,418 305,867
Stocks, etc... 487,391 537,931 513,839 600,956
Debtors .. 174,153 186,772 212,285 423,096
Investments .. 52,000 61,976 62,001 100,005
Cash, etc. . . 6,876 11,721 15,807 19,987
The growth in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£503,036) was £225,277, due
mainly to introduction of fresh capital.
Book debts increased by £210,811, stocks
by £87,117 and fixed assets by £67,043,
while £32,052 was clipped off the over-
draft.
The extent to which Government pro-
grammes for defence and public works
are likely to affect the group’s output of
capital equipment and durable consumer
goods is difficult to assess at the moment.
The position in respect of raw materials
and skilled labor might get worse before
it becomes better. So far as demand is
concerned, much of what is lost on the
swings might be picked up on the round-
abouts. Increased taxation and rising
costs will take bigger bites out of
earnings.
At 335. 9d. (365. six months ago) the
ords. return 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The first prefs. at 30s. and the
seconds at 20s. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c. and
4.9 p.c. respectively on the basis of last
term’s distributions. Net tangible cover is
£22 4s. firsts, £5 19s. Id. seconds and
345. 7d. ords.
Australian Wool Brokers
t —■ Dividends \
Ist 2nd Re-
June 30, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1944 .. 6,097 7 Nil Nil 1,080 606
1945 . . 2,407 7 5 Nil 2,389 624
1946 .. 7,244 14 10 Nil 4,883 2,985
Assets written up, £35,000 .. .. 37,985
1947 . . 6,984 14 10 5 6,913 38,056
1948 .. 14,814 7 5 5 4,812 48,058
1949 .. 31,402 9 10 10 17,066 62,394
Assets revaluation reserve, £101,836.. 164,230
From inner reserves, £B3lB .. .. 172,548
1950 .. 46,993 9 10 12J 20,097 199.444
Less forfeited share reserve, £25 .. 199,419
Revaluation assets, net, £51,155 .. 250,574
Reserves capitalised, £99,961 .. .. 150,613
Profit sale assets, £2396 .. .. 153,009
1951 .. 125,148 9 10 12 J 28,410 249,747
* After deducting goodwill, eliminated from the
accounts in 1949.
This co, switched from the selling to
the growing side of the industry just
as the seasons began to improve and the
steep gradient in wool prices commenced
some four years ago ; and shareholders
have been in clover since. For nearly
20 years previously earnings little more
than covered the pref. divs. After a long
drought the ords. got into the picture with
5 p.c. in 1947, followed by 5, 10 and two
lots of 12£ p.c. with widening margins to
the close of last accounts. And their
capital has been more than doubled by
the issue of bonus-scrip (including last
month’s handout) provided by capitalising
some of the inflationary increase in value
of pastoral properties.
In 1947 and 1948 Glenroy (35,385 acres)
and Merrigal (10,000 acres), adjoining
properties some 20 miles south of Moree
(N.S.W.), were bought, and in the follow-
ing year Balarang (30,000 acres), about
70 miles north of Moree, was taken over
as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Total cost
was in the neighborhood of £200,000, met
by the issue of 76,506 new £1 ords. and
sale of the co.’s broking and agency busi-
ness and wool store at Pyrmont (Sydney)
to Goldsbrough Mort for £llO,OOO, or
thereabouts. Last term another property,
Clifton (14,000-odd acres), near Hol-
brook (N.S.W.), with an annual average
rainfall of 27in., was bought at an
unstated figure—the net addition (at cost)
to the book-value of properties was
£152,097. Last term’s net earnings got no
benefit from this deal.
Meanwhile Glenroy and Merrigal were
icvalued and written up in the books by
£101,836, a reserve of like amount being
created. In January last £99,961 of this
amount was capitalised by an issue of
bonus-scrip. The subsidiary, Balarang
Pastoral Co. Pty., similarly created an
assets revaluation reserve of £76,386, and
also issued a like amount of gift-scrip.
The parent used £25,231 of this to write
down the book-value of its holding in the
subsidiary (now £144,839) and added the
other £51,155 to its own assets revalua-
tion reserve (£53,030 at June 30), of
which £50,000 went out in another gift
scrip-issue last month.
All this lifted the parent’s paid capital
to £330,344 in ss. shares —98,400 first
7 p.c. and 122,932 second 5 p.c. prefs. and
1,100,045 ords. The first and second
prefs. advance point for point with the
ords. from their minimum rates to 9 p.c.
and 10 p.c. respectively. On capital as it
now stands last teim’s rates of distribu-
tion will call for £39,663, or £85,485 less
profit than was claimed. The fatness of
the profit (£125,148, up £78,155) was due
to the phenomenal prices of wool and
livestock. Exes, included a wool contri-
butory charge of £21,100, which is to be
returned to the co. later.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect the
effects of the Clifton deal;
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Ord, .. £40,602 £118,035 £118,785 £225,011
Pref. .. 55,333 55,333 55,833 55,333
Overdraft .. 85,999 137,980 133,653
Sundry creditors 76.829 56,646 2,071 36,463
Tax provision 11,000 22,867 15,500 32,794
Final divs... 2,520 11,023 11,552 19,519
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 180,243 112.399 215,321 367,418
Plant, etc. . . 9,782 15,342 15.252 19,304
Shares subsid. 150 93,834 93,684 144,839
Livestock, etc. 39,163 59,192 43,134 132,886
Book debts ~ 67,275 179,788 17,820 82,074
Cash. etc. .. 3,724 3,723 17,474 5,999
Goodwill . . 20,000
After allowing for final divs., combined
figures of parent and subsidiary showed
an excess of liabilities over more-or-less
liquids of £2977 at June 30. There were
then 44,183 sheep, 561 cattle and 59
horses on all properties, and they appear
in the books at or under cost.
The current term’s figures will benefit
from the Clifton clip, but current prices
for the staple are 35-40 p.c. below the
level of a year ago, while costs and taxa-
tion are on the up-grade. As a holding
proposition scrip in a pastoral co. is a
question of average rather than immediate
returns. The co.’s performance over the
last few years cannot therefore be taken
as a reliable guide to the future.
The ords. at 10s. (14s. 6d. a few months
ago) and the first and second prefs. at
7s. 6d. each return 6.2 p.c., 6 p.c. and 6.6
p.c. respectively on the basis of last term’s
distributions. Combined accounts show
net tangible cover (mainly properties) of
£5 Bs. firsts, £4 2s. 6d. seconds and Bs. Bd.
ords.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1944 .. 28,301 9 p.c. = 22,500 5,801 348,452
To staff fund, £5OOO 343,452
Unexplained addition, £55,801 .. 399,253
Capital returned. £50,000 .. .. 349,253
1945 ~ 27,778 10l p.c. = 22,500 5,278 334,531
1946 .. 31,251 13J „ „ 27,000 4,251 358,782
1947 .. 33,081 14| „ „ 29,000 4,081 362,863
1948 .. 34,019 14| ~ „ 29,000 5,019 367,882
Capital profit, £B3OB .. .. .. 376,190
To tax reserve, £8308.. .. .. 367,882
Unexplained addition, £77,000 .. 444,882
1949 .. 34.031 15 p.c. = 30,000 4,031 448,913
1950 . . 32,521 15 „ ~ 30,000 2,521 451,434
Added contingency reserve, £50,000.. 501,434
1951 .. 43,062 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,062 504,496
This well-entrenched Rockhampton co.
celebrates its 50th anniversary with a
record profit and a special 5 p.c. bonus
to shareholders, who thus received 20
p.c. for the year. Since the close of
accounts nominal capital has been in-
creased from £320,000 to £1,000,000 in
16s. shares. The board’s proposal to issue
250,000 of the new shares at a premium
of 10s. each to finance erection of a new
warehouse in Brisbane —the old one was
destroyed by fire in 1944 —has been
turned down by Capital Issues Control.
The proposal now looks like remaining
in pickle until the national defence pro-
gramme permits a relaxation of present
capital restrictions.
Meanwhile, recent and substantial ex-
pansion of activities, financed out of
savings, have given a fresh lustre to earn-
ings. The co. trades throughout Queens-
land, has strong connections with the
man on the land, especially in the centre
and central-west of the State, and retail
establishments and hotels and pastoral
properties have been acquired, the chair-
man says. Also, new premises have been
erected at Rockhampton to house the
travel business which the recently-
acquired agency for T.A.A. and
associated cos. has brought, and at the
same centre the co.’s new tinware factory
(operating 10 processes) came into pro-
duction in March, 1950, and is “now
well-established.” And a substantial
interest is held in W. H. Paxton and Co.
(Mackay).
The growth of £10,541 in last term’s
declared net earnings came from “the
tremendous expansion that has occurred
in the co.’s sales, resulting in part from
the inflation of prices.” The £43,062 of
profit claimed was 21.5 p.c. on capital as
against 16.2, 17, 17, 16.5 and 15.6 p.c. back
to 1946. The figure, which includes only
dividends received from subsidiaries, was
written after tossing £50,000 into a new
contingencies reserve. So the 20 p.c. dis-
tribution was a much more comfortable
matter than it looked. For over half-a-
century the policy has been to underpin
the financial structure, visibly and other-
wise, against economic and other mis-
fortunes, and employment for the large
cash reserves accumulated in the process
has been found during the last few years
in subsidiary and other undertakings.
Shares in subsidiaries increased from
£49,995 in 1948 to £500,902 a couple of
years later; —
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Sundry creditors 59,872 77,888 120,275 113,701
Tax provision 09,571 75,045 68,110 90,735
Due subsids... 90,000 122,523
Pinal div. .. 23,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Freeholds and
plant . . 17,975 19,995 39,195 44,253
Shares subsids. 49,995 407,402 500.902 500,902
Stocks . . 198,024 241,529 266,997 312,121
Book debts .. 71,933 94,398 105,945 107,028
Cash .. .. 17,767 26,042 34,501 34,872
Investments . . 304,631 32,581 2,280 2.280
Last term £5058 net was added to free-
holds and plant, £45,124 to stocks and
£61,083 to book debts. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£169,342, excluding the holding in sub-
sidiaries) was £58,004.
The market, which notes the large pile
of reserves (£504,496), the conservative
statement of profits and increased earning
capacity of the business, is prepared to
wait for its benefits. It prices the f.-p.
16s. shares at 755. as against 765. 6d. in
June and 58s. a year ago. The immediate
return at 755. is 4.2 p.c. on a 20 p.c. dis-
tribution, or 3.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 565. 4d.,
book-value.
South Australian Portland Cement
June 30, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1942 .. 12,186 10 12,000 81,187
1943 . . 10,544 8f 10,500 81,231
1944 . . 13,710 B*l 10,500 84,441
1945 . . 7,745 5 6,000 86,186
Prom inner reserves. £lO,OOO .. 96,186
1946 . . 12,728 7J 9,000 99,914
1947 .. 11,481 7i 9,000 102,395
1948 .. 15,012 7i 9,000 108,407
Share premiums, £12,221 .. 120,628
1949 .. 15,323 7$ 10,900 125,051
1950 .. 17,688 7i 13,561 129,178
To staff fund, £1632 ~ .. 127,546
Loss sale assets, £3OOO .. 124,546
Share premiums, £15,225 .. 139,771
1951 .. 23,281 7* 15,461 147,591
To staff fund, £2303 .. .. 145,288
Present capacity of the co.’s Brighton
plant is 45,000 tons p.a. Another
100,000-ton unit is being erected at
Angaston, where a limestone quarry
was bought from 1.C.1. a few years
back. Scheduled originally to begin
production by the end of 1951,
plant-delivery delays have set the target
date back to March, 1952. The Brighton


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
x.
4
a
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for I, 4,6, 8 cylinders, 10/0. 80/-,
45/-, 60/-. Call, write or phone MA7259.
Mail Orders post free. C.0.0.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. 1
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 26/9/’5l
BRISTOL, TRADING CO.UP AN t,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 1230
MARINE ENGINEERS & ENGINE
DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering
and desirous of passing examinations
for advancement, write for prospectus
regarding Engineering Correspondence
Courses, Tuition for Engineers and
Engine Drivers’ Examinations, also
Special Courses for Engineer Appren-
tices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, C.l.
P.O. Box 904, NEW ZEALAND.
GUARD
tris
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of tnsineif it retard*
all Sales. Credit*. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing 10 appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Divorce Notice.
TO JAME S EDWARD ARTHUR
RODERICK FITZGERALD.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ANNIE FITZ-
GERALD has eommenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of separation for a period of not
less than five years and that there is no
likelihood of cohabitation being resumed
IF you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Forty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. Dated
this 17th day of September, 1951. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. CORSER &
CORSER, Solicitors, 36 and 39 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, Solicitors
for the plaintiff herein.
Missing Friend.
CORCORAN, John Edmond, aged 49 years!
Parents Malachy Corcoran and Mary
Butler. Would the abovenamed, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney ?
Telephones: B 9573, B 6232, Telegraphic Address
B 6130 Corrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin HI. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
K'LG
CORUNDITE
£
a
c
nit 55
aood *
too-
HO 220
REQUEST A COPY OP
THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND-
ATI ON BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1951.
LIABILITIES.
Central Banking Business—
Capital
Reserve Fund .. ..
General Banking Division—
Capital .. .. .. _
Reserve Fund .. .. „
Rural Credits Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund .. .. ..
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. .. .. ...
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund .. ..
Special Reserve—Premium on gold sold
Notes on issue ..
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks ..
Other deposits of trading banks
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (Including provision
for contingencies)
£
4.000.
1,768,086
4.000.
1,179,908
2.000.
007,154
4.000.
218,341
4.000.
789,606
22,563,095
4,754,954
275,220,803
552,320,000
28,958,501
453,501,550
Total
£1,337,818,903
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held abroad (In-
cluding money at short call) »„ 717,175,660
Australian notes and coin .. ~ 7.906,095
Cheques and bills of other banks .. 7,755,609
Commonwealth Government securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 808,105,428
Securities of other Governments, and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities .. .. .. .. 94,135,086
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit .. .. .. .. 23,764,134
Bank premises, at cost less amounts
written off .. .. .. .. 1,702,989
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful): —
Central Bank .. .. 62,032,073
General Banking Division .. .. 72,937,865
Rural Credits Department .. .. 11,002,192
Mortgage Bank Department 4,100,542
Industrial Finance Department 22,549,278
Other assets .. .. .. „ 4,151,952
Total.. £1,337,318 903
Note. —Inter-departmental accounts totalling £18,489,983 have been offset.
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDF.D 30th June, 1951. Cr.
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 640,933
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund .. .. .. .. 344,715
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account .. .. .. 296,219
Note Issue Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account .. .. .. 150,000
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 3,393,796
General Banking Division—
To National Debit Sinking Fund 222,148
To General Banking Division Reserve
Fund 222,143
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department Re-
serve Fund .. .. .. 42,611
To Rural Credits Development Fund 42,611
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department Re-
serve Fund .. .. .. 47,265
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 287,188
Total
£5,689,634
By Profits for year ended 30th
June, 1951 (after provision for
contingencies)—
Central Banking Business
Note Issue Department
General Banking Division ..
Kural Credits Department ..
Mortgage Bank Department ~
Industrial Finance Department
1,281,867
3.543,796
444,296
85,222
47,265
287,188
Total .
£5,689,634
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. S. EYERS, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. B. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. SYDNEY, 24th August, 1951
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1951.
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ balances and accrued
interest
Other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) ... ..
ToTAt ..
£
6,771,981
533,033,110
14,989,926
£554,795,017
ASSETS. £
Australian notes and coin .. .. 685,907
Cash balances and money at short call 54,034,445
Commonwealth Government securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 437,946,243
Securities of other Governments and of
local and semi-governmental au-
thorities 39,244,295
Bank premises, at cost less amounts
written otf .. .. .. .. 1,727,115
Other assets - 21,157,012
Total
£554,795,017
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1951. Or.
To National Debt Sinking Fund
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund
£
473.120
473.121
Total
£946,241
By Profits for year ended 30th June,
1951 (after provision for payments
amounting to £(>69,841 due to State
Authorities under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements and after
provision for contingencies)
Total ... „
£
946,241
£946,241
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. S. EYEiiS, Secretary.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKI>ALE, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 24th August, 1951
r.-rt.iHcates a
to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the
Commonwealth tJlr. J. Brophy).
kiln and bagging plant will be
transferred to Angaston later on.
To finance The Angaston
project 243,255 new £1 ords.
were issued at a premium of
ss. each in December, 1948.
About £90,000 of the money
was still to come in at June 30
last, but it is evident that the
rise in construction costs will
make the issue of further capital
necessary and, subject to Capital
Issues approval, it is proposed
to offer further shares some-
time after February, 1952.
The only other competitor in
the State is Adelaide Cement,
Ltd., whose plant capacity is
also being expanded. Demand
for cement is still far ahead of
supply, even after allowing for
imports at high prices. With
Government preference given to
home-building, the supply of
cement for other projects has
been greatly restricted, resulting
in arrears of Government and
local-government works and the
postponement of construction of
industrial and city buildings.
Last year’s earnings received
no benefit from the heavy outlay
on new plant, but net earnings,
after providing £2OOO less
(£10,000) for depreciation, were
£5593 higher at £23,281, allow-
ing for movements in the insur-
ance reserve, now included with
general reserves. The £23,281
was equal to 11.3 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 9.7, 10.5,
12.5 and 9.5 p.c. back to 1947.
The 1\ p.c. div. was repeated,
and, allowing for £2303 put to
the staff fund, reserves benefited
by £2517, after deducting a loss
of £3OOO on plant sold to a sub-
sidiary. “The satisfactory sale”
of land owned by the co. be-
tween the Brighton works and
Hallett’s Cove quarries is also
reported, and a drop of £11,954
in the book-value of freeholds
(£4009) is largely a result.
Approximately 200 acres are
still owned around the Brighton
works.
During the year £107,000 of
Commonwealth loans were sold
without loss (a good piece of
financial management) and
£BOOO- worth redeemed. The
money will be useful to help in
the construction project:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 180,814 180,814 300,834
Overdraft . . 18,546 30,564
Sundry creditors* 30,975 37,513 48,446
Tax reserve ~ 769 1,744 1,80..
Final div. . . 6,400 6,781 8,681
Freehold land. . 13,595 15,963 4,009
Buildings, plant,
etc 131,191 139,684 293,669
Stocks .. .. 47.270 56,699 56.129
Book debts . . 19,078 28,742 32,917
Govt, securities,
cash, etc. . . 132,875 131,856 148,891
* Includes provision for taxation.
Net outlay on plant, etc., last
term was £153,985. Heavier
expenditure is likely this year.
The co. was formed 57 years
ago, and it has been a modest,
though steady, div.-payer for the
past quarter of a century, only
once (1931) missing a distribu-
tion. Negotiations for a merger
with Adelaide Cement a few
years ago failed, and the present
big construction programme
followed. Shareholders should
benefit in the long run.
Meantime a 1\ p.c. div. is all
that is likely in the immediate
future. On this basis the yield
would be 4.2 p.c. from the old
shares bought at 365.
Aberfoyie Tin, N.L.
This well-developed and well-
equipped mine, on the slopes of
Ben Lomond (Tas.), is one of
Australia’s leading tin and
wolfram producers. For the
year to June 30 last profits took
a spectacular leap of £294,933,
reaching £375,563, or 601 p.c.
on the £62,500 of paid capital as
against 129 p.c. and 81.5 p.c. for
the two preceding years. That
was after allowing £149,913 (up
£126,629) for taxation and
£4619 for development, etc. The
div., which was lifted from 95
p.c. to 440 p.c. (4.45. per Is.
share), called for £275,000.
It was the steep rise in prices
for tin and wolfram that was
mainly responsible for the leap
in earnings. Local price of tin
(metal) per ton shot up from
£655 in July, 1950, to £lOOO in
March, 1951, and has remained
steady since. For the wolfram
concentrates, sold by tender, the
price rocked from £575 to
£2BBO per ton. In each case the
mainspring behind prices has
been demand on account of re-
armament, which includes stock-
piling.
An extra 3649 tons ore was
milled, and a slight drop in the
tin content was much more than
offset by a rise in the wolfram
content. Here are milling figures,
etc.: —
1949. 1950. 1951.
Ore milled, tons.. 25,362 29,579 83,228
Concentrates:
Tin, tons .. 424.90 455.60 451.48
Wolfram, tons.. 90.44 119.90 143.30
Flue dust, tons 32.49 38.88 148.42
Net profit. £ . . 50,926 80,630 375,563
Dividend, p.c. .. 75 95 440
amount, £ 46,875 59,375 275.000
The feed contained 7047 tons
ore from development, and over
89 p.c. of the balance came from
Nos. 5, 6 and 7 levels. No. 8
level is now being opened up.
Ore reserves at June 30 were
212,155 positive and 43,698
probable. And the last drill-hole
has proved the existence of the
main vein system to a depth of
400 ft. below No. 8 level. Drill
cores brought up from 12-inch
veins at this depth are reported
rich in wolfram.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £410,687 and
current liabilities £330,609, in-
cluding final div.
The market prices the f.-p. Is.
shares at 365. 6d. as against
9s. 2d. a year ago.
From “Cow-hide Kibble":
B. 5/9/’5l hit the nail on the
head when it commented on the
lack of published information
concerning the widths of the
scheelite reefs which at that time
had been examined and reported
on in connection with the
Mosquito Creek field, which lies
between Hatches Creek and
Wauchope wolfram fields,
about 300 miles north-east of
Alice Springs in Central Aus-
tralia. Local gougers recall
that about 20 years ago an
Afghan was carting in scheelite
from that area, or a locality
near by, and the opinion then
was that the veins were rich
enough but “terrible narrow.


One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
o
CL
U W» !>»'
#
THE PRESENT
IS HAPPIER WHEN
THE FUTURE IS
SECURE...
If you want to get real pleasure out of
living there’s nothing like the secure
knowledge that you have A.C.A. protec-
tion for the future. Perhaps you cherish
the thought of providing a University
career for a child —or providing a lump
sum for your child’s future —a planned
early retirement for yourself—peace of
mind that in the event of your death your
family will never be short of money.
Whatever your future plans are you can
be sure that an A.C.A. good Policy will
meet your individual needs.
A.C.A. POLICIES ARE GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Head Office: 66 King Street, Sydney.
) Branch Offices throughout the Commonwealth
The Manager, ,
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ctu.
66 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Please let me have full details concerning LIFE,
w ENDOWMENT, EDUCATIONAL POLICIES.
» Please underline the type of Policy required.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
' I
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Our Economic Position
The Commonwealth Bank’s
report on recent and current
economic conditions is particu-
larly interesting in view of the
changes taking place in the
commodity markets and share-
markets. Internal inflationary
pressure continues, but export
income is falling:
As a consequence of the high levels
of public and private investment,
swollen export incomes and popula-
tion growth, increasingly heavy de-
mands have been made upon the
resources available to the Australian
economy. Domestic output was
higher than in the previous year and
was supplemented by a larger volume
of imports, but the increase in total
supplies, although considerable, was
quite inadequate to meet the sharply-
rising level of demand. Moreover,
the rise in prices overseas exerted a
strong upward pressure upon the
domestic structure of prices and costs.
As a result of this pressure, and of
the higher basic wage awarded at the
end of 1950, prices, wages and costs
rose in an increasingly rapid sequence.
Indeed, the increases in prices during
the year were the largest of any
recorded during or since World War
11.
The effects of excessive demand
were more serious than the rise in
prices alone would indicate. Com-
petitive bidding tended to divert labor
and materials from basic industries
and developmental projects to con-
sumer-goods industries. This further
increased the demands on scarce
resources of steel, power, transport
and other essential goods and ser-
vices, and seriously distorted the pro-
ductive effort of the economy.
Moreover, efficiency in all sectors of
industry was seriously impaired by the
high rate of labor turnover and by
delays in production processes which
resulted from attempts to spread
available resources over too many
projects.
A trend towards instability
is noted:
Apart from the immediate effects
of rising prices and widespread short-
ages and inefficiencies there are
dangerous elements of instability
growing within the economy. In
response to high export incomes, the
inflow of capital and major develop-
ment plans, we have built up a
volume of imports which we are
unlikely to be able to sustain over a
long period from our own resources.
The passing-through into Australian
costs of prices of internationally
traded goods substantially higher than
general domestic prices here and
abroad is tending to establish levels
of costs which will expose Australian
industries to acute competition when
the present excessive demand condi-
tions pass. The concentration of
public and private development plans
is leading to the expansion of capital-
goods industries on a scale which it
may be difficult to employ con-
tinuously from the savings voluntarily
made by the Australian community.
Total public and private investment
expenditure in 1950-51 (excluding
movements in stocks) was about one-
third higher than in the previous year.
Although this rise was largely due to
price and cost increases, investment
in real terms rose significantly.
Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments are now examining public
investment plans with the object of
ensuring that effort is concentrated on
the most essential projects so that the
best use is made of scarce resources.
The need for this action is reinforced
by the growing requirements of the
defence programme.
More labor is needed for
essential industries:
Owing mainly to the inflow of
migrants, employment rose by over
3.5 per cent. However, employment
in certain basic industries —particu-
larly mining and transport—increased
relatively little, and to this extent the
full benefit of the larger work force
was not obtained. Although in the
long run Australia will be strength-
ened by the increase in population,
a large migration programme imposes
a heavy initial strain on the economy,
and it is doubly important, therefore,
that the increased labor force should
be employed where it can make the
greatest contribution to essential pro-
duction.
With a favorable season for the
fourth successive year, rural output
was sustained at a high level. The
wool clip is estimated to have been
1180 million lbs., which is slightly
above the previous peak of 1169 mil-
lion lbs. in 1943-44. Although the
wheat harvest of 183 million bushels
was 35 million bushels below the
1949-50 crop, mainly because of a
substantial decline in production in
New South Wales, it was still well
above the average harvest during the
ten years ended 1949-50. Since 1947-
48 a high average yield of wheat per
acre has been maintained as a result
of favorable conditions, but the
acreage sown has declined each sea-
son.
The output of nearly all basic
materials and manufactured goods
was higher in 1950-51 than in the
previous year. However, production
in the early part of 1949-50 was
seriously affected by the general coal
strike, which lasted until August,
1949, and, in certain capital-goods
industries particularly, output during
ROAD
CLOSED
| NEW
AUSTRALIANS
AT V/Ot?K
"It's his turn to boil the billy."
the final nine months of the year was
little or no higher in 1950-51 than in
1949-
The output of coal and power rose,
but supplies were not adequate to
meet the high levels of demand.
Power shortages were acute, and
although efforts are being made to
obtain new equipment overseas, and
the development of hydroelectric pro-
jects is proceeding, it will be some
time before supplies are adequate for
all the community’s needs.
Iron and steel output increased
significantly, but, because of con-
tinued shortages of suitable coal and
of labor, the industry is still working
at considerably less than capacity, and
all types of steel products are in
extremely short supply. These short-
ages are having a serious effect on
both rural and industrial production,
and although during 1950 large quan-
tities of steel and steel products were
imported to help meet essential needs,
it has recently become more difficult
to secure supplies.
The production of most building
materials was higher in 1950-51 than
in the previous year, and this enabled
a larger number of dwellings to be
completed. However, the shortage of
materials was still acute, and the
building industry worked at much less
than full capacity.
Output of most consumer goods
increased substantially. The rapid ex-
pansion of many less-essential indus-
tries, while basic materials remained
in critically short supply, continued
to indicate the unbalanced develop-
ment of the economy.
Money incomes have kept on
increasing:
The increase in money incomes in
1950- was considerably greater than
the combined increase in the previous
two years. All classes of incomes
rose, with higher export prices and
increased wage rates being the main
contributing factors.
Because of the large increase in
incomes, expenditure on consumer
goods and services rose substantially,
but there was also a considerable
increase in savings. However, although
personal savings in 1950-51 were
large in money terms, the resources
which were made available in this
way for public and private investment
fell far short of total requirements.
Export and import prices rose by
84 per cent, and 13 per cent., respec-
tively, in the first three quarters of
1950-51, The much greater rise in
export prices was due predominantly
to the high international demand for
wool, the price of which increased
from an average of 63d. per lb. greasy
in 1949-50 to an average of 144 d. per
lb. in 1950-51. The fall in the export
price index after March this year
reflects the decline from the peak
level of wool prices as overseas buy-
ing eased.
While export prices are fall-
ing, import costs are rising:
Although the prices of many of the
other raw materials which Australia
exports and imports also increased
considerably, the price-rises of manu-
factured goods, which are our largest
imports, were more moderate. How-
ever, higher raw-material prices and
increases in other costs overseas have
not yet become fully effective in the
prices of imported manufactures.
While the terms of trade were
highly favorable to Australia during
the first nine months of 1950-51, they
became less favorable towards the
end of the year. Future movements
in the terms of trade and the state of
Australia’s balance of payments with
other countries will largely depend on
the trend in wool prices. If wool
prices do not increase much above
current levels it is quite possible that
with a continuing rise in the value of
imports Australia may face a balance-
of-payments deficit on current ac-
count in 1951-52.
Prices have been rising in
keeping with wage-increases:
Price increases in Australia during
the year were generally larger than in
overseas countries. In the nine
months after June, 1950, wholesale
and retail prices in Australia increased
by 20 and 12 per cent., respectively,
compared with increases of 22 and 4
per cent, in the United Kingdom,
17 and 8 per cent, in the U.S.A.,
16 and 9 per cent, in Canada and
7 per cent, for retail prices in New
Zealand. Although wholesale prices
in most countries showed significant
increases after the outbreak of hostili-
ties in Korea in June, 1950, by early
1951 the upward trend appeared less
pronounced, particularly in the
U.S.A., where wholesale prices
levelled off after February. The
significance of the increases in prices
of raw materials is shown by the
United Kingdom wholesale price index
for basic materials, which increased
by 86 per cent, in the first nine
months of 1950-51.
Dollars:
Trade with the dollar area in 1950-
51 produced Australia’s first post-war
dollar surplus and contributed about
$lOO million to the sterling area’s
dollar pool, compared with drawings
of $2 million in 1949-50 and of $73
million and $164 million in the pre-
vious two years. Before the close of
the financial year about 625,000 bales
of wool had been shipped to the
United States, exceeding the quantity
exported in any year since 1946-47,
when stocks were replenished by the
United States after the war. The
average price realised was more than
double the 1949-50 average.
Australia’s holdings of gold and
overseas balances increased by £AI93
million during the year, and at the
end of June, 1951, amounted to
£AB43 million, including gold valued
at £A44 million and £A9O million of
short- and medium-term British
Government securities (other than
Treasury Bills).
Government finance;
With incomes rising strongly, the
cash receipts of the Commonwealth
Government in 1950-51 were the
highest ever recorded, although cer-
tain minor taxation concessions were
granted during the year. However,
available funds were fully absorbed
by high costs and growing commit-
ments, and for the first time since
the end of the war the Government
was unable to continue the disinfla-
tionary practice of redeeming Treasury
Bills at the end of the year.
The volume of liquid funds in the
hands of the public in Australia rose
by £3BB million (19 per cent.) during
the year, compared with increases of
£2BO million (16 per cent.) in 1949-50
and £155 million (10 per cent.) in
1948-49. Figures of the money supply
in recent years are as follows:
t June
£ Million.
1939. 1950. 1951.
Notes in hands of public 33 202 239
Deposits of public with all
cheque-paying banks.. 334 1,095 1,371
Deposits with all savings
banks . 246 762 837
613 2,059 2,447
The continued expansion of the
money supply, which was at a higher
rate than in any post-war year, was
due mainly to the high level of export
incomes and to an increase in bank
advances. In most overseas countries
the volume of money has also been
increasing, but at a much more
moderate rate than in Australia.


n FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotels, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WEHTWJIREH
in
7
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today** value* are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C| YEARS OF SERVICE
tO TEE AUSTRALIAN FUIiLIC
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ẁ
. , . BUT HK
WEARS A
NEO-
IBARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
( Dept. 2a), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Union Bank
Business is Built on
Friendli] Service/
Goodwill has always played a major part
in the building of the Bank's constantly in-
creasing business. In many cases up to four
generations in a family have had the willing
and helpful financial advice of the Union
Bank.
Whether your means are small or large, you
will find that friendly discussion with your
local Union Bank Manager frequently assists
to solve an apparently difficult financial
problem.
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England )
Shortly to be merged with Bank of Australasia in
Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in London. ,
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HfiJ
ififi
u
ERSKINiii
Announcing the acquisition of
new premises
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney. Phone 8X3891
Corner of Erskine Street and Clarence Street
jKfti&q' CBPaa [NATIONAL
L l
DIESEL ENGINES, DIESEL ALTERNATOR SETS
DIESEL MARINE ENGINES—PROPULSION & AUXILIARY
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Dollar Requirements
As the Bretton Woods twins
—the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank —
show more promise every year
and impress the world by the
way they’re translating their
early brave theories into
practice, dollar-wise Maori-
landers have begun to show
more interest in them, though
officially New Zealand still
remains coldly aloof.
If New Zealand can’t make up
its mind yet to get on closer
terms with the children, at least
it’s beginning to realise that they
seem destined to have an
important place in the world.
Until now both Socialists and
Nationalists in N.Z. have been
split on the question of joining
up, and have carefully avoided
the issue in Parliament, where
isolationism has been no party
attitude, but once Socialist
controls are loosened the
Dominion should be more ready
to enter into monetary partner-
ship.
After seven years since the
twins were born, and four or
five since they got down to busi-
ness, little N.Z. is at last begin-
ning to wonder whether it can,
or should, walk alone much
longer. So far as principles go
it’s much in sympathy with the
collective aims, methods and
ideals and is in much the same
cam > as member countries. It
couldn’t be a stronger supporter
of exchange stability, monetary
control and pooling of dollars
or sterling if it were on the
inside. Nothing would help it
more to come to the point than
tighter dollar austerity, for
Maorilanders have been greatly
struck by the ease with which
Australia raised 100 million
dollars from the World Bank
last year. That was on the eve
of the wool boom, which netted
such a windfall of dollars that
N.Z. was able to mark time, but
with lower wool prices there’ll
be a big cut in dollars in the
coming months.
If needs can't be met through
trade channels, N.Z. might have
to choose between seeking
dollars on the open market, on
the best terms it can get there, or
taking out a membership-ticket
with the World Bank, applying
for a loan, and making use of
the machinery that has been set
up to meet such needs as this.
Uncle Sam might figure out that
a rebuff would be the quickest
way of bringing N.Z. up to the
mark. The little Dominion is a
first-class risk, with an un-
blemished record as a borrower,
and should be as strong a
magnet for dollars as Australia
once it gained the membership-
badge.
Until now, it has always
looked to John Bull for capital
to pay for development, but
sterling funds at nearly £llO
million, for the Reserve Bank
and trading banks, meet all
current needs in that quarter.
The bottleneck today is one of
dollars.
Jap Goods in Maorilancf
Since trade controls were put
“on the spot” because Jap goods
made them look silly, Maori-
land manufacturers have seized
on this as another reason for
warning their young Board of
Trade to mind its step in scrap-
ping import quotas, restrictions
and red-tape methods that stood
in the way of plentiful supplies
of goods on New Zealand
markets for years past.
Local industry doesn't relish
the prospect of facing a stiff
challenge from outside, and
manufacturers know their infant
and adolescent concerns, and
perhaps older ones, too, would
soon wilt under such attack.
For the Japs to surmount N.Z.’s
tariff wall and transport costs
to get the goods there wouldn’t
be a decent practice run. The
difference between the £NZ
and the £A would far more than
offset the extra distance, and
leave Maoriland as probably the
easiest prey in a trade-war to
be found anywhere in the world.
It’s an awkward problem, be-
cause N.Z., like Australia, wants
to sell wool to the Japs, and
would give a warm welcome to
their buyers if they helped to
stiffen prices at the coming
season’s sales, which open in
November. But there’s no sign
that the Board of Trade is going
to be pushed off its balance. In
16 months it has decontrolled
two-thirds of N.Z. imports, and
is determined to deal with the
remaining third, where it will
have to find a path between
clashing interests of local and
overseas suppliers. Like a hound
on the scent, it’s bent on
pursuing the quarry to its
ultimate goal and fully enthron-
ing the tariff once more in its
little world.
Under the Socialists, who
forced N.Z. trade into a strait-
jacket and were driving the
Welfare State with all the brakes
on, commerce was thrown badly
off balance, and the B. of T.
knows it will have to tread on a
few toes to put things right
again, but it’s not acting in any
ruthless spirit, even if it has to
hurt some weak or pampered
cos.
The biggest risk is that M.L.’s
small, rich, highly-valued market
could be converted into a
dumping-ground for goods from
Japan or Asian countries at
what would look like give-away
prices to M.L. industrialists,
and would knock them out for
the count. There’s a cut-price
risk from other sources, too, not
excluding members of the Com-
monwealth family.
Australia, with the exchange
to help it, and John Bull, who
has to keep a keen lookout for
openings to unload end-of-season
fashion lines and for prospects
for quick switches in trade,
could upset a lot of apple-
carts if they wanted to.
Some groups of N.Z. manu-
facturers have had bad dreams
over what could happen, and the
B. of T. will hear a lot about
dumping risks in the next few
months. Prime Minister Sid
Holland says his “free-enter-
prise" Government won’t let
N.Z. be flooded by the output of
countries where living standards
don’t compare with those in the
Dominion, but manufacturers
are asking—how?
What kind of defences will be
built into the tariff? One idea
industry has is that a floor price
should be set for imports, on
the pattern already tried for
M.L.’s young crockery venture,
to give it a hold —though a
rather insecure one —on a section
of that trade, but this isn’t as
simple as it seems when it comes
to bridging a gaping price-abyss
like that between Jap and
Maoriland goods. N.Z. will be
watching closely to see how
Australia takes the same hurdle.
As for business with John Bull
and Australia, M.L.’s trade
policy is still modelled on the
18-year-old Ottawa pattern,
which put local industry first,
J.B. and Empire partners next,
and the rest of the world third.
This policy was just getting
nicely into working order in the
’thirties when M.L. nearly went
bankrupt, at the end of 1938,
and since then it has been in
cold-storage, except lately when
it was brought forward again,
but hasn’t yet been thawed out.
The Board of Trade will have
to interpret it in today’s changed
world, and show Maorilanders
how trade can be made to run
smoothly on the three-decker
basis.


The
Letters of Rachel Henning
[These letters begin in 1853, when Biddulph, Rachel Henning’s only
brother (then 19, and considered “delicate”), and her sister Annie (23)
sailed for Australia in the auxiliary steam clipper Great Britain.
and ber s i B £ ep9 Henrietta (“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851) and Amy were thus separated, for
the time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed from England to Biddulph and
Annie in Australia. She moved around from one part of England to
another, spending her time agreeably with some of her numerous relatives,
and keeping Biddulph and Annie in Australia informed of family, social
and political doings in Britain.
In August, 1854, Rachel and her sister Amy, with their cousin,
iregtnna Biddulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta. They reached
Melbourne on October 15 and landed in Sydney on October 22. Six davs
later Rachel and Amy went to Appin, In N.S.W., where their brother
Biddulph had leased a farm from the Rev. Sparling. Rachel soon became
very unhappy and homesick.
Hollowing Amy’s marriage to Thomas Sloman, of Bathurst, in September,
ISoi). and while Biddulph was establishing a new place on Bulli Mountain,
Rachel decided to return to England, where she arrived in October, 1856.
She left Amy, Annie and Biddulph behind in Australia.
After nearly five years with her friends and relatives in England,
during which period Tregenna returned home to marry, prior to settling
on the Shoalhaven, Rachel left Liverpool in the clipper Great Britain for
Australia on February 17, 1861. On her arrival she visited Amy in
Bathurst, Tregenna on the Shoalhaven, and then, with Biddulph and
Annie, went to live in North Queensland, which was Just being developed.
This is the eighth instalment of the letters.]
Exmoor Station,
Port Denison,
September 29, 1862.
My Dearest Etta,
I like Exmoor very much, and
think we shall be very happy in
our new home. I am so glad
we have got here at last. You
must fancy a long low building,
built of dark-colored slabs of
wood with a veranda in front,
and the doors and windows
opening into it. It contains five
rooms: the first is our bedroom,
the next the store and the next
the parlor. At the back of ours
is Biddulph’s and Mr. Hedge-
land’s room, and at the back of
the parlor is another bedroom
wherein reside any other mem-
bers of the “staff” who happen
to be at home —more than half
are always at the out-stations.
The kitchen is next-door to the
"He and Annie are great friends, and may perhaps be more.”
house, and behind are men’s
huts, sheds and gunyahs, etc.
The house stands on a low
hill at the foot of which runs
the creek which supplies us with
water, and a very pretty creek
it is, with deep banks covered
with trees and shrubs. We have
a piece of ground fenced and
dug for a garden at the foot of
the hill, but at present it only
contains some pines and pump-
kins and some petunia-cuttings.
If it would only rain we
should sow lots of seeds, but it
is a very dry season. The
ground in front of the house is
at present in a state of nature,
rough and stony, with gum-trees
still scattered here and there.
Beyond the creek we look over
about two miles of bush to a
beautiful range of mountains,
which form the eastward boun-
dary of the Exmoor run, so we
have a very pretty view. The
country round is beautiful,
broken ridges and the river and
creeks, and, of course, any
quantity of bushland, but we
have not seen much of it as yet.
Besides Biddulph, Annie and
myself, the inmates of the house
are: Mr. Hedgeland, Mr. Dev-
lin, the superintendent, Mr.
Taylor, the sheep overseer, Mr.
Cressall, Mr. Robertson and
young Simpson, Mr. Devlin’s
nephew, but these are never all
at home together; indeed, now
being the lambing season, they
are all busy, and the whole
establishment are perpetually
riding about the country to see
after the lambs or to find grass
and water for the sheep.
When we first came up the
house was in a very rough state,
as we had been fully prepared
to find it; none of the furniture
had come up from Marlborough,
so we had only benches and a
rough table in the parlor and
some rough bedsteads for us. But
three evenings ago the drays
from Port Denison arrived.
The advent of the drays is
always a great event on a station,
and these, besides the ordinary
stores, contained some of our
cases and boxes from Sydney. It
was about six o’clock on Thurs-
day evening that the cracking of
stockwhips was heard in the
bush the other side of the creek,
and presently the long train of
bullocks came in sight. Bid-
dulph was sitting on the veranda
with us, but down he flew to
help get the drays over the creek.
Young Simpson had just
come in on horseback, and
down he went likewise, and
presently there was such a
chorus of shouting and
bawling as was never heard out
of Australia. I suppose it helped
the oxen to drag the heavy drays
through the sand of the creek,
for they presently appeared
rising the hill and drew up in
front of the veranda —first a very
large new wagon drawn by
twelve splendid bullocks (Bid-
dulph is very proud of his teams),
next a large dray with ten bul-
locks yoked in it, and finally a
smaller dray with eight bullocks.
This latter was driven by a black-
boy named Alick, and his gin,
Biddy, was perched on the top,
such a queer object dressed in a
Crimean shirt and, I believe, no
other garment.
The drays were left for that
night, the bullock-drivers took
up their rest on the veranda and
the blacks camped by a fire
under the gum-trees in front of
the house.
With love from your affec-
tionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
November 2, 1862.
My Dearest Etta,
It is getting very warm now,
but I stand the heat very well
so far —better than Annie does,
I think. The mornings and even-
ings and nights are always cool,
but in the afternoon the ther-
mometer is often up to ninety-
five and ninety-six in the par-
lor. It is wonderful to me that
we do not feel such a degree of
heat more, but Biddulph rides in
it all day and we work and read
and write without being at all
melted.
It always gets cool about half-
past five; then we go out for a
walk or ride. We take it by
turns to ride, as this dry weather
the horses stray so far that we
can never get up more than one
ladies’ horse at once. I had a
beautiful ride last week: the
establishment was out of soap,
and, as we had heard that a Mr.
Palmer, who was encamped on
the other side of the Broken
River, was in possession of
some of that useful article, Mr.
Hedgeland set forth to borrow
some, and, it being my turn to
ride, I accompanied him.
We went through the bush
and over the wide sheep plains
for nearly ten miles till we came
to the Broken River. More
beautiful scenery I have scarcely
ever seen in England: the river-
bed is full four hundred yards
wide, the banks steep precipices
in some places, in others slop-
ing down more gradually. We
rode down the best place we
could find, and I cannot fancy
anything wilder and more pic-
turesque than that Broken River
when we were down in it; banks
of sand and shingle, beautiful
groups of trees, something like
\yillows only much larger,
tumbled masses of grey rock
(from which the river has its
name) rising into crags and
ledges in some places and pools
of the clearest water here and
there among them. The river
was still running in a channel on
one side and tolerably wide in
some places, but what a sight it
must be when it is bank to bank
and a torrent four hundred yards
wide is rolling over the rocks
and trees.
We rode down the channel for
some way to find a narrow cros-
sing-place for fear of alligators,
and then we scrambled up the
other side and proceeded through
the bush in search of Mr.
Palmer’s encampment. It took
nearly an hour to find, as there
was no guide except his dray-
tracks, and he appeared to have
been disporting himself by driv-
ing all over the country. At
last we came to a bark hut and
some cattle-sheds, the whole
guarded by a great bulldog, the
happy possessor of five squeal-
ing puppies who were rolling in
the dust in a corner.
Mr. Palmer was not at home,
but we werfe received by an
amiable stockman, from whom
we extracted two
bars of yellow
soap; and very
bad soap it was.
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
However, Mr. Hedgeland tied it
up and fastened it in front of his
saddle in triumph. The amiable
stockman also offered to make
me some tea, but I declined this
refreshment, and then he showed
us what he called a short way
across the river, which was
down a place which very much
resembled the face of a precipice,
but these bush horses will go
up and down anything.
It was quite dark when we got
home, but there was the soap. It
might, perhaps, be considered a
pursuit of cleanliness under
difficulties, but I wish we could
get everything we want by riding
twenty miles for it.
I wish you could see the wild-
flowers here; they are not very
numerous, but some are so very
handsome. I found the other
day a beautiful wild azalea, the
blossoms quite as large as those
paper ones I made for you, and
pure white with deep crimson
stamens. It grows on a large
shrub or small tree with bright
green leaves which are unlike
those of an azalea, but there is
no mistaking the flower or the
powerful azalea scent. We
brought home great bunches of
it and put it in water, but none
'of the flowers up here will last
more than twenty-four hours in
water, and very vexing it is.
There is also a tree we find
in the creeks that has a beauti-
ful pink blossom in shape and
size something like a Turk’s-cap
lily, and very sweet. Another
beautiful shrub we call the fire-
tree. It grows in the creeks and
bears large upright branches of
splendid crimson flowers. I dress
a vase of wildflowers every
morning, for if we do not bring
any home, Tom, the cook, or
the blackboys or some of the
gentlemen are sure to bring
home some. I often dress
Annie’s flower-basket, too; it
looks very pretty with white
azaleas and fire-tree blossoms.
Biddulph came home a few
evenings ago with three young
emus hanging to his saddle and
a lame lamb carried before him.
One of the shepherds had run-
down the emus for him. They
are rather difficult to rear; two
of them died, but one seems
pretty flourishing, and I hope he
will survive. He is about the
size of a duck now, only
mounted on very long legs. I
feed him on soaked bread which
is crammed down his throat. He
also eats quondongs, a sort of
wild plum that grows in the
bush. They look very like the
common black plums you pre-
serve, but they are sour and
bitter and harsh to an untold
degree; sloes are nothing to
them.
The emu is kept on the
veranda, tied by the leg to one
of the veranda seats. He met
with a misfortune last night. He
was put in the kitchen to be
kept warm, as they very soon
die of cold, and a pet lamb was
also there, and in the night the
lamb contrived to pick off and
eat the whole of the down from
one side of the emu. You never
saw such a miserable spectacle
as he presented this morning,
with his bare skin, and I am
afraid he will catch cold and
die besides.
Believe me, my dearest Etta,
Ever yours most affec-
tionately,
Rachel Henning.
xmoor Station,
Port Denison,
November 22, 1862.
My Dearest Etta,
We have quite a house-full
here now. The lambing season
is over, and all Biddulph’s
“staff” are at home; six of
them. So we gener-
ally sit down nine
to table, to the
great bewilderment
of Tom, the cook. Mr. Devlin,
the station superintendent, is
come in among the rest.
The shearing began yesterday,
and everybody is busy in the
woolshed all day. Biddulph has
hired six shearers; they can
shear from seventy to one hun-
dred sheep a day each, but as
there are about eight thousand
to be got through, it is a long
business.
The shearers have encamped
down by the creek, where they
have erected a tent for them-
selves. Some of the shepherds
are in, too, with their flocks, and
the whole place looks like an
encampment, and you con-
tinually meet sunburnt figures,
with flannel jerseys and trousers,
held, apparently, by a very in-
secure tenure, by way of
costume,
Biddulph has just had an im-
mense wool-press up from Port
Denison ; it was made in Syd-
ney. It takes several men to
work it, but the power of pres-
sure is enormous. The wool is
laid in a box some five feet high
and is pressed into about a
quarter the size. During their
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and settled permanently
in Australia In 1861.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. >V.
Boyce, and remained In England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph.
AMV HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in Octobe ,
1854, and in September 1800.
married Thomas Sloman, a banner,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 183 U
came to Australia in 1803.
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appin. Later he bou f, b *
acres of Crown land near Rixon
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at Jos. an
acre, and built a house there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. Bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November
1858. In 1862 he moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of ® dra ““ d
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married In
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TBE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalhaven district ot
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WILLIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TLCKER was
his brother.


■
n
fftisabe?
w
m
* 11 U
1
1
NJi
i
i
■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
The ALL-BRITISH
gnwsallswart
o%nd,
Greatest
~halue
M?5B
57/6
PRICES
'RANGE
FROM
25/. ,
TO
70/-
N
VOS
OL dN
/
7/w Ten wvtk
i Tlihf
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
leisure time they make wool-
bales. I am happy to say we are
not expected to sew at the tough
canvas, but Mr. Taylor and Mr.
Hedgeland sit on the veranda
and stitch away at them.
We dine later than ever now
as the days lengthen, and they
do not leave the woolshed till
dark. So it is often eight o’clock
before we sit down, and the
evenings are rather short in
consequence.
We have had more visitors
than usual lately. Mr. Selheim,
the owner of the next station,
was here last week. He is rather
a gentlemanly German, but en-
dowed with the most extra-
ordinary stammer I ever heard.
He says “apenhalt” before
every word he utters. “Do you
grow any apen-apen-apen-halt
apenhalt pumpkins in your gar-
den, Miss Henning?” I was
speechless and did not dare to
look up from my plate, but
Annie and Biddulph were used
to it and could talk without
laughing. Biddulph is rather
fond of him, but he lives 40
miles off, so we do not see much
of him.
Since the lambing season I
have been quite overwhelmed
with pet lambs ; there is a flock
of seven now lying on the
veranda waiting for next feed-
ing time. Two of them are large
now, and can nearly feed them-
selves. They are rather trouble-
some at meal-times, as they
thrust their heads into every-
body’s lap for bread. Chummy,
the eldest of the family, is grow-
ing into a great butting ram, but
he is so tame that we are very
fond of him. His great delight
is to drink tea out of a quart-
pot if he can find one on the
ground, and then he gets his
head stuck in it and walks about
in that guise. The four smallest
lambs have to be fed out of a
bottle with a quill stuck in the
cork, and a great deal of time it
takes, but they have lost their
mothers, and it seems a pity to
let them starve.
We have had some nice rides
lately. The day before yester-
day we contrived to muster two
ladies’ horses, and Annie and I
had a beautiful ride with Mr,
Hedgeland and Mr. Robertson
across the Bowen River and
through a gap in the cliffs they
call Blackwall, and over such
noble plains.
The country on that side of
the station is most picturesque.
We saw some kangaroos on the
plains, and the dogs went after
them and we went after the dogs
as hard as we could for a long
distance, but the kangaroos got
into a patch of scrub where we
could not follow them.
There is hardly anything
pleasanter than a gallop over a
plain with the wind rushing by
you and the ground flying under
your horse’s feet. We came
home by Grass Valley, one of
the sheep-stations—such a pretty
spot, but very lonely for a soli-
tary shepherd; dense scrub
nearly all round it, except
where the wide plains go stretch-
ing away.
Sometimes there are two shep-
herds on one station, but if the
flock is small there is only one,
and a very lonely man he must
be; he has a tent or bark gun-
yah, his blanket and pot for
“The dogs went after them and we went after the dogs.”
boiling meat; his dog and his
sheep, from 500 to 800. One
man cannot manage much more.
He goes out with his flock in the
morning and sits under a tree
while they feed about; in a
country where there are no
fences, of course, they require
constant attention lest they get
lost. In the evening he drives
them into the yard (made of
branches of gum-trees) and pens
them for the night and betakes
himself to his tent.
About twice a week someone
visits him from the head station
with rations and to count the
sheep. The rations are beef,
flour, tea and sugar ; everything
else the men pay for. Their
wages are very high, from
twenty-five shillings to thirty
shillings a week.
Sam Weller says that in Eng-
land men of a misanthropic
turn of mind take a turnpike.
I think in Australia they must
take to shepherding.
With love from your affec-
tionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
Exmoor,
Port Denison,
October 18, 1862.
My Dearest Etta,
After being nearly nine weeks
without seeing a letter, on
Thursday last, the 16th of this
month, our eyes were gladdened
by the sight of a dirty newspaper
parcel which was conveyed to
the station by an amiable
individual who rode six miles
out of his way to bring it.
We espied the parcel under
Biddulph’s arm as he stood talk-
ing to the man who had brought
it, and instantly dispatched Mr.
Hedgeland to extract it there-
from, as it was impossible to say
how long our respected brother
might stand and “yarn” about
the news from Port Denison,
and the prospects of the country
generally.
I untied the parcel, and to our
great delight it contained letters
from yourself, Amy, Emily
Tucker, Bella and a few Sydney
friends of Annie’s; newspapers,
the “Cornhill Magazine,” and
some letters also for some of the
gentlemen on the station, and
one or two for the shepherds.
Of course the reading that
ensued was tremendous. (I
forgot to say that Biddulph him-
self had about a dozen business
letters.) Yours came very
quickly, considering the distance.
It is dated July 18, and arrived
here October 16, but I fear we
shall not always get them so
speedily.
This is your birthday, my
dearest Etta. May you have
many happy returns of it. I
wonder where and how you will
spend it. I wish I was with you,
though I like being here, too. 1
certainly do like this place very
much, and so I think would you
if you were here. We are going
out, so I must not write any
more today,
October 19, Sunday afternoon.
Sunday seems so quiet in the
bush. I should like to hear some
church-bells, but there is no bell
near, except that on the black-
boy’s pony, which I hear tinkling
somewhere in the bush. It is a
beautiful afternoon, the warm
air blowing in through the open
door and window, and whisper-
ing among the gum-trees, cloud-
shadows gliding over the
opposite mountain range, great
Lion, the bloodhound, lying
asleep in the doorway, quite
regardless of being walked or
fallen over. Biddulph arrayed
in white trousers, white coat and
regatta shirt (nobody ever sits
in the parlor without a coat) is
lazily reading in an armchair
in the pleasant recess where the
books are. Mr. Hedgeland in a
similar ’ airy costume is writing
to his aunts, the Miss Hedge-
lands at Exeter, at the table.
Annie in a very pretty black-
and-green mohair dress trimmed
with green silk lozenges, is also
writing —to Amy. Messrs.
Taylor and Beckford, who came
in last night, one from the
Seven Mile, and the other from
a station forty miles off, are sit-
ting on the veranda discoursing.
Away down the hill among the
trees I can see the blankets of
the establishment all hung upon
a line, and as they are mostly
scarlet ones, they have a very
picturesque effect. Presently,
when we have done writing, and
Biddulph wakes up—he is not
to say asleep—we shall go for
a walk, probably to the site of
the new house, and then on to
the plains beyond, and up the
“Blackwall,” a curious range
of cliff that bounds the station
on the west for two miles, then
we shall come back to dinner.
Tom always provides an extra
good one on Sundays, and in the
evening Biddulph will have in
Tom and the Forsters, and any
shepherds or bushmen that are
on the head-station, and will read
the evening service. You can-
not think how nicely he reads,
reverently and distinctly, and
yet very simply, and the people
seem glad to come in and to
have the Sunday made a little
different from other days.
We have been taking some
nice rides lately, when Biddulph
or Mr. Hedgeland goes to the
out-stations with provisions, or
rations, as they call them; we
generally go too for a ride. The
stations are named according to
their distancewery often. There
is the Two \Jile, the Five Mile,
the Seven Mile, the Twelve Mile,
Grass Valley, Running Creek,
etc. We went out to the Seven
Mile a few evenings ago ; such
a pretty place—a plain just
under a range of such noble
mountains and close by the
Broken River.
If the shepherds had any taste
for the picturesque, they would
rejoice greatly in such a station,
but I am afraid they do not
appreciate it. A shepherd’s must
be a lonely life. There are two
at the Seven Mile, but their
flocks are a mile apart. They
each have a yard made of
branches of trees, strong enough
to keep the sheep in, and the
wild dogs out at night, a tent
generally, a pot for boiling beef,
a sheet of zinc or bark, and the
unfailing pair of red blankets
for a bed and a sheepdog. This
is generally a shepherd’s estab-
lishment.
During the lambing season
some of the “staff” go out and
live at the more important
stations to look after the
shepherds. Mr. Taylor is at one,
Mr. Cressall at another and Mr.
Devlin and Mr. Robertson are
both at a very distant one forty
miles off. Mr. Hedgeland goes
out with rations and helps when
he is wanted, and he is here on a
visit. He and Annie are great
friends and may perhaps be
more.
Mr. Robertson is pleasant and
good-natured and good-looking,
fond of poetry, which he can
repeat by the yard, always bring-
ing home birds or fossils or wild
fruit or “U.Ks.” of some kind
or other. Just one of those
people who are generally de-
scribed as “no one’s enemy but
their own.”
Mr. Taylor is English, a
clergyman’s son, and well edu-
cated, rather shy, but with a
good deal of fun in him, a little
of the Vincent Macey style in
appearance, with a great deal
of black hair that would be the
better for cutting.
I have not seen Mr. Devlin
yet. He has never been home
since we came. He went to Port
(i Continued on page 32.)


A complete instruction book on
mi
lit'
j at l
poo
cT l° N
.10
»o"
\o*'
r^*°:
ONLY RAINBOW GIVES YOU
ALL THESE FEATURES:
ŵ
FLEXIBLE COUPLING
Worked on a ball and
socket principle, this
coupling provides a
positive, watertight
joint in any direction
better than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordinary
outlet, but does the work of
hydrant as well! Simple to
operate, reduces obstruction
In both outlet and main.
ẁ
ẃ
STURDY ANGLE IRON STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24 ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates interference to
vegetation.
POWERFUL SPRAY
HEADS
Throw a fine spray over
an area 48 ft. square, or
a heavy spray up to
72 ft. square.
ẅ
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
available to all
Rainbow Spray
Irrigation users
Here are all the answers to your
questions about irrigation! The
practical, versatile Rainbow Spray
Irrigation system can help you
make money, and this booklet tells
you how to get the most from your
Rainbow Irrigation plant.
With the booklet you get a complete
picture of Rainbow Spray Irrigation,
The Rainbow Company has given the
various problems of irrigating very
careful study, and this book is based
on the research of technical staff and
practical field experience. It tells you
how to plan an efficient and economi-
cal spray system, how to install it, how
to operate it, how to compute costs.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office; 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 3425.
Branch Offices: O. Jones, Griffith; O. Beaumont,
Mildura ; C. Beaumont, 64 King St., Melbourne;
230 Sheridan St., Gundagai, N.S.W.; Mr. N.
Peacock, Bridge St., Muswellbrook, N.S.W.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane; Ralph
Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Kor-
will, 68 Hobbs Are., Nedlands, Perth.
New Zealand Agent: Freshfields Limited, 118
Lambton Quay, Wellington.
60/83.13
Cane Connoisseur
Natives who chew sugar cane generally have
perfect teeth. Cane grows wild in New Guinea.
Scientific expeditions have collected strains of
these native canes from which to breed high-
yielding disease-resistant cane for Australian
farmers.
vl'Js
m
m
m
Specially bred canes, modern farming methods
and a high degree of mechanisation have helped
make the Australian cane growing industry an
outstanding example of tropical agriculture.
9,000 independent farmers, owning their own
farms and equipment, produce cane as efficiently
in our northern sugar lands as the big overseas
plantations using coloured labour.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LTD,
THIRTY BOB
THOROUGHBRED
by PEDONG
EVERY good man makes a
slip at some time, and
“Warrigal” Jones was no
exception. Perhaps the
blame, in this case, could have
been laid on the hot drowsy day
and the resultant disinclination
of the bush creatures to bestir
themselves to give him warning.
But the first he knew of the
ambush was when young
Dawson stepped onto the track
and grasped the thoroughbred’s
bridle.
For a wild moment he felt
impelled to drive his heels hard
home and make a break for it,
risking a bullet from Dawson’s
revolver. Then McClusky moved
out from the scrub a few yards
in front of him and he could see
Jamieson, the Weeribubba over-
seer, further along the track with
a rifle over his arm. Instead, he
sat still and scratched his bristly
chin reflectively.
McClusky laughed.
“You must be getting too old
for this sort of thing, Warrigal,”
he said, with a show of elation.
“You’re slipping.”
Dawson looked up at him.
“Better come down quietly,
Warrigal,” he said. And the
bushman swung out of the
saddle.
Beside Dawson and McClusky
he appeared small, small and
wiry—a n d disreputable. He
hitched his baggy moleskins;
pushed his battered hat back on
the grey-flecked black curls and
looked to the elder of the two
for an explanation.
“I ain’t slipping, sergeant,” he
growled. “It must be you that’s
getting a bit better than you
used to be —getting a bit awake-
up in your old age.”
Then he sighted Lamb and
two more Weeribubba stockmen
coming down the track at a
canter and he understood a little
of the reason for the unexpected
welcoming committee.
“He beat you into Twin
Rocks,” McClusky said. “When
they discovered your tracks
heading out into the Meeri,
Lamb guessed that you would
swing back and make for home,
so he got three of his riders and
they lit out for ‘the Rocks’ like
mad. Changed horses at six
stations along the way and were
telling me the whole sad story
before the sun was set.”
The chance of seeing the
Warrigal behind bars, Jones
ruminated, was enough to make
any squatter within four hundred
miles loan his horses—even to
Piggy Lamb!
The owner of Weeribubba
Station nearly fell out of his
saddle in his anxiety to examine
the blood-mare. She showed
signs of travel but was un-
harmed.
“You—you . . . bushranger !"
he spluttered. “You’ve com-
mitted your last crime in this
district, my man.”
“The day I’m your man,” the
Warrigal sneered, “I’ll go away
and put a gun to me head! ”
“You —you”
“Aw, shut up! The saddle’s
mine!” he snapped at Dawson,
who was peering under the flaps
and inside the stirrup-leathers
for some mark of identification.
The young trooper smiled.
“All right, all right,” he
drawled. “No need to get shirty,
Warrigal . . . I’ll just make a note
of the horse’s description and
brand right here on the spot,
Mr. Lamb. We’ve got to be able
to swear to these things”
McCLUSKY lolled back in
his office-chair and listened
to the steady rhythm of the axe
out in the yard. The Warrigal
was a good worker.
He dragged the station occur-
rence-book from the shelf and
proceeded to make out his report
to send to the district inspector.
The Warrigal had elected to be
tried by jury and was remanded
in custody until the Quarter
Sessions, three weeks away. But
he seemed quite contented with
his lot, and the stolen horse was
stabled with the police horses.
The report made good reading
—promotion reading.
The mare was stolen on the
night of February 10-11, from
the town of Weeribubba, a
hundred miles away by road and
some hundred and fifty by the
way that the Warrigal had come,
over the rugged Meeri River
district. Lamb reached Twin
Rocks on the evening of the
11th; a constable, making out
on a desert patrol with camels,
cut the Warrigal’s tracks on the
edge of the Meeri country and
rode for Bradley’s Well, where
the linesmen erecting the Twin
Rocks - Weeribubba telegraph
were camped. A message was
sent to Twin Rocks and Mc-
Clusky laid his ambush on the
track which the Warrigal was
following.
“Hell!” he said to the
constable and gave a hearty
i guffaw. “There’s a lot I'd like to
put into this report that I can’t.
Just imagine it! The Warrigal
was going around all the bars in
the town spouting that he was
coming home for his birthday,
on the fourteenth, and that
damned fool Lamb leaves the
best horse in the district in an
unlocked, unguarded stable at
the rear of a pub. I’ll bet that
everything with four sound legs
in Weeribubba that night was
nailed down —except the very
horse that the Warrigal would
want to take!” He broke off
laughing heartily, and Dawson
joined in with him.
“The Warrigal never travels
any way but first-class,” he con-
curred. Although he had only
seen the Warrigal once before,
he felt that he should humor his
superior in his hour of triumph.
“Has he ever had a good horse
of his own?”
“Plenty—and drank ’em all.”
“He’d have traded his saddle
for this year’s birthday celebra-
tion, I suppose. He had no
money—and he couldn’t have
sold that mare in this town.”
“No . . . We were lucky Bill
picked up his tracks, though,
saved me a lot of guess-work,”
McClusky murmured, and the
younger man waited patiently
for an explanation. “If Bill
hadn’t chanced on his tracks,”
the sergeant continued, “he
might have beaten us —then
wouldn’t Lamb have screamed!
I’d have been looking for a job
by now.
“You see, every year, for the
past twenty, the Warrigal has
come home for his birthday,”
McClusky went on. “Dead on
the tick of ten a.m. he walks, or
rides (depending on whether the
horse he comes home on is


4S WANTIME
patrolled the park,
He heard two sneezes in the dark.
With staff gripped tight, he flashed his
light,
His* stern tones echoed through the night,
"Kape ahf th’ grass! ye coo pie there;
Yure dith av cowld ye’ll get, f’r shure!
Come! hurry home, ye love-sick pair.
And both take Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure,”
1
CHAMPION
m
m
m
m
tfatfnatemi
tb the y
WITH
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
w
World's favorite spark plug for
more than a quarter of a century
m '
m
m
m
m
m ??
as»s«a,
VA - \
///JS
*! m
&
s
•vYJW®
ttlW
587.93
They're Best
and they're
BRITISHI
It's the best Separator value ever
offered! These 22 and 30 gallon
LISTERS have all the close skim-
ming, easy cleaning and long life
advantages of the large dairy
model Separators, yet they cost
less, feature for feature, than
any other Separator.
British
22 & 30 GALLON
SEPARATORS
Distributed in Australia by:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros. Limited,
50-54 William Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe Carson Limited
(Incorporated in N.S.W.),
99-101 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA:
Gippsland & Northern Co-op. Co. Ltd..
613 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. W. Sandford & Co. Ltd.,
75 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA:
All British Separator Service,
Wilmot Street. BURNIE.
Agents, LAUNCESTON, HOBART district**
A. G. Webster & Sons Limited.
legally his or not), between the
twin rocks at the top of the hill
and straight down the road to
the pubs. He says it’s a
repetition of the first time that
he saw Twin Rocks and found
the only home that he has ever
known. It’s a ritual that you
could bet on. He arrives the
afternoon or evening before;
turns the horse loose a couple of
miles out and walks into town
the next morning. As it was, I
could easily have missed him,
this time. He was hours earlier
than I expected him to be ... I
was lucky all right.”
“He’s a slippery customer,”
Dawson sympathised,
“Slippery? That’s not the
word for him. He’s got away
with cattle-duffing and horse-
stealing around here for twenty
years and he’s only been caught
seven times —then he got out of
all but one of the charges. He’ll
beat just about any court in the
country.”
“That axe has been quiet for
a bit,” the young fellow said,
glancing apprehensively out of
the window. “Maybe I’d better
take a look at what he’s doing.”
“Don’t bother, he won’t run
away,” McClusky assured him.
“You could leave his cell open
all night and he’d still be there
in the morning. The Warrigal is
too clever to escape from legal
custody. We won’t have any
trouble with him, now, until we
get him into court . . . But I
can’t see him getting out of this
charge,” he chuckled triumph-
antly. “He can’t get away with
being arrested, riding a stolen
horse, with six witnesses to
swear to it. Not even Warrigal
Jones could get away with
that!”
I UST the same, a nagging
little thought persisted, he
woud feel much easier on the
day that he was standing in the
roadway to watch the stage-
coach bearing the Warrigal
southwards—under escort. He
went out into the yard.
The wood-pile had completely
gone. In its stead was a stack
of split wood, so neat that Me-
Clusky thought that his prisoner
must have used a straight-edge
along its sides. The box beside
the kitchen door was piled high
with more chopped wood and
the Warrigal—clean-s hav e n,
shirt and moleskins freshly
laundered, boots shining and the
unruly curls combed down—was
sitting on the tank-stand with a
cup of tea and a slab of Mrs.
McClusky’s celebrated sponge-
cake. He grinned happily.
“Finished your wood,
sergeant,” he said, waving the
cake about his head to indicate
the pile and the full box. “Got
a rake? I’ll clean up the chips.”
“Haven’t you done enough
work for today?”
“Aw, I’d go mad just sitting
around,” the Warrigal replied
through a mouthful of cake ;
and McClusky, wondering
vaguely whether the man
intended cheating Justice by
working himself to death,
muttered that he should “see
Constable Dawson after lunch”
and went inside the house,
“My, that man is a worker!”
Mrs. McClusky bustled about
the kitchen. “I’ve never seen
such a man to toil.” She stopped
suddenly and turned to her
husband. “He can’t be as bad
as they say, Stan, he seems quite
a gentleman compared with the
usual type that we get here. Just
another case of giving a dog a
bad name, I suppose,” she
sighed, turning again to her
cooking. “We never know what
made him go wrong in the first
place.”
Sergeant McClusky, absently
pouring a cup of tea, felt a slight
pang of anxiety about the
Warrigal but dismissed the
thought immediately.
When he did not answer her,
the woman gave out with a list
of the capabilities of his “guest.'
The Warrigal, he learned (and
decided to note for future refer-
ence), could mend dolls’ prams,
wield a soldering-iron with
dexterity, tack down loose soles
on small boys’ shoes, repair egg-
beaters, rid fowls of lice ; he also
had a wonderful way with
children —all in the space of one
short morning!
As he left the house he noticed
that the Warrigal had “seen
Constable Dawson” about the
rake already, and was wheeling
a barrow of chips and rubbisn
away to a little fire burning in a
corner of the yard near the
stables. The cheery whistle of a
man who is happy with his
(Continued on page 24.)
ELEGY FOR BILL.
Because the sky was grey with choppy cloud
and the sea swelling and parting a cold green
there was no one on the beach that afternoon
and the wind flicked up the sand and whipped below the
knees.
Almost I can see Bill riding, his pushbike skidding
in a shower of sand, his bony wrists red
and stretched towards the handle-bars, his head
(always too big and dropping) pressed down and hiding
from the wind he tried to leave behind him—Billl
(the sea swelling and parting a cold green)
leaning his bike against the rail, pulling off his shirt
(at least three hairs on his chest, and his body burnt
brown and solid like a tree). Almost 1 can see,
as the clouds break bursting the sun on him, Bill—running
because the wind flicked up the sand and whipped below the
knees—
running to dive, the rush of his toes behind him
hollow in the sand and shaded black by the sun.
There was no one on the beach that afternoon.
They took the bike to his mother, an old woman
whose husband was dead; with nothing to do but break
her voice saying and saying the things she could make
a memory of having seen,
and to scrape out her eyes when they were red-sore with
moisture
because the sea was swelling and parting a cold green.
The police were searching when I went to the beach, turning
the sea with their eyes, guessing the might-haves—a matter
of routine. A clear day. With a blue sky, and a high sun
burning.
But with a cold knifa cutting the sea into strips of foam.
In a milk-bar people were talking. A clatter
of cleaning-up. My fingers smoothed the marble table.
I wanted to go home.
"Tomorrer’s Saturday. Busy tomorrer. The wind 11
clear the sky. There’ll be a good crowd.”
Yes. Voices are louder than the sun is loud:
voices and marble are cold.
I thought of Bill.
Of the shadow he wore at his heels. Of the ease
of slipping on the edge. Of the monotony of feeling
that filled and emptied in his mother’s eyes.
Of Bill laughing
because the wind flicked up the sand and whipped below his
knees.
There was no one on the beach that afternoon.
And if there had been it wouldn't have been kind
since death is the thin partition that divides the mind.
Death is a step; it is better not to have known. (
Bill should never have told them even I
even they might—without time to call out —totter
from the edge. There is no look-out rail; is no time
to pick up your shadow: just leave in your mother s mind
something you did when you were very little and alive.
It was wrong of Bill to find out what he found.
And wrong to tell me what he told.
1 wouldn’t tell anyone that there s death in every afternoon,
that the sky is always grey with choppy cloud,
that the sea is swelling and parting a cold green;
1 wouldn’t tell anyone.
When I went out the sea was quiet, and the sky sang,
with the blue of it but part of me was terror, was terror
from the size
from the blue, unfeeling immensity of sea and sky
from the world like a silent room.
There was no one on the beach that afternoon.
The wind flicked up the sand and whipped below the knees.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The Archbishop of Melbourne and
Mrs. J. J. Booth and the members of the
Council of the Diocese have issued invi-
tations to a garden-party at Bishopscourt
on October 4.
Unusual setting for the cocktail-party
and buffet-dinner which celebrated the
fourth birthday of the English-Speaking
Union Younger Members’ Group was
the William Angliss Food Trades School
in Latrobe-street, whose chef was respon-
sible for the imposing birthday-cake
decorated in the group’s colors of pale-
green and blue. Robert Lawson, the
president, received the guests with Mrs.
W. Dobmson, hon. secretary, who wore
a black moire-taffeta bolero jacket-suit
and small black hat, Marguerite Weir,
assistant hon. sec., in a frock and wide
stole of citrus-yellow Irish poplin, and
committee - member Phyllis Connor,
whose ballerina frock was of black-and-
red-slriped taffeta. Guests-of-honor were
Lady Dixon and Mrs. Gerald Bacon.
Among the many present were Mrs. M.
Davidson, whose dove-grey angora frock
had black accessories, Mrs, Graham
Egerton, her black frock featuring
a pleated side-floating panel, Mary
Paterson, in black ensemble and
jewel-trimmed black velvet hat, Betty
Everard, in a forest-green outfit
and matching hat, Betty Stewart, who
wore dusty-pink wool and a rose-trimmed
black velvet hat, and Clarissa Starey, in
tangerine frock and black velvet cap.
In his talk at the English-Speaking
Union’s luncheon at the Victoria Palace
C. W. Strutt, Agricultural Adviser to
the U.K. High Commissioner, urged those
sending food parcels to Britain to include
in them tinned meat and dried fruits,
for these are needed most. Sir Charle-
Lowe presided, and he was accompanied
by Lady Lowe, who contrasted her light-
green tweed coat with a pale-gold straw
cloche trimmed with miniature fruit.
Mrs. Strutt wore an aqua-blue suit and
matching hat. Her daughter Jeanette,
who is doing an Arts course at Mel-
bourne University, was in tailored coat
of deep grey and a navy-and-white cloche.
Mrs. David Cheadle’s greige gaberdine
suit was worn with a tiny matching
crochet cloche.
The energetic committee which
organised the gala preview of Somerset
Maugham's “Trio” at the Astor Theatre,
St. Kilda, raised £l5OO, which will go up
to the group of Australian Jesuits who
are working in the famine-stricken area
in Western Bengal. The theatre was
donated by the directors, and British
Empire Films made the film available.
Among those who worked at the theatre
selling sweets and programmes were
Mrs. W. S. Scarffe, who wore a pretty
blue and silver lame gown, Mrs. Frank
Mulcahy, whose blue taffetas sparkled
with sequin trimming, and Anne Marron,
in grey taffeta. In the audience were
Mrs. Frank O’Collins, wearing a floral
brocade gown and blue-fox cape, Mrs.
Jim Peters, in a black frock and white-
satin-lined black lace stole, Mrs. H.
Furnell, her choice a rose velvet
jacket over a white lace evening blouse
and black skirt, Mrs. Michael Kelly, who
wore a ciel-blue wool crepe frock and
small matching feather cap, and Mrs.
Norman Lynch, whose swathed gold-
tissue toque was finished with roses and
worn with an ermine coat.
Mrs. R. G. Menzies kept up the family
reputation by making an excellent speech
when she opened a fashion-parade for
the building fund of Ruytori Girls’ School,
where her daughter Heather was a pupil.
This was staged at Blytheswood, the
lovely Kew home of Lady Syme, and
model gowns were shown by Lil Wight-
man (Le Louvre), the hats coming from
the Sydney salon of La Motte. Judy
Barraclough, the Sydney mannequin, gave
her services for the showing, and among
the magnificent gowns she wore was a
bouffant one of white organza which
featured a scatter-pattern of embroidered
flower-motifs in black and deep-blue.
With it went a huge cartwheel-hat of
black tulle. The two-tiered pleated skirt
was well in evidence —-in fact, pleating was
a feature of several models.
A black Shantung frock had two flared
floating panels to form the overskirt on
a finely-pleated skirt. Pleated taffeta
flounces which came from the low hip-
line to the hem were seen on a late-
afternoon frock. All the rich jewel tones
were seen in evening models. An
emerald-green satin cut on slim lines had
an overskirt which graduated from the
front of the waist to sweep into great
fullness at the back. Brilliant flame tulle
fashioned a gown worn by Bambi Shmith.
It had an upswept side-drape with black
roses set in the waist of the drape.
Auburn . haired Karen Scammell wore a
teautiful ld braid S p id er-web black
failJe full s skirt and a bodice of black
faiUe other lovely models inc l u ded a
yellow Shantung frock with loose panels
set in front G f tbe skirt, a cinnamon
Shantung duster-coat worn over a slim
b i ack f rockj a verdigris-green, bronze-
spotted, two-tiered taffeta afternoon-
frock w i tb a fan-shaped collar and a
black broche satin with a softly flared
skirt and plunging neckline
This Kenneth Ross portrait is of
Bev erley, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Bourchier , G f Glen Iris, who has
announced her engagement to Robert,
onl son of Mr and Mrs Archie M unro,
of East St Kilda> Beverle y, who is 21
and was educa { ed Camberwell Girls’
Grammar School, is a clever milliner, and
b er f avor j te hobbies are tapestry-work
and fine sewing She does all the sequin
and brilliant embroidery on her own
evening-gowns. Wedding plans are for
next March.
Bowls of arum-lilies and spring flowers
were set in the reception-rooms of Glen-
dower, Queen’s-road, when Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Bourchier invited over 100 guests
to a buffet-dinner-party and dance to
celebrate Beverley’s coming-of-age. Mrs.
Bourchier received her guests in a gown
of ice-blue faille embellished with pearl
and diamente embroidery. Beverley wore
white stiffened tulle over which was a
black tulle apron-skirt edged with wide
black Chantilly lace ; similar lace edged
the strapless bodice, and over her shoulder
she draped a black tulle stole. Her sister
Shirlee wore pastel-pink organza on which
white daisies were appliqued ; these were
outlined with opalescent sequins, and a
trail, of white lilac was set at one side of
the skirt. Mrs. Royden Honeyman’s
amethyst satin gown had a draped skirt
and a bodice encrusted with gold sequins
and amethyst rhinestones. Mrs. Archie
Munro’s gown was of filmy black lace.
Mrs. Cyril Cox’s pleated dove-grey silk
chiffons had gold sequins scattered over
the bodice. Mrs. Douglas Bowden chose
a deep cream Chantilly lace over yellow
taffeta. Patti Clayton’s white organza
was delicately printed in pastel flowers.
Black Breton net fashioned the full-
skirted strapless ballerina frock Dolores
Cook wore with a black fringed shawl.
Barbara Cox’s powder-blue tulle gown
had a halter neckline. Liz Lane allied
a black velvet sleeveless bodice and a
full skirt of white pique. Gwen Ruther-
ford’s ankle-length frock was of heavy
white lace. Virginia Beer’s choice was a
bouffant embroidered pink tulle.
President of Legacy, Philip Dietrich,
and Mrs. Dietrich invited presswomen to
a small party which was followed by a
visit to a physical-culture class. These are
held every Friday afternoon; the tiny
girls begin first and then make way for
older girls who come from school and
business. Legacy in Melbourne began in
1923, and today has an annual budget
approaching £40,000. It cares in one way
or another for from 1500 to 2000 children.
There is a welfare committee which
attends to domestic problems and another
which deals with education. Over £6OOO
is spent annually in assisting during the
post-primary stage, and this is given for
fares, books, school-clothing and fees.
Medical and dental services are provided
for Legacy children, and in East Kew
and Black Rock, Legacy has three resi-
dences, one reserved for toddlers under
nine years. Legacy, so the men who run
it say, is not a charity. Comrades in
war, they say, have a natural duty to see
to the welfare of the children of those
who gave their lives. To raise money for
this wonderful project, wives of Legatees
will hold a sale-of-work at the home of
Mrs. Walter Berry in Toorak next Friday.
This will be opened by Lady Brooks.
From Sydney
The skeletons grinning sardonically
from the decorations at the Medical Ball
did nothing to diminish the gaiety of
the 1400 dancers who kept the party going
at a very lively tempo. The dressing was,
as ever, distinguished and beautiful,
although there were several short evening
dresses worn, which somehow seem a little
out of keeping at a formal ball. Mrs.
H. R. Dew, president of the ball-com-
mittee, wore grey georgette with scarlet
flowers. Mrs. E. S. Hollaway’s slim-
fitting dress was in fuchsia tones, Mrs.
C. Hambly chose black appliqued
georgette, and Mrs. F. Neiche’s velvet
dress was cunningly embroidered with
diamente. Mrs. Neville Hoddle wore a
beautiful dress of grey lace with marquis-
ette. Medicos present included the
Lorimer Dodds, the Tom Batemans, the
Richard Speights. Among the younger
medical set were sixth-year student Pam
Hawke with Bill Regan, and newly-
engaged June Bull with her student-
fiance Des Stephen.
People who have flower shows usually
iiope for fine weather, but the opening
day of the Garden Club’s exhibition on
Farmer’s roof-garden was a little too
much of a good thing, with the tempera-
ture at 83 deg. and the fragile flowers
looking as though they would like to give
up the struggle altogether. Happiest ex-
hibits were the cacti and succulents
arranged by Miss Mari McCabe, Mrs. J.
McKell and Mrs. R. Carden. These were
wondrous strange and rare, offering many
suggestions for indoor gardens to flat-
dwellers. The flowers from Bowral,
arranged artistically by Mrs. A. C. Her-
rington, Mrs. R. Clark and Mrs. L. Price,
remained cool and elegant in their rocky
grotto, and the miniature gardens in
aquarium boxes were refreshing. Mrs.
Kev Chaldjean showed an interesting
arrangement of coral, shells and creeping
vines, also a rather exotic entrance-
garden with a tiger-skin dominating the
decor. Stanley Lipscombe’s arrangement
of flowers, fruit, green parrots and elegant
vases was cleverly sophisticated. Mrs.
Allen Williams and Mrs. Arthur Davis
did not sign their respective English
garden and indoor garden, but their hall-
mark was on them just the same.
This pretty girl pictured by Dorothy
Welding is soprano Betty Parsons, who
last week won the Donald Novis Talent
Quest, in which she competed against
220 entrants, amateurs and professionals.
Betty, who lives at Northbridge, Sydney,
will play the leading role in the Mosman
Musical Society’s latest musical comedy
presentation, “Viktoria and Her Hussar,”
which will be staged at the Mosman Town
Hall from October 5 to 13.
A unique mannequin parade, and per-
haps the most enjoyable of the season,
was given during the week by students of
Sancta Sophia College, when they
presented 25 years of fashions and popular
songs in the life of a college. Compered
by Prue McLachlan, the show started
with “The Flighty Look” of 1926 when
shoes were long and pointed, waists un-
acknowledged, hats dragged down over
the ears and it was a shame if anything
fitted. All the clothes worn were genuine,
borrowed from mothers and aunts, and
accessories such as strings of bobbing
cornelians and silver wigs brought many
a laugh and —let’s face it —a few sighs.
“The Changing Look” of 1931, with its
backless evening-gowns and peculiar
berets, was almost equally funny, but by
the lime the 1936 “Languorous Look”
was reached, the clothes seemed less odd
and the period flavor began to disappear.
Shades of “The New Look,” with its dip-
ping circular skirt, led on to the present
day, which was called “The Gay Look”
by the students, but doubtless students of
any period would have called their own
fashions that. Margaret Burns was
compere for the popular songs of the 25
years. The president of the ex-students’
association, Mrs. Roy Hurley, thanked the
students for their presentation, which
was held in aid of the ex-students’
scholarship fund.
Congratulations are going out to Dr.
Sheila Drescher and John Keenan, who
have just announced their engagement.
Both Sheila and John come from the baili-
wick of Neutral Bay and plan to marry
in November.
About 750 people came to the cocktail-
party arranged by the Women’s Union in
the Great Hall of the University, where
buffet-tables had been set with flowers
and food of such quality and beauty of
presentation that the people responsible
should have been given a degree with
hons. in the hostessly arts. The noble
stonewalls, lofty ceiling, oil paintings and
stained-glass windows of the Great Hall
proved a fine setting for a party, for
Great Halls of Universities, now dedi-
cated to ceremony and examinations
mostly, were originally places for food
and fellowship. The president of the
Union, Mrs. P. D. F. Murray, received
the guests, assisted by vice-president Joan
Hughes. The dressing was pleasant if
not dramatic, one of the highlights being
Mrs. J. B. Allcroft’s blue hat decorated
with real orchids. She was accompanied
by Mrs. F. A. Todd and Mrs. Jean
Smith. Mrs. George Bardsley’s black hat
with the sweeping osprey-feathers was
notable also. Seen in the throng were
Mr. and Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mr. and
Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer, the William Wiede-
sehns, Mrs. Frank McGrath and the
T. J. O’Briens.
Sydney’s capricious spring grew a
trifle sulky and refused to put on any
sunshine for the garden parade arranged
by the younger set of the Black and
White Ball in aid of the Blind Institution.
The parade was held in the grounds of
Kirribilli House, where the blossom was
blossoming and the setting was perfect,
but the clouds, alas, were lowering.
Rosslyn Grieve wore the bridal-gown of
mousseline appliqued all over with white
pique and an unusual flower-sprinkled
veil. Her bridesmaids Annette Macarthur
Onslow, Pam Allsop, Gill Flatten,
Jennifer Mocatta and Judy Crossing
looked like a shower of blossoms and
sat most stoically throughout the parade
in “summer-attitudes” on the lawn,
ignoring the cold, grey chill of the day.
The parade had been arranged by Robin
McFadyen and Madeline Archbutt (who
also modelled some of the clothes).
Miriam Hunter-Kerr made the hats and
the artificial flowers, Beatrice Stewart
did the bridal bouquet, and Honey
Wilson, who is Boriss, was responsible
for the easy-to-wear and not-so-hard-on-
the-handbag dresses.
After the Mobil Quest Finals concert,
sung before a bumper house and on a
Town Hall stage which was a veritable
bower of gorgeous blooms and blossoms,
the Vacuum Oil Co.’s executives gave a
supper-party at the Carlton to do honor
to the seven finalists before they set out
on their inter-State tour. The N.S.W,
general-manager, Mr. M. T. Cowles, and
Mrs. Cowles, with the assistant g.-m., Mr.
T. R. Bell, and Mrs. Bell, received the 150
guests, among whom were the Deputy
Premier, J. J. Cahill, the governor of
the Commonwealth Bank, Dr. H. C.
Coombs, and Mrs. Coombs, the Deputy-
governor, E, B. Richardson, and Mrs.
Richardson, the mayor of Hunter’s Hill,
Alderman C. W. Weil, and Mrs. Weil,
Mr. and Mrs. K. Bennett, Mr. and Mrs.
E. Cupit, Mr. and Mrs. A. Losch, the
Erik Langkers, the Reg. Winsors, and
Mr. and Mrs. C. Hook.
There were about 500 women present
at the “International Day” arranged by
the Metropolitan branch of the CotqWY
Women’s Association and held in the
Town Hall. In honor of the chosen coun-
try, Denmark, the decorations featured
its red flag with the white cross, and
grouped dolls in Danish national costume
along the front of the stage. Also in
national costume were Mrs. Bryden
Brown with small daughter Anne Marie,
Yvonne Fairman, Marilyn Haigh and
Mrs. Trolle Hansen. Mrs. Hansen’s
costume had belonged to her great-grand-
mother and featured a high white stiffened
lace cap with a brocaded blouse and
striped skirt. Guest-speaker was Consul-
General for Denmark, Mr. Henning
Hergel Mrs. W. R. Swinson presided.
The second sonata recital by Adam
Kriegel (violin) and Olga Krasnik
(piano) is to be given at the Conserva-
torium on Saturday, September 29, at
8 p.m. A short talk on the works to be
performed will be given by Lindley
Evans. The programme will consist of
Sonata in B Flat Major (Mozart),
Sonata in G Major (Beethoven) and
Sonata No. 1 (Eugene Goossens).


PERSONAL ITEMS
There was probably one man only who
knew more about the Flying Doctor
Service than the Rev. J. F. McKay—
Flynn of the Inland himself. Elected the
other day as Flynn’s successor, superin-
tendent of the Australian Inland Mission,
the Rev. McKay, who hails from Mackay.
was a patrolling padre in the Gulf and
western Queensland districts before the
war, and, with Flynn, established the
Normanton base. The A.I.M. nursing-
homes at Birdsville and at Dunbar, up
the York Peninsula, are also his work. A
vigorous and earnest man of 44, McKay
of the Inland served the whole of War II
as an Air Force chaplain overseas.
Born England, 1880; pothooks The
King’s School, Parramatta, and Sydney
Grammar ; polished at Cambridge, 1907 ;
Antarctic, 1910, Chicago 1928, Toronto
1935 ; settled for good in Australia the
other day. Those dates are the bones,
as it were, of Professor Griffith Taylor’s
career. Clothed, they amount to a world-
wide reputation as a geographer. Leaving
England with a bagful of medals and
scientific prizes, Taylor returned to Aus-
tralia as a physiographer with the Com-
monwealth Weather Service, left it as a
member of Scott’s Antarctic expedition
of 1910-13, and came back to civilisa-
tion to be Professor of Geography at
three successive universities —in Sydney,
Chicago and Toronto, having been at the
last-named university since 1935. He has
his name on the title-pages of just under
a score of books, mainly geographical,
Herewith, by Gordon, one of Queens-
land’s busiest borrowers. Boss of the
Brisbane Intercolonial Boring Co., John
BORER.
McLellan heads a firm which sinks oil-
and water-bores, manufactures the
“Simplex” machinery known pretty well
all over farming Australia, S.K.F. ball-
bearings and other machinery ranging
from spanners and power-presses to sani-
tary ware and diesel-engines. Born in
Canada, McLellan landed in Australia at
16, went straight into 1.8. C., and has
been there for over half a century, the
last 25 years as managing-director.
Usually seen, as pictured, with a grin and
a bowler.
“Fitz”: Percy Lindsay celebrated his 81st
birthday last week. At a luncheon given in his
honor by a group of his Bohemian friends,
Percy was his usual genial self; his laughter
was as infectious, his stories as sparkling and
as pointed as of yore. In Sydney’s world of
art and letters Percy is a cherished —almost
legendary—figure, whom everyone claims to
know, and whom everyone speaks of with
warm affection. He is tolerant, easygoing,
amazingly generous to friends and strangers, and
his home is a rendezvous —often a shelter —
for a wide circle of companions. These days
Percy does not move far from North Sydney,
except for an occasional painting excursion to
the Hawkesbury River. In the mornings he
generally paints around the Harbor, in the
afternoons he is most likely to be found in a
North Sydney tavern yarning about books and
pictures and the old days in Melbourne.
Sydneysider only since 1917, when he settled
at Roseville with his wife and son Peter (who
is also an artist), Percy was a leading identity
in the Melbourne art world for nearly 20 years.
The eldest son of the famous Lindsay family,
Percy studied under F. S. Sheldon, of Ballarat,
a well-known portrait and animal painter who
came out to Australia to paint Carbine. Percy
also studied far a year at the National Gallery
School, Melbourne. As an art student he was
an original member of the Ishmael Club and
one of the lively spirits of the Prehistoric Order
of Cannibals —two merry clubs of young artists
that helped to make Melbourne a gay place
in the ’nineties. Afterwards he was on the
council of the Victorian Artists’ Society for
some years; his drawing of the society’s smoke
night in 1907 has now become historic. In
Sydney he has drawn humorous drawings for
The Bulletin, book illustrations for Angus and
Robertson and the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. and
painted much of the Harbor and its reaches and
the countryside around Sydney. His paintings
have been described as “lyrical in outlook,
showing a notable appreciation of the more
tender and evanescent moods of atmosphere.”
To two D.S.Cs. won in his first
(Hitler’s) war, Captain Otto Becher adds
D.S.O. from his present (Korean) war.
The first gong came for accurate pointing
of cruiser Devonshire’s bang-boxes in the
Namsos withdrawal; the second from
commanding destroyer Quickmatch when
Somerville’s Eastern Battle Fleet caught
the Japs at Sabang, in Sumatra. Becher,
a fathom or so of lean-jawed gunnery-
specialist, had Warramunga in Korea.
On the same decoration list, Lieutenant
Patrick Burnett joined the R.A.N. the
year after his father, Captain Joseph
Burnett, went down with cruiser Sydney
in her last fight with the German raider.
Holder of the coveted Governor-General’s
Cup for the best all-rounder in all forms
of sport, young Burnett was navigator in
destroyer Bataan in Korea when he got
his “mention.” With him, also “men-
tioned,” was Chief Bosun’s Mate C.
Haynes, a nuggety seaman responsible,
under the first lieutenant, for the seaman-
ship efficiency of the ship. In Bataan he
also observed the fall of shot for her
veiy accurate bombardment of Chin-
uampo.
In 1944 a soldier and an airman worked
together on Bougainville, their joint
object the pasting of Japs. They’re to-
gether again now, the soldier, Major-
General A, R. Garrett, G.O.C. Western
Command, the flier, Group-Captain
William Hely, as from the other day o.c.
Western Area of the R.A.A.F. Recently
Deputy Air Member for Personnel, Hely
is an Old Fortian who went through
Duntroon to an R.A.A.F. commission in
1930. He knows the West well enough—
commanding, in 1936, the R.A.A.F. de-
tachment which carried out wide geo-
graphical and geophysical surveys of the
Kimberleys from Port Hedland. Lost
himself in an aircraft in the Territory in
1936, he carried out, the following year,
a successful aerial search for Sir Herbert
Gepp and party, and a few months later
performed the same welcome service for
Flying-Doctor Fenton. Air Force Cross
for these. At the Andover Staff College
(Eng.) when War II broke out, he stayed
over there with Coastal Command.
The obituary notices of Geoff Hughes
(passed over at 56) in the Sydney Press
had little to say of the Work which really
gave him a claim to be remembered by his
countrymen. Son of the first Lord Mayor
of Sydney, heir to substantial wealth and
a substantial legal practice and chairman
of Toohey’s, his heart was always in the
skies. In 1916, at 21, he joined the R.F.C,
and went over to the R.A.F. when it was
formed. He had an M.C. and an A.F.C.,
was president of the Royal Aero Club
of N.S.W., 1925-34, and Australian dele-
gate to the history-making International
Civil Aeronautics Conference at Washing-
ton in 1928. A group-captain in the
R.A.A.F., 1939-45, to him is due much
of the foundation work in Australia in
training youngsters for the air in the
cadet stage. He carved himself a place
in the aerial history of Australia.
A young R.A.N. officer now in England,
Sub-lieutenant R. J. Tulip, while at the
naval college in War II made records for
the 100 yd. and 200 yd., which he still
holds. Now he’s been selected to repre-
sent the Combined Services Athletic
Association at the International Military
Championships in Rome.
Excising, at 66, some of his many
parts, tall and enthusiastic health
reformer Dr. John Dale resigned
recently as chairman of the Victorian
National Fitness Council —a few months
ago he called it a day as Melbourne’s
Medical Officer of Health, a post he’d
held with distinction since 1927. Born in
England, educated at Birmingham Uni-
versity, he was with the 2nd and 4th
British Armies in War I, and came to
Perth, M.O.H. for Westralia, in 1920.
John McCreery takes on the National
Fitness job, after having been on the
council since its beginning in 1939.
Federal Treasurer of Toe H, and, in
War 11, administrator of that fine body’s
services in the s.-w. Pacific, the new man,
47, hails from Northern Ireland.
“Uramao”: Professor R. Harris, one-
time editor of the “Dental Journal of Aus-
tralia,” secretary of the N.S.W. branch
of the Australian Dental Association, and
hon. consulting dental surgeon at the
United Dental Hospital in Sydney, who
crossed the Tasman at the beginning of
this year to fill the chair of conservative
dentistry at Otago Dental School,
Dunedin, will vacate his job at the end
of this year. He was secretary of the
Twelfth Australian Dental Congress in
Sydney last year.
Melbourne visitor Albert Lazenby
knows and is known to an army of Inky
Wayfarers throughout the world, though
he has never handled a scrap of copy and
began life as a seaman. As secretary of
the London Press Club he meets pressmen
of every race and color —they flocked to
meet him wherever he made a landing
on the flying trip from England. The
white on the club tie he wears is for
newsprint, the black for the printer’s ink
and the blue for the sub-editor’s pencil
He’s in Melbourne to visit his business-
man son.
Leonard Dommett, violinist, left Too-
woomba on the Downs on a scholarship
to Melbourne Conservatorihm. Since
then he’s played with the 8.8. C
Symphony Orchestra, toured Germany
last year with the Ballet Rambert, played
with, and conducted, the Berlin State
Opera Orchestra, as well as the almost as
well-known Frankfurt, Cologne, Bonn and
Hamburg orchestras. Now, back in
London, he’s leading the Covent Garden
Orchestra, in the Sadler’s Wells ballet
“Coppelia.” He’s 22.
“Ek Dum”: Passed on at 57, Brigadier
Vivian England, one of the tiny band
of War I Lighthorsemen who held high
command in War 11. A member of
the 12th A.L.H. Regiment (his fellow
New Englander Donald Cameron’s
heroes of Beersheba), he switched to the
Air Force and ended up in the A.F.C.
Afterwards his interest in the forces
remained constant; when Hitler’s war
broke out he was C.O. 55th Militia Bat-
talion and went away in command of
the 2/3rd Battalion. The nature of his
part in the Libyan fighting which began
at Bardia is sufficiently described by his
nickname “The Black Panther.” He won
a D.S.O. and in December, 1941, was
promoted Brigadier before his return to
Australia, where he succeeded another
o 1 d lighthorseman, Major-General
Richardson, as Corps Commander, V.D.C.
in N. S, Wales, after the war becoming
chief executive officer in Queensland of
Mechanical Equipment for the A.W.C. In
private life in the years before War II
he was a civil-engineer in the public
service who rose to be chief hydrographer
to the N. S. Wales Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission. Also widely
known as a trout fisherman.
Outshining the performances of con-
testants in the Sydney semi-finals of the
Commonwealth Jubilee Amateur
Theatrical Groups Competition were
British Drama League adjudicator E.
Martin Browne’s appearances after each
night’s curtain-fall. His stimulating judg-
ments, revealing a keen critical mind and
a warm love of the theatre, regu-
larly stole the show. Visiting Aus-
tralia with his wife (actress Henzie
Raeburn) Browne is not only the leading
figure in amateur theatre organisation in
the British Commonwealth; he is also a
professional actor and producer of dis-
tinction, particularly in the poetic drama
which has made so successful a reappear-
ance on the English stage. He produced
Christopher Fry’s first play and all of
T. S. Eliot’s—among them “Murder in
the Cathedral” (which, played by the
Genesians, won the Sydney semi-finals)
and “The Cocktail Party,” which had its
premiere at the Edinburgh Festival in
1949, and was then taken by him to New
PRODUCER.
York. Browne comes fresh from an out-
standing success in the Festival of
Britain, where under his direction the
700-year-old York Cycle of Mystery
Plays was given its first presentation since
Tudor times within the ruins of St. Mary’s
Abbey in the cathedral city. In War 11,
when London theatres were closed, he
founded and directed the Pilgrim Players,
a company which took plays up and
down, the country, and whose adventures
were told in a delightful chronicle,
Pilgrim Story, written by his wife. He
has been Director of the British Drama
League since 1948.
This genial impression is Coventry’s
idea of F. E. Hamilton, chairman of
directors and joint managing-director of
Hamilton’s Ewell Vineyards, Ltd., and the
fourth generation to run the business. It
was founded in 1837 by Richard Hamil-
ton, a farmer from Kent who settled on
80 acres at Glenelg, a short distance from
where the colony of South Australia was
proclaimed the year before. Richard
planted enough vines to make wine for
his own use ; now his old holding is a
VINTNER.
sizeable winery. Oddly enough, the
present wine-firm head reversed the
founder’s inclinations, and hobbies at
farming, on his property at Yankalilla.
Born at Glenelg, he’s 55,
Captain A. M, Fox landed in Australia
the other day claiming to be the last
member of the First A.I.F. still on duty
to return home. He’s probably right. He
left with the old 19th Battalion in 1915,
with its overseas business completed
joined the military branch of the Aus-
tralian High Commissioner’s Office in
London, with Hitler loose joined the
Second A.1.F., stayed with the H.C.’s
office as an Arnty member after Hitler
got his, and came home, still in Digger’s
uniform, in charge of 150 British recruits
for the Australian Army.
Having a look at Australia, Dr. William
White Anderson, Moderator of the
Church of Scotland. In War I he
was with the British Army for the whole
four years, and won M.C. In Hitler’s
scrap he had six years with the Royal
Navy. The King’s Chaplain in Scotland,
he finds his main spare-time interest in
teaching the blind to read, and the educat-
ing of deaf and dumb children. He is
also a member of a committee whose
purpose goes under the discreetly genteel
title of Society for the Relief of Indigent
Gentlewomen.
There is plenty of artistic ancestry
hanging on the family-tree of Arthur
Boyd, who has been showing more of his
large pictures, chiefly commentaries on
Old Testament history, in the Stanley Coe
Gallery in Melbourne. Grandparents
were both artists, an uncle was painter
Penleigh Boyd, another uncle novelist
Martin Boyd, and a cousin Robin
Boyd, architectural writer for the “Age.”
Also his mother is an artist and his father,
Merrick, is a potter —Arthur being a
potter also.
Into the Silence:
At 75, in Perth, Alfred George Paterson,
pioneer woolgrower it the Wiluna district
(W.A.), and gunner o Galhpoti. Severely
wounded and invalided out, he went for
more with the British Army, and in Hitler’s
war worked in a munition-factory. On _ the
home-front an expert foe uf the dingo and other
pests, he was for years on the Westralian Vermin
Eradication Advisory Board. A crack rifle-shot,
in 1909 he represented hi State at the King’s
Pr ize shoot in Victoria.
In Deniliquin (N.S.W.). at 91,' Patrick Eagan,
the town’s oldest resident and the oldest prac-
tising auctioneer in N.S.W. He died on the
first day of the Deniliquin Agricultural Society’s
show. For 23 years he had been the show
secretary.
In Sydney, at 82, Alban McLachlan, one-
time Deputy Chief inspector of Schools, and,
as such, knotfn and respected from the Tweed
to the Murray. Also respected for his ability
with golf-clubs, and, in later years, at bowls.
There have been McLachlans in the State's
teaching service almost since its inception.
At Victor Harbor (S.A.), at 56, William
Herbert Adams, an Old Digger of the 4th
Battalion and art-collector. For many years
owner-director of the Centennial Galleries in
Brisbane, three years ago he shifted some of his
finest paintings—Heysens, Streetons, Longstatxs
and Norman Lindsays —to Victor Harbor,
founding the Flinders Galleries in the old
Customs House on the seafront.
In Brisbane, at 78, Colonel Francis Hughes,
general-manager of Castlemaine Perkins, the
brewers. Joining the Citizen Forces in 1907,
he was given command of the Queensland
Battery of Artillery of the A.l.F.’s First Divi-
sion in 1914, went through Gallipoli and
France, and came out with a "mention” for
gallantry and D.S.O. In 1932 he was A.D.C.
to Sir Isaac Isaacs, then Governor-General.


r
for family comf
for sports car performance
IV2 litre JOWETT JAVELIN
Here’s the car that’s got it both ways. There’s room for all the family, 5 or 6
of them, and luggage —swishing along in luxury, with the full protection of an
all-steel body and immensely strong under-frame. Or, if you’re alone and want
speed, you can cruise at 60—and reach it from standing in 22 seconds with the
50 B.H.P. flat-four engine—terrific acceleration. But there’s safety all the time,
w
steering, springing, and every vital part of
the Javelin is built to take it and go on
taking it.
JOWETT JUPtTER
The Jupiter is the fast sports car version
of the Javelin—class winner of the Le
Mans 24-hour race in 1950, and again in
1951, Ist and 2nd in the 1951 Monte Carlo
Rally Ik litre class.
THE BRADFORD
The Bradford Commercial range, available
with station waggon body, is known all
over the world for its amazing economy
and sturdy reliability.
Made in Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford,
Yorkshire
DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Redman Motors Ltd.
ADELAIDE: B.E.A. Distributors Ltd.
PERTH; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.
HOBART: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd.
world danced about the build-
ings. McClusky shrugged and
decided that he would never be
able to fathom the mind of a
law-breaker, and, recalling that
he had something to be happy
about, too, joined in a whistling
duet with his prisoner.
DURING the afternoon the
McClusky children’s pet tyke
escaped through a hole in the
fence and gave chase to a camel
team (his favorite pastime),
much to the annoyance of the
Afghan driver, who glared
darkly in the direction of the
station as he went on his way.
That hole in the fence had
existed for a couple of years past
but it had evaded the eagle-eye
of Sergeant McClusky with un-
canny skill, despite the fact that
his wife mentioned it on an
average of about once a week.
Nevertheless, it was soon located
by the busy prisoner and duly
eliminated.
“Little kids gets very attached
to their dogs,” the Warrigal
declared solicitously as he
brought the sergeant’s pliers
back to the office. “And some
day one of them damned ’Ghans
might just do away with him
when he goes after their oonts.”
Next morning, as he crossed
the yard, McClusky heard the
Warrigal delivering a lecture on
the finer points of grooming
horses. He stopped to listen for
a moment and then picked his
way quietly towards the stables.
Dawson and two native police-
boys were receiving instruction
on removing the tenaciously-
sticking red dust from the greys’
coats, manes and tails. The
Twin Rocks greys had always
seemed to have a red-grimed
appearance, much to the
sergeant’s annoyance. But now
his personal horse, King o’ the
Mist, had never looked so
splendid. His faintly dappled
coat shone and his flowing white
mane and tail contrasted sharply
with the dusted surroundings of
the yard and the russet-grey of
the other horses.
One of the boys took the
halter and proceeded to lead
King o’ the Mist back to his
stall. But the Warrigal leapt
forward; dramatically stopped
the horse and scuffed a boot-toe
vigorously in the dust, kicking
up a length of hoop-iron.
“Huh,” he grunted. “Horse
could do a lot of damage to itself
on a bit of stuff like that. You
want to be more careful what
you leaves lying around, young
fella,” he admonished, and
Dawson colored considerably.
“Fine horses like you got here
deserves a lot better respect for
their safety than that —I’ll just
stick this up out of the way
somewhere.”
McClusky chuckled audibly
and, catching Dawson’s in-
dignant glare, bolted into his
office.
As the trial came nearer the
station began to look smarter
and cleaner than the sergeant
could remember it. And when
he rode through the town people
stopped to look and admire his
beautifully groomed mount.
He held out for nearly a week
before he fell before the com-
bined attack of Mrs. McClusky
and Dawson to have the
Warrigal taken off the normal
prison fare. Instead, the prisoner
took his meals in the office with
the young tro o p e r —meals
especially prepared by the
sergeant’s wife. Nothing seemed
to be too much trouble to the
Warrigal, thereafter, as he slaved
cheerfully to repay this kindness.
Then, on the evening preced-
ing the trial, Dawson smuggled
his prisoner two bottles of beer
from the Miners’ Arms across
the way. The Warrigal was pro-
fuse in his thanks and insisted on
sharing the prize with his jailers.
And Dawson sat, enraptured,
far into the night listening to
tales of the outback told by one
of the greatest bushmen (and
liars) the district had ever
known.
LOOKING around the court-
room, McClusky felt a pang
of compunction as he realised
how much the cards were
stacked against the Warrigal,
who was conducting his own de-
fence. The police had an
absolutely foolproof case; the
jury would be mostly men Who
had suffered at the hands of the
prisoner (yet he offered no
objection to their trying him)
and on the Bench sat a certain
Mr. Commissioner Hodges.
Mr. Hodges, when resident
magistrate in Weeribubba, lost
a horse from his stable during
the night. The blacktrackers
said that the Warrigal had taken
it and that he was riding in the
direction of Eagle Creek, eighty
miles distant. The magistrate
caught the stage-coach to Eagle
Creek and was waiting there
with the local constable for the
arrival of the thief.
But the Warrigal hustled his
steed and arrived outside the
town in darkness, several hours
before he was expected. He
then turned the horse loose and
walked the remaining half-dozen
miles with his saddle over his
shoulder. The horse eventually
returned to its stable of its own
accord.
And, to cap all of this, Piggy
Lamb had spent nearly half-an-
hour ia Mr. Hodges’s chambers
with his Honor before that
worthy had taken his seat. Now
the smug grin on Piggy’s pudgy
face boded ill for the prisoner.
“Alfred Albert Aloysius
Horace Jones, alias Warrigai
Jones, you are charged” ... the
clerk-of-courts intoned, and Mc-
Clusky turned to face the
Warrigal, standing, spick and
span in the dock, with his head
bent slightly forward, attending
to every word of the charge as it
was read (although he must have
known it by heart) . . .
“thirteenth day of February,
nineteen hundred and” ... the
clerk droned on . . . “were
arrested whilst riding a bay mare
branded ‘J.P.L.,’ the property
of”
“Nothin’ o’ the sort!” the
prisoner expostulated. “I never
seen a horse of that brand!”
A stunned siience resounded
throughout the room and Mc-
Clusky gulped. Dawson whipped
out his notebook ; opened it at
the page relating to the arrest
and pushed it in front of his
chief with his thumb underlining
the letters “J.P.L.”
His Honor crouched in his
aerie ; perched his thin-rimmed
spectacles at a dangerous angle
upon his crooked beak and
glared at the prosecution—there
was murder in his eye, while
Lamb stood gasping, his throat
pulsating and his cheeks expand-
ing and deflating like a pink-
faced bull-frog.
“The horse in question, your
Honor,” McClusky volunteered
in a voice as flat as a politician’s
imagination, “is in the police
stables.”
“Court is adjourned to the
police stable s,” Mr. Com-
missioner steamed, slowly and
deliberately, and so quietly as to
be barely heard at the rear of
the court-room.
“Is this the horse which you
allege the accused to have been
riding?” his Honor asked
severely, as soon as the mare was
led out McClusky felt the
wor ld crumbling about him but
no dded bravelv “W li ” o
R h y H wei ’ .
tT CO ” tm , uec : very sarcastic-
ay ’ 1 don . t know what the
gentlemen of any jury elected
“ "L™ 311 "' , bW
the brand that 1 read u P on th,s
animal ,s distinctly ‘O.R. Lazy
E And the force with which
he s P at the “E” caused Mc-
Clusky to rock back on heels so
far that he had to take a swift
ste P to regain his balance.
"Yeah, like I said,” the
Warrigal blurted in hurt tones,
I am t never seen no horse
branded—whatever it was!”
£u u .
Case dismissed! Mr. Hodges
snarled-
s~\ NT v tv, tu u
fANLY then, through the
\ . ud 8 e ’ s very , stin B“B recom *
mendatlons . to the police to be
certam 1 evidence
m f uture ’ dld McClusky see the
answer to the Warrigal s sub-
mission to jail to await the trial.
His mind’s eye pictured an
array of fence-mending tools,
gardening tools, dolls’-pram-
repairing tools, shoe-repairing
tools, a piece of hoop-iron
dropped carelessly where a horse
might have injured itself (but
had not done so in twelve
months) and a little rubbish fire,
cheerfully consuming several
years’ accumulation of debris-
while it heated the Warrigal’s
improvised branding-irons. Then
a careful grooming each morn-
ing to remove all signs of the
scorched hair and skin.
That afternoon, before the
beer at the Miners’ Arms had
had time to make the Warrigal
forget the sorrow he must needs
feel at having to part with "the
best saddle he’d seen in all of
his years in the bush” to a
“lousy, cheating ’Ghan” at a
price that would have insulted
a blackfellow, an “auction sale
was held in the police yards
across the street. It was con-
vened at the instance of Police
Sergeant S. B. McClusky to dis-
pose of one bay mare (ownei
unknown). The mare was sold
to the sole bidder —a certain
J. P. Lamb—who offered thirty
shillings for the horse of which
no man could prove ownership.
THE SOUL.
Miss Reece has a soul.
It is not the latest model;
It is not even hers in a manner of speaking,
At least she has never been able to call it her own.
It is an old one which her grandmother trained;
Her mother had it for a while,
But did not use it much, except
Sometimes on Sundays. She was
Interested in cookery
And in intricate crochet,
Therefore she didn't really need
A soul.
Miss Reece keeps it airtight;
No air must get at it
To alter it, for it is frail.
And atmosphere would spoil it.
But once or twice a year—
At Christmas time
Or when a contemporary dies—
She opens the window (a small one)
A tiny crack, and peers in,
Half-afraid to look.
But it is dark and musty
In there, and not inviting . . .
Once she was upset and reckless;
She opened the window wide
(This was long ago),
And actually took up the soul.
Stared at it.
And dusted it. (The dust was thick.)
But without the dust
It looked so little and naked
That Miss Reece trembled
And hastily put it back.
And let it begin another
Half-century of mote-collecting . . .
She is glad now
That it is well-covered again;
And one little modern patch
That was put on when once
She had a holiday,
Has dropped off, and the soul,
Shrivelling slowly,
Lies like a little mummy in its tomb,
Walled in by inhibitions;
The rust of unexpressed emotion
On the catch of its tiny window;
And everywhere the dull, soft muffling,
The slow, obliterating dust of time.
N.Z.
F. ALEXA STEVENS.


7V*
a
m
A CAREER AS A
NAVAL OFFICER
ENTRY AS CADET MIDSHIPMAN
Intermediate entry —Boys aged about 15-16.
Also Special Entry and Cadet Midshipmen (S) —Boys aged about 16^-18.
Few careers to-day offer such oppor-
tunity and scope for success as that
of an officer in the Royal Australian
Navy. Young men of character and
ability chosen to enter the Royal
Australian Naval College are des-
tined for a great future with that
rare combination of professional
status and adventure.
The entire training, including an
advanced education beyond Matri-
culation standard, is provided by
the Navy at no expense to parents
or guardians. In the wholesome
atmosphere of the College, cadet
midshipmen enjoy the best of
accommodation and facilities for
sport, recreation and study.
The Navy now invites applications
for entry in three separate categories
as shown below. Candidates must
be the sons of British subjects by
birth or naturalisation and substan-
tially of European descent. They
will be required to pass a medical
exam prescribed by the Navy.
Cadet Midshipmen (intermediate Entry)
Boys eligible are those born on or between
Ist October, 1935, and 31st December,
1936, who have passed, or intend sitting
for in 1951, one of the following
examinations—
Intermediate Certificate, Junior Public
Certificate, 3rd Year Tasmanian High
School Standard, equivalent Technical
School examinations.
Passes in English, a Mathematics subject
and a Science subject are essential. Entry
to the College will be in March or July,
1952, according to age.
Service subsequently will be in the Execu-
tive, Engineering, Electrical or Supply
and Secretariat Branches.
Applications close 30th November, 1951.
Cadet Midshipmen (Special Entry)
Boys eligible are those born on or between
Ist July, 1933, and 31st December, 1934,
who have passed examinations at Matri-
culation standard in Mathematics, Physics
and English or who intend sitting for
such exams before the end of 1951.
Candidates must also have obtained satis-
factory passes in two other subjects (not
necessarily Matriculation standard) or
intend sitting for them in 1951. Also
eligible are Technical School students
who have passed in Mathematics, Physics
and English at Technical School equiva-
lent of Matriculation standard, or who
intend sitting for them in 1951.
Entry to the College will be about the
end of January, 1952.
Those selected who complete the course
will serve in the Executive, Engineering
or Electrical Branches of the Navy.
Applications close 31st October, 1951.
Cadet Midshipmen (S)
Boys eligible are those born between Ist
July, 1933, and 31st December, 1934,
who have passed the Leaving Certificate,
Senior Public or Tasmanian Schools
Board examination or who intend sitting
for one of these examinations in 1951.
Entry to the College will be about the
end of January, 1952.
Service eventually will be in the Supply
and Secretariat Branch of the Royal
Australian Navy.
Applications close 31st October, 1951.
For full information and application forms write to; _ * ,
THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, NAVY OFFICE, MELBOURNE, S.C.I
NOTE: To ensure receipt of correct forms and information, please state date of birth of
prospective candidates.
NC1.93.91
SUNDRY SHOWS
About Sax.
Sax is the theme of “The
Moon Is Blue,” by Hugh
Herbert, which was played in
the American language at Mel-
bourne Comedy by a cast of
three Arherican men and one
woman.
Sax, it seems, is a talking
disease which attacks young
people. In this case it attacks a
young television actress when
she meets by accident a young
architect on the observation-
tc vti2' of the Empire State Build-
ing in a rainstorm. They start
talking about sax, but, it being
a bit cold up there, they adjourn
to the architect’s apartment to
talk some more.
There they are joined by a
middle-aged divorcee who has
the same complaint and he talks
about it. He has a daughter off-
stage, who, from his description,
has sax on the brain, too. She,
it appears, has talked about it
with the young architect on a
previous occasion. This news
gives the television actress
umbrage and she refuses to talk
about sax with the architect any
longer, but she doesn’t mind
talking about it with the middle-
aged divorcee, and he is ready to
talk about it till not only the
moon but everything else is blue.
They are interrupted by the
return of the young architect
and there is a triangular discus-
sion on the subject which is
again interrupted by the arrival
of the television actress’s father.
He doesn’t want to talk about
sax, possibly because, being a
policeman, he has no ideas what-
ever on the subject, and he blacks
the young man’s eye, providing
the only example in the play of
a feeling being translated into the
appropriate action.
There is a momentary lull in
the conversation about sax, but
it is resumed when the young
architect, black eye and all,
accidentally meets the television
actress again on the observation-
tower of the Empire State
Building. Talking about sax, it
now appears, is only a prelimin-
ary to marriage. There is no
harm in the girl, it seems, because
she has only talked about sax,
and there is no harm in the
young man for the same reason.
No harm has been done to the
girl offstage, except that she has
had her head jawed off, and no
harm was done to the packed
house of firstnighters, who
laughed continuously throughout
the evening.
June Dayton, Dean Harens
and Blaine Cordner played the
piece with ease and lightness.
“September Tide,” Daphne du
Maurier’s mild, pleasant drama
of an artist who falls in love
with his wife’s mother, has
moved from Melbourne Comedy
to Sydney Royal. The produc-
tion, with English players Evelyn
Laye and Frank Lawton, was
favorably reviewed on this page
(B. 20/6/’5l) by The Bulletin's
Melbourne critic.
*!- 4* 4*
At Sydney Empire Ivan
Menzies, with the moral support
of assorted cousins and aunts,
skipped blithely about between
telling of his rise to ruler of the
Queen’s Navee and adjurations
to the well-set-up Captain Leslie
Rands to address respectfully
the gallant company of “H.M.S.
Pinafore.” Graeme Bent’s Dick
Deadeye gave due emphasis to
the nark that unbeautiful
mariner really is, and Richard
Walker stepped straight from
ushering in “Trial By Jury” to
a rollicking Bill Bobstay. Max
Oldaker and Helen Roberts
handled the romantic aspect with
the right mixture of conviction
and good singing.
4- 4- *
Jan Veen, an American
dancer who performs solo, does
his own choreography and
designs his own costumes, has
been dancing at Melbourne
Princess to audiences which de-
serve to be larger. It is difficult
for one person to fill the largest
stage in Melbourne, but Veen
succeeded in some of his
numbers. Some Mexican ritual
dances were undistinguished,
though his magnificent physique
was worth watching, and his
First Steps in Matrimony to the
music of Smetana in which one
half of him \vas dressed in the
fish and chips of the bridegroom
and the other in the lace and
chiffon of the bride was ordinary
and not very elucidatory; but
his satire on modern society in
which he used the masks of
comedy and tragedy or self-pity
was admirably rendered. He
has what most male dancers
lack—a sense of humor, and he
doesn’t indulge overmuch in
climax. His most remarkable
feat was the crowding of a
whole three-ring circus, with a
chariot-race, trained horse,
juggler, tightrope-walker, snake-
charmer, strong man, clown,
etc., into a few minutes of
expressive miming,
v
Four groups qualified for the
N. S. Wales semi-finals of the
Commonwealth Jubilee Amateur
Theatrical Group’s Competition
held at the Independent Theatre,
Sydney. The winners, who were
chosen by E. Martin Browne,
visiting Director of the British
Drama League, and who will go
to Hobart to compete in the
finals, were the Genesians, with
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the
Cathedral.” Producer James Lang
brought dignity and a sen-
sitive imagination to his presen-
tation of Eliot’s verse play. John
Gould, although slightly
pedantic, was an impressive and
noble Thomas Becket, while
Brian Farmer, David Magoffin,
John Kernahan and Francis
Turner, as the four tempters,
gave excellent performances.
Peter Kenna was a delight as the
herald. The Women of Can-
terbury were much too elocution-
ary and struck a note of abase-
ment in the choruses that was
alien to Eliot’s intention. Before
going to Hobart with the play
Mr. Lang would do well to re-
member that the women were
the cathedral cleaners, not the
cathedral choir.
Mosman Art Prize.
Partly because some of the
paintings have already been
shown at other exhibitions, and
partly because a good propor-
tion of the rest of the entrants
appear to be jam-tin explorers
in artistic territory, there
is a depressing second-hand
effect about the Mosman Muni-
cipal Council’s fifth annual art
competition; an effect which
seems to have infected the judges
to the point of moving them to
award first prize in the oil sec-
tion to a most depressing paint-
ing—Francis Lymburner’s “Cir-
cular Quay.”
Despite the sprawling building
activity which, at the present
rate, looks as though it will not
be finished until 3000 a.d., Syd-
ney’s Circular Quay is, after all,
if not a place of irrepressible
gaiety, at least a place of life
and light, of ships and water,
of pleasantly old buildings and
a background of green trees and
grass. Lymburner’s record of
the scene is a smudgy, muddy
and almost complete obliteration
through which it is possible, with
some effort, to discern a few dis-
torted and vaguely recognisable
features of the Quay.
One might have understood if,
in a conservative moment and
with reservations, selection had
gone to Douglas Pratt’s “The
Road to Gundagai,” which, de-
spite evidences of quick, slick
painting, has a certain breadth
and tranquillity ; or to Hal Quin-
lan’s “Flying Clouds” for its
airy, sunlit beach scene ; or even,
in a moment of cheerful reckless-
ness, to Marjory Penglase’s
“Beach Road,” which has a
touch of antic charm in its lean-
ing old store and an invitation in
its road leaping away over the
hill.
But the soundest and safest
decision might have been made
by tossing up between the best
three oils in the show —Sali Her-
man’s “The Windmill,” George
Lawrence’s “Moss Vale” and
George Duncan’s “Barrangarry
Pastoral.” The present com-
mentator would have picked the
last. Neither the Herman nor
the Lawrence is really typical,
and both are, at best, their
second-best. The George Dun-
can, however, with its warm,
soft autumn colors and the lines
of earth and sky converging and
directing the eye to the old
building, is at once both typical
of the artist and of his best —a
kind of successful crystallisation
of his ideas about painting.
The prize in the watercolor sec-
tion went to Carl Plate’s “Coming
of the Locusts,” a minor piece,
but a clever one, with an effective
color and swarming pattern. It
had no serious opposition—R. R.
Fletcher has a slight, bright
comment on an old building in
“Domicile,” Donald B. Clarke
a passingly effective contrast in
pink, dark greens and black in
“The Pink Trunk,” Lilie Lowe a
quiet if slightly inky “Trees by
the Lake,” while Ronald Steuart’s
usually delicate selectivity is
rather overloaded with line and
color in “Westerly Wind.”
Arthur Boyd, whose art has
become associated with the name
of Breughel, is holding another
exhibition at Stanley Coe’s
Gallery in Melbourne. The titles
of the larger pictures indicate
their subject-matter “Moses
Throwing Down the Tablets,”
“Moses Leading the People,”
“Jacob’s Dream,” “Angel Spying
on Adam and Eve” and “Christ
Walking on the Water.” They
are for the most part set in
tangled thickets and the subject-
matter is Breughelian enough,
but there is none of the quality
of Breughel’s painting in the
pictures, though their color
is often bright and pleasant.
4* f
Tasmanian paintings by
Graeme Inson, an ex-pupil of
Max Meldrum, are hanging at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne.
Portraits include the Hon.
Robert Cosgrove and three
members of the Turnbull family,
whose head, the Tas. Minister for
Health, flew over to open the
exhibition. The best of them is
one of Mrs. R. J. Turnbull.
The others are inclined to look
flat and unconvincing. Mr. In-
son’s still life are bright in color
and firm in definition but they
are what might be called good
starts —they lack subtlety of
feeling. The landscapes seem
better. There is sensitiveness in
“Holy Trinity, Hobart” and
“Early Spring, Hobart.”
•!< 4*
Ku-ring-gai Municipal Council
(N.S.W.) has joined the swelling
list of art patrons with the offer
of 253 guineas to be divided
among the winners in each of
four groups in an art exhibi-
tion to be held from November
21 to December 8, 1951, and for
which entries must be in by
November 9. The groups are;
Oils, first-prize 100 guineas,
second-prize 20 guineas ; water-
colors or gouache, 75 and 15
guineas ; prints (including draw-
ings, engravings, etchings, lino,
cuts, lithographs, monotypes and
wood cuts), 25 and five guineas ;
watercolors or gouache for
exhibitors under 18 years at
December 31, 1951, 10 and three
guineas. The council has de-
cided, very sensibly, that all
entries remain the property of
the exhibitor, although it does
propose to buy paintings,
“particularly landscapes of local
interest.” Conditions and other
particulars may be had from the
Ku-ring-gai Municipal Council,
Gordon, N. S. Wales.
Mobil Quest Final.
The high standard of musician-
ship which the annual “Mobil
Quest” competition has en-
couraged was demonstrated at
the Sydney Town Hall concert
on Friday night. Of the seven
finalists five, including the
winner, Margaret Nisbett, hail
from Preston (Vic.) and its en-
virons, a remarkable result in
an Australia-wide quest.
Miss Nisbett’s coloratura is
effortless, pure and of the deli-
cate quality of fine violin-play-
ing. Runner-up, bass-baritone
Clifford Powell, sang with power
and resonance the Credo from
“Otello.” Third place went to
N.S.W. coloratura June Bron-
hill, whose strong, flexible voice
of good timbre made light oi
arias of Puccini and Donizetti.
Between the two tenors, Eric
Mitchelson and Edwin Liddle,
there was little to choose, both
having respectable gamuts and
good delivery. Loris Sutton is a
mezzo of fine promise, and
Maureen Boyce a standard lyric
soprano who could hold her own
in good company.


S 3
o
X
Since this is to be an
evening of distinction, let it
begin with a cigarette really
worthy of the occasion
Benson & Hedges Super
Virginia, made for just
such times as these —-
when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/3
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS IO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO.
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK-SOIS 4
OSIIUJVA*
rrtvn
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIEB
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CINZANO
DRY
OR
SWEET
SC,
j&vnce
/m
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FAR EAST POWER BALANCE.
Editorially examining the
balance-of-power set-up in the
Far East, “New York Times”
points out that when the three
Powers there, Japan, China and
Asiatic Russia, are relatively
equal in strength there is peace,
Hence, no one of those nations
wants to see another in a domin-
ant role. China would not be
a great Power if Russia con-
trolled Japan, the only industrial
country of the East, with vast
reserves of skilled workers,
Russia could never in the long
run have stood for the domina-
tion of China by Japan, nor
would she today care to see
China reverse the picture and
control Japan.
“As the Japanese are now too
feeble to consider a reconquest
of China, their interest lies in
seeing China and Russia equally
and independently strong. This
cannot happen unless China re-
gains control of Manchuria, her
only industrial region, which is
now being run by the Russians,
and that is one of the major
power factors to watch for in
coming years.
“Another prime factor in
achieving a power balance is to
find markets for Japanese ex-
ports. As much as one-quarter
of her trade used to be with
China. It is doubtful whether in
the long run Japan can become
economically viable without her
Chinese market, but for the time
being wider outlets must be
found in South-east Asia.”
A three-cornered power
balance, it is noted, is too in-
tricate to establish itself for any
length of time ; which is where
the United States, “working
within the framework of codec-
tive security,” comes in.
“It is our [U.S.A.] role in the
coming years to do in the Far
East what England did in Europe
during the three centuries and
more between the defeat of the
Spanish Armada and the world
wars of this century. It was
England that kept a rough bal-
ance of power on the Continent
by being in a position to throw
her weight decisively to one side
or another and thus prevent any
single Power from dominating
the Continent. The Spain of
Philip 11, the France of Louis
XIV and Napoleon, the Germany
of Kaiser Wilhelm and Hitler, all
found England against them
when they threatened to become
the single dominant Power in
Europe.
“So today it is the weight of
United States power, aided in
vital fashion, of course, by the
British Commonwealth and other
United Nations forces, that must
keep the balance in the Far East.
That is exactly what we [U.S.A.]
are doing in the peace settlement
with Japan. As things stand,
Japan is too weak to hold her
corner of the triangle. So we
are strengthening her defensively
and retaining military bases and
forces to prevent Russia or
China from seizing Japan.
“From another point of view
it could be said that we are
setting up Japan as a counter-
weight to Communist China,
Thus as Russia is today throw-
ing her weight into the balance
on the side of Communist China,
so we are throwing ours onto
the Japanese side. At the same
time, for this policy to succeed,
we must keep Japan politically
friendly (hence the leniency of
the treaty) and economically
viable (hence our financial and
economic aid and the virtual
elimination of reparations).
“The alternatives to any such
long-range policies,” the analysis
concludes, “are either the domin-
ation of China and Japan by
Russia or war, which is in effect
a postponement, not a solution.
Peace can only be maintained by
a balance of power. If peace
were really the goal of the Com-
munists, a solution could be
worked out in short order. How-
ever, Russian imperialism and
the irresistible urge of Commun-
ism drive the Soviets toward the
goal of dominating Japan.”
That is why the peace treaty,
putting the U.S. in a position to
hold the balance of power in the
Far East, so raised Russian
objections, Russia being bent on
upsetting any balance of power
in that quarter, and the U.S.
equally determined to hold such
a balance as vital to its con-
tinued existence as a world
Power.
What Next in Korea?
Declaring that the cease-fire
talks have benefited the enemy
in Korea “far more than most
people realise,” a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
gives some details.
Quantities of new heavy
equipment, including consider-
able artillery and about 600
tanks, he states, have been
brought into the war zone. The
depleted Chinese and North
Korean units have been filled
up, so that the enemy is now
estimated to have about 500,000
men in Korea, with 400,000 in
striking positions between the
39th Parallel and the front. The
build-up of air strength, which
had reached 1000 planes in
Manchuria over two months
ago, has continued slowly.
Also, every kind of supply-
dump has been piled up. There-
fore, instead of being able to
sustain an attack for only a
few days, the Chinese and North
Koreans are now considered
able to continue on the offensive
for a much longer period.
While, however, the enemy
has thus been adding strength,
so too has the U.N.O. side.
U.N.O. forces dug in at
Chorwon and Kumwha, says the
correspondent, occupy incom-
parably the best defensive posi-
Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Tribune.”
THE LATEST IN GUNSIGHTS.
tion they have ever held in
Korea. They have had time to
strengthen their hold on the iron
triangle by every device of the
military art, so that they can
be sure of taking a fearful toll
of the attacking enemy. For
the first time they have their
full complement of weapons and
equipment of all kinds. And for
the first time the divisions and
regiments are more than up to
strength, with substantial
reserves of manpower.
On one point the corres-
pondent states that “very deep
and anxious concern” is felt: if
the enemy air strength is thrown
into the battle, “the question of
retaliatory air attacks on the
enemy bases in Manchuria will
be inescapably raised at once.
And even if the fighting follows
the old pattern, the letdown and
deception of the false cease-fire
negotiation will still give rise to
the strongest pressures to widen
the war. In short, if it begins
again all-out, the Korean war
can hardly go on for ever as a
limited war. It must some day
burst its precarious bounds, and
become a much larger and more
terrible conflagration.”
Empire Liquidators.
Asking “Why is it that anyone
can twist the lion’s tail with
impunity?” a “Yorkshire Post”
writer explains:
“All this began with the
Stafford Cripps school of
thought. ‘You have only to
think of the British Empire,’ he
said, ‘to hang your head in
shame.’
“So ashamed were they of
this greatest institution that the
world has yet known that they
began to liquidate it.
“Now they wonder why the
Middle East is in turmoil. The
security of the Middle East was
dependent on our [Britain’s]
strength in the Far East. The
Middle East was like the arch of
a bridge ; the ends were firmly
based upon the British Isles and
British India respectively.
Power at one end has now gone
from us, so the bridge sags.”
Wool Goods Drop.
Touching on cabled reports of
falls in selling-prices of woollen
goods in Britain, “Yorkshire
Post’s” wool trade correspondent
has reported:
“There is no mistaking the
consumer resistance to wool
goods at prices relatively much
below the highest point yet
touched by the raw material,
and there is also evidence to
suggest that part of the retail
business in recent mouths, done
in anticipation of still higher
prices, may mean a lessened
demand in certain directions in
the months to come.
“Some manufacturers also
report difficulty with customers
—chiefly abroad—who wish to
cancel or seek price concessions
on orders placed at recent higher
prices, although the sanctity of
contract is generally well main-
tained.
“All these details make for
caution. While Yorkshire im-
porters face the new season in
the belief that good business is
waiting to be done when con-
sumers are satisfied that prices
are right, there are no extra-
vagant ideas about the price level
for the future. The level to
command confidence in corriing
months is likely to be far short
of some of the fantastic prices
of the past 12 months.”
Jap Competition.
An expert on Japan, Sir
George Sansom, in a London
“Daily Telegraph” article allows
that “Japanese competition is an


THE “ENGLISH ELECTRIC’*“CANBERRA” BOMBER
HISTORY WAS MADE WHEN THE FIRST R.A.A.F. CANBERRA JET COMPLETED
ITS RECORD-BREAKING 24-HOUR FLIGHT FROM ENGLAND TO AUSTRALIA
Making history has been among the achievements of The English Electric Company Ltd.
for many years, for as well as designing and manufacturing the outstanding Canberra and
other famous aircraft the Company supplies to Australia thousands of tons of intricate
heavy and light electrical equipment. This equipment has added to the standard of living
of every Australian and embodies the best of modern design and workmanship. The wide
diversity of plant being supplied by the Company to Australia includes:
II
M
• Over half a million horsepower of hydro-
electric and Diesel generating plant,
including the first hydro-electric unit for the
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority.
• Nearly a quarter of a million horsepower
of rolling mill motors, some of more than
20,000 horsepower, larger than any others
in Australia. • Over two million kilo-
voltamperes of large transformers, including
the largest single units for this country to
operate at 230,000 volts. • Over 20,000
horsepower of electric and Diesel-electric
rail traction equipment involving more than
125 locomotives.
• The first steam turbo-alternator to operate
here at a pressure of over 1,000 pounds
per square inch. • Over 100,000 kilowatts
of mercury arc rectifier equipment for
electrolytic, traction, and industrial duties.
• Switchgear of all types. • Electric-
winders for mines. • Diesel-electric marine
propulsion equipment. • Electric motors,
high rupturing capacity fusegear and
domestic appliances.
The English Electric Co. Ltd. is especially
experienced in the handling of comprehen-
sive contracts for complete power stations
and railway and industrial electrification
projects.
At Rocklea, Brisbane, the Company operates a large works, with another
works at Auburn, Sydney. Also included in the English Electric group of
companies are Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Company and D. Napier & Son.
D
t 0
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATED
w
IN ENGLAND)
ŵ
undeniable menace, especially to
a country where production costs
are rising”—meaning in particu-
lar Britain.
He insists, however, that the
Jap competition “cannot be met
by agreements between Govern-
ments or ‘protectionist’ devices,”
and “the overriding interest of
the Allied Powers must surely lie
in the rapid development of the
Japanese economy.
“Japan is at the cross-roads
now. If she cannot provide and
maintain a fair standard of living
for her people—and this can be
done only by foreign trade—it
is very likely that her Govern-
ment will revert to authoritarian
practices, applying to economic,
political and social life in turn
rigid controls which might lead
the country perhaps to the ex-
treme Right, perhaps to the ex-
treme Left, but anyhow in a
direction unpleasing to the
Western democratic Powers.
“Furthermore, to restrict the
economic growth of Japan would
be to delay the development of
other Asian countries, to which
Japan can make a valuable con-
tribution.”
Uncooperative U.S.
Very much the same sort of
trouble that Britain has had with
Persia has been coming to a
head in Egypt, with (as London
“Economist” reports) U.S. co-
operation again very tardy.
Pointing out that in Egypt, as
in Persia, the asset enjoyed by
the British under their con-
tractual rights is one of the
utmost value not only to them-
selves but also (as it seems to
them) to the whole of the
Western world, the “Economist”
(which is far from being an
America-hater) has reported;
“If the Suez Canal were left
undefended, the consequences
to the West might be even more
serious than the drying-up of
Persian oil. Yet in Egypt, as
until recently in Persia, it has
been impossible to get the
Americans to show any sign of
interest in the subject, let alone
of support for the British
attitude. Indeed, visiting
American dignitaries, in Cairo
as in Tehran, have left the
impression (perhaps unwittingly)
that they will be quite glad to
see the British removed ”
On general grounds the
“Economist” has been notably
complimentary to the U.S., so
those comments may be taken as
well deserved. And it further
remarked:
“When the Persian affair was
in extremis —but not before —a
sufficient degree of [Anglo-
American] co-operation at a
high enough level was secured.
Washington discovered that it
was not, after all, disinterested
and could not afford to be
neutral. Will the same discovery
in other Middle Eastern disputes
have to wait until they, too, have
gone too far?”
Wool Forecasting.
The financial editor of “Man-
chester Guardian” on the
Menzies Government’s rebuff to
those seeking an ending of the
continued open auctioning of
wool;
“From the point of view of
Australia and New Zealand there
are sound reasons, based on the
experience since 1945, for refus-
ing to change the auction method
of wool disposal. This can be
seen from the instructive analysis
of wool liquidations published
by the Joint Organisation.
“By the end of July only 4149
bales of New Zealand wool was
left of the huge stock of
10,400,000 bales accumulated in
the three wool-producing
Dominions during the war. A
Commonwealth wool conference
which met in London in 1945
concluded that it would take at
least 12 years to get rid of these
surpluses.
“The British Government had
paid for the wool during the war
and was so worried about the
prospect of loss that it insisted
on the three Dominions sharing
in the risks (profit or loss) of
the liquidation scheme. This was
to be a well-planned combined
operation—none of your jungle-
law raffles.
“Instead of 12 years it took
less than six to sell all the wool;
instead of heavy losses a profit
of about £2OO million was
made. It was a brilliant success
in liquidation, though not in
forecasting.
“If experience has proved any-
thing, it is that the free market
in wool was much more success-
ful than inflexible State trading.
The disposal of the surplus wool
fell into two stages. Until June,
1946, when merchants and manu-
facturers throughout the world
replenished their stocks, about 45
per cent, of the total surplus was
sold at fixed prices with only a
small profit. From August,
1946, liquidation prices were
determined by free auctions. It
was after this time that the large
profits were made and the reserve
stock was rapidly absorbed.”
Dragnet Digest.
Barking Doves. London “Daily
Mail”; “It's a puzzling world these
days. The cooing of the doves of
peace is barely distinguishable from
the baying of the dogs of war.”
India Doing Well. —London “Eco-
nomist” report: “In Hyderabad the
Communist revolt has been broken,
and no one has burnt a tram in Cal-
cutta for over a year.”
* * * *
Bouquet for Uncle Sam. —From Lon-
don “Times”: “Against their deepest
instincts the American people were
forced to accept a responsibility for
which they had no adequate prepara-
tion. They have used it with unparal-
leled generosity and forbearance.”
* * * =1!
Goosesteppers, 1951. A “Man-
chester Guardian” correspondent on
the Soviet “youth festival” in East
Berlin: “The festival was not a flop,
but a menace. Those millions of East
Germans who marched and cheered
in Berlin did so far too wholeheartedly
to have had their tongues in their
cheeks. They are the advance guard
of a nightmarish ‘new’ Germany.”
* * * *
European Phenomenon. —A “New
York Times” correspondent’s sum-
ming-up on European unity moves:
“If the day’s news were not so
crowded with excursions and alarms,
we should recognise the signs ol
Europe's obstinate push towards
unity as the extraordinary phenome-
non that it is.”
# * * *
Britain Popular in Israel. —British
novelist and journalist John Connell,
reporting in London “Time and
Tide” after lately visiting Israel:
“Relations now between Britain and
Israel are excellent; and we, the
British, are admired and liked by
large and influential sections of
Israel’s population. In the whole
muddle and misery of the Middle
East—the result and the climax of
six years of folly and humiliation —
this is the major encouraging factor,”
* * * *
Franco. “Manchester Guardian”
letter-writer, back from a stay in
Spam : “Most Spaniards think Franco
to be both wise and efficient. They
like him for many reasons—he has
given them peace, reconstruction, a
measure of employment comparable
with most other European countries,
although Spain has had no Marshall
or any other aid, a Government food-
scheme for the relief of the poverty-
stricken ; and, in spite of austerity,
gaiety and freedom have returned to a
naturally gay people.”
* * * *
Peace Poems. London “Daily
Herald”: “In Bulgaria, so the official
paper of the Cominform reports,
there has been a ‘National Literary
Competition on the theme of the
peoples’ struggle for peace.’ And one
of the prizes went to Bogomila
Rainova —for a series of poems. Their
title was ‘Poems of Hatred.’ ”
* * * *
A Lure for Eisenhower. —“Man-
chester Guardian’s” able New York
correspondent Alistair Cooke has
reported that U.S. Senator Taft is the
one Republican whose previous atti-
tude to the defence of Europe com-
pelled General Eisenhower to confess
to intimates that he would feel honor
bound to wind up his present com-
mand and try to get the Democratic
nomination if Taft were nominated
by the Republicans (the Republicans
always hold their convention before
the Democrats): “The General’s
reasoning was that Taft alone had
the power and the ability to let the
North Atlantic alliance wither by
default, and that that would be a
disaster worse than turning over the
military leadership of free Europe to
a subordinate.”
* * * *
Popular Co-ops ■ —Figures compiled
by the Registrar of Friendly Societies
show that membership of retail co-
operative societies in Britain has risen
in 10 years by nearly two million,
and sales have doubled. Total mem-
bership for 1950 was 10,527,587,
against 8,619,993 in 1940. Sales,
which were £296,963,000 in 1940, rose
to £599,866,000 last year. Dividends
on sales amounted to £38,202,000 in
1950, against £24,411,000 in 1940.
♦ * * *
Pooh-Bah Himself / —Gilbert’s ver-
sion was a mere understatement. The
“Liberation Daily,” official Com-
munist organ of Shanghai, obliterates
his original with an authentic speci-
men, steel-mill model worker Yuan
Kai-li. Yuan, it reports, heads his
group at the mill, and has the follow-
ing concurrent duties: He is a mem-
ber of the executive committee of the
factory’s trade-union, a member of the
production committee, member of the
factory management committee, propa-
ganda officer for the party, vice-
director of a committee for the
elimination of counter-revolutionaries,
workers’ representative at the Peoples’
Representative Conference of All
Circles of Shanghai, Peoples’ Rep-
resentative of the New Municipal
Centre, district vice-chairman of the
Consultative Council of the New
Municipal Centre and district peoples’
representative of his residential dis-
trict of Yangtzepoo.


Fly to glamorous
HONG KONG
IN COMFORT-IN TWO DAYS
Glamorous city of the Orient . . Hub of the East . .
Hong Kong awaits you—with limitless opportunities for
trade and travel. Dine and dance at such famous places as
the Gloucester Roof Garden or Gripps Restaurant. Gaze
across Hong Kong Harbour —a fascinating picture of junks,
steamers, sampans, and ferries. See Hong Kong at night,
ablaze with Neon lights—and Chinese lanterns I
Fly—ln less than 48 hours —by comfortable Qantas
Skymaster, with full steward service providing traditional
Qantas care for your comfort. Consult your travel agent.
-5*22
<i
£
J
W
r;
QCI3
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia’s International Airline
ALL OYER THE WORLD
tf
Good mornings begin with Gillette
Happily the Scotsman shaves,
Thinking of the cash he saves
With the longest lasting blade,
Bine Gillette —the sharpest made.
Gillette Razors and Blades
are made for each other.
Scotsmen, like shrewd Judges
all over the earth, know there
is no more comfortable or
economical shave than with a
Blue Gillette Blade. It has the
sharpest edges and longest life
of any blade ever made.
Blue Gillette Blades
1/8 for five ... 3/4 for ten . . . 6/8 for twenty
' ( plastic dispenser)
S/ISi
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Casual domestic required for
modern home.” — Suburban paper.
Any modern domestic is sure
to fill this bill.
*b *b *b
“Lace is the essence of femininity.”
— Women’s paper.
It certainly has its points,
*b *b nr
“When you have something in the
oven and are very forgetful, hang a
red rag on the handle of the oven
door.” — Cooking article.
When you see red you’ll know
there’s something cooking.
“Miners are striking now because
they can’t get butter.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Let’s hope it won’t spread.
-I- •!*
“If racehorse transport costs con-
tinue to rise, some trainers might
take to walking their horses long
distances to meetings, racing men
say.”
Unless they can float a loan
or get someone to loan a float.
•b *b *b
“Excesses of overeating or -dunk-
ing will always show in the eyes.”
—Medical article.
Too blinking right!
•b *b *b
“Woman wanted as general assistant
for a leading metropolitan bowling-
club.” — “S. M. Herald.”
One with the name Kitty pre-
ferred.
•b *b *b
“Clever make-up on the eyes can
do wonders for any woman.”
— Women’s magazine.
Improving her looks out of
sight.
•b *b *b
“Sydney police have worked hard
for months trying to teach pedestrians
to keep to the left, but one still
observes thousands breaking the regu-
lations.” — Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Police should be awarded a
free-kick against all who are
off-side.
Strong Argument.
ẁ
D.H.E.
True to Nature.
Young man, ’tis human still to
err.
So watch what you are doing.
’Tis Spring again ; all life's astir,
Affinities awooing.
It gives to laggard lovers spur,
Cupid it reinforces.
Well, you pursue fair women,
sir —
I’ll follow well-bred horses!
P.O.M.C.
Defection from Duty.
It was the Cuttwerms, from
along the street, on the phone,
Joe’s staff ball was coming up,
and he and Beryl wouldn’t mind
going if they could only get
someone to look after young
Arnold for the night. They were
wondering if Syd might do the
honors, etc.
I groaned inwardly. 1 have
on a few occasions been exposed
to the attentions of the Cuttwerm
brat. Once he deflated my four
tyres because I stopped him
from trying his old man’s new
hacksaw out on my front gate.
But I am one of those unfor-
tunates who can rarely think up
a good lie on the instant, and
even when I do I can never
make it sound really convincing.
"It looked like bein' nasty Weather.”
Also, I have a very low request-
re: istance. Anyway, it might
not be as bad as I might fear —
after all Arnold would be in bed.
He was. But four minutes
after I had bidden his departing
parents farewell with the con-
fident assurance that all would
be well, and I had just settled in
the lounge-room with a book,
the room was plunged into
darkness. I was just cursing the
blackout when right in my ear
burst a blood-curdling shriek;
then Arnold tore through into
the hall.
By the time my hair had
returned to its normal position
on my scalp the kid was in the
kitchen juggling eggs. Skulk
dragging him back to bed, I
took up my book again. But
not for long. He next announced
he was hungry and went out in
the kitchen to “get a feed,”
which he claimed he always had
that time of night. I got up to
sling him back in bed again,
then second thoughts prevailed.
A heavy meal might make him
comatose. It also might give
him indigestion; but who was I
to deprive him of that pleasure
if he insisted on it?
After he’d had his feed—four
weetykrunches With half a pint
of milk, three bananas, a big
slab of fruit-cake and a junk of
cold suet pudding—he started to
haul out his train-set. While I
was putting iodine on my finger
that he’d sunk his tombstones
into as I was dragging him,
shrieking, back to bed I heard
hammering coming from the
lounge-room. I rushed in, to
see him on top of the piano nail-
ing my hat to the architrave.
Back in bed, Arnold kept up
a ceaseless “Won’t! Won’t!
Won’t!” to my exhortation for
him to get to sleep. When, in
despair and clutching my still-
unread book, I went in to him
he said his father got him to
sleep every night by playing him
h i s [Arnold’s] concertina.
Desperate, I grabbed the prof-
fered instrument, jerked it out
to its fullest extent, and
squeezed. As I did so a stream
of inky fluid shot out of the hole
the little devil had bored in the
top of it, filling my eye and
trickling down on to my shirt.
I had to sling a jug of water
over him to get him out of the
hysterics he went into, and then
came a roaring-match when I
made him change out of his
soaked pyjamas.
A little later I was standing in
the lounge-room calculating
miserably how long it would be
before his idiots of parents got
home, when he rushed up, said —
“Here, Uncle Syd, hold this for
a mo., will you, while I” —and
thrust into my hand a large
blancmange—l had seen it in
the kitchen, and he'd apparently
up-ended it out of its mould.
As I stood looking at it and
stupidly wondering if it would
disintegrate before I could get
it to the sink Arnold bent down
and gave the rug I was standing
on a jerk. As it slid along the
polished boards my heels shot
forward, and the blancmange
and I hit the floor simul-
taneously, I on top.
There followed another long
session of recrimination and
howling. Seven comic-books
and half of Robinson Crusoe
later the little cow was still as
lively as a cricket, so I put out
the light, went out and locked
the door, and told him he could
yell his damned head off. He
did, for so long I expected the
police any minute. Then it
suddenly ceased.
The unnatural silence kept on
for several minutes, until I began
to get uneasy. What was he
up to in there? I crept to the
door and bent down listening
intently. As 1 did the door flew
open and I received a push from
behind which sent me sprawling
into the room —the little swine
had evidently climbed through
his bedroom window and came
in the kitchen door. I felt some-
thing soft, then there came a
shattering roar as the two big
balloons he’d pushed under me
burst under the impact of my
weight.
Now reduced to a nervous
wreck, I looked around fear-
fully for my tormentor. As I
did so the football he kicked got
me flush on the chin and I
keeled over.
I came to to hear an indignant
feminine voice which I recog-
nised as Beryl’s.
“A fine way to look after a
child, I must say! ” she exclaimed
scornfully. “You accept respon-
sibilities by lying down on the
floor and going to sleep, after
encouraging an innocent child to
stay awake so he could keep you
amused. My darling might have
suffocated in his sleep for all
you were concerned!”
Bo.
In Bad Odor.
ẃ
BERT.


1915
m
W 192*
1936
1944
1951
GOODYEAR
TYRES
have changed,too!
The improvements that the years have brought to
car performance have, to a large extent, only been
possible because tyre development kept pace with
progress. Goodyear has made many historic con-
tributions to the development of tyres to their present
standard. The outstanding safety, longer mileage
and greater comfort of today’s Goodyear Tyres are
the results of unparalleled experience that Goodyear
has gained in producing more tyres than any other
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 ... as
in every year for the
last 36 years, more
people, the world
over, ride on Good*
year Tyres than on
any other make.
m
’THERE IS ALWAYS A BEST*
CONSULT YOUR OWN JEWELLER
Sole Aust. Representatives: Segal & Company. Sydney and Melbourne
LW.1.16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The three principal events of the
A.J.C. spring meeting present widely
differing aspects at this late stage of
proceedings. The Derby has one
horse, Hydrogen, seeming to stand
out head and shoulders above the
field. The Epsom is a very open race,
with a large number of the candi-
dates having strong claims to con-
sideration in the light of excellent
recent form. The Metrop. is no less
open, but here it is because of an
almost complete dearth rather than
any surfeit of good-form pointers;
the present crop of three-year-olds
may effect a change for the better,
but among the older horses the
general quality of stayers racing in
Sydney now is decidedly poor.
Saturday’s meeting at Rosehill
wound up the preliminaries to the
big spring gathering, but instead of
being a nice, quiet, neutral affair,
giving form students a chance to col-
lect and analyse their thoughts of
recent weeks, the S.T.C. fixture pitched
a couple of new factors into the
already quite sufficiently complicated
Epsom problem. Fresh from a string
of cracking good wins in the north,
the Golden Sovereign four-year-old
Golden Wedge (N. Best) strode boldly
on to the Epsom scene when he
clearly defeated Blue Ocean and My
Request in the Flying (7f,), and San
Domenico (A. Ward) firmly squashed
any lingering doubts as to his ability
to run a mile by comfortably beating
Memory Inn, Achilles, Jan, Grey
Boots, Pressman and Conductor, in
that order, over the mile and half-a-
furlong of the w.-f.-a. Hill Stakes.
San Domenico and Golden Wedge
promptly joined Oversight, French
Cavalier, Humming Top, Achilles and
True Leader as the most fancied
brigade in the Epsom. To that list
present observer would be inclined to
add Aerofoil, Blue Ocean and Conis-
ton as prospects from among those
lower down in the betting order.
San Domenico tops the Epsom
weights with 9.4, being followed by
Achilles with 9.3 and Oversight (9st.).
French Cavalier, Humming Top and
Coniston each have 8.2, True Leader
7.4, Aerofoil 7.6, Golden Wedge 7.10
and Blue Ocean 7.12. San Domenico
is in really top form, has won three
races in succession, has won over
the Randwick mile, beating Achilles,
Grey Boots, Donegal and Playboy,
and also has beaten such a hot field as
represented by True Course, Ellerslie,
Regal Scout, Iron Duke and St.
Razzle over a mile at Flemington.
However, it must be remembered
that the several performances
of San Domenico’s noted here have
been registered under w.-f.-a. condi-
tions, and the Hua gelding may find
it a very different proposition to
carry topweight in an open handicap
and beat a crack field over a mile.
On the score, also, merely of weight,
one must entertain some doubt con-
cerning Achilles. Still, it shouldn’t
be forgotten that he won the Epsom
last year carrying topweight, that he
has only lib. more this time, that he
has been shaping well in the course
of his preparation in Melbourne, and
that his third behind San Domenico
on Saturday was quite a nice effort;
Achilles will meet San Domenico on
41b. better terms in the Epsom.
Golden Wedge is difficult to fault
other than on the ground that he has
yet to beat anything of real quality.
Still, he has won over the Randwick
mile, has recently notched up four
wins on end, and has been winning
in excellent times over a
variety of distances. Golden
Wedge finished on from
behind to beat Blue Ocean
on Saturday, and he will
meet that horse on 71b.
better terms in the Epsom.
Apart from arguing well for
Golden Wedge's prospects,
this would seem to dispose
of Blue Ocean. Still, Blue
Ocean has done a more solid prepara-
tion than many of his Epsom oppo-
nents, and, as a winner at Randwick
at up to 12 furlongs, he shouldn’t be
found wanting in stamina at the end
of the mile.
Possibly the best guide to the rela-
tive prospects of the strongly-fancied
trio French Cavalier, Oversight and
Humming Top is to be found in the
result a few weeks back of the 7-
furlongs Tramway Handicap at
Randwick —a race which has con-
sistently in the past been a fair Epsom
guide. The Tramway was won by
French Cavalier; behind him Over-
sight and Humming Top deadheated
for second. French Cavalier won
extremely well, but, looking into the
result. Humming Top possibly emerges
as the real Epsom threat. Humming
Top suffered interference which led
the usually taciturn D. Munro to
fire in a protest, and stewards chewed
the matter over for some half-an-hour
before finally dismissing it. In addi-
tion, Humming Top will meet French
Cavalier on 101 b. better terms in the
Epsom and Oversight on 51b. better
terms.
The only race at Rosehill with any
bearing on Metropolitan prospects
was the 10-furlongs September Handi-
cap, in which Aristocrat disappointed
some of his admirers by failing to
overhaul the tearaway winner Ludo,
an aged gelding who started at long
odds to register his first metropolitan
success. However, Aristocrat, who
was stone-last entering the straight,
really finished on pretty well to beat
all but the winner, to whom he was
conceding 331 b., and he will certainly
be better suited by the longer journey
of the Metrop.
The only really outstanding Metrop.
trial turned in over recent weeks
(apart from that of the ill-fated
Snowstream) was Delta’s splendid win
«ver Hydrogen in the Chelmsford
Stakes. However, here again it must
be noted that that was a w.-f.-a. per-
formance, and w.-f.-a. form can be
most misleading in assessing handicap
prospects. Delta, when one examines
his record, has had little experience
and less success under handicap con-
ditions. He started favorite for the
last Metrop., and, after being one of
the leaders at the turn, collapsed to
finish nearly last; yet a few days
later, at w.-f.-a., he beat a crack field
over two miles.
Writing before acceptances. Aristo-
crat, in receipt of 81b. from Delta,
impresses as about the most promis-
ing of Sydney contenders for the
Metrop., with Conductor and Yeoval
also to be considered, and Revenue,
Golden Bird and Socrates lightweight
chances. However, it would not
greatly surprise to see an inter-State
visitor bag the big prize. Prominent
possibilities in this direction are the
Queenslander Shanalen and the Vic-
torians True Course, and, should he
make the trip. Prince o’ Fairies; con-
nections of the Prince, however, may
intend to concentrate purely on the
Melbourne Cup.
Nothing else noted at Rosehill
seemed likely to have bearing on the
big spring races, though the winning
performances of the three-year-old
colts Heraldry and Channel Rise
would have entitled each to some
consideration as Derby prospects if
there were no Hydrogen on the scene.
* * * *
Announcement of the Victorian
Government’s latest grab from the
racing fraternity—a tax of 2± per
cent, on winning wagers—doubtless
sent many punters to Moonee Valley
on Saturday in a very incensed frame
of mind. However, they were prob-
ably prepared to take a more philo-
sophic view of the matter at the end
of an afternoon devoted to seeing
favorites finish down the drain in all
seven events.
A very heavy track at the Valley
resulted in a swag of scratchings,
and also, possibly, was responsible for
some of the form upsets. Most
disastrous of these was the success
of Kritiri (F. Patford) in the prin-
cipal event, the mile Heroic Handicap.
Vqry much in the old-lag class, with
a forbidding list of past convictions,
Kritiri carried a featherweight of 6.7,
and, taking the lead five furlongs from
home, he lasted it out to score by a
short half-head from Welkin Sun.
Fordham, who was installed favorite
after the earlier choice, Raysun, had
been withdrawn by order of the
stewards, finished a moderate third.
Kritiri had been the rank outsider at
100 to 1 with the books, but stewards
ordered bets to be settled at tote
odds, which worked out at the
English-sounding figure of 73 to 1.
Ungar’s brother Usage fell some ,
what from Derby favor when, start-
ing a warm favorite, he was beaten
by Blue Beggar (F. Flannery) in the
6-furlongs La Trobe Stakes for three-
year-old colts and geldings. Usage
ha<J tried to lead all the way. Still,
the heavy track was against his suc-
ceeding under topweight of 9.5, at
which he was conceding the winner
half-a-stone, and the margin in any
case was only a head. In a similar
event for fillies Bella Yorker (E. Pres-
ton), a daughter of the 1945 V.R.C.
St. Leger winner New Yorker, showed
promise of stamina with a good win
over Hairan and favorite Bright Flare.
An interesting runner in the 13-
furlongs Hillcrest Handicap was the
imported galloper Hampden Park, for
whom there was considerable support
and who finished a quite creditable
fourth. A huge fellow, and a big,
loose strider, he was ill-suited both by
the small course and by the farcically-
slow pace at which Saturday’s race
was run. Hot favorite Coolport went
to the front a long way from home
(a feat which didn't call for much
effort), and looked the winner when
clear at the turn, but he was run
down and just pipped by the lightly-
weighted Enfield mare Purdey (R.
Hutchinson). Another Enfield mare,
Royal Chimes, just shaded Hampden
Park for third money.
* * * *
At its Show Day holiday meeting
tomorrow the Melbourne Racing Club
is staging a £l5OO Invitation Handi-
cap, the invitation part of the busi-
ness referring to the jockeys; selected
leading riders from all States will
have mounts. It’s an interesting, and
certainly quite harmless, innovation,
but it is surely stretching matters a
trifle to describe it as an “Australian
jockeys’ championship”—unless it is
proposed that the boys carry the
horses.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Trial Stakes: Le Frere, I; Sky-
streamer, 2; Channel Rise, 3.
Breeders’ Plate: Blond Val, I ;
Spider King, 2; First Century, 3.
A.J.C. Derby: Hydrogen, 1; Neat
Andrew, 2; Trizami, 3. Epsom
Handicap: Humming Top, 1; Over-
sight, 2; Aerofoil, 3. Colin Stephen
Stakes: Delta, 1; Grey Boots, 2;
Aristocrat, 3. Squatters’ Handicap
(in the absence of Blue Ocean):
Chitral, 1; Jan, 2; Golden Bird, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Le Dauphin,
1; Lunarian, 2; Lloric, 3.
* * * *
For Monday:
Giracrack Stakes: Cultured, 1;
Channel Flight, 2; Portly Belle, 3.
Metropolitan Handicap (in the absence
of Prince o’ Fairies): Aristocrat, 1;
True Course, 2; Conductor, 3.
* * * *
Wet weather kept the crowd down
to 50,000-odd at M.C.G. when Essen-
don and Collingwood met in the
V.F.L. preliminary final. Those who
attended got their money’s worth, the
Dons just making it by two points in
the “time-on” period for 10.10 to
10.8. They meet Geelong in the grand
final next Saturday. The game opened
with more rush than football, and
both sides had scored 1.2 at the first
change. In the second, ’Wood settled
down; with Richards roving they
booted 6.2 to 1.2, and were all over
the Dons. They started the last
quarter four goals ahead, and landed
another, but Essendon got two more,
and began to outpace the tiring
’Wood men. With two minutes to
go Syme goaled for the ’Dons, and,
with only time-on left, Jones snapped
another from the ruck to leave Essen-
don a point in front and the crowd
so hysterical it hardly saw the final
point kicked.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: At Sydney Showground
on Saturday University won the
Rugby Union premiership—their first
premiership victory since 1945—when
they beat Easts 22-16 in the grand
final. The match was won in the
first 20 minutes, when University,
playing into a strong southerly wind,
rattled up a quick 13 points: although
by half-time Easts had equalised, they
had really lost the game at that stage.
Easts fought on gamely, and certainly
didn't allow University any easy vic-
tory, but towards the finish the strain
of Easts’ second-half effort against
the wind began to tell, and University
finished the stronger side, holding a
6-point advantage for the last quarter-
hour. Much of the credit for Univer-
sity’s premiership win must go to
their skipper, Rani Jacobs, whose out-
standing play throughout the season,
both in attack and defence, offered
the inspinig personal example ex-
pected of and so n 'cessary in a top-
notch captain.
* * * *
“Aramak”: Coinciding with the re-
introduction of the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
to Sydney cycling classic last Satur-
day was the death earlier in the week,
in Sydney, of Charles Winterbottom,
famous road cyclist of pre-war days.
A “lone rider,” Winterbottom started
in four “Goulburns,” and recorded
fastest time on three occasions; his
1935 time of 5 hours 5 minutes 25
seconds still stands as the race
record. In tribute to his contribu-
tions to the sport the title “Charlie
Winterbottom Memorial Race” has
now been affixed to both the profes-
sional and amateur sections of the
event.
* * * *
Pickworth, the Victorian pro., gave
nobody else a chance at Yeerongpilly
(Q.) when he shot a record 276 to
win his fifth Ampol golf tournament.
This was eight strokes better than
Cremin (N.S.W.), and was made up
of 70, 68, 70, 68 —16 under standard
scratch for the four rounds.


tmjbmaks
cow
WITH AUSTRALIA’S MOST COMPREHENSIVE RANGE
OF AGRICULTURAL AND PASTORAL CHEMICALS
RUCIDE: DDT Plunge Sheep Dip. RUJET: Jet and Tip Spray. KLEEP: Hand
Dressing. RUDIP: Dual-purpose DDT Dip and Jetting Compound. BELL BRAND
TATTOO OIL; Branding Oil with DDT. L.8.E.; C.5.1.R.0. Scourable formula
Branding Oil with DDT. CARBONTET; Fluke Drench. THIODREN: Powder or
Liquid Drench. NICOTINE BLUESTONE DRENCH. LIME SULPHUR; For Itch Mite.
SPRAYMASTER JETTERS. KLEENFLOX; Sheep Blow Fly Dressing with DDT.
These famous products are available from Stores and Slock and Station Agents throughout Australia,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
C.S. : By extensive tests,
Dr. M. C. Franklin, of the
McMaster Laboratory, has
satisfied himself that it is waste-
ful to feed sheep daily during
drought, and the C.5.1.R.0. en-
dorses his dictum.
Wethers used were starved
down to uniform weight of
751 b., equivalent to moderate
store condition. It was found
they could be kept at this weight
for almost 12 months by feed-
ing at the rate of 4ilb. of food
units per sheep per week.
All rations comprised wheaten
chaff and wheat grain, the pro-
portions in the four rations
being (d) 50 chaff, 50 grain, (b)
40, 60, (c) 20, 80, and (d) 10, 90.
Quantity supplied to each sheep
at each time of feeding ranged
from o.BBlb. for (, d ) up to 1.091 b.
for (a) in the groups being fed
daily, and from 6.161 b. up to
7.631 b. for the same rations fed
at weekly intervals.
On each ration, both at shear-
ing 233 days after beginning of
drought-feeding to the end of
the experiment 110 days later,
mortalities in the daily-fed
groups were higher than in those
fed weekly. In each case, also,
average wool yield of the sheep
fed weekly beat that of those
fed daily.
When sold through ordinary
channels and calculated on the
basis of 1000 sheep in each
group, the gross wool returns
showed profit margins in favor
of the weekly-fed sheep of
£336, £453, £539 and £693 re-
spectively.
However, when cost of feed
(wheat 7s, 6d, a bushel and chaff
£l5 a ton) and losses by death
(£2 a head) were deducted, all
groups except those fed weekly
on (J) showed a deficit. In
every case, however, the
financial loss resulting from
daily feeding was considerably
greater than that from weekly
feeding. Had normal labor
costs been included the differ-
ences would have been very
much more in favor of weekly
feeding.
Excluding labor, cost per head
of carrying survivors through-
out the 343 days of drought-feed-
ing were: (a ration), daily feed
18s. Id., weekly 10s. Id.; ( b ),
225. 10d., 4s. 2d.; (c), 15s. sd„
2s. 3d.; ( d ), 255. 3d., credit of
4s. 4d. a head.
Dr. Franklin is aware of
various practical reasons which
may make it desirable to feed
twice or even three times a week
on some properties, but his
work has shown that daily feed-
ing for drought survival should
be abandoned as unsound.
He recommends that small
permanent holding paddocks for
feeding groups of 500 to 1000,
suitably watered and provided
with shade, should be
established wherever drought-
feeding is likely to be necessary.
Weak sheep and poor doers
should be separated from the
main flock for special attention.
Where the rations consist
mainly of cereal grains or hay,
Dr. Franklin urges the addition
of 1| p.c. to 2 p.c. of finely-
ground limestone to avoid
digestive upsets.
Rabbit Destruction.
“Archaps”: Qraziers’ Federal
Council of Australia is of
opinion that “While myxo-
matosis promises to be of great
assistance in meeting the rabbit
problem, the indications are that
the basic method of control will
be extermination inside netted
fences.”
In support of this, the
council asked Prime Minister
Menzies to offer a large reward
for a means of eradicating the
rabbit. In reply to a similar
request in September, 1950, Mr.
Menzies said it was considered
extremely unlikely that indi-
vidual investigations which might
be stimulated by the offer of a
reward would be more satisfac-
tory than the organised long-
term investigation of skilled
workers.
Joining issue on this point, the
G.F.C. said it felt that the offer
of a substantial reward, if well
publicised, would encourage
research-workers throughout the
world to devote their efforts to
this problem. It could be made
a condition precedent that all
proposals should be submitted
by letter, and that only those
which appeared to have a
measure of practicable applica-
tion would be investigated.
“Out—-Damned Spot!”
“Pippin”: The Taubmans
people have made preliminary
tests of various fungicides in the
Orange, Bilpin and Kurrajong
(N.S.W.) districts for eradication
of black-spot in apples and
pears; normal sprays being
affected by the shortage of
copper and sulphur.
This month at Kurrajong, the
firm will make the first full-scale
trial, using 17 different sprays
on a large number of trees.
Final results will not be known
until early next year.
Exploratory experiments will
be continued in the Orange
district, where many new com-
pounds will be tried. It was this
Taubmans team which gained
world-wide recognition for a
special D.D.T. formula evolved
to control codlin-moth.
Wethers with Windows.
“H.W.”: Workings of the
digestive system of three wethers
at Grasslands Experimental
Station, Palmerston N. (N.Z.),
are being studied through small
“windows” inserted in the
sheep’s bodies; the second time
this method of research has been
tried in this country.
A rubber tube, an inch in
diameter, has been inserted into
the rumen, and through this
samples of the contents are from
time to time extracted. The
experiment is an attempt to
determine the fate of grasses and
clovers, the sheep’s principal
diet.
The results may answer
criticism by farmers who claim
that improvement of pastures,
through use of good grasses and
clovers, is accompanied by an
increase of stock disorders and
diseases.
Hay for Calves.
“Mr.”; It has a stimulating
effect on growth, and helps
balance concentrates which, in
calves, tend to premature fatten-
ing and early maturity. The
roughage encourages cud-
chewing, enlarges the rumen (an
important consideration with
high-producing dairy cows), and
is best fed immediately after the
calves have finished their milk
or gruel.
After weaning, a morning
feed of hay benefits and is
relished by the youngsters, parti-
cularly if they’re on soft, green
pasture. Weaned heifers need
31b. to 41b. of hay per day dur-
ing their first year and double
this quantity in the second,
which is when they should be
having their first calf.
Culling Poultry.
“Myrrhee”: Keep the flock
under close observation, culling
rigorously as signs of back-
wardness become obvious.
Look for the slow-moving,
“Just half-a-pound-o'-butter. Mum .”
listless birds with ruffled
feathers and pale, dry combs
and shanks. When handled, they
will have thin, lean bodies and
half-empty crops.
Nothing is gained by retain-
ing such birds in the hope that
they’ll come good. They won’t,
or if a percentage does, it won’t
make up for the losses sustained
by retaining the remainder. A
hundred birds —the bad equally
with the good—will consume
about 251 b. of food per day,
and, at this rate of intake, feed’s
much too expensive to waste on
bad doers.
“On the Square.”
“Hortus”: “Agronomist” (B.
29/8/’5l) states that maize-sow-
ing “on the square” has nothing
to do with the production of
straight, regular rows of grain.
From years of practical experi-
ence I maintain that, given a
better environment, seed from
an irregular cob will produce a
less irregular cob.
My point (B. 25/7/’5l) was
that by “sowing on the square”
each plant is allowed a larger
feeding area, receives more air
and sunlight and is not troubled
by weed-growth. Consequently
the plants produce a greater
percentage of straight regular
rows of uniform grain.
“Agronomist” could not have
much experience of growing
maize if he thinks that irregular
rows of non-uniform grain do
not affect the yielding ability.
Such cobs prove to be much
lighter and decrease the yield to
a great extent. That’s why they
are always discarded when seed
is being selected.
Tomato-growing.
“Sundowner”: Position is
more important than type of soil
for success with tomatoes in Vic-
toria. Facing north-east is ideal,
with rows running as near north
and south as possible, so that the
sun in moving from east to west
shines right through the rows for
a longer period each day.
As for variety it is advisable
to stick to a type that suits the
particular locality. Try to
select a heavy cropper, of good
size and appearance.
Raising your own plants has
many advantages. One is that
they are nurtured in the soil they
will eventually mature in. Use
completely fresh soil each season
and it will be found that plants
will get away to a good start.
Mix and sieve equal parts of
well-rotted stable manure, fine
sand and loamy soil before plac-
ing in a box not more than 4in.
deep, to within £in. of the top.
Sow the seed thickly and cover
lightly with old manure rubbed
through the hands. Damp
down with a fine watering. Place
the box on a hotbed in the north-
west corner of a glasshouse or
frame. A characteristic of
healthy plants is a blue-looking
trunk covered with hairs.
Beds should be prepared
beforehand for the seedlings and
aerated by constant turning. Soil
components should be the same
as for the seedbox with the addi-
tion of some bone manure. In
transplanting, if space is a factor,
30in. by 12in. will be satisfactory
but 36in. apart and 16in. in the
row will make watering and
cultivating more convenient.
First hoeing should be light, but
the second one can be fairly
deep. If plants are not growing
as they should, a light dressing
of one of the nitrogenous
manures will be beneficial.
Soldering.
“G. 8.”; Soft soldering de-
scribed by “A.L-W.” (B.
5/9/’5l) using a tin/lead solder
and relatively low temperature
(330 deg. Fahr.) is quite a differ-
ent process from hard soldering.
As he says, 330 deg. Fahr. may
be obtained from a heated
copper soldering-iron with killed
spirits of salts as flux.
However, hard solders will
withstand temperatures as high
as 1200 deg. Fahr. and consist
principally of silver with added
percentages of copper and zinc.
Flux used is borax. A painter’s
blowlamp is a convenient heater.
Surfaces to be joined must be
clean and clamped together in
close contact —the closer the
better to make the melted solder
run between the surfaces. Heat
the work with the blowlamp and
scatter on borax. This will melt
and spread as the temperature
rises. Add chips of silver solder,
continue heating to a dull red
color, when the solder will melt
and flow freely between the sur-
faces. Cool by plunging into
water and an exceptionally strong
join will have been formed.
In the absence of prepared
silver solder, clippings of silver
coins may be used with success
—if you have the coins.
Horns and Bruising.
“Oxo”; W. E. Cameron,
South Comongin station,
Quilpie (Q.), is convinced that
dehorning or polledness cuts
bruising losses by 66 per cent.,
besides saving £l3l in rail
freight on each mob of 500 head
railed from Quilpie to Brisbane.
He also believes, after holding
and fattening big mobs of cattle
in the mulga belt during the past
20 years, that dehorned or polled
cattle are able to break scrub
and handle mulga much better
than horned cattle.
Cameron asked Thos. Borth-
wick and Sons (A/sia) Ltd. to
test drafts of Springfield fats
railed at Quilpie for bruising
percentages when they passed
through the company’s Brisbane
works. The first draft of 90
horned bullocks and 433 de-
horned or polled bullocks was
trucked on May 27 last. Total
bruising from the 90 homed
bullocks was 14.2 per cent,
while from the 433 polled and
dehorned it was only 4.8 per
cent.; 1421 b. was trimmed off
the 90 horned carcasses, com-
pared with 481 b. off 134 de-
horned carcasses.
Owing to manpower shortages
in Quilpie and Brisbane and in-
dustrial troubles it was not
possible to continue the tests,
but they are to be resumed.
Curing a Deficiency.
“A-Jay”: Fodder reserves
have not been as low for many
years in N.S.W. as they are now,
and the outlook for increased
reserves is not bright. This has
been brought about mainly by
bad conditions for hay-making
and harvesting in the latter part
of last year.
The thing now is to make
some constructive effort towards
rectifying the position. This can
be done by sowing more oats for
hay and grain. The sowing of
21b. to 31b. of lucerne seed per
acre with portion of next year’s
wheat crop is sound practice.
If a dry year is experienced, the
lucerne will probably fail, but
with normal conditions this is a
cheap way of establishing graz-
ing lucerne, from which an
occasional cut for hay may be
taken.
Not only will this assist in
building up fodder reserves, but
it will also do much to re-
habilitate worn-out wheat soils.
Growing of summer fodder
crops should not be overlooked.
Grain sorghum, Sudan grass
and Japanese millet will provide
excellent grazing and hay, while
grain sorghum can be harvested
and stock turned in on the stalks,
and the grain left behind for the
winter months.
Making Compost.
“Rooster”: Green leaves,
grass cuttings, pea, bean and
potato haulms, outer leaves or
tops of vegetables, hedge clip-
pings, weeds, faded flowers and
all other kinds of plant refuse,
green or otherwise, droppings
from sheep, goats, rabbits,
poultry, horses, cattle all
these are good ingredients. But
don’t use cinders, coal ashes,
paper, sawdust, thick woody
stems or cuttings tainted with
oil, creosote, tar or any preserva-
tive chemical with a poisonous


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
w
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
ŵ
MAKING AUSTRALIA STRONG !
Guiding our r"
Ships of all nations carrying the products
of our factories and farms, have good cause to
remember the name "Ronaldson-Tippett", for
by following courses lighted and radio-guided
by power supplied from the Ronaldson-Tippett
generating sets they safely sail Australia's
coastal shipping lanes.
This is an important contribution towards
making Australia STRONG, for the safety of
these "lines of communication" is paramount
in maintaining a stable economy.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office; BALLARAT, Victoria. Jiei-
bourne Office: 838 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors: Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Utd.,
Frazer House, 43 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Q’land
Distributors: Bonaldson Tippett (Q’landf I’ty.
Etd., Scottish Union House, 137 Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
No. 9
RONALDSON-TIPPETT L.
HENSON’S AERIAL
STEAM CARRIAGE 1842.
Con'lmrlioti: Monoplane of conventional rib and spar construction, wire-braced to
kingposts. Pivoted tailplane and vertical rudder, both controlled from passenger
cabin. Sprung tricycle undercarriage.
Dimensions-. Span 150 fit., chord 30 ft. Wing loading $ lb. per sq. ft. All-up
weight 3,000 lb. Power Plant : 25 h.p. steam engine weighting 22 lb. per h.p.
Air strews : Two 2-bladed pusher airscrews.
Terjo-mance : Designed for the “Aerial Steam Navigation Co.” but never built,
Hensons’ aircraft was intended for passenger and mail services from London to
India and China.
Today great airlines rely on the unfailing
fuelling service symbolised by the green
and yellow colours of the
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO., LTD.
T
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address "AIRBEEPEE" Melbourne.
For Sale
PINEAPPLE & MIXED FARM
59 acres Freehold. 7m. city of Rock-
hampton. Im. school. Sac. pineapples
bearing this summer. Further oac.
pineapple land cleared. 20ac. virgin
pineapple land. Oac. low land suit-
able lucerne, etc., cleared for plough,
with irrigation water in well. 2ac.
netted fowlrun; elec, incubator, house
40 x 41 ft., regional elec’ty installed,
linos, refrigerator. Necessary working
plant. A good convenient property
showing good returns.
Price; £4,000
The Farm Exchange, 19 Denham
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Phone 3768, after hrs. 3199, 2161.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CECIL PERCY BEDE NORRIS late
of Stanmore. —TAKE NOTICE that JUNE
YVONNE NORRIS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3192 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 23rd day of Novem-
ber 1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. 0. M.
MARSH & HARVEY, 28 Martin Place,
Svdnoy.—-I. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN TDK’ SCPItEME COURT OK NEW
SOUTH WALES l.v Divorce.
TO STANLEY MURPHY (formerly of
Patrick Street Auchenflower Queensland).
TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
AILEEN MURPHY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2065 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 28rd of
November 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
JAMES & GRAHAME, Solicitors, 16a
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their Agents,
MESSRS McDONELL & MOFFITT, 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Telephone
74387
Telegrams;
“Antiques, Dublin”
F.E.De groot
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
|ll 'll*" if (I ii <\ iTF iimTtt
r — - r -= I y/
&
Whether you are
SPOTTING YOUR HORSE
OR SPOTTING SHEEP
you'll need a pair of
“SIRIUS” BINOCULARS
Write for the
free catalogue on
Ziess, Ross, Beck-
Kassell.
Made especially for E. Esdaile &
Sons, “Sirius” are the ultimate in
binoculars, the keenest eye for detail
will be satisfied. Light in weight,
centre screw focusing, strong sturdy
leather case.
8 x 30 Coated £22/5/-, dep. £4/15/-
8 x 30 uncoated £l9/15/-, d. £3/15/-
Terms spread over 12, 18, 24 months.
Specialists in Optical, Scientific
and Technical Instruments for
64 years.
ẁ
AND SONS
PTY, LTD,
43 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
BW 9449.
(HEMORRHAGE?##
RUPTURE?... MO
SHOCK? MO
INFECTION?... MO
(/f you me
Sfaautet *)
fWfARK your lambs and calves by
* * Elastrator for hygienic, safe, cer-
tain results. Your young stock lose
no blood, suffer no check, mother-up
immediately. You can mark in any
weather.
The Elastrator green ring
is scientific, safe. sure.
3 -
CS>
<s>
•'ELASTRATOR
(Registered Trade Mark)
CASTRATOR AND JAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
base. Ashes from bonfires can
be incorporated in the heap as
soon as they are cold.
Autumn leaves should be
stacked in a heap by themselves
between layers of soil, left until
spring, turned and treated with
a chemical accelerator. Mix
grass mowings with other refuse
before placing in the compost,
While the heap is in making
always keep it covered with
sacks, straw mats or boards to
prevent the outer material from
losing moisture: dry material is
slow to rot. Some protection is
needed from soaking rains: a
thick outer layer of soil does the
trick. Water-soaked heaps lose
heat and nitrogen. A heap
started during autumn months
will be ready for use during the
spring.
Sweet-corn.
“Zea”: Main requirement for
best results from sweet-corn in
the home garden is to build up
the soil to a high state of fer-
tility. Farmyard manure is the
best basis for this, as “Big
Billy” (B. 22/8/’5l) suggests.
That, however, is too hard to
get and too high-priced for the
average suburbanite, who has
largely to rely on compost for
the necessary organic matter.
Moreover, the fertiliser sug-
gestions are rather crude. Super,
is required in addition to either
compost or farmyard manure,
which is rather lacking in phos-
phates. Super, and blood-and-
bone are better when mixed, and
wood ashes are better left out
for all the good they do. Don’t
remove the suckers unless you
want to lose in yield.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Be careful when
cutting wings of pullets. If all
large wing feathers are taken off
the kidney area is exposed. Cut
only the flight feathers from the
short axial feathers to the outer
end of one wing. Much of the
trouble of birds escaping by
flight will be avoided by regular
and adequate feeding, particu-
larly a helping of greenfeed at
midday as well as at the end of
the day.
“Sundowner”: Because of the
spreading habit of mint sur-
round new plantings with a cut-
down 40-gal. drum with the
bottom removed. Otherwise
grow mint in a box near a
shaded water-tap.
“C.A.A.”: If using sawdust
to add humus to orchards see
that heavy applications of nitro-
genous fertilisers are also used,
as sawdust while decomposing
draws heavily on nitrogen in the
soil at the expense temporarily
of the trees. Nitrogen will help
sawdust to decompose quickly.
“My”: Early-hatched chicks
should be on open range before
the end of October, receiving the
best of food and management
to have them well advanced
before the hot weather. Keep
them on fresh pasture, changing
the run every few days, and feed
a mash of wheatmeal 401 b.,
maizemeal 201 b., ground hulled
oats 201 b., bran 101 b., dried
buttermilk or meatmeal 101 b.
(or 51b. of each) and ylb. salt.
Bone formation will be en-
couraged by adding 21b. bone-
meal to the mixture.
“wil c o ” : A Queensland
grazier recommends the poison-
ing of strips of green grass
as a beginning in firebreak
preparation. The grass soon
dries off and can be burned at
a time when the grass beyond
the poisoned area is too green
to burn. To keep the break
bare he suggests grazing the
young grass down. When burn-
ing-off grass paddocks I leave
strips of old grass where I want
next year’s firebreaks to be. This
stand-over grass is in burnable
shape much earlier than the
younger growth, and can safely
be fired to make a firebreak.
Any withered stuff that is left
after the fire is easily rolled or
slashed down for later burning.
“Hortus”: Let maximum of
light fall on seed-potato tubers
to prevent blackening and dying
of tips of sprouts. Bruised shoots
grown in bright light do not
blacken like those in sacks.
“My”: To keep a lawn healthy
and vigorous apply manurial
dressings regularly, preferably
every three months. In Sep-
tember, to each 100 square yards
of lawn apply 4ylb. of sulphate
of ammonia and Hlb. of sulphate
of iron ; in December, 441 b. ot
sulphate of ammonia; March,
31b. of superphosphate, 44-lb. of
sulphate of ammonia and Hlb. of
sulphate of iron ; June, 441 - of
sulphate of ammonia. If blood-
and-bone is used to replace the
sulphate of ammonia, apply
341 b. of the organic to each lib.
of the chemical.


©
M 0,5
•»$S£6
0$
\)s
t-'sjSasfiS
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO ILM. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
&tcermJutfc€t&e
Gordons
Stands Sup*am te
REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
MEEKS
ROAD SAFETY!
k-
=ci
S*5K
c-
'-.- EE
wm
'C94/17SH
0&
»*
/
Published in the interests
of Road Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Com monwealth of Australia and
Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Denison to give delivery of some
cattle which Biddulph had sold,
and has since been on a very
distant sheep - station. His
nephew Beckford Simpson is
rather a nice lad of seventeen or
eighteen, who gets us flowers
and is happy to do any small
errands that may be wanted.
Biddulph says he is very useful
on the station.
Mr. Cressall I like the least of
the party. He is not ungentle-
manly, but he thinks by far the
most of himself. He is up here
“to get colonial experience,”
though Biddulph pays him. 1
do not think he particulaily
enjoys the sort of colonial
experience he is at present gain-
ing on a lambing station. Bid-
dulph says he never saw a man
with such a capacity for losing
himself in the bush.
On the whole, we are very
well off in having such a gentle-
manly set of men in the house,
for some of the sons of the bush
are very rough ; but I do not
think Biddulph would ever stand
living with anyone who had
vulgar manners or habits. Our
visitors are few and far between,
and the farther the better ; for
I consider them rather a bore,
except when they bring up
letters, but I think Annie likes
to see people, and rather misses
the Marlborough levees.
We are going to move the
house. Biddulph did not choose
this spot, and though it is pretty,
there is one far prettier about
half a mile off, and here we are
upon the brow of a stony hill,
where there is no good place for
garden or paddocks. The new
site is the ridge of a high plain,
a rocky creek at the foot of the
ridge in front, and a noble view
over a wide sweep of undulating
plains dotted with gum-trees and
patches of scrub, like a park,
beyond the thick bush and a
panorama of mountains all
round, peak behind peak.
There is plenty of room for a
garden round the house, and a
flat .°!- rich I . so ‘ l close by the
creek for a kitchen garden. To
the right of the house is a rocky
creek with pools of clear water
and pretty trees growing in it;
to the left is an expanse of slop-
mg plain, where the store, men’s
huts, woolshed, yards and pad-
docks are to be. At the back of
the house the gentle slope on
which all the buildings are rises
suddenly into a little steep rocky
hill, crowned with gum-trees
and rocks where you can sit
down and survey a most lovely
prospect.
When we go there to live there
will be very few days on which
1 shall not mount that hill, about
ten minutes’ walk. It is a most
eligible spot for a head-station,
and the two carpenters have
already begun putting up the
store. It is not much to move a
slab house ; all the woodwork
takes down and puts up again,
some of the roof will have to be
new, but nothing else.
We shall live in the store while
the house is being moved. There
is a good deal to be done first,
however, and I do not suppose
it will be till January.
Monday, October 20. Every-
body at work again. I see Tom
fetching water from the creek
with a barrel mounted on a
sledge, and drawn by an un-
willing horse, for the sand is
very heavy. Mr. Forster has just
walked off with a huge bundle
of clothes, which require wash-
ing, and rather a hopeless specu-
lation it appears to be, for we
are short of soap till the Port
Denison dray comes up, which
we expect in a week or ten days.
Biddulph and Mr. Hedgeland
are stuffing saddles on the
veranda, and Beckford and Mr.
Taylor departed after breakfast
to their several stations. Annie
is writing to Emily Tucker and
wears a pink gingham morning
dress, while mine is that identical
green print like little Constance’s
which 1 bought at Snow’s, and
trimmed with white by your
advice. It has washed so well.
By the way, Biddulph is not
stuffing the saddle at present—he
is shoeing a horse which he has
tied up to the veranda. People
turn their hands to anything in
the bush. We have been making
Devonshire cream lately, and
Tom manages it very well. It
is too hot to make butter, and
no one eats it when it is made,
so a tin-dish of milk is set on
the stove every day. The cream
is exceedingly good, though not
quite so rich or smoky as the
English article.
The cows are only milked once
a day. They run with their
calves, and about sundown
Jacky the blackboy sets forth on
horseback and searches all the
creeks and gullies round till he
finds seven or eight cows. These
he drives up with their calves,
and the latter are shut up in the
stockyard for the night, while
the cows stand outside and
below. In the morning the cows
are milked, and the whole lot
turned into the bush again.
Biddulph’s old watch, which
we gave him at Backwell, which
once lay in the bush for three
months, and which he lends the
shepherds to time their night-
watches by, is going a brick,
and it only cost about £6 at first,
while mine was £l4.
My kindest love to you all
and many kisses to all the
children, RacHE l Henning.
(To be continued next week.)
INTERLUDE.
Here is a soldier lying on the grass
In silence at a tree-encircled pool,
A bivouac oasis, smooth as glass.
A soldier playing truant from the school
Of weekend war, forgotten as Kis eyes
Snap private pictures on a mental spool.
His rifle dropped beside him where he lies
Is savage, full of venom as a snake.
The soldier dreaming does not realise
That fingering the pool his finger makes
Bad luck in multiples of seven years:
The ripples run, the water mirror breaks.
Thus he remains unconscious of the fears
That might accompany thunder in his ears.
N - s w -
IAN HEALY.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Rates, payable in advance (including
postage), are:
12 months £1 16 0
6 „ 18 %
3„ 9 6
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
0*?
i-
t
<
. ■
increase tyre mileage
Tyre tread wear vanes according to type of vehicle and
operating conditions. On most trucks and buses for instance,
the wear would be on tyres carrying the load, i.e. the rear
tyres. On cars with modern suspension and braking systems
the wear is on front tyres. Also there is a difference in
wear between near-side tyres and off-side tyres. TFiat ft
why wheels should be changed around every 2,000 to
3,000 miles, so that wear can be evenly spread over each)
tyre —including the spare wheel. This will cut dowfl
unequal tread wear increase over-all tyre rnile.ag£.
———
a\
ao a \tW
eco*°™
move tqre from
wheel, change
at regular in-
tervals of 2-3
thousand miles."
DUNLOP
CAR & TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. inVk.)
SUPER
Em
Mr
‘TODAY YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PRODUCT’
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Rise and Fall
of the Japanese Empire by David
James, Long the Imperial Way by
Hanami Tasaki and Time of Fallen
Blossoms. —5202.
To buy copy of On Our Selection
by Steele Rudd and How M'Dougal
Topped the Score and Other Verses
by T. E. Spencer.—5201.
Words of poems “McCarthy’s
Mare” and “Flying Kate,” —5200.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word
“Towrie”? —5204.
How to construct and erect a 49ft.
flagpole? Detailed instructions re-
quired.—5203.
Information Sought.
Method of pasteurising milk ? Is
raw milk reduced to a 3-2 test, as
in the case of raw-milk suppliers,
before pasteurising ? Would cows
giving less than 4 p.c. butterfat tests
prove profitable propositions to
farmers supplying butter factories?
Milk is pasteurised either by (a)
the “holding” method, where the milk
is quickly heated to a temperature of
145deg. F., held at that temperature
for 30 minutes and then cooled
quickly to a temperature below 40deg.
F., or by ( b ) the “high-temperature
short-time” method, where the milk
is heated to 162deg. F., held there
for 15 seconds and then immediately
cooled to below 40deg. F. The Pure
Food Act makes it an offence to sell
milk from which cream has been
abstracted, and this applies to pas-
teurised milk equally with raw milk.
Whilst the minimum butter-fat con-
tent required by law is 3.2 p.c., milk
sold in the Sydney and Newcastle
districts and in other districts super-
vised by the Milk Board averages
3.8 p.c. Whether or not a butter-fat
yield of 4 p.c. or less is a practicable
proposition to farmers supplying
butter factories depends upon the
quantity of milk produced per cow.
* * * *
Information about Tristan da
Cunha?
Tristan da Cunha is the name of a
group of islands, some 2000 miles
west of the Cape of Good Hope, dis-
covered by a 16th-century Portuguese
navigator, after whom the islands are
named. The main island of the
group, also called Tristan da Cunha,
is the only one inhabited (habitable
area 12 sq.m.). It is an extinct
volcano, with a crater lake near its
summit. The islands are British depen-
dencies, made, in 1938, dependencies
of St. Helena. While Napoleon was
in exile there, a British garrison was
put on Tristan; when it was with-
drawn, one Corporal Glass and his
wife decided to stay, and were shortly
joined by some shipwrecked sailors
(who found wives on St. Helena). The
present inhabitants, who in 1945 num-
bered 230, are largely descended from
these people. Cattle, sheep and
poultry are kept; potatoes are the
staple diet. A ship visits the island
at least once a year, as it depends on
outside assistance for flour, sugar, etc.
Some seven or eight books have been
written about the island.
!j= * ♦ ■ ♦
What is the law in N. S. Wales
concerning children born out of wed-
lock but whose parents subsequently
marry ? Can they be legitimated ?
Yes, provided that at the time of
birth there was no legal impediment
to the marriage of the parents. The
father is required to produce to a
District Registrar, usually the local
Clerk of Petty Sessions, a statutory
declaration in the form prescribed by
the Legitimation Act, and a copy of
the entry of his marriage with the
child’s mother. The child, whether
alive or dead, is then registered as the
lawful issue of the man and his wife.
* * * *
What is an encyclical?
It is a circular letter by the Pope
on religious and political questions.
The opinions and directions con-
tained in an encyclical have not the
power of a dogma, but come rather
near to it. Issued only on important
occasions, and defining papal policies
over a length of time, they are signifi-
cant documents. Famous political
encyclicals were Leo XHI’s Rerum
novarum (anti-Socialist), Pius XI’s
Quadragesima anno (for a Christian
Corporate Slate) and Mil brennender
(in German; anti-Nazi).
*5* H*
Must a proposed alteration to the
Commonwealth Constitution be sub-
mitted to the electors?
According to Section 128 of the
Constitution any proposed law for its
alteration must, in addition to being
passed by an absolute majority of
each House of Parliament, be sub-
mitted to a referendum of the electors
in each Slate and must further be
approved by a majority of the States
and ©f the electors who voted before
it can be presented for Royal assent.
What arc the boundaries of N. S.
Wales ?
On the cast, the South Pacific Ocean,
from Point Danger to Cape Howe;
on the west, the 141st meridian of
east longitude; on the north, the 29th
parallel of south latitude, proceeding
cast to the Barwon River and there-
after along the Macintyre and
Dumaresq Rivers to the junction with
Tenterfield Creek; thence along the
crest of a spur of the Great Dividing
Range, the crest of that range north
to the Macpherson Range, and along
the crest of the Macpherson Range
east to the sea; on the south, the
southern bank of the Murray River
to its source at the head of the River
Indi, thence by a direct marked line
to Cape Howe.
Brief Answers.
L.F.N.: Refusal of cleaners to
undertake the work indicates its diffi-
culty. If the suede has a leather back
it will not stand water, but if it is
dressed down like wash-leather gloves
it might be possible to clean as they
are cleaned—in hot suds with a little
ammonia, rinsed well, patted dry and
pulled into shape. If a leather back
you could try cleaning with hot bran
rubbed into the soiled spots, then
brushed off K.N.: Write Slazen-
gers (Australia) Pty., Ltd., Bowden-
street, Alexandria (N.S.W.) H.W.:
(1) Rent paid should not exceed that
charged for same premises on August
31, 1939. Any excess may be
recovered. (2) Don’t understand. It
is a breach of the Landlord and
Tenant Act to demand, receive or
pay more than the fair rent. (3) No.
L.O’C.: The Commonwealth
Meteorological Service has no record
of places that have never received
thunderstorms, either in Australia or
elsewhere in the world. Even in very
arid areas a “dry” thunderstorm may
occur, with lightning and thunder,
but no rain. The lowest frequency
of thunderstorms in Australia is about
five per annum. Areas experiencing
this number are the coast of Western
Australia, from Onslow to Condon,
the central south-west portion ot
Western Australia and the east and
north-west coasts of Tasmania....
C.D.0’8.: A. Shaw’s 1884-85 English
team to Australia played at Gympie
in 1885. Shaw did not actually take
part in this match, and, although not
recorded, A. Shrewsbury, who had
captained the English team on other
occasions in Shaw’s absence, was
probably captain for this particular
game... .S.M.: Adams produced
earthenware mugs in Staffordshire.
Their value is about £1 Is. to £3 3s.
See Chaffers’s Marks and Monograms
on China in Hobart Public Library.
H.B.: The numbers 755 and 1383
are the factory numbers —not the
dates. The jugs are known as Swiss
beer-flagons (stoneware), and sell on
the Continent to tourists for £2-£3
the pair.... J.'S.L.: Have been unable
to trace any firm now making the
novelty....J.H.G.: Munro’s Guide
for the Chairman and Secretary (3s.
6d.), obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .J.A.0.R.: The Australian
national anthem is “God Save the
King.” Although many patriotic
songs have been written about Aus-
tralia, none has been officially
recognised as an Australian national
anthem or national song.... R.K.T.:
The Lyrebird Group have published
the following books of Australian
poetry, all obtainable from Roland E.
Robinson, 18 Manion-avenue, Rose
Bay (N.S.W.): Imminent Summer by
Nancy Keesing, The Darkened Win-
dow by Nancy Cato and Language of
the Sand by Roland E. Robinson
J.C.A.: Write Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Lands, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
W.L.: Come in and sing:
Mount Gambier the wondrous! With cave
and lakelets fair,
Vistas ever-pleasing entrance the tourist
there.
A plane-trip to Mount Gambier brings
radiancy of joys
With thrills of contemplation to mankind,
girls and boys.
. ...J.N.: Something good in them,
but where’s the fun in being so grue-
some? J.C.E.: You speak for
thousands: —
Here in this country of ours today
There’s nothing to drink when you feel
that way.
H.A.: “Shooters aver as a poet
I’m a dub.” Ah, there’s the rub
J.G.: The last stanza’s pleasing; the
earlier ones rather awkward C.G.:
“The Town Clock” ticks along quite
amiably, but doesn't click... .H.W.:
Japanese colonels and suburban train-
travellers —what a varied lot ot
characters you would have if any of
them had any... .G.V.K.; Might
have been something in “The Stick-
men’s Night,” but look at that long
speech by the sergeant —half the suc-
cess of detective-story writing depends
on putting Euclid into easy, everyday
conversation J.A.M.: Types of
story go rancid like butter, and might
be said to suffer from stale style
H.G.T.: From what we read about
television it would be kinder not to
decide who was responsible for it....
L.H.: Bet you never worked in
a factory W.C.: Horseplay....
F.M.N.: As instructed, we noted it
was “in the form of a farce”
Z.V.W.: Why did we say “you’re too
expert”? Well, you write a competent
story that is probably original in such
a way as to leave us thinking we
have read it many times before....
C.G.: Well, it was nice to meet
Geoffrey Trevillian again—must be a
hundred and fifty if he’s a day.


“Bless you, sir, 180 Ts the
one date I do know! That's
the year McCollum began
blending PERFECTION.
You can reckon there's
\a century-and a-half
whisky wisdom in
\ this botne." j
f
a ***n
% }
..
W
u V
UJhisky
'Wt'/iV/i''*’*
Mil
1/ ', v ''""
fl) c Cdllum’s
Whisky
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Correct the Danger line
w
ŵ
the lINKA way
With a normal man, the line of
gravity is almost vertical.
The first sign of a deterioration
in the line of gravity is a dis-
quieting bulge at the waist line
this is the “Danger Curve”.
It is the result of progressive
downward displacement of the
abdominal organs and obesity.
The spinal column is also in-
clined to follow this unnatural
curve in maintaining the normal balance of the
body. Strongly recommended by medical men,
the LIN IA BELT counteracts this ‘‘Danger
Curve”, keeps you fit and safeguards your health
and appearance. Ideal for post-operation wear.
Write today for FREE illustrated
booklet A 22 at the address below ,
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by of Paris Pty. Ltd,
84 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE, C.l. Tel.: FA 8357
Branches throughout the British Isles, France. Belgium, Hollana, etc-
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Japanese Toys
The hullabaloo being raised in
Britain and Australia about the
trade in toys from Germany and
Japan recalls the fuss made in
Britain over the same thing after
the 1914-18 war.
Anybody would have thought
that the United Kingdom would
have starved to death if the toy
trade were allowed to go back to
Germany, and for a long time
an attempt was made to raise a
worth-while industry. The result
was a spell of very expensive
toys, not in the same street as
the old German article, and just
as vulnerable as any other child’s
toy. In time the home industry
languished, and generally settled
down to specialised products.
Before long Japan found a place
for mechanical toys, and parents
were only too glad to be able to
get the cheaper article —nor did
they care where it came from.
Britain is not a toymaking coun-
try to any extent that matters
much, so her industry soon
turned to more profitable things.
Then came the war,
and once more British kids had
to make do with home-made and
very expensive stuff. Then the
German prisoners arrived.
Before long, wherever these
were quartered, children were
seen with hand-fashioned toys
of every description made by
them. Many were very clever
toys, too dogs that did
everything but bark, and long
dachshunds and poodles which
wagged their tails, heads, bodies
and moved legs. A piece of
string was the motive-power,
and the wooden toys were made
to last.
Now once more the British
toy trade is upset by the com-
petition from German toys, just
as here, in Australia, there is a
howl because Japanese toys are
to be admitted.
All this grumbling is very
well, but there is a lot of selfish-
ness abou, its way, the
Japanese toy is as gpod as the
German toy, and both are very
much cheaper than the home-
made article. The Australian
child is already a very expensive
addition to any family, and it is
surely time parents were per-
mitted to buy something a bit
cheaper—toys come high upon
the list of extravagances. The
Japanese toy will ruin nobody in
Australia —toys could be con-
sidered non-essential manufac-
tures if it comes to that.
Another thing—isn’t it better
to encourage both the German
and the Jap to make toys? When
you put a stopper upon harm-
less industries, the labor involved
can be turned to less peaceful
“Why Wait to count ten when it's raining?"
occupa tionsu Shellback
(N.S.W.).
Hydro Power Stations
“Waddlin’ Willie” complains
(B. 5/9/’5l) that the Kiewa
hydro scheme is to cost
£50,520,000 and of “huge interest
bills.” One would imagine the
interest on this capital cost
would not exceed £1,800,000
(the S.E.C. has not paid more
than 31 p.c. for money in recent
years), and as the average annual
output from Kiewa will be at
least 720,000,000 electrical units,
the interest component of the
power cost should be only about
three-fifths of a penny per unit,
which is only about half the
present-day cost to consumers.
Ultimate planned capacity
(“W.W.” says) “is only 289,000
kilowatts. ...only one-tenth
of the State’s requirements.”
The present maximum demand
in Victoria is about 500,000
kilowatts, so this statement is also
wide of the mark.
“Australia,” he adds, “is not
a hydro country.” What rubbish I
It is practically the sole source
of power in the Speck, while here
in Victoria the Sugarloaf-Rubi-
con plants have been lifting us
over the 8 a.m. peak for years.
One of the great advantages of
hydro plants is their ability to
pick up load, literally as quickly
as turning on a tap, which a
steam station cannot do unless
it is held as “hot reserve,” and,
of course, using coal while so
held. If Sydney had a few suit-
able hydro stations on call the
incidence of blackouts in that un-
fortunate city would be very
much reduced, or even elimin-
ated —and probably will be when
the Guthega plant of the Snowy
scheme starts spinning.
No one except the unin-
formed suggests that hydro
power from Kiewa is to take the
place of energy generated by
stations using cheaply-mined
brown coal. They will continue
to carry the non-variable part of
the demand, operating under
more-or-less constant load 24
hours a day, seven days a week.
These stations are at their best
under those conditions.
The variable demand —i.e., the
additional power required be-
tween about 6 a.m. and 6 p.m.
on week-days—is the major
problem in Victoria because the
greater part' of this portion of
the load is carried by Newport
power-station, a voracious
black-coal burner. Kiewa is
designed to meet variable demand
and to save as much black coal
as possible. Brown coal and
hydro stations, working together,
are complementary, and an ideal
combination.
“Hydro stations depend on
good rainfall for their power.”
True, but river-run stations are
out of date. Kiewa, Snowy and
Big Eildon schemes will all be
backed by storage reservoirs to
carry over not only the dry
summer months, but the occa-
sional dry winter as well. On
the other hand, coalminers’
leaders are completely unpredict-
able, particularly during the
winter, and make dead sure no
storage of coal is permitted, in
order that industry may be
thrown out of gear on their com-
mand.
There may be something in
the criticism of high-level race-
lines, not so much perhaps on
grounds of expense as the danger
of major landslides and minor
batter slips—always a hazard
in steep high-rainfall country.
The capture of run-off at high
elevation is an excellent idea in
theory, but there may be some
catches in practice. On this
score the experience at Kiewa
will, no doubt, be a guide for the
Snowy Mountains people in
planning the hundreds of miles
of race-lines said to be contem-
plated for this project.
I might add that I have no
connection with any authority or
company which is directly con-
cerned with the production of
electrical energy or equipment. —
Sapper (Vic.).
State Lotteries
The race for bigger and better
State lotteries has been stepped
up by the W.A. Lotteries Com-
mission’s decision to run a £6OOO
gamble in an attempt to stop
the flow of money to the Eastern
States.
Until we evolve a better
method of providing for charit-
able institutions and hospitals, it
seems that lotteries will be a
permanent feature of the Aus-
tralian way of life. But if these
gambles are really run for
charity an attempt should be
made to see that charities are
the sole big beneficiaries.
As things are now, here in
Western Australia they’re not.
The tickets are sold mainly by
agents, who collect threepence
on each ticket sold. Most of the
commission goes to a few big
sellers who got in on the ground
floor and have since acquired the
status of businesses. They re-
quire practically no outlay, incur
no risks, and employ dozens of
men and women who could well
be employed in industry. Each
week something like £llOO is
paid out in commission, none of
it to the charities for which the
lotteries are run.
There are several charitable
organisations in Perth which
could organise the sales of tickets
very efficiently and whose
members would jump at the
chance to earn the money. The
lotteries commission should pass
the entire sales of tickets over to
a committee representing these
organisations. It would be a
welcome and profitable change
from the fortnightly street
appeals they are forced to make
now. — Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
Lesson of Rome
Rome’s decline and fall were
not due solely to its bureaucracy
(B. 12/9/’5l) there was
certainly a civil service even
during Rome’s “golden age ”
The “golden age” lasted for
200 years, from the time of
Augustus, the first emperor, to
the death of Marcus Aurelius.
It was an age of private enter-
prise and free competition, but
civil administration was in the
hands of a very capable
bureaucracy.
This civil service had been
organised by Augustus, who had
found such a service to be abso*
lutely necessary. In the last days
of the Roman republic (a time
of great opportunities for the
unscrupulous go-getter) the
provinces of the empire had
been ruthlessly plundered by
their governors and tax-farmers,
who were responsible to nobody
and generally amassed quick
fortunes by more-or-less illegal
means. Verres, known to every
Latin student by Cicero’s de :
nunciations, was one sucli
looter.
Augustus’s system was much
stricter, and more beneficial to
the community at large. . The
Encyc. Brit, says:
The Roman world, which had
hitherto not been governed in the true
sense of the word, hut exploited in
the interests of a dominant clique,
now received orderly and efficient
government, under which the frightful
ravages of misrule and civil strife
were repaired.
The same authority goes on to
say that commerce and trade
inside the empire greatly
increased at this time —which is
what one would expect.
“8.R.H.” errs in saying there
were no unemployed in the
“golden age.” There were as
many then as at the end of the
empire. This idle rabble, about
which nothing much was ever
done except to give them “bread
and games,” was created when
the building-up of big slave-
worked estates caused the de-
struction as a class of the small,
independent farmer. (That de-
struction turned out to be a
weak point in Roman affairs.)
The bureaucracy later became
corrupt, it overtaxed and
destroyed all business initiative ;
but there were other reasons for
Rome’s fall. Greater and
greater strength of the
barbarians, natural disasters
(plagues and famines), a com-
plete disinterest in science and
weak emperors all helped. Actu-
ally, even in the late empire,
strong rulers like Constantine
and Diocletian managed to
revive a great deal of prosperity.
The true lesson of Rome
seems to be that some controls
are beneficial, and that an
efficient bureaucracy is best to
look after certain aspects of life,
provided strict vigilance is main-
tained to see that there is no
abuse of any powers. — Kros
(N.S.W.).


Kalgoorlie Water Scheme
“Golden Mile” mentions (B.
6/6/’5l) that, while Nat
Harper may have ventured the
possibility of water being
pumped to the goldfields, the
entire credit for conception and
execution of the scheme belongs
to C. Y. O’Connor.
Investigation of speeches at
the time and an examination of
Western Australian “Hansard”
give exact statements of the
part played by each.
In September, 1895, the
Minister in charge of the depart-
ment of which O’Connor was
executive head advised Cabinet
that the proposal to pump water
to the goldfields was impractic-
able. In the following month
Premier Forrest, speaking in the
Legislative Assembly, said the
Government was not prepared to
recommend to Parliament any
practical scheme for conveying
water.
A month later, at Kalgoorlie,
Forrest told a deputation he was
looking for someone who had
practical experience and could
advise him.
On the evening of the follow-
ing day at a banquet at
Kanowna, Harper, drawing on
his practical experience in New
Zealand and Tasmania, said the
scheme presented no engineering
difficulties. At the close of the
dinner, Harper and others had
a long conference with Forrest in
his room. Forrest never after-
wards suggested looking for
advice from a practical man. He
went straight ahead.
The scheme was bitterly
opposed on the goldfields. In
the Legislative Council, however,
Harper’s letter to Forrest broke
down opposition.
In March, 1897, Forrest, in a
letter to Harper, said ‘The
scheme is ours.” In the mean-
time, what was the attitude of
O’Connor?
Venn, recently retired
Minister, said in Parliament that
O’Connor protested that he was
not responsible for the scheme,
but that figures had been got out
at the request of the Govern-
ment.
Further quoted in Parliament
was a report by Engineer-in-
Chief O’Connor: “I need
scarcely say that I never urged,
nor do I now propose to urge
upon the Government, the
undertaking of this work.”
Later, the Minister in charge
of the department said, “A great
many members have said the
Engineer-in-Chief is responsible
for it. I wish to give this a most
emphatic denial. The only part
of the scheme for which the
Engineer-in-Chief is responsible
is the technical part,”
Forrest said, “This is not a
project of the Engineer-in-Chief’
(“Hansard,” page 284).
Another case was when tire
Engineer-in-Chief said he hoped
the Government, before finally
considering the scheme, would
seek the advice of some eminent
hydraulic engineer.
Pity is that recommendation
was not adopted. Had it been,
instead of the eight pumping-
stations provided, there would
have been only four —or at most,
five—in accordance w i t h
Harper’s plan of lifting water in
300 ft. lifts, thus saving the
count 7 an enormous sum in
capital cost and maintenance. —
Hal Colebatch (W.A.).
-
Municipal Libraries
The pig-headed attitude of
many Victorian metropolitan
and country municipalities is
robbing thousands of ratepayers
tUt-class library service
a nrst class notary s>eivi >
despite the eagerness of the
s ta te Government to assist.
Five years ago the Govern-
men t establisbed tbe Free
Lib Service Board and
a poin " ted a capable seC retary to
££ . The F idea was that, if
tbe mun i c j pa [ libraries would
CQme under F the board ’ s scheme
and P j-ovide a proper modem
library, the board would sub-
s - d j se ad boo k s to the extent of
f cen j That meant the
bo() £ s WQu]d onl cost the
half the wholesale
- e
Already 30-odd councils have
come under the board’s service,
“ You're too immature to appreciate it."
and at nights a steady flow of
interested citizens proves its
worth. The libraries are brightly
lit, clean and there’s something
up to date about them.
But not so with the councils
which won’t come in. Their
libraries are smelly, dirty, old-
fashioned, and very few frequent
them. Richmond Library, two
miles from Melbourne proper,
is a good example. There’s
hardly anyone there, the books
are old and musty and no one
wants to read them. Allocation
of £SOO by the council would
allow it to come under the board
and be modernised.
Municipalities are not so poor
that they cannot find this
money. Thousands of pounds of
ratepayers’ money is wasted
every year.—l. J. (Vic.),
Military Training
“5 G.R.” (B. 5/9/’sl) doubts
the value of national military
training and says “14 weeks’ in-
tensive training will not fit a
man to take the field at a
moment’s notice.” It was never
intended to do so, but it will
give some knowledge of weapons,
tactics and discipline, and the
youths will be better for the
Paining.
“Modern war is a trade and
profession, and we cannot take
a man from counter or office and
label him an officer and expect
professional brilliance.” In the
past we have done just that.
Australian history, or military
experience, shows that school-
teachers, policemen, barristers,
shopkeepers and men of many
other callings have made good
in the First and Second A.l.r.
They will do so again in the
Third
,
5 G.R. says that, at the
Landing, “former regular Army
officers knew all the tricks of the
tra de and saved lives by that
knowledge.” I’ll grant him that,
In my own unit-the 2nd Bty.,
Ist A.F.A. Bde.—we had one
Regular Army man, the sergeant-
major. He taught us a lot and
was a good soldier and a strict
one, yet it was the Regular Army
ranker, of whom we had a few,
who was the backbone of the
unit . W e were fortunate in that
about 80 per cent, of the unit
consisted of members of the
militia or cadets who had learned
the elements of soldiering at
night, weekend and in 14-day
camps. That training enabled
the instructors to make very good
soldiers of them in a short time.
This “Officers Corps” “5 G.R.”
speaks of. What are we turn-
ing out at Duntroon? Why the
demand to exchange officers
with other countries? We do so,
and, as well, officers are sent to
staff schools in England where
they meet men from all over the
Empire and learn the latest de-
velopments in the business of
war.
Is “5 G.R.” jealous of the com-
forts the recruit of today is re-
ceiving? The days of roughing-
it are dead. Montgomery de-
manded every possible comfort
for his men and he got results.
—Sgt. A ’ N - S - W ’ ) -
P.M.G. Service
The latest increase in postal
rates is, to put it mildly, a mis-
take, but it’s the kind of mistake
we can expect regularly from
any Government monopoly.
When “Labor” was in control
it defended increases by the
promise of a better service. Im-
provement was certainly needed,
but never came —in fact, every
increase in price appears to re-
duce service to the public.
“Labor” also featured the
post-office at the last elections as
an example of Socialism. Not
a very good one, surely, for the
service is reluctant and grudging.
In Tasmania during the 1930’s
we had one example of how
Socialism works when the
number of telephone subscribers
in Launceston attained anew
record. The price of calls was
at once bumped up—because
there were so many of them.
In England, at the same time,
London had just gained its mil-
lionth telephone subscriber, so
charges were reduced—increased
business made the amenity
cheaper to operate.
A study of The Cyclopedia of
Tasmania, published in 1900,
makes interesting reading, for it
proves that most places in the
State had then exactly the same
postal facilities as now. Hours
have been shortened, and in some
cases “service” in the country is
poorer. Motors have taken the
place of horses in carrying mails
to the outback, but these mails
are not usually more frequent,
nor do they arrive any earlier.
Except for the enormous rise in
prices for the use of telephone,
telegraphic and postal facilities,
hardly any change can be shown
in over 50 years.—E. & O.E.
(Tas.).
Money from Stamps
Thousands of pounds are be-
ing lost by the Australian Gov-
ernment through the P.M.G.
Department’s inability to provide
a special section of the post-office
to deal with stamp collectors.
Surely the department realises
that philatelists are a boost to
business and that they buy
stamps many of which are never
used.
Almost a year ago P.M.G.
Anthony said he would estab-
lish such a bureau; he even
advertised in a stamp-dealers’
magazine for a man to be head
of the section, but that,
apparently, was the end of it.
The P.M.G. won’t have to
look very far in current maga-
zines to see what an asset such
a bureau would be to his depart-
ment. In Sweden, a similar
bureau has been established, and
it sends printed requisition-forms
all over the world with the latest
information on new stamps
printed in that country.
Australia has produced some
fine stamps, but little is known
of them overseas except through
philatelic magazines which,
unfortunately, do not give the
full story. If a special phila-
telists’ section were established
here it could notify all overseas
collectors of impending stamps,
their history, etc. — Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
ẃ
“Donne and Dungarees”
The burden of “Donne and
Dungarees” (B. 12/9/’sl) may
be right, but there was no need
to weaken a good case with
inaccurate detail. Professor
Milgate lately won a travelling
scholarship, which he used in
England to study the work of
the poet he is now to edit. Any
critical departures he may make
would be based upon study of
the sources. Anyway, the imprint
of the Oxford University Press
should be an adequate indica-
tion of value.
How far critical revaluation is
ẁ
ẃ
VICTOR J. ELLIS
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 140
Across.
I— Used to be running a wind-
jammer and carousing. (10)
s—Ring5 —Ring a lofty tennis stroke back-
ing an ancient Greek coin. (4)
B— Remote heart of safari. (4.)
10—Charges Mosaic surroundings. (6)
12— The devil you balance is the most
adulterated. (8)
15— Flat actors, perhaps, at their sur-
roundings. (9)
16— Lacustrine Veronica. (4)
18— Tripe ran (anagram). (8)
19— Stay about the chief. (6)
22 Cape on us shot by Hercules. (6)
23 Biffage for a cask. (8)
25—Passed with successful service. (4)
27—House-fly to eat grape. (9)
30— across is dropping Judy’s hus-
band. (3) ...
31— Spirit croaked and was imminent.
(8)
34 Holy Johannesburg runs through
London. (6)
35 — French dream is upset eternally.
(4)
36 Country heart of the weired. (4)
37 — Ash of a cowardly namesake of
the genius of the “Prom” con-
certs. (6-4)
Down.
1 — Authorising some of the more
noisily platitudinous speeches
between 1939 and 1945. (10)
2 Donkey in South Australia takes
the monk’s laurel in the Dande-
nongs. (9) , ,
3 Alian abandons the Italian s pro-
noun. (3)
4 Sydney’s suicide resort. (3)
5 Taken in hand by the Volga
boatman. (3)
6 Ruin a Lindrum achievement pro-
duced by Iverson’s spin. (5)
7 It needs pluck to provide music
material for sealing leaky pipes. (4)
9—Dr. Manchu and Mr. Rice sing
for the fellow who seeks to make
it hot for us. (4, 8)
11 —Former trolley and a Dench
Hamlet are out of this world. (12)
13 — It dampens fiddling. (4)
14— Help them up for channels for
expression. (5)
17 —Tinned nude is confused but not
meant. (10)
20 — French soul takes a rich Spanish
negative for a Yank according to
an Italian. (9)
21— Super change contains change
sometimes. (5)
24—The morning to exist for an
ancient device for reducing
shoulder dislocations. (4)
26—-Sauce might come from this
prank. (5)
28— Firm’s comedian holds the late
Dr. Lang. (5)
29 Grain for Elmer. (4)
32 — Pippin pincher. (3)
33 Prohibitionist. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 139.


w
ŵ
m
1
1
s>
*
<.&
<<
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemist#
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to
us and we will see that your requirements are sent to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Ci ,-iutte Lighter Repair Service!
H your : ctte lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken ts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
ẁ
:
* nj/o *
for the
ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
beautiful ly made precision
instrument which incorporates the
bllowing outstanding characteristics.
1, It-is fully guaranteed against de-
ective material or workmanship.
2. It has ho motor and requires no
lubrication.
3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twdn-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving,
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
ẃ
NON-ELECTRIC A '"'“
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a usef 1
substitute for your Viceroy Electric
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
ẅ
SHAVER
ROLLS RAZOR
CONPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty, Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA P and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip ( A “ st ;) Pt J: M^^ l l[J^u Lonsda,e Street ’ Me,bourne *
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street. Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., P.r.e Street, Adelaide.
