

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 72—No. 3732
Wednesday, August 22, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
STAPLE INN, A PICTURESQUE RELIC OF OLD LONDON
LONDON’S only remaining example of Elizabethan timbered domestic
architecture is the facade of Staple Inn, situated almost opposite the end
of Gray’s Inn Road in Holborn. Built in 1586, both Queen Elizabeth and
Shakespeare must have seen the timbered walls and gables of this historied
building as it exists today.
In medieval times the inn served as a hostelry of the woolstaplers, where
wool was weighed and excise dues collected. The “Staple” was originally the
name given to the King’s dues levied upon exported material such as wool and
hides. In Staple Inn the merchants and officers of the Staplers’ Company met,
while lawyers connected with their business lived close by; as a result of this,
Staple Inn became an Inn of Chancery, and remained as such until 1884.
Restoration of the fagade was carried out in 1886 and again in 1937, and
the ground floor is now occupied by shops. Behind the building, and *
from the noisy Holborn traffic, are two quadrangles, with houses dating mainly
from the eighteenth century. It was there that Dr. Johnson lived m 1759-60,
and where he is reputed to have written “Rasselas in the evenings o - »
week to meet the expenses of his mother's illness and luneral.
Staple Inn is described by Dickens in “The Mystery °fEdwim Drood”
but the quadrangle he knew was severely damaged by one W, the ‘ast « tpe
flying bombs in 1944. Nearby is the huge red brick edifice of the Pudenda
Assurance Company, which occupies the site of Purmyal sba , „
Dickens was staying when he wrote the first part of the Pickwick .p •
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.*


ism
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL mmm
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.251) Age
The Red Page
NAMATJIRA .
Rex Battarbee’s Modern Australian
Aboriginal Art (Angus and Robertson)
has come out at a time when his star
performer, Albert Namatjira, has been
much in the news, and somewhat disturb-
ingly, because Pastor Albrecht of the
Hermannsburg Mission has published a
pamphlet about the artist in which he
expresses the fear that Namatjira may
become “a wanderer between two worlds”
— : the white man’s and his own.
The emphasis in the newspapers was
on the more sensational part of
the pamphlet—the pastor’s fears —and
there was no mention of the warm and
sincere tribute he pays to Namatjira’s
personality and his art; with the
simple assurance that “he neither drinks
nor gambles.” Pastor Albrecht’s chief
worry is that Namatjira spends his
money too freely, to the consequent
disorganisation of the Hermannsburg
community.
Essentially, as it is outlined by Pastor
Albrecht, Namatjira’s problem is like
that of Burns and John Clare, the talented
son of the soil who has grown beyond
his native surroundings but has nowhere
else to go. London destroyed Clare and
Edinburgh helped to destroy Burns, so no
doubt it is as well that Namatjira, except
for a recent visit to Darwin, has seen no
more of the world than, as Mr. Battarbee
records, “two small towns —Oodnadatta
and Alice Springs.” Similarly it may
even be as well for his art, since Mr.
Battarbee taught him the essentials of
technique, that he has never seen an art
gallery—-“ Why, Albert knows too much
already!” said Hans Heysen when Mr.
Battarbee, after Heysen had bought some
of the aborigine’s first paintings, asked
if he thought it would be wise for
Namatjira to go to Adelaide to improve
his knowledge of art.
But the problem of Hermannsbprg is
not whether or not Namatjira should
travel; it is what happens when he stays
at home. There are 12 aborigines—lo
of whom are dealt with in Mr. Battar-
bee’s book —making a living there out of
art, in some cases a very handsome liv-
ing ; and this creates a class of capi-
talists, with consequent discontent among
“the masses.” Everyone wants more
money, and not everyone can have it.
Many of the natives, seeing that the
artists make so much, cannot be bothered
with their ordinary work for small
rewards. Too many relatives and friends
are living in idleness on the painters’
incomes. It upsets the smooth running of
the community when Namatjira “will
collect up to 15 men and take them to
town.... to enjoy his lavish hospitality.”
And Pastor Albrecht, who doesn’t seem
so optimistic as Mr. Battarbee about the
continuation of the extraordinary de-
mand there has been for the natives’
paintings, is troubled about the discontent
that may arise when sales fall off.
One cannot restrain a certain wicked
pleasure at the thought of an artist, in
our respectable world, doing exactly what
he likes ; but Namatjira does live among
primitive natives, and the problems don’t
seem easy to solve. Something entirely
new has come into the Hermannsburg
community with the success of the art
movement, and the ultimate conse-
quences, not only at the mission but
amongst the aborigines generally, may be
little short of revolutionary.
One thing, at least, seems certain: that
the art movement could well be ex-
panded. Dr. L. Adam, of Melbourne
University, quoted by T. G. H. Strehlow
in the introduction to Modern Australian
Aboriginal Art . has suggested that the
natives should be given instruction in
carpet-weaving in the Persian style so
that they could “manufacture valuable
rugs showing aboriginal designs and
aboriginal colors,” and other authorities
have made similar proposals. Mr. Bat-
tarbee mentions the skill of some of the
natives in music and athletics; and
Pastor Albrecht, incidentally, makes a
point about Namatjira’s artistic begin-
ings overlooked by Mr. Battarbee; that
before he started painting he had made
a living from drawing aboriginal designs
on mulga-wood; he used “a poker
machine with a platinum needle, which
was heated in a methylated-spirit flame.”
Though they happen to have been
brought out at the same time, Modern
Australian Aboriginal Art was no doubt
compiled a long while before Pastor
Albrecht wrote his pamphlet, and Mr.
Battarbee is less concerned with the effect
of Namatjira’s money on the community
than with the effect of the community on
Namatjira’s money: under tribal law he
is obliged to maintain a horde of poor
relations, who, in one year, ate up £l2OO
of his income. But you can find out
from this book, authoritatively, compre-
hensively and compactly, exactly what
this movement among the Hermannsburg
aborigines is. Describing the origin of
the movement, telling the story of its 10
most prominent members and providing
21 color-plates, by which' to assess their
art, it is at once an art-book, a fascinat-
ing human document and a living piece
of Australian history.
As an art-book its value is somewhat
reduced, or at least confused, by Mr.
Battarbee’s excessive enthusiasm for his
proteges—however natural that enthusi-
asm may be, and however much one
would like to share it.
Essentially, the great discovery he has
made at Hermannsburg is, of course, not
so much that aborigines of the desert can
become expert in watercolor but that,
granted some innate modicum of talent,
everybody can.
We know this, in fact, from our
schools, where, though the pupils are too
frequently shut up in the classroom with
some horrible geometrical figure to draw
in black-and-white instead of being
allowed the pleasure of painting the
landscape outside, talent is by no means
uncommon. Just as Mr. Battarbee has
found 10 aborigines among a tribe of
300 who are capable of painting well or
moderately well in watercolor —mostly
drawing the simple outlines of mountain
ranges and coloring them red and blue —
so, given a start iff tuition and the great
incentive of a handsome monetary re-
ward, could you find, probably, 10
“artists” among the senior pupils in any
country school.
But this we forget, because the days
of Queen Victoria, when painting, par-
ticularly in watercolor, was one of the
normal accomplishments of the well-bred
young lady, have long gone from us, and
the talented child now, unless he has
some artistic impulse beyond the
ordinary, drops his talent on leaving
school and takes up reading the comic-
strips in the newspapers and listening to
radio serials. So Mr. Battarbee, in the
excitement of this artistic springtime at
Alice Springs, has forgotten that every
child can sing and dance and make up
stories, that a great proportion of
children can be taught to play the piano,
that almost everybody—at least, when
suffering from love—can write poetry of
a sort. While it is exciting to discover
that aborigines can paint, one should
not forget that even birds can sing ; and
very nicely, too.
The reviewer does not (he hopes) make
these remarks in that spirit of racial
jealousy which, fantastic as it may seem,
has undoubtedly been aroused by the suc-
cess of the Hermannsburg artists, and
because of which, in conjunction with the
contemporary cult for the primitive,
Namatjira was excluded from the official
Jubilee Exhibition. He does not seek in
any way to belittle Namatjira’s art, for
which he has an infinitely higher respect
than the Sydney and Melbourne Gal-
leries, neither of which has had the
judgment —there is no need for generosity
—to buy a single example of it. Nor
does he seek to belittle the possibly
immense sociological importance of what
Mr. Battarbee has done for the Aruntas.
But Mr. Battarbee in his comments on
his aboriginal artists (not that he has
overburdened them with instruction) is
like an enthusiastic schoolmaster so full
of pleasure at the success of his 10 bright
pupils that he has lost his sense of pro-
portion, his balance of judgment. Edwin
Pareroultja is a “genius” ; Ewald Namat-
jira—Albert’s third son—is another
“genius” ; of Otto Pareroultja’s “Ormi-
ston Gorge,” an amiably childish piece
of smudging in watercolor so far as one
can tell from the reproduction, he re-
marks “The famous Van Gogh never
produced anything more complete with
movement than this picture”; Reuben
Pareroultja shows a “wonderful” sense
of decoration; in Henoch Raberaba’s
“James Range Gorge,” a dip between
two hills with a mountain in the distance
as uncompromisingly blue as a child
would paint it, “the sense of decoration,
good drawing, strong light, beautiful
color harmony and free handling are
amazing for any artist let alone one who
had been painting for such a short
time” ; Richard Moketarinja’s drawing is
“amazing.”
And so on. In a sense, it is all true ;
as true as it would be of the work of any
group of clever children, amateurs or
minor strugglers in the arts. But it leaves
one with the feeling that words have lost
their meaning. If Richard Moketarinja
is “amazing,” what is there left to say
about Turner?
Mr- Battarbee is doing his aborigines a
disservice by this overpraise; not only is
he confusing artistic values generally, but
he is providing ammunition for the
critics, who, whether out of racial
jealousy or worship of the primitive,
have always been eager to deride the
Hermannsburg movement, and who de-
mand that the aboriginal artists —as if
Harold Blair should be allowed to sing
only corroboree chants —shall confine
themselves to the elementary designs of
concentric circles, which, as both Mr.
Battarbee and Mr. Strehlow point out,
are all that, by tribal law, are legally
and religiously permissible to Arunta
painters.
Mr. Strehlow comments tellingly on
this constant barrage of hostile criticism
which —while the public has rushed to
buy their works—the aboriginal painters
have met with:
I feel that it is only fair to ask art
critics who detect some obvious failings and
occasional clumsiness in the use of a new
medium in the illustrations of this book to
remember that they are witnessing only
the first surgings of a liberated artistic
impulse. In 1935 it would have been easy
to prove that no full-blooded Australian
aboriginal would ever be capable of master-
ing European techniques of painting; today
one of the chief complaints levelled against
Albert Namatjira is the charge that be is
purely a “copyist” in that he paints
exactly like a European artist! This is an
interesting change in many ways; it also
contains, however, a grudging admission
that a member of a race which had been
regarded without scientific grounds for over
one hundred years as genetically incapable
of learning European techniques has unex-
pectedly acquired mastery of one of those
techniques to such an amazing degree that
his work has become virtually indistinguish-
able from that of a white artist. Albert
Namatjira, in short, is one of those gitted
aborigines who has destroyed the myth or
the constitutional incapacity of the Aus-
tralian native to learn and to apply methods
learnt from Europeans. For that reason
alone Albert Namatjira will always deserve
from us unstinted honor and recognition.
In his best paintings he has put on record
the beauty and color of Central Australia
with a warmth that proclaims his deep love
for his homeland.
Here, surely, if Mr. Strehlow’s admir-
able appreciation be accepted, is a suf-
ficient defence of Namatjira against the
critics who demand that he shall “go
modern” by copying his primitive
ancestors. From his own point of view,
and from a national point of view—and
surely Bis ancestors would think the same
—he is more “modern,” more advanced,
more daring, more accomplished than
any aboriginal artist since the beginning
of time. But also, from the viewpoint
from which our own generation looks at
art, if his work shows a “deep love lor
his homeland” it has a personal quality
beyond the mere copying of nature; it
expresses a persqnal “warmth, a personal
vision. And, in fact, remembering those
delicate and jewelled blues from
Namatjira’s first exhibition in Sydney,
one would go a little further than Mr.
Strehlow and say that an intense personal
sensitivity, to art and nature alike, shows
in his work ; a totally unexpected delicacy
along ’with the “warmth” and the
strength. There have been watercolors
of Namatjira’s which one liked quite as
well as Hey sen’s; and among the 21
reproductions in Modern Australian
Aboriginal Art his right to stand equal
with the leading white Australian water-
colorists of the day is as clearly demon-
strated as is his superiority over the other
aborigines.
Mr. Battarbee, oddly enough, instead
of leaving'it to the critics who are wholly
hostile to his movement and who are
opposed to the traditional style of paint-
ing he practises in his own watercolors,
is himself • rather critical of Namatjira.
The aborigine is “the forerunner of one
of the greatest movements we have seen
in Australian Art,” but he has “lost his
aboriginal sense of decoration” and tends
to be “photographic,” while the true
virtue lies in the “breakaway” of Edwin
Pareroultja.
Unconsciously here there is obviously
a concession to the “primitivist” critics.
Mr. Battarbee has been so much censured
for “teaching” Namatjira to paint in a
style resembling his own and for failing
to restrict him to his tribal concentric
circles that he seems overjoyed to find an
aborigine who can do something dif-
ferent, or who merely hasn’t the ability
to paint in Namatjira’s style. And while
it is interesting to learn that the shadows
in Otto Pareroultja’s watercolors tend
without deliberate intention to take on
the appearance of primitive rock-
drawings—Otto “sees faces” in the land-
scape—and that the Anmta circular
rhythms manifest themselves in the same
artist’s drawings of trees and mountains,
there can be no doubt that Mr. Battar-
bee’s concession to the newspaper
fashions of the moment, coupled with
his natural enthusiasm for his proteges,
has led him into the wildest overestima-
tion of the cruder artists and to an under-
valuation of the one man who is his
supreme discovery, almost his “creation”
—Namatjira.
But if one reads his commentary thus
warily, with many reservations, Mr. Bat-
tarbee has certainly done an extra-
ordinary thing at Hermannsburg, a feat
which will take him into Australian
history, and we have here his own
fascinating and moving account of how
he and John Gardner, after painting in
the Centre in 1934, exhibited their pic-
tures at the Hermannsburg Mission be-
cause Pastor Albrecht thought they would
interest the natives; how the exhibition
did interest them, and particularly Albert
Namatjira, who, “seeing paintings of his
own country, realised its beauty and color
for the first time” ; and then:
Just before we left Pastor Albrecht came
to me and said that Albert had approached
him. He wanted to paint in watercolors.
Would we buy him some paints, paper and
brushes? Pastor Albrecht was prepared to
help the man in case he had any latent
talent, and asked me for a list of materials
to buy. This I gave him, and also offered
to help by giving Albert a few points in
painting. If work was posted on to me I
would try to correct it. Pastor Albrecht
gave a very wide answer. “You will be
back again, and then you can take Albert
with you on a painting trip.”
In 1936 I returned to Hermannsburg
without' the caravan—since I intended
getting a team of camels at the mission—
and with the hope that Albert, the native
who wanted to paint, would still be
interested. I can tell you I was moved
when I reached the mission. The first
native to speak to me was Albert, who
poured out his soul, saying that he had
been waiting for nearly two years, some-
times lying awake at night thinking of the
time I would return and take him out on a
painting expedition as a camel-boy, living
in hope that I would teach him to paint
in watercolors for his services. Albert
showed me a few crude watercolors which
he had painted without lessons; but he was
not satisfied, and had given up the idea
until I returned. He went on to tell me
of the wonderful places he would take
me to.
Facts about Namatjira follow. He is
a pure-blooded aborigine of the Anmta
tribe and bis family name means “Fly-
ing White-ant.” He is married and has
five sons and three daughters; three of
the sons have become painters, but the
idea of practising the arts does not yet
seem to have spread to the aboriginal
women. He is an energetic painter,
always trying to improve his work, and
does not —as he easily could —turn out
masses ,of inferior work for the ready
sale- that awaits it. ■
His first exhibition of 41 watercolors
at the Fine Arts Gallery, Melbourne, all
sold out within a few days at prices of
from one to six guineas. His first show
in Sydney, at Hordern’s, brought in
£lOOO for 44 pictures, all except one of
which were sold within 20 minutes after
Professor Elkin had opened the exhibi-
tion. In Adelaide in 1946 he sold his
complete exhibition of 44 watercolors for
over £lOOO, with prices up to 40 guineas;
in Perth in the same year 33 pictures were
sold at prices going up to 50 guineas.
His biggest financial success to date was
at Melbourne in 1948 when 46 water-
colors, priced from 18 to 55 guineas,
netted £1519. ;
He has tried, to improve his living con-
ditions and built two houses at
Hermannsburg, but. is embarrassed by
the many relations with whom he is
bound to share his possessions. When he
bought a truck his sons careered around
the desert in it until in one year it cost
him £4OO in fuel and repairs, and finally
it. broke down altogether.
He grew too fat on “white man s
tucker” after his first successes —at one
stage he weighed 18 stone —and his art
suffered in quality; but he realised that
he must diet and regained his health and
his artistic “sparkle” after a camel-tnp
with his wife Rubena on which he ate
plenty of meat and bush tucker and cut
out all sweets except “which
Rubena was expert at collecting.” AJong
with “his great qualities of character he
is “an artist from the depths of his heart
since no one would work so hard under
these conditions unless he loved
work.”
After he has told Namatjira’s story Mr
Battarbee goes on with the other artists,
a chapter to each in turn: Edwin
Pareroultja, who led the “breakaway
but whose art looks crude be-sicK
Namatjira’s—and who, besides having
his measure of artistic talent, is the ou -
standing athlete, white or black, a
Hermannsburg and, probably, m Men r
Australia” and who also has musical
(Red Page continued on inside back
cover.}


s?
s- ■
wf/e/n#’
u
ms
*W TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
~ Ss
; v i
mm
M' :.?
1
3
II
i :
if J
5<
n
a*
■ < *
orz
m.
Si
3S**
-«■-
Ms|
.
Wmm) V| fisL -
Hoc&fc
ISSB
.
t
£««*
m
a i HU
■■■,
:; ■:'•••■
?4,
||BH
a
mm
3\Pr9KMll M. iIJUfW • • •
/
o)£ct
m
.—=—
Here’s something new —livable new furniture designed on lovable
old lines to blend harmoniously with any surroundings, add a quiet
note of distinction to your rooms.
“The Cambridge.” A setting ideal for the smaller home. 8 pieces comprising
Sideboard, 41in. wide, 37ih. high. Draw leaf extension table. Closed measurement
36in x 33in., extending to 58in. x 33in. Also 6 attractively carved chairs. £lOl/10/9.
Cl
r
m
m
L
M
Refectory Occasional Table, Walnut
colour, sturdily constructed. £5/14/3
An essential piece in any home is this
handy Tea Waggon with flaps. Closed,
30in. x 17in. Open, 39in. x 30in. Height,
29 inches. Prictd at £2l/2/6.
“The Hammond” setting of 8 pieces features a double tripod
pedestal table with brass claw feet, a distinctive sideboard and
six Empire style dining chairs. Priced at £135/11/9.
Wall Mirror to match the “Hammond” Suite. Eritr, £ilflsfo.
m
« *sm
.*JE '\m —%
mJ
y
*■■"
r/\i
Mf
m
; -.,!
s
£>
M
>K v
SK
I
"The Georgian," An 8 piece Suite, most popular tor gating
capacity. A Wily unusual tour leg table. Price, £lO4/14/6.
Corner Cabinet, ideal accessory for any room. Height, 6ft, 2in.
Priced at £45/7/9.
Serving cabinet with drop flaps. With flaps down, 36in. X
1731... Flaps up 4ft. Jin. x UJln. Height, 2ft. 9}ta. £29/6/0.
DINING ROOM FURNITURE—THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT EXTRA


CAR JACK
LIKE ITI
LIFTS THE BUMPER AND WHEEL
AT THE SAME TIME.
'hrSAFETY SAKE
you HEED THE
VESTA TRIANGLE
Safety
CAR JACK
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
• Lifts wheel off ground in less time than any
other car jack.
• Will jack up car on hill, on steep camber, on ice,
in deep mud.
• Will not slip or slide—car cannot fall off jack if
properly used.
• Will operate with a 2£in. clearance.
• Is all-in-one assembly—no loose parts—nothing
to lose or leave behind.
• Has no oil to leak out—will last a lifetime.
• Is very easy and absolutely safe to use—
minimum effort required.
• Will not scratch or mark the car or bumper
bars.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE MAKERS OF FAMOUS VESTA BATTERIES
SEE MOW
SAFE and SIMPLE
IT IS TO USE
■
mm
mm
n
■ m
:~-l
m
H
U
o
w
f
m
•y- :V yomen drivers and weli-
. lOtorisis.
• Crawling under the car unneces-
sary.
• Fits into boot of any car. Length
31 in. Weight 13lbs. (unpacked).
No matter what type of jack
you have—you need the Vesta
Safety Car Jack.
The Vesta Safety Jack can be made
to work on any make of car—except
those with flimsy bumper bars.
Ask your Garageman for a demon-
stration on your car.
FOR SAFETY SAKE . . .
N.R.M.A. Road Patrols are equipped
with Vesta Safety Jacks.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
TO VESTA PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.,
Box 1 3, P.O. Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please forward, without obligation, full infor-
mation of Vesta Safety Car Jack.
Name
Address
State . .
Bltn. Ad. 4/51


The Bulletin
Vol. 72 —No. 3732
Wednesday, August 22, 1951
*' d^ f
(
L 60 fc '
|S\A)MP
IN THE HORRORS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
THE REFERENDUM.
Latest Gallup Poll suggests that 80 per
cent, of the Australian people will vote
“Yes” on the referendum question of
whether the Commonwealth Government
shall have power to legislate to ban Com-
munism in this country, and specifically
power to operate the Communist-party
Dissolution Act. Provisions of this Act
have been twice endorsed at general
elections in which its purpose was the
paramount issue, the second time after
being declared by High Court majority
ultra vires the Constitution on the
ground that the Act exceeded the de-
fence powers of the Government, on
which it was based.
The bill for the Act was unanimously
passed by Parliament after the “Labor”
Opposition had first fought it tooth and
nail and then assented to its passage with-
out a division rather than face the elec-
tors on it. That, in itself, was the clearest
“Labor” recognition of popular senti-
ments about the legislation. The present
“Labor” leader thereafter accepted
briefs from leading Communist union
bosses, firstly to challenge the Act in the
High Court, and secondly to defend them
in the Arbitration Court against prosecu-
tions for breach of undertakings given
in order to secure reprieve from im-
prisonment for contempt at his own
official instance during the 1949 coal
strike.
Dr. Evatt in these twistings has
denied the virtue of his own Arbitration
Act amendments and his own description
as enemies of this country of those whom
he later represented to claim protection
from the courts. He and his party are
now campaigning on the same political
platform—but under peremptory orders
not to appear on the same physical plat-
form —to defeat the referendum to vali-
date the anti-Communist Act, which his
party alternately resisted in Parlia-
mentary debate and then allowed to pass
without voting on it. For political
cowardice and double - dealing the
“Labor” record is unequalled.
This “most notable defender of Com-
munism in Australia” —in Minister Holt’s
stinging words —opened the ball for the
“Labor” party in Brisbane last week. He
takes the stump at the head of a political
rabble shattered from top to bottom at
its mere facing of this issue. And as
Attorney-General in the Chifley Ministry
he sponsored legislation to protect de-
fence preparations against the local
Communists, whose “sole purpose,”
he said, “is the defeating of the Aus-
tralian defence policy in the interests of
a foreign Power.” Then came this choice
morsel for throwing back into his teeth
today:—
It is said that the Act is aimed against
the trade-unions and the right of unionists
to organise and, if necessary, to strike for
improvement of conditions. This statement
is utterly false.
One difference between Mr. Chifley’s
problem and that of Mr. Menzies now is
that in every action the “Labor” Gov-
ernment took —and it didn’t take much,
anyway—to defeat the activities of Soviet
agents in Australia, it had the whole-
hearted support of Mr. Menzies and the
Opposition of that time —co-operation
which Dr. Evatt and “Labor,” now in
Opposition, refuse to the Menzies Gov-
ernment, even while the shadow of a
Moscow-brewed war overhangs the
entire world.
The majority of the High Court last
March, against the judgment of the Chief
Justice, made a grave mistake in ruling
for the narrowest interpretation of the
Constitution on the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s defence powers. Not so did the
great Judge Marshall mould the constitu-
tional powers of the United States Con-
gress in their equally plastic youth. For
this is a supreme defence issue, and time
is running heavily against us, anyway.
Sir John Latham’s judgment—the last
in his legal career —was inspired by a
braver insight, one which many people,
including his colleagues, may live to
regret that it proved unavailing. His
view was;
No finding of facts by a court could pro-
vide an answer to the problem of identify-
ing national dangers against which the
people are to be defended.... The power of
defending the people committed by the Con-
stitution to the Commonwealth would be a
weak protection if it did not extend to
protecting the people against internal
attack by means of subversive and treason-
able activities.
Ail the arguments of the plaintiffs [the
Communist union-bosses] depend upon
acceptance of a principle that it is for a
court and not for Parliament to deter-
mine whether interference with a defence
policy is proved to exist....and whether
it is sufficiently dangerous to the com-
munity to justify an exercise of the de-
fence power.
It is for tile Government and not for
the court to identify the enemies of the
Commonwealth, internal or external... .To
say that the present conditions of the
world is one of peace cannot unfairly be
described as an unreal application of what
has became an outmoded category. Par-
liament... .knows more about the present
position than the courts can possibly know.
The other judges maintained —generally
speaking, though two of them were not
altogether free from doubt —that the
Government was overstraining the
defence power.
Parliament, to repeat, had without divi-
sion passed the legislation drafted under
the defence power. Nothing Dr. Evatt
and his “No” brigade assert now can
alter that fact. They were for the bill
in fear of their political skins. The elec-
torate now had better be for the referen-
dum to validate the Act lest they prove
impotent to stand up against an enemy
plotting another world war with increas-
ing energy and malice, or even against
that enemy’s “fifth-column” in this
country.
What is Dr. Evatt saying now? He
says “the Government is trying to usurp
the judicial functions of the High Court,”
that it is “asking the people to deprive
the High Court of its 50-year-old jurisdic-
tion to determine whether a particular
measure relates to defence.” In this he
is refuted out of the mouth of his lately-
dead leader. This is how the late Mr.
Chifley, in advance, answered his suc-
cessor in the party leadership;
If a Government’s legislation is declared
by the High Court or the Privy Council
to be beyond the limits of the Constitu-
tion, there is only one course to take, and
that is to go to the people and ask them
for an alteration of the Constitution to
cover the matters of national importance,
power to legislate on which the Govern-
ment considers should be given to Par-
liament.
Obviously that is the only course, and
if this Government did not take it now
Dr. Evatt would howl at it for a collec-
tion of poltroons. The electors have
twice voted overwhelmingly for this Act
as vital in assuring their defence against
assistance by “enemy agents” (“Labor’s”
own term) of a Power preparing a war
of aggression. For the Government’s
procedure as of right to demand a “Yes”
vote all the circumstances are present
which Dr. Evatt himself stipulated at the
time of “Labor’s” multiple referendum in
1944. These are his own words defining
them:
Subject to one condition, it should be
axiomatic that in making a grant to the
Commonwealth of legislative power, Par-
liament should, as a general rule, be given
[that is, by the electors at a referendum]
authority to pass legislation on a topic
so as to carry into effect any political
policy on that topic to which the electors
have given their approval. What is the
condition? It is this—that the topic
should be one of Australia-wide concern
and interest.
What his present referendum-audiences
ought to ask Dr. Evatt is whether he is
speaking as a constitutional authority, or
as “the most notable defender of Com-
munism in Australia,” or just as plain
buffoon. Here, in his own words, are
three distinct proposals and only one
vote.
When on its own demerits and the base
performances of its leader, “Labor” goes
down in another rout at the referendum
polling-booths, the discontent which all
this blatherskiting tries to cover up may
be openly aired. Then the Victorian
faction, long seething in revolt against
domination by the Red-flea-bitten crowd
from New South Wales, may do some-
thing more than pass resolutions damning
the Evatt eyes for tying it up with Com-
munism. Then the A.W.U. may decide
whether it means to stand up for revision
of the A.L.P. platform to express once
again honest Australian sentiment, or go
to bed with the miners’ and the wharfies’
and the transport unions’ Red bosses in
that “fools’ paradise” (as the A.W.U.
general secretary recently expressed it) of
treating the Communists as anything but
enemies to the world’s peace. Then there
will be no longer the public spectacle of
an A.L.P. president, with shreds hanging
to him of Communist ribbons from the
past, deciding upon excommunication of
any “Labor” man appearing on the same
“No” platform with the Communists,
and on the same day “Labor” leader Mc-
Kenna of the Senate presenting himself
at a meeting of the Miners’ Red execu-
tive, allegedly with nobody from that
executive beside him, “to advise” them
on how to vote on an Act outlawing
Communists.
And this is the crowd which says it is
the only party which knows how to put
the Communists in their place I
Soviet Time-table.
A striking feature of the Australian out-
look is that it finds difficulty in compas-
sing distant scenes and events. The
nearest shouting and the local discomfort
always get attention first.
Mr. Fadden and his taxation proposals,
Mr. Menzies and his universal-training-
scheme seem to loom more ominously than
nearly 6,000,000 mobilised Russians and
5,000,000 mobilised Chinese. They are
much more terrible, if one can measure
public reactions by the newspapers, than
the 35 Russian divisions which at the
moment are forming-up on the borders
of Western Germany for “manoeuvres,”
or the half-million or more Chinese
and North Koreans who are killing Aus-
tralians in Eastern Asia.
If this parish-pump attitude affected
only the Press it would not matter much.
But it is the essence of Australian poli-
tics in these days.
Dr. Evatt, who has been proclaimed
again and again to be a world figure,
never allows his eye to wander beyond
the nearest point of political advantage.
He cannot see any danger overseas so
long as he thinks a viewpoint to the con-
trary has an appeal to the selfish, lazy
margin of votes on which “Labor” bat-
tens for its determinative support. It
does not matter whether the Russians
have the atom-bomb. He does not care
about the crude efforts of the Soviet bloc
to drive the British Commonwealth forces
out of Middle Eastern zones, to rob us
of our defensive oil through stirring up
the Persians, to set India and Pakistan
at each other’s throats, to pin down the
French in Indo-China and as many
U.N.O. forces in Korea as possible. If
it pays momentarily in votes to urge the
comfortable idea which suits the Com-
munists and the enemy that the develop-
ment of our defence on the mildest scale
is “warmongering,” then in the name of
Jackie Ferguson and Heaven let it be
done from every “Labor” platform and
in every “Labor” statement.
So self-centred is “Labor” in its out-
look and purposes, so wrapped up in its
conception that the world and its welfare
revolve round the wellbeing of the Aus-
tralian trade-unions, that it is probable
that it would meet an invading force
not with arms but with banners pro-
claiming that the invaders are infringing
the inalienable rights of trade-unionism
and calling on them to establish a 40-
hour week in the Red Army.
Recognising no dangers not evident on
Australian soil, the Australian “Labor”
movement has come to believe that it can
cure anything through loaf and union
pressure, especially when it has a few
State Governments in office which are
subject to its law rather than to the con-
stitutional factors which usually guide
Governments and impel them to act for
the good and security of the whole com-
munity instead of for the special class-
section which they represent.
While Russian troops were on the
move throughout Eastern Europe last
week Mr. McGirr and his rapacious con-
freres were waging a war against the
harried Federal Treasury, seeking by
threats and abuse to squeeze another £45
million from Commonwealth taxation.
Mr. McGirr at the same time was using
the occasion of the Premiers’ Conference
to further the political ends of Dr. Evatt
and his Federal Labor Executive by
bellowing for Federal control of prices,
though he, like every other member of
his party, knows full well that no con-
trols will have the slightest efficacy un-
less they are accompanied by added pro-
duction obtained by workers giving full
value for their wage.
The British Commonwealth outside
Asia is gearing itself to meet the
shock which seems must almost inevit-
ably come within the next three years.
It is true that peoples and Press are as
hard to convince and as ready to grasp
at straws as they were in 1914 and 1939.
It is true that General Marshall in the
United States has felt cause to complain
that the public is too responsive to the
peace propaganda of Mr. Malik, the
Russian Foreign Minister; but there is
no room for complaint about lack of
awareness of realities in either public men
or in the leaders of the responsible Press.
Mr. R. C. R. Ensor, a veteran Eng-
lish journalist, formerly chief leader-
writer of the London “Daily Chronicle,”
a member of the Royal Commissions on
population and on the Press in England,
has recently summed up the situation
taken by most capable observers in a
striking article in the “Spectator.” He
answers primarily the question “Will
Russia launch a third world war?” with
a plain “Yes,” on the ground that
“propaganda of so much virulence as
that now daily injected into the minds of
the Soviet populations is calculated to
produce a mental current towards war
too strong for even its authors to resist” ;
that whatever Stalin’s inclinations might
be to gain his objectives without fighting,
“the forces set in motion by Russia’s
colossal campaign of hatred and lying
are bigger than any individual—even
Stalin.”
On the question “when war may
break,” he says that while we have no
such clear pointers such as Hitler gave
when he made his call for conscripts for
coming years in 1936 in a way to plainly
reveal his intention to challenge the world
in August and September, 1939, “some
possible signs” of the Russian timetable
are not lacking:
The Russians could not wait too long
lest their land and air superiority disap-
pear; but equally they could not afford to
start too early lest they find themselves
without sufficient atomic weapons to bit
back and sustain the morale of their
people... .Balancing these opposites, I have
long thought that 1953 might be Russia’s
latest date. For by 1953 the air expan-
sion of the United States and Great Britain
would be enormous, and General Eisen-
hower’s land force should also be some-
thing formidable, whereas by 1953 neither
of these things would have happened.
Mr. Ensor canvasses the idea whether
the blow might not be struck even earlier
and in the present year, and on this he
adduces the evidence of the continued
“terrible blood-letting in Korea,” asking
whether the Chinese would be willing to
“go on battling at such fearful costs
unless they had some pledge that Russia
herself would soon battle also.” He
further adduces the tactics of Mr.
Gromyko at the Paris Conference: “As
diplomacy, how inefficient! As play-
acting meant to reconcile his people to
war, how exactly right.”
There is no doubt about the opinion
of the countries of Eastern Europe and
Western Asia, more experienced in the
birth-throes of war than any other part
of the globe. They know through suffer-
ing the truth of the adage that “weapons
make war” and that where the means of
carnage accumulate hostilities almost
inevitably follow.
While Australia writhes amid its self-
made problems, the Balkans and Turkey
and Western Germany stand pale-faced
and hand-to-ear to catch the sound of the
first shot which they believe likely to be
fired after this harvest season or the next.
Cutting a Gullet.
Although present-day politicians lay
about them lustily with the tongue, and
hardly a session passes without some
accusations of character-assassination,
there is no record in recent Parliamentary
history of a responsible Minister calmly
announcing to the House that he has
arranged “to cut a gullet.”
That sort of thing was probably a
commonplace in Florentine political
circles in the Middle Ages, when the
accepted way of dealing with a trouble-
some critic —assuming the poisoned cup
had no appeal or was too inconvenient to
administer —was to arrange for someone
to slit his weasand or stick a poniard in
his gizzard; but one would scarcely
expect to find Australian Parliamentary
proceedings enlivened by such announce-
ments. Nor are they today. But a genera-
tion or so ago, if Victorian “Hansard” is
to be believed, a State Parliament heard
one of its Ministers make such a statement
without a voice being raised in protest.
This seeming callousness was appar-
ently not peculiar to that generation;
when a present-day member of the
Victorian Assembly, in the course of a
debate on a minor bill, quoted from a
“Hansard” of 1883 the passage in which
the reference to cutting the gullet
appeared, not one member expressed
horror, or even surprise, that such an
announcement should come from the lips
of Alfred Deakin, one of the Fathers ot
Federation, then Minister for Public
Works in Victoria,
Mr. Deakin did not actually take full
responsibility for slitting the weasand--
or, rather, cutting the gullet. He claimed
that a select committee had recommended
it, “at an expense of £1500” and that a*
this recommendation was made by all the
members of the committee” he thought it
should be acted upon.
Although none of Deakin’s fellow-
members openly objected, some seemed
to have slight misgivings. One asked
whether the gullet had already been cut,
and, on being told “No,” asked how lone
the job would take. He was told three or
four months —an estimate which would
have made any Florentine gullet-cutter
sniff with disdain. Another member
seemed worried not so much at the ethics
of the proposal as at the cost. He aske
for an assurance that the amount quote ,
£l5OO, would be the limit of expenditure.
“Mr. Deakin replied in the affirmative.
It seems there are gullets and gullets
The one to which Mr. Deakin committed
the public purse to the tune of £ISUU \
cut at Mt. Difficult in the Grampians ix
enable freestone to be quango for
completion of the west front of Parua
ment House.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Another Persian Deadlock.
It seems clear that there is now little
chance of settlement of the Persian oil
question because no matter what is
offered the Persian Government has
determined not to accept.
The British delegation came prepared
to recognise the principle of nationalisa-
tion. It was ready to assent to the with-
drawal of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Com-
pany from Persia, its vast assets towards
the creation of which Persians have done
nothing practical to be transferred to
the Persian Government upon payment
of compensation under conditions to
be agreed to.
The delegation came ready to promise
“sincere and genuine co-operation” with
the Persians to obtain efficient production
and marketing of Persian oil. It was pro-
posed that Persia should have a contract
for the sale of Persian oil —it was sug-
gested for 25 years. It was further sug-
gested that the oil produced should be
sold f.o.b. to a marketing organisation
which would deal with the world market
and assure the tankerage which Persia has
not got, cannot get for years and cannot
run any more than it can run Abadan.
This purchasing concern was to assist
in getting the Abadan plant running and
in keeping it running, and, through a
special managerial agency, to get over the
difficulty that the British staff, which
apparently values its lives, will not
consent to remain to work Abadan except
under a competent technical manage-
ment. There were other details equally
reasonable.
The discussions were conducted in the
usual hysteric Persian atmosphere, with
fanatic mobs, urged on by some secret
force whose identity it is not difficult to
guess fanning the flames of hatred for the
British in advance, threatening the spine-
less Persian Government and fomenting
violence in Tehran.
The position was summed up by a
“Financial Times” correspondent in
Tehran on the eve of the discussions
quoting a Persian politician: “No one
would now dare to accept any British
proposals whatever.” And it all coin-
cided with the obstruction of the Suez
Canal by the Egyptians, and was obvi-
ously open to the implication of
marionette action with somebody in the
background as an urger and guarantor.
Lord Thomas, chairman of 8.0.A.C.,
says that the oil-stoppage might mean
the temporary shutting-down of 8.0.A.C.
services. It is upon anticipations of prob-
able effects of this sort that the Persians
no doubt are building their resistance.
Fortunately, however, Persia has not all
the oil in the world, though it has oil in
a convenient position for our purposes
and especially for those of the Air Force
and the Navy.
The discovery of new fields in Canada
has added enormously to British Com-
monwealth oil resources, and there are
many other fields which are not yet
developed which, with a little organisa-
tion, will soon replace the shortage which
will be inevitable if the Persians are left
to organise their own fields or to depend
on the Russians to do it for them.
Controls Over Premiers.
At the Premiers’ meetings last week the
heads of State Governments, with the
exception of S.A. and W.A., set the worst
possible example to the community in
the business of combating inflation.
Despite their knowledge, and their
unanimous admission at the meetings last
June, that bank-credit could not be
available for public works, that the loan-
investment resources were strictly limited
and far below their “requirements,” and
that, anyhow, there simply were not the
materials and the labor to go round, they
fought last week like a mob at a bargain
sale for the right to compete against each
other for the money and materials avail-
able. Nothing could be better calculated
to boost all prices to the skies.
The Premiers dispersed with allocations
of some £202 million for their works,
plus £23 million of Commonwealth-
raised money for housing programmes,
and with impious hopes concerning some
further £95 million for semi- and local-
government spending, while knowing that
there is only about £l5B million in all
in the potential loan market.
At intervals in this exhibition of poli-
tical insanity Premier McGirr, its ring-
leader, would interpose demands that the
Commonwealth should take over and
apply to all Australia his own ludicrous
stunt of price-pegging (without wage-
pegging) in N.S.W., alternating with
wrangles on whether or which Govern-
ment should pay for half, or other
portion, of the butter which each citizen
daily eats (if he can get it in a market
which an insufficient price has laid bare
of butter for sale). Mr. McGirr, with
some support for a time, was no more
willing to approve the market’s paying a
fair price for the dairyfarmers’ butter
than his own Government’s paying the
market-price for loan-money.
As resistance-debates on all these points
talked themselves into the ground, the
worst offenders would return to the
subject of some supposed right of Gov-
ernments to spend all but the bread-line
minimum of the taxpayers’ money. One
Premier —the Victorian gentleman, whose
hold on office depends on a following of
about one-fifth of his Assembly and
otherwise the mercy of the “Labor” party
—wanted not only a 50 per cent, increase
in taxation receipts and £llB million-odd
out of a £374 million of chimerical loan
money, but also a compulsory loan with-
out interest to be levied on all taxpayers
and made non-repayable for 10 years. He
and the “Labor” Premiers ignored all
indications that subsidisation of Common-
wealth-wide pegged prices would require
the raising of some £lOO million or £2OO
million (write your own ticket) of extra
annual taxation to keep prices-pegs in
their holes, and even then without
guarantee that the pegs would stay put.
Premier McGirr’s chief stunt, backed
by Mr. Gair from the “Labor” stable in
Queensland, was to denounce the Com-
monwealth Government for not trying to
peg prices, profits, dividends, everything
except wages, which “would then peg
themselves.” Mr. McGirr has been throw-
ing Treasury money about regardless, in
shorter hours, higher retirement allow-
ances, sick leave, holidays and other per-
quisites for “the toilers,” and he pro-
ceeded in his discourse to bemoan the
fact that each fresh increase of a shilling
in the basic wage sets his State Budget
back by £300,000.
This exchange ensued:
Menzies: What would you estimate the
cost of the 40-hour week to be?
McGirr: I have not got the court’s
findings with me —one-eleventh increase, I
would say. I can get you the figures if
you are interested.
Menzies : Very interested. Will you let
me have the figures as soon as you can?
McGirr: Certainly, if your Common-
wealth officers, unlike my own men, are
unable to supply you.
And that shows just how much Mr.
McGirr is interested in the decline of
production and the problem of furnishing
a sufficient supply of goods to meet the
demand —especially the demand for astro-
nomical expenditures on State business
undertakings, all of which, in the McGirr
State especially, are falling deeper and
deeper into bankruptcy.
Wharfies to the Rescue.
“Abdul Assiz”: For the past 20 years
the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce
has been urging the necessity for
improved loading and discharging
facilities in the port, but with little
support beyond that of its immediate
membership. It is true that the wharf-
laborers did not actively oppose
modernisation of the wharf equipment,
as such, but they did want guarantees
that more efficient machinery would not
speed up the leisurely tempo of the
individual and allow a job to be done in
less time or with fewer men.
The turn-round of ships has now
become so slow, however, that even at
the present gentle rate of work per man
there is not enough employment to
bring in each wharfie the cash he
requires for enjoying his ample time off.
By these circumstances the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce has gained an un-
expected ally in its increasingly insistent
demands for the general speeding-up and
mechanisation of cargo - handling
facilities. Adversity surely brings strange
bedfellows!
Fourteen Newcastle waterfront unions
are now inviting the Minister for Ship-
ping, together with the Minister for
Labor, to visit the port so that they can
examine on the spot proposals to divert
to Newcastle all shipping without berths
in Sydney for discharge and loading ; to
divert all inter-State and intra-State ship-
ping to Newcastle; to arrange for direct
shipping from the United Kingdom to
Newcastle ; to replace the seven bodies at
present controlling the port by a unified
control; to improve all port equipment,
including roads and railways ; to instigate
measures for the prevention of harboi-
silting, including flood-mitigation and
soil- and water-conservation ; and, finally,
to deepen the harbor entrance.
Most of these proposals have been
sponsored by the Newcastle Chamber for
many years past, although it has not
adopted the openly cannibalistic attitude
of the Newcastle wharfie towards his
Sydney brother. Presumably the pro-
posals have been endorsed by the six
“Labor” members who, to the exclusion
of all other parties, represent the New-
castle District electorate and who, in the
past, have obstinately opposed any real
improvement of Newcastle port.
In the meanwhile, the young (48) but
very experienced Mr. H. B. Hasten has
come from U.K., at the Commonwealth
Government’s request, to inquire into and
report on factors affecting the turn-round
of ships in Australia; to study the pre-
vailing congestion in Australian ports;
and to suggest measures, both short- and
long-term, to effect improvement.
Newcastle is definitely on Mr. Basten’s
itinerary.
Jap Treaty Revision.
Revised Japanese draft peace treaty for
the international meeting at San Fran-
cisco on September 4 contains these
changes:
(1) Instead of the signatory Powers
agreeing with Japan that their relations
shall be those of nations as sovereign
equals, it explicitly recognises restoration
of Japan to full sovereignty.
(2) In the preamble, instead of Japan
“accepting obligations under the U.N.
Charter” —peaceful settlement of disputes
and agreeing to give U.N. “every assist-
ance in any action it takes under the
Charter” —Japan now declares her inten-
tion to apply for U.N. membership.
(3) On reparations, instead of a
recognition that “although Japan should
in principle pay reparations for damage
and suffering caused by it during the war,
nevertheless Japan lacks the capacity, if
it is to maintain a viable economy, to
make adequate reparation ,” the
clause now reads that Japan shall
make reparations. Though “complete
reparation cannot be made immediately,”
Japan “will enter promptly into negotia-
tions for compensating Allied Powers for
damage done by making available the
services of the Japanese people in pro-
duction, salvage and other work.”
(4) The funds accumulated for com-
pensation of prisoners-of-war from
Japanese assets in enemy or neutral
countries transferred to the International
Red Cross will now be distributed by the
I.R.C. to “appropriate national agencies.”
An important new clause provides that
the provisions of the Potsdam Agree-
ment of 1945 for the return home of
Japanese soldier prisoners-of-war must be
carried out. This is directed at the
Japanese in Russian hands, and is a juicy
morsel to set before the Russian dele-
gation which is now to be present at the
San Francisco conference.
Russia had been regarded as an ab-
stainer. The Soviet will have no power
of veto at this meeting, and, though cer-
tain to demand extensive alteration of
the draft, is not expected to prevail
against a majority led by the United
States
The draft provides that the treaty shall
come into force upon ratification by
Japan, by the United States as principal
occupying Power and by a majority of
the 14 nations ready to sign it. It is
also provided that, after Japanese ratifi-
cation, the treaty shall come into force
nine months after ratification bilaterally
between Japan and “any Allied Power
which has ratified.”
Many Eyes on Wool.
The fall in New Zealand wool prices,
measured against such factors as the
difference between crossbred and Merino
wools and that between the £A and the
£NZ, is not as spectacular as published
reports make it appear. All the same, it
is a fall, and it could mean an end to the
wool-money orgy.
In Auckland last January the average
auction price was 115 d. a pound. Last
week it was about 40d., and a good deal
of wool was passed in. The market was
alleged to have been affected by “the
international wool talks in Washington,”
though “Bradford and the Continent
competed freely,”
A sore point with N.Z. growers is that
a lot of the wool auctioned last week
would have been sold at high prices in
March and April had it not been for the
N.Z. waterfront strike, which caused a
cancellation of sales.
American buyers apparently stood out
of the N.Z. sales, and nobody knows
whether or not they’ll be interested in the
new Australian auctions this month. If
the N.Z. prices are any guide, the Aus-
tralian levels could drop 25 p.c. for cross-
breds and 15 p.c. for Merino. The cross-
bred market is obviously affected by the
fact that N.Z. had a carryover of more
than 350,000 bales.
The fall comes rather opportunely for
supporters of the post-J.O. scheme, upon
which a ballot of Australian growers is
now being taken. It will provide them
with an argument for a scheme to buy
in wool when it falls below a ‘ floor
price” and resell it when prices improve.
But it will not deprive the “No” side of
its main argument that the scheme
threatens Government control of wool-
selling.
And the fall does not alter two facts
important to Australia, one_ being that
wool production is at least 15 p.c, below
consumption demand and the other that
most of the gap applies to Merino wools.
It is election-time in Maoriland, and
Prime Minister Holland has had to an-
nounce that, as soon as it can be estab-
lished that the fall is permanent and to
what extent, the Government will have to
reconsider the policy by which more than
£5O million (sterling), or one-third, of
growers’ income from high prices is
“frozen” as a counter to inflation. Trea-
surer Fadden will be as interested as any-
one else in the new Australian auctions
next week, for any sort of a price fall will
bring questions about the propriety of
his 20 p.c. deduction, also imposed as an
anti-inflation measure.
Prudent or Stupid?
Those who question the seriousness of the
world situation need only take a look
at the United States Budget to assess
what the United States and its taxpayers
feel about the prospects. It is unthink-
able that in peace-time, with a Presi-
dential election only a year away,
the Government there would risk its neck
by imposing such burdens unless it had
confidence that the country was
behind it and that a few months would
prove the soundness of its judgment.
Provision has been made for funds to
support:
Men.
Army 1,531,000
Nav v 805,000
Marine Corps JJi’ono
Air Force • • • • • • 1,061,000
Total 3.572,000
This is outside the National Guard and
civilian support.
The total sum involved is
$56,062,000,000 dollars, and is the largest
peace-time Budget for defence ever
accepted by any country. Even more
significant than its formulation by the
President was its acceptance almost in
toto by the Appropriations Committee
of the House of Representatives, which
often cuts down Presidential recommen-
dations with some severity, but which
in this case lopped off less than 2 per
cent, of the overall sum requested.
The Air Force is to be built up to a
strength of 95 wings, and funds were
provided to cover 5604 new aircraft to
be ordered and 3092 already under con-
struction. The Army, apart from this,
will buy 1600 new craft, chiefly for
liaison use, and the Navy will have nearly
£2,000,000,000 to buy more planes—how
many is not stated.
The general procurements overall tor
the Air Force, described by the House
of Representatives Committee as being
“already the most powerful striking force
ever placed in the hands of any nation,
totalled about one-third of the whole
proposed vote. _
Must Moe and Minyip Part?
Victorians ought to be mighty careful
about the Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion’s scheme to split their State into two
by running a border north from Barwon
Heads to Echuca. The design is full of
implications, not the least of which is
leaving Melbourne on its own as a sort
of capital of Gippsland and putting Bal-
larat, Bendigo and Geelong into a new
State, where they and the Wimmera and
Western District would escape the Mc-
Donald-Cain administration.
There is something sinister in the tact
that whereas most of the new State would
be spread out on the level, most of the
rump would be perpendicular. East ot
the proposed border are eight mountains
over 6000 ft. high, 39 between 5000-6000 ft.
and more than 40 between 4000-5000tt.
About the highest point west are the
Beam-wireless masts at Ballan. ine
effect of this on the supply of young re-
cruits for the Melbourne football teams
isn’t clear, since the Victorian game not
only requires men used to galloping
about on large, flat areas but also those
used to climbing to great heights,
could be, too, that the A.N.A., fully
aware of the numerous times when Vic-
toria and South Australia have; on
the brink of war over football, wisnes
to create a buffer-State between mem.
However, there are other peculiar
aspects. Not only does East Victoria
climb into the sky, but it contains all the
established and proposed hydroelectric
{Continued on next page.)


mmm
4204
JPI,. *^ ee P to
CRAVENa
/hetf nwekMtfa/
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
li
stations and the brown-coal deposits
which the State hopes will eventually free
it from dependence on N.S.W. coal. Is
West Victoria to be thrown to the N.S.W.
wolf or forced to depend on Mr. Play-
ford’s Leigh Creek? Still, West Victoria
would have most of the sheep and wool,
practically all the wheat, a fair share of
the fruit, veges and milk, and might force
Melbourne to terms in winter by banning
the export of mallee-roots.
There are some ethnological problems
associated with this. Are the large,
fresh-faced, silent men of the Gippsland
hills to be thus arbitrarily separated from
their sunburned, dusty, wiry brothers of
the Mallee? Shall Corryong cry to Colac
“Ye be aliens”? Is a Fitzroy fruitpicker
no longer to be treated as a fellow-Vic-
torian at Merbein or Irymple? Shall
Bet Bet and Lai Lai henceforth regard
the mutton-bird, Melbourne’s delicacy, as
a foreign product? And —perhaps the
real crux of the problem —where will
Maryborough get its Scots for New
Year’s Day if Gippsland be beyond the
border?
No, attractive as the ideal of nev
States must be, the A.N.A. has chosen a
division full of controversy and danger.
POLITICAL POINTS
Lest anyone should think the Loan
Council’s 25 p.c. cut in the States’ loan
programme means a real cut in loan
expenditure let it be known that the
reduction is made not on the amount
the States borrowed last year but on
what they hoped to get this year. Cut-
rate figures approved are:
N. S. Wales £64m.
Victoria .. .. .. .. £s6m.
Queensland .. .. .. £22.5m.
S.A £2Bm.
W.A £16.5m.
Tasmania £15.1m.
Those little handouts total £202 million,
which is £64 million up on last year. On
top of that is another £BO million for
semi-governmental and local authorities,
assuming the 25 p.c, cut is also applied
to these borrowings. That ain’t chicken-
feed, even though McGrirrr described
the reduction as disastrous and his off-
sider, Evatt minor, found it “wellnigh
terrifying.”
N. S. Wales and Queensland, repre-
sented by McGrrrrr and Gair, stuck out
to the end against any reduction in loan
programmes. This was not surprising.
For times of boom and times of bust and
for all stages in between “Labor” has
but one policy—get it and spend it.
Doc. Evatt, who reputedly learned his
economics from Jock Garden, is horrified
at the Government’s raising of the inter-
est-rate ; he sees it as a “concealed form of
capital levy” which “approaches very
closely to repudiation.” He bases his
criticism on the fact that subscribers to
previous loans who may have to sell their
bonds before security will probably lose
some of their capital outlay. Doesn’t
the Doc. realise that inflation is a form
of capital levy that cannot be concealed
even by “Labor’s” financial wizards?
And isn’t he risking expulsion from the
party in sparing some of his ever-ready
tears for bondholders ?
New Zealand wool-prices fell sharply
in the midst of the election campaign, and
Prime Minister Holland hurriedly an-
nounced that the Government would
examine the anti-inflation Act it imposed
“freezing” a third of wool income. Our
S’Artie has been doing it with a 20 p.c.
“deduction,” whereby the cash is taken
as a sort of tax instalment in advance.
He’d better look out if wool prices drop
at the forthco'ming Sydney auctions.
The Premiers got £l4 million from the
petrol-tax fund the other day for roads.
Most of them still have petrol-tax money
in their dilly-bags, but complain they
can’t spend it because there aren’t enough
men and materials for road-making.
Total annual petrol-tax collections have
jumped from £l6 million to £24 million
in five years. Maybe they’d better start
paving the roads with £1 notes.
A few weeks ago a Sydney shipping
firm had its permit to employ waterside
labor suspended because it had allowed a
wharfie to remain on duty when obviously
drunk. Last week a freighter was held
up in Sydney because a greaser was dis-
missed for being drunk on duty. Pay
’em you lose; sack ’em you lose. It
seems the ship just can’t win.
Soekarno is squealing again for control
f Dutch New Guinea, and in the same
breath admitting that he can’t control the
territory he already has. In his own land
he admits: “All round there is shedding
of blood. Goods and valuables are no
longer safe from plunder.” Australia
doesn’t want to see that state of affairs
in New Guinea.
W. R. Scilley, president of the Farmers’
and Settlers’ Association, had something
to say at his organisation’s annual con-
ference about the McGrrrrrs’ method of
acquiring land for soldiers’ settlement.
He calls it “robbery,” and justifies the
word thus:
If a man sells a house or motor-car he
gets today’s value for it. If he sells a farm
or other property on the open market he
gets today’s value. But if the Government
decides to “acquire” his land for soldier-
settlement the position is different. If the
owner “goes quietly” he may get 15 p.c.
above the 1942 valuation, but if he resists
“he is punished for his foolishness by
having his property acquired at the 1942
valuation.”
Scilley is urging the Federal Govern-
ment to refuse to make money available
for acquisition of land on other than
“just terms.” It is not only in the matter
of soldier-settlement that this legalised
robbery occurs. Housing Commissions
also have the habit, and not only in the
McGrrrrr State.
At the weekend it was reported that
the Federal Government was suspending
approval of the resumption by the N. S.
Wales Government of several properties
for soldiers’ settlement until the
McGrrrrrs agreed to pay “just terms” for
the land. If not true, it should be. A
fair deal for ex-servicemen should not
mean injustice to present landholders.
Comparisons with past prices aren’t
always to the detriment of the present.
In 1857 Melbourne citizens were paying
ss. a pound for butter, 2s. 6d. a quart for
milk. Is. 9d. for a 41b. loaf and 9s. a
dozen for eggs. The bullock-wagons were
creaking to the gbldfields, there was gross
inflation and there were gigantic public
projects—gigantic for those times —in the
making, just as at present. The city was
building its university, national gallery,
public library and exhibition building.
Back home after three months’ study
of industrial relations in America, J. D.
Kenny, of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, told reporters that he had found
no evidence to support the belief of
many Australians that the workers in the
U.S.A. were being “driven into the
ground.” He found that the average
American worker had no fear of incen-
tive payments. But, said Mr. Kenny, if
the sysftem was to be extended to Aus-
tralia, “the suspicion of many Australian
workers would have to be removed.”
Insofar as the belief and the suspicion
are in the minds of Australians they have
been put there by the organised “Labor”
m’ovement. If Mr. Kenny is now con-
vinced that this teaching is wrong, or no
longer valid, it is up to him to do his
best to change it. He could start with
the N. S. Wales Trades and Labor
Council.
A particularly stupid manifestation of
this suspicion of incentive payments
appeared the day before Mr. Kenny
arrived in Sydney. Employees of the
N. S. Wales State Dockyard at New-
castle, in accordance with a decision
approved by the McGrrrrr “Labor”
Government, received their first dividend
under a new profit-sharing scheme. It
covered a period of three months and
amounted to half a week’s pay. Most
employees took the money with a grin,
but members of the Boilermakers’ Union
handed back the filthy stuff. In this case
there is more than a suspicion that the
distaste for the extra dough was not so
much on the part of the men as of their
leaders. Forward, Mr. Kenny.
When a defending solicitor in Victoria
argued that a growing potato-crop was
different from the ultimate potatoes
harvested therefrom, he and the magis-
trate had quite a barney over it. The
defendants, however, didn’t escape. They
were potato-growers and they sold their
crops in the ground to a private merchant,
and were properly punished for daring
to believe that the potatoes belonged to
anyone else but the Victorian Potato
Board. And the cove who bought the
crop was also punished, probably for
inciting the growers to infringe the board’s
rights. Some of these people must think
it’s a free country!
Latest tip on Britain’s general-election
date comes from the private secretary to
the Minister for Labor, who at the week-
end told his constituents he thought
polling-day would be October 25. That
happens to be St. Crispin’s Day, so propa-
gandists of both sides are now probably
thumbing the pages of “Henry V” for
quotations suitable to the occasion.
Despite all the money and skite and
plans and bluster expended on the
Queensland-British Food Corporation’s
great sorghum-growing stunt at Peak
Downs (Q.), the ungrateful sorghum re-
fuses to grow. The first crop failed,
frosts were blamed; the second crop
failed, heavy rains were blamed; this
year’s crop pans out at below 10 bushels
an acre, and dry weather is blamed,
though ordinary farmers have averaged
20. But, then, these Government chaps
aren’t ordinary farmers.
The A.LiP. executive is hopping in,
without any scruples about onus of proof,
to declare Communists, and even its own
members, wherever found. It has re-
solved that “any ‘Labor’-party member
associating with members of the Com-
munist party or any subsidiary organisa-
tions” shall be “automatically expelled,”
and for the same offence any A.L.P.
branch can be declared bogus. “Labor”
can do this without reproach, but the
Commonwealth Government and Parlia-
ment must be denied the right.
L. C. Turton, secretary of the Sydney
Milk Board dairymen, professes to be-
lieve that a 40-hour week on dairyfarms
“is one of the factors that will stop the
drift from the industry.” It hasn’t stopped
the drift in other industries.
There seems to be no limit to the
money available to send willing
“delegates” abroad to attend Red rallies
such as the recent Berlin Youth
Congress. Keon, M.H.R. for Yarra (Vic),
some time ago quoted figures in regard
to the financial affairs of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Clerks’ Union which help
to explain the source. In the year ended
June 30, 1950, the branch, under
Comrade Hughes, had a deficit of £4265.
Contributory items were:
Affiliation fees to the Communist
W.F.T.U £ll6
Contribution to “World Peace Con-
ference” .. 106
Advance to challenge Communist
Party Dissolution Act .. .. 723
Exes, delegates to “World Peace
Conference” .. .. .. 2250
If the clerks are satisfied that those
figures show they are getting good value
for their subs and levies then it’s time
they sharpened their pencils and totted
’em up again.
When the delegates get back from the
Berlin Youth Festival, full of enthusiasm
for the freedom they found behind the
Iron Curtain, perhaps some of them will
be prepared to comment on the freedom
accorded to youth in Czechoslovakia
under enlightened Communism. Three
months ago a decree was issued in Prague
ordaining that youngsters leaving school
could be directed into any branch of
industry or agriculture decided by the
school-leaving commissions—the only ex-
ceptions being those who volunteered for
the mines or heavy industry. Only a
limited number would be permitted to
pursue higher studies after finishing their
primary education.
General Gordon Bennett, along with a
number of others who aspire to give a
lead to public opinion, declares that Aus-
tralia should be “adamant against the
rearming of Japan.” But these critics
will not tell us how to prevent it.
Members of the South Australian Par-
liament are giving themselves a salary-rise
of £250 a year, which means that city
members will get £ll5O, country mem-
bers from 50 to 200 miles from Adelaide
£l2OO and the boys from way out £1225.
At the new figure they’ll still be behind
their N. S. Wales confreres and further
still behind the Canberra worthies. The
manner of taking the rise was a little less
blatant than most salary grabs; the presi-
dent of the Industrial Court made the
recommendations. Supreme Court judges,
the Police Commissioner and the Auditor-
General are also to get more in their
envelopes.
Dairyfarm hands are to work a 40-
hour week in Victoria, and the Sydney
Milk Zone Dairymen’s Council is to ask
for similar conditions in N.S.W. The
Victorian 40 hours is to be worked be-
tween 6 a.m. Sunday and 6 p.m. the fol-
lowing Saturday. That’s five and five-
seventh hours a day. There ought to be
a good sale for stop-watches in Gipps-
land and the Colac country now.
The president of Harvard University,
Professor Conant, seems surprised that
Australians hadn’t got the habit of giving
cash to their universities. He ought to
see the way they give it to their lotteries.
Conde, the N.S.W. Commissioner for
Blackouts, has been sighted again, this
time in the vicinity of Washington, D.C.
The Liberty ship he was going to buy
and sail up and down our astonished
coasts, “feeding in electricity here and
there as needed,” seems to have been
mislaid somewhere, and just before he
vanished again he muttered something
about it not being true that the Ameri-
cans had cancelled priorities on 70,000
kilowatts he’d ordered. He was “sure
this delay is only temporary.” That’s
what the McGrrrrrs said about the black-
outs four or five years ago.
State coalmines in Victoria for 1950
produced the lowest tonnage of black
coal on record, and showed a loss of
over £86,000 on mining of 128,000 tons.


HO
MO
Surreß.
NO
toR
ko 1
M
Wm
i v*
m
fail
Shirts
M
;6
14
ms
m
Most
a
|7?t
(ffiiW Mega
a«£V<» \
|CjjfvOC€^
3 4 «4
So
W'tUEts
TALKING OF HERMITS....


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Mac Hoots”: There seems to have
been a strange and estimable flowering
of art at Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo
lately: the bust of E. J. Hallstrom, a col-
lection of bird-paintings in the kiosk,
and useful oil-paintings of the birds and
animals on their cages to tell you what
they are: thus, on the macaw cage a
painting of macaws, so that you won’t
mistake them for hippopotami. I have
been studying these with profit for some
time; but the painting attached to the
little retreat for ladies is surely—unless
on previous visits I have modestly averted
my gaze —brand-new. It is a combination
of portrait and landscape, and depicts a
young person, at once triumphant and
slightly harrassed in expression, who has
apparently bounded miles over the
countryside to this sylvan nook; and
lending —-
mwm?
“Murder and mystery books? Right behind you, lady."
really it strikes me as one of the most
delightfully absurd bits of unconscious
humor I have ever, to my shame, laid
my eyes upon.
# ♦ * ♦
“Junius” (San Rafael, California):
It would have kindled the pride in The
Bulletin’s heart to have been at San
Francisco airport at 6.45 a.m. August 3,
1951, and to have seen for itself its pink
cover in the role of harbor-light
and beacon of identity and welcome. A
gentleman from Melbourne, long known
to the fellow at this end, but not by
personal contact, had announced his
scheduled arrival. I, erstwhile subscriber
to The Bulletin, cabled the Melbourne
man that I would be on hand on arrival,
and to identify myself would have a copy
of The Bulletin in my hand. Mel-
bourne man replied: “Fine, I’ll have the
latest copy of same newspaper in my
hand on my arrival.” It was as if one
viewed the cosmic ray to see the Mel-
bourne man, like stout Cortes, standing
atop of gangway waving The Bulletin
and ’Frisco airport replying in kind.
* * * *
“Zip”: He wanted time off from work
because he was getting married. “My
wife will be going away for a week after
the wedding,” he told the boss seriously,
“and I think it’s my place to go with her.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: There was a time when a
district would rejoice to have a hermit
about the place, and his cave, or hut, or
hollow log would be a sort of Delphic
cavern to which pilgrimages were made
and the hermit himself be regarded as
holy. Later, when both their holiness
and wisdom came to be doubted, hermits
were left alone and their residences
avoided. In this country they were given
the name “hatter,” which suggested in-
sanity in one form or another, it having
long been the belief of those who like
herding together that anyone who pre-
fers to live alone must be mad. Still,
hatters were left alone as a rule, the
general attitude being that if they were
mad enough to live like that it was their
business. Times have changed, and in
this “New Order” apparently hermitism
is banned. Somebody discovered a long-
haired cove out of Bethungra (N.S.W.)
living on nature and alone, so the police
went and gathered him, and, at time of
writing, he stands charged with having
“insufficient means of support.” He has
been living off the country for nine years.
* * * ♦
“Pitt St.”: There was a hiatus between
trams and a cold rain falling. The pretty
young thing was bareheaded, and sweetly
accepted my offer to share my umbrella.
We talked of this and that for some
minutes, and then the tram came.
“Thanks so much for the umbrella,” she
cooed. “I shall thank it, too,” I came
back, with one of those brilliant flashes
of gallantry which distinguish me, “for
it gave me an excuse to talk to you.” A
flash from the dark eyes, a pout of the
lovely lips, then, “Yes, it must be terrible
to be getting old, Pop,” and she was
aboard the tram.
* * * *
“Jasby”: I suppose the fact that I still
find Chinese names amusing is a sign of
arrested growth or intellectual im-
maturity, but I can’t be worried abou f
that. Moreover, I am prepared to con-
cede reciprocity in the matter, by which
I mean that if Chiang Kai-shek or Nam
II sees reason for mirth if and when my
own name happens to be brought under
his notice I won’t raise the slightest ob-
jection. Having made my position clear,
I now feel entitled to chuckle again at the
list of names of persons fined in Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) last week on charges of
being in possession of opium. They
were; Ah Loo, Ah Joe, Ah Tim, Joe
Yow and, most appropriately, Charlie
Chew.
* * * *
“Zake”: Judging by the state of the
lorry, it must have been a perfect cannon-
off-the-cush —the impact had snapped the
telegraph-pole off three feet above the
footpath. The bumper-bar had developed
a U-shape and the front grill was a
wreck. The accident couldn’t have hap-
pened long, for the driver of the lorry
“Hold it, Miss Jones — you've dropped a stitch!"
was still sitting in his cabin with a slab
of sticking-plaster over his nos e,
apparently his only injury. But the
County Council linesmen were already on
the job transferring broken lines to a
near-by pole. Such shattered pieces of the
pole as had been lying around had been
quickly snapped up by near-by residents.
The breakdown-truck had just got a hitch
around the broken pole and was slowly
towing it away when a resident galloped
up, axe in hand. At first amazement,
and then chagrin, spread over his face as
he saw the rest of his winter’s prospective
firewood disappearing. “Well, whaddaya
know!” he growled. “Any other time
the cows’d be a week making up their
minds to get here!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Barkis”; Who said bus-drivers aren’t
obliging? With a screech of brakes the
bus came to an urgent stop and city-
bound passengers craned their necks look-
ing for the accident that must nearly have
happened. Instead, the driver jumped
hurriedly from the high cabin on the
double-decker, ran into a roadside yard,
chased two grazing horses round and
round and finally got them out the gate,
after which he secured it firmly. “Lucky
I’ve got a garden myself or I wouldn’t
have noticed those horses,” he explained
over the roar of the once-more-speeding
bus. “Whoever lives there has got some
fine cauliflowers coming on. They’d have
cleaned them up in no time,”
* * * *
“Skooli”: Grading of the school-
ground was let by tender, and the locals
were furious when the work went to the
Newcomes. “Naturally they’d give the
job to the Newcomes,” I attempted to
soothe one farmer’s wife. “Bill Newcome
used to work for the Country Roads
Board.” “Too right he did,” was the
reply. “He used to run the men from the
town out to the job in a truck and boil
the billy for their lunches.” Since view-
ing the job I’ve decided she was probably
right.
* * * «
“Kallotz”: Cries as my train whistle
drew my head to the window. Heavy-
pocketed and clumsy, a would-be
traveller ran, one hand clutching at some-
thing moving under his overcoat. Despite
his efforts the object escaped and rolled
on the platform, miraculously unbroken.
“Quick, grab it, mate,” he cried to a
near-by porter. “I’ll get on —you bring it
to my window.” Hastily the porter
swooped on the bottle of beer, though
seconds were wasted as it eluded his
grasp; then, running furiously on the
spot, he fought a losing battle with the
train as it gained speed. “Can’t make it,
mate. Can’t make it,” he puffed, while
in the background his mates applauded.
«. * * ♦
“P.T.”’: I, too, once knew a competent
righting man who was nicknamed “Bill
the Goose” (B. 25/7/’5l). A very dapper
and efficient Boer War veteran, he was
Adjutant-General of the C.M. Forces,
when compulsory training was introduced
in 1911. A preliminary to the commence-
ment of that scheme was the six months’
Albury school, in which a cohort of
n.c.os. from the permanent forces and
militia were trained for appointment as
sar’-majors in the training areas. Dur-
ing the adjutant-general’s first inspection
of the school, one aspirant s.-m. said to
another “Isn’t he like Bill the Goose?”
The other agreed. No one could be less
gooselike than the a.-g., but he remained
“Bill the Goose” until he retired towards
the end of the Kaiser’s war. But who was
the original Bill the Goose? And how
did he get his name?
“W.P.T.”: New South Wales is a
strange State. Its laws will not permit me
to take my small son to watch greyhounds
chasing a tin-hare, but they don’t mind
my taking him to Rooty Hill coursing to
watch the greyhounds chasing (and often
killing) live hares. There is no restric-
tions on children attending horse-racing,
though the law does not allow a minor to
take a ticket on the tote. Yet the same
minor can quite legally buy a ticket in the
State lottery, though should his ticket win
a big prize he cannot make use of the
money until he becomes of age.
* * * *
“Squid Shay” (London): Some
months ago Norman Lindsay made refer-
ence to the Dickens character Mr. Mould,
the undertaker. A modern Mr. Mould,
in the cadaver-planting profession, has
just died at his home in Dragon-street, in
a little mid-Sussex town. Perhaps
Dickens noticed the name over the shop
in gran’fer Mould’s day.
* ♦ * *
“Hamer”: There was a comedy touch
about a divorce action strongly defended,
although the main evidence was a
story of meanness and cruelty, including
batterings. The husband contended that
he had done his best to secure reconcilia-
tion, and even when his wife had disap-
peared had advertised in the agony
column of the daily asking her to return.
The wife admitted that and produced a
copy of the advertisement. The man who
had starved and flogged his wife until
she had gone into hiding to escape him
advertised “Please come home. All is
forgiven.”
* * ♦ ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Someone’s been doing
wrong by our Nell again. As the loud
feminine voice behind me in the train
related it: “Well, he came home drunk
this night and was knocking his wife about
terribly, and Nell’s husband shouted over
the fence ‘Why don’t you have a crack at
someone who’ll give you a go for your
money?’ And the other fellow sings out:
‘Hop out in the lane and I will!’ And
Nell’s husband jumped over the fence;
and the other chap starts flying into him
and they’re having a terrible fight by the
time Nell gets there. And the other
fellow’s getting the best of Jack, so she
rushes up and grabs him ; but he sort or
shakes her off and punches into Jack
again. But Nell jumps up and gets a
grip on his hair and she’s dragging him
away from Jack when his wife comes tear-
ing down the lane and starts bashin’ into
Nell like anything. And Nell starts to hit
her back; but then the other bloke grabs
his wife and Jack collars Nell and maKes
her come inside.” Pause for breath, then
the sequel: “The woman dodges Nell
since then ; but Nell reckons she 11 cate
her in the lane one of these days when
her old man’s up the pub—and she 11 ge
whacko!” Another feminine V T OIC I ®,'
“But won’t Jack stop her?” “On, Jac *
hardly ever home now—he’s always i
the pub with the other fellow,”
SEVEN-OR EIGHT-BOB.
“But we wonder whether the man or woman
buying a suit or frock for £25 will be very
interested in the 7s. to Bs. saved by the cuts.” —
President of the Retail Traders Association on the
N. S. Wales Government’s order to cut profit margins.
The wharfie threw his bale-hook down
And took a taxi up to town:
“Look, here’s ten-bob —I’m running late —
And keep the change—step on it, mate —
That leaves you seven-bob, or eight.”
The driver watched him to the door
Of a refined department store,
And muttered, “Boy, I’ve got the itch
To slap him down, that nouveau riche I
“Seven- or eight-bob!
I ought to sock the slob.
He boards my taxi, asks for speed,
And then he tips me chicken-feed —
Seven- or eight-bob /”
The wharfie thrust his sturdy legs
In British pants from chromium pegs;
The salesman said, “You handsome brute!
How well you carry it! It’s beaut!
Yes, that’s the thirty-guinea suit;
It should be seven- or eight-bob nicer,
But we’ve been forced to cut the price, sir.”
“I don’t want nothing but the best,”
The wharfie said. “Here, take the rest —
“Seven- or eight-bob;
There, sonny boy, don't sob I
I give a lot to charity —
Besides, it’s nothing, lad, to me,
Seven- or eight-bob.’’
The wharfie struck a traffic jam,
All taxis full, so took a tram:
“Well, what’s the fare tonight?” he said.
The tram-conductor shook his head:
“Three sections, eightpence! Strike me dead,
It’s time they shifted that McGirr!”
“Yes,” said the wharfie, “I concur.
The tramways never will break even
Until the fare’s eight-bob, or seven
“Seven- or eight-bob;
That’d thin this mob.
It’s time they made the tram and bus
Fit for democrats like us
With seven- or eight-bob I”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Becks”: It is just as well “M.H.E.’s”
comment on Robert Louis Stevenson’s
lack of sartorial elegance—“his trousers
generally a foot short in the leg”—was
tied up definitely to the author’s student
days at Edinburgh University (B.
11/7/’5l). Had the reference been less
specific one of Sydney’s oldest tailoring
firms might well have considered itself
slighted. In a window display on Wyn-
yard ramp, amid an assortment of top-
hats dating back to before the founda-
tion of Sydney, Chorleys have placed an
old ledger opened at the account of R. L.
Stevenson, Samoa. Against the date
January 21, 1891, it records:
£ s. d.
1 Indigo Serge Coat and Trousers 5 5 0
1 White Serge Coat and Trousers 4 15 0
1 Pair White Serge Trousers .. 112 6
There are several more items —Stevenson
was apparently replenishing his ward-
robe —the total accounting for January
and February amounting to £37. I don’t
know whether Chorleys had any other
authors on their books at that time, but
if they did, then if all I’ve heard about
Sydney writers of the ’nineties is true,
R.L.S. must have been a pleasant surprise
“A pity he's so shy.”
to them. He paid his bills on the nail —
as a ledger credit for £37 on February
17, 1891, attests.
* * * m
“Termite”; Years ago, when prices
were much lower (and quality really
much higher), Mum used to sew by the
day at ss. Although now retired, she still
—very occasionally—obliges old friends.
Visiting her former home town an old
neighbor asked how much a day she got
now. “Well,” said Mum, with a chuckle,
“when I was worth ten-bob a day I got
five ; now I’m worth five-bob a day 1 get
ten.”
* * * *
“Mullum”: Nowadays pay-envelopes
are not always made up of the smallest
number of notes and coins necessary to
complete the pay (B. 18/7/’5l). In spite
of the complaints of paymasters and bank-
tellers, many firms pay their £l2- and
£l4-a week staff in £1 notes. As one pay-
master explained to me: “If we didn’t,
the men would go to some other firm
which would pay them the way they want
it.” That sounded reasonable for these
days, but I still could not understand why
a man would want all “singles,” so 1 asked
one of the men. “That’s easy,” he told
me. “When 1 go home on Friday night I
give the missus eight quid. If she saw
me pull out two fivers I would never get
the two-quid change.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Next to the abos and the
Irish, those most addicted to superstition
are the inveterate gamblers, and of these
the seekers of quick fortunes at high
stakes at baccarat and on the roulette-
wheel seem to have it in its worst form.
As may be expected, they do the thing
properly where the stakes are highest of
all —at the gaming tables of the Riviera.
There it has long been the accepted
tradition to wear some portion of the
raiment inside-out if one would succeed
in beating the croupier or the banker. I
rejoice therefore to observe that at
Cannes recently the well-nourished
monarch of the Gyppos thought fit to
conform to traditions. In a seven-hour
game at the Palm Beach Casino at Cannes
Farouk wore his pockets inside-out he
“did” £62,500 in hot blood. Possibly the
fleabitten fellaheen along the Nile will
also rejoice. Not so much at this evidence
of their king’s superstition as at the fact
that they’ll be putting in to help make
good the loss.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Victoria’s A 2 locomotives
are to be scrapped, but they will not be
forgotten by that generation of Cabbage-
gardeners who were eating green quinces,
learning to swim and getting thrippence
from Mum to see Charlie Chaplin or
Bill Hart about the time World War I
opened. The A2s appeared to the small
boy of the day as great, black, powerful
monsters, successors to the Do’s, until
then the small boy’s engine ideal. The
challenging roar of an A 2 whistle thrilled
ears used to the comparative squeaks of
the smaller engines, and I for one have
frequently scrambled out of bed to run
across the paddocks in the night to see
an A 2 come charging round the bend
with its string of lighted carriages rock-
ing behind it. After their appearance
there was a most noticeable increase in
the number of boys ambitious to be
engine-drivers, and small girls raged at
the laws which prohibited such fulfil-
ment for their sex. Now the A2s are
finished, after nearly 40 years of grand
service, and we who were young with
them salute their passing.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: The impulse to help people
find something (B. 1/8/’5l) stems not
merely from a desire to be of assistance
but from the almost universal belief that,
had unimaginative parents not pushed us
into this or that dull routine job, we’d
have out-Sherlocked Sherlock Holmes,
Sexton Blake and the rest. Witness the
popularity of detective fiction and the
flood of “clues” that flow into police
H.Q. after any widely-publicised crime.
Most of these latter are useless, but all
are scrutinised, and occasionally one not
so wide of the mark does the Law a ser-
vice, as in the case of the crank who, in
the early ’twenties, shot several people
with a rifle in Melbourne’s Botanic
Gardens. Among the spate of advice re-
ceived at Russell-street was one letter
suggesting that the culprit was a pro-
fessional kangaroo-shooter, and, that
being so, he probably came from kanga-
roo country. Sure enough, he was
eventually run to earth in ’roo-infested
“If your lordship is stuck for a fiver or so”
Gippsland hills, a severed artery terminat-
ing proceedings both for him and for the
newspapers, which were already curling
the mo at the prospect of a first-class
“man-hunt.”
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Regular-Army discipline
(B. 1 /8/’51)? A friend of mine who still
thumps a drum in a pipers’ band joined
the Highland Light Infantry as a
drummer-boy in the early years of the
century, when his father was R.S.M. of
that regiment. The boy was wildly
elated when he received his first letter
from home. He rushed up to his father
on the barrack-square shouting “Feyther,
I’ve had a letter fra’ Mither!” The old
man promptly “crimed” him for “con-
duct to the prejudice,” for incorrectly
approaching the “sar’-major.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Father Sydney Mac Ewan,
who raises churches with song, isn’t the
only priest to use public entertainment
for that purpose. At village fairs in
France a gentle little fellow arrives and
starts diving into tanks of water from
a 100 ft. staging. Nobody knew who he
was until recently someone identified him
as the parish priest of Saone, in the de-
partment of Doubs. Like the singing
priest, the diving priest is using the col-
lections to restore his church, knocked
to pieces by bombs during the war.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The senseless vandal is still at
work on Victorian railways. Last year he
slashed upholstery to the tune of £3OOO
and smashed doors and windows to the
value of £5OOO. The most idiotic depre-
dations, however, concern the electric-
light bulbs in carriages. For years the
department has posted large notices in-
forming all and sundry that for technical
reasons the globes are useless for
domestic purposes, but the annual loss
on the suburban system continues to be
round about 13,000.
# * * *
“Ceg”: Don’t know where the term
“shouting” originated (B. 8/8/’5l), but in
England during World War I the practice
was prohibited; every drinker had to
pay for his own. Naturally, means were
soon devised to get around the ban. One
I recall was the placing of wax under the
counter on the public side of the bar.
Procedure was that when one invited a
friend to have a drink a coin was pressed
by the “shouter” of the first part into the
wax and unobtrusively extracted there-
from by the “shoutee” of the second part
who paid therewith for his drink.
♦ * * *
“Hawkes”: I had been told a “good
thing” by the stablehand’s cousin’s girl-
friend’s brother, so I decided to have a
plunge on it. My attempts to phone the
s.-p. man were frustrated by a crossed
line. After 15 minutes trying I snapped
“For goodness’ sake hang up and give me
a go.” “Is that a bookie you’re trying to
get?” the unknown phone-hog replied.
“Well, I heard him laying off £25 on
Catsmeat.” With that he hung up. I got
my number, but, deciding the omen was
good, I switched my bet to Catsmeat.
The “good thing” won, of course, and
for all I know Catsmeat may be still
running.
* * * *
“Eve”: Tram-conductors, I am told,
are often offered the fare by absent-
minded shoppers with a remark such as
“A pound of sausages, please,” but appar-
ently the brain can trick the tongue just
as easily in a coffee-shop as on a tram.
The other day, while waiting to be served.
I was reading some
notes I’d made about
Mexican food. When
the waitress came
along I mumbled
something and then
heard a bleat of
laughter. The girl
assured me that, in-
stead of my usual
“Weak coffee,
please,” I said “I
want a package of
boiled goat’s meat.”
* ♦
“Rann”: From a
personal survey of
Sydney’s roads I
have come to the
conclusion that the
only difference in
them all is that some
have more holes
than others. As be-
tween the holes,
some are bigger than
others, but the big-
gest of the lot is in
our street. Five feet
deep and full of
water, it is a stand-
ing menace one
three-year-old has
been fished out of it
already, and none
too soon, either. Protests to the council
have revealed that the Water Board is
responsible and that “representations will
be made.” The red-glass hurricane-lamp
hanging on the makeshift guard hasn’t
been lit for the three months. I have con-
sidered dressing in my oldest suit and
falling into the hole some night, but I’m
not sure that my claim for a new suit
would succeed. Thinking of the safety
of my youngsters, I should fill it in my-
self, but I’d probably be fined a fiver for
interfering with public works,
♦ * ♦ *
“Cegar”: The prevailing craze of run-
ning a savings-fund by putting all three-
penny bits received into a bottle is not
popular with bank-tellers. At my bank
this morning a small queue was held up
at the counter while the teller tried to
shake the coins through the narrow neck
of a lemonade - bottle. After some
minutes’ trying he said to the woman who
owned them “I think it’ll be quicker if I
break the bottle.” Said she: “Not on
your life. I want that bottle —there’s
threepence deposit on all lemonade-
bottles.” The teller gave her a treybit
from his own pocket and cracked the
bottle with a file. Doubtless the woman
saw in the threepence deposit the
nucleus of another collection.
* * * ♦
“Villefair”; Once worked with a
fellow who knew only one joke, and
never missed a chance to tell it. It was
about a bloke who bought a pig’s-trotter
and was so hungry he’d eaten up to his
elbow before he discovered the trotter
was finished, Trotters cost a penny each
when I first heard him tell the yarn ;
now they’re fourpence. But even at the
inflated price the homely repast is still
good value. Two trotters make a decent
feed for a man and a fair snack for his
dog. Moreover, he can generally win
the price of the feed if some fellow-
luncher can be persuaded to bet on the
number of bones per trotter. If anybody
wants to know, let him invest fourpence,
combine an enjoyable snack with a lesson
in anatomy —and find that the answer is
the unbelievable number of 32,
♦ ♦ « *
“Chevroford”: In the past year Aus-
tralian National Airways have lifted
motor-coaches, motor-cars, racehorses,
sheep, stud cattle, heavy machinery, road--
graders, bulldozers, wool, seedlings, vege-
tables, fish, icecream, wearing apparel,
shoes, confectionery, building materials,
prefabricated houses, perishable goods of
all descriptions, railway trucks, a ship’s
propeller-shaft and goodness knows what
else. A man who was in my office when
I read out this item laughingly told me
that his grandfather, a shipwright, was
associated with the man who first mooted
the idea of steel ships and how a writer
fellow came along and told him that a
ship of steel wouldn’t float. I remem-
bered with some humility an article I
once wrote proving with incontrovertible
logic that heavier-than-air ships could
never be used as aerial-freighters.
NO SANCTUARY.
“ ‘Germs,’ says a doctor in a medical journal,
‘are less likely to attack a man who wears a beard.’
Could we but listen-in when bacilli
At solemn protest-meetings keenly gather
(And gatherings must ever occupy
A wog’s attention), we would hear them
slather
With virulence those humans they descry
Who scorn to give their dials a daily lather,
But wear a hirsute growth down to the chest
In which the birds might safely build a nest.
With this conclusion you may well agree;
The countenance that’s been too closely
shaven.
That’s rendered smooth as ever it can be.
Doesn’t permit the germs the ideal haven.
Off it they’ll slip a few times, foolishly,
Then: “Nevermore!” they’ll vow as quoth
the raven
(You’ll recognise that little bit, I know,
If you’ve been reading Edgar Allan Poe).
But beavers! The bacillus doesn’t live
Who hasn’t heard the stern parental warning—
And on this point they’re very positive:
All human bipeds who they see adorning
The face with fungus they must always give
The go-by. And for those who would be
scorning
This admonition there’d be no more hope
Than being a captive ’neath a microscope.
The wog which in such herbage seeks to tread
Inexorably courts the worst disaster.
In tortuous maze to nowhere he’ll be led;
Its trackless depths he cannot hope to master.
His doom is sealed as surely, be it said,
As if he were encased in pounds of plaster.
Some reckless germs have stormed the beards
of men
And never have they been heard of again!
The streptococcus who delights to frisk
(A sense of prudence he’d be never learning)
Within tobacco-stained and bushy whisk-
Ers of some careless cocky who is burning
Off, and fires his ziff, takes quite a risk
That to his family he’ll be ne’er returning.
Fearful indeed you might account its fate:
To fry, or, even worse, to suffocate.
Another prospect for it you may glean,
Should it escape demise by conflagration;
The potent poison from the nicotine
Might compass its complete annihilation.
Or it might catch another germ unseen.
It even could succumb to slow starvation.
Small wonder, then, that homo sapiens’ beard
Should by the bacilli be greatly feared.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”: The best hour of the day?
It's like this. When I can no longer see
I stack my tools, swing into the saddle
and head across the ridges for home. The
sun has long gone down, a half-hearted
line of light lingers on the western
horizon, and the world is fast settling
into darkness. Everywhere is peace—a
peace that drives out weariness and leaves
no room for the cares of the morrow.
The stark limbs of dead gums are lined
against the sky and patches of dark
undergrowth assume unfamiliar propor-
tions as my nag steps over fallen timber
and skirts the washouts. She’s a grand
mare; I leave it to her. The jackasses
have finished their chorus, the magpies
finally retired after many dwindling
“goodnights,” and from far out on the
swamp-flats comes the harsh, lonely note
of a plover. A bit early for night-life, but
one venturesome possum crosses our pad,
pauses to watch, then scuttles up the trunk
of a yellowbox. Hungry, probably. We
walk quietly among the frog noises in the
wet gully and climb the ridge to catch
the faint wind sighing its benediction
over the tired world. How still every-
thing is! And how puny the world’s
worries! A foolish waste of that element
so precious to mere mortals. The night
has all the answers. Over the head of a
giant stringybark a star shows, shining
tonight as it has shone through all the
ages before the beginning of life. And
the great contentment that breathes in
the living night seeps slowly into a man’s
soul. My mare bears steadily on. Now
she has reached the yards. The hour is
over. I heave 3 sigh, strip off the saddle,
“Then the brute told me to shut my big trap."
shoulder my cares once more and drag
wearily towards the late chores.
* * * *
“8.J.L.”: Old Higgs and his boys
struck a huge boulder, half in and half
out of the ground, when clearing. With
rope and tackle they hauled it out, and
ther© it lay, a huge mass that defied
transport—neither the team nor the
tractor had a hope of shifting it. All
efforts to break it failed. Higgs was
completely stumped until Mrs. Higgs
arrived with the afternoon’s crib. “It
looks as though you’ll just have to dig
the hole it came from a lot deeper and
tip it back again, Dad,” she said. It
really takes a woman to solve these little
rural problems.
* * ♦ *
“Emjai”: Tarmy was an Italian-Maori
cross, very big, reputedly tough. When
he settled in western N.S.W. he took to
himself an abo. belle, and while begetting
a baker’s dozen of offspring found work
about the stations. Buffo, the eldest of
• the bambino-cwm-piccaninnies, outgrew
his pa in bulk and ferocity of appearance.
In a wet-sheep spell at Jillabong things
got lively at the township pub. Tarmy
picked the wiry rouseabout, which was
bad business, for Snagger had moved
around a bit; he’d worked on the pearl-
luggers and roughed it around the islands
and knew how to use his nine-stone, and
he would knuckle-up with little provoca-
tion. Crack! Crack! And Tarmy was
down. Up again and down again. Some-
one ran for Buffo in a hurry. The big
fellow picked up the skittled Tarmy, and,
glaring at Snagger, demanded; “Hey!
Did you hit my father? Do that again.”
Clonk! And Tarmy was down once
more. As he again restored him to the
perpendicular Buffo roared: “Hey!
You! Just you do that once again
and” Clunk! And Tarmy was out
for the full count. As he lifted his gory
sire for the third time Buffo said “Hey!
Father! You’d better come on home out
of this or you’ll be gettin’ hurt.”
* * * *
“Rooster”: Some of the most bril-
liant colors in nature —the feathers of
the peacock and humming-bird and the
scales of butterflies and beetles —are the
result of play of light on surfaces. Feathers
have a thin covering of horny material;
the scales of insects have a thin film of a
material known as chitin. These coverings
may be thin and flat or sculptured and
ridged in complex fashions ; they may be
colorless or tinted. Light rays on them
bring about peculiar optical effects. The
same principle is used as in the making of
“shot” silk, the interplay of colors being
entirely due to differing angles of vision.
Often a wet surface loses its optical
effects. Pigmentation in most reptiles,
combined with optical effects, brings
about remarkably swift color-changes,
which serves them admirably for camou-
flage purposes.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: Euston, mid-Murray,
slept under a clear autumn moon. Not
a leaf stirred on the old Murray-gums
behind the Royal, not a curlew cried on
the plain up the Balranald-road, the frogs
were silent across the common, and even
the old windmill behind the post-office
forbore to wheeze. The village might
have been denuded of all life for any
sign there was of movement. Then, out
from the shadows of the pepperinas be-
side the Royal a figure stepped. It
looked forth upon the moonlit scene.
scratched its head, wiped its mouth with
one hand, cleared its throat, then stepped
carefully into the road and passed like
a shadow into the gums. Stillness
descended once more. Then out of the
pepperinas came another figure, four-
legged this time and with a tail. It
raised an inquiring nose, ran a quick half-
circle in the road, sat on its rump and
considered, arose, smelled the corner of
the pub, paused again, then suddenly
flitted in a shambling run towards the
‘Catch!”
shadow of the gum, where it disap-
peared. There was another moment of
stillness. Then up from the gums floated
a pleased and chiding voice: “Hallo,
Rowdy, y’ old blankard. Whereinell did
y’ get t’? Woke up an’ found y’ gone an’
was lookin’ for y’.” Into the moonlight
came man and dog, back across the road,
into the shade of the pepperinas, and
down came stillness again. Red Louis
and his dog had found each other and
settled down again to await the opening
of the bar in the morning.
* * * ♦
“Wandana”: A Tasmanian, walking
along a country road, looked up at hear-
ing the raucous cawing of a crow over-
head. A few
seconds later
he noticed
s o m e t hing
flutter down-
wards ; at his
feet lay a
twisted - up
10s. note. I know
rats will take any-
thing that comes their
way, but thought the
funereal flier favored
only items which
could be mistaken
for eggs, like golf-
balls. But perhaps
Kelly considers the currency is now so
debased it can be regarded in the nature
of carrion.
* • • •
“Clo”: The bird’s-nest from which the
Chinese make their celebrated soup is
that of the spine-tailed swift. These
birds build in millions in most of the
limestone caves of Malaya, the greatest
colonies being found in the huge Batu
caves, a few miles outside Kuala Lumpur.
During the nesting season the birds exude
a plentiful supply of glutinous saliva
which dries hard quickly when being
moulded into a nest. The collection of
these nests was a major industry in
Malaya when I was there, netting over
£85,000 annually. Ahmat himself has a
curious and pretty superstition to account
for these clear, transparent nests; he be-
lieves they are composed of dried sea-
foam which is collected by the birds as
they skim the breakers on their yearly
return from migration to the south.
« * « «
“8.A.K.”: Long ’Un had the floor.
“I remember when the old man entered
our mare in the picnic races ; she was
pretty good, but she wouldn’t do her best
for anyone except me. The old feller
knew that. He knew I was a stone and
a half too heavy, too. But he told me:
‘Well, it’s up to you. It can be done, but
you’ll have to cut down on tucker and
work like a bullock.’ He was wrong.
Bullocks don’t chop wood thirteen hours
a day, and they don’t cut acres of sorg-
hum with a reaping-hook. And when
it’s too dark and the moon’s not up they
don’t go into the barn and turn a hand-
chaffcutter half the night. I used to sit
at the table with my tongue hanging out
while my big and little brothers got stuck
into the rice puddin’s and milk custards.
If my sister had been a sport she would
have postponed her weddin’; but she
wasn’t. I had to be satisfied with two
ham sandwiches and a cup o’ tea without
milk or sugar —and pass the jellies and
trifles and pop and plonk to the other
greedy-gutses. But I made the weight
with twenty-four hours to spare.” Pause ;
then—“By cripes I was upset when the old
man told me he was goin’ to sell the
mare.” “Sell her!” exclaimed Chicken
“What did he want to sell her for?” “For
pigfeed,” Long ’Un grinned lugubriously.
“She broke her leg jumpin’ the fence the
night before the race.”
♦ • • «
“Blime”: “Dill, the boss wants you to
meet him and go out to the creek-pad-
dock on Thursday for a day on the rab-
bits,” I reported dutifully, “you’ll have
to take your lunch. And sharpen up a
mattock.” “Righto.” On the morning
in question the boss struck a hold-up, so
I called at Dill’s shack. “He’s gone to
town, Dill,” I told him. “Said to tell you
next Thlursday’ll do.” The following
week I again sought the prospective rab-
biter and found him waiting. “The old
man’s cutting chaff today,” I mentioned.
“Said it can’t wait. He’ll be ready to go
to the creek-paddock with you next Mon-
day.” On Monday it was raining heavily,
and again the expedition was off. When
it cleared a week later Dill once more
had his pack up. “The old man can’t
make it today,” I told him- “Got a cow
down.” Dill started to grumble. “No
good y’ growling,” I snapped. “He can’t
lose a good cow. And if the rabbits have
to wait it’s his own lookout, anyway.”
“Aw, I ain’t worryin’ about the rabbits,”
Dill complained, “but it’s over three
weeks now since he told me t’ get ready
t’ go. I c’n find plenty else t’ do, an’ it
don’t hurt me mattock t’ wait, but cripes,
if he don’t get on to it soon me lunch’ll
be gettin’ awful ’ard.”
♦ • ♦ ♦
“Oomalas” (New Britain): It is during
flood rains here in the “wet,” with a
strong nor’-wester blowing unceasingly,
that you see the sea-birds at their best.
The waters of St. Georges Channel were
yellow with floodwaters from three rivers,
and dozens of floating bamboo-islands
and huge logs make navigation danger-
ous. The fresh had driven the fish away
from their feeding-grounds and most of
the sea-birds into our small harbor, the
sandy beaches of which were alive with
them. The first to arrive were the nod-
dies, followed by terns, and at dusk one
day numbers of jacksnipe landed.
Obviously they had travelled far,
for they relaxed immediately and at
daybreak next morning were in the
same position. Sandpipers were busy
in the seaweed on the beach and
herons fished in the fringes of the back-
water almost hidden by overhanging
mangroves. The kingfisher made a sud-
den down-dart and, without changing
pace, stabbed and bounced back in one
movement to his perch on a stump. But
it was weather made for the frigate-birds.
I counted 28 of them sporting high up in
the teeth of the gale, moving in groups
or pairs, singly or as a whole force, fly-
ing line-ahead, moving in ever-increasing
circles, then in a solid phalanx, or stepped
as their imitators, the Berlin-bound
bombers, did for protection in dirtier
days. Almost standing on their tails,
they would suddenly wheel away in per-
fect unison and soar with wind behind in
a huge circle till all were moving into the
gale again. Not once during hours of
this fascinating aerobatic display did I
see one wing flap. All land-birds were
silent and unseen, save the übiquitous
willy-wagtail, who, though not built for
high-flying aerobatics as the frigate-bird,
derived as much pleasure in his low flying
and sudden darts up on his tail into the
wind. Playing or working, w.w. sings
on and on. Between times he relieved his
wife in domestic duties. Their home,
open to all winds and rains, was built on
the butt-end of a log aground on a reef
in mid-harbor. The first nest was built
on that log 11 years ago, and, according
to the natives, the strafing and bombing
of the harbor —it was a Jap barge hide-
out —didn’t prevent the birds or other
ones from carrying out their prodyctjflt
drive.
LUTANA RISE.
Out of Lutana Rise the grass waves,
Always yellow.
Heat-licked grass, where in the winter
Washing of rain laps hollow.
“Ah, yes,” the grass says,
Nodding to the stones
(Its dark-tongued stones
And weary little flowers),
“Winter comes, we are sad with rain,
And summer leaves us fallow;
But summer’s breath is forever through us,
Yellow.”
Grass alone on Lutana Rise
Cruelly sings in summer’s breeze,
Dry-tongued round quiet telegraph poles
That grow there instead of trees;
Only grass hugs the waiting Rise,
Where the sun will turn dull brown yellow.
I want to go out to Lutana Rise
And in rain make the warm grass my pillow,
Feeling the live ghost of summer’s breath,
Yellow, yellow, yellow.
TASMANIA.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


“Gravelsnatcher”: Whales are moving
northwards along the Westralian coast;
and on the other side of the globe, in
Persia, British scientists are successfully
coping with a plague of locusts. The
connection between the two events is in
the fact that both are migratory move-
ments. If it seems odd to compare the
migration of the world’s largest mammals
with that of a group of insects, reflect
that one swarm of locusts was estimated to
cover an area of 2000 square miles, and
to weigh— at an average of one-sixteenth
ounce per insect —42,850,000,000 tons.
Migration is a barely-understood term,
and isn’t usually applied to locusts, but
it is becoming increasingly obvious that
the urge which prompts locusts to swarm
is closely allied to the instincts which
govern “true” migration ; and that both
may be caused by an excess of vitamins
in the animal’s food. It is known that an
overdose of vitamins is responsible for
the periodic mass movements of lemmings,
whose invasions of the surrounding
country are so inconvenient in Norway
and invariably end in mass destruction —
they simply swim out to sea until they
drown. They eat some mountain herb
which stimulates breeding processes and
results in overpopulation of the area;
and, since the vitamin is indestructible
and is passed from one generation to
another, the breeding-rate continues.
More than that—the effect is passed on to
the birds and animals that prey on the
lemmings. Locusts may spend genera-
tions in what is called the “solitary
phase,” during which time they don’t
swarm. Then, without warning, they do.
Scientists reckon that when they find out
which vitamin is responsible for the
sudden change they’ll be well on the way
to controlling locust plagues.
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: “Why don’t you send those
blasted skins away?” I growled, stepping
for the thousandth time over the pile that
slithered out into the wet every time the
door was opened. Seventyfiver glanced
round. “I’m goin’ to, Sol. Got a bag at
the store yest’y, an’ I’ll bundle ’em into it
an’ pack em’ down t’ the road t’ catch
the mailcart.” For the next fortnight the
old bloke wondered nightly what his
rabbitskins would make, and decided in
turn to spend the proceeds on a new coat,
a decent bridle, and the importation of a
truckload of sugar all for himself. The
night his returns came I grabbed the
newspaper and settled by the fire. I’d
read the main items and was turning to
the smaller print when there was a pro-
digious sigh near the table. “Y’ know
them skins, Sol? I got three-bob a pound
for ’em.” “Fair enough,” I grunted, “Not
good skins,” Silence for a few minutes.
“And y’ know the blokes that sold ’em?
They charged a bob.” “Fair enough.”
“Eh? Yair, I s’pose so. An’ there was
the railways. They was one-an’-five-
pence.” “That’s about right.” “An’ the
motor transport cost me two-bob.”
“Seems fair.” Seventyfiver’s brows drew
together. “Then there was five-an’-nine-
pence for the new sack at the store,” he
scowled. “An’ I ’ad t’ give the mail-cart
two-bob for takin’ ’em inter town.”
“Reasonable.” “And for me day’s work
catchin’ them rabbits,” he continued, his
voice rising, “for skinnin’, cuttin’ wires
an’ peggin’, t’ say nothin’ of another
coupla hours gettin’ ’em ready, I got,
Sol ... I got” He paused and glared
challengingly. "... a blasted one-an’-
fourpence.” I kept on reading.
* * * , *
“Kali”: In Borneo I took our clerk,
a well-educated Dusun whose English
was as good as mine, and whose grand-
father was one of the greatest head-
hunters of his tribe, on a shooting trip.
He looked with great disfavor at the label
on the tin of rabbit I produced, and
promptly told me that he wasn’t a par-
ticipant. He told me that goats were also
taboo, explaining that if he ate the flesh
of one he was certain to assume the shape
of William when he eventually reached
the spirit world high on the slopes of
Mount Kinabula. To partake of the
milk of any animal was also anathema
to any self-respecting Dusun, and he
himself considered such a tipple disgust-
ing and unclean. Yet he had no com-
punctions about polishing off six tins of
condensed-milk while I was having a
shave.
* ♦ • *
“Arno”: The pride of the boss’s old
age was his two-acre garden. In the last
two years he had sacked eight men in
the hope of finding one who would keep
'he garden as he wanted it; Harry, the
ninth, had done well to stay three months.
In that time he had cleaned up, manured
and replanted the flower-beds, kept the
wide lawns mowed, pruned the trees and
flowering shrubs, regravelled the drive and
paths and brought the vegetable-garden
into full production. And now he was
ready to tackle the tangled, overgrown
bushes that had once been a hedge.
Apparently none of his eight predecessors
had got that far. To his query as to
how high he wanted the hedge the boss
replied: “As high as you can reach.”
All that day, while the boss was in town.
"This is the last Army disposals sale I'm going to!”
Harry toiled with saw and secateurs to
get the 10ft. overgrowth down to a level
sft. But the boss’s greeting was: “What
the devil have you chopped it that low
for?” “Well, you said as high as I could
reach” began Harry. The boss
looked at him with mingled pity and
disgust. “Harry,” he said, “the last man
that cut that hedge had a plank on two
44-gallon drums.” That night the ninth
gardener packed up his things. “1 give it
“What happens if I get stuck between floors before the lift starts
Working again ?”
away,” he said. “If a man says as high
as I can reach, I don’t reckon he means
as high as I can reach standing on
something."
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: When the ganger on
the railway job heard Mat’s name he be-
gan calling him Matthew; presently he
varied it. Sometimes it would be “Hey,
Matthew, do this,” or “Mark, bring that
shovel here,” or “Get going, Luke,” or
“How are y’ going, John?” Mat stood
it for a while, then he bucked. “Here,”
he demanded, “what’s the ruddy idea o’
givin’ a man four different names?
Howinell am I t’ know who y’re callin’?”
The ganger looked at him. “Sorry,” he
said, “I was tryin’ t’ be funny. You
know, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,
the blokes that wrote the Gospels.” “The
what?” The ganger explained in more
detail. “Aw,” Mat said, “I always
thought it meant when y’ got four Jacks
in poker.”
* * * *
“Rokeby”: A sun-shower drove me
inside, and I sat watching raindrops
trickle down the window. Presently on
the outside of the pane appeared a small
spider, attracted by a raindrop jerkily
making its way down. With each move
of the water the spider made a little dash
in pursuit and then stopped, moving its
palps excitedly. Then the quarry came
near the bottom of the pane, slipped into
a little runnel and disappeared. The
hunter halted, puzzled and frustrated.
Another rain-drop took its attention, and
the previous performance was repeated.
Next time the spider took no chances.
It tailed the lively raindrop for a couple
of preliminary moves and then dashed in
for the kill. As soon as its palps touched
the water it drew back, obviously per-
plexed. It retreated a little and sprang
again, determined to finish off its un-
orthodox opponent, only to retire baffled
once more. As the spider waited for a
third opening the raindrop rather cad-
dishly joined up with a few others and
submerged its identity in a minor
Niagara at the bottom of the pane. It
was then that the spider retired to chew
its fingernails in rage.
* * * *
“Mikijo”; If I had a wheatfarm I’d
start an afforestation scheme of my own.
I'd plant in every paddock a line of trees
about a chain apart at an angle of 45
degrees from one corner reaching to the
centre. That way the headlands would
be measurable, a shade would be pro-
vided at intervals for bag-sewing, lunch
and running repairs. The loss of culti-
vation-area would be negligible, and the
benefits would be felt not only when
working wheat but during the grazing
period for the sheep, which now are
more to the wheat-cocky than “the gentle-
men that pay the rent.” Further, I’d
plant either fodder- or nut-trees. It is
true that they would have to be watered
during the first few seasons and provided
with guards. But that would be a small
item in comparison with the rewards of
even small afforestation. And I main-
tain that the one way the cocky can
return thanks to the gods who have sent
him a string of good seasons with high
prices is to plant trees. And, like all
gestures of gratitude, it would be good
business.
* * ♦ ♦
“Rooster”: There can be few species
of butterflies with as great a range as that
of the “painted lady.” During a sojourn
in Tobruk in 1941 I came across a mass
breeding-ground of these tenacious and
adventurous insects. Later, in the early
spring, they mass-migrated to the north,
making across Musso’s “lake.” The
“painted lady” has reached Iceland, a
tremendous hop for such a frail creature,
That they are great wanderers over the
sea has been definitely proved. A pair
of them flopped on the fo’c’sle-deck of
the Mauretania when that ship convoyed
the first Australian contingent of troops
to the M.E. in 1940. It was 250 miles
to the nearest land.
* * * ♦
“V.”: The old bloke was delighted at
getting the new man to work for him,
and gave Mum instructions to make him
comfortable. Mum did her best, but
upon inquiring, after the first night, how
he had slept, learned he had been awake
most of the time. Mum found him a
softer mattress and added another
blanket. The next morning her query
brought the same complaint. That day
Mum contributed her favorite pillow and
an ancient wool rug, then rooted out a
book, thinking an hour’s reading before
bed might induce sleep. Far into the
night the bloke read, and the following
morning reported more sleeplessness.
“Dunno what’s the matter with that cove,”
puzzled Dad. “Seems t’ need special
lookin’-after. Take ’im out some tea ’n’
things in the afternoons, Mum. He’s in
the bush paddick.” Loaded with hot buns
and the billy. Mum made the bush pad-
dock, but saw nothing of the bloke.
Several times she cooeed. Then over
the ridge she went, through the wattle
scrub and down the far side. The tea
was almost cold when eventually she
found him in a small sheltered gully.
Prostrate on the stony ground, his head on
the overturned blade of his shovel, the
new hand was snoring contentedly.
TATTERDEMALION.
What does the scarecrow think,
Lounging there, hat on eyes, among the stalks?
Harsh stubble chatters in a husky voice
Close by his broomstick feet,
And sweet wild poppies fling their dusky pink.
“The crop was green,
It rippled like green water in the breeze.
Green husks like hands
Cupped cobs as yellow as the morning sun.
Crows rasped from distant trees.
His hat was jaunty on his broomstick head.
The scarecrow flapped his sleeves, and starlings
fled.”
Now, where the corn stood, row on ordered row,
The thistle pirates hoist their purple flags.
What does the scarecrow think,
Leaning towards the wind in tattered rags? . . .
Cool . . . cool . . . sweet raindrops, gently,
gently run
In elfin rivers down his dusty coat.
Wind, rub rough fingers through his shaggy hair.
Sleep , . . sleep, old ragged fellow, while the
sun
Pours its smooth honey on your drowsy head,
And starlings strike their harsh and jarring note.
N.S.W.
JOAN TIMMS.


y
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Les'ie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson. M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Hcffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Safeguard your Estate
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of your Will.
Advantages: Security Continuity Expert Management Impartiality
Accessibility Secrecy Continuous Audit Moderate Charges Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
mjm
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, €968,009
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref.
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. , Ord. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 274,450 33,696 10 p.c.= 175,000 923,107
From inventory reserve, £203,910 ..1,127,017
Loss.
1945.. 68,528 33,696 Nil 1,024,793
From tax reserve, £15,849 .. ..1,040,642
1946.. 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
Profit sale assets, £21,918 .. 591,385
Equity subsid. profits, £3585 .. 694,920
Profit.
1947.. 570,372 33,696 Nil 1,131,596
From inventory reserve, £140,900 .. 1,272,496
Profit sale assets, £2109 .. .. 1,274,605
Equity subsid. profits, £5441 ..1,280,046
1948.. 681,604 33,696 Nil 1,927,954
G.M.-H. and Subsidiary.
Sale fixed assets, £2428 .. ..1,930,382
1949.. 477,159 33,696 Nil 2,373,845
Net loss realisation assets, £33,776 .. 2,340,069
Net equity subsid. profit, £21,390 .. 2,361,459
1950.2,603,304 33,696 50 p.c.= 875,000 4,056,167
This big motor-manufacturing, -assembly
and -distributing organisation has spent
no less than £6,147,000 on reconversion
and expansion since war ended. The
money went mostly into new plant,
equipment and factory premises for pro-
duction of the co.’s all-Australian-made
Holden car and utility vehicles, and the
rest into rounding-out and balancing
other productive facilities. First units of
these new, sturdy six-cylinder jobs came
off the assembly-lines toward the close
of 1948, and the target of 20,000 cars p.a.
was not reached until the end of 1949.
So it was not until last term that earn-
ings began to reap full benefit from the
heavy capital outlay involved in the big
programme of development, cost of
which was the main factor in the slip in
the 1949 profit figure.
Spurred by the inflationary boom, de-
mand for the Holden has exceeded the
board’s expectations, and the order-book
continues to lengthen its lead over pro-
duction. The British-made Vauxhall and
Bedford vehicles, supplies of which also
fall short of demand, rank second on the
list of the co.’s car and truck sales. Here
are the figures:
Number Cars and
Trucks.
1949. 1950.
Holden 7,725 20,113
Vauxhall/Bedford 15,785 16,800
U.S. and Canadian .. .. 6,433 7,055
Total 29,943 43,968
In 1950 the Holden accounted for 14 p.c.
of all new car registrations in Australia
as against 8.7 p.c. in 1949. The co.’s non-
vehicle products—chiefly auto, parts and
accessories, household and commercial re-
frigeration units, diesel engines, etc. —are
also handy contributors to the pool. The
dollar problem has virtually put the co.'s
American franchises —Chevrolet, Buick,
Pontiac, Oldsmobile and Cadillac —into
cold-storage.
Last term turnover shot up by
£13,296,214 (60.9 p.c.), reaching a record
£35,118,752, of which £30,118,162 (85.7
p.c.) was on account of vehicle and
£5,000,590 (14.3 p.c.) non-vehicle pro-
ducts. Of each £1 of turnover, 12s. 4d.
was paid to suppliers of materials, etc.,
3s. 9d. to employees in wages, etc., 2s. 2d.
to the Government in taxes, 4d. was set
aside for depreciation, shareholders took
6d. in dividends and 1 Id. was ploughed
back into the business. The total amount
provided for income tax, etc., was
£2,798,289, or £194,000-odd more than
was earned for shareholders. If sales tax
is added, the Government’s whack for the
year was approximately £5,600,000.
The year’s profit was a record, too,
£2,603,364 (up £2,126,145). It was 7.4
p.c. of sales (Is. sd. in the £) as against
2.2 p.c. in 1949 and 8.2 p.c. for the years
1936-40. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) it was 40.9 p.c.
Of the £2,311,600 of share capital,
General Motors Corp. (U.S.) owns the
£1,750,000 of ords., or all but a small
fraction of them, and the Australian
public the £561,600 of 6 p.c. prefs., issued
in 1931 in part-payment for Holden’s
motorbody-building works at Woodville
(S. Aus.), After paying the pref, div.,
enough remained to show 146.8 p.c. on
ord. capital compared with 25.3, 37 and
30.6 p.c. for the three preceding years.
For the two reconversion years before that
losses totalling £506,057 showed up. The
ords., which were passed by for the five
years to 1949 (money was wanted in the
business), got a nominal 50 p.c., making
an average of 20.6 p.c. for the 20 years
since the merger with Holden’s. The de-
clared ord. div. is nominal because it is
subject to payment of an overseas share-
holders’ tax of 30 p.c., which reduces the
50 p.c. to 35 p.c. For the same reason the
board has abstained from issuing bonus-
scrip by capitalising reserves.
A marked strengthening of finances was
accompanied by some big changes in bal-
ance-sheet items:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Preference.. £561,600 £561,600 £561,600 £561,600
Ordinary .. 1.750,000 1,750,000 1,750.000 1,750,000
Outside interests 38,548 42,175 47,569
Bank overdraft 1,870,335 2,935,572 3,829,803
Creditors .. 3,508,425 4,025.859 5,215,425 5.757,261
Tax reserve.. 7,485 73,880 507,383 2,697,251
Final div. .. 16,848 16,848 16,848 16,848
Premises .. 1,083,709 1,117,570 1,172,073 1,167,621
Plant .. 1,790,448 2,905,108 2,815,122 2,163,139
Stocks .. 4,841,817 6,252,787 9,046,623 9,535,043
Debtors .. 771,212 660,550 903,580 727,950
Diflt. in share
values .. 25,663 25,663 25,663
Cash, etc. .. 371,988 372,210 839,412 1,245,334
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for taxation and depreciation
and an extra £541,836 from creditors, en-
abled the big overdraft (£3,829,803 at pre-
vious balance) to be wiped out, £488,420
to be added to stocks and £905,922 to
cash, etc. Of the amount coming to
creditors £3,707,217 is a family affair.
The reactions of the Government’s
campaign to halt inflation and of its de-
fence programme upon the business will
remain difficult to assess until the Budget
is brought down, and with it details of
taxation, etc. On the production side the
co. can be expected to get its fair share
of defence contracts; but to what extent
re-tooling and new lay-out may be in-
volved remains to be seen. Diversion of
both manpower and materials might
affect output for the civilian market. In
the U.S, non-defence consumption, in-
cluding automobiles and household equip-
ment, has been cut through control of
materials.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 63,162 11 p.c. = 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,96* 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
1945.. 72,562 11 „ „ 55,000 17,662 392,303
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 55,000 1,184 393,487
1947.. 23,584 11 „ „ 55,000 362,071
From inner reserves, £33,985 .. 396,056
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 55,000 29,444 425,500
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 39,638 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 22,918 488,057
1951.. 88,557 13 „ „ 65,000 23,557 511,614
Next after the big C.S.R. the scrip of this
Bundaberg grower, miller and refiner is
the most popular in the sugar group. The
price of the f.-p. pound shares, visibly
covered by 40s. sd. in net tangibles, ad-
vanced from 695. a year ago to 86s. in
Feb., 1951, eased to 795. 9d. in June and
to 775. 3d._ last week, when a steadier tone
prevailed in the market, which has been
reorienting itself to coming changes in the
economic and fiscal climate. The return
at 775. 3d. is 3.3 p.c. on a 13 p.c. div.
basis.
Last term the co.’s two mills (Millaquin
and Qunaba) handled a record tonnage of
cane, but the excessively wet season re-
sulted in intermittent running and an ex-
tension of the crushing season, which
aggravated the effects of spiralling wage
and other costs. Still, the outturn of raws
was 4724 tons better at 45,186 tons. The
other important factor in the profit-earn-
ing capacity of the industry is the average
price received for the raws. The figure
has fluctuated with the volume and price
of the export surplus—the increase in
both has largely taken care of the upsurge
in costs since war ended. About 56 p.c.
of Australia’s total output of raws
(920,416 tons) was sold locally last season,
the balance being taken by the British
Government under contract. The home
price (controlled) was steady at
£23 16s. 6d. a ton, and exports averaged
£A32 16s. a ton as against £A29 7s. 6d.
for 1949 and £AIS for 1944. Overall
average price for the season was
£27 17s. 2d. compared with £26 9s. 3d.
for 1949.
The co.’s earnings from growing and
milling are stiffened by returns from a
fine wad of investments outside the
business and by moderate pickings from
refining the small portion of the Queens-
land crop not handled by C.S.R. The in-
vestments, which total £726,135 (£226,135
more than paid capital), consist of Gov-
ernment securities (£549,102), shares in
the Bundaberg Distillery (in the books at
£64,951, or 60 p.c. of face-value) and
shares in other cos. (£112,082). The
distillery, which has long been a good
profit-earner, “experienced a sustained
demand for its products.”
After allowing something for taxation
and £41,561 (up £9397) for deprecia-
tion, net earnings from all sources totalled
£88,557 (up £639), or 17.7 p.c. on capital
as against 17.6, 20.9, 16.9, 4.7, 11.2 and
14.5 p.c. back to 1945. The distribution,
steady at 11 p.c. for the 11 years to 1948,
was maintained at 13 p.c., of which 5 p.c.
is labelled bonus.
To cope with the lift in mill peaks,
which has followed on the new agreement
for a bigger export of raws to U.K. and
the growth in local demand, Millaquin
has been expanding and modernising its
plant at an estimated cost of about
£250,000; and it has the money to finish
the work:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors, etc.* 263,931 419,207 460,957 526,796
Final div. . . 87,500 45,000 45,000 45,000
Freeholds, re-
finery. etc. 291,932 801,629 318,009 317,909
Plantations, etc. 40,184 44,170 47,192 51,055
Railways, etc. 37,197 86,031 34,342 35,863
Stocks . . 103,232 141,641 126,293 174,452
Book debts . . 67,552 61,192 125,323 89,886
Investments . . 574,429 587,079 625,562 726.135
Cash .. .. 112,405 257,603 217,293 188,110
* Including taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£606,787) was
£18,273.
The dry spell in the sugar belt since
end Jan. last is expected to result in a
lighter crushing and outturn of raws for
the current term. However, the average
export price of raws is expected to be
about £2 better at £33 a ton, and, to
further soften the blow from spiralling
costs, the selling-price of fines in the
home market has been increased by Hd.,
making it 6£d. per pound. This will lift
the home-consumption price of raws by
about £7 35., making the figure £3l a
ton. It all augurs well for the current
year’s earnings, seasonal conditions not-
withstanding.
Deposit and' Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 30,842 8 p.c. = 30,000 842 60,703
1943.. 34,560 9 „ „ 33,750 810 61,513
1946.. 37,633 10 „ „ 37,500 133 61,646
1947.. 38,294 10 „ „ 38,119 175 61,821
1948.. 40,147 10 „ „ 39,998 149 61,970
Share premiums, £1(j,265 .. .. 78,235
1949.. 40,749 10 p.c. = 40,278 471 78,706
Surplus sale property, etc., £15,514 94,220
Share premiums, £17,068 .. .. 111,288
1950.. 47,989 10 p.c. = 44,792 3197 114,485
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 139,485
Surplus sale of shares, £2174 .. 141,659
1951.. 57,666 10 p.c. = 52,500 5166 146,826
It used to be the N.S.W. Mont de Piete
Deposit and Investment Co., Ltd., which
set up in the pawnbroking business in
Sydney 69 years ago. For the last 30
of them it has been steadily building up
straight-out mortgage connections, which
have long been given first place among
the securities in the balance sheet. So,
half-way through the last term, the old
nameplate was taken down and the new
and less cumbersome title of Deposit and
Investment Co., Ltd., adopted. At the same
time the parent’s pledge activities were
passed to a wholly-owned subsidiary,
N.S.W. Mont de Piete Pty. The co. has
branches throughout the suburbs and at
Wollongong, Newcastle and Cessnock, as
well as at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Shareholders have never failed to re-
ceive a div. during the last 41 years,
averages being Hi p.c. for the 20 years
to 1930, 5.3 p.c. for the next eight diffi-
cult years, and 9.4 p.c. for the 13 years
to the close of last accounts. Visibly
there has never been much to spare, which
suggests that the inner reserve against
book debts has, for the most part, proved
adequate.
The volume of business has kept in step
with the times, gross earnings having in-
creased by over 70 p.c. during the last
three years:—
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross .. £76,820 £86,495 £97,054 £130,710
Exes. .. 36,673 45,746 48,065 73,044
Profit ~ £40,147 £40,749 £48,989 £57,666
Last term gross earnings (after providing
for bad and doubtful debts, etc.) stepped
up by £33,656. Exes, gobbled £24,979
of the gain, leaving net profit £8677
stronger at £57,666, which was 10.9 p.c.
on average capital compared with 10.7,
10.1 and 10 p.a for the three preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 10 p.c. for the
sixth year in succession. With the aid of
£58,333 of share premiums and £17,688
surplus on sale of assets (chief of which
was a Brisbane freehold), reserves have
more than doubled over the last three
years, reaching £146,826.
To help finance expanding business
66,666 new £1 ords. were issued at a
premium of 10s. each in May, 1949 ; a
year later another 33,334 were put out
at par, and in Dec., 1950, a further
100,000 were issued at a premium of ss.
each. It all lifted paid capital to £550,000
at June 30, 1951, with £50,000 still to
come on the last issue:
Parent’s Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £432,531 £500,000 £550,000
Overdraft . . 32,392 14,322 6,083 58,668
Creditors* . . 38,385 43,886 47,811 102,897
Final divs. .. 20,000 20,278 22,917 27,500
Freeholds and
fittings . . 67,655 67,599 55,441 55,640
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 2,004 2,004 2,004 2,004
Owing by sub-
sidiaries . . 127,752 136,668 191,693 296,217
Mortgages, etc. 361,449 379,391 437,991 526,914
Gash ~ 3,987 4,061 4,168 5,116
* Includes tax provision.
Last term’s new capital (£50,000) and
share premiums (£25,000), together with
an extra £52,585 from the bank and
£55,086 from creditors, etc., was used
mainly to assist the subsidiaries, whose
debts to the parent increased by £104,524,
and to further expand the parent’s own
mortgages, etc. (up £88,923). Over the
last three years the amount owing by
subsidiaries increased by £168,465 and
mortgages, etc., by £175,465. When the
books closed there was only 4s. 7d. of
outside money at risk in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders.
The f.-p. pound shares have remained
fairly steady in the market around 475.
The return at 475. is 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. On the same basis, the 10s.-
paid contribs. at 31s. 6d. give an immedi-
ate return of 3.1 p.c., or 4.8 p.c. when
fully paid. Including uncalled capital, net
tangible cover is 245. lid.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1940.. 42,530 94p.c.= 42,152 378 174.486
1941.. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 Si,. „ 37,715 159,615
1943.. 25,169 8 „ „ 35,496 149,288
1944.. 26,692 7 „ „ 31,059 144,921
1945.. 26,824 6 „ „ 26,622 202 145,123
1946.. 27,015 6 „ „ 26,622 393 145,516
1947.. 26,735 6 „ „ 26,622 113 145,629
1948.. 12,258 6 ~ „ 26,622 131,265
1949.. 27,330 6 „ „ 26,622 708 131,973
Added replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 141,973
1950.. 27,183 6 p.c. = 26,622 561 142,534
Added replacement reserve, £10,000.. 152,534
1951.. 26,982 6 p.c. = 26,622 360 152,894
The co.’s fleet —four motor-vessels and
five steamers —operates on the N.S.W.


TODDY'S PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-six years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
tfte
m
m
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREET SYDNEY
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ŵ
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HOLBIN CARTHEW late
of Bowral in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MARCIA
HARRIET CARTHEW has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 769 of 1951 on the
grounds of your desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd
October 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164 Phillip Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRANCIS McKAY formerly of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that UNA MAY
McKAY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1200 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 31st October 1951 and
obtain copy petition without charge from
M. B. BYLES & CO., Solicitors, 4 Oastle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SHARE ISSUE
300,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH
ISSUED AT PAR
THE PRODUCERS' CO-OPERATIVE
DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY LIMITED
(Registered under the Co-operation Act)
Producer Owned i Producer Controlled
As a result of the confidence and consistent support
extended by Producers in every field of primary pro-
duction, the Society to-day is the largest Co-operative
distributing organisation in the Commonwealth. It is
the Producers’ safeguard against speculation and
exploitation.
• Annual turnover, £16,690,799.
« 36 Branches in N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria and
Tasmania.
• Cash reserves (used in the business) total £361,834.
• A dividend has been regularly declared—present
rate, 5%.
• Surplus earnings returned to Producers by rebate
against Commissions paid.
Intending subscribers are urged to lodge applications
early. Full details and application forms available from
THE PRODUCERS' CO-OP. DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY LIMITED
Head Office—Quay and Valentine Sts., Sydney.
ẁ
STORMPROOF
RIDING COAT
The ideal Waterproof Riding Coat for
farmers, stockmen, drovers, etc.
• Double stormproof, press-button
front with extra cape shoulders.
• Guaranteed waterproof—black oil-
skin with a light canvas backing.
• Fantail riding back with large
patch pockets.
• In sizes SM, M, OS, and XOS.
Post 2/6
REDUCED PRICE £5/17/6
fAKFAIMMS
f?S3
&
TARPAULINS
HAYSTACK COVERS
Definitely first quality 15oz.
green-proofed imported canvas,
treated with rotproof and water-
proof compound, guaranteed to
give years of wear, expertly
made with ropes and eyelets
along all sides and reinforced
to give added strength.
ẃ
12 x 15
14 x 16
14 x 18
16 x 18
18 x 20
20 x 25
. £lB 5 0
. £22 10 0
. £25 10 0
. £2B 15 0
. £36 5 0
. £49 15 0
20 x 30
£59 10 0
Any size made to order within 7 days F.O.R.
If used exclusively as a haystack cover deduct 5 p-c. sales
FAMILY
AUTO-
TENTS
/
EXPERTLY made of best quality canvas, having a 1 4oz. Green-
proofed canvas gabled top, being 1 0 feet high in centre and
white Boz. canvas sides, 6 feet high, reinforced along seams on
gabled top with ropes sewn in around eaves. All eyelets rein-
forced with leather and canvas. All compactly packed into a
canvas bag. A home away from home. Definitely the
cheapest prices.
9ft. x 9ft., £25/5/-; 12ft. x 12ft., £34/5/-;
12ft. x 18ft., £46/2/-
Ropeg, poles and pegs, 60/- extra. Free on rail.
"SPORTSCRAFT"
MAIDS. GIRLS, LADIES JODHPURS
Stylishly made and beautifully cut, with reinforced inside
pads, 2 side pockets, loop for belt and turned cuff, made of
hard-wearing fawn and grey VENETIAN CLOTH (Tweed
Gabardine). Also washable Khaki Drill. Ideally suitable
for Sports and Country wear.
Venetian Cloth: Waist 1 8 to 25 ins., Girls and Maids, 49/6 pr.
Ladies, SSW, SW, W and OS 59/6 pr.
Khaki Drill: Girls and Maids, 39/6 pr. Ladies, SSW to OS,
49/6 pr. Wool-Gabardine: Fawn, £ 5/10/- pr.
When ordering state outside leg measurement. Post 2/-.
FARMERS MAIL ORDER CO.
DEPT. B.
Prompt attention to Mail Orders Money refunded if not satisfied.
50 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic. JA 3830.
coast north of Newcastle to the
Queensland border. Early last
term trading suffered from the
aftermath of floods; then,
owing to a long spell of wet
weather, excessive overtime had
to be worked to cope with cargo
offering ; vessels are still unable
to proceed to the terminal port
(Kempsey) on the Macleay
River, involving both the co.
and consignees in additional
cost; and the lift in freight-rates
was offset by the continued
spiralling of wage and all other
operating costs, which were
again aggravated by frivolous
industrial disputes on the water-
front and the slow turn-round
of vessels.
There was little change in the
year’s declared profit (£26,982,
down £201), which was only
£360 more than the 6 p.c. div.
called for, and for the second
year in succession no specific
allowance was made for depre-
ciation, but £lO,OOO (same as
previous term) was reserved for
replacements before the year’s
profit was written into the p.
and 1. account. In 1948 £lO,OOO
was allowed for depreciation as
against £33,389 on a slightly
larger fleet in 1938. Since earn-
mgs include returns from
£543,248 of Government!
securities, it is doubtful whether
the fleet earned any profit at all
on the basis of depreciation at
current replacement costs.
So, shareholders can largely
thank the board for its liberal
pre-war allowance for deprecia-
ti°n for maintenance of the 6
p.c. div. Profits recently claimed
by the co. disguise the gravity
of the situation which has arisen
in connection with the price-
level and the capital-preservation
needs of trade and industry. No
real profit is earned by any
trader until adequate provision
has been made for replacement
of the assets whereby profit is
earned. Officialdom’s failure to
recognise this fundamental truth
is something for which trade and
industry, and all connected with
it, will pay dearly in the long
run -
From the investor’s point of
view the attractive feature is the
co.’s strong financial position:—
Paid capital £443/700 £443/700
Liabilities* . 82,581 98,757 93.417
Final div... 26,622 is.sii 13,311
ships .. 68,245 68,490 68,490
Freeholds, etc. 8,100 8,050 8,051
Liquids .. 608,530 621,761 626,781
‘includes provision lor taxation.
The ships appear in the books
at probably less than a single
unit of the fleet would cost to-
day. Liquids include £543,248
of Government securities, and
surplus liquids amount to
£520,053, or £76,353 more than
paid capital.
In its reassessment of equity
prospects generally, the share-
market has shortened its bid for
the co.’s f.-p. pound shares,
covered by 265. lid. in net tan-
gibles, from 265. at June 30 to
235. 3d. last week. The return
at 235. 3d. is 5.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis.
Kampong Lanjut Tin
This co, has two properties
in the Perak district (Malaya)
and two dredges. The Japs left
the dredges, on the original
Kampong Lanjut area, which is
now uneconomical for further
development, submerged and
partly dismantled. No. 2 is now
being completely dismantled for
storing, pending transfer to a
new area, for which negotiations
are proceeding.
No. 1 was reconstructed on
the new Wardiebum section, and
started commercial production
again on Nov. 1, 1950, when the
price of tin was around its peak.
For the five months to end
March last it dug 1,008,000 c.y.
of 0.651 b. ground for 291.13
tons t. 0,, assaying 75.5 p.c.
metal. Including the trial run,
total production was 324.05 tons
t. 0., equal to 244.94 tons
metallic tin, which sold at an
average of £81205 11s. sd. a ton.
Including export duty (£40,799),
depreciation (£22,343) and pro-
vision for taxation (£10,000),
all-in costs (£188,969) were equal
to £771 per ton of metal.
The profit was £91,597 (30.5 p.c.
on capital), of which £BO,OOO
was reserved for “new area and
dredge removal” and £BOOO for
contingencies. No div. was paid.
There is about 35,000,000 c.y.,
bored to average 0.61 b. t. 0.,
awaiting treatment in the
Wardiebum area.
The co.’s war-damage claims
have been assessed at £276,901,
of which 60 p.c. (£166,141) has
been received, and payment of
the balance (£110,760) is
expected during the current
term. The money thus received,
together with an interim award
of £11,694 for loss of stores, etc.,
was used to wipe out a loan of
£28,179 from the Malayan Gov-
ernment and to reduce the loan
from the Rehabilitation Finance
Board by £145,120, leaving it
£59,047. When the books closed
current assets totalled £237,825,
of which £202,722 was cash and
Government securities. There
was only £27,930 coming to
sundry creditors.
The London spot price of tin,
which rocketed from an average
of £S6OO a ton for Jan., 1950,
to £81470 for Feb., 1951,
dropped to £8866 for July, and
has since fluctuated within the
£SBOO-£S9OO bracket, as pre-
dicted in these columns some
time ago. On Aug. 15 the spot
figure was £BB3O and forward
£BBll. The recession was due
chiefly to withdrawal of
American buying on stockpile
account.
The market prices the co.’s
pound shares at 375. 6d. as
against 275. 6d. in Jan. last.
Cent. Norseman Gold Corp.
This co., which is working the
Phoenix, Princess Royal and
Lady Miller mines at Norseman
(W.A.), treated more lower-
grade ore at higher cost and
less profit for the year to March
31 last. The profit was £115,929
(down £66,699), of which a 15
p.c. div, (25 p.c. previous year)
took £97,500, and £8503 was
written off on account of options
abandoned. Another 6d. a share
(10 p.c.) was paid on June 30
last. The profit was written
after writing off £96,205 and
capitalising £5908 on account of
development.
The mill crushed 153,928 tons
(up 16,239 tons) for 41,4290 z.
(down 34950 z.) fine gold and
40,5360 z. (up 87380 z.) silver.
Most of the feed came from the
new No. 4 ore-body in the
Phoenix and was hauled through
the new Regent shaft. Overall
average grade was s.4dwt. (down
l.ldwt.) gold, representing a
93.3 p.c. recovery, and s.3dwt.
(up o.7dwt.) silver —ore from
No. 25 level of the new shaft
was not as rich as expected and
some high-grade stuff had to be
by-passed for technical reasons.
Working costs at 69.15. per ton
were 18.55. heavier, of which
12.55. was on account of
development.
Ore reserves at March 27 were
put at 295,000 tons, averaging
7.4dwt., mostly in the Phoenix
and Princess Royal. Some
encouraging developments have
been met with in the upper levels
of the Princess Royal and at
No. 27 level of the Regent
shaft, now down 2956 ft., with
the reef close below the foot-
wall, and further down, near
No. 31 level, the drill has dis-
closed low-grade laminated
quartz in a strong shear.
The co. has pegged about 3|
miles of new ground north of
the Princess Royal and 936
acres north of the Phoenix. The
option over the Mount Mine, at
Widgiemooltha, held jointly
with Western Mining Corp., has
been abandoned. Plant capacity
is in process of being stepped up
from 150,000 tons to 200,000
tons p.a.
When the books closed
current assets, mostly stores
(£106,856) and cash, etc.
(£71,146), totalled £222,472;
there was only £39,133 coming
to outsiders. Paid capital is
£650,000 in ss. shares, of which
Western Mining Corp. holds 51
p.c. The market prices the scrip
at 12s. 6d. as against 16s. early
in 1951.


w
Fly 8.0.A.C
around the world
by an all-pressurized Speedbird Fleet
You may book in Australia —and fly from South, East or
West Africa to Europe by Hermes Speedbird, one of the
famous 8.0.A.C. fleet. Pleasant relaxation is provided for
40 passengers with deep, semi-reclining chairs. Superlative
meals, complimentary wines, liqueurs and cigarettes are
served in the traditional B.OAC. manner.
The sound proofed cabin is air-conditioned on the ground
as well as when airborne —ensuring maximum comfort in
tropical climates.
&
u
/
SPEEDBIRD ROUTES LINK ALL 6 CONTINENTS
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
GET THERE SOONER • STAY THERE LONGER
FL Y " BOAC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
azs/au
Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid much
future care and worry
By the appointment
of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as
your Executor and
Trustee, you will ensure
the maximum protec-
tion for your
dependents.
The Company has a
wide knowledge of in-
dustrial, investment
and pastoral problems.
By efficient manage-
ment and courteous,
friendly service, it has grown to be the
largest Trustee Company in the Southern
Hemisphere.
An ever-increasing number of profes-
sional and business men, realizing the need
to provide the maximum protection for their
dependents, are following the example of
men with larger Estates who have appointed
the Company as their Executor.
If you would have further information
as to the services rendered by the Com-
pany ring B 0377 or write and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will gladly
give the information you desire.
Br
S IfT Ri
EE
li
ii
in
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EKECUTOB ANT) TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director
A. G. AKMTTAGE, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT VAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
has done more damage to the
Australian economy than J. T.
Lang ever did.
There is a definite pause in the
sharemarket at present. Indi-
vidual movements are now likely
to occur in different stocks as
balance-sheets come forward.
B.H.P.’s figures indicated that it
is feeling the effects of low out-
put and high costs. On the other
hand some companies, such as
John Mcllwraith Industries and
(earlier) Electricity Meter, have
agreeably surprised the market
with their results.
Industry generally has many
problems to overcome, the chief
ones being availability of labor
and supplies, controlled selling-
prices in relation to uncontrolled
costs, the taxation burden and
the problem of asset-replace-
ment.
But sound dividend-paying
industrials appear to offer the
best long-range protection of
capital against inflation, which is
still rampant.
Whale Industries
Whale Products Pty., Ltd., a
subsidiary of Whale Industries,
Ltd., has an assurance from the
Federal Government that,
subject to the fulfilment of
certain conditions, a five-year
licence will be granted to it per-
mitting the co. to catch and
treat up to 500 humpback
whales each year off the eastern
coast of Australia. According
to the peculiar arithmetic of
international law as relating to
whales, 1 blue whale = 2\
humpbacks = 2 fin whales.
A factory site has been
selected at Tangalooma, on the
west coast of Moreton Island,
near Brisbane. Two whale-
Interest, Wool and Shares
Forecasts of a long-term
Consols rate of 3| p.c., com-
pared with 3 i p.c. in 1950 and
previous years, disturbed the
sharemarket last week, as did
reports of a heavy fall in prices
at the opening of the New
Zealand wool sales. It was cal-
culated that there was a drop of
50 p.c. from peak prices estab-
lished in February this year.
The wool sold was Corriedale
rather than Merino, and in Aus-
tralia the market has already
undergone a considerable re-
adjustment. It is a fact also that
fine Merino wool is holding its
position better than coarser
wools. There is still no visible
overproduction of wool, though
the position as regards military
stockpiling is not clear.
The absurd price-freeze in
N. S. Wales has also added to
trading difficulties in the prin-
cipal industrial State, And the
head-on political collisions at
the Premiers’ Conference has
added nothing encouraging to
the economic atmosphere. There
has been a clash between
Premiers speaking as mouth-
pieces of the trade-union move-
ment and those representing a
broader section of the com-
munity, between defence com-
mitments and civilian needs, and
between Federal powers and
State interests generally.
High costs and low production
have produced an economic
crisis in Australia, and, as is
usual in times of crisis, even
close friends find cause for
conflict. Mr. McGirr, Premier
of N. S. Wales, has unfortunately
shown that politics is his one
concern. His contributions to
our problems have been
chaos added to confusion. He
catchers are to be bought and
employed.
According to the technical
advisers to Whale Products,
Ltd., Moreton Island is one of
the closest points to the
migratory routes of whales
travelling to and from the
Antarctic and warmer waters
between the months of May and
November, which represents the
whaling season north of 40deg.
south.
Whale Industries, Ltd., is
offering the public 2,000,000 ss.
shares to finance its factory and
ship-purchase programme. These
have been underwritten by the
Mainguard (Sydney) concern.
An additional 140,000 shares
(£35,000) are being issued to
acquire all the shares in Whale
Products Pty., Ltd., Farm
Margarine Pty., Ltd., and Hi-
Protein Pty., Ltd., which have
a combined paid capital of
£3500.
Whale Products will remain
the whaling subsidiary, with
Captain Alf Melsom, a Nor-
wegian, as manager. A staff of
about 110 men is reckoned to
be necessary for the factory and
catchers. It is anticipated in the
prospectus that the factory will
be completed and the catchers
delivered in time to commence
whaling in the 1952 season
(May-November).
The two steam whale-catchers
will be of 800-1500 i.h.p., and
the station plant is designed to
produce oil, stock-food and
fertilisers from a maximum of
nine humpbacks in 24 hours. It
is intended that the whaling-
station will be the largest and
most modern yet constructed.
According to Captain Melsom,
the co. should be able to catch
and treat its full quota of 500
whales annually.
Average output of each hump-
back is estimated at 7 to 1\ tons
of oil and 3 to tons of meat.
Present price of whale-oil over-
seas is put at “in excess of £l5O
sterling per ton.”
Captain Melsom’s estimate of
capital outlay is £llO,OOO for
the factory and £200,219 for the
plant and machinery, including
installation costs ; two catcher-
boats are reckoned to cost
£BO,OOO. The prospectus puts
underwriting and flotation costs
at' £25,000, leaving £84,781 for
working capital.
No. 1 problem of the co.,
when it is fully equipped, will
be: “First catch your whale.”
The co.’s advisers consider it to
be centrally situated for the job.
The whole project, of course,
is speculative and seasonal. But
if anything like the co.’s quota
of whales can be caught there is
an opportunity, at present prices
for whale-oil, to make profits
in keeping with the specu-
lative risks of the venture and
in relation to its share capital.
High profits from whaling have
already been made on the Wes-
tralian coast.
On the board are Robert
Crichton-Brown, William Buck-
ingham, L. W. Farnsworth, J. F.
Mant, W. M. Mayberry, Captain
Alf. Melsom and C. R. M.
Shannon. Brokers to the issue
are Headlam and Hewson,
Sydney.
John Mcll wraith Industries
(B. 4/7/’5l) has come to light
with a p.c. maiden div. as
public co., paying it out of
profits equal to 19 p.c. p.a. for
the eight months of trading. The
prospectus indicated confidence
that 10 p.c. would be paid. The
co. is a Melbourne supplier of
plumbers’ and builders’ hard-
ware with inter-State connec-
tions. In Sydney, Swans, Ltd.,
has maintained its 15 p.c. distri-
bution notwithstanding a one-
for-two bonus issue during the
year. Most manufacturers and
distributors of builders’ hard-
ware appear to have had a good
year. Results of R. B. Davies
Industries are awaited with
interest. A new issue of capital
and a linking-up with overseas
interests are proposed.
* * * *
The opening of A.W.A. shares
at slightly below the Common-
wealth’s placement price should
settle one side of the political
argument for good. The offering
“You should do all right in Australia, son. They say
you get money for nothing out there.”
came at a difficult time, of
course, and 853,956 Bs. 6d. shares
at 455. each (plus stamp-duty)
involved nearly £2 million. At
the annual div. rate of 12 p.c. the
yield offering was only about
2£ p.c. With regard to the
Federal Government’s interest
in Commonwealth Oil Refineries
it has yet to be decided whether
the Government can act without
the approval of its partner, the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Co.
♦ * * *
The 1951 wine vintage has
shown substantial decreases in
almost all districts, according to
K. T. Hardy, chairman of the
Australian Wine Board. But
the quality of the wines will
be high. In South Aus-
tralia, which normally produces
nearly 80 per cent, of Australia’s
wine, the vintage was the
smallest since 1945. Total vint-
age is only 18.4 million gallons,
a fall of 6.6 million gallons
compared with last year. Des-
sert wine is estimated at 7.5 mil-
lion gallons, table wine at 1.4
million and distillation at 9.4
million gallons. An immediate
shortage of wine is unavoidable.
Prices paid for wine grapes this
year broke all previous records.


- AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —•
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ŵ
sxrtonnM
or
AUSTRALIA
PHILLIP PARKER KING
Captain Phillip Parker King, a son of Governor
King, was sent from England in 1817 to complete
the exploration of the north-western coast of
Australia.
On arrival in Sydney, he was given command
of the cutter "Mermaid”, and sailing by way of
Bass Strait to North West Cape, commenced his
survey along the coast towards Arnhem Land.
During his four voyages off the northern and
north-western coasts, King named Port Essington
and Buccaneer’s Archipelago (after Dampier),
proved the insularity of Melville Island and charted
the coastline. He also sailed up the west coast
from Rottnest Island to Cygnet Bay and surveyed
the entrance to Macquarie Harbour, Tasmania.
On the occasion of the jubilee of the Common-
wealth of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales
Australia’s pioneer bank, established in 1817
honours the explorers who opened the way for the
development of this great country.
r yOv 1 -
ẁ
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(ixniavn oaxmn hu» saavM. hxqos nan « dsxraoaioom)
ASIIOO
Jephone:
74337
ẃ
F. E. De GROOT
Dealer in Antiques and Wor\s of Art
Fine Art Expert
59 DAWSON STREET, DUBLIN
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
UKAbKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
Bon »m-
- aHU going strong.
JW.IMI.Ii
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
With the breaking-up of the
schools and the passing of
August bank holiday the holiday
season has reached its peak.
Parliament is in recess for two
months, after what could in no
sense be described as memor-
able end-of-term celebrations.
It is doubtful whether the House
has ever before risen to such a
clamor of disapprobation from
outside.
Mr. Herbert Morrison has
added nothing to his reputation
in his new role of Foreign Secre-
tary. His appearances in the
House have been uncomfortable
and unsure for so old a Parlia-
mentarian. In particular, his
frequent resort when in the face
of criticism to such cheap jack
political tactics as weeping jibes
and blundering assaults has been
interpreted as a sign of weak-
ness. Pedigree Foreign Secre-
taries, it is held, don’t need to
depend upon browbeating their
critics; they answer them.
The continued irresponsibility
of certain Cabinet Ministers also
spreads embarrassment among
the suffering public. Mr. Shin-
well’s statement at an American
Press conference (that he must
limit his talks on the co-ordina-
tion of arms to three days so as
to be in time to judge a beauty
contest at Durham) may have
been seized upon with undue
relish. The ultimate impression
is one ®f flippancy on the part
of the Minister of Defence
while on the nation’s business
in the U.S.A.
As for Mr. Dalton’s “good
fun,” this bids fair to join com-
pany with Mr. Sevan’s “lower
than vermin” and Mr. Shin-
well’s “tinker’s cuss.” “My
friend Gaitskell’s speech, what-
ever else it has done, has thrown
the Stock Exchange into com-
plete disorder, and that is good
fun, anyhow,” were the words
he is reported to have used in a
recent speech. They brought
forth a shrivelling attack by the
chairman of the Stock
Exchange, and also, from the
Press, a brief recapitulation of
Mr. Dalton’s own experiments
while Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, with a reminder of how
his notorious caused trust-
ing investors to lose nearly one-
third of their capital. The Prime
Minister saw fit to try to pass
the affair off as “a humorous
aside.” That is not the general
opinion, which inclines more to
the view that Mr. Dalton’s
malicious little joke was in bad
taste.
Gaitskell Falls in Line
Since Mr. Gaitskell took over
the thankless office of Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer frequent
tributes have been paid to his
undoubted ability and marked
courage, especially in dealing
with the Leftish extremists and
their blustering leader, Mr.
Aneurin Bevan. He has also
been commended for his inde-
pendence of thought —a man
who saw the facts plainly and
faced them squarely. In the
course of his Budget speech he
remarked: “There are some who
disagree with profits in principle.
I do not share their view. In
an economy which is run three-
quarters by private enterprise it
is foolish to ignore the function
of profits as an incentive.”
He has now let the cat out of
the bag and set the dovecotes
a-flutter by the speech which
brought such merriment to Mr.
Dalton. The essence of his pro-
posed legislation, which is in-
tended for next October, is:
(а) To stop prices visibly rising by
Government order, imposing controls
on many goods, including breakfast
foods and fish, and
(б) To control dividends by statute
as a “psychological” sop to strengthen
exhortations in restraint of "wage
claims.
Comment varies considerably
as to the possible effects of his
bill, but is unanimous about its
purpose, which is held to be
pure party politics: a conces-
sion, as it were, to his party’s
backers, the trade-unions and a
broadside in the election cam-
paign. The city view is that,
once again, the decent and trust-
ing folk will suffer most. That
is to say, those boards of
directors that conscientiously
carried out the Government’s
request to limit their dividends
voluntarily will be assessed on
a lower figure than those who
took no notice. Other factors
(hardly likely to boost industry
when the balance of payments
calls for an increase of 25 per
cent, in exports) include a cold-
shoulder to much-needed new
capital for industrial firms, a
stifling effect on the issue of
ordinary shares, and confusion
and uncertainty in the city.
The Chancellor frankly admits
that the proposed price-controls
are not estimated to affect the
cost-of-living index by more
than two points ; and there is
no confidence that appeals for
restraint will have any more
effect upon wage claims in the
future than in the past. It
seems abundantly plain that the
measure is crude domestic
propaganda intended to assuage
the delegates to the forthcoming
Trade - union Congress and
Labor-party Conference,
Forty Years On
In 1906, a young actor under-
studied Sir George Alexander in
a Pinero play at the St. James’s
Theatre. He was soon promoted
to a supporting part for an
extended tour. Throughout his
distinguished career on the
English stage he has nursed a
double ambition: to revive the
play in the West End and to
appear himself in the part for
which he had formed such a
strong personal affection. It is
a happy circumstance that this
actor, Godfrey Tearle, has now
realised his ambition coin-
cidentally with the bestowal of a
well-merited knighthood.
There are many (including
the present reviewer) who, hav-
ing read but not seen the play
in question, “His House in
Order,” hold it in similar high
regard. They have sped to the
New Theatre eager to witness
its restoration, only to come
away disappointed. The truth
is that it revives badly. Tastes
and values have changed so
much that the passing of 45
years has added issues, conflicts
and sympathies never dreamed
of by the author.
The play concerns Nina, the
second wife of a landed M.P. to
whom “order” means mechanical
precision in the running of his
country house. Poor Nina!
She is spirited, pretty and affec-
tionate, but insufficient and out-
of-place by comparison with
Annabelle, the impeccable first
wife. So much so that her des-
pairing husband has to call in
his late wife’s sister, a waspish
but orderly soul, as house-
keeper ; and must always have
her family on the doorstep to
remind him of dear Annabelle’s
virtues. But Nina finds some
letters which prove beyqnd
doubt that Annabelle, though a
paragon of orderliness, was any-
thing but virtuous. Should the
wronged and vengeful Nina
spill the beans and spite the
egregious in-laws?
By modem lights, such a
spirited woman would probably
send the housekeeper packing,
spank her odious little prig of a
stepson, put Annabelle’s sainted
memory and impossible family
into the limbo and firmly re-
educate her misguided husband
to a proper sense of values.
But the play, which reads so
well, pursues its tenuous course.
John Counsell’s production
doesn’t help. One group of
characters is extravagantly
farcical and the other subtly
human. The two don’t mix.
And, in one or two instances,
the acting is rank bad.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
Introduction
Rachel biddulph henning,
author of these letters, was born in
England 125 years ago. She was the
eldest of five children who, when Rachel
was 14, lost their father and, when she
was 19, their mother. She then became,
in effect, head of this youthful family.
The letters begin in 1853, when Bid-
dulph, Rachel’s only brother (then 19,
and considered “delicate”) and her sister
Annie (23) sailed for Australia in the
Great Britain.
Rachel and her sisters Henrietta
(“Etta” of the letters, who had married
the Rev. T. W. Boyce in August, 1851)
and Amy were thus separated, for the
time being, from Biddulph and Annie.
Rachel’s early letters are addressed
from England to Biddulph and Annie in
Australia. She moved around from one
part of England to another, spending
her time agreeably with some of her
numerous relatives, and keeping Bid-
dulph and Annie in Australia informed
of family, social and political doings in
Britain.
In August, 185 4, Rachel and her sister
Amy, with their cousin, Tregenna Bid-
dulph, left for Australia in the Calcutta.
They reached Melbourne on October 15
and landed in Sydney on October 22.
Six days later Rachel and Amy went to
Appin, in where Biddulph had
leased a farm. Rachel soon became very
unhappy and homesick.
The letters, which are now published
for the first time by arrangement with
Mrs. Gerald F. Dampney, of Newport
Beach, N.S.W., niece of Rachel and
daughter of Biddulph, are written in turn
from England, from Appin, Sydney and
Bathurst in N. S. Wales, and from North
Queensland. The Queensland letters are
unique, but all the correspondence, taken
together, makes a fascinating history and
family story of the time of our great-
grandparents.
Appin,
July 16, 1855.
My Dear Mr. Boyce,
I hardly know how to write
of your kindness in being so
sorry for the miseries of our
first experience of bush life, and
in promptly desiring a remedy
for them by inviting us all to
return and take up our abode
with you. I accept with thanks
and gratitude.
I speak only for myself, as
you see, for Amy’s destiny is
decided in a different way,* as
you will have heard before you
receive this ; and Annie, as Etta
anticipated, decides to remain.
I dare say she has written to
you by this mail and told you
her own views and feelings on
the subject. She is the most
generous and disinterested
character I ever saw, for she
not only stays, but says she
would not go home if she could
at present, and that this life suits
her and that she really likes it.
I can only hope that she
speaks truly and not from kind-
ness in saying that she likes the
bush. I have no doubt of her
liking Sydney, as she had a great
number of friends there, and it
certainly is a pleasant place to
visit.
But in spite of what she says,
I think it must be a sacrifice to
stay here when she might go to
England. It is a great comfort,
however, in leaving her to think
that things are very different
and very much improved to
what they were when we first
came. We have a good stout
Irish servant, who I hope will
stay. She makes good yeast
bread and we have plenty of
milk; and pigs and poultry
frequently relieve guard with the
salt beef. Lucy also does all the
washing and ironing, so there is
no hard work on our hands,
Biddulph is writing to you,
so he will tell you about the
land he means to buy on the
Bulli mountain. I think he is
sure to make it answer in time,
but of course the first clearing
will be expensive.
Annie is so much liked in
Sydney and everywhere else that
I consider my stay in England
as of very uncertain duration ;
still if only for one cm two years,
it will be worth the expense. If
you were to be imprisoned for
life you would give much for
only two years of liberty.
How I wish we all were
coming back together! Bid-
dulph and all. My first pleasure
at the thought of return has .been
terribly damped since at the idea
of leaving them all. Annie and
Biddulph especially, and some-
times I think I can never go.
However, things have lately
turned out so much better than
I ever hoped that I think of giv-
ing up despondency for the
future, and hoping and believing
that we shall all meet again.
Even Biddulph says that he
hopes to go home in a few
years.
Appin did not agree with
Amy, and she was never well
here ; and yet she has been so
delicate this winter, even in this
climate, that I do not believe she
could have lived in England.
Everyone speaks most highly of
Mr. Sloman, to whom Amy is
engaged. I have not seen him
yet. He wrote a nice letter to
Biddulph. It seems so curious
to see Biddulph addressed as
standing in loco parentis to
Amy, and he wrote a most
business-like letter in return;
signifying his gracious approval,
etc. The only objection is in
Mr. Sloman being settled so far
from Sydney, which will
separate Amy from all her
friends.
I do not know the distance
between Sydney and Bathurst,
but Biddulph has just read me an
advertisement from the “Herald”
stating that a spring-wagon has
been opportunely established be-
tween the two places, which
starts from Sydney on Monday
morning and arrives at Bathurst
at twelve on Saturday night. It
takes twelve passengers, and the
wagon is fitted-up with every
accommodation (I suppose not
four-post beds) for them sleep-
ing in it —if they can. If this
hopeful conveyance is to be the
only means of communicating
between Amy and her des-
pondent friends, the sooner Mr.
Sloman carries out his intention
of settling in Sydney the better
for all parties.
We are very glad to get the
“Illustrated News” every month.
The pictures of the frozen
Thames and snowy streets seem
so strange out here, where we
all run out in the morning if a
thin cake of ice is reported on
the puddle outside the kitchen
door, and gaze upon the rarity
with admiring eyes.
It is becoming quite a task to
read the reports of the progress,
or rather want of progress, of
the war. If there was ever a
just war this is one ; the people,
with the exception of a few
Bright | spirits, seemed heart and
soul in the matter at the begin-
ning, and we have the best
troops in the world, and yet we
seem to have done nothing
except lost our army and our
prestige in Europe, and, perhaps,
by this time have patched-up
some dishonorable peace. I do
not like to read about it now,
nor to talk about it.
Believe me your affectionate
sister,
Rachel Henning.
Appin,
July 16, 1855
My Dearest Etta,
How I should like to see you
once more; to find myself in
England again and of all parts
of England, at Danehill, It is
what I have been longing for,
though I never hoped it, ever
since I came here, and yet with
the contrariety of human nature,
now that through the kindness
of Mr. Boyce, the way is
smoothed for my return, I every
now and then hesitate about it
and think that I can never leave
Annie and Biddulph.
I rather wanted to go before
Amy’s wedding, not that I am
in such a hurry to leave them,
but because, in the bustle and
excitement of preparing for that
event, I do not think I should
be much missed. While after-
wards it might make more dif-
ference when there are but two
at home. But I heard today
from Mrs. Macdonald, who
came out with us from England
in the Calcutta and whose name
you must have often seen in
Amy’s letters to you, and she
tells me that she cannot pos-
sibly go till October, and as we
both wish to go together perhaps
I shall wait for her.
But I shall know more
certainly by the time the next
mail goes, when I have talked to
Annie about it. Dear Etta, it is
such a pleasure to think of
seeing you again soon. I seem
never to have valued your com-
pany half enough when I was
with you. There are many
things in which I think I shall
be wiser if I come back, but do
not reckon upon it with
certainty.
Annie may follow Amy’s
example and marry, and then I
suppose I am fixed here for
life. It is no use to look far
forward, but I have little doubt
that this will be the end. I may
be at home for one, two or three
years ; then Annie will marry,
and I must keep house for Bid-
dulph. He at present declares
his intention, notwithstanding
Mr. Boyce’s exhortation, of not
taking to himself a wife for the
next ten years, and I am much
mistaken if he is left in quiet
possession of Annie for all that
time. He is at present sitting
opposite to me, cutting up
lemons for marmalade.
They are “sweet lemons,” and
make better marmalade, I think,
than oranges do. Dr. Cox gave
us eighteen dozen which Bid-
dulph brought home from
Wollongong in a sack, to the
amazement of his horse. We
have already boiled up eight
dozen and mean to do about
six dozen more, as the fruit cost
nothing and sugar is cheap, and,
as our supply of butter is pre-
carious, it is very useful. The
difficulty is to find receptacles
for it all, as jars are hardly to
be had. We have already filled
all manner of pickle and
mustard bottles, and for the next
lot we shall be reduced to coffee
tins.
Biddulph has also been doing
a little in the butchering line to-
day, as we have been cutting up
a little pig which a benevolent
neighbor slew on Saturday for
us. We roasted a piece
of him (not the neigh-
bor) for dinner, and I
stuffed it with sage and
onions to my own, and
Biddulph’s, admiration.
The pig was killed in
honor of Annie and
Amy’s return, but that
happy event has been
put off so many times
that it is possible we
may have to eat all the
pork ourselves.
Annie has been ab-
sent twenty, and Amy
ten, weeks. If my com-
ing has done no other
good, it has enabled the
former to have a nice
holiday, and she has
thoroughly enjoyed her
stay in Sydney. They
have been very gay
there, having been to
the theatre very often,
and to two public balls,
besides “friendly”
parties. We expect them
back tonight, or rather
tomorrow morning, but
it looks so threatening that I
doubt if they will come.
July 17. Annie and Amy
arrived this morning to break-
fast ; both are looking very well,
but of course they are rather
tired by their journey. Biddulph
could only stay and talk to them
for a little while, and then he set
off to Illawarra to look at the
land he intends to buy.
Of course you have heard
from them full particulars about
Amy’s wedding, etc. I do not
like the idea of not being
present, and yet it will be better
for Annie. They are busy un-
packing now, but they have left
most of their smart clothes at
Sydney till they go down there
again, as it is no use to convey
them backwards and forwards.
I have to go to Appin with
the English letters, which must
be posted today. Good-bye, my
dearest Etta.
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Henning.
[Following Amy's marriage to Mr,
Sloman on September 6, 1855, she
went to Bathurst, which was to
become her home. Rachel writes to
her from Appin. Biddulph has started
to establish a place on Bulli Moun-
tain.]
Elladale Cottage,
Appin,
September 21 , 1855.
My Dearest Amy,
I hope that by this time you
are safely arrived at your new
home. You must have had a
pleasant journey, as here the
weather has been beautiful. I
am longing to hear all about it.
How you like the place and
people. Annie promised to write
me a long letter as soon as she
arrived, so tell her not to forget.
There is little to tell you about
Appin, as usual. Biddulph was
very busy on Monday, as
Nicholls killed a calf (it was not
“Captain Fix, with whom I danced.
a fatted one) to supply the men
on the mountain with meat, and
he had to fetch wood and water
besides writing English letters.
After the usual scrimmage we
got him off at about eleven
o’clock on Tuesday, with two
packhorses laden with pr
visions, and Nicholls’s mare.
Fanny is completely laid up o
the present, as I te*.
be the case, for she is not fit f
a packhorse. He took Josh
Nicholls with him, and, or
course, intended to reac ..
mountain that evening, bu j
* Amy had become engaged to be
matried to Mr. Thomas Sloman, a
banker, of Bathurst.
f The reference is to John Bright,
who, with Richard Cobden and
others, was opposed to the war.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL HENNING, the writer of
the letters, born 1826.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1827, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830.
AMY HENNING, born 1832.
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A, (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1823.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother’s
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name.
The TUCKERS —friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. WILLIAM
TUCKER was founder of the Aus-
tralian firm of Tucker and Co.
CAPTAIN JAMES TUCKER was
his brother.


the bridges had been washed
away in the rains, and he had
to encamp for the night with the
surveyor’s men who are making
the road. He unloaded the
horses, but did not hobble them
projperly, and Jack and the little
mare quietly walked home
before morning, leaving
Nicholls’s mare, which had been
more securely tied, to carry the
whole load the rest of the way.
Luckily it was only a mile or
two, and Josh brought her back
last Wednesday evening look-
ing none the worse for her
exertions.
Biddulph sent word he should
be back on Saturday evening,
so I hope he will. I see no
prospept of the kitchen being
built yet, as they are building a
hut for stores instead ; if it is
up by November it will be a
wonder.
Lucy, the servant, went down
and washed at the waterhole
yesterday, to save bringing up
water. She is much elated by
one of the men having sent her
a message by Josh, and I am
thankful to say she has given
up tears for the present. She
does everything, and I have no
trouble except the infliction
occasionally of a string of Irish
anecdotes.
I sent Mrs. Sparling the
wedding-cake by Biddulph, as I
thought otherwise I might have
to take it myself. I have seen
nothing of her, and whether her
curiosity about the wedding will
be sufficient to make her ascend
that spirited steed of hers and
come up here, remains to be
proved.
X have just been writing to
Mrs. Macdonald. She wrote to
me to inquire about your plans,
as she had received no answer to
her letters to you, and she
wanted to see you before you
went to Bathurst. I told her
how short a time you were in
Sydney after you were married
and that you could not manage
to see her. I also gave her an
account of the wedding, and
informed her that I was not
going home at present.
I never half-thanked you for
my share of the smart things
for the wedding. I wish you
had got more for yourself and
less for us.
Remember me very kindly to
Mr. Sloman, and with kindest
love to Annie and yourself.
Believe me.
Your very affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
Redfern,
December 14, 1855.
My Dearest Etta,
It is most vexing that I have
not been able to send off your
parcel before, as most of the
things are suited for winter and
now it will not reach you till the
spring; but I could not help it.
I was detained at Appin so long
then when I got to Sydney the
case had to be made, and finally
Mr. Hirst, who undertakes the
sending off part, advised its
going direct from here by the
Wimera instead of being shipped
to Melbourne and thence on by
one of the mail-packets.
There is something from each
of us for you, my dearest Etta.
I have marked them from whom
they come, and though they will
arrive late, I hope they will still
be of use next winter.
Amy sends you a cloth mantle.
Also a scarf for the neck. You
mpst not think this latter old-
fashioned, it is an old fashion
revived again, but everybody
wears them here and X think
them pretty. There is also a
brown ribbon W'hich she brought
from England with her. She
told me to put it in as it may
do for a common bonnet. She
also sends her own and Mr.
Sloman’s likenesses. Hers is
pretty good, though rather
fierce-looking. Mr. Sloman
should not have stuck a rose in
his buttonhole.
Annie sends a winter dress,
also a collar and ribbon. I chose
the two latter as well as Amy’s
scarf, so I must be considered
responsible for them. I hope
you will like them. I hope also
you will like the silk dress. It
is rather dark, but it was meant
“The ascent of the Blue Mountains on the Penrith side was almost impassable."
for winter, and you do not get
such a choice of things here as
you do in England. I could
by no means get any trimming
to match the peach-colored
stripe, so I got a black velvet
trimming for jacket and sleeves
I think the color will be very
becoming to you. How I should
like to see you in it!
Do you remember my buying
wools to make you an anti-
macassar when I was at Exeter
with you? I did not finish it
in time for the last parcel, so I
send it now. You must have
thought it a long time coming.
Biddulph sends Mr. Boyce the
skin of a duckbill, as a specimen
of the natural curiosities of Aus-
tralia. I have peppered it well,
and I hope it is too dry to
produce another crop of those
gigantic maggots of which the
last consignment from Australia
seemed chiefly to consist. He
also sends Mr. Boyce a book of
Australian views. They are not
very splendid, as works of art,
but you will like to see them. I
have put a cross against the
places we know among them.
We have sent Mama’s likeness
that Mr. Boyce may copy it for
you. I need not ask you to take
care of it, and send it back
again. The copy will be better
than the original if the dress and
hair are modernised.
I dare say that when Mr.
Boyce sees the box unpacked he
will walk out in the garden in
disgust, under the impression
that Biddulph has favored him
with a present of a few of his
old clothes which have become
too bad for the bush. However,
the ancient coat, trousers and
waistcoat, which you will find
packed up, are only sent as
patterns. Clothes are so dear
and so bad out here, that he
wants a lot from England. He
means to get them from Man-
chester if he can, and has written
to Mr. Ellesworth about it, but
if he cannot manage it Biddulph
will ask you to get them for
him, either from London or
Taunton; the latter would be
better, as Jeanes makes well and
cheaply.
He wants three shooting
jackets, one black and two
colored; two pairs of trousers
and three waistcoats ; three suits
in all, but you had better not
do anything about it till you
hear from him himself. I don’t
think he will write to Mr. Elles-
worth by this mail.
When the clothes come out
we want several other things in
the parcel.
December 21. I wrote so far
nearly a week ago, and since
that I have written to you by
the Lightening, which letter, I
suppose, you will get first. Now
I have to finish this in a great
hurry, as I have just received a
letter from Biddulph to tell me
that he will meet me with a
horse at Wollongong on Safur-
day, and as I shall have to start
by the steamboat at eight o’clock
tomorrow morning, I have to
finish this letter tonight, as the
Wimera will have sailed before
I return to Sydney.
With much love to Mr. Boyce
and yourself,
Rachel Henning.
Redfern,
March 3, 1856.
My Dearest Annie*
I must write to you today, as
it is your birthday, to wish you
many happy returns of it. If
anyone ought to have a happy
life, you ought, but I am afraid
the chances of it are small in
Australia.
This is the third birthday you
have spent in this country. I
wish it could be the last you
would spend here. Do you re-
member the last before you left
home? We were at Ventnor, it
was a fine, cold spring day, and
we took a walk over the cliffs
towards St. Laurence’s and
found the first primroses by a
stream. It was at Danehill in
1854, and that also was a lovely
day, and Etta and Mr. Boyce
and I took a beautiful walk to
Horsted Lake, in the afternoon.
I have been looking back in my
old diaries to see
what we were
doing, the first time
I have ventured to
Pen-drawings by
Norman Lindsay
look at them for months. Oh,
Annie, if we were but all at
home together once more!
I don’t want this to be a
dismal letter if I can help it, so
I will leave the dangerous subject
and tell you about Lizzie’s
christening party. Somehow it
was not a very brilliant affair,
as Captain Tucker did not keep
up the dancing with much spirit,
and the music was so wretchedly
bad.
The Woolleys, Stewarts,
Chapmans, etc., were there.
Lizzie Tucker played the first
quadrille, and a most doleful
tune it was, like the Old
Hundredth, as Captain Fix, with
whom I danced it, said. Emily
next played a polka, so hope-
lessly out of time that I fairly
stood still, and so on all the
evening. The only good music
we had was a set of quadrilles
that Caroline and Lizzie played,
and some waltzes which Matty
and Katy Woolley did. There
was a little singing and a very
nice supper in the passage.
I went away with the Hirstsf
directly after supper, as Caroline
did not like leaving baby any
longer. We got home very com-
fortably, as the Woolley’s
carriage took us to Market-
street, where we got a cab. Mr,
Stephen went with us. The party
was kept up till about twelve,
they had a few more dances
after supper and Captain Tucker
sang “The Whale.” I am sorry
to have missed the last; it is
such fun to hea.r him.
Emily came up here on Satur-
day and said that Lizzie was
none the worse for her exer-
tions. Lizzie Chapman talked
of giving a party, but I expect it
has come to nothing; the music
is the great failure, unless you
hire someone to play as the
Woolleys always do.
You seem to have succeeded
at Amy’s party. One thing
certainly is that Lizzie’s piano
is an atrocious one, and that no
human power of fingers can get
any sound out of it. Old Mrs.
Stewart was there and enjoyed
herself very much ; hers certainly
is a wonderful recovery, and it
has made Emily quite a convert
to homoeopathy, but I do not
believe one word of it. She got
well because the complaint had
worn itself out and was best
let alone. Most complaints are.
I was so poorly all last week —
weak and feverish and whatnot
—that I dare say I should have
sent for the doctor at home, but
I let it alone and I am right
enough now.
Biddulph writes word to say
that the woodwork of the house
will be up in “two
months or ten
weeks” (say three
months, allowing
for his sanguine calcula-
tions), and that will bring us
into tiie middle of winter; and
as the house will be built
entirely of green wood, which
will shrink about an inch to the
foot with fire inside and sun
outside, you may fancy how fit
the place will be to inhabit for
six months or so.
Besides, there is a stone
chimney to be built and the
shingles to be split and put on,
for the carpenters he has engaged
do not do that, and as the stone
has to be quarried out before it
is put up, that house can’t be
habitable till next spring or
summer, and by that time it is
ten to one that he will be obliged
to give up the whole concern;
and I have stayed about four
months and may stay another
six without doing him any good.
I have been in a great fidget
these last few days as to what I
can possibly do with myself.
I am wearing myself as thin
as a lath, that being a sensible
proceeding to which I am much
given, as soon as anything goes
wrong. I do so wish I had gone
home last autumn, for I have
done no one any good by stay-
ing, and even if Biddulph stays
on that accursed mountain, he
is so used to being alone now
that you could spend two-thirds
of your time with Amy and
other friends. But now that the
Boyces have left Danehill and
no longer expect me, it is too
late.
I am very anxious for the next
letters from England ; we ought
to hear something of the rest of
Biddulph’s money soon, and I
want to know where Etta is and
how she is getting on.
Kindest love to dear Amy. I
do hope she will soon be in
Sydney.
Ever your affectionate,
Rachel Henning.
Bathurst,
April 17, 1856
My Dearest Annie,
I have been longing to write
to you, because from the last
glimpse I had of your dear face
at the railway station, I am sc
afraid you vexed yourself think-
ing I hated the journey so. It
was not particularly pleasant,
certainly, but like everything, far
worse in anticipation than
reality.
I got on famously and had
nothing disagreeable anywhere.
The ride to Penrith that night
was rather pleasant, as it was
very fine and there were only
two people besides myself in the
coach, an old farmer and a
young digger. The latter went
all the way, and was very civil
to me in helping me and my
goods in and out of the coach.
He was not quite a gentleman,
nor yet a common man. The
roads were in a most awful
state. The driver from Penrith
to Hartley said he had never
seen them so bad. The ascent of
the Blue Mountains on the
Penrith side was almost impas-
sable. We went along for four
or five miles with the axle-tree
buried in mud. I cannot think
how ever the horses did it at all.
We passed a carriage stuck in
the mud, which two horses had
not been able to pull out, so
they had been taken out and
were standing by the side of the
road, while a gentleman, up to
his knees in mud, and a stupid
Irishman were trying to fasten
four bullocks to the carriage.
Our coachman got down and
helped them, remarking that
very likely we should want to
be dragged out soon. However,
we managed to get along, and
only came to grief once. We
went through the bush to avoid
the sea of mud in the main
road, and one of the leaders got
frightened and turned off among
the trees, dragging the coach
against some saplings and nearly
upsetting it. The restive horse
was taken out of the harness,
and the passengers got out while
the coach was backed out of the
scrape.
The road was better when we
got to the top of the mountains,
though bad enough everywhere.
It was a cloudy day and yet
there was no rain, or none to
speak of, and as we did get
((Continued on page 21.}
• Annie at this time was staying
with Amy at Bathurst.
f Mrs. Hirst was formerly Caroline
Tucker.


Mileage
making
in
No
IN
TH
ER I
IDING
etter
tyres
A highly-skilled craftsman builds rim beads, plies,
sidewalls and tread inco a tyre, ready for shaping.
For extra mileage, fit . . ,
Olympic
’^^^UTRES
0m.i2.5i
ẁ
ẃ
norr»e
the uihiskt| is:
***** *
iOOUMO
ẅ
C^Cdllmrfs
C M
Scots CUhisky
(rairtibwlmw*
“The pursuit
of perfection
is the
pursuit of
sweetness and
light"
The Yellow Dog
by WILL LAWSON
WHEN Billy Anderson,
who was rabbiter on
Tea Tree station, first
saw the yellow dog, the
animal was slinking into the
shelter of some scrub on the
crest of a bare hill. Billy had
his pack of dogs with him, and
they would have bolted after the
stranger had their master not
ordered them to heel. Billy had
not his rifle with him or he
might have had a shot at the
dog.
“Some runaway from down
the valley—gone bush,” Billy
muttered. He could tell the dog
was a renegade by the way it
slunk along. When dogs go
bush they lose their character.
Billy was an expert with dogs,
but he puzzled a bit over this
one. He was such a strange-
looking one. At first sight he
had thought it was a dingo,
only uglier. Next day he carried
his rifle instead of the usual
shotgun. At the place where
the yellow dog had vanished,
he went into the scrub and
found signs where it had lain
on grass and undergrowth.
His five dogs sniffed round.
Five good dogs they were —
Tiger and Rats, Bessie and
Beauty and Bung. Bung was
the fastest. Suddenly they found
a strong scent and Bung was
away, but Billy called him back.
A stray might lead his pack from
the path of rectitude.
He was rabbiting with ferrets
and dogs. When the ferrets were
put in the burrows, the dogs
spread out to watch, ready to
pounce when rabbits emerged
hotfoot from the murderous
invaders. It was exciting—
better than trapping, as sport,
and they got many rabbits. Billy
set traps at night.
While the dogs chased the
rabbits Billy watched, shotgun
ready to shoot any that got
away. Not many got away from
Bung, who had a bit of grey-
hound in his make-up. He
always roved wide-out, ready
for the getaways from Beauty,
who, as a rule, was deadly with
her jaws. The others were not
bad. The biggest of them was
Tiger, a tall, grey dog; Billy
didn’t know what breed he was.
Breed didn’t matter with Billy.
As long as his dogs were quick,
they would do him. Until the
day’s work was over he would
not let them eat any part of a
rabbit; but once work had
finished he threw them plenty
of meat.
Mostly Billy camped out, for
a week at a time, returning over
the rough hills on Saturdays to
get cleaned up and maybe ride
into the township from the
station. Sometimes, too, one of
the shepherds might go past,
mostly on foot, for the country
was rough.
ABOUT Thursday of that
week, a few days after Billy
had seen the yellow dog, Tom •
Newton came by on horseback,
and reined-in to yarn with Billy
where he sat by a fire on which
he had boiled his billy while his
dogs lay around, some of them
asleep. It was the midday spell-
oh.
“See a yellow dog?” Tom
asked, while he sat lazily in his
saddle.
“Yes,” Billy answered.
“Couple of days ago I see one.
Big rough-looking fellow, but
sneaky, like as if he had cleared
out, ypu know how dogs act
when that happens. Where’d
you hear about him?”
“Down the township. Mac
lost one —a good dog, he
reckoned. Cattle-dog or some-
thing. He’s offering five-quid
reward.”
“Reward be darned,” Billy
said. “I got no time to go
trappin’ dogs. Dingoes is dif-
ferent. When I get a fair sight
of him. I’ll shoot him. Don’t
want him hanging round de-
moralising my pack.”
“Something in that,” Tom
agreed. “Well, I’ll be shovin’
along. Hope you shoot the
yeller dog.” His drawling voice
trailed away.
Billy saw the strange dog
twice after that, but each time
he had not his rifle with him,
so he called to the dog to make
it come and be friendly so
that it would be easier to shoot.
He meant to shoot it. The
dog still slunk about, half-
hiding in the scrub and under-
growth. Billy wondered what it
lived on. Maybe it caught
rabbits, there were plenty of
them about. But a lone dog had
to have luck in catching rabbits.
Each time he saw the dog his
own pack would have hunted it,
but he called them back sternly
with a string of oaths inter-
spersed in his objurgations that
cowed them. He had seen a
whole pack go bush with a stray
like that. He decided he must
shoot it quickly or lose his pack,
for sjnce the stranger had come
around they had become in-
attentive, sometimes to his
orders.
One day he got a shock.
He had put the ferret into a
big warren and ordered his pack
out to their places. Suddenly
half a dozen rabbits broke
cover, all in a rush, and his dogs
were rushing madly about, kill-
ing them, when a big rabbit got
past them all, and with Tiger on
his tail made for cover. It was
a hopeless chase for Tiger, and
the rabbit was gaining, when out
of some bushes bounded the
yellow dog. Like a yellow
streak it was after the rabbit;
Billy had never seen a dog move
so fast. In a flash it had the
rabbit, broke its neck and flung
it away, then stopped and stood,
while the pack rushed up to
it uncertain whether to greet
it as a friend or a foe. They
decided it was a friend; and
when Billy came up, they were
licking it and fraternising.
The big yellow dog did not run
when Billy came up, just stood
wagging its tail in an ingratiat-
ing way.
“Well, you big ugly brute,”
Billy said. “What kind of cattle-
dog are you? Not much, I
think. Still, you can catch
rabbits. The pack seem to like
you, so you can stay till I change
my mind.”
He went back to gather up
the dead rabbits and pick up his
ferret, then made his way, with
the dogs at his heels, back to
his camp down at the head of
a small creek, out of the wind.
The yellow dog came, too.
It seemed to have accepted
them all as its friends. And
from that time, with six dogs,
Billy made record bags of
rabbits. And when he took his
pack into the station and fixed
up a kennel and collar for the
new hound, everyone was inter-
ested. The man debated whether
this was the dog that old Mac
on the station next-door had
lost.
“Mac’s was a cattle-dog,” the
cook said. “This ain’t anything,
just plain mong. Must have got
away from some town some-
where ; maybe a carrier lost him
on the road on purpose.”
BILLY decided the yellow dog
was not Mac's dog. But
there was a difference, somehow,
in the pack, after this new
recruit came along. They didn’t
obey Billy as quickly as of old.
A spirit of independence had
sprung up.
Two weeks went by; the
weather got wilder in the hills,
more days were spent in camp,
the dogs seeking shelter in the
bushes. Whenever it cleared
Billy had them out again, work-
ing hard. Their new spirit of
independence was showing more
now. Maybe the dogs were
tired, but Billy -often had to
roar his lungs out to make Tiger
keep out wide. The yellow dog
always worked out wide, but
away from Tiger. The pack
seemed to watch the yellow dog,
as though for a sign, or maybe
to beat it at getting rabbits.
Without a doubt it could catch
rabbits. Lightning was the name
Billy gave it, and he always
patted it when the day was
over, while the dog’s yellow eyes
stared into his in a queer way.
One day, when Beauty was
not working well, Billy caught
her a good kick with his boot.
She yelped, but did not run
away as usual. She turned on
Billy, with lips drawn back
from her teeth.
“You devil,” Billy said, and
swung his shotgun to his
shoulder. “For two pins I’d
blow your brains out, you little
bitch.”
He was a bit scared himself.
He had heard of a pack turning
on a rabbiter, and this looked a
bit dangerous. But he did no
more, and that evening the yel-
low dog was very friendly.
Next day Billy left his shot-
gun in the camp and carried his
rifle. The dogs were used to
the shotgun, but the rifle was a
different matter. They did not
like the rifle. They knew the
difference, too. And all day
they obeyed Billy’s orders
promptly. Even the yellow dog
did. And the day wore on to a
close with a good bag of rab-
bits. The pack followed Billy
on their way to the camp as if
they were tired. Billy sensed
something strange about them
when they flung themselves on
the ground to await their meal
of rabbits. He gathered a pile
of carcasses, and, with the dogs
around him, walked into the
open to feed them.
Without any warning his fast
dog, Bung, turned and jumped
at him, jaws open. At first Billy
thought the dog was just eager
for the rabbits, but when Bess
jumped at him, too, in a nasty
way, he guessed this was it. The
war was on.
He dropped the rabbits and
dashed for his rifle, the pack at
his heels —all but the yellow dog,
which stood still, some distance
away, ears cocked intelligently,
like a general watching his
troops attack.
Releasing the catch on the
rifle, Billy aimed at Tiger, who
was coming at him in a de-
cidedly unfriendly way, teeth
bared, snarling madly. Billy
aimed, almost fired, when he
glanced up and saw the yellow
dog coming, like a rocket. Then
Billy fired, not at Tiger, but at
the yellow dog. The bullet took
the big dog right in the chest.
It leaped in the air and fell
stone-dead, while the pack scat-
tered, tails between their legs.
The thudding, deadly report of
the rifle scared them; they were
used to the shotgun. Death,
they knew, was in that terrible
sound, and when they slunk
out from cover an hour later,
coming one by one to Billy their
master, there was the yellow
dog, dead as could be.
When Billy returned to the
station that week the men won-
dered where the yellow dog was.
“That swine,” Billy said. “Had
to shoot him. Darn well started
a rebellion, he did. All my pack
took to me,” he laughed. “You
should have seen old Bung
cornin’ at me, mouth open, and
Bess, too, till they heard the
rifle —that shut ’em up. Reckon
that yellow dog was an outlaw.
In no time he’d have had a pack
of wild dogs around here killin’
sheep and God knows what. But
my word he could kill rabbits.”
ANYWHERE BUT HERE.
Some other place, some other
time.
Other men, another clime,
Receive, ye gods, my simple
prayer,
Put me, put me anywhere
Anywhere but now and here
In any country, any year,
In the future, in the past,
In the first days or the last.
I’ll hobnob if you grant my wish,
With trilobite, unfinished fish.
Or, flashing forward, gladly pray
In the supermanly way
And whet my earthy wits to greet
Those winnowed spirits I must
meet.
I’d be a nobler, steadier thing.
I’d be as happy as a king
In any other place you choose,
In any age no matter whose.
However old, in shade or sun,
Than here in 1951;
That’s why I creep and slink away
Into the novel or the play.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
REALITY.
The hills have turned as soft as
clouds,
Lost in a haze of blue-grey mist,
But all along the lighted west
Lies a long bank of solid clouds
Rounded and high and dark as
hills;
I know which I would rather climb
Had I the courage or the time.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


Divorce Notices.
IN the supreme court of nem
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PEARL BEATRICE TITTERTON.—
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR WILLIAM
CHARLES TITTERTON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce against you No. 2907
of 1951 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend the
suit you must enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 22nd day of October
1951 and you may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from F. W.
EWART, Solicitor, 21 George Street,
Parramatta.—J- DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Tn~ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND SACKLEY late
of Ballina and Dorrigo.—TAKE NOTICE
that ULA JUNE SACKLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 737 of 1951 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards You may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before 26th October
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from THOS. E. RUMMEHY
& LIDDY. Petitioner’s Solicitors, Lismore.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
%
HURTS
Circular Charts far ail typa«
af Bacardii>9 Instruments
Mf (IIN •#
mr Eqwipmani
HETCR CHARTS ■ Sparta*?
JAU^WO'SiLUVAN^U*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
A
fUfURP
Linking your future with Australia’s
is as fine and profitable a career as
you would find anywhere to-day.
Wearing the uniform of one of the
Defence Forces gives a man’s pride
and confidence a real lift! It will
give your income a lift, too. An
18-year-old serviceman who has
completed his basic recruit train-
ing (normally 3 to 6 months) is paid
£B/15/- a week. Start with this and
figure out below what it builds up to
when you add these extras.
Cash Pay (per week)
Food and accommodation
provided
Free Medical, Dental and
Hospital attention
Clothing and necessaries
supplied
At least 3 weeks’ holiday
a year plus fares and
travelling time to home
and return
w
TOTAL £
Bear in mind also that a serviceman can retire
with a pension or gratuity whilejie is still young
enough to enjoy it.
OK
&
it*
Inquire without obligation at the
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addressee:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Kinder* and Degravea Streets: In Sydney:
dir. Martin Place and Phillip Street; In Brisbane: Scottish union
House, 127 Eagle Street: In Adelaide: Richards Building, 99 Cumo
Street; In Perth: 34 King Street: In Hobart: Franklin Square;
In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
DRSLtiZTt
along I preferred the mud to the
dust.
There were only three pas-
sengers besides me, the young
man going to the diggings and
two women. One seemed like a
shopkeeper and the other was,
I think, a girl going to service.
Both were going beyond
Bathurst.
The view down Mt. Victoria
was very fine, certainly, but not
equal to Snowdon by any means.
It has rocks and woods and
is more extensive perhaps, but
it wants water. I should have
enjoyed it more, also, though I
am no great coward, if we had
not been going at a hard trot
down that steep hill with an
unguarded precipice on the left
down which a coach was upset
some time ago, and eleven pas-
sengers either killed or maimed.
I was fortunate in getting a
comfortable room to myself at
Hartley, while the other two
“ladies” had to sleep together,
and as it was clean, 1 had a good
night’s rest. Supper I had none,
as there was nothing eatable —
raw beef and bad pork, but the
biscuits and wine were a
resource. The last day’s journey
was the most tiresome, as the
sun came out very hot and gave
me a. headache, and in the after-
noon there was a heavy thunder-
storm. It did not last long, but
it came down a pelt while it
did. I was not very wet, how-
ever, owing to the shawls and
umbrella, but you may fancy I
got in a great state of mud.
How curious those Bathurst
plains are, when you first see
them, so many miles without a
single tree. Although there had
been so much rain elsewhere,
the road was quite dusty within
fifteen miles of Bathurst. Mr.
Sloman did not drive to meet
me, as he could not leave the
office, but he met me at the
coach office and walked home
with me. Amy was looking
very well and very glad to see
me, and I was rejoiced to be
there and have some tea and to
go to bed early, which I did. I
was not so very tired, however.
I can bear shaking about better
than most people, all my bones
are set so loosely!
Bathurst is an ugly place
enough. All brick and dust.
Amy’s house is not beautiful,
but it is comfortable inside, and
I think I shall like being here
for a time very much.
The piano is a capital one. I
had no idea it was so good.
Amy has a very bad servant
who does not know anything,
and has just made an open tart
without putting any fat in the
paste. Of course it has dried-
up to a cinder.
Ever my dearest Annie, your
affectionate sister.
Rachel Henning.
Bathurst,
May 14, 1 856.
My Dearest Etta,
Thank you, dear, for the
parcel you have sent us by
Theophilus.* It was very kind
of you, and yet I am almost
sorry you did ; you must have
so much to do with your money.
I shall be delighted to have a
ring of your hair, and 1 am so
much obliged to you for sending
me one. We have not received
the parcel yet, because Theo-
philus has not come up to
Sydney from Melbourne, but I
hope he will either come or send
it soon.
Thank Mr. Boyce very much
for sending me Hiawatha. I
should like to see it, though
neither he nor anybody else
speaks very well of it.
It is so pleasant to find you
both speaking as if you would
like to have me in England, and
you can never know how much
I wish to be there. Sometimes 1
thipk I shall spend next winter
with you. Amy will soon be
comfortably settled in Sydney
within a few hours’ reach of
Annie, and Annie likes nothing
better than Sydney life; and
Biddulph has now been so much
used to being alone that I do not
think he will mind it while Annie
visits her Sydney friends —and
I do not think it could now be
wrong of me to go home —
before I am too much acclima-
tised to this country and every-
one has forgotten me in
England, both of which would
happen if I stayed for the ten
years that I believe Aunt wishes.
I should have certainly
returned with Tregenna if I had
been in Sydney when he went,
but he made up his mind very
suddenly, and I was here at
Bathurst, so that it would have
been the greatest scramble to
get off, and I should not have
liked to leave Amy to do the
packing alone, and I should
rather see her safe over the
journey, which she rather
dreads.
It seems absurd to talk or
dreading a journey of about
one hundred and twenty miles,
which in England we should do
in about four hours, but it really
is no trifle here. We take three
days about it, the roads are so
bad that we get nearly shaken
♦ Theophilus Biddulph.
((Continued on page 24.)
WHERE
NO WHITE MAN
COULD LIVE
For 150 years the Chavante Indians of Brazil
were implacable enemies to the white man.
The Chavantes are probably
the wildest men in the world.
For a century and a half any
white man who entered their
territory disappeared. De-
spite this continued and mur-
derous hatred, Brazil’s Indian
Protection Service has con-
verted their hostility to
friendship, at a cost of some
of their own lives only, their
motto being “Morrer, se for
prescio; matar, nunca!” (Die
if necessary; kill never).
This famous ser vi ce,
founded by Colonel Rondon
early in this century, had
pacified many of Brazil’s
ferocious tribes when he re-
tired in 1940. But the Cha-
vantes still remained un-
tamed.
The Chavantes live in the
Matto Grosso country across
the River of the Dead. Their
enmity dates back to 1786
when the Portuguese Gover-
nor invited the Chief of the
Chavantes to visit his head-
quarters for a “treaty of
friendship.” He expected a
delegation of a hundred or
so, but the Chavantes
accepted his invitation liter-
ally, and all who could
turned up. The town of
Goias was soon over-run by
naked savages. They helped
themselves to food from
private houses, invaded every
nook and cranny, leaving be-
hind the stinking smell of the
mixture of fish oil and the
juice of the urucum berry,
with which they anointed
their bodies against mos-
quitoes.
The Portuguese panicked
and 3300 Chavantes were
killed. That left an indelible
stain on their tribal memory.
They had been invited to a
party, and then massacred.
The enmity remained until as
late as 1941 when the Protec-
tion Service went to work.
Various parties penetrated
the territory, and in each case
one or more of them met
death at the hands of the
ChaVantes. At one time the
Chavantes attacked the Ser-
vice’s base camp and mas-
sacred 20 men. Despite up-
roar in Rio, the Service re-
fused to make reprisals.
Within a short decade the
Chavantes realised that the
white men were not their
enemies. The tribal memory
was effaced. Today you join
a passenger plane for the
River of the Dead as calmly
as you would board a plane
for any Australian town.
That is, perhaps, an extreme
example of the fruits of co-
operation. Here, in Australia,
Life Assurance provides us
with a far greater, if less
melodramatic, example of
the same thing. Your free
and independent Life Assur-
ance Offices have banded
three million Australians to-
gether for their mutual protec-
tion and profit. Each policy-
holder not only guards his
own and his family’s future,
he also protects that of all
his fellow members; while
additionally their collective
savings are invested for the
benefit of Australia as a
whole. Because co-operation
must breed security and
understanding every Aus-
tralian must benefit from
Life Assurance.
TINY TALE.
Belinda Bews had many friends
Who all despised her, rather mildly, usually,
But sometimes in a vocal manner
That roused her faint resentment.
But she thought oh it doesn’t matter . . •
She read poetry in her spare time,
And most of her time was spare.
She occasionally ate an apple
While she read. She always forgot
To beware of the core, and invariably
Began to eat the pips ... to make a face . . .
And to do something about it. Sometimes when
She read lines especially appealing
She would hold a little piece of apple
Motionless in her mouth for half an hour.
And when the spell wore off she would chew furiously.
But Belinda knew
That her friends and acquaintances
Thought she was peculiar to say the least.
And it rather worried her sometimes;
But she read poetry in her spare time
And most of her time was spare.
And she thought to herself they are dull.
And is poetry more peculiar than Bridge,
Staring at little red and black marks!
No, it isn’t, and they are strange who think so.
And she felt smug.
It was a comfortable feeling.
Belinda Bews read poetry in her spare time,
And most of her time was spare.
N.Z.
F. ALEXA STEVENS.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
There was panoply-plus at the recep-
tion given by the Royal Empire Society
in honor of the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress of London, who are both so
tall, handsome and charming that they
practically set Sydney by the ears while
they were here. The Cedar Room at the
Australia was crowded by the 600 guests
of the society, who had been welcomed
by a long receiving-line before the
Mayoral party arrived, had been stirred
by the flying-flag decorations, by singing
“Land of Hope and Glory” and by
general excitement, so that the reception
they gave the visitors was extraordinarily
enthusiastic, to put it mildly. Lord Mayor
O’Dea led the procession, clad in ermine
and lace, with Lady Lowson on his arm.
Her dress was black, with a mutation-
mink stole and orchids. Sir Denys nearly
took the sight out of everyone’s eyes with
his magnificent red robes, and his atten-
dants’ hats rivalled anything modem
fashion could devise —one was a kind of
fur toque and the other black and broad-
brimmed, with ostrich-feathers.
When the Lieutenant-Governor held a
reception at Government House for the
delegates to the Legal Convention the
distinction of the assembly could be
gauged by the large number of Homburg
hats in the hall, which was not surprising,
as most of the guests were judges, and if
a judge can’t wear a Homburg, who can?
The dressing of the women was elegant,
though not expressed in fancy, the “good
black” predominating. Viscountess Jowitt,
who, with her husband, the Lord High
Chancellor of Great Britain, and Mr.
Justice Street, received the guests, wore
black faille, with a small apple-green
feather-hat. Lady Latham also wore
black. Mrs. Clarrie Martin and Mrs. R.
Kirby both wore tie-silk, with black hats,
Mrs. Kirby’s separating itself into two
curly brims. From W.A. came Mr. Justice
Virtue (what a wonderful name for a
judge!) and Mrs. Virtue, whose hat was
small and red and swathed with grey
chiffon. To enumerate the Justices present
would take too long, so let it rest that
every kind of legal face was to be seen
at close range, including a few truly
Dickensian types, and that the conversa-
tion was as animated as one would expect
from a group of professional talkers.
Decorations at the Night in Cairo ball,
organised for the benefit of the Anti-
T.B. Campaign, were striking and un-
usual, combining masses of arum lilies
with palms and leaves painted gold and
silver, Egyptian wall-paintings and a band
white-shirted, cummerbunded and be-
fezzed. However, the atmosphere w'as
gay- rather than languorous, and the light-
ing rosy rather than murky, which is,
perhaps, a good thing at a ball. Mrs.
Millard Hagon wore black georgette with
a skirt made for dancing, Mrs. Robert
Noss white satin in the romantic mood.
Judy Barraclough, wearing enormous
brilliant earrings with her draped white
jersey dress, modelled the prize hat, a
gold satin, gladiatorial confection, which
was later won by Pat Blacklock, Mrs.
Walter Bunning looked imperial, but
rather hard to please, when she viewed the
floor-show as Nefertiti. (Maybe the
Egyptian-slave dances were a bit too torrid
for her taste.) Mrs. Charles Canfield and
Mrs. George Hamparsum were respon-
sible for the decorations. Mrs. Lionel
McFadyen wore black with turquoise and
Mrs. Pierre Mann black with pink.
An * opportunity to view American
clothes brought a large crowd of well-
dressed women to the parade at Mark
Foy’s on Saturday night. It was prob-
aljly the opportunity to view the Ameri-
can mannequins that brought their hus-
bands along also. These American girls
are rather startling because of the deep
suntan they all affect. They don’t seem
to wear powder or rouge of any kind,
but compensate for it with lipstick and eye
make-up. They’re taller on the whole
than Australian models and seem to know
a great deal about walking and standing
round in fashion-attitudes. In spits of all
this, most of the applause went to Sydney
mannequin Betty Wilson, who is blonde
and smiling and who doesn’t go in for a
decadent droop. Hugh Macken couldn’t
come to the party because of illness, but
Mrs. Macken entertained the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Sir Norman and
Lady Nock, Mr. and Mrs. John Kelly, the
Finnans, the Timworths and the K. F.
Coles. The magnificent supper laid out
whole turkeys, lobsters, sucking-pigs, etc.,
in beautiful shapes nature never designed
and kept the party busy for a considerable
time. Everyone wore orchids (they were
handed out free) and took home samples
of Elizabeth Arden lipstick and scent.
There doesn’t seem to be much rela-
tion between functionalism and creative-
ness in the fashion world. When French
models are shown here everyone exclaims
“They are wonderful —so imaginative —
but who would wear them?” Even if an
occasion were found suitable for such
creations, especially in evening wear, the
difficulty of transport cannot be over-
come, for to get in and out of a car when
dressed in them is wellnigh impossible.
They do serve, however, for inspiration
and stimulation. They generate ideas.
They are something to copy. The Ameri-
can clothes, on the other hand, are emi-
nently wearable, beautiful, functional, but
not imaginative. Only in sportswear does
the American fancy run to originality.
Americans are creators in this sphere,
but it is precisely in this sphere
that their designs bring forth the
remark “They are wonderful so
imaginative—but who would wear
them?” Bathing-suits of shot-brocade,
beach-hats with a donkey shooting
through the crown, a beautiful trans-
parent golden-glistening beach-coat over
the prizewinning Cole of California
swim-suit in white with gold panels, are
not for the genuine surfers of Bondi,
Maroubra or Palm Beach
This is Dora Peyser, whose new book
The Strong and the Weak has just been
published. Miss Peyser, who has a de-
gree in philosophy and a diploma in social
work, and who is also a triple certificated
nurse, has taken for the theme of her
book man’s natural tendency to help
others, particularly those weaker than
himself. Rev, Alan Walker, in speaking
of this book, says that its result should be
to remind us that the first charge on the
strong should be the care of the weak.
Miss Peyser is a member of many com-
mittees dealing with nursing and social
problems, including the Standing Com-
mittee of Human Rights (U.N. Associa-
tions). For relaxation she takes to bush-
walking and choir-singing. Photo, by
Marjorie Michaelis.
It is sad to think how debased these
days the beautiful word “charity” has
become. People say contemptuously “I
don’t want their charity” as if it were de-
grading to do so, which is an amazing
view when one considers that “charity”
means love in its purest form and is the
greatest of all the virtues. Perhaps if
the word itself were thought of in its true
sense the bits of charitable work most
of us perform might take on a new sig-
nificance.
The exhibition at David Jones’ Gallery,
which remains open till next Friday, is
called “Some Architectural Problems of
Sydney,” a high-sounding title which
doesn’t give much idea of the fascination
to be found in the display. The students
of the Faculty of Architecture at the
University have made the most enchant-
ing models of buildings of all kinds,
houses for Hunter’s Hill, Castlecrag,
Watson’s Bay, Waterloo, Strathfield,
Bankstown, etc., all with a feeling for
the type of suburb they are to adorn, a
nursery school, a suburban library, a
woman’s club, a music shell (which won
the prize), a conservatorium, and other
public buildings. A plan for remodelling
the slum shows “before taking” as well as
“after taking,” and a night-club for
Shark Island proposes to set down what
looks like an outsize merry-go-round in
the harbor. The type of town we are to
live in if we live long enough is perhaps
a little shattering to the conservative-
minded, but the exhibition is certainly
iluminating and a great credit to the
students.
At the Independent during the week Jan
Veen gave a recital of danced figures and
characters which ranged from “religious
conflict of belief and doubt” to a one-man
representation of the whole story of
“Carmen.” He was very impressive, whether
in comedy or in drama, and particularly so
when he danced as a judge, an accused
and an executioner in the representation
of a trial. The red arm of the executioner
was enough to give the audience ‘ quite
a turn,” and even slightly guilty con-
sciences began to stir. The lighting on the
stage and the music were rather inade-
quate, but Jan Veen’s costumes, which
he designed himself, were good. As in
most one-man shows, however, there was
a certain monotony. Just some other little
thing is needed to give emphasis to the
principal artist.
The Italian conductor Fernando Previ-
tali and Mrs. Previtali were entertained by
the members of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestral Committee during the week
as they passed through Sydney. The
rooms at the Royal Empire Society were
decorated with spring-blossom and hurri-
cane-lamps, which made a virtue of ne-
cessity and provided a soft and somewhat
mysterious light. Zoning is fast giving
a new character to Sydney’s social occa-
sions, sometimes good, sometimes quite
the reverse. Dimness is quite taken for
granted, and although it can be welcomed
after a hard day, it’s rather a let-down if
there is a new dress to be displayed. How-
ever, to get back to the Previtalis. They
are both charming. He opens all his con-
versations with “Do you speak French?”
as he maintains that he doesn’t speak
English very well. His wife, he says,
does all the talking in English. Mrs.
Previtali was wearing a deep-blue cor-
duroy-velvet suit and no hat.
There are to be two art exhibitions by
women this week. In the Fine Art Gal-
lery at Anthony Hordern’s Helen Bald-
win’s handworked tapestries and water-
colors will be shown until September 4,
and the Grosvenor Galleries will have an
exhibition of paintings by Miriam Mox-
ham until August 30. Both shows will be
opened this afternoon at 3 p.m., Helen
Baldwin’s by Dorothy Helmrich and
Miriam Moxham’s by Judge Redshaw.
From Melbourne
In the absence of the president, Sir
Owen Dixon, Major-General Kingsley
Norris presided at the farewell luncheon
given to the U.S. Consul-General, S. J.
Fletcher, and Mrs. Fletcher at the Vic-
toria Palace by the English-Speaking
Union. Mrs. Fletcher was presented with
a corsage which she pinned in the lapel of
her black suit, which was contrasted with
a pale-beige felt cloche trimmed with
black ospreys. At the official table were
Lady Scott, Mrs. Kingsley Norris, Mrs.
Gerald Bacon, Mrs. F. Fraser, wife of
the Canadian Trade Commissioner, and
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, who has just re-
turned from overseas. Mrs. Essington
Lewis, Mrs. Leonard Darling, Mrs. Ivan
Holyman, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. A. A.
Lord, Captain Charles Burge, R.N., and
Mrs. Burge and Mrs. T. J. K. Whittam
also attended.
Fruit-blOssom and hand-painted silk
Chinese scrolls, the latter the work of
the hostess, decorated the home of the
Consul for China, Mr. T. W. Liu, and
Mrs. Liu when they gave a buffet-dinner-
party in honor of the Chinese Minister,
Dr. Chen Tai-chu, and Madame Chen.
The hostess wore a national dress of black
satin, embroidered with gold-dragon
motifs; a lovely pearl brooch matched
the pearl-encrusted combs worn in her
hair. Madame Chen’s national dress was
a jacket of silver-grey satin and a slim
black satin skirt patterned in royal-blue
tonings. Guests included the Lady
Mayoress, Lady Disney, whose black
beaded frock was worn with platina-fox
furs and a black velvet head-hugging
cap; Lady Collins, also in black; Mrs.
V. Davey, in white crepe dinner-frock
and Chinese coat; Mrs. J. J. Brophy, her
angora frock in ice-blue toning; Mrs.
Adrian Perry, who covered her 'black
frock with a mink jacket; Alma Pedersen,
a tiny white ermine muff setting off her
black frock; and Mrs. Frank Gillespie,
her tie-silk frock royal-blue, her small
hat black.
A severe head-cold did not stop Judy
Breen (Miss Festival of Britain) from
going to the Town Hall to be welcomed
by the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
or from making a pretty little speech in
reply to the Lord Mayor’s. Lady Disney
wore a coral-toned wool suit and a
matching hat. A small green pillbox
hat went with the guest-of-honor’s grey
worsted suit. The coat which matched
this trim suit had a detachable quilted
waist-length lining which, fastened with
zippers, can be removed in a matter of
seconds when the weather is warm. The
lining was lime-green to match the basic
lining of the coat. Among those invited
to meet Judy were Mrs. F. Selleck, Mrs.
E. New bold, wife of the British Assistant
Trade Commissioner, Mrs. A. Howarth,
Mrs. J. Collins, Mrs. R. M. Richards and
Josie McNichol,
Lady Syme has lent Blytheswood, her
lovely home at Kew, for the mannequin-
parade which will be held at 6.30 p.m. on
September 21, proceeds from which will
go to the Ruyton Girls’ School Building
Extension Fund. Mrs. R. G. Menzies,
whose daughter Heather was formerly a
pupil at Ruyton, will open the parade.
Gowns will be supplied by Le Louvre,
Collins-street, and Sydney milliner
Henriette La Motte will send over the
hats. Mothers of present-day pupils form
the committee, and Mrs. Jim Archer,
Alison Baker and Joan Wardrop, all
former pupils, are ticket-secretaries.
A white satin gown sewn with pearls
was the choice of Lorna Bromilow,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. J.
Bromilow, of Glen Iris, when she ex-
changed vows at St. Martin’s Church,
Hawksburn, with Dr. Allan Montgomery
Beech, only son of Mr. and Mrs. S. J.
Beech, also of Glen Iris. Rae Owen was
bridesmaid, and the ’groom’s attendant
was Dr. Bill Jamieson.
Mr. and Mrs. John Alderson were
guests-of-honor at a buffet dinner-dance
in the Venetian Court of the Australia a
few days before they flew off to Eng-
land. It was cheery and entertaining, and
during the evening there was an exhibi-
tion of square-dancing. Mrs. Alderson
wore a bouffant gown of pearl-grey satin
brocade. Mrs. G. N. Raymond’s bal-
lerina frock of pastel-pink quilted taffeta
had a diamante belt; her tiny cap of
matching satin had a deep frill of pink
tulle and rosebuds. Mrs. Nelson Ray-
mond’s slim gown of ombre chiffon
shaded from pink to charcoal. Mrs. H.
Bedggood wore grey faille. Mrs. John
Robinson’s dinner-gown was of deep-wine
moire taffeta. Edith Trebilcock chose
a strapless gown of deep-cream satin
brocade. Trixie Johnson’s ballerina frock
was of black marquisette. Sydney guests
included the Michael Sinclairs, Mr. and
Mrs. R. Shaw, and Mr. and Mrs. J.
Hawkins. Mr. and Mrs. J. Sprake came
from Adelaide for the party.
Ralph M. Warner, president of the
Victprian Artists’ Society, opened Esther
Paterson’s exhibition of paintings at
George’s Gallery. Many of the works
depicted scenes at Albert Park, the suburb
in which the artist lives. Mrs, lan Potter,
whose portrait was the only one in the
exhibition, was there with her husband
and small daughter. She topped her
deep-blue wool frock with a Persian-lamb-
trimmed jacket of black suede. Among
the many present were Betty Paterson,
sister of Esther, two nieces, Elizabeth
Paterson and Barbara Newman, sculptor
Ola Cohn, Mrs. Roger Fairbairn, Mrs.
Daryl Lindsay, Mrs. Fred Dennett, singer
Rita Miller, Mrs. F. H. Wright and her
daughter, Mrs. Ronald Marriott.
Elizabeth Arden’s Australian represen-
tative, lan Buckley, with the able assist-
ance of his wife and Dorothy Ganley,
was host at a buffet-dinner party at
Menzies’ for the American and Australian
mannequins who appeared in Cali-
fornia Fashion Fiesta. At the party
Elizabeth’s new rouge and lipstick,
“Striking,” was introduced. Only two of
the American mannequins were present:
Gini Adams, wearing a pale-blue suit
and pink-fringed lilac stole, and Anne
Rubin, in a black faille jacket-
suit ; the other two, Honey King and
Marilyn Melton, had not quite recovered
from their air trip to Melbourne. The
Australian mannequins were Lynne
Vincent, who comes from Perth, Andrena
Thorpe (she is married to an R.A.N.
officer), Shirley James, who recently won
a beach contest, and Jo Fullard. The
jacket of Mrs. Buckley’s smart black wool
suit had deep revers. Dorothy Ganley
wore a grey faille duster-coat oyer a grey
lace frock, adding a black picture-hat.
Mary McKenzie wore an emerald jersey
frock and shawl-bolero. Mrs. S. Hunt
topped her black Persian-lamb coat with
a toque of multi-striped French jersey.
Mrs. Bernard Dowd’s black laces were
on ballerina lines; her small black tulle
hat flew an osprey. Mrs. Frank Mathews
was in deep-tan velvet trimmed with white
broderie Anglaise; with it went a short,
matching jacket and white feather cloche.
At this party the chefs surpassed them-
selves in creating exotic dishes. A
sucking-pig smoked a pipe instead ot
having the usual lemon in its mouth.
Hams were covered in white galantine,
adorned with large red “dahlias” made of
tomato-slices with olive centres. But the
highlight of originality came with the
sweets. These were in the form of a
huge lipstick, almost 4ft. long, “striking
in color, and with a pale-orange holder.
Around it were massed tiny lipsticks,
rouge-pots and powder-puffs. The large
lipstick was of ice-cream, the smaller ones
of sugar and the puffs of almond-paste.
Another unusual dish was the chocolate
fudge, arranged to look like rocks at the
base of a tall white lighthouse with a
flashing light.


si
ss
*
GP4.25
STILL KEEPS 60IH0
when the rest hove stopped 1
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888*
BATTERIES
w
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
It seems that just about every Con-
tinental celebrity who casts up hereabouts
has a more than kind word to say for
Australian wines. Now two foremost
South Australian wine-men, J. C. M.
Fornachon and K. Weidenhofer, have re-
ceived an honor not before conferred out-
side the U.S. —membership of the
American Society of (Enologists; the
equivalent of scientists in the winery
world. Fornachon, attached to Adelaide’s
Waite Institute, is already world-known
for his corrective work on bacterial spoil-
age ; Weidenhofer, manager of the Ren-
mark Growers’ Distillery, is one of the
best of Australian wine judges.
The first time lan Bruce Ferguson
boarded at Ingleburn it was as a potato-
peeling private; after sitting for Prior
last week he went back there as lieut.-
colonel, c.o. of the Ist Battalion, Royal
Australian Regiment. Much happened
in between the two visits 2/2
Battalion corporal with the 6th Division
in Wavell’s first desert advance; com-
mission in 1940 ; the Syria show; the
fierce stoushing over the Owen Stanleys ;
transfer to 7th Division headquarters;
FERGUSON OF THE ROYALS.
then up via Morotai and Balik Papan to
Japan. And, after some years of occu-
pation, the appointment which has
assured him of his niche in Australian
military history—command of the Royals
in Korea, their leader in the glorious
Anzac Day stand this year. Character-
ised by a quick, open smile, with a quiz-
zical lifting of one eyebrow, Ferguson is
a battle-wise 34, and of his recent com-
mand states simply that they’re the finest
bunch he’s ever fought with.
“Macnell”: Award of D.S.O. and
D.S.C. within a few weeks is the measure
of Rear-Admiral J. W. M. Eaton, the
Australian Fleet’s new Flag-Officer. A
destroyer man, he got a line aboard
destroyer Gallant, belted out of action by
a mine in January, 1941, and towed her
into Malta, still under fierce air attention.
Gallant 10 days later was bombed to
pieces at her moorings. Shortly after-
wards Eaton caught a packet himself —
he was attacking an enemy convoy with
destroyer Mohawk when she was struck
by a torpedo in one of her shell-rooms,
an unhealthy spot. But she floated, and
Eaton continued hammering at his target.
Promoted to wear the twin red-balled flag
of rear-admiral last month, Eaton is 48,
with 35 years in the service. He relieves
J. A. S. Eccles, on completion of that
giant’s two-year term.
Most “eminent” figure amongst the
latest batch of New Australians to arrive
in JMelbourne, Edward Johns, a chimney
virtuoso, has come from working on the
300 ft. Festival of Britain skylon in Lon-
don, where he walked on 3in. girders at
the top of the thin post which sways 9ft.
in a high wind. He is starting out as a
foreman steeplejack-painter in Mel-
bourne, whose highest peak is about half
the London record.
Artur Schnabel, dead in Switzerland at
69, was not only one of the world’s
greatest pianists his interpretations of
Beethoven placed him in a class
all his own but a notable editor,
particularly of the works of Beethoven,
Mozart and Brahms. An Austrian of
Jewish extraction, he began his concert
career—his musical education under
Leschetizky and Mandyszewski was
backed by the powerful Rothschild
family—at 14, and from then on was
in constant demand in all the musical
centres of the world. He found time be-
tween tours —he visited Australia in 1939
—to teach, compose extensively and write
two books on music. A strong per-
sonality, he packed up and left Hitler to
it when in 1933 the Nazis left him out
of a Brahms festival. For two decades he
resisted all urgings to record, but finally
did all 32 sonatas and the five concertos
of Beethoven. His son Karl Ulrich is
also a celebrated piano virtuoso.
“W.E.F.”: Another old Bulletin hand to
have a birthday this month, at 77, Frank Fox
began to write for this paper in his ’teens. At
16 Sir Frank Fox (as he is now), stranded at
boarding-school through his father failing in
business, resolved to try journalism. He toured
Sydney newspaper-offices asking whether he
could write anything for them. The Sydney
“Workman,” forerunner of the “Australian
Worker,” allowed him to write all right—labels,
at twelve-bob a week. Two years later he was
editing the paper. Before he was 21 he edited
Sydney “Truth,” and later the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
“National Advocate,” then one of the most
influential country newspapers in Australia and
a training-ground for many fine journalists.
For a while he was on the staff of Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” for which, as “Frank
Ronar,” he, with Ambrose Pratt, wrote one or
two serial shockers. J. F. Archibald was
attracted by his forcible style and his large
capacity for making himself agreeable at the
Athenaeum Club, and invited him to join The
Bulletin, from which he was transferred to the
editorship of the “Lone Hand” when that
magazine was started in 1907. Fox left the
“Lone Hand” two years later following a dis-
pute regarding the propriety of a drawing he
had reprinted from a French magazine. During
his connection with The Bulletin he produced
reams of excellent “copy,” but was not liked by
the compositors because of his handwriting,
an alarming disarrangement in violet ink. He
created a stir with his Bushman and Buccaneer:
Harry Morant: His Ventures and Verses. After-
wards he joined the London “Morning Post,”
and was war correspondent for that journal
with the Bulgarian Arrhy during the Balkan
War. In War I he served with the Royal Field
Artillery, and was twice wounded at the Somme.
For the past 30 years he has been engaged in
journalism and the advocacy of Imperial causes,
and in 1935 visited Australia and New Zealand
to study Empire defence and migration prob-
lems. Old Australian friends can contact him
care of Lloyd's Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London.
Dr. Otto H. Frankel, director of New
Zealand’s crop-research division in the
Scientific and Industrial Department,
comes to Canberra to a job on the same
lines. A native of Vienna, he was edu-
cated there and in Berlin, later was in
charge of plant research in Czecho-
slovakia, and probed among plants and
crops in Palestine and England before
crossing to Maoriland in 1929. One of
his outstanding achievements in wheat-
breeding there was his Cross X wheat.
“Waddlin’ Willie”; The par. on Wing-
Commander Derek Cuming (B. 8/8/’5l)
omits one little point —the memories of
an old c.o. which must have moved Cum-
ing when he put his jet speedster down
on Darwin ’drome. In 1941 Group-
Captain J. R. (Sammy) Balmer was c.o.
of the newly-formed 13 Squadron, based
on Darwin, patrolling the Timor Sea.
Balmer loved flying almost as much as
he loved teaching young “sprogs” the
finer points of airmanship. Among these
young co-pilots was Cuming, and within a
few months Balmer knew he was training
a more-than-average pilot; he recom-
mended him for specialist test-flying. The
two parted, Cuming to win his A.F.C.
and Bar and a very high reputation.
Balmer continued his solid, thorough war
career, gained D.F.C. as c.o. of 100
Squadron, was posted to the RAF.,
joined Bomber Command and got his on
a raid deep in Germany a few months
before the war ended.
Held his last consultation in Perth, at
83, Major-General George Wallace
Barber, highest-ranking of Westralia’s
military doctors. Born at Prestwich
(Lancs.), he graduated in London, and put
up his brass plate in Kalgoorlie about 50
years ago. In 1914 practice with the first
A.I.F. claimed him ; service overseas took
in the jobs of A.D.M.S., 4th Australian
Division and Deputy-Director of Medical
Services, Australian Corps. His honors
included C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., the Vic-
torian Decoration awarded for 20 years’
commissioned service, and the Croix de
Guerre. Between World Wars he main-
tained his connection with the military
forces, as well as his interest in the wel-
fare of ex-servicemen. After passing the
Army's retiring age, he was in private
practice in Perth’s hillside suburb, Kala-
munda, until a few days before the end.
Lord Bruce becomes first Chancellor
of Australia’s National University. Cam-
bridge was his other university.
Moscow-bound, British Ambassador,
Sir Alvary Gascoigne has been ambassa-
doring, in effect, in Japan for the past
five years. A War I soldier (he lost his
only son in the late war), the new Am-
bassador was a clerk in the Foreign
Office in 1919, and for almost the whole
of War II was Consul-General in Tangier.
Sent here in 1948 to give our Naval
Aviation fledgeling its wings and returned
to the R.N. last year, Captain Guy
Willoughby gets command of Britain’s
brand-new fleet-carrier, the Eagle, the
largest British carrier ever built. Rating
about 45,000 tons, nests of dual-purpose
quick-firers, well over 30 knots and an
undisclosed brood of hawks, Eagle is a
Harland-Wolff baby, and should be com-
missioned in about three months. The
carrier whose name she perpetuates was
torpedoed by a submarine in the western
Mediterranean in August, 1942. Wil-
loughby is a pioneer flier who had served
in most British carriers by 1938, when
he took command of the wings of the
Glorious. When war broke he had
escort-carrier Activity, who lived up to
her name on the hazardous Murmansk
route, when convoys sometimes lost
half their force through wolf-pack Ü-
boat strikes. In 1944 Willoughby shifted
to the British Eastern Battle Fleet, to
plan the succession of air-strikes against
Jap bases in the Indies. Vice-Admiral
Collins was his class-mate at the Im-
perial Defence College a few years back.
The Lord Mayor of London at work in
Sydney, as seen by Dubois.
The other day in London John Lani-
gan sang at a private audition —accom-
panist and judge, Sir Thomas Beecham.
Result Lanigan takes the Covent
Garden stage, for the first time, singing
the leading tenor role of “The Bohemian
Girl,” again with Beecham.
A recent appointment takes Athol
Lightfoot, superintendent of the Lithgow
Valley Colliery Co., up to Queensland,
g.-m. of the State Coal Mines. He hopes
to apply to his new responsibility some-
thing of what he learned of mechanisa-
tion on a visit to U.S.A. three years ago.
Coventry’s victim, genial Percy Gordon
(Chunda) Bice, can fairly claim victimisa-
tion —as S. Australia’s Coal Board
chairman his phone runs hot whenever
the colliers run late. His nickname goes
back to World War I, when “Cobra”
boot-polish advertisements in The Bulle-
tin (rhymes by “Kodak,” drawings by
Lionel Lindsay), set out to immortalise
the adventures of a dusky gentleman,
Chunda Loo of Akim Foo. “As,” grins
P.G., “I was the ugliest man in the Army,
COAL AND CANDLES.
they pinned the name on me.” At the
time a captain in the 27th Battalion,
Chunda had for messmates Premier Play-
ford and Speaker Cameron. He left one
eye behind in that war, but maintains it
is surprising what he can see with the
remaining optic, especially in a coal crisis.
Still going strong in the ninety class,
William Edwards Brown, of Perth, is one
of the few surviving pupils of Bishop
Hale, founder of Westralia’s Hale
School. Born at York (W.A.), son of
Archdeacon James Brown, he came to
Perth when three and lived at the
Deanery, opposite Government House, in
his schooldays. Westralia was then
“garrisoned” by a corps of British Army
pensioners, who came out with their
families after the Crimean War—young
Brown often heard the pensioners on
Government House guard give the hourly
cry “All’s well!” In 1883 he became
Clerk of Courts at Fremantle, was pro-
moted Premier Clerk of Courts in 1892
and retired in 1915 to farm successfully
near Midland Junction.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 76, Richard Joseph Halliday,
secretary of the Eastern Goldfields Rifle Club
Union and afterwards captain of the Fremantle
Rifle Club. Crack shots included winning the
Westralian championship aggregate six times,
and, in 1925, winning the King’s Prize and the
State championship. A fine baritone as well, he
was a member of the old Coolgardie Liedertafel.
At 87, in Melbourne, James Richardson, who,
starting as a useful at the Wentworth Hotel,
Sydney, ended a millionaire and the managing-
director of the longest chain of hotels in the
southern hemisphere. His first was Richard-
son’s, which he is said to have bought out ot
savings as a barman at the Windsor. Apart
from hostelries his only interest was the theatre,
and he died in harness, at the Alexander, the
ornate inn opposite the Spencer-street station,
which was the first pub built in Australia with
every bedroom its own bathroom. Born m
Ayrshire, Scotland, he came to Australia m
1886.
In Auckland (M.L.), Major G. A. Buddie,
decorated with the Servian White Eagle tor
Gallipoli services and awarded the D.S.O. while
with the Royal Engineers in France for building
a bridge under fire. His specialty in civil Ute
was wild-life photography and scientific researcn
on the islands off the New Zealand coast.
In Kalgoorlie, at 61, Jack Power Hchir, one
of the goldfields’ most prominent businessmen,
mine- and property-owners. Born in Soutn
Australia, he went to Kalgoorlie as a boy,
worked in a grocer’s shop, started his ow
grocery store, and eventually bought out all
competition. He recently sold a half-interest
in his mine at Lake Monger to Melbourne
buyers for £16,000.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 92, Charles T.
Natusch, believed to be the oldest °
member of the N.Z. Institute ofArchhects.
His son, Guy Natusch, now of New York,
was editor of Sydney ‘ Woman for severa
years.


RAAF
TECHNICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
CAREERS FOR BOYS 15 TO 17
REE
• Trdining.
• Accommodation.
• Clothing and
necessaries.
• Medical and
dental attention.
Under two separate special training schemes the
Royal Australian Air Force offers boys aged
15-17 outstanding opportunities to enter skilled,
well-paid careers without any cost to their parents.
One training scheme is for Radio and Engineering
apprentices who will graduate as skilled tradesmen
in the upper pay groups of the R.A.A.F. The
other is for Junior Equipment and Administrative
Trainees who graduate to skilled administrative
and stores work also at specialist pay rates. In
each case the entire course is provided free by
the R.A.A.F. This includes special instruction,
accommodation, food, clothing and necessaries,
medical and dental attention. In addition, the
boys receive a special daily rate of pay. Home
leave (approximately six weeks a year) is allowed,
with free travel to home and return.
Here are some brief facts —
LJj
=BS lie*
oo
i*VL-
TECHNICAL
Radio and Engineering
Apprentices
Period of apprenticeship is
normally three years. En-
gineering apprentices will
train at R.A.A.F. College,
Wagga, N.S.W. Radio
apprentices at the Mel-
bourne Telecommunication Unit, Melbourne, and
the R.A.A.F. Air and Ground Radio School at
Ballarat, Vic.
Candidates must he of British nationality and
must have reached the age of 15 but not have
reached 17 on the Ist January, 1952. (Ist March
for Radio apprentices.)
Educational qualifications: For N.S.W. , Vie.,
Tas. and S.A. Engineering Apprentices —to
within one year of Intermediate; Radio Appren-
tices —to Intermediate standard. For Qld. and
W.A. —Engineering Apprentices—to within one
Jear of Junior standard; Radio Apprentices—to
unior standard.
ADMINISTRATIVE
Junior Equipment and
Administrative Trainees
Training period is nor-
mally 18 months, the first
nine of which are spent at
the special training centre,
Bathmines, N.S.W. The
other nine months are
devoted to practical training at various B.A.A.F.
units in the Eastern States.
Candidates must he of British nationality,
medically fit in accordance with Air Force stan-
dards, and must have reached the age of 15| but
not have reached 17 on the Ist January, 1952.
Educational qualifications: For Vic.,
Tas. and S.A. —Normally equal to the Sub-
Intermediate standard with passes in English and
one branch of Mathematics. For Qld. and W.A. —
Normally equal to the Sub-Junior standard with
passes in English and one branch of Mathematics.
ŵ
For descriptive booklets and
application forms, call or write to: —
R.A.A.F. RECRUITING OFFICER,
at the Combined Services Recruiting Depot or
Information Bureau in your capital City.
JUUT52.142.8l
Position Wanted.
Young English girl desires passage home.
Clerical, children’s nurse, anything.
N.W., C/o Bulletin Office, 247 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
TO the Creditors and other persons inter-
ested in the succession of the deceased
MRS. CATHERINE PEDDIE BUTTER or
HARVEY, Widow, 8 Blyth Street, Dun-
dee.—JAMES FRANCIS JOHNSTON, Soli-
citor, 34 Reform Street, Dundee, having
been appointed by the Sheriff of Perth and
Angus at Dundee, Judicial Factor on the
estate of the said deceased MRS. CATH-
ERINE PEDDIE BUTTER or HARVEY
under the Act 3 & 4 Geo. V Cap 20,
Section 163, requires all the lawful
creditors of the said Mrs. Catherine Peddle
Butter or Harvey, and other persons inter-
ested in her estate, to lodge with the
Judicial Factor within four months after
the date of this notice, as statement of
their claims as creditors of the deceased
or as otherwise interested in her estate ;
with such vouchers or other written evi-
dence as they may have to found upon in
support of their claims; in order to the
same being considered and reported upon
by the Judicial Factor. —JAMES F.
JOHNSTON, 34 Reform Street, Dundee.
16th July, 1951.
Cover joints in
WALLBOARDS
Quickly, Attractively,
Effectively, Economically
Use “Anaglypta" Joint cover
strip, 2" wide, for all internal
wall and celling Joints. Simply-
paste over joint, using ordinary
flour paste, and when dry,
paint right over the strip the
same colour as the wall. The
central corrugations allow for
expansion and contraction.
I
■>
m
m
FIXING DETAIL
"ANAGLYPTA"
JOINT COVER STRIP
Available In 100 lin. ft. rolls from Hardware Merchants,
Wallpaper Distributors, or from Wunderlich Limited
(Sole Australian Suppliers), Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
SYDNEY it
NEWCASTLE
MELBOURNE :: ADELAIDE a BRISBANE
(N.S.W.) it HOBART n LAUNCESTON
Australia’s Own
Joy Nichols
now starring in London's stage,
radio and television says:
m
s
i m
"Small’s Club Chocolate
is my favourite -as
ẁ
snappy as a,
Danny Kaye
gag
n
*Tm lucky enough to get Smalfs
Chocolate sent me from Australia. Each block of Small s
Club Chocolate breaks with such a clear SNAP that shows
it’s good chocolate. Then there’s that wonderful not-so-sweet
flavour —mm! Small’s is the best chocolate I’ve ever tasted.
Any chocolate expert will tell you that the louder the snap
the better the chocolate. Small’s Club Chocolate breaks with
the loudest, cleanest snap of all.
Small's make Great Chocolate
P.S . Another winner from Small s ■
“CHERRY NOUGAT". Try it! You’ll love a
to pieces, and the inns at which
we have to stop are in general so
swarming with insects of all de-
scription that sleep is nearly out
of the question.
I left Sydney on a Monday
and arrived at Bathurst the
Wednesday afternoon following.
It is a disagreeable journey to
make alone, to say nothing of
the open coach and the jolting.
I cannot say I admire the
“city” of Bathurst. It stands in
the midst of the Bathurst Plains
without a tree or shrub near it.
It is all built of red brick, stone
being unknown in the district,
and it blazes away in the sun,
being the most boiling place in
summer and the coldest in
winter that is to be found in
Australia. It looks large at a
distance, because the houses are
scattered about at long distances
from each other, as if it had
rained brick buildings. There is
an immense square, or rather
open space in the middle of the
town on which are scattered a
church, which is called
“Norman,” though I hope the
Normans were never guilty of
such architecture. A Romish
church, with a big square tower
of no particular order, and a
Scotch church all over pinnacles,
a Dissenting chapel, a prison
with a huge brick wall round
it; a bank and various shops;
all one mass of red brick.
What they call “plains” are
in fact low hills, covered with
tufts of brown grass. In Eng-
land we should call them downs,
and they must be like the
American “rolling prairie,” only
the latter is said to be covered
with the most beautiful grass
and flowers, while nothing can
be more barren than these are.
I sometimes go up a little hill
that is near this house and the
view from the top is not exactly
beautiful, but very curious,
being so utterly un-English.
There are these undulating hills,
stretching round you for miles,
without a tree or shrub upon
them, in a hollow below you lies
the red town, scattering itself
over a large space of ground.
The Macquarie River winds
along near it, and you can trace
its course through the treeless
landscape by the fringe of
that grow here and
there on its margin. There being
no water in it except a pool here
and there ; you would not know
there was a river save for these
dismal trees. They are the most
melancholy of vegetable pro-
ductions. Cypresses are gay to
them. They are quite black at
a little distance, and only grow
in muddy, slimy places. The
background of the whole scene
is the best part of it, as it
consists (on two sides) of the
beautiful “Blue Mountains.”
They are clothed with bush to
their very summits and make a
beautiful contrast to the weary
plains.
In one part of the road, as I
crossed them, the scenery was
magnificent. Annie says better
than Snowdon, but there she was
wrong. However, it really is
very fine for Australia.
I suppose Annie and Amy
have told you all about the
latter’s house and cabbage-
garden, for at present there is
little but cabbages in it, and
“Bathurst-burrs,” an uncomfort-
able sort of vegetable, something
like a thistle with sharp spiny
leaves and little hooked burrs
which stick on to everything.
The plant grows in the very
streets (?) of Bathurst, and we
never go out without coming
home stuck all over with them.
Amy has a dull Irish
servant who the other day, com-
ing home from chapel, fell into
the “creek,” a dry watercourse,
some seven or eight feet deep,
and as it is utterly unguarded,
it is a perfect trap for the tipsy
inhabitants of Bathurst—by far
the largest part of the popula-
tion. Mary was not tipsy, but
s he fell in in the dark, and
having been fished out by some
benevolent individual, she came
home one mass of burrs and in
a highly-disconsolate condition.
Ever, dearest Etta, your most
affectionate sister,
Rachel Henniko.
J err f bly A
by the Star of Peace an^arrived^n
October 15, 1856, She stayed for
five years with the Boyces and many
°J be Jjff lons in di^erent P arts °f
( To be continued next week .)


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROBERT DONALD PEARSON late of
Wagga in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that ROMA
SUSANNE PEARSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2350 of 1951 on the
grounds of your desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
22nd October 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
Phillip Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Still More Jubilation.
After seeing the N. S. Wales
section of the Jubilee Open Art
Competition in which the adjudi-
cators, Lloyd Rees, Douglas
Dundas and William Dobell,
excluded the fine landscapes by
Arthur Murch and Lance
Solomon from the right to parti-
cipate in the final judging at
Brisbane, it is pleasing to see a
much better verdict in the other
Jubilee competition now at the
Sydney Gallery: £lOOO to Lloyd
Rees for his “Sydney, 1951,” a
large Harbor landscape very
much like the painting with
which he won last year’s Wynne
Prize.
With the two competitions
running simultaneously, and with
an adjudicator of the Open tak-
ing the prize in what had better
be called the Closed, most
people will probably never be
able to remember which is
which or who has won what;
so one will try to elucidate.
The Open was a competition
for which everybody could
enter; local competitions were
held in each State, from which
the five “best” entries were
selected for final judging at
Brisbane.
The Closed was a competition
in which seven artists were com-
missioned by the Plastic Arts
Committee to do various kinds
of works of art for a fee of
£l5O. The best of these works
was to receive an additional
prize of £B5O, making the
artist’s total reward £1000; and
this is the competition that has
been won by Lloyd Rees.
The judges were Douglas
Dundas, Arnold Shore, Victor
Greenhalgh, Louis McCubbin
and Robert Campbell. The
seven artists commissioned —
Norman Lindsay was invited to
compete but declined —were,
besides Lloyd Rees; Ivor Hele
and William Dobell to do figure
compositions, Hans Heysen to
do a landscape, D. Taylor
Kelloch to design stained-glass
windows, Lyndon Dadswell to
do sculpture, and Charles Meere
to do a mural; a strangely
uneven group, if they were
meant to be the seven most
significant artists in their respec-
tive spheres now practising in
Australia.
Except for Hans Heysen’s
“In the Flinders” none of the
resulting works could seriously
be compared with Lloyd Rees’s.
Taylor Kelloch’s stained-glass
windows look impeccably like
any other stained-glass windows.
Charles Meere’s mural, which,
judging by the whiskers, appears
to have something to do with
Sir Henry Parkes declaiming
about Federation to various
other politicians, gum-trees and
small boys, is a competent and
commonplace piece of painting
which does not seem ever to
have made up its mind whether
to be reverent in the Victorian
fashion for such scenes or
satirical in the modern manner.
Lyndon Dadswell’s sculpture,
which consists of small model
figures standing about to repre-
sent the joining of the States
into Federation, is of the
elongated and pin-headed variety
and, though the judges are re-
ported to have been impressed
with it, seems to the present
commentator little more than an
exercise in a fashionable style.
Ivor Hele is disappointing for
so vigorous and capable a
painter as he has shown himself
at his best. There are fine energy
and movement in his central
group of bag-sewers, but his
color is so muddy that the land-
scape, the atmosphere of
carnival and even the faces of
his revellers are all, along with
any aesthetic quality, sunk in it.
The Dobell is even more dis-
appointing: it has nothing of
his characteristic vitality and it
has far too much of his most
conspicuous weaknesses: loose
paint facilely slopped about, and
color —as in the Margaret Olley
portrait—perilously verging on
vulgarity. A fairly large panel
entitled “Surf,” showing a surf-
boat being overturned by a roller
and the crew plunging in the
waves, it has nothing of the
magnificent reality of the foam-
ing sea as Lance Solomon paints
it; nor, if you accept it as a
fantasy, has it the grace and
lyricism of Murch’s typical sea-
pictures. It is rubber lifesavers
tumbling in slippery green and
yellow paint. No doubt it is not
as casual a piece of work as it
looks ; it is Dobell trying to live
up to his reputation. But the
Jubilee year might have done
much better for itself if it had
left Dobell alone to paint the
small pictures, landscape or
genre, in which his talent has
always most forcefully expressed
itself.
The Heysen landscape stands
head and shoulders above all
these entries. It is a splendid
piece of realism ; ghost-gums in
the foreground against hot gold
and red earth, leading away to
the mountain ranges with their
sunlit scarps and their soft blue
hollows ; a painting full of light
heat and the authentic poetry
and drama of the earth. The
present commentator, in fact,
prefers it to the Lloyd Rees ; but
that is a personal preference for
realistic over arbitrary land-
scape, and for warmth of color
and feeling over Lloyd Rees’s
present phase of coldness and
harshness; and it would be
extremely hard to say which of
the two landscapes is the better
painted. The judges, presum-
ably, tossed up.
Of course it will be argued
that Heysen is repeating him-
self ; but, then, so is Lloyd
Rees repeating a formula
which he has made very familiar
in recent years. Lloyd Rees's
simply happens to be the more
fashionable formula at the
moment; as evidence of which
it was noticeable that four of
the pictures selected for the
Open competition—the Elder-
shaw, the Mary Troy, the
George Lawrence and the Jean
Bellette —had the same harsh,
dark and “monumental”
qualities.
However, there is no denying
the solid achievement of
“Sydney, 1951,” its almost
mathematical assurance of
composition, its stony strength,
its spaciousness, its quiet
and sombre harmony of
dark blue water against coldly
brilliant grey rock. By a curious
turn of the wheel of fashion in
art it takes us back, in the
Jubilee year, to the period of
Conrad Martens, where you see
the anatomy of the Harbor all
right, but nothing of its sunlit
atmosphere ; only Mr. Rees goes
so far back in time in his cold
vision of the earth that you
almost expect to see not a
convict, certainly not a modern
picnic-party, but a dinosaur
creep out on his rocks.
As this page was going to
press the result of the Open art
competition was announced —■
the decision was made by the
six judges at Brisbane National
Gallery. First prize of £5OO
was awarded to Jeffrey Smart
for “Wallaroo” —“an evening
silhouette of buildings”—a paint-
mg of the S.A. mining town
near Adelaide. Smart, a South
Australian who returned to Aus-
tralia about a year ago after
three years overseas, and who
painted his prizewinning entry
shortly after his return, now
lives in Sydney, as do the second
(£300) and third (£200) prize-
winners—Jean Bellette with a
figure composition, “The
Bathers,” and John Eldershaw
with a landscape, “Country
Near Canberra.”
A loan collection of Rupert
Bunny’s South of France land-
scapes at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries displays once again
the pink orchards against blue-
green hills which he painted,
apparently, by the hundred:
gentle, decorative landscapes,
without much force either lyri-
cal or dramatic, but charming
in their soft pastel-like color.
There is an unusual touch of
vitality in the sunlit red hill of
“Outskirts of Vence” ; and “The
Loire at Muyde” —with a bridge
in the distance over water re-
flecting a blue-and-white sky—
is a lovely impression of tran-
quillity.
* * *
The committee was so satisfied
with the result of the Blake
Prize competition for religious
“It’s the Worst of living so near the zoo.”
painting in 1951 that it has de-
cided to hold the competition
again next year, and, if the sup-
port of artists and public
warrant it, it hopes to make the
competition an annual one. The
prize for the 1952 competition
is 200 guineas, and the compe-
tition is open to anyone resident
in Australia or to any Aus-
tralian who has been out of the
country for not more than two
years before the entry date.
Entries must be suitably framed
and all transport costs borne by
the competitor; all reasonable
care will be taken but no
responsibility accepted for loss
of damage. All entries will be
inspected by the judges and
committee, but not necessarily
hung; if none is considered
worth the prize it may not be
awarded. Entries (not more
than three from each competitor
and each clearly marked with
title, price and name and address
on a tie-on label and on the
back of the picture) must reach
the Exhibition Gallery of Mark
Foy’s, Liverpool-street, Sydney,
not later than noon, March I,
1952. Judges will be Rev. Felix
Arnott, Lyndon Dadswell, John
D. Moore, Lloyd Rees and the
Rev. Michael Scott.
Odnoposoff.
If subsequent appearances in
his Sydney season confirmed the
earlier impression of the South
American violinist’s high ability,
it also demonstrated that he is
willing to risk a bad “house” by
including in his programmes
works unknown, severe and, in
certain cases, of dubious musical
value.
One of these was the Sonata
No. 3 of Villa-Lobos. This
contemporary Brazilian com-
poser seems to have been greatly
influenced by the French school,
and particularly by Ravel and
Milhaud —influences which cer-
tainly would not make for lyri-
cal beauty. There is much dart-
ing up the scale to a note and
rushing down to others, all
getting nowhere. Of the impreg-
nation of Latin-American folk-
music, which might reasonably
have been expected Villa-
Lobos’s reputation as a com-
poser is inexorably bound up
with this aspect of his vast out-
put —there is little sign, except
for some brief rhythmic bursts
in the final movement. Of its
integration there can be no
question, but the work has too
many stretches of boredom to
make it a well-loved piece of
music.
Brahms’s Sonata in A Major,
Op. 100, a work of great serenity
in which even the andante lacks
that undercurrent of wistful
sadness which invests so much
of Brahms’s slow movements,
was accorded joyous treatment.
In this the pianism of Raymond
Lambert was outstanding; the
writing here for the piano is of
almost equal importance to —in
parts greater than —that for the
fiddle. Indeed, M. Lambert
throughout the season has been
a first-rate collaborator in
chamber music such as this, as
well as a discreet and alert ac-
companist in the smaller forms.
The pyrotechnic department
was well stocked. One interest-
ing example was Joachim’s
Variations in E Minor, and it
seems appropriate that Odno-
posoff should have included this,
for he plays on the same Stradi-
varius with which Joachim him-
self —who is generally ranked
next to Paganini as the greatest
violinist the world has produced
—played in Brahms’s day.
This work, of a set of 18
variations and a finale to a
theme which lends itself to
strong germination, covers just
about every technical device,
and falls pleasantly enough on
the ear. Paganini’s “La Cam-
panella” also whizzed and
crackled and coruscated. Yet
another was the unaccompanied
sonata by Ysaye, the Belgian
violinist, who succeeded in pack-
ing into this compact piece as
many difficulties as he could
devise.
More fine collaboration came
with Beethoven’s Sonata in A,
Op. 30, No. 1, a flow of lyrical
beauty combined with structural
strength that makes Beethoven’s
violin works so fascinating.
Ballet.
If the season of ballet of the
Melbourne National Theatre
Ballet School did anything, it at
least made one feel uncomfort-
ably conscious that ballet is a
very difficult business, and
enhanced one’s respect for the
great practitioners of the art
who seem to do the thing so
easily. It would seem that at
least a 15-years’ apprenticeship
would not be out of order before
a ballerina could be certain that,
after she had whizzed herself
around a couple of dozen times
on her toes and then flown three
yards through the air, she would
land in the arms of the premier
danseur with a reasonable
chance of finding her arms and
her legs in the correct position
and her facial muscles in a
proper state of languorous
relaxation.
Few of the student corps-de-
ballet or the principal dancers
attained to this desirable state
of perfection, but none of them
actually hit the boards with a
dull thud, and some of them
showed indications of genuine
talent. All were good in the
grotesque and comic stuff like
the “London Symphony” of
Eric Coates to the choreography
of Marie Cumisky.
But it is the graceful and
voluptuous aspects of ballet
which really interest most
people. There were some
pleasant moments in “Swan
Lake” and some uneasy ones
in “Les Sylphides,” but the
traditional “Jota” was uniformly
well done by J. Love, A.
Chambers, S. Goding, P. Miller
and J. Fletcher.
Little Theatres.
“D.”: Looking over some of
the plays being offered by the
repertory theatres on the fringes
of Sydney Moliere’s “The
Miser” (Doris Fitton’s Inde-
pendent), T. S. Eliot’s “Murder
in the Cathedral” (Genesians),
Shaw’s “Candida” (Shavian Play-
house), O’Neill’s “Beyond the
Horizon” (Independent) —it
seems a pity to me that these
little theatres cannot be provided
with an outlet in the heart of
the city, so that audiences would
not be forced to trek into the
wilds of the suburbs to see their
wares.
It might be argued, of course,
that it’s up to them —the John
Alden Company managed, very
sensibly, to establish itself at the
St. James Hall in the city, where
*it is currently presenting
O’Neill’s “Anna Christie” —but,
apart from the difficulty of find-
ing city quarters for each of
them, it is not practicable for a
dozen other reasons.
What, I feel, is needed is one
well-situated theatre of modest
proportions in the city to which
any of the groups could bring
their best productions. The
method of selecting perform-
ances worth bringing into town
would probably produce some
friction and heartburning, but
the appointment of an impartial
committee for that purpose
should not be outside the bounds
of possibility.
Such an arrangement would
give the repertory groups a bit
more to work for than they have
now, and would bring their
work —a good deal of it excel-
lent —much more into the public
eye. If any Government —State
or Federal —feels like throwing
any more money about on
“national theatres” it could do
worse than provide permanent
accommodation in the respective
capitals for the little theatres.
4* 4*
Apart from Sydney Tiv.,
where Armand Perren’s “Ice
Follie” looks like staying and
staying—“mail - order bookings
are now available one month
ahead” —the rest of Sydney’s
legit, theatres are due to change
within the next week or so.
“Worm’s Eye View,” in its fifth
month at the Royal, is to be re-
placed by “September Tide,
with Evelyn Laye and Frank
Lawton, hypnotist Franquin de-
parts from the Empire to make
way for another burst —“a fare-
well season” —of Gilbert and
Sullivan, and Madge Elliott and
Cyril Ritchard will shortly move
out of the Palace, which will be
taken over by the N. S. Wales
Division of the Australian Arts
Council for a season of Lets
Make an Opera”—music by
Benjamin Britten and libretto by
Eric Crozier.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX 4
osuixrvAx
t % nxm. „
EftS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.*
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Ruptu
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
bolds, a condition absolutely necessary
lor improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
CD 1717 Call or send stamp for
i I\LiL FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days' free trial
offer . No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dspt. S 7). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
/f Mas £veruM/nq/ JfDoes
#aBB3aasa^^
L ,
HI
i ': i
'•}
m
NUFFIELD
1 UNIVERSAL TRACTOR\_
Nuffield M 4 on 14x30
rear tyres, heavy wheel
centres, pulling 9' 4"
scarifier In 3rd gear.
6-way power including hydraulics,
adjustable track front and rear
speedy 4-wheel to 3-wheel con-
version and vice-versa, on farm,
5 forward speeds, convenient
controls, fully electrical
these are but a few of the
features which equip the Nuffield
Universal for all work on and
around the farm. It has everything, does
BUILT AND BACKED BY A
NAME YOU CAN TRUST!
everything! Obtainable in both Kerosene and 'Cold Start' Diesel-operated models
w
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS ARE SOLD AND SERVICED
BY AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DISTRIBUTORS AND|
DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
AUTHORISED
E'FFIEID
DEALER
DISTRIBUTORS:
NSW' Peter Lloyd Limited; VICTORIA: Kellow-Folkiner Pty. Ltd.; QUEENSLAND
Flinders Motor* Pty. Ltd.; SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Kingsway Limited; WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Park Lane Motor* Pty. Ltd.; TASMANIA Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, —NEW__SOUTH__WALES
ŵ
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COLOMBO PLAN.
Assorted comments on “the
Marshall Plan of Asia”:
“20th Century”: “Between now
and 1970 the population of
South Asia is likely to increase
from 570 to 720 million. The
agricultural production of the
area is at present falling, not
increasing. Thus the food for
the extra mouths must be taken
away from its present con-
sumers. If the Colombo Plan is
carried out in its entirety pro-
duction may rise to the extent
where it keeps level, or nearly
level, with the increase of popu-
lation.
“Those simple propositions
tell much of the present story of
South Asia, and they should be
dwelt on continually, for unless
some remedy is found for the
region’s deteriorating economic
position the economic crisis will
be followed by political crisis.
A recent official survey showed
the average yearly income in
India for actively engaged per-
sons was £5O.
“Can this last? During the
’twenties and ’thirties everybody
saw for years that economic
stresses and strains in Japan and
the Far East would bring about
an explosion ; nothing was done,
and the explosion occurred.
What form the explosion might
take in South Asia nobody can
foresee exactly; perhaps war,
perhaps Communist revolution ;
but if an explosion occurs the
Western world can hardly im-
munise itself from the effects.
“At least the attempt is being
made to forestall the disaster.
As a paper plan the Colombo
scheme is excellent.”
“N.Y. Times’: “The emphasis
is quite properly oh increasing
food and agricultural produc-
tion. The equivalent of about
five and a quarter billion dollars
is involved, with the participat-
ing countries supplying some 60
per cent, of the necessary capi-
tal. Where the remaining 40
per cent, is to come from has
been left partly to providence,
but the four Anglo-Saxon mem-
bers of the Commonwealth —the
United Kingdom, Canada, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand —are all
contributing as much as they
can.
“The cynical may jump to the
conclusion that the countries
concerned expect, or hope, that
the United States will supply a
large part of the remainder, but
there is no cause for cynicism
in this case. American interests
in the success of the plan are
great. The strategic materials
that we get out of the area in-
clude manganese and mica from
India, jute from Pakistan, rub-
ber from Ceylon, wolfram, tin
and rubber from Thailand and
tin and rubber from Malaya.
“The United States is already
a full member of the Consul-
tative Commonwealth Commit-
tee, which, to be sure, is merely
a steering body to report and
advise. Moreover, part of the
$375,000,000 assigned to Asia in
the foreign aid bill now before
Congress would go to Colombo
Plan countries.”
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
problem now is how to get capi-
tal goods. The demand by the
Colombo countries will be pre-
cisely on the engineering indus-
tries, which are now under strain
working for rearmament. The
other main problem is political.
Can the Colombo Governments
offer political stability and
guarantees against expropriation.
Persia has undone in one month
much of the propaganda which
countries like India and Pakistan
have been carrying on to attract
capital.”
“The Scotsman” : “At the out-
set the plan was essentially a
Commonwealth conception. But
there is strong evidence that
other Asiatic countries outside
the Communist influence are
changing their views, and it may
well be that the plan will be-
come the basis for a wider
scheme for economic develop-
ment in South-East Asia.”
Maurice Zinkin in ",Asia and
the West”: “The peoples of Asia
have shown that they will sup-
port no regime which does not
give them land reform and at
least the hope of a rising
standard of life. It is now definite
that the conflict for the mind of
Asia is to be between the two
creeds of Communism and de-
mocracy, and that their protago-
nists are to be China and India.
“Asia now realises that it has
to industrialise. Whether Com-
munism or democracy is chosen
will depend not on ideologies
but on facts. If the West wants
the cause of freedom to win,
then it must make sure that
India offers a more successful
model for imitation than China.
That will be expensive: it may
cost as much as £2OO millions
a year for India alone; and the
other countries will want their
share. But it is much cheaper
than a series of Koreas.”
Peace and Strength.
The widespread craving for
peace in Britain, the “Observer”
observes, is a craving for peace
without rearmament, and that is
“exactly what Russia hopes
for.”
“A Korean settlement will be
the signal for an intensive
propaganda campaign, designed
to persuade ‘peace-lovers’ every-
where that if only the West
would stop rearming the one
great remaining cause of intei-
national tension would disap-
pear.
“It would be nice to believe
this, but the facts point in pre-
cisely the opposite direction.
The Korean war did not start
because the South Koreans were
provocatively strong but because
they were invitingly weak. The
North Koreans and their Rus-
sion sponsors believed that
South Korea would fall easily
to one swift drive—as it very
nearly did. Had they known
that they would have to fight a
United Nations force, led by
America, they would almost cer-
tainly not have attacked. The
fruit of easygoing unprepared-
Minneapolis ( U.S.A .) “Tribune.”
NO FISH?
ness in South Korea has been a
year of bitter and costly war.
“Again, it is not pacific
diplomacy but a laborious build-
ing-up of military strength
which has at last induced the
North Koreans and Chinese to
discuss a cease-fire plan. They
are ready to negotiate because
they have been compelled to
realise that they cannot win the
war.
“Until the United Nations
had proved their invincibility in
Korea all endeavors to achieve
peace by negotiation failed. As
soon as this was plainly and
painfully proved a cease-fire
proposal came, through Mr.
Malik, from the Communist
side. Similarly, we cannot ex-
pect the Russians to be willing
to negotiate seriously a general
peace settlement until we can
confront them with an equally
forbidding military prospect in
the West.”
Persian Gulf.
Admitting that the oil ques-
tion is the “premier interest” in
the Persian affair, Sir Lionel
Haworth, in a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph,” notes that it
is only part of a larger con-
sideration.
“Our interest in the Persian
Gulf is of far greater moment,
not only on account of oil but
of its strategic position and its
historical import. The oil of
the Persian Gulf, on the Arab
coast, is no less in quantity and
future potentiality than that of
the Persian mainland, but its
strategic value is equally, if not
more, important. We cannot
tolerate that position being
compromised. We have been in
the Gulf for 300 years.
“In 1903, before oil had been
discovered, the then Marquess
of Lansdowne, the Foreign Sec-
retary, asserted that it was owing
to British enterprise, to the ex-
penditure of British lives and
money, that the Persian Gulf ‘is
at this moment open to the
navigation of the world. It was
our ships (and our troops) that
cleared those waters of pirates;
it was we who put down the slave
trade; it was we who buoyed
and beaconed those intricate
waters.*
“Lord Lansdowne, while dis-
claiming any desire to interfere
with the legitimate trade of
other Powers, then added the
warning that ‘we should regard
the establishment of a naval
base or a fortified port in the
Persian Gulf as a very grave
menace to British interests, and
we should certainly resist it with
all the means at our disposal.’
“It will be seen that we have
always realised the strategic
value of the Persian Gulf even
before oil was discovered. It
was regarded as the road to
India from two directions. To-
day the oil of Bahrein, the oil
of near-by Arabia and the oil
of Koweit have enormously aug-
mented its strategic value.
“The airfields which we built
at Abadan, and from which we
supplied Russia with arms,
goods and planes during the last
war, are within easy range of
the oilfields we have developed
in the Gulf and in Irak. In the
hands of an enemy they could
do incalculable damage. The
Persians must understand that
in a world war there could be
no neutrals in a strategic area.”
Egypt.
Noting “storm signals” over
the Middle East, and the fact
that little of the news from those


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offictt)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
AKD PERTH
w
ŵ
(fr.
m
b
SSWOA
\
INEP^
new, fast and luxurious
T.V. “ROMA”
T.V. “SYDNEY”
and the well-known
M.V. “NAPOLI”
M.V. “RAVELLO’
Apply to : —
L. Gariglio & Co.
or
James Patrick & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street. Sydney. BW4IBI.
parts is good, while much of it
is “bad or alarming,” the “New
York Times” has been moved to
the following uneasy comments
on Egypt:
“No doubt the Egyptians, like
many a colonial or semi-colonial
people recently escaped from
foreign control, are feeling their
oats. They would not be human
if they did not. However much
the material good that the British
did in Egypt, and however
bungling and inept some of the
succeeding Governments, the
Egyptian people must prefer
government by their own race
to government by foreigners—
not excepting Englishmen or
angels.”
Going on to remark that this
“virus of nationalism and a
xenophobia” is further agitated
“by the economic miseries of
the vast majority compared to
the selfish wealth and luxury of
the very few,” and by bad and
corrupt government, the paper
adds:
“The near-East is a crucial
area for the democratic West,
and hence for the United States.
The fact that the destroyers
being sent to the Red Sea are
British is almost beside the
point, for whatever happens
there will affect us in the long
run just as much as the British.
“The baffling feature of these
difficulties —which is common to
the Iranian oil dispute—is the
difficulty of making Egypt rea-
lise where her own interests lie.
The West is trying to be helpful,
not harmful. Our interests are
identical with the patriotic and
reasonable interests of Egyptians.
The worst thing that could hap-
pen to the ruling classes in any
of those countries is the triumph
of Communism —and Egypt is
one of ffie most promising fields
for Communism in the Moslem
and Eastern worlds. At best
the future is gloomy and full of
pitfalls. All that the West is ask-
ing is that we face the dangers
together in a spirit of com-
promise, friendliness and rea-
sonableness.
“As the Iranian oil dispute has
proved, the United States and
other countries do not automati-
cally espouse the cause of Britain
in all its aspects. Egypt need
not feel that the Western nations
are ganging-up against her and
prejudging the case. These coun-
tries will, however, condemn
rigid, violent, xenophobic actions
and policies, and they must be
expected to insist that issues of
such grave moment as the Suez
Canal be settled with some feel-
ing for the realities of the world
struggle,”
Kremlin Crack-up.
In his book. Peace Can
Be Won, the West’s former Eco-
nomic Co-operation Administra-
tor, Paul G. Hoffman, declares
himself confident that the down-
fall of the present Russian
regime “is inherent in its very
structure.”
Naming Dulles, Mac Arthur
and Kennan (leading U.S. ex-
pert on Russia) as “fortifying”
that view, Hoffman adds:
“The exact manner in which
the Kremlin’s tyranny will be
broken is, of course, a matter of
conjecture. So is the time. But
the tensions that make a break-
up likely are concrete and
readily discerned.
“Many workers in the Soviet
Union are restive, resentful and
dissatisfied. The Soviet Govern-
ment failed, after World War 11,
to fulfil its promise to raise the
standard of living, A vast num-
ber of peasants, who comprise
about 80 per cent, of the popu-
lation of the Soviet Union, still
rankle under collectivisation.
Between 10 and 15 million men
and women are held in slave-
labor camps. To have at least
5 per cent, of the population be-
hind barbed-wire is not a
healthy situation —even in a dic-
tatorship.
“All Soviet peoples live in
virtual enslavement. The
ordinary citizen is tied to his
job, unable to move from place
to place, constantly in fear of
drawing upon himself the sus-
picion of the secret police.
Among scholars and scientists
the terror dulls the creative
faculties and stifles initiative.
Factory managers fear to try
new methods lest a mistake
mean a one-way ticket to Siberia.
“Stalin’s death may well be the
event that will bring the conflict
into the open. It is always diffi-
cult for a dictator to bequeath
his power to a successor when
there is no regular method or
machinery to govern the succes-
sion. The beneficiary chosen is
certain to be unacceptable to
the other lieutenants. Sooner or
later the shooting starts —with
the strong probability that the
military will be on one side and
the secret police on the other.
“Speaking personally,” adds
Hoffman, “I am pinning particu-
lar hope for the downfall of the
Kremlin on the will of peoples
to rule themselves.”
Britain’s Communists.
Adding his name to the long
list of foreigners who have never
fathomed the English mentality,
Dutchman G. J. Renier, now a
professor at an English uni-
versity, takes his adopted
countrymen to task in the “Man-
chester Guardian” for their
“hara-kiri of liberalism.”
“You are all liberals, or nearly
all, whatever your political label.
But what right have you to
jeopardise the future of freedom
for the sake of a little lick of
liberty to be enjoyed during the
current week? An organisation
is being built under your
tolerant, near-sighted eyes which
aims at the deprivation of all
your citizens of most of their
human rights.
“Communist infiltration in
your universities is notorious
and undeniable. Ancient history
shelters fellow - travellers and
avowed members of the Musco-
vite sect. Science, provided your
intelligence service does not go
drowsy, is a much less danger-
ous field.
“But history is the spearhead
of Muscovite doctrinairism, and
the Communists are on the
point of securing for themselves
a close territory where, with the
aid of British public money,
they can indoctrinate the young
and undermine their morale.
“All this toleration is as
foolish and as ignorant of your
duties towards future genera-
tions as is your readiness to per-
mit the evolutions of uniformed
Fascists. Any act, any omis-
sion which endangers freedom
is illiberal. Kindness to Com-
munist infiltrators means infinite
cruelty to lovers of freedom 15
or 20 years hence.”
Elizabethan U.S.
Sir Alfred Zimmem, writing
from America in London
“Spectator”:
“The reversion to insularity
[jn Britain] is no doubt a tem-
porary phenomenon, a natural
reaction after all that the British
people have gone through. But
it is nonetheless unfortunate
that it should coincide with a
diametrically opposite mood in
the United States, a mood of
almost Elizabethan elation which
is sending Americans, not only
soldiers, sailors and airmen, but
doctors, teachers, engineers and
representatives of a score of
other professions, into every
land and every sea—the Iron
Curtain countries alone excepted,
“That the British people
should not be associated —or
associated only fitfully or in-
directly—in this great experi-
ence, the first large-scale experi-
ment in the world’s history of
welfare internationalism, is a
real misfortune.”
A Beef About Beef.
More in anger than in sorrow,
London “Financial Times”
records that the elaborate plans
to supply Britain with beef from
northern Australia seem to be
going the way of other grandilo-
quent schemes.
“One of the numerous and
wonderful plans of the British
Government was to produce
more beef for Britain from
Australia. The Queensland
British Food Corporation has
not run into such momentous
disaster as Mr. Strachey’s
Groundnuts Scheme. But it was
no less ill-conceived.
“Australian producers of beef
will have their work cut out to
keep pace with the demands of
the Australian people at home,
who are rapidly growing in
numbers by emigration. Am-
bitious hopes for turning
Northern Australia into one tre-
mendous ranch could only be
entertained by gentlemen in
Whitehall with no knowledge of
local conditions.
“Most of Northern Australia
is almost waterless; there are
few railways or roads, and build-
ing them would cost a mint of
money; no native Australian
would think of taking a cattle-
man’s job in these barren lands
without very big inducements.
Even if the Australians did
manage to produce larger quan-
tities of beef for export than
they have done hitherto there
are buyers in Asia, the Pacific
Islands and the United States
who are prepared to pay up to
50 per cent, more per pound
than the British Ministry of
Food.
“Why, then, set up a huge
British Corporation to develop
Northern Queensland? If the
tractors and the capital possessed
by the corporation, at the ex-
pense of the British taxpayer,
had been made available on
partnership terms to individual
Australian farmers, we might
have been sure of some modest
results from this costly scheme.”
Historic Folly.
An American foreign-affairs
expert, Arthur Krock, in “New
York Times” puts the blame on
an American for a choice ex-
ample of post-war historic
blundering:
“At Potsdam the Allied
negotiators got Russia to sign on
the dotted line for an air corri-
dor, a highway and canal pas-
sage into Berlin through the
Russian zone. But when it was
proposed that the same pledge
should include a corridor by
rail, the late John G. Winant,
then American Ambassador to
Great Britain, talked the civil
and military authorities into
accepting the weird theory that
this added insistence would
imply an attitude of distrust of
the Kremlin which would dis-
unify the partners in the Second
World War, which was still
being waged in the Pacific.
“The 11 - month Russian
blockade on rail traffic into Ber-
lin from the American, British
and French zones was the first
grim consequence. The abiding
fact, unless or until Berlin is
knit into a united Germany, is
that into the capital, with its im-
mense psychological and mili-
tary importance in the East-
West struggle to shape the
future, vital Allied supplies and
personnel can enter only by
Soviet sufferance, which at any
time could turn into studied
provocations to war,”
U.S. Anti-Red Law.
How the American law for
coping with the fifth-column
Soviet-serving Communists oper-
ates, as explained by New York
“Herald Tribune”:
“No one can be convicted
merely because he is a Com-
munist ; that the specific defend-
ants did actually conspire by
overt acts must be established be-
fore they can be judged guilty.
“But,” the paper editorially
comments, “the fact that con-
spiratorial actions of this kind
are criminal must be made em-
phatically clear to all concerned,
even if it takes many more indict-
ments and convictions than these.
“That the result will be the
extirpation of Communist con-
spiracy is scarcely to be expected.
The party, faced now with the
choice of returning to legal
methods or ‘going underground’
(where most of it is already),
will almost certainly choose the
latter. The Smith Act [under
which the Communists have been
jailed] is in no sense a final
answer to modem infiltrative
subversion. But by firmly
naming this activity for what it
is, the act deprives it of some of
its most dangerous weapons
against the free society.”
Dragnet Digest.
Kashmir Threat. —Commenting on
possibilities of failure in the latest
efforts to mediate in the Kashmir
dispute between India and Pakistan
“Yorkshire Post” quotes Sir Zafrullah
Khan, Pakistan's Foreign Miriister, as
plainly stating that Pakistan “will
stand no nonsense” if India continues
to reject the international arbitration
to which, in fact, her Constitution
pledges her. “Feeling in Pakistan,
already dangerously high,” it adds,
“has been further inflamed by the
preparations of India’s prot6g6.
Sheikh Abdullah, illegally to call a
Constituent Assembly. From the
beginning it has been the fixed belief
of the Pakistanis that the Brahmins
of New Delhi are determined to
destroy Pakistan, over which the
possession of Kashmir would give
them a fatal stranglehold. The danger
cannot be ignored that, despairing of
a settlement through the United
Nations, Pakistan might rush into
some desperate action, preferring to
risk going down fighting rather than
endure the present intolerable strain.”
* * ♦ ♦
Marx. Prophet. —At one stage, back
in the 1850’s, Karl Marx wrote
articles for New York “Tribune,” in
one of which (quoted by a London
“Nineteenth Century” writer) he de-
livered this prophecy: “With a
worthier and more equal social status,
with the abolition of caste and privi-
lege, with free political institutions,
unfettered industry and emancipated
thought the people of the V/est will
rise again to power and unity of pur-
pose, while the Russian Colossus it-
self will be shattered by the progress
of the masses and the explosive force
of ideas. There is no reason to fear
the conquest of Europe by the
Cossacks.”
* ♦ • ♦
The Neutrality Lure. —The Yugo-
slav Communist paper “Vjesnik” has
no doubt about the inspiration of
“neutrality” movements this side the
Iron Curtain: “This idea of neutrality
is attractive to the masses because it
seems to mean staying out of war,
away from destruction, blood and
death. But, in fact, this neutrality
tactic of Moscow’s means an attempt
to lull the peace-loving masses of the
West to sleep as Soviet imperialism
continues to grow. Not to think
about defence, not to strengthen their
armies, in order to make it easier for
the Russian Army to finish its job of
enslavement with the aid of the fifth-
column parties—that is essentially the
meaning of the neutrality ideas propa-
gated from Moscow.”
* m * *
Psalmist of the Dawn. —Australian
ornithology has Eopsaltria australis
in this role; Britain has another
variety and just as perky a robin, too,
judging by this London “Daily Mail”
item: “Early-bird Mr. Churchill now
rejoices in a new nickname among
Parliamentarians ‘Leader of the
Dawn Chorus.’ He spent a full night
in the House, refreshing himself with
occasional catnaps in his private
room, yet appeared just after 6 a.m.,
pink and vigorous and ready for the
day’s battle.”


0
The Knight Sat
Tensive foibe *Haw.
The Vassals stood around:
None durst among them, great or small.
Create the slightest sound.
"Gadzookst” he cried, and roared with
rage,
'This cough I'll not endure.
So quickly. Knaves, and send my Page
For Woods* Great Peppermint
Cure.”
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can' be yours with
9
D
TRADE UARA
American discovery approved by Doctors
Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
'fig#*
iH***
mtMisn
DOLCIN
Helpful and Informally Utnraturn on Dolcin
yM bn mat an nqamt to Doidn (AuttraUn)
Ptf. Ltd.. Bm r ««, 0.P.0„ Sydnny.
MMti
w
GOODYEAR TYRES
HAVE
CHANGED
TOO!
1915
1931
The improvements that the
years have brought to car
performance have, to a large
extent, only been possible be-
cause tyre development kept
pace with progress. Goodyear f
has made many historic contributions to the developm
to their present standard. The outstanding safety, longerTf'
and greater comfort ot to-
day’s Goodyear Tyres are the
results of unparalleled ex-
perience that Goodyear has
gained in producing more
tyres than *ny
manufacturer.
Again in 1951 . . • a *
every year for the * as+
years, more people, the
world over, ride on Good-
year Tyres than on any
other make.
other
in
1951
m
good/year
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Most ghosts don’t know they’re
dead, and once you can convince
them they are they will go away.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
They become dispirited.
4* 4 i 4*
“By the 21st century our people
doubtless will be squint-eyed, hunch-
backed and fond of the dark.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But surely blackouts will be
eliminated by then !
4* 4* 4*
“A shoulder-strap broke, leaving
her blushing before the camera,
frontless as well as backless.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Undaunted, she put on side.
“Cecil James, of Swansea, has in-
vented a machine that puts foaming
froth on the flattest glass of beer.”
Its manipulator will have a
white-collar job.
v 4*
“Beryl Beare announced she would
wear only three fig-leaves when she
appeared as Eve at a Sussex carnival.
That is barely enough to go
with one trunk.
•F *J*
“Why should the Devil have all
the best advertising?”
—Publicist J. B. Nicholas.
Well, after all, he can pay a
hot price.
•f 4*
“Temperance societies made a
two-month survey of 8.8. C. broad-
casts and found 500 references favor-
able to alcoholic drinks, only 21
unfavorable.”
It wouldn’t do to have radio
talks too dry.
,T. •'< 4*
“Remember, it is not vanity to
develop the beauty of your face.”
— Women’s magazine.
But in many cases the very
attempt is vain.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, small piano, good
appearance, needs tuning, £l2 10s.,
no further use.” — Suburban paper.
Utterly played out.
“What can one expect from life?
It’s cruel, and there is little romantic
love left. 1 know, for 1 have tried
and failed.”— Woolworth heiress Bar-
bara Hutton.
And So It Goes On.
When I am modest, which I
often am,
I wish more foolish folk
would realise
That my humility is not a sham,
But just another proof that I
am wise.
But soon I smile at me for being
proud
Of being humble. Then, a
little after.
I’m proud again, to think I’ve
been allowed
The rare and precious gift of
modest laughter.
But next I chaff myself for being
vain,
And then I pride myself on
my self -chaffing,
And then I grin at my own pride
again,
And laugh at me for laughing
at me laughing.
Of all the comics of the world,
the oddest
Are we who pride ourselves on
being modest.
N. M.
My Career As a Private
Detective.
That I was brilliantly qualified
to enter this exciting and exact-
ing profession it would be idle
to deny when it is recalled that
an uncle of mine once saved a
detective - sergeant’s daughter
from drowning, that my grand-
father was run over by a car
driven by a writer of crime-
thrillers, and that I myself, with
the aid of only a powerful mag-
nifying-glass, was capable of
telling within a few minutes if
a wisp of tulle had been used as
an engine-driver’s sweat-rag.
When Punks’s Private Detec-
tive Agency advertised for a
competent private-eye I felt the
call had come for me. I had
been undecided whether to be-
come a famous detective, an
upholsterer or a K.C.
I presented myself at the
agency and saw the manager.
He asked was I prepared to start
at the bottom rung of the ladder
and work my way up. I replied
that I was naturally disap-
pointed, as I had anticipated
starting as a director and work-
ing my way down. I assured
him, however, that my qualities
as a shadower were unassailable
—I never had any difficulty in
keeping anyone in view who was
in front of me in a cigarette
queue. I could dissolve into a
“Two hours to dry, it says!”
wait-here-for-trams sign or
become invisible behind a flag-
pole. The manager seemed im-
pressed, and instead of looking
me up and down looked at me
from side to side. After that he
was even more impressed.
I think it was my ideally in-
conspicuous appearance which
finally weighed the scales in my
favor. I would be 6ft. 4in. in
my sox if I wore any, and have
sloping shoulders, a mop of red
hair and long side-levers, and I
have a lifelong habit of stretch-
ing my neck upwards every few
seconds. He announced that I
would be engaged, and that I
could start on my work immedi-
ately.
“A client of ours,” he said, “a
Mrs. Banks, wants her husband
watched. He is a jeweller’s
laborer, and it is his invariable
practice each day to go after he
knocks off work to the saloon
bar of the Hogswill Hotel. He
is friendly with the barmaid
named Gwen, and she addresses
him as Tom. You can’t pos-
sibly mistake him —he’s between
five feet four and five feet ten
and carries a cigarette-lighter.
Report progress to me. Now
good-morning.”
It seemed quite a simple
assignment. At what I calcu-
lated would be his knock-off
time —being a laborer it cer-
tainly wouldn’t be later than
half-past three —I repaired to the
Hogswill. I had had no more
time than to absorb half a dozen
double-headers when my quarry
entered —it was unmistakably he,
for he was about sft. 6in. and
was smoking a cigarette that
looked as if it had been lit by a
lighter rather than a match.
He certainly knew the bar-
maid Gwen, though he was not
too accurate in describing her
as a duck —a hen would have
been nearer the mark.
The Lothario left some time
later. Anticipating the move, I
went out ahead of him, walking
in front of him, knowing this
would trick him, for if he sus-
pected he were being followed
he certainly wouldn’t look for
the shadower in front of him.
To keep him in view I kept
taking off my grey bowler-hat
every few yards ostensibly to
wipe the sweat off the band —
this would pass quite unnoticed
on a bitter midwinter evening—
but really to look at the mirror
I had concealed in the crown.
I temporarily lost him when
I came to a T street. Forced to
choose, I turned to the right,
hoping he would follow. A few
yards along I whipped off my
bowler to look and saw noth-
ing. In a flash I turned and ran
back, to meet him, stomach on,
at the corner —he must have
slowed his pace.
As I brushed him down he
said “Haven’t I seen your face
before somewhere?”
“More than possible,” I re-
plied smoothly. “I am a regular
visitor to a neurasthenic sana-
torium.” Raising my hat, I said
I was in a hurry to catch a
merry-go-round and would have
to go. A few yards around the
corner I effected a lightning dis-
guise, this time as a dental
mechanic, and turned just in
time to see him disappear into
some flats.
Ah! So that was his fairy’s
hideout. Quickly following, I
slid through the front door just
in time to see him being given
osculatory greeting by a hard-
faced blonde at the door of one
of the flats. Pulling out my
flash-bulb camera, I secured the
evidence of his perfidy.
The fellow turned, recognised
me and made a savage rush, but
I was prepared for just such an
emergency —I had acquired a
commando s unarmed - combat
manual at a military-disposals
store. Kicking him smartly in
the shins, I jumped on him as
he fell, ripped his bootlaces off
and tied his thumbs with them.
Then, as the blonde was yelling
blue murder, I led him out the
door to a near-by phone, pushed
him inside and rang the
manager, telling him where to
come and collect all the evidence.
A few minutes later he
arrived, hut as soon as he saw
my captive his mouth fell open.
I was just about to proudly in-
dicate the camera evidence when
the subject of the snap bellowed
“What’s the meaning of this out-
rage, Blenkinsop? The wife
opens the door to me when this
half-wit”
The manager said: “I’m sorry,
Mr. Punks”; then, glaring
ferociously at me, “Boobe,
you’re fired!”
Well, what could I do but go
off?
Bo.
Recall you all those gallant
knights
Of derring-do who pulled on
fights
In days of armor, shield and
crest
Protecting maidens sore dis-
tressed ?
Today the deeds of chivalry
Are scorned by men content to
be
Lovers who’re quite devoid of
fire.
Small wonder if they rouse the
ire
Of girls who see them calculat-
ing
The bankroll or the social rating
Of maidens whom they seek to
wed,
Too foolish to select instead
A damsel beauteous to behold—
And, mind you, too, as good as
gold.
D. H. E.


1
SB -
m
I
= m
iH
m
Sy
■
VG
49/16
Always be ready
for friends to call
One bottle
Vickers makes
many delicious drinks
With Vickers Gin in the house,
you’re never at a loss when
friends “drop in”. There are
Vickers recipes for every taste
easy to mix and certain to
please. Vickers Gin is so
economical, too.
Vickers
’ GIN
Write for a free post-free
Vickers Cocktail Book to The
United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
NO THANKS/
lb RATHER HAVE A
RED CAPSTAN
□
v*
fC
( is —*
*
<
(
m
Sc
\
f'..
p
f '
VMSfORA
CAPSTAN
<* v&uTe<L d^iflaxetti
OSSO-5.51
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
In the course of making the presen-
tation of the S.T.C. Spring Cup at
Rosehill on Saturday Clive Evatt,
introduced by the S.T.C. chairman as
“Chief Secretary and Minister for
Sport and Racing,” extended con-
gratulations, “on behalf of the
Government,” to the chairman and
directors of the club for the great
work they had done in improving
amenities at Rosehill. Certainly, in
many directions, Rosehill has been
improved out of sight over the past
couple of years. There have been
widespread and advantageous altera-
tions to the whole general layout and
an indisputable improvement of bet-
ting facilities, with new tote sub-
stations springing up like mushrooms.
However, it is doubtful if Mr. Evatt’s
tour of inspection took him far
beyond the precincts of the Members’
Stand.
If Mr. Evatt’s Cabinet colleague
the Minister for Health, accompanied
by a couple of responsible and con-
scientious public-health authorities,
were to inspect one feature of the
amenities at Rosehill on a typical
race-day it would possibly be the last
meeting permitted there until matters
had been rectified. And if Mr. Evatt
himself cares to inspect the said
amenities (which he’ll have no diffi-
culty in locating even though the
corrugated-iron edifice is located in
the farthest corner of the Paddock),
he may be moved to reconsider his
announced intention of insisting that
the A.J.C. resume racing at Warwick
Farm before the end of the year.
The A.J.C. is equally and much more
understandably insistent that it does
not wish to resume racing at the
Farm until various essential improve-
ments have been effected—notably
the installation of sewerage system.
Clear-cut, and somewhat unex-
pected, winner of the S.T.C. Spring
Cup was the Genetout gelding Sala-
manca, ridden a model race by J.
Thompson. After going along quietly
in the ruck early, Salamanca gradually
made ground to be fourth at the
turn, and he finished fast to hit the
front inside the final furlong. Rumyle
was a just-moderate second and Crag
Son a rather more impressive third.
Salamanca’s win was a tribute to the
skill and judgment of veteran trainer
N. Dewsbury, who, while he has his
stables at Warwick Farm, and doubt-
less doesn’t intend to shift quarters,
was not long back awarded a sort of
honorary No. 1 licence by the A.J.C.
in recognition of his 50-odd years in
the game. Without having previously
tried Salamanca at anything beyond
7 furlongs, Dewsbury set the six-year-
old for Saturday’s 10-furlongs event,
and the betting suggested that there
was no lack of stable confidence in
the outcome. Salamanca was backed
in from tens to sevens.
Of those who finished behind
Salamanca the most interesting to
note was Snowstream, making a re-
appearance in preparation for his
spring campaign. The flashy chestnut
evidently needed Saturday’s run, but
his showing suggested that he is ripe
for an early win.
While the Cup and the Flying,
which saw odds-on favorite Humming
Top (D. Munro) win comfortably
from outsider Trizami (a definite
improver, incidentally), were the prin-
cipal events at Rosehill, the most
noteworthy winners were a trio of
three-year-olds—Belshazzar (A. Ward),
Whirl (B. Smith) and Free Rule (G.
Moore). Both Belshazzar and Whirl,
winning divisions of the Three-year-
old Handicap, did the job in real
Derby fashion —putting in their best
work at the finish of the journey, which
was 6) furlongs. It was difficult to
nominate either performance as being
the more meritorious. After being very
badly served at the barrier, and forced
to race wide all the way, Belshazzar
had much the greater amount of
ground to make up; however,
although very wide, he had an un-
impeded run in the straight, and won
comfortably from the disappointing
Militant. Whirl, on the other hand,
had not so much ground to make up,
but had considerably less time in
which to do so; his rider displayed
almost fatal patience in sticking to
the rails, and only at the last
possible moment was he rewarded
with an opening, whereupon Whirl
just scrambled up to score by a nose
from Henry the Seventh, a big colt
whose run was also impressive.
The other of the trio of three-year-
old winners, Free Rule, has been
much in the news in consequence of
an unfortunate dispute over his
ownership, which matter was sub
judice at time of writing. However,
he was permitted to run on Saturday
in the nomination of trainer and
former jockey Fred Shean, whose
colors he has carried throughout his
career to date. Free Rule started at
3-to-l-on in the second Parramatta
Mixed (7f.); after heading the field
for most of the trip he streaked away
from them altogether in the straight
and went on to win by 10 lengths. It
was not a particularly hot bunch that
Free Rule beat, but he certainly made
an inglorious exhibition of them. The
first Parramatta Mixed went to San
Domenico’s very promising young
brother, Video, the Welter to
Gallant Leader (G. Moore) and the
Auburn Mixed to Benefit, ridden by
P. Burckhardt, who, in a very short
“Yair , y're like the rest of 'em —always holdin' out y'r
hands f'r somethin'."
time, has earned recognition as one
of the best of the younger appren-
tices.
* * * *
That fine mare Chicquita, who
broke down when last in training,
made a triumphant return to the
racing scene with a slashing win in
the w.-f.-a. J, J. Liston Stakes (7f.)
at Flemington on Saturday. If only
Chicquita’s dicky leg stands up to
the strain the plums of the spring
racing seem hers for the picking now,
with her old rival, and constant
vanquisher, Comic Court, off the
scene. Come what may, it is likely
to be many a day before Melbourne
racegoers will again have the oppor-
tunity to be on a winning Chicquita
at such a price as she started on
Saturday—ll to 2, at which she was
actually only fourth in the betting.
Ellerslie started a firm favorite at
threes, and True Course and, Iron
Duke were both well supported at
fives.
Purtell had the mount on Chic-
quita; he rode her beautifully, and
she was going like a winner all the
way. Favorite Ellerslie was the chal-
lenger at the finish; he ran really an
excellent race, since he was practically
last with three furlongs to go, but
the mare was definitely holding him
at the finish. Speedster Star Port
took third money in pretty good
style, and Laurie Hussar, finishing a
very close fourth, did easily the best
of the younger brigade. Beau
Silhouette’s performance suggested a
win in more suitable company.
The win was Chicquita’s fifteenth,
and took her stake-winnings to
£26,785, whereat she is the biggest
stake winner now racing, and if she
continues sound the spring racing
might well see her past the £30,627
with which Flight figures in the
record-books as the greatest stake-
winning mare of the Australian Turf.
A good deal of the rosy light which
had emanated from some Melbourne
stables as a result of performances
at Caulfield the previous week evapo-
rated in the face of performances
registered in possibly more-testing
company on Saturday. The A.J.C.
Derby candidate Anslad ran an indif-
ferent race in the Liston Stakes, but,
of course, it would be premature to
dismiss his Derby prospects on the
strength of failure in that company.
Great Gilbert, another Derby pros-
pect, who had just been shaded by
Anslad at Caulfield, gave a thoroughly
poor display in the mile Belhaven
Handicap (for three-year-olds), in
which he started a warm favorite at
7 to 4. The 20-to-l shot Friar’s
Hope won the Belhaven by four
lengths from Enemigo, who was
classed a 100-to-l chance. Another
who had won well at Caulfield,
Lohengrin, ran a hopeless race in
Saturday’s 10-furlongs Anniversary
Handicap, which was won by Welkin
Sun, backed in from sixes to favorit-
ism at threes.
Taken as a whole, Saturday’s results
at Flemington will probably stand as
a golden memory to cheer retired
bookmakers in their declining years.
Opening the card, the Sandhurst
Hurdle went to Japaddy (H. Toomer)
at 33 to 1. It was opined here last
week that the failure of Two Ales
in the Arkaringa Hurdle at Caulfield
must have left some supporters short
of the price of even a shandy, but
evidently that was a miscalculation.
They were still able on Saturday to
send him out favorite for the Sand-
hurst, and again he left ’em with
nothing but the thirst. Japaddy’s
win was followed by that of So
Simple, at 14 to 1, in the 12-furlongs
Anglesey Stakes; So Simple had never
previously managed to fill a
place. Slick Chick (W. Williamson)
started a warm favorite to beat a big
field in the first Chesterfield Handicap
(6f.), which she did pretty comfort-
ably, but the second division went
to Trentside (B. Quinlan) at an
unashamed 50 to 1.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) •
Three-year-old Handicap: Belshaz-
zar, 1; Tossing, 2; Chief Host, 3.
Trial Handicap: Barrymore, I; Final
Act, 2; Final Lady, 3. Hobartville
Stakes: Friendly Feeling, 1; Ocean
Bound, 2; Free Rule, 3. Warwick
Stakes: Davey Jones, 1; San
Domenico, 2; Grey Boots, 3. Camp-
belltown Handicap: True Leader, 1;
Warrah King, 2; Aerofoil, 3. Warwick
Farm Spring Handicap: Golden
Bird, 1; Conductor, 2; Karangi, 3.
Glenlee Handicap: Grand Archer, 1;
Gallant Leader, 2; Auld Acquaint-
ance, 3.
* * * *
England (194 and six for 164) beat
South Africa (202 and 154) by four
wickets in the final Test at the Oval
last week, and thereby won the series
by three Tests to one, with one drawn.
The final Test was marked by a
remarkable incident, in which Hutton,
having mishit one, took a second
flick at the ball, which was descending
to offer the ’keeper the easiest of
catches. There was an appeal, and
umpire Dai Davies, after giving the
matter the deep thought it undoubt-
edly deserved, gave Hutton out,
“obstructing the field.” There has
never previously been a similar inci-
dent in Test cricket, and the last of
a very few recorded instances in first-
class cricket occurred round the turn
of the century. The experts are still
hotly debating the matter, and doubt-
less will be for years to come. Mean-
while Australian players, fans, um-
pires, officials and the Board of
Control should be intensely grateful
that the incident occurred in England.
Had it happened here, with an Aus-
tralian umpire, there would never be
an end to the matter.
* * * ♦
After Saturday’s V.F.L. skirmishes,
in which the ammunition ranged from
nasty words to flying bottles, and the
mounted police were called out, “the
four” seems to have established itself
as Collingwood, Geelong, Essendon
and Fitzroy, ’Wood being just ahead
of Geelong by the bare 1 on per-
centages. Footscray, to play Haw-
thorn next Saturday, may bump
Fitzroy out, as the Maroons have to
meet an Essendon side which, on
Saturday, played all over Geelong,
then the leaders, to win by 18.15
to 8.17. Footscray started badly
against St. Kilda, but staged a last-
quarter burst to win by 11.15 to
9.12, while Fitzroy, ahead of Carlton
most of the way, just managed to
hang on long enough to make it a
draw, 13.9-all. It was an all-in affair
at Collingwood, where the Magpies
took on Richmond Tigers, and with
fur and feathers flying got home by
sundry punches and 9.12 to 6.8.
North Melbourne beat Hawthorn,
10.11-8.11; South Melbourne beat
Melbourne, 18.17-15.16; and the
V.F.L. was swamped with reports on
rough play and bad language all the
weekend —even Coleman, the Essen-
don star, being “mentioned.”
* * # ♦
Sydney Rugby Union competition
matches last Saturday and in the next
couple of weeks may amount to a
series of dress-rehearsals of the semi-
finals. Prior to Saturday Easts,
Norths, University and Manly had
emerged as the final four, with Easts
favored to win. On Saturday Easts
most convincingly defeated Norths,
next Saturday they will have an
opportunity to prove themselves
against Manly and the following
week against University. Easts gave
one of their very best displays of the
season on Saturday to beat Norths,
25-6. The other semi-finalists, Univer-
sity and Manly, also had fairly com-
fortable wins, University tossing
Gordon, 25-10, and Manly downing
Eastwood, 41-12. In other matches
Randwick had a tougher job than
one would have expected to beat the
wooden-spooners, Wests, 15-6, Drum-
moyne beat Parramatta, 19-3, in an
exceptionally dull game, and St.
George had the bye.


m
WITH AUSTRALIA’S MOST COMPREHENSIVE RANGE
OF AGRICULTURAL AND PASTORAL CHEMICALS
RUCIDE: DDT Plunge Sheep Dip. RUJET: Jet and Tip Spray. KLEEE: J?t?n
Dressing. RUDIP; Dual-purpose DDT Dip and Jetting Compound. BELL oKAn
TATTOO OIL: Branding Oil with DDT. L.8.E.: C.5.1.R.0. Scourable formula
Branding OB with DDT. CARBONTET: Fluke Drench. THIODREN: Powder or
Liquid Drench. NICOTINE BLUESTONE DRENCH. LIME SULPHUR: For
SPRAYMASTER JETTERS. KLEENFLOX: Sheep Blow Fly Dressing with u
These famous products are available from Stores and Stock and Station Agents throughout
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE IN BRISBANE.
“Northerner”: The beef
industry of Queensland and poll
breeds of cattle received a great
fillip from Brisbane Royal
National Show.
Poll Hereford interests con-
centrated their big guns on Bris-
bane, bringing a Melbourne
winner, the Sydney champion,
as well as an outstanding bull
from J. H. Doyle Estates’
Merawah stud, Boggabilla, for
which tempting offers had been
made in Sydney. Consequently,
the Poll Hereford section was the
most-improved of all breeds.
Mrs. Wright, of Blandford
(N.S.W.), was the most suc-
cessful exhibitor, taking nine
firsts as well as senior male and
female championships. The
senior champion is by Bonnie
Gem 21st (imp. N.Z.), and was
later purchased by J. Sparkes,
M.L.A., at 3100gns. (highest
price ever paid for a bull of any
breed in Brisbane). Six Bland-
ford bulls averaged 936|gns.
Although they did not get any
championships, J. H. Doyle
Estates’ cattle were much
admired. Merawah Hedley
(second-prize under-two-years’
class) brought 2750gns. and five
Merawah Polls averaged
988gns. Geoffrey Howell, of
Victoria, was rewarded for his
enterprise in travelling so far
afield with 1200gns. for Munor-
hara Viking.
Champion female was
E. W. G. McCamley’s Rock-
hampton winner, Eulogie
Lioness.
Herefords had big numbers
but much tail. A notable
absentee this year was Colly
Creek Estate, whose manager,
J. C. Tanner, did the judging.
With one entry (air-freighted
from Victoria) H. R. Spencer, of
Bon Spiel, collected first in the
class 18-and-under-12-months
as well as the senior champion-
ship. This bull. Bon Spiel
Administrator, was afterwards
purchased by P. A. Wright and
Sons for their Kindon property,
Goondiwindi, at 1200gns.
Queensland breeders whose
cattle were placed in this record
Hereford section included J. J.
Galloway and Sons, Fairymead
Sugar Company, R. M. Reynolds
and R. and B. Freshney.
Champion female was Hays
Bros.’ Bexley Cup Day 13 th by
Bexley Demonstrator, who also
sired the reserve champion
female, Bexley Carissima 29th.
The Aberdeen-Angus breed,
judged by C. McCombie, of
Scotland, who has been specially
brought out to officiate at Bris-
bane, Adelaide and Melbourne
shows, made an impressive
showing, despite numbers being
slightly down on last year.
Reduced entries were due to
several N.S.W. studs having sold
out of stock. McCombie found
the tops equal to those he is
accustomed to judging in Scot-
land, and was full of praise for
the champion bull Wallah
Templar, exhibited by Wallah
Pastoral Co., Narrabri, N.S.W.
Templar is a son of Embassy
sth of Mangatoro (imp. N.Z.)
and therefore a grandson of
Mulben Embassy (imp.), who
bred the majority of the winners
at this year’s Brisbane Show,
including the reserve champion
and junior champion bulls. The
latter were exhibited by W. E.
Webster, Sarum, Kingaroy, who
had one of the outstanding
exhibits on the ground in
Abington Grandeur by Grati-
tude of Fordhouse (imp.).
D. Dowding, of Goondi-
windi, won the female champion-
ship with his 1949 winner Fair-
lands Black Opal by Emblem
of Ngawaka (imp.), while
reserve honors went to the
Scottish Australian Co.’s Texas
Sheila.
Central Queensland breeder
F. H. Hutton took the junior
championship with Bingegang
Usual. Sarum had the reserve
junior champion heifer, winning
also the Breeders’ Group, Sires’
Progeny Stakes Group and the
Norman L. Forster Memorial
Prize for group of two bulls.
A great improvement in the
Devon section was welcomed by
northern cattlemen who still like
a dash of this blood with their
Shorthorns. Taiping Invest-
ments (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., brought
forward a team of four bulls by
the imported Ham Mill Dignity
7th from Glen Moan stud.
Willow Tree, N.S.W.
Red Polls were judged by H.
McEachern, president N.S.W.
branch of the Red Poll Society.
Perry Bros. exhibited the
champion bull and reserve, while
a new local breeder, S. Shannon,
Crow’s Nest, won the champion
cow award with Bundaleer
Brown Muscat.
In Shorthorns cattle exhibited
by Victorian studs dominated
the prize-list. J. Kemellield’s
white bull Wongala Crusader,
full brother to last year’s
Brisbane champion, carried
off senior honors, while the
Gulf Cattle Co. Pty., Ltd.,
took reserve championship with
Brunette Battle Axe.
Lithgow and Ross were mak-
ing their first appearance at Bris-
bane, hut it was a spectacular
debut, for they won the male
junior championship with
Dauntless Squadron Leader, best
group of three bulls and best
pair of bulls.
C. P. Fairbairn and Co.’s
Woomargama stud, which has
been successful in developing a
big market for bulls in Northern
Australia, took reserve junior
championship with Woomar-
gama Paramount. H. C. and
J. C. Taylor won two of the
three female classes ; the latter
was won by the Gulf Cattle Co.
with Brunette Red Radiance,
which went on to become junior
champion heifer.
Scrymgeour’s Gunnawarra
Gay Lad 10th was Poll Short-
horn champion for the second
time at Brisbane, and was an
impressive example of the
progress made in the breeding
of these useful cattle. J. Salla-
tina’s Dalguise Radiant came
all the way from Hughenden to
take reserve championship,
A. Langmore had a magni-
ficent team from his Prospect
stud at Jondaryan. It included
Prospect Field Marshal, one of
the best exhibits we have so far
seen on Brisbane showground.
The reserve junior champion
was J. T. Scrymgeour’s Netherby
Beau Brummel. Prospect Dainty
Lass carried off the female
championship for the second
time. Junior champion heifer
was Netherby Red Radiance
2nd.
Dairy Cattle
The highlight of the section
was the extent to which
high-producing cows figured in
the prize-list. Sydney - bred
Oxleigh Kate sth took the
A.I.S. female championship for
C. C. Knapp, of Nowra, but
she was hard-pressed by R. A.
and N. K. Shelton’s Applegarth
Miss Merle sth. The latter won
her class over J. Phillips and
Sons’ Sunny View Beauty 6th,
but this order was reversed in
the all breeds’ milking contests.
The Sunny View cow’s 6.89121 b.
“ There's a right Way and a Wrong Way to get through a
fence, you know.”
butterfat is only 0.021 b. less than
the Australian butterfat record
she created at the 1950 Brisbane
Show.
Barview Major won the
bull championship for Jim
Teese, of Lyndith stud, in one
of the most impressive line-ups
yet.
Mrs. I. L. M. Borchert, of
Willow Bank stud, Kingaroy,
had the unique distinction of
winning champion and reserve
for females in the strong Jersey
section. Her champion is
Trecarne Dairy Lass 3rd.
With five importations on
parade, the bulls were even
better than the females, but last
year’s champion, Regal Design
(imp.), carried the day for
Messrs. Granger Bros. The
reserve was runner-up in the
aged class, Grasmere Jersey
stud’s Grasmere Lady Lynn’s
Victory, by the six times Bris-
bane champion, Oxford Brown
Victory.
Over 100 Ayrshires paraded
before C. H. Hawkins, of Vic-
toria, who awarded the female
championship to L. Holmes’s
Benbecula Tranquil, which was
also the best-uddered Ayrshire.
Benbecula won most of the
awards, although Nelson J.
Mann was conspicuous through-
out the day and won the female
reserve championship with
Crescent Farm Bebe. Champion
bull was J. N. Scott’s Oatlands
Duke, now nearly 13 years old.
A. H. Knopke, of Wooroolin,
showing for the second year,
collected champion and reserve
ribbons for Guernsey females,
while the male championship
went to H. West’s Moongi Gay
Boy.
Sheep Show
Grand champion Merino ram
was a Neilson Mills aristocrat
from Wahwoon stud. Hay, and
reported to be carrying for the
trip an insurance policy of
5000gns. This ram defeated a
glorious-woolled ram for which
Strathdarr Pastoral Co., Long-
reach, paid 2000gns. at the
Sydney sales. Strathdarr had the
grand champion ewe, as well as
junior champion ram and ewe,
and won the studbreeders’
aggregate with 44 points com-
pared with Wahwoon’s 39.
Terrick Terrick (Blackall), Vic-
toria Downs (Morven) and
Moreenan (Goondiwindi)
penned splendid sheep in a sec-
tion which was the focal-point
of a Wool Court.
A Queensland record for a
Merjno ram sold at auction was
established at Brisbane Exhibi-
tion sales when Penzer Lanager
and Co., Dunstan stud, Charle-
ville, paid 1 lOOgns. for a medium
wool offered on account of the
late F. E. Body, Bundemar,
Trangie, N.S.W. An average
of 510gns. was obtained for the
draft of six Bundemar stud
rams.
J. Gwydir, Cunnamulla, paid
lOOOgns. for a special stud
ram from Messrs. Chas. Mills
(Uardry) Pty., Ltd., Hay,
N.S.W.
SHEEP IN MELBOURNE.
“Mr.”: Superfine and fine-
wool Merino classes excelled in
one of the largest and most
interesting Merino displays seen
at Newmarket for years.
The superfines, judged by K.
Clarke, Campbelltown (Tas.),
were led by a Pleasant Banks,
Evandale (Tas.), ewe-ram double.
The owner, J, Foster, also won
reserve ewe championship. The
champions, which won similar
honors at Campbelltown in June,
were sired by a ram that was
champion at Melbourne in 1948
and at last year’s Melbourne and
Campbelltown shows. The ram
was well covered with a fine,
even fleece and possessed a
splendid underline with the con-
stitution to carry it. Exhibitor
of the reserve ram, Mt. Gow
Estate, Shelford (Vic.), with 10
entries, gained five firsts and five
seconds.
In the fine-wools the 181
entries were judged by Major P.
Russell, Carngham (Vic.), who
found the champion ram in R.
G. Walker’s entry from Pleasant
Park Stud, Goroke (Vic.). This
animal, which took similar
honors last year, is an upstand-
ing, robust sheep carrying a
bulky fleece of high-quality fine
wool. The ewe champion, owned
by T. W, Lewis, Dobie (Vic.),
was beautifully sprung, deep in
frame and well covered with an
excellent, fine-wool fleece. Re-
serve champions in both ewe and
ram classes went to H. P. Mc-
Kenzie Estate, Trawalla.
Medium-wools were dominated
by entries from Alec Russell’s
Mawallok Beaufort stud. This
exhibitor showed both champion
and reserve champion rams,
finishing with seven firsts and
five seconds. The stud headed all
five ram classes. C. 0. Fairbairn,
Skipton, exhibited both the
champion and reserve ewes.
Corriedales
Although the entries were not
large, quality was high. M.
Carroll and Sons, Redbank,
Molong (N.S.W.), repeated their
Sydney and Albury successes by
taking the ram championship,
but not with the same animal.
The Melbourne champion
showed true Corriedale wool
and a good carcass with an ex-
cellent spring of rib. Reserve
ram was exhibited by E. C. L.
Head, Tallarook. This animal,
also winner of the under-two-
year-old class, attracted favor-
able comment with his large,
well-shaped head and stylish,
crimped wool which was a trifle
too fine for championship
needs. R. H. Baker, Baring-
hup (Vie.), took the ewe
championship with a nicely-
balanced ewe showing an excel-
lent fleece of true Corriedale
standard. Reserve ewe came
from A. C. Hooking’s Lake
Park stud, Tantanoola (S.A.).
Polwarths
The standard was superior to
that of last show and there were
some keen contests between Vic-
torian and Tasmanian breeders.
The homed ram championship
was won by Chas. Field, Cressy
(Tas.), from Noel Dennis, Warn-
coort (Vic.). The winner
showed a little more style than
the reserve, otherwise there was
little to separate them. The
champion’s fleece was character-
ised by a bulkiness in the wool,
blockiness in the staple and pos-
sessed a good tip.
Reserve ram, owned by
Dennis, also won the under-21-
year-old class. It was excellent!}
covered but lost to the champion
in size and style. In one of the
best fields of Polwarth ewes
seen in Melbourne, N. Thomson,
Kooraweera, Camperdown, won
the female championship with a
ewe showing great length, goo-
head and with an excellent
covering of bright, lustrous wool
In the polled section the cham-
pion ram was bred by L. A. Bar-
bury, Ormley (Tas.). L° n 6‘
bodied, with an attractive beau,
good thighs and an exception-
ally heavy covering, this ram was
outstanding. The ewe champion,
bred and shown by JV
Thomson, was a stylish, deep-
framed animal with extra go *-
length of wool of bright iU


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
K
£4O/ 12/6
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
A
CHANGE
FOR THE
BETTER
CHAMPION
SPARK PLUGS
favorite spark plug for
|more than a quarter of a century
“ Phenovis " Worm Remedy
WE REGRET “PHENOVIS”
SUPPLIES ARE RATIONED
owing to scarcity of vital imported raw material. While searching
the world for this essential ingredient ICIANZ is pushing ahead
with new plant for its manufacture in Australia.
w
Meantime please don’t blame your supplier
—he will give you all the “Phenovis” he can.
2000° F.
m
m
m
m
■
PENN MAMMOTH
BLOW LAMP
Its 2000 deg. FH. Flame quickly and economically dis-
poses of all noxious weeds and vermin . • . clears land,
roads, drains.
Double Burner
£22/10/-
Single Burner
£l9/10/-
ST
FLAME THROWER
Emits a 14-16 foot jet of flame. £5/10/- f.o.b. Fits
any Knapsack Spray or complete with “Penn” Pressure
vessel shown above. £l9/10/-.
PENN PRODUCTS
229 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
HJEMORRHAGE7JSP
RUPTURE?... HO
SHUCK?
MFECKUN?... HO
(/ftfiw me
*)
MARK your lambs and calves by
Elastrator for hygienic, safe, cer-
tain results. Your young stock lose
no blood, suffer no check, mother-up
immediately. You can mark in any
weather.
The Elastrator green ring
Is scientific, safe, sure.
2) <=>«
cs>
C2>
<S>
*ELASTRATOR
(Registered Trade Mark)
CASTRATOR AND TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station
Agents, Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUSTJ PTY. Uft
and density. Dowling, Gum-
ming and Co., Darlington, fielded
the runner-up,
British Breeds
Romney Marsh entries by
Manton stud, Monegeetta (Vic.),
and Bolobek, Macedon, shared
the major awards. Ram cham-
pionship went to Manton Mam-
moth, a beautifully-balanced sire
with a deep frame set on short
legs and carrying a soft-handling,
uniform fleece. The same stud
won reserve honors with Man-
ton Magician, Bolobek won
both ewe awards.
Seven studs were represented
in the Dorset Horns, Deepfields
and Oswaldene taking the
honors. Ram championship
went to K. G. Luke’s Deepfields
stud for a ram described by the
judge as beautifully low-set, well-
covered and breedy, J. A. Wad-
leton, Oswaldene, notched the
ewe award with a sheep which
took championship honors at
Albury.
In Ryelands, Burnwood stud (J.
Mclntosh, Merrigum) won the
ram championship with its 1950
Melbourne R.A.S. champion,
Burnwood Prince Charles and
also won the ewe championship.
Southdowns generally were not
up to last year’s showing
although there were some excel-
lent individuals. An imported
ram, Gawcombe E 99 of 49, bred
by Capt. R. H. Wagner, of Gaw-
combe, England, won ram cham-
pionship. Exhibited by G. J.
Mclntosh, Nar Nar Goon (Vic.),
he was strong in the bone, firm
of flesh, with well-sprung ribs
and a broad, level back typical
of best specimens of the breed.
Both champion and reserve ewes
were from C. A. Dehnert’s stud,
Ballan (Vic.).
In the sales after the show
values were 10 to 30 per cent,
higher than last year. High-
lights were lOOOgns. paid for each
of three rams, including the
champion and reserve Polwarths.
The last two were bought by A.
Stewart Pty., Ltd. (Tas.), and
U. Ramsay, Birregurra (Vic.),
respectively, and a similar
amount was paid by N. Dennis,
Wamcoort (Vic.), for a three-
year-old Polwarth ram bred by
Dowling, Gumming and Co.,
Jellalabad. Top price for a
Merino ram (925gn5.) was paid
by T. Williams, Oakbank
(N.S.W.), and came from Bunde-
mar, Trangie (N.S.W.). Other
Bundemar Merino prices were
525, 500, 350 and 180 guineas.
Rams from Elcho Corriedale stud
(J. F. Guthrie, Lara) were
bought by overseas buyers, one
at 500gns. going to New Zealand
and another at 350gns. to South
Africa.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: Rates of super, dress-
ing on Victorian pastures vary
from per acre in relatively
dry areas, lewt. in districts with
an 18in. to 20in. rainfall, to
2cwt. in southern districts and
the north-east. In irrigation
country 4cwt. to the acre can
be applied with profit. If results
on well-drained soils following
a liberal dressing of super, are
disappointing lime or potash
may be needed. Deficiency of
potash is common in paddocks
which have been frequently
mown for grass-hay,
“Big Billy”: As well as being
an ideal shelter border for more
tender plants, sweetcorn is a
nourishing, palatable vegetable
not without its decorative effect.
A heat-lover, the more sun it
can get the better. Sowings can
be made between October and
December in well-manured soil.
If farmyard fertiliser is not
available super, or blood-and-
bone at lib. to every 12ft. of
row, together with wood ashes,
will give good results. Plant in
hills or drills in rows 3ft. apart,
the seed 6in. apart. Remove the
suckers which sometimes grow
from the base of the plant.
“Myrr”; To test a horse for
sand wash a shovelful of its
manure in a bucket of water,
pour off, and if up to a dessert-
spoonful of sand remains in the
bucket the horse is in need of
treatment. Feed him three
small bran mashes on the first
day, morning, midday and even-
ing, and early next day drench
with lib. of honey stirred into
1£ pint of warmed milk. Feed
a small meal of damped bran
and chaff, following with this
mixture divided into 12 powders :
sublimated sulphur 60z.,
bicarbonate of soda 60z., bitar-
trate of potash 3oz. and
powdered nux vomica l}oz.
Give one powder in damped
feed morning and evening for
six days. Towards the end of
the week give the patient
another milk-and-honey drench.
“C.A.A.”; Swedes can be
sown in summer in Victoria,
and, as they keep well under
cool conditions, they are useful
winter vegetables. Sow thinly
£in. deep in rows 15in. apart and
thin out when they’re about 2ft.
high. If manure is necessary
add equal parts of blood-and-
bone and super., pluses p.c. sul-
phate of potash, broadcast at
|lb. per square yard and rake
in when preparing the ground.
“Billjim”: Clubroot, a disease
which attacks roots of brassicas,
may be checked by improving
the drainage. Don’t graze
animals on vegetable land. Don’t
work the soil when wet, borrow
implements, or have the ground
worked by contractors unless all
implements have been sterilised
in a formalin solution. Don’t
wash vegetables in the paddock,
do them where water can get
away in drains. Where the
disease has occurred don’t fill
dams with water which is run
off an affected area. Plan a rota-
tion with four years between
sprouts, cabbage and cauliflower
in the same ground.
“K.T.”: Whether for breed-
ing show or utility birds, all
cockerels selected to head breed-
ing pens should be up to standard
weight, free from defects such
as side sprigs on comb, crooked
breastbone and defective eyes.
The same points should be kept
in mind regarding hens.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The sun is showing a good deal of spot disturbance, but
the first group is too strongly northern to be likely to help
the present dry areas; though there is a new southern group
now advancing which, being entirely southern and also a
complex group, may cause some change shortly.
When the season breaks in the north it should be a
favorable one. Cyclically it should break in the tropics
next month.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d, per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Transport and Costs
The published photograph of vehicles
bogged in a stretch of the main highway
between Sydney and Melbourne supports
the now-ageing contention that heavy
transport vehicles are rendering our high-
ways unusable. The N. S. Wales Minister
for Transport snorted that the picture
was a fake and a political publicity stunt.
At the same time he has curtailed the
services rendered by his State Railways
to the point where one wonders just what
the Railways Department is supposed to
do.
Transport difficulties, resulting in
tremendously increased costs which, in
turn, have been added to the costs to
consumers of these goods, are playing a
very large part in the shortages and
scarcities from which the whole com-
munity is suffering. It is not so many
years ago that these road-transport
vehicles were carrying only the lightest
and cheapest of goods inter-State, because
coastal shipping was handling everything
else at rates which now seem unbeliev-
ably low. This coastal shipping service
has folded up, throwing an added burden
upon a mismanaged railway service and
upon roads which were not constructed
for the express conveyance of heavy loads.
Construction of the thousands of miles
of concrete roads necessary for a whole-
sale road-transport service is financially
beyond the means of our present popula-
tion. That means that the railways and
the sea-lanes present the only means of
distributing raw materials, manufactured
articles and primary produce efficiently
and cheaply.
Since the Government railways are
doing little else than convey passengers
and provide employment for some thou-
sands of men under conditions which are
far from onerous, there must be ample
room for reorganisation with a view to
putting this very expensive public utility
back into working order. If coal is the
trouble, then the Coal Board should not
be too proud to co-operate. Since the
Government has its fingers in most every
other pie associated with rolling-stock
manufacture and repair, it should not be
beyond the bounds of a really determined
and efficient Commissioner to get his rail-
way back into working order.
Coastal shipping services present a
different problem because they are under
the thumb of unions whose aim is not
the welfare of their members, nor of their
country, but to create the maximum
amount of inconvenience, chaos and
unrest with the view of hamstringing the
economy of our democratic way of life.
Failing the disciplining of the seamen
and waterside workers of the large ports,
arrangements will have to be made for
the little ships to use the small ports
adjacent to the capitals.
The greatest contribution that any, or
all, of the Governments could make to-
wards the solution of the problems asso-
ciated with our transport system is to get
men who have proved their worth in
private enterprise as managers and
organisers, place them in control and then
leave them the job of making the services
tick. The Governments themselves should
concentrate on the task of making the
laws necessary for the good government
of the country. That in itself is a full-
time task. — Cave (N.S.W.).
Living Standards
I certainly agree with “Llewellyn” (B.
l/8/’5l) that it’s time our £ stood up
without the support of a capital A; its
debasement benefits uncompetitive in-
dustries and exporters of primary pro-
ducts at the expense of the rest of the
community.
But “L.’s” other arguments suggest
that he believes lowering of prices to be
a goal in itself, without regard to what
this is to achieve. Our concern is to
maintain and, as we progress, improve
our living standards.
If we use the common, but quite apt,
parallel of a family budget, we know
there are two ways to achieve stability—
we can do without, or we can add to our
income. Larger income will result from
energy, enterprise and encouragement.
“L.” is prodigal with suggestions for
doing without, but “work harder” is the
only recipe he has for a heavier pay-
envelope—increased production. His
economy measures would, in fact, dis-
courage enterprise—restricted borrowing,
pegged wages and higher taxation are un-
pleasantly reminiscent of the horse-cure
administered in the early ’thirties.
The U.S.A. differs in its methods.
High wages are largely maintained by
incentive schemes; industries are
encouraged to keep plant right up-to-the-
minute by large allowances for deprecia-
tion ; many of the unions maintain
laboratories and expert staff to assist
their industries, instead of acting as a
brake. And although prices and wages
are, in money terms, much higher than
ours, there is no question that their
standard of living, by comparison, is still
higher. What we need is a positive,
optimistic approach to our problems,
instead of the negative, pull-in-the-belt
outlook of “L.” — Ti-tree (Vic.).
Working Hours
Possibly the most welcome effect of the
40-hour week was the abolition, in many
industries and businesses, of Saturday-
morning work. There is no doubt that
those who gained free Saturday mornings
were far more pleased by the 40-hour
week than those who found that they
still had to work on Saturdays.
Opposition to a temporary return to a
44-hour week would be considerably de-
creased if it were possible to work those
44 hours in a five-day week. With the
dangers of inflation so obvious it is likely
that the introduction of a 44-hour
week, worked in five days, would meet
with little more than token resistance,
except, of course, from that section which
regards inflation as its political ally. —
R. W. (N.S.W.).
Exports
“Pegging prices is a step in the right
direction,” the trade - unions have
chorused. Properly policed, so it is, but
to be really effective tariffs should be
adjusted or restrictions imposed to dis-
courage or check the wholesale export
of necessities. Australian butter, for ex-
ample, in beggarly supply for w'eeks past
in N. S. Wales, and, latterly, in other
States, may be purchased in any quantity
in Asia at ss. per pound over the normal
market price.
Ordinary household sugar also is
hard to obtain, but, whatever the
cause of its sudden dearth, the official
explanation of “poor coal” isn’t very
convincing. Castor-sugar (in cartons at
about double the price) is plentiful.
Meanwhile blackmarketeering and
profiteering are rife in Sydney. All of us
as individuals, of course, are blameworthy
for much of the present economic chaos
—our notorious apathy and indolence, our
national thriftlessness and our “devil-take-
the-hindmost” attitude simply asks for
exploitation. But it is high time that
Governments, both Federal and State,
assumed some real and determined stand
to protect the masses by legislating against
“He hasn't got his sea-legs yet."
get-rich-quick exporters of necessary
and/or scarce commodities while impro-
vised rationing of such articles on the
home market continues. —P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
Recruiting
Recruiting publicity has transferred the
emphasis from security and good pay to
the moral value of service to our coun-
try, and results have proved that modern
youth is not so strongly attracted by
“social security” as had been thought.
The spirit of adventure is not as dead as
many people would have us believe ; the
lure of adventure and travel is still a
strong attraction.
The Air Force is probably in the best
position to capitalise on this. Its mem-
bers are enlisted for service overseas, it
is reasonably mobile within its own re-
sources and its units are relatively small.
The basing of an R.A.A.F. squadron in
New Zealand, with the R.N.Z.A.F. re-
ciprocating with a squadron in Australia,
would be a good idea, and should not
present many difficulties.
The two countries are more than joint
members of the British Commonwealth.
A great bond was formed at Gallipoli,
and it is amazing that the military co-
operation between the two nations is not
much greater than it is at present.
The training opportunities afforded by
such an interchange of squadrons would
be invaluable. Basing the New Zealand
unit at Townsville, or even Brisbane,
would offer experience of sub-tropical
conditions which could not be gained
otherwise. Similarly, the R.A.A.F. would
gain experience under conditions of
climate and terrain not available in Aus-
tralia.
Members of the squadrons would, of
course, be carefully selected, but replace-
ment of all members after, say, 18 months
would make it possible for a larger num-
ber of the R.A.A.F. to serve in a friendly
overseas country.
There would be other benefits, too, not
directly concerned with military matters,
which would serve to make the exchange
even more worth while. —M. (N.S.W.).
The Poachers
So the little men of Nippon are back
on to the old poaching game. Reports
indicate that their technique is along pre-
war lines. I was in Thursday Island in
the times when Jap high-engined sampans
used regularly to raid the trochus-beds,
break into store-buildings on islands down
the east coast, and behave generally as
though they laughed at law and order.
They even damaged some of the un-
attended guiding lights.
We had nothing of sufficiently high
speed to overhaul their craft, and if a
gunboat did happen to be about at the
time, it was farcical to see her dash
snortingly out of the harbor and then
(apparently on advice from “higher up”)
back-pedal when she got outside in order
not to catch up with the pirates.
On one occasion a big 40-man sampan
was brought in escorted by a couple of
Government launches. Her hold was
filled with trochus, including a quantity of
“chicken” shell, but her master, who had
been recognised by officials as a former
officer on a Jap liner, had suddenly lost
his former facility for speaking English.
He was fined a tenner next morning for
“not responding to signals” and then had
to be allowed to depart, as Canberra was
silent on the subject.
“They won’t back us up down South,”
an official told me. “They’re afraid of
the possible loss in wool sales and cover
it up by warning us of the risk of inter-
national complications. So we’ve got to
take it here and let these fellows play
round as they please!”
One man of my acquaintance whose
outfit had been broken into, stuff pillaged,
native workers knocked about and women
interfered with threatened to arm his staff
and tell them to go ahead and defend
themselves even though it meant censure
from Canberra.
I don’t know whether the “higher-up”
outlook has changed, but if I know the
Torres Strait Islanders, they, at any rate,
will not take these poaching operations
quietly, remembering what happened be-
fore. — Mooralag (Tas.).
Level-crossing Accidents
Abolition of level-crossings by erecting
overhead bridges or viaducts (B. 8/8/’5l)
is economically impossible, and, anyway,
it is not the solution to the problem of
accidents at level-crossings.
Level-crossing accidents provide spec-
tacular material for daily newspapers and
hit the front-page with a vengeance, yet
in the six months ended June 30 this
year fatalities at level-crossings repre-
sented only three per cent, of the total
number of deaths due to road accidents.
Replacement of the present crossings
by overhead bridges would cost at least
£lOO million in Victoria alone, and that
is out of the question because the bulk
of the cost would have to be borne by
the local municipalities, which are all
nearly bankrupt.
Critics of level-crossings are too prone
to blame the Railways Department, which
devotes much of its time to making cross-
ings safe. But it can’t make motorists
careful. A special departmental level-
crossing committee in the Victorian Rail-
ways devotes all its time to inspecting
crossings and discussing improvements
with local councils. A representative
from the Royal Automobile Club of Vic-
toria is a member of the committee and
cares for the interests of the road-user.
Ignorance and carelessness of the road-
user are responsible for at least 90 per
cent, of level-crossing accidents. Each
crossing has adequate warning signs
placed along the approaches for the train-
driver to blow his whistle and for the
motorist to take more care. Despite these
warnings motorists continue to drive over
the crossings without losing speed, and
seem to pay no attention to the possibility
of approaching trains.
When Victoria’s chairman of Railway
Commissioners (R. G. Wishart) was
lately on a tour of the western district he
was taken to a level-crossing by a number
of local councillors who considered it
dangerous. Their suggestion was that a
warning light signal be installed at the
crossing. As soon as the party arrived
at the crossing Mr. Wishart pointed to a
warning signal erected at the crossing 12
months earlier. The embarrassed
councillors confessed they drove over the
crossing regularly, yet were not aware
the warning light signal had been
installed. That story sounds unbelievable,
but Mr. Wishart is willing to testify its
authenticity.
Motorists have the solution to the ever-
growing road toll at level-crossings in
their own hands. When they are
approaching a major road they generally
stop, be it in the country or the city, but
do they ever follow the same practice at
a level-crossing?— Ah Bee (Vic.).
Uniform Railway Gauge
The idea of a special type of axle
enabling railway-trucks to cross breaks-
of-gauge (B. 1/8/’5l) is not new. A
young Victorian engineer named
O’Donnell patented a device about 43
years ago which did exactly that.
O’Donnell’s model could be slammed
at high speed around a circular track,
over various converging and diverging
breaks-of-gauge with never a fault. The
wheels moved inward or outward on
square axles, and were automatically
locked securely on reaching the altered
gauge.
The Victorian railways had the inven-
tion under consideration, but, in those
days, uniform gauge for Australia
seemed far more likely of attainment
than now. Eventually they rejected the
idea on the grounds that wear on the
square axles might, in time, have tended
to cause some liability to accident when
crossing converging or diverging lines at
speed.
The French Consulate was very
interested, particularly as there are
breaks-of-gauge at most European
frontiers with no likelihood of uniformity
ever being achieved. But the inventor
was discouraged by rejection m Aus-
tralia and had not the means or back-
ing to take it farther. Maybe 18 1 *
similar device now being successfully
operated by the French.
The cost of a standard gauge for Aus-
tralia would now be colossal, and tna ,
plus the shortage of manpower an
materials, puts it outside the realm o
practical politics for a long time, in m
meantime the railways could well tax
another look at O’Donnell s device,—
Emjai (Vic.).


A.B.C. News
If “Transporticus” and “Orang
Puteh” (B. 8/8/’5l) had a good short-
wave set and knew how to tune it they
would have no difficulty in tuning in to
the nightly rebroadcast of the A.B.C.
national news and get a good news-
service, far superior to what is dished out
from R&dio Australia.
While admitting that the Radio Aus-
tralia news-service is weak, I’ll have
nothing said against the A.B.C. national
news, which comes up to world standard
for a 10-minute bulletin.
But there is a trick to this. Radio
Australia uses very high power, and is
easily tunable, so listeners in Asia
probably think it is the best station avail-
able. But there are a number of short-
wave stations in all the States sending
out programmes mainly for outback
Queensland. These stations might be a
bit on the weak side and a bit hard to
tune in in Asia, but they are rebroad-
casting the normal A.B.C. programmes.
If “T.” and “0.P.” would spend a
few bob and get their sets “lined up,”
erect a good high aerial and write to the
A.BC. for times of operating and
frequencies of these stations they should
be quite happy.
I still recall the days coming back from
patrol over the China Sea listening to the
A.B.C. national news from the aircraft
trailing 200 ft. of aerial wire behind. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
It’s time somebody spoke up for at
least one section of the A.B.C. news-
service (B. 8/8/’5l) —the State news in
S.A. I don’t know whether pressmen
are in charge of Radio Australia, but of
four S.A. stations, even pressmen say
the A.B.C. is an easy first. The news
here is gathered and written by experi-
enced journalists, and it is gathered at
first-hand and gives a surprisingly good
cover.
Comparison with the news-pages of
the day shows that most of the main
items are covered, and frequently they
have items missed by the dailies, and,
more often, get them on the air before
the printed sheet is out. —J. C. (S.A.).
It is not my province to answer the
comments by “Dick Turpin” (B. 18/7/’5l)
about the A.8.C., but one point should
be made. His reference to the “large”
news staff could be misunderstood, no
matter how friendly his intention may be.
The statistical fact is that, at this date,
the A.B.C.’s news staff consists of 111
graded journalists and 15 cadets. Any
professional newspaperman would know
that such a staff is approximately that of
any one of the larger metropolitan daily
newspapers in Australia. But this A.B.C.
staff of professional journalists is spread
over 22 newsrooms throughout Australia,
including one in each of the six capitals,
one each at Canberra, Newcastle, Darwin
and Launceston, and in a dozen regional
cities throughout Australia.
Altogether, this staff is responsible for
preparing (and collecting the news for)
104 news-bulletins every weekday, which
are broadcast to Australian audiences, and
19 additional bulletins broadcast through
Radio Australia for listeners overseas.
I doubt whether any well-informed pro-
fessional journalist would attach the word
“large” to such a staff, having regard to
its function. “Dick Turpin” can accept
my word as to the figures—l work there.
—W.D. (N.S.W.).
Wool Plan
Fully 99 per cent, of growers will agree
that wool should be free (B. l/8/’5l), but
can’t see the logic of the argument that
for it to remain free growers must vote
against the post-J.O. plan. The “Vote
No” boys have been shouting this for
months, apparently in the belief that,
if they shout loudly and often, some
trusting souls will be induced to put
“No” on a ballot-paper.
Some not-so-credulous growers, how-
ever, began asking inconvenient ques-
tions. They actually asked which clauses
of the plan took liberty from the growers
and gave power to the Government. The
“Vote No” salesmen could not supply
the answer, but were certain it would be
found —however cunningly concealed —in
the plan. So the leading fights of the
campaign were asked, and they, too, failed
to answer.
Nor can they, for there is nothing in
this plan which takes from any grower
one single freedom, or gives to the Gov-
ernment one single power not already
possessed.
“Wool,” says The Bulletin, “is the
barometer of our national fortunes, and
a sharp decline in prices would be felt
by everyone from the Federal Treasurer
to the office-boy.” That is the simple
truth, and almost equally true of New
Zealand and South Africa. To recognise
that is to realise how absurd is the sug-
gestion that those Governments are
engaged in some plot against the industry
—and themselves.
Post-J.O. is a partnership between those
three countries, and the very basis of the
partnership is that all wool shall be sold
by auction. To argue that it would be a
ready means for the abandonment of
auctions, the introduction of allocations
and Govemment-to-Government trading
is entirely false. AH those things could
be done much more conveniently if there
were no post-J.O. F. E. Hitchins
(president, Australian Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation).
Grumblers 1
I have been visiting a poultryfarmer
regularly for many years and have never
known him say that he was producing
eggs at a profit. For the last 10 years he
has been producing eggs at a loss, accord-
ing to his weekly growl. Yet in that time
he has managed to build a new home,
assist his son to do likewise, has bought
"I know —but where can you GET galvanised-iron?”
two new motor-cars and a new utility
truck, as well as new incubators and
many modern conveniences for his farm.
On the South Coast of N. S. Wales
dairyfarmers have been producing butter
and cheese at a loss for the last 50 years,
if you are to take any notice of their
grumbling. Wheatgrowers have faced
the threat of starvation many times; so
have woolgrowers, and, coming nearer the
city, market-gardeners are merely slaving
on their gardens so that the agents,
retailers and Governments can make
fortunes out of them.
All these people have certainly had to
face hard times, have had to work harder
than city workers, have had to work
much longer hours and have been heavily
taxed, but surely there have been com-
pensations. Otherwise, why in the devil
are they still farming? —W-P- T.
(N.S.W.).
The Cocky
“Harry the Horse” (B. 20/6/’5l) must
be having trouble with his winkers.
Among a lot of wild and woolly state-
ments he says “Most certainly the cocky
owes a debt to the nation, and if he will
not recognise it he should be made to.”
It is really the nation which owes a
debt to the cocky. Aren’t “H. the H.”
and others getting their nosebags filled
by the generosity of the wheatgrower,
who supplies them with wheat for their
bread and breakfast foods at less than
half market-value —and, at present, at
less than the cost of production.
They also get their eggs cheaper, be-
cause the poultryfarmer gets his hen-
feed at the same paltry price. The same
applies to bacon-rashers and all pig pro-
ducts. And if millers had to pay market-
value for their wheat the price of bran
and pollard would soar and dairy prices
with them.
“H. the H.” mentions the Debt Adjust-
ment Act. True, some unfortunates
obtained relief from intolerable condi-
tions by that means, but many just walked
off their farms and abandoned the toil
of years. Some of us just carried on —
I was one of many who did not come
under the F.D.A.B. and who owe the
nation nothing on that score.
Did “H. the H.” raise his voice or his
pen when wheat wai la. and wool
Bd., and the cocky had a mortgage round
his neck and an overdraft round his legs/
“H. the H.” also wants the exchange-
rate brought back to parity with sterling,
but he makes no plea for abolishing the
tariff—that would help the farmer too
much. The exchange-rate is a little bit
of jam for the cocky, to compensate him
for the tariff pill which operates against
him all the time.
“H. the H.” says we already have
licensing of farms for wheatgrowing to
curtail production. We had, but that
lapsed years ago. — Goaded Goat (W.A.).
Butter Famine
“Magnoon” (B. 1/8/’5l) sums up the
butter position admirably; the only in-
accuracy to my mind being his conten-
tion that “dairymen now pay their
employees £7 or £8 a week, with com-
fortable quarters, days off, annual holi-
days and other amenities.” Dairyfarms,
or any other farms in Australia, where
such conditions apply are exceptions.
Hence the chronic shortage of labor on
the land.
Farm work does not appeal to present-
day workers in this country because, in
such matters as protection, wages, hours
and working conditions generally, it
doesn’t compare with conditions in
factory, office, mine or shop. This dis-
crepancy has been bridged in other parts
of the world. In great dairying countries
like Sweden and Denmark, farm-workers,
in pay and amenities, rank with the best;
the share-system between employer and
employed, over and above regular wages
and hours, is practised, with Government
blessing, to the mutual benefit of all
engaged in farming and to the prosperity
of the nation.
In Australia, sharefarming, always
spasmodic or irregular, seems to have
suffered a total eclipse. But while high
wages, controlled hours and attractive
incentives obtain in the cities, this or some
alternative system of encouragement will
have to be adopted if the flow of labor
into dairying particularly is to be in-
creased and maintained. —P. M. (N.S.W.).
Landlord-and-tenant Amendments
The N. S. Wales State Government has
indicated pretty clearly that it has no
intention of lifting a finger to assist a
landlord or to remove any of the in-
justices and anomalies with which its
tenancy legislation is loaded down.
Moreover, it has indicated just as clearly
that a “protected person” will only be
regarded as such so long as he is not a
property-owner seeking possession of his
property as a dwelling-place.
Three judicial decisions of the last few
months have been interesting to both
landlords and tenants. One made it very
clear that if a person is so unfortunate
as to own property tenanted by a person
who dies intestate, leaving a subtenant in
occupation, then that owner has a long
and tiresome and probably expensive job
ahead of him if he seeks to take over
his property. The Bench recommended
legislative attention to the position.
The second case indicated that a “pro-
tected person” seeking possession of his
dwelling against a non-protected tenant
for whom it was not necessary to provide
alternative accommodation had a pretty
good chance of getting his home because
the tenant could not plead hardship
through lack of alternative accommodar
tion as a reason for not going, and a
magistrate could not withhold a warrant
for possession on that ground. In other
words, “protected persons” could get their
homes.
The third case—one that had dragged
on for two years and ruined the working-
class “landlords” involved—concerned
the vexed question of consent to assign
a tenancy. The tenant, a wealthy man,
defied the owners and, because he paid
£1250 key-money, was held to be liable
to suffer hardship if he could not get
possession of a flat although the owners
required it for their own occupation.
The Bench again made remarks about the
letter of the law.
The Government, however, ignored the
recommendations of the Bench that two
glaring anomalies should be rectified, but
has “tightened-up” the Landlord and
Tenant (War Service Moratorium) Act
to provide that magistrates must regard
as a hardship to be considered the fact
that tenants, against whom orders for
possession are sought, have no alternative
accommodation.
The effect is that, while the law does
not require a protected person to find
alternative accommodation for his tenant,
if that tenant has no such accommoda-
tion he can plead greater hardship, and
magistrates are most likely to make an
order in his favor. Knowing that, tenants
are not likely to take any steps to seek
accommodation, and “protected persons”
will be no better off as owners than are
non-protected persons.
In response to many requests for the
removal of anomalies and injustices in
the legislation, Government spokesmen
have indicated that they will give “early
attention” to complaints. The injustices
include pegging of rents on anachronistic
bases in spite of the constantly spiralling
cost of repairs, maintenance, rates, insur-
ance and Jiving ; almost complete abroga-
tion of rights of owners of tenanted
property; and the imposition of extreme
hardship on thousands of persons of
limited means who own tenanted property
which they desire to occupy.— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
That Landlord
I own two houses. The first, with six
rooms in a good suburb, has been let for
about six years to one tenant at 275. 6d.
a week. When first let, the place was a
model of beauty and order. Now, the
garden of expensive shrubs is dead, the
hedge removed to save cutting, fences
broken, gates bent, windows smashed
and knee-high grass covers all but the
concrete paths.
Deductions for blocked or burst pipes
and broken cisterns appear and are
carried over on my monthly statements
with annoying frequency. I have tried
without much luck to find workmen for
running repairs such as repainting, renew-
ing spouts, etc., and have vainly offered
good money for smaller weekend repairs
to the howling tenant. I’d like to keep
the place, but, considering insurance,
increased rates, difficulty and high cost of
many repairs, plus inability to get rid of
bad tenants, it seems I’ll have to cut my
losses and sell.
My second house has nine rooms and
two sleepouts; it is a few minutes from
the city and in an ideal position. It
carries a small mortgage and brings in,
less agent’s fee, £2 Os. 6d. a week for
rent. The tenant sub-lets in many flats,
and gathers in between £lO-£l2 for the
same period. The property is old. Up-
keep and renewals are a constant drain,
and for the last 18 months what I have
received has little more than covered
interest on the mortgage.
Several years ago I approached the
fair-rents court for an increase, but was
curtly informed I hadn’t a hope. —Vet
(Vic.).
Television
I can’t agree with “W-M.H.” (B.
18/7/’5l) that Australia is lucky to be
lagging behind Britain and America in
technical progress in television. The
assumption that this new form of home
entertainment must necessarily be a bad
thing is ill-founded.
Television merely means that we shall
see and hear in our homes the theatrical
productions, concerts, films, sporting
fixtures, etc., which many of us travel
long distances to see. The televising of
sordid subjects would be a bad thing,
particularly for children, but as with radio
programmes the people have the remedy
in their own hands.
If we allow this new medium of enter-
tainment to become a thing of evil, rather
than a power for good, the fault will be
entirely our own. Peter Simfui
(NMI


■
x
'< si
■ ■
“ You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes , Madam ”
i it
'Jm
■
Occasions of unique and special enjoyment
call for cigarettes made by
to reflect the rare perfection and to echo the whole
contented mood .
•V AHOtNTNINV
TOBACCONISTS TO
BIMO OBOBOT VI
w
m
iijm
>'v
IT
BENSON k HEDGES LTD t OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Viewless Winds and
other books by H. M. Moran. —5173.
To buy copies of William Lane and
the Australian Labor Movement by
Lloyd Ross, Where Socialism Failed
by Stewart Grahame, Australian
Socialism by A. St. Ledger and
Queensland Politics During Sixty
Years by C. A. Bernays. —5172.
To buy books of verse by Norma
L. Davis. —5171.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David Low. —5170.
Words of poem published before
1917 by A. D. Quinn (“Arual”) called
“The Land of the Eucalypt.”—5169.
Name and address of a competent
teacher in Sydney who would teach a
person bookbinding as a handicraft.
—5168.
Words of verse “The Import
Lunacy” by Randolph Bedford. —
5167.
Words of poems “The Old Whim
Horse” by Edward Dyson and “How
M'Dougal Topped the Score” by
Thos. E. Spencer; also gramophone
record “Juanita,” —5166.
To buy copy of In the Days when
the World Was Wide by Henry
Lawson. —5165.
To buy copy of book on the law
of diminishing returns. —5162.
To buy books dealing with Aus-
tralian boxers. —5174.
To b bQoks on wa ter-divining.—
j
ii'mp a „rt nf nuent for
_„^ an f m^ and n ad ~„e t nni g called
sitta
„,! ‘ c „ T
-
* h ® ’bwagman, beginning.
0h > the track through the bush go
And e ,™ P fand lower the erev head doth
bow '
* —5163.
| nfot . mat :” T OUff ht.
Information bought.
.
ID Does dead wool requite a y
lo method If
trlalLni? C 3) Lugh present value
an( j to w / lom should dead wool be
sent?
S % Before sending dead wool to
market as much dirt bones etc
fnd,be should be clashed into
dean wool clucked from recently
dead sh a P d having good length
Qf sta le P W ool th g t g has been
| the paddock f or some
S c i assed according to length
ofstaSeMerino?nd cmssSed wool
sbou i d be kep t separate and no wool
with p j eces P f sk j n adhering should
be ujixefi w ffh the above. Skin pieces
and lower-grade wool should be
packed separately. (3) Approximate
values at closing sales of 1950-51
season were: plucked wool, 50 to
70d. P er lb -» best dead wool > 45 to
60d. P er lb - ; lower grades, to 25d -l
skin pj eceS; g oo d 28d., poor unsale-
able. If sufficient dead wool is avail-
able to make lots of several bales of
each type it should be pressed in bales
and forwarded to any of the Sydney
woolbroking firms. Smaller lots, and
unclassed dead wool, could be sent to
Grazcos, Sydney, for classing and
sale tbr any ° f the brokerS ° n
your behalf,
* * * *
J f a bowler mak f s holes m the
ground near the wicket when deliver-
ing the ball can the batsman compel
the nnnosine contain to have them
' Uled with soil?
The batsman shou]d appeal to the
umpire, who, if he considers the
bo j es are dangerous, can order them
l P be filled - umpires may, if
} bey see f . fit >
the captains of both teams on the
question, but the umpires have the
, g * P * *'
A mphod o) preserving home-mude
old-fashioned way ot pottmg
butter has not been superseded. Roll
into a fine powder and mix thoroughly
lib. white sugar, 11b. saltpetre and
21b. salt. Add loz. of this mixture
to each pound of butter to be pre-
served. Store in large or small crocks,
* * * *
Details of an English custom known
os “the flitch of Dunmow” ?
This custom originated in the 13th
century, fell into abeyance in the
18th, but has been revived in recent
years. It takes place at Dunmow, in
Essex - A bacon flitch is awarded
annually to any married couple
presenting themselves and bringing
proof that they have lived in perfect
agreement for the first year of their
married life.
* * * *
How to propagate camellias, and
the best season of the year to carry
out the method?
Camellias can be propagated by
both layerings and cuttings. For
layering, bend a low-growing limb,
make a slit at the “elbow,” and place
a srna fi stone in it, then fasten the
] imb firmly in the ground with a
«„>« rr MmK to c iir,rt
Cr ft in a box of Lil contSning at
kast 2 5 p.c. of sand and well sup-
plied with drainage holes. For cut-
tings, a glass frame is essential, with
plenty of bottom heat. Use small
? ICC ? ° f la iV year i S wo ? d ’ ?“•
4m. long, and keep the soil moistened,
The work can be attempted at any
time, but success is often very hmited.
What is the difference between a red
button! and a block button,!
beSj WgSS
includes a number of forms red and
black in coloration. All are renowned
f or their pugnacity and the severity
Q f their stings. The common black
bulldog ant, M. tarsata, is shining
black in color, with dark-red man-
dibles; the common red bulldog or
soldier-ant, M. gulosa, has the apical
halt of the last joint of the abdomen
black; it is widespread in eastern Aus-
tralia. There are, however, other
black and other red species, very
similar in general appearance to these
allies, so that it would require the
services of an expert to differentiate
between them. The black species are
said to be less ferocious than the red
forms, and do not build such large
nests.
* * ♦ *
Recipe for a cement for marble?
Mix litharge and freshly-burnt lime
m the proportion of 20 to 1 and
make into a putty with linseed oil.
Keene’s marble cement, which has the
advantage of being white in color, is
prepared by soaking plaster of Paris
in a saturated solution of alum, baking
strongly in an oven and reducing it
to a powder. For use, this cement
is mixed with water in the same way
as plaster of Paris. It sets like granite.
♦ * * *
A preventive or cure for boils?
Preventive treatment consists of free
purgation and the administration of
tonics, such as Fellow’s Syrup. Tab-
lets of sulphide of calcium (£gr.
to Igr. three times daily in pill form)
have been used with much success.
Stannoxyl in tablet form (six tablets
daily) is regarded by many as a
specific. Yeast extract is another
valuable remedy in recurring boils.
Intramuscular injections of collosal
manganese in doses of 0.5c.c. are
often successful.
* * * *
History of the Sydney Zoo before
it was moved to Taronga Park,
Mosman ?
In March, 1879, the Zoological
Society of N.S.W. was formed, with
Walter Bradley as president, for the
acclimatisation of songbirds and
useful game. A sum of £SOO was
collected, the Government giving £1
for £1 subsidy, and pheasants, Cali-
fornia quail and several species of
songbirds were imported and liberated.
In 1880 the society was reorganised
as the Zoological and Acclimatisation
Society, and a depot was established
at Moore Park, laid out as zoological
gardens, and opened in 1884. The
area of the garden was gradually
extended to 11 acres as the collection
of animals and birds increased. In
1916 the collection was removed to
Taronga Park, a site of about 58
acres.
Brief Answers.
P.P.: Les Darcy was born at
Woodville, near Maitland, N.S.W.,
on October 28, 1895, and died at
Memphis, Tennessee, on May 24,
1917. Darcy died of pneumonia,
according to official announcement,
although he was in a very bad way
suffering from nervous breakdown
and fever... .F.G.: The Writers and
Artists’ Year Book, published by A.
and C. Black, Ltd., 4 Soho-square,
London, W.l L.H.; “The P.L.A.
Monthly,” published by Port of
London Authority, Trinity-square,
London, E.C.3 F.G.8.: Full par-
ticulars are obtainable from Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, Taxation
Department, Melbourne T.L.R.:
Write Miss Margaret Jonson, hon.
organiser, Sydney Drama Society,
Hamilton Chambers, 9 Hamilton-
street, Sydney C.L.: Forward us
your full postal address and we will
send what is required S.P.: The
Sydney “Sunday Herald” was first
published on January 23, 1949
W.L.8.: Rose Scott died in Sydney
on April 20, 1925... .F.M.S.: The
answer is to cut down the greenstul!
or cut out the cauliflower or cabbage.
The scouring may be merely natural
softness caused by the excessive
greenstuff 5.0. G.: The lines are
from Longfellow’s “The Theologian’s
Tale”... .G.J.: If the amount the
husband provides is insufficient to
provide his wife and children with
proper food and clothing the wife
may apply to the Children’s Court
for a proper maintenance order....
P.O’R.: Australian Notes on the
Ballet, written by Jean Garling, illus-
trated by Daryl Lindsay and William
Constable and published by the
Legend Press, 31 Macquarie-place,
Sydney... .S.S.: The Strong and the
Weak by Dora Peyser, published by
Currawong Publishing Cos., 3 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney J.R.: The
Royal Navy lost five fleet carriers—
Hermes, Courageous, Eagle, Ark
Royal and Glorious —and five escort
carriers—Audacity, Avenger, Dasher,
Nabob and Thane—in World War If-
N.W.: Encyclopaedic Publica-
tions Pty., Ltd., Bth Floor, State
Building, 49 Market-street, Sydney.
T.C.: Introductions, Ltd., 23
Suffolk-street, London, S. W. 1.. • •
8.L.: See article “Three Australian
Poets” by Arthur H. Adams in “The
Lone Hand” of March, 1910....
T.0’8.: Write E. V. Steel, librarian,
the Fisher Library, University ot
Sydney, Sydney C.R.; See article
“The Debunking of Errol Flynn
by Frank Clune in The Bulletin ot
April 13, 1938....R.L.: “The Aus-
tralasian Printer,” published monthly
by the E. G. Holt Publishing Cos.,
166 Phillip-street, Sydney.. ..F.M..
From Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281 George-
street, Sydney J.G.C.: Impossible
to determine value without inspection.
Your best plan would be to
detailed description to a Brisbane
expert and request a valuation.. • •
J.S.: The Aboriginal Word Book pi
Justine Kenyon, published by Lothia
Publishing Cos., Melbourne.. .
The Australian Junior Encyclopedia.
edited by Charles Barrett; pubhsheo
by Georgian House Pty., Ltd., 431
Bourke-street, Melbourne... .W 0.-
Write Division of Wood Technology.
Forestry Commission ot N.S.W., ?
Harrington-street, Sydney... .W.P.G-
Write secretary, Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, 14 SpnW
Street, Sydney,


AUSTRALIAN ART BOOKS
MODERN AUSTRALIAN
ABORIGINAL ART,
by Rex Battarbee.
The stories and work of 10 artists.
21 colour, 12 halftone plates.
63/- (post lOd.)
THE PAINTINGS OF
RUSSELL DRYSDALE
Limited Ist edition, each copy
signed. 15 colour plates; drawing®.
63/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
w
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
How I raised myself from
FAILURE to SUCCESS in Selling."\
FRANK BETTGER
HERE IT 15... THE MOST HELPFUL AND
INSPIRING BOOK ON SALESMANSHIP
THAT I HAVE EVER READ
Dole Carnegie
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
HEINEMANN
AMBROSE DYSON
ERIC LAMBERT
A collection of 12 drawings by Ambrose Dyson to mark the centenary of the discovery
of cold with descriptive letterpress by Eric Lambert. Size 14, ; ui. x 10in., contained
in stiff card folio with drawing and lettering in gold on front cover. Drawings are
detachable and suitable for framing. Altogether one of the finest tributes to our
Australian pioneers in this Jubilee Yeai,
ONE GUINEA at All Good Bookshops
Orders and enquiries to Sole Australian Distributor:
JOSEPH WATERS
Collins House, Melbourne
NOW READY
THEY CAME TO BAGHDAD
By AGATHA CHRISTIE
Mrs. Christie’s gayest novel, and has all the well-known character-
istics, plus a more than usually exciting background of mystery
and intrigue. FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
COLLINS
FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
don’t
forget
good
books
• You’ll find lots of suggestions for books to take
on your holiday in our monthly CATALOGUE
OF NEW AND RECENT BOOKS.
Have your name placed on our
MAILING LIST NOW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone BL 3611.
“Handy Hints for the Farm”
PRICE ONE
SHILLING
• Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle,
Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and
General Farm Activity.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George St., Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne;
239 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 33 Barrack St,, Perth.
talent, and “after one month’s lessons
on an organ could play hymn tunes
in four parts.” Edwin, whose name
means “Debris Under a Gum-tree,”
once set off on a painting trip
to Aver’s Rock, but so many of
his friends and relations joined the
party, partly for the pleasure of travel,
partly to get their share of Edwin’s
“white man’s tucker,” that they ate up
all the food long before they reached
their journey’s end and the whole party,
including the painter, had to turn home
again.
Then there is Otto Pareroultja, his
brother, whose decorative, rhythmical
watercolors —if one would hesitate to
compare him with Van Gogh—do seem
to have something to say for themselves.
A stockman, shearer, carpenter and
gardener, now a member of the native
council at Hermannsburg which super-
vises the discipline of the mission, Otto
has sometimes deputised for the native
evangelist at Alice Springs.
Reuben Pareroultja, another brother,
is delicate, sickly, rather a tragic figure
as Mr. Battarbee describes him. He is
“the best of the aboriginal artists at
drawing animals,” and sold a picture of
camels to Professor L. A. Mander in
America. During the war he worked
with the aboriginal labor gang attached
to the Army at Alice Springs, for which
he got five shillings a week and his keep.
Walter Ebatarinja has white blood in
him, copies Namatjira’s style and, hav-
ing an important position in the tribe,
has demanded special attention and
instruction from Namatjira, who had to
feed, clothe and teach him for three years
at a time when his own sons were anxious
to be taught painting. Mr. Battarbee
seems to have reservations about Walter.
Enos and Oskar, Namatjira’s sons,
paint in their father’s style— the reproduc-
tions show no evidence of any talent
remotely comparable to the father’s —
and have ambitions to become aboriginal
pastoralists and run cattle on Crown
land near the Aboriginal Reserve; the
father wants to get the block in his own
name, let his sons work it, and pass it
on to the family when he is dead.
(Pastor Albrecht says Namatjira was
granted a block which had “insufficient
water and too much waste land.”)
Henoch Raberaba, whose name means
“Willy-willy” and whose work in repro-
duction is elementary, was one of the
aboriginal pastoralists who in 1944 were
set going with 50 cows, a bull, stock-
horses and gear, free of interest, the
principal to be paid back when they
had their sales of fat bullocks; but
Henoch gave up the venture after two
years,.
Richard Moketarinja, like Otto
Pareroultja, seems to have something to
say for himself as an artist, in a minor,
decorative way ; his “Palm Valley, Janies
Range,” looks at any rate like quite an
effective travel-poster. His name means
“Snake Curled Up In a Circle.” In his
youth he was “rather wild and difficult
to handle at times” and “used to be in
a lot of fights.” He made several pounds
a week in 1942 by painting on boom-
erangs, then served three years with the
Army labor gang at five shillings a week.
Ewald Namatjira, the third of the
painter’s painting sons and the last of
Mr. Battarbee’s artists, was too ill as a
child to attend school and so has had no
education and cannot write his own
name. Normally he would have been
thought a completely “useless” native,
but he seems to have found himself in
painting and his “Rain, James Range,” is
the only reproduction in the book which
shows something of his father’s sensi-
tivity to atmosphere.
Whether it is the primitive bark draw-
ings or the watercolors of these 10 artists
it must always be difficult for anybody in
this country to think with clarity and de-
tachment about aboriginal art. If we
really had, as a nation, an impassioned
and detached interest in primitive art we
would be aware, at least, not. only of
the aborigines but of all the Polynesian
and Melanesian work which surrounds us.
But we leave that to the museums. One
does not find Maori totem-poles or New
Guinea idols in the National Galleries as
we found aboriginal bark drawings—
having about the same relation to art as
a bark wurlie has to Salisbury Cathedral
—in the Jubilee exhibition. We do not
get excited over the fact that a Maori
artist—Orewa Haddon —has been success-
fully painting in the European manner,
and in oils, for years.
Our interest is in our own natives and
we can hardly hope not to be prejudiced,
more or less, by national sentiment. Mr.
Battarbee’s enthusiasm is obviously
colored by this national sentiment; but
for all that his book will leave most
people with a heightened respect for his
10 watercolorists not only as men but
as painters. It is, of course, phenomenal,
and full of hope for the future, that these
paintings should have been done at all;
and if most of them are best described
as “creditable considering their origin”
they remain—creditable. And Namatjira
--the spark that has set them all going—
would rank as a sensitive and capable
watercolorist in any company.
D. S.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Rockets : Harry Edmonds (Mac-
donald). Modernistic thriller envisaging
the first man to fly in a rocket from
Britain to America, and ending with the
explosion of a Russian rocket on New
York. There is a daring rescue by heli-
copter of a British secret-service agent
who had been discovered and sent by the
Russians to work in a labor-battalion in
the icy regions—a carryover from the
author’s previous book, The Clockmaker
of Heidelberg; there are daring doings
in Canadian cities and the Canadian
forest; and exciting escapes in tramp-
steamers in the Baltic, with a few girls
and kisses thrown in. A novel, if con-
fusing, novel.
The Chosen: E. J. Edwards (Peter
Davies). An American story, the basis
of a Hollywood film, of five young New
Yorkers, all friends, who decide to be-
come priests ; how one by one they drop
out, one for love, one for anger, one
for not being able to stand the discipline,
etc., until only one remains, and is
ordained. The life of the seminary is
very well done* the various tests are
shown satisfyingly to meet the various
characters, or lacks of character ; and the
book constitutes a reasonable explanation
why some men become priests and why
others do not.
* * * *
The Ivory Locket: Marjorie Alan
(Hale). An old woman is cleverly done
to death, leaving her young woman-
companion her money and an ivory
locket containing the words “Omar
Khayyam.” These turn out to be half
the clue to the whereabouts of the lost
rubies. Menaces, turnings-out of drawers,
and considerable other spy-activity by
both parties end with the kidnapping of
the heroine in an old house where the
rubies are reputed to be hidden, and her
release from the claws of a most re-
sourceful gang of crooks by a young
author of detective thrillers, whom she
penalises by marrying.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 135
Across.
I—Checking1—Checking a stalk by Menzies. (8)
4 —Hunts conversation in a steamer.
(6)
9 Voracious prima donna is back-
ing. (4)
10— Nonsense of an absent-minded
drawing scribbled on a seal’s
blotter. (10)
12 —Jugglery saint remembered by the
turf tomorrow in France. (11)
15—He ensures that the better half is
bettered. (4-6)
17—Angle for a famous N.S.W. train.
(4)
19— Thus to turn the sweep's “com-
plexion.” (4)
20 — Blossom forth to make the celer
scoff badly. (10)
24 —Exist with a comic Don and duck
us burrowing in sand. (11)
27—He-ingredient of a product is
crook. (10)
29 — Live as a mendicant on a town
in N.S.W. (4)
30 — Fellow who swallows a little
bounder has color set adrift. (6)
31 — John the seal is urged to wave
an item in the vanity case. (8)
Down.
1— Will to ring the Occident condi-
tion of the water where the
toddlers bathe. (10)
2 Lengthening the east ruler. (5)
3 Zero. (3)
5 Prickly personage remembered by
Thursday over New York. (6)
6 The wives of men-of-war? (9)
7 Swing around if bumped off. (4)
8 — The music publication 1 swal-
lowed as a narcotic. (6)
11—Search deeply in favor of one
side of Hamlet’s dilemma. (5)
13— Age. (3) .
14— Lamb’s Henry offers a tie. (10) .
16—Pygmy king in a schoolboy s
stationery set. (4-5)
18—Tolerate a streamlet. (5)
21— Run away from this French
jacket for Aries and cheat any-
one for his “roll.” (6)
22 Hawaiian garland for. Rumanian
money. (3)
23 Factor in a beauty contest that
can become a fair cow. (4)
25 — Ring Margaret to get a final
letter. (5)
26 — A Moslem priest is not quite how
Menzies would describe himself.
(4)
28 —It stays up all night. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 134.


1N31M013A30 S.VIIVIIISOV
* oi Aoi/3N3 sanddns
mahm iasa/a
■ ■■.•■■
v:-*v
flHMftfoj; ■ -:
sawa
.v-v.
**6
I
A.E.C. (Aust.)
PTY. LTD.
78 WILLIAM ST., SYDNEY
Phene M 0412 (33 lines)
DIESEL TIPPERS
TRUCKS • BUSES
Illustrated is an A.E.C. "Matador"
Mark ill Heavy-Duty Tipper.
A.E.C. has a grand record for a
long life of economical and profit-
earning service. All modern
engineering advancements
that have been tested and
proved in service by A.E.C.
("Builders of London's
Buses") are embodied in
the "Matador."
long in
■
111
ŵ
BLH
DRAGLINES
A Lima Shovel at work in the world’s largest
copper mine, U.S.A. With world markets
insisting on cheaper goods, more economical
production is achieved by the adoption of
these new machines. We are bringing these
same machines to Australia.
All Lima equipment is designed to handle the
heaviest, hardest and largest scale earth
moving, and similar work, in the most difficult
terrain.
Early delivery for approved priorities.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Maximum profitable use of
construction and excavating
machinery is determined by
its actual productive time on
the job.
DIESEL POWERED
SHOVELS • CRANES
DRAGLINES
Ease and speed of movement become of great importance if
high productivity ©I equipment is to be attained.
Michigan is designed to fill the need for a versatile, highly
mobile Power Shovel, and has gained wide popularity with
Contractors, Industrial Plants, State,
County and Municipal Departments.
EARLY DELIVERY ON APPROVED
PRIORITIES.
H' I ‘ L :
s : -V, I -y'::
V
ligan
TMDT 16
opacity ...
Cubic Yard
78 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY
HARLAND & WOLFF
BELFAST and LONDON
BRITISH DIESEL ENGINES
THE "H. & W." (’"Harland & Wolff") Diese! Engine as a power-producing
unit for industrial purposes is noted for its fuel economy, low operating
costs, entire absence of standby losses, and simplicity, safety and
reliability of its operation. The range of application is almost unlimited.
This "Harland & Wolff" Engine drives a 1,600 K.V.A. alternator at 333
r.p.m. and incorporates the latest four-valve head design ensuring
maximum scavenge and
excellent combustion
resulting In low fuel
consumption.
All the ranges of
"Harland Wolff"
engines are suitable for
dual fuel operation.
: x
■
m
m*
A if
tiiiu u uAcriunc nccDiwrs
m
Mr. H. HASTINGS DEERiNG
Personal Representative
in Australia for
HARLAND & WOLFF
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street. Sydney. Crown Street Corner.
'Phone M 0412 (33 lines)
