

A PRODUCT OF THE
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
&
S
HOUSE O E SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
WLAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E-tLA
The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” VoL 72—No. 3700
Wednesday, January 10, 1951
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST.PAUL'S, OF LONDON, THE EMPIRE'S PARISH CHURCH
TOWERING above London’s streaming traffic on Ludgate Hill is St. Paul’s,
considered to be the finest Renaissance in Europe. It was the
work of one man, Sir Christopher Wren. England's greatest architect, and it
stands upon a site first occupied by a Christian church founded in the seventh
century and endowed by Ethelbert, King of Kent. This was burned down in
1087; its Norman successor was partly destroyed by fire in 1136 and Old
St. Paul’s vanished in the flames of the Great Fire of 1666.
An entirely new Cathedral was planned by Wren, and building commenced
in the year 1675, during the reign of Charles 11. Hampered by authority and
opposed by ignorance, he worked on it for thirty-five years in an atmosphere
of bitterness and frustration and, in addition, had the greatest difficulty in
getting his four pounds a week for himself and the wages for his men. By
the time the last stone was placed in position, by his son, in 1710, during the
reign of Queen Anne, Christopher Wren was so feeble that he had to be
carried to the top of his noble building in a basket. Most of the £748,000
spent on the Cathedral before the year 1723 was raised by a tax on sea-borne
coal entering London.
The great dome, 112 feet in diameter and weighing 700 tons, is surmounted
by a ball and cross, the top of which is 365 feet from the ground. Within
the dome is the famous Whispering Gallery, renowned for its power of
carrying sound —a whisper will travel a distance of a hundred yards around
the vast curve.
St. Paul’s survived the Second World War only by a miracle when enemy
bombs devastated the surrounding area. It received two direct hits and stood
in danger of total destruction until the removal of two unexploded time-bombs
which had penetrated the foundations. When the dust and smoke had
cleared away, Londoners saw their great Cathedral in a new setting, rising
majestically from the rubbled ruins at its foot.


Learn r . . . _
Stom Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITS FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
IflO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
F
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN STORIES.
The best, or at any rate the liveliest, the
freshest short-story in Coast to Coast,
1949-50 (Angus and Robertson), edited by
Nettie Palmer, is Gloria Rawlinson’s
“Gugga,” about an old Norwegian sailor
who lives with the Maoris and who, on
a stormy night, launches his dinghy into
the wild sea that runs to Valhalla.
There are plenty other stories in the
anthology as well-written as this and as
complete in form—Vance Palmer’s
“Mathieson’s Wife,” for instance, is a
flawless and beautiful piece of story-tell-
ing—but “Gugga” has a richness and a
strangeness not to be found elsewhere in
the same measure.
Of course it is helped by its remote and
exotic setting, among the Maoris in the
far north of New Zealand, seven miles
from Cape Reinga, where the ghosts of the
Maoris set off for the land of the spirit,
but the small Maori boy who threatens to
“tell on” his sister every two minutes and
the small Maori girl who bangs the boy
on the head with the Bible and says he
can’t be hurt because it is the Bible might
be found at Paddington as well as at
Cape Reinga ; and small girls at Padding-
ton as well as at Cape Reinga must some-
times see their aged grandfathers go a
little mad . . . so that the essential differ-
ence between “Gugga” and the average
story lies not so much in the setting as in
the delightful humor with which it is told,
in the meticulous observation of character
in all its oddities and quirks, in the poetry
of the style, in the diversity of mood and
incident within a compact form and,
above all, in the fact that it carries the
emotional content to a high pitch of
drama and terror.
It is never really safe or fair to
generalise about the short-stories of a
nation ; there is no such thing as “the
Australian short-story.” There are,
simply, a number of writers of short-
stories, some brilliant, some capable,
some indifferent and the best of them —
if you think of Brian James, Cecil
Mann, Ethel Anderson and David
Campbell, to name four who for one
reason or another are among the
absentees from this volume —differing
very widely in their methods. But
perhaps it is reasonable to say that there
has been a tendency in “the Australian
story” towards mere realism, towards
certain stock themes and towards the
sketch ; so that you often get an exact
picture of life, or a good story that has
been told a hundred times before, or the
brief portrait or brief visionary moment
of the sketch, but you do not so often get
the combination of completeness and un-
expectedness and drama that Gloria
Rawlinson has in “Gugga.”
You get art as truth, and that is always
to be preferred to the mechanical “maga-
zine” story; but you do not so often get
art conceived as entertaining truth as you
always do in Maupassant— not just the
true picture of life, or even the flash of
poetry, but the story worth telling because
it is a fascinating story.
If you look for this quality of pure
narrative interest in Coast to Coast, for
something that hasn’t been done before,
for something out of the ordinary or for
normality seen so vividly that the story
transcends the commonplace, you will find
it most conspicuously, after “Gugga,” in
Judah Waten’s “Mother,” which has some
exceptionally fine scenes, at once amusing
and pathetic, of Russian-Jewish children
in Melbourne being taken to the music-
stores to listen to the records played
free in the shops and even wandering into
the university in the hope of hearing
lectures free of charge.
Then there is R. S. Porteous’s “Quite a
Blow,” as good a sea-story as he has ever
written, with an excellent cyclone in it
and some interesting sea-lore from the
Barrier Reef as well as a sound and
lively piece of characterisation. And
Geoffrey Dutton’s “The Wedge-tailed
Eagle,” a distinctly unusual story in
which two airmen hunt an eagle to death
from the sky. And, if it is hardly more
than a sketch, Eric Lambert’s picture of a
wily old scoundrel of the Middle East,
‘ Dinner at Moussa’s” And there are
Gavin Casey’s comedy of a bishop who
likes to back horses and Art Hausler’s
account of the warfare on a ridge of
flowering iron barks between rival bee-
keepers.
These stories are not necessarily the
best in the volume, lor there are other
qualities besides entertaining narration to
consider. The coquette in Vance
Palmer’s story, for instance, a truly
charming creation, is a much finer piece
of artistry than Casey’s rather
“magazinish” bishop. For a moment of
poetry there is nothing richer than Judith
Wright’s glimpse of two men fighting in
a smithy who bring home to a young
girl’s mind the immensity and violence of
life for the first time. And there are
some admirably humorous dogs as well as
a warm feeling for life in E. O. Schlunke’s
“Old Heinrich and the Lambing Ewe” ;
and some powerfully tragic writing in
D’Arcy Niland’s “Without You in
Heaven” . . . Still, the point always seems
worth making that a story is primarily a
story and that what you would select
from a day’s or a lifetime’s experience as
worth retelling by the fireside at night, as
a fascinating addition to your audience’s
knowledge of human behavior, is pre-
cisely what makes a good story in art.
Coast to Coast in this issue makes its
first appearance as a biennial. It is really
shocking to think that a combination of
circumstances- -the 40-hour week and the
consequent increase in publishing costs,
the frequent hostility of reviewers, the in-
difference of so many of the daily news-
papers to Australian literature, the failure
of public support—has forced its dis-
continuance as an annual. One copy in
each public library and one copy in each
school library throughout the Common-
wealth would probably have saved the
day.
This issue, at any rate, with no more
than two weak spots among the 17
stories, is a good one, and it is not too
late for it to get the reception it deserves:
not simply because it is an important
cultural institution but because, ranging
from the Middle East to New Zealand
and firmly centred in Australia, dealing
with city and country and coast, it gives
as a whole a picture of the national life
both true enough and entertaining enough
to interest every Australian reader.
End of a Trilogy,
In Winged Seeds (Cape), Katharine
Susannah Prichard completes the trilogy
begun with The Roaring ’Nineties and
Golden Miles; a rather disappointing
conclusion to a story that began so full
of life and action.
In the first book the villains, if they
were not our villains, were at least done
with power —the Government, Sir John
Forrest, the rich mineowners —and there
was a creative feminine malice at work,
especially when the gentlemanly English
prospector who abandoned his wife in
the desert to the care of aborigines was
made into the town undertaker. But this
last book expresses nothing but a tired
determination to go on arguing the toss,
the same old characters airing the same
old grievance about the gold being for
everyone, and not for rich gentlefolk
smoking cigars who have sunk fortunes
in the land and machinery that will
produce it;
“That’s fact,” the Mayor remembered.
“And when they struck a rich patch, the
miners reckoned they were shareholders:
filled their billies. An old bloke, going
home with a lot of gold in his billy one
evening, struck the manager, who stopped
to have a yarn with him.
- “ ‘Have a swig er tea,’ says the old bloke,
thinking the manager was looking a bit
suspiciously at the billy.
“ ‘No. No, thanks,’ says the manager,
not fancying having to swallow the black
brew the miners made for themselves. And
the old bloke sauntered away.”
“That was in the good days,” Dinny
chuckled. “It’s not so easy for a working
miner to get away with a bit of gold now.”
But later we find this honest fellow, the
working miner, talking of uniting “against
injustice and oppressive conditions,” of
an underground boss whose instructions
were “murder, plain murder,” of mine
managers “taking advantage of the
penalty clause [in the 40-hour-week
award] to introduce new methods of
speed-up into the industry.”
It may well be that Miss Prichard is
wrong, both in suggesting that the Kal-
goorlie miner was addicted to taking his
gold where he found it, and that the
managers were a set of heartless ex-
ploiters ; but, take her at her face-value,
and it becomes a game of poker between
crooks, or a matter of business, which-
ever you prefer to call it; and in such a
situation the protestations of her Com-
munist union-organisers that the virtuous
poor, with aces or nuggets of gold up
their sleeves, are not being given a fair
go are not without humor.
But it is the kind of humor which
struck observers of the dismay of the
British Socialists, administering the Free
Spectacles Act, when they discovered
that the virtuous poor could be as
rapacious as the most rapacious of capi-
talists ; it is the humor of discovering
that human beings, rich or poor, are
human ; it is a humor of the most widely
contemplative mind, and not of the active
propagandist; and Miss Prichard is no
more capable of it here, in industry, than
in politics, where on one page the wrath
of God is called down upon the Menzies
Government for its war-time security
prosecutions, while on another page the
Curtin Government is commended for a
series of internments which its own
Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt, has since
bitterly lamented in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
Yet lack of such humor does not dis-
qualify people from writing fine novels ;
and that this one is tedious may be
ascribed partly to its being the tailing-off
of a trilogy in which Miss Prichard has
stuck, for better or for worse, to a set
of people who were determined to stick
in the mud. Sally’s English gentleman,
having been broken-down to an under-
taker, has been undertaken to the grave ;
Sally has taken-up with the flamboyant
Frisco, but she sends him packing upon
discovering him in the arms of a woman
of the town. Eily’s daughter Daphne is
seduced by the local butcher, and wheels
a baby about defiantly in a pram. Sally’s
grandson Bill spouts Communism, falls
for one of the stepdaughters of the rich
and villainous Sir Patrick Cavan, and
then gets killed in the war in New
Guinea; and Sir Patrick and the
symbolic old aborigine, Kalgoorla, die
symbolically.
The atmosphere of inertia in which this
work ends, which began so cheerfully
and forcefully, has something of the
malign about it. Propaganda has that
effect. Dutifully parroting Communist
jargon, twisted into situations to justify
political theories, Katharine Prichard’s
characters become half-comic and half-
repulsive/ with the disquieting unreality
of the tortured.
TUMULT OF THE SWANS.
What else had I come to find,
driven by that travail’s needs,
but the black swans sailing out
beyond the shaking l spears of reeds?
Looking back from where I climbed,
secret lay the still lagoon
holding double tree and cloud,
swans and the solitary moon.
If the land I crossed was dumb,
ravaged, stark with fire’s scars,
sudden, in, green flames of scrub,
rose the blood-proud waratahs.
Savage was the place where night
cried in winds about my ears,
where the honey-eaters still
sang clinging to the grass-tree spears:
blending song with song where day
died behind the ridge’s stones,
leaving earth and sky for one
wind-torn tumult of the swans.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
Historians in Costume.
One of the novelist’s greatest diffi-
culties is setting the scene while the audi-
ence waits; the old style of scene-setting,
a kind of overture which gave the novelist
an opportunity of showing off his com-
mand of beautiful and flowery language
for six or seven pages, ending with an
invisible spectator observing the heroine
entering, right, down an avenue of druidic
oaks, is probably still the best way of
doing it; but the audience is no longer
the best kind of audience ; it is impatient,
it has to go to the factory or the pictures ;
it wants to take its scene with it, minced
into the action, so that you get every-
thing at once.
In a way, this produces a more pure
convention, for, from describing the
scene, bit by bit, as the characters move
into it, the novelist often progresses to
making the characters describe the scene
themselves in their own words; and so
you get what the scene means or feels
to each of the characters, the ultimate
philosophic, and artistic, truth. But it
is a method which needs a great deal of
expert manipulation for its simple effects,
and the novelist must calculate how much
the character may be expected to know
of what he wants to put in his mouth,
and how much of what he puts in the
character’s mouth is, to coin a phrase, in
character. His difficulties are greatest in
an historical novel, when he wants to give
not only the scenes, but the history that
led up to them, in conversation ; and
here the invisible spectator may see Mr.
E. V. Timms advancing down an avenue
of druidic Moreton Bay figs, the third
volume of his saga, The Beckoning Shore
(Angus and Robertson), in one hand, a
reader’s ticket to the Mitchell Library
in the other, and round his head the aura
of Professor Walter Murdoch’s praise
of his first volume, Far Ever to Remain:
.it may well come to be looked upon
as our classic. It is the epic of our
beginnings.” |
Nor, upon Mr. Timms’s forehead, may
be observed the deep wrinkles of one
working out appropriate speeches for his
characters in his forthcoming volume, The
Valleys Beyond ; he has solved this
problem once and for all by employing
none but fully-qualified historians in the
leading roles of his saga, specialists, their
knowledge of Old Sydney and its history
at their finger-tips, able to launch into
a disquisition on any part of it, dates and
street-names word-perfect, at the drop of
a cabbage- tree hat. There is a Captain -
Stanton who can talk like this:
“And Sydney Town itself, sir?” Elizabeth
asked.
“Quite a town now. Miss Holley, with
perhaps nearly twenty thousand inhabitants,
a large pioportkm of whom, of course, are
convicts. It lies mainly on the south shore
of a superb harbor, some seven miles in
from the sea. Parramatta, an important
settlement, rapidly growing into a small
town, is fourteen miles vest of Sydney
Town, and a little farther inland we come
to the Nepean River, where are many
homes and grants running down to the
Hawkesbbry River, where the first free
settlers in Australia made their homes.”
That is while the ship is still at sea.
Captain Stanton doesn’t go into his
cadenza-proper until page 63, when the
ship- is entering Sydney Harbor, when he
says “I saw the scene had captivated you,
so I came to explain it” —and then talks
for five pages on the scene and its history.
But the truth is, ail the .mala characters
spout information easily and just like a
book ; and evidently the people in those
early days were as much gluttons for
information as for imparting it: not
merely generalities, but facts and figures
and dates, in the street, at home, viewing
a distant prospect, at the breakfast-table
—as the delicately-minded Elizabeth dis-
covered :
At the breakfast-table this morning she
had learnt that in 1807 there were, in all
the colony, only 390 married women, but
over 1000 concubines officially listed —
concubines, not common street-women.
And while the legitimate children numbered
800 the illegitimate exceeded 1000.
And when there is no breakfast-table
or other suitable occasion for dropping
in such an interesting fact, Mr. Timms
pops it in boldly on his own account. But
the invisible spectator must not be misled
by this no doubt undue emphasis one
has given to a technical problem into
thinking that the history of this book
obscures the action.
Much happens. The ship which is
carrying Elizabeth, the parson’s daughter,
to Australia, founders, and Edward
Chailinor, an hysterical younger son, call-
ing down curses upon his elder brother |
who has married a barmaid, is about to
enable Elizabeth to compare a fate worse
than death with death by drowning, when
they are rescued by a convict ship', whose
captain again saves Elizabeth, this time
from the advances of his wife.
Arrived in Sydney, Elizabeth finds that
new owners have taken over the shop of
the man who was going to welcome her
and send her on her way to be a
governess to a squatter’s children; the
sinister new owners lure her into the
cellar, which they are running as a
brothel, from which she escapes very
narrowly, and in the street meets Mrs.
Gubby, the mother of the barmaid
Edward Challinor’s rich brother had
married.
Mrs. Gubby takes her to her inn; she
is found a job in a bookshop, meets a
fine young man, Richard Collingdale, is
denounced to him as a woman of light
morals by a woman of light morals whom
she had offended on the convict ship,
turns the tables by a show of virtuous
indignation, hears in turn Mr. Colling-
dale’s confession that he is the son of a
convict woman, a matter which so preys
upon his soul that he is about to shout it
out at a public meeting when one of
the minor characters, with a knowledge
of personal history no less impressive
than that possessed of public history by
the major characters, declares that he has
no real reason for grief, upon which the
novel ends in something of the vague
raptures which accompany the conclusion
of a Miss Australia competition.
Taken at its highest level, the book is
a prettv thin story superimposed on pretty
thick history; but its total effect is of a
very lively picture of Sydney in the days
of Governor Bourke, convicts, floggings,
soldiers, Mrs. Hordern’s shop, concerts at
the Theatre Royal, old Government
House in Bridge-street—the huge accre-
tion of facts make it, and the low-life
scenes, such as the hue-and-cry of the
angry army of children against the
ruffian who beat one of them to death,
have real novelty and power.


( BHJ3pjOQ Jfoopw
A: Bookcase features two
adjustable shelves, in Maple, Blond or
Walnut colour. Priced at £l2/0/9.
0 .
%
-■ ■ •
m.
A
Of * . ■i /
mrntmmm
S
.
Plan a home
with modern pieces...
*
B: Lampstand Cupboard com-
bination in Maple, Blond or
Walnut colour. Shade extra.
Priced at £lO/12/-.
C: Round Occasional Table
with glass top. Blond or Wal-
nut colour. Priced at £6/1/9.
D: Occasional Table, mirrored
base, glass top. Blond or Wal-
nut colour. Priced at £7/1/-.
r—*.
VERSATILE is the word for these adaptable units which have a
multitude of uses in the modern home. Smoothly finished and soundly
constructed, they are designed to suit any furnishing scheme.
Above: Cocktail Bar with storage space, shelves, etc., at back and glass at top, padded
leatherette at front may be made in colours of red or maroon. This beautiful item of
modern furniture will make your home more liveable, more luxurious. Price £57/10/0.
E: Practical Occasional Pieces.
Study Desk in Natural Maple.
Top, 48in. x 24in., £2B/12/6.
Lamp Standard, with shelves,
Mellow Maple or Blond colour,
priced at £9/8/3.
US
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


The WHITE RABBIT
by ROLAND ROBINSON
IN the early morning, when
we went down to shovel the
cinders off the line, we
would start up into whirring
flights hundreds of the crested
bronzewing pigeons. They came
in for the water which dripped
out of the leather sleeve hanging
down from the pipe on the over-
head tank into a concrete catch-
ment. The pigeons were in
around the cottage, too, any-
were there might be a dripping
tap with a tin or a plate under
it.
“God!” said Blue as the
sudden whirr of the pigeons
startled us. “Now they’d be
succulent. How do you reckon
we could get on to them?”
The pigeons had gathered into
one flock and were wheeling
through and over a group of
thin-leaved, sparse acacias.
“Yes, that’s right,” I said.
“Start murdering the pigeons.
Isn’t the place bad enough with-
out us killing off whatever bit of
life and color it’s got?”
“Well, I’ve had that beef.
Nothing but beef, beef, beef for
months now, A man’ll be
bellowing soon if this keeps up.
Now I reckon those pigeons
would go extra well. Don’t you.
Red?” he asked his mate, who
was walking on the other side of
the track with his shovel on his
shoulder.
Red was still not fully awake.
He walked along watching the
ground, his mind still in a haze.
“ ’Course I do,” he grunted.
Lamington Lane, the cook,
showed Blue and Red a way to
catch the pigeons. They made a
large, bowl-shaped trap out of
wire and netting. The trap was
simply propped up with a stick
to which was attached a string
leading to behind one of the out-
houses. When the pigeons had
become used to finding the water
under the propped-up trap, they
would flock there in dozens.
Blue, or Red, or the cook, watch-
ing, would then pull the string
and the propstick away and let
the cage fall on the birds.
I saw them when they let the
trap fall. There were a couple of
dozen birds inside, but they were
getting out through the netting.
Blue and Red rushed out shout-
ing to one another to stop the
pigeons. They were thrusting
their arms through the wire,
catching the birds and shoving
them into a bag. There were two
or three pigeons still inside the
trap that had eluded them. Red
crawled inside the cage, chasing
the nodding birds round and
round on his hands and knees.
The two snarers took their
bag down into the dry creek-bed
for the plucking and cleaning. I
strayed down into the creek-bed.
There was a wind blowing and,
having sprayed themselves well
with the spurting blood, Blue
and his lieutenant were be-
coming covered in feathers and
down. I remarked that they were
beginning to look like a couple
of big pigeons themselves. They
kept grimly on with their wring-
ing of necks, plucking and draw-
ing. I hovered near and picked
up some of the beautiful wing-
feathers that were now blue-
green and now purple-green
bronze. I opened one of the
crops to find out what the birds
had eaten. It was full of seeds,
seeds of the spinifex and the
sparse silver-grasses.
Lamington Lane may have
known how to catch the pigeons,
but he did not know or care
about cooking them. As a cook
he was, as Blue said, “a cuckoo,”
then, as an afterthought, “But
who called the cuckoo a cook?”
Many years of cooking for
fettlers had jaded Lamington
Lane’s vision He had lost his
inspiration. He stewed the
pigeons out of all recognition.
Blue and Red fished pieces of
them out of the stew with
muttered remarks about Laming-
ton Lane while I sat scornfully
gpart.
THE pigeons had only aggra-
vated the matter of our diet.
As we ran our length of line on
the scction-csy we kept an eye
out for scrub-turkeys. When we
met the next gang at the end of
our section, they told us of the
savory turkeys they often shot.
Their section ran through
country where the mungerai was
growing, ours was spinifex and
parakelia, and the turkeys
seemed to be staying out of it.
At last Red conceived the
great idea of trapping the rabbits
about the place. He had found
a bundle of old traps in the
section-car shed, and that same
evening he and Blue started out
with a bundle each of the rusty
traps over their shoulders. They
were sure that we would all have
a rabbit each for tea the follow-
ing night.
It was about 9 p.m., and the
cottage was quiet. Every now
and again a wire bed would
creak and wrench as its occupant
turned over or settled himself in
an easier position for his read-
ing. I searched through a maga-
zine for anything I hadn’t read.
Outside, the lighting-plant engine
was thud-thudding peacefully
away. Down in the creek-bed in
one of the gums a magpie was
fluting and warbling under the
stars. Suddenly the night was
torn by a demoniacal outcry.
Immediately we thought of the
traps and rushed out to see if it
was a dingo that had been
caught. The howling bursts of
rage and pain were coming from
the ruined homestead across the
creek. Blue’s long legs had
already taken him across the dim
creek-bed, and Red was plung-
ing down after him. It seemed
that the old ruin under the stars
was giving up the demon that in-
habited it. As I came up the
bank the huge dead gum was
stark against the spangled night.
Blue and Red were blundering
about trying to locate the spasms
of agony and fury that filled the
night. Then suddenly we saw it.
Something manacled, shackled,
something that bounded, howled,
spat and snarled in horrible
screams as its chain jangled and
jerked it back from escaping.
It was Joe, poor old Joe. Joe
th£ big grey castrated cat.
Sleepy Joe who lay curled up in
the hessian-seated chair on the
veranda all day. Solitary Joe,
who had no mate, who went out
hunting at night and who often
left a half-eaten rabbit under the
house.
“Throw your coat over him.”
I yelled to Blue. “He’ll tear you
to pieces if you try to touch
him.”
But Blue was calling out to
Joe, talking to him, and Joe was
intelligent. He understood that
Blue was*going to free him from
those iron teeth and the shack-
ling chain. He actually waited,
quiet, while Blue stroked his
head and put his foot on the
spring, releasing the jaws. We
carried Joe back, but he was
such a long, lean, big-boned cat
that the trap could not break his
leg. He had merely bared his
hind leg of some skin and fur.
AS yet, the trappers were not
having much success. I
elected to go with them and give
them the benefit of what I knew
about trapping.
“Look at this plate,” I said.
“They’ve been playing leap-
frog on it. Look, you can’t set it
off,” prodding at the plate with
a stick. “You’ve let the sand run
under the plate. And look at this
one. D’you think the rabbits
don’t know there’s a trap there
with half the chain and the spike
showing?”
“Aw, you can’t set traps in
this bloody sand,” said Blue.
Then Red, his lieutenant,
backing him up, “Yeah, git on
the other ear. ’Oo asked you to
come, anyway?”
The rabbits had burrowed
under the broken walls and the
flagstones of the ruin. They had
steep burrows in the remains of
the yards and the out-houses,
Out on a rocky hill they had
burrowed into an oblong of laid-
out stones that had what seemed
to be a fallen headstone. Dick,
the gauger, said that this was the
grave of a man who had ridden
up to the homestead after the
girl of the family who pioneered
the place. The father had shot
him.
We were now getting so many
rabbits that they were beginning
to taste as deadly as the beef.
We had them stewed, we made
Lamington Lane bake them, we
had them curried. Red was such
a voracious eater that we
reckoned he was getting a head
on him like a! rabbit. We
reckoned that since we started
trapping Red must have eaten
over three hundred rabbits.
In a pass in the hills near the
camp grew a kind of silver-grey
rolypoly. On the sides of the
pass stood dead, dwarf mulga
and, far up against the bkie-
green glazed deeps of night, a
slender young ghost-gum rustled.
It was in and around this pass
that we had sometimes seen a
jet-black rabbit.
“Well,” I had said to Blue, “if
you fancy yourself as a trapper,
let’s see you pur the manacles on
that joker.” I had come to like
going on these nightly expedi-
tions with Blue, although I
knew I often antagonised him.
Now he turned on me. “Listen,
Rob, what’s the idea of always
trying to get under my guard?”
“All right, all right.” I said,
“Let’s forget it.”
I WAS going my round of the
1 traps alone Ahead of
me the crows were gathered
about a clump of lignum. They
watched me as I came up, then
went hopping and wheeling
away. A rabbit was held in the
trap, its ears laid back flat along
its head. It had been pecked
and eaten by the crows about its
back and loins. It leapt with
jangling chain, screaming at this
fresh fear, this death. I held it
by the back legs and released the
trap. A blow of the hand,
hatchet-like, at the back of its
neck, and it leapt, convulsed,
then hung heavy and limp in my
hand.
It was late when I came into
the kitchen. Blue was drinking
a mug of tea, leaning against the
dresser.
“There’s a mug left in the pot,
Rob,” he said. Then, while I
poured myself out a mug at the
stove. “I’ve got something to
show you: waited up for you.”
“Don’t tell me,” I said.
“Well, come and have a look,”
he said, leading the way out on
to the veranda.
He went into the darkness,
then returned into the light. It
was the black rabbit. He held it
up for me. It was a beauty,
pure black except for a tip of
white on its nose.
“Gosh,” I said. “You actually
got him.” I ran my hand down
him. He was stiff. I thought of
the pass, the silver-grey roly-
poly, the ghost-gum where we
had often seen him. “I don’t
know, it seems a pity”
“Pity?” said Blue. “Pity I
caught him instead of you. I’ll
keep this skin.”
“Yes, it’s a beauty all right.
I’ve got to hand it to you,” I ad-
mitted.
BUT I was to achieve the
spectacular. Far up the
watercourse I had seen a pure
white rabbit. It was shy. You
sometimes saw its ears, pink with
the last sunlight through them. I
tried hard to see which burrow it
ran into. I told Blue and Red
about it. “Yeah?” they said.
“Well, we'll leave him to you.
The black one does us.”
I took one trap with me. 1 had
filed the catch so that I could set
it fine. Out of three runways in
the lignum where I had seen the
white rabbit run, I chose the
freshest. I remembered what
an oid trapper had told me, and
set my trap at the top of the run-
way where the rabbit always sits
up and looks about. As I
smoothed the soil over the plate
with a twig, I asked myself why
I was setting this trap when I’d
rather see the white rabbit sit-
ting up in the distance with his
pink ears, or running, a pure
white rabbit, through the lignum
in the dusk.
I had been as far as the desert-
oaks at the head of the valley
and was coming back, making
for the light of the cottage which
I sometimes saw as I came on
over a rise, 1 reckoned I was
almost opposite the place where
I had set the trap when I heard
a thin, prolonged scream and
then the thump, thump of the
trap bounding. I crossed to-
wards the watercourse, fell in the
lignum where the bank was steep,
crossed and climbed the opposite
bank. I could hear the rabbit
bounding in the trap. It seemed
inevitable. I knew before I saw
it. There it was, bounding at the
end of its chain in the darkness,
the white rabbit. As I came up it
crouched, quiet, white and soft,
as far as it could get down the
runway. It was held by a black
leg. I caught it first by the ears,
then by the back legs and
pressed back the spring with my
foot, releasing the jaws.
It was a doe, and heavy with
young. I thought to let it go, but
I killed it with a blow of the
hand. It was a good skin. I
stood in the darkness with the
heavy, soft white body in my
hands. The white rabbit. I had
caught it.
Over to the right, in a thin,
distant, silver cry, a dingo
howled. I walked through the
thin, parched grass. A large dark
bird, probably a bustard, rose
out of the grass with a hoarse
cry and flew up into the stars.
As I went along I could smell the
scrub in. flower in the dry water-
course. I stood in the wide dim
valley with the heavy rabbit and
the trap in my hands. Along the
line of the watercourse the dark
even trees stood tall in the
valley’s floor. A gold sliver with
the moon’s shaded sphere sank
with three bright stars towards
the range. Between the ranges a
magpie warbled and was
answered by its mate from a
dark tree beneath the stars.
I had stopped, I drank in the
silence of the dim wide land.
Suddenly, I and my triumph had
become insignificant. I was
going back to answer and taunt
Blue and Red with a white rabb't
I had caught. Again, over to the
right, in the dark ranges, the
dingo howled in his thin silver
cry. I went on, making for the
light of the cottage.
Everyone was asleep. The
light was left on in the kitchen.
The fire had been raked out of
the stove and the tea in the pot
was cold. I could hear Red snor-
ing. I was going out to hang the
white rabbit up when I stopped.
The light in Red’s room was still
on. I took off my boots and
went down the passage-way,
careful not to make the boards
creak. Red was lying on his side,
his mouth open, snoring with a
good even rhythm. His arms
were round the pillow, cuddling
it I had drained the rabbit and
now, stepping injo the room, I
laid the white rabbit in his arms,
its head on the pillow next to
Red’s, From the doorway, I
contemplated them for a
moment as Red’s even snoring
went on. Then 1 turned off the
light.
HALF-HEARD.
On the road through the hills I thought I heard it.
Something moving, coming with evening,
In its slow warm breathing through the paddock-land.
The few and spiteful houses there ignored it.
It had come from the coast. I stood on the coast.
Where gulls cried angrily for something that moved.
In the sun-plains across the sea.
The water there was heavy with its hand.
And one by one the evening waves caressed the sullen
sand.
Quietly they pondered on nothing at all,
On the laying of their long quiet hands, perhaps,
Upon the waiting beach.
Considering carefully nothing at all,
They too ignored the bird's half-baffled cry.
TASMANIA.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


The Bulletin
Vol. 72 —No. 3700
Wednesday, January 10, 19S1
SHADOW-SPARRING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U597L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne .
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DANGEROUS NEIGHBORS.
Trouble has come nearer to this country
with the failure of the Netherlands and
the Indonesian Federal Government to
settle the fate of Western New Guinea
to the satisfaction of the Indonesians.
There seems to be only one settlement
which Soekamo and his colleagues will
accept—the swallowing of the Dutch area
in New Guinea by their own rapacious
and Japanese-spawned republic.
It does not matter very much that they
have not agreed to the Dutch-Indonesian
condominium plan which was put for-
ward as a compromise. That was merely
a makeshift which could not have worked
—and was not intended to work—per-
manently. Even if it had been accepted,
the Leftist organisations which are behind
the Government and the Muslim section
would not have let it work, since
W.N.G. has become a plaything of
Indonesian politics—what, in fact, Ulster
is to the Eire Government, which can
always whip up fanatical support when
its popularity fades a bit by yelling for
a united Ireland.
Already with the help of Nehru, who
turned up in Java last June and took
part in the agitation for the annexation
of Irian, Soekarno has sections of his
people in hysteria on the question ; the
lives of Europeans in Djakarta are not
safe while the matter is an issue. Although
New Guinea has nothing in common with
the rest of Indonesia in nature and
ethnology, millions of Indonesians who
formerly scarcely knew where the place
was, and who didn’t care whether or no
’it stayed above sea-level, have been per-
suaded that it is vital to their interests
and dignity that it should be part of the
new Republic.
To Soekamo and Nehru it is mainly
important as a symbol of Pan-Asianism.
From Australia’s standpoint it is some-
thing far different, since every new view
of Soekamo puts him in a more un-
pleasant light than the last. The man
who accepted the Japanese as his libera-
tors, who wore their decorations and
condoned the torture and oppression of
people of his own race by them, has a
very poor record ethically. It is much
like Stalin’s in its consistent shiftiness
and disregard for agreements, so much
so that the onlooker is prone to wonder
who framed his policy in the darkness
of his background.
He has the habit so familiar with the
Kremlin of shrieking hate at his opponents
in negotiation. He does as the Com-
munists do in making a catchcry of
freedom while suppressing with an iron
Land any opposition to his policies. He
makes agreements as freely as Stalin does
and twists them to his purposes or breaks
them with as much ease of conscience.
In fact, he altogether belies the hasty
opinion of Mr. Spender uttered confi-
dently in Parliament on March 9 last
when our Wandering Boy No. 2 was in
his age of innocence and fresh from his
first contacts with the wily Asiatic:
I spent several days at Djakarta on my
way to the Colombo conference, and had the
opportunity of meeting President Soekarno
and his Cabinet. 1 formed the conclusion
that they were able men with moderate
views and a sober realisation of the
immensity of the tasks in front of them
[They] propose to hold elections as soon
as possible, and establish all the machinery
of democratic government. There is, I
believe, no question of their distaste for
Communism and their determination to
resist it in whatever form it may take.
Since then the “able men with moderate
views” have shown themselves to be
extremists at every turn. They have im-
posed their will by force even in the face
of solemn agreements. They have
dragooned minorities without mercy, and
they have negotiated with the outside
world by threat. They have not yet made
any real attempt to establish democratic
government. Their color should have
been obvious from the fact that the Com-
munists to a man inside and outside Aus-
tralia had collaborated with Soekamo to
push him into power. And Indonesia’s
attitude to the Korean war is cer-
tainly not in keeping with its membership
of the United Nations, to which it was
admitted with only Nationalist China
dissenting.
Since Mr. Spender spent his few days
in Djakarta about a year ago happenings
in Indonesia have grown more and more
alarming. The agreement between the
Dutch and Soekamo, under which Indo-
nesia became a free sovereign federated
republic linked with the Netherlands in
a union of which the titular head was to
be Queen Juliana, had come into force
on December 27, 1949. It was clearly
understood that the Constitution would
be Federal, the various negaras and other
forms of State maintaining their State-
hood, but immediately steps were taken
by the Soekarno Government to nullify
this arrangement. A leadership was
engineered with the backing of the force
at the disposal of Djakarta willing to
throw Federalism overboard and establish
a unity as tight as that of the Kremlin,
presided over by Soekarno and his polit-
buro of “able men with moderate views.”
On the very day on which Mr. Spender
uttered his eulogy of them Soekarno
signed an emergency law passed by his
queer Parliament to incorporate a number
of the principal negaras into the sphere
of the central Government and wipe out
their local Administrations. This process
has been extended to all the rest of Indo-
nesia, with some rebellion from the
Muslims, and more particularly from the
Indonesian Army, which was handed
over to the new “nation.” Islands like
Ambon, too, became the centres of
revolt caused by local resistance to the
swallowing of the South Moluccas, which
declared themselves an independent
republic, but were coerced and conquered
by Soekarno’s troops.
There is no way of knowing the extent
of the support for separation in these
islands or in the Celebes and Borneo,
which have been absorbed into the
centralised non-Federal Republic now
ruled by a non-elected legislature which
came into existence in a form strangely
reminiscent of the assemblies of the
U.S.S.R.
The original Federal structure, with a
Senate and a House of Representatives,
which had been adopted at the end of
1949, was flung overboard as soon as
the Dutch had loosened their grasp on
Indonesia, and it was unnecessary longer
to keep up the kind of front which would
impress mediators. And in the process
of the reorganisation there have been mili-
tary operations, police action on a grand
scale and arrests even within the Cabinet.
The formation of the fa9ade—it is
nothing more —which hides the real legis-
lature, Soekarno’s Cabinet, pulled along
by the trade-unions and various other
strange interests, saw the crystallising of
the demand for annexation of Western
New Guinea, and this has been made an
issue which is of the gravest importance
to Australia.
No assurances from Soekarno that if he
gets this territory it will be the end of
his demands can be accepted. His under-
takings hitherto have proved how little
scruple he, or those who control him,
have when they have a project in view.
His assertion last week that unless
Western New Guinea —which was not a
determined issue in the arrangement with
the Dutch in November, 1949 —is
handed over the Indonesian Government
“will have to consider revising the 1949
round-table conference agreement with
the Netherlands,” shows how far he is
prepared to go. Here again is Moscow
technique.
Soekarno has laid it down that “any
future discussions with the Dutch would
be futile even with the assistance of a
third party except on a basis of transfer
of sovereignty over Western New Guinea
to Indonesia.” And generally speaking
he seems to be manoeuvring for an excuse
to throw overboard the whole of the
arrangements made in 1949.
His proceedings, apart from Western
New Guinea, are of the greatest import
to Australia’s security. The Indonesian
Government is about as uneasy a neigh-
bor as could be wished for, and must
be handled with firmness from the be-
ginning, especially since other Asian coun-
tries are prepared to support it.
Brakes on Action.
An announcer on the A.B.C. the other
day, waxing ecstatic over the Jubilee
ceremonies for the Commonwealth’s
50th birthday, told this easygoing people
that celebrations would extend “through-
out the year.” The A.B.C. might do a bit
to overcome the ruling public com-
placency in the face of threats to Aus-
tralia’s security by helping, as part of
the celebrations, to build up the fighting
services, a prime purpose of the original
Federal compact.
The “milk-bar” economy of Professor
Copland’s description, which embodied
the late Socialist Government’s ideas of
prosperity in national industry, was
matched by the Socialists’ defence
“policy” of wishful thinking about “no
war for 25 years,” and a foreign “policy”
of “supporting U.N.0.” (without arms)
as a substitute for old-fashioned
diplomacy in an international society
eternally based on power-politics.
The dangers into which the socialisation
“experiment” has led us can be
corrected by its successors only with
drastic action. Of that there is, as yet, no
sure sign. As for “Labor,” although
the secretary of the A.C.T.U. has de-
livered to the unions his executive’s New
Year resolution that “there must be no
more political strikes,” indications are
that the party’s political leaders have
sedulously prepared the unions for resist-
ance to the uttermost against any
measures to meet the emergency which
the Menzies Government is, with much
circumspection, initiating.
This Commonwealth’s Constitution,
whose vicissitudinous career through 50
years is now being celebrated, has been
revealed as seriously deficient in affording
the authority which a national Govern-
ment must modernly possess. It was
designed in an age when Britajn ruled the
seas and some respect for established con-
ventions governed international conduct.
War was then an emergency of which
Australia expected and would receive
due and timely notice. The British
Foreign Office, uninhibited by the ties
and fancies of “super-organisations” like
U.N.0., smelt out threatening conflagra-
tions at the first smoke, and if the thing
could not be smothered by diplomatic
action (in which British resources were
unmatched by anything extant in these
days), the Royal Navy could assure suffi-
cient time for stout-hearted but vulnerable
communities like our own to get ready.
If they had anticipated the march of
political and social events the Fathers of
Federation might have conceded to the
new national Parliament the needful
powers over industry. Within the defence
powers, too, they would surely have pre-
scribed specific authority for the national
Executive to declare at need, within
proper safeguards, a state of national
emergency without having to wait for
an enemy to declare war,
Australia’s national Government cannot
do this. It is even finding difficulty in
dismissing from its own employment and
in banning from executive authority in
the trade-unions fanatical servants of the
declared enemy of this and every other
democracy, an enemy against whom units
of Australian sea, land and air forces
are fighting for their lives in Korea.
Although about three - quarters of a
million troops are locked in that war, no
war has been declared. Nor has peace
with our late enemies in World War II
been officially restored. Nevertheless,
“war” is not recognised while it is only
“a cold war” ; it is part of the pretence-
business at U.N.O. not to treat as
belligerency diplomatic and military
affronts from the Soviet which in every
other age would have provoked “hot”
war long ere this ; and, although every
British country is being warned to “pre-
pare for war in order to prevent it” and
proceed to industrial mobilisation, the
Commonwealth Government alone within
the British Empire cannot proclaim such
a state of emergency until the enemy
chooses to cross what dividing-line may
lie between a state of war and the present
conditions oppressing international society.
The Government is consequently re-
duced to fumbling in its moves to prepare
for the worst, while hoping against it. The
temporary ascendancy of “Labor’s” never-
never tribe in the Senate blocks all but
alms-giving legislation emanating from
the House where Government authority
constitutionally resides, and the Govern-
ment cannot even get passage for its bill,
approved by the electors, for compulsory
military training. There is practically
no army or air force to meet a threat of
war which the world in 1951 can escape
only by the skin of its teeth. The Govern-
ment cannot even assert itself directly to
speed up production of materials by
taking control of means of production
and distribution, wages and prices.
Its resort must be by way of creating
a non-political National Security Re-
sources Board to advise Ministers of
what must be done —specifically (as Mr.
Menzies has said) on “how to break
bottlenecks in labor and material supplies,
whether certain restrictions are necessary
to increase the strengths of the fighting
services, the effects of enforcing such re-
strictions, and stockpiling problems.” The
Government, in short, is committed by
its pledges overseas, and by its own sense
of the emergency and the hampered work-
ing of basic industries at home, to bring
about a vast increase of production, the
appropriation of existing stocks and all
extra output to the needs of rearmament,
and to a considerable reorientation of
the distorted “milk-bar” outlook of Aus-
tralian post-war industrial enterprise.
The N.S.R.B. is due to tell Ministers
what they already know. How its recom-
mendations will help them to action is a
problem which will not be possible to
avoid. Already many experts in regi-
mentation of the community’s activities
during the late war are being reinstalled
in their despotic places. Regrettable, of
course; but so is the necessity to find
strong locks for the doors at the sacrifice
of all-day radio-jazz in the House.
“Labor’s” opposition to the Govern-
ment’s efforts now are the fitting cap to
“Labor’s” demoralisation of the indus-
trial community during the Chifley Gov-
ernment’s post-war term of office. The
“prosperity boom” about which people
like N.S.W.’s McGirr would have us kid
ourselves has depended on nothing more
than soaring export prices for staple
primary products—which are being chased
all too rapidly by rocketing costs —prices
inflated by the needs of an exhausted and
starving world overseas, mostly people of
the nations which took the shocks of a war
which would otherwise have engulfed us.
Of the great opportunity for real in-
dustrial advance vouchsafed this country
from V.J.-Day onwards the “Labor”
Government wasted every hour it spent
in office. It couldn’t get coal, though it
knew it must. It couldn’t therefore get
steel, though B.H.P. steel could compete
in price with any in the world. It ignored
the shameful slump in output of bricks
and cement and tools. Its “great leader”
looked the unions’ organised “go-slow”
movement full in the face and preferred
to talk about “the golden age.” Of
defence provision there was none save for
schemes for “push-button” war, something
to be waged without an army, and “the
best contribution Australia could make
was in building up a strong industrial
front.” But “Labor” did not even do that.
For the hard cold fact is that in Aus-
tralian industry, as “Labor” left it —
although there were employed half as
many operatives again as in 1939 and
mines and factories have been machine-
equipped as never before —the produc-
tion of essential goods in 1949-50 was
still limping painfully up to that of
10 years ago. Among other industrial
countries of the world only of the de-
feated enemy States can that be said. In
1949-50 there was less black coal mined
in N.S.W. and barely more steel ingots
produced than in 1939. With much more
cutting and filling machinery in the
mines, the output per man-shift was only
2.91 tons in 1949 against 3.35 in 1939.
Of coal supplies the steel industry was,
in 1949-50, left short of requirements by
38 per cent., N.S.W. railways by 16 per
cent., building by 23 per cent, and con-
sumers in other States by 41 per cent.
There was slightly less butter, cheese and
meat. There was vastly less of bricks,
copper and lead. But there was enor-
mously more of beer, ice-cream, lotteries
and betting.
That is what the brief socialisation ex-
periment did for Australia. Those re-
sponsible for the betrayal now demand
that Mr. Menzies shall put value back
into production all by himself, and re-
strict Australia as a military Power to a
level with, say, Costa Rica.
The Socialisation Split.
That erstwhile “notorious” member of
the Communist party. Dr, Lloyd Ross,
now (repentant) writing on the “Labor”
viewpoint for Melbourne “Herald,” de-
clares that the Federal A.L.P. Confer-
ence in March will be confronted by a
considerable division of opinion over the
socialisation objective—proved to be an
unpleasant and expensive burden at the
late Federal elections.
There are, he says, three groups: (1)
Those who would stick to it as “a test
of political virtue,” chiefly in N.S.W. ;
(2) those who would explain it away,
chiefly in Victoria ; and (3) a minority
group “to which I belong,” which
“believes socialisation is neither a text
nor a red-herring, but a principle of poli-
tical conduct.”
But this minority view only scrambles
that held for over 25 years by the A.L.P.
executive as a whole —namely, that
socialisation is a text for the elect, a red-
herring for the mob vote at A.L.P. con-
ferences, and a principle of political
conduct to be kept in cold storage, and
never brought out until after “Labor”
has won an election by denying its mean-
ing, its validity and (if necessary) its
existence.
A fig for Dr. Ross’s “three groups’!
There are undoubtedly /wo-one which
is too afraid of the Commos to throw
the party’s objective away, and the other
which would throw away any objective
rather than their political jobs. Among
the rank-and-file it is easy to believe that
the majority of unionists hope sincerely
that the Menzies Government will knock
out the Commos for good.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Ball's Propaganda.
That noisy evacuee from Dr. Evatt’s
former diplomatic pigeon-loft at External
Affairs, Mr. Macmahon Ball, recently
drew fire on himself for his A.B.C.
broadcasts on Asian relationships. It
was explained that he was not intended
to have a monopoly in this field, and his
talk-series was greatly reduced. Now
the new Melbourne “Argus,” as Left-
wing a journal as exists outside the
“party” Press, is taking up as a guest
writer this Professor of Political Science
at Melbourne University.
If his article, on the last publication-
day of the old year, giving counsel to
the Australian Government and all
Western Governments on how to treat
Communist aggression in Asia, is one of
the A.B.C. rejects, the rejection is not
surprising. The gentleman was “mis-
understood,” he said, a few months
earlier when he gave a radio address on
Pandit Nehru as the only reliable guide
for our dealing with Asian problems.
Particularly he was “misunderstood” in
these remarks:
I can’t imagine that any sensible Aus-
tralian could fail to realise that the future
of this country depends more on our
capacity to form and keep friendships with
East Asia than any other factor in the
modern world.
Never mind about the British Common-
wealth of Nations, U.S.A., or perhaps
even U.N.O. Mr. Ball had one go at a
goodwill mission in S.-E. Asia for Dr.
Evatt after their row, and it was a “most
unpleasant” failure.
During that mission he told an
S.-E. Asian audience his “personal
opinion” about White Australia, to wit:
There is a new consciousness in Australia.
It is very likely there will be a change in
Australian opinion in the coming decade.
In his “Argus” message to the Aus-
tralian people for the New Year Mr. Ball
is likely, before all is over, to declare
himself “misunderstood” again. He
prefaces it by pointing to the Chinese
Communists’ conquest of China, defeat
of U.N. forces in Korea, defeat of the
French in Indo-China, conquest of Tibet
and discomfiture of the British sup-
pression-effort in Malaya. Mr. Ball looks
on all this invincible Chinese aggression
as calmly as a Buddha-image, saying
only, “You ought to have listened to me
and Nehru ; we told you so.”
He is just a little disturbed lest
more discomfiture may follow a Russian
avalanche of the same sort in Western
Europe, and concedes (which is very good
of him) that rapid increase of military
strength there by the Western nations is
“inevitable and right.” But elsewhere it
is all wrong. He has no time for
American military preparations to with-
stand anti-Western pressure from Asia.
He can’t stand a bar of American policy.
He doesn’t believe in rearming Germany
or Japan, and indeed the rearming of
Australia—poor, vulnerable, defenceless
White Australia —should depend, says
Mr. Ball, on whether its fighting services
will “serve a united nation” —that is, a
united Australian people.
Otherwise the soldiers will lose the will
to fight and the civilians lose the wi11....
for sustained resistance.
The big defence programmes on which
the Western nations are now embarking
will impose new social stresses and strains,
the sacrifice of peace-time goods and ser-
vices, some return of dtTsterity.
If Western political leaders are to hold
the active loyalty of their peoples they must
convince them that they themselves are
devoted only to the interests of the
people; that military action will only be
taken to protect the people’s most vital
interests, and then only when every other
possible means of protecting them has been
exhausted.
What about New Guinea, Mr. Ball?
And what about White Australia?
Bullmba Bitters.
There is nothing very novel in allegations
of improper practice in connection with a
Queensland State election. People in .the
northern State have become accustomed
to reading of accusations of rigged
electoral rolls, of plural voting, of
manipulation of postal votes and other
dubious practices. They are also used to
Mr. Hanlon’s stock reply to all such
accusations —that they are malicious in-
ventions inspired by men who can’t take
a beating in a sporting spirit. What they
are not accustomed to is having a specific
case probed by a proper tribunal and
found to be based on fact.
At the general election in April last
year the final count in Bulimba electorate
was Gardner (Lab.) 4024; Hamilton
(Lib.) 3982 ; Marriott (Ind.) 3266. As
Queensland —alone among Australian
Parliaments —adheres to the first-past-the-
post system of election, Gardner was de-
clared winner by 42 votes. Hamilton dis-
puted the count, claiming, among other
things, that there had been irregularities
in the counting of absent votes. Last
week the Election Tribunal, Mr. Justice
Mansfield, delivered his judgment and
said:
I therefore declare upon the questions
of fact and law arising before me, that
Gardner was not duly elected, and that
the election for the electoral district of
Bulimba is void.
The main dispute centred on a batch
of 53 absent votes recorded at the Chief
Electoral Office, for which the official
count had been Gardner, 41 ; Hamilton,
7 ; Marriott, 3 ; Informal, 2, Sixteen
people appeared before the tribunal to
swear that they had voted for Hamilton.
An examination of the ballot-papers
marked with their electoral-roll numbers
showed that 11 were marked for
Gardner. All 11 witnesses denied that the
handwriting on the papers was their own,
and their evidence was supported by a
C. 1.8. handwriting expert. The tribunal
said he was prepared to accept the
expert’s evidence in its entirety. After an
analysis of all votes referred to him and
after reserving 46 for consideration, the
tribunal found that the difference between
the valid votes cast for Gardner and
Hamilton was 35, As this was less than
the number of votes “reserved” he de-
clared the election void. There was no
evidence that Gardner or his agents were
responsible, and he could make no finding
as to the persons who substituted the
papers.
The Hanlon Government has ordered
a police inquiry into, the incident; but
the matter goes beyond that. Although the
judgment affects only one electorate, it
naturally raises doubts as to the purity of
the system in other electorates. Allega-
tions of malpractice have not been con-
fined to Bulimba. Another appeal is
pending in the Nash electorate, where the
“Labor” candidate, T. Dunstan, beat the
Liberal R. Witham by 25 votes. It is here
alleged that some votes were wrongly dis-
allowed last April, and that some electors
were wrongly excluded from voting.
Opposition-leader Nicklin and Liberal-
leader Hiley have persistently maintained
that the whole electoral system of
Queensland needs drastic overhauling—
particularly the rolls. Last week Mr.
Nicklin said that in almost every election
“there have been considerably more
names on the roll than there are adults in
Queensland.” The two. leaders joined in
demanding the resignation of the Gov-
ernment.
It is extremely unlikely that they ex-
pected the “Labor” Government to heed
their request. It is even more unlikely that
the Hanlons will do so—Acting-Premier
Gair’s first reaction was to suggest the
possibility of “a friend of Mr. Hiley or
the Liberal party” having interfered with
the papers. There is one thing the Gov-
ernment should do if it has any regard at
all for its reputation. It has persistently
refused to follow the example of other
States and have a joint electoral roll with
the Commonwealth authorities. So long
as it refuses to do so it cannot complain
if it is suspected of having peculiar
reasons for wanting to paddle along on its
own.
Wheat and Prices.
A wheat harvest of 185 million bushels
is tipped by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician. It’s about 35 million bushels
under the 1947-48 record, but at least
30 million more than the yearly average
for five years to 1939. It would have
been a lot more but for the N.S.W. and
Queensland rains, which probably cut
30 million off. Perhaps another 30
million bqshels will be below f.a.q.
standard.
The crop came in under conditions a
lot different from those ruling when Aus-
tralia was committed to the International
Wheat Agreement in 1948. Under that
agreement we had to supply 80 million
bushels yearly for four years inside a
prescribed top price for sellers and a
prescribed bottom price for buyers. We
are now in the third year of the 1.W.A.,
the top price within the agreement is
about 165., whereas export price outside
the agreement —that is, surplus wheat
above the 80 million bushels—is 18s. 6d.
It should scarcely need telling that
growers’ costs have leapt enormously
since 1948.
A bad feature of the 1.W.A., for us,
is that we must keep the 80 million bushels
at the buyers’ convenience and take the
risk of waste, interest and storage costs.
Even if we have a bad season we’re re-
quired toroid a “carryover” to maintain
the agreement quota.
Another changed condition is the in-
creased home demand for wheat, both
for human consumption and stock-feed.
Full employment and high wages mean
a much greater demand for wheat for
both purposes. Before the war the Aus-
tralian home market usually needed little
more than 50 million bushels a year;
this year it will probably need 70 million,
leaving 115 million of the new crop for
export, but only 35 million at the higher
non-agreement price. The grower now
gets about 7s. lOd. for home-consumption
wheat, and this is pooled with the export
price under the “stabilisation” scheme,
the Government making “advances” to
growers from the total fund from time
to time.
Obviously the architects of the I.W.A.
expected wheat prices, along with most
other prices, to fall in the four years
subsequent to 1948. They were wrong —
but then so was pretty well everybody
else.
All Is Truly Well.
“Old-timer” :As one who served a wild
apprenticeship on a ’Bidgee whaler four
months out from Balranald in days when
pirates haunted those shores and you
never knew when a catfish would hole the
ship with its deadly barb or a rampaging
pinky fiend shatter your topmast with a
charge of three-cornered jacks, I was
troubled about the fate of that “Sturt re-
enactment expedition” once it took to the
water from the old Drayford landing,
even though the Army was guarding its
flanks on land and Charles Moses was
negotiating with the money-drunk sheep-
kings of the back-country.
How justified those fears were is shown
by the first report from “S. M. Herald’s”
special reporter:
HAY, Sunday.—The whaleboat crew
re-enacting Charles Sturt’s 1830 expedition
has spent its first day on the Murrumbidgee
River, passing through wild country,
apparently without mishap.
Late this afternoon an Army signals unit
travelled from Hay to Oxley to try to
contact the party by two-way radio, but
the only part of the boat’s message clearly
heard was the words “All’s well.”
“Apparently without mishap.” Little
does that reporter know what the brave
fellows faced on that first day! At the
mercy of a stream racing furiously at
four to six miles an hour, the shores
lined with ferocious jumbucks, birds of
prey peering at them from the trees on
each hand, beneath them the savage cod
and the voracious Murray lobsters, only
enough food and drink to last them a
month and the next landing not less than
20 miles away.
Round any bend at any moment might
come a whaler, the captain bold and
reckless, demanding tribute or perhaps
even opening a fire of tobacco-smoke
without warning. Who knew what
awaited them at Gilam or the Nap Nap
mailbox? There might have been a letter
from somebody’s wife ordering him to
stop being silly and come home, causing
mutterings in the crew and possible
mutiny.
Dimly through the western ether, over
the deserted plains, all among the crying
of crows and the howling of dingoes,
came the words over the two-way radio,
“All’s well.” With nothing to defend
themselves save their “old-time muskets,
three rifles and a shotgun,” it is not hard
to imagine the courage and determination
behind that message.
Yes, as a one-time whaler of those
waters, I make bold to say that Sturt him-
self never went through what these
fellows are going through.
Adventure in Reporting.
A man from the “Sydney Morning
Herald” called on Mr. Dickson, the
McGirr Minister for Secondary Industries
and Building Materials, the other day and
asked him what he thought about de-
centralisation, housing in the country and
sundry related things. Whereupon the
Minister got off a speech which should
have stirred the hearts of the State’s
citizens.
As Mr. Dickson sees it, everything is
lovely out in the country. His Secondary
Industries Department is giving freight
concessions and persuading people to
build factories, and his “full-scale
Ministerial Department” has decided that
“the accent on all development must be
on decentralisation.” The “key” to all
this is housing, and the “key” to all that
is “a great increase in the output of build-
ing materials from local plants.”
The Government has freed every type of
building outside the Sydney-Newcastle-
Wollongong areas. It offers every
encouragement to the producers of building
materials. It gives councils the widest
powers to build and to produce building
materials. What a stir there would be if a
country town pushed itself ahead to the
point where it could advertise for a manu-
facturer, and tell him there were houses
waiting for the workmen he wished to
bring!
What a stir, indeed! And what a
masterly conception! Instead of having
the town grow round the industry, Mr.
Dickson sees the industry growing round
the town. There might be something in
it, too. Anyhow, Mr. Dickson wants
Bogan Gate and Eunonyhareena and
Wagga and the rest of them to “put drive
and push into things on the spot,” and
he is flat-out to assist. “Housing Com-
mission projects are being carried out in
190 country towns, but the commission
cannot be expected to do everything.”
There was more, and the reporter man
went away dazzled with visions. When he
sobered a little he looked up statistics on
country housing and found this:
Year ended June 30 last, 18,766 houses
built in N.S.W., 2500 outside Sydney-New-
castle-Wollongong area. In the same period
1075 flats completed, 873 of them in the
Sydney area. Number of factories un-
known, but factory building work worth
£4,357,000 was approved in the Sydney
area; £830,000-worth elsewhere, including
Newcastle and Wollongong.
It is presumed that at this stage the
reporter felt that somebody had sold him
a pup; anyhow his story ended there.
Which was, perhaps, just as well—for Mr.
Dickson.
The Turk.
“Abdul Assiz”; Johnny Turk requires
no introduction as a fighter—and a
valiant one —to those Anzacs who have
survived Gallipoli, Mesopotamia and
Father Time. They may not know, how-
ever, that Mustafa Kemal —himself no
mean warrior—when he took up the reins
of government in the beaten and bank-
rupt Cumhuriyet, forbade, as a matter of
firm policy, the participation in any
extraterritorial military adventures. It
was his fervent belief, often expressed
both privately and publicly, that too
much Turkish blood had been spilt on
foreign soil and that the whole power of
Turkish manhood was required for re-
construction.
Incidentally, the Ataturk was the only
dictator who was sincerely and genuinely
loved by the peasantry of his country.
I know that firsthand, for I lived amongst
them in Eastern Anatolia.
It was both a privilege and a pleasure,
rarely experienced elsewhere, to handle
what a wide experience causes me to class
as the hardest-working and most tireless
labor in the world. The Turk never
watched the clock and always got on with
the job. He was poorly paid and miser-
ably clad, but, because of a farsighted
policy of zonal subsidies, essential items
were kept low in price in low-wage dis-
tricts, so that the laborer and his family
were adequately fed and were content.
I did not see a single hungry child east
of Ankara.
Clothing did not worry Johnny. On
one occasion I offered an old coat to a
man whose suit was so patched and
threadbare that it was impossible to
recognise the original material. He re-
fused, with many salaams, explaining
that if he wore the coat he would become
“soft” and that, when it was worn out,
he would not be able to replace it.
Another time I sent my heavy equip-
ment over a mountain pass by ox-wagon,
while I motored the comfortable and
long way round over excellent Turkish
military roads. My baggage-party struck
a blizzard, and, on two successive nights,
lay on top of their water-buffaloes to
keep the animals from freezing. They
were being paid a special bonus-wage of
over a shilling a day for this job.
Now that the ban on extraterritorial
combat has been ended by the landing of
a Turkish brigade in Korea, it isn’t sur-
prising that they have already proved
that their fighting quality has not wilted
after 30 years without battle.
Leading these 5000 soldiers is the
veteran Tashin Yazici, who fought art
Kut el Amara in 1916. Near Waewon
he was ordered to withdraw in order to
avoid complete encirclement by Red
Chinese troops. His reply was: “Why?
We are killing lots of them.”
I expect that we shall hear a lot more
about Tashin’s brigade when the curtain
on front-line news is lifted. Trained in
the Anatolian highlands, where even the
summer nights are bitterly cold, the
Korean winter will have no terrors for
them, and they’ll fight if only as an
excuse for keeping warm.
What they do will have to be
chronicled by Allied correspondents, for
neither Tashin nor the Turkish Army
authorities have a taste for “public rela-
tions.”
Another Chapter Ending.
Signs of the times:
U.K. National Joint Advisory Council
(employers and employees) in industry asked
by Minister for Labor Isaacs to investigate
question of longer hours of work and resump-
tion of Saturday-morning work to meet needs
of rearmament programme without further
restriction of civilian goods.
Australian Government appointed National
Security Resources Board to “make recommen-
dations on any of the problems arising from
mobilisation of the country's resources tor
defence and development.”
U.S.A. Government has proclaimed a state ot
o Continued on next page.)


im
•Hdl
7741 E/fi
Keen
CMveira
They ‘Mvei Mrtu/
m
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOB QUALITY
national emergency, under which war-time con-
trols of domestic economy will be reimposed.
The French Government has come round
to the view that a German military force will
have to be revived in order to strengthen the
defence of Western Europe.
Washington reports indicate a hastening of
formal peace with Japan and acceptance by
U.S. Government of the principle that _“a
sovereign Japan, adequately protected against
attack by separate security agreement with the
U.S.A., would be a more effective and co-
operative ally than an occupied, subservient and
uncertain Japan.”
Obviously the present Atlantic bloc is
looking for reinforcement, and 1951 is
going to see some great changes, includ-
ing the re-erection of Germany and
Japan as stabilising influences, and pos-
sibly the acceptance of both, with Spain,
into U.N.O. —if peace and U.N.O. can
be maintained.
POLICAL POINTS
McGirr, with £64 million in loan-
money up his sleeve for 1950-51, a lot of
which he has neither the men nor the
materials to use, tried to touch Menzies
for £5 million as a special grant to the
£l5 million County of Cumberland
“master plan.” Menzies politely but
firmly refused, reminding McGirr of the
loan-money and that the rest of Aus-
tralia couldn’t in fairness be asked to
provide tax-money for special Sydney
schemes. Somewhat the same answer as
McGirr got when he asked for a special
grant from petrol tax to pay the Harbor
Bridge running expenses so that he could
make himself popular by wiping out the
toll. Sydney’s motto is “I take, but I
surrender.” Under “Labor” it should be
“I take, but I surrender —nix.”
“Labor’s” triennial conference,
scheduled to open in Canberra at the
beginning of March, will have other sub-
jects besides compulsory training to argue
about. There’s the future of the Senate,
The party platform advocates doing away
with the Senate, and at past conferences
that has seemed quite a good idea to the
boys, although they did nothing to put it
into practice when the party was in
power. Since the last conference, how-
ever, the situation has changed. Thanks
to deliberate rigging “Labor” controls
the Senate and is able to use it to thwart
the Government’s efforts to govern. Con-
sequently the party hardheads think there
may be something in having an Upper
House, after all.
Another item for debate will be the
socialisation objective—whether to leave
it alone, water it down or reinterpret it.
Whatever they do about it will be, like
the beer-bottles on pub shelves, “for dis-
play purposes only.” During the Bank
Bill debates all hands and the cook com-
mitted themselves too completely to leave
any doubts about where they stand on
socialisation.
The Scots are becoming mighty
nuisances. Not content with swiping the
“Stoon of Scoon,” their Fuel Efficiency
Committee has told the London Socialists
that it will ignore the Socialist Fuel
Ministry’s appeal to save coal unless the
Socialist Government bans midweek
sporting events.
H. T. Armitage, ex-governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, went on the air
recently to opnose suggestions of revalu-
ing the Australian pound. In the course
of his chat he said;
In spite of all the talk about steeply-
rising prices in Australia, I would say from
my own personal experience that the Aus-
tralian pound today has a greater purchas-
ing-power in its own country than the
local currency of almost any other country
in the world. Having recently returned from
a trip abroad, including England and many
Continental countries, I say without hesita-
tion that we still get more for our money
in Australia than almost any other part of
the civilised world.
That may be true, and let’s hope it con-
tinues to be so, but it is hardly an argu-
ment against revaluation.
The customary trouble cropped up
when the new destroyer Anzac was ready
for launching; three unions slapped on
a black ban. Ostensible reason is an
argument over pay, but the unions con-
cerned —Ships’ Painters and Dockers,
Ironworkers and the Amalgamated En-
gineering Union have Communist
affiliations. Enough said.
According to a Melbourne paper,
“Labor and trade-union leaders agreed
with the statement by Sir Robert Garran
that Australia is growing out of its Con-
stitution,” What the “Labor” boys
want, of course, is amendments to make it
possible for them, when and if returned
to Federal government, to socialise
everything, beginning with the banks and
ending with the trade-unions.
Indonesia’s Foreign Minister says his
country cannot, because of the break-
down of the New Guinea talks, continue
co-operation with Holland “with the same
enthusiasm as before.” That should 'be
good news to the Dutch.
From the front page of “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” last Friday; “From the
teeming millions of Southern Asia a
strange figure emerges, with an even
stranger message . . . Who is he? Where
does he come from? What is the tremend-
ous upheaval he is about to provoke?”
Everybody who guessed Ernie Thornton
Was wrong.
Sydney’s taxi-strike, staged as a protest
against the Transport Department’s in-
troduction of a job-card designed to
check multiple-hiring, ended when the
department agreed to modify the system.
“S. M. Herald,” quoting Transport
Minister Sheahan’s threat that he “would
not tolerate multiple-hiring any longer,”
remarked that the one really effective way
of getting rid of it would be “the
immediate issue of several hundreds of
new taxi-plates.” It is not known
whether the “Herald” writer Is psychic
or whether Billy happened to be in a
particularly receptive mood, but that
night he announced that 300 new plates
would be issued, in addition to 100 about
to be balloted for.
Minister for Development Casey has
forecast a record year for house-build-
ing. It wasn’t a very difficult prophecy
to make. If the number of houses built
in the Commonwealth this year isn’t a
record quite a lot of people will want to
know the reason why. More than 12,000
prefabs are on order; 10,000 migrants
for the building trades are expected
during the year, and every State expects
to better last year’s figures. One thing
is certain ; the cost of the homes will be
a record.
Queensland Liberals point out that at
the time of the Queensland election last
year the State electoral rolls held
718,685 names and the Commonwealth
rolls only 699,134. They want to know
where those 20,000 extra voters came
from. It’s a popular saying in Brisbane
that half Toowong cemetery votes for
“Labor” candidates.
Quite apart from Corns and fellow-
travellers, a lot of people who should
know better are talking a vast amount
about the atom-bomb, the favorite sug-
gestion being that the Western Powers
should make a declaration that they will
not use it unless it is first used against
them. The atom-bomb is a nasty thing,
but it is the only weapon in
which the democratic nations have a
present advantage. To forgo that ad-
vantage would be equivalent to agreeing
not to use firearms against an army
possessing overwhelming superiority in
bows and arrows, swords, spears and
battle-axes.
Whether the auxiliary generators de-
signed to ease Sydney’s winter power
troubles will arrive in April, August or
October is worrying a section of the
Sydney Press. What is worrying the rest
of Sydney is whether Bunnerong’s coal
supply will hold out until the miners get
back from their Christmas holidays.
A British carpet-maker says that a
fibre made from peanut husks is now
being used to make carpets, and that
carpets made of it would cost only about
one-third the cost of those made from
wool. Not if the fibre comes from
peanuts grown in the Attlee peanut-farm
in East Africa-—so far it has cost £25
million to produce a cartload or two of
nuts.
N. S. Wales coalfields are losing an-
other customer. Victoria’s Spirit of
Progress, unable to secure Maitland coal
with sufficient regularity, is to be con-
verted to an oil-burner.
“Melb’n”: Next year’s Royal visit has
put Melbourne in the same quandary it
struck when the earlier visit was pro-
posed. There is no approach to the city
which could in any sense be called regal.
If the Royal party were brought up the
Yarra in barges it might think it had
been led into the main drain of the city,
that being what the beautification schemes
of the Board of Works have done to the
once-salubrious river. Any approach by
road could give the party the idea that
it had been invited to do a bit of slum-
ming. The rail approach is equally un-
attractive. On the previous occasion the
reception committee decided to make the
suburban station of Armadale the dis-
embarkation centre. Immediately all the
other suburbs sent in photos of their
own railway hop-offs, none of them pro-
viding anything more aesthetic than a
view of the pub on the corner and a milk-
bar. There is still time, however, to build
an aerodrome near the Botanic Gardens
on which the Royal visitors could be
dropped by helicopter.
The Forgotten Man of N. S. Wales
politics is Jack Baddeley, former Minister
for Mines, who was given a seven-year
contract as Director of Coal Mines a
couple of years ago and hasn’t been
heard of since. His silence is so pro-
found that it seems possible he has for-
gotten what he is supposed to be doing.
Senator Tate, chairman of the Cumber-
land County Council, considers the New
South Wales Parliament should approve
the “Master Planning Scheme” and go
ahead with whatever funds are immedi-
ately available. One catch about that is
that Parliament can’t approve the scheme,
or anything else, unless it meets. The
present intention of those who run it is
that it won’t meet before April.
The British, whose Socialist Aneurin
Bevan once told them “this island is
almost made of coal and only an organis-
ing! genius could produce a shortage,”
greeted the arrival of the first 8000 tons of
American coal last week and expect
another 80,000 tons in the next few
weeks. It must hurt confirmed Socialists
to have to warm themselves with capi-
talist coal because the socialised coal-
mines can’t produce the stuff.
An American businessman recently in
this country said he found Australian
Socialism late-19th-century in character
rather than modern-20th-century. No
wonder! The old men of the movement
stopped thinking a generation ago and
the young ones haven’t started yet.
According to Governor Darling’s dis-
patch of 1830 to Downing-street, Sturt’s
Murray expedition was carried out at a
total cost of £265 19s. 4|d. At today’s
prices that would just about cover the
cost of the whaleboat.
One of the most remarkable things
about our present lopsided economy,
accepted by all political parties, is that it
has become a virtue to have work done
outside Australia or without drawing on
local labor and materials. An Italian
syndicate is to build the “town” for the
Snowy River project; tenders are to be
called from overseas for the building of
a chain of hospitals in New Guinea;
some of the Continental firms tendering
for prefabs are prepared to supply the
builders as well as the buildings,
“Overfull” employment is, of course, the
reason; high export prices the factor
that makes it possible—for a while.
An American society of doctors has
been formed to make research in
diseases of old age and the general
problems of age with the idea of keeping
elderly people at work. The society is
convinced that old people are happier
working than in enforced idleness, and
says the machine-age has a place for
oldsters in production. Australia should
look into this ; with an ageing popula-
tion and a desperate attempt to substi-
tute immigrants for babies, we are too
prone to enforce retirement of people
still capable of good work.
With water-power from Kiewa and
diesel-engined power-stations at Sheppar-
ton, Swan Hill and Mildura, Victoria
hopes to have the south side of the
Murray Valley electrified by 1965. It
ought to start the inhabitants of Sydney
on some furious thinking to reflect that in
far-off Robinvale, a hamlet jammed be-
tween the Manangatang sandhills and the
river, they’ll have light and power and
need never fear a blackout.
Views of the chief of Marshal Tito’s
propaganda bureau on Yugoslavia’s rela-
tions with Moscow:
Reconciliation is impossible The gulf
between us and Russia and her satellites
cannot be bridged... .Russia presents a
picture of nationalistic darkness, holding
under her sway six European States pre-
paring for an aggressive war, allegedly
against capitalism, but actually for plunder
and the acquisition of new territories.
Fellow-travellers usually dismiss that sort
of statement as the vaporings of “Red-
baiters” ; they can hardly pin that tag
on Tito’s spokesman.
The first rosy light of the “dawn of a
new era” which McGirr prophesied
would follow “the most prosperous
Christmas in history” shone last week on
the price-list of foodstuffs. Milk, tea and
eggs were all UP.
“X.S.”: Official propagandists, in put-
ting out warnings that this year is poten-
tially the worst in Victoria’s history as
regards the bushfire menace, seem to
ignore the march of progress. Most of
their admonitions against carelessness are
directed towards the picnicker, the
camper and the person who throws his
lighted cigarette-butt out of his car.
There’s no appeal for caution in the use
of the droves of weird machines of all
sorts, from tractors to bulldozers, which
are blowing sparks from their exhausts all
the way from Gabo to the South Aus-
tralian border, and from the Murray to
the sea, as they plough their way through
scrub and grasslands over a million acres.
Not one outbreak of fire due to holiday-
makers and campers was reported during
the late festive season; over 20 were
attributed to sparks from the exhausts of
tractors.


Kf Captain Charles Sturt ——
\jj£R£ TO SET OUT Tow—
got vo^k
GeA/SAEMS' (Jwort
Ticket
f*RO(V\ Sypnev To
South Australia
Om his Historic *— — —
[r is (NBVlTAgue -
'That he u)oul£ £rs|p his journey
(N THE AUSTRALIAN HiGH COURT,
JOURNEY’S END.


Society
"AND IT's PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“D.A.”: In our select Sydney North
Shore suburb the other day I heard one
taxi-driver telling another; “If you think
I’tn a , call me a ; but don’t
just go on thinking it all day.” Don’t
know how many people called the lot of
them s during the taxi strike, but
nearly everyone was thinking it.
* * * *
“R.W.”: Social gatherings in night-
gowns (B. 22 /11 / ’50)? Some years ago
in a N.S.W. country town, the whole
population turned out at three o’clock in
the morning to watch a large store burn.
Two bright
young things
from our board-
ing - house were
there, dressed in
dragging nighties
covered by old
bath-gowns. De-
ciding that the
show would last
for some time,
they disappeared.
In a short time
they were back ;
this time complete with make-up, shim-
mering, eastern-style pyjamas and
diaphanous dressing-gowns.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Is there anything, I ask, more
conducive to the pure enjoyment of big
cricket than for a man to take with him
his womenfolk—more especially when it
is their first sight of the game? How
“What do you pay per gallon for blue blood ?”
keener the edge to his pleasure of savoring
a full-blooded pull to leg to try to explain,
above the excited din, why the man stand-
ing there in the white coat and hat had
made no attempt to catch the ball which
he could easily have reached! The ex-
pressed surprise by one’s daughter at
seeing no deep depression cut into the
ground, in view of her anticipation at
finding a “gully” of which she had
vaguely heard, gives the indulgent father
a chance for a long dissertation on the
various terms of the game, always a
pleasant diversion from watching a wicket
fall. For myself, I find nothing more
soothing while contemplating the finesse
of a Hassett-placed field for Iverson than
to be called upon to tell my spouse
whose side the wicketkeeper is on, to
agree that it is a shame to allow a man
to push a white contraption about just
inside the fence and thereby force some
of the spectators to seek new positions,
or why doesn’t the wicketkeeper stump
the batsman who has walked up the pitch
to pat a dubious spot. I confidently
expect to be asked, after explaining that
a batsman has been thrown out, what he
had done to deserve such treatment.
* * * *
“Jasby”; An American journalist
recently remarked that the preceding
fortnight had been one of the best news
periods for years. He explained that he
didn’t mean that the news was good, but
that plenty of things had been happen-
ing. There had been a big rail smash, a
disastrous hurricane and the Chinese had
hurled back U.N. forces in Korea. As
a result “subway readers have been
clutching their newspapers tighter than
ever, and housewives are sticking close to
their radios.” It doesn’t always work out
that way. People can get used to almost
anything, and when disasters follow too
closely on one another news of them
may become monotonous unless the
reader is personally and closely affected,
I recall the attitude of an elderly relation
of mine in the darkest period of the war.
She’d pick up the morning paper in which
almost every item would, in normal times,
have been a front-page story—reverses in
North Africa, tough fighting in the
Pacific, German advances in Eastern
Europe, air-raids on London, heavy ship-
ping losses. These she would cover in
about 55 seconds without turning a hair.
Then she’d throw down the journal with
the comment “Rotten paper today.
Nothing in it.”
* * * ■*
“V. Cluse”: Jephson has lived a
blameless 20 years or more in our Sydney
suburb, enjoying mild fame as a gardener,
a husband who goes home every night
and an indulgent father. He has never
been heard to raise his voice, has never
written to the Press, nor hurled vocal
abuse at Governments, bosses, unions,
police, clergy or drunks. But now we
are recalling odd little things, harmless
enough when they occurred, but of deep
significance in the light of revelation.
He is now regarded as an iconoclast with
an incendiary complex and possible
affiliation with international saboteurs.
What was once regarded as quietness of
demeanor is now recognised as slyness,
and his inoffensive manner is obviously
deep secrecy. There are other things—
but enough. Half-way through the
second picture at the local theatre the
other night, in flagrant defiance of the
regulations and the feelings of others,
Jephson lit his pipe. Fortunately he was
quickly grabbed by the manager and
hastily removed. His excuse that the
picture bored him, and that he fell into
thoughts about other things, un-
consciously lighting the pipe, is dismissed
for its childishness. Henceforth J. is a
marked man.
“Collins-street”: Many Melburnians
are wondering whether the greatest
threat to the Australian “way of life” is
Communist Russia or the Melbourne
publicans who switched the beer off at
Christmas and the New Year during the
worst heatwave for a decade.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Twenty years ago in a Mel-
bourne suburb I built a house for £2200,
the architect for which must have been
ahead of his times because the place still
“ There — THAT'S my color!"
looks more modern than its neighbors,
built during the present housing boom.
After 10 years I sold it for what it cost
me. The other day the present owner
informed me that he was thinking of
selling it, but couldn’t make up his mind
whether to ask £7OOO or £7500. I went
home reflecting that if I had had the
sense to hang on to that house I would
now be in sight of comparative affluence.
Another friend, with a flair for
economics, tells me it’s all a matter of
what I did with the money I got for the
house 10 years ago ; that the £2200 I
got then would buy as much as the £7500
I might have got now. He may be right,
but I still think I’m on the wrong end
of the stick.
* * * *
“Macnell”: In the Thames Estuary the
grubby little trawler, rust-streaked grey
and flaunting a White Ensign, sniffed up
and down, hesitated, went back, sniffed
again, and, satisfied, sat. Inside her un-
imposing shell were fitted the latest
navigational radio aids, echo-sounding
and asdic sets of the Royal Navy. Over
her side lumbered a diver, to disappear
under a snaking vine of bubbles. Shortly,
dark-grey canisters followed him over,
lowered carefully and with wholesome re-
spect from a derrick more used to fish-
nets. Forty canisters dropped under
before the diver reappeared and clumped
up the ladder. Then the little ship went
for her life. Ten minutes at full speed,
and she slowed down, well clear. Beneath
the point where she’d been working the
sea stretched, calm, smiling and waiting.
Then a flash of intense white shot across
its surface; it seemed to retract, then
erupted in a vast forest of water which
shot up to 100 ft. to fling itself apart in
cascades of white spray. And another
war-wreck was reduced to harmless
slivers on the sea-bottom. Since the war’s
end 18 of those little trawlers have been
engaged on wreck-dispersal round Britain.
They have disposed of at least 500, at an
average of 200 depth-charges per ship and
15 hours’ work a day, seven days a week.
Now the Admiralty reports the job just
about finished.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Sailor George”: However tough the
going is, there are always some characters
who’ll get a laugh out of it. Back in
1918 I was serving aboard a destroyer
in the Mediterranean, and our opposite-
number was a Japanese destroyer
anchored just astern of us. Every morn-
ing a few of our hardy souls used to dive
overboard and swim round the ship, much
to the amusement and entertainment of
the Japs; the whole mob of them would
be crowded onto the fo’c’sle ready to
shriek and jabber with laughter when the
boys went in. Then both ships
left at daybreak to go on escort
duty. We were well clear of the
harbor, doing about 20 knots, When some
bright soul hit on the idea of pulling
the Japs’ legs. About half a dozen of
us stripped off and gathered at the stem
as if going to take the usual morning
dip. The Jap was coming along only
about 50 yards astern. In no time she
was down by the bows, with all hands
hanging over the fo’c’sle-rail to see the
fun. They were still there, watching ex-
pectantly, long after our chaps had gone
below again,
*'* * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Something that
was far more than suspicion has been
confirmed by a claim by the Women’s
Freedom League in Britain that
restaurants should serve equal portions
for both sexes. Local caf£ ‘proprietors
denied that any difference was made in
Australia. It may be so nowadays, but
I remember when the difference between
male and female helpings was well
recognised. Years ago, with a girl-friend,
I climbed Mt. Egmont (N.Z.), We
arrived back at our hotel at Stratford
just in time for dinner. The waitress,
reaching the servery after taking our
orders, intoned “Roast beef, a gentle-
man ; roast beef, a lady.” Whereat my
lady-friend wailed “No, no, no! Another
gentleman. I’m ravenous!”
* * ♦ *
“Clooter”; I am informed by the
American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science that the discovery of the
new metamorphosis hormone opens
new avenues of approach to an under-
standing of the fundamental processes of
normal growth and development as well as
to the mechanism of instinctive behavior
and functioning of the central nervous
system, which includes the mind.
As soon as I can get a bottle of the stuff
or an instrument or whatever it is they
use I mean to try it on a few people I
know—among them a publican, the
gardening crank who lives next door
and the handicapping committee of my
golf-club. If I can get an understanding
of their instinctive behavior when I ask
certain questions I’ll be a long way
towards that revenge I have often
dreamed about.
♦ * * *
“Cauboy”: Disappearance of the
music at the Barbirolli concert recalls
the time a Melbourne Town Hall func-
tionary pinched another conductor’s
trumpeter, Bernard Heinze had posted
his trumpeter in a passage at the back of
the hall to give the distant warning notes
of the arrival of Florestan’s liberators in
the “Leonora” overture. The orchestrion
had one anxious eye at the keyhole and
his instrument poised at his lips when
the custodian rounded a corner. Taking
him for an intruder intent on throwing a
spanner into the proceedings he grabbed
the trumpeter, and the notes were never
sounded.
* * ♦ ♦
“Aestur”: Frank Buckland, the man
who introduced trout and salmon to
Australia and New Zealand, would
probably have enjoyed steaks from
“Harold Hardupp’s” burnt butchery (B.
13/12/’5O). When a giraffe-house at the
Surrey Zoological Gardens was burnt
down, Buckland obtained a supply of
roast giraffe. He records that the meat
was white and tasted like veal. Still, Buck-
land had rather peculiar tastes. Here are
some samples from his table: elephant-
trunk soup, viper, hedgehog, fieldmice,
chops from a panther that had been two
days buried, crocodile and pickled horse-
tongue.
SINISTER STRATEGY.
“In the first three months of the Federal Govern-
ment’s medicine scheme one family in five got free
medicine: there are now 139 drugs on the free list;
and before the end of the year an £8,000,000 free-
medical-benefits scheme will be working.”
Oh, take away that scrambled egg,
It’s far too dear for such as we.
And buy no tinned sardines, I beg,
Nor beggar us with prodigal tea,
Nor kidneys, no, no liver, fried;
But give us sulphanilamide.
Prospect about no more in shops
For coffee’s fabulous golden grains,
Or Eldorados of lamb chops,
Or fillet steaks, or sets of brains;
Send us no retail-trader’s bill in—
Just fill us up with penicillin.
For now the cheapest form of diet is
An aid to our inflation ills,
The hundred-and-thirty-nine varieties
Of Doctor Page’s Priceless Pills:
By working steadily through the formulary
We’ll end by feeling most abnormulary.
And so, full-up of chemicals,
Unhappy victims of inflation,
We’ll be borne off to hospitals
Under some scheme in preparation,
To hope we’re looking worse and worse
And roll desirous eyes at Nurse—
It’s Doctor Page’s plan to cope
With Labor’s army-training ban,
For when the Asians interlope
Their foremost secret-serviceman
Will say, “Can’t shoot them people, boss;
They all protected by Red Cross!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Villefair”: Of all the underhand
subterfuges I learnt at school the one
most useful in later life was the ability to
back-track in my mind over things to
which I had not been giving proper
attention. Example: Teacher: “Youf
What did I say last?” Me (without the
slightest idea): “You said”
(frantic playing back of the sub-
conscious mental recording) “You
said that to divide a fraction you
inverted and multiplied.” What
that meant X wouldn’t have the
least idea, but teachers were
generally satisfied to switch to “Sit
up straight and take your arms off
the desk.” In married life the
gift has been invaluable. My
spouse takes the usual wifely
objection to reading at breakfast
on the ground that you can’t read
and listen, too. I always main-
tained that I could, and, until
recently, my gift never failed me
when a trap question was fired
unexpectedly. For further develop-
ments it was simply a matter of
playing along with a cautious “Mmm”
until a clue to what it was all
about presented itself. But no system is
foolproof. Last Saturday my sub-
conscious registered: “So that’s fixed up,
then. I was afraid you might object.”
Not a word before that could I recall.
Since then the missus has been as happy
as a mudlark. What have I let myself in
for?
* * * *
“Woody”: Cricket umpires are not the
only ones in the game perplexed at times
(B. 13/9/’5O), A nine-a-side interna-
tional game was in progress, the barbed-
wire of the German prison-camp form-
ing two boundaries arid the barracks the
other two. The restitched, oval-shaped
ball played prodigious tricks on the
uneven pitch, baffling batsman and
wicketkeeper alike. One of England’s
“rabbits” was
swiping in des-
peration at the
Aussie spinner,
and, disregarding
the camp cricket
rule that “over the
fence is out,” he
jumped two yards
down the pitch,
swiped and
missed. Doc, the
Aussie ’keeper
for the day,
gathered the ball
a yard outside the stumps and swept it
towards the bails with a loud “Howzat?”
Geordie, with a confidence in Doc we
didn’t share, began to walk off. He didn’t
see Doc miss the bails with his first
attempt and throw back his head in
disgust. But he heard the mob roar for
him to get back into his crease as Doc
returned the ball to the bowler with an
apology, the bails still secure on the
stumps and Geordie five yards out.
* * * ¥
“Kelms”; Reported from Hollywood
that Greer Garson is “desolated” be-
cause the all-white color scheme of her
New Mexico “ranch” —white house,
cows, horses and chickens —has been
ruined by the birth of a spotted calf.
She’s not the first cattle-fancier who’s
been disappointed in the progeny of
pure-breds, A cow-cocky once hired a
man on the understanding that his wages
were to be all the calves which were
speckled and spotted; and, to avoid
overpaying, he shifted all except the pure
colors from his herd. The dodge didn’t
work. Before long the hired hand’s
beasts outnumbered those of the cocky,
who got mad and sacked him, with his
cattle, goats and wives—he’d married a
couple of the cocky’s daughters. At the
parting a lot of hard words passed back
and forth anent what Laban called
Jacob’s treachery. Jacob stoutly main-
tained that the results were due to some
poplar and hazel rods which he’d planted
around the waterholes. He probably
believed it, too, not knowing anything
about the discovery which a monk named
Mendel made a few thousand years later
in plenty of time, though, for the news
to have penetrated to the scientific
geniuses of Hollywood, who can mate a
white cow to a white bull and produce
publicity.
* * * *
“Harvey”; It was winter-time in an
Army camp, the place was almost water-
logged, and, with influenza and measles
rampant, the M.O. was almost run off his
feet. The final blow was an order to add
a daily inspection of the meat-supply to
his other duties. Next morning at four
o’clock he got news that the meat
was due any minute. He stumbled and
slithered through the lines, tripping over
guy-ropes and into muddy pools until he
“Smoke,dear?”
met the duty sergeant, who had fortun-
ately been a butcher in civil life. Sarge
was given the job of inspection, and when
it was over the M.O. began to grope his
way back —to be stopped by the sergeant
with a reguest that he make out a report.
The doc. declined, and, when a panting
clerk overtook him with a similar request,
he signed at the bottom of the sheet and
told the clerk to get the sergeant to fill
it in. A few minutes later back came the
bloke; the sergeant had declined. “Fill
it in yourself then,” said the fed-up M.O.
“What’ll I put?” asked the clerk. “Just
write that the meat supplied was abso-
lutely raw.” It was done, and Red-tapery
was satisfied. At least, the M.O. assumes it
was ; he’s heard nothing about it in the
34 years that have since passed.
• ♦ ♦ *
“Sackfair”; Twenty years have passed
since I read Jerome K. Jerome’s Three
Men On The Bummel, but some advice
given in it remains with me:
“If I should be going home, my boy, and
be confronted by a footpad who demanded
my gold watch, 1 am not a fighting man,
but I should certainly endeavor to protect
my property. But if a man approached me
and said: ‘I am going to sue you for your
gold watch,’ then I should give it to him
immediately, and think I got out of it very
cheaply.”
I’ve long regarded that outlook as the
only satisfactory one when dealing with
the Law, but recently I encountered a
case which achieved satisfaction for all
concerned. The party of the first part
had, it was alleged, lent the party of the
second part a long electric-light lead.
When the lead was returned, the p. of f.p.
claimed that the article had been bought
but not paid for, refused to take delivery
and demanded four pounds. The p. of
s.p. denied any such arrangement, put
the matter in his solicitor’s hands, and
everything seemed to be lined up for a
bitter legal struggle. Then suddenly the
original owner appeared to let the! whole
matter drop. No ; it wasn’t a case of
bluff, wiser counsel prevailing, or any-
thing like that. The solicitor explained to
his client: “I’ve wanted to get hold of a
decent lead for some time, and at four
pounds that one was too good a bargain
to miss.”
♦ * * ♦
“Spasebo”: A Hungarian poet has re-
written “Othello” in the way the Bard
would have written it if he had been
alive today. Members of the Communist
Youth discover the intrigues of lago, and
the Communist party calls a public meet-
ing, at which the virtues of Communist
self-criticism are preached to lago and
Othello. The Moor is converted, pub-
licly renounces his error and forgives
Desdemona, but the base lago persists
in his plotting and is brought to court
and duly punished. If anybody thinks
the Hungarian poet is a madman I hasten
to assure him that this bit of bunkum is
all in line with Communist esthetic
theory, which holds that art is economi-
cally determined. This would make
Shakspeare a pot-boiler who boiled his
pot in one way in Elizabethan England
and would boil it in an entirely different
way in Communist Hungary.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: If there is any prin-
ciple involved in the pinching, allegedly
by Scots nationalists, of the Coronation
Stone from Westminster Abbey, then the
Scots ought logically to hand it over to
the Irish, as that is where the boulder
originally came from. The principle
would also justify the recovery by
patriotic Greeks of the Elgin Marbles,
removed from Athens by the Earl of
Elgin, who received permission from the
alien Turkish Government while envoy
extraordinary at Constantinople. Eng-
land, being a mighty empire-builder, has
been a great souveniring nation, but all
the nations of Europe have done their
bit. America, coming late into the field.
has done most of her souveniring by
purchase. If there were wholesale resti-
tution it would involve as great a trans-
port problem as a full-scale war.
* * ♦ ♦
“0.W.W.”: I wonder if Superman,
The Phantom, Silver Flash and other
modem “comic” characters will stand the
test of time as well as the front-page
heroes of the English comic “Chips.”
For close on 50 years. Weary Willie and
Tired Tim have amused children all over
the Empire, and they still seem to hold
their own against the newcomers.
• * ♦ ♦
“Bert”: On Christmas evening the
missus popped over with a taste of her
Christmas-cake and -pudding to the home
of a near-by maiden lady who lives ail
by herself. As she approached the place
the wireless was playing bright music, and
the voice of the owner could be heard
in cheerful conversation. Immediately
after the opening exchange of greetings
the lady of the house called over her
shoulder: “Tom, come and meet Mi's.
Evans.” The missus pricked-up her ears,
scenting a long-delayed romance, but
such notions were soon deflated. Out
walked a big sandy tomcat smacking his
chops after his evening meal.
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: Although modern ads.
are a lot more eye-taking—some of the
lingerie ones are very near the absolute in
breath-taking—and the descriptive matter
is far better stuff than in pre-war days,
Ask him to hang on, John.I can't talk to the vicar like this ."
they leave me with a sense of frustra-
tion. I’ve just realised why— most of
them neglect to state prices. Possibly the
hucksters feel that any mention of filthy
lucre degrades the product, but, whatever
the reason, in my case it just doesn’t
work out that way, and there are lots like
me. We prefer to do our shopping in
our heads so as to spend the least possible
time before the counter. When there are
two lines of goods and we know the price
of one and not the other, it is obvious
which one we’ll buy. For us modern
advertising is falling down on the job.
* * * *
The newsreel factotum
stepped back and surveyed with satis-
faction the notice he had just stencilled
on the door. “Emergency Exit Only.’
His satisfaction was cut short as a
teenager pushed past, brushing the wei.
paint with his sleeves. “Can’t you read?”
he asked angrily. The youngster replied:
“Well, I’m emerging, ain’t I?”
* • * ♦
“Billy S.”: In one of Sydney’s newer
suburbs the parson conducts christenings
once a month. The day I went
there the church seemed full of
kids, and he appeared to have the
procedure down to a fine art. Each
precious bundle in turn underwent
the physical part of the ceremony, and
then the padre, accompanied by the
mothers, retired to the peace and
seclusion of the vestry at the other end
of the church to complete the necessary
forms, while the babies were all left to
the tender mercies of godmothers, fathers
and grandmothers. The fun was fast and
furious. One kid started howling and the
rest joined in. and apparently
inexperienced young godmothers soon
gave it up as hopeless and started the
babies rolling, throwing them around in
a series of passes, flick, forward and back,
that would have done credit to any
Rugby three-quarter line. Young fathers
showed us their 2 a.m. form, marching up
and down the aisle, and finally the babies
ended up over the shoulders of experienced
grandmas who quickly subdued the
howling mob to slumbering docility.
* * * *
“Eureka”: For a small wager a young
woman slipped off her frock on Bondi
Beach and went into the surf wearing
only her panties and bra. Nobody took
the slightest notice of her ; indeed, she
was more respectably-clad than many of
the girls in two-piece swimsuits, yet I’ll
bet if the beach-inspector had known
what she’d done she would have been
ordered off the beach. Quite a different
wager was won by a man in the city. He
wore a kangaroo-skin fur-coat from
Central railway-station down Pitt-street
to Circular Quay, though it was a hot
summery day. He had so many
followers by the time he reached the
Quay that police had to take action to
prevent a traffic jam.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Ray Whiting’s brigadier
(B. 20/12/’5O) reminds me of two great
sports in the First A.I.F. When the mob
was being embarked on the Canal a
grizzled old Digger, well-sprung, elbowed
his way through a crowd of officers,
mostly Tommies, and eventually reached
the Old Man. “Eh, brig.—-a bloke back
there bet me fifty disasters I wasn’t game
to come up and shake hands with you.”
Brigadier Ryrie grinned and put out his
hand. “You win, lad. Put it there and
get aboard.” The other bloke was
Brigadier Brand of the 4th Brigade. He
started a canteen in France, and one
evening, after dark, the mob was waiting
for it to open. Said one Digger to his
mate: “I wonder what the old blankard
of a brig, is making out of this?” Said a
quiet voice from behind “If it’s any
news to you, lad, the old blankard isn’t
making a razoo. He’s put all the francs
he could raise into this show.” It was the
old brig, himself.
A SUBURBAN LAMENT.
High as the waist and a yellowy green —
Paspalum, paspalum, paspalum.
A tangled maze with a path between
The cloistered domes where seed-heads lean —
Paspalum, paspalum, paspalum.
The burning point to the bitter pen
(Paspalum, paspalum, paspalum)
That probes its way to the mayoral den
And vows to pay no rates again,
Choked with paspalum, paspalum.
A peril to pants and the horror of hose —
Paspalum, paspalum, paspalum.
A boon to dry-cleaners wherever it grows;
King of a jungle that nobody sows—
Paspalum, oh, blast you, paspalum!
N.S.W.
B.A.KER.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Farm Boy”: We’ve lost a deluded
beau. He used to live in the trees about
our place in the Victorian western dis-
trict under the impression that the object
of his affections was so responsive to his
advances and
serenades that she
imitated all his
gestures per-
fectly. Every
morning he used
to come down to
the wash - house
at the rear and
there go through
his act, posturing,
fluttering, singing, watching the object of
these evolutions and sometimes making
advances, but he could never quite bring
himself to take the final step. Which
was just asi well, for somebody thought-
lessly took the mirror inside from the
wall, and the thrush, after one or two
puzzled searches in the vicinity, departed
we know not whither.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The old bloke had not long
since cashed his chips, and his widow,
unable to carry on, was selling, lock,
"It's Ned's birthday today."
0
stock and barrel, for a compulsory shift
within range of a medico. The broken
iron bedstead, the wobbling chairs and
well-scrubbed bush-table had changed
hands, the few farm acres had gone under
the hammer, and the handful of mongrel
stock was beipg offered. “How much for
3the horse?” bavvled the auctioneer, eyeing
the broken-down all-purpose moke that
was already long passed his span of use-
fulness. “Come on, come on, won’t
someone make an offer?” I glanced at
the rough hilly acres, took in the toil-
broken nag, and turned towards his long-
haired owner, who was standing alone
just inside the ring. She said nothing, but
the nag slumped across and shoved his
nose against her arm. I heard the bid
from the buyer for the zoo, saw the look
on the old lady’s face, and caught the
glint of tears as she turned quickly and
hobbled towards the empty house. Lord
knows what / want another broken-down
crock for; but there sure enough is the
old relic, now wallowing in the clover of
the home paddock, and helping to keep
me poor.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Dinkum”: In the early settler days
most outback farms had a blacksmith’s
shop where one of the hands did such
work occasionally. Then as settlements
grew, and smithies were set up in near-by
towns, the work was transferred to the
central expert. Now, with the “village
blacksmith” dying out, on farms there is
once more appearing the old forge and
anvil, for despite the crop of modern
machinery there are still tools needing
attention and nags to be shod. With un-
certainty of supplies, the old produce-it-
yourself custom is also finding favor again
with a few cockies, and if the boss hasn’t
time to hoe the home supply of spuds, or
the patch of chook-feed, the missus can
always lend a hand. Sons following in
the old bloke’s hoofmarks must nowadays
learn shearing, wool-classing, stack-build-
ing, a bit of carpentering, bookkeeping,
or a few similar useful trades, so that he
can carry on in time of labor shortage.
The idea is right enough. But, looking
on dismally at our transport problems,
one wonders if a little more of this
progress will bring us again to the reliable
old bullock- and horse-teams, whose only
handicaps on a trip were floods, bogs,
snow, bushfires, fallen timber, no roads
and a few other such trifles.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Salmon Gums”; Mesquite, mentioned
recently in these columns, is becoming a
menace in parts of North Westralia,
where it was introduced some 20 years
ago. The original seed were from the
spineless variety, but they weren’t de-
finitely fixed, with the result that
Mendel’s Law operated to produce a very
vigorous spiny type. It has replaced the
acacias in one area, over about 30 square
miles, and it is proving so effective as a
windbreak that windmills in its vicinity
are starved. It has some fodder value
and provides shade, but the pasoralists
in the Kimberleys are agin it. So is the
Agricultural Department, which is work-
ing on the problem of its eradication or
control. It looks as if years of hard work
will once again go into the correction of
a mistake which took only a few minutes
to perpetrate,
♦ * * ♦
“Abdul”: "B. A. Ker’s” “Operation
Airlift” picture (B, 6/12/’5O) took me
back 60 years with a jolt to Hatton Vale
school. I could select a jury of bearded
German farmers in that bend of the
Lockyer who would award Johnno a pat
on the head. Half a dozen of us kids
were chivvying a young magpie from tree
to tree. It was losing height every move,
when out of the blue came a parent bird,
which scored a direct hit through one
boy’s felt hat, drawing blood. Then,, as
we made the youngster fly again, the
older bird dived under it from behind
and boosted it upward and forward in
short bursts. At that stage the other
parent arrived. They made a perfect
simultaneous wheel and swoop, each
grabbed a wingtip and rescued their babe
from right under our noses, carrying it
fully 50 yards up and onward into a tall
ironbark.
"And you can leave out the cyanide Aauoring this time!"
“Dolmetcher”: Badly-chosen names
are common enough around the Pacific,
but few are less apt than that bestowed
by Bougainville in naming the island of
Aoba “Lepers’ Island.” Bougainville, and
after him many others, mistook the
curiously blotched skin of the natives
to be the dreaded disease. The
cause of the maldistribution of skin pig-
ment is unknown, but to a lesser extent
many Polynesian and Melanesian peoples
show it besides the unfortunately named
Aobanese. The discovery that, whatever
the “disease” is, it is not leprosy was
made when a French planter contracted
the skin decoloration from one of his
Aoban laborers. For 16 years he was left
very much alone. No one would pick up
his copra until it had been weathered in a
lighter for three days. His wife and
children returned Jp France, and only
those acquainted with French officialdom
can realise the humiliations the poor devil
suffered every time he wished to write to
them. At last there arrived a French
military doctor, who quickly realised that
if the man had leprosy for 16 years and
was still able to get about it was, to say
the least, rather odd. An examination —
the first the planter had received in all
those years—showed that he was as
healthy as anyone is able to be in the
New Hebrides. Even then it took another
year or two toi convince officialdom that
Bougainville had been a poor
diagnostician-at-sight.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Bad Australian”: “All this talk about
a plague o’ fleas invadin’ Noo South,”
remarked the man with the soogee swag,
“reminds me o’ the dawg I usetex own
w’en I wus out on the Paroo. He wus
the hairiest tyke y’ ever see, an’ when-
ever he coiled up f’r a snooze all the fleas
in me neighbor’ood makes for him.
But w’enever they’s a full moon that dawg
barks from the fust hoot o’ th’ more-
porks until the larfin’-jacks is on th’ job,
an’ b’lieve it or not, every flea within the
rajus o’ his bark picks up his feet and
makes straight f’r me camp. I done well
with |hat dawg, too —clearin’ fleas outer
p’leece-courts, pitcher-shows an’ boaxdin’-
houses down in Sydney until some cow
invents a powder wot’U reely kill them
insecks. Then I goes back t’ th’ Paroo
an’ gives me dawg a haircut t’ disin-
couridge th’ fleas be deprivin’ them o’
shelter, an’ he gits so badly sunburned I
has t’ pizen the poor cow.”
« « « «
“Horseless Horseman”: Irrigation
channelling through southern Riverina
has increased the bird-life there, despite
closer-settlement On an ex-Digger’s
block on Coree Park Estate, near
Jerilderie, I saw more feathered life to
the acre than anywhere this side of Capri-
corn, and in a box waddy beside the
house where a surface tank is filled from
the channels all day long there came
currawongs. Lousy Jacks, topknots,
bronzewings, maggies, quarriens, soldier-
birds, galahs and parrots galore to drink.
There were crows, kestrels, cuckoos and
blue cranes, mudlarks and spurwings.
However, with the new surface water
mosquitoes have increased beyond the
knowledge of the Canberra statisticians,
and the insectivorous birds haven’t caught
up with them yet. Out there a wagtail is
still a rare sight, and I didn’t see a
solitary swallow,
• * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: There was a crowd
round a partly-sunk underground tank
in Hamley Bridge (S.A.) and we joined it.
On the bottom, about Bft, down, a snake
and goanna were in holts and the crowd
was urging them on. Joe tried to
get a constrictor hold on Go.,
and Go.
tore Joe
off and
sought to
bite him
in two,
and there
was a
lot of
thrashing and plunging. The crowd
started to bet on the result, and somebody
offered two’s the go,, evens the snake.
Mat promptly took a dollar’s-worth of
the go. Most of them backed the snake,
and when the bookie offered Mat more
at two’s he snapped it up. The go. won,
and Mat joyfully jumped down, grabbed
it by the tail and lifted it out, watching
it race to cover. Later, when we cele-
brated the win, I said “What made y’
back the go.?” Mat drained his pot.
“Got hands, ain’t he?” he asserted. “All
the flamin’ snake could do was kiss an’
cuddle. I done a bit o’ brawlin’ in me
time, son, an’ I’ll have a cuddler an’
kisser on any time sooner than a bloke
with a good pair of hands.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Bogaduck”: When growing trees not
native to this country one of the most
important things is to get seed from
a tree which is already growing here and
already acclimatised. The first radiata
pines to be planted in Australia were
grown from Californian seed, and they
were; short, bushy and full of big side-
limbs ; they produced timber full of big
knots which was of little use com-
mercially. But pines grown from the
seed of these parent trees tended to grow
tall with small side-branches. Forestry
men hastened the process by selecting the
seed for future plantings from the best
of these tall, clean-trunked trees. To-
day it is hard to realise that radiata
pines growing in our commercial forests
belong to the same species as those
planted 100 years ago. Another very
fortunate thing for Australia is that
nearly all exotic trees producing com-
mercially-valuable timbers will grow
twice as rapidly here as they do in their
homelands; even more remarkable is the
fact that this rapid growth does not pro-
duce a coarse, inferior timber but a
superior one. Even when planted on
soil so poor that it will grow only a short,
stunted and near-useless native scrub,
exotic trees such as pines, larches, oaks,
ash, redwood, etc., will do remarkably
well anywhere in southern Australia
where dm rainfall is 3Qim or more. Now
that the Broken Hill Pty. has shown that
American hickory will grow here forestry
men are seeking an adult hickory to
serve as an acclimatised seed-tree, but
there doesn’t seem to be a single one in
southern Australia, apart from the young
ones grown from American seed; all
supposed “hickories” have turned out to
be pecans or black walnut. Anyone
knowing of a genuine adult hickory and
who 'will let me know through The
Bulletin will help to make forestry his-
tory in tbia country.
TARRAN HILLS.
N.S.W.
I left my heart
On a windswept hill —
What worries me,
It’s out there still.
That’s where Marobee
Waters play
Over the land,
Urambee way;
That’s where the old
Horseman-In-the-Trees
Rides to a Pineridge
Mountain breeze;
That’s where the hills
On Illawong
Signal to Tilga
All day long;
When the white grass,
Kilparney way,
Bleaches across
Wirchilleba.
Up where the> ’Central
Map at night
Stencils the State
In neon light,
Up on the Station
Watching there
Tinda and Boona
Mount appear;
Tallenbu twinkling
Like a star
Southward and low
From Coolibah;
Mumbil and Micky
Keewong peep
Smothered in gooma
Six-foot deep . . .
Cry from the field
And beckon me
Back to the man
I used to be . . .
I left my heart
On a windswept hill;
What worries me,
It’s out there still.
A.J. WÒD.


“Old-timer”: Last man to straggle
home to the station from the New Year
festivities in the town was Pocketknife.
He was on his own horse and wearing
somebody else’s Panama hat, which was
too big and rested on his ears. Pocket-
knife’s eyes were a trifle wild, and he
had a haunted look as he turned the horse
loose and blundered into the galley.
“Gimme some strong, hot tea, Paddy,”
he demanded of the cook. He got it and
took grateful gulps at it. “I’m turnin’ up
booze,” he declared. Everybody laughed
scornfully. “No, I’m dinkum,” he
swore. “So would you be if y’ had the
buzzin’ I’ve had in me head ever since
last night. It’s still goin’, plain as a
motor-engine—buzz, buzz, buzz. Drive
a man mad, it would.” The haunted look
increased and he drank more tea. Little
Curl said “ ’Struth, whose hat y’ got,
Pocketknife?” and twitched the Panama
from Pocketknife’s head. A large and
dopey blowfly sailed slowly out of it and
made for the door, taking P.’s good
resolution with it.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: That black stripe
down the centre of the brumbie’s back
(B. 20/12/’5O) may be a sign of reversion
to some previous type —perhaps to those
Scottish ponies mentioned by “Carinish.”
In some of the better-grassed areas of
the coastal plains north of Perth (W.A.)
are running fleet, well-fed horses stand-
ing up to 15 hands and obviously with
some good blood in them. They forage
around the freshwater lakes and
abandoned holdings, and they’ll beat all
but the best-organised attempts to run
them in. They haven’t the brumby stripe.
Nearer the coast, in the sandhills, where
the living is harder, is a different type
of pony, running in herds, nimble and
admirably suited to the terrain. It has
the black stripe prominently down its
back. It’s just as difficult as the others to
run down, but it depends on agility and
its size rather than on speed. Those
ponies are neatly limbed, but compared
with the other herds they’re runts. I’d
say, as a guess, they’re smaller than the
originals from which they sprang—the
residue left after the worth-while
members were taken by settlers.
# * * *
“Beau Forte”: The old cocky was a
hard man —a difference of threepence a
ton on the 2ft. firewood he wanted me to
cut was all that stood between us, but he
refused to come across. After much
argument I split the difference and got
the job. On the day of settlement he
grumbled all the time he was measuring-
up the stacks. However, on the way to
the house for my cheque he suggested
that I go into the bam and help myself
to an apple while I waited for him to
attend to some small job. One apple!
I filled my tucker-bag with the fruit, and
left it in a convenient place where I could
pick it up when making my departure.
But when he eventually got the cheque
fixed up, after much more grumbling, he
became a different man. He called on his
missus to trot out the refreshments —and
I was given one of the best blowouts
I’ve ever enjoyed. As I rose to go he
said: “Get y’r tucker-bag and come to
the barn and I’ll fill it with apples for
y’r
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bass”: The sheep-dog for whom its
owner wouldn’t take a thousand pounds
has figured often in Australian literature.
He has turned up, now, in southern
Westralia, During a bush-and-grass-
fire a boy and his dog attempted to drive
a flock of sheep out of the path of the
fire. Things got too hot, and the boy was
forced to abandon the job to save his
life. Later the sheep were found on a
rock outcrop, still shepherded by the dog.
• * ♦ *
“Solitude”: The debate had roped in
nearly the whole bar. “Well, for scrub
like that outside there,” declared the
bloke in the blue shirt, “you can’t beat
a bulldozer. It takes it in a face, piles it
in heaps and all you need do is burn it
later.” “Yes, but it’s not a ’dozer’s job,”
argued young Steve Hanlon. “Why, a
*ood spray would fix that stuff. Then
you d bo able to drive over it with a
Land-Rover and handle it any way you
liked.” “But don’t forget that scrub
shoots again “ Bill Cairuthers chipped in
If you ask me, the best things a good
rolling, then rip her up with a tractor,
“Fifty thousand doubloons for your share of the rum!”
Can’t beat a tractor for that work,”
Someone caught sight of Seventyfiver.
“Hey, you had a lot of that scrub out
your way, old-timer. Ever find a way of
dealing efficiently with it?” The old
bloke dragged his mug reluctantly out of
a glass. “Yair,” he grunted, “and we got
rid o’ miles of it.” “Was it costly?”
“No.” “And did it ever grow again?”
“No.” The mob gathered round eagerly.
“And what did you use, old-timer, to get
rid of it?” “Sweat,” said Seventyfiver
laconically, and retired again into his,
glass.
♦ * * *
“Dinkum”: Larry was in trouble with
his car. After a deal of effort he at
length reached the local garage, where
the mechanic spent the best part of the
afternoon on the back wheel and finally
fixed it. “Broken part, it was,” Larry
explained to his neighbor next morning.
“Lucky the garage had a spare to fit or
I’d have been stranded. Good bloke that.
Charged me f’r the part and only stuck
on two quid extra f’r the tirne he spent
on it. Aw, cars aren’t so expensive, if
“ Yair —but you're a chain-smoker.
you look after them, and go to a decent
garage.” Twelve months later the other
back wheel started giving trouble. Larry
persevered with it for a time, then grew
concerned. “Damn’ thing sticks, or some-
thing,” he growled. “Might be goin’ like
the other went. Gripes, I don’t want to
wear it clean through, or have her go
sudden and smash over the bank. Better
get down to the garage and let the bloke
take the wheel off.” The following mom-
ing he met his neighbor. “Aw, don’t
talk to me about cars,” he growled. “The
mechanic worked on that thing o’ mine
all the afternoon and had the wheel all
to pieces. Cost me two quid. Eh? Yair,
I know, but don’t y’ see, except for
needin’ a drop of oil, there wasn’t a single
thing wrong with the blasted wheel!”
Barney was always promising
himself he’d cut the thistles, but never
seemed to get round to it, and by the time
his offsider returned from a six-months
trip down-country acres of thistles sur-
rounded the shack. Over six feet high,
the thorny growth was so dense that a
rail across the entrance kept the nags
securely enclosed, and travel on the
narrow, winding track was hazardous
after nightfall. Pete was surveying the
wall of growth two days after his return
when there came a rustle, and three rams
pushed through into the space round the
shack. He called Barney, whoi informed
him the animals had been missing for
weeks. “Must have been living on thistle-
heads,” grunted Pete. “Lord knows what
else ’s in there.” Two days later a fox
pushed through the maze and took what
was coming to him. Another time it was
a lone ’roo that crawled miserably from
the wilderness and faced capture rather
than retreat. Then Barney went on a
bender. Day after day he drank
gloriously, and at the end of the week
the publican turned him loose and headed
him towards home. Nearly two days have
passed since then, and everyone is be-
coming concerned at Barney’s disappear-
ance. Everyone, that is, but old Pete.
Pete knows where his mat© is right
enough, and he is just waiting till he
shows up to see whether Barney will sign
the pledge or cut those thistles,
* * * *
“Bass N. Dean”: Two crows have
taken up residence in the paddock down
near the swamp, and for a time I
wondered what they were
feeding on. They pros-
pected thoroughly over the
ground around where I
milk the cow, out in the
open, and I wondered if
they had taken to eating
the grain spilled from the
chaff. It transpired that
the attraction was the
worms and grubs which
thrived in the well-manured
soil. Lately the crows
have spent much time in
the shallow water on the
edge of the swamp, and
what I at first took to be
merely diversion is obvi-
ously a more serious pur-
suit. There is some splash-
ing caused by the fluttering
of their wings, but the
main job appears to be
done with the feet. I
can’t approach close
enough for direct observa-
tion, but, poking around
the spot with a stick, I
noticed that when the
water is muddied various
little swamp beasties come
to the surface. The crows
spend more time in the
water than they could
afford for purely recreational pur-
poses, so I assume they have taken to a
diet of water-life,
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: The white-breasted
shag carries my money for the avian-
speedster stakes. His normally leisurely
cruising rate gives no indication of the
speed of which he is capable when.
apparently spurred by the competition of
several hundreds of his kind, he
plummets out the upper blue to the
lagoons of the river backwaters in search
of fishy fare. In perfect formation the
feathered squadron continues its beak-
dive at terrific speed, till at water-level
the whole formation pulls out of the
power-dive, snatches its spoil and spirals
sykwards again in split-second cohesion,
♦ * * *
“Amdee”: Open a mature coconut that
has fallen from the parent palm, sprouted,
and just taken root, and you will see a
ball of pith completely filling the interior.
This obviously acts as a feeder for the
young palm-to-be; drawing sustenance
from the oil in the white “meat” of the
nut adhering to the inner surface of shell.
The growth of this ball also exerts pres-
sure enough to force the young shoot,
to which it is attached, out through one
of the “eyes” in the end of a coconut.
Roots form later under the base of the
shoot, to find food from the soil when
nut-nourishment is exhausted. A ball of
coconut “bread,” removed unbroken from
the shell and sliced and spread with
honey or jam, is superior in flavor to any
baker’s loaf.
♦ * ♦ *
“Brid”: A Bridport (Tas.) fisherman,
hauling in his flathead lines, found
attached to one a bunch of dead oyster-
shells. Peering out from a half-opened
shell was a small octopus. It was sitting
upon a cluster of about 60 or 70 eggs- —
white, jelly-like oval objects about |in,
in length. The creature had evidently
dispossessed the original occupant of the
shell and claimed its home for maternity
purposes, also killing the owners of the
adjoining shell-group,
* * # *
“Kelms”: “One pot of tea, properly
fed,” says “T.McN.” (B. 15/11/’5O), “will
last a day.” Tony, who ran our boarding-
house, made it last a week. Tony never
emptied his massive teapot while there
was room to add a cup of water, and
he main-
tained a
surprisingly
high
standard of
b e v erage.
It was his
salads
which
finally
drove m e
from his establishment. When I
drew his attention to the presence
in the lettuce of unmistakable evidence
of poultry-participation he clucked
deprecatingly and roundly abused
the only domestic fowl in the district.
The chook, it seemed, perched on the
table as Tony cut up the lettuce and
assisted by scratching the strips away
from the knife. Tony vowed it wouldn’t
happen again. Said he’d keep a better eye
on the chook ; but I wasn’t taking the risk.
* * * *
“Farm Boy”: Snorkins bought a re-
frigerator. Somebody asked why. “Well,”
said Snork., “all I got t’ do is milk the old
cow, put the milk in the fridge, freeze it
an’ let the calf run with her. When the
milk cuts out I milk her again. Only got
t’ milk her about three times a week now
instead of every flamin’ day.”
♦ * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: When the black
drake and his three mates took up
residence in the swamp I gave orders that,
as far as the human denizens of the area
were concerned, true love was to be
allowed to run its course. 'Hie harem
appeared to be free of any discord, and
the members combined to meet, with
guile, any threat which developed during
the nesting period. For a few days after
the young ducklings appeared harmony
continued to reign, the broods mingling
in complete friendliness. Then one
duck with her young disappeared. A
day later another vanished. Within a
week one duck and her brood had the
swamp to themselves, apart from a pair
of cranes, an old shag, a few sandpipers
and the rogue of the swamp, a musk-
drake. I found one duck and brood on
a neighboring swamp, and presumably
the third duck has also found fresh
waters. Of the drake there was no sign.
Now, several weeks after the broods
appeared, another hatching has occurred.
Only five ducklings this time, and, while
the duck shepherds them in the shallows,
I have seen another of the species flying
low over the swamp. Usually it circles
several times, sweeping low, then ascend-
ing in a wide, incredibly swift ghde,
finally coming in on a long, low,
It seems to be accepted by the duck, and
I’m wondering is it the original drake
who, while his family was breaking up,
had secretly been maintaining two
homes. Or is the latest brood the family
of a young couple hatched earlier in the
season? I’d like to know, because some
female humans are drawing comparisons
between drakes and men.
CHRISTMAS-BELL.
Roof of stars above us,
darkness dosing round;
bit’s chink, and creak of leather
merging with the sound
of tired cattle plodding
glumly through the night . . .
Like me, the filly’s longing
for the homestead light.
Caked with dust, and lathered
from the day’s hard ride,
Christraas-bell is weary,
faltering in her stride.
Yet not a mile behind us
in heat or storm’s swift rain
but she’d turn and cover
willingly again,
After all our striving
nothing much to tell;
just a job well handled . . .
Sleepy, Christmas-bell?
Tired (like me) of mooching
under this vast dome?
Sweetheart, see! The windows
red with lights of Home!
QUEENSLAND.
E.M.ENGLAND.


G
* * • Proudly made in Australia to exacting
standards. Army Club bring you the world’s best leaf,
ripened by sun, mellowed by time. Mild yet
satisfying, they are rolled in filigrained paper
scientifically pure and free from printer’s ink.
'ub
CORK TIPPED
m
,
mm
The WILDAL COUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Divs.
, A N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1942.. 337,701 9 9 252,952 84,747 746,859
1943.. 317,761 9 9 270,000 47,761 794,620
1944.. 317,574 9 9 270,000 47,574 842,194
1945.. 349,481 9 9 270,000 79,481 921,675
1946.. 406,522 11 11 380,000 76,522 998.197
1947.. 677,088 17£ 17J 525,000 152,088 1,150.285
1948.. 566,822 15 15 450,000 116,832 1,267,107
1949. .1,168,585 25 25 750,000 418,585 1,685,692
1950. .1,399,841 25 25 750,000 649,841 2,335.533
* Excludes depreciation reserve.
This co.’s big smelter at Risdon (Tas.)
treats about half the zinc concentrates
produced in Australia. More than half
the resultant spelter is sold locally, and
the balance mostly in U.K. The Aus-
tralian price (officially fixed) is much
below world parity—the figure was raised
from £A4O to £A6S a ton as from Sept.
18 last. At today’s price-levels the cos.
concerned are subsidising Australian con-
sumers of zinc to the tune of about
£6,000,000 p.a. Most of the concentrates
are bought from the big mining cos. at
the Barrier (N.S.W.), and the balance
comes from the co.’s own rich zinc-lead
deposit on the west coast of Tasmania.
E.Z. is also a big producer of sulphuric
acid and superphosphate, and is about
to erect large works for the production
of sulphate of ammonia, and to improve
and expand its smelting equipment.
The full programme of development,
which will take some time to complete,
will call for a capital outlay of about
£4,000,000, which is to be met in the early
stages from the co.’s own resources.
Increased output, thanks to the
achievements of the metallurgical staff,
and the upsurge of overseas metal prices
during the last half of the term were the
chief factors responsible for the leap of
£231,256 in last term’s record profit
figure, which is arrived at in this way:
1949. 1950.
Profit claimed £1,068,600 £1,299,841
Add: Addition gen. reserve .. 17,319 49,223
Reserve for or» depletion 100,000 100,000
£1,185,919 £1,449,064
Less: Appropriation new plant,
etc 17,319 49,223
Added intangibles .. 15
Profit per table .. £1,168,585 £1,399,841
A generous (up £21,441) was
added to the depreciation reserve (now
£4,895,428, equal to 68.9 p.c. of book-
value of all fixed assets). The £1,399,841
of profit was 46.6 p.c. on the £3,000,000
of capital (half of it in 8 p.c. cumulative
participating prefs.), compared with 38.9,
18.9, 22.5, 13.5 and 11.6 p.c, back to
1945. So nothing had to be strained to
repeat the 25 p.c, distribution, of which
10 p.c. is labelled bonus. Average dis-
tribution for the eight years to 1948 was
11.7 p.c., and for the preceding quin-
quennium 14.3 p.c.
The smelter turned out an extra 1228
tons zinc. Fewer by-products came from
the residues plant, but they mostly fetched
higher prices, too;
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, Copper, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1948-75,396 266,730 1,613 215 151 1,041
1940.. 343,329 2,366 224 165 1,468
1950-83,897 318,070 2,255 221 166 1,337
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Average monthly price of zinc in U.K.
(expressed in Australian currency) rose
from £79 7s. 6d. August, 1949, to
£AIO7 2s. 6d. December, 1949, and to
£AIS6 6s. 7d. June, 1950. Average for
the 12 months to June 30 last was
£AIOB os. Bd. as against £A97 for the
preceding year.
The new flash-roaster and contact-acid
plants were operated at Risdon, where
42,072 fons (up 15,199 tons) of sulphuric
acid were produced, and a further 67,902
tons were turned out from roasters on the
mainland. The superphosphate plant,
which delivered 68,838 tons (up 23,329
tons) super., showed only a small profit.’
At the co.’s own mines at Rosebery
(Tas.) 150,583 tons (up 23,713 tons) of
high-grade ore (19.8 p.c. zinc) were milled
for the following results:
r A ssay N
Produced, Zinc, Lead, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. dwt.
Concentrates—
Zinc .. 46,299 65.4 2.3 0.29 2.80 0.70
Lead . . 9,959 15.9 58.6 0.75 26.8 3.62
Copper .. 3,889 17.8 27.8 9.62 149.9 37.52
Residues .. 90,436 2.07 1.06 0.14 1.38 0.92
In addition, 134,248 tons zinc concen-
trates were bought from the big mines at
the Barrier. Estimated ore reserves at
Rosebery remain unaltered at 1,500,000
tons of average grade, and drilling has
disclosed extensions of the ore-bodies.
The year’s addition of £553,087 to
plant mainly reflects completion of the
second unit of the contact-acid plant,
erection of an electric-melting furnace,
excavations for the new sulphate-of-
ammonia works, and additions to smelt-
ing equipment, etc.:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 720,370 1,083,706 1,310,545
Deposits . . .. 424 370 305
Tax reserve .. 511,685 947,926 927,999
Mines and roads.. 664,261 572,450 579,559
Freeholds, etc. .. 486,824 534,030 617,876
Plant, etc. . . 5,001,458 5,350,547 5,903,634
Shares, etc. . . 644,542 755,208 830.869
Stocks and stores 977,121 1,085,726 1,636,340
Book debts .. 623,487 845,801 624,454
Cash, etc. . . 1,380,372 2,508,940 2,824,578
Preliminary costs 172,332 172,347 172,347
Stocks and stores increased by £550,614,
while book debts decreased by £221,347
and the big wad of cash, etc., was
further strengthened by £315,638.
Since the close of accounts the London
price of zinc has continued to rise, the
Dec., 1950, average being £SISI per ton
(= £AIBB 155.). Stockpile purchases and
A tight supply position have pushed the
price up. The British Ministry of
Supply has rationed virgin zinc to 90 p.c.
of average 1949 consumption. E.Z.’s
problem at the moment is not to sell its
product, but to ensure equitable distri-
bution of available supplies ; a state of
affairs that seems likely to continue for
some time.
The market for the scrip has mainly
followed the market for the metal:
1950.
/ A ——, Yield.*
High. Low. Dec. 21. p.c. Cover.!
Pref. .. 955. 6d. 725. Od. 955. 6d. 5.2 71s. Id.
Ord. .. 955. 6d. 725. 6d. 955. 6d. 5.2 61s. Id.
*At Dec. 21, 1950, price. + Net tangible, excluding
depreciation reserve.
The prefs. advance with the ords, in any
distribution beyond 8 p.c., enjoy priority
as to capital, but do not share in surplus
assets. They are entitled to participate in
new ord.-share issues.
Burlington Mills (Australasia), Ltd.
r-* Dividends ,
Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 . . 13,757 5 5,421 12,813
1946 .. 88,688 7£ 23,516 27,985
Share-issue expenses, £4167 .. 23,818
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 18,818
1947 .. 101,751 8 31,500 89,069
Share-issue expenses, £21,186 .. 67,883
Goodwill purchased, £6OOO .. .. 61,883
1948 .. 98,314 8 53,361 106,836
1949 .. 92,012 4f 8 84,693 114,155
Loss.
1950 .. 6,162 4f Nil 23,750 84,243
* After deducting intangibles (now £10,000).
Unpleasant reading as it is, the last
line in the table is not indicative of
what the future holds for this young and
lusty pioneer of Australia’s infant rayon-
weaving industry. The outlook, of which
more will be said later, has changed
since the close of accounts. It is only six
years ago since the co., in which the
Burlington Mill people in U.S. are
interested, took over a small proprietary
concern and began large-scale produc-
tion of rayon fabrics, previously
imported.
The Commonwealth munitions factory
at Rutherford (N.S.W.) was leased for
the purpose, and £350,000 of ord. capital
was issued, half to Burlington (U.S.) for
plant, etc. In a sheltered and ready
market the co. got away to a flying start.
A further £350,000 of ord. capital was
issued in 1946, and £500,000 of 4| p.c.
pref, money was gathered in 1948.
There is now £1,200,855 of share capital
to feed—the £855 is employees’ shares.
The ords. got a maiden 5 p.c. in 1945,
followed by 1\ p.c. and then 8 p.c. to
the close of accounts in 1949.
Meanwhile conditions changed, and
the co, has recently met with severe com-
petition from British and Continental
manufacturers on a price basis —this
partly because overseas rayon-yarn
makers sold at higher prices in their
export than in their home market, partly
because withdrawal of the Government
subsidy on locally-consumed yarns
bumped up the selling-price of fabrics,
and partly because the industry enjoyed
virtually no tariff protection. To hold
its market, the co. last term sold some
lines at or below cost of production,
which was bumped up by recurrent wage-
lifts, floods and the coal strike (the mill
was closed for eight weeks to Aug. 15,
1949), and by high labor turnover and loss
of some key personnel. After allowing
£74,673 (up £24,149) for depreciation, the
result of the year’s operations was a loss
of £6162. The ords. were passed by, but
the prefs. got their full requirements,
reserves being drawn upon for the
purpose, reducing them to £84,243 in
excess of intangibles (£10,000). For the
previous year the profit (£92,012) was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
9 p.c. on average oad. capital, as against
14.7, 25.8 and 12.3 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms.
Additions to the rayon, tapestry, dye-
ing and finishing equipment show up in
a growth of £42,039 in the plant item:
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Ordinary .. .. £700,000 £700,605 £700,855
Preference .. .. 500,000 500,000 500.000
Overdraft .. ~ 350,260 844,971 897,771
Creditors .. .. 78,725 56,760 89.038
Tax provision . . . . 44,716 10,395 5,198
Staff fund .. . . 5,000 5,000 5,000
Final divs 58,361 67,923 11.875
Leasehold, etc 67,810 71,215 75,025
537,312 826,375 868,414
Plant construction . . 70,121 41,608 11.550
Parts and stores .. 65,928 77,853 88.036
Stocks 809,378 1,101,022 988.924
debtors . . . . 260,515 141,787 276,603
Investments .. .. 27,501 40,001 40,001
Cash 333 426 427
Intangible assets .. 15,000 10,000 10,000
Stocks (down £167,098) appear at the
lower of cost or market value, and pro-
vision has been made for contingencies
in the debtors item (up £134,816). To
help meet the year’s outlay (including
payment of divs.), the overdraft was
increased by £52,800 and the amount
coming to trade creditors, etc., by
£32,278. The slip in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£242,073) was £46,205.
There was 15s. 3d. of outside money in
the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders when the books closed.
The outlook changed just before the
close of accounts, when a stiff increase
of Is. 4|d. a square yard in the duty on
rayon materials was imposed. The Tariff
Board is also considering the co.’s request
for a duty on woven upholstery and
furnishing fabrics. Output and turnover
are reported on the increase, plant is
claimed to be amongst the world’s best,
the quality of its products to be com-
petitive, and the yarn position has
improved—the co. will remain dependent
upon imported yarns until Courtauld’s
new factory at Tomago (near Newcastle)
gets into production. However, growing
inflationary pressures are bumping up
costs in all directions, and many of the
co.’s selling-prices are controlled, all of
which makes profit-earning prospects
difficult to assess at the moment.
The f.-p. pound ords., which fluctu-
ated between 28s. 9d. and 365. 6d. during
1950, fetched 31s. at the end of the year.
The return at 31s. would be 5.1 p.c. from
an 8 p.c. div., which, together with pref.
requirements, would call for £79,818. At
19s. 6d. the prefs. yield 4.9 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 51s. sd. prefs. and
225. sd. ords.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends—
-Ist 2nd Nominal
Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.e. 6i p.c. 4 p.c. Off. serves.!
£• £ £
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,360 16,198 8,094 67)854
5 p.c.
1945.. 68,660 18,000 19,360 20,247 6,578 72 329
6 p.c.
1946.. 80,382 18,000 19,360 24,296 7,151 83 904
Capital profit, £13,817 .. . 97’7«1
1947.. 86,692 18,000 19,360 24,296 8,733 114’,024
Capital profit, £5711 119’735
July, ’
1948.. 90,287 18,000 19,360 24,296 6,525 141 841
1949.. 80,718 18,000 19,360 24,296 6,960 158’943
Revaluation assets, £81,988.
1950.. 88,938 18,000 19,360 24,296 8,897 172,328
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Share capital totals £1,002,786 (300,000
£1 6 p.c. and 297,848 £1 6-| p.c. cum.
prefs. and 809,876 ords. of 10s. each),
which has the support and assistance of
£172,328 of reserves (subject to £72,378
of goodwill). There are branches at New-
castle, Wollongong and Dubbo and the
trade is in drapery, clothing, furniture,
furnishings, crockery, sporting-goods,
etc. —part of it on a t -p. basis. The co.
also owns the £125,000 of ord. capital in
Bon Marche, drapers (Sydney), and most
of the £170,000 of ord. capital in Miller
Anderson, drapers (Adelaide). Over the
past 12 months each co. increased its
ord. capital. Bon Marche by £25,000 and
Miller Anderson 'by £60,000; the first-
named paid 6 p.c. (up \ p.c.) and the
last-named a steady 7 p.c.
All sections of the business are expand-
ing, as is to be expected during a boom.
Costs gobbled most of the gains; after
allowing for depreciation (£8897) net
profit was £80,041, up £6283
about half the gain appears to have
come from shareholdings. The pref.
divs. took £37,360, leaving enough
to show 10.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 9, 11.4, 10, 8.8 and 6.1 p.c. back
to 1945. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
for the fifth year in succession.
After lengthy negotiations, £89,000-
odd was received for the co.’s old premises
at the comer of George- and Pitt-street
(resumed by the Railway Commissioners),
and a warehouse property was sold at an
unstated figure. The two transactions
resulted in a cash surplus of £56,760 over
book-values. This and £25,228 by which
shareholdings were written up (they now
appear at par) were added to capital
reserve, making it £101,516. At the same
time a small property adjacent to the
Newcastle branch was bought. Net re-
duction in the book-value of freeholds,
etc., was £45,024:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Secured
credits .. 419,565 635,258 627,050 608,428
Other debts* 294,173 241,496 193,040 258,966
Pinal divs. 42,976 43,976 42,976 42,976
Freeholds, etc. 692,215 688,741 697,515 652,491
Plant, etc. 42,600 47,535 52,836 83,830
Stocks .. 434,014 453,103 444,117 398.971
Book debts 430,588 500,138 546,491 608.906
Shares, etc. 175,319 184,288 189,931 334,179
Cash, etc... 26,410 18,174 16,527 14,717
Goodwill .. 72,378 72,378 72,378 72,378
* Includes provision for taxation.
Including the writing-up, shareholdings
increased by £144,248, book debts by
£62,415 and plant, etc., by £29,994. Net
addition to the outside debt was £47,304.
The reduction in stocks (down £45,146)
was due mainly to overdue deliveries.
Including stocks, the improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£446,403)
was £112,373.
The outlook is difficult to decipher at
the moment. The dominating feature is
inflation, full effects of which have yet
to make themselves felt upon retail prices
and consumer buying. The money value
of retail turnovers is still rising, but some
traders expect the number of transactions
will soon either stand still or fall off. The
co. anticipates that its operating costs
for the current term will increase by
about £lOO,OOO.
The market sums up the risks by pricing
the f.-p. 10s. shares at par. The first
and second prefs. at 235. 6d. and 225. 9d.
yield 5.1 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £3 13s 3d. firsts,
£2 13s. lid. seconds and 12s. sd, ords.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES. R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
name
the
C
(T) c CalUurtfs
Scots (ilhisky
•btßn'of'omCcbaO'lMMW*
" Many things
impossible
to thought
Have been
by need
to full perfection
brought . .
IXL
OK
AJC
VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies*—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Oollins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Adtt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims.
Directors: THOU AS A . MAONSY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pit* Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
(The requirements of the Companies Act relating to Prospectuses have
not been fully complied with in this Abridged Prospectus, and applica-
tions will proceed only upon one of the forms_ of application annexed
to a printed copy of the full Prospectus, which is dated 15th December,
1950. A copy of the full Prospectus has been filed for Registration
with the Registrar-General of the State of New South Wales, who taxes
no responsibility as to its contents.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State
o! New South Wales.)
Abridged Prospectus of an issue of 500.000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each at par.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £5,000.000
consisting of
500,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £500,000
4.500.000 Shares of £1 each held in reserve £4,500.000
5,000,000
£5,000,000
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chairman and Managing Director: HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING,
57 Abbotsford! Road, Homebush. Engineer.
Deputy Chairman; SEPTIMUS GODOLPHIN ROWE. 9 Kissing Point
Road, Turramurra, Company Director.
ROY HARRY MORRIS, 5 Moodie Street. North Sydney. Real Estate
Director.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN. 380 Kent Street, Sydney. Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LORB, 8.C.E., B.Arcb., A.MJ.E.. Aust., 375 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Architect.
JOHN ALEXANDER MINTER. LL.B., 31 Hunter Street. Sydney.
Solicitor.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT
HAROLD WILLIAM CHANCELLOR. F.C.A. (Aust.), of the firms of
Flack & Flack, and Price. Waterhouse & Co.. 31 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
BANKERS
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, Broadway Branch, Sydney.
SOLICITORS
MUTTER. SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street. Sydney.
AUDITORS
G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.). 18 Marlin
Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
MAURICE CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.CJ.S.. William and Crown Streets,
Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
MASON J. NIEL & FULLER, 12 O'Connell Street. Sydney. Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS TO THE ISSUE
NORTON SMITH & CO., 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
Hastings Deering Finance & Investment Company limited has
been formed to undertake industrial finance and investment. It may
expect the considerable volume of finance business emanating from
the undertakings upon which the "Hastings Deering' group of
Companies is engaged, namely;—
1. The sale of Ford Cars and Trucks.
2. The sale of Used Cars and Trucks.
3. The sale of AE.C. Trucks and 'Buses.
4. The sale of Caterpillar products in certain areas.
5. The sale of Lima-Hamilton and Michigan products.
Wide powers of investment and financial services have been
provided for in the Memorandum of Association in order that lull
advantage may be taken of opportunities for the profitable use of
shareholders' funds and for the acquisition of assets likely to
appreciate and strengthen the Company's reserves.
Avenues for such investment are expected to be available from
the development of the manufacture of earth-moving equipment,
railway rolling stock, motor vehicle bodies, etc., pot only by the
Hastings Deering group of Companies, but also by associated
oterests. _ ,
No amount is payable for goodwill. There are no founders
uanagement or deferred shares.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
The subscription list will be opened on 15th January, 1951, and
rill close not later than 3 p.m. on 30th January, 1951. but thet
Mrectors reserve the right to close the list without notice at an
surlier date in the event of full subscription then having been
obtained.
The full price of £1 per share will be payable on application,
nd each application must be made on the form accompanying
the Prospectus. EXCHANGE LISTING
Early application will be made for official listing of the shares
on the Sydney Slock Exchange.
Copies of the full Prospectus to which forms of application are
attached may be obtained at the Registered Office of the Company,
Wiliam and Crown Streets. Sydney, or at the office of the Under-
writers. Messrs. Mason J. Niel & Fuller. 12 O'Connell Street. Sydney.
Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange.
The “ Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
mu i jraraatg^.
ill
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining rnacmnery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- ana ou
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Uiectnc
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Base Metals in 1950
One of the most significant
economic events of 1950 was the
leap in base-metal prices
during the last half of the year
—significant because it is one
of the key indicators of world
economic and other activity.
Prices, which had only partly
recovered from their heavy
decline following the mild re-
cession in American business
during 1949, strengthened a little
during the first half of 1950,
except in the case of lead.
Then the Korean affair, and the
position that developed out of
it, changed the whole picture.
On top of expanding industrial
demand have come rearmament
and stockpiling, which have not
only mopped up surplus produc-
tion but have created a shortage
psychology as well—fearing that
it might be caught short on the
commercial side, industry has
bid up for metals, too. Not only
has the U.S. accelerated its own
defence programme, but it is
also looking to its European
and other anti - Communist
partners to take similar
measures.
With strategic stockpiling
rather than actual rearmament,
which is yet little beyond the
planning stage, the dominant
factor on the demand side, metal
prices have been pushed far
beyond their ordinary economic
limits. Average London prices
(stg.), which have kept in step
with the New York market,
have moved in this way:
Lead. Zinc. Copper. Tin.
1950 £S. £S. £S. £S.
Jan. .. 98.50 86.93 153.00 600.20
April ~ 86.39 92.95 157.00 590.00
June .. 95.86 125.07 184.55 601.79
Sept. .. 127.59 142.90 202.00 777.61
Dec. .. 137.50 151.00 202.00 1,152.50*
* Dec. 29, 1950.
Over the 12 months the sterling
spot price of tin increased by no
less than 92 p.c. zinc by 73.7
p.c., lead by 39.6 p.c. and copper
by 32 p.c. Prices for certain
minor metals like tungsten,
manganese and chrome have
shot up, too.
Whether present peaks are the
watershed of metal prices re-
mains to be seen. Government
stockpiling is the dominant in-
fluence at the moment, and the
wisdom of American policy in
this respect has come in for
some criticism in trade quarters.
On the whole the secrets of the
U.S. stockpile have been well ,
kept. Ultimate targets for
metals, and other commodities,
are not known. Still, certain
broad principles emerge. Atten-
tion appears to have been con-
centrated upon materials which
U.S. has to import, especially
those with a long and potentially
dangerous supply line.
Tin, authoritatively reckoned
to be in oversupply a year ago, is
an outstanding example. It
seems obvious that, with things
as they are in Asia and else-
where, U.S. authorities have
taken the view that tin in the
stockpile is better than ore
underground in Malaya and
Indonesia, which might be even-
tually overrun by Communists.
However, when the U.S. stock-
pile comes closer to its ultimate
goal, the tin market may need
the assistance of a well-designed
world commodity agreement;
the metal is a vital factor to
economic stability in critical
parts of Southern Asia.
For copper and zinc, two of
the most important strategic
metals, the background is rather
different. Here the supply posi-
tion of both metals is tight, and
U.S. might be caught short in
time of war if it depended upon
current output alone —its main
sources of foreign supply are
Canada, Mexico and South
America. Other factors enter
into the strength underlying the
lead market.
It naturally follows that base-
metal shares have advanced on
a broad front. Still, any pro-
longed boom must accumulate a
certain amount of latent weak-
ness in the markets involved.


■m
■m-'tj'&sz
,1
-•M
■' i
%-jm
fZ^
lift
4#
•-■:*-
*V«.V
22*#
COOMBE COTTAGE, VIC.
Coombe Cottage, at Cold-
stream, an the HealesvUle
Road, Victoria, was the
much-loved home of the
late Dame Nellie Melba. To
it she returned whenever
freedom from her musical
obligatiotis made it possible.
The inscription on the
Coombe Cottage clock
tower, “East, West, Home's
Best," certainly emphasises
her love of home.
/<•' /
GF
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
79&D-740
GF
G
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
' 1 /
ci;
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler,.. easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
F
GF
Grills are extra-rapid ... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
G
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
by
the
COOKER
nnn'ryywmm
W
m
K-
pp O' it t
|jf 's,u^ s *
||f *UARANT[c
°<3Qinst .
m zsfcttirz
if •-« »».
I/itT*
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING 'AGA'
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING STREET. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE Tasmaman S WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
Business.Rolleuy.Etc.
The Conversion Failure
The response to the £126
million Commonwealth - stock
conversion operation has been
poor. How bad the position is
has not been made clear, but the
closing-date has been extended
to January 15.
It is a case where the Federal
Treasury has exercised its option
to redeem these 4 p.c. loans at
the earliest possible date—some
need not have been repaid until
1953, some until 1961 —and it is
offering, in return, 11-14-year
stock carrying 3i p.c., or 3-year
bonds bearing 2 p.c.
The Treasurer’s difficulty in
converting these bonds is
probably a good thing. It should
at least bring home to those in
high places the fact that the
bondholder is receiving a
particularly poor deal in these
inflationary times, and that,
however devaluation of the Aus-
tralian £ in September, 1949,
may appear to have benefited
Country-party interests, sub-
sequent revaluation would have
had obvious merits, and the
fixed-income earner would have
obtained some relief. As it is, he
has been completely ignored in
the march of events. The only
time bondholders have been con-
sidered has been when they have
been asked to lend the Govern-
ment more money.
Ironically, it happens, that the
bonds which the Government
now seeks to convert were issued
during the process of what
virtually amounted to a com-
pulsory conversion in 1931. All
the Commonwealth stocks then
converted originally carried
from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c., and the
farthest-off maturity-date was
1948. Commonwealth bonds at
that time were all under £BO on
the market—-even those matur-
ing in 1931.
There was naturally a great
deal of controversy about the
propriety of scaling-down the
Government’s contractural obli-
gations, but the nation’s
economy was in grave danger,
and the whole operation was
carried through as part of the
“Premiers’ Plan.”
It is possible that among
present holders of maturing 4
p.c. stocks there are some who
originally held them as 6 p.c.
issues prior to the depression
conversion. These are now being
offered a maximum of 3| p.c.,
with no right of using the new
issue for payment of estate duty,
as was the case with the 4 p.c.
issue.
It has been the Australian
fashion in times of war and
political crisis to regard the
rights of investors as being some-
thing less than the dust. In the
eyes of the Socialists, people who
save or invest money are political
outcasts. “Labor” Ministers
have been known to talk of
“bondholders” in terms usually
reserved for criminals of a
bloodthirsty type, and Liberal
Governments have been forced
into the position of at least
doing nothing overtly to protect
the rights of the investor,
whether he be a bondholder,
mortgagee, life-policyholder,
bank-depositor or owner of in-
dustrial ordinary shares.
To revert to the present con-
version operation, it should be
noted that while a holder of a
£JOO Commonwealth bond may
have averaged a return of 5£ p.c.
in 1928, he could then have
bought twice as much with each
£1 he received compared with
each £1 he receives today. And
he now gets only 3| depreciated
pounds in interest for each £lOO,
whereas he got 5i golden
sovereigns (if he asked for them)
in 1928.
It is unfortunate in many re-
spects that the present conversion
loan has been a failure. But if
it really has the effect of
emphasising the fact that all
thrifty people have been shock-
ingly badly treated over the past
10 years it may do some good.
"Two-and-nine! Why, I only pay eight-bob to have
the whole lawn cut!"
Money and investment have
been victims of political ex-
pediency ever since the Keynes
theory and Socialism started to
run in double-harness.
Glen Davis Shale-oil
What is to happen to the
Glen Davis shale-oil production
plant has not, apparently, yet
been decided, though everything
except political considerations
points to its closing-down.
The miners have a “darg,” and
the darg is killing whatever
chances the show might have
had of reaching its output target.
Little sympathy can be felt for
the miners, though perhaps they
are mainly the victims of their
own union. Chief consideration
now is whether the show has any
potential defence value.
Original output target was
10,000,000 gallons of petrol a
year. Highest production so far
achieved has been 4,063,628
gallons, in 1947. In 1948 output
dropped back to 2,775,879
gallons. The N. S. Wales
Auditor-General has not pub-
lished figures for 1949 because
floods prevented audit-officers
from visiting the works before he
presented his 1950 annual report'
The original share-capital of
National Oil Pty. was £325,000,
subscribed principally by
George Davis, of the gelatine
concern; the N. S, Wales Gov-
ernment put up £166,000 on
debentures, and at Dec. 31, 1948,
the Commonwealth Government
had advanced £3,800,397, includ-
ing £325,229 on account of the
Fish River water-supply. Other
liabilities totalled £720,985.
Over £5,000,000 is sunk in the
show, which incurred a loss of
£474,212 in 1949, £492,045 in
1948, £425,106 in 1947 and
£401,830 in 1946. Aggregate
losses from the time production
of petrol commenced in 1941
up to Dec. 31, 1949, were
£2,999,139. Preliminary develop-
ment charges are additional at
£397,896.
Shale supplies have latterly
been inferior as well as inade-
quate. Extraction has averaged
about 50 gallons of crude oil
from each ton of shale, and aver-
age recovery of petrol per gallon
of crude oil has been about
49 p.c.
The Newnes-Capertee shale
deposits occur in seams which,
though rich in oil content, are
often thin from a mining point
of view. Many retorting prob-
lems appear to have been over-
come, but the miner’s darg has
prevented adequate supplies of
shale coming forward to the
plant, which is now considered
to be a reasonably modern one.
Lost week hopes were held in
some quarters that the institu-
tion of contract mining might
prolong operations.
Whatever the Federal Govern-
ment decides to do about Glen
Davis, it should endeavor to
retain the plant for a period as
a precautionary measure. Or,
if it considers that it has the
right of resuming any plant in
the event of emergency, and can
thus buy back what it wants,
it should ask a price in keeping
with present-day values if it does
decide to sell to some private
oil co.
“Kerogen”; National Oil is a victim
of the “darg.” One of the best-
equipped mines in the country, it
produces just enough raw shale per
shift to render all the subsequent
operations of crushing, retorting and
oil-production entirely uneconomic.
To make the mining easier, a mix-
ture of high- and low-grade shales
is resorted to, but the full plant
requirements of 350,000 tons per
annum have never been reached. The
Universal Oil Products plant, which
was up-to-date in the ’thirties, was
designed to produce from 9 to 10
million gallons of moderate-octane
motor-spirit per annum from the
treatment of 17 million gallons, of
crude_ shale-oil in turn derived from
the distillation of the shale in retorts
that could have done a lot better.
With “polymer” gasoline adjuncts
and facilities for producing high-
grade oil, coke and liquid petroleum
gases, it was estimated that, with the
rebate of excise 6n home-produced
oil, the production costs of the petrol
would be slightly lower than that of
the imported article, or, at worst,
equal.
Actually the costs of production
have been excessively high, and the
Government, since its acquisition of
the Davis shareholding, has lost
more and more heavily.
If the shale-miners could have pro-
duced their minimum target output
of 650 tons per two-shift day
with 200 underground and surface
workers (there were optimistic hopes
originally of raising the output to
1500 tons daily), the enterprise might
have broken even, as the mine and
plant were technically first class, and
quite capable of giving the results
demanded. Bad location and water-
supply and an uneconomic coal-drag
for the power and ancillary require-
ments added to the difficulties, and
a permanent shut-down seems inevi-
table.
Probably the costliest oil-shale ever
mined, at pounds per ton, its rich-
ness could not make up for the
peculiar mental working of the human
element that refuses to accept full
mechanisation and best working con-
ditions as something worthy of all-
round collaboration and goodwill.
Comparison has been made with
other shale-retorting projects abroad,
notably in S. Africa, Estonia, France,
Scotland and the U.S.A., but, in spite
of all the deposits in those countries
being poorer oil-yielders than the
N.S.W. product, the lower mining
costs (in some cases by cheap “open-
cut” methods) more than offset this
disadvantage, although, except in the
U.S.A., where the industry is still
more or less in the experimental
stages, subsidies of one sort or
another are necessary to keep them
going.
If the Commonwealth Government,
whose concern it is, wishes to retain
it as a purely defence undertaking
against possible shortages of oil and
petrol supplies from abroad, some
drastic reorganisation and policy
changes are necessary. At the same
time due attention should be paid
to other methods of getting more and
better products from the shale itself.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
LEISURELY LUXURY MOTOR
TOURS TO THE CONTINENT
OF EUROPE
at inclusive rates from LONDON back
to LONDON in latest model British
ARMCHAIR Motor Coaches with British
Drivers and Tour Managers who know
every inch of the road.
LUXURY LAND CRUISERS LTD., a
Company founded in 1932, gives you here
the solution to your Continental visit
problem.
Many Australian visitors travelled with
us last season and were enthusiastic in
their praises of our organisation. We
confidently expect you to follow their
example.
Leisurely Tours at regular Intervals to:
The ITALIAN LAKES; SWITZER-
LAND, SPAIN, ROME, DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL. RHINE,
BLACK FOREST and DENMARK and
SWEDEN.
You are strongly recommended to make
your reservations prior to arrival in U.K.
Cablegrams: IMBLEGRIP, LONDON.
Letters to; —
LUXURY LAND CRUISES, LTD.
(Brochure 0),
9/11 Princes House, 190 Piccadilly,
London, W.l, England.
Phone; BEGent 4680 and 524 X.
THE
“‘WILD CAT MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
V:
Over palm and pine, at airports all over the world—lncluding
those of Melbourne and Sydney—-the green and yellow sign of the BP
Aviation Service stands for speed, courtesy and efficiency. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Air Lines and many other national
airlines are regularly fuelled by this
great Service, which has behind
it the global resources
and reputation of the
Angio-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
HQiiviAvX
THE COMMONWEALTH OIE REFINERIES LTD., ARE STATES.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
371-23-4 A
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager*
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 244—300 CANDLE POWER
m
mm
MB
m
m
%
m
%
a»«s
■v'.
mb.
Wm/h
m
m
m
m
»
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY*, LAMPS
BOM ORDINARY KEROSENE
'Ti.e JH.&mpi with
the 4-!<zppu Mantlel
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD*
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.U
London aiumail
From Herbert Holman
On looking back, 1950 doesn’t
seem to have been the happiest
of years for Britain. It is true
that the year started well. As
the weeks passed food (except-
ing only meat and sugar) be-
came easier, the shops had a
wider range of goods to offer
and several long-standing con-
trols were dropped. But, all in
all, the year brought with it
rather more worry than com-
fort, due to two main causes,
neither of them in any way
peculiar to Britain.
That inescapable manifesta-
tion of inflation’s invisible hold,
the rising cost of living, was the
first factor, (It is with us yet,
inexorably tightening its grip.)
Statisticians may demonstrate
that their theoretically-true in-
dex has increased only a point
or two, but such arguments
carry little weight with the
housewife or the family man.
And the “policy of restraint in
claims for higher personal in-
comes,” sponsored by the Gov-
ernment and nominally sup-
ported by the Trades Unions
Congress, floundered on until
autumn, when it was vociferously
interred by a vote at the latter’s
annual conference —a waste of
breath, for it had long before
died a natural death.
Most Britons, whose daily
lives have scarcely been com-
fortable for a dozen years, will
long remember the spring of
1950 for the astonishing glut of
eggs on the market. Strictly
rationed to two per person per
week and some times not
honored, eggs became abundant
overnight. For three months
every family had a beanfeast.
At the beginning of a summer
so thoroughly bad that it ruined
nearly everybody’s holiday, the
second cause began to cast its
deepening shadows across the
portals of every home. The
outbreak of fighting in Korea
was far away, and Britons might
be excused saying to themselves,
with a sigh: “Well, that’s a bit
of a change, anyhow.” They
hoped the trouble wouldn’t
spread, but they feared it might.
The same hopes and fears re-
main, somewhat enhanced by
the gearing-up of the compli-
cated (and, it doesn’t pass un-
noticed, necessarily expensive)
machinery of defence.
Nobody knows what 1951 will
bring, but it 'would be quite
wrong to say that nobody cares.
The reports of weary and re-
signed defeatism in some parts
of Europe are certainly not true
of Britain, even if she continues
to eschew both hate and jingo-
ism with equal repulsion. She
will put the Old Year behind
her with a trace or two of sad-
ness, for at first it pointed to
better days. If hopes and com-
placency were stilled, and, later,
shattered perhaps it’s better that
way than going on living in a
fool’s paradise.
So, open-eyed and steeled for
possible shocks, she greets the
New Year with little show of
boisterous enthusiasm: like, we
may say, a veteran being sum-
moned to the alert.
Political Causerie
The general election in
February was a landslide against
the Labor party, whose overall
majority was reduced from 150
to six. Quiet and apparently de-
tached (probably because minds
had long been made up) the
electorate showed little interest
in the campaigning. A change
in the system of voting abolished
the business-premises and Uni-
versity vote, this latter to the
great loss of the House of Com-
mons, for the prospective mem-
ber of independent mind and
views can no longer hope to gain
a seat in any other constituency.
The Liberals were virtually
wiped out; of 474 candidates,
300 forfeited their deposits and
only nine were returned. Previ-
ously represented in one’s and
two’s, the 100 Communists all
failed, 90 losing their deposits.
The Attlee Government, re-
shuffled rather than weeded-
out, decided to carry on, with
the sting of doctrinaire threats
voluntarily removed, and to pur-
sue a nice, moderate, steady
course. They took their seats
quietly, this time without break-
ing into exuberant singing of
“The Red Flag.” Everybody
thought they would last no
longer than a few weeks. The
Budget, in April, would be their
downfall. Then it was Septem-
ber, which shifted to November,
and, later, to February of
this year. They have stayed.
No one can fairly state the rea-
son why. It may be that, bath-
chairs, attendant nurses and all,
the Socialists have been able to
beat the division-bell on every
crucial occasion. It may be be-
cause of disunity among the nine
Liberals. And it may be—quite
possibly is—because the Con-
servatives aren’t ready for
another election.
The narrow majority in the
House had the effect at least of
rousing the Opposition, which
out of impotence had become
lethargic and perfunctory. It is
said that Labor morale is now
low (again, no doubt, due to im-
potence of another kind) and
that there’s a strong feeling
among some factions that they
would feel more comfortable in
Opposition, The Conservatives
are making much of their hous-
ing programme, and know
they’re on a good thing, for here
is the joint failure of the Labor
Government and Mr. Aneurin
Bevan. They persistently chal-
lenge Mr. Attlee over the Steel
Bill (due to become law in
February) on the ground that,
if he really meant business, he
wouldn’t sacrifice a happy and
flourishing industry to the flabby
centralisation and certain de-
cline that would follow
nationalisation; but Mr, Attlee
may be compelled to take into
consideration other points, not
directly concerned with steel,
such as a split in his party.
Coalition is again being men-
tioned. The country, not a little
impatient of fractious party poli-
tics, would welcome it. So
might the Conservatives. Up
till recently the Socialists have
refused to consider a coalition
in any circumstances (except, of
course, when out of office), but
they now seem less forthright in
their opinions.
Parliamentary history will
mark 1950 as a notable year, for
in the autumn the new House
of Commons was completed.
Possessing the intimate essentials
of the old but with subtly-con-
cealed modern improvements,
the new Chamber opened in an
atmosphere blessed with a kindly
and unanimous spirit among and
between all three parties—a fact
which seems so remarkable as
to be left without comment.


Fly
HONG KONG
in less than thirty hours
Get to Hong Kong faster, stay there longer, for
business or pleasure fly by regular modern Q.E.A.
Skymaster services, in less than 30 hours via Darwin
and Labuan (North Borneo). First-class steward ser-
vice caters for your personal comfort, and appetising
hot meals are served in flight. Enquire about special
air—sea interchange tours. Consult your local travel
QfA
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
k» association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
QCIO
dTlS**
catic*
übit |S
ecu'*
» lEUP ’s,eA»<*' f f* o-
-
nm nut
AMERICAN DISCOVERY
APPROVED OY DOCTORS
FOR RELIEVING
RHEUMATISM • SCIATICA • NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS • LUMBAGO • GOOT
Doldn has brought relief to countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America and England. Now it is made available
for you. Doldn Tablets give prompt relief from the paiilful
symptoms of Rheumatism, Sdatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis, Lum-
bago and Gout. Prolonged relief s* also given because Doldn
contains substances which improve the supply of blood and
oxygen to the affected tissues.
Doldn gives prompt relief and
is also non-toxic It will not
harm the heart and can safely
be taken for long periods to
relieve the rheumatic activity
in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of
Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of
ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work —
thanks to the relief from pain
Doldn Tablets have brought
them.
DOLGIN 3s Non-Toxic and has
no harmful effects on the
heart or any other organ.
DOLGIN relieves painful
symptoms of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Lumbago,
Rbrositis and Sout.
note IN has been proved in
clinical tests and is pre-
scribed' by the Medical
profession.
nuuu is approved under
the British Free Medicine
Scheme.
OOLGJN is easy to take in
tablet form.
DOqitt is obtainable from
your Chemist.
KM TABLETS FOt 12/6
DOLGIH
vm
Informative (literature on Doleia will be
sent on request to Doltln (Australis)
Pty. lAi. Box 1562, a.P.0..
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No.I CPU The No. I Drink tor wise meo
“There is money in being a film-
star—but that’s all.”
—Maureen O’Hara,
At best it’s a screwy job.
4* 4* 4*
“Bowlers are reprimanded only by
unintelligent persons who can’t under-
stand the beauty of cricket.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
It’s up to the crowd to give
them a decent spin,
4* 4* 4*
“Use a little of each cosmetic with
a lot of skill.” — Beauty article.
This makes up for everything.
+ i*
“Let me tell you, sir, that our girls
are like our roads —streamlined.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
But have they a good founda-
tion?
4* 4* 4*
“A player in a Baden-Wurtemberg
football match, in the American zone
of Germany, has been suspended for
a fortnight. He called the referee ‘a
North Korean.’ ”
Perhaps an unfair decision had
made him see Red.
4• 4* 4*
“If you have a short neck, keep
your hair short.” — Women’s paper.
But never get it off altogether.
4* 4* 4*
“In these days there is altogether
too much talk about everything.”
— Business-diplomat Myron C. Taylor.
Well, they will have all these
women’s organisations.
“Neolithic man became extinct two million years ago."
Disappointment.
“ What’s this they call capillary ?”
Inquired a barmaid friend of
me.
My brain flashed into action:
I told her all I had been taught
About the subject, and this
brought
The prompt rejoinder: “Gee! I
thought
It gave one more attraction.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Exactly So.
I heard said only the other
day that a faulty perspective in
life often leads to many of our
troubles, and an experience of
my own confirms this.
My doctor had said that the
stertorous breathing of which I
had complained was solely due
to the fhct that my physical
exercises were strictly limited to
pulling my braces on over my
shoulders of a morning and put-
ting my right elbow through its
paces of an afternoon. My own
more accurate diagnosis was
that I was suffering from an in-
growing aorta, a peculiar condi-
tion to which the males of our
family had an inherent tendency.
My Uncle Belshazzar un-
doubtedly died of it, though the
coroner had stupidly given a
finding of alcoholic poisoning
induced by his having drunk a
bottle and a half of whisky fol-
lowing the ingesting of four
dozen oysters—as if such a
harmless repast could possibly
have affected Uncle B.’s diges-
tion!
My state of health demanded
a holiday. Feeling that my wife
would perhaps be too violently
upset by having to wait until
8.30 a.m. for a breakfast I was
certain she wouldn’t enjoy, not
having cooked it herself, I
arranged to go to the moun-
tains guest-house on my own.
In any case, my wife would never
have forgiven me, I feel sure,
had I deprived her of the
maternal pleasure of looking
after the five children after she
came home from work.
By a strange coincidence there
happened to arrive at the same
guest-house on the same day a
vivacious bottle-blonde of high
voltage and even higher amper-
age with whom I chanced
to have some slight
acquaintance,
“Hullo, Duckems,” she
greeted me as I was book-
ing in at the reception-
desk. “Got a weeny kiss
for your pet lamb?”
Need I say that I
abhorred such baby-talk,
more especially as at the
moment the very attractive
receptionist was smilingly
handing me my room-key
and saying something in
a most musical voice.
I learned later from the
blonde that by another
strange twist of chance
her husband had been un-
able to get along with her,
in both senses —some
business deal or other —
so, bowing to the dictates
of that chivalry which has
ever been so strong a trait in our
family, I decided, at the risk of
being bored, to show her some
of the sights.
A hiking party had been
arranged by the guest-house
proprietor for that afternoon—
a ten-mile jaunt down and up a
pass, including several thousand
steps, to look at rocks and trees
on the way down and trees and
rocks on the way up.
As going down a valley only
about ten miles wide might have
subjected me to an attack of
claustrophobia, I declined to
participate. After they had all
gone I was surprised to find that
the blonde had also declined, she
also having a horror of being
hemmed-in in confined spaces.
For the want of something
better to do I decided to take
her along to Lovers’ Glen, the
seclusion of which I felt sure
would benefit her nerves.
That we didn’t get back till
after nine that night was due to
a peculiar concatenation of cir-
cumstances. We must both have
been greatly absorbed in the
subjects I had been discussing—
the necessity for improving our
industrial laws, Einstein’s Theory
of Relativity and the effects of
the East-West tension on the
world price of uranium—for we
wandered off the track by which
we had come, and the dying
rays of the sun were too weak
to allow of my finding it again.
That I was able to get back
unerringly to the house, which
was fully 200 yards from the
glen, was due to my natural
tenacity as much as astro-
navigational skill.
A couple of days later we
were sitting on a log in a far
corner of the guest - house
grounds which is screened from
the house by trees. The blonde
was leaning her head on my
shoulder. I certainly would not
have allowed what might have
been interpreted by some
people as a breach of decorum
except that I suspected she was
feeling faint. I was stroking her
hair soothingly in case she hap-
pened to be getting a headache
when a harsh voice at the back
of us rasped out “So this is your
holiday on your own, eh?”
As the blonde leapt up startled
—I really don’t know why—l
looked around. Standing there,
his face working savagely, was
a small man. From his inso-
lently proprietary air I gathered
he was the blonde’s husband.
I regarded his meagre stature,
obviously at least four inches
less than mine, with the con-
tempt it deserved.
“Listen, you scrub-faced wart-
hog,” I said evenly, “if you
emotionally upset this lady with
your vulgar rantings I’ll tie you
into a double-knot and kick you
all the way down to the station! ”
At that he stepped out of the
hole he had been standing in
and leapt with dreadful athleti-
cism over the log. I calculated
then that he was approximately
6ft. 4in. Two seconds after he
had drawn back his right arm
I wasn’t interested in calcula-
tions.
Undoubtedly a faulty perspec-
tive in life does lead to many
troubles.
BO.
A Crowning Achievement.
When he saw the heaven-reared
ladder in his dream.
For the pibrochs had been wail-
ing through six hundred
years and more
Since Edward first had made his
shameful theft
For the Stone where Scotlands
monarchs had been crowned
in days of yore
And now they joyed with Albion
bereft.
But out here in Australia local
folk were scarcely moved,
You never hear them tell a tale
of woe
About the theft of ancient days,
their loyalty is proved
And readily they let old grudges
go.
One man only in this country
gave the news a second
glance —
He took his silver trowel and
gave a groan,
For someone beat him to it and
he’d missed a lifetime chance
To lay a really royal foundation-
stone.
“Police believe Scottish Nationalists
organised the theft of the Coronation
Stone from Westminster Abbey.”
There was movement down in
London for the word had
passed around
That the ancient Stone of Scone
was filched away
From its setting in the Abbey, it
was nowhere to he found.
So all the ’tecs had gathered to
the fray.
And the roadblocks had been set
up at the most strategic
spots
To stop all northbound
motorists on sight,
For the most-accepted theory
was that dour determined
Scots
Had exercised what they believed
their rights.
But away somewhere on by-roads
when the bobbies were in
bed
Or up the coast where wheeling
seagulls scream
Sped the Stone where legend tells
us rested Jacobis sleeping
head
D.H.E.


Do You Consider . . .
EATING AN ART !
“ Bulletin ” readers will appreciate
The Gladstone Hotel
Dining Room
(Ist floor, GLADSTONE HOTEL, 117 William Street)
which now offers to the Sydney public the finest quality
in English and continental cooking at moderate prices ;
Table service is prompt and courteous : and the old-fashioned
principle that the customer is usually right has been
firmly adopted by management and staff. The atmos-
phere of the dining room on the first floor of THE
GLADSTONE HOTEL is pleasant and relaxing, con-
ducive to the proper enjoyment of good food : and the
position of the hotel, in mid-William Street, within easy
striking distance of both King's Cross and the city, makes
the dining room service particularly suitable to the needs
of business people. With this in mind, we have prepared a
carefully thought-out service of BUSINESS MEN’S LUNCHES
with a range for individual taste and expenditure.
LUNCH: 12 2.30 p.m.
DINNER: 5.30 8.30 p.m.
Liquor served with all meals
RING FOR RESERVATIONS ; TEL. FA 3361
JOHN FOUNTAIN
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN PATRICE CADELL late of
Wollongong N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE
that MAXWELL FREDERICK CADELL
has filed a petition for divorce No. 8757
of 1950 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Sydney
by the 12th day of March 1961 and obtain
a copy of the petition free of charge
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
McDonald, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2 York
Street, Sydney,—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Legal Notice.
TO MICHAEL JOHN O’NEILL formerly
of Moree in the State of New South Wales
Commonwealth of Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that proceedings by Originating
Summons have been instituted by EMILY
BLANCHE O’NEILL against you in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction for the deter-
mination by the Court of the question
whether a certain Deed of Conveyance
dated 30th June 1937 executed by the
Bailiff of the District Court of the
Northern District of New South Wales
was effective to transfer to Emily Blanche
O’Neill all your right title and interest
to the one-fifth share in the real estate
comprised in the Estate of WILLIAM
MICHAEL O’NEILL deceased given to
you by his will AND THAT by an order
of a Judge of the said Supreme Court
leave has been given to the plaintiff
Emily Blanche O’Neill to substitute for
service of the Originating Summons upon
you notice thereof by the publication of
advertisements in the Sydney Bulletin and
the Auckland Weekly News AND THAT
by the said Order you are allowed until
SOth April 1951 to enter an appearance
to the Originating Summons at the office
of the Master in Equity Supreme Court
Elizabeth Street Sydney AND THAT a
copy of the Originating Summons to-
gether with copies of the affidavits filed in
support thereof may be had by you free
of charge on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitors either in person or
by letter giving an address to which such
documents are to be sent AND THAT if
no appearance is entered within the time
mentioned such order may be made and
proceedings taken as the Judge thinks fit.
—PURYES MOODIE & STOREY. Soli-
citors, lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Public Notice.
WILL the next-of-kin of KATE CAUSLEY,
also known as KATE TRIMMER, believed
to have died in Melbourne about 1918, or
any person knowing their whereabouts,
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 2204, Auckland, New
Zealand ?
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSIIIJJVAtt
■ r a. moo * j
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER*
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURER*
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDER*
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb,
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It'a good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
When the
Occasion calls
lor the best!
w
z
-> *
3
7*U
mm
oEsm
a
S?A*
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
fc, ESTABLISHED »gSB^
SPECIAL hospit
r °lll
S'
r’s
Sft ec,
HOsp
VAL
’ N.S.W. Disfrlbufon:
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
Oy
TffT.J3.ll
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Shipwreck."
This dramatisation by Douglas
Stewart of an incident in early
Australian history, produced by
Irene Mitchell and staged at the
Little Theatre, started off the
Golden Jubilee Year in Mel-
bourne. The Dutchman Pelsart,
bound for Java, piled his ship
up on that desolate group of
islands, the Abrolhos. Pelsart,
a sick man, set off in an open
boat for Java to obtain succor,
leaving 200-odd men and women
on the islands. Cornelius, the
supercargo, fat and bald but the
only man with imagination,
seized command, and in the next
few months wholesale massacre,
civil war, the setting-up of a
cracked sort of republic based
on the sharing of the loot and
the socialisation of the women
whose husbands had been mur-
dered, imperialistic expansion
on the part of the supercargo,
love, jealousy and intrigue and
palace revolutions astonished
the seagulls. Then Pelsart re-
turned, set up gallows, hanged
most of the survivors, and
departed, and for another 200
years the islands went back to
the seagulls.
Mr. Stewart endeavors to give
life to historic facts, much as
Scott did. Scott called himself
an antiquarian, not a writer like
Dickens, He immersed himself
in the history of a period and
endeavored to recreate it. He
didn’t attempt to review it in
terms of a 19th-century or some
other viewpoint, as a Shaw
would, or try to plumb the
depths of human nature like a
Dostoevsky, and he didn’t re-
write it in terms of a Communist
or some other dialectic. Mr.
Stewart, in what he has done,
has been remarkably successful.
Nobody knows or can know
what Cornelius was like. We
haven’t sufficient data. He might
have belonged to the class of
the Richard Hunchbacks or of
our Hitlers whom peace does not
suit and who carve their way to
a throne in order to get the
favors of the ladies —in fact, he
must have had something of that
in him to do what he did. Mr.
Stewart does not stress this
point, though he does lift the
supercargo out of the rank of
common ruffian with his un-
reciprocated love for Lucretia,
the widow of one of the
murdered husbands.
But he does make you feel
the plight of the mutineers and
the women, isolated between sea
and sky in a world that has no
future, like the mutineers of
the Bounty, and he uses the
verse-form to conjure up an
image of the island without
making the form seem in the
least incongruous or obtrusive,
even in the mouth of Heynorick,
the buffer to the commodore
who becomes butler to his sup-
planter ; and there is a reality
about Sebastian, the frightened
parson, who sacrifices hi s
daughter to save his own skin
and is horrified to find that she
is not as reluctant a sacrificial
victim as a good girl should be.
The action takes place in a
tent made splendid with the
plunder from Pelsart’s ship, and
it moves violently to a climax
with the trial of Cornelius and
his lieutenant Conrad Huyssen.
The richness of the costumes
makes a bizarre contrast with the
sea, sand and seagulls, and the
noise and tumult and the ranting
and the raving with the silence
of the island. Miss Mitchell’s
production could scarcely be
faulted, and the acting was as
passionate as the language.
Robert Earle’s supercargo was
extremely well done. He ex-
pressed the compatible proposi-
tions of the unreflective thinker
in short, sharp, staccato phrases
which were extraordinarily
effective. Frank Thring was a
long, lank unctuous ruffian.
Lucretia did not live much in
the person of Margaret Reid, but
there was warmth in the acting
of Bettine Kauffmann as Judith,
the parson’s daughter.
The Jubilee Concert.
Any who cavilled at the
material selected by Sir John
Barbirolli for the Jubilee State
Concert at Sydney Town Hall on
Friday night would be hard to
please.
Sir John, who freely co-opts
the valuable services of his thick
mane where presto and beyond
is called for, plunged off the
deep - end into Berlioz’s
“Carnaval Remain” Overture.
A Roman carnival it became,
indeed, with the exhilarating
saltarello —that same Ita’ian
dance-measure which lends such
gaiety to the final movement of
Mendelssohn’s Fourth Sym-
phony—setting the initial pace,
the subject leading to a lovely
passage for the English horn.
The development of these two
subjects is studded with some of
Berlioz’s most boldly audacious
devices, and spirited playing of
it brought out all the glowing
richness of its tone-coloring. It
is doubtful if any other overture
could have better suited Bar-
birolli’s dynamic qualities. His
climax-building was made with
great vigor and greater assured-
ness, and he wound up this
exciting music in a veritable
blaze of power.
Vaughan Williams’s “Serenade
to Music” gave the conductor a
chance to display his mastery of
the pianissimo passage. This he
achieves without the slightest
cloudiness, and in the final
measures, which die away
almost to a whisper of sound,
clarity still prevailed. The
orchestra’s response to the haunt-
ing beauty of this placidly
lyrical stream was splendid, and
Robert Miller conjured from his
solo violin a nice tone. It was
noticed that where in soft pas-
sages the upper strings were
doing work particularly to his
approval, Sir John bent upon
them a dreamily benevolent
gaze, a habit he shares with
Bernard Heinze.
Mendelssohn’s Violin
Concerto followed. Though it
may not be profound like the
Beethoven, the Brahms or the
Sibelius, the Mendelssohn work
has other qualities which place
it above profundity in popular
esteem. It is a flood of melody,
running the gamut from the
joyous and lively to poignant
sadness, as in the second move-
ment, where the sustained sweet-
ness never cloys, and where
a measure of contrast is
cleverly gained by the use of an
agitated second subject given to
the orchestra.
Ernest Llewellyn was the
soloist. His announcement of
the opening theme after the one-
bar prelude lacked the necessary
forthrightness and passion, and
elsewhere in the allegro some
of his attacks were rather
blurred. Stronger playing
emerged, however, as the move-
ment progressed. The cadenza
was particularly well played.
Playing of felicitousness, his
tone warm and caressing,
marked the beautiful andante.
In the final section soloist,
orchestra and conductor were
one in wringing the utmost of
lilting exuberance from it.
Tschaikowsky’s Fourth Sym-
phony completed the night. Of
the Russian master’s six, this
symphony, strangely enough his
own favorite, gets as close to
geniality as was possible for one
of his morbidly introspective and
self-pitying nature. Although
the introduction, which Tschai-
kowsky himself called “the
kernel, the quintessence of the
whole work,” is the familiar Fate
motif, there is here apparent
none of the oak-like strength of
Beethoven’s fierce defiance of it.
Instead, the Russian is content to
“turn from the realities and to
lull oneself in dreams.” The
inevitable Tschaikowsky melan-
choly appears, but only briefly,
in the andantino, where the
canzona is passed superbly from
the oboe to the ’cello, then to
the strings, thence to bassoons
and ’cellos in unison. Here and
in the scherzo, where the strings
are used throughout pizzicato,
and later where the various
choirs toss the theme back and
forth, the orchestra did its most
polished work, with Barbirolli
handling his forces with alertness
and great vigor. In the final
movement, through which is
threaded the Russian folk
melody “In the fields there
stands a birch-tree,” the
tutti passages for orchestra
were brilliantly done, the
crescendo climax becoming a
tremendous outburst.
Gals, gags and guffaws are
back at Sydney Empire in a
revival of “Oklahoma!” It’s
not the original cast, but the
native talent does an uncom-
monly good job, with enormous
enthusiasm.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Celebrating the dawn of Jubilee Year
as well as 20 years of enthusiastic activity,
Irene Mitchell produced at South Yarra’s
Little Theatre Douglas Stewart’s “Ship-
wreck” in the presence of the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, his wife and daughter.
Lady Brooks wore a bouffant gown of
taffeta with a modern design of white
on a black ground. A blue-and-white-
striped linen gown with a floral over-
design and a matching bolero was the
choice of Jeanette Brooks. Both wore
orchid sprays, which were presented by
Biddy Sewell, secretary of the Little
Theatre. Biddy’s pretty lace frock was
in soft beige tonings. Irene Mitchell
wore a striking gown of white taffeta
striped in mist-blue satin. Mrs. W. J.
Jungwirth’s ballerina frock was of black
taffeta. Authoress Jean Campbell wore a
filmy black lace scarf over her black
georgette gown. Mrs. Bill Hearne defied
the weather in white crepe, which carried
gold accessories. Mrs. Peter Randall’s
frock was of white linen printed in floral.
Mrs. Olive Thring, who watched her son
Frank play Conrad Huyssen, soldier and
later mutineer, was in black crepe.
Laurel Martyn took a night off from her
ballet rehearsals to enjoy the play ; next
day she took her company to Albury to
dance at the Summer School.
Chief Commissioner for the Empire
for Giri Guides, Lady Stratheden and
Campbell, is now on her way to Aus-
tralia in the Orcades for a three-
months visit. Although on a private
visit to her mother in Adelaide,
Lady Stratheden will meet guides and
commissioners in all States. She will
visit Victoria from March 9 to 16. Mrs.
C. O. Fair bairn, of Banongil, Skipton,
who is Chief Commissioner for Aus-
tralia, will accompany Lady Stratheden
on part of her tour.
It was a “hail-and-farewell” party
that was given by Wing-Commander
A. D. Swan and his wife in their Elwood
home for their son Adrian: to hail his
majority and to farewell him before he
sailed in the Strathmore for England,
where, as Australian triple ice-skating
champion, he will compete in the British
and world championships. Among the
guests were Vi Jones, in a pastel-pink
floral marquisette ballerina; Betty
Lawson, whose black organza gown had
appliqued black lace flowers scattered
on the bodice ; Melva Olive, who is one
of the skaters in the Ice Follie, and who
came on after the show in a strapless
gown of gold taffeta ; and Betty Stringer,
in white broderie Anglaise blouse and
black taffeta ballerina skirt. The hostess
wore an off-white French taffeta ballerina
frock.
A gay little shipboard party preceded
the departure, also in the Strathmore, of
Dr. and Mrs. Desmond Hollywood for
England and the Continent. Dr. Holly-
wood, who came from West Maitland
(N.S.W.) to do post-graduate work at
Melbourne Women’s Hospital, received
his M.R.C.O.G. at the recent examination
conducted in Australia by the Royal
College of Obstetricians and Gynaeco-
logists, and while abroad will do further
post-graduate work along these lines.
His wife, formerly Mary Louise Fowler,
was educated at Mandeville Hall, and
during the war worked in the Navy
office. Michael, small son of the Holiy-
woods, will stay with his grandparents
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Fowler, of Toorak.
As its contribution to the centenary of
Victoria and Jubilee of the Common-
wealth celebrations, the National Theatre
has planned an Arts festival. On January
31 the Festival opens at the Princess
Theatre with a programme of ballet
which includes “Corroboree” ; this will
be followed on February 17 with a gala
performance of “Carmen,” and on April
3 the drama season begins with “The
Taming of the Shrew.” So at present the
National Theatre is a hive of industry.
In one room members of the chorus may
be heard practising; in another prin-
cipals are going over their scores, whilst
from another room is heard the swish
of ballet shoes as Joyce Graeme puts the
corps de ballet through its paces. But it
is not all work. Gertrude Johnson,
director of the National Theatre, took
time off to hostess a large afternoon-party
to welcome the two principals who have
come from England to play the leading
roles in the Shakspeare play: Leslie
Sands and his wife, Pauline Williams.
Pauline, who is the daughter of the
Welsh tenor Ben Williams, has played
Jessica m “The Merchant of Venice,”
Ann Page in “The Merry Wives of
Windsor” (an Old Vic. production), and
many other Shakspearian roles. Her
husband was Macduff to Michael Red-
grave’s Macbeth, at the Aldwych
Theatre, and appeared in “Antony and
Cleopatra” with Dame Edith Evans and
Godfrey Tearle. Later they will be joined
by Reg Gillam, who has returned from
London, where he studied with the Old
Vic school, and June Brown, who was
with the Robert Morley company in
“Edward, My Son.”
Gertrude Johnson wore a junior-blue
ensemble with touches of white and a
white beret. Pauline Williams, who has
a lovely speaking voice, was in pale-lime-
green silk faintly etched in black leaves.
Radio actress Thelma Scott added a wide-
brimmed black straw hat to her cocktail
frock of black tie-silk patterned in rain-
bow spots. Mrs. A. V. Bayley (Minna
Shelley) wore black faille with a small
sequin cap. Mrs. A. T. Smithers’s pale-
blue crepe frock had for company a
white Panama hat and accessories. Mrs.
Charles Duncan covered her floral frock
with a black silk coat; her small hat was
of black satin. Pauline Bindley wore
with her blue-and-white-patterned frock
a large white hat.
Avril Goldstone’s square-dance party
was one of the hit performances of the
festive season. This was held in the ball-
room of her parents’ Toorak home, and
to allow space for the dancing guests
were limited to just over 50. The girls
wore cotton frocks; the boys tartan
shirts, slacks or jeans. Transformed into
a barn, there were bales of straw and
wooden railings with cardboard horses
peering through them.
That bright and graceful personality
the Lord Mayor’s lady, who shares the
honor bestowed on her husband in the
New Year Honors list, has always been
unstinting in giving of her best in the
heavy duties which are hers as Mel-
bourne’s first lady. One of Lady Disney’s
great enthusiasms is the Sutherland Homes
Auxiliary, of which she is patroness.
When not on the job at the Town Hall
the Lady Mayoress is more likely than
not to be found in her garden.
When The Bulletin launched the
Woman’s Mirror in November, 1924, the
first issue carried a fashion article which
displayed a short white velvet sleeveless
tunic-gown, trimmed with red and violet
crepe de chine. With it was worn a stole
of violet crepe de chine, edged with bands
of red at each end. Today, the stole is a
part of every evening ensemble. Then,
as now, the redingote was fashionable ; it
was then known as the “capote a la
Polonaise.” Today it has a defined waist,
though 26 years ago it had no waistline.
The latest frocks feature the floating
panel, which was popular at the side of
the skirt then. Then, too, the wide-
brimmed hat and the cloche were popular.
Again the fashion wheel has turned full
circle, though now they are worn tilted
off the face. And —think of it!—an ad.
displayed a duster coat of Assam silk
(they’re still worn) which was priced at
19s. 6d.
With a sunny day and plenty of room
in which to move about, many racegoers
still being out of town, the Moonee
Valley Racing Club’s meeting was quite
pleasant. The pastels in blue, pink and
green ; the frostiness of lime and the cool
white were popular. Mrs. W. Russell
Clarke, wife of the vice-chairman of the
M.V.R.C., wore pale-grey silks patterned
with tiny white windmills and a shady
navy straw hat edged with white. Mrs.
Massey Burnside combined white silk
frock and large natural straw hat. Two
shades of green formed a diamond
pattern on Mrs. S. Gainsworthy’s white
silk frock, which had a scarlet straw hat
for contrast.
From Sydney
There seems to be a conspiracy to
prevent us from enjoying this Jubilee in
a truly jubilant manner. All speakers at
festivities preface their remarks with
“Although the outlook is certainly
grim This Letter suggests that a
good New Year resolution for everyone
is to avoid this phrase at all costs.
For resolutions generally, however, the
New Year is not a good time. As soon
as one has resolved to budget one’s
expenditure (this crops up every year),
along come the sales and all their tempta-
tions. Determine to read more serious
books, and you’ll find that the library of
serious books is closed down for three
weeks. Vow to yourself to answer all
letters promptly, then find that this is a
time when no one writes to you. It’s the
same all along the line. Make up your
mind to plant out the garden with lovely
flowers, and you’ll be told that this is
not the time for planting. The only
resolve you can really be sure will be
feasible is the resolve to dig out the
onion-weed.
Doreen Wilson, who plays the sub-
acid Countess Le Loup in “Song of
Norway” at the Royal, is voted by the
rest of the company “a regular trouper,”
so different is her real personality from
the role she plays. Born in Canada, she
has been playing in “Song of Norway”
for six consecutive years, previous roles
being in “The Gypsy Baron,” “Music in
the Air,” “The Red Mill” and “The
Great Waltz.” She is a charming person
to meet, with a soft American accent
from the deep south and that coveted and
unusual coloring brown eyes and fair
hair. She loves parties, and with the
other imported stars in the company
threw the biggest theatrical Christmas-
party in Sydney for many years for
everyone who has a hand in the Norway
production.
The Governor’s presence at the Jubilee
Concert at the Town Hall contributed to
the brilliance of the affair. A big per-
centage of the audience was in evening-
dress, but it’s hopeless to expect everyone
to dress up. Oddly enough, audiences at
symphony concerts seem to go to hear
the music, not to be seen themselves. Sir
John Barbirolli’s resemblance to Napoleon
is really quite remarkable. No doubt he
also carried a baton in his knapsack
when he was a boy.
One couldn’t help noticing the
complete official absence of women in the
Commemoration of Federation ceremony
in Centennial Park. There were no
women on the platform, no mention of
them in any of the speeches, except for
Queen Victoria, whose name came up
now and again. Everyone extolled the
virtues of sunny Australia while the
heavens lowered and threatened to deluge
the meeting at any moment. Still, it was
fine to see all the Australian flags flying
and to talk to the many present who had
been at the original ceremony in 1901,
the women mostly remembering it by the
fact that there were 20 yards of braid
on the dresses they wore, or that their
shoes had hurt them.
It was a very sleepy-eyed crowd that
watched the races at Randwick on New
Year’s Day, parties the night before
having absorbed nearly all the verve and
high spirits available. The overcast day
brought out last season’s suits and wraps,
so that apart from an occasional burnt-
orange hat there was little to report in
the way of dressing. Mrs. Mel Lawton
looked smart and directoire with her
striped hat and cravat. Freda Keighery
(wearing navy and white) didn’t have a
bet —couldn’t keep her mind on it, she
said. Gwen Mclver, who was equally
uninterested, was enveloped in silver-fox.
Here we are in the middle of summer,
with February’s humidity still to be lived
through, yet some people are already
buying their autumn clothes. One big
city store advertised model suits and
coats last week and sold them all on the
first day in spite of the staggering prices.
Grey and black are still in the lead, with
hunter’s-green moving up from the rear
into third place (at a long price, too).
Green hasn’t been in the race at all for
some years now, but looks like making a
strong comeback for the autumn and
winter of 1951.
Tips for the autumn season include the
sideways line as first favorite. Skirts
will be narrow, but hips must be rounded,
an effect to be achieved by darts and
pockets and stiffened bows springing out
to one side. Black velvet is a “must” for
cocktail wear, either on its own or allied
to lame, brocade or tie-silk. The fabulous
French blouses, all delicate, white and
exquisitely hand-embroidered, are to be
a feature. These can be bought for
11 guineas by those who can purchase
blouses for 11 guineas. A good substitute
can be made at home from the broderie
Anglaise and wide lace that is on the
market at present, but even that will cost
at least £4. The only other thing to do
is to buy some batiste and take up hand-
embroidery again.
At the exhibition of Swiss posters in
David Jones’s Gallery, the commercial
type claimed most of the attention be-
cause, being larger than the tourist
posters, they were given the best posi-
tions. And what a revelation they were
of the artistic heights that advertising can
reach if it knows how! Supply Minister
Howard Beale, who opened the exhibi-
tion, said that he regarded such posters
as suitable for home decoration, and that
he had a couple on his own walls. It
would certainly be useful to have our
pictures reminding us each week not to
forget the washing-powder in the grocer's
order, that a visit to the zoo was overdue,
or that father might like some cigars for
his birthday. The Consul-General for
Switzerland, Mr. H. Hedinger, introduced
Mr. Beale and also congratulated Charles
Lloyd Jones on the honor that had been
bestowed upon him at the New Year.
The official programme for the Jubilee
celebrations is an attractive little booklet,
but the events it foretells don’t fill one
with any great sense of gaiety. The word
“jubilee” has been added to celebrations
we have every year, the Highland gather-
ing, the Hobart yacht-race, the St. Pat.’s
Day sports, the Easter Show. In addition
there are exciting social affairs such as
the general meeting of the Institution of
Engineers, the visiting governors of
central banks making official calls, and
visits of inspection by scientific and edu-
cational groups to the Sydney Technical
College. The programme for January 29
promises more merriment, for then we
are to have the Cavalcade of Jubilee, the
Jubilee display at the Showground, a
regatta on the harbor and a Venetian
carnival and fireworks display at night.
Perhaps things on the whole would have
been jollier had there been more women
on the executive committee—there are
only four women named in a group of 27.
Congratulations are in order for Blair
Bowden, who last week was appointed
Director of the W.R.A.N.S. with the rank
of first-officer. Born in Dunedin (N.Z.),
Miss Bowden gained her B.A. degree
before coming to live in Sydney, where
she took up a business career. After
joining the W.R.A.N.S. in 1943 she was
a member of the first officers’ training
course at Flinders Naval Depot, and was
later appointed to the Sydney company,
where she was promoted successively to
second-officer and first-officer. Keenly
interested in singing, she is also
enthusiastic about fencing, swimming
and tennis. She is at present on a trip
to England, and will return to Australia
in March.
Geraldine Lowe, the American actress
who is to appear in “The Concert,”
Radio Repertory play, next Monday, also
has a connection with New Zealand, for
it was while on a visit to Christchurch
that she married fellow-actor Harp
McGuire, who recently played lead in
Frank Harvey’s production of “The
Wings of the Wind.” Geraldine, who is
dark and very handsome, was formerly
a model at the famous Harry Canover
Agency in New York. After that she
studied theatre work in California, and
appeared in “The Voice of the Turtle”
and “John Loves Mary.” A tour of New
Zealand in 1947 brought a desire to
return in 1950. She and her husband
came to Sydney three months ago, and
want to stay indefinitely.
Looking over the Christmas-gifts
received, many girls voted nylon lingerie
as among the best. Its delicate fly-away
quality is so attractive and the knowledge
that it will wear well appeals to the
thrifty. It is not generally known that
nylon fabrics are resistant to fire. Be-
fore it is dyed and finished it will not
burn unless the flame is kept on it. In
dyed and finished fabrics it will burn,
but so slowly that it is not considered
dangerous by testing laboratories.


m
11
GP4.25
STILL KEEP* COWC
when the rest have stopped ,
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries
it has been Exide—since 1888.
ftXtdCBATTERIES
&
PERSONAL ITEMS
New Year present for Otto Humphrey
Becher, R.A.N. —his fourth (captain’s)
ring. He won D.S.C. in the Namsos
(Norway) evacuation, and a bar to it, in
Quickmatch, for his close-range bang at
Sabang. At present he’s driving destroyer
Warramunga round Korea. Gunnery is
his specialty.
Elevated to Instructor-Commander in
the same promotion-list, Haydn Guest,
one of the longest and most genial men
in the R.A.N. Naturally known as
“Beau.”
The inclusion of Sturt’s great-grandson
in the re-enactment of the explorer’s
voyage down-Murray has unearthed a
Melbourne man who also can claim a
close association with the explorer—V. S.
Davenport, of Canterbury, whose grand-
father, George Davenport, accompanied
Sturt on his explorations. V.S. has made
a life-study of Sturt’s expeditions, and
has personally retraced Sturt’s footsteps
as far as Cooper’s Creek in Centralia. A
council member of the Victorian
Historical Society, he has addressed that
body on his favorite subject often.
“Filmf”: Cinema-goers whose ex-
perience of their favorite sport goes back
no earlier than the talkies have no idea
what they owe to Albert Howell, dead at
71 in Chicago. He was the international
benefactor who took the flicker out of
the flicks, with three inventions early in
the 20th century. Modern film-fans sur-
veying the incredibly smooth progression
of a picture in which the visual and the
audible sensations are perfectly synchro-
nised can’t realise what their grand-
parents put up with. Howell was chair-
man of the Bell and Howell Camera Co.
Mr. Menzies’s personal interest in
Australian poetry probably had some-
thing to do with the award of the 0.8. E.
to Robert D. Fitz Gerald; and, when
Angus and Robertson have been forced
to turn their Australian Poetry annual
into a biennial, it was nicely timed. Fitz-
Gerald, reproduced here from the
Norman Lindsay portrait, has published
four books of verse and has enough un-
published material, including a very long
narrative poem, for two more. “Essay
on Memory” and “Heemskirck Shoals”
are his biggest published works. In his
spiritual and poetic capacity he some-
times takes coffee with The Bulletin a
ROBERT FITZGERALD. O.B.E.
long, robust and genial person, given to
talking about iambic pentameters, but
also to exploding with laughter. In his
worldly state he is a senior surveyor in
the Department of the Interior —a grand-
father, another Robert D., was Deputy
Surveyor-General for N. S. Wales and
wrote a standard book on native orchids.
Having for the last six years done a
man-size job for U.N.0., in charge of
the health, feeding and general rehabili-
tation of millions of war-struck people,
knight Raphael Cilento is returning to
Brisbane from Paris, retired. Now 57,
he intends putting his experiences on
paper.
The New Year’s crop of knights, the
most prolific for years:
K.B.Es. to Justice Edward McTiernan, of
the High Court since 1930; Andrew Fairley,
connected with Shepparton fruit-preserving,
Lt.-General Vernon Sturdee, once of the »th
Division, recently Chief of General Staff; and
Vice-Admiral John Augustine Collins, the first
Australian naval officer to reach knighthood in
the Service. _ . ..
K.Bs. to Professor Macfarlane Burnet, ot
the world-known Walter and Eliza Hall lust l "
tute, Melbourne; Charles Lloyd Jones, of the
store, Sydney; David Maughan, K.C., or
Sydney; Norman Mighell, recently deputy High
Commissioner in London; Leslie McConnan,
boss of the National Bank, Melbourne; Edwin
Nixon, responsible for spending much of our
War II munitions money; Colonel George
Lansell, Parliamentarian, newspaper proprietor
(recreation —revolver-shooting); James Disney,
Melbourne’s First Citizen; and Oschar Isaach-
sen, one of S. Australia’s leading bankers.
Another Navy honor goes to Rear-Admiral
J. A. S. Eccles, the Fleet’s seagoing head,
now C.B.
“Cauboy”: After all, Alceo Galliera
isn’t going to be Melbourne’s permanent
conductor for its Symphony Orchestra.
When Premier, Mr. Hollway granted
£20,000 to subsidise a State orchestra and
then handed the thing over to the A.B.C.
After long deliberation that body offered
the conductorship to Signor Galliera, and
everybody was delighted when he
accepted. Then it turned out that the
brilliant young Italian was coming for a
year to try the job out, then for eight
months, and now he has announced that
he will go back to Milan in 1952 for good
because the Opera House there grants
conductors a life pension when they are
superannuated. Since Galliera seems to be
universally regarded by music-lovers as a
wonderful acquisition, now is the time for
some Alfred Felton of music to come
forward and achieve lasting fame by
investing the money that would give
Galliera his pension. If Toscanini is any
criterion of the working years of an
Italian conductor —he is 83 and hasn’t re-
tired yet, and Galliera is in his forties —
it wouldn’t cost much.
“X.”: Scotch College, Melbourne,
which has reached its 100th birth-
day, is a classical instance
of how great Australian
educational institutions have
enlisted Maorilanders to
shape them. Of the four
masters “C.Q.” mentions
(B. 18/10/’5O) the last two
came from M.L. Dr. Wil-
liam Still Littlejohn went to
Scotch from Nelson College,
whence Lord Rutherford
and other distinguished
Maorilanders emerged. His
successor, Colin Gilray, was
from John McGlashan Col-
lege, Dunedin. Scots Col-
lege, Sydney, has also had
two Maorilanders succeed
one another —James Bee and
A. K. Anderson. Scotch
College, Perth, too, has a
Maorilander, G. M. Keys,
as principal, and Adelaide
Scots, not to be outdone,
has an M.L. Rhodes scholar,
J. A. Dunning, tutoring.
Altogether this is a good
year for Scotch. Colin Gil-
ray, head since 1934, gets an
0.8. E. in the Honors List.
Two old boys were also
honored —Air-Vice-Marshal
J. E. Hewitt (C.8.E.) and
Clifford Craig, one-time captain of the
college, now Surgeon-General of Laun-
ceston General Hospital (C.M.G.).
Captain C. B. Fox, commodore of the
Orient Line, commander of two Orcades
(the fi.st went down under him in the
Atlantic), has swallowed the shackle.
Whiting’s salty specimen, Commander
Benjamin Crawshaw, R.A.N., wears the
scarlet braid of a naval surgeon between
the triple gold bands of his rank he
qualified for the color at Edinburgh Uni-
versity in 1938, and for the uniform in
1940, when he shipped in H.M.S.
Grimsby. For a lively year he looked
after her company’s health till, in May,
BEN CRAWSHAW,D.S.C.
1941, a parade of Stukas passed over off
Tobruk. As Commander George Stitt put
it in his Under Cunningham’s Command,
“Under conditions of extreme difficulty
the m.o. of Grimsby worked continuously
throughout the night, even carrying out
an amputation (as the ship was sinking)
in a vain attempt to save the life of a
petty-officer cook.” For this, D.S.C.
Then, posting to destroyer Kingston
(sister to Mountbatten’s game little
Kelly), and subsequently destroyer
Kandahar (sister to Kingston); she had
the pleasant job of patrolling openly east
of Malta, drawing off enemy aircraft
which otherwise would have attended
convoys to the island. A couple of post-
war years in practice preceded his reship-
ping sealegs, this time in the R.A.N.,
which he joined in London. His scalpel-
keen sense of humor and highly-
infectious grin now range the wards at
Flinders, where he’s deputy s.m.o.
New Zealand’s latest accession to the
British peerage is Foster Goering Yelver-
ton, bom in Nelson 85 years ago. An
Australian claimed succession to Vis-
count Avonmore ; relatives of the Maori-
lander instituted inquiries; the pub-
lishers of Debretfs Peerage replied that
Yelverton succeeds to the title. The new
viscount’s occupation has been bullock-
driver and bushman, and he expresses no
desire to don a coronet; rather that he
be allowed to stick to his old felt hat.
After an interval of 10 years Mel-
bourne once more has an Italian consulate,
and as soon as possession can be gained
it will be situated on the corner of
Latrobe- and Elizabeth-streets, which the
Italian community bought in 1937 as a
cultural centre. Its first incumbent will
be a young career diplomat, Luca Dain-
elli, who was expelled by Mussolini from
his Foreign Office and subsequently
earned the American Bronze Star for
liaison work during the Allied occupation.
He was surprised at this country’s quick
assimilation of Italians. He found 300 of
his fellow - countrymen working at
General Motors-Holden’s.
Died at 71 in Melbourne after a long
illness, Septimus Power, who made as
big a name for himself as a painter of
animals in England as he did in Australia.
Born in Dunedin (N.Z.), he got his art-
education in Melbourne and at Julien’s
Academy in Paris. A tremendous worker,
he painted mainly on a huge scale,
though his best work was in his small
landscapes and sketches. After he had
established his fame in England he re-
turned to Melbourne, and his annual
display of horseflesh and livestock at the
Athenaeum Gallery created records never
reached by any other Australian artist.
From one show he sold £3OOO-worth of
pictures, and the National Gallery paid
1000 guineas for his “On the Moors”—
a girl and a young man reclining with two
setter dogs and a shotgun. This caused
a local sensation; but nothing to the
world sensation caused when an American
painter won a notable art-prize in the
U.S. with a picture which tinned out to
be an exact copy of the Septimus Power.
Power was commissioned to paint the ,
opening of Federal Parliament in 1927.
His picture of the Ist Australian Division
Artillery going into action at Ypres was
described as the most convincing war-
picture of the R.A. of 1919.
Leaving London this month on a world
tour, taking in Australia, Methodist
writer and preacher Dr. Leslie Weather-
head, Minister of the world-known City
Temple since 1936. In France and the
Mesopotamian campaign in World War I
as a staff-lieutenant, with the Armistice he
became an Army chaplain, before mov-
ing to Madras, in charge of the English
Methodist Church. He returned to
England in 1922 to specialise in
psychology, and to put between covers
some score of religious books.
New Zealand’s selections for the
1951 Rhodes Scholarships are L. T.
Evans, Canterbury Agricultural College,
holder of the degree of B.Agr.Sc. and
B.Sc., who will study the reactions of
selected species of plants in certain soil
when at home ; and D. L. Schultz, of
Canterbury University College, an honors
Bachelor of Engineering. Both will study
at Oxford.
“King’s Pawn”: R. G. Wade, the
young New Zealander who was a chess
sensation in Sydney a few years ago, has
become the first Australasian to receive
a ranking as an “international master-
player.” He stayed on after his second
visit to Europe, where he went, first, to
compete in a British championship, and,
mixing it with the world’s best, has been
picking up quite a number of chess
prizes. His latest achievement was in the
Venice International Chess Congress, won
by the Russian top-ranker Kotov, with
another of Stalin’s men, Smyslov,
second; Rossolimo, of France, was third
and Pachman, of Czechoslovakia, fourth.
Wade was in the next group, level with
H, Steiner, the U.S.A. champion, and
Leteller, from Chile. Wade drew with
Smyslov and won the special prize for
the best-played game in the contest.
Incidentally, Australia’s C. J. S.
Purdy has reached the finals in the world
correspondence chess championship,
winning in a group which included strong
European players.
Into the Silence:
At 83, Fred Duncan, one of the best-known
theatrical old-timers in Australia and New
Zealand, one-time general-manager for Harry
Rickards when that entrepreneur was in ms
heyday, and also manager for Bland Holt.
Fred’s daughter Jean, now in Melbourne, was
once as well known —as a dancer with the
Firm for many years and with Madge Elliott
and Cyril Ritchard on their last appearance
in Australia.
In Sydney, at 79, Harold Bell, chairman and
g.-m. of Winchcombe, Carson. Born in London,
son of a British Army colonel, and educated at
London’s Blue Coat School, Harold joined the
wool firm at 18, and had been with it for
over 60 years. Known well to just about every
pastoralist in the State.
At Gisborne (M.L.), at 83 Dr. John W.
Williams, severing a link with early ML
history. He was the grandson of two who
signed the Treaty of Waitangi, Archdeacon
Henry Williams on the paternal side and James
Busby on the other. Busby drafted the trea y
for Governor Hobson and the archdeacon
translated it into Maori.
At 58, in Melbourne, Dr. Raymond Tennyson
Allan, Chief Medical Officer for Victoria. A
world authority on penology, whose specialised
knowledge of criminology made him a valuable
witness at murder trials, he figured m almos
every case in Victoria during his appointment.
After serving in the 1914 war he became M. .
and Chief Magistrate at Nauru.
At 83, in Sydney, James McMahon, one-time
NSW Union full-back, president ot tne
SS.A, manager of 'the Wallabte who
toured England France and U.S jffiof
40 years ago and colonel m the N.S.W. Lancers
His* character wtts n his ii cLname Gema
Jim.” ,


m
vSr
Expert Management of
YOUR AFFAIRS
If impending absence abroad, ill health or pressure of other business
necessitates that you “hand over the reins,” you can place the management
of your affairs with complete confidence in the hands of the Permanent
Trustee Company.
Over sixty years’ experience enables this company to control your affairs
expertly and to conserve your interests, whatever they are and wherever
they may be.
For full details, call in and interview one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for our free booklet —“ Trust
Estates and Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F .R~A.C£,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shatv.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
qOMPAM OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD LIVING COSTS.
In a speech in London,
Argentine Ambassador Dr.
Carlos A. Hogan had some
severe things to say in answer
to the very widely accepted
allegation that his country had
tried to blackmail J. Bull into
forking out a higher price for
meat.
Declaring that British Minister
for Food Webb had himself ex-
plained why his Government
had dodged its promise to revise
the price in keeping with de-
valuation of the £, the Ambas-
sador sarcastically contended
that what Webb had in effect
said was:
“The price of Argentine meat
cannot be increased, nor can
that from the Dominions, nor
bacon from Denmark, because
any increase in the price of these
foods will affect the cost-of-
living index of the British
people,”
Dr. Hogan would no doubt
feel that his contention was well
supported by a subsequent state-
ment of the Food Minister, pat-
ting the Attlee Government
loudly on the back for the way
it was saving British people from
increased prices. Here are a
few of Mr. Webb’s com-
parisons, against which can be
set Australian costs he doesn’t
quote;
In America bread costs
Is. (sterling) a lb., against
3yd. a lb. in Britain. In most
European countries, the loaf is
a little dearer than in Britain.
Britain’s wheat flour is
almost the cheapest in the world
—3|d. a lb. It is nearly Bd. a
lb. in France, Is. 2d. a lb. in
Switzerland and B+d. a lb. in
America. There were substantial
rises in the price of flour in
many countries during 1950 —for
example, a rise of a lb. in
New Zealand and of Hd. in
Germany. The British Govern-
ment had not had to increase
the price of bread or flour since
the autumn of 1949, after de-
valuation.
In New Zealand, Mr. Webb
also pointed out, the price of
tea had gone up in 1950 by
40 per cent. —it now cost 6s. a
lb. The price of meat had gone
up in many countries during
1950; lamb had gone up in
America from 4s. lOd. to ss. 6d.
a lb. and beef from 4s. lOd. to
ss. 7d.; Britain’s meat prices
had not gone up at all, and
indeed were among the lowest
in the world. They could be
compared (at Is. 4d. or Is. sd. a
lb.) with ss. 6d. in France and
ss. 2d. in Switzerland.
Even with the increases in
bacon and butter, people in
Britain, Mr. Webb further
stated, were paying only 2s. 7d.
a lb. on the average for bacon,
instead of nearly 6s. a lb. in
Switzerland and nearly ss. a lb.
in America ; and only 2s, a lb.
for butter against over ss. a lb.
in America, 6s. in France and
over 7s. in Switzerland.
“Wherever one looks in the
world there is abounding un-
controvertible evidence that the
recent increases in prices have
placed essential foods right
outside the reach of the ordinary
working and lower middle
classes,” continued Mr. Webb.
“It is not an accident it has not
happened here. It is the direct
consequence of the protection
which the planned controls of
the Government have given to
our people.”
All of which would make Dr.
Hogan, for one, more savage
than ever. And it might not be
much satisfaction to British
people, either, to be told how
cheap is the meat they get when,
still under rationing, they get
hardly any.
U.S. Policy Failure.
Having discussed with
“British, French, Australian,
Swedish and Latin-American
statesmen” the general operating
and some of the failings of U.S.
policy, a “New York Times”
correspondent has represented
their views as agreeing on the
following lines:
The United States is incap-
able of substituting for long
periods of time its own system
for the older imperialisms that
have collapsed. The dislike of
governing other people is too
deeply rooted in the United
States for this to change. Even
in areas where the United States
since the war has been forced to
retain de facto sovereignty over
other peoples, as in Germany
and Japan, it has suffered from
“American conscience” to an
extent that it has not generally
done an effective job.
The policy of the United
States has been to establish
order, provide economic assist-
ance, require local authorities to
carry out free elections and then
say in effect: “Now take care
of yourselves.” It has felt that
its mission was accomplished
when forms of constitutional
government like those with
which Americans are familiar
have been established without
fully realising that these forms
are “meaningless” to most of the
people in countries like Korea,
Japan and even Germany and
Greece. Reports of the de-
terioration of social conditions
and public order in the Philip-
pines have done much to
strengthen this view.
Korea has proved, the argu-
ment continues, that this
approach has failed. It is viewed
as bound to fail in other cases.
United States efforts to influence
the French in Indo-China and
the Dutch in Indonesia to follow
a similar pattern may turn out
to have been colossal blunders,
it is contended, not because the
United States has been wrong
about the need for ending old
imperialisms, but because it has
been wrong about the work-
ability of the American kind of
alternative.
The solution suggested is a
United Nations alternative to
imperialism, as the only possible
means of saving vast areas of
the world from Communist
imperialism.
Tito Looks West.
Reporting from Belgrade, a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent comments on
Marshal Tito’s “cultivating
friendlier relations with Great
Britain than with any other
nation in Western Europe since
his split with the Soviet
Union”:
“The cultivation of the British
is interpreted in Belgrade diplo-
matic quarters as a search by the
Marshal for a strong Western
friend in Europe. Britain has
—London "News Chronicle."
DESIGN FOR NEW BRITISH COAT OF ARMS.
Crest: Argentine bull rejected, prices rampant, a dexter arm
brandishing a sausage cochon, a butcher couchant. Supporters:
Two lions, belt tightened, standing unaided on own feet.
Motto: Eat more fruit.
not much cash to offer—it has
loaned Tito only £8,000,000 since
the split—but its political sup-
port may prove worth while. It
is understood that the reaction
in British circles to the Mar-
shal’s feelers has been that
Yugoslavia can now be dealt
with as a nation that is running
its own affairs and is no longer
an instrument of Soviet power.”
Also, a London “Time and
Tide” correspondent interprets
the restoration of full diplomatic
relations between Yugoslavia
and Greece as indicating that
“one of the main hopes of our
[Britain’s] diplomacy in the
Balkans is about to be realised.”
This had been speeded up by
the “deterioration of the in-
ternational situation,” and
“Another factor may well have
been the successful progress of
Yugoslavia’s negotiations with
Britain and the U.S.A. for eco-
nomic aid.”
“It is,” comments the same
correspondent, “impossible to
overestimate the political and
strategic benefits which must in-
evitably flow from the improve-
ment of Greco-Yugoslav rela-
tions. The security of both
Yugoslavia and Greece against
possible attacks from their Com-
inform neighbors has been
greatly increased.... Any help
the Western Powers might
render Yugoslavia, should she be
attacked, could be given much
more easily and effectively now
that it can be sent through
Greece. The natural channel for
military aid and supplies is via
Salonika to the Vardar valley.
“To sum up; Yugoslavia is
now coming back, albeit care-
fully and with every qualifica-
tion, into the Western world,
which is her natural place, cul-
turally and historically. Under
the pressure of world events
Tito is modifying the attitude he
first adopted after the split with
Moscow that Yugoslavia
should follow a policy of non-
involvement in the dispute be-
tween East and West the day
may be near when Yugoslavia
will become an ally of the
West.”
Somersault Acts.
Stating that Mr. Attlee’s whole
career has, until recently, been
devoted to opposing what he
stands for now, London “Daily
Mail” gives a few turns of the
great somersault act;
“The Attlee who, not so long
ago, said ‘we have abandoned
any idea of nationalist loyalty’
now turns down the inter-
nationalist Schuman Plan and
speaks slightingly of a European
Army.
“The man who ‘disbelieved
entirely in the idea that peace
can be obtained by having a
number of armed forces becom-
ing stronger and stronger’ now
asks for immense armaments to
keep the peace.
“The politician who, year after
year, made party capital out of
the armed forces now says: ‘I
had hoped that defence might
be kept out of party politics.’ ”
Still, Mr. Attlee has some
serious rivals in the somersault-
ing art in his colleagues, among
them Mr. Strachey, who in his
book The Coming Struggle for
Power spoke of the United States
as the likely antagonist in the
next war and declared that the
only possible future for Britain
was as a “free Republic” of an
at first European and later
world-wide Union of Soviet Re-
publics. Having, in the process
of an almost incredible somer-
sault, managed to swallow all
that, the gentleman is now
Britain’s Minister for War!
Both of them can, of course,
be matched, and more than
matched, among their Socialist
counterparts in Australia.
Dragnet Digest.
Four-Power Conference. —Insisting
that the Western Powers “will quite
certainly, at some time in the next
few years,” have to “put up the
price” for bringing Germany in as a
healthy partner, London “Economist”
makes a suggestion: “The first step
might well be a four-Power confer-
ence —but with Dr. Adenauer, not
Mr. Molotov, in the fourth seat.”
* * * *
Soviet Inequality. —From a “Man-
chester Guardian” article by a special
correspondent: “Stalinism tends not
only to reimpose slavery (as in the
forced-labor camps); it tends also,
and above all, to re-create an aris-
tocracy and to consolidate authority
and inequality. In comparison with
Western democracy it is fundamen-
tally reactionary. It is not for that
the less formidable —rather the con-
trary.”
* * * •
Fritz, Ally. While, in London
“Times’s” editorial view, defeat in
two wars has left Germans in “a
pacifist and defeatist mood,” and so
not wanting to rearm as a nation,
“there is a feeling, based on idealism
and self-interest, in favor of taking
some responsibility for the defence
of the West.” The “Times” states
also that the German-made condition
that German participation in the
European defence system should be
on exactly the same terms as all other
countries is “evidently satisfied” in
the various proposals which the
Western Powers have lately been
urgently discussing.
* * * *
Com. Conspiracy. New York
“Herald Tribune” on why democ-
racies must take preventive action:
“The greatest strength of Communism
has never lain in its ideology or even
in its promises; it has lain in the skill
with which it has exploited the
liberal-democratic guarantees as a
shield for a carefully organised con-
spiracy of infiltration, treason and
ultimate violent ‘seizure’ that is the
antithesis of democracy and can be
allowed no place in a functioning
democratic system. Such a campaign
cannot be countered by the normal
democratic resort to ‘the market-place
of ideas’ and its verdicts at the
ballot-box, since it is consciously and
expertly designed to pervert and over-
come these processes.”
* * * *
No Russgeld. —London “Economist”
editorial comment on Kremlin tactics
or antics over Austria, Germany and
other disputed spots: “Why Moscow
should persist in doing things that
draw from Washington and London
one declaration after another of
intention to stand firm and one fresh
argument after another for speeding
rearmament is a mystery. If it is
mere probing, it is clumsily done;
if it is just local blackmail, it is
paying no dividend. For each Com-
munist failure builds up the free
world’s confidence in its power and
determination not to pay Russgeld.”
* * * *
Republicans, Interventionists. A
New York correspondent of “Man-
chester Guardian,” referring to the
last-election swing to the Republicans,
comments on them; “On the whole,
the Republicans share Roosevelt’s old
optimism and belligerence. The old
isolationist is the same animal, but
now he has got used to the feel of a
bazooka he is the new intervention-
ist. It would be far more sensible
to accuse the Republican swing in
Congress of being a swing towards
interventionism. Mr. Acheson is
really the arch-isolationist in the
Orient. And for that the Republicans
cannot forgive him, for they possess
all the bigotry of conversion.” That,
however, applies only to the Orient:
many of them are not nearly so keen
on action in “sick, ancient Europe.”


m
■sSSS
Cs O O D §■ 13
JOHNNIE
WAUCER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH I
i WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK, /
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. li
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY MYLES WILLOUGHBY
formerly of Islington Newcastle.—TAKE
NOTICE that ADA FLORENCE WIL-
LOUGHBY has filed a Petition for
Divorce Number 2265 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th day of March
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & McDONALD, of 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2 York Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES KALFAS late of Brisbane.
—TAKE NOTICE that SARSFIELD
BERNARD PATRICK MELANO has filed
a Petition for Divorce (No. 4095 of 1950)
from his wife MAVIS BETTY MELANO
on the ground of your adultery with her
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 23rd day
of February 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from Messrs.
W. S. GRAY & PERKINS, Solicitors, 375
George Street, Sydney. (1.5.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fis:?t::S
«i
7i
s*--
KISMET
c/a4ac/&l
tyre gauge ? If it isn’t
If it is accurate —and made
What’s the value of
accurate, it’s worthless
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you •. . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
BENBUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Made tor William Turner (Kismet), Ldd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43 49 Hardware St., Melbourne, CM, Victoria
KISMET
MAST Ei
FOOT PUMP
G.P.O. Box
THE SERVICE MAN
Retreat in Korea.
“Ek Dum”: The Chinese
Communists refused to negotiate
for a cease-fire in Korea when
it was proposed by a U.N.O.
committee. They even refused
to acknowledge the committee.
In the heat of the discussion
they admitted that the “volun-
teers” fighting with the North
Koreans had been sent by the
Chinese Government “lawfully,”
while claiming that the United
States troops were in Korea “un-
lawfully as the result of aggres-
sion.” The solution produced
by Chou En-lai, the Chinese
Premier, at Christmas-time was
that all “foreign” troops
should leave Korea, the Koreans
then “settling their own affairs.”
The North Koreans under these
circumstances would not regard
the Chinese “volunteers” as
“foreign” troops, they having
no military status in theory
other than that derived from
their service as Korean soldiers.
So they would remain to help in
the settlement.
Bombing Policy
There can scarcely be any
fightable North Koreans left, so
that when the war was renewed
last week after the uneasy weeks
of deployment, the combat in
effect was straight-out war be-
tween China and the United
Nations forces, under conditions
which, if they were imagined by
a novelist, would probably
result in his being sent to a
reception-house.
Faced by overwhelming
enemy forces, obviously from
their strategy and tactics directed
from Moscow and perhaps, as is
believed in Japan, under the
actual h.q. command of Marshal
Zhukov, formerly Russian C.-
in-C. on the German front, the
Western Allies are compelled to
keep up an illusion that they
are not actually fighting China,
one-third of whose total regular
army is involved against them,
and that therefore they must
not bomb enemy bases and com-
munications in Chinese terri-
tory.
It would be unthinkable to
carry the offensive-defensive
attack into Russian territory
even though it seems highly
likely that divisions are being
equipped in Russian Siberia and
sent direct from there to the
front, and though escaped
p.-0.-w. report that there are
Russian officers with the
Chinese and North Korean
“ They're Featherstonhaugh's—he's frightfully
python-conscious .”
forces, and that these conduct
the interrogation of prisoners.
No order so far has been
heard of which prohibits Allied
soldiers from killing these inno-
cent attaches. They belong to a
nation which is one of the prin-
cipal members of U.N.0., which
has full access to all the secrets
concerning the war which are
at the disposal of the central
secretariat of U.N.0., also, of
its military committee, of which
the Russians hold command
month about in rotation with
Britain, United States, France
and Nationalist China. If such
an order were issued it would
be quite as logical as the one
which forbids the bombing of
bases and headquarters. It is a
policy which may gain us time
in preparing for the world
struggle which now seems almost
certain by not affording Russia
pretext to operate openly its
mutual defence treaty with
China, but in the meantime it is
likely to cost the lives of a lot
of American, British, Australian
and other British Commonwealth
troops. Time, however, may
prove that the policy adopted is
not altogether without reason.
Chinese Offensive
The Chinese offensive came
according to the expected time-
table with the arrival of the New
Year, As anticipated last week,
they attacked along all four
main roads leading southward,
three forces converging towards
Seoul and a powerful one on
the east coast designed to smash
right through and get at the
rear of the Allied retreat when
it inevitably came.
With 250,000 troops or there-
abouts (including reserves and
land communications), of which
about 100,000 are American,
British Commonwealth and
miscellaneous U.N.O. detach-
ments the allies were faced with
frontal assaults of great power
and weight against which their
only palliatives took the form of
local counter-attacks of very
limited effect. One of the most
breathless charges was that
by 300 Australian Royals to
blunt an enemy spearnead
outside Seoul. They gave
the Chinese a bad beating-
up, killing about 200, but this
was only the loss of a drop out
of the bucket to the enemy.
The Royal Ulster Rifles had a
heavy encounter in the early
stages, one of their companies
being cut off for a time and the
regiment losing 200 men before
it had relief.
Seoul Falls
It was clear after the first day
that Seoul was doomed out of
hand and that the best that
could be expected of the Allies
was that they would be able to
keep their retreat cohesive and
prevent the enemy either break-
ing right through them in depth
or turning their eastern flank.
On January 3 the enemy was
expected in the Southern capital
at dawn next day. Three
separate drives to converge on
the city were in progress while
heavy forces to the east con-
tinued to make their way down
the centre of the peninsula on
the Chunchon-Chungju-road and
down through the eastern
coastal region. On January
4 the defence of Seoul was
finally abandoned and the
city left deserted and in flames
as British, Australian and Ameri-
can troops gave up their cover-
ing positions and moved south-
ward by frog-leaps, each body
taking it in turn to cover the
retirement of the one behind it.
On January 4 the Chinese were
in Seoul and their advance-guards
were across the Han River in its
environs keeping up the pressure
on the Allied rearguards, while
a huge force esti-
mated at 120,000
forced its way down
the road through the
centre of the penin-
sula intent on getting
behind the retreat
and cutting off the
U.N.O. forces in the
west of the penin-
sula.
The situation up
to the evening of the
7th was merely a
natural development
of that which
obtained earlier in
the week after the
retreat began. The
objective of the
Allied command con-
tinued to be to pre-
vent the overwhelm-
ing enemy forces
from coming to grips
with the Allied main
army at this stage.
The result has
been that there is
little fighting in the
western section,
where the road
systems to the south
are excellent b y
Korean standards and where the
Bth Army command was able to
draw off a large section of its
forces by sea from Inchon under
cover of bombardment of roads
from Seoul by the Allied fleet.
The Chinese command very
obviously realised that this posi-
tion would develop in the west,
and they concentrated on the
main drive down the road from
the centre of the peninsula in
the hope that they might over-
take the retreating Allies and
by fanning out east and west on
reaching the Chungju area,
where a communication railway
and road runs straight across
the peninsula from Sanchok, cut
off the retiring U.N.O. forces.
Allied fighting operations have
been confined to retarding this
drive while troops still in the
north are brought out.
Thus, the only heavy fighting
reported has been on this section
of the front up to the last re-
ports available to the morning
of January 8.
The evacuation of the north
by the Allies has been earned
out by the traditional leapfrog
method in an orderly manner.
Little information has leaked out
about the details, but it is obvi-
ous that it is the objective of
General MacArthur to keep his
enemies guessing as to whether
he intends to make a stand. The
longer the enemy communica-
tion-line the better his position
so long as he is in control of
his own movement and can
choose his time lo fight. The
longer the enemy’s line, also, the
more imperilled is his flank from
the sea.
Retreats are always criticised,
but the test of them is their pur-
pose and what happens after
they are over. There is only one
test of battle —final victory or
final defeat. The campaign is
not over.


FG
m
/
ilClpJ
«
/
> !
mi ** j
Oft tto W***
*'
, .***■&&?
CO*•
sh^P
V.\W'^’
■jAet') 0 ’
,ot»e.
%
OIL
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
No Saddlers.
“Archaps”: Rogers and Sons,
the Toowoomba (Q.) saddlery
which has supplied harness to
stockowners of the Darling
Downs and south - western
Queensland for 86 years and at
one time employed 66 men, has
closed up. There is no lack of
orders, but there are no saddlers.
The owner, James Rogers,
states that the permanent market
existing today would need double
the number of the 66 men his
firm previously employed to
cope with it. As far as he could
see, the position would end in
a large factory mass-producing
saddles of a few stereotyped
patterns, as is happening in
America. He could see no solu-
tion of the repair problem.
Rogers joined the firm 61
years ago, when it was owned
by the late James Blackburn,
and later bought it. His son,
V. J. Rogers, entered the busi-
ness 31 years ago, and paid regu-
lar visits to station properties.
As the old hands died and
trained saddlets could not be
found to take their places, the
staff eventually dropped to two.
The Federal Arbitration In-
spectorate granted permission to
employ juniors in excess of the
allowable number, and the
union agreed to the employment
of six boys, which the firm
hoped would enable it to meet
some of the most pressing de-
mands from country clients, but
six boys willing to make
saddlery a career could not be
found, and the few who did take
up the work left after only short
periods at the trade.
Secretary of the apprentice-
ship committee sees little pros-
pect of youths being found for
apprenticeship to the saddlery
trade. “There are plenty of
casual jobs carrying high wages,
and many boys take these rather
than knuckle down to an
apprenticeship. It is regrettable
that in a country like Australia,
which depends for its success on
primary production, youths of
today do not give a thought for
the needs of our primary in-
dustries because we have made
life in the cities so attractive.”
The alarm of land-men at the
closing of Rogers and Sons’
saddlery is shown by the num-
ber of letters the firm has re-
ceived from clients since its
decision.
Fruit-fly Eradication.
“Kelms”: Victoria is about to
spend £25,000 in a vain attempt
to limit fruit-fly to the areas
already infested with it. Fruit-
fly can’t be “controlled” or
“limited.” It must be eradi-
cated completely, and that is a
Commonwealth job. No one
State, nor all the States acting
independently, can hope to
achieve more than very tempor-
ary success.
W.A. is tackling the fly in a
limited area. To that extent it
can be regarded as an experi-
ment only, and as such it has
proved remarkably successful.
A big fruit-growing area near
Perth voted a few years ago for
compulsory spraying of all fruit-
trees in the district, the spraying
xo be done by a unit employed
by the fruitgrowers’ council. A
charge is made, proportionate to
the number of trees on the
property, and the spraying is
done every five days. In addi-
tion, an inspection of all
orchards, commercial or back-
yard, is made by an officer of
the Agriculture Department to
ensure that no fruit is left lying
on the ground or, worse still,
buried without being boiled.
By far the worst offenders
have been the owners of one or
two fruit-trees and neglected
and semi-abandoned orchards.
High wages in secondary in-
dustry lured many “small-time”
orchardists from their trees, and
their subsequent spare time is
hopelessly inadequate to keep
the orchard in good order. Con-
sequently they make what they
can grab out of it, leave fruit
lying around for days and then
frequently bury it.
Burying infested fruit without
first boiling it is the greatest sin
an orchardist can commit. It
provides the maggot with ideal
conditions for growth and sub-
sequent emergence as a fly. The
fly will emerge from a depth of
6ft. —perhaps more.
What is needed is the exten-
sion of the Westralian scheme on
a Commonwealth-wide basis.
While one fly remains alive in
Australia the whole fruit-grow-
ing industry is in danger, and
will be subject to costly eradi-
cation measures. It can be wiped
out by rigid control of orchards
and compulsory spraying. It’s
a big job, but each year it’s de-
layed makes it bigger.
Linseed-growing.
“C.S.”: A Tocumwal man,
D. S. Wilson, won the R.A.S.
linseed - growing championship
for 1950 in the central and
southern division of N.S.W. In
his report the judge, W. M.
Curteis, of N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, says that the
winning crop, which will yield
21 j bushels, was sown at the
rate of 401 b, of seed per acre,
the recommended rate for lin-
seed under irrigation. Some
growers only sowed 281 b., and
their crops were too thin to give
the high yield that should be
associated with irrigated crops.
An important point was that
some of the crops were sown
too late; to obtain successful
crops an April-to-early-May
sowing is recommended. Some
of the growers realised that an
early sowing was needed, but the
seed did not arrive in time.
With irrigation the control of
weeds is a problem, and early
sowings will give better results
than late sowings; also any old
cultivation land weeds are more
a problem under irrigation than
on dry land. As a general
recommendation linseed does
better after pastures or in virgin
land.
The main weeds noticed were
canary-grass and darnel-grass,
which were sown with the seed,
and saffron-thistle and wire-
weed. Care will have to be
taken next year to have seed
cleaned of the former two weeds.
Packing Passionfruit.
“W.C.Q.”: Rough handling
must be avoided when passion-
fruit are being picked and
packed for market. Even drop-
ping the fruit from a height of
a few inches into a bucket or
can may cause bruising. Best
time for harvesting is early
evening, since, in the early
morning, the fruits are usually
wet and must be dried out on
trays before packing to prevent
moulding.
During winter passions may
be allowed to reach full ripeness
on the vines, but during summer
they should be picked as they
begin to turn purple. Dip the
fruits into a very weak hydro-
chloric-acid solution to neutra-
lise any Bordeaux mixture that
may remain from the last spray-
ing, then wash off the acid with
plain water.
Young Pastures.
“A-Jay”: If a good strike of
grass and clover has been
obtained, success will depend
mainly on good grazing man-
agement. Firmness of the
ground is essential to good root
hold, pasture vigor and the
carrying of heavier stock.
Light stock, preferably sheep,
are best for the first grazing,
but young cattle may be used
when no sheep are available.
Heavy stocking over short
periods, without pastures being
grazed too closely, gives good
hoof consolidation and more
even grazing and distribution of
droppings.
Persistent close grazing re-
duces root development and
vitality of plants, causing a lower
over-all production of pasture
during winter and early spring.
Undergrazing of young pastures
is, perhaps, a more common fault
and equally undesirable, as this
discourages tillering and in addi-
tion the strongly-growing,
short-lived species are able to
shade and repress the slower,
more permanent species in a
pasture.
Generally weeds give less
trouble in autumn-sown pastures.
The aim in control of weeds is
to establish a good cover during
the winter and have sufficient
growth to maintain heavy stock-
ing when the weeds are most
vulnerable.
Bruising Stock.
“Billjim”: According to an
Australian Meat Board survey
bruising of stock in transit
ranges as high as 22\ per cent.
The following measures are re-
commended to reduce bruising
beef cattle: When mustering do
it quietly. Never use yards.
Avoid roads carrying heavy
motor traffic. Take special pre-
cautions when moving cattle
through gates. Get the draft to
the trucking point the evening
before so they can be watered
“Now I Wonder what the beast shied at ?”
and spelled. Avoid travelling
bullocks and cows together and,
even more important, don’t truck
them together.
On arrival, walk the cattle out
of the trucks slowly. Work
without dogs and sticks. If the
rail journey is more than 500
miles it is wise to untruck en
route for spelling and watering.
Avoid trucking on goods trains
if a stock “special” is in sight.
Over- or underloading should be
particularly avoided.
Many of these precautions
should be taken with lambs. In
addition animals should not be
grabbed by the wool, allowed to
fall off gangboards or dogged.
With pigs, firebranding is not
advised. It is better to tattoo.
Animals should not be fed on
the morning of dispatch but
given plenty of clean water.
Use no sticks or whips. Don’t
use faulty races or load into
dirty trucks.
Victorian Wheat Champion.
“Mr.”: The Mallee champion-
ship this year was won by A. P.
Murray and Sons, Nullawil; E.
R. Watkins, Lake Boga, took
second place. The leading crop
yielded 42.8 bushels per acre,
easily a record for the Mallee.
Commenting, J. M. McCann,
manager of Walpeup research
station, said the three leading
crops were separated by less
than a bushel per acre. All were
of the new variety, Insignia.
The Northern championship
was won by James Bros.,
Dookie, with a crop of Baldmin
yielding 41| bushels to the acre.
A nice even crop of Magnet gave
second place to V. G. Wood,
Boorhaman.
Why Bees Sting.
“Soc”: If bees didn’t sting,
the mountains of honey pro-
duced would tilt the universe.
Right now, with the stings of
them like heated-up coals, there
is an estimated surplus of two
years’ production ahead. How-
ever, as there is no indication
that the bees intend to leave
their stinging apparatus any-
where other than in the hide of
the bee-herders, it behoves the
latter to find out why.
The greatest single inducement
to sting is, strangely enough,
access to honey. Even whilst a
flow of nectar is on, exposed
honey will attract the robbers,
causing unrest and nervousness
in the yard—but let them get
their paws into it whilst there’s
a dearth and the fight’s on.
Every bee becomes a winged and
whining menace, and the number
of stings that go off half-cocked
would riddle a honey-tank.
When they are in the air in their
thousands it is highly unsafe to
be within a long throw of the
apiary, for the bees —on plunder
bent—will sting anything from a
boot to a Hereford bally, and
enjoy it.
The lesson, obviously, is never
leave a cell of honey where the
bees can get a single taste. And
that means the bit stuck to the
lid and scraped on the ground,
the honey-bucket, the stack of
“stickies,” and hardest of all to
remedy, the smeary barrow.
Next in inducement rating
comes climatic conditions, when
such a thing as a sudden storm
sweeps over the ridge, washes
the nectar from the cups in the
midst of full and plenty and
causes a dearth. The bees roar
back to the hives, hang around
the doorsteps and look for a
scapegoat. At such times it is
easy to pick up a skinful of
stings.
Then there is the long list of
lesser inducements —jerky move-
ments whilst working the hive,
carelessness in the initial opening
of the colony when it is impera-
tive to gain control immediately
the lid is raised, a poorly-lighted
smoker that at the crucial
moment spews sparks and soot
enough to blacken the bees but
not to subdue them. There are
also the rip in the knees of the
pants or the tear in the shirt-
sleeve ; never was the bee reared
that never scanned the herder
for such chinks in his defence.
And, perhaps, lastly, there is the
matter of the peculiar, acrid
smell of bee-venom, which, if
not disguised by a couple of hot
blasts from the smoker, will
attract any number of barbs, as
close together as stakes in a
tomato-patch.
Yet, in spite of all these
rabble-rousers, there are times
when you just about can’t make
a bee sting, and it is from these
odd and beautiful moments that
the old humbug from down the
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
January does not present any marked features, but owing
to the unusual cosmic controls there may be erratic
storms on the N.S.W. Central Tablelands and also some good
rains late in the month on the Northern Rivers. Should the
sun be very active these may then give a wider further
down the coast, which should begin the normal summer
rains. There may then be a break. In February almost
general rains are likely late in the month, and these seem
to be heavy across the northern regions of N.S.W., especially
in the Northern Rivers and also on the northern parts of
the Darling. The South Coast shows some heavy rains on
the cyclical control year.


"Phtnovlt" Worm Remedy
time i»
ir.*cms'o time!
y/Z/A
'/// A/A/
m
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
FG
F
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work.
GF
40z., Boz., 16dz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Important Auction Sale
“MOONBRIA” STATION
JERILDERIE
Under instructions from Messrs. F. S. Falkiner & Sons Pty. Ltd., who
have held “Moonbria” Station since 1884, the following land will be
offered for sale by:—
PUBLIC AUCTION—ABOUT 47,000 ACRES—IN SUBDIVISION.
AT SCOTT’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE,
at 11.30 a.m., FRIDAY, 2nd MARCH, 1951.
SITUATED:
28 miles west of Jerilderie, 20 miles north of Conargo, and 44 miles
from Deniliquin; 60 miles east of Hay, 439 miles from Sydney and 226
miles from Melbourne.
AREA:
Approximately 46,513 acres, in Subdivision, conyjrising:—
Block C. Homestead Block approx. 11,607 acres
Block D. Euroka Paddock „ 6,626 acres
Block E. Adjoining Block C „ 8,055 acres
Block G. Yanko Creek Frontage .. „ 11,076 acres
Block H. Yanko Creek Frontage .. „ 9,148 acres
COUNTRY:
“Moonbria” comprises some of the choicest Merino breeding and fat-
tening country in the celebrated Riverina, and all classes of stock
reared on this country are remarkable for their size and constitution.
WATER:
The property is splendidly watered by good wells, windmills and tanks,
and each block on inspection will be found to have ample water
facilities, while two of the blocks have long frontages to the conserved
water supply of the Yanko Creek.
TERMS:
Cash; 10% on signing Contract, balance on completion.
DELIVERY DATE:
On or about 31st March, 1951.
REMARKS;
“Moonbria” Station since 1884 has been one of the breeding centres of
the celebrated BOONOKE STUD FLOCK. The Yanko Creek frontage
blocks are eminently suited for Intense cultivation of fodder crops,
lucerne and citrus crops by spray irrigation.
VENDORS’ SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Norton Smith & Co., 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AGENTS NOTE:
20% of total commission on the sale of respective blocks will be paid to Agents
introducing successful buyers in writing and arranging inspection prior to the sale.
For further details or arrangements to inspect apply to Vendors’ Agents:—
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated jn England in 1863)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, DENILIQUIN AND BRANCHES
DALGETY & CO. LTD., MELBOURNE AND BRANCHES
(Incorporated in England) Agents in conjunction
NOTE:
Surplus Station plant, Furniture and Fittings will be offered at public auction
on “Moonbria” Station on 7th March, 1951. Watch the press for full details.
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co»Pty.Ltd.KtnflSt.Sydney
Bsdaile’s have a full range of BR OAD HURST & CLARKSON
GFG
TELESCOPES
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also
Telescopic
Prismatic
Binoculars,
Sights,
Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
F
casss
QUIRK’S
VACUUM CLEANERS
Here's an up-to-date Vacuum Cleaner that can
be operated from your own lighting plant—a
wonderful boon to the country housewife!
Operates on 32, 50, 110 and 240 volts. Quirk's
Vacuum Cleaner is well designed and built to
do a thorough cleaning job, taking up the dirt
with powerful easy suction from all your carpets, floors, curtains,
etc. Complete with modern attachments for cleaning.
COUNTS Y
HOMES!
M
AND FLOOR POLISHERS
Choose a Quirk's Floor Polisher and Scrubber and eliminate the
backbreaking work of hand polishing and scrubbing. It can be
operated from your lighting plant on 32, 50, 110 or 240 volts.
Solidly made, this three-brush polisher will stand up to continuous
hard work and is easily converted for scrubbing purposes.
QUIRK S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY ’Phone M 3114
MODERN
SANITATION
aim
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self'Contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
m
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEiA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
- DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane. ~
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Ldments Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide. ,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray bt., Bertft.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
river opines, “Bees never sting
me, you know. Never wear
them veil things—just don’t
never seem to sting me.” Him
be blowed!
The Small Generator.
“Radian”: Brush and commu-
tator faults lead to a multitude
of evils if allowed to persist, and
should be rectified as soon as
they are noticed. First symptom
of trouble at this point is usually
arcing—excessive sparking—at
one or more brushes.
Badly-worn brushes will cause
arcing; so will weak brush-
springs, brushes that are gummed
in their holders, a dirty commu-
tator and quite a few other
things. Worn brushes should be
replaced, and if arcing has been
excessive it is good practice to
renew the springs as well, be-
cause they are bound to have
lost a certain amount of tension
through heating. Brushes are
made chiefly from carbon,
graphite and copper, blended in
varying proportions to suit many
types of generators, which
operate under vastly-different
conditions, therefore it is most
important that the correct type
should be fitted for best results.
When fitting new brushes
make sure they are an easy
sliding fit in the holders. Brushes
that are tight should be carefully
rubbed down on a sheet of fine
sandpaper—not emery cloth. To
seat the brushes, thread a strip
of fine sandpaper round the
commutator, rough side out-
wards. Insert a brush in holder,
lower the spring on it and work
sandpaper gently back and
forth, continuing the process
until a clean new face has been
cut right across the brush. If
the seating has been done
properly, the face of the brush
should conform almost exactly
with curvature of the commu-
tator.
Brushes that are gummed in
holders should be removed and
cleaned by scraping—do not use
kerosene or petrol—and polished
with a dry piece of cloth. If
face is roughened through arc-
ing they should be reseated with
sandpaper, as for new brushes.
Sometimes it will be noticed
that only one brush is arcing,
and at the same time emitting a
pronounced whistle. Inspection
of this particular brush will
usually reveal a hard, polished
spot on the face* —once again,
sanding is the remedy.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Vic. Department
of Agriculture advises wearing
of gloves on all spraying occa-
sions, especially when handling
H.E.T.P., E 605, D.N.C. and
D.D.T. Castor-oil will offset
the burning effect of tar distil-
late. Another precaution advised
is against smoking while spray-
ing. This, officers say, will in-
crease the possible ill-effects of
E 605 or nicotine sulphate.
“Sarina”: Good compost
material for adding to potting
soil for ferns may be made by
shaving off sods of turf or grass
tussocks (swamp-grass is good)
and laying them grass-side up-
wards in the open. After the
grass has dried remove the sods
to a shady place and, by wetting
the heap occasionally and turn-
ing with a fork, encourage the
refuse to decay,
“Old Crab”: Some absorbed
flavors in cream can be side-
stepped by dispensing with
odorous disinfectants and salves,
renewing perished inflations and
rubber tubes, leading the engine
exhaust away from the dairy,
and making sure to store nothing
other than milk and cream in the
dairy itself.
“Sundowner”: Among one of
the most important of fire pre-
cautions is annual attention to
chimneys. Lacking proper
brushes, use the time-honored
wrapped brick. Burning-out is
dangerous and not completely
satisfactory, as it may bake soot
and leave a hard coating on the
inside of the flue.
“C.A.A.”: An application of
liquid manure (during dry
weather) or nitrate of soda one
ounce per square yard halfway
through the growing period will
make all the difference in ob-
taining succulent spinach and
silver-beet.
“Pip Tok”: That Australorp
hen which laid an outsize egg
containing another perfectly-
formed one near Geraldton (B.
6/12/’5O) inspired an 18-month-
old Muscovy duck at Utakarra,
in the same W.A. district. The
duck’s product was an egg with
a fragile outer shell, 3yin. long
and 2£in. across the centre. In-
side was a normal egg, with a
hard shell, to which was
attached the outer yolk.


GF
f
m
/A
A
i
That indefinable gift ,
which guides people of taste
and leads one instinctively to
select perfection , will ensure the
choice of Benson & Hedges as
the cigarettes for all occasions
when only the best will do .
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KINO
In
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZjHedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
What Kind of
Person Are YOU?
What age would you like
to be for the rest of your
life? If you were caught in
a lire, what would you grab
first? If you lost everything
you own, what would you do?
If you had just 24 hours to
live, how would you spend
them?
January issue of The
Header’s Digest tells how your
answers to questions like these
x'eveal what kind of person
you really are. Here’s a
psychological quiz to try on
your friends.
Your whole family will en-
joy January Header’s Digest
—packed with 80 stimulating,
informative articles from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Ru
re
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition , absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
FREE
Call or send stamp tor
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
06
IS
Circular Chart* for all- type*
of lnstruments
h* wf (l«u of Htchmoi?
•r Equipment
HfTER CHARTS • SpoctoKp
JXCUWM O'SULLIVAN % I*
SPORTING NOTIONS.
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
When the English flat-racing season
ended recently the inimitable and
seemingly perennial Gordon Richards
won the jockeys’ premiership for the
23rd time, with a tally of 201 wins,
194 seconds and 108 thirds from 872
mounts. Richards’s total now has
reached the remarkable figure of 4167
winners. Australian riders finished
well up on the list, Edgar Britt being
in fifth place with 81 winners, while
Arthur B'reasley was sixth with 73.
In other departments of racing for
the year the French invaders scooped
the pool. Marcel Boussac headed
the owners’ list with a carefully-
selected 11 wins, which yielded over
£57,000 in stakes. Showing the
extent to which Boussac picked the
choicest plums, the Aga Khan, who
was second on the list, led in more
than twice as many winners (24) but
picked up only £42,200, while J. V.
Rank, for whom Breasley rides, had
34 wins and collected only £21,800.
Boussac also headed the breeders’ list,
while his trainer, Charles Semblat,
headed the English trainers’ list with-
out even bothering to leave France.
Repeating, as it did, what has
become the monotonously regular
pattern of post-war racing in Eng-
land, the overwhelming success of
French invaders last season was a
sore blow to the pride, as well as the
pociccts, of leading English breeders.
In his presidential speech at the
annual meeting of the Thoroughbred
Breeders’ Association, Lord Rosebery
recently expressed his views on the
matter, and some of the barely con-
cealed drops of pure caustic in his
speech indicate what a sore point the
matter is with English breeders. A
few extracts from a London “Times”
report of Lord Rosebery’s speech,
which was read, in his absence, by
Lord Derby:
“We must congratulate M. Boussac.
He is fortunate in possessing one or
two of the best stallions in Europe,
which he keeps almost entirely for
himself; and, as he has, lam credibly
informed, nearer 200 than 100 mares,
he finds no difficulty in doing so, and
we must expect him to be a for-
midable rival for years to come.
“The fact that a foreigner is head
of the list of breeders here has
aroused a storm of comment from
those in this country who consider
that they have sufficient knowledge
of breeding to do so. I have been
struck by the number of people who
have said that we have not been win-
ning the classic races this year because
we have been breeding from the
wrong sort of mares, and that, so
far as I can make out, we should
breed more from the mares’ per-
formances than from their pedigrees.
“As a matter of fact, great mares
have not been so famed for their
produce as moderate ones. There is,
m truth, no royal road to success in
breeding. If there were, the mass-
producers like M. Boussac and the
Aga Khan would win every big race,
and that would take away the plea-
sure of horse-breeding from those
who now study it and find great
interest in its uncertainty.
“My own view, for what it is worth,
is that it is not the fault of the mares,
but the lack of great stallions. We
have not had an outstanding sire
since Hyperion, and he is getting on
now in years, although he has had a
wonderful season this year.
“You must remember that we lost
three Derby winners when the Aga
Khan sold Blenheim, Mahmoud and
Bahram to go abroad. They and their
descendants might easily have been
invaluable if they had remained here.”
It is not recorded whether the Aga
Khan was present at Lord Rosebery’s
speechmaking, but his ears must have
been a trifle pink, wherever he was.
On a similar occasion a couple of
years back Lord Rosebery proffered
quite a different explanation of a
French supremacy which was even
then making itself embarrassingly
apparent. The theory then was that
French bloodstock, under the alleged
patronage of the German invaders,
had enjoyed much better feeding and
general conditions than the English
horses during the war years.
M. Boussac was offered, and rather
eagerly accepted, an opportunity to
reply to this “better-feed” charge
when his filly Cortil last month won
the Gimcrack Stakes and he was con-
sequently guest-of-honor at the annual
dinner of the “Anciente Fraternity of
York Gimcracks,” with the attendant
privilege of delivering the Gimcrack
speech. Boussac launched straight
into the subject which he knew would
be expected of him. Again from a
London “Times” report;
“A certain uneasiness is shown in
England about the success of French
horses. The belief that the French
victories were a result of better feed-
ing during the war is a legend. French
breeding suffered a heavy blow
through the German invasion of 1940,
which disorganised the chief stud
farms. It bore the brunt of German
requisitions, hitting a large number
of brood mares and stallions, con-
sidered, at the time, as the elite
among French thoroughbreds. Many
stud farms were destroyed or damaged
during the battle of Normandy, and
the complete absence of transport
during those six months gravely preju-
diced the breeding of yearlings and
foals of that generation. French
breeding went through a much harder
period than that in England.”
Having squashed the war-time-food
notion, and after also ridiculing the
suggestion that French training
methods are superior, or even
different, Boussac proceeded to
advance his own theories in explana-
tion of the present decline of English
stock and ascendancy of the French
with the introductory remarks:
“The present vitality of French
breeding is not the result of an acci-
dent, but of an evolution which was
begun, or rather resumed, after World
War I.
“English breeding is always carried
on with the same blood. I, myself,
have sent, every year, a number of
brood mares to be covered by English
stallions. During the last pre-war
years I had great difficulty in finding
the new bloods that I desired.”
Boussac then explained the general
breeding plan he has followed,
thus: —
“A friend who had widely travelled
once told me that one of the most
fascinating sights that he had ever
seen was a ‘white ball’ at San Fran-
cisco. Never had he seen an assembly
of young girls so lovely and graceful,
and when I asked him what he
thought was the reason for this he
said that, in his opinion, it was
because San Francisco is a ‘racial
crossroad.’ Everywhere else you see
a type very often too strongly marked.
There, on the contrary, racial blend-
ing re-established harmony and
balance.
“When I first took up breeding I
looked for precepts from the past.
I noticed that nearly always the evolu-
tion of the great breeding centres was
identical. When arrived at their
highest point they continued to work
with the same blood, and the decline
followed. I then remembered San
Francisco and the racial blending,
and I sought the best English, Ameri-
can and French bloods it was possible
to find.
“In 1918 I took over the breeding-
stock of Mr. H. B. Duryea, who had
set up a stud-farm in France in 1908
and had had considerable success. In
England I sought out the best blood
lines, applying, naturally, very often to
Lord Derby, probably the greatest
English breeder. In France I looked
for blood called ‘Old French blood.’
This I found at Mr. de Saint-Alary’s,
whose rule had always been to keep
this blood intact, and who obtained
the greatest success with this breed.
“These blendings, to which have
been added, naturally, the new bloods
which had proved their worth, after
30 years of selection, resulted in the
bloodstock I am now breeding.
“Breeding is not carried out in an
office. Breeding is not just taking
the pedigree of stallions and brood
mares, then placing them side by side
for breedings and outcrossings follow-
ing specified rules. This would be
too simple and easy. I think that
matings ought primarily to be
inspired by the physical qualities of
the individuals treated, and also by
the result already obtained. Having
all these elements you can then work
on the origins in amalgamating all
these conditions with the scientific
crossings, drawing therefrom conclu-
sions which, perhaps, will give you
the result you wish. This demands
a great deal of work and a know-
ledge, une psychologic, of all the
elements which go to make up your
stock, and as stock is an essentially
shifting subject, a constant change in
the methods, or at least in their
application.”
* * * *
On the home front, 1951 racing
kicked-off with the Standish and
Bagot Handicaps double at Fleming-
ton and the TattersalTs Club Cup
meeting at Randwick, both on New
Year’s Day.
At Flemington, Ungar scored his
second Standish Handicap, but it was
also his last race. Ungar broke
down during the race; however, he
was able to limp past the post the
merest fraction ahead of Not Proven
in a camera-finish. Tiptop sprinter,
and winner, among other good races,
of a Doomben Ten Thousand, Ungar
is a five-year-old entire by Law Maker
from Viennese, a daughter of The
Night Patrol, and tracing, on her
dam’s side, through Spearmint to
Carbine. From an even 40 starts
Ungar had scored 13 wins, had been
placed on another nine occasions and
had bagged just under £21,000 in
stakes. The 13-furlongs Bagot Handi-
cap went to the four-year-old Free
Kick, who won comfortably from
Hoyle and Saxony.
* * * *
A.J.C. committeeman Pat Osborne
does not race many horses nowadays,
contenting himself with a small string
of his own breeding. When one does
see something carrying his colors one
can almost bet, without looking at the
racebook, that it is a descendant of
his great mare Valicare. Such was,
as usual, the case when the striking
all-green colors greeted the judge in
the TattersalTs Club Cup. They were
carried by Freedom, a five-year-old
by Burhan Ali from Care Free, who
is a direct descendant of Valicare.
lolanda and Admetus filled the places
in Tatt’s Cup, both starting at 25
to 1, while the winner was at sixes.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Encourage: Port, 1;
Oreel, 2; Betoota Bound, 3. Three-
year-old : Constant Spear, 1; Elegant
Lad, 2; Stelvio, 3. Juvenile En-
courage ; Field Prince, 1; Free Rule,
2; Caphua, 3. Novice: Delaware,
1; Franjohn, 2; Strathvale, 3. Sefton
Handicap: Heliofly, 1; Warrah King,
2; Midwise, 3. Warwick January
Handicap; Karachi, 1; Captain
Roddy, 2; Ballroom, 3. Minto
Handicap: Uranium, 1; Golden Tan,
2; Traveller, 3.
* * * *
Quite the funniest sight of the
current Test series is a rear view of
Fred Brown and Lindsay Hassett
going out together for the toss —
Captains Outrageous. Brown would
be a big man in any company. He
combines commanding height with
imposing bulk. A great, massive,
powerful breadth of shoulder lends
respectability to a somewhat alder-
manic girth. Brown is almost as
much John Bull-in-the-flesh as is
Churchill the British bulldog.
Hassett, on the other hand, would be
a little man in pretty well any com-
pany, though, be it added, little only
in stature. He is short, and slender
in proportion. Hassett irresistibly
brings to mind pictures of gnomes,
elves, leprechauns and other such
mystic small fry. The sight of the
pair striding out together on to the
vast S.C.G. arena is a delight in itself.
When they went out to perform the
ceremony prior to the third Test on
Friday, Brown’s Test record was two
tosses, two losses. In the parlance
of the two-up ring, he had been a
tails-backer. For his third try he
entrusted his all to the theory of
averages, and again called tails. This
time he was right.
The wicket was allegedly perfect,
and all in the garden seemed rosy
for M.C.C. It looked like a change
of luck for the visitors, but before the
day was out they were once again
in strife, fighting desperately, and
with worse to follow. The early dis-
missal of Washbrook (caught magnm- j
cently in slips by Miller) did not
seem an overwhelming disaster, as
Hutton and Simpson proceeded to
get themselves well dug in. The 100
came up —110 —120; then came the
move that wrecked an innings. With
the old ball just about run its course,
Miller was brought on. In a flash he
had Hutton deceived by flight, beaten
by pace and out 1.b.w.; Compton
came in, and a moment later was on
his way back with wicket spread-
eagled and a duck to his credit. Then
lan Johnson bagged Parkhouse, and
not long after Miller added Simpson
to his noble collection. Skipper
Brown and Bailey halted the rot and
saw out the remainder of the day’s
play.
On Saturday disaster piled on
disaster for M.C.C., with the one
redeeming feature Brown’s grand,
fighting, captain’s innings for 79-
up to then the highest individual
score registered by any player of
either side in the current series.
Despite Brown’s stand, M.C.C. was
all out for 290, and ill-luck managed
to deliver them a final parting kick
even in the last fractional second of
their innings, when Wright, one of
their chief bowling hopes, while run-
ning desperately in a forlorn attempt
to avoid the run-out which ended
the innings, tore a thigh muscle, and
was later unable to take his place in
the field. As well, another of their
top bowlers in T. Bailey sustained a
fractured thumb when he used that
member to intercept a fast’un from
Lindwall.
Against a thus-impoverished attack
Archer and Morris opened for Aus-
tralia and perpetrated, if that is the
word, an opening partnership of one
run—scored by Archer; for the fourth
time in five successive Test innings
Morris fell victim to the wiles of
Bedser. Skipper Hassett, however,
then joined Archer, and soon made
it clear that there was to be no
repetition of such nonsense. The
crowd of 51,786, plus untold dead-
heads, soon took the hint and began
to depart in droves, in doing which
they showed commendable good
sense; those who thus fled the scene
were spared the spectacle of Hassett,
with studied caution, defensively
blocking full-tosses. One for 110 at
stumps on Saturday.
* * * *
Australian sporting personalities
were not neglected in the recent New
Year Honors list, although many folk
scanning the list of M.B.E. recipients
might not immediately recognise
Henry Christian Hopman as the cap-
tain of our recently-victorious Davis
Cup team. Harry well deserved
recognition of the tremendous amount
he has done, both officially and
privately, for tennis over many years
past. Other sporting identities in the
same list were Walter Lindrum and
Australian Olympic Federation sec-
retary-treasurer James Sydney Wallace
Eve.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
incentive to Serve
Despite the fine achievements
of Australian sailors, soldiers
and airmen in two world wars,
there are no such things as indi-
vidual units to carry on the tradi-
tions thus won. In the 1939-45
war A.I.F. units were distin-
guished from their 1914-18
counterparts by the prefix “2,”
thus driving a wedge between
the serving soldiers of the two
wars. Worse, no attempt was
made to attach even a small
group of First World War
personnel to their corresponding
units in the second war.
But the worst blow of all to
Australian arms is the concen-
tration of all records and trophies
at Canberra.
Few young Australians of
military age visit that weird
country town which claims to be
the nation’s capital. And with-
out knowing the recruitment
figures in the A.C.T, I’d say they
wouldn’t be high.
How different it would be if
the various battalions and regi-
ments had their trophies at suit-
able headquarters in the cities
and districts whence they were
enlisted! In Scotland, for in-
stance, many of the regimental
headquarters are clubs and
museums as well. There, new
recruits brush shoulders with the
veterans of several wars, and
age is levelled by the fact that
all have the regiment in
common.
The clubs are clubs in the real
sense of the word (in that happy
land there is no need to haggle
with a McGirr for a licence),
and they have proved themselves
as valuable recruiting centres.
The lack of tradition in the
Australian forces was brought
home the other day when a
serving officer revealed during a
discussion that he had never
heard of Fromelles. Further
probing elucidated that, although
he had heard of the Hinden-
burg Line, he knew nothing
of Pozieres, Bullecourt, Pass-
chendaele or Villers-Bretonneux.
Apparently Dr. Bean’s splendid
history is not compulsory refad-
ing for young commissioned
men.
If serving officers know
nothing of the battle honors of
Australian arms it is reasonable
to assume that young potential
soldiers are equally ignorant. At
the same time it is reasonable
to assume that if they were told
something of Australian military
history, and if Canberra, the
least Australian of our cities,
were deprived of the nation’s
battle trophies and these
were distributed throughout the
Commonwealth, a better enlist-
ment figure would result.
What applies to the Army
applies to a lesser degree to the
R.A.A.F. The Navy, of course,
already has its trophies in our
maritime cities.
Only fatuous politicians would
expect young fellows to catch
the flame of service from hack-
neyed newspaper advertising. We
have the tradition and the men ;
it’s time they were brought to-
gether.—Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
A Jubilee Suggestion
The Commonwealth Jubilee
celebrations offer the opportunity
to reprint works of the more
popular authors and poets now
out of print. There should be a
good demand for well-got-up
editions of On Our Selection, a
volume of “old-tirne” short
stories, such as “Fisher’s Ghost”
from John Lang’s Botany
Bay, “Castro’s Last Sacrament,”
and so forth. As to our poets,
isn’t it an opportune time for a
reprint of Will Ogilvie’s verse.
The Bulletin Reciter and Bush-
man and Buccaneer, to mention
some for which inquiries are
so often made? It seems an in-
complete and futile gesture to
the memory of these men to erect
monuments of stone to them
while allowing their works to
become unobtainable, Grey
Box (N.S.W.),
Resumption of Land
The Westralian Government is
resuming land for the expansion
of its railway system, and the
resumption, mainly in residential
areas within eight miles of the
city, will involve the demolition
of between three and four
hundred houses. Some are old,
some have just been completed.
All are “home” to the families
who are living in them, and,
despite Government assurances,
there’s a general impression that
the evicted owners will not be
adequately compensated.
So far, the Government has
been very reticent about the
business. Over the past three
years surveys have been taken
and plans made with a secrecy
which was maintained until the
position was revealed in a Press
announcement. Three Road
Boards which are about to lose
large areas of rateable land were
neither consulted nor advised of
the impending resumptions.
While the plans were being
completed houses were permitted
to be built in the knowledge that
they would stand for little more
than 12 months. That action, in
the present housing shortage,
cannot be excused or justified.
The wisdom of the proposed
extension is not questioned—
except by those who maintain
that road transport could take
over from the railways. Neither
is the urgency for it, or the
selected site. But the question of
compensation is a very real one.
What, in such a case, consti-
tutes adequate compensation?
Even if the owners are paid
sworn valuation at existing rates,
that money would be inadequate
to replace the building. Even
if they are paid the estimated re-
placement costs, they would still
be out of pocket, because most
of the material that they would
require would cost them black-
market rates, enhanced by the
necessity of replacing the three
or four hundred houses. And,
at the present inflationary trend,
the cost of building will have
increased by 20 per cent, by the
time these people can build.
There is only one way they
could be even approximately
compensated —by replacing their
homes with new buildings at
least equal to the ones they now
own, plus a sum to cover
cost of the transfer and
of replanting gardens, lawns,
etc., which they have built up.
At that they would show a
" NO—mine's two below."
loss, plus the inconvenience and
hardship of starting afresh.
The case is a local one, but it
applies wherever land is liable to
be resumed. — Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Farm Jobs
If, as “Mikyo” complains (B.
13/12/’5O), S.A. cockies are
making conditions a bit tough
for their harvest-hands, things
must be very different from
current conditions in Victoria.
Here, if a cocky does not meet
the demands (mostly tough ones)
of the he gener-
ally finds that he’s on his own.
Wages paid for harvest work
have always been governed by
the supply of and demand for
labor. It’s not so many years
since men —1 was one of them —
travelled around the farms seek-
ing harvest jobs at six-bob a day
and tucker. Conditions were
tough—l 2 hours a day and a
full day’s work on Saturdays.
The supply of labor then greatly
exceeded the demand and the
cocky held the big stick.
But things are just the
opposite now. At harvest-time
the cocky comes to town hawk-
ing his jobs at anything up to
£2 a day and tucker —and he
gets plenty of rebuffs. And
should he be lucky enough to
secure a man, he dare not offer
him the shed the old-hands used
to doss in or expect him to work
on Saturday afternoons. If be
did he would quickly be told
what to do with his job.
At the present the cocky is
getting the raw deal. Men are
dictating their terms just as he
dictated his in the days when
labor was plentiful. Some of
the men to whom he now pays
big money he would not have
considered worth six-bob a day
in years gone by. The pendulum
has swung against him, but it
will swing his way again some
day when men will be looking
him up for a job.
Strangely, when men were
chasing work and competing
against each other for it, and
were prepared to accept it under
almost any conditions, we heard
fewer grumbles than we do to-
day when the workers—harvest-
hands and otherwise are hold-
ing the trump-card, and more or
less dictating their own con-
ditions. — Beau Forte (Vic.).
D.C.A.
I have before me the Civil
.Aviation Department’s Report
to the Nation” for 1948-49. It
is truly a monumental effort and
most comprehensive, but whether
much of the information so
carefully set out and illustrated
with graphs, etc., will be worth
twopenn’orth of cold gin 12
months hence is another matter.
The graph illustrating a com-
parison of revenue and expendi-
ture for the past decade very
naively states that the depart-
ment is not primarily a revenue-
earning department; one might
be tempted to say that it is not
even in the secondary category
as regards earning. The graph is
illustrated by a traditional
“capitalist” (tophatted and
bloated) having a game of see-
saw with a diminutive figure.
Precisely what that is supposed
to represent is not clear, unless
it is that expenditure is about
five times that of earnings.
With a staff establishment of
3604 persons at 30/6/’49 —701
persons at the head office and
2903 elsewhere —it can be taken
that salaries account for the
usual huge figure.
The appendix showing the
designations of all these people
is illuminating, and most phases
of human activity, except mid-
wives, seem to be represented.
Many of the occupants of these
assorted posts must be hard put
to it to fill in their days, unless
possibly they are required to
collate information in reply to
senseless questions asked, with
or without notice, in Parliament.
What strikes the layman, in
surveying this host of technicians
and others not so technical, is
the fact that all the big private-
and Government-owned airline-
operating companies have their
own huge staffs. Surely there
must be a lot of double-banking.
One good feature is that, despite
a head-office staff of 701 in
Melbourne, the actual printing
of the book was given to a
Maryborough (Vic.) firm of
printers —there is at least that
concession to the policy of
decentralisation. — Ceg (Vic.).
Charity
Button-sellers and their like
should be prohibited. A pro-
gressive nation would minimise
the need of financial help by giv-
ing those who can work a
chance to earn a living. It
would, without insidious charity,
relieve distress adequately for
those who cannot.
A Government shirks responsi-
bilities when a section of the
people is willing to usurp its
job by supporting the needy.
Hospitals will not be securely
maintained by an authority
while undignified lottery-office
jostles are their main support.
The late Henry Ford gave
nothing to charity, but he gave
anyone a chance to earn a liv-
ing. He found the blind more
efficient where delicate touch is
required; he employed the deaf
where their affliction was no
handicap. He did not believe
that a one-armed man could
only drive a lift.
None would condemn the
charitable mind. There are few
great advances without human
sympathy. It is in order to help
people that every notable service
is undertaken, but this fine
motive force is used for ends
too small. If human sympathy
prompts us to get people out of
trouble it should prompt us to
give the larger goal of keeping
them out of it.
Professional chanty and com-
mercialised humanitarianism de-
grade recipients and drug their
self-respect, and the giver de-
velops an undemocratic attitude
of patronage towards the re-
ceiver.^ — Tackline S. (N-S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 103
Across.
I—Subjugating1—Subjugating the firm part of an
angel’s flying equipment. (6)
4—Spoke in a low voice that Edward
followed mother in Germany. (8)
9 —Had, but this is what one says
when Edward drops a brick on
one’s toe. (5)
10 —Found a buyer for a whelp when
hornswoggled. (4, 1,3)
12 —State of Diana’s breakfast after
breakfast. (7)
14 —Chatoyant under the weather. (4)
16 —Lip of laboratory spirit. (6)
18 — A 12ft. 6in. embrace? (6)
19 — Sounds like a letter islet. (3)
20 — The proscription from an ancient
Egyptian city. (6)
21 — Seclusion of the women’s apart-
ments turning up with hard
change. (6)
22 — Pitcher more like Lamb’s mother?
(4)
23 — Behold the heart of the desert
transport in medicine. (7)
26 — Sing about a N.S.W. harbor
fellow when poking borak. (8)
27 — Proverb of the last 1950 years. (5)
28 — Material paintings and such-like
case the back-answers. (8)
29—Underworld like the address of
classic culture. (6)
Down.
1 — Polynesian interior decorator 1
defame. (4, 8)
2 State Edward declined. (5)
3 Spanish gentleman rising in a
condition which sends most
people to bed. (3)
5 Bearing no resemblance to Ly. (8)
6 Part up for a snare. (4)
7 Thug’s brick-carrier denotes the
manner of riding brutally. (9)
g—So rising over South Australia is
a mountain of 29 across. (4)
11 —Betting middlemen, but surely not
the people who hang on to the
things that martyrs were burnt
at. (5-7)
13 —Whoever employs a seaman or
curses. (6)
15—Christmas gift book. (6)
17_Flower the caprine version ot
Melbourne’s big horse-race? (9)
18 —Able to conserve the end of the
Corsican. (3)
19_ Vehicle to ring an inlet to a
switchboard of Charlie. (8)
23 Gears. (4) ' .
24 — Wood from everything that t
have. (5)
25 —Distant muddling of a rising
British fighting force. (4)
27 —One we dread. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 102.


it oM- |
way?"’
... m
\
/
m
is
\1
m
m
“Whenever performance and economy are needed you’ll find “M.V.” Products on the job.’
The thoroughness in research and integrity in manufacture which have been maintained by Moffat-Virtue Ltd. for over half a century are the result of
knowing the Primary Producers problems and meeting his needs.
A most modern plant, equipped with the latest machine tools, and highly skilled engineers combine in producing the famous “M V.” lines . . . today
more widely preferred than ever before. Every day adds new names to the list of satisfied users.
From the modern Moffat-Virtue Plant
FG
m
PRODUCTS
F
GF
G
FG
FGF
G
F
"M.V." BALL BEARING SHEARING
MACHINERY
“M.V.” Ball Bearing Shearing Gear has gained preference
because of its special exclusive features?. Experienced graziers,
men who are in a position to Judge impartially, have proved
that for belter shearing, lower upkeep, lower shearing costs,
the Moffat-Virtue has no equal.
"M.V. 11 TRIMMER HANDPIECE
Well balanced and “lively,” it ensures easier shearing and
higher tallies, self adjusting back joint keeps spindles and cogs
in perfect alignment. Can be dismantled without disturbing
centre post adjustment. All parts can be fitted to the back
joint without dismantling shear.
"M.V." SEMI-PORTABLE BALL
BEARING SHEARING PLANT
Designed and built for those requiring a simple yet efficient
outfit, can be conveniently placed on the floor of shed, or on
level ground in yard and paddock. All metal construction.
Self-aligning Ball Bearings throughout. Down Tubes, Single
Belt Drive.
"M.V." SHEEP JETTING PLANTS
Senior and Utility Models ... the result of 10 years of
scientific investigation by the Department of Agriculture and
consultations with experts. These new letters can efficiently
treat from the largest to the smallest flocks.
"M.V." ROLLER SPRAY PLANT
A highly efficient little portable plant with a “Larger Spray
Plant” performance. Lightweight, compact, portable unit
that sprays quicker and better.
"M.V." FIRE FIGHTER
A sound and profitable investment for the protection of
pastures and improvements. Installed by the Forestry Bureau
at Canberra, many Shire Councils, Bush Fire Brigades and
prominent Pastoralists.
MULES OPERATION CRADLES
The proved scientific method of combating Fly strike. Simple,
Quick and Efficient. This process of fighting the most
expensive pest known to the industry is the only logical and
really effective one.
"M.V." PETROL AND KEROSENE
ENGINES
The ideal engine for general farm use. Smooth, easy running
at all s. ’s. They give you all those things you want in an
Engine—Low First Cost —Low Operating Costs—Long Life.
All M.V. Engines are totally enclosed and dustproof, keeping
the oil always clean. Sizes from 2{- h.p. to 6 h.p.
"M.V." DIESEL ENGINES
The fully balanced crankshaft reduces vibration and ensures
smooth running at all speeds. All parts are totally enclosed,
dustproof and oil-tight. Starts immediately from cold. Sweet
running, complete combustion and low fuel consumption.
Obtainable in h.p. up to 50 h.p.
"M.V." ELECTRIC HOME LIGHTING
PLANTS
For every home, large or small. Electricity is the cheapest
luxury in the world that can be enjoyed by Everyone . . .
Anywhere. M.V. Plants are Safe . . . inexpensive . . .
trouble-free, and thoroughly reliable. Every plant is carefully
tested before it leaves our factory. No matter where you live
you can enjoy the comforts of perfect lighting . . . easier
housework.
"M.V." SPRAY IRRIGATION
is the answer to dry times. With an “M-V.” you can make
your own rainfall —the equal of a light shower or heavy
downpour —whenever you wish. The M.V. has been designed
by experts, and the new type of coupling makes for maximum
flexibility.
Write to-day for full particulars. Our Expert Irrigation
Engineers will be pleased to assist you.
"M.V." PERFECTED MILKING
MACHINE
The culmination of over 40 years’ experience, “M.V.”
is simplicity simplified. It is quicker, cleaner, more hygienic,
and so much simpler than any other machine in to-day.
It is not a copy of any existing milking machine, but some-
thing entirely new and different.
"M.V." WARP-PROOF SAW BENCH
Combined Ripping and Cross-cutting Top Type. Warp-
proof, General Purpose. Strong and Reliable. Cannot be
affected by weather, white ants, dry rot or borers. The main
parts are'fire-resisting. The bench is fitted with six rollers,
ensuring smooth movement and better control of the timber.
"M.V." PEST ARRESTOR
The most useful instrument ever offered to Pastoralists. Lever
operated by one hand like a pair of hand shears. It is
speedy, accurate, and efficient. To dress cuts during shearing
and lamb marking—to dress fly-blown sheep—to drench sheep
with measured doses.
GF
GF
GF
GF
G
F
GFG
FG
“We Made Them Good - Users Made Them Famous”
DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND
VICTORIA ........
WEST AUSTRALIA
Moffat-Virtue (Q’ld.) Pty. Ltd., 260
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Tel. 87735-
38-42 ; 269 Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
Tel. 1637 ; and Swan Street, Longreach,
Q’ld. Tel, 390.
Grazcos Co-operative Limited, 90 William
Street, Melbourne. Tel. MU8551.
Elder Smith & Co. Limited. 111-113 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth. Tel. 85181.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
TASMANIA
NEW ZEALAND
Stockowners’ Co-operative Shearing Co.
Ltd., 20 Gilbert Place, Adelaide. Tel.
1725. Elder Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31
Currie Street, Adelaide. Tel. Central 3001.
Wm. Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins
Street, Hobart. Tel. 6548. 32 Charles
vStreet, Launceston. Tel. 2307.
Booth MacDonald & Co. Ltd., Christ-
church and Branches.
Telegrams
and Cables:
“VIRTUE,” Sydney
JRoffaf -Virtue Xld.
ENGINEERS, MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Telephones:
FF 1201
(12 lines)
EPSOM ROAD . . . ROSEBERY, N. S. W.
