

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73 —No. 3774
Wednesday, June 11, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
S eppelts
THE Isle of Skye, largest of the Inner
Hebridean Islands, is famous through-
out the world, not only for its magnificent
mountain scenery, for its close associa-
tions with Bonnie Prince Charlie and
Flora Macdonald, but also for its posses-
sion of historic Dunvegan Casue. nor
centuries this great fortress has been the
ancestral home of the chiefs of the Clan
MacLeod and today it is occupied by
Flora MacLeod of MacLeod who has the
unusual Highland distinction of being a
lady chief of a great clan. The love of
the' Highlander for his homeland is
proverbial, and on two occasions in the
past MacLeods from many lands have
been received at a great family gathering
at Dunvegan Castle.
The history of Dunvegan is the his-
tory of the Hebrides, which were under
Norse domination from the eighth cen-
tury until 1266, when Magnus-Jarl
abandoned ail claim to these islands.
The Castle probably originated before
the tenth century as a single tower with
a sea-gate. In succeeding centuries,
however, it passed through many stages
of development and today it is a splendid
example of the craftsmanship of many
generations of castle-builders.
The Castle stands twenty-two miles
from Portree on a spur of rock which
rises above Dunvegan Loch. At one time
the castle was accessible only from the
sea by a portcullised gateway. Today,
however, entrance is gained by a bridge
across a ravine which originally served
as a moat. The walls of the fifteenth
century tower are ten feet thick, and
below are the dungeons in which a Mac-
Leod is reputed to have imprisoned his
beautiful wife.
Dunvegan was visited by Dr. Johnson
in 1773 and by Sir Walter Scott in 1815,
and their letters referring to their visits
are exhibited within the Castle. The most
interesting and valued exhibit, however,
is the Fairy Flag of mysterious origin
and on whose safe-keeping, according to
tradition, depends the family fortune.
Many legends are associated with this
ancient banner, now brown with age,
which is said to have been taken from a
Saracen chief by one of the MacLeods
during the Crusades.
During the Napoleonic Wars the Isle of
Skye supplied the British army with the
surprising total of seventy-one generals
and other high-ranking officers, one-
hundred-and-seventy pipers and ten-
thousand foot-soldiers.
TURRETTED DUNVEGAN, HOME OF THE MACLEOD OF MACLEOD
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
|mi tint SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON


iUU
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
———— CUT HERE AND ——
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.362) Age
The Red Page
WILMOT'S WAR HISTORY.
At least two Australians made inter-
national reputations for themselves as war
correspondents during World War 11.
One of them was Chester Wilmot. His
Tobruk recommended him particularly to
his fellow-countrymen. His Struggle for
Europe (Collins) is an impartial, docu-
mented and authoritative short history of
the five years’ contest against Hitler in the
main war theatre, which in its compass
and analysis of the strategy of the war
and the diplomatic debates behind the
fighting surpasses anything that has yet
been published.
The 717 pages of narrative, with a
complete index and a short introductory
summary of his course and his conclusions,
make a product of first-class craftsman-
ship. The work establishes the author as
a historian as well as an accomplished
journalist. Besides seeing many actions
in Western Europe with his own eyes—
he landed with the first ‘airborne troops
on D-Day in Normandy—he was, after
hostilities ceased, given special privileges
by Eisenhower and Montgomery for
research among Allied and German
documents, for interrogation of Allied
and captured German officers, and for
consultation on his digested material with
senior officers of Allied staffs.
'The great value of Wilmot’s book is to
explain how the Western Allies, while
gaining military victory, were politically
defeated; how Soviet Russia —having
begun by assisting Hitler, and ended by
double-crossing her allies against Hitler —
came to dominate the post-war scene in
Europe and Asia; a survey based largely
on admissions by Roosevelt’s own
personal staff of Roosevelt’s appallingly
false estimate of Russian policy.
On the military side, Wilmot sides with
Montgomery in his differences with
Eisenhower and Bradley on the conduct
of the grand assault from the West on
Hitler’s “Festung Europa.”
The foremost British military critic,
Liddell Hart, praises Wilmot’s “insight
and judgment; his indefatigable pertina-
city in research, care for accuracy and
ability to marshal evidence are the mark
of true historianship, coupled with the
power of presentation that distinguishes
the best historical writing. Of all the
war histories his is the most illuminating
and the best balanced.” With this verdict
no reader will disagree.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Blue Mountains and Jenolan
Caves: Frank Hurley (Angus and
Robertson). Another of Mr. Hurley’s
popular “camera-studies,” with his usual
excellent photographs, accompanied by
letterpress dealing with everything from
escaped convicts and the first explorers
to bush-walks of today. Some of the
photographs, including a group of wild-
flowers, are in color, while some of the
black-and-whites of limestone forma-
tions, particularly the “mysteries” or
“helictites” and the “Bird’s Nest” in
the Temple of Baal at Jenolan, are ex-
ceptionally attractive. An ideal book, for
the tourist, whether as a guide-book or
souvenir.
♦ * * *
Iris and Its Culture: Jean Stevens
(Lothian). Mrs. Stevens is Federal Presi-
dent of the Australian and New Zealand
Iris Society, and, to quote from the dust-
jacket, “first made her name with such
beautiful irises as Destiny (which re-
ceived the Bronze Medal of the English
Iris Society, and later the Award of
Merit), Rangatira, Magnolia and In-
spiration. Today she is recognised as one
of the foremost breeders of bearded
irises in the world. Perhaps her greatest
success was in raising the first irises with
pure-white standards and yellow falls,
and her Pinnacle and Summit in this new
color combination are today making his-
tory in the iris world of the U.S.A.”
Illustrated in black-and-white with a
colored frontispiece and handsomely
produced in a large format, the book tells
everything the Australian or New Zea-
land iris-grower will want to know, and
will be equally valued by the expert and
the amateur. The style practical but
fluent, and so full of fascinating infor-
mation that anyone interested in flowers,
whether or not devoted to bearded irises,
can read it with pleasure.
* * * *
The Devil’s Caress: June Wright
(Hutchinson). A witch’s cauldron of
doctors at a seaside home out from Mel-
bourne, Victoria; the woman-doctor’s
doctor-husband is found dying of
exposure on a golf-links, and is entrusted
to a young woman-doctor friend, and not
to the doctor-husband’s doctor-assistant.
A mysterious doctor-on-horseback rides
round trying to get evidence to prove
why, years ago, he had to take the blame
for a mortal error of either the woman-
doctor or her doctor-husband. It is
found that the doctor-husband has been
murdered by deprivation of insulin for
his diabetes; suspicion falls upon the
woman-doctor, who is thought to be
anxious to marry a doctor of the
neighborhood, and upon her brother, a
ship’s surgeon ; on a nurse-relative; on
a beautiful vampire-nurse—the wit of the
book is all in the situations; and the
solution of the mystery, though it looks
like a faulty diagnosis, is certainly a
last-minute surprise.
* * * «
Forbes: Eve Keane, photographs by
Tim Meagher (Ziegler). A large-paper
account of the N. S. Wales town done
for the shire and municipality, with fine
new photographs and reproductions of
old ones. Forbes sprang up overnight in
June, 1861, as a canvas-town of 28,000
people interested in gold. Some say it
was named after a war-correspondent,
others after the first N. S. Wales Chief
Justice. Nowadays the people are still
interested in gold, but they dig it out of
sheep, grapes, pigs, cows, wheat. They
have a swimming-pool, a gasworks, an
aero-club, a water-supply and Future
Plans.
* * * *
Ldxdale Hall: Eric Linklater (Cape).
It revolves around the schoolhouse and
the production of a Greek play in a
Scottish village; Morag the schoolmarm
and young McKellaig do not do what
one would expect them to do in a Link-
later novel; and there is a lot of dis-
cussion without wit of modern problems
without solution; it is as though a
Jacquard loom, for fine tapestry, had
been put to the production of Harris
tweed.
* * * *
Velvet Johnnie: Peter Cheyney
(Collins). Cheyney’s absolutely final book,
seven very thin short stories. The best
thing about it is the introduction by the
late J. L. Garvin’s daughter, Viola, “In-
vestigating Cheyney”; a pleasant bit of
biography and appreciation, of which
one remembers mainly that Cheyney was
a literary agent: de mortals . . • still,
truth must be told. He was of good
family, his first short story .was pub-
lished on his fourteenth birthday ; he was
to have been a lawyer, and while he was
in a law-office —-and, indeed, all his life —
he spent his spare-time in the dark places
of London, studying crime and criminals.
He wrote songs for the stage, acted a
little, went to World War Fat 18, was
invalided-out unfit for further service
after the second Somme battle, wrote two
books of verse, etc. He published his
first gangster book in 1938, This Man Is
Dangerous ; and in 1938, the first “Slim
Callaghan” book, The Urgent Hangman,
almost, says Miss Garvin, a portrait of
himself in his earlier straitened circum-
stances, and probably his best book. Dur-
ing World War II he was a strict disci-
plinarian of the Home Guard. In all, his
novels and books of short stories number
38 —an average of two a year since 1936.
« * * *
Our Summer with the Eskimos: Con-
stance and Harmon Helmericks (Museum
Press). Two Americans who spent a year
with the 250 Eskimos who are the sole in-
habitants of 60,000 square miles of
Alaska. They wrote their book “sitting
on a floor of caribou-skins, by the light
of a coal-oil lantern, far from the world
of today,” and are to deal with their
winter adventures in a second volume.
With grizzly-bears by land and polar-
bears by sea ; huskies and caribou on the
snow, ugrug (seals to you) sliding from
the ice; wild geese and “sundogs” (mock
suns in rainbows of pink, green and violet)
in the sky; and Eskimos cooking on
primus-stoves at the Beechey Point
trading-post, scavenging the U.S. Army
and Navy dumps, or setting off on then-
sleds for the “fish-camp” at the mouth
of the Colville River. No special quality
in the writing but all pleasant and inter-
esting.
♦ * * *
Siamese White : Maurice Collis (Faber).
This is a reprint, considerably revised,
of the best of Maurice Collis’s historical
biographies, dealing in his sonorous and
colorful prose style with the career of
Samuel White, of Bath, who in the reign
of James II became a mandarin at the
Court of Siam in a fantastic setting of
umbrellas and sinister intrigues.
* * * *
Explorers and Discoveries: Denis
Clark (Longmans). A clear and simple
narrative describing, with quotations
from original documents, the voyages and
explorations of Marco Polo, Columbus,
Magellan, Drake, Mungo Park, Tasman,
Cook; also Franklin and Peary in the
Arctic, Scott and Shackleton in the Ant-
arctic. Admirable for schoolboys 4 and
readable, as an introduction to the sub-
ject, for adults.
* * * *
White Wings (Collected Short Stories ):
Elizabeth Goudge (Duckworth). Having
finished a story called “The Dark Lady”
the reader will be gratified to find that
his first guess was correct and that the tale
concerns one Mistress Anne Davenant,
for and about whom Shakspeare wrote
his famous sonnets. What is more, for
her niece, “little Audrey,” he composed
his well-known verses: “Where the bee
sucks there suck I ” thus causing that
“naughty poppet’s” cardiovascular system
to turn “her ears pink with pleasure.”
But Miss Goudge is overgenerous: we
are shortly to be allowed to overhear a
momentous decision by no less a person
than John Keats: a 15-year-old patient
at Guy’s Hospital, where Keats is a
medical student, having listened to his
declaration to the effect that “The roaring
of the wind is my wife and the stars
through the window-pane are my
children,” advises him to “Give up doc-
toring and be a poet”—“Very well,” said
Keats ; and he did. However, apart from
the momentous crises of poets, Henry
■VIII, Jane Austen and an unspecified
Emperor of Imperial China who is saved
from a murderous attack by three cute
little Pekineses named Wang, Magnolia
Blossom and Mee Too, Miss Goudge
writes archly on such modern themes
as repentant though burglarious tramps
and poor little children whose pocket-
money is inadequate for the purchase of
coveted goods in the village shop-window.
If any representatives of the race of dear-
old-white-haired-grannies yet survive, they
might enjoy this book.
* * * •
When That I Was: Dorothy McCall
(Faber). Reminiscences of a Victorian
childhood, mostly spent in the lawn-and-
, garden setting of the white Georgian
house Brooklands, at Blackheath, near
London. A book with a pleasing nostalgic
charm ; graceful, humorous and alert.
* * * *
A Psychologist at Work: E. Graham
Howe (Faber). Popular psychiatry
articles reprinted from “Picture Post,”
with gossipy case-histories.
■t * * *
Conspiracy of Silence: Alec Weissberg
(Hamish Hamilton). Weissberg was one
of the chief witnesses exposing the
Stalinist tyranny in the famous libel
action which David Rousset brought
against the Communist weekly “Les
Led res Fran?aises” in 1950. In 1937 he
was arrested during the Great Purge and
—an Austrian scientist and a member of
the Communist Party —was charged with
having recruited a gang of Nazi terrorists
to assassinate Stalin and Voroshilov and
to blow up industrial plant in the event
of war. To which, after seven days and
nights of continuous interrogation, with
the examining officers calling him
“Fascist bandit,” leaping up to grab him
by the throat or calling in the guards to
threaten him with torture, he confessed;
withdrawing the confession next day, to
be subjected to another four days of
non-stop interrogation. In 1940 the
G.P.U. handed him over to the Gestapo.
He says that one unforeseen result of the
Great Purge, in which Stalin hoped that
his prisoners, under the brutal interroga-
tion, would give the names of their
friends and associates, was that they
began to give the names of their enemies,
Stalin’s friends, so that “the number of
arrests rose to fantastic heights.” He
concludes: “Stalin persisted to the bitter
end with the Great Purge. Today there
is not a doubter left to disturb his peace.
The history of the whole world knows no
other example of such limitless power as
his. And yet he has not succeeded in
blotting out the memory of the Russian
people. Under the heavy layer still glows
the spark of freedom.” The autobio-
graphy, mostly dealing with Weissberg’s
interrogation and trial, is a big and
powerful story, covering in historical
fact much the same ground as Koestler’s
Darkness at Noon covered in fiction.
The Bridge .....
By Peter Bladen
[Prom “The Old Ladies at Newington,” the prizewinner in the Jubilee long-poem competition,]
What will the future say of our works?
What stones
Have we laid to withstand the drift of
time?
What artistic relics will questing ages
find? Our telephones
And our rockets will be old-fashioned!
And our sublime
Art—-do you wonder how judge
The surrealistic jigsaw, the impression-
istic smudge ?
I can imagine the comment: It is a pity
the years have preserved
The art of the child and lost the art of
the man!
Our will is no longer nerved
With sincere striving. Where is the studied
skill ?
Will men no longer seek beauty, and will
These deceptions live, that our mental
sloth began?
Do you remember the day the bridge vfas
opened? Bands!
And colorful throngs! Banners! Parades!
It seemed the whole land gathered, joining
hands!
Ten years, ten million pounds, strikes,
■ shifting sands,
The bungling, and the doubts! but all this
fades
At the ceremonial climax! Sound
The trumpets! The past is swept away
With a brilliant flourish and out of the
confusion
Unity is found in a single day
(For bridges are little more than an
illusion
Till the last plank is laid on solid ground!)
The First Train, crowded with all the very
elite.
Waited the signal to cross. There were
streamers and flags!
There were special telegraph forms! The
bagpipes! The drum-beat!
The dais where the worthies gathered, the
world at their feet!
And the Premier though, there were
thousands, dressed in rags.
Starving in wretched hovels, thousands
oppressed
By his dictatorial arrogance, enterprise
Stifled, class pitted against class —-
addressed
The world at large, gratuitously wise.
And he held the scissors of gold
Bejewelled with opals, with which he
would sever
The ribbon, completing the deed, as
plainly as though he told
The Nation this was his symbol of power
for everl
The crowds were breathless, factory
whistles, the guns,
The gay colored floats, awaited hia single
command.
, . . .But look!-—There has been a digres-
sion,
And faces turn to the guards! One of the
steeds
Is fractious - has broken line no! is
spurred
Forward! An officer gallops abreast
Of the ribbon, as the Premier utters his
final word;
The crowd has pressed, eagerly straining,
and hearts are aflame
(Their eyes were rapt when the sun
flashed)
With excitement behold this figure, heroic-
ally dressed.
Shouting: “I declare this bridge open in
the name
Of all the decent people of our Nation!”
and lunging with zest
He flourishes his sword; the symbolic
ribbon is slashed!
Yes, drag him from his horse, the
gallantry is ended!
Lead him away, and knot the precious
ribbon! The gold
Scissors must play their intended
Role, the button must be pressed for flags
to unfold,
Sirens and guns to echo and echo again
The glory of this day, but it is too late
To capture with ceremony the hearts of
a Nation-
The jewelled scissors are futile, when
already the courageous sword has
made plain
Its answer! In an earlier generation
The mountains were not crossed by the
State
Governor; merchants and counsellors did
not trace
The rivers or chart new roads across
The deserts. Our battles have been won
not by a race
Of paper giants but little men giant-
hearted.
The hero’s fall becomes the Nation's loss;
Thousands take up the struggle he has
started!
And should it matter to us, if the heroic
figure is taken and decried,
An impetuous outlaw who can’t be
countenanced?
It is not the deed so much as the defiance
That should resolve us from our apathy.
Completely tranced
The spirit of a people, stemmed by
oppression, without pride.
Continues in its dull, wretched compliance
Until some hero, rising, has protested,
Slashing the cord that held the land
arrested.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
re
All shoes are stocked in black calf and tan willow in full and half sizes.
isfif!
S Ml
. X I
t ' v*f i .-ri
-»=>C' r
y V;
I
/:
\ >
L > -4'
Mf/n
WL
:
I
■ ■' ■
OP
r>r
l \W
■. „«'■»
s«rv
• •<
"VI *
■. i i
V r/ .4) W's
m
■■ 44
'M
s ?5
'
p
irC/
:.v:a
4ir
77
i
-r
1
/
V
■44 ~-
\i'?r J>s^X
V-teSl-.?!®
' « /
/
Pi
izs
4v
Or
iV :■■
mm
m
m
11
i
K I
SB
X
7
4>C3^
I H
C*‘.
A. f > <■
- v r < />
\ i
I ;
/M
mm
m
*. ' '-' -
H
--X
I Hi
I
I
:-
/v*
i
m
■
m
;® i
,T' J £* //S
VVv ' f} (
' ' r &\Qbsf^ x /'■( /
A $
YJ
W
/)
%s
SHOES FROM 68 6
SMART LOOKS.. ALL DAY COMFORT
.. in this finer men’s footwear, handsomely crafted in six styles from choice leather to give superlative style and comfort. The richness
of quality in every detail goes a long way with value-wise men. Left. The Balfour, wide-fitting. Price 68/6.
Middle. The “English,” medium swing toe in “D &E” fittings. Price 68/6. Right. The “Byron” with long
extended last square toe. Priced at 68/6.
m
m
•'y, • <|^r
vi : >»■**£
r"'
tc?
I £
:. v ■■
; -V. fj
V*
: ■/.,
c^r?^r;
S'
sr
Below. The “King EE,” a sturdily-built shoe in good quality leather
and with medium fitting and square toe. Price 67/6.
Left. The “Leighton,” a finishing touch to your
dress. A very light-built shoe in black glace
kid. Priced at 78/6.
Comfortable, sturdy Golf shoes. Well wearing
golf shoes in light brown only. In Derby style
with non-slip rubber heels. Priced at 68/6.
WE ALSO HAVE STOCKS OF
FAMOUS MARSHALL SHOES
Imported Calf, priced at 101/-.
Imported Zebu Brogues, 1 1 3/-.
Marshall Custom-built Shoes from
68/6.
FLOOR, GEORGE STREET —PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT), MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


3K
V
i
Si*®
mmm
mm
m
■
m
m
%$
i- y -
mm
Ml
mmmm
■ i «8s: Kg
* J
l
*
ass s
11
&
IS! ■■■
* - ■ •: &
■ ;
- s i
m
m flli
D
m
I
i|il|iil||ll||ij|i||||
■ *
"I
mi I
sss
%m "s# hW*
cji q&OI
: IMAt
HI
11111
jis
...
Where does all the news come from?
How can a newspaper editor be sure there will always
be enough to fill his paper? Here’s what one editor
\
answered to this question ; “If you throw any given
number of people together, something interesting is
hound to happen”.
How right he was. You can imagine, then, the
interesting things that happen when 10,000 people come
together, as they do at General Motors-Holden’s. And
indirectly you can multiply that figure several times over ;
for there are the distributors and dealers who carry
General Motors’ service into every corner of the Com-
monwealth, there are the people who make the steel,
the people who make the tyres, the people who make
the paint, the people who make any of the components
that end up in a General Motors’ car or truck
or Frigidaire.
If you add it up, there’s a lot behind any GM-H
product a lot of people, a lot of interesting things, a
lot of research all helping to make more and better
things for more people.
dfg
GENERAL MOTOftS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
... aAh/i/M Me cAairty cMoi/yiaAoJi
4999 H
Passenger Vehicles: holden • vauxhall • Chevrolet • pontiac • oldsmobile • buick . Cadillac
Commercial Vehicles: holden coupe utility » Bedford trucks, utilities & buses . Chevrolet trucks, utilities & buses • maple leaf trucks & buses . g.m.c. trucks, utilities & buse
Non-Vehicle Products : NASCO Division: Automotive Parts and Accessories • FRIDIGAIRE Division: Domestic and Commercial Refrigerators • iDEC Division G.M. Diesels and industrial Equipment.


The Bulletin
y 0 l 73—No. 3774
Wednesday, June 11, 1952
>1
f
i&z
o
i A />
1 1 V
“THE MORE WE ARE TOGETHER”
(the sorrier we’ll be afterwards).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WAR OF NERVES.
Sydney “Sunday Herald’s” political
correspondent lately wrote, in concluding
some 2ft. of printed speculation on “an
interesting state of uncertainty in the
Government parties”:
While Cabinet is struggling [with its
Budget preparation] the private member
will have time to feel the full strength of
longing for the good old days of unin-
hibited inflation.
“The good old days,” that is, when the
Socialists were in office or obstructing
from the Senate, and did not care a
tinker’s curse about inflation, or about
preparation to meet a mounting threat
of war from Hitler’s successor, either.
In the same issue “Sunday Herald”
gave the main spread of its leader-page
to applying the voting returns at sundry
by-elections for several State Parlia-
ments and a couple of Federal seats as a
yardstick of how “unpopular” are the
Government’s credit restrictions, how
“Socialistic” and, presumably, how un-
necessary. As the week passed the
Socialist party took up the cry with
results from local-government elections
in Queensland; “Labor’s” Half-Premier
Cain in Victoria made the Commonwealth
Government’s “crazy policy” his party’s
campaign slogan for the Legislative
Council elections to be held there on
Saturday-week; and “Labor” Premier
Cahill in N.S.W. hailed the State
Assembly by-election in Ashfield (to be
held on the following Saturday) as a
chance to record public judgment not on
the Socialist mess in N.S.W. but against
the Menzies Government’s efforts to set
the whole national economy on some
stable footing.
The Cain diatribe against the Common-
wealth’s anti-inflation measures is
adapted straight from the propaganda cf
Moscow in the international sphere-
false, vituperative and designed to create
depression and panic. This is how it ran
for the opening of the local Legislative
Council elections:
The Menzies Government has refused to
be bound by the decisions of the Loan
Council, has set itself up as financial dic-
tator, defied the financial agreement in
the Constitution... .Its credit restrictions
have ruthlessly cut Victoria’s schemes for
better power, transport, housing, educa-
tion and hospitals, depressed the loan
market and made unemployment acute.
We can with every justification ask Mr.
Menzies when will be the proper time to
proceed with urgent public works [pre-
sumably financed on credit].
This is the theme for the Socialists'
war of nerves upon the electors.
The essential falsity of this “Labor”
propaganda for a return to “the good
old days of uninhibited inflation” is
easily exposed. In some of his last
speeches, inside and outside Parlia-
ment, the late Mr. Chifley, as
Opposition-lender, appealed to the Gov-
ernment to ignore the risk of unpopularity
and do something drastic to save the
Australian economy. At North Sydney
during the 1951 election campaign he
declared that somebody had “got to take
a firm hold of the national economy, but
the Government had done nothing.” A
little before that Dr. Evatt, then deputy-
leader of the Opposition, devoted a
Sunday-night broadcast to an appeal to
the Federal Government for an overall
plan to combat inflation and equip the
country to meet the threat of war. Strange
it sounds today! This was Dr. Evatt’s
“call for leadership” quoted extensively
in Press reports next day:
A national plan against inflation has
not yet been made, and it is the duty of
the “Labor” movement to secure immediate
decisions from Parliament in the interests
of all sections of the people. Australia
faces such an inflation of prices that
financial and economic suffering, and even
disaster, threatens.... Failure of the Gov-
ernment to act is aggravating the present
inflation, and the situation calls for a
degree of national planning which must
Involve elements of Government regulation
and so be foolishly denounced by Con-
servatives [the Liberals] as socialistic
In the meantime Australia faces a period
of acute crises both internationally and
locally.
Externally the drift towards a third
world war is apparent... .Defence measures
are essential, but these would not them-
selves prevent war.
In face of that. Dr. Evatt’s obstruction
today would be ludicrous if it were not
so obviously destructive of public morale.
Neither;' he nor his organised claque
currently mentions either the “call for a
plan to combat inflation” or the essential
need for rearmament expenditure—and
how is this possible without increased
taxation? —to prepare against the “dritt
to a Third World War.”
As for the Government’s back-
benchers, immediately under fire, they are
due to be reminded that they were elected
to aid party leaders who described the
national task to be undertaken and
pledged themselves to see it through.
Their constituents are equally due to be
reminded that they voted for it in full
awareness of the dangers they under-
stood. Treasurer Fadden, under the same
strain as Chancellor Butler in Britain, has
declared that he will not “throw away
his instruments” for righting the national
economy, especially when the cure is
beginning to work. Mr. Menzies
told the country in a New Year
national broadcast five months ago
that “the battle against inflation must
be won and will be won.” In
that cause, he said, “to accept un-
popularity is part of a Prime Minister’s
duty and I pledged myself to do that
duty to the limits of my capacity.” It
is also the duty which, on the evidence
of their own words, “Labor’s” leaders, in
a less scurrilous mood, demanded of him.
A reasonable assumption is that the
coming Budget will ease the chafing
caused in some places by the incidence
of credit restrictions and taxation pro-
visions—sales-tax increases, for instance,
as mentioned by Mr. Fairhall in
the supply - bill debate. But in
the main the Government and its
supporters should stand their ground.
They have been entrusted with the duty
to restore the national economy and,
along with other British Commonwealth
countries, to save sterling from collapse.
They may meet with some temporary
“unpopularity,” but that is no case for
deserting their posts.
The position the Menzies Government
faces is on all fours with that of the
Churchill Government in Britain. There,
too, defeated Socialist leaders, having
made the mess to be cleaned up, acknow-
ledged both supreme duty to rearm
the nation against threatened attack
and the critical weakness of sterling as
the result of dissipated capital reserves
and underproduction in essential indus-
tries. In Britain, too, voting at by-
elections and local-government elections
is hailed as a sign of the “unpopularity”
of necessary measures to safeguard the
country’s future. There, as here, the
“Labor” party is, in the words of the
London “Spectator,” “studiously avoiding
the astringent diet of economics for the
more tempting fruits of politics. For all
electors a collapse of the international
value of the pound is something that has
never happened and for most of them is
something that cannot be imagined.
Consequently the Chancellor’s hard
struggle to avert it can mean nothing to
the electors —unless he fails.... But the
mere whisper of unemployment sets all
the political bells ringing.” The Socialist
Opposition, it adds, is trying “to make
any difficulties look bigger than they are
and to make any improvements look
smaller than they might be.” In Britain,
as in Australia, the “Labor”-Communist
plan is to prevent the elected Government
from governing.
Even under the omniscient Dr, Evatt,
Australian “Labor” has no alternative
plan for the difficulties of the times. By
inference it would plump for a whole-
sale issue of Treasury bills and a fatal
boosting of inflated prices. Its mis-
representation, which in Dr. Evatt has
been shown as deliberate, and its obstruc-
tion to the only means the Government
has of checking inflation can only make
the struggle for restored economic stability
longer and more painful than it need be.
New Blood for a Hard Road.
The actual accomplishments of the last
short session of the Federal Parliament
amount to very little. A bill was
passed to increase the statutory deduction
under the Land Tax Assessment Act from
£5OOO to £8750; another bill to abolish
the 20 per cent, super-tax on land-tax-
payers whose land exceeds £20,000 in
value and to make adjustments to suit
the increase in deduction provided for by
the earlier bill. There was the High
Commissioner Bill to give the head of
Australia House another £5OO a year. A
Naval Defence Bill brought R.A.N.
arrangements into line with the national-
service scheme. There was an Air Force
Bill along the same lines. The Aluminium
Industry Amendment Bill made it pos-
sible for the Government to provide
another £4,250,000 for the industry in
Tasmania. Also a bill to protect the
atom-bomb tests against snoopers.
One measure of importance was
that which amends the Conciliation and
Arbitration Bill. This provides for
limited appeals from the decisions or con-
ciliation commissioners. It legalises the
right of men of good character to employ-
ment in unions suitable to their skill an
theoretically deprives Communist ana
other union operators of power to use
the closed shop against returned soldiers
and to limit union memberships, it
also includes a provision to make pos-
sible the exclusion of Communists and
other mischiefmakers and persons < of bad
character. But this measure will be dim-
cult to operate.
There were a few other unimportant
measures. Mr. Fadden made a financial
statement which told Parliament httle
that it did not know already, except that
the Budget would be brought down earlier
than usual this year.
Mr. Casey had something to say about
foreign affairs, but his expressed view
that the Western Allies had succeeded m
impressing the Soviet bloc because they
were stronger than at any other time
since the war scarcely squares with
what is happening in Berlin, or in
Rumania, where the Reds are digging a
huge strategic canal towards the eastern
Black Sea and the Mediterranean; or in
the Far East, where their guns can be
heard in northern Japan almost day and
night. In Korea the response of the
Communists is a Sino-Korean army of a
million men armed with modern weapons
and backed by 1800 aircraft—the figures
are Mr. Churchill’s —creating a situation
so serious that the British Government
has sent Field-Marshal Alexander to
investigate it at first hand.
Neither is there any sign that our or
any display of force has intimidated the
Communist parties charged with the infil-
tration of the Western democracies.
Their branches teem in India, where they
have made great electoral headway, as
shown by the last election results; in
Italy, where they have gained electorally
in the northern industrial areas ; and in
France, where the country is on the verge
of martial law and half-paralysed because
of their activities.
Even right under Mr. Casey’s nose they
are demoralising industry, with the help of
the A.C.T.U. He himself has ad-
mitted that they have honeycombed the
public service with treacherous cells. 4 And
nothing could be more humiliating to the
Liberal and Country parties in power, or
more dangerous to their security in office,
than to have to suffer the tongue-in-
cheek demands of Messrs. Calwell and
Ward that they explain why they have
not prevented one of the esteemed mem-
bers and advisers of the “Labor” party
from fraternising with the Communist
Chinese, and why they do not root out
the “nests of traitors” which the Govern-
ment of Messrs. Evatt, Calwell and Ward
inducted into Commonwealth services.
The country is beset with strikes which
paralyse Australian shipping and others
which threaten the efficiency of Qantas
and our overseas air-communications.
There is no doubt but that these disturb-
ances are purely political, and created as
measures against defence. They are per-
fectly in line with the “peace” move-
ments.
The, recent Federal session has unfor-
tunately revealed an inability to hold the
Government parties united under any
sort of discipline—a serious matter,
having regard to the absence overseas or
through illness of more members than
the Government can afford to have away
at any one time.
Twice in the last fortnight the Govern-
ment has been defeated in divisions by
its own followers —once on a motion to
extend the time of Dr. Evatt during the
debate on Dr. Burton’s expedition, and
once, in the Senate, when five Tasmanian
Liberal Senators crossed the floor to vote
for an amendment to the Land Tax
Assessment Bill moved by Senator Wright
(Lib.) to limit taxation-increases. On a
third occasion last week, when the bill as
amended was considered by the House
of Representatives, it was sent back to
the Senate for reconsideration on a divi-
sion 51 to 46 in favor of the Government,
with three Tasmanians —Messrs. Kekwick,
Luck and Falkinder —and a Queensland
C.P. man (Mr. Bernard Corser) voting
with “Labor.”
True, the Senators responsible for the
position made* it clear that their adverse
vote had been a “gesture,” and agreed
to pass the bill unamended at a second
chance. But the fact remains that such
“gestures*’ are no more strengthening to
a Government than disagreements, un-
restricted, such as that which has taken
place during the session about the con-
stitutional position of under-secretaries
and reports such as that publicly issued
by the Senate Standing Committee on
Ordinances and
Senator Tate (Lib.)—which criticised the
Government for introducmg raport °on-
trols under a war-time regulation oy
Ministerial direction instead of by
statute,
The committee’s complaint was made
"particularly” because “doubts have
been expressed in the High Court as to
the validity of the basic regulations under
which the import-restriction policy was
given expression.” Particularly, it may
be added, the report is awkward, coming
at a time when the Government claims
that it has no war-time powers to refuse
the issue of passports or to clean-up sub-
version in the civil service
The most noticeable feature of the
session has been that the Parliament and
the Government without Mr. Menzies
are a very different Parliament and
Government from those which operate
when he is here. With the exception of
or Mini selectjon of
departmental Ministerial heads
seems to have been based on political
considerations rather than on ability.
present the broadest shoulders in
th e wor j d cou i d no t carry the burden and
dea j w j tb ad tbe j ssues which are being
dlrown j n^o j a p S c f the Prime
Minister, 0 f a s j c k Treasurer and one or
tW o others. And the argument for the
reconstruction of the Ministry by the
inclusion of some younger blood is
gaining support in Canberra every day.
Art Competitions.
There were 600 entries for this year’s
D urdo p Prize in Melbourne; even more,
j s f or M.G.M.’s competition in
Sydney ; and equally astronomical figures
f or the Blake Prize competition for
religious painting.
From one point of view art may be
sa j d to h ave been enormously stimulated
b y these and the score of lesser competi-
tions which everywhere tempt the artist
j nves j- bis labor, his hope and the high
cos j. 0 £ framing and transport in what
amounts to a ticket in an artistic lottery.
But strange things are done behind the
scen es. One Sydney artist has told The
Bulletin that he was assured by his
carriers—who knew their own packing-
that his picture sent to a rural competition
had never been taken out of its case. A
splendid landscape by a Sydney artist
was not even hung for the public to see
at another show—though the same artist
in a previous year had won the competi-
tion. ■
Only 60 of the 600 Dunlop entries weie,
in fact, exhibited; about the same pro-
P o , rt l°“ o£ The
exhibited; and in both instances the
pjctures selec:ted for final judging were
chiefly of the crudely modernistic variety
£ avored by the daily newspapers in Sydney
and Melbourne. This year’s Blake Prize
also went to an extreme piece of
modernism—an abstract composition
which displayed some minor decorative
quality and little else.
Thus, though the Dunlop people do
wisely alter their judges from year to
year, the competitions tend more and
more to look like a private preserve for
the handful of artists who follow the
fashions supported by the daily news-
papers to the exclusion of many infinitely
SU pg r [ or painters who are likewise ex-
c]uded from mention in the dailies:
ard sts such as Percy Lindsay, whose
subtle and lyrical little oilSj though still
eager jy sought by connoisseurs, have not
been ment i on ed in a daily newspaper
t b ese fast 10 years; or Arthur Murch
and Lance Solomon, whose magnificent
landscapes, by far the best entries for
the Jubilee open competition, were ex-
eluded from the final judging,
, n 0 doubt, in spite of these reservations,
SO me good is done by all these competi-
tions. But there is something rather
degrading in the spectacle of 600 artists
scrambling for a prize of £5OO or £250
which only one of them can win and
which any rich man could pay out of his
OW n pocket each year to support his
country’s culture. Competitions are no
substitute for the private patronage on
which art has always depended and which
j n a country where people can spend
millions at the races and 4000 guineas
on a ram should never be lacking. It
would be much more dignified, and much
more genuinely helpful to the artists, if
the big companies which have decided to
support the arts simply sent their repre-
sentatives to buy pictures at the exhibi-
tions of the leading societies.
The one competition on which some
money could still usefully be spent is
the Wynne Prize for landscape, which,
hallowed by time, has a high prestige
value but in cash to the artist is worth
about £3O. It needs an additional endow-
menL


PLAIN ENGLISH
White Australia.
Twenty-five years ago the Communist
party of Australia was about the only
body which dared to advocate the jettison-
ing of the White Australia policy; but,
thanks to the efforts of the party, of Dr.
Evatt and Dr. Burton and Mr. Percy
Spender, who have gone far to establish
the false doctrine that Australia is’ not a
continent by itself but a country of South-
East Asia, the policy is threatened.
The latest apologist for White Aus-
tralia is Mr. R. G. Casey, who says that
in nearly all Asiatic capitals he has been
“closely questioned and often attacked”
about the policy, and that the term is
“offensive to Asiatics”:
You can quote me as strongly as you like
in deploring the use of this dreadful term.
And why? Has it become a
shame to breed a race of unmixed
European blood? If Australians of
two and three generations ago had
not used the phrase firmly to rally
electors against Chinese immigration and
the import of coolie labor, the Common-
wealth would be a very diffierent place
today for Mr. Casey and everybody else.
The Commonwealth, indeed, came into
being in the north to the tune of the
slogan “Vote for So-and-So and a White
Queensland”; but today, under the
influence of the obsequious panderings of
politicians to the prejudices of any
external demagogue or agitator who cares
to cry “boo” at it, it seems to have
become almost a crime to admit publicly
that we wish to remain a white country.
There is nothing offensive in the White
Australia policy if it is properly explained.
The Indians do not apologise for an
“India for the Indians” policy. They
have made it clear that Europeans must
go. The Chinese, the Turks, the Egyp-
tians and Indonesians have no difficulty
whatever in advertising their determina-
tion to keep out whites. And all that
is needed in respect of White Australia
is to make it clear that the policy is in
line with the policies of most of our
Asiatic neighbors.
The defeatists who have begun to
swallow Communist policy surely do not
want an Australia with an Indian prob-
lem like Fiji, where racial conflicts have
become a nightmare ; or like South Africa,
where the negro question has been one
of the most difficult which successive
Governments have had to face ; or like
Malaya, where immigrant Chinese now
exceed the native Malays in numbers in
the more important centres of commerce
and provide the host organisation for
Chinese Communist infiltration.
Communists, of course, are eager to
see every country which they seek to
destroy with a racial problem, because
there is no better breeding pretext for
civil war than inter-racial differences.
Asiatic criticism of the White Aus-
tralia policy is neither spontaneous
nor universal; it is calculated propa-
ganda with a crafty purpose for con-
sumption by any Australian sucker who
cares to swallow it. It is part and parcel
of the same sort of game that lost Britain
so much of its Empire.
A.L.P. Conference.
The split in the “Labor” party was made
clear on the first day of the N. S. Wales
annual conference, when a delegate—to
the delight of a daily Press a “glamorous,
23-year-old blue-eyed brunette,” a Miss
Gallagher, who works in the office of
Mr. W. F. Sheahan, Minister for Trans-
port-moved to enforce the rule which
forbids members of Parliament from
holding office on the central executive.
The rules of the party, of course, have
been plain about this at all times ; but
the executive has for years got over it by
the simple method of holding that the
Legislative Council is not part of Parlia-
ment.
The enforcement of the rule a
choice of holding one position or another
to the president, Mr. F. P. Buckley, who
had succeeded J. A. Ferguson when he
was hoisted to the permanent chairman-
ship of the Milk Board ; R. A. King,
secretary of the Trades and Labor
Council (one of the trustees); and J. A.
Weir, J. D. Kenny, R. S. Jackson, W. T.
Murray, R. H. Erskine and C. Colborne.
There was little doubt which position
these patriots would choose —the one with
the gold pass and the £5OO a year to which
they had helped themselves.
It was agreed that the general-secretary,
Mr. E. Wright, M.L.C., and C. W.
Anderson, organising-secretary, should
hold both their offices and their M.L.C.s
till the next election for the positions a
year hence. If the rules mean anything at
all their seats are legally vacant what-
ever the conference says.
The elections for next year’s president
and vice-president were a triumph for
the new industrial-groups. W. R.
Colbourne, research - officer of the
Federated Ironworkers, became presi-
dent ; J. Shortell, piesident of the N. S.
Wales Trades and Labor Conference, and
H. J. Blackburn, of the Lithgow Engine
Drivers and Firemen’s Association, vice-
presidents.
The result of the ballot for executive
members had not been made known when
this was written, but one thing is certain
—no matter which side wins (if there are
any sides in such a scramble) the victors
will be mainly paid union officials, most
of them holding permanent jobs in the
“movement.” It would be unthinkable
to a “Labor” conference these days if
control slipped out of the hands of the
paid officials.
"Labor" and the Electors.
Dr. Evatt was prophesying “landslides”
for “Labor” at the A.L.P. conference
(N.S.W.) last weekend. It didn’t
look so good, though, to members
of the late local A.L.P. executive,
even in “Labor’s” chief stronghold,
New South Wales. The question was
whether the Cahill Government should
be instructed to proceed towards aboli-
tion of the Legislative Council. Mr.
Buckley said the Council was a buttress,
for the present, against a possible “Labor”
defeat at the next N.S.W. elections. A
colleague declared that while some had
said the “Labor” party “is sure to be
returned; there is never any certainty
about it.” Even Mr. Dougherty said that
“if, after 10 years, the Tories got con-
trol of the Upper House, they might
retain control for another 50 years.” That
sounds like a considerable landslide in
reverse.
But why does “Labor” pretend to worry
about electoral opinion when it frankly
discloses its intention to govern, if neces-
sary and where it has a chance, in spite
of a majority vote against it? The
same obstructive tactics pursued in Dr.
Evatt’s rigged Senate of 1949-51 against
the clear decision of the people were
advocated at the A.L.P. conference as
reasons now why the N.S.W. Legislative
Council should not be abolished (though
abolition is No. 1 plank on the “Labor”
platform): namely, that an outdated
“Labor” majority there would serve to
defeat the will of the electors if “Labor”
should lose the next State elections.
“Only disunity in the ranks can stop
the party being returned to power,” says
Dr. Evatt. He was given a pretty good
illustration of what he calls “disunity”—
that is, the anti-Communist split—in the
overthrow of his friends of the Ferguson
clique. If “Labor” tolerates the Burton
intrigues in Peking with the Communist
enemies of Australia, then it may be pre-
pared to follow Dr. Evatt blindly on the
crooked course he has set. But that is
not yet “Labor’s” disposition, and the
revolt in N.S.W. over the weekend was
significant of earth-tremors and landslides
within “the movement” of very different
sort from that Dr. Evatt was prophesying.
A Flood Too Frequent.
Man needs to be mighty careful when
he sets about managing a river, as those
along the N.S.W. Lachlan are discovering.
About 20 years ago Wyangala Dam was
built across the headwaters of that stream.
Before that Lachlan people looked upon
themselves as inhabitants of a fairly dry
area; in the last few years a lot of them
have come to suspect that they’ll soon
have web-feet.
Forbes, the old town which was in the
news the other day with another flood, was
flooded a year or two before Wyangala
was built. It was then led to believe that
it had seen its last flood, that the dam
would regulate the flow of the river,
irrigation would absorb its waters, and
beyond an occasional banker in the
Lachlan and a rise in the billabong which
bisects the place, it need fear nothing.
Whereupon the local council proceeded
to plant trees, establish parks and gener-
ally beautify the billabong and name it
Lake Forbes; an old meander of the
river behind the shopping-centre found
itself with an Olympic pool; people built
on ground hitherto regarded as flood-
risk.
It was an illusion. The place has had
more and bigger floods in the 20 years
since Wyangala was built than in 50 years
before. In the wet year of 1950 it lost
count of the floodings.
Came the drought of 1951. A dry
spring and summer, and most of
N.S.W. was swept by wide grass- and
bushfires. There was little or no rain
until well into this year. A week or so
ago a couple of inches fell on the Aber-
crombies and the Waugoola hills, and
before anything much could be done the
Lachlan flooded again, and this time
Forbes just missed having a record flood.
It calls for urgent study by water
engineers. Plainly, the Lachlan is not
performing as it was expected to do. And,
just as plainly, the country it flows
through can expect more floods this year
and every succeeding year when the rain-
fall is an inch or two above normal.
Floods in rivers of the plains are seldom
dangerous to human life, but they do
colossal damage in other ways.
A.B.C.'s News Service.
From M. F. Dixon, former head of the
A.B.C. news department;
The A.B.C.’s independent news-service com-
pleted five years’ operation on June 1;
and as one who took a prominent part in
planning, organising and operating the service
in the early years 1 feel entitled to ask whether
it has attained the original objective of provid-
ing an accurate, impartial and up-to-date cover
of events for Australian listeners.
The service is undoubtedly better than when
the A.B.C. was relying on the metropolitan
daily papers for its news; it is more up-to-date;
on the whole more accurate (although it makes
more than a fair number of slips), and more
truly ’national in character since, unlike the
daily papers, it does give listeners a sampling
of Australian news outside of murders and
tragedies. But there now seems to be a lack
of drive behind the service; it frequently com-
mits the cardinal broadcasting sin of repeating
news, word for word, in widely-separated
bulletins; and it seems not to worry overmuch
about phrasing its news so that it will be easy
to read and easy to understand. These
blemishes appear to be due not so much to a
lack of money as to a lack of appreciation,
on the commission’s part, of its responsibility
to provide the best service of which it is
capable.
Originally it was planned to give listeners a
nightly round-up of Australian news by making
a cross-over to each State, in turn,
for a few minutes of their most important
items of national character, leaving only the
purely local material for the State bulletin.
This would have been much cheaper and far
more efficient than the present method of trans-
mitting highlight news to Sydney, where it has
to take its chance with local matter and news
from other States, for inclusion in a bulletin
of strictly limited duration. This limitation of
time to 15 minutes has probably done more
than anything else to hamstring the service.
The Post Office and the A.B.C.’s own pro-
gramme department frowned on the scheme for
a nightly round-up; and the commission, which
had never liked the idea of paddling its own
canoe in the collection of news, was glad to drop
the proposal. Instead it began enthusiastically
to develop its regional news-services, which,
admirable as they may be for local listeners,
greatly increase the overall cost of the service
and inevitably deprive the national and State
bulletins of a good deal of interesting material.
Proposals for overcoming the regional problem
and pegging the cost of the service at a reason-
able figure were submitted to the commission
over a period of years, but it refused to enter-
tain them. This may sound strange in view of
the commission’s professed desire to keep down
the cost of its news service, but it is neverthe-
less a fact.
Within the past year the commission has
scrapped a satisfactory and economical arrange-
ment made by the news department for a
coverage of events at Darwin and appointed a
regional journalist there at a fourfold increase
in cost. Each regional news-service now costs
nearly £2OOO a year to run (Darwin probably
costs a good deal more), and the commission
this year will introduce three new services in
Queensland —Cairns, Longreach and Mary-
borough.
In the early years a section of the metro-
politan daily Press in all States was sharply
critical of the A.B.C.’s independent news-service,
claiming it was a waste of public money. The
Liberal and Country parties, which had also
opposed the establishment of the service, and
at one stage had threatened to scrap it when
they came to power, now appear to have
accepted it as a necessary part of national
broadcasting, although they will probably never
consent to the development of the services on
the lines originally intended.
Despite its limitations, news is still by far
the biggest drawcard amongst the A.B.C.’s pro-
grammes ; and although the present service may
fall short of what its original planners hoped
to achieve, it remains a boon to country
listeners.
High Cost of Red Leadership.
The £5OO fine for contempt of court
in the overtime-ban case is small
potatoes to the watersiders compared with
the total cost of allowing Comrade Healy
and a few likeminded gentlemen to tell
them when not to work. The fine comes
out of union funds, and is accordingly
not directly felt by individual wharfies.
What is felt is the money that comes out
of their own pockets or, more correctly,
the money that should be going into their
pockets, but isn’t.
It is virtually impossible for the ship-
ping industry to operate efficiently for
any length of time without the working
of overtime on the wharves, and in actual
practice a high proportion of the hours
worked by watersiders are overtime hours.
In the year ended June 30, 1951, as is
shown by the annual report of the Steve-
doring Industry Board, overtime
accounted for 26 per cent, of all hours
worked. Of this, 15 per cent, represented
work paid for at time and a half, 7 per
cent, at double time and 4 per cent, at
double time and a half, so that overtime
earnings made a substantial contribution
to the wharfies’ pay-envelope.
The current ban on overtime is not the
first instance of the watersiders allowing
themselves to be talked into cutting off
their noses to spite their faces. Last year,
in circumstances somewhat similar to the
present in that the Arbitration Court had
incurred the displeasure of the union,
Healy and Co. placed a ban on all over-
time and weekend work. The ban lasted
five weeks, and the board’s report says
of it:
Some 446,858 man-hours of overtime
work were lost throughout Australia. In
relation to the total man-hours worked in
the corresponding five-weeks period, this
represents a loss of about 14 per cent., or
a reduction in manpower of one-eighth.
Shipping turn-round was lengthened by at
least one in seven normal working days,
and considerably more on many ships.
In the main ports the average weekly wage
of watersiders fell from about £l3 10s. to
slightly less than £ll. In the five weeks
of the ban, regular watersiders lost about
£l2 each, but much more at some ports.
On last year’s figures, then, the present
lawless ban on overtime is costing the
average wharfie £2 10s. a week, and, as
there are about 24,000 of him, the collec-
tive membership of the union is paying
£60,000 a week for the doubtful privilege
of having its affairs mismanaged by Com-
munists. Possibly they can afford it —-
but the country can’t.
Union-made Unemployment.
While “Labor” politicians have been
howling in Parliament and at State by-
elections about unemployment as a result
of the Commonwealth Government’s
credit-restrictions, the greatest cause of
idle industry to date has been the strikes
conducted by Communist-run unions.
These strikes have now clearly
developed a political objective in a chal-
lenge to the whole arbitration authority,
and the Communists who have been
running them have leg-roped the A.C.T.U.
into collaboration. The prospect of
widespread stoppages and unemployment
has thereby greatly increased. TTie Com-
munist objective, pursued under orders
from Moscow brought back from abroad
by “peace conference” delegates, is the
sabotage of this country’s rearmament
efforts against the Soviet’s threat of
renewed war. To that end these indus-
trial wreckers applied, with apparent
success, blackmailing pressure on the
A.C.T.U. by threatening to set up a rival
congress of their own controlled trade-
unions unless the A.C.T.U. toed the line.
The wharfies, the seamen, the engineer-
ing unions, the metal-trade unions are
told, in effect, that the headquarters of
Australian trade-unionism is with them in
this rebellion—even to the extent, it
seems, of outlawing themselves in the
eyes of the court. This departure by the
A.C.T.U. is a wielding of the bludgeon
with a vengeance against the A.L.P.
industrial-groups. It defies every demo-
cratic principle in trade-union administra-
tion and imitates the Communists’ own
methods of union-dictatorship. And
there is no other perceptible motive for
the A.C.T.U.’s surrender to the enemies
(Continued on next page.)
Who—Me, Mate?
What’s wrong with us, what the hell’s
wrong with us,
forever saying I’ll go droving I’ll go bush
I’ll buy
a little place in the hills with some ducks
and apple-trees
and some pigs and some fowls and a cow
and a hive full of bees though God knows
I’ll be stung
by the bees and the agents and the blasted
Government
but at least I’ll be set if there’s another
depression
and I’ll grow fat lambs and have goOse
cheap at Christmas
and butter and pork and eggs and milk
for the kids
whatever happens and in the end the shops
in the township
will hang black in their windows and be
sorry I’ve gone • . .
Oh what the hell’s wrong with us, don’t
you remember >
we used to say Sydney or the bush, didn t
we didn’t we,
but now we say nothing but the bush the
bush the bush
and curse and whinge about the great big
wicked cities
sucking like aphis colonies at the juice of
the earth,
but we’ll only shift out of the big smoke
on Sundays
and if it’s bitumen bitumen bitumen all the
way
from here to when we get back again this
evening . . .
Decentralise . . .
Back to the Land . . .
Distribute the people ...
Who, me?
I’d like to, mate,
but, mate, you’ve got me wrong;
I'll grant that with our population
big cities are a crime,
but me, the big smoke for me, mate.
every blovely time.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


■
%
m
Your AM A. Hostess is a Trained Officer. ..
Young ladies .. . charming ... friendly ..; eager to help. Your A.N.A.
Hostess, thoroughly trained, ensures your every comfort when you wing
your way by Australia's most experienced airline . . . A.N.A.
A105
dfg
WING YOUR WAY WITH
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY.
Branches and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
LTD
of Australian democracy than the desper-
ate one of concealing the deep and widen-
ing split by which the Communists design
to conquer and control the whole indus-
trial “movement.”
In the light of this voluntary subjuga-
tion by the A.C.T.U. to the agents of
the Comintern in Australia, it is not sur-
prising that Chief Judge Kelly’s confer-
ence of industrial parties for a com-
promise agreement on the hours and con-
ditions in industry finally broke down last
week. After six months of futile palaver
at desultory sessions in camera, employers
and A.C.T.U. delegates issued a joint
statement announcing inability to agree
on any matters discussed —means of
increasing production, devolution of
management, incentive payments and
ways and means to make the 40-hour
week a reality. The A.C.T.U. prefers
the “class-war.”
Metal-trades employers, the formal
movers last November for a review of the
standard hours judgment, are now ex-
pected to press for a claim for return to
44 hours. The militant unions’ ban on
reasonable overtime, a mandatory condi-
tion of the 40-hour award, strengthens
their hand. The N.S.W. Shires Associa-
tion’s annual conference is the first semi-
governmental body formally to support
the application.
POLITICAL POINTS
When is a Member of Parliament not
a Member of Parliament? This riddle,
popular among critics of the N. S. Wales
State executive of the A.L.P., no longer
has an answer. The comeback used to
be “When he is a member of the Legisla-
tive Council and also sits on the State
executive,” that body having decided that
M.L.C.s were not affected by the party
rule excluding Parliamentarians from
executive office. But at the weekend con-
ference of the party a resolution was
passed declaring that M.L.C.s could not
be members of the executive. Eight
“answers” had quickly to make up their
minds whether they preferred to continue
wearing the M.L.C. tag they had given
themselves, plus the £5OO a year “ex-
penses,” gold pass and other privileges,
or whether they would rather say good-
bye to all that and again stand for
election to the executive. Every Jack one
of ’em said goodbye—to the executive.
Government supporters who drew com-
fort from a comment on this page last
week to the effect that Menzies and
Fadden could not lose control of the
Senate at next year’s election are hereby
informed that they rejoiced too soon.
Sixteen, not seventeen, “Labor” Senators
retire next June, leaving 12 to hold the
fort. A three-two win for “Labor” in
every State would thus mean a dead-
locked Senate and a return to the intoler-
able position of 1950 and early-1951.
Calweli has put on his mantle of
prophecy again. Although no election
for the House of Representatives is due
until 1954, he can see one next year.
He “would not be surprised” to see
Menzies “write a letter of abdication.”
Failing that, he “wouldn’t be surprised”
to see “Liberal back-benchers” remove
Bob and Artie from office. In the pre-
dicted election he thinks Menzies may
even lose Kooyong. Arthur never does
his predicting by halves. After the 1946
election he crowed that “Labor” would
be in power for another 10 years. It
lasted three.
Latest Gallup-poll figures indicate
that if an election had been held
in May “Labor” would have had
a comfortable victory in the Reps,
but, with Queensland the snag, would
not have gained control of the
Senate. The poll showed “Labor’s” popu-
larity at its highest point since 1943,
with the Government’s stocks correspond-
ingly low, and the favorite reasons
advanced for this change of heart in 12
months were that the Government had
not kept its election promises and that it
was ineffective. Neither reason would
seem to justify a logical voter in switch-
ing so soon back to the party he had so
recently thrown out of office.
The Menzies Government was elected
in 1949 on an upsurge of feeling against
Socialism and controls. Economic trends
have forced it, after eliminating some
controls, to introduce others. Do the
electors really think that a return to
“Labor” rule will mean fewer controls or
that “Labor” has abandoned Socialism?
The poll obviously reflects a willingness
of the people to blame the Government
for rising prices, but if they think “Labor”
can produce a painless cure for that
trouble they are in for a far-from-painless
awakening. Evatt’s only panacea so far
is price-control without wage-control,
which even a Garden-trained economist
cannot really believe in.
Unfortunately for the reputation of
Calweli as a prophet and fortunately for
the Australian people, the Govern-
ment has still two years in which to
convince the electors that its policy is
effective.
Whether or not the Speaker is correct
in his contention that Federal members
broadcasting over A.B.C. for payment
are in effect accepting an office of profit
under the Crown and thus forfeiting their
right to remain in Parliament remains
to be proved, but Les Haylen’s comment
on the matter is worth framing. He says
he cannot broadcast free of charge as
such action “would be contrary to all
union principles.” Presumably the corol-
lary is that where union principles and
the Commonwealth Constitution are in
conflict union principles must prevail.
Most Parliamentarians have a favorite
word or words which they tend to over-
work in their speeches. The late Ben
Chifley’s favorite was “particular.” He
seems to have willed it to Costa, M.H.R.
for Banks, who, in a short speech on
Thursday night, used it 12 times in eight
minutes.
Brisbane Trades and Labor Council,
replying to an invitation from General
Robertson to appoint a trade-union rep-
resentative to his recruiting committee,
refused, saying it felt that “the purpose
of the committee is only to further the
war-making policy of the Government.”
Since the Brisbane T. and L.C.’s general-
secretary is a Com, it is not surprising
that the terms of this reply conform with
a resolution on the subject by the Com-
munist party’s executive.
The Cahill Government in N.S.W. has
refused to agree with the Commonwealth
Government’s proposal for joint legisla-
tion (necessary under the coal agree-
ment) to permit appeals from decisions
of the (joint) Coal Tribunal to the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court The
Corns on the miners’ executive had
previously ordered the Cahill Govern-
ment not to co-operate with Canberra.
After the Boronia disaster, in which nine
young people in a church-bus perished
and a score were injured—the latest of
many accidents at the same corner—the
commissioners announced that it would
cost £3 million to fix the level-crossings
in the whole State. A naval officer in
Melbourne claims that be and his men
could, at small cost and in a few hours,
attach a metal plate to the rails and
connect it with a light-flash which trains
would turn on as they approached a
crossing and turn off as they passed it.
If he is right, surely the Government
could make a start by fixing Boronia, at
least.
Doc. Evatt, speaking for the “Labor”
movement, told Minister for Labor Holt
that “the A.C.T.U. does not want any-
thing else than industrial peace based on
industrial justice.” Is it his idea of indus-
trial justice for a powerful union to defy
the court which his own party professes
to accept as the cornerstone of industrial
law and order? If the Doc. were really
the statesman he would like history to
consider him he would advise the
A.C.T.U. to drop its ill-considered sup-
port of the wharfies’ lawless defiance of
arbitration. Instead, the best he can
suggest is that Clarey, M.P., ex-president
of the A.C.T.U., should be asked to act
as mediator.
Holt told Evatt it was time “Labor”
realised the truth of the late Justice
Higgins’s dictum that we cannot have a
system of arbitration running side by side
with recourse to the recklessness of direct
action. To interjections of “Do you
believe in the right to strike?” Holt
replied that he did not acknowledge that
the right to strike could be coincidental
with the system of arbitration. That
seems to be the whole crux of the present
argument. Unions, particularly those
under Red control, apparently think it
completely honest and fair to take all the
benefits that arbitration may give them,
but to resort to direct action if a verdict
goes against them, or, as in the case of
the wharfies, if their plea to be heard is
not given precedence over those of more
law-abiding unions. Evatt and the
A.C.T.U., by supporting this attitude, are
undermining the whole system of arbitra-
tion which they profess to support.
The Commonwealth subsidy on butter,
now Is. Id. a pound, is certain to be cut
to 1 Id. in the near future, and that means
at least another twopence a pound for
housewives. But the butter-men had
better be careful. Sweets, some jams,
preserved fruits and condiments are all a
little cheaper just now because stocks
have piled up. And stocks piled up be-
cause families are making their jam and
canned fruit go further, and the kiddies
are buying fewer sweets. It isn’t so hard
to make a pound of butter go a bit
further.
At least one constructive suggestion
has come from Half-Premier McDonald.
Asked what ought to be done about the
cruelty at dog-race meetings, a very un-
pleasant example having recently been
aired in the papers, he replied that he
favored tin-dogs to chase tin-hares. This
would eliminate cruelty and save a lot
of time and worry in training.
According to Adelaide “Advertiser,”
transport tsars in South Australia and
N.S.W. have apparently had second-
thoughts about their bans on road-
transport . and “are now issuing permits
freely to motor hauliers.” Which shows
how absurd the whole system is. When
Government officials can put bans on
and off private enterprise at will and be
responsible to nobody but themselves, the
damage to national ecenomy and progress
is enormous. One of the worst features
of the thing is that if officials in one State
put on a ban, officials in other States fall
over themselves to follow suit, irrespective
of the need or otherwise. No State would
be worse hit by road-transport bans than
S. Australia,
Three Australian States seem to make
a pretty fair fist of handling Commo-
organised strikes without screaming about
it—Tasmania, South Australia and West
Australia. Cosgrove, the Tasmanian
“Labor” Premier, has never made any
bones about his opinion of the Reds or
what his Government will do about
illegal strikers. Playford, the Liberal S.A.
Premier, leaves even less doubt about the
matter. And in W.A., since the Commo
conspiracy has appeared in rail- and mine-
industries, the McLarty Liberal Govern-
ment is preparing legislation to give it a
powerful hand against the Red gang.
Elsewhere all anybody does is talk.
The Dubbo man who paid over
4000gns. for a Bundemar Merino ram
at the Sydney sheep sales is apparently
satisfied that Fadden won’t ruin the wool
industry.
External Affairs Minister Casey on the
more recent activities of Kuo Mo-Jo,
principal Chinese sponsor of the Peking
“peace” picnic:
In April, 1949, he headed the Chinese
delegation to the “World Peace Congress”
at Prague and Paris, where he condemned
what he called the “criminal warmongers
headed by the American imperialists plot-
ting for a new war.” He again headed the
Chinese delegation to the second session of
the, “World Peace Congress” in Warsaw,
where he attacked what h ■ described as "the
aggressive war of the American imperial-
ists in Korea,” the "seizure" of Poimosa
and the “wanton strafing and bombing of
Chinese territory.” He concluded with the
exhortation “Down with the instigators of
another war and the imperialist aggressors.”
He was elected vice-chairman of the Execu-
tive Bureau of the World Peace Council.
Last year he attended the Permanent Com-
mittee of the World Peace Congress in
Vienna and returned home with the Stalin
Prize for Peace.
Curl-the-Mo-Jo’s background must have
been well known to Burton and the other
innocents who accepted his invitation to
the picnic.
One of these innocents, incidentally, is
Dr. Macindoe, of the N. S. Wales Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Now that Federal
“Labor” men, with tongues in cheek, are
upbraiding Casey for issuing passports
to the Curl-the-Mo-Jo team surely they
should ask their N. S Wales colleagues
why Macindoe was granted leave-of-
absence to go on a Communist errand.
Description of Healy, leading Com-
munist and boss of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, as given by his
counsel in the hearing of Healy’s appeal
to the N.S.W. Supreme Court against his
conviction and fine on a charge of having
incited the Melbourne branch of the union
to declare an overseas vessel “black”:
Healy was merely a factotum, or cipher,
in conveying the decision of the council to
the secretary of the Melbourne branch. He
is merely the secretary, a mere piece of
mechanism, conveying decisions.
Judge Owen asked if that meant that
Healy’s part in the offence was analogous
to that of (say) an office typist, to which
his counsel said—“ That is so.”
Dr. Evatt’s latest remarks on the Burton
mission to the Communist “peace” talks
in Peking is that the Government ought
to have “used its powers” to prevent
Burton from leaving the country to attend
such a gathering. This is surely an all-
time low in the relationship between a
party leader and one of his followers, an
erstwhile “favorite son,” a political
thruster for whom Dr. Evatt found a
special affinity—“a promising young sorter
with expressive purple eyes,” as Gentle
Alice Brown might have put it.
South Australia is to get a £2 million
sulphuric-acid plant under an agreement
whereby the Federal Government will
give a bank guarantee for eight years to
assist a new company in which the three
concerns at present producing superphos-
phate in S.A. will make use of pyrites
deposits at Nairne, about 40 miles from
Adelaide. The plant will be situated at
Port Adelaide, and is to have an output
of 100,000 tons of acid a year.


?Y?u oers-si this
{PR, "THIS
"This
THIS
0(5. £l/£M THIS
You Al ZVBR
sl££ THIS.
HITCHES.


i
i
Himn
The world’s
first choice
In every part of the world
Swan Pens are first choice
for people who believe in
quality.
Swan Pens are famous
for their wonderful nibs
specially made by
hand by highly-skilled
craftsmen. There is a
nib for every style of
penmanship.
PENS
MODEL 32
PRICE 57/6
-mo
TRADE MARK
MABIE, TODD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD,, SYDNEY
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACEWINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x ins.,
6§ x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
dfg
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [JJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
M w'" p
A TISW
Si
k eum
TiCA
s cia
ub* tiS
ill
baG°
tuf* 1
a ■■■
.iff 1
s9 !i
fIAYW®
1(0
BOtrve*
CES
1
nun mu
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work—thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN it easy to take In tablet
form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR IS/*
DOLCIN
Informative literature on 00/c/n
will be sent on request to Dolem
(Australia) Pty. Lid., Box ISO,
9 A0., Sydney.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Credit and the Budget
Financial and business eyes
will shortly turn Budgetward,
seeking future economic guid-
ance. But, if proper stock is
taken of the past, careful pre-
liminary consideration should
be given to the recent statement
on bank-advance policy. Com-
pared with its predecessor, its
timing was more significant than
the minor concessions, or altera-
tions of phraseology, that it con-
tained.
Broadly, it achieved two pur-
poses. Firstly, it specified again,
in definite terms, that bank credit
was not tj be relied upon for
permanent finance by industry ;
in fact, it was to be further dis-
couraged. This has been a
basic tenet of recent policy.
And, secondly, it endeavored to
integrate the existing machinery
of credit-control more deeply
into the private sector of the
banking structure. Why? Be-
cause, in the past, credit-restric-
tion has played a large, if not
single, part in combating infla-
tion. It may be required to play
a larger part in the future.
Viewing the present economic
scene, one would be optimistic
indeed if he did not foresee a
continuance of the present infla-
tionary trend.
That international barometer
of economic weather, the
American economy, shows little
sign of a decline in its infla-
tionary spiral, despite its high
production and its recent
removal of credit-buying restric-
tions. On the possible wage- and
price-increases arising out of the
recent steel dispute, the U.S.
Senate Banking Commission was
recently warned by Charles C.
Wilson that the country could
expect the greatest wave of
inflation yet seen.
Through a dollar loan, which
appears to be a likelihood fol-
lowing Prime Minister Menzies’s
visit, the Australian economy
may faintly echo the American
inflationary shout,
ft could come from several
quarters. Because of the failure
of the Fifteenth Security Loan,
the impracticable allocations by
the Loan Council for public-
works expenditure, and the sub-
sequent market reaction to Gov-
ernment bonds, a lift in the
interest-rate appears inevitable.
Although this will solve other
expenditure problems, it will also
occasion a general raising of
costs throughout the economy.
The Federal Treasurer recently
disclosed that within 18 months
287,000 more persons would be
required for defence purposes, or
a total of 392,500 persons, the
equivalent of 20 p.c. of the work-
ing population. Consequently,
expenditure on defence is
expected to rise to an average of
substantially more than £2OO
million a year. The Budget
estimate in 1952 was £lBl
million. Defence expenditure is
the most inflationary of all.
Further, from several view-
points, the coming Budget is
likely to be inflationary.
Although the policy of surplus-
budgeting has been moderately
followed in this country since the
war, most of the effect has been
more than lost in the general
character of the Budgets them-
selves. Inflationary expenditure
has far outweighed the meagre
surpluses. Large allocations for
expenditure on development,
immigration and social services
have been made consistently. So
that, remembering how Budgets
must pay some homage to their
predecessors, particularly where
the architect of both is the one
person, drastic departure from
past policy cannot be expected.
Moreover, because of much loss
in popularity over the last 12
months, Sir Arthur Fadden may
find the temptation to buy his
way back with Budget conces-
sions very strong.
Lastly, on the aspect of
import-restrictions, no early
removal of these appears likely
—at any rate, not within the
coming financial year, it was
recently stated. So that Aus-
tralia virtually remains a closed
circuit toward the possibility of
deflation from overseas through
a greater flow of imports.
In all, for good or ill, by
circumstance or otherwise, the
country is likely to have to
endure strong inflationary
pressures in the coming year.
To combat these, the means
of tightened money and
restricted credit are likely to be
heavily relied upon. In the past,
they have proved the most
successful (if only) measures.
Thus a reminder by the central
bank of existing advance policy,
and a deeper entrenchment of its
mechanism, are not out of place.
They also serve the ulterior
motive of preparing for an even
more stringent application of
that policy in the future, if need
be.
The business world can thus
take warning not to expect much
in the way of freer monetary
circulation in the coming finan-
cial year—in fact, it could well
become tighter.
The Sharemarket
The sharemarket has, indeed,
had its ups and downs Ltely.
Some stocks, like Edwards,
Dunlop, which had previously
made up a great deal of ground
(from a “low” of 525. to around
675.), slipped ; E.D. from 675. to
625. 6d. Burns, Philp, too, dropped
following the announcement that
“There's nothing wrong with your sight, Mr. Binnings ,
that a pair of bifocal binoculars Won't fix.”
the div. might net be maintained
at \l\ p.c. during the current
year. British Tobacco’s state-
ment that there would be no
interim quarterly div. this time
also had a sobering effect; the
directors said that profits for the
year to October 31 next were
unlikely to warrant a 9 p.c. div.
In three or four weeks final
results for the 1951-52 financial
year will be known to most com-
pany directorates. From the
sharemarket’s point of view there
will no doubt be some surprises
when, in a couple of months,
these results become known to
them. Some concerns will fare
better than expected; others
worse. The dealer in basic pro-
ducts, though he is assured of a
more certain market for his pro-
ducts, is also usually the victim
of more severe price-control.
The co., however, which shows
good results for the year now
closing, has finances comfortable
enough to maintain its dividend,
and which can speak hopefully
of the future, is likely to see some
market appreciation for its scrip.
In a field of lowered dividends
the more robust div.-earners will
stand out.
Danks Holdings, Ltd.
A placement of 293,000 10s.
ords. in Danks Holdings, Ltd.,
is to be made shortly at par.
The co. was formed recently to
acquire all the shares in the 93-
year-established business of
John Danks and Sons Pty., hard-
ware merchants of Sydney and
Melbourne. On a paid-up ordi-
nary capital of £585,562 the
holding co. showed 17 per cent,
last year, compared with 9.5 p.c.
in 1950 and 8.9 p.c. in 1949.
Ordinary shares have a net tan-
gible asset value of 14s. 4d.
each, but the basis of assets-
valuation is not yet clear.
Further information will be pro-
vided to prospective shareholders
before the scrip is actually
offered to them. Though turn-
over in some lines of builders’
hardware is now slacker than it
was in the year of the co.’s record
profit, the Danks business is a
well-established one, and long-
term prospects appear sound.
Fletcher Holdings
Interests in a growing family
of subsidiary cos. which bestride
the building and construction
field in New Zealand have netted
annually-increasing profits for
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd,, Auck-
land, parent of Maoriland’s
biggest and lustiest industrial
combine.
Turnover, rising at an annual
rate of two millions, touched
£NZIO.7 million for the twelve-
month ended March, with
volume making the main contri-
bution, and total net earnings
reached £160,349, against
£116,361 in 1951. On a turnover
that runs into eight figures the
residue is fairly low, but as all
this was done on a capital base
of only £li million, there was
enough to lift the div. on ords.
a point, to 8 p.c., and still add a
good wad to reserves, now
£801,213 for the whole group.
With new demands for capital
cropping up all the time, new
issues are becoming fairly
regular, with another quarter-
million ords. just added at a
premium of 7s. 6d. The odds
are this will have to be followed
by further expansion before
long, as the parent keeps a sharp
lookout for big contracts and
pushes hard to launch the
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
M.L.’s pioneer in newsprint-
production.
To float this co. with a
nominal capital of £6 million,
which will have to be increased
as the giant scheme to turn the
Murupara State forest into
wealth goes forward, Fletcher
Holdings, leading newspaper cos.
and the Government will all have
to weigh in.
The Government has a big
finger in the pie, which might
call for an investment of 20 to
30 million dollars in plant, and
might force M.L. to join the
I.M.F. and the World Bank, in
spite of all its fears of dollar
domination. The Fletcher com-
bine has other irons in the fire,
too, not least being its link-up
with Yankee interests (Merritt-
Raymond) to build Auckland’s
new £2 million import wharf.


BS-S niS* j=s
|Bfc« e it Si 1?
293 r,
Have you chosen your
Executor wisely?
The qualifications of an Executor who can
be depended upon to administer an Estate,
efficiently and economically, are many and
varied. It is imperative, also, that he should
be immediately available, in good health, and
of sound judgment when called upon to act.
If you have already appointed relative or
friend, you may be sure that he will welcome
your suggestion that you should appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as Co-
Executor. It will relieve him of a heavy
burden of responsibility.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to discuss
with you the services offered by Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited —and their advan-
tages. You are invited to ring B 0377, or
write, and make an appointment. There is
no obligation on your part.
Delay is dangerous when it comes to
assuring the future security of your family.
Why not make that appointment to-day?
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Offices at WAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
To ensure
quiet and
efficient
operation
hospital lifts
are usually
OTIS
■ ’■' :
1111
Built to extend existing hospital service, St. Margaret’s new
building features every modern convenience to make hospitalisation
pleasant and working conditions ideal. Of course, the lifts are by
Otis because their superiority in design, workmanship and perform-
ance are proven facts and mean dependability at all times. The lifts
at St. Margaret’s are the very latest Otis and include 2 High Speed
Gearless Bed Passenger Elevators, 1 High Speed Staff Elevator and 2
Service Lifts, providing the utmost in fast, safe, vertical transportation.
ST. MARGARETS
HOSPITAL,
Sydney, N.S.W.
9 Architect: Department of Public
Works, N.S.W.
• Builder: T, C. Whittle Pty. Ltd.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
'..y..: N v " s '
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Few distinguished visitors to
this island can have enjoyed a
more wholehearted and spon-
taneous welcome than that
which has been accorded to Mr.
Menzies. The reason for this
warmth of feeling is not hard to
seek. It is not merely that he is
personally liked by Britons on
both sides of the Border or that
his intercession may have the
happy effect, in the long run, of
converting sickly order-books
into flourishing ones. What has
caught the popular imagination
is the simple truth that the best
way to resolve differences and
difficulties is to get together,
without recrimination, meet them
squarely and thrash them out.
The moral is the more pointed
since, on our own doorstep, this
is precisely what is not being
done. “Punch’s” political
cartoonist shows John Bull in a
hospital bed, sick more from be-
wilderment than malady, while
his doctors wrangle over him.
On one side of him is the Prime
Minister and, on the other, the
Leader of the Opposition. Each
is protesting: “If you take it
out, / shall put it back again.”
The caption reads: “And if the
patient dies?”
The issue in question is
nationalisation, or, more strictly,
denationalisation. One is sacred
to Socialist dogma while the
other is a necessary consequence
of Conservative promise and
policy. But the real issue is
Power, and not the kind that
makes our industry go. That is
not to say that the present Gov-
ernment is preoccupied with
quasi-doctrinal issues for their
own sakes. It would like to get
on with the job of running the
country without being hamstrung
by the relentless tactics of the
Opposition, which says, in
effect: “Go on. You take road-
haulage away from public
ownership. Take iron and steel,
too. But we’ll make you, and
everybody else, suffer so much
that you’ll wish you’d never been
born.”
The transport industry is at
present the innocent victim of
this brawl, and it is significant
that the wisest counsel has come
from Tory back - benchers,
notably veteran Sir Ralph
Glyn’s: “The greatest evil that
can befall a great industry is to
become the play of party
politics.”
The Liberal “News Chronicle”
goes so far as to make the
gloomy prophecy that, because
the two-party system no longer
depends upon a framework of
consent, “conditions of peaceful
change might cease to exist in
Britain,” and calls for a work-
ing agreement between parties.
So, indeed, does a nauseated
public, which sees only an
Asperity Parliament, with some
Socialist politicians who care
less for national prosperity than
power at any cost.
Workers of the World
Coalminers, who have long
enjoyed both privilege and
sympathy, are scarcely endearing
themselves to public opinion.
Granted that their past is dis-
tressing and their work always
fraught with danger, the miners
are not keeping pace with the
times or with their own professed
Socialist convictions.
There is so much coal beneath
our craggy shires that if only we
could get some of it to the
surface we might finally solve
the balance-of-payments crisis
and all live together in a less
strained atmosphere. But there
aren’t enough men to go to the
mines. Italians, who make good
miners, are troubled with unem-
ployment. Why not let them
come over here?
This was the problem, and
possible solution, before the
Cabinet and the Coal Board.
They tackled it boldly, in colla-
boration with the Italian
Embassy and with every safe-
guard for British miners. About
1000 Italians were brought here
at a cost of £lO,OOO, and kept
and instructed for a further
£140,000. Since they must now
either seek alternative employ-
ment or be returned to Italy at
the taxpayer’s expense, the total
cost of this fiasco is expected to
reach £500,000. And all because
of the narrow, parochial attitude
of some Yorkshire miners, who
refused to work with the
Italians, even to the extent of
threatening to provoke a nation-
wide strike. “Manchester
Guardian” angrily commented,
editorially: “The Coal Board
and its Cabinet Overlords have
allowed themselves to be brow-
beaten by a handful of narrow-
minded Yorkshire miners.”
The idle voice of rumor was
quick to grow to shouting,
mainly to the effect that the
foreigners (who were chiefly
interested in earning money to
send home to their suffering
families) were dangerous
amorists. Perhaps it wasn’t a
very idle voice, when the back-
ground is borne in mind. The
miners, excepting the older ones
with susceptibilities towards
living in the past, do not fear
unemployment. But they do
enjoy their privileged position of
being in demand, and also of
being able to take an odd day
off when they feel like it. Ex-
perience also suggests that
rumors can be planted and
fanned. It cannot be overlooked
that the general-secretary of the
miners’ union, Mr. Arthur
Horner, although a respected
official, is also an avowed Com-
munist of long-standing, and it
is a matter of conjecture which
of these pictures would find
greater favor in the Kremlin: a
prosperous mining industry in
Britain and an easing of unem-
ployment in Italy—or a costly
fiasco and a flagrant negation of
European unity.
Full Unemployment
A new strike technique has
had a first try-out at the factory
of the Smith Clock Company.
Because of the cancellation of
overseas orders the company
proposed to declare a number of
employees redundant. A strike
of 1200 employees followed, last-
ing a week. The strikers returned
on being offered four weeks'
notice instead of one.
Representatives of the manage-
ment described as “unprece-
dented” the original demand,
which was “the right to remain
on the payroll pending suitable
alternative employment.” That
is to say, the principle involved
is not merely the right to work
(wlpch, anyhow, can’t be taken,
as a matter of course), but the
right to draw full wages, come
rain or shine. What a rush for
jobs in the depressed industries!
Since this particular technique
was recommended by the
editor of the “Daily Worker”
at the Communist - party
congress at Easter and also
at an earlier conference in
Sheffield, its origin is plain.
And the main object is clearly
twofold: to make production
costly by sustaining under-
employment, and to deter
workers from transferring to jobs
under the defence programme.
Pickwickian Parade
A new stage version of “Pick-
wick Papers” is enjoying a
limited, well-acclaimed run at the
Westminster Theatre. It is an
ambitious project, with a cast of
25, and fits in all the main
characters except Job Trotter,
Arabella and Benjamin Allen,
Bob Sawyer and Dodson and
Fogg. The self-styled “arranger,”
Stanley Young, admits the
impossibility “of dramatising the
novel, and confines himself to
the modest double-purpose of
selecting only those incidents
which “reflect the essential
quality of the original writing,
or those which lend themselves
readily to stage presentation.”
He best succeeds in displaying
the characters, and in the
skilfully-contrived opportunities
he gives the actors to let them-
selves go. But Dickensians—and
others,, too —may be less satisfied
at the poetic licence takeu,
mainly at the expense of Mr.
Tupman, in order to strengthen
the name-part. Little is lost by
substituting Mr. Pickwick as the
unfortunate target of Mr.
Winkle’s bad aim, or as the dupe
of Mr. Jingle’s borrowing; but
to turn him into a silly suitor of
Rachel Wardle is a major error
of judgment.
Mr. Pickwick is as sexless as
he is timeless : to make such a
concession to dramatic unity is
no less than a crime against
letters. There is also a tendency
for the production to be always
bright and joyous and to avoid
sentiment. Mrs. Leo Hunter’s
fancy-dress breakfast is funny
enough, but need the trial end
in a riot, and the Fleet prison
scene in a carousal? Dramatic
unity is again saved, yet how
much is lost! One instance
only: the incident where Sam
Weller borrows from the Old
’Un so that he, too, can be
imprisoned is far more poignant
and vital than a dozen
Wellerisms. It is reprehensibly
omitted.
Bartlett Mullins’s Pickwick is
never-to-be-forgotten: round,
benign and ruddy, he not only
looks the part but also gives it
character. Victor Maddern
lacks nothing but inches for a
true-to-life Sam who is at once
perky, loyal and shrewd. Peter
Copley’s sinister, compulsive
Alfred Jingle, Viola Lyel’s
finely-poised Rachel Wardle and
Wensley Pithey’s fruity,
bronchitic Tony Weller are the
best of the other impersonations.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Bo”; The phony “Peace” delegation
of credulous mugs and others who have
been dutifully absorbing Mao’s brand of
propaganda in Peking cast up at a party
thrown by the Deputy-Premier of Red
China, Kno Mo Jo. It is gratifying that
several other members of the illustrious
Jo family were also at the doings. There
was Grim Sho Jo, the North Korean
representative; So Long Jo, the recently-
recalled Chinese Ambassador to Moscow;
Yo Ho Jo, the newly-appointed Naval
Attache to Vladivostock ; Go Slo Jo, the
well-known diplomat and adviser; No
Dough Jo, the Chinese Finance Minister ;
Bio Me Jo, Kno Go Jo, Quo Va Dis Jo
and Yu Kro Jo. Wal Rus Mo Jo was
also present, but only in the spirit. lam
wondering if Dr. Burton and his
comrades, while shuddering over their rice-
wine or vodka, were apprised of the sad
case of Bi Cli, a student of Peking Uni-
versity, who, in a burst of enthusiasm as
China’s Deputy-Premier, went past in his
collectivised Cadillac, shouted “Kno Mo
Jo!” and instantly had his melon lopped
off for uttering disloyal thoughts.
* * * *
“Timekeeper”: A day or so after he
got into our main-roads camp the big
blond laborer wandered over to the office
and asked me to get him an ex-service-
man’s tobacco ration. “Yeah,” he said;
“I was all through Africa-Tobruk and
all.” I reached for the appropriate form
and asked him his unit. “Fifteenth
Panzer,” he replied calmly. It took the
cost-clerk and me half an hour to
persuade him that Australian cigarettes
were for the winning side only.
* sfc $
“Zake”; Having heaved some brickbats
at the practice that has spread over the
past year or so among concert recitalists
of soaking their audience up to two-bob
for a single sheet of paper, wi h some-
times not even an annotation against the
works to be performed, I must be fair
and hand out a bouquet to the N.S.W.
National Opera people for letting their
.patrons of the current season have a 24-
page programme for a modest bob. Not
only are there well-written precis of each
opera, but the newsy booklet is liberally
sprinkled with photos of all the principals,
plus a setting-out of the worthy aims of
the organisation, list of office-bearers, etc.
Being a livewire concern it went after the
ads and got them. The A.B.C. might take
the tip.
* * * #
“Saxon”: Ever been to Manus Island—
Australia’s Pacific defence-post? Well, I
dwell there, so I ask you to believe me
when I tell the story of the two Americans
who circuited the island, and, upon land-
"James! Have you seen my cake-icer ?”
ing at Momote airstrip, announced to an
R.A.A.F. officer “Say, guy, you sure have
Y°ur shore-defences well camouflaged.
We couldn’t see ’em from the air. How
do you do it?” Never been to Manus
T«l a „H9 - ♦ r iVianuB
Island? Well, m that case, I can t expect
y ou to see the joke.
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: A proud exhibit in the
bar of the Buffalo Hotel, in Sydney’s
Regent-street, is a verse of Will Lawson’s
published in the Bulletin some years
ago. It describes the feelings of a bunch
° f ‘ Ht ;[ ailroad men when they hear a
loco, steam past out of Central Station
for points west. The pub was, and is,
f
"If you're not TOO busy , the C.O. would like operation T.S.P31Z.VJ.
arranged for tonight."
the mecca of fettlers and others down
from the country, and Lawson’s lines
capture Their nostalgia for the free-and-
easy life on the permanent-way outback.
The Railways could do worse than use
the poem to attract the staff they need
so badly, or is it that today’s railway-
recruits care less for the life itself than
for the so-called amenities that go with it?
* * * *
“Minto”: The “No Liability” set-up
for mining companies is apparently un-
known in America. An envelope re-
ceived in Adelaide from U.S. recently
was addressed Kangaroo Mines (No
Stability), Adelaide, Australia.
* * * ■£
“Yasume”: With the influx of Euro-
pean migrants a great deal has been said
in regard to language difficulties. In the
Army we got by all right. Essentials
were; much facial-expression and hand-
gesticulation, a knowledge of “No good”
in half a dozen languages, plus the uni-
versally-understood “0.K.” Had it
demonstrated in a prison-camp in Siam.
Detailed for in-camp work, our party
appeared before the Nip lance-corporal
in charge of stores. While we stood at
strict attention, our n.c.0., with much
bowing, convinced him that all we were
after was fuel for the cookhouse. After
running through the usual earbash in his
own lingo he issued the order, clearly
understood by all of us. Pointing to the
stack of intact lengths, which we dare not
take, he said “O.K. bamboo, no good.”
Then, turning to a heap of broken stuff,
he said “No good bamboo, 0.K.,” and
it was ours.
* * * *
“Lucky”; In these days of skyrocketing
fares I find it hard to believe that about
seven years ago, as an R.A.A.F. type, I
once cursed the cheapness of the Scottish
transport-system. Escorting a sonsy Ayr
lass home from a dance I paid two
three-halfpenny fares,* and, absorbed in
the conversation of my companion, paid
no heed to the route over which we
travelled. Confident that the distance
covered by a three-halfpenny fare could
be covered with little effort on foot, I had
no hesitation in letting, for the sake of a
longer conversation, the last city-bound
bus depart. Two hours later I was still
tramping, keeping myself warm with
maledictions on the Caledonian
authorities who, by charging such
ridiculously low fares, gave their pas-
sengers from the Dominions no warning
of the distance they would have to cover
in footing it over the same routes.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: The contradictory
term “permanent temporary employee,”
actually used at times in public-
service memos, is justified enough
in many cases, but most of all
in the case of Psmith, a likeable
and well-educated chap who arrived
from England in the early years of this
century and got a job as a “temporary
clerk” in the G.P.O. He was still a
temporary clerk when last I saw him,
having, with one short interlude, shuffled
about as a “temporary” from department
to department and from State to Com-
monwealth services. The interlude was
a part of the First World War ; he was
a temporary corporal when 1 met him
overseas and his substantive corp.’s-rank
arrived after he had become a temporary
sergeant. A friend told me that Psmith
died about six years ago. “His people
in England were well off, there was talk
of taking his body back to the ancestral
vault or something, so he was buried
in a temporary grave at Rookwood.”
He is still there —apparently the “per-
manent temporary” characteristic runs
true to form.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Taswegian”: That Chinaman who
planted pumpkins by the swimming-hole
because they are “velly heavy, velly safe”
(B. 30/4/’52) obviously hadn’t read
The Pea Pickers. The two girls Steve and
Blue, hop-picking, short of cash, are
living almost entirely on bran and honey,
to the amusement of the storekeeper—
and the other pickers. One evening they
go to the river to wash their dirty clothes.
And there they find a field of pumpkins
and maize. Dry golden pumpkin! Soon
one is cut up and boiling in their kero.-
tin “copper” with a handful of tender
maize-cobs. Alas, here comes the owner ;
they plead guilty to lighting a fire on his
land to boil their clothes. He helps them,
throws in their bundle of soiled unmen-
tionables on top of the boiling pumpkin.
With the bundle goes a pocketknife and
a bar of soap. Dry golden pumpkin—
yellow glutinous mess clinging to hot, wet
clothes. And, final humiliation, their
tragicomedy is watched by canoodling
couples from the hop-fields, who, for
weeks afterwards, make merry with the
cry “What about a bit of nice dry golden
pumpkin. Blue?”
* * * *
“Irving”: According to a Melbourne
“Argus” columnist the gold which goes
into the lettering at the head of many
Government forms is the real McCoy,
and, by a special process involving the
use of egg-white, surplus gold-leaf to the
tune of about £lOO a year is salvaged by
the Victorian Government. The salvage
recalls a flourishing racket which was
exposed by a dispute among several
members of the staff of a large optical
firm some years ago. It was the habit of
the lass at the counter, before handing
over a client’s new pair of specs, to
crumple up and discard into the waste-
paper basket the frame of the old pair.
At the end of the day the w.p.b. would
be prospected and enough gold-frames
salvaged to make their melting-down and
sale to a gold-buying firm highly lucra-
tive. _ The dispute arose in connection
with the division of the spoil, and after
the resultant recriminations the boss
himself, hitherto unaware of the sideline,
dealt directly with the goldbuyer.
* * * *
“Vingter”: Those notices in pubs and
elsewhere (B. 21/5/’52) recall the framed
telegram displayed in a Western Queens-
land bar about two decades ago. The
telegram was sent in reply to that of a
publican who had disquieting news that
a shearer client proposed, on cut-out of
his current shed, to follow a run further
west and thereby neglect to liberate the
moderately-large-sized dog which he had
left tied up at the pub. On the slate the
debtor’s name appeared as “The Pelican,”
which was the only tag by which he was
known in the district. The wire was
therefore addressed in that name to the
Wiregrass shed and duly delivered. His
reply: “Heading west. Flying high.
The Pelican,” when framed, was a draw-
card which drew custom many times the
value of the original debt, which was, in
fact, squared-up by The Pelican
immediately after the cut-out of the shed.
* * * *
“Sturmer”; Suggest the owners of that
70-year-old steam-loco. (B. 21 / 5/’52),
instead of selling it to a junk firm or
giving it as an historic relic, should take
a leaf from the Speck Government Rail-
ways’ book. There’s a new station being
built at Hobart (I don’t know why: the
present one’s not a century old, and part
of the roof doesn’t leak), and a couple of
old locos were in the way. The depart-
ment offered then* free to anyone who
would remove them. There were no
takers. They changed their tactics and
offered them for sale. They nearly burst
their boilers in surprise—one brought a
few hundred pounds, and the other is
rented at a fiver or so a week. My guess
is that the wife of one of the heads once
worked in a hat-shop.
AN ODE TO SORROW.
[Advertisement.]
O Sorrow, weeping up and down the town,
hide your mournful face
behind your ample gown!
Where did you get it, lovey? With what grace
you wear it . . . like swansdown
it floats upon your—well, it floats
and gloats
and all the time it keeps you warm as toats!
Joy,
poor boy,
might well forget you look so gruesome
and creep for warmth into your bosom—
so try a smile;
they’re more your style—
they come in. rose, pink, indigo, purple, and then
they cost you nothing, or next-to-nothing . . .
only 87/101
My winter coat? Yes, Swilliam, it's a jewel,
but that is why I beat my thrilling
sixty-shilling
nylon brassiere:
I got the coat by being cruel /
Could anything, 1 ask, be crazier?
I found it, tossed
in a stray corner, marked Much Below Cost!
I said to the Department Store,
“You people have the right to live,
you can’t take less than what you give,
now, really, let me pay you more!”
Alas, but they were adamant,
they said, “No, no, no, no, you can’t —
others may charge more for their pinnies —
Our Price —a paltry . . .
50 Guineas 1
O Sorrow, Sorrow, you are not alone
in cheating businessmen or making moan;
I saw a humble tailor advertise
tweed suits
for male brutes
v _ Well Below Half-Price—
suits of a tweed-breed—wilful woolful, rough
and rancid
he-man, G-man suits—-the coats and pants’d
lemmd you of stables and Valentino’s brilliantine,
they tasted of flora and the countryman green;
m a moment of social enmity, 1 took
one off the hook,
paying the impecunious, the starved
tailor the price he’d halved—
confound my wretched, penny-pinching tricks’
a mere . . .
£l9/19/61
O Swilliam, Swilliam, 1 am much relieved
to find I’m not the only one who’s thieved,
but let us now reform our ways
and see that merchandising pays,
for many a shop around about
is closing down or selling out;
some have been just about to go
for just about a year or so:
( they’ve made a vice
of Sacrifice)
the latest of the new proposals
that s added to accountants’ dizziness
has been of a disposal-business
for the disposal of Disposals;
so buy! buy! buy 1
save them the trouble!
keep prices high,
and demand to pay double!
NS-W -
SWILLIAM.


“Ahreno”; My mate Harry, late of the
R.N., liked Sydney’s hospitality, but got
heartily sick of being asked “How d’ you
like our harbor? How d’ you like our
bridge?'” At one time he had worked
for Dorman Long, so for the casual
inquirer he evolved the answer: “God
gave you your harbor. We built your
bridge and you haven’t paid for it yet.”
Need I add that, having delivered this
piece of North-country “wisdom,” he
would depart at high speed. One morning
he was returning to Sydney in the Manly
ferry. The ferry was still 6ft. from
Circular Quay when he jumped for the
jetty, overestimated his jumping prowess,
and fell in. As he surfaced alongside the
ferry, blowing and spouting water like a
whale, a Sydneysider leant over the rail
and called out to him “How d’ you like
our ’arbor, mate?” Harry was unable to
give any coherent story for some time
after he was pulled out, but later, in the
pub, he told us about it and we asked
whether he had given his customary
“I'd like to be in it, old boy, but I promised the little woman I'd have
a quiet evening at home."
reply. “Reply,” he said. “I opened my
mouth to tell him what I thought of him
and his blanky harbor, and it came up
and blanky near drowned me!”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Melbourne “Sun-Pix” resur-
reeled the story of the dear old lady who
asked her banker if her balance of £250
was all right, and when he said it was
timidly asked if she could see it. The
banker, goes the chestnut, slipped over
to a teller, put him wise and sent the old
lady across to him. The teller pulled out
a roll of pound notes, counted out 250
of them and then put them back in a
drawer and the customer trotted away
perfectly convinced that her hoard was
there in as good condition as when she
left it 30 years before. The story has worn
well, and so have the pound-notes, though
in terms of what the old girl originally
paid in they can’t be worth much more
than £75 now.
* * * #
“X.S.”: There have been so many
coincidences in Melbourne lately in con-
nection with the winning of lottery-prizes
that I have almost been persuaded into
resuming my acquaintance with a “cer-
tain consultation” myself, though I was
a member of a syndicate for 20 years and
we won only one fiver, and put that back
into the purchase of more tickets. The
latest Coincidence puts the law of averages
completely out of joint, inasmuch as the
first three prizes of £lO,OOO, £2OOO and
£1250 in a Tatt.’s sweep went to three
Brighton (Vic.) families. There is an
argument here against those who argue
that a Victorian Government lottery
would keep money in the State. If Mel-
bourne had a lottery the first, second
and third prizes might be won by three
families living in the same suburb in
Hobart.
* * * *
“P.C.M.”: “Oswin” has the cable-tram
technique all wrong (B. 28/5/’52). At the
approach to each, curve was a white
porcelain bar across the track. On reach-
ing this bar the gripman “threw the grip”
and the tram rolled round on its momen-
tum. The gripman rang his bell from
the time he threw the grip until he picked
it up again/ to warn pedestrians to keep
out of the road —because if he stopped
the tram on a curve it had to be manually
pushed round till it reached the cable
pick-up point again.
* * * *
“R. 8.”: Another version of “Hob-
nailed Boots” (B. 14/5/’52) was popular
before World War I:
The German spies at Chatham,
The big boots they looked at ’em,
For what they took to be ships of war
Were the hobnailed boots me father wore.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Village Hampdens
crop up in unexpected places. There is
one in a group of long-service grass-
widowers who sit in the sun in the beach
park and discuss the defects of their wives
with all the keenness that women devote
to the delinquencies of their husbands.
Listening to them from a near-distance
on several occasions their material sounds
mainly repetitive; the yarn of one, who
is more consistently the same than the
others, boils down to “I told ’er to do
me shirts and I would give ’er ’er ’ouse-
keeping money.” Apparently the lady
was adamant on the question of doing
shirts and he was equally rigid on his
principle of withholding the cash until
they were done; when starvation-point
was reached the domestic ship was
wrecked on the rock of this mutual
obduracy. Some attempts at salvage were
made, but perished on the same rock ;
and at one time the cunning female tried
the insidious trick of sending the gar-
ments to the laundry and charging-up the
bill. Acceptance of this would have been
a breach of the high principle, so the
trick failed.
* * * *
“Hamer”; A blythe memory of my
seventeenth year is of the sploshing of
a prize won in a slogan-competition,
My mother, asking me to do a little shop-
ping’ for her, reached for her purse,
but I gestured lordlily that it was to
be on me. The butcher robbed me of
Is. 3d. for a fore of lamb ; the grocer hit
me up to nearly five-bob because, besides
the eggs (Bfd. a dozen), butter (10yd. a
lb.), tea (Is. 2d. a lb. with a lb. of sugar
thrown in), and jam (syd, a tin), there
were delicacies like isinglass, cream-
cheese and celery-salt, which my mother
liked; and the greengrocer with potatoes
(71b. for 6d.), peas (4d. a peck), grapes
(4d. a lb.) and apples (4d. a dozen) only
milked me of half-a-crown. I paid my
bob for my week’s membership in the
toilet-club at the barber’s and had a shave
as first instalment. For the good of the
house, since I did not smoke, I bought a
3d. packet of cigarettes with a dozen of
“Why do you call it a puff-puff. Daddy?”
matches thrown in. Then I went berserk
on clothes for myself; a pair of flannel
cricketing-pants at 6s. ll|d., canvas shoes
to match. Is. a pair of new boots at
9s. lid. —quite a flash pair—a straw
boater at Is. 6d., and a couple of pairs of
socks with ties which ran me altogether
to an extravagant four-bob, while a silk
shirt hit me 3s. Clad in new
sartorial splendor I went to town to do
the block and buy some presents: a
box of a dozen lead soldiers complete
with cannon at s£d. was one of the items.
Lunch at Comino’s on one of his Is. 6d.
poultry-dinners, with half-a-dozen fat
oysters in the sauce on the boiled fowl,
and everything in plenty. Afterwards the
Block again ; and there was Agnes. She
had not lunched, so I took her to Quong
Tart’s, where we shared light comestibles
and hands under the table to dreamy
music from an orchestra. It cost me
Is. 9d. We wandered later through the
Gardens, where my sixpence in the band
collection-bag no doubt impressed Agnes ;
the impression was no doubt deepened
when I cabbed her home: quite
worth the bob it cost. I took
home some oysters (a small bagful
containing two dozen worked out at 14
the dozen) costing a shilling, and some
stout for a spree-supper. But my mother,
anxiously awaiting dinner for me, was
shocked: “What? You haven’t spent it
all!” she said. “Not the whole two
guineas? Oh, I hope you don’t grow up
a spendthrift like all the other men of our
family!” Yes, they didn’t throw away
money in £5OO-lots in those days. But
you con’d get a lot for what you earned,
««* * ♦
“Brick E.”: The big, high-sided truck
stopped outside a cottage in a Sydney
suburb; the driver leaned out, noted the
house-number, then alighted and walked
around to the back door. “Where d’ you
want it, lady?” he asked, after establish-
ing that he’d reached journey’s end.
“Oh, better put it on the front lawn,”
decided the lady. The driver looked a
little startled. “Wouldn’t it be better on
the drive?” he suggested. “Oh, I don’t
think so ; it won’t be so far to carry it
from the lawn,” was the answer. With-
out any further discussion the carrier
backed his vehicle through the gateway,
manoeuvred it to the edge of the beauti-
fully-kept lawn, and started the hoist.
The last sloppy remnants were plonking
down into the semi-liquid mess when the
lady came around with money in her
hand. Her plaintive cry was heartrend-
ing. “But you told me to do it!” pro-
tested the driver. “But I didn’t under-
stand,” wailed the anguished woman.
“Why didn’t you tell me it wasn’t in
bags?” So if anybody wandering around
Croydon (N.S.W.) during the next few
months wonders where the red grass in a
certain lawn came from, that’s the
answer. Red ready-mixed mortar takes
some cleaning off.
* * * ♦
“Hamfat”: One of the queerest
theatrical contracts known in Australia
was that between J.C.W. and Tittell
Brune; if “the Firm” offered any
theatrical work to her husband, Cuthbert
Brune, the contract was cancelled, Cuth-
bert was a stage-struck ex-bank clerk ;
their only quarrel was her objection to his
idea that he might be an actor. Tittell
was too big a drawcard for the Firm to
offend, but Cuthbert tried to find his
own opportunities. “His Majesty the
King,” staged at Sydney Criterion, was
an appalling frost, and Cuthbert in the
leading role fully justified his wife’s mis-
givings ; there was a dramatic finish when
the Sydney bank-clerk Brune had induced
to finance the show was arrested in the
theatre-office for embezzlement —no
doubt he had reckoned upon being able
to replace the funds out of takings, but
the takings were hardly enough to pay
the house staff. Undismayed, Cuthbert
planned a Shakspearian Co. with himself
as Hamlet. A tour of N.Z. was in pros-
pect, but the show opened and ended in
Newcastle. Tittell took him back to the
U.S. with her and that was the last of
his Australian adventures.
* * * *
“W.J.D.”; If John Plodder breaks his
neck or twists an ankle, is rescued from
his blazing home, is guilty of grossly
reprehensible misconduct, or merits public
applause, the Press impertinently broad-
casts the intimation that he is an age-
pensioner. Why this ill-bred and wholly
unwarranted invasion of his privacy?
John may be a retired farmer, printer,
mechanic, professional , man or store-
keeper. After a well-spent life or a dis-
solute existence, through undeserved ill
luck or human failings, he finds it neces-
sary to accept the -pension. That is his
own very personal affair. John probably,
for the first time since his wedding, finds
his name in print. He justifiably may
resent the impudent presumption which
makes his financial status public property.
Do ever we read news items reporting
that Mrs. Fitzclarence-Smith, brewery
shares, slipped on a banana-skin and
needed ambulance attention? Or that
Mr. Eustace Masher, income from estate
of deceased aunt, had a painful mishap
with his car? Unthinkable! Where
their money comes from is no concern
of the public. Surely Mr. and Mrs.
Plodder are equally entitled to common
'‘courtesy.
• « ♦ *
“Ceg”: She bustled into the bank one
day during the war and asked if she could
open an account. Why, certainly! Just
step into the manager’s office, she was
told. This she did, beaming brightly and
shedding an aura of heady perfume.
Placing her handbag on the manager’s
table she got down to business. Could
she open the account with American
dollars? No trouble there, so she pro-
duced a wad of bills and sundry coins.
The specimen-signature book was called
for and she was asked her name. “Well,”
she said coyly, “most of my friends call
me Bubbles.” It was explained to her
that if she so desired she could sign her
cheques “Bubbles,” but for the bank’s
records the full name would be necessary.
She gave it. Next question: “What is
your occupation and address?” Again
coyly she answered that she was a “pro-
fessional entertainer.” The account was
duly opened, and as time went on it be-
came apparent that the designation of the
lady would have been adequately defined
by the use of the word “professional”
alone.
» * * *
“Timon”: I was huddled over the grate
listening to the 10.30 p.m. news before
burying myself in the luxury of warm
blankets and eight hours of oblivion.
“That ends the news. News in German
and Latvian will follow” I was
really touched by the gesture in making
our New Australians feel at home when
the announcer crushed the sentiment. He
added “at 4.30 a.m.”
STRANGE BEHAVIOR.
“I just can’t get interested in female curves.
I’ve seen too many of ’em. In 80 years of the
theatre I’ve seen girls from everywhere. They never
differ. A good curve here is a good curve any-
where.” —Visiting Holies Berg ere stage-manager
Harry Shu//lebottom.
Ah! Don’t envy him, I pray,
Who has crossed the seas to give
Us a pop-eyed gink at gorgeous girls
Parisian!
Though their shapes he must survey
It’s a job compulsative,
And certainly not one you’d term Elysian.
Think of his daily toil!
Wherever he may turn
He can’t avoid the sight of limbs a-curving.
The strongest must recoil
From this in time. To earn
A crust like that—how frightfully unnerving!
You’ve heard, as like as not,
Of girls who, with delight,
Start work in chocolate-shops, avidly bolting
The chocs until they’ve got
So sated that the sight
Of them becomes intolerable, revolting.
It’s just the same with Shuff.
In his case, though, it’s legs;
No eager admiration he’ll accord ’em.
He’s seen more than enough;
To him they’re simply pegs,
A subject of unutterable boredom.
He’s merely looked for flaw
In chassis that he’s viewed —
He’s passed ’em out, of course, when
they’re too angled.
On seeing them in the raw
(Or almost so) his mood
Would be depressed. When glamorously
spangled
The curving hip to him
Was just another frame,
Certainly nothing that he’d find exciting.
In fact, the luscious limb
Of even the shapeliest dame
He’s grown to find particularly blighting.
Impersonal, he sees
Their limbs as so much meat,
Conforming to a standard, set and rigid,
Not having knobs, but knees.
But, for the rest, he’ll greet
The sight of feminine curves in manner
frigid.
Just watch old Shuff. as he
Daily inspects the beef :
From girls whom we’d regard as quite
atomic
He turns —blase, you see—
And, obviously with relief,
To something really interesting—his comic!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS MARY JORY late of in
care of Pillinger Bros, property “Korro-
wong” Bootowa via Lake Cargelligo.—
TAKE NOTICE that WALTER MILTON
JORY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 641 of 1951 on the ground of your
adultery with HECTOR KENNEDY and
your desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the loth day of
August 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from N. C
ROWLES & TOWNSHEND, Solicitors, 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUOHAN,
Registrar.
Black-Fellow
Different
by W.E.HARNEY
FOR many years the old
aboriginal Peter Nardi, of
the Nulkpun tribe, had
worked for the whiteman
known to all as “Old Joe. ’
Peter had been with Old Joe
when they had worked the tin-
mines, but, values too low and
ground too hard, his old boss,
with Peter and his wife Mary,
settled down near the spring of
Bemunluk to establish a garden,
and there the old aboriginal and
his wife looked after the garden
and goats when Old Joe went to
the town for their supplies.
Peter was proud of his job,
and as he worked around the
place he thought of the white
people, and the good strong
houses they built for themselves
out of materials from the bush.
He was for ever looking at the
house Old Joe and he had built
beside the spring. The dressed
cypress-pine slabs neatly fitted
together, the beams and rafters
overhead neatly covered with
large strips of messmate-bark,
and the smooth antbed floor that
was so easy to keep clean.
“Not rubbish-house like we
got,” Peter would exclaim to
Mary as they sat on Old Joe’s
veranda and looked across a grass
flat dotted here and there with
the bush-wurlies of their tribes-
men. “Blackfellow fool . . . all-
a-same dog where him lie longa
rain . . , too much rubbish one
house.”
“Blackfellow him fool all
right,” Mary would patiently
reply. “Whitefellow build house
properly way with him hand, not
like blackfellow where him all
day build house with mouth,
then cry when rain come up.”
Then she looked hard at her
husband and, voicing his dreams,
continued, “What for we no
more build good house like Old
Joe?”
For many minutes Peter Nardi
did not reply to his wife’s ques-
tion. His mind wandered back
to that time when he was of the
tribe before coming into this
land of the white people. He
was a young lad at the time of
his coming, and somehow he
had forgotten the tribal laws of
his land.
“No good you think about
blackfellow business,” Mary his
wife cut in on his thoughts sar-
castically. “We work for Old
Joe long time ... we all-a-same
white people now . . . might be
we got black skin, but here” —
she pointed to her head—“we
think all-a-same whitefellow.”
SO Peter’s dream became a
reality, and to assist them
Old Joe showed them the place
on which they should build, but
as this was on whitefellow’s land,
Peter picked a spot nearer to
the blacks’ camp, for not only
did he wish for a good home,
but he also wanted it to takef
pride of place amidst the tumble-
down huts of his clan. Each
hunting-trip during the cool of
the evening Peter cut timber for
the building. Some of this he
carried back, but the main lot
Old Joe carted in with a truck
they once used at the mine, and
during the heat of the day Peter
and Mary sat under a shady
clump of pandanus-palms to peel
the bark from the timber, and
sort out the different lengths
needed. Time was no object to
the old couple. For them this
future home was to be “some-
thing different, all-a-same white-
man house,” and the work was
a part of their daily enjoyment.
The site for the building had
already been cleared of grass
and small stones. Sitting in the
centre of this cleared jpatch each
evening, Mary would point out
to Peter where the tables should
be, and, in imagination, they
could hear the rain beating down
on the roof as they lay on big
wooden bunks beside a fireplace
flickering sufficiently to keep
away the evil spirits of the bush
who roam about during the rain-
time.
So the months went by. Care-
fully they scratched out the post-
holes, and—with Old Joe’s help
to get the building square—
started to erect the dwelling.
HT RIBESMEN came in from
i their walkabouts to give the
usual clicks of admiration at the
cleverness of Peter, and at the
same time to argue among
themselves about the stupidity of
their countryman who had some-
how strayed from the accepted
way of tribal life.
“Old Peter is a fool,” critically
from a hoary tribesman called
Rainbow as he looked up into
a cloudless sky. “No good build
house when no rain ... that
silly . . . only build house when
rain come down.”
“That all right you,” angrily
from Mary, who was covered in
red earth from her work as a
post-hole sinker. “You just
bush-blackfellow . . . hunt all-a-
same wild-dog ... we different,
all-a-same Old Joe.”
“Blackfellow not different,”
snapped back old Rainbow.
“Whitefellow one law . . . black-
fellow ’nother kind law . . . can’t
be same.”
“You go steal from police-
man,” laughingly from Mary.
“Then when you sit down longa
jail, you find whitefellow and
blackfellow law same.”
After this unanswerable retort
from Mary, old Rainbow drew
off muttering something about
“Blackfellow law proper for
blackfellow,” but his words were
blurred out by the hammer- and
axe-blows of Peter and Mary
as they carried on with then-
work.
D Y the beginning of the wet
'season the frame was com-
pleted, and now the couple were
awaiting the day when the sap
was rising in the messmate-trees,
that would enable them to peel
off the large sheets of bark to
cover their home. Meanwhile
they gathered up antbeds from
the flat near by, and, carrying
these in, they broke them up
with an axe and, after pulveris-
ing the lot with a stout piece of
wood, soaked the dry clay in
water and spread it level and
clean on the surface of the
ground to make a smooth floor.
Then at last the day arrived
when the bark came away freely
from the messmate-trees, and
day after day Peter and Mary
stripped large sheets from the
tree-trunks and, carrying these
to the camp, spread them upon
the flat ground—one on top of
the other —until they were sure
they had enough.
Now came the laying of the
sheets on the sides and roof.
How the sweat poured from
their bodies as they worked
feverishly to be finished with the
job! And then came the day
when the building stood com-
pleted on the flat, as perfect a
job as when it was first visualised
as a blueprint in the minds of
Peter and his wife.
Only one thing was needed to
complete the picture, and that
was a sheet of messmate-bark to
nail on the bush-frame door.
Next day, as they went out to
bring this in, they came upon a
large party of their tribesmen
who were new arrivals to this
area from the bushlands many
miles away. To old Peter and
Mary there was joy in this meet-
ing. The long-forgotten stories
of the tribe were retold ; Mary
cried with joy as she met her
tribal relations ; and many were
the warning signs given to the
pair about various new arrivals
who were taboo* to them,
“We saw your smoke from
long way,” said Mary excitedly
to a woman who was apparently
her mother’s sister. Peter Nardi
sat some distance apart with his
back towards this woman. She
was his tribal mother-in-law,
and as such she was taboo to
him. He was talking to Mary’s
uncle, and from him he was
learning the news of the tribe.
“We travelled that many
days.” The uncle put his
bunched fingers against the toes
on his feet, and Peter, who
could count a little, knew that
he meant sixteen. “That many
days have we travelled, Mali
[mother-in-law’s brother], v to see
for ourselves the things we have
heard about the white people.”
He paused to look up at some
heavy cloud-banks coming up
from the north, and, rising, he
called out to the others. “We
go now,” and with this brief
order the new arrivals went on
to Old Joe’s garden site by the
spring.
DETER and Mary were now
* all excitement as they tore off
the last sheet of bark; they
were eager to fix it in place and
gather up their belongings from
their old camp, and be as Mary
said, “All-a-same white people
. . . good house make ’em we
different kind blackfellow.”
Hastily they picked up the sheet
and sped towards the camp, but
the big storm struck the garden
site just as they topped the ridge.
Before it the wurlies of their
tribesmen went hurtling into the
bush. Peter smiled with pride
as he saw them go, for strong
amidst them all was their new
homestead awaiting their return,
and as they watched the flying
timber a grey wall of rain
blocked out the scene.
Then Peter and Mary dropped
the sheet they carried, and ran
for the shelter of their new
home. Blindly they battled
against the storm, and finally
staggered in to find it packed
tight with the new arrivals of
that day. As Peter tried to force
his way in he was met with a
storm of tribal indignation, and
cursed as one who would defy
the sacred taboos of the Nulkpun
tribe.
“Can’t come in,” they heard
Mary’s uncle shout above the
roar of the storm. “Your
mother-in-law is here, and bye-
and-bye she’ll die if you look
upon her face!”
CURSING —but only under
■‘ his breath —a mother-in-law
whose presence in his house had
now made it impossible for him
to enter or live within it, Peter
and Mary sped once more
through the rain for the shelter
of Old Joe’s well-built house,
and once in its shelter, and
warming beside the fire of big
logs, Peter spoke his mind ro
Mary.
His old boss laughed loud.
“Blackfellow can’t be different.”
sympathetically from Old Joe
as he gazed at Mary crying be-
side the fire. “Old fashion tribal
law makes these things taboo,
Peter. You build house, but
suppose you mother-in-law go
inside before you, then you can’t
go inside that one place.”
As Old Joe spoke the words
their full meaning came upon
him and his loud laughter made
Peter and Mary look up as
though he were insane. “Crise,
Peter, old man,” he exclaimed
betwixt his laughter. “We whites
have same business, too. Plenty
time we read about in paper how
mother-in-law came into her
daughter house, and son-in-law
been walk out of that place” . . .
“Mother - in - law business
proper humbug,” interrupted
Peter. “We”
“Not too bad, old man,” cut
in Old Joe. “Blackfellow' clever
to make law that keeps away
trouble.”
“Might clever,” quietly from
the old aboriginal. “But Mary
and me been hard work for that
louse . . , all day we think-
about that house, now black-
fellow steal him,”
“Blackfellow can’t steal
house,” smilingly from Old Joe
as he handed his two friends a
pot of tea. “Custom make law
and you lose house, so custom
steal house not blackfellow.”
“No matter custom,” sadly
from the old blackman as he put
his gnarled hand on Mary’s
head. ..“We been lose good
house.” Then, savagely, “Black-
fellow proper fool . . . what for
him always different?”
He gazed at Old Joe, who was
looking into the fire, and only
the rain beating down on the
roof and Mary’s sobs answered
the question of Peter Nardi of
the Nulkpun tribe.
VARIOUS VERSE
A NEW YEAR SONG.
Again I come to you with nothing,
Complaining nothing, and knowing
I come alone as from new birth.
Knowing, to you, I am of little worth,
Except you make me so. Except
You teach me kindness; and, your precept
I divining, learn to give love,
And constancy, peace of the dove:
So, out of nothing, a glad world to make.
As came the swallows at New Year and spoke
In soft lark-undertones, I little thought
Their twittering mattered; but this new meaning caught
World, without swallows, would not breed disaster;
But, seeing them, I watched the earth reel faster;
Keener was the air for their sheer flight.
Such coming matters, and such love is right.
, Though I bring nothing, and I come to you
Complaining nothing, love is all my due.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
MR. FORTESKEY.
Mr. Forteskey has a shy little typist.
She has white gloves—one to carry, one to wear.
She has a crocodile purse that doesn’t open,
Because Mr. Forteskey likes the taste of her hair.
His typist has a mother who thinks he’s a tyrant
To keep her girl working when the moon is full.
Mr. Forteskey’s mother thinks he’s a Trojan
But is glad that he’s girl-free and dutiful.
The typist is business-like between hours,
Pretending not to hear what the others say.
To Mr. Forteskey it doesn’t matter:
He can afford to have things his way,
Mr. Forteskey has a little bay window
Which he rosea over with an expensive suit.
The suit has well-cut padding at the shoulders . . ,
Mr. Forteskey looks a virile brute.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
BECAUSE OF THE BOMB.
[From “My People,” awarded second prize in the Jubilee
long-poem competition.]
Let us go out in the rain and be washed of our stains,
thinking of men who have died by water,
as tall as we, and of screams in the s«ky
and in burned cities, because of a bomb.
(Lord, wash us clean
with the waters of the Atlantic and the Pacific,
and grant us Thy peace,
being not angry with us forever.)
For we have learned nothing, nor forgotten it:
we have hanged soldiers years after,
and have forgotten the tares we sowed in our peace treaties,
and only our children know in the schoolroom
the fate of the Metternich force, while we
forgetting how we wept by the waters of Geneva
have proudly erected proud buildings by the shores of Lake
Success.
And we find we must talk, though we must hurry through
our talking,
using abbreviations, because of the bomb.
We must talk, though we tire the sun with talking
and send him down the sky, for we know
our life is growing shorter, and our nerves are bads
yes, very bad.
(Lord, wash us clean
with the waters of expiation and purification,
in Thanach by the waters of Mageddo
with the waters that saw Thee, O God,
wash us clean,
and then let our cry come unto Thee.)
n.s.w.
R. McDONNELL.


fg
Count the hours to the
finest holiday under the sun
At Hayman Island winter is just a six letter word ... an
umbrella would draw a crowd. All day long the tropics sing
their siren song, inviting you to swim . . . cruise . . . aquaplane
. . . or just potter about. Nearby technicolour islands call to
the beachcomber in you. People come from half way round the
world to marvel at the maritime miracle of the Barrier Reef
. . . swift flying boats can whisk you there in a few short
hours. Book NOW for the sunniest winter holiday of your life.
Inclusive tariff of four guineas a day
covers accommodation . . . epicurean
menus . . . morning and afternoon teas
. . . cabarets and motion pictures.
SIAN D
<-»m v
■
r.
wwxwiww
A T 9
For reservations :
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
129 Phillip St., Sydney; BW 2921. 360 Collins St., Melb.; MU 6921. And Q'land Tourist Bureaux
STORY
CAR’S
INSIDE
what make is his new car? And suddenly you realise you’re not
sure although he’s given you lifts, often.
But you just didn’t notice nice seats, nice smooth engine, nice • • •
And the car itself somehow didn’t tell you any more.
If that car had been a Javelin you'd have noticed.
That effortless acceleration (0-60 in 22-4 secs.) would have had you full of
questions after the first gear change assuming you’re interested in cars.
Soon you would have tempted the driver into sampling some of the
tremendous power that comes from that flat-four engine
a genuine 80 m.p.h. And then you’d look behind and see all that room.
And you’d sense those torsion bars doing what only torsion bars
can do to bumps. And you’d start thinking to yourself yes, one day
this car’s going to be yours.
The Javelin is famous for its sleek lines but the man or woman
behind the wheel loves it for what it does.
Top speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration 0-60 m.p.h.
in 22-4 secs. (“The Autocar” 1951 Road Test). Horizontally opposed
flat-four engine gives 30 m.p.g.
'
m
The li litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day —it has to be TOURS!
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd., Brisbane; B.E.A. Distributors Ltd.,
Adelaide: Western Motor Co, Pty. Ltd., Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by jowett cars limited, idle, Bradford, Yorkshire, who make the Jowett Jupiter Convertible
'lass winner of 8 major trials and rates, and of course, the famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
MODERN MAN
FROM MENINDEE
by MANCYE CATO
IN the fast, impersonal diesel
train from Broken Hill to
Parkes —not a real train at
all, with no soot, no puffing,
no delightful smell of coal
smoke —the passengers dozed, or
gazed out at the unusual collec-
tion of wildflowers dotting the
plains. There was the red of
Sturt pea and the mauve-blue
of Paterson’s Curse (or, as South
Australians call it, being grateful
to anything that will survive a
drought. Salvation Jane) and the
bright yellow of some sort of
everlasting daisy.
We slid quietly into Menindie
—Menindee on the station
notices, Menindie on the map—
and quietly out again, leaving
the one hotel beside the mucjdy
Darling we had just crossed. A
passenger, without luggage, had
come on board, and with a shy
grin on his face wandered up
and down between the seats,
obviously confused at facing so
many people in a confined space.
At last he dived into the place
beside me, with relief tempered
by disquiet at discovering that
I was a female; he had not
before raised his eyes above the
level of my brown slacks and
workmanlike shoes.
We sat in silence as the grey
saltbush flitted by, and the crim-
son clumps of wild hops, and the
red and yellow and blue streaks
of color that were the other
flowers. I noted that the new-
comer looked like Randolph
Scott playing the part of a
mounted trooper lean, hard
jaw, clear, light eyes, straight
features, smooth, tanned skin;
that he wore elastic-sided boots,
khaki drill riding-trousers, a blue
shirt and a stde-brimmed felt
hat festooned with cobwebs, like
a caricature of the veiling on a
fashionable woman’s hat.
After taking in these details
and having exchanged a polite
“Good-day” I looked steadily
out the window so as not to em-
barrass him. But the man from
Menindee was restless, appar-
ently groping for conversation.
He pleated and unpleated his
trousers at the knee, changed his
position, cleared his throat.
pushed his hat far back and at
last brought out
“What d’ y’ reckon’s the best
’orse for a pack’orse—an ’orse
or a mare?”
Not having the wildest idea
about the relative values of
packhorses, I made a vague
guess. “Well, I think perhaps
a mare is usually more patient.”
“Yair, I reckon you’re right.
And what do y’ reckon’s the best
way of fixin’ a pack?”
This was far beyond me ; I
admitted that I wouldn’t know.
Silence again. More saltbush.
More wild hops. Then suddenly
“Look at me teeth! ” he said.
Startled, I turned and looked
hard at him, as I had been want-
ing to do all along. His face
was smooth and brown as
polished leather but for a fan of
pale lines about the corners of
the blue eyes where the sun had
never had a chance to burn the
skin ; his eyes were used to be-
ing screwed up against the glare
and dust of the inland. He
parted his wide, straight mouth
and showed a double row of per-
fect teeth.
“I’m goin’ up to get ’em
fixed,” he said. “There’s a man
at Gum Lake can do it.”
“But what’s wrong with
them?”
“They ain’t even. This one
here’s a bit longer than the
others. Out in camp I bin filin’
’er down with a brick. But this
man at Gum Lake ’ll fix ’er,”
“Does it hurt you to bite on
it?”
“No-o. But it don’t look
nice.”
I marvelled. Were the girls of
Menindee and places farther out
so particular that a tall, bronzed,
handsome bushman hadn’t a
chance if one of his teeth was
three-sixteenths of an inch longer
than the others? Hollywood
standards could not be more ex-
acting.
We passed a broad swamp
dotted with spindly gumtrees,
and a few wooden shacks ap-
peared on the vast plain.
“Gum Lake!” shouted the
guard in the man-from-Menin-
dee’s ear. He leapt towards the
door without a goodbye, but
just before he dropped off the
train he turned and lifted the
cobwebbed hat for a second;
and “the web broke loose and
floated wide.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
So notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications
insufficiently stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
N.R.: You should stick to animals;
they don’t muck up your dialogue
M.D M.: Fantastic... .M. 8.: Don’t
write about writing—you might wither
into u critic.... J.D.S.: “For instance,
if I committed adultery with the
daughter of my next-door neighbor,
my friends would shun me ” Still.
—J.: The odor of burnt, dead dog
will remain with us for many days.
....K.N.: You should keep out of
the stream-of-consciousness until you
learn to swim L.F.P.: Story might
make a paragraph, if true; picture
would never d 0... .W.G.H.: Stilted.
O.K.K.: It’s a pleasant version
of baby-and-the-burglar; and some
women’s paper might take it....
T.C.: The dialogue isn’t bad, but as
a pretty strict rule we shy off common
everyday murder A. 8.: Not sure
it hasn’t been done before, but with
more point... .N. 8.: None of the
three. Try not to write about “Mrs.
Smiley-Worthington”—the name sets
your story immediately in indelible
wrinkles of unsmiling humor....
E.V.H.: Not bad up to where the
chance-met manager turns out to be
the old man’s long-lost son: father’s
and son’s outstretched arms were
both heavily tattooed “Coincidence.”
S.L.: No perhaps about “Per-
haps”—you just mustn’t do such
things M.F.C.: He’s the vilest
little boy we’ve seen in print for a
long while, but one feels you are
piling it on a little too thick E.L.:
Not ours 8.C.: That outrageously-
acting-character - that - turns-out-in-the-
last-line-to-be-an-animal the police
should offer a reward... .D.D.; “The
Football Match” plays too long with-
out scoring W.R.: “The Lantern”
was an idea,* but you have hidden it
under a bushel.... R.F.: Your Res-
toration essay is to be restored
F.A.K.: Not ours M.McL.: Peli-
can story not bad, but we’ve got a
crush 0n....A.C.H.: “Ten Minutes
Late” will return to you in good time.
Bellerive: Fly in;
Dare Devils of the Aib.
In world war two they
Did do and there.
Warriors of action the
Braves of the air.
Over land and the
Wild wide main.
Heedless of winds
And peltering rain.
For king and country
They do and dare.
In hellish combats
The braves of the air.
Bill: “Where are you tonight,
my blue-eyed queen?” Ten to one
she’s listening to a radio quiz-session.
J.S.: “The Drought” and “Drov-
ing” might suit a paper that publishes
verse for the very young F.G.:
There’s something vaguely pleasant,
in a rough-and-tumble style, in
“Sydneyside” E.T.M.: Not quite;
but there’s feeling in it
Sincere; too personal, too diffuse.
B.E.: Fair for 16; don’t use
archaic language, and there’s no need
to type on cardboard... .8.N.F.:
There is a great virtue in simplicity
if you wish to add to
The typographical blazons that enrich
Spired incandescence of attritioning mind.
, ...J.P.: “Rain” makes it clear that
it is raining, but that’s about all.
M.B.: The touch of outback
reminiscence is the brightest patch in
them R.F.: A tolerable set of
verses, but you won’t find much
poetic profit in writing about politics;
unless you happen to be a reincarna-
tion of Pope C.R.S.: Sonnet,
respectable rather than refreshing.


ABORIGINALITIES
# * * *
“Murlonga”: A lot of piffle is written
about the bushmanship of the abo. Take
average boy off his own towri, turn
him loose in a strange land, and he’s as
likely to get bushed as any other mug.
But you occasionally run across a superb
abo. bushman. Such a one was Phantom,
a boy from the Gulf country (N.Q.). He
Was working on Austral Downs, Barkly
Tableland, when the big cattle raid was
pulled at Lake Nash in 1916. The
manager lent Phantom to the Lake men.
Who followed the cattle to the Frew
River. T. A. Snelling—Galloping Tim—
led the hunt; he was then pastoral-
inspector for the Q.N. Co., which owned
the Lake. When they captured the men
and recovered the cattle Snelling wanted
to get back to the Lake as soon as possible
so as to get on the telegraph-wires. He
selected Phantom to guide him. Later
he told me that on the whole of that 150
miles cross-desert trek the boy never
deviated five degrees the whole time —
Snelling had the compass on him. But
Phantom was an outstanding boy, an old-
time member of the Native Mounted
Police, and he was the only abo. I’ve ever
known to recover from pneumonia.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Who told “Shadow-chaser”
(B. 14/5/’52) that when camping at night
sheep “choose the warmest site, most
sheltered from wind”? I grant that sheep
like a dry camp, but, wet weather or dry,
they will undoubtedly select a high knob
or the highest corner of a smaller pad-
dock to bed down on. The fact that it
is the coldest, windiest spot around
doesn’t seem to concern them, and,
chased off their camp, they will make
back every time to their accustomed
windy place. It is cattle that prefer a
warm camp ; they will work over the
“Like to throw a spanner in it?”
spurs into gullies sheltered from the wind,
and will select a patch of fern or clump
of trees to settle in. With fires in the
paddock, bovines will gather round the
burning logs on a cold night. “S-c.’s”
advice to hikers or skiers who intend
losing themselves to take a local dog and
follow it home sounds rather like Gov-
ernment departmental instructions. Even
in fine weather, in the thick bush of the
rough Alps country a bloke would sqre
do some mad scrambling in his attempt
to keep the home-going mong in sight;
while in snow anrl bad weather , .. whew!
* * * *
“Kultahna”; Don’t kpow whether I’m
correcting my own handwriting or The
Bulletin’s eyesight, but a blackfellow
(B. 7/5/’52) is a nunga, not munga. Mrs.
Daisy Bates, of honored memory, would
spell it nanga, she having her own
phonetic method. Thus the name “kab-
barli” which she bestowed on herself, and
once described as “spirit of the dream-
time” and on other occasions as grand-
mother, is pronounced “kubbaili,” and
has no more special significance than
“granny.” I knew very well the natives
among whom Mrs. Bates spent her last
working years, and I never heard them
refer to her (always with respect and
affection) as other than “Daisybate.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Though the local paper
was indignant about it and demanded
the apprehension and prosecution of the
offender, it’s so long ago now that this
disclosure doesn’t matter. Ballarat (Vic.)
is proud of its tree-lined ■ streets, its
gardens and its statuary, so I suppose it
was justified in being upset one Saturday
morning when it awoke to find rain falling
and went forth into Sturt-street to dis-
cover the figure of some old Greek or
other standing on his pedestal and hold-
ing a black umbrella over his head. Mat
was so full of good cheer and devilment
on the Friday night that I’ve never been
sure whether he knew the figure standing
in the rain could feel it or not. Anyhow,
he was ever a kindly bloke, and if the
owner of the gamp (it came from the
Scottish Hotel) cares to look Mat up
he’s a cert, to be recompensed for his loss.
“Eyenan”: Manna (B. 21/5/’52) was
known early in the history of Australia’s
resources, for in 1815 Evans, the explorer,
brought Governor Macquarie “a very
unusual and extraordinary production”
which he could not name but which he
had found during one of his expeditions
down the Lachlan. Macquarie sent a
phial of the substance to the British
Colonial Secretary, Lord Bathurst, along
with his dispatches reporting the discovery
of the rich country west of the Blue
Mountains. Macquarie describes it as
being “of the sweetness and flavor of
manna, but differing in appearance, being
very white.,. .and about the size of large
hailstones.” Evans could furnish no
account of its formation, and Macquarie
came to the conclusion that it was formed
like dew. There seems no surviving
record of Lord Bathurst’s reception of
this strange gift, but five years later Sur-
veyor Meehan’s journal recorded that on
the Lachlan he found some “white con-
gealed gum, distilled from the black-
butted gum, the same that Mr. Evans
found when first going to the Lachlan.”
* * * *
“Emjai”: Animal baby-sitting (B.
21/5/’52)? Doolah, the half-Persian cat,
and Rocco, the retriever dog, were close
pals, contrary to usual cat-and-dog rela-
tions. Doolah,, endowed with remarkable
fecundity, produced batches of beautiful
kittens so regularly that she had a per-
manent reservation of a box in the
laundry maternity-ward. After each
arrival Rocco would be on hand to sur-
vey the new-born, and then each day he’d
take up his position in front of the box
until Doolah disengaged herself from
maternal duties and mooched off for
relaxation and foraging. There he would
lie, with his chin on the edge of the box,
and with never a move except to turn
his head and growl at a strange intruder,
until Doolah returned, after an hour or
so, to take over. The worries would start
when the kittens became active enough to
scramble over the front of the box. As
one would flop over Rocco would gently
pick it up and place it back. By that
“They say he always gets his man.”
time another or more would be over,
and as he carefully replaced each they
continued to come too fast for him to
keep up with, until there would be six
or eight meandering about the floor, with
Rocco in agitation on the non-stop job
of gathering them up and trying to make
them stay put. By the time Doolah
returned to assist in the marshalling with
a spot of spanking and sustenance, Rocco
would be nearly a nervous wreck, and the
kittens all well slobbered, but intact, and
the count correct. That stage of activity
was the signal for delivery to applicants
for the kittens, and then Rocco mourned
with the bereaved mother.
* * * *
“The Missus”; Swans at sea (B.
21 /5 / ’52)? Lake Pertobe (Vic.) is a
large stretch of shallow brackish water,
separated from the breakers of the
Southern Ocean by little more than a
strip of beach backed by a line of dunes.
A proclaimed sanctuary, it is, during the
duck-shooting season, black with all types
of wild duck. 1 have seen pelicans there,
too, and rumor said that they nested on
the small scrub-covered island near its
north shore. Gulls patronise the lake in
numbers, and small water-birds abound.
But it is the swans which really call
Lake Pertobe home. There are always
some there, birds, of all ages; fluffy
cygnets, black-billed young birds or the
older birds with their red beaks In 30-
odd years I can’t recollect seeing a swan
leave the lake for even the shortest-cruise
on the open ocean. I did once see one
on the open ocean near Port Fairy, but
when it came ashore on the Eastern Beach
it was found to have been wounded, and
was trailing a wing. Presumably a swan
will always choose still water in prefer-
ence to waves.
* * * *
“Ahreno”: “Sack” comments that
penguins merely trail their legs in the
water and seem to waste a potential source
of power (B. 30/4/’52). The penguin
family use their flippers in the same way
that other birds use their wings in the
air. Their action is more like flying
through the water than swimming. The
flippers are used alternately, to attain a
high speed, and as hydroplanes in the
gliding attitude of birds that fly. The
feet, far from merely trailing, are used
as a rudder. In Antarctica the natural
enemy of the penguin is the sea leooard,
which takes its prey by means of its
superior speed in the water. Penguins
have been seen trying to escape from a
pursuing sea leopard, though without
success unless there were ice-floes near by.
The idea that a penguin could gain extra
speed by using its feet is tantamount to
assuming that a jet aircraft could do so
if a Gipsy Moth engine were to be fitted
to its tail. The drag, the retardation due
to water- or air-resistance would be out
of all proportion to the forward motive-
power obtained.
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: The compiler of Bulletin
crossword-puzzle of 14/5/’52 pulled a
boner with his provision of the clue “fish”
leading to the answer “dugong.” Though
the dugong spends its entire lifetime in a
marine environment and has a bifurcated
tail, it is no more a member of the
fish family than is the human species, to
which it has many points of close resem-
blance. An air-breathing, warm-blooded,
herbivorous mammal, it carries its young
under a protective flipper, which habit is
about its point of closest resemblance to
the human mother. The flesh resembles
both in taste and texture something
between beef and pork, and the speared
animal bleeds like the proverbial stuck
pig. Dugong calf is indistinguishable
from veal once the layers of fat have
been cut out and the flesh has been
roasted in its own grease. The bleating
of a calf whose mother has fallen victim
to the Binghi “wap” or harpoon resembles
too closely the anguished wail of a human
infant for the comfort of most European
observers. Dugong milk has a greater
salinity than the human essence, which,
however, it resembles more closely than
does the bovine secretion.
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was filling his
pipe ready for the trip home when the
bloke outside the pub addressed him.
“Lot of currawongs you’ve got round
here.” Seventyfiver looked puzzled. “Lot
o’ what?” he queried, “Lot of curra-
wongs.” The bloke nodded towards the
birds in the tree over the road. “Gripes,
that ain’t what them things are.” “Yes
it is. They’re currawongs.” Seventyfiver
looked at the cove pityingly, and let it
go at that. We were nearing the shack
when several more of the birds made
themselves heard, and, remembering,
Seventyfiver broke forth reprovingly.
“Currywongs! ” he snorted. “D’ja ever
hear anythin’ so damn’ silly! Poor cow’s
got dingbats. Gripes, that word don’t
mean nothin’ at all. Think I wouldn’t
know, when I’ve lived with them things
all me life? Currywong! Hell, it don’t
make sense.” “Who doesn’t make sense?”
I asked, dragging myself out of a dream.
“Bloke at the. pub,” he answered. “Says
they’re currywongs, them there catawas.”
* * * *
“Wayward”: Prospecting along the
Palmer River (N.Q.) and nearing Spear
Creek, where I intended to camp,
I watched a battle royal between
a dingo and two wedgetails. The country
approaching the creek was fairly flat and
was covered with stunted eucalypts and
tea-trees. About 200yds. from the creek,
where the dingo would have been safe,
the two birds put on the pressure. Not
once did they come in to attack from
the front, but always from the rear or
rear-flank. My packhorses by this time
were nearing the water, so I had to canter
after them to save wet packs. I tied the
packhorses up and cantered back 150yds.
to the kill, expecting to get the scalp,
which was then worth 15s. I was too
late. Most of it was already torn to
ribbons.
* * # ♦
“H.C.8.”: “Grape-snatching” must
have been conducted along better lines
around M at-and-his-mate’s stamping-
grounds than it was when, in the tough
’thirties, I tried to snatch a few at a well-
known N.S.W. vineyard. “Too old,”
declared the overseer. “You couldn’t
make man’s money, and if we paid under
you could ‘pull’ us.” A decrepit 23, I
enviously watched the minors receive their
clippers and instructions: “The price of
these will be docked out of your money.
Knock the vines about and it’s OUT.
You’ll get a ha’penny a tin.” Even at
that price, so an 18-year-old veteran told
me, it wouldn’t have been so bad if the
crop hadn’t been so very lousy and
bunches so scarce. But I still hovered in
the hope of getting a start. Then came
the climax: One of the carriers-away, a
“permanent” man, brought a half-full
bucket across the road as he followed a
picker to the next patch. Passing the cart
he emptied the can in and called to the
tally-clerk: “Tally one. No. 17.’
“What!” roared the trump. “Do V 1
once more and you’re sacked!” I’d just
like to know what Big Mat would have
said to a boss who roared him up for
giving away half a ha’penny of the firms
money, but the carrier apologised
abjectly and slunk back between the
rows. That’s when I decided .that, if the
grapes weren’t sour, the boss’s temper
was, anyway.
ON THE HILL SIDE.
On the hill side
Where wind brushes
Perfume from cut pine,
Where the spring stream rushes,
Sings an iambic rhyme,
There are bell-calls of thrushes
And peewits hunt in wild thyme.
On the hill side
There are caverns
Blossoming toadstools;
Fat toads sit in these taverns
Drink from moss, tadpole pools,
Then stare at rock-veins graven
In the images of fools.
On the hill side
Thin snakes lie
Waiting for green frogs;
And raided by the magpie
Through the creek-edge bogs,
Kaleidoscope dragonflies
Shelter under logs.
On the hill side
There is magic
In every falling star,
In every boobook’s tragic
Call to the near and far,
And dew-drops drip a clock-beat
To moonlight’s pendulum bar.
QUEENSLAND.
JEAN J. LAIDLAW.


Four generations
of customers
When a fourth generation of
customers has found the Bank of
their fathers to be good, a
tradition is continued.
The Bank’s tradition is one of
easy approach to its Managers; a
friendly and complete banking
service that customers find good.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
;
1 S 5 .. **v*•» ***:
wB.
9
■m
m
W
SBs>
1
zqulpmeni cAahxicteA,
What's the value of a tyre gauge? M It lan’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump f
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyrel Then famine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
JHnJ (TfTTH
XfI?TNT3H
n
■:
Baa
KISMET
TYfifi GAUGE
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
f
G.P.O. Box IX
Made br William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. S. O. Jones, 48-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria.
“Aestur”: The surprise felt by the
reviewer of Out Fishing (B. 30/4/’52)
when he read that the author handled a
platypus without being “punctured by the
poisonous spur on the hind leg” reminded
me of the gag “Do all echidnas lay eggs
and suckle their young?” Answer: “No,
only the females.” Here the answer is
that the poison-gland and spur are
developed only in the male platypus.
But the author wasn’t even taking a
50-50 chance; the platypus he played
with was a baby—the spur is dangerous
only in the adult male.
* * * #
“Composto”: At this time of the year
the Adelaide suburban gardener is
deep in his annual fight with the soursob,
which, introduced as a garden plant, turns
winter paddocks yellow with its flowers
and chokes seedlings with its clammy
foliage. In England, where it is usually
seen only as a somewhat shy garden plant,
the pest may well be called soursop, the
sop describing the watery character of
its roots, leaves and stems. On the
Adelaide earth, however, the name sour-
sob suits it far better, the ultimate syllable
clearly reflecting the emotion of the
suburban gardener when he confronts it.
Still, it is claimed for the plant that the
oxalic acid it has added to the soil has
done a lot to increase fertility of the soil.
jjj *
“Old-timer”: The boss suddenly became
interested in pasture-improvement, and
one autumn he had Pocketknife and
Little Curl walking across the shed-
paddock broadcasting pasture seeds
by hand while Fleming and young
Hull followed them with a dray,
spreading fertiliser with a shovel.
Pocketknife was scornful of the whole
procedure, and chiacked the boss every
chance he got. Time passed, so did the
winter, and when the little harbingers of
spring dotted the plain the boss was dis-
covered one Sunday crawling about the
shed-paddock on his hands and knees.
While we watched he got up, walked a
few yards, and got down again. After
a while he came in, and, seeing us by
the hut, came our way. “Didjer lose y’r
knife or somethin’?” Pocketknife de-
manded. The boss grinned. “I was look-
ing for sub.-clover, if y’ want t’ know,
Smarty, An’ it’s there. It’s showin’ up
very nice.” His air of triumph was lost
on Pocketknife. “How the dickens,” that
sceptic demanded, “can it do the flamin’
sheep any good? Judgin’ be your per-
formance they’ll all get housemaid’s knee
and eyestrain lookin’ for the damn’
stuff.”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Granted everything said
by “S. Gums” (B. 23/4/’52) re the baby
eucalypt of the W.A. coastal plain
putting down its tap-root as a start in
life ; there is one species growing on the
same plain which dispenses with a tap-
“Two schooners and a coupler middies?”
root entirely, while at the same time
in one variety considerably outgrowing
the jarrah in bulk, with the second variety
rivalling the karri in height, and exceed-
ing both in density and toughness of
wood. /Called the tuart, and actually
a white-gum, it is described
W.A, Forestry Records thus: In
height sometimes attains to 150 ft.,
and in circumference more than 22ft. at
the base. In some cases trunks run up
to 70ft. and 80ft.. without a branch,
They do not form a dense forest, but
appear to like plenty of individual room,
Confined to a comparatively small area
around Mandurah (W.A.), the underlying
strata of which are flint-hard capstone
superimposed on a calcareous mixture of
lime and sandstone, this bulky tree may
be seen supporting itself in not more
than 6in. of soil, though m places it may
have 6ft. in which it could spear its roots.
When heavy winds, tearing at the great
mantle of foliage, bring a veteran
down, there is seen a root-spread possibly
unmatched by any other Australian tree,
a tangle of quite small roots and
stones which serves many a bush-
whacker as a readymade wall for his
humpy. Fifty feet in every direction
would probably be the radius of this in-
tense matted root-system. During
summer the scant foot or so of soil
dries right out, but the tuart. shows no
change. So intense is its power of con-
serving moisture that a big trunk may
lie 10 years and still pour out damp
sawdust when cut.
* * * ♦
“Betcha”: Agree with “Gulliver” (B.
7/5/’52) that nags “ain’t what they used
t’ be” and that the average modern ver-
sion can mostly accomplish no more than
a few ineffectual pigroots. With appro-
priate allowance for age’s retrospective
exaggerations, I somehow rather fancy
the Man from Snowy River couldn’t
have turned the trick on a modern hack,
Undoubtedly the spirited mounts bred
good riders, for, outside circuses and
professional rodeo hands, where are the
daredevil riders nowadays? The mokes,
the riders, the stockwhip experts and even
the cattle are fast losing their punch;
but take heart, “Gulliver,” me lad. We’ve
bred a better dog. In these East Gipps-
land ranges, at least, the cattle-dog of 60
years ago was a big, splaw-footed
“sooner” with little intelligence and less
training. His job was accomplished by a
blind attack and a lot of luck. He had
no natural system, few ideas and a great,
unconquerable weariness. Now —well,
come to think of it, maybe his vast
improvement has contributed somewftiat
to the loss of fire in nags and men.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bogaduck”; Has anything else so risen
in price since 1939 as the cost of shoot-
ing?* Recently, a couple of youngsters
invited me to go with them for a week-
end’s shooting. Each of them carried a
rifle which, with its telescopic sight, had
set him back well over £lOO, while their
cartridges ran into a bob each.
They also had with them shotguns which
had cost considerably more than the
rifles, with cost of ammunition
in keeping. I carried ‘the rifle I
had bought for fifty-bob in 1931 —a
single-shot .22 Remington. In my pocket
was one of my last pre-war packets of
“Hi-speed” ammo for it, bought at 2s. 6d,
per packet of 50. My bag on the outing
was three hares and three black
ducks—and my total cost in ammo
expended was sd, My companions reck-
oned theirs in quids.
*** ♦ ,
“Brolga”: Reckon droving customs
must have changed since I threw away
my ’lastic-sides and went footslogging if
Stuart McDonald’s yarn (B. 7/5/ 52)
is anything to go by. Drovers who speak
of “outfits” and “beeves” may have come
under the influence of the U.S. invasion
of Queensland during the war years, but
I dunno how drovers who think of their
own drinking-water before water for their
horses have been developed. In any
case, the plant and plant horses, in charge
of the cook and horsetailer, should have
been far enough ahead of either mob pf
cattle to get their share of clean water.
On the other hand, drovers who are able
to catch horses which had presumably
been taken a mile or so away to decent
grass—if any—by the horsetailer (there’s
no mention of these key-men in
the yarn) in the middle of the
night after the cattle had jumped,
even with a bit of trouble, are
well ahead of the drovers I knew. They
would have relied on their horsetailers,
who knew the horses, to get some of them
together as fast as possible and get them
back to the camp. And by that time you
couldn’t do much but wait for daylight
if the cattle had rushed properly and the
men on watch hadn’t been able to wheel
them. Nor did boss drovers ever sling-
off at a fellow-drover who had been un-
lucky enough to have fallen for the job
of shifting cows and calves ; they all knew
that such a mob, under bad conditions,
was enough to turn the toughest of
drovers into a nervous wreck by the end
of the trip.
WALTZING MATILDA.
Old grey fence goes tramping by,
Post and rail and lichen dry,
Mile on mile, by hill and plain,
Over the land and back again:
Wanderer with a swag of grey,
Padding along the endless way.
Sleeping where the rabDits pass,
Blackberry thicket and long green grass
Leaning against the good gum-tree,
A nodding horse for company;
Drifting ’neath the rain and sun,
Where the long roads wind and run.
Past the hedges, through the town,
Staggering up and tumbling down,
Battered posts and rails acrack,
Top-rail swag upon his back.
VICTORIA.
*
JAMES HACKSTON.


FONDE
*
EN 1724
RMI4
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
lAVim
17 JEWELLED
SWISS
WATCHES
of
CMW.
'Million
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, .Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BEWILDERED GERMANS.
Questions recently put to Ger-
mans and their answers in what
R. H. S. Crossman quotes in a
London “New Statesman” article
as “the most reliable public-
opinion poll” in Germany:
Q.; “Which is the more
urgent, the unification of the East
and the West Zones or European
integration?”
A.: Fifty-five per cent, for
unification, 27 per cent, for
European integration, 18 per
cent, no opinion.
Q.: “Do you think it right
that there should be German
divisions in a European Army?”
A.: Thirty-eight per cent. Yes,
39 per cent. No, 23 per cent, no
opinion.
Q.: “Do you approve of con-
scription?”
A.: Thirty-two per cent. Yes.
47 per cent. No, 21 per cent, no
opinion.
Q.: “Would you feel it right
to become a soldier again, or that
your son or husband should be-
come a soldier again?”
A.; Thirteen per cent. Yes,
75 per cent. No, 12 per cent, no
opinion.
Q.: “Which do you personally
think more important, that we
Germans should get on well with
the Americans or be neutral?”
A.: Thirty per cent. “Get on
well with the Americans,” 48 per
cent. “Be neutral,” 12 per cent,
no opinion, 1 per cent. “Get on
well with the Russians.”
In London “Spectator” Robert
Powell notes that the attitude of
the average man in the West
German Federal Republic to-
wards rearming and participation
in the European Defence Com-
munity has greatly surprised
most people abroad, who ex-
pected the German to be true to
the accepted Prussian type, and
to rush to accept the chance of
being a soldier once more. He
explains:
“Germany is now paying for
two lost wars in less than 40
years. In consequence the Ger-
man feels that nothing can be
more terrible than a lost war.
He is not a conscientious
objector on moral grounds. He
thinks in this fashion: If it came
to a Third World War, the
Western democracies would
probably win in the end; but
what would happen to Germany
in the meantime? He assumes
that his country would be over-
run by the U.S.S.R. and that
thousands of Germans would be
carried off to forced labor in the
East. It is little consolation, he
adds, to be assured that after
years of untold suffering he or
his children would again control
the Fatherland.
“If there is to be German re-
armament, then for what pur-
pose? Are the Western Powers
and their future German allies
thinking in the same terms about
the ends to be achieved? These
questions are asked in political
circles here [in Bonn] in view of
the fear that the inclusion of the
Federal Republic in the Euro-
pean Defence Community could
mean the end of hopes of settling
peacefully the Germans’ two
major problems today. Will
such a development help or
hinder the reunification of the
Reich and the later return of
territories beyond the Oder-
Neisse line?
“It is also forgotten abroad
that among the younger genera-
tion of Germans —those between
25 and 40 years of age—there
is a strong antipathy to ‘things
military.’ Not only have they
already experienced war, but
they will probably be called upon
again in case of need. They re-
turned from prisoner-of-war
camps with a contempt for the
General Staff, because of its
blind obedience to Hitler, which
has not been removed by the
writings and speeches of many
ex-generals since that time.
“The excessive speed with
which the last moves towards
German rearmament are being
completed is also responsible for
the hesitant, if not hostile, atti-
tude of the average German.
Events are moving far too
quickly for him. After having
been told for years that he would
never again be allowed to carry
arms, and with former German
generals still imprisoned for war
crimes, the German is now in-
formed that only through his
being rearmed can European
civilisation be saved. He frankly
cannot grasp it.”
Expendables.
There’s a good deal of talk
about the greatly improved
organisation, steadily increasing
strength and so forth of the
West; not so much about the
actual position of those who’d
have to do the fighting if war
happened now.
London “Economist” has
looked into the position of one
group of them:
“In Germany there are just
over four divisions of British
troops—three of them armored
—which make up the best peace-
time striking force Britain has
had in modern times.
“They occupy a forward posi-
tion opposite the Russians,
chosen less on the advice of
soldiers than on the insistence
of politicians.
“If they were attacked this
summer they would probably
face odds of at least three to
one on the ground and odds
little more favorable in the air.
“This is generally known and
accepted in the British Army of
the Rhine, even if little thought
is given to it in Britain. What
is less well known is the lack
of adequate reserves to support
this spearhead of the British
Army, the lack of resources to
enable them to make good
casualties, refit and rest, should
they get involved in fighting.
“Indeed, it may be asked
whether there is any effective
reserve at all for the British
troops in Germany.”
Opposing New Europe.
The significant aspect of the
present Moscow wooing of Ger-
many and its “peace” approaches
to Western Europe generally is
that it is “appealing with all its
force to the Europe of yester-
day.”
On that finding a “New York
Times” correspondent adds:
“It [Moscow] is trying to
revive every sentiment and sus-
picion, every line of division,
every conflicting interest, that
characterised the old Europe and
brought it twice in a generation
into a war that involved the
world.
“What Russia is attempting to
do, in a word, is to prevent the
creation of a new Europe.
“Her offer to Germany of full
sovereignty and unification is one
step, the decisive step, toward
restoring the old order in the
West. To block the erection of
a new edifice, she appears willing
to take a chance on weakening
her own empire in the East.
“This is impressive testimony
that the Kremlin would rather
have conditions as they were than
as they are going to be if
Western plans are carried out.”
The Bonn correspondent of
the same paper thus summarises
on the Moscow bait: “What
the Russians are offering, and
what the Allies are not offering,
is unity now, independence now,
a national army now and
neutrality now. The Russians
are appealing to some of the
London “News Chronicle."
"BUT, GENTLEMEN, SHELL SING IT WITH
AN ENGLISH ACCENT."
oldest aspirations of the national
State.”
A wide sampling of reports
shows Germans finding that bait
very hard to resist.
The Import Cuts.
Fed-up with the spate of letters
of condemnation of Australia’s
import restrictions, an Australian
with the singularly appropriate
name of F. F. Fairthorne made
a sharp point or two in an an-
swering epistle in London
“Financial Times.” He wrote:
“It is amazing how the traders
in this country can complain so
bitterly after our unstinted
support to the U.K. over all these
years in every possible way.
“Do you think Australia wants
to impose these restrictions?
Certainly not, but what was the
alternative for us with goods
arriving at a suddenly vastly in-
creased rate from this country,
and our funds rapidly running
out? Perhaps the U.K. would
have‘ allowed us credit just as we
allowed you unrestricted credit
for 1939 onwards. The plain
fact is that Australia does not
want the goods.
“Before Christmas some Aus-
tralian companies, due to long
delivery delays, spoke of can-
celling certain orders, and U.K.
manufacturers suddenly found
they had plenty of stock, and
just as suddenly orders were
‘ready for shipment.’ This rush
of energy on the part of U.K
manufacturers cahsed a flood of
imports into Australia, and goods
that *we would normally have
expected to receive towards the
middle of 1952 were actually on
the water before the end of 1951.
What caused this? Cancellation
of orders and falling-oft of U.K.
business in other parts of the
world caused manufacturers in
this country to look around and
see what orders they could
quickly fulfil for Australia. The
result—Australia has become
saturated with goods,
“During the last 12 months in
this country there has hardly
been one manufacturer I have
contacted who has not asked,
‘How long can business like this
last. in your country?’ so that
this sudden cessation of business
was not altogether unexpected,
“We do not want to hide be-
tween our Government’s skirts
and get out of our obligations,
and sanctity of contracts means
just as much to us as it does to
you, but from Australia’s angle
12 months ago there was no such
thing as real sanctity of contract
where the Australian market had
to take goods from this country
on many occasions at prices far
in excess of those quoted at the
time orders were placed. There
was no maintenance of contracts
on these occasions, and strangely
enough, although prices were
forced up by ‘increased wages,
etc.,’ in a great many instances
the prices have now fallen,
though wages remain the same.”
British Coms.
In Britain no one lashes the
Com. sabotage with quite the
same fierceness that is found in
the Labor “Daily Herald.”
Recent sample:
“There are few British workers
who do not see through the
Communist sham. But a few is
too many.
“Strikes, stoppages, bans on
overtime —what do these things
mean in a crowded island of
50,000,000 people that must ex-
port or starve?
“They mean at once less ex-
ports. Less exports mean less
imports of raw material, not to
mention food. Less raw material
means the closing of factories —
which means unemployment and
still less exports. There would
soon be a howling crescendo of
disaster, human, industrial and
national.
“Which is precisely what the
Communists want.
“Hie same [Communist]
‘Daily Worker’ which tells us
that decreased production is the
right weapon for British workers
had another headline the other
day; ‘France Slides to Ruin: It
Can Happen Here.’ And there
the ‘Daily Worker’ is right. It
will happen here if the Com-
munists and their dupes have
their way.”
Various Voices.
General Tern pier, in Malaya:
“The Communists work. They
seldom go to races, give dinner-
parties, cocktail-parties or play
golf. They work. How many
people on our side do the same
thing?”
British Advertising Association
president, Sir Miles Thomas:
“It is not going to be long be-
fore there are some pretty tough
propositions facing everybody in
the commercial field.”
British Liberals’ leader,
Clement Davies: “Until safety
has been reached or until the
peoples of the world agree to
abolish national armies and put
the power entirely in the hands
of a world Government, we must
go on [with defensive arrange-
ments]. Peace is what we all
desire, but freedom is more
precious than peace.”
Eisenhower: “The British
people and my own have been
associated in two world wars,
and have won them by indi-
vidual and collective sacrifice.
Now they are engaged in a great
adventure to preserve the peace.
Again they can win only through
sacrifice.”
US. Republican Presidential
aspirant Senator Taft, inter-
viewed : “If the truce is broken
off in Korea, should we go to
war in Korea again? It’s a little
difficult for the British to back-
track and change their whole
position on that. If the Chinese
Communists attack Indo-China
—in that case, I think that the
British would be very foolish in-
deed if they do not withdraw
their recognition of Communist
China and go to war with them
along with us, the French, and
everyone else the Communists
attack. Otherwise, I see nothing
to prevent their sweeping through
the Malay Peninsula and threat-
ening Australia itself. I don’t
understand the British position
on that set-up with Communist
China.”
General Ridgway: “It would
be unwarranted to think that the
entire Japanese relationship has
been fundamentally changed in
the space of six or seven years.
Strong influences, rooted deep in
the past, tend towards a power-
ful, centralised Government. I
don’t go along with the idea that
Japan has been completely demo-
cratised.”
British Labor M.P., Bellinger:
“Russia is determined to
sabotage Europe’s recovery
unless it is subsidiary to Russia’s
military and economic hege-
mony. General Zhdanov told a
meeting of the Cominform that
the U.S.S.R. would ‘bend every
effort in order that the European
recovery plan be doomed to
failure.’ The only answer to
such threats is to organise collec-
tive defence in the West and
the question is whether it can
be complete or effective without
Germany. General Eisenhower
said that with Germany in the
defence organisation there would
be a strong and unbroken line
of defence from the Baltic to
the Alps. Who believes Russia
would have taken the initiative
on Germany if there had been
no Atlantic Treaty and no settle-
ment with Germany by the
Western Powers? Nothing could
more certainly hasten another
war than a return to a policy of
appeasement.”


Enjoy all the comforts of home when you
stretch out in your luxurious “Loungaire”
chair aboard the Canadian Pacific
“Empress” airliner. Courteous, efficient
stewardesses are at your service with
snacks at a moment’s notice, served be-
tween satisfying full course meals. Cock-
tails and champagne complimentary! Fly
relaxed arrive refreshed when you go
... Canadian Pacific style.
SYDNEY . AUCKLAND . FIJI
HONOLULU .VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
n
(Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours;
and Honolulu —32 hours.)
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents) at 2-J7 George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad to
offer you full information.
JU RUNES
“Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
Public Notice.
I, BORIS VLADIMIROVICH DENTSKE-
VICH, of Russian nationality, born at
Harbin, China, resident two years in
Australia, now residing at 50 Edith Street,
Leichhardt, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HERBERT. RANDALL late
of Lithgow in the • State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that VALDA
MARY RANDALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2193 of 1950 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th day of August
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. W. FRASER &
PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE SHAW late of Broken Hill.
—TAKE NOTICE that CLARENCE
MARTIN BRENNAN has filed a Petition
No. 4418 of 1950 praying for a divorce
from MARY HELENA BRENNAN on the
ground of her adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th
August 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
B ARTIER, PERRY & PURCELL, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner, 11c Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
AUSTRALASIAN
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
12 months £1 16 0
6 months ....... 18 6
3 months ....... 9 6
Wherever You Go
jaat— aa
\r :}
\
mmSbL
mi
For day or night driving, for business or
pleasure, you can depend on Goodyear Tyres.
For 37 years Goodyear has been the world’s
first choice. Their safety, comfort and mileage
have proved them the world’s best. When
you buy tyres, buy Goodyear Tyres. See your
Goodyear Dealer for the finest in tyre value.
For Best All-Round
Performance - - - fit
TYRES
More People,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on
any other make
CB2-14
SUNDRY SHOWS
"GETTING MARRIED."
Canberra Repertory has a
talented director, several com-
petent producers and a number
of experienced actors ; and, in
John Scollay, who is responsible
for the set of their current pro-
duction, it has the opportunity
of acquiring an excellent artist.
Something else is needed, of
course, and that is a good play.
“Getting Married” is not. It
is not that it is dated—some
earlier Shaw still plays well—
but it is just a poorly-constructed
and inadequately-plotted spate
of argument. There are 100
many people trying to. say too
much, forced to put over too
many aspects of Shaw’s ideas on
the subjects under discussion.
Faced with the problem of all
this talk, producer Loma Curtin
did very well by lifting the play
whenever the script gave her the
least opportunity. But such a
mass of loquacity was bound to
overwhelm the most careful pro-
ducer in the end.
Hec McMillan, as Collins,
enjoyed himself enormously, and
so did the audience enjoy his
well-sustained and lively inter-
pretation. He had the advantage
of being prominent before the
play became too tormented, and
he made an impression which
was not erased. Chris Power,
starting, as St. John Hotchkiss,
with the same vigor and control,
was not quite as well able to
keep it up, but he was glorious
as long as he could. John
Garran (General Bridgenorth)
never put a foot wrong. The
least satisfactory part of the play
is, of course, the character of
Mrs. George ; Shaw only knows
what she was meant to be or
what she was meant to do. The
part was well played by Dorothy
Moore, beautifully dressed and
nicely varied in tempo and
mood, but all to little purpose.
Max Purnell and Peggie Marr
as the Bishop and his wife were
cool, calm and competent;
Lorna Curtin, Charles Frewin
and David Webster were a
pleasure to watch ; and Alison
Alpen, Joan Lambert and Ken
Thompson, rather less assured,
nevertheless suggested a com-
fortable reserve of talent.
F.M.T.
“Springtime for Henry,” at
Hobart’s Theatre Royal, is a
good comedy farce depending
more on dialogue than on plot
or situation. It concerns Henry
Dewlipski, who renounces a life
of drinking, gambling and
women when he falls in love with
his secretary (Kerry Norton),
who believes in “the decent
things of life.” Three months
of virtuous self-discipline con-
vince Henry that dissipation has
more in its favor, and he illus-
trates his return to the old life
by stealing the wife (Madge
Ryan) of his best friend. Mischa
Auer’s Henry is surely the
most timid roue seen on the
stage in ’ many a day ; Lionel
Stevens stole the show with his
portrayal of Henry’s best friend,
the very British and dithering
Mr. Jellywell. He was the only
member of the cast who showed
any mastery of the technique of
farce. Auer’s interpretation of
Henry may have suffered from
the method of his presentation,
which would have been more
suited to a revue skit.
M.L.
Brisbane Arts Theatre is cater-
ing for secondary-schools audi-
ences with a swift-moving
version of the “set” play “As
You Like It,” Producer Alan
Denby dispensed with many
pointless passages in the rustic
clowning to keep the play down
to two and a quarter hours. The
result was that several of the
rustics came over the footlights
more successfully than the
banished courtiers, who, despite
their Duke’s assurances and the
song of one of their fellows that
theirs was the jolly life, were an
unhappy lot. The melancholy
Jacques was almost the Bob
Hope of their number. As
Rosalind, Berenice Murray was
gracious enough and made a
passable Ganymede, but failed
to suggest that her answers to
Orlando burst spontaneously
from her gaiety of spirit.
Morton Smith’s Touchstone was
successful only in the company
of the rustics. Costumes were a
credit, and it was pleasing to see
a forest of Arden that looked
like one.
Wandering Minstrel.
Burl Ives, the portly American
who slings an ordinary-looking
guitar across his ample chest as
if it were a baby and strokes it
in much the same way, has been
fascinating full houses in Mel-
bourne and Sydney with his folk-
songs. More a storyteller than
a singer, he gives only the barest
musical intonation to his woeful
narratives of Irish girls and
cowboys.
Most of the cowboy songs
sound derivative of Ireland, and
most of the Irish songs sound
derivative of Persia, which is the
way with folksongs. Where they
originated goodness alone
knows, but every race transmits
them and transmutes them. The
American songs that Burl Ives
sings are mostly factual funny
things, and might be called
musical comic-trips without the
emotional depths of the negro
spiritual or the Irish lament, and
Ives doesn’t attempt to give them
any. He trusts to his person-
ality to port them over.
He knows, or appears to
know, as much about the guitar
as a belly-dancer does about
ballet; but there is one instru-
ment he can play superlatively
well. It has 3000 strings and they
twang to his touch superbly.
"The Masked Ball."
After the spate of multiple
stabbings that lately left the
Sydney Tiv. stage a litter of
cadavers, N.S.W- National Opera
decided to reduce drastically the
mortality-rate for the final offer-
ing. Before his philandering
with his friend’s wife earned him
a dirk in the back, however,
Governor of Rome Allan Ferris
had sung his varied pieces very
mellifluously, and he cut quite a
figure in his opulent, elongated
weskit.
Alan Light, whose hand did
the dirty deed, kept to the high
standard he reached in his, first
role, and his “Eri Tu” was a
finely-judged piece of singing.
Betty Prentice’# Page was pert
without being roguish, and she
used a nice coloratura delight-
fully. Neil Easton and Alan
Eddy were conspiratorially for-
bidding (Mr. Eddy’s make-up
gave the impression that he had
just unsuccessfully fought off a
platoon of bulldogs) and kept
to the basso-cantante regions as
they vented their joint hatred.
Justine Rettick was Ulrica, the
gipsy fortune-teller, forced by
the score at times to go below
her natural range, but in the
middle of the vocal road quite
impressive. Geoffrey Chard
made the most of his brief op-
portunity. William Constable’s
decor and Alistair Roberts’s cos-
tumes stuck faithfully to old-
established tradition, the ball-
room scene being first-rate. John
Dudley’s production had only
one weakness—the dancing was
woeful. Joseph Post conducted,
and his chorus did some of the
season’s best work.
Argentinian conductor Castro
showed himself rather as a good
taskmaster than a master of
interpretation in his latest concert
with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, but that may have
been because his programmes
are selected for him. When he
conducted his orchestra through
the dim shades of Debussy’s
three nocturnes or “The Three-
cornered Hat” of De Falla the
music seemed exciting. It was
not so exciting in the concerto
of Vivaldi, where only part of
the orchestra was used. The
whole of it came into the Piano-
forte Concerto No. 24, in C.
Minor, of Mozart, and to it was
added the young Viennese
pianist, Paul Badura-Skoda. ’’ He
played it in the great tradition,
though his touch was hard at
times and he looked singularly
unrelaxed at the piano. The slow
movement was extraordinarily
lovely, though played at an
unusually fast tempo.
* * % Hs
Whilst it has no great pro-
fundity and it is not at times
guiltless of fustian, David
Moule-Evans’s Symphony in G
with which he won the Common-
wealth Jubilee Competition
generally falls pleasingly on the
ear. It possesses in particular
one fine attribute—exceptional
writing for the woodwinds. This
was given its first hearing by the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Goossens, and a fine job
they did.
Carl Plate’s exhibition of oils
and gouaches at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, deals mainly
with insect-life in a style which
springs from surrealism. In its
way, the style suits the subject—
the surrealist inclination to
horror, however slightly it shows
here, is an effective way of
bringing one face to face with
a grasshopper, a mantis or a
long-nosed cicada. There is an
appropriate spiritedness in the
hot little gouache, “Rooster” ; a
delicate, patterned tracery in
“Dragonfly” ; and a rewarding
moment of atmosphere in the
trees and statuary of “Borghese
Gardens.”
* * * *
Douglas Annand, a Sydney
artist, has been roving around
Europe using his brush and
pencil on Venice, Portofino, the
Sardinian coast, Paris, London,
the bay of Aden and Colombo,
and the results have been show-
ing at the Peter Bray Gallery in
Melbourne. Annand uses a sort
of visual shorthand, and, as far
as they go, his sketchy reports
are pleasing. They are not so
good where he tries to push his
observation further, as in his
still-life.


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
g
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12±% Sales Tax
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, - with Sling
Strap and Leather
Gaps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
v ;
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Bights,
Prismatic Compasses.
fg
fg
Last Chance in Asia
Should the United Nations
stand aside and allow Stalin
to proceed with adding 700
million Asiatics to the 800
million subjects he now con-
trols? Why are the 600,000
battle-eager Chinese National
Government troops in Formosa
prevented from helping to
fight the Communists in
Korea? Why it would be un-
wise to use Japanese troops in
this campaign.
William Bullitt discusses
these important questions in
June Reader's Digest—explains
why a realistic new policy is
needed in Asia.
Get your June Reader’s
Digest today with the new
natural - color photographic
cover. One shilling and six-
pence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
o>>
■r /
3
n
tvmm
is "a movie fan,”
Every boy is a half-built man,
Every boy of the "make-good” sort
Sticks to study as well as sport.
Every boy with a healthy brain
Will greet a sneak with a boy’s
disdain.
Every boy with a cold, be sure,
Barracks for
Woods’ Great Peppermint
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Year Replacement,
ended - Etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
8J p.c.
1943 .. 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 .. 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 .. 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
8i p.c.
1947 .. 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
9 p.c.
1948 .. 1,241,504 1,053,000 1,802,819 6,823,115
From inner res. £123,806.. 1,926,625 6,823,115
10J p.c.
1949 .. 1,206,762 1,228,500 1,904,887 9,121,945
9J p.c.
1950 1,231,571 1,111,500 2,024,958 9,666,880
Share premiums, £285,989 2,310,947
9 p.c.
1951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
Share premiums, £273,000 2,499,249
1952 .. 1,154,444 1,158,800 2,495,393 10,983,539
On the milling side it was a poorer year.
Drought hit the whole Queensland sugar
industry, and dry weather also affected
the Fijian crop. The 1951 Australian
tonnage of raw sugar was 725,000, com-
pared with an average of 908,000 tons
for the preceding three years. But
deliveries of refined sugar, in which the
C.S.R. is chiefly interested, were a record.
Total sale of sugars and syrups was
534,000 tons, 60,000 tons higher than in
the preceding term. Production of Fijian
raws was 113,000 tons, about 30,000 tons
below the highest output since the war.
The smaller Australian crop meant a
lower export surplus, which, since the
war, has generally been sold at a more
profitable price than the locally-consumed
quota. The growers and Queensland
millers were more affected by this than
was the C.S.R. However, the whole
industry is feeling the pinch of
smaller crops and rising costs, and
though the retail price of sugar
was increased tentatively by l£d. a
pound in March, most of those in the in-
dustry feel that it is not enough, and
a committee of inquiry has been set up
to go into every phase of the business
and report to the Federal Cabinet as to
what the price of sugar should be. There
has been a revision already of peak-year
quotas for some growers and millers be-
cause of the increased world consump-
tion and the more profitable export price
Last year the C.S.R.’s profit was
£151,042 higher, and represented a shade
under 9 p.c. on increased average capital,
compared with 8.3 p.c. and 10.5 p.c. in
the two preceding terms. The 9 p.c. div.
(the rate had been reduced from 9% p.c.
in 1950) was repeated, and reserves were
again drawn on to pay it.
Earnings for the term to March 31
were arrived at after visibly allowing
£587,857 for depreciation (up £60,742),
and setting aside £200,000 (an unchanged
figure for the past four years) “towards
meeting the increase in replacement costs.”
This problem of replacing worn-out or
obsolete plant from depreciation reserves
established when values' were lower and
the buying-power of the pound much
higher has been given a great deal of
attention by the C.S.R., which has been
emphasising the necessity for allowing
industry tax-free provision for
tion on a much larger scale than at
present in order to meet the cost of plant-
replacement when that contingency arises.
So far advocates of “the economic
system” of allowing for depreciation (as
opposed to what is known as “the
historical”) have not got very far with the
Treasury or the Taxation Department.
The co.’s replacement and depreciation
reserves represented 53.8 p.c, of the book-
value of refineries, mills, etc., at March
31, compared with 57,8 pic. in 1951 and
36.7 p.c. in 1939.
On the C.S.R.’s chemicals side last term
a major development was the joining of
forces with the Distillers Company, of
Scotland, which has acquired a 40 p.c
interest in C.S.R. Chemicals, Ltd. On a
30-acre site at Rhodes (N.S.W.) it is
intended to produce cellulose-acetate for
the Courtaulds rayon project (in which
the G.S.R. has a share-interest) and for
the plastics industries, chemicals for
making aspirin and a broad range of
industrial and pharmaceutical products.
Full production of all lines is expected
by the end of this year.
The C.S.R, and the Distillers Company
are already jointly interested in Robert
Corbett Pty., at Lane Cove. The Dis-
tillers Co., like the C.S.R., is a large
manufacturer of industrial alcohol, with
world-wide interests, including some in
the Queensland sugar industry. The
chemicals division of the C.S.R. promises
to have an increasingly important future.
Apart from its chemicals, alcohol and
carbon-dioxide, the co. has an extensive
building-materials division, as well as a
pineapple cannery in Fiji. The major
enterprise, however, remains the refining
of most of the Australian sugar crop, with
growing and milling activities on the side.
Though £780,000 of new capital came
in last term, bringing with it £273,000 of
share-premiums, a year of expanding
activity caused an increase of £6,029,766
in the outside debt, of which £5,217,871
was on overdraft. This must be the first
time in the memory of the oldest C.S.R,
inhabitant that the co. has had an
overdraft:
1948. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £12,480,000 £13,260,000
Sundry creditors 3,998,884 5,451,686 6,263,581
Overdraft .. 5,217,871
Suspense account 3,017,235 3,499,627 3,657,204
Employees’ fundsf 105,801 64,920 78,093
Employee de-
bentures . . 150,540 154,375
Final divs. . . 702,000 561,600 596,700
Refineries, mills,
etc 13,417,195 17,668,528 20,413,384
Steamers .. 276,316 291,601 319,327
Distilleries .. 535,747 715,114 809,549
Premises .. 229,626 243,026 267,247
Stocks.. .. 5,671,342 7,563,375 12,829,177
Book debts, etc. 2,682,152 3,520,833 4,368,272
Investments .. 4,627,458 3,957,358 3,699,800
Cash and de- >
posits . .' 584,533 715,694
t Provident and benefit funds.
An extra £2,744,856 was added to the
book-value of mills, refineries, etc., last
year, carrying the figure up to £20,413,384.
This and an addition of £5,265,802 to
stocks (£12,829,177), almost equally
divided between the sugar section and
the industrial and chemicals division,
were responsible for the greater depend-
ence on putside money at balance-day.
The £2O shares, backed by a little over
£4O in net tangibles (including the replace-
ment and depreciation reserves), are at
£47 10s. on the market. They yield
3.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Email, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net r -Dlvs. v To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
’45.. 62,285 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 51,921 10,364 114,129
Share premiums, £154,781 .. .. 268,910
P. & 1. deficits new subsids., £26,695.. 242,215
Added intangibles, £25,542 .. .. 216,673
Net addition reserves, £12,391 .. 229,064
’46..118,978 6 p.c, 7.4 p.c. 85,992 27,986 257,050
. Share premiums, £123,874 .. 380,924
P. & 1. credits new subsids., £64,051.. 444,975
Net additions reserves, £3199 .. 448,174
Added intangibles, £87,019 .. 361,155
’47..123,766 6 p.c. 74 p.c. 100,377 23,389 384,544
Share premiums, £163,176 . . .. ’ 547,720
P. & 1. credits ndw subsids., £2821 . . 550,541
Reserve adjustment, £6609 .. .. 557,150.
’48..155,944 6 p.c. ,74 p.c. 117,468 38,476 595,626
Net reduction intangibles, £ll6 . . 595,742
Addition reserves, £2359 .. .. 598,101
’49..177,526 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 130,991 46,535 644,636
Net addition intangibles, £243 . . 644,393
Addition reserves, £169,015 .. .. 813,408
’50..847,823 6 p.c. 12$ p.c. 201,298 146,525 959,933
Share premiums, £165,689 .. .. 1,115,622
Net addition reserves, £153,218 . . 1,268,840
P. & L debit new subsids., £23,922 1,244,918
Net addition intangibles, £11,193 ..1,233,725
’51..457,484 6 p.c, 124 p.c. 212,553 244,931 1,478,656
* After deducting; goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
Another record profit, earned after
making allowance for taxation and
depreciation, and special provisions tor
stock and plant depreciation to the extent
of £400,000 (compared with £300,000 in
the preceding year), and bringing total
special provision up to £1,000,000, which
is in addition to the reserves shown m
the foregoing table. The year’s net
earnings were equal to 27.3 p.c. on
average ordinary capital (after providing
for the prefs.), compared with 21.9, 10.9,
10.1, 9.3, 10.1 and 7.3 p.c. back to 1945.
In addition to these earnings and pro-
visions, there was an unexplained increase
of £153,218 in general reserves, of which
£144,900 may have been the capital profit
on the disposal of the holding co.’s in-
terest in British Oil Engines (Australia)
Pty., Ltd.
After maintaining the ordinary div. at
p.c. for the year, more than was
distributed was carried to reserves, which,
excluding the contingencies reserves
beforementioned, and after deducting in-
tangibles, stand at £1,478,656, equal to
4s. sd. per ss. ord. stock-unit.
The results refer to a period which
ended five months ago ; and that period
is likely to mark the end of easy money
in Australia for some time. Since Email’s
record profit was earned there has been
a falling-off in the demand for a number
of its products (mostly those in the
domestic electrical-appliance field), and
there has been a considerable reduction
in staffs at the Orange (N.S.W.) factory
and elsewhere. The management, how-
ever, as far back as 12 months ago indi-
cated that it did not expect output to go
on expanding indefinitely, though it
named shortage of materials, manpower
problems and blackouts as the restricting
circumstances. At present the chief
problem is lack of, or holding-back of,
consumer buying-power.
The early part of 1952 started off
reasonably well for the electrical trades,
but indications are that there has been
a recent contraction of activity through-
out the refrigerator-manufacturing indus-
try. Electric-ranges are also harder to
sell, as are washing-machines. So far as
Email is concerned, it has a good deal,
of inner strength built up for just such
a contingency as this one. *
The Email group of more than a score
of subsidiaries makes electricity meters
and motors, magnetos, switchgear,
radios, refrigerators, electric-stoves,
vacuum - cleaners, washing - machines,
plastics, cutlery, petrol- and other
pumps, oil-engines, air-conditioning
apparatus, irrigation and telephone equip-
ment, gas and hot-water appliances,
kerosene-heaters and ceramics. Various
subsidiaries are spread throughout Sydney
industrial areas, and there are factories
at Melbourne and Orange (N.S.W.).
The increase of £104,069 in capital last
year apparently had to do with acquisi-
tion of more than 90 p.c. of the shares
in Commonwealth Ceramics, Ltd.;
Email and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1950. 1951.
Parent’s capital.. £1,384,666 £1,662,382 £1,706,451
Outside interests* 47,650 87,296 45,026
Debentures. . . 253,333 354,625 354,625
Sundry creditors! 1.570,731 3,576,441 5,641,037
Final divs. . . * 66,881 132,803 123,932
Freehold, plant, etc. 989,957 983,794 1,152,477
Stocks .. . . 1,671,899 3,203,146 4,393,298
Debtors’ balances,
etc 935,028 2,491,393 3,753,796
Cash and deposits 86,873 610,840 856,047
Intangibles . . 259,596 259,578 270,771
Infer-co. balances 15,087 84,307 254,114
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax,
service and other provisions.
Though the creditors item, as shown in
that table, increased by £2,064,596 (to
£5,641,037) last year, only £1,968,869 of
the total represents trade and other
creditors; no less than £3,672,168 is ear-
marked as “taxation, service and other
provisions.’’ And it is in addition, of
course, to the stock-contingency provision.
Debenture indebtedness remains un-
changed.
On the assets side, most arresting item
is stock, which, at £4,393,293, shows an
increase of £1,190,147, compared with
growths of £406,503 and £359,388 re-
spectively in the two preceding years.
The figure has expanded £2,721,394 since
1947. The increase in book-debts
(£3,753,796) during 1951 was £1,262,403
—a total expansion of £2,818,773 over
the past four years. Some of last year s
increase was the result of larger turn-
over ; some of it probably the result ol
slower “pays” from the trade —a problem
that is likely to grow. But the interesting
overall fact about the expansion in
stock and book-debts during four years
is that it has been financed very largely
by ploughed-back profits'and internal
provisions, something revealed for the
first time by the splitting-up of the
creditors item last year.
Away from special provisions, ordinary
allowance for depreciation has not been
neglected. Over four years the net increase
in the book-value of freehold, plant, etc.,
has been only £162,520. Additions last
year accounted for more than that, the
absorption of Commonwealth Ceramics
apparently having something to do with
it. Investment in fixed assets is extremely
low at £1,152,477.
All of which should be a help during
the present period of what is known as
“buyer-resistance,” but which is really the
after-effect of a long spell of over-
consumption in relation to our general
standards of production in basic in-
dustries, The nation lacks a real surplus
of production to represent real savings,
and the imposition of defence demands
on an economy already underproducing
for civil purposes has brought about a
“squeeze” not to be disguised by any
credit-expansion. The Federal Govern-
ment has chosen the. present time to re-
strict credit, and the overall result has
sharply affected the demand for con-
sumer goods, especially those usually
bought on time-payment. In the United
States and Canada the Governments,
which followed lines similar to the Aus-
tralian Government for some time, have
lately thought fit to relax credit-restric-
tions in relation to most time-payment
transactions. The Australian Federal
Government is able to influence time-
payment business only through its general
banking policy.
The ss. stock-units of Email return
5 p.c. at the current market price of
12s. 6d. so long as the 12} p.c. div. con-
tinues.
Australian Stock Breeders Co., Ltd.
i —‘ Dividends- —, To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1942.. 22,380 6.2 Nil 6,649 15,731 249,310
1943.. 26,216 6.2 Nil 6,649 19,567 229,744
1944.. 17,330 ,6.2 Nil 6,649 10,681 219,063
Pref. arrears passed to contingent
liabilities account, £106,563 .. 112,500
1945.. 15,264 6.2 Nil 6,649 8,615 103,885
Loss.
194:6.. 14,588 Nil Nil Nil 118,473
Profit.
1947.. 13,401 6.2 Nil 6,649 6,752 111,721
Written off capital, £109,165 .. 2,556
From inner reserves (net), £2556..
Reserves.
1948.. 9,961 6.2 2.5 9,378 '583 583
1949.. 13,131 6.2 5.5 12,654 477 1,060
1950.. 15,791 7 7 15,149 642 1,702
1961.. 14,115 6.2 5 12,108 2,007 3,709
* Pref. div. arrears were included in deficit until
written off in 1948.
The meat agreement between the U.K.
and Australian Governments, which
begins to operate next month, provides
for fixed prices for beef and veal up to
1958, and for lamb and mutton to 1955.
Actual prices (yet to be determined) will
be subject to direct cost-fluctuations of
up to 10 p.c., and to annual review.
Prices will not be lower than those of the
1950-51 season. Operation of the scheme
will be reviewed during 1955; At its con-
clusion, minimum prices will be fixed by
agreement for further periods of three
years in the case of beef, and two in the
case of mutton.
Much, of course, depends upon the
prices scheduled. But at least the scheme
frees the producer from the anxiety of
falling prices, and allows him to con-
centrate on the other vagaries of his in-
dustry. For the beef-producers, these
include rising costs, isolation from efficient
transport, inadequate watering facilities
in stock-movement and general drought


i
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 37*",
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and “Kosi”, “Wonderheat and
"Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
f
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERM
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman ; Alfred S, White; A. 0, G. Parker,
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone; BW 8361.
S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
*,S t
*«
Ml
m
?A4
I
Step into
another
9 9 9
CEYLON
for a vocation
packed with
COLOUR, ROMANCE,
ADVENTURE!
You’ll love Ceylon! You’ll love
her exotic tropical beauty . . . her
two separate climates—like an
English Spring in the hills . . .
bathed in glorious tropical sun-
shine on the plains. You’ll thrill
to the rich colour and pageantry
of religious ceremonies . . . and
the ruins of a 2,500 year old
civilisation.
Yes, you’ll love Ceylon. In fact,
you’ll want to return again to
this romantic island gem.
Plan now for your tour of Ceylon.
Choice of accommodation
luxury hotels or any of Ceylon’s
famous Resthouses (Tourist Inns).
Sporting facilities include trout
fishing in Waltonian streams and
deep sea game fishing, surfing,
golf, and the famous Colombo
Racecourse.
a
The Octagon, Temple of
the Sacred Tooth situated
at Royal Kandy, last capi-
tal of the Sinhalese Kings.
gf
Numerous tropical, palm-
fringed beaches where you
may relax and swim in
shark-free waters.
Further information, free
maps and literature can
be obtained by writing to
the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST
BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Air-
lines in Australia.
Touts can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents
through the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission.
CT.3.16
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, O.X.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
KIEV mom
SANDERS
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed In the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book -of reference at
the end of each month or
any other period.
uuy
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE .. Vardon St Sons Ltd
PERTH .« ..Docket Book 00. (Auat.)
f m
*354* ‘5
Price* and far*
(her inform* Hue
•poo applicative
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes. Brisbane.
CORRIE &. CO.
Douglas) M. Corrle. Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1R771
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
$
*1
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
Established in 1878, the Company is
specially empowered by Acts of Parlia-
ment to act as Executor of Wills, and as
Trustee and Administrator. The Com-
pany’s scale of charges, as fixed by its
Board of Directors, is as under: —
ON CAPITAL
On the gross capital value of each
Estate committed to its care:
3|% on the first £25,000
3% on the next £25,000
2% on the next £50,000
1% on any amount in excess of
£lOO,OOO
(The above Capital charge is made once only}
ON INCOME
(a) On income other than rents —
5% on the gross income up to
£2,000 per annum.
2}% on the gross income in excess
of £2,000 per annum.
(b) On rents —
5% except when collected through
an Agent, when the charge is
•
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1, 3 & 5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
JPORJC TTf $
RECORDED AND AUTHEHT/CATFD,.
//v then/story of coif anywhere m the
WORLD WAS MADE BY £ 81/SS AT HEME
BAY ///AUGUST, /9/3. THE D/STANCE I **’
COVERED WAS 44S YDS —THE DR/YE EE/NCT
ISHRED BY A GOVERNMENT SURVEYOR m /. l/OYD.
Pg?r» •vuA 1
EVER LAID ABOUT A WINNER.
WAS 50 TO ONE ON, IN 1904 ABOUT
"ROBERT DE DIABtE" WHO WON AT
LINQFIELD (ENG). IT IS ALSO OH RECORD THAT
THE AGA KHAN'S’MUMTAZ MAHAL" WON AT
40 TO ONE ON AT GOODWOOD. (EN6) IN 1923.
c
4T
> i I
Si
f ,
a
r OU KA/OW T//AT.
—,—« IS ENJOYABLE TO THE LAST PUFF
WHEN YOU CHOOSE OVdAf/>/O# 70MC6&
•••PIPE SMOKERS WAVE THE CHOICE OF
BMGF/r OR DAMMAAFECY/r AND IF YOU
,] *ROLL YOUR OWN* THERE IS EITHER.
rMßCurak
READY AI/3BED. A
WHICHEVER. YOUR.
PREFERENCE .... _
rj&*&**fto*
nttm
Haifa)i*
G
909 D-1.53
conditions. Operating in the
far-west and nor’ -west of
Queensland, the Australian Stock
Breeders Co. endures all of these
hardships.
In 1947, after a period of 20
years in which ordinary share-
holders received nothing, when
intangibles on the books equalled
half the ordinary capital and
pref. dividend arrears were
£113,212, the co. cleared the
slate by writing-off 10s. per share
of ordinary capital (£109,165),
and transferring one-third of the
remaining 10s. shares to those on
the pref. register in satisfaction
of dividend-arrears. This re-
duced paid capital to the present
£216,414, represented in 107,249
£lB p.c. cumulative (reduced to
6.2 p.c. cumulative participa-
ting) preference shares, and
218,330 10s, ords.
Last term, early rains pro-
mised a good year, but by the
time the books were ruled off in
November drought conditions
had set in, and the result was
a fall in profits of £1676, to
£14,115. Struck after writing-
off a slightly higher £4876 for
depreciation, the result was a
6.8 p.c. return on ordinary capi-
tal, after deducting minimum
pref. commitments, which com-
pares with 8.4, 5.9 and 3 p.c.
back to 1948. By dropping the
bonus paid in 1950, the ord.
dividend fell to 5 p.c.
Over the year the liquid sur-
plus (£146,465) improved slightly:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £216,414 £216,414 £216,414
Overdraft .. 18,217
Creditors .. 21,909 34.388 31.859
Final divs... 12,654 15,149 12,108
Freeholds and
leaseholds 75,288 71,806 73,658
Livestock .. 178,884 168,713 168,692
Stores .. 12,557 12,777 13.063
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 8,625 14,357 13.677
Livestock was valued £5021
lower at balance-date; a mark
of the drought conditions pre-
vailing.
And in the areas of the com-
pany’s properties this state still
obtains. Bushfires have added
to the overall poverty of grazing-
lands, and, generally, heavy stock
losses have been reported. Win-
ter rains arc badly needed to
retrieve the situation for the
coming summer, and, in the
meantime, the effect of the bad
season will show up in the cur-
rent term’s trade.
Dividends are paid in a lump
sum, and prior to publication of
the accounts in January the
price quoted for the 10s. ord-
inary shares rose as high as 20s.
Now at 11s. 6d. (seller) the yield
is 4.3 p.c. if a 5 p.c. distribution
is maintained. At 245. the prefs.
yield 5.1 p.c. Net asset backing
(book-value) is 41s. sd. for the
prefs. and 10s. 4d. for the ords.
Roma Oil
“Petro”: The only well now
drilling for oil on the Australian
mainland, located in South
Queensland, six miles east of
Roma, is reported to have
reached a depth of 2786 ft. on
June 2. The rate of drilling is
between 50ft. and 60ft. per
working-day, so that the bore
will have penetrated and passed
the “upper reflecting zone”
interpreted, from seismic data,
by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources to exist at a depth of
approximately 2500 ft. below the
surface. Even allowing for a
very liberal margin of error in
measurements and in assump-
tions of sound-velocity, it is
obvious that the alleged “high”
in the upper reflecting zone has
proved to be of no value as an
oil-trap.
Drilling has given positive
evidence, long ago, that the
buried, peneplaned surface of an
igneous basal complex underlies
the district east of Roma at a
depth of rather less than 4000 ft.,
or, on an average, about 2700 ft.
below sea-level. Any suspected
“reflecting zone” within this
basal complex can have only an
academic interest.
The chance of striking oil in
measurable quantities near Roma
still depends, as it always has
done, on the piercing of a suffi-
ciently large lenticle of porous
material near the base of the
sedimentary series. The search
for such a body is, of course,
unadulterated wildcatting, and
the present geophysical location
above what appears to be a
hillock on the basal peneplane
does not reduce the possibility of
failure; nor do the results from
the 42 wells already drilled near
by indicate anything more than
a hope of obtaining a spec-
tacular, but non-commercial and
temporary, gush of gas carrying,
possibly, some liquid petroleum.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The reception given on Thursday by
the Governor and his daughter Elizabeth
in honor of the Queen’s birthday was as
elegant as all these receptions, and a little
gayer than usual. Representatives of all
activities of Australian life (reputable
ones, that is) were present. In fact, it
was hard not to identify each guest with
his calling—Eugene Goossens accom-
panied by daughter Sidonie in ruby-red
velvet (ah, music!), the J. J, Cahills, the
Vernon Treatts (ah, politics!) the C. R.
McKerihans (ah, finance!), the C. T.
Lorenzes (the opera), Sir Charles Bicker-
ton Blackburn (the university, the medical
profession), the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Mr. Justice Herron and Mrs.
Herron (the judiciary), Archbishop Mowll
with Mrs. Mowll, Archbishop O’Brien,
Bishop Pilcher and Mrs. Pilcher (that’s
right, the Church), the Erik Langkers
(art!) and so on. One couldn’t see any
outstanding representative of literature
(unless it was the “ladies of the Press’’).
The dressing was quite lavish in places.
Lady Moxham’s grey organza swept out
in great mists around her and mingled
dark and light tones on the bodice. Mme.
Jean Strauss (ah, the Consular Corps!)
wore a lovely grey satin bare-shoulder
dress, quite simple. Mrs. McKerihan’s
sheath dress of cream brocade missed its
destiny in not curtsying to the Queen.
Lady Plowman’s dress of black over
turquoise was a long tunic over a black
accordion-pleated skirt. The hostess,
Elizabeth Northcott, wore a slim pearl-
blue dress with two straight panels at
the side inset with pleated satin. The
pleated satin also formed a winged swath
around the top of the bodice. Worn with
a diamond tiara, the effect was gracefully
Empire.
Colored fairy-lights decorated the
Barracks grounds and the dance-hail
when the first annual ball of the Eastern
Command Ladies’ Auxiliary was held on
Friday. This would have been festive
enough for ordinary mortals, but the
Army engineers had also put up a great
cluster of lights—red, blue, green, yellow
—in the centre of the hall, which showed
sometimes blue, sometimes yellow, red or
green, but mostly all colors together.
The effect was magical. The guests were
welcomed by General Berryman with
Mrs. Berryman, who wore a draped
gown of scarlet jersey. Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Harrison were present,
Mrs. Harrison wearing white crepe
beaded in silver. Brigadier Wilson
brought his niece Barbara, whose charm-
ing dress was of white brocade. Also in
the official party were Captain Bruce
Trenerry, with Mrs. Trenerry looking very
smooth in bouffant black. Admiral and
Mrs. Showers, Air Vice-Marshal
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn were
present, also Mr. and Mrs. Allen Williams.
Mrs. Jenkyn’s dress was pale-amethyst
with a sequinned bodice in deeper tones.
Mrs. Allen Williams wore a lovely black
lace dress with a white ermine cape and
a diamond pendent of most exquisite
design. Entertaining a large party was
Colonel Hayman, whose brown-eyed wife-
looked attractive in bronze moire. Their
party included Major and Mrs. Trevenner,
Major and Mrs. McGilvray, Colonel and
Mrs. Strachan and Captain and Mrs.
Swain.
There must have been about 500
women present at the Troc. when Mrs.
R. G. Casey spoke at a reception in her
honor by the women’s section of the
Australian Liberal party. The beauty of
the flowers decorating the tables was an
outstanding feature. Very plentiful, they
had been donated by Miss Margaret
Friend, Mrs. Scott Waihe, Mrs. Allen
Williams, Mrs. J. Bernays, Mrs. Eaton
and Mrs. Daley, and had been arranged
by a committee under the skilful leader-
ship of Mrs. Arthur Davis. At the official
table were Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Treatt,
Mrs. Furley (in the chair), Mrs. W. H.
Spooner, Mrs. Eric Harrison, Mrs. Van
Boss, Mrs. Howard Beale, Mrs. J. O.
Cramer, Mrs. A. D. Faunce, Mrs. Austin
and Mrs. Charles Walton.
Mrs. Casey spoke most interestingly of
her meetings with the Royal family. She
was impressed by the great beauty of the
Queen, and by the contemporary outlook
which both she and Prince Philip possess.
The Queen told Mrs. Casey that one of
the things she had set her heart on seeing
in Australia was (of all things) the Snowy
River project, even though she had been
told that it would be too strenuous for her.
Those of us who get a shock when we
hear our voices played back to us on a
record will be interested to know that the
Queen feels the same way. It always
sounded thinner and higher than she
expected, she told Mrs. Casey, who added
that what it really sounded was fresh and
young.
This is the brilliant young Greek
dramatic contralto who begins her Aus-
tralian season today as soloist with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. One of
Elena Nikolaidi’s main reasons for want-
ing to come to Australia was from grati-
tude to Australian soldiers who fought for
Greece in 1941. She will give seven
concerts in Sydney, and will then visit
Melbourne, Bendigo, Perth, Newcastle
(July 29), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Wollongong (August 11), Goulburn
(August 16), Canberra (August 19),
Albury (August 21), Geelong, Broken Hill
(August 30) and Adelaide. It is illuminat-
ing to note that in a poll conducted this
year by “Musical America” among 850
leading music-critics and editors of daily
newspapers in the U.S. and Canada, Elena
Nikolaidi was placed first among women
singers in America today.
Thirty debs made their bow to Arch-
bishop O’Brien at the Catholic Ball, which
was attended by about 700 dancers.
Instead of the traditional waltz the girls
danced a very pretty Pride of Erin with
their escorts after the presentation. The
matron-of-honor was Mrs. J. E. Crowe,
assisted by Mrs. Mary Noonan and Mrs,
Michael Doolan, Dr. H. H. Nowland
received the official guests, who included
Mr. Justice and Mrs. Clancy, Mr. and
Mrs. C. J. Delaney and Mr. and Mrs.
D. J. Mooney. Mrs. J. E. Kevins, of
Scone, entertained a large party for her
daughter Margaret, who made her debut
escorted by Frank Reed. Margaret’s
dress was marquisette over taffeta
appliqued with beaded flowers. Mrs.
Kevins’s guests included Mr. and Mrs.
Castaldi, Denis Kevins, Morna Beasley,
Monica Blanche, Mary Healy and Mary
Cahill.
Members of the Celtic Society who
have been studying Gaelic for the past
year under the guidance of Angus Mac-
donald will give a concert on Saturday
week, June 14, at eight o’clock. The
meeting-place will be the Children’s
Library, Phillip Park. For the songs to
be sung in Gaelic the conductor is
Clement Hosking. Proceeds are in aid of
the Australian Red Cross.
Newly-assigned Public Affairs Officer
and Consul for the American Consulate,
Sydney, is Mr. Gillespie Evans, who with
Mrs. Gillespie Evans was welcomed at a
party given by the Australian-American
Association. Mr. Evans said that he and
his wife were happy to be in Australia
because here they were sure that the
friendliness was genuine. In other parts
of the world where they had been, in
Baghdad, Buenos Aires, Cairo, hospitable
as they were, one # was never quite sure
of this. At the reception, the president
of the association (Women’s Section),
Mrs. Florence Taylor, welcomed new
members, including Mrs, H. J. Buchanan
(wife of Commodore Buchanan, of
H.M.A.S. Sydney), and Miss Joyce Burns
Glen. Miss Carrie Moore returned a vote
of thanks to the speaker in her own
charming way.
Although Burl Ives is not quite the
same shape as the troubadour envisaged
in one’s girlish dreams, he has the genuine
touch and tone of the ancient wandering
minstrel. His opening concert filled the
Town Hall with a bright-faced crowd so
eager to be pleased that they laughed at
some of the wrong places—“A Rope for
to Hang Her! ” from “Lord Randal”
should have brought a shudder, not a
guffaw. However, their applause was
heart-warming, though not sufficiently so,
perhaps, to persuade Mr. Ives to sing
after 10 o’clock.
From Melbourne
The reception given at Government
House in honor of the Queen’s birthday
—the first official function since her
Majesty’s accession—was a glittering
affair. Wall-baskets of autumn foliage,
holly berries and hydrangea decorated the
ballroom, which was centred with an
“island” of green foliage, and there was
a string orchestra from the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval Band Service. With the
vice-regal party came the U.S. Ambas-
sador, Mr. Pete Jarman, and Mrs.
Jarman, then followed the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, with
Lady Herring, and the Premier and Mrs.
McDonald. The gown worn by Lady
Brooks was of heavy cream brocade pat-
terned with a flpwer design in gold. Deep
pleats were set in the front of the wide
skirt and the bodice was finished with a
folded fichu. Lady Brooks also wore a
diamond tiara and a double string of
pearls. Of tulle in a toning of soft
bronze was Mrs. Jarman’s gown. The
skirt was bouffant and a wide fichu of
matching Chantilly lace outlined the
shoulders. Lady Herring’s black velvet
had a deep bertha collar of cream
Honiton lace. Mrs. McDonald’s egg-shell
blue crepes were patterned in parma-
violet tones.
The heads of the three services were
among the guests, also representatives of
the cffurches. The Chief Justice of Aus-
tralia, Sir Owen Dixon, was with Lady
Dixon, and Sir Charles and Lady Lowe
were also there. Among Parliamentary
representatives were the Sneaker of the
Legislative Assembly, Sir Archie
Michaelis, who was accompanied by his
wife, and Sir Clifden Eager, president of
the Legislative Council, and Lady Eager.
Mrs. Tom Hollway’s pastel-blue tulle
gown sparkled with diamente, Mrs.
Trevor Oldham’s pale-grey crepe gown
featured a full, pleated skirt, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, receiving congratulations on
her Queen’s Birthday honors, wore white
crepe with a matching jacket, both
carrying silver sequins. The bodice of
Lady Disney’s black velvet frock was
trimmed with jet beads and diamente.
Lady Bruntisfield wore a diamond tiara
and diamond necklace with a crinoline
gown of deep-rose tulle, the bouffant
skirt composed of layers of tulle. Lady
Brookes also added a tiara to her gown
of off-white satin. With the Hon. Simon
Warrender was Mrs. Warfender, in full-
skirted frock of pastel-blue satin. Mrs.
Sidney Baillieu Myer’s oyster faille had
sequin motifs for embellishment.
This week’s portrait is of Jessie
Matthews, the famous stage, screen and
television star, who is making her first
visit to this country and plays the leading
role in Somerset Maugham’s romantic
comedy “Larger than Life,” which opens
at the Princess on June 21 with a gala
premiere which will be attended by the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks. Jessie is tall and slim, charming
and vivacious, and wears her clothes with
quite an air. Her husband, Brian Lewis,
has remained at home, but daughter
Catherine is with her.
Tall palms, hibiscus flowers, “islanders”
strumming their guitars and hula maidens
swaying in a dance transformed the foyer
of the Royale Ballroom for the Coral
Sea Ball into a tropical island. On
each side, of the ballroom were huge
figures of a hula maiden and an island
boy, and on every table were colorful
miniature ukuleles; those on the official
table were of silver and decorated with a
posy of violets and gardenias. First to
be received by the president of the ball
committee, Mrs. R. G. Casey, and her
husband were U.S. Ambassador Pete
Jarman and his wife and U.S. Consul-
General, Henry E. Stebbins, and Mrs.
Stebbins. The vice-regal party entered
with the president of the Australian-
American Association, Sir John Latham,
and Lady Latham.
Lady Brooks chose a graceful gown of
pastel-blue silk chiffon, the unusual full
skirt flounced and caught with soft loops.
Mrs. Jarman wore violet chiffon, the
skirt full, the bodice tight-fitting. Mrs.
Casey’s frock was of black lace and
organza. Lady Latham’s lovely gown in
moonlight-blue toning, and the matching
stole, were encrusted with cyclamen
sequins. Among the dancers was
Jessie Matthews, whose frock was
formed of layers and layers of
white tulle ; her full-length coat was of
white Arctic fox. Mrs. Patrick Hamilton
was in pale-greige faille, Mrs. Earl Daum
in rust-toned chiffon. Mrs. John
Sullivan’s velvet was turquoise-blue. Lady
McCbnnan’s wide-skirted frock was of
soft grey satin. Ball organiser Mrs. G. W.
Spensley wore with her black frock a
white Honiton lace stole.
Twenty-one years of service to the
Children’s Hospital is the splendid record
of the American Women’s Auxiliary, and
in that period over £30,000 has been
raised. To mark the auxiliary’s coming-
of-age members had a luncheon-party at
the home of the U.S. Consul-General,
whose wife, Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, is
president. Of course there was a cake,
one surrounded by ivy leaves and
red, white and blue ribands, its icing
decorated with red sugar roses, white
lily-of-the-valley and a huge “21.” In the
same patriotic motif were the shoulder-
posies of red holly-berries, white gar-
denias and blue hyacinth blossoms pre-
sented to the seven executive members
by Mrs. Charles Millet. To her black
frock Mrs. Stebbins pinned her presenta-
tion orchids.
Mrs. Earl Daum wore a black faille
suit with the collar and pockets edged
with black velvet. Mrs. W. W. Killough
topped her emerald-green suit with a black
velvet tricorne. Very attractive were the
Black Watch tartan frock worn by Mrs.
Robert Macklin and the cinnamon tweed
suit of Mrs. R. Wayne Denbo. Among
the members present were several who
have served on the auxiliary for the 21
years: they were Mrs. Herbert Allen,
Mrs. Gerald Bacon, Mrs. Ethel Young
and Mrs. Ruth Saulwick.
Wesley Church was the setting for the
marriage of Pamela, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. I. Gold, of Elizabeth Bay,
Sydney, and Kenneth, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. F. C. Irvine, of South Yarra.
From the Paris salon of Maggy Rouff
came the bride’s gown of palest-mauve
satin. Over the long sheath skirt, with
its wide, floating panels, was worn a
waist-length tight-fitting jacket of satin,
finely tucked in silver thread. Her tiny
matching hat of satin was edged with
diamente, and satin gloves and orchid
bouquet were in the same soft mauve
tonings. The bride was unattended, but
Blyth Staley attended the bridegroom.
Reception was at Tolarno, St. Kilda,
where Pamela and Ken will begin house-
keeping after the honeymoon. Mrs. Gold
received the guests wearing a black-and-
silver lame frock and a small American-
beauty rose-petal hat. Mrs. Irvine’s slim
black frock carried an all-over pattern
of jet beads ; her small black velvet
Mary Queen of Scots bonnet was edged
with diamente and finished with fine
veiling.
Among the guests were Mrs. A. Levy,
who wore a blue-and-mauve flower hat
with her black frock, which was scattered
with clusters of pale-blue beads; Mrs. A.
Colman, in a slim frock of black French
cloque and a small black velvet hat; Mrs.
John Langley, whose beech-brown crepe
frock had a deep yoke of cream Honiton
lace and was worn with a citron-yellow
satin hat; Mrs. R. Robinson, her small
black toque worn with a black Persian-
lamb coat.
The Victorian division of Red Cross
netted £2OOO from the gala premiere at
the Regent of the film “Kangaroo.”
Searchlights, colored fairy lights, bands
and crowds in the streets were in the
Hollywood tradition. Inside the theatre
there were elaborate and topical decora-
tions ; Red Cross personnel formed the
Governor’s guard-of-honor, and women
in lovely swirling evening gowns added
to the brilliant scene. Lady Brooks wore
a lovely gown of glistening magnolia satin
with a very full skirt. Mrs. S. Baillieu
Myer’s gown was of vivid peacock-blue
satin, made with a slifn, draped skirt and
with folds of the material cascading from
one hip. Vice-chairman of the premiere
committee, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, chose
a gown of ice-blue silk faille. Ticket-
secretaries Heather Menzies and Marion
McPherson wore, respectively, finely-
checked taffeta in three tones and pastel-
blue satin. Mrs. Norman Shepherd, the
treasurer, allied black Chantilly lace and
beige chiffon. Mrs. John Summons’s
short frock was of tangerine velvet.
Carol Griffith’s pale-blue quilted-satin
skirt went with a scarlet wool short-
sleeved blouse.


sa
SSfi
“Still keeps going
when he rest
have stopped’
%xibt
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX4.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Temporarily in Australia under the
A.B.C. banner and permanently in kilts,
Burl Ives, the American ballad-singer,
stands 6ft. lin. in his brogues,
goes 50in. round the sporran and more
round the chest, weighs 22 stone and
looks as if nature meant him to be a
wrestler. He was a wrestler in his college
days, but, disliking work, he took to
troubadoring from pub to pub singing
and guitaring for his tucker. Although
he didn’t expect it, the route took him to
the concert-platform, the fillums and
world fame. With personality plus, he
is, away from cameras, a serious singer
with a repertoire of the lovely old folk-
songs, many of which were sung in his
home in his boyhood. He was not long
in Australia before he was on the track
of Australian folksongs and ballads and
discussing them with Dr. Percy Jones,
vice-director of the University Conser-
vatorium in Melbourne, who has been
collecting them for 10 years. Asked if
he had any ideas for his two-year-old
son, he told The Bulletin that he had
bought the infant a beautiful little adding-
machine —he wants him to be a banker.
Though (in Elbert Hubbard’s phrase)
rags are no recommendation, Frank
Roberts has much to commend him in
his rise to golden chains since his rathei
odd clothes setback. On the Bris-
bane City Council’s pay-roll 16 years ago
—as a relief-worker —the other day he
tilted the lien Sir John Chandler has had
on the Lord Mayoralty of Brisbane, and
is now back on the Council, this time
wearing the bunnyskins. Sewerage-miner
and builder’s laborer, while on relief
Roberts look on a law course at Queens-
land University, was refused admission
to an early-evening lecture because he
didn’t have time to change into accept-
able clothes after leaving his pick and
shovel, but graduated B.A. and LL.B. He
was practising as a barrister when
Nundah, in 1947, sent him to the State
Assembly, Labor member. He’d had a
shot at politits earlier, in 1943, for the
Hamilfon seat. Chandler beat him that
time.
Reckoning that 20 years is more than
enough in politics, Liberal George Gollan
will retire to bowls and golf before the
next N.S.W. State election. Born on the
Richmond River 66 years ago, he served
his apprenticeship in politics as Assistant-
Minister (without portfolio) to Premier
Stevens in 1937. Then Government Whip,
sitting for Parramatta (he still is), he went
on to the Colonial Secretaryship, and for
the first couple of years of War II was
Minister for Labor and Industry.
New knights:
Clifden Eager, K.8.E., assumed .the mantle
of president of Victoria’s Legislative Council
in 1943. Son of a Dublin Congregational
minister, educated at Melbourne University, he
set up as an accountant, was admitted to the
Victorian Bar in 1911 and took silk in 1935.
He was a noted oarsman of the Albert Park
Club in earlier days, is a friend of Meldrum and
is an art-patron.
Percy Spender, K.8.E., also took silk in 1935,
took to politics, and became Treasurer, then
Minister for External Affairs. Now Ambassador-
ing in the U.S.
Jack Keith Angas, Kt., is a member of
S. Australia’s most ancient pastoral clan. He
resigned the chairmanship of the S.A.J.C. to
join the Ist Armored Division in 1941, captain.
He has held most of the fleecy posts in his State s
stockowners’ and woolgrowers’ associations.
Herbert Hyland, Kt., entered the Victorian
Assembly as member for Gippsland South in
1929, and has been that since. For five years
from 1938 Minister for Transport, he is that
now.
Anthony Lefroy, Kt., son of Sir Henry
Lefroy, started jackerooing on Westraha s
Boolardy station and ended up owning Coodardy
station. An M.C.-winner of War I, he’s chair-
man of his State’s Pastoralists’ Association,
and chairman or president of a lot of interests
ranging from newspapers and banks to the
Red Cross and polo-clubs.
Hugh Poate, Kt., son of a one-time
Surveyor-General of N.S.W., holds three English
medical degrees, is a foundation Fellow of the
R.A.C.S., was with the A.A.M.C. in War 1
and with the R.A.A.F., group-captain, in War
11. Already a knight of the Order of St. John
of Jerusalem, he operates in Macquarie-street.
Edward John Hallstrom, Kt., refrigerator-
manufacturer, lavish giver of financial assistance
to public causes, president of Sydney’s Taronga
Park Zoo Trust and member of the N.S.W.
Royal Zoological Society. Interested, also, in
the Royal Historical Society and the Sir Joseph
Banks Trust.
Fred Thorpe, Kt., won M.C. with the A.I.F.
Field Engineers in War I. In the next stoush,
as Director of Machine Tools and Gauges, he
saw that younger engineering Diggers got the
wherewithal.
“P.T.”: One of the oldest riflemen
still in the game must be E. E. Miller, still
a useful member of the Donnybrook
(W.A.) B team although he has scored
his 80th bull on Father Time’s target of
the years. At this year’s shoot for the.
club cup he walked from mound to
mound on crutches, having resumed
shooting only two months previously
after six months in hospital, recovering
from results of a traffic smash he was
mixed up in while on his way to take
part in the last Easter shoot at Bunbury.
And there’s nothing wrong with the old
marksman’s eyesight. At the Donny-
brook shoot he scored 82 out of a possible
105, over the three-, five- and six-hundred
yard ranges.
Now hoping to turn rockets into
ploughshares, or whatever it is they
plough with in this mechanised age,
Major-General L. K. Lockhart passed
through Australia on his way to New
Zealand. Robust, still wearing his close-
clipped soldier’s moustache, he served for
38 years in the Royal Artillery and then
with the General Staff. In War II the
commander of an anti-tank brigade from
Normandy, through Belgium into Ger-
many, he had his most ticklish assign-
ment after the Germans put their hands
up—he took over the experimental firing
of captured German V 2 rockets. As part
of this work pretty well all of north-
western Europe was scoured for parts of
rockets ; then, with the help of German
techniciaixS, three rockets were
assembled and fired from Cuxhaven. The
experiments showed that the rockets
attained their highest elevation at about
65 miles. Lockhart reckons that London
was lucky in being just out of the V2’s
effective range. The distance they had
to come upset their final plunge.
Mention of the name Ernon F. Olssen
in any port from Moresby to Perth
usually calls for another all round. Born
in Bundaberg (Q.), the son of a
Norwegian sea-captain, young Olssen
joined Macdonald Hamilton in 1911
when that firm traded under the name of
the British India and Queensland Agency
Co. He served as purser in turn on
Levuka, Wyandra, Wodonga, Arawatta
and others, and had the privilege of being
OLSSEN, of Macdonald Hamilton.
chased by Von Luckner in his raider
Seeadler. Now an executive of Mac-
donald Hamilton, Olssen has been closely
associated with the Melbourne passenger-
branch for the past 25 years, and is as
well-known to sea, land and air travellers
as the Town Hall clock. He’s charted
here by Mcßeath.
“McCag”: The first time I saw Sir
Philip Vian (recently promoted to the
Navy’s highest rank, Admiral of the
Fleet) was when he walked up the gang-
way of a British battleship in Sydney,
down from the Pacific war. To ihe
respectful shrilling of bosun’s whistles a
craggy-faced officer stalked aboard, with
a forest of eyebrows running back to
meet an almost-as-prolific bunch of hairs
growing from his ears. He wore white
stockings and —horror to my longshore
mind—white sandals. But then Vian
could afford to be individual in dress —
he was in so many other things. Captain
of destroyer Cossack when she ran along-
side the prison-ship Altmark. he later led
three destroyers over gale-driven seas to
torpedo, at night, the running Bismarck.
Aboard that battle-wagon in Sydney an
American correspondent asked Vian, in
blissful ignorance, if U.S. carriers were
faster than British. That writer won’t
soon forget the frigid glare loosed upon
him. It affected me so much that, as
well as saluting their blessed quarter-deck
when marching on to it, I saluted it
coming off!
Like his ships, P. W. Haddy has gone
a long way in the 39 years he’s been with
the Adelaide Steamship Co. Now (as
Coventry depicts) he holds the company’s
ships in his hands, having recently stepped
up to the general-managership. Haddy
did not run away to sea —but he did from
school, to join the co. as an office-boy
aged 13. Since then he has climbed up
the ladder through auditor, chief-
accountant, assistant-secretary and, at
different times, in charge of all the major
branches of the company. He is on the
board of A.N.A. and is also directorially
HADDY, of Adelaide Steam.
connected with a salvage company in
Sydney, a docking concern in New Guinea
and the North Australian Cement Co.
Nowadays his main recreation is hiking,
but in other years he was prominent in
lacrosse and rowing. Adelaide Rowing
Club made him a life member —either in
recognition of the oar he pulled in its
senior eight for several years or to ensure
that his repertoire of salty tales and near-
classic recitations were not lost to the
club.
Twenty years ago The Bulletin
recorded of Eric Sydney Spooner: “No-
body can call him ‘little by little.’ If
his early political demise were likely he
might better be nicknamed the Solomon
Grundy of politics, so rapid has been his
advance.” As prophesied, his political
demise was delayed till, after having sat
in the Federal House as member for
Robertson and Minister for War Organi-
sation of Industry, he was defeated in
1943. But his taxation experience and
advice always remained at the disposal of
any Government that needed them.
A Sydney University man, Spooner
began accounting in Orange, moved
to Sydney after War I, and built
up one of the most solid accountancy
businesses in the city. He left it, at con-
siderable financial sacrifice, to sit for
Ryde in the N.S.W. Assembly, and to
become Treasurer and Minister for Local
Government. Spooner was as sudden in
action as he was in getting promotion,
and had a habit of running his political
office as he ran his business. Though
the Press in 1935 made of him a pleasure-
spoiler of youth through his bathing-
suit ordnance, he really was interested
in more fundamental politics; but his
political ambitions eluded him. He was a
member of Tatts and the Melbourne
Athenaeum, both homes of good-
fellowship. Brother of Senator Spooner,
the Minister for Social Services, he died
in Sydney the other day, aged 61.
When rangy John Carter walked in
to be victimised by Prior, the artist
thought for a moment that Montgomery
CARTER, of the Country party.
had pinched the appointment. The
physical likeness extends to another field
—Carter having been a War I soldier,
lighthorseman with the 7th Regiment in
Palestine. He won M.C. there. Born
at Toungoo, in Burma, Carter was com-
missioned in Palestine, and came back to
take up a soldier-settlement block 30
miles from Gundagai. He named his pro-
perty Deiran —“the first decent place we
struck in Palestine, with houses instead
of tents.” Now he runs Poll Herefords
on 1100-odd acres. A Country-party
supporter since the birth of the organisa-
tion in 1920, he became, the other day,
its N.S.W. chairman.
Dead at 78, Sir William Ernest George
Archibald Weigall, always known by his
last Christian-name, Governor of S. Aus-
tralia in 1920-22. In his prime a large,
hearty retired British officer—-he served m
S. Africa and retired as a major of the
Northamptons —he was for nine years in
the House of Commons, was chairman of
many war-time Government boards dur-
ing World War I, and later of the British
Royal Agricultural and Royal Empire
Societies. A trained agriculturalist, he
was known the cattle world over as a
breeder of Red Lincolns and after leaving
Australia did much to spread the fame
of the Australian Illawarra breed. In his
later years he was King of Arms of the
Order of St. Michael and St. George.
Into the Silence:
At Port Albert (Vic.), Mrs. Charles Goulden,
a lady with a new kind of lamp, who will be
missed by all the lighthouse-keepers in Bass
Strait. For many years she kept up an
unofficial radio-guard on the wireless frequencies
of lighthouse-stations and summoned assistance
in cases of accident or illness. Her husband
and her three sons, who had the mail-contract
with the stations, often provided the assistance.
In Perth, at 62, Basil Aubrey Lewis, 47 years
with the glass- and hardware-trade in Westraha,
president of the Glass Merchants’ Association
and vice-president of the Westralian Chamber
of Manufactures. In War II he was a member
of the Westralian Emergency Food Supply
Committee. One-time commodore of the Royal
Perth Yacht Club.
In Melbourne, Herbert Rothwell, racing
radio-broadcaster and editor and proprietor of
the “Circle,” a Melbourne sporting-paper. He
founded it 30 years ago; 40 friends have volun-
teered to keep it going.
In Brisbane, at 56, Thomas Leslie Cooper,
as well known in shipping circles thereabouts
as the Pile Light. Earlier with the Aberdeen
and Commonwealth Line, he joined the Orient
Line in 1926, for a time managed its Brisbane
branch, and had the busy job of freight-
manager at the end.


LYSAIQHTS/
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
'' ' :
ek xm a
Sal
11
m
m
m
H
s m
;■■■- ■
p
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd,
Reg U Office & Works, BlackwaU Pi. Road, Five Dock,
City Office. 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSASHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW.
“Holler”: Some of thus.,
running this year’s Sydney Sheep
Show were rather upset because
total entries of 759 were well
below last year’s 981. But a lot
of things are down compared
with last year, notably wool
prices and, as a consequence,
sheep prices. Last year’s show
took place with the pastoral in-
dustry at its peak, a factor
certain to make sheep entries
large. What’s more, there were
many sheep at the show last
year which were below show
standard. This year, though tail
was apparent in some pens, the
standard generally was more
uniform.
A significant aspect was the fall
in the proportion of Merinos and
thfs obvious rise in interest in
British breeds. This is all to the
good, for it suggests that what
might be termed “the wool mad-
ness” has passed and there is a
more sensitive appreciation of
the fact that many parts of the
country should be running
straight-out lamb breeds or dual-
purpose flocks.
As for the show itself, it is
staged in the wrong place as far
as public interest is concerned.
Part of the reason for holding a
sheep show in Sydney is to give
city and suburban people the
chance to see sheep at their best,
on the supposition that they will
naturally be interested in the
animal on which the national
economy is based. They aren’t
interested.
Sheep-dog trials, exhibitions of
fleeces, mannequin parades, a
continuous free motion-picture
showing and stands of pastoral
machinery and appliances all
failed, like the sheep, to draw
more than two or three thousand
people, most of them from the
country. On the day the sheep
show opened nearly 30,000
packed into an adjoining ground
to watch a football match be-
tween N.S.W. and Queensland.
A lot of that 30,000 took a half-
day off or just stayed away from
work—few would think of doing
that to attend the sheep show.
Which illustrates pretty clearly
the difference between the
people’s response to education
and their response to entertain-
ment.
Most of the top honors in
the Merino section went to A.
Hordern’s Mungadal stud. To
awards in pen and single classes
me stud added the Stonehaven
Cup, its third successive winning
of the trophy, equalling the
record put up by Egelabra in
1938-39-40. The group (two
rams and three ewes) just beat
the Merryville team, with a team
from Somerset third.
Merryville, however, was com-
forted with the ram grand
championship, the winner being
a ram for which the stud refused
2000gns. at last year’s sheep
auctions. Studs prominent in the
open Merino classes, in addition
to Mungadal and Merryville,
were Eshcol, Winbri, Tuwinga,
Somerset and Stradbrooke (South
Australia).
In the section limited to small
graziers the awards went chiefly
to J. H. Reid (Murlingbung),
Cox Bros., N. D, Tomlinson,
N. McDonald and D. B. MiU-
thorpe.
A summary of judges’
opinions:
Superfines: Disappointing.
Better sheep have been seen at
country shows. Too many
breeders use the show as a con-
venience for the ram sales.
Fines: Strongest section for
years. The Merryville champion
was “outstanding.” Mediums:
The champion, though excellent
in other respects, carried a fleece
a little too plain. Eshcol ewes
were outstanding. A great deal
of variation was evident on
both sides of medium. Strongs:
Nothing was in it with the South
Australian winner (M. Thomas,
Stradbrooke, Clare), a ram
“carrying a real sire’s fleece on a
splendid frame.” Extra-strongs:
Fair enough. The Merryville
champion carried a true-to-type
fleece and beat the Somerset
runner-up on density.
A good deal of interest was
manifest in the novice classes,
in which some excellent sheep
appeared. D. G.-Garnock, H.
Seis and Miss A. Bostock shared
the prizes.
British Breeds.
Heartened by increased
demand and values for rams,
which have risen by up to four
times in the last few months,
British breeds exhibitors weren’t
worried by the fall in both show
entries and sales offerings.
Mostly this type of ram sells in
spring, and it is expected that by
then values will more than com-
pensate for the dull period
suffered during the high-wool-
price era.
Breeders did not slacken up
during the dull time, as the sheep
at the show indicated. Standards
were up to those of previous
years among the winners and,
if the Sydney display is a
criterion, the recovery of lamb,
breeding will not have to wait on
any recovery of ram and ewe
quality—it is there.
Main awards were distributed
among A. Manton (champion
ram), A. Hordern (champion
ewe), Rowlands and Sons, H. W.
Yelland and R. B. Glasson in
Romney Marsh; Squire and
Freebairn (champion ram and
ewe), Starrit and Son, J. T.
Foord, and E. J. and J. R.
Bourke in Border Leicesters;
T. V. Brunskill and Sons (cham-
pion ram and ewe), J. W. Mac-
lean, and Newbury in South-
downs ; A. Taylor (champion
ram), G. R. Shepherd and Sons
(champion ewe), A. L. Bailey,
and G. R. M. Smith in Dorset
Horns; J. M, Woods (champion
ram), P. D, Leyden (champion
ewe), T. Mclntosh, Mrs. K.
Hicks, and K. A. Drummond in
Ryelands; and G. A. Evans and
Sons won everything for
Cheviots.
Dual-purpose Sheep.
Corriedales benefited almost as
much as Merinos from the wool
rises of recent years, when a
good comeback clip brought
prices that would have gratified
a Merino man of a few years
earlier. Demand for good
Corriedale rams and ewes is
likely to be strong in coming
months, shue the lamb market
remains high and firm.
Gundowingra showed the
champion ram, W. C. Carroll
the ewe, M. Carroll and Sons
the reserve ram and Gundo-
wingra the reserve ewe. Pheland
and Son, L. F. Bennett, and
Rocky Ridge also did well.
Polwarths, which are mainly
confined to Victoria and
Southern Riverina, were not im-
pressive in numbers or quality.
J C. Smith won the champion-
ships and A. E. Coote the re-
serves, with a few prizes for
H. J. McDonald.
Ram Sales.
The opening sales quickly
showed the effect of the wool
market. It was clear there were
to be no records. Rams which
might have made four figures
last year got nowhere near them
this time. Merino prices were
generally up to 20 p.c. lower,
Corriedales also suffered a fall,
Polwarths weren’t wanted, only
British breeds held their market.
Mumblebone got 2100 gns. for
a very nice ram, and a couple
from Boonoke made 1500 gns.
and 1300 gns., but the average
on the first day was about
145 gns.
Redbank topped the Corrie-
dales with 380 gns.—the same
stud topped last year’s sales with
510 gns.—and averages ran out
pretty low.
British breeds saw a top of
250 gns. and average of 93i gns.
for Border Leicesters, 150 gns.
and 91 gns. for Dorsets, and an
all-round average of 93 gns.
Ayrshire Testing.
“Agric”: G. Templeton, of
Ayrshire (Scot.), who judged
Ayrshires at Sydney Royal Show,
and has since inspected herds in
four -States, said he was dis-
appointed to find that all Ayr-
shire breeders were not doing
production - recording. It was
no use having pedigreed cattle if
they were not so tested.
He thought too much emphasis
was placed on butterfat here
and not enough on the quantity
of milk and corresponding
amount of fat. A cow should be
noted for her 10,0001 b. of milk
of four or five pei cent, test,
:ffOM
vJ'HTEk:
“Any bargains left, Charlie?"
rather than for the actual quan-
tity of butterfat she gave,
Templeton was emphatic that
the tail-setting of many of the
Australian Ayrshires needed cor-
recting ; it was getting too high.
In Scotland they had developed
a “milker” type of Ayrshire and
there was no reason why the
same could not be developed
here. The breed had been
widely adopted in England,
largely as the result of the pay-
ment of 4d. per gallon premium
for milk from TJB.-free herds.
Templeton was surprised to
see how little was done in Aus-
tralia to store fodder. He hasn’t
got that on his own.
Hormones and Stock.
“Herbicide”: One of the great
advantages claimed for hormone
compounds, such as 2,4-D, which
have proved their worth as
weedicides, is that they are not
poisonous to stock.
But in the U.S.A. it is said that
in a few plants which contain
fair quantities of nitrate of
potash, use of 2,4-D converts
this in the animal’s stomach into
nitrite salt, which is a deadly
poison. Fortunately, this occurs
in only a few species of plants,
but oaten hay is suspected to be
one of them.
This 2,4-D exerts its lethal
effect in most plants by convert-
ing starch into sugars. Then the
very high sugar content aids the
movement of the poison through
the plant and thus kills it
quickly.
Stock will graze hitherto un-
touched weeds which have been
sprayed with 2,4-D. This is
thought to be largely due to the
increased sugar content of the
sprayed plants. Stock may eat
such plants with impunity so
long as they don’t contain much
nitrate of potash.
Oats are resistant to small
doses of 2,4-D, which they may
selectively imbibe in crop-spray-
ing with it to kill weeds, but
the hay may contain sufficient
nitrate of potash after spraying
to make it suspect for stock-feed-
ing.
Poultry Pests.
“My”: For lice use a dip
consisting of D.D.T. in a 1 per
cent, watery suspension, or the
well-tried nicotine sulphate on
the perches, loz. to 100 ft. of
perch, applied shortly before
the birds go to roost. The
warmth of their bodies will de-
velop fumes which act as a
delouser.
Scaly-leg mite can be dealt
with by scrubbing the legs with
crude-oil or applying a 1-in-10
sulphur ointment after brushing
the parts with soap and water.
Disinfect perches with tar-oil.
For red-mite paint perches and
all interior woodwork with tar-
oil or spray with a watery
D.D.T. suspension as for lice.
Ticks are more serious, but
can be controlled by building
pens well away from infested
buildings and trees (especially
pepper-trees), suspending perches
from wire from the roof and
spraying thoroughly with a
D.D.T, suspension at monthly
intervals during the warmer
months.
Borers in Citrus.
“Wilco”: The borer usually
appears in badly-pruned or
neglected citrus-trees; sometimes
in cared-for trees. It is most
active during spring and
summer. At the first sign of its
presence—a drooping of foliage
--—saw off the affected part and
burn the stem section. If a
large limb is tunnelled, poke a
heated wire up or stuff in a
bit of fluff soaked in carbon
bisulphide.
Don’t smoke while handling
carbon bisulphide, and don’t
leave its container exposed to
the hot sun.
New Lucerne Type.
“Otnim”: Lucerne with a
high protein content is growth-
promoting, fattening and the
best milk-producer. lowa and
South Dakota Experiment
Stations (U.S.A.) have
developed a new grazing
lucerne, ideal for pasture-im-
provement.
It is a low-growing crown,
and with creeping roots is
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
A southern sunspot was apparent last week but showed
no signs of increasing its area or the number of its com-
ponents. The cycle for eastern Australia shows only minor
rains and a cold wave prior to the onset of the June rains.
It should cold prior to a showery period to be followed
about the middle of the month by a fairly good genera] rain,
though as yet there is no sign of a sunspot outbreak to
support it. However, these outbreaks give practically no
notice of their onset.


Regd.
Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
3E
m
m
m
2^-
S -v;/
m
fm
mi
wm
a
SO
;sSsss
2g£
lgp!=
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 1J pints of Kero for
12 hours’ light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores,
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
NOW you con
CASTRATE
& TAIL
SO fAsmt with the
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
AUTOMATIC
RING LOADER
(PATT.APP. No. 315231 /49)
for use with Elastrator instrument and Elastrator ringr.
Castration and Tailing the Elastrator way is already famous
for its efficiency. Now it is quicker, even cleaner than before.
Order your Elastrator Automatic Ring Loader now from your
usual Elastrator supplier. , _
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
82/52.
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
t
%
\
fr,
t>*
get
/S/'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
gf
PHE.BX.BO
NEW HOMES
AND RENOVATIONS
extensions alterations
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
immediate service
COUNTRY WORK A _ SPECIALTY
W. B. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
Whitehorse Rd., B'ahvyp, Vic-
toria. WF 4551. After his. XB 6524
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOKE
ffANGANELLA ESTATE
This is the blood
that will make
YOUR FLOCK FAMOUS
♦
for full particulars write
F. S. FALKIHER & SONS PTY. ITD.
Boonoke North. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
g
“WHAT Engines could best
’ * satisfy the Australian
primary producer, serve on
all fronts in a Total War,
and win wide favour for
industrial uses? . .
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
of course !
65.000 satisfied owners of
Ronaldson-Tippett Petrol and
Diesel Engines would give
this emphatic answer !
Follow the wisdom of the
65.000 and invest your money
in a lifetime Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine !
RONALDSON BROS. &
TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melb. Office: 628 Bourke Street.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros.
& Tippett Ltd., 42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett
(Q’land) Pty. Ltd. 127 Eagle
Street. BRISBANE.
★
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
in most sises.
jfcfirtes
for
c?
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
dfg
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
• .
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
-■ .■
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH' AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE; British alnd Eastern Trading, Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place. 1 *
drought-resistant and stands
heavv grazing. Some varieties
are like sub.-clover, as they
snread bv below-surface buds,
and stems grow laterally from
the crown, defying “eating-out.”
If it’s as good as the Yanks
make out it should be a winner
for Australian pasture-improve-
ment programmes.
u
The Km S Ranch.
“C. Punch” : The King
Ranch, in Texas, where the Santa
'Gertrudis cattle (B. 28/5/’52)
were developed, is the biggest
ranch in North America, now
comprising 914,000 acres.
Captain Richard King, the
founder, was a steamboat
captain, originally from New
England, who formed a liking
for the border country. He and
another steamboat captain,
Miflin Kenedy, in 1853 started
by buying 54,000 acres in the
Santa Gertrudis grant. The
partners added to their holdings
every time they got a chance,
but after the Civil War (1861-65)
they decided to dissolve partner-
ship, and Kenedy settled about
40 miles south of King.
The next active head of the
King outfit was Robert J. Kleberg,
senior, a lawyer whom King
had hired to represent the ranch.
At Captain King’s death Kleberg
took over the management, and
several years later married Alice
King, youngest of the King
children. In later years his
son, Robert J. Kleberg, junior,
present manager, took over the
interests of the other King
children until the King Ranch
is now a Kleberg family cor-
poration.
Many “firsts” in the cattle
business have come from the
King Ranch. Its operators were
the first to suggest that tick
caused Texas fever and to build
and use dipping-vats to rid
cattle of ticks. They were the
first to experiment in phosphorus-
feeding to supplement the lack
of minerals in the soil, the first
to provide range grass that will
withstand heat and drought and
to use the humane and efficient
electric prod, which they in-
vented, for handling cattle.
Since the announcement of the
Australian venture, the King
Ranch has announced the forma-
tion of a similar company in
Cuba, where Santa Gertrudis
cattle will be produced. Owned
jointly by the King Ranch and
the Manati Sugar Company, it
will be similar to the Twin Hills
venture in Queensland.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”; Sow brown
Spanish onions during June with
a fertiliser dressing of five parts
of blood-arid-bone and one of
potash at loz. to 2oz. the square
yard to give the plants a good
start. As the onions begin to
bulb use a light solution of
sulphate of ammonia.
“C.A.A.”: During June cut
the fern on asparagus beds and
dress with ilb. a square yard of
agricultural lime about the end
of the month. Lightly fork in
a good application of organic
manure followed by 4oz, per
square yard of a complete fer-
tiliser.
“Big Billy”: Periodical lifting
of perennials is best done in June
or July. Cut back the foliage
of undisturbed plants to ground
level in the same months.
Usually perennials, whether
derived from root stocks, crowns
or runners, should be divided
every three years.
“Sarina”: An excellent shelter
for a setting hen is a halved oil-
drum with a square entrance cut
in one side. She is protected on
sides, faces the entrance and can
defend herself and the eggs
against all-comers. Plenty of
nail-holes in the drum for
ventilation.
“Mr.”: Sheep on a Mallee
fallow can reduce the number
of cultivations necessary, but
they cannot entirely replace the
cultivator. Weed-growth in
spring and autumn gets ahead of
them.
“A.S.”: When painting, don’t
forget that calves as well as older
cattle like to lick freshly painted
surfaces, and what is left in the
bottom of discarded paint-tins.
This leads to losses from
lead-poisoning, so keep animals
away from lead-paint, and empty
tins away from animals.


M
• * ■
LUjM
Professor plans ¥ lying Palace
VIENNA 1804
ROFESSOR ROBERT-
SON has designed a
stupendous aircraft
.to carry sixty passengers
on a six-months non-stop
flight of scientific observation.
The giant has a 3-decker gon-
dola containing kitchen, store,
laboratories, music room,
cabins and ladies’ withdraw-
ing room. Surmounting the
machine, symbolising vigil-
ance, will be an effigy of a
rooster, so enormous as to con-
tain an observatory in its eye.
“Aircraft design should be
bolder,” said the Professor.
“If you think that six months
is overdoing it* remember that
there is no ground service yet.
It will, for example, be many
years before somebody invents
the BP Aviation Service for
quick, efficient refuelling.” '
AVIATION
f
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo-iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
CINZANO
}M SWEETandDRY
if
® 4HM
‘World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?’
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
T T V
“Girls, as a rule, like their escorts
to be a bit older.”— Women’s paper.
Age doesn’t tell on them so
much.
4* 4*
“One thing the liquor-commissioner
has illustrated is the gutlessness of
Autralian hotel drinkers.”
—Sydney “Sunday'Sun.”
They’ll stomach anything.
4* 4* 4*
“Cannibalism may be the only solu-
tion to a continually growing world-
population—-it would at least tackle
the problem at both ends.” —President
British Vegetarian Society, W. A.
Sibly.
No middle course?
“Faulty memory often causes un-
happy home and married life.”
— Psychologist.
The husband who remembers
his wife’s age but forgets her
birthday is the chief offender.
4* 4* 4*
“There are rumors that Australian
bottled beer and Australian cigarettes
may soon be plentiful.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
And that the new legal prices
may soon equal the old black-
market-rates
4* 4*
“Leonardo Da Vinti would prob-
ably have been a great googly bowler
if he had lived today. He was a most
ingenious man.” —Royal Academy
president Sir Gerald Kelly.
As it was, he stuck to body-
line.
•5* 4* 4*
“Two scientists at the Pest Research
Laboratory, Slough, Buckinghamshire,
have solved the mystery of how ;
clothes-molhs lived before man wore
clothes.”
Presumably they eked out a
bare existence.
Gratitude.
To be alive at break of day
When magpie sang his lovely lay
And sparkling dewdrops gem’d
the rose!
Who then would care about life's
woes ?
To be alive at moonlit eve,
The fragrant, magic air to
breathe;
In swift pursuit of sweet
Romance,
To clasp her in the whirling
dance!
But now, as cares and taxes
grow,
With ten quid buying less than
five
Bought not so very long ago,
I'm satisfied to keep alive.
P.O.M.C.
How to Become a Mountain-
climber.
The fellow who suddenly
decides that his hobby of stamp-
collecting or fretwork isn’t giving
him quite the amount of violent
exercise necessary to keep him at
his physical peak, and proposes
to take up mountain-climbing to
make up the deficiency, may well
find himself frustrated when,
turning to his encyclopaedia to
get some hints on how to go
about it, finds that all it has to
say is a lot of uninteresting stuff
about various expeditions which
have attempted Mount Everest.
Not a word about how to rush
up a mountain.
The first essential is to take
lessons in yodelling. There being
no Professor of Yodelling at the
Conservatorium, he will have to
take lessons by correspondence,
preferably from an expert in
Switzerland. These must be
thoroughly mastered before
attempting the first ascent, for
the only object in climbing an
Alp is to yodel when one gets
there. This, of course, has to be
done in a supersonic voice, as the
vibrations from an ordinarily-
used, voice might well bring
disaster. I vividly recall my own
carelessness when, as a tyro, I
shouted exultantly on getting up
to 15,000 ft. and precipitated
about a quarter-million tons of
circumambient mountains some-
where down below, leaving me a
sheer vertical face to go down.
I had to think like a fly for
several weeks afterwards.
The most important thing after
that is clothing and equipment.
A pair of light dancing-pumps
with large sucker cups attached
to the sole is a “must.” The
big advantage here is that they
won’t allow you to slip off a
rock—in fact, you’ll have to get
someone to pull you off them.
This is one of the reasons why
you will need a few companions
on the climb. A particularly
good grip on a damp rock might
take four men to pull you off it.
If they happen to be standing on
the edge of a chasm as they are
taking the strain, get them to hold
everything while you take their
photos. Showing them the snaps
later should you all get back will
render them doubly eager to go
up some more high mountains
with you.
A hawser—one used for ships
of no less than 3000 tons dead-
weight—is the most suitable to
bind you and your fellow-
climbers together on high places.
Always tie this around your
chest, never your waist. The
reason for this is , obvious.
Should one of your fellow-
climbers suddenly hurtle into
space, and, reaching the end of
his tether, stop with a jerk, the
only possible deleterious effect
on you—apart from perhaps
flying over the edge after him
with the sudden pull—would be
INVIS "^
“This a while-you-Wait service ?”
to constrict your chest suddenly.
Whilst this will preclude your
breathing until you have
hauled your companion up again
and so relieved the strain on
both the rope and your pul-
monary processes, it will be
infinitely better than having your
waist (which isn’t protected by
bone) reduced in a split-second
to a circumference of about four
inches. The effect of such a hap-
pening, particularly if you had
just completed a fairly full
repast, would be dire indeed.
A general word on eating
while climbing high mountains
may not be amiss. Care should
be taken that you don’t indulge
in gas-forming foods, as the
consequent condition might in
rarefied heights render you
temporarily lighter than air, with
the ever-present risk of taking off
while stepping off a crag, A
suitable meal to partake while
climbing would be soup, cold
roast pork and cold cabbage,
radishes, Chester - cakes and
tapioca-pudding, with perhaps a
little Stilton cheese and a bottle
of soda-water to top it off.
Never indulge in oysters while
mountain-climbing unless the
month has either an “a,” “e” or
a “u” in it.
As well as an ice-pick and a
shooting-stick you will need a
ladder (not an extension-ladder,
as the hooks might get caught in
the cuffs of your slacks and bring
disaster), a theodolite to give
you the levels, a steel tape-
measure for making certain you
do not have to leap further than
your known capacity, a garden
spade in case you happen across
a rare plant growing in a crevice
and wish to take home to put in
your garden,' and a bottle of
oxygen in case breathing
becomes difficult at high alti-
tudes. Be very careful in this,
however—acetylene-bottles look
similar to the untrained eye to
oxygen-bottles. It would be
slightly annoying to lump a big
bottle around a mountain-top for
several hours only to find that
the stuff in it is only good for
heating purposes.
Your Gladstonc-bag, in which
you will have your own personal
gear (clothes-brush, boot-polish,
hand-lotion, etc.) can best be
carried by putting the ship’s
hawser through the handle; it
will thus dangle from your chest,
leaving your hands free to
manage the rest of the gear.
As it will be too cold up a
high mountain to go bare-
headed, you will need a
hat. The approved head-
gear is a narrow-brimmed
bowler which, being streamlined,
will offer less resistance to
tornados, blizzards and hurri-
canes than any other sort. To
make doubly sure it will stay on
the head, however —for one
cannot chase a hat from crag to
crag while burdened with an
oxygen-bottle, a ladder and a
spade—it is a good idea to paint
the sweatband immediately
before donning it with a good
brand of office-gum. Another
advantage of the bowler is that,
if you fall a few hundred feet on
to your head, in case the hawser
gets sawn through on a- sharp
crag, the bowler will afford more
protection than, say, a beret.
The heavy tweed overcoat you
will need should not come below
the ankle.
A system of signals is desir-
able where, say, four of you are
endeavoring to negotiate a sheer
face of rock, and at the same
time during this delicate opera-
tion somp are out of sight of the
others. You obviously can’t tug
on the hawser to signal, other-
wise you may pluck a companion
into space. Whistling is the ideal
method, and on such a venture
the ideal climber is one who has
a tooth missing in front, and is
therefore capable of emitting a
loud hissing whistle. Never take
as a companion one who can
only whistle by putting a few
fingers in his mouth, for to do
so he’d have to be continually
putting down his oxygen-bottle,
ladder, etc., and if he were get-
ting around a sheer cliff-face and
had to whistle he would be com-
pelled to jettison these. The
devising of a simple prearranged
system of whistles, such as two
shorts and three longs to go
forward, three shorts and two
longs to go back, three shorts
and three longs to stay where
you are, etc., will make co-
operation easy and safe.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Taxation
In the four years 1948-51 my total
income was £33,298, of which taxation
amounting to £23,615 left me £9683.
Then I discovered that I had inadvertently
—and innocently—omitted to disclose
other earnings amounting to £637.
Although I immediately and voluntarily
informed the taxation authorities, offer-
ing what I considered was a reasonable
explanation, I still received an assessment
for £538, including a savage “punitive”
fine of £B9 10s. The additional undis-
closed income for which I gave a perfectly
valid explanation was spread over four
years, an underestimate averaging about
£159 a year.
I’m a small trader and I’ve always paid
my taxes on the dot, no matter how
difficult it was at times. With the excep-
tion of about two per cent., my income
has been derived from personal exertion.
At 72 I am on my way out, but I’m
really concerned for younger business
people who are controlling efficient,
profitable and essential industries, but
have no possible prospect of creating
reserves for expansion while the present
“cop-the-lot” taxation continues.
Had I been a drifter I would have,
long ago, been eligible for the old-age
pension and other social services. My
heavy taxation over many years has been
a lavish contribution. As it is now,
despite the ruthless plucking, I have my
own home and a little—-very little —put
by.
But it hurts to see the thriftless and
the improvident sharing the spoils and
receiving the benefits provided by my
hard-earned taxes.—A. J. A. (N.S.W.).
Pineapples and Tax
Tropical fruits have lately gained the
attention of many potential landseekers.
The capital required for the initial start
is in the vicinity of £2OOO, with no pros-
pect of a paying crop for 18 months.
The first year would show a dead loss
of £1515, with £1125 of it spent on land,
utility, clearing, fencing and tools. The
remaining £390 covers fertilisers, plough-
ing and a year’s bare tucker, allowing a
heavy crop of homegrown vegetables.
That estimate is for a minimum of two
acres of pineapples planted, with an
expected return of £4OO an acre gross.
With the £BOO returned from the first
planting, a further four acres can be
prepared and got under by clearing with
bulldozer at £9O an acre, planting material
at £65, and a further fence around the
productive block at £BO.
The new farmer is thus still drawing
on capital for the second year before he
gets his first payable cheque of £2400
at the beginning of his third season. By
that time he will probably be thinking
in terms of a better house, improved
fencing, and turning in his ’2B model
utility for something more substantial.
But at this time, after having studiously
ignored his' capital Expenditure, his long"
non-union hours and his severance from
the normal amenities of life, the Federal
Government wakes up and along comes
the demand for its cut.
Admittedly the prospective fruitfarmer
is on a good thing, but before starting
out he must have saved at least £2OOO.
Allowing him to be an average worker
with a wife and one child, he has already
paid considerable tax for the privilege of
earning the amount necessary for him to
become a little capitalist. His losses —
admittedly book losses —over the first
three years while he gets his place estab-
lished represent the expenditure of that
saving, and it would be encouraging to
many intending small farmers if their
initial capital (with a maximum of
£2000) could be allowed as a business loss
spread over the first three years of their
payable income tax.
With the world situation as it is today,
the small farmer will be on a comfortable
living, but with reduced taxation on the
lines suggested more capital would be
available to turn back into the land which
produced it, so fulfilling what Canberra
wants urgently—a rapid speed-up of food-
production.—Video (Q.).
A Murray Port
The suggestion that the S.A. Govern-
ment should develop a deep-water port at
Nugent at the southern end of Yorke
Peninsula has turned the minds of many
South Australians to the question of
development of the Murray trade which,
“I hope WE never finish up like that .”
with only about half a dozen steamers
still running, is on the point of extinction.
In the Murray-Darling system Australia
has several thousand miles of neglected
navigable waterways on which, at one
time, well over 100 steamers were travel-
ling and trading. With a port at the
Murray mouth, that system could supply
towns and settlements along the rivers,
help develop new towns and new indus-
tries and ease the overburdened railway
systems of S.A., Victoria and N. S. Wales.
Also the pressure on congested Port
Adelaide could be eased, and many ships
would be saved the tedious run of 60
miles each way up St. Vincent Gulf to
Port Adelaide and back. Goods which
at present have to be hauled over
the expensive grade of the Mount Lofty
Ranges could either be transhipped direct
into river vessels for transport up-river,
or could be hauled to their destination
without having to cross the ranges.
One matter which stressed the need for
Federation was that of Murray Customs,
and when Federation arrived Murray
Valleyites thought a port at the Murray
mouth would follow. State Governments
have ignored the issue—the Murray
runs to no capital city—and the 52 years
since Federation have seen the Murray
trade wither away. Several years ago the
Premier of S.A. told a deputation that the
idea of a Murray port was “as dead as
the dodo.” And so the last few steamers
are gradually being hulked or pulled to
pieces while the future of this rich and
underdeveloped valley remains a subject
for airy political promises.— Stweeler
(S.A.). _
Germ War
Why don’t our papers make some posi-
tive attempt to combat the propaganda
poured out from Moscow and Peking, and
parroted week by week in the local Com-
munist sheets? I can’t, for instance, find
any mention in our Australian dailies of
the fact that nine photographs purporting
to “prove” the use of germ warfare have
been exposed as complete frauds. They
originally appeared in the Peking
“People’s Daily” on March 15, 1952, and
were reprinted with remarkable speed in
the Communist weeklies here. Week after
week the lie is repeated with fantastically
horrific trimmings of U.S. “atrocities.”
The frauds were exposed in the “New
York Times” on April 3, 1952. Dr.
C. H. Curran, chief curator of insects
and spiders at the American Museum of
Natural History, proved that pictures
shown were distorted photographs of
harmless insects incapable of carrying
disease. Microscopic pictures of bacteria
claimed to be meningitis and gangrene
germs were proved by Dr. Rene Dubos,
an internationally eminent bacteriologist
attached to the Rockefeller Institute, to
be either fakes, photographs of utterly
innocuous bacteria or meaningless
blotches.
A photograph of a “germ bomb,” sup-
posedly dropped by the U.S., was a picture
of a non-explosive bomb used to distri-
bute propaganda leaflets, which for
physical reasons was not adaptable, even
theoretically, to carrying germs.
One picture captioned “Poisonous
insects similar to mosquitoes brought into
Chinese territory by U.Sk planes” was
the picture of a mosquito from which the
wings had been removed. It belonged to
the genus ALdes, but not to any group
capable of carrying disease. Dr. Curran,
dismissing these clumsy frauds, said it
would take “millions of people to
inoculate sufficient insects to carry out a
germ war, even if a germ war of this
type should be possible, and all evidence
pointed to the fact that it was not
possible.”— Clem Lack (Q.).
The C.E.S.
From “Dick Turpin’s” criticism of the
Commonwealth Employment Service (B.
21/5/’52) I suspect that he has had no
dealings with it.
In 1947 we went to West Australia,
and, although labor was supposed to be
scarce, we found it hard to get a job.
We tried in Perth, then went to Albany
and through Nornalup, Denmark and
Manjimup to Bunbury without success.
We weren’t choosy and we were willing
to have a go at anything, but the only
offer we got was a job as vine-pruners'
help in a couple of months’ time.
We went back to Perth and tried the
C.E.S. I was received courteously,
pertinent questions were asked about
previous positions and qualifications, and
then the officer made a phone-call and
got me an immediate interview. I got
the job.
That job hadn’t been advertised in the
Press, and, although the firm wanted more
men, they didn’t advertise during the six
months I was there.
Another point: Isn’t it easier for the
job-hunter to go to one central office that
has information on all the jobs going
than to tramp miles from one place
to another until he finds what he
wants?— Taswegian (Tas.).
Rates or Rents?
With values recently increased, rate-
notices sent out by many municipal
councils in N. S. Wales haVe risen to
unbelievable heights. As a result, owners’
outgoings are greater than would have
been paid as rent for cottages in pre-war
days.
Some of the greatest increases have
occurred in suburbs governed by Labor-
dominated councils where tenants far
exceed owners and the need for
economy is not appreciated as it is in
districts where property-owners them-
selves are in power.
The cry arises that “costs are con-
tinually rising,” but costs have not gone
so high as to warrant no reduction in the
rate where the rateable value has
soared to two and three times its level
of three years ago.
As an example, in the Bankstown
municipality, where Labor and Labor's
friends run the show, South Ward values
went sky-high in 1950 with negligible
compensation in rate-adjustment. Other
wards experienced a similar increase in
1951. Local Bumbles are mainly con-
cerned with battling for a trotting-licence
and a community-pub. What work is
done in the district is notably carried out
in the close vicinity of the shop-
ping area, and there is little evidence
of any attempt to regulate costs of run-
ning the municipality.
Other municipalities are treating
ratepayers in much the same manner —
little attempt at economy is made and
property-owners have to like it or lump
it. Since recent sales have established
the basis of the high valuation, ratepayers
can only look to their local aldermen to
protect them against high outgoings—
unless steps are taken by the State Gov-
ernment to put local-government finances
on some other basis. In view of the fact
that the majority of the services which are
paid for out of rates are enjoyed by the
community at large, there is good ground
for seeking such a change. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 177
Across.
I—So cry like the cat millinery to
an unspecified degree. (8)
s—Sing-Sing, Sing-Sing, what is sung
by a nightingale. (3-3)
9—Month with an illustrious age
of Roman literature. (8)
11—Sayings show that publicity grows
old. (6) ™ ii
13— Very poor Myrna swallows us. (5)
14— Break down the stability of you
going to North Dakota with fur.
(9)
15 — Fastest street named after
Japanese pastrycookery. (8)
17 —Tournament is just about love.
20—Speed back for these profound
places. (5)
22 —Orange is a navel with alterations
and 101 with a Mediterranean
port. (8)
26 — Is to get better about it, and pro-
duce extemporary music. (9)
27 — Achievement by a vendor with
1000 in a town of U.S.A. (5)
28— Melbourne suburb went wrong in
reverse. (6)
29 Pertaining to building what gives
pep to Sherlock Holmes? (8)
30— Mother and an ex-convict with a
Spanish wine. (6)
31— Comforts where organists play
to study the basis of footwear.
(8)
Down.
1— Bird to give top-billing to fish. (8)
2 A duffer character of Louise
Jordan Milne and a legislator
who is a smug independent? (7)
3 State agent of an enemy re-
sembling a stinging flier. (5)
4 Heavyweight is not up. (3)
6 Rare. (9)
7 Gaol lubras, fool! (7)
8 — How would you asphyxiate a
woman slasher? (6)
10—A parrot-food throbbing. (6)
12 —Not even a duck prelate. (3)
16 —Little devil is straying, but getting
better. (9)
18 — Compete with yours truly in a
sprint cluster. (6)
19 — A bad actor taunts resting-places
for people like Drake. (8)
21 —Male pen (anagram). (7)
23 — Punctuation with the Spanish
officer. (7)
24 Diana had them, this badge of
royalty. (6)
25 —Seed whose expectations were
great? (3)
27 —Had a meal in a steamer that
satisfies. (5)
29—Muscular twitch. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 176


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
ERG
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
*S ;
; - ■- SSlijl
■23
mm-:
m
• 'I f
'
MM
1 •"• : • •, v
«s'i
i?-s
i§?SB
I||;h
38$
I
A
IJ wyi
f *!S
A ••:
ss#
■ -
w-i
.;,;, ,, :
mm
!&&&&&
Ss&
bii-'S - ; :.i !.••■••*.••
i'-,i 'y^tm
'feiw
iiill
Ml
rr.’i-
?:<!;
MH
iM
H; •' p
Sfc’&l •fe fe? s \Jjlr jstk
mm
- : y : :
1 •' - - , 1
' • v->-S > '• i ‘;
mm#
Mm
li
i;ii^
•Kii
IS
SI
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
JEquipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALD
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO. LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32*34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD*
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE,
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgooriie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA,
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO*
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone; MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
