

sdf
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
Will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
&J|t
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT fir SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 H, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, 6.P.0.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
SYDNEY STREET CHARACTERS
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3796
Wednesday, November 12, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BLICKLING HALL, CHILDHOOD HOME OF ANNE BOLEYN
BUCKLING HALL, one of the finest examples of Jacobean architecture
in Britain, stands in six hundred acres of parkland at Aylsham, on the
Cromer-Norwich road in Norfolk. This great mellow red brick building Is
famous not only for the magnificence of its architecture, but also for its
associations with Anne Boleyn, the ill-fated second wife of Henry VIII.
The manor of Blickling was originally held by King Harold, but after
the Battle of Hastings in 1066 William the Conqueror gave it to his chaplain,
Bishop Herfast. In later years it was held by various owners, the Bishops
of Norwich, the Dagworths, Erpinghams, and then by Sir Geoffrey Boleyn,
ex-Lord Mayor of London and great-grandfather of Anne Boleyn, and it
was there that she spent much of her early life.
Anne Boleyn first came to the notice of Heniy VIII when she was serving
as maid of honour to his sister, Mary. Her gaiety and wit soon gained her
favour and popularity at Court. She had ambition, and after refusing to be
the King’s mistress, she determined to be Queen —on January 2nd, 1533, she
and Henry were secretly married. In September of that year their daughter,
Princess Elizabeth, was born at Greenwich. Anne’s frivolity soon displeased
her royal husband, and three years later they were estranged. In May, 1536,
she was imprisoned in the Tower of London, tried for adultery and con-
demned to death. She was beheaded on the 19th May, and the next day
Henry married Jane Seymour.
It is said that on certain nights of the year the ghost of Anne Boleyn
visits the site of her early youth in a coach drawn by four black horses,
and that, like the baseless fabric of vision, the ghost vanishes as it reaches
the doors of Blickling Hall.
Although little now remains of the original manor at Blickling, Anne
Boleyn is still commemorated by an oak statue which stands in the great
Hall of the present building which was built between the years 1616 and 1628.
Among the treasures of Blickling are pictures by Gainsborough and a rich
tapestry given by the Empress Catherine of Russia to the second Earl of
Buckinghamshire. In 1940 Blickling Hall was presented by the owner to the
National Trust, and is now open to the public,


[Learn
rsTam
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
.-. CUT HERE AND MAIL—— —— *
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age......
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS;
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian. books, alto in bookish items of _general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/6.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publisfl
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
NEW “COAST TO COAST”
For its first appearance as a biennial
after high costs and insufficient sales had
forced the change from its previous
annual publication Coast to Coast has
been given a face-lift and (one hopes) a
perm, by William Constable —some illus-
trations to the stories and a gay pink-
and-blue dust-jacket full of odd objects
inherited through American commercial
art from Picasso.
This reviewer prefers Constable’s stage-
designs to his work in other fields, and
would rather have seen link White at
work on Coast to Coast with his deeper
Australian feeling and robust and glitter-
ing black-and-white technique. Still, the
new format is bright and may help
Angus and Robertson to sell the book: a
consummation always devoutly to be
hoped, for Coast to Coast, an anthology
of our best short-stories, is one
of the places where Australia keeps
its soul alive ; and even a soul, to be
secure in this wicked world, should if
possible be self-supporting. Inside the
dust-jacket the volume is very pleasingly
bound in blue and white boards, with gilt
lettering; so that those who want to buy
it as a “gift book” for Christmas —instead
of reading it themselves; which really
would be preferable —will find it attrac-
tive.
The contents, selected by Ken Levis,
could have been considerably improved
by the dropping of half-a-dozen unimpor-
tant sketches in favor of very much
stronger and livelier work that has been
written during the period by John Foun-
tain, David Campbell, “Macnell,” Brian
James, Clive Barry and Ethel Anderson.
All anthologies are always criticised for
their omissions, but this is really a for-
midable array of talent to have left out.
However, there is a lot of entertaining
and often excellent writing included.
For a choice from the whole collection
this reviewer would take first “Standby’s”
“Salvage Saga”; the best story this
popular seafaring author has written. One
may, perhaps, be a little biased in favor
of “Salvage Saga” because, with its robust
and likeable young seamen leaping aboard
a disabled old ship to stoke and steer her
to Darwin against the drag of exhaustion
and the battering menace of storm, and
with its underlying Conradian ideal of
faithful and heroic service—not for some
political cause, not even for money, but
for the integrity of man —it is a story of
action and adventure. It certainly is very
much more attractive, because of this
essential manliness, than, for example,
Alan Marshall’s “Out of the Way, Mug,”
a sketch about a small girl being pushed
off a see-saw, written around the alleged
behavior of white-men towards Asiatics
in Hong Kong and Burma, which, when
you compare it with some of Marshall’s
much livelier small-girl studies of previous
years, shows once again how inevitably
the surrender to political propaganda will
destroy art.
One has no apologies to make for
preferring to read about adventure on
the high seas rather than toddlers on
see-saws, and an affirmation of the heroic
spirit of Australian seamen rather than
political propaganda about the sad fate of
rickshaw coolies (with whom, in any case,
one doubts if Marshall has any really deep
acquaintance); but it is not altogether
a bias towards the story of adventure
that draws one to “Salvage Saga.” Olaf
Ruben’s “The Dark of the Moon,”
another story of the frontier with a set-
ting in New Guinea, is not essentially
more interesting than Margaret Trist’s
delightful sketch of “The Bridesmaids,”
which is again about small girls and
which, as it happens, One likes next in
the volume after “Standby’s” story.
Ultimately it is not a matter of setting
but of artistry. Olaf Ruhen’s story is
very good of its kind, resting on curious
information about black-magic rather
than on character ; Margaret Trist, whose
small girls are alive with humor and
spirit, goes further into character,- the
study of which is of course the basis for
all fine art in the short-story. “Standby”
goes further still because his spirited and
completely convincing characters are in-
volved in a long and dramatic action
worked-out fully to its natural and
triumphant conclusion.
Both Margaret Trist’s and “Standby's”
stories, in addition to their authenticity
of characterisation and narrative artistry,
have a quality of intensity—the one of
delight, the other of drama. And it is
probably this same quality, rather than
the accident of frontier setting, which
attracts one to Roland Robinson’s
“Clara,” about an aboriginal girl in the
outback who has a casual love-affair with
a white man, in contrast to Vance
Palmer’s “Greta,” which won the recent
Jubilee competition and which is about a
middle-aged man revisiting a woman he
has once been in love with, in a more
civilised country setting. Vance Palmer’s
story has all his characteristic craftsman-
ship and the quiet maturity that, in
Matthew Arnold’s phrase, “sees life
steadily and sees it whole” ; but there is
much to be said for Roland Robinson’s
lovely moment of unsteadiness:
He remembered how some visitors had
given the lubras east-ofl clothing. Clara
got an old colored print dress. She would
wear it to work in, to lie down in, in the
shade at the back of the kitchen, with the
dogs and the cats. The dress was soon
dirty and falling apart, but she took
Murray’s breath away to watch her walk-
ing, moving about in that torn flame of a
dress, with that savage, careless dignity of
hers, with her thin face with high cheek-
bones under the wild cloud of her hair.
D’Arcy Niland’s “Dadda Jumped Over
Two Elephants,” which took second-prize
in the Jubilee competition, adds to the
interest of the anthology, but is one of
the failures: it bounces along, with some
vigor, through a climate of sentimentality
and unreality to an exceedingly senti-
mental conclusion. It is offset by some
admirable stories —all containing in one
way or another the elements of character,
rounded narration and intensity which
this review has discussed—by Gloria
Rawlinson, Don Edwards, Judah Waten,
Carl Shannon and Bernard Harris.
Pin-wrigglers
Elizabeth Bowen’s Joining Charles
(Cape) is a collection of short-stories
first published in 1929 and now reprinted.
When it was written Miss Bowen had
only learned to manage convincingly one
agonised character at a time. Her more
recent novels and stories show that her
probing fingers have become as adroit
as a puppeteer’s.
In a sense, with these stories, she seems
to have arrived at the point at which
Katherine Mansfield left off: the title
story, “Joining Charles,” would not be
out of place in a Mansfield collection,
while “Bliss,” for instance, might very
well fit in here.
Elizabeth Bowen belongs to What
might be termed the “pin-wriggling”
school of writers. There are two main
kinds of “pin-wrigglers.” Some, like
Graham Greene or Nigel Balchin, impale
a character, carefully insert him into a
situation, an environment; and then allow
the microscope to take over as a means
of observing: the victim’s reactions from
beginning to end of the experiment.
Others, like Katherine Mansfield and
Elizabeth Bowen, look through their
microscope first. Having perceived some
flaw, some disorder, a flurry among the
organisms enlarged by the lens, in goes
the pin and out comes a character for
closer study. These writers may, in the
interests of science, find it necessary to
remove (very delicately, of course), the
victim’s wings and sundry other portions
of its corporate being. However, literary
anatomising can be very amusing at the
time, although it tends to leave readers
with a vaguely distressed feeling.
This is not to imply that the mechanics
of Miss Bowen’s method are as minutely
obvious to the beholder as a well-lit
laboratory experiment would be. All
these stories are exciting, often witty, in-
variably sophisticated. They depend on
the author’s “moment of vision,” and,
through the beauties and subtleties of her
confident prose, that vision becomes the
reader’s own. There is no escape: and
not a change of light, movement of the
hands, or piece of furniture that you can
avoid noticing, as for instance, in this
description of a French hotel garden:—•
Now and then lizards flickered over the
tiles at their feet. Just beyond, shadow
came to an end with an edge like metal;,
There was a glare of gravel, palm-trees
leaned languid together, creeper poured
flaming over a wall, and, a row of young
orange-trees in bright glazed vases swag-
gered along a balustrade. Balanced in the
hot stillness, the green glass balls on the
wall-top snatched one’s attention with their
look of precariousness. At the garden’s
end, impermanent yellow buildings, fit to
go down at a puff; intense and feverish,
like a memory of Van Gogh’s. A long
cat, slipping from vase to vase, fawned on
its reflection in an unnatural ecstasy.
Dillie looked at all this, sideways. ‘ You
do like this?” said Edward, anxious.
“If only it weren’t so hot; I hat® being
hot after lunch. And the glare is so awful.
Everything one looks at has—has an echo.
These stories axe like that—-they echo,
too.
A Country Town
Peter Gladwin’s novel The Desert in
the Heart (Hamilton) makes a welcome
contrast to such evocations of the Aus-
tralian scene as Nevil Shute’s Far
Country : where Mr. Shute paints sur-
faces, Mr. Gladwin sculpts in the round ;
where Mr. Shute strings a number
of contemporary themes into a loose
story, Mr. Gladwin selects a number of
observed Australians from all over the
country, throws them into a country-town
of his own imagination, and allows them
to work out their destinies tightly and
completely as a good novel should.
While Mr. Shute is telling an afternoon-
tea party that people are all good-fellows
at heart, Mr. Gladwin is in the bar listen-
ing to stories of town-pedigrees,
jealousies, rivalries, scandal and frustra-
tion, while a beggar with a tin-whistle-
blows life’s immemorial and everlasting
challenge to social injustice.
Although the main theme of the book
is a mine-strike, the real desert of The
Desert in the Heart is not a political
desert, but a desert of cruelty ; the steady
accumulation of cruelties, added to the
careful selection of characters and the
tightness of the storytelling, produces that
singleness of effect which makes the tone
of a work of art: the core of feeling
round which the whole work is wound.
It begins when the town bad-lad sets
his greyhound on to the pet lamb the
boardinghouse-keeper’s boy is taking
home. Morgan, the miners’ organiser,
who knocks down the bad-lad, goes to
meet his girl in the shadows near the
churchyard. He is honest and virtuous—
and here the cruelty is indirect; he will
not marry her until his own good time,
and she is afraid to offer her sc if too
obviously for fear of shocking him—the
drawing of this strong, simple man is not
without malice. An envious church-elder
mentions the affair to. the girl’s father ;
he makes his usual resort to a razor-strop,
'but for the first time in her life me girl
rebels, runs out of the house and, Morgan,
being now imprison, throws herself at the
town bad-lad, who receives the gift with
none of the qualms of his enemy and
rival.
Morgan has gone to prison because an
inspector of police was thrown into the
river at a meeting Morgan was address-
ing ; Morgan had dived and pulled him
out, but this did not stop the inspector
charging him with having incited the
miners to throw him in. After the pro-
testing Morgan is convicted and sentenced,
Lambert, the town reporter, mentions to
Dr. Hemmingcr that he took a short-
hand note of Morgan’s speech to the
miners, and that Morgan had not said
what the police said he had said. The
doctor asks why he has not offered his
report as evidence, and Lambert explains
that it would be as much as his job with
Quint, the newspaper-proprietor and
mineowner, is worth. Besides, things
are not done that way.
Lambert is presented as a man destroy-
ing himself; a drunkard, and also the
sincere lover of the village’s new milliner*.
She is a car-salesman’s wife who ran
away because her husband •brought his
women to their flat. The affair of
journalist and milliner shocks the ladies
of the township, and, led by the imperious
Mrs. Quint, they resolve at a picnic not
to buy her hats. But Mrs. Quint’s son
offers the milliner two pounds for her
favors —an incident very deftly treated.
The novel reaches a climax with
Morgan’s enlargement from prison. The
miners organise to throw out strike-
breakers; the inspector of police shoots
Morgan dead, and at the trial Dr. Hem-
minger accuses the inspector of having
hated Morgan for saving him from
drowning, and of shooting him deliber-
ately. Meanwhile, the doctor has refused
to help Morgan’s girl, who is suffering
the after-effects of her surrender to the
bad-lad, and she jumps into the lions’
cage of a visiting circus. Here again the
handling is deft; the poor old lion is
frightened, the girl is carried out un-
hurt, but dies of shock the following
morning.
After all these fireworks, Lambert has
about “bad” the town ; he sets up an
issue of the paper with a libellous story
about its proprietor, Quint, and is about
to fly the coop with his milliner. But she
is determined to see whatever it is out
and,i if required, to prop the crusading
doctor against the remonstrances of his
wife :
It hardly needs the author’s foreword
to tell us that this is no particular Aus-
tralian country town: a good novel is
not an exact slice of life, but a set of
equivalents by which an author expresses
the emotion he brings to a scene, and the
emotion a scene arouses in him. Aus-
tralia has too few novels of this kind,
not “great” novels, not propaganda-novels,
not documentary novels, but real integra-
tions, works of art.
Reviewed Briefly
Science in Australia : published by F.
W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, for
the Australian National University, this
book of 192 pages is a record of the
proceedings of the Jubilee Seminar at
Canberra in July, 1951 ; sometimes direct
transcripts of the speeches and sometimes
reports of speeches—the opening address
by Dr, Clunies Ross, then other scientists
on physics, medicine, defence, the training
of the scientist, and a concluding dis-
cussion on scientific policy for Australia.
While it will be of some importance to
those concerned with the administration
of scientific policy—universities, students,
specialists and Government departments
—"it is of little interest to the general
public, reading like the reports issued
by the Government printer; in which
format, instead of in the expensive style
of a cloth-bound book on good-quality
paper, it should probably have been dis-
tributed—there are works of creative
literature much more urgently in need of
Government finance.
sit * * *
Shakspeare’s Histories at Stratford,
1951: J. Dover Wilson and T. C.
Worsley, foreword by Anthony Quayle
(Max Reinhardt, Ltd.), Survey of
“Richard II,” the two parts of “Henry
IV” and “Henry V” as they were pre-
sented at the Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre. Mr. Quayle’s recent and forth-
coming visits to Australia will, of course,
add to the popular interest in this admir-
able little book; but Professor Dover
Wilson is well-enough known to Shak-
speare students to need no recommenda-
tion; Mr. Worsley is the “New States-
man’s dramatic critic. Photographs of
sets and discussions of the problems of
production should make it invaluable to
little theatres; while Professor Dover
Wilson contributes an essay on the his-
torical background.
$ « * ' *
“L.E.J.,” a former banker, has collected
his contributions to “The New States-
man,” which made his initials famous-
light-verse, parodies in verse and prose,
entries for literary competitions, etc. A
La Carte : L E. Jones (Seeker and
Warburg). The pieces all suffer from a
complaint he diagnosed himself:
If epitaph there be, let this suffice:
“He had no axe to grind, so cut no ice.”
So a lot of the parodies —on Dr.
Johnson, Marvell, Kipling, Agate (he has
left hardly anyone alone) —lack the edge
of satire which cuts a niche for parody,
and with Beerbohm’s parody amounts to
a critical revaluation. But there is .wit,
as in the clerihew on the “Sunday Times”
music critic Ernest Newman’s endless
serial articles:
Mr. Ernest Newman
Said “Next week, Schumann.”
But when next week came
It was Wagner just the same.
* * * *
Swansong : Timothy Pember (Cape).
A young English professor on the eve
of his appointment to a Californian
university is thrown by his land-
lady into the county jail for sixty
days on a mistaken charge of in-
decent exposure; his best friend, who
covets the professorship, makes a more
or less deliberate hash of defending him
before the board of university trustees;
the best friend’s wife visits the victim in
jail, and on the victim’s enlargement
leaves her husband and goes to live, with
her baby, in the wretched shack on the
wrong side of town where the penniless
ex-professor is holding-out. Perhaps
a great humorist could have made
all this funny, but in Mr. Pember’s
novel it has less the feeling of a comic
plot than of an evil conspiracy against
the young ex-professor, although the
scenes and characters are very well
handled.


•> V
. A-
A
.
m
mKm I '•!
■
;' : ::
> ■;
■
<v ? . -
£
sm &
.
'■ ■:?: ' -. . ’
_ '■
■
• >•■;■ ■■•
1111
■
i->s?
. 4:;
■
m
mm
m
..
i
B
m
H
' '
'•••.
i
m
m
W.
m
mss
: m
B
i
s***
r |#
;
i
■
m
mmm
mm
1
#f
m
-gm.#
*
: 5
■
;:::
"•-i
a
* ■ ?
■
*
sm
M
%
1
i
I®
B?
-
m
i.' :;
1
■P
H
Famous gunsmiths for over 300 years • • •
“RAICK-FRERE”... SHOTGUNS
are now available at Anthony Horderns 9
Hand engraved 12 gauge hammerless shotgun. It has cross bolt action side clip, 30" blued steel barrels and Is. nitre proved.
Full choke in left barrel, right barrel hafs modified choke. The gun is chambered for 2|" cartridges. Priced at £65/10/-.
M, %w&,
J&OM.
m
m
12 gauge Raick-Frere double
barrel hammer gun, 30" barrels,
cross bolt nitro proved. £5O.
410 gauge Webley and Scott
single barrel shot gun.£l 5/1 7/6
Bolt Action.
12 gauge Webley and Scott
single barrel, semi hammerless
ejector gun. Top lever action.
30" barrel, nitro proved, cham-
bered for 2| shells. At £3l
410 gauge D.B. Richard Burton
Leige shotgun. barrels,
with side lever and folding
action. Priced at £2B
'd
-
. -
Famous Sako Rifle
a high-grade mauser type action
A high-grade mauser type action, with barrel, length
overall 43|", walnut chequered stock, with scope mount
base on barrel, stream line finish weight lbs., in the
following calibres: .22 Hornet > £57/6/-
Sako Cartridge Hornet £5/10/- per 100; 25/20, £5/15/-.
BSSltewJH
Hit'HlrJivMuiib. - ■'* *ma&
GUNS AND AMMUNITION LOWER GROUND FLOOR 'PHONE M 2401 BOX 2712 0. G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT EXTRA
*


Gallery of Oddities
SYDNEY STREET
CHARACTERS
By JAMES R. TYRRELL
• In this abridgment of section of a
chapter of his just-published reminiscences,
“Old Books, Old Friends, Old Sydney”
(Angus and Robertson), the doyen of Aus-
tralian booksellers portrays some of the
quainter specimens of the mostly vanished
race of Sydney street characters.
MY roving old artist friend H. Mc-
Intosh, who passed on in his 80’s
a year or two back, and who had
set eyes on pretty well all of them,
did for me a fine series of watercolor
depictions of the more notable of
Sydney’s street characters. [They are
illustrations in the book.]
The “Two O’Neills” do not belong to
the street-character gallery proper, except
in the sense that anyone of the rest of
us may have our qualifications for a place
there. Still, they were unusual. They
were two perfectly round gentlemen who
perambulated the streets, always together,
collecting for charity. Top-hatted, brolly
ever one arm, short frock-coated, each
like a substantial rotund shadow of the
other, they kept exactly in step and
might well have been twins.
Actually, the Two O’Neills were solid,
reputable citizens, who went about
earnestly intent on doing good for others.
This somewhat disqualifies them from the
class of authentic street characters. How-
ever, they were unusual enough to help
make up the picturesqueness of the
Sydney of their day.
One with rather more of the genuine
street-character qualifications was known
only as Mr. Spence. He, however,
differed from the authentic, too, in one
important particular. The really
authentic were street characters by pro-
fession, or most of them were. Mr.
Spence was a street character by design,
but with a purely amateur status. He
was a warehouseman, and so was well
able to afford and indulge his particular
passion—that raised to a high art by
Beau Brummell.
Mr. Spence dressed in a style only
describable as exquisite ; especially so be-
cause there was not a great deal of him.
His usual outfit included shiny top-hat,
large bow-tie, tailed black coat, low-cut
black vest, striped morning trousers. But
even all this was merely secondary to,
and as it were a background for, what
he quite evidently and justifiably regarded
as his masterstroke in sartorial effect:
the lovely expanse of frilled shirt which
both coat and vest seemed specially
designed to show off at its best. Add
to this total effect that Mr. Spence, like
Agar, walked delicately, indeed minced
along, and he would seem reasonably
well qualified for the street-characters
gallery—of course, in an amateur capa-
city.
Of the more authentic and, so to speak,
professional kind of street characters, the
seedily overcoated Abby Dabby might
be set up in contrast to Mr. Spence’s
exquisite elegance. Abby Dabby had a
regular stand ,outside the Bank of New
South Wales in George-street, and, just
before wooden matches came into general
use, he purveyed the wax variety. Abby
had an almost perpendicular mouth,
which may have been why his tongue
could not get his wares right, so that he
spent his days standing there on the
pavement chanting “Max watches, penny
a box. Max watches”
An even more complete contrast to
any sort of elegance was the indubitably
authentic street-character gallery-piece
known as Paddy the Ram. Said to have
earned his title in fair fight—by butting
a sailor in a brawl down by the Quay,
with serious damage to the seaman but
not so much as a headache for Paddy—
the once-pugnacious Paddy settled down
to steady occupation over his last years,
purveying round the cab-ranks the squat
candles used in the cabbies’ lamps.
Almost blind, making his way from cab
to cab with the aid of a long and formid-
able-looking staff, he peddled the candles
in a tin box, tfiung round his neck in
front.
Sartorially, Paddy followed a simple
principle: he wore what he had —all of
it; the entire wardrobe. It included a
large oilskin sou’-wester far headgear
(perhaps a trophy of his encounter with
the sailor), at least two coats, several
shirts and, as the gaps in them revealed,
not less than three pairs of trousers, with
seaboots to complete the effect. As a
regretful note, the cabbies, a pretty tough
crew, were not above helping themselves
from Paddy’s tin box. Even so, it was
they who stuck to him at the end.
One who might be said to have been a
street character neither by profession nor
by amateur choice, but simply by the
accident of a specially lively temper,
was a conspicuous figure in any case:
large, floppy black hat, long yellow silk
dust-coat, and letter-satchel strapped over
one shoulder under his arm. Tufts of grey
side-whiskers, more tufts sprouting from
his ears, and the stout walking-stick he
always carried help to complete the
picture of him ; one of the vanished race
of old-time Government messengers.
The one thing he could not abide was
to be called “Old Dad,” and, of course,
he was unchristianly goaded with it, not
only by the urchins down in the historic
Rocks quarter where he lived, but by
others quite old enough to have known
better. It made him absolutely furious.
In Market-street [where Angus and
Robertson started], it would, as often as
not, be the cabby stationed across near
the opposite corner who would let out
the cry of “Old Dad!” Fairly leaping
out into the street, Old Dad would spin
in circles looking for a clue to the call.
The cabby would be busy plaiting his
horse’s tail, or, hands in pockets, would
be admiring the wide blue sky. Old
Dad’s suspicions might fall on a perfectly
innocent passer-by. Down would go
stick and even satchel of Government
. letters, while the furious messenger groped
about the street for the stone or stones
which then were not so hard to find. For-
tunately (or unfortunately, according to
who stopped the stone), Old Dad was
no Goliath-killer. The direction of the
missile was never predictable. He- was
known to pick up a whole handful of
stones and stop most of the shower of
them with his own bared head.
No doubt retribution in that form
should have overtaken the cabby, but
Old Dad never managed to get him with
a stone, as far as I know. It is, however,
recorded that he once threw a stone at
a boy and hit Sir Henry Parkes,
Plain clad, with invariable bowler-hat,
Blind Billy Huntingdon used to sit on a
box at what was the Waterloo Stores
and is now known to Sydneysiders as
Gowing’s corner (Market- and George-
streets). There he bent a listening left
ear close to his music, while he regaled
passing Sydney, and perhaps to him the
whole wide world as well, with the rol-
licking words of a ditty in most ironical
contrast to his own stricken state. With
a jolly swing and a humorous tone. Blind
Billy Huntingdon sang his “Ten Thousand
Miles Away”:
Then blow ye winds, high oh! A-roving
I will go.
I’ll stay no more on Englan’s shore, so let
the music play high-ay,
For I’m off by the morning train acrost
the raging main,
For I’m on the lay fur me own true love,
ten thousand miles away
That was Blind Billy Huntingdon . , .
with a laugh on his face, and a great
laugh in his voice.
All in all, I should say Blind Billy
Huntingdon enjoyed his role of street
character, and the same would certainly
apply to the only lady in the Mclntosh
gallery, and a rare lady at that.
Old Mother Fivebob, as she was per-
haps a little unchivalrously known, had
her headquarters up by St. Mary’s
Cathedral, near the Domain gates. The
street urchins used to bait her with the
name, and evidently it depended on her
particular mood that day whether she
stood and returned them as good as they
gave (or worse), or whether she left her
fruit-stall unprotected and raced with
dervish leaps after them —precisely what
they wanted for making a raid on the
fruit.
Mother Fivebob used to pass the
Market-street shop daily on her way to
the fruit-and-vegetable market not far
off in George-street. She carried a box
on her head, and carried it back balanced
there filled with her purchases.
In a note accompanying his sketch of
her, Mclntosh wrote to me: “I was
fortunate enough to run into her on St.
Patrick’s Day, and everything she had on
/ her was green, including stockings and
boots.” For .the great Day she would
always thus do herself up, with a green
brolly over her green hat, with green
feathers, whether it was wet or fine, taking
her conspicuous place near the forefront
of the procession which paraded the
streets before going off for the big festivi-
ties down by Botany Bay.
The young scamps who baited Old
Mother Fivebob into some furious chas-
ings, and a great loss of fruit, took no
such risks with one who figures in
STORIES
“Pity Requited”
By “Macnell”
A Naval frigate, a reef, an oil-tanker,
a tow and an astonishing disaster,
told with all the force of Australia’s
Number One Naval-writer.
In next week’s Bulletin story batch.
Sydney (and artist Mclntosh’s) gallery of
street characters under no other known
name but the singular sobriquet of
Pockets. Generally, he was never known
to take his hands out of them. Even
S o, he could easily outrun the fastest
young ragamuffin who hurled an epithetic
“Pockets !” at him. He was another of
the bowler-hatted: a gaunt, cadaverous.
long-faced, sharp-eyed oddment of
human kind, who had apparently worn
for ever the same long-tailed button-up
coat, tight trousers reaching only halt-
way down his spindly shanks, and elastic-
side boots, without such flippancies as
socks. He mooched endlessly around
Sydney, keeping a perpetual lookout for
goodness knows what....
Whatever a more “advanced out-
look may be, the vanished race of them
is a definite part of the life of past
Sydney, like the steam trams, the horse
buses, the paddlewheel ferries and the
sailing masts—to say nothing of quite a
lot of eminent and notable citizens who
had their little eccentricities, too. Per-
haps all of them—not overlooking the
remembered eminent—may have been a
little peculiar, in the meaningful sense o
the word. But then, as the Rev. Emes
Lynton so happily at the end o
the play, “Aren’t we all?”
Puttying for Pleasure
WHEN during heavy rain your
wife points out a pool of-
water lying on the inside
window-sill you may at first
suspect the cat, or that borers have
eaten through the brickwork and
allowed the rain access.
These theories may easily be dis-
pelled by going outside and looking
at the putty surrounding the
windows. This you will find all
cracked, and perhaps whole sections
missing. You will then recall the last
time you painted the house and got
fed-up with the wife coming out
every few minutes and pointing out
that you were getting paint over the
window and not to forget to take it
off with a kero, rag before it dries,
and you had said (to yourself):
“Damn the bits around the window—
they’ll do till next time.”
Well, this is Nemesis—recognise
him?
There is no need to go rashly
throwing your money away on buy-
ing new putty. Look under the work-
bench in the garage and you’ll find
the carton you bought a year or two
J
® ..... ... _ , .
Prise the lid off. You will find that
the putty has taken on the consistency
of the fiist steam-pudding your wife
tried on from the honey-
moon. Don t let this discourage you,
however. A few minutes with the
hammer should reduce it to part-
pulverisation.
Now take some raw neatsfoot-oil
—no, that’s for cricket-bats raw
linseed- oil and “work” it into the
putty. This is best done by treading
it in with the bare feet like the Arabs
do in packing dates ; it will also
afford excellent practice for harden-
ing your soles in case you may at
s °me time get the urge to adopt fire-
walking as a profession.
After about an hour of this the
hard “skin” of the putty should have
become almost malleable enough for
you to be able to press a dent into
it without fracturing your thumb,
The kneading of it may be turned
from dull routine work into real
pleasure by doing it rhythmically in,
say, three-four time while whistling
a Strauss waltz. After it has been
thoroughly worked the putty may be
rolled out flat with the rolling-pin.
Now measure the window length
and slice off a strip of the putty, fit-
ting it into position by tapping it
gently with your double-faced
hammer until it has a good grip.
Delightful effects—such a welcome
change from the monotonous flat-
tened effect which unimaginative pro-
fessional glaziers have used for too
long—may be obtained by crimping
the putty the same as the edges
around a pie with either a fork or
your top set of dentures,
To test the watertightness of your
work hose it heavily, but not till at
least half an hour after you have
finished the puttying. Should any
leaks appear they may be plugged
effectively with chewing-gum. If at
any time thereafter a whole section
of the putty should unaccountably
fall out, it will be a simple matter to
daub the sides that came away from
the wood and the glass with office-
gum and push it back into place,
making doubly sure of its security
by fastening it in at least two places
with clear plastic sticking-tape.
Burning-off old paintwork can be
made quite an exciting outdoor sport
by filling the blowlamp right to the
top with 100-octane petrol instead of
kerosene and pumping like mad till
the nozzle gets white-hot and the
roar from the lamp is like that of a
Consteffation-s engines warming-up
Nothing is more exhilarating to
the amateur handyman than the
realisation that perhaps after one
mo lf P um P he « be left standing with
no hair or eyebrows, wearing halt a
charred sock and a piece of blackened
s j n gi e t an( j holding only the handle
of what USK , t 0 be (l / e Mowlarap .
g ucb a hazard adds true zest to this
fascinating sport, and may be favor-
aW compared with Russia n
rou i e p e
The ma y g rea py S peeded-up
by using two paint-scrapers, one in
eac h hand. This will necessitate
securing the blowlamp to your chest
w hp a strong elastic band, with the
nozzle, of course, pointing outwards.
The possession of a delicate sense
G f sme p j s essential for the burner -
offer to distinguish between burning
p a j n t anc j burning wood. If you
happen to be “smell-blind” and
unable to tell week-old cabbage-water
from eau-de-Cologne, you had best
rely on a small tack-hammer. With
this tap your way along the timber
you have just been burning-off. If
the hammer goes through you may
assume you have left the blow-lamp
on slightly too long.
Where to put the blowlamp while
not actually in use is another thing
that can make for enjoyable and con-
structive thinking. Obviously you
can’t put it with the flame turned in
to the work that you are on. Should
you turn the flame outwards you
will probably walk into it, There
are only two other ways that may
be deemed safe: put the lamp on its
back with the flame spurting straight
up into the air or face it the other
way with the nozzle into the ground.
It rests with you whether you will
adopt the scorched-earth policy.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 12, 1952
Vol. 73 — No. 3796
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior - P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney', Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT
Interpreters of American public opinion took a
drubbing no less than did the Democrat candidate for
the Presidency. There was no indication in any of
the forecasts of a landslide for General Eisenhower.
The American electorate “liked Ike” by a handsome
majority even in Mr. Stevenson’s home State of
Illinois and Mr. Truman’s Missouri. The Labor vote
was supposed to be a cinch for Stevenson. It was
evidently nothing of the sort.
The new voters, the youth of the country, proved
to be an enigma to the forecasters. Prospects ofl
conscription for military service was held likely to
frighten them away from voting for Eisenhower. It
seems not to have done. In a greatly increased
electorate there was a preponderance of some 2,000,000
women over men, and it-was believed —rightly, as it
seems—that the housewives would vote Republican
against rising prices, and because they believed
Eisenhower was the man who could keep the nation,
and the world, out of war if anybody could.
But, above everything else, the victory was won
by General Eisenhower personally. In the very first
canvassing of his name last year he could have had the
Democrat nomination if he had responded to advances
from President Truman. The memory of that in the
minds of the American people, especially the immense
body of non-partisan electors, must have outweighed
everything Mr. Truman said later in the campaign
against him. In American politics the general was a
cleanskin. He had no past to live down; he knew
so little of electioneering that some of his supporters
overtly wondered whether his political innocence would
not defeat him ; he had never in his life before (“being
a soldier,” he said) even cast a vote for anybody. He
conducted his campaign mainly in his own fashion
as an American patriot, and enforced departures from
that line into some of the purely partisan stuff that
the Republican organisation required showed him
in no happy light. He cannot have enjoyed attacking
an Administration he had loyally served in Europe,
or, as a soldier, the President who is also Commander-
in-Chief in the United States. Nor, for that matter,
could Mr. Truman and his colleagues have wished to
prolong the business of decrying General Eisenhower,
the foremost American citizen of his day even before
the polling.
What influence, however, the President-elect
supposes he can assert on the Korean stalemate by
visiting that theatre remains inscrutable. That he
feels himself committed to go and see and say is
obvious.
Till this Presidential campaign began Eisenhower
was probably better known in Europe than to his
fellow-countrymen. For a brief period after the
victory of the Allies under his command had been
consummated on German soil he had been feted in
the eastern United States. Then he had returned to
Europe to prepare the defences of the Atlantic Treaty
Powers against the threats of overwhelming Russian
military strength. He has done as much as anyone to
counter that; his efforts brought the defences of the
Western Union into being and nourished the new
international army to its present strength : «and the
secret of success there was the same as was noted of
his command of the Allied counter-offensive in 1943-45
—that he could “get on with people” and draw them
together for his purpose. The American public have
just responded to that same quality in Eisenhower,
after becoming acquainted with it, perhaps, for the
first time. To this end the use of television in these
elections helped enormously.
Ex-Governor Stevenson of Illinois was a strong
candidate in the Democrat lists, his personality
commended itself far beyond his own State, and there
was no reason to doubt that the conduct of American
post-war international policy would have been safe
in his hands. But he could not command the national
or the international appeal of Eisenhower. A strange
feature of this election was that both the rival candi-
dates had to be “drafted to run” by their respective
parties. General Eisenhower resigned with reluctance
his military command of the Western Union defence
forces, and Mr. Stevenson resisted to the last moment
appeals to run for President by nomination from the
Democrat Convention rather than for Governor of
his own State.
It is in no disparagement of Mr. Stevenson that
in Britain and Western Europe General Eisenhower’s
THE NEW ATLAS
election will be greeted mostly with Enthusiasm,
That it was achieved by an emphatic majority
of the American people will enhance its reception
and its effects. Away from the matter of
defence, there will no doubt be some concern in the
sterling area as to what influence a Republican
President will have on questions of international trade,
Australia is particularly concerned about U.S. tariff
policy in regard to wool.
Successful Defence Planning
Something which the Menzies Government can claim
to have made into a success is defence. Not all has
been achieved that needs doing, but an impressive
amount has been done with the time and resources
available
... 5
The paucity of Opposition criticism, and the
mildness of the criticism when it comes, is evidence
enough of this. Of administration and even of equip-
ment, of the principle of national training, Dr. Evatt
and his followers have very little to say. Indeed.
some of them have the air of men about to commit
political burglary and take credit for it all to
themselves.
Of the three services, the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.
have furthest to go to reach a fully satisfactory posi-
tion. But their troubles are mainly in the equipment
field, which presents problems which cannot be solved
in a day. However, their nucleus is sound and
substantial. They are keeping their prototype
organisations well up'-to-date.
It is a matter for satisfaction that the defence
forces are no longer Cinderella services, the last to be
adequately paid and the first to be retrenched (as they
were in a disgraceful manner during the depression
of 1929-33). The reconstruction of Naval ships, the
modernisation of facilities such as Cockatoo Dock
(which is as up-to-date as any organisation of its kind
in the world), the provision for building engines of
front-line standard for aircraft by Rolls-Royce and
others, give the forces an initiative and self-reliance
which seem revolutionary when compared with the
conditions which prevailed in 1939.
The Army is in a unique position. Unlike the
other services, it has had more than a face-lift. Plastic
surgery has dug right down to its roots and recon-
structed it. It is fortunate in having had sufficient
numbers of young, keen officers war-wise from recent
experience and with reputations and ribbons to show
their pupils to carry out the reconstruction. Again,
of course, the experience of Korea has helped con-
siderably, and the department in charge of Mr. Francis
has been able to make its adjustments with a pilot-
plant battle-battalion providing the blueprints of
modern needs and immediate experience for both
officers and men.
The core round which the new training scheme is
built is a sufficient Regular Army, with actual regular
infantry and other units enlisted for service anywhere,
and on the same plane units in other armies of
world status. The institution of the Royal Australian
Regiment, recently affiliated to the Brigade of Guards,
was a long step forward.
The National Training Scheme has been a great
success. A batch of trainees which has finished its
three-months course is due to go out within the next
few days. According to custom, they are inspected at
parades by the Minister and district GO.Cs before
they leave to enter their three-year reserve training
period.
It is almost impossible to believe that they are
the young rookies who came into the camps 12 weeks
before. Universally they are increased in height—the
average runs somewhere about threequarters of an
inch —in chest-measurement and in weight. Their
surroundings are such as to make the service popular.
Camps like Hols worthy have been made eminent! v
livable for young men, and, with the exception of
the few misfits that are inevitable in battalions
recruited from King’s Cross to back-of-Bourke, they
seem within a few days to develop a public-school
spirit of which the fruits are obvious in the voluntary
improvements to camp gardens and in the amenities
section —bands, theatrical performances and other
activities. Commands now, indeed, proceed in a public-
school rather than in the old compulsory spirit, and
seek to attain discipline by co-operation rather than
by force.
The results are amazing. It is safe to say that few
armies out of war-time have ever produced such smart
and competent young soldiers —basically trained only,
of course —in three months as these, or so impressive
in physique and health.
In the early days of the defence movement, when
Federation was young, the military authorities toyed
with the idea of introducing the Swiss system of
universal compulsory training. In Switzerland every
young citizen gets his rifle and his vote together. Under
modern conditions the cost of equipment apart from
industrial demands for labor —and maintenance makes
this impossible ; but seeing what camp does to trainees
under the new methods it seems a great pity.
Australia, however, should feel satisfied that it is
on the way to having a well-planned military organisa-
tion which will soon represent 100,000 men, and
which every few months turns out a sizeable batch of
basically-trained youngsters. The ultimate test, of
course, has yet to come. It depends largely on
whether national trainees can be induced voluntarily
to continue in the service at the end of their three
years, when they should have begun to provide the
C.M.F. with officers and N.C.O.s. To date, however,
the whole plan is working out well.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bank Act Amendment
When Federal Parliament meets next
February it is proposed by Mr. Menzies
that the Banking Act, 1945, should be
amended to separate the General Bank-
ing Division of the Commonwealth Bank
from the central bank (but leaving the
Rural Credits Department, the Mortgage
Bank and the Industrial Credits Depart-
ment with the central bank), to make
Ihe General Banking Division a separate
entity, under its own general-manager,
but “otherwise retaining community of
staff” with other elements of the bank,
and the g.-m. to be under the authority of
the governor and board of the central
bank.
The liability to lodgment of special
deposits with the central bank by
the trading banks (they have been
up to over £5OO million) will be
limited to the October 7 figure
(£lB2 million), plus 75 p.c. of any increase
in the trading banks’ deposits, provided
that the total levy may not exceed 10 p.c.
of a bank’s total deposits. Obligations
similar to these will rest upon the General
Banking Division of the Commonwealth
Bank.
Other requirements by the central bank
have been modified in favor of the trad-
ing banks. The latter have their principal
grounds for complaint in that the central
bank and the Commonwealth Bank
trading section will remain virtually
under the same control as has existed
up to now.
The indissoluble problem will always
remain that, while the Commonwealth
Government runs a central bank and
trading bank, each must ultimately be
answerable to the Government of the
day, and each perhaps to the Treasurer.
But is it not possible to put each under
a separate board, those boards to be
removable only by a resolution of both
Houses of Federal Parliament? To pro-
test that doing so might upset the pleasant
harmony of present Commonwealth
Bank staff arrangements is not enough.
It would be quite wrong for public policy
to be shaped in any way upon the assump-
tion that Commonwealth Bank employees
represent a protected industry. x
Only the Deep South
Whatever General Eisenhower’s record
in office may be, he will always be able
to claim that he has won a Presidential
election more decisively than any other
holder of the office. His winning 39 out
of the 48 States by a majority equal to
about 25 per cent, of his opponent’s total
vote is only part of the story.
The isolationist Middle West is the
stronghold of the Republicans. It em-
braces 11 States, which have 140 elec-
toral votes for the Presidency. Eisen-
hower won them all.
The main Democrat strongholds are
in the 16 States of the true South, which
divide 176 votes between them. These
are the States which have basically kept
the Democrats in office. Whoever suc-
ceeds in winning them all has only 90
more votes to get in the remaining 32
States to win.
In 1948 there was a split in
the Democratic ranks, and four of
these States went to “Dixiecrats,” who
were in some ways more democratic than
the Democrats, and the Republicans
enjoyed the minor triumph of winning
the small industrialised Maryland,
adjacent to Washington (D.C.), which
has nine electoral votes. This time the
Republicans won Florida, Maryland,
Missouri —Mr. Truman’s own State —
Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas (which has
24 votes) and Virginia. The South was
the only region in which Mr. Adlai
Stevenson won any States at all —the rest
of the country voted solidly Republican.
Of the 10 eastern States 1 , Massachusetts
and Rhode Island, which were thought to
be safely Democrat, and the three great
doubtfuls—New York, Connecticut and
Pennsylvania, which control 85 votes, be-
tween them —went Republican, making
the North Atlantic region solid for
Eisenhower.
The Pacific region, which, as the result
of the 1950 census, has eight more elec-
toral votes than at the 1948 election,
gave its total of 79 to Eisenhower,
including California (32 votes), which had
been looked on as one of the two States
likely to decide the issue.
Only for the Deep South States,
which are controlled by the negro vote
—in Mississippi almost 50 per cent, of the
population is negro—Mr. Stevenson
would not have polled a single State
vote. The whole country otherwise went
Republican, or, rather, Eisenhower; for
the Congress polling shows that the
Democrats are still very much a force
where they have powerful candidates and
local issues to fight on, A case in point
is that of Senator Lodge, of Massa-
chusetts, leader of the liberal wing of
the Republicans, whose defeat it was
generally agreed by the Republican
Press would be a disaster. Yet he was
defeated, though General Eisenhower
will probably name him as one of his
Cabinet.
Reaping the Whirlwind
The truth having become plain beyond
all argument that the N.S.W. State trans-
port services, rail and road, cannot under
existing conditions earn their costs, and
that reduction of services and of staffs
only reduces still further their ability to
function, the step announced by the
N.S.W. Railways Commissioner —that he
will move the Arbitration Court for
specific relief —was inevitable.
Reason given by Mr. Winsor is that
the railways cannot carry weekend penalty
rates, and these he will ask to be reduced.
The penalty-rates date from the Chifley-
McGirr “golden age” delusion of 1947,
which postulated that hard work, or even
a fair day’s work for a fair day’s wage,
was an anachronism. The workers were
not to be “crucified” (in Mr. Chifley’s
phrase) by being asked to work harder
than they wanted to. Penalty rates in
the State services were aggravated beyond
all reason by the 40-hour week. The
same Arbitration Court award of 1947
which abolished weekend shift-work
allowed the transport unions time-and-a-
half overtime, including any part of the
40 weekly hours done on Saturday, and
double-time for any part of the
same done on Sunday. Mr, Winsor is
also asking the court to cut out an obso-
lete “war-loading” of 3s. in State trans-
port wages.
The unions got an easy run on these
claims at the time by holding the strike
“weapon” at the Government’s head,
whereat the McGirr Government agreed
not to oppose the unions’ application to
the court. Incidentally, the chief execu-
tive of the A.L.P., which dictated the
Government’s every political decision,
was also the chief executive of the rail-
ways union.
The Cahills’ Road Transport Commis-
sioner takes the same view as Mr. Winsor.
Mr. Shoebridge says the weekend services
to the beaches are so hopelessly expensive
to run that the more people they carry
the greater the loss, and that “the reasons
for high costs are primarily the penalty-
rate wages.”
Transport Minister Sheahan is in
hospital with skin-trouble arising from
nervous exhaustion. Premier Cahill
blows hot and cold on his demand that
the transport services shall live within
the budget allowance over and above their
earnings. Whereas a fortnight he
invoked “the commonsense” of “not
letting services run if we cannot pay for
them,” a week later he said “the trans-
port departments would have to spend
more than budgeted for rather than in-
convenience the public.”
While with one voice he appealed to
the unions to realise that he was sacking
hundreds of them in the interests of
maintaining “princely wages” for the
others, this pearl also dropped from his
lips:
Xlie Government introduced the 40-hour
week because it thought the [transport]
workers were entitled to some additional
wealth of the country which they helped
to produce. Reports that come to us are
that the men are conscious of their obliga-
tions.
The idea that bus and railway men are
helping to produce the wealth of the
country by running beach trips, return
trip empty, for double wages on Sundays
is surely a new one.
The plain truth is that this ruinous
N.S.W. “Labor” Government is now face-
to-face with the nemesis of which it was
warned in these pages when five years
ago it plunged into the 40-hour week
insanity. The transport services are now
irredeemable without far-reaching over-
haul of the whole wasteful system, or
lack of system, of their political control.
They have been run by the unions and
for the sole benefit of the unions for long
enough. The N.S.W. State transport
services, and those in other States also,
are a close-up picture of the peril
described by the Tariff Board as threaten-
ing all employment in Australia —that of
an artificially-high costs structure in
industry artificially maintained.
Home for the Holidays
Having ended a session in which taxa-
tion was reduced and an incentive
Budget introduced, during which the
trade balance improved and some head-
way was made towards rationalising em-
ployment, Federal Parliament went off
for the holidays, which do not promise
to be much in the way of holidays at all.
The Prime Minister faces the London
conference, upon which the economic
future of the British Commonwealth
may depend. At home two by-elections
of importance will be prepared for,
Werriwa and Bradfield, in both of which,
so far, the Liberal party has shown the
same kind of exasperating hesitancy of
touch as distinguished it in the Flinders
(Federal) andAshfield (State) campaigns.
“Labor” meanwhile is playing the lowest
political game on record in hopes of
winning the Senate at the elections next
April.
Mr. Menzies leaves behind the just-
hatched Banking Bill, its details made
public as Parliament rose and assailed
by the banks the moment they were
issued. It was, however, a good move,
unusual as the procedure was, to issue
the details at this stage so as to enable a
full discussion of the whole matter be-
fore Parliament meets to deal with it late
in February. No doubt when public
opinion has had its say there will be
some modification in the present pro-
posals. If Dr. Evatt’s leader, Mr. Chifley,
had been wise enough to submit his
Banking Bill of 1947 to public criticism
in the same way it might have saved him
a lot of trouble —possibly even from
defeat.
Bruce on Government
Viscount Bruce, in outlining the serious
situation of the United Kingdom in a
broadcast address, inferentially stated also
Australia’s problems.
He said that the United Kingdom had
always lived by means of selling its
manufactures abroad and buying with the
proceeds the material to feed, clothe and
raise the standards of its own people.
Before the 1914-18 war the ultimate result
of its transactions was that it earned
abroad enough for all it needs, and had a
surplus of £157 million a year to put into
savings. But even in 1938 it was living
£BO million a year on the wrong side,
which rose to over £6OO million a year
after the war. The deficit in its accounts
last year was £5OO million sterling.
Though most people believed that
national finance was a hideously com-
plicated matter, Bruce said it resolved
itself into simple domestic terms ; by cut-
ting off the millions in national figures
and reducing them to the scale of house-
hold spending the amount could be clearly
understood by anyone, since the same
principles applied to a nation as to a
householder. If a man could not live from
year to year out of his actual earnings
and accumulated savings, no matter what
his needs and what standard of living he
had set himself, he must cut his spending
or be bankrupt.
The British people had been told by
the immediate post-war leaders that,
despite the fact that they were not earn-
ing enough to pay for their maintenance
at existing standards, they could proceed
to the building of the Welfare State
through nationalisation, planning and
Government action; but by 1949, when
the English pound had to be devalued,
even Sir Stafford Cripps, then Chancellor
of the Exchequer, admitted that this
conception had been a failure.
Now, unfortunately, politics hampered
the mending of the situation. The
extreme Conservative saw no salvation
save in free enterprise; the extreme
Labor man saw no hope save in exact
opposite ; but fortunately there was grow-
ing up in England a large body of
moderate men and women who, in time,
would increasingly take over the Govern-
ment and the planning of its future.
These recognised that some public
utilities were suitable for public manage-
ment ; most production, especially that
of consumer goods, was the natural field
of private enterprise.
Lord Bruce expressed the hope that the
Economic Conference, to be held in
London this month, would have a vital
influence in settling a moderate policy
leading to British Commonwealth stability
and solvency,
First Year of Free Drugs
First full year’s working of the Com-
monwealth Government’s free life-saving
drug scheme was estimated to cost
£5,000,000 and actually cost £6,669,000.
For this sum just under 6,513,000 pre-
scriptions were issued, or an average of
about £1 each.
Health Minister Earle Page gave these
figures in his amending bill to make
statutory provision for the maintenance
of professional advisory and disciplinary
committees —whose value had been fully
provec p_of doctors and pharmacists to
ensure the utmost co-operation in prevent-
ing abuses under the free-prescription
scheme. There have inevitably been
some abuses, and the Government is in-
tent upon curbing them in order to keep
expenditure to proper limits, prevent
excess use of the drugs (many of them
very costly), and to safeguard patients
against improper dosing which might pro-
duce immunity to the drugs. The
Minister in praising the work of these
committees said they had, during the past
three or four months, helped to reduce
the cost of drugs dispensed by £lOO,OOO
a month.
The mud-slinging section of the
“Labor” Opposition from N.S.W. tried
to decry the scheme by alleging that it
was too costly, that it was marred by
lack of the Chifley Government’s “free-
medicine” formulary, and that drug-
manufacturers were making fortunes out
of it. This effort wilted under the retort
that the estimated cost of the Chifley-
McKenna scheme, at £2,500,000 a year,
was ludicrous ; that its precious formulary
was now out of date, and if it had included
the life-saving drugs (as it did not) it must
have cost vastly more; and that as a
result of the Government’s efforts to en-
courage improved manufacture of the
drugs in Australia the cost of penicillin
and some sulpha drugs had been reduced
by nearly 50 per cent., which benefit was
passed on to tbe public.
On the “Labor” side Messrs. Thomp-
son, of Port Adelaide, and Kim Beazley,
of Fremantle, would have no part or lot
with the mudslingers in their party from
Sydney and Eden-Monaro, and Mr.
Beazley contrasted the £7,000,000 cost of
a scheme admittedly working well with
£162 million in the same year which the
public spent with licensed bookmakers,
£l5l million on drink, £3O million on
totalisators, million on lotteries and
£4-\ million on “Tatt’s.”
A Scientific Triumph
Because some sheep grazing on coastal
lands in South Australia and WA. grew
wool without crimp in it, and which was
also harsh and brittle, Australia sud-
denly discovered a way to bring millions
of acres of hitherto useless land into
production.
Apart from this steely-wool condition,
it was also clear that sheep and cattle
grazed continuously on this kind of
country lost condition and died. Lamb-
ing percentages were low, the lambs
themselves sickly and stunted. Cattle
failed to breed normally. All this was
generally characterised as “coast disease.”
The thing was of such importance to
South Australia that, about 20 years ago,
C.5.1.R.0. scientists began to study it.
In the field and in laboratories animals,
plants and soils were studied and experi-
mented with. Presently the Waite Re-
search Institute of South Australia joined
in the work.
This sort of work takes years, but soon
it was discovered that the poor health of
the animals was because of lack of copper
and cobalt in the soil. When this lack
Was corrected the wool took on a crimp
and the fleeces became heavy; the health
of the stock improved out of sight.
This made possible the planting of the
areas with improved pastures, for after it
was proved that the best way to get the
missing minerals to the stock was through
the plants they ate, it was also shown that
certain valuable plants —forms of clover
and some grasses —also thrived when
these minor elements of copper, cobalt,
molybdenum, zinc were added to the
soil. ,
Success with the coastal soils turned
the scientists’ thoughts to other areas.
Now the system is working on what has
up to now been regarded as useless
mallee desert. There the addition of
superphosphate and about 71b. an acre
each of copper and zinc sulphates to the
soil has given good pastures and thriving
stock
Australian scientists have thus contri-
buted to the welfare of their country a
most important asset. Their work will, m
the next few years, bring millions of
acres into high production of food and
fibre. And other parts of the world have
heard of it. Countries with unthrifty
land now se»k the aid of the C.b.I.KAJ.
and Waite Institute men, and the benefits
of adding minor elements to the soil are
extending to fruit-, vegetable- and gram-
growing. Yet it is doubtful if an Aus-
tralian in a thousand knows the name of
even one C.5.1.R.0. man. •
The Tenant Is Always Right
In the days before the “Labor”-
Socialists began their war-time reign in
the Federal Parliament and most of the
State Houses, few figures in their Rogues
Gallery were more notorious than me
Grasping Landlord. Although he
(i Continued on page 7)


operated on a somewhat humbler level
than the Bloated Capitalist, the Big Bad
Banker and the Armament Monopolist,
there were more of him, and he was
much more easily recognisable by the
honest toilers on whom he preyed.
Although the “Labor”-Socialists
haven’t found it out yet, the Grasping
Landlord no longer exists. He cut his
throat, shot himself and jumped over the
Gap chewing a thallium sandwich when
he found out that rents had been pegged
and his powers of eviction reduced to a
mathematical equation.
He was very foolish to throw
in the towel so easily. He should have
become a tenant; then he would have
been able to sublet portion of his rented
home for more than he was paying for
the whole of it, conscious of the know-
ledge that his new role of tenant made
him a reformed character and entitled
him to the fullest protection the Govern-
ment could give him. By putting a few
sticks of furniture into the rooms he
could ask (and get) “furnished” rates ; by
installing a gas-ring he could convert a
room into a flatette ; by pushing a thin
wafer of toast under the doors each morn-
ing he could transform the whole house
into a bread-and-breakfast joint.
Among minor amendments to the
N. S. Wales Landlord and Tenant Act is
one which forbids a ,tenant who is not
living in the premises from making a
profit of more than 20 per cent, by sub-
letting. Not more than 20 per cent.!
Why in the name of Socialist theory and
practice should he be entitled to make
even a penny out of someone else’s
property? The new provision applies
only to a tenant “not living in the
premises” ; if he lives there —even to the
occupancy of only one room —he can
still carry on the furnished-room, flatette
or bread-and-breakfast racket without
hindrance.
No one will deny that in times of
acute housing shortage some steps must
be taken to prevent indiscriminate evic-
tions; but all the rights should not be
assumed to belong to the tenant, nor
should all the obligations be heaped on
the owner. Nothing in the new amend-
ments does much to relieve the position
of the owner who wishes to regain pos-
session of his house in order to live in
it, and there is no attempt to make the
tenant in such cases bestir himself to find
another dwelling. All rights are on the
side of the tenant, with virtually no obli-
gations. Obligations fall only on the
owner, who has no rights, being still in
the eyes of the law a Grasping Land-
lord. As far as “Labor”-Socialists are
concerned the tenant is always right—he
possesses more votes.
POLITICAL POINTS
It is not true that the U.S. Republicans
intend to scrap “The Star-spangled
Banner” and substitute “Now Is the
Eisenhower.”
e •
Undeterred by the fact that the calendar
indicated that it was more the season for
Guy Fawkes than Santa Claus, members
of both Houses at Canberra last week
broke out in a rash of Christmastide back-
slapping and good-fellowship and bolted
for the airport. Disputations on the rival
merits of A.N.A. and T.A.A. were for-
gotten ; any plane out of Canberra was
a good one. Christmas holidays in Can-
berra start earlier than anywhere else,
and last longer. This year’s vac. looks
like lasting until well on in February,
• •
Prime Minister Menzies told a Press
conference last week that the Senate
election will be held in April or May.
There’ll be 31 vacancies to fill—five in
each State and an extra one in W-A.
• • '
While the Senate and Reps, were rush-
ing through their final debates of the
session Britain’s House of Commons was
being opened by a Queen for the first
time in the memory of any of its members.
During the current session two major
pieces of legislation will come up for
debate —bills providing for the un-
scrambling of some of the Socialist eggs.
Coal is to remain in omelette form, but
steps will be taken to put steel and road-
transport back in their private-enterprise
shells.
• e
In deciding a few months ago to like
Ike the Republicans made a wise choice,
as it is obvious from the election returns
that more voters like Ike than like the
Republicans. The same people who gave
the President-elect a popular vote of
about 32 million to Adlai Stevenson’s 26
million and an Electoral College vote of
442 to 89 gave his party a majority of
only one in the Senate and of eight (out
of 435) in the House of Representatives,
in some States which plumped for Eisen-
hower as President, the State Governor-
ship and other elective posts as well as
the Senate seats went to the Democrats.
So great was the landslide to Eisen-
hower that only one State, Arkansas,
beyond the Mississippi river stayed with
Stevenson; moreover, several Southern
States swung in behind the General.
• •
Along with a lot of other miscel-
laneous information, such as that Dalray
had made a million, Melbourne “Argus”
announced in its post-Cup issue that, like
the racehorse, it also led the world, since
never before in history had “the thunder-
ing finish of a world-famous race been
pictured in vivid color and placed hot on
the breakfast-table the following morn-
ing.” On the same day “Sun-Pic.” dis-
played on its front page a color-picture
of Dalray heading Welkin Sun to win the
Cup. The contest between the two papers
might be described as a color-photo
finish.
• • ’
Those who were listening to the
Senate debate on the airlines bill last
Wednesday night were a little astonished
to hear Senator Ashley (Lab.) declare
that A.N.A. was getting 70 p.c. of the
air-mail business out of Sydney, whereas
T.A.A. was getting only 40 p.c. Another
Senator queried this, but the Fixer
insisted it was correct. It was Cup week,
so he may have been dreaming of 10
starts and 11 wins. Or else the P.M.G.
has found a way of delivering 110 letters
out of every 100 posted.
Although no Senator disputed the
Ashley percentages, Senator Henty, a
Liberal from Tasmania, did dispute the
correctness of the conclusions the one-
time Minister for Shipping drew from
them. The burden of Ashley’s wail was
that A.N.A. was being given an unduly
high proportion of the air-mail. Henty
made the point that if this were the case
A.N.A. was being imposed on, not
favored. Air-mail is not now paid for
on a poundage basis ; each of the two
airlines receives a subsidy of £300,000
a year irrespective of the quantity
carried.
Only politician at the Sydney Press
reception for Spyros Skouras, president
of the multi-million dollar 20th Century
Fox Corporation, was that arch-enemy of
the profit-motive Arthur Augustus
Calwell.
• •
Main fight in the Victorian election
campaign has not yet begun ; though there
is plenty of sound and fury coming from
various parts of the battlefield as friends,
foes, allies and ex-allies sort themselves
out. The Hollway faction of the L.-C.P.
is emerging as the Electoral Reform
League and intends to nominate for at
least 25 seats. Hollway himself is oppos-
ing L.-C.P. leader Norman in Glen Iris.
Three of Hollway’s colleagues, Dennett,
Don and Dawnay-Mould, have been re-
endorsed by their electoral conventions,
but To veil (Brighton) has been turned
down and will stand without endorse-
ment. He was rejected on the casting-vote
of the chairman, so if the convention
lairly represents feeling in the electorate'
lovell will be a hard proposition for
whoever gets the official guernsey.
Another E.R.L. candidate will be Lady
Brookes, wife of Sir Norman. She has
nominated for Toorak, which the Liberals
retained by a narrow majority at a by-
election in September.
• •
It seems to be the attitude of Mc-
Donald’s Cockies and the Norman
Liberals that Holiway’s two-for-one plan
would necessarily have the effect of
giving Victoria a perpetual “Labor”
Government. McDonald’s objections are
understandable, as the scheme is intended
to reduce the representation of his party,
but Norman’s reaction suggests defeatism.
At the two Federal elections since the
1949 redistribution anti-“ Labor” parties
have won a majority of seats in Victoria,
and despite the loss of Flinders they still
hold more seats than “Labor.”
• •
Mick Bella is a Maltese. Last Thurs-
day, when he appeared on a Sydney radio
“amateur hour,” he was out of a job. He
sang “When the Stars Are Brightly
Shining,” from “La Tosca,” and his
glorious tenor voice was a joy to hear.
But Mick had better keep clear of
“Labor” politicians. To them there’s
something wrong with an unemployed
man who can still sing.
• •
Rowley James (“Labor,” Hunter) in a
confession of faith at the conclusion of
a speech attacking the sale of C.0.R.:
I honestly and sincerely believe that if
private enterprise could commercialise the
air we breathe we should all have meters
on our faces.
If some of our politicians were charged
by the volume of hot-air they expended
the Bankruptcy Court would be so full
that Parliament would lapse into per-
manent recess for want of a quorum.
• •
There’s a new Blair Athol coal plan,
this time from Canberra According to
a Melbourne paper it provides for
America to- put up the money to develop
the field and Pakistan to buy the coal.
What Australia’s part or Queensland’s
part is to be isn’t stated. Maybe they’ll
supply the plans—they’ve plenty to spare.
• •
Whatever may be said of other Gov-
ernment ventures in N. S. Wales, at least
the Harbor Bridge is showing a profit—
£29l,ooo for the year ended June 30 last.
Capital cost of the coat-hanger was
£9,725,487. The working account had a
surplus of £94,000 in 1939, but war-time
restrictions on private cars cut down its
income so that by 1946 the accumulated
deficiency was over half a million. In-
creased traffic since then has wiped this
out, and the Auditor-General’s report
shows that in addition to meeting interest
and sinking-fund payments £375,000 has
been tucked away in a reserve account.
• •
South Australian Chamber of Manu-
factures says the claims of railway com-
missioners in S.A., Vic. and N.S.W. that
their railways can handle all the freight
offering are wrong, that industry should
have the free right to use road-transport
if it chooses, and that road-transport is
ahead of railways in speed of delivery.
The Chamber adds that if railways really
gave the service they claimed to give
they wouldn’t need restrictive legislation
to compete with road transport.
Churchill’s Government has just had
its first birthday, which it celebrated with
an increased majority in the by-election
for the Wycombe seat in Buckingham-
shire. The win could be taken as a
fair test on public opinion towards the
parties, as the “Labor” candidate was
John Haire, who won the seat in 1950
and lost it last year. Apparently
Wycombe still doesn’t want him, though
his chances in a swinging seat would
hardly have been assisted by the antics of
the Bevan group.
• •
Bradfield by-election will be held on
December 20; nominations close on De-
cember 3. Despite Arthur Calwell’s rash
challenge to the Government to make
the poll a referendum on the airlines
issue “Labor” doesn’t seriously give it-
self a chance of taking W.M.H.’s seat.
Billy’s majority last year was close on
24,000. Even a swing of Flinders
dimensions wouldn’t do much more than
halve that. An Independent might have
a chance of picking up the seat, but he’d
have to be better than anything so far
offering.
• •
In looking for arguments against the
sale of the Commonwealth whaling enter-
prise, it is to be hoped that Doc. Evatt
will not overlook the value of whales in
Australian defence —especially the im-
portance of whale-oil as aviation fuel
and the inestimable part whalebone-
corsets play in supporting, among other
things, feminine morale in war-time. *
• •
A Sydney “Herald” correspondent
draws attention to the fact that while
fantastic sums have recently been awarded
(by juries) to the families of persons
killed by misadventure, the widows of
the two C.5.1.R.0. scientists killed in an
air accident are entitled to only a rela-
tively modest sum, although through the
circumstances in which the men lost their
lives their life-assurance policies were
null and void.
• •
“Labor” members accuse the Menzies
Government of being under the dictation
of the private-banking interests. If that
is so, then the reception given by trading-
banks spokesmen to the Government’s
latest bank-proposals suggests that some-
thing has gone wrong with the dicta-
phone.
• •
Lloyd Ross, back again as secretary of
the N. S. Wales branch of the A.R.U.,
thinks that instead of applying to the
Arbitration Court for a reduction of
weekend penalty-rates Railways Commis-
sioner Winsor should “seek a readjust-
ment of the crippling interest burden.”
Railway losses, he says, are caused by
“the staggering interest payments that
have to be made to bondholders.” Well,
come to that, we’d all be much better off
if we didn’t have to pay our debts.
Ross describes Winsor’s proposals as
preposterous, and says that the unions
fought for years to obtain the penalty
rates from the court. If that is so, then
why should the A.R.U. object to the Com-
missioner approaching the court? If his
proposal is preposterous there should be
no fear of its getting past the judges
• •
One member of Cahill’s caucus on
proposal by “independent” N.S.W. Rail-
ways Commissioner Winsor to move the
Arbitration Court for reduction of week-
end penalty rates in State transport
awards;
We do not think that Mr. Winsor, being
a “Labor" appointee and allegedly a mem-
ber of the “Labor” party, should have
made such a suggestion.
• •
Ever heard of an “adopted member”?
He is not, as might be thought, a member
who has been adopted by an electorate ;
he’s a member who adopts an electorate
other than his own and holds himself out
as able to secure for it benefits which its
own representative is unable to get.
Opposition members in the Queensland
Assembly are accusing “Labor” members
of doing this sort of thing with the con-
nivance of the Government. Gair and
Co., of course, are shocked at the sug-
gestion.
• •
For the fifth month in succession the
Commonwealth Statistician has been able
to announce a surplus in Australia’s over-
sea trade balance. The figure for October
was £4O million and for the four months
July-October £62£ million. This compares
with a deficit of £166 million for the
corresponding period of last year. Im-
port-restrictions have played a major part
in the recovery, but there has been a
considerable improvement in the export
figures— exports last month were £2B
million higher than in October, 1951.
• •
On the last night of the Senate session
one honorable Senator accused another
honorable Senator of being paid twice as
much as he was worth. He was prob-
ably quite right, but why single out one
man?
• . •
Uncle Joe’s disciples have been cam-
paigning hard to retain control of the
Miners’ Federation in the union election
just completed, and the political wing
of the A.L.P. has entered the field on a
scale previously unknown. The Doc.
and Calwell Joined other “Labor” mem-
bers in a radio campaign and sent a per-
sonal letter to every miner. One immedi-
ate result was a protest strike at two
pits—one in the northern field and one
in the south,
• •
N.S.W. “Labor” Assemblyman Bring,
demonstrating the broadminded national
outlook that makes the Sydneysider so
deservedly popular in the other States:
It should never be forgotten that New
South Wales is the mother State of Aus-
tralia, and was virtually the Commonwealth
until the “shack” was built in the south
which has dominated the lives of the people
of Australia ever since.
• •
Premier Playford, badgered by a
“Labor” member to appoint a Minister of
Industry and a Minister of Decentralisa-
tion, refused. “They’ve done it in Vic-
toria,” cried the “Labor” man. “Vic-
toria,” said Playford drily, “is not an
example to follow in politics.”


Society
ABD IT'S PRINTED
WI TH WIMBLES INKS'
“Emma”; When my young son was
gi'ven a mid-week holiday because his
teacher was attending a lecture by a visit-
ing educationalist, I resigned myself to
the inevitable and cancelled a hairdres-
sing appointment and an overdue visit
to the dentist. During the morning son
cut his foot rather badly. I rang the
doctor, but the nurse said she was sorry,
but doctor was away all day at a medical
conference, so I rushed son into my next-
door neighbor, who used to be a nurse.
My husband, a road-board secretary,
came home late. I asked whether he got
the message about the tree across the
main road. Jie said no, he’d been away
all day—a chap from America was giv-
ing a lecture on road-making. After
ouND/moN
“I want to make a complaint.”
dinner my teenage daughter asked would
I be an angel and press and mend her
frock for tomorrow—she simply didn’t
have time, as she had to fly off to dress-
making-class. Wearily I plugged the iron
hi and it spat sparks at me. Elder son,
af that moment escaping through the
front-door, was recalled to fix it, but he
said he was awfully sorry, he couldn’t
watt; he’d be late for night-school. He’s
doing a course of electrical engineering,
There won’t be much housework done
next week, and meals will come mostly
out of tins. I’ll be away every day
attending a course of instruction in good
housekeeping. Wonderful idea, adult
education.
+♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Jasby”: I don’t believe in children
betting on racehorses, and I said so at
dinner-time the night before the Cup
when my two boys asked me to place
bets for them with the office bookie.
“Just sixpence each on Dalray,” they
pleaded. “No,” I said firmly, and began
a lecture on the evils of gambling. But
my wife is a Melbourne woman and her
loyalties were aroused. “Nonsense,” she
protested. “Everyone has a bet on the
Melbourne Cup. Why shouldn’t the
boys have a little flutter?” I must have
shown signs of weakening ; the sixpences
were thrust into my pocket before I could
say any more. They were still in my
pocket when Dalray flashed past the
post next day. That’s why I’m grateful
to those last-minute plungers who brought
the winner’s price down to fives. But I
still don’t believe in children betting on
racehorses.
*x* ❖
“Vingter”: In the hungry ’thirties I
was one of a score of adolescents who
hopefully answered a call for juvenile
labor at a timber-yard. After looking us
over the boss inquired: “Are there any
educated boys here?” Serenely confident
in my possession of the junior certificate
I stepped up, to be greeted with “Get to
hell out of it! We don’t want any
educated swelled-heads here.” I got, but
turned up again when another call was
made. This time I stood still and got
the job, which was scraping the innards
of half-a-dozen old boilers. I was doing
so well at it that when two of the boss’s
sons visiting the plant recognised me as a
form-mate the trump let me stay on,
despite my thus-betrayed handicap.
Sensing that an explanation seemed to be
expected, he told me, “After seeing what
education is doing for those two young
blanks of mine, I’ve decided that I’ll not
employ any educated young fellows if 1
can help it.” Eventually the old man
passed on, and the mill was taken over
by the two sons. I thought of the old
man’s words recently when I heard that
the enterprise which had survived the
grim ’thirties under his control was wound
up in the bankruptcy court.
*l* ❖ ❖
“U. 8.2”: When I read Rachel Hen-
ning’s letters I also got a mental picture
of Gilliat’s namesake—only they now call
it The Gilliat (B. 29/10/’52). That’s a
more-or-less important rail settlement
on the Townsville-Cloncurry line (N.Q.).
I.know The Gilliat well enough not to
let my mind linger on it—there are more
pleasant memories in life. But I did
often think of Biddulph, Old-man Bid-
dulph, at the turn of the century, who used
to own Birtley station, in the Springsure
district (C.Q.), and also had an interest
in another property in the mountains to-
wards Tambo. When he was about 80
he was returning to Birtley in a sulky
when the thing hit an ant-heap, over-
turned and tossed the old man out. He
tried to rise, but couldn’t; his leg was
broken. Biddulph knew the bush well
enough to know the odds against him, but
he set out to save himself. He lay on
his back, propped himself along with his
elbows, covering eight miles in that
manner. The last few miles were easy
to track; his elbows left blood on the
ground. When found, the old boy had
torn what was left of his shirt into strips
and had knotted them together; he was
lowering his elastic-side boot down a
“Cant stop, dearie. I’m running late for Mrs. Tinpoit's cocktail-party.
well to haul up some water to get a
drink. If that.Biddulph was any relation
to Rachel Henning, then the family was
made' of good stuff.
❖ * ***
“Bo”; Profound as may be ray admira-
tion for the progressi which science is
~nf wTen^e 1 bS-rtmbo s*S
the white dustcoats are inclined to over-
reach themselves. For years I have re-
duced my mapent beard to fta
chastened condtoon wherein rt offers less
opposition to the razor a "“p
which comes in a green-and-cream tuta.
The stuff which chases the furtive dental-
decay wog m the interstices of my set of
tombstones morning and night came in
a red-and-cream tube, and my bathroom
knew no blasphemy. Then came the
magic element chlorophyll, the addition
of which to the toothpaste has made —
heaven knows why--a green-and-cream
tube necessary for it. Now the happy
home is no more, and the children have
to wear cotton-wool in their ears before
breakfast. The toothpaste which I as
often as not try to spread in a thick
lather over my dial refuses to co-operate,
whilst the saponaceous flavor of the
hurriedly-grabbed shaving-soap which
spreads ’ along my toothbrush is still
lingering when I get to the office.
+ . +
* v v
“8.J.L.”: When I am busy I often let
customers buying rope measure off
their own requirements on the counter
yardstick It is revealing how many will
crib anything up to 6m. with each span
But they are all visibly moved when I
toss their purchases on to the scales ;
rope is sold by weight and not by the
y ard - + + .
v v
“Sarge-once”; A patient in a northern
A.G.H., I was detailed for fatigue duty
in the Sisters’ Mess after tea. My en-
raged protest that Standing Orders de-
creed that senior N.C.O.s could be detailed
to supervise but not to perform fatigues
was cut short by the injunction “Shut your
damfool mouth. Grab that bucket and
follow me!” uttered by a W.0.l patient
in the next bed. Dumbly I joined a
covey of sergeants, each carrying a
bucket, who set off in the wake of the
R.S.M. We followed him to the Sisters’
Mess marquee and entered the back of
the tent, where he held up the bucket to
be filled from an ice-cold keg of Queens-
land beer. We then marched silently to a
river-bank about-half a mile away. There
we found most of the Sisters with a swell
feed laid out for us. A good time was
had by all despite our soon-gamed
knowledge that we were the pawns in a
game originating in collective pique at
a slight put upon some of the Sisters by
a couple of self-opinionated officer
patients. Next morning the Sisters were
as regimental as ever, but we didn t mind
that.
*** *X* ***
“Emjai”: Newly arrived in our pro-
vincial city, the young Englishman had a
charming manner, excellent personality
and appearance and fine physique. It
having come over the grapevine that he
had had a seat in the Leander eight, we
passed him on to the local oarsmen, who,
after the next weekend, proclaimed that
he was the real goods, pulled a grand
stick and was a great scout. When ex-
of champion-
-4 ** «
and he was k tat it;
between drinks, entertaining the members
with SQn and > sto Noticing one of
the seas( f ned oW hardshells eyeing him
iativel , remarked: “Fine type
accomplished.” “Quite!” he
“kahdles a nice glass."
%
“Shar”: My wife picked the, thing out
Q f t h e display-box, handed it to the bored-
looking female on the other side of the
c hain-store counter and asked the price,
xhe bored one rolled her gum to one
s i de 0 f her mouth and squawked out of
other, “Says pn the card there,
‘Wedding Rings, Sixpence Each.’ ” As at
i east 20 pairs of amused and curious eyes
turned j n o ur direction my wife muttered
something about the things being handy
f or scarves, passed over her zac with one
hand while I dragged her away by the
other. Next time she buys a scarf-ring
I’ll be in another department inspecting
bottle-openers or something.
+ ,
*** *** v
» Uramao ”. Coldj brandy and rum (B.
jg/10/’52)? The case of the “dough-
board the Titanic whe n she
iceb in m 2 comes to mind
tQ sugtain efficacy of brandy in
emergency. After the crash, remember-
ing he had a bottle of brandy in his
cubby-hole, the baker dived for it and
poured half the bottle down his throat,
Then, feeling fine, he commenced to climb
on deck. But the thought struck nm
that if they were all going to Davy
Jones’s locker he and the brandy might
as well go together. Dashing hack, he
swallowed the other half of the bottle,
reached the deck in hilarious mood and
declared he didn’t care if the steamer
stood on its head. Shortly alter that he
was in the freezing water round the ice-
berg ; it was over an hour helore
picked up, and in that tirne hundreds die
from exposure. Medical opinion di es
as to whether the brandy saved ms i e.
I’m on the side of those who thmK
did.
ALL AT SEA
“Beach-inspectors at Newcastle are consider-
ing invoking police to deal with New Australian
surfers who resist rescue, kick footballs about
the beach and surf outside the flags.”
Jss not, dear friendts, a clever trick
To shtop us drownding in der deep
Or footballs on der beach to kick
Or make between two flags to keep;
Vhere from ve come, der people have
A ’abit formed of being shot —
It’s like — you — know —a drug ve crave —
Ve’re use’ to dying qvite a lot.
“Vhy not you die upon der road?”
I ’ear you ask alretty, then;
I ’ope ve ’ave more manly code —
Ve not jus’ childrens or oldt men :
Vot for, I ask, vos free-vill meant ?
Ve walue no pedestrian corpus,
Nor die by motor-accident,
But rather in der sea, on porpuss !
Your ciwil serwice iss not bad,
But ah, ve miss our ciwil var I
Und ’ere, vhen von can not be ’ad,
Vot for did Gott made football for?
Your cops—’ow they puts in der boot
Vhen von of us, ’e shoots a gun !
Zen vhy not ’ave a substitute.
Some football on der beach for fun?
Und vhen der dreadful game begeen
Ve ’ave a mooch too noble pride
To pussyfoot aboudt betveen
Two flags — ve' vont to take a side;
Und by our side ve sink or svim,
Und vhen avay our lives ve give
It seems to you a leetle grim.
But that iss ’ow ve migrants live.
N.S.W.
SVILLIAM.


•£♦ *** *X*
“Becks”: “The Betting Book,” which
“Emjai” saw on Melbourne Cup night in
1905 and whose leading actor subse-
quently played a real-life part in Bourke-
street (B. 5/11/ ’52), was one of Bland
Holt’s melodramas. The Bulletin’s Mel-
bourne showman, writing of it at the
time, mentioned that it had been adver-
tised to contain beautiful pictures of well-
known Australian localities. He then
listed the scenes from Act III:
Scene 1: Melbourne’s seamy side.
Scene 2: Exterior of a woodyard.
Scene 3: The tobacconist shop.
Scene 4: Corridor to tote room.
Scene 5: The tote.
Scene 6: Interior of the woodyard.
Scene 7: Poverty Point.
He commented: “The mouth of the
Yarra, the West Melbourne swamp and
the exit of the main sewer are beauty-
spots that were inadvertently omitted.”
The tote-shop, incidentally, was said to
be a replica of John Wren’s famous
establishment in Collingwood. Of the
little scene witnessed by “Emjai” the
showman said a week later:
At the Royal, Walter Baker is an object
of especial interest owing to a recent per-
formance in which he made a decided hit
before he hastily withdrew around the
corner. Facing the enemy’s gun at the
Royal is a very different matter to doing it
in Bourke-street.
Grant Hervey was in due course charged
with “shooting with intent to kill.” Ver-
dict—“ Not Guilty.”
*x* ♦♦♦ *x*
“Ymar”: Sawbones asked his elderly
patient whether his extremely painful
rheumatic condition was hereditary: “I
mean,” he amended, seeing the other’s
puzzlement, “have any of your family
ever been like this?” “No!” exploded
the old chap. “And now I have to suffer
for the whole blasted lot of them!”
+j+
“Stripey”; ’Midst a haze of blue
smoke, with the three-piece band in full
swing and elbows bending universally in
the sinking of various brands of local
liquors, the Fleet was celebrating its three-
day visit to a European port. In a certain
part of the establishment where the traffic
is always heaviest on occasions like these,
I was surprised to find a group crouched
around a crown-and-anchor board. As
I threaded my way through them I
muttered, “Of all the places to play.” The
bloke in charge came back at me.
“Well,” he said, “it’s no use trying to
run a board out there, but they all have
to come here sooner or later.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Artilleur”; Early in 1919 Billy Hughes
was making a round of visits to Aus-
tralian units billeted in Belgium. At
Thuin, a village outside Charleroi, he met
the Second Div. artillerymen.
All the battery horses had been
dispersed, and the D.A.C. donks
(except those that had gone over
the butchers’ blocks in the
villages along the way) were on
the road to the saleyards. In-
tensified spit-and-polish was no
cure for utter boredom. The
Town Hall was crowded with
Diggers when Billy bounded up
the stairs and on to the stage.
“You fellows are all anxious to
get home. So am I, and, like
you, I’ll have to carry on a bit
longer. But you’ll be on a boat-
roll before 1 get through, and
I’ll see how soon it can be
done.” His assurance was joy-
fully cheered, and he was as
good as his word. Within a week
drafts were on the way to Eng-
land to embark for Aussie. On
the same occasion Billy confided
to the Diggers: “As you all
know, I’ve been busy down in a
place called Versailles, where a
league of notions or something
or other is being discussed.
Some call it a League of
Nations. You don’t know what
it is. I don’t know what it is.
Nobody knows what it is—
whether it’s a birth or a concep-
tion ! ”
“Postscript”: I met William
Morris Hughes only once —in
the lift of the Commonwealth
Bank Building (Sydney) after
four workless years during the depressed
’thirties. I put it on Billy for a job be-
fore the impulse weakened, and he
responded with equal alacrity: “Go to
City South Exchange and tell ’em I sent
you.” That was Tuesday. On Wednes-
day I passed the C.M.O. and I joined
the legion of the P.M.G. on Thursday.
I’m still with it.
* * *X*
“Macnell”: The National Maritime
Museum at Greenwich (Eng.), that mecca
of small —and not-so-small —boys, re-
ceived the other day a lodestone which
Sir Francis Drake used to revitalise his
demagnetised compasses. The lodestone
was given to Drake by one Lawrence
Kemeys, scion of an ancient Cardiff
family, who commanded the Gallego
under Sir Walter Raleigh during his
voyage to Trinidad and up the Orinoco
in 1595. He was also Raleigh’s com-
panion in the Tower for a spell in 1603,
and was an ardent urger of the ill-fated
expedition of 1618. The latest addition
to Greenwich’s treasures, now owned by
Lord Wharton, is set in silver, and mea-
“ Thelma, you've been deceiving me!"
sures about lin. square. Even today its
magnetic moment is estimated to equal
that of an Bin. bar-magnet thick.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nunk”: In my day a split straw-
boater stayed split; some boys took pride
in showing how a split crown could be
made to snap its jaws like a crocodile.
Nowadays, splits are repaired with trans-
parent plastic tape. Stripping some untidy
tape from the hat of one of my family
the other day, I found that it was covering
“Hey, Fortescue! Lions, you know, LIONS!”
no split at all —a bandaged wound was
being paraded where none existed. Inside
the hat, between crown and lining, was
a large collection of tram-tickets.
*> <* ***
“Looby”: The customer was narked
about the samples of cheese being offered
him. “No,” he growled, swiping the last
bit off the knife and sucking it thought-
fully. “It’s not matured enough; just
caked milk, that’s all.” “Well,” sighed
the grocer, “maybe it’s not mature cheese
you need ; maybe it’s just an older cow.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”; Mining prospectuses (B.
29/10/’52)? Thirty years ago, when oil-
company flotations were attracting capital
that never came back from the bore, I
had brief experience with one concern
which showed enterprise of a high order.
The promoter was seated at his desk in a
luxurious office. Opposite him was a
small office-boy (“our experienced scien-
tific staff”) grasping a long-spout oil-can
of the type favored by loco.-drivers.
Between them, on the table, was a pile
of newly-printed prospectuses. The go-
getter was explaining to the lad that his
job was to drop some oil on each pros-
pectus before enclosing it in the envelope
for mailing “And you needn’t spare it
i e W,f° y ’ & sai ?‘ Glv L each ?, ne
a good dollop— it inspires confidence.
* * *
“Bar-E.”; Apart from being murder-
ously good at poker, Jake was regarded
as no dazzling light in the surf-club
firmament. On a training jaunt into
Sydney’s Middle Harbor he sweeped his
surfboat into tbe path of a power-barge
and fell overboard trying to change
direction. Later the four rowers grilled
the discomfited Jake across the keel of
their upturned boat. “Give the game
away,';’ was part of the advice they gave
him. Jake pounded the boat’s bottom
as though squashing injustice. “Caesar
met his Waterloo,” he pointed out, “and
the Kaiser met his Alamein.” “Careful,”
cautioned one rower, “or you’ll have
Noah mixed up with the Battle of Mata-
pan.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rooster”: Of all the queer jobs I
copped in World War 11, that of escorting
chronic skin-disease casualties by air-
transport was easily tops. Those Douglas
crates did a good job, but some of the
Yank pilots were inveterate exhibitionists
We were cruising down the eastern sea-
board from Townsville to Sydney on one
occasion, the thought of Bondi Beach
and a schooner of cold beer uppermost
in our minds as we played poker to while
away the time. Suddenly the plane nose-
dived, the cards went helterskelter, and
we were spreadeagled all over the floor.
Next thing we were skimming the surface
of the Pacific. “Blast his hide!” com-
mented Curly, who had crashed into the
door-handle. “I know he can fly his
flamin’ kite, but I wonder if he knows I
can’t swim!”
♦> * ❖
“Stanford”; In Victoria the noun
“port” means one of two things—a place
where ships come and go, or a wine. In
New South Wales and Queensland, how-
ever, a man will wave his hand towards a
conglomeration of baggage, which may
include suitcases, cabin-trunks, kitbags,
carryalls and overnight bags, with an airy
“See to these ports, wiU you?” Inci-
dentally, I wonder why the old-fashioned
portmanteau fell from favor. My father
owned one, a sturdy leather affair with
pockets in the lining and almost limitless
capacity. When fully loaded it would
make the modern “expanding” suitcase
look silly, yet, empty, its sides collapsed
so that storage-space required was
negligible.
❖
“Slim”: In Casalrosso, a rice-village
in the valley of the Po, the mayor proudly
shows visitors an old-fashioned rice-silo
with air-holes bashed in the walls high up.
It used to be surrounded with electrified
barbed-wire, he told me, and on top was
a watch-tower mounted with machine-
guns. The place smelled like a lions’
cage. Barbarian Australians used to be
kept there during the war, he told me;
they were heavily guarded so that inquisi-
tive locals couldn’t feed them. During
the daytime they were worked in the
rice-fields. The mayor was astonished
when I displaced a concrete slab and
rescued a rusty tin of bullybeef which had
been in hiding for 10 years. I replaced
it with a fresh tin of pressed ham before
fitting the slab back into place. You
never know whose prison-cage you will
utilise next time.
A CHANGED CLASS
“The old conception of the musician as long-
haired, temperamental and given to philander-
ing and gambling has now no relation to tact.
Divorce figures show that as a class musicians
are well down the list. Most of them aie solid
family-men.”— “World’s News. ■
Whether he scraped or banged or blew,
The old-time music-maker swept
The chords of life, give him his due,
With touch decidedly adept.
He’d waltz away from home, that’s clear—
Musician's then were wont to do so
To siren strains he’d turn an ear.
His life, it seems, would ever veer
From largo to capriccioso.
Many a flat key did he use —
But not connected with the score.
He neither played nor had the blues.
And very stoutly he forbore
To accompany his lawful mate
When he stepped out to have a jollo.
Flowing his mane and light his gait,
His solo work would captivate —
A true disciple of Apollo.
Too well his “strife” would play the harp,
Her long cadenza on it grate.
Her tongue, tuned, you’d expect, to sharp.
From theme to theme would modulate.
Things were, as one may well have
guessed.
Far, far removed from the harmonic.
Craving a space, denied a rest,
Far from composed, he’d beat his breast
And then rush out and hit the tonic.
He has the Kramer haircut now,
Whilst to respectability
He makes a very well-strung bow.
A product of suburbia, he.
Around him now there’s quite a band;
He just supplies the obbligato.
The only stakes held in his hand
These days are of a different brand —
Just used to prop up the tomato.
N.S.W.
S. W. K,


St
i
*
M
v
'‘The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Queensland University Air
Squadron seems to have some facility in
securing operational commanding-officers.
Off to 77 Squadron in Korea from bossing
the ’Varsity squadron, Flight-Lieutenant
W. O. K. Hewett was among the first
R.A.A.F. pilots to take on the Japs —
he being one of those valiant Wirraway
men who took off from Rabaul in 1942.
Wounded in the leg, he crash-landed his
aircraft, but got back to New Guinea
later, this time in a Vultee Vengeance.
Succeeding him in Brisbane, Flight-
Lieutenant Noel Eliot bailed-out from a
flak-damaged bomber over France in
1944. He joined the French underground,
and fought on therein till British invasion-
troops hove in sight. He ended the war
flying transports to New Guinea, and,
till recently, was doing the same between
Japan and Korea.
Expressive hands, an ebullient nature,
shoulders like a wrestler, his Greek
origin in his voice—these, added to
Prior’s picture, sum up the outward
characteristics of Spyros P. Skouras, boss
of 20th Century Fox Film Corporation.
Behind the facade is a sentimental nature
(evidenced by the astronomical number
PUBLIC ENTERTAINER
of dollars he’s raised for charities) and a
razored mind which took the young
Greek migrant from bus-boy in a St.
Louis hotel to part-owner in a theatre in
that city and, by 1942, to president of
20th Century Fox and controller of 564
theatres. Candid enough to admit that-
television had given his pictures “a hell
of a knock for the first three years,” and
that the film “Kangaroo” wasn’t a winner,
he is just as candid in asserting that his
next project, “The Desert Rats,” will
knock ’em. He’s in Australia to look
over his company’s interests, and, no
doubt, look over too the real-life char-
acters who turned Goebbels’s sneering
appellation into a badge of honor.
Dr. Rhodes Fairbridge, geology lecturer
in the Westralian University, is off to
Fiji to join an oceanographic ex-
pedition. sponsored by the Scripps
Oceanographic Institute of the University
of California. One of the few non-
Americans in the expedition, he knows a
wrinkle or two on this kind of work.
After extensive travels and studies in
Canada and England, he flew in War 11,
made aerial mappings in the north Pacific,
and recently published a work on land-
slide patterns on oceanic atolls and
volcanoes. Attracting considerable notice
abroad, this resulted in the invitation to
join the Scripps expedition. He’s a son
of Kingsley Fairbridge, founder of the
farm-schools project.
Educated at Melbourne University,
Ernst Johannes Hartung became tutor,
lecturer and finally Professor of Chemistry
at his Alma Mater —a post he’s held with
distinction for the past 24 years. In 1940
he went onto a committee concerned with
making optical glass for binoculars and
range-finders of the fighting services.
Behind the fitting-up of the university’s
present chemistry school there is an in-
teresting story. The lowest outside tender
was £21,000. Lecturers and staff, led by
the Professor, took on the job themselves
and saved £5830 —Hartung himself turn-
ing out to be an efficient carpenter. He
will retire to his other love, field-
photography, at the end of the year.
Another ex-student, ex-lecturer has
reached the professorship of his subject
at his Alma Mater in Arthur Alderman —
the university in this case being
Adelaide’s, the subject geology. In be-
tween lectureship and Chair, Alderman
(Ph.D. and D.Sc.) researched at Cam-
bridge and headed the cement and
ceramics section of C.5.1.R.0.’s Division
of Industrial Chemistry at Fishermen’s
Bend. He relieves Sir Douglas Mawson,
who (in between Antarctic-ing) has held
the Geology Chair since 1920.
“Macnell” farewells a sailor:
Captain Hugh Maiden, who has crossed the
bar in Sydney, was possibly the last to go
of that bluewater band who made the Cutty
Sark and Thermopyhe famous. Maiden inherited
his adventurous spirit —his father was a
Royal Navy captain who retired, founded a
shipping-line in India, and lost his life rescuing
a shipmate from a burning ship; his mother
was a daughter of the Chief Secretary of Madras
Presidency in the turbulent days of the Indian
Mutiny, and sailed with her husband whenever
she could.
Off to sea in 1878, young Maiden transhipped
to the Cutty Sark when his own ship sank.
Later, in the Thermopyke, while shortening sail
he fell 60ft. into the shark-infested China Sea,
remaining therein for four hours before the
lowered boat found him. In Sydney, salvage
and deep-sea diving took his fancy. When the
French barque Vincennes ran up on Manly
beach Maiden salvaged her; and he beached the
ferry Greycliffe, which was rammed by the
liner Tahiti in Sydney Harbor and sank with
heavy loss of life.
Once he was skippering a leaky tub from
Queensland to Sydney. The crew, a rapscallion
lot, broached a barrel of rum from the store,
refused to man the pump and demanded that
he put into Brisbane —for more rum. Maiden
picked up the pump-handles, walked to the rails
and promised his mutinous mob that he’d heave
the handles overboard —reminding them that he
was a first-class swimmer. The ship reached
Sydney without further incident.
Always restless, Maiden invented a new type
of lifting-apparatus. Known as the Hawk, it’s
still in use on Sydney Harbor, and a model of
it stands in the Technological Museum. Some
years ago Cinesound made a newsreel of his
Chatswood workshop, chock-a-block with all
sorts of salvage lifting-devices, all designed to
withstand tremendous strains and stresses. An
honored member of the League of Ancient
Mariners, the grand old man was 90 at the end.
Dr. F. N. Pastier returns to his home
town, Dunedin (N.Z.), as senior lecturer
in pharmacology at the Medical School.
After bagging three important scholar-
ships from Otago University he spent
some years in the U.K. and the U.S., in
the latter country as guest-instructor in
pharmacology at New York State Uni-
versity. v
“Fitz”: Under a 1949 Commonwealth
Literary Fund Fellowship, Rex Ingamells
was called upon to write an epic poem
and a novel. The poem, The Great South
Land, was published last year ; the novel,
Of Us Now Living, which has a back-
ground of Australian history from the
times of Governor Hunter, has just been
published by Hallcraft, Melbourne. At
one time the youngest author in Who’s
Who in Australia, Ipgamells was born at
Orroroo (S.A.). The impressionable years
of his boyhood were spent acquiring a
love of bushland and sea-coast, an in-
terest in historic associations, and a
concern for Binghi. Later he carried his
swag, travelled in a schooner trading along
the S.A. coast, worked on Murray River
fruit blocks, went walkabout with a
native in Central Australia, and witnessed
corroborees on the shores of the Arafura
Sea. After leaving Adelaide University,
Ingamells was a schoolie, a freelance
journalist and a publisher’s representative
—he’s now with Georgian House.
Founder of the Jindyworobak movement,
and general editor of its publications,
lie has more than a dozen books to his
credit. Also, a judge of the Common-
wealth Jubilee Literary Competitions and
a champion of the Australian writer.
Louis Roche, France’s new Ambassador
to Australia, is a graduate of Trinity
College, Cambridge, where he specialised
in economics and history, particularly in
relation to the British Empire. On the
practical side, he has filled diplomatic
posts in Poland, Belgium, Austria and
the U.K.,. and, recently, was French
Observer in Bavaria, with the rank of
Minister.
“Captain J.”: I assume that in his par.
on Cbmmander Richard Stannard, V.C.
(B. 22/10/’52), “Macnell” referred to
War II Cross-winners. The Kaiser’s
scrap produced a prolific crop of Red
Dusters who changed over to the White
Ensign and won their Crosses. Four of
them —W. E. Sanders (an old shipmate),
H. Auten (vice-president of the Rank
organisation in New York), R. N. Stuart
(till recently g.-m. of Canadian Pacific),
and W. Bonner —got their “for valor”
bronzes in Gordon Campbell’s mystery
ships, the Q-boats. G. L. Drewry, cer-
tainly one of the youngest, and possibly
the only midshipman V.C., got his while
with the River Clyde at the Landing. Ai so >
G. C. Steel, now commanding-offirer of
training-ship Worcester, in the 1 hames,
who, earlier a submariner and Q-ship
man, took a motor torpedo-boat into
Kronstadt harbor in 1919 and torpedoed
a Bolshevik battleship.
Years of research work into cancer
have been interrupted by the death, in
Perth, of Professor William Ewart Gye, a
scientist with an international reputation
in his field. His experimental work began
in the 13 years he was director of the
Imperial Cancer Research Laboratories
in the U.K. Retired from that post in
1949, he settled in Perth, to search for
a means of killing the cancer virus with-
out resort to surgery or X-rays. His
colleague was his wife, well known to
science as Professor Ida Mann. Financial
help came from Sir Edward Hallstrom,
and from the Westralian Government,
which also helped out with laboratory and
other facilities. A reticent 68, Gye settled
in Perth because it seemed a quiet place
in which he could work and avoid pub-
licity. He had few interests outside his
experiments, which will be carried on by
his wife.
Listed officially-—till he retired the
other day—as the Army’s Assistant-
director of Public Relations in N.S.W.,
Major Alan Irwin was known to Sydney
Pressmen as one of the most obliging
coves they’ve worked with, a man who
PUBLIC RELATIONS
was on tap whenever they wanted him.
Old Digger with a motor-transport com-
pany in France, Irwin was commissioned
in the field, and got back into uniform
from his dairyfarm early in Hitler’s show,
this time in military-intelligence; one of
the first public-relations officers appointed.
Melbourne fans will remember him as a
Rules footballer of high mark in his day.
Murray John Moten —appointed g--m.
of the Savings Bank of S. Australia—
went to the war in 1940 as Lieut.-
Colonel Moten, C.O. of the 2/27th Bat-
talion, and captured Merjiyun, in Syria,
despite rough terrain and rougher dive-
bombing and artillery-fire, thus forcing
the French to abandon the Saida defences,
D.S.O. Back to Australia in 1942, he
got his first glimpse of the Japs in the
Milne Bay business ; shortly afterwards,
brigadier, he landed with his brigade on
Wau aerodrome when the enemy was on
its outskirts; and followed that with the
Salamaua and Aitape-Wewak campaigns,
taking his mob into the almost-unknown
Torricelli Mountains. Bar to the D.S.O.
PUBLIC PURSER
One of those disciplinarians who quell any
objection on that score by nonchalant
bravery in action, Moten arranged, at
Yamil, the surrender of General Adachi
and the Japanese 18th Army. He had
charge of the Australian Army contingent
to the Victory parade in London. Has
been with the S.A. Bank for close on 40
years.
A cairn with plaque now celebrates the
memory of C. J. Dennis at his old home
at Toolangi (Vic.), where The Sentimental
Bloke was written ; a crowd of literary
friends attended the unveiling by J. K.
Moir, who has hundreds of relics of the
poet at his home in Richmond. There
will be another celebration of another
Australian at Christmas —a stage presen-
tation of “The Adventures of Ginger
Meggs” by the National Theatre Move-
ment in Melbourne, by permission of
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks. It’s billed as the
theatrical surprise of the year.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 78, Edward Wilfred Fairfax,
last surviving child of Sir James Reading
Fairfax, and grandson of John Fairfax, one of
the founders of Sydney “Herald.” E.W. was
distinguished in medicine, business and philan-
thropy—lecturer in clinical medicine at Sydney
University for 22 years from 1912, and owner
of a long list of medical degrees; directonally
connected with concerns taking in sugar-refining,
newspaper-publication and banking; and a par-
ticularly hard worker for Dr. Barnardo s
Homes, the Bush Nursing Association and
tubercular War I Diggers. He was a colonel,
A.A.M.C., in France.
At Hove (Sussex), at 68, Gilbert Frankau,
who left Eton for his father’s cigar-business in
1904, then left England for a trip round the
world. When he returned the spate of “flaming
youth” novels started —40 all told, with, between
1916 and 1943, one, sometimes two, produced
every year. Peter Jackson, Cigar Merchant was
his best known. At Loos, Ypres and the Somme
in War I, captain, he was a squadron-leader in
the R.A.F. Reserve in War II before being
invalided out.
At Hamilton (N.Z.), Princess Te Puea
Herangi, who devoted her life to preserving the
Maori in his native state, with his rich tradition
of culture and lore. She set up a model village
placarded with notices to tourists— “Absolutely
No Admittance.” “Let them go to Rotorua,”
she said. Childless herself, she mothered count-
less orphans. In the 1913 smallpox epidemic
she set out in a canoe on the Waikato River,
succoring the sick, burying the dead and collect-
ing orphans, returning from the villages with
246 homeless children. She purchased 15 acres
at Ngaruawahia, the ancient Maori capital, and
established the model Maori village ft is today.
When Alfred Hill visited the village recently
the princess, despite medical advice, left
hospital and travelled to Ngaruawahia to show
her regard for the man who set to music so
much that is precious to the Maori.


IT’S EASY IF YOU’RE BUILT FOR IT


ABORIGINALITIES
“Den”: I always believed the bull-
roarer was an Australian abo. invention,
but if English novelist Elizabeth Goudge
is right it isn’t. In her novel Gentian
Hill, the setting of which is Torquay in
the Napoleonic period, she describes a
rather childish old farm-worker as getting
great pleasure from his bull-roarer. Bull-
roarers, it appears, were popular toys
made and used by Devon lads of the
period. They were an inheritance from
time immemorial. A clergyman char-
acter in the book, whose hobby was anti-
quarianism, told the heroine that the bull-
roarer was found in many parts of the
world and had originally a religious
significance.
♦ * * *
“Mingari”: Another old-time nor’-
wester (B. 29/10/’52) comes to mind in
the person of Peg-leg, so named of course
by reason of the wooden-leg slung from
a leather brace which took the place of
a missing starboard pin. So well-known
was he that his infrequent visits to Perth
were always announced in the “Sunday
Times” by “Qryblower” Murphy, an old
friend from the days on the Golden Mile.
This warning gave the local gendarmerie
time to run through its drill, as Peg-
leg’s proud boast was that when he was
properly oiled three policemen were re-
quired to take him. His procedure was
to prop his back against the nearest wall,
unship the timber leg and, swinging it as
a formidable club, invite the Johns to
sample it. These cunning fellows, how-
ever, had a standard counter-attack;
armed with long poles, two would engage
him whilst the third pushed away his
remaining prop —once on the ground he
was easy. When the Meekatharra con-
stabulary on one occasion locked him in
the boob, the kindly souls left him his
tobacco and matches —a bad tactical
error, as Peg-leg promptly took full
advantage of it by setting fire to the wall
of the lock-up and skipping through the
resultant hole.
♦ ♦ * *
“Cliffy”: I’ve never seen swans
at sea, but a trawlerman friend tells me
that one day off Morna Point (N.S.W.)
and about eight or nine miles out at sea,
a tiny honey-eater came aboard. What-
ever the reason for the piece of feathered
fragility being at sea —and there are few
birds more delicate —it greatly appreciated
the trawler, spending the whole day
perching in different spots, with occa-
sional interludes of short flights around
the boat. It stayed aboard until the
boat neared the wharf. Another
time, and about the same distance at
sea, the same boat was boarded by a
racing pigeon, which graciously accepted
a drink of water and then set out to
explore the vessel, even going below to
have a look round the cabin and galley.
* ♦ * *
“Gulliver”; “C. Towers” (B.
29/10/’52) is right about the basalt
region back of Cape Horn (N.Q.) being
tough country. Went up there once,
driven by a desperate need for grass, with
5000 starving sheep, Downs-bred dogs
and horses (the latter unshod) via the
Jump-up on Telamon station. Save for
a cleared motor-road, there wasn’t a
square foot of earth to be seen ; boulders
of all sizes, nesting close together, com-
pletely covered the soil, tall grass sprout-
ing between them. Inside three days the
dogs had no skin on their pads, the
horses were too sore to ride, and we were
walking in light-soled, high-heeled riding-
boots ; they lasted about a week and
then we were barefoot save for the uppers
and heels pulled on every morning. A
few days of that and we had feet the
size of plumduffs—and about the same
consistency. Slow progress caused a
shortage of tucker, and the menu con-
sisted of damper, jam, and mutton thrice
daily. Next, the well we were depending
on was out of action when we got there ;
managed to salvage a few gallons of
yellow soupy liquid, which noisily pro-
claimed itself even at arm’s-length, and
each man got two pints a day until the
well was repaired five days later —the
sheep got nothing, and the prads had
been left behind. I’ll never forget the
first drink from that well—bitter, highly
mineralised, but clear and clean. I’ve
had quite a few beers since that didn’t
taste half so good—and you’ll never get
me back in the basalt again!
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Rooster”: A peculiar feature of Aus-
tralian aboriginal art is that sculpture in
the round is practically non-existent. It
isn’t because three-dimensional form is
unknown to them ; there are many indi-
cations which show they possess a latent
talent for plastic art. The fighting shields
of the Kimberleys are wonderful examples
of sculptures in relief, light and shadow
effects on alternating diamond and square
patterns showing up as the shields aye
held at different angles. The only ex-
amples of real sculpture occurred in two
widely-distant areas —in the extreme west
and the east. Kalboori Youngi, a
woman member of the Pitta Pitta
tribe in central-western Queensland,
produced human figures and groups
almost Gothic in their simplicity. The
materials were soapstone and clay. But
these are of modern vintage, and quite
spontaneous. Male members of the
Djaro tribe, W.A., produced model figures
of emus, lizards and horses —clumsy, but
very good first attempts. Strange that,
whereas their paintings have reached a
high standard of perfection, the art of
sculpture seems to have eluded them.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Boss of our farmyard is
a large turkey-gobbler. There are two
roosters, one black and one white. They
fight, but not if Gobbler knows it. If
he sees a fight he flies to quell it, putting
himself between the combatants and, with
wings stiff and tail outspread, shepherds
one bird away from the scene. Now
that the hens are beginning to come from
the nests with their newly-hatched chicks
his days are very full. He has adopted
all chicks regardless of color or size;
protects them from real and imagined
enemies. The other day a mother and
“Have you met the new scullerymaid yet, Johnson?
her four chicks were caught in a sudden
shower. The old boy dropped his wings
stiffly to the ground and stood over hen
and chickens, a living umbrella. He
has since capped even that. A large
motor truck called to pick up our wool.
As it moved off I saw that a hen a-nd
chicks were right in its path. So did
Gobbler. He deliberately put himself be-
tween them and the moving truck and
strutted deliberately ahead of the truck,
ignoring the blaring horn, until the
hen had time to get her family to one
side. Then he flew over the fence. It
must have taken courage to delay the
moving giant as he did.
* * * *
“Piper”: Any day now I expect to
renew acquaintance with an old friend
“It's only that he wants to be a plumber, dear”
whom I see only in summer; the blue-
tongued lizard that lives somewhere under
the western foundation of our house. We
are hosts to several big chaps around, but
this one can't be mistaken —he has a
black scar across his back which he
never loses with the annual skin change.
It was acquired four summers ago when
he was only of middle size. Hearing a
scuffle on the drying ground we arrived
in time to see Bluey battling a full-grown
rat. Rat had his fangs in Bluey’s back,
but Bluey had Rat’s hind-feet and tail in
his jaw. It looked anybody’s fight until
Bluey, levering himself up on his stumpy
tail, gave Rat a quick shake which dis-
lodged Rat’s grip. Then Bluey brained
Rat with a few flicks on to a brick path.
Unperturbed by our presence, he dragged
the corpse underneath the house, where,
presumably, he dined. And yet there are
people who swear a blue-tongue won’t
go for anything as large as a chicken!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Mac made a short wire-
hook for raking thistles out of the peg-
drum and hung it through a hole in the
driver’s seat of the header. But the
ground was rough and the bumping dis-
lodged the hook which was lost and
Mac made another, th.s time with a
to (he duV n »hen\T S saw ln fhe 8 ha 0 n W d n s
start to race across the paddock. Behind
them smoke was burgeoning out of the
neighbor’s ripe oats. Mac stopped the
machine and made to spring from the
seat. But that hook somehow caught in
his pants and anchored him. He wriggled
and twisted, but couldn’t get free. Mean-
time about 20 men and boys, three women
and the usual dogs had fallen on that
fire and squelched it, whereupon the
grateful neighbor regaled them with tea
and bottled beer. Mac, now a helpless
prisoner of the machine, waited and
fumed. Back came his hands, pleased
with the fire, the break in the routine,
and the beer. They noticed the stalled
header and came curiously to it. Mac,
anchored to the seat but with his feet
on the ground, explained. “It just shows
y’,” they said, as they released him.
“There was so much excitement we never
even missed y’ at the fire. We”
“Never mind about you,” Mac growled.
“Me an’ Ross had a row last week an’
now I got t’ lose an hour takin’ one of
you over there t’ convince him I didn’t
stay away from his fire on purpose.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Toughest taskmaster of
my experience was a brown frog who
regularly sat on a chair under my petrol-
lantern on a Torres Straits island. He
dined on the hordes of insects which
crashed after their wings were singed by
the hot globe
of the lantern.
If I neglected
to place the
chair I was
quickly re-
minded by an
imperious
croak. Some-
times I deliberately left the chair in an-
other room or hung the lantern from an-
other hook. The batrachian blasphemy
which resulted was shocking.
* * * *
“Scientio”: “Mudbank” on those
Murchison dingoes hunting in pairs (B.
22/10/’52) convinces me that the time he
spent on the Murchison must have been
even shorter than his eyesight must be. It
doesn’t take a normally observant man
long to discover, as I did near Lake
Austin, the dingo’s favorite and (as I
thought) well-known hunting trick. When
following a scent the animals run side-
by-side, almost touching and perfectly in
step. With the bitch on the side away
from an observer, she is completely
obscured by her larger mate, and the
impression is given of only one animal.
This ruse leads to confusion among the
"quarry (say a pack of wallabies) when
one dingo suddenly becomes two, or
two become four, and in their bewilder-
ment they fall an easy prey.
* * * ♦
“Olive Willey”: In the explanations
so far offered for the cause of salt
lakes in Westralia’s wheatbelt I
haven’t noticed any suggestion that their
salinity might be explained by the
theory of Immanuel Velikowsky, in
Worlds in Collision, wherein he sug-
gests—and backs his suggestions by
history, fable and scripture —that the
world was once ravaged by periodical
visits from fearful comets which tore up
mountains and emptied seas. I have
noticed at the Humps at Hyden, in the
eastern wheatbelt, the marks of glaciers
on rocks. At the foot of Karlgarin Hill,
not far from the chain-lake system, are
large water-rounded rocks which must
have been smoothed and carried by a
large river system over a considerable
distance. In the flood year of 1945, when
this chain of lakes filled up, the under-
ground saltwater table rose to within a
few feet of the surface of good wheat-
land, causing much alarm, as it was as
salt as the sea.
WIND IN THE ORCHARD
The north-wind conies with his league-long
stride
In the wake of the green spring rain.
Tears and tatters the blossoms’ pride
Till a tree that lately was glorified
Js only a tree again.
The raindrops dazzle, the raindrops dance
And are flung to the earth to die
And boisterous breezes leap and prance
Through thick-set bough and enamelled branch
Till a thousand petals fly
In a delicate snowfall, a dainty frost
Of flowers flowers and flowers
Whirled and bedevilled and upward tossed
Or into the roadway ground and lost
And this goes on for hours.
Oh north-wind, shortening spring by half
With your antic knavery,
Scattering the cream of the year like chatf,
You may make the kookaburras laugh
But the grave doves mourn with me.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Psittaphobe”: Once knew a wicked
cockatoo which lived, and probably still
lives if local tempers have been equable,
in a hotel at Katherine (N.T.). When
anyone would go to use the ladies’
showers, which were in one block in the
yard behind the pub. Cocky would race
to climb the guarding creeper-covered
trellis and report at length, in a voice
which carried throughout the township,
on the activities being conducted inside.
Most feminine strangers who sought to
allay the heat of Katherine under the
cooling waters used to emerge a good
deal hotter than they had when they
started, but Cocky was never worried by
the things they said about him. Strangely,
he never troubled the men’s quarters.
sj* H*
“Ville”; Old Dawson made his way to
the dining-table in the swank city pub,
sat down opposite a polished gentleman
and greeted him. He was coldly received.
Herb’s soup arrived, and, filling the spoon
to capacity, he siphoned heartily. Then
his eyes stuck out, his face congested
and he blew violently. A chair crashed,
the polished gent, bounded up and with
an outraged expression dabbed frantic-
ally with his napkin at the soup which
spattered his front. He was collecting
himself to devastate Herb when Herb
opened out. “Serves y’ right, y’ silly
cow,” he roared. “Wyinell didn’t y’ tell
me th’ flamin’ stuff was hot! ”
* * * *
“C. Towers”; So “B.” considers that
a man can’t do everything on a property
he runs himself (B. 29 /10/’52). How
then does he imagine the one-man out-
back shows are run, 50 miles or more
from town, like some of the blocks in
Queensland? The owner just has to
shoe his own horses, do rough black-
smithing, set recalcitrant engines going,
repair windmills, concrete tanks, mend
harness and re-line saddles; many a
man is capable of doing his own classing
as well as “exporting,” and shearing or
crutching a few hundred sheep himself.
If he can’t “vet” a sick or injured animal
“Save your report, Hobson—your sound
hasn't caught up yet”
he shouldn’t be in the bush ; if he can’t
build a humpy out of iron and bush
timber, or break his own horses—thus
making sure they are properly handled—
he shouldn’t be there, either. I’ve known
scores of men who could do all these
things and more, and I learned to do a
lot of them myself when jackerooing;
the chap who couldn’t learn was wasting
his time. But that was some years ago.'
It appears from “B.’s” wail that the
present-day bushman, with his phone and
car and his property a few miles from
town, is becoming hopelessly reliant on
others for all the things he should be
able to do himself' —in other words, no
better than the rest of the supine inhabit-
ants of the Welfare State who want every-
thing the easy way. But I will agree
that he should delegate the accountancy
—that is a Black Art and a dangerous
mystery I can’t understand and deeply
“Nothing deeper than a baritone, I’d say.”
distrust, and the same goes for those
who practise it.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: “Phil Anthus” (B.
15/10/’52) suggests that the bronze
cuckoo’s mournful call is a result of his
unpopularity due to his parasitic pranks.
Well, the pallid cuckoo has more reason
than the bronze (or the fan-tailed) to be
miserable —though I don’t find his
ascending scale depressing—for, because
of his hawklike appearance he is
harried by both man and bird. Yet he
is one of our most useful birds, as he
destroys harmful insects and their larvas,
and is especially fond of the bristly cater-
pillar that few birds can stomach.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Once, hurrying home to
escape a coming storm I was passing
through a belt of timber when there was
a rapid succession of
Two of them seemed to meet about 100 ft.
above my head, and immediately a glow-
ing ball, about Ift. in diameter, appeared.
It moved slowly through the air, sinking
towards the ground and giving off
a humming sound as if it was
spinning rapidly, but I could
detect no sign of rotation. In-
side it, however, there were
some brilliant blue-and-white
lines, arranged like those spiral
ones inside a kid’s marble, and
these seemed to be flowing
rapidly. In their centre was
an even brighter spot qf light.
It seemed so harmless that I
stood watching it, wishing I
had a camera with me. The
thing glided towards a large
tree-limb, bounced off it,
touched again, and then there
was a blinding flash, a report
and a blast of hot air like that
from a bursting shell and for
several minutes I could see
nothing save blue dots floating
before my eyes. My ears sang
for half an hour afterwards ;
later I found the tree-limb
had been blown to pieces.
Since then I’ve seen a drawing
of the probable structure of an
atom, with its nucleus and the
electrons moving around it in
orbits, and it bears a striking
resemblance to the thing I saw,
except that the paths taken by
the electrons resemble a series
of hoops instead of the spiral
lines which I noted. For
what it’s worth: is the
fireball a large-scale reproduc-
tion of an atom and built, as
an atom is supposed to be, of
nothing more substantial than positive
and negative electrical charges?
* * * #
“R.S.”: Tell “Clooter” (B. 29/10/’52)
that Nevil Shute could very easily
have been right such figures were
commonplace on well - run properties
in good - rainfall areas in the 1950-
51 season of freak prices for
sheep and wool. One local instance:
750 acres of mostly hilly grazing land,
nearly ruined by erosion and rabbits—a
new owner cleaned it up (1938) and
gradually established about 250 to 300
acres of sub-clover. Grade Corriedales
were run, and over the last few years
about 800 ewes have been mated annually.
Only purchases for the last 12 years have
been high-class rams. For the season
1950-51 38 bales were shorn, and grossed
at auction (some weeks before the peak)
just over £9OOO. Wether lambs, aged and
cull ewes brought another £3OOO (round
figures), making a gross return per acre
of £l6 for the year. Other older-estab-
lished properties improved considerably
on this figure.
Sic * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We’d taken the wrong
track somewhere between Lang Lang and
Warragul (Gippsland), and towards night
were just about resigned to a hungry
sleep when we spotted a farm down in a
glen. The place seemed quiet and the
homestead was shut up. We knocked. A
frightened female voice called from in-
side, “Go away. Go away !” We went.
It was nearly dark, so we made camp
about half a hide along a creek and lit
a fire. All we had was tea and sugar.
The billy was about to boil when another
traveller appeared, paused, and said, “You
blokes campin’ here?” “Yair, drop y’r
swag.” “No ruddy fear,” he snapped,
and headed into the night. Shortly after
that a farmer rode up on a classy-looking
hack. “This is my land you’re on,” he
told us. “But as long as you don’t do
any damage it’s all right.” He rode away.
Mat said, slowly, “Let’s hit the doss an’
be out o’ this be sun-up.” “What’s y’r
hurry?” “This country’s too damn’ funny
f’r me,” Mat said. “First a girl chases
us away, then a bagman don’t want t’
camp an’ swap yarns, an’ next strike me
if we don’t meet a cocky who don’t mind
us campin’ on his land. Mate, this is
no place f’r us!”
* * * *
“V.”: Ran into Jonesy down by his
front-fence, and plainly he was in a bad
mood. “Why can’t they teach these new
blokes a bit of English,” he growled,
“before they send ’em out working on
farms?” “But 1 thought the one you got
was a good fast worker,” I protested.
“Too damn’ fast sometimes,” came
Jonesy’s complaint. “This morning
I had stockwork to do, so I set him to
work pulling down that strip of old
broken fence above the yards. ‘Pull down
fence,’ I told him. I showed him the bit
that had to be done, and, starting at the
near corner, ! pulled out the first post to
show him how. Then I left him to it.
He was so late showing up f’r dinner I
went up an’ found he’d pulled up all me
cowyard, the bales, half the calf-pen
and was starting in on the sheep-yards!”
* * * *
“Betcha”; What is the best way to
take a dog out of a trap? It all depends
on the dog ; and if you strike a bad one
it isn’t easy. Ignore the Alick who says
to grab the animal firmly by the back of
the neck and hold him off while you
release his mitt. The dog I trapped the
other day didn’t look big, and, being in
a hurry, I grabbed a fistful of neck and
gathered up the slack. Now a badly-
blackened forearm decorated with red
fang-punctures bears witness to such
foolishness. The method of shoving a
stick at the berserk brute and, when he
grabs it, donging him on the scone is right
enough for a dingo, but doubtful if the
dog is valuable. You’ll probably either
kill him or make him madder. Best plan
I know is to throw a bag or coat over
his head and hold it with one hand while
you take the trap off with the other.
Chances are, even at that, the worst will
happen, but I still think I’d rather face
the missus with a torn coat than a mad
dog with nothing at all.
* * * *
“Vet”: Col and Johnny, brothers,
weren’t regular shearers, but they’d
always shorn the old man’s flock,
and because shearers were hard to
find each of them took a pen with
different neighbors, to help out.
Down at the pub the rep. from the union
heard about them. “They got tickets?”
he asked. “Hell, no ; and you won’t get
them to take one,” he was told. “Neither
of ’em have got any time for your union.”
“No?” “No. That’s Col coming down
the road now. They both pass here on
their way home, but mostly one or other
of ’em’s a bit ahead.” As the rider drew
opposite, the union rep. strolled across.
“You’ll be Col Robson, 1 reckon,” he
grinned affably. “I been waiting for you.
Your brother Johnny took a
ticket off me just now, but he
didn’t have the money on him,
and he told me to get it off you
as you came past.” “Johnny
did ?” Col was plainly sur-
prised. “Oh, well,” he decided,
“if that’s the way it is” He
dived into a pocket for the
money, and took Johnny’s
receipt. Ten minutes later the
second brother rode by. “You
Johnny Robson?” greeted the rep.
“A bloke that said he was your brother
Col told me to watch out for you and
collect for a ticket he got off me. Said
he didn’t have the money on him, but
you’d fix it up.” Johnny started to argue,
remembered he hadn’t a ticket himself,
paid up, pocketed a receipt in his
brother’s name and hurried on. It was
on the spot where the brothers mef that
the bushfire started.
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”; Helped by a good
season and two teenage daughters, a
German couple living in a slab humpy on
a Queensland dairyfarm decided to buy
a piano. The local agent promptly sold
them a cottage instrument for £lOO cash.
Returning to his office the agent found
a high-pressure salesman just arrived
from Brisbane to pep-up business.
Hurriedly glancing at the sale-note the
h.-p. man said, “If those people have
£lOO to pay cash, we should do better
than this.” He shot out and sold them
a player-piano for £2so—£loo down,
balance in monthly instalments, and
cancelled the original sale. Came drought
and it was impossible to keep up the
payments, so the piano firm decided to
repossess. Now, the playef-piano had
been too big to go through the humpy
door, so Fritz had removed a dozen or
so slabs to get it inside. Acting on legal
advice he declined to permit the salesmen
to tear down the wall of the best room
to remove the player, and legal proceed-
ings ended in a verdict in his favor.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I found a termite-
mound in what had been a tree-stump,
dug it out, broke it into pieces and
threw them to the chooks. The termites
that fell out were promptly gobbled up.
For the next few days the fowls dug at
the pieces until there wasn’t a sign of
life left in them. After a week I turned
the lumps over. Each one was not only
still fairly full of termites, but was evi-
dently being used as a base for establishing
a new colony underground. I was able
to follow the tunnels a good 18in. through
the moist sand. I turned each lump over
and broke it, and the fowls got to work
again. A few weeks later there were still
termites in most of those lumps. Now I’m
wondering. I know there s more than
one queen in a mound, but is it likely
that each of those lumps, whose occupants
were so busily re-establishing themselves,
would contain a queen? Could they
create a queen? The termite could
answer a lot of questions if it could only
talk.
AUSTRALIANS ALL
Against the magic orange of the sky
you stand, ,
leaves shaggy as a dark wild head,
high branches thin as fleet black limbs
lost in a bushland blur. ,
Before the evening’s breeze, drooping, you
slowly move,
casual, careless—and deceiving.
In day’s full glare
your great trunk stands;
black, the wrinkles of its years;
green, your tough leaves cling;
and dead, where the drought sun lit its flame
red, they ride.
W.A.
OLIVE PEEL.


f
y?
■ m
i * & $
Fly
Cttii£tdiOM
To NORTH AMERICA and U.K.
BETTER SERVICE. You’ll be delighted with the quick,
courteous attention you receive from Canadian Pacific’s
stewardesses. They’ll bring you snacks at a moment’s
notice, as well as the standard full course meals. There’s
a complimentary bar service, too.
GREATER COMFORT. Canadian Pacific sets a new
high standard of air travel comfort with their cushiony,
soft, adjustable Loungaire chairs. No doubt about
it —you fly relaxed, arrive refreshed when you travel
Canadian Pacific style to North America.
32 HOURS iN SUN-DRENCHED HAWAII
Only Canadian Pacific gives you a carefree 32-hour
stop-over in glamorous Honolulu plus an 13-hour stay
in Fiji with hotel and meals provided free.
COMETS-COMMENCING MARCH 1953
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents), at 247 George St., Sydney, and 59
William St., Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency,
will be glad to offer you full information,
(Pacific
Ml ft LINES
“Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada
FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’|
<l si'jznaecC
M/mera/wn.'
mmmM
M
i , S
f/J
HM
s&s
; ,- v v\.
M
«'* m»«e,
p * O o
*e»
J
The standard of
good taste in gin
for more than
200 years.
GIN
/cMTtmtd- Avnce /T'SQ
VG4B/I4
TIME TO BUY A HOME?
A great change has come over
the market for most kinds of
property during the past 18
months. The motor-car business
has slumped spectacularly. A
new car driven out of the show-
loom is again subject to normal
resale depreciation sometimes
rather more than normal. There
are no blackmarket
premiums. Second - hand
prices have dropped by a third
or more. Take your pick, and
no waiting—that is the general
position in the market for new
or used cars at the present time,
And post-war salesmen are at
last being forced to learn to
sel J- , ,
In the sharemarket the attrac-
tion of easy money has also
gone completely. It is only
where an excess of pessimism
has caused a share to go
far too low (as in the case
of Mauri Bros, and Thomson
shares and Masonite ords.) sub-
sequent to a new issue, and a
recovery has followed, that there
have been any easy pickings on
the Stock Exchanges. Black-
marketeers and other obvious
tax-evaders have much less loot
to hide nowadays, and there is not
the pressure of this sort of money
now to be found in any section
of the property market. Legi-
timate business earnings are
down, too, and the really big
money earned by wool growers
is but a rather indistinct
memory.
Luxury spending, concealment
of excessive earnings by share-
and property-purchases, and
dealings in shares for speculative
profits have died a more or less
natural death. Less natural, per-
haps, has been the falling-off in
the demand for homes. This
slump has been caused to a large
extent by restrictions on the
amount of finance available to
prospective home-owners,
year or so ago a
large proportion of home-
seekers were prepared to pay
almost any price for a home
provided some finance institution
carried 80 p.c. of the cost. (This
was a factor in the great infla-
tion of property values, and one
reason why most money-lending
concerns became cautious.) Now
there is little chance of their get-
ting anything like the amount of
finance that was available in
1951, and, furthermore, they are
more thoughtful today about
their capacity to pay interest and
repay principal even on a loan
of smaller amount. Jobs are less
secure. Fewer wives are able to
augment their husbands’ incomes
from office jobs and the like,
Much less overtime is being
earned. Commitments already
entered into have become an
increased burden in many cases,
r . , _
vCHIFIOII the FOShlOh
It has become less the fashion,
as a result of all these things,
for families to be buying homes,
Caution is a new fashion created
originally from necessity, but
fashion to some extent it none-
theless is. Similar fashions
prevail from time to time on the
Stock Exchange. When share
prices are rising (and becoming
consequently more risky) it is the
fashion of many people to rush
in and buy ; when prices are
falling (and consequently getting
cheap) it ceases to be fashionable
(among impressionable specu-
lators) to buy shares.
“Fashion,” or the prevailing
trend, even influences people
without financial problems in the
matter of buying homes. At
present there are* people with
ample finance who are still
hanging off and wondering
whether there will be a further
drop in house-property prices.
M)E“>TO
°^STfc
S&c4lf
n
•Tpe NEW
mM&
COMICJ
ov
Jill
“Grab th ’ best of ’em while I keep ’im covered
Some of these people are deter-
mined to buy a house before
long, in any case, but want, to
buy at the very bottom of the
market.
To buy at the bottom or sell
at the top of a market is a
very understandable desire. But
it is usually an unprofitable
objective on which to set one’s
heart. There are a thousand
sore speculators at present still
holding shares in concerns that
were at a high figure on the
Stock Exchanges 18 months ago,
and on which they then showed
a handsome profit, but which
they held in order to get just a
few shillings more for them.
Now these people are often
showing a heavy loss. They are
just as likely to miss the bottom
of the market when it comes to
“averaging.”
Value and Price
The successful investor or
speculator is the person who can
put a value rather than a price
on a thing. He buys when he
knows thatthe price is below the
real value; sells when price
equals or exceeds value. He dis-
regards extremes of prices.
This is something to be borne
in mind when buying a home at
the present time. Full considera-
tion has to be given to the value
of the home in the light of the
present property market, V.-G.
valuations, and the cost of build-
ing a similar house at present-day
building costs.
Prices of homes in early 1951
were, in many cases, too high—
usually much too high. There
has been a big drop from those
prices, especially in the case of
more elaborate homes. Even a
house for which £4500 was asked
a year ago may now be bought
for perhaps £3500 in some
Sydney suburbs, especially if
it is tenanted. Some specula-
tive-builders are selling their
properties at much less than cost.
But where money is available
for house-loans the tendency still
is for it to be more readily
available for new buildings
Houses built for 10 years or
more may not command a com-
parable loan value. Thus, while
the prospective buyer may think
that an older home is a better
bargain, he may be compelled,
by finance reasons, to turn to a
new building or a home recently
built.
Obviously the person with his
own finance, or most of it, is in
a better position to buy than the
one who has 50 p.c. or less of
the price asked. The former can
select the house he wants with-
out worrying about any third or
fourth parties.
Whether the present is the right
.time or not to buy a home de-
pends to some extent on all these
factors. The buyer, his financial
position and the financial accom-
modation available to him are
important, as well as the price
of the house in view.
But price is the dominant
factor, and most prices of
cottages are a good deal lower
than they were a year or two
ago. If a soundly-built cottage
can now be bought at consider-
ably less than current building
costs, then, allowing for any
depreciation that has occurred,
any repainting necessary, etc., it
should prove fair buying. Actual
costs of building, on the whole,
have so far done little more
than stabilise themselves. Nor
is any great drop in costs likely
unless there is a return to the
44-hour week.
Houses are still being with-
held from sale by spec.-builders
and others awaiting a turn for
the better in house and land
values. They may be forced to
sell before that time arrives,
thus further depressing the
market. But, on the other hand,
potential demand for homes is
growing all the time.
Prices for property may now
be said to be comparatively de-
pressed, but irregular. Each city
and town will have its own
peculiarity as to demand for
homes and as to price. And
every proposition must be con-
sidered on its particular merits.
Thus the intending home-
purchaser must approach the
matter. He will never see pre-
war building costs again; most
prices are up for good. If he
can buy a pre-war cottage
at 75 p.c. up on 1938
prices in a desirable suburb he
will, as a rule, be doing very
well even in the present de-
pressed market. There is a short-
age of homes, with very little
building for rent going on, and a
roof over one’s head is a neces-
sity. Building costs will in due
course again govern the price
of house-properties.


V
ARTS
Circular Chart* for ail types
of Recording instruments
for any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
JXCUWWg O's’llLLl VAN
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
mtwtmsssm
-v, \
:>-V
r
' - '*« % - s '■
TWO RUGGED CRAWLERS AND ALL NECESSARY
EQUIPMENT FOR DOZING—SCOOPING—RIPPING—
LOADING—LOGGING AND CLEARING
MODERN DESIGN
Improved design makes Ansaldo
the world’s most modern crawler.
More convenient layout—stronger
chassis—greater protection—im-
proved track suspension—heavier
springing—better riding—more
useful speed range—simpler con-
trols—variable speed P.T.O. and
the FINEST DIESEL TRACTOR
MOTOR—ALFA ROMEO—are
just a few Ansaldo features.
RELIABILITY
These reports are typical of
Ansaldo performance—
(l) TCA 70, pictured above, operated
by Mr. H. J. FIRTH OF MOREE,
has run 1400 hours to date without
hold-up or replacement.
(2) Messrs. MULLER & NELSON of
Ebor advise their Ansaldo had head
removed for first time after 1,800
hours’ heavy logging cylinder
wear .00125" —original piston rings
replaced. NO PARTS USED TO
DATE.
EFFICIENCY
On tank illustrated, Mr. Firth’s
TCA 70, with 5-yard hydraulic
scoop, averaged 700 yards per
8-hour day—well above average
for any 60 H.P. tractor.
In logging, the TCA 70 comfort-
ably handles 2,000 super feet—
largest log reported to date
handled by TCA 70 is 4,018
super feet.
Ansaldo gives YOU what you WANT—HIGH EARNINGS—efficient economical service without costly hold-ups. Ansaldo
Distributors offer FULL WARRANTY—PROMPT DELIVERY—EFFICIENT FIELD SERVICE—AMPLE SPARE PART STOCKS
ANSALDO TRACTORS
For further details contact your local distributor.
DOMINION MOTORS HUDSON TAYLOR & CO.
52 William Street, Sydney. MA9017 606 Murray Street, Perth. B 790$
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Tractor Division, Graham Street, Port Melbourne
MX 2 I 7 i
CLYDE MOTORS
165 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane
L 4237
POWER PLANT LTD., 100 Gurrie Street, Adelaide. LA 21 1 1
Sole Factory Representatives for A ustralia:
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY. LTD., sth Floor, 61-65 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, N.S.W. MA 9141
2620
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
British Food Contracts
If ways and means of helping
John Bull could be decided by a
Gallup poll, Maorilanders would
plump for Canada’s and Uncle
Sam’s method, and get rid of
the present bulk-marketing and
contract-price system. It’s not
a question of willingness to stand
by the Old Man, but of how it
can be done best.
Not that N.Z. hasn’t fared
moderately well, what with a
couple of 10 p.c. rises for meat,
followed by 12f p.c. for this
season all well above the
contract limit of 1\ p.c. —and
the full maximum lift of 1\ p.c.
for butter and cheese for three
seasons in a line. It’s just that
no one knows what assistance is
given under pegged prices.
Economically, the system fol-
lowed wouldn’t hold water. On
balance Maoriland has been a
heavy loser through selling cheap
and buying dear. The best state-
ment of Maoriland’s case so far
has been made by S. C. Suther-
land, head-serang of Wright,
Stephenson and Co., who says
Canada followed a wiser course
by insisting on world-parity
prices for exports and making
grants-in-aid in ways best suited
to its economy. Maoriland
should have kept its trade sound
in the same way.
Topheavy “Security”
Even if Maoriland is a well-
to-do little country, it will have
to do something sooner or later
to place its £6O million-a-year
social-security system on a
sound budgetary basis. Spending
at this rate, which is between
8 p.c. and 10 p.c. of national
income, is as much as N.Z. can
manage in good times, and would
be too much in hard times. As
the little country hasn’t a per-
petual mortgage on prosperity,
although Socialists and monetary
cranks try to persuade Maori-
landers that they could make the
place a paradise, things won’t be
rosy for ever, and everyone
might as well realise this now,
whether they’re at the paying or
receiving end, because the system
has certainly run to seed in the
short space of 13-odd years.
Some Maorilanders who see
the Ted light have been sound-
ing the alarm about over-
spending to an extent that makes
it necessary to draw on general
tax-income for a quarter of the
social-security budget annually,
and have been demanding an
adjustment in cost to bring it
within income, which seems a
sane and realistic attitude when
there are so many other heavy
calls on taxes in a country carry-
ing a tax-load equal to 30 p.c.
of total private income, against
19 p.c. in the pre-war year.
Well over £lOO million, in the
aggregate, has been transferred
from general taxes oven little
more than a decade to supple-
ment the proceeds of the social-
security tax of Is. 6d. in the £
on all incomes, and last year the
Taxation Committee called for
economy as one of its most
urgent recommendations. This
is what it said: “As expendi-
ture under the welfare pro-
gramme is so largely dependent
on the transfer of income from
sections of the community that
originate, organise and carry out
production and distribution, it
should be apparent to the bene-
ficiaries that their security
depends on that of the producers
of this income. This expenditure
can be sustained only if taxable
incomes are maintained at levels
that will allow the necessary tax
revenues.”
In short, there’s no margin of
safety, and the security the
system should guarantee for the
next generation of Maorilanders
is too shaky to stand scrutiny.
An irretrievable mistake was
made when, in defiance of expert
advice, the Socialists grafted the
system insecurely on the
Dominion’s economy, utterly
disregarding insurance principles
or actuarial soundness, on top of
which a spendthrift policy has
been pursued right up to the
present time.
There’s little profit in crying
over spilt milk, or in lamenting
the breakdown in the spirit of
sturdy independence, self-reliance
and rugged individualism in
many Maorilanders, but at least
action could be taken to halt the
drift before it is too late. Two
moves that would do a lot to end
the wastage would be to extend
the means-test to all groups of
beneficiaries, and to stop collect-
ing millions of pounds from
family men merely to pay the
money back, less the cost of col-
lection and distribution, at a rate
of IQs. weekly for every child,
Another and most effective step
would be to make a small charge
f° r medicine.
.
One of the most outspoken
critics, Leonard N. Ross, presi-
dent of the Auckland Chamber
ofCommerce,
like this. Has the mammoth
structure which looms darkly
over our economy been soundly
built? The truth is, the system
as we know it has become a poli-
tical plaything rather than an
insurance policy against adver-
s ity. It lulls people into com-
placency and blind faith, and in
its insecurity threatens the very
ones who unthinkingly look on
it as a benevolent and never-
failing source of comfort and
1 g J, comrori ana
SUpP ° rt -
Borrowing Rates
r . ht New
Comparisons between New
Zealand and Australian interest
levels give the impression that
borrowers on the other side of
the Tasman can get money 15s.
per cent, cheaper than their Aus-
tralian offsiders ; but this is not
the real difference.
Pressure on the loan market is
so tightly controlled in Maori-
land that today’s rates are little
more than nominal Onlv a
man nominal. kj my a
trickle of money has been flow-
“8 mtc, semi-government issues
smce the borrowing rate was
lifted in mid . August by | p.c. to
4 pc and t| ie flow is gradually
d r ymg up, except for short-term
capital, which isn’t much use
where long-range capital-develop-
ment projects are involved.
Under the present arrangement,
which allows investors to select
their own repayment dates, funds
have gravitated into latest issues
dd til needs for the earlier years
h ave k ££n hhed, but lenders have
een .peeping clear of long
matu / ltles ’ Wlt h extremely dis-
comfortmg consequences for
local-governing authorities.
If controls were relaxed, the
rate would bound upward, and
Maorilanders, knowing that this
must ha PP en next 7 ear ’ are
Wdin their time Meanwhile
finance for mun icipal and
reg ional construction schemes is
hand-to-mouth, with the capital
market largely paralysed. The
Government has been keeping
off the market this year, helped
by windfalls from the wool boom
and the import flood, but will
have to come in again to keep
its works programme going
before next year is far advanced.
While it is sitting back there
is a feeling that Maoriland is
experiencing an uneasy lull.
Putting two and two together, it's
a safe wager that all rates will
rise in a few months’ time. New
Zealand, like all young
countries, is in urgent need of
road, rail, electric-power, indus-
trial, forestry and other develop-
ment, and will have to get busy
to keep pace with economic and
population growth. What the
people don’t realise clearly
enough, after years of bank-
credit expansion, coupled with
vigorous use of the printing-
press under the Socialists, is that
the only safe investment is that
financed by savings. New
Zealand has already had painful
experience of how efforts to
make up for deficiency in sav-
ings by creating money forces up
costs to a point where the real
value of new capital investment
is scaled dowrf to limits set by
saving.


r
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Heller; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
As your Executor und Trustee
The Company, founded in 1878, provides
1. EXPERIENCED ADMINISTRATION; By personal specialising in trust work.
2. CONTINUITY OF MANAGEMENT: Individual Trustees may die but the Company
is a permanent Corporation.
3. CONSTANT AVAILABILITY; The Company is accessible every business day.
4. ECONOMICAL SERVICE: Charges are fixed and moderate.
5. SECURITY; Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
*5?
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
, ■ ■ ■' ” , • \
TR3.35
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
f Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£> £ £ £ £
’47 227,271 12,000 12 154,982 60,289 858,756
’4B 288,180 12,000 15 „ „ 193,727 82,453 941,209
Share premiums, £390,000 .. .. 1,331,209
’49 270,138 12,000 15 p.c.= 219,726 38,412 1,369,621
Reserves capitalised, £465,454 .. 904,167
’5O 436,320 12,000 15 p.c.= 314,323 109,997 1,014,164
Sale assets, £5831 . . . . .. 1,019,995
’5l 479,692 12,000 13Jp.c.=423,882 43,810 1,063,805
Sale assets. £64,934 .. .. ..1,128,739
Added intangibles, £25,404 .. ..1,103,835
’52 469,158 12,000 11jfp.c.=:425.626 31,532 1,134,867
* After deducting goodwill, now £79,404. t Includes
additions to freehold depreciation reserve to 1950.
The three years to 1951 was a period
of spectacular growth by absorptions and
otherwise, during which paid capital in-
creased by 163 p.c. and total assets by
168 p.c. Last term was one of consoli-
dation and adjustment of the businesses
taken over, of normal development, of
changing trading conditions and to some
extent of frustration—Capital Issues
Control refused the board’s request to
make another new share-issue.
To get the crowded picture into per-
spective it is necessary to go back to
June, 1949, when the Stewart Dawson
properties, facing Pitt- and King-streets,
Sydney, were bought for £859,000-odd,
the deal being financed mainly on mort-
gage. In April, 1950, £465,454 of bonus-
scrip was scattered, three for ten, out of
the share-premium reserve. In October,
1950, Selfridges, a rival chain organisa-
tion with 16 stores in N. S. Wales, a
subsidiary in Westralia and another in
New Zealand, was bought for £356,250
in scrip—the N.Z. offshoot was later sold
to Woolworths. In December, 1950,
£1,250,944 of fresh ord. capital was
gathered at par to finance all-round ex-
pansion, including purchase of the Sydney
Arcade, which, with the Stewart Dawson
properties, will eventually allow con-
struction of a big store with frontages
to Pitt-, King- and George-streets. Then,
just before the close of accounts in 1951,
all the 485,050 £1 shares in F. and G.
Investment Pty, were bought from Foy
and Gibson (Melbourne) for £1,176,656,
and with them a controlling, interest in
F. and G. Stores (the old O. Gilpin busi-
ness), which operated a chain of 92 shops
scattered throughout Vic., N. S. Wales,
S. Aust. and Tasmania. This deal was
also financed on mortgage.
The name F. and G. Stores was changed
to Coles Country Stores, Ltd., which has
a paid capital of £907,634 in 100,000
7 p.c. first and 200,000 6 p.c. second
prefs., 41,205 employee shares and
balance ords. The public hold the prefs.
and Coles the ords., or all but a small
fraction of them. This subsidiary has
now ceased trading and become a pro-
perty-holding co. —32 of the stores are
leased to the parent, 28 have been sold
and two await buyers. Profit on sale of
fixed assets appears in the consolidated
accounts at £187,561.
There are now 172 stores —30 of them
were added last term —in the chain, which
extends throughout the Commonwealth.
Turnover for the year increased by 23 p.c.
as against 42 p.c, for the previous term,
both figures being well above average
for the retail trade as a whole. The
impetus to sales occurred during the first
half of the year. After that buyer-resist-
ance developed and profit - margins
narrowed, while wage, transport and all
other operating costs increased substan-
tially.
After allowing £97,194 (down £101,920)
for depreciation and £425,000 (up
£48,000) for taxation, the parent’s
accounts show a trading profit of £469,158
(down £10,534). That was enough to pay
the pref. div. (£12,000) and show 12.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital, as against 14.7,
21, 17.6 and 21.3 p.c. back to 1948.
The div., lowered from 15 p.c. in 1950
to 13| p.c. in the following year, dropped
to Ilf p.c.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect pur-
chase and reorganisation, etc., of the
old F. and G. Stores and continued
growth of the undertaking:
Capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Orel £2,016,939 £3,648,219 £3,648,219
Pref 150.000 150,000 150,000
Mortgages, etc... 981,296 1,470,164 2,385,000
Overdraft . . 70,980 936,234
Creditors . . 629,874 1,389,293 1,744,833
Owing to subsids. 22,314 483,216 896,482
Employees’ funds 11,437 8,029 6,813
Tax reserve . . 373,159 456,628 414,565
Final div. . . 236,747 304,018 304,018
Freeholds .. 2,668,551 3,290,732* 3,393,474*
Leaseholds . . 143,632 168,367* 238,926*
Fittings, etc. . . 372,308 450,969 716,911
Cash, etc. .. 20,977 28,737 375,994
Stocks . . . . 2,180,695 3,801,469 3,257,251
Debtors . . . . 84,762 66,587 111,415
Shares subsids... 63,310 1,619,529 1,694,346
Goodwill, etc. . . 54,000 54,000 79,404
* After deducting unpaid balance on purchase—
£lll,92o freeholds, £13,567 leaseholds at June
30, 1952.
To wipe out the overdraft (£936,234 at
the previous balance), increase the book-
value of fixed assets by £439,243, shares
in subsidiaries by £74,817 and book-debts
by £44,828 the co. went outside for an
extra £1,270,376, of which £914,836 was
added to mortgages and £355,540 to the
amount coming to trade creditors. In-
cluding balances owing on properties
(£125,467), there was 17s. 3d. of outside
money in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders when the books
closed.
With reorganisation of the old
F. and G. Stores business complete, and
since trading conditions and cost now
show signs of settling down, some im-
provement in net earnings is to be ex-
pected. However, the growth of merchan-
dising activities and the profits of those
engaged in them promise to be less
spectacular than during recent boom
years. And while a tight rein is kept
upon the issue of both capital and credit
the cost of financing ordinary trade ex-
pansion will fall heavily upon profits
At 15s. 3d. (21s. early in 1952) the
f.-p.' ss. ords. give an immediate return
of 3.8 p.c. on the basis of last term’s
distribution. A one-for-two new share-
issue at par would lift the return to
4.8 p.c. on the same div. basis. The £1
prefs. at 295. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c.
Humes, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends \
Pref. Ord. \ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7i p.c. p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1948. 8,438 7J 37,500 156,619 553.251
Unexp’d addition reserves, £47,369.. 600,620
Less share-issue exes., £4138 . . 596.482
1949. .135,860 8,438 8 40,000 87,422 683,904
Sundry res. adjustments, £425,052.-1,108,956
Less share-issue exes., £1764 . . 1,107,192
1950..243,327 13,125 10 57,534 172.668 1,279.860
Revaluation assets, £477,190 • • 1,757,050
Reserves capitalised, £405,920 .. 1,351,130
Add exchange adjustment, £65,054 .. 1,416,184
Written off war claims, £195,470 .. 1,220,714
Less net res. adjustments, £381,835.. 838,879
1951. .888.382 27,188 10 121,817 189,377 1,028,256
Net unexplained additions, £31,143.. 1,059,399
Written off, £29,616 .. .. ‘ ..1,029,783
Reduction intangibles, £17,308 . . 1,047,091
1952. .527,106 27,188 10 167,500 332,418 1,379,509
* After deducting intangibles, etc., now £808,679.
f After deducting outside interests.
A surprisingly good result. It has set
at rest for the time being any fear there
might have been that the gift-giving of
November, 1950, had been overdone —
£405,920 of bonus-scrip was scattered,
one for two, from a reserve created by
writing-up the book-value of shares in
the wholly-owned subsidiary, Hume Steel,
Ltd.
The profit was not quite so good as
the £527,106 (up £188,724) claimed, be-
cause provision for taxation (£407,276, up
£102,681) included £42,825 overprovided
for the purpose in previous years. The
£184,289 set aside for depreciation was
£22,750 less than the 1951 figure, too.
The £527,106 also disregards various
adjustments interlined in the table. It
covered the pref. div. (£27,188) and
29.8 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
25.5, 25.5, 38.8 and 13.4 p.c. back to
1947. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
money being wanted to reduce the over-
draft and finance expanding business.
The group, which consists of Humes,
Ltd. (parent co.) and three main sub-
sidiaries, all of which contributed to the
improvement in last term’s net figure,
operates a string of 50-odd factories~39
in Australia and the balance in New
Zealand and Malaya—whose principal
products are concrete and concrete-lined
steel pipes. Demand, which depends
largely upon public spending, stiffened
considerably of recent years. This and in-
ternal reorganisation of the group sent
profits up with a rush. Capitalisation
and net earnings of individual units (as
stated in the directors’ report) compare
as follows:
Paid 1 Profit — ,
Capital. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Humes, Ltd 2,037,500* 142,656 98,377
Hume Steel, Ltd. . . 500,000 124,985 112,281
Hume Industries (F.E.) 950,000 f 204,209 117,532
Hume Industries (N.Z.) 500,000* 52,616 14,276
* Includes £362,500 p.c. prefs. f Includes
£250,000 5 p.c. participating prefs. j Includes
£lOO,OOO 5 p.c. prefs.
The total profit figures differ from those
shown in the introductory table, which
are the amounts claimed in the consoli-
dated accounts. The parent’s shares
(pref. and ord.) are listed on ’Change,
and so are the prefs. in the Far East and
N.Z. cos. All the ords. in the sub-
sidiaries are held by the parent.
Since the close of accounts the
steel co. has been wound up and
its business merged with that of
the parent. The N.Z. co., formed
a year or so ago to take over and expand
the parent and steel cos,’ interests in
the Dominion, recently put out a further
150,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. The Far East
co. (Singapore), best earner of the group,
paid its first ord. div. since the war in
September last, an interim at the rate
of 10 p.c. p.a., in which the prefs. also
participate.
During the year the parent and Goliath
Portland Cement (Tas.) jointly took up
a large asbestos ore-bearing deposit in
Southern Rhodesia, where a co, is
presently to be formed to work the pros-
pect, which is expected to prove “valu-
able and profitable,” Each co. had spent
£50,786 on the venture to June 30 last.
In association with Ready Mixed Con-
crete (Sydney), the parent has also be-
come interested in another offshoot,
Stressed Concrete Pty., which is to develop
the use of pre-stressed and post-tensioned
concrete in Australia and New Zealand.
The £456,830 of fresh cash-paid capital
gathered early in the term, together with
surplus earnings and an extra £270,824
from sundry creditors, etc., was used
mainly to slash £567,519 off the overdraft
and carry more stocks (up £471,910) and
book-debts (up £157,396):
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,174,750 £1,580,670 £2,037,500
. Outside interest .. 250,522 232,055 359,256
Overdraft" .. 835,606 1,089,017 521,498
Creditors* ~ 736,447 1,018,763 1,289,587
Final div. ~ 39,366 74,502 97,344
Freehold .. .. 224,734 314,475 329,348
Leasehold .. .. 917 888 ~
Building .. 755,867 857,547 904,600
Plant .. .. 829,717 933,037 1,000,904
Asbestos deposit.. 62,382 92,338 133,170
Shares other cos... 59,100 44,726 47,651
Stocks .'. .. 1,134,039 1,521,165 1,993,075
Debtors .. • • 805,088 931,943 1,089,339
Cash, etc. .. 3,108 27,938 34,184
War claims . . 443,034 299,211 152,523
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,407,743) was
£765,042.
In Australia orders on hand are suffi-
cient to keep the factories “fully employed
for months ahead, and in some cases for
as much as three years ahead,” and the
Singapore co. expects to maintain a “satis-
factory level of earnings,” all of which
augurs well for the 10 p.c. div., or per-
haps a bit better. Much will depend
upon how the N.Z. and Rhodesian ven-
tures pan out.
At 345. 9d. the parent’s f.-p. £1 ords.
give an immediate return of 5.6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 1\ p.c. A and
B prefs. at 265. 6d. and 255. 6d. yield
5.6 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £3O 7s. 3d.
A’s, £l3 4s. 4d. B’s and 365. 6d. ords.
Bruce Pie Industries (Bris.)
To Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends N serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £5747 .. .. .. 5,747
Prelim, exes, and brokerage, £10,184.. 15,931
1947 . . 8,305 3 p.c. = 4,690 3,615 12,316
1948 . . 12,200 3 „ „ 9.000 3,200 9,116
Added goodwill, etc., £3917 .. 13,033
1949 .. 24,031 5 p.c. = 18,423 5,608 7,425
1950 . . 28,446 5 „ „ 22,500 5,946 1,479
Res.*
1951 . . 52,388 6 ~ „ 29,809 22,579 21,100
1952 . . 42,443 5 ~ 33,750 8,693 29,793
* After deducting intangibles, £6OOO at June 30,
1952.
Considering the difficulties, this six-
year-old textile and bedding manufacturer
has put up an encouraging performance.
The div. climbed from 3 p.c. for the
first year to 6 p.c. for 1951, and dropped
to 5 p.c. last term, when shareholders
could see the whole of their capital intact
and £29,793 besides.
The co. kicked off with £300,000 of
capital, of which £59,073 (in scrip) was
used to buy two existing businesses —
Queensland Textile Co. (£50,250) and
Bruce Pie Bedding Co. (£8823). The
public put up the balance for cash, which
went mainly into a new worsted-spinning
and -knitting factory at Kedron, which
didn’t get into full swing till toward the
close of accounts in 1949. All-round
.expansion, including purchase of the
small bedding factory of F. Heatley and
Co., Townsville, has sent the capital
account to £675,000,' the last £225,000 of
which was gathered in February, 1951.
The co.’s knitted outer-wear soon won
markets inter-State, defence contracts
for khaki pullovers and cotton singlets
and shirts have proved a welcome addi-
tion to the order-book, the bedding
section is the biggest thing of its kind
in the northern State, and the textile sub-
sidiary (paid capital now £100,000) has
given a satisfactory account of itself. It
netted 8.1 p.c. on capital last term as
against 9.3 p.c. for the previous year.
Last term started and finished with
turnover moving in opposite directions.
Everything went well for the first half;
then, owing to the spate of imports,
credit-restriction and buyer-resistance,
wholesalers and retailers found them-
selves overstocked, and selling-prices
eased. For textile-manufacturers this
meant a drop in orders and the writing-
down of some stocks to market-value.
After so adjusting its inventory (amount
involved not stated), and allowing £17,634
(up £1237) for depreciation and £37,600
(up £2600) for taxation, the co.’s net
earnings were £9945 lighter at £42,443.
That was equal to 6.3 p.c. on average
capital as against 10.5, 6.3 and 6.5 p.c.
for the three preceding terms.
The stickiness of trade toward the close
of accounts and the stocks problem are
further reflected in balance-sheet figures:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £675,000 £675,000
Overdraft . . 73,051 120,855 146,073
Sundry creditors 58,325 64,770 146,603 127,628
Final divs. . . 18,423 22,500 29,809 33,750
Freeholds . . 99,539 103,854 126,858 149.357
Plant . . 121,094 124,198 131,832 140,285
Shares subsid. 111,142 116,142 116,142 116,142
Stocks . . 187,637 212,079 358,438 512,440
Debtors . . 72,637 99,305 118,351 93,496
Cash . . . . 325 1,068 20,891 424
Intangibles . . 13,664 11,664 8,000 6,000
To carry an extra £154,002 of stocks the
co. went to its bankers for £146,073.
There was a contraction of £24,855 in
book-debts and a reduction of £19,075


Established 1868
I Contractors to Government, Municipal,
I Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIV 4
omijjjvax
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC ULAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now ia
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
< s |
The Intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of watcfv
making result in
duction of to-
Lavina—l7-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces.
M
4
¥
mm
WATCHES
;ll ed
as^erpieceS
LW27.61
STOCK DEPARTMENT MANAGER
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE
CO. LTD., 89 Phillip Street, Sydney, requires the
services of a fully-trained officer, with administra-
tive ability, as Manager of their Stock Department.
Salary appropriate to the position and includes
Provident Fund Benefits.
Applications to the General Manager treated as
strictly confidential.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys,
422 , Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Aus-
tralian and Overseas Patents and Trade
Marks. — Advt,
From
Scotland—
every
precious
drop
toScoicn
St AC*
W HITE
SUCHANAN
sow. scon
■ NT«W\
thV
U
„ SCOTCH WHISKY
BUCK* WHITE'
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
wmmmiHiilm.imuumi,
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHBSKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment to
the Late King George VI
fsd
f
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
,JBS
COMPANY ADVERTISEMENT
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
The following is an excerpt from
the Chairman’s statement to Share-
holders on Wednesday, 29th October,
1952, in submitting the Balance Sheet
for the year ended 30th June, 1952.
You will have noted -that the Balance
Sheet discloses a net profit of £60,210
for the year as compared with
£31,803 for the year ended 30th
June, 1951.
In August, 1951, the Company issued
90,000 £1 5% Cumulative Prefer-
ence Shares and 42,300 Ordinary
Shares of 10/- at par, thus more than
doubling the capital.
For the greater part of the financial
year our operations continued to ex-
pand in every section.
In recent months, however, our
business, in common with all others,
has been adversely affected by import
restrictions and the general recession
in trade. The reduction in imports
has necessarily had a marked in-
fluence on the activities of our heavy
cartage division, whilst other depart-
ments have also suffered. Suitable
steps have been taken to minimise, as
far as possible, the effect of these
influences, and I am pleased to tell you
that our business, so far, has operated
satisfactorily during the current
period.
We feel that the return to more
normal conditions, as distinct from the
extremely abnormal conditions of
1951, must be of eventual benefit to
the whole community, and there is
already evidence of a better approach
to jthe problems of industry oh the
part of both employer and employee. •
We believe also that ‘ evety section
of commerce, industry and labor must
make some sacrifice if the spiral of
mounting costs is to be halted. The
transport industry is already bearing
a substantial part of the recent rises
in the basic wage, and the resultant
higher prices of commodities.
The growth of the armored car
payroll and cash deposit service has
necessitated the acquisition of our own
premises in which to conduct opera-
tions. Properties have been purchased
in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and
Geelong, and these are now being
altered to conform to our requirements.
The properties in the respective
cities have all been well chosen, and
we are confident that they will prove
valuable adjuncts to our business.
I made mention in my address last
year of our proposals to erect a build-
ing in Brisbane, and I am glad to be
able to inform you that the necessary
permission was obtained. The struc-
ture is practically completed, and it
will be used both by the delivery de-
partment and the Payroll and Cash
Deposit Section.
Our servicing and engineering depot
at Cheltenham is being developed, and
has been of great value in the mainten-
ance of our fleet.
I
KEEP FIT
the UNI A WAY
Wear the light
lINIA BEIT
and remove this Danger Curve
Your abdominal organs will be
well supported, your carriage light
and elastic. You will gain in health
and appearance. The LINIA BELT
will reduce your measurements
by several inches without revealing
that you wear a belt. Post coupon
for illustrated free booklet, or call
and try on the Belt.
To J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, CJ,.
NAME ■
ADDRESS
STATE H 34-7
in the amount coming to trade
creditors. Installation of addi-
tional knitting-, top-dyeing- and
garneting-plant sent the book-
value of fixed assets up by
£30,952 net. There is nothing
uncomfortable about the
financial position.
Exactly how the current term
will pan out is difficult to say
at the moment. Much depends
upon the soundness of stocks,
both in respect of quality and
book-value. The order-book is
now showing signs of picking
up again, but competition
promises to get steadily keener,
and the costs curve, although
showing signs of flattening out,
has not yet turned downwards.
It all looks like narrow margins
and moderate profits.
The market, which expects
the 5 p.c. div. to be maintained,
prices the £1 shares at 17s. (18s.
6d. a year ago) to return 5.9 p.c.
Net tangible cover is 20s. lid.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. , Reserves.*
£ p.c. £ £
’48.. 949,'289 110= 880,000 2,940,856
’49. . 1,456,297 130 = 1,040,000 3,357,153
’50.. 1,182,459 120= 960,000 3.579,612
’5l. . 1,792,812 160 = 1,280,000 4,092,424
’52. . 1,516,419 160= 1,280,000 4,328,843
* Excludes reserves for shaftsinking (now
£216,517) and workmen’s compensation
(now £168,026).
Earnings depend mainly upon
the relative levels of output,
metal prices and costs. Last
term a bigger tonnage of
slightly-lower-grade ore was
milled for more lead and a bit
less silver and zinc;
Crudes , Assay v
Treated.* Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1950 .. 286,670 12.7 7.5 12.2
1951 ..277,710 12.0 7.8 12.1
1952 ..299,170 11.8 7.2 11.2
* Sulphides.
The metal content of the con-
centrates produced and final
residues were as follows:
Lead, Silver, Zinc.
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1950 .. 36,276 2,164,017 34,978
1951 . . 33,458 2,168,759 33,709
1952 .. 35,374 2,165,493 38,473
Recoveries were 96.6
p.c. of the lead and 92 p.c. of
the silver in the lead concentrate
and 88 p.c. of the zinc in the
zinc concentrate. The lead con-
centrates are smelted at Port
Pirie, and about one-third of the
metal is Sold locally and the bal-
ance exported. The zinc concen-
trates are taken mainly by Elec-
trolytic Zinc on a sliding-price
scale based on local and over-
seas prices and the proportion
of metal taken by the home
market, which is over half
E.Z.’s total output.
Metal prices were higher, too,
London averages being as fol-
lows: —
Lead. Zinc.
Year to 30/6/’5O £S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
Year to 30/6/’6l 135 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52 167 10 11 183 14 3
Month July, ’52 134 1 4 130 0 0
Month, Sept., ’52 132 10 0 122 18 2
November 4, ’52 91 7 6 110 0 0
After 13 years of Government
control, which took the form of
bulk buying, free trading in lead
on the London Metal Exchange
was resumed on August 1 last,
and the price fell sharply, as
the figures in the table show.
Zinc is expected to join the free-
list at the beginning of 1953,
when a further drop in its price
is anticipated. Locally the price
for both metals was lifted from
£A6S to £A9S a ton as from
September 5 last.
The gains from the better out-
put and higher metal prices for
the year to June 30, 1952, were
mostly swallowed by increased
costs. It was heavier provision
for taxation and royalties
(£2,382,000, up £369,000) that
pulled back the profit figure,
which the board put at
£1,476,349 (down £281,576), of
which over 80 p.c. came from
mining and the balance from
investments:
Declared
profit— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Mining . 895,221 1,493,707 1,186,665
Invest-
ments .. 245,964 264,218 289,684
Total .. 1,141,185 1,757,925 1,476,349
The declared profit is recon-
ciled with that shown in the
introductory table in this way:
Profit claimed .. .. £1,476,349
Capital profit .. .. .. 5,694
Unexplained add’n reserves.. 92,732,
Allowance depreciation .. 33,000
Total £1,607,775
Less —spent on plant .. 91,356
Profit per table .. .. £1,516,419
The £1,476,349 was equal to
9s. 2d. (184.5 p.c.) per ss. share
and the £1,516,419 was 9s. sd.
(189.5 p.c.) per share. The div.
was kept at Bs. (160 p.c.) per
share.
Output of metals is expected
to be maintained at or above
last term’s level, but the fall in
the price of lead and prospective
fall in the price of zinc, together
with the stubbornness of costs,
point to a reduction in net earn-
ings and probable cut in the
dividend rate. Compensating
factors will be the higher price
now paid for the two metals on
the local market and a sub-
stantial saving in the amount
paid to employees as lead-bonus,
which rises and falls with the
price of the metal. Last term
the average full-time remunera-
tion per employee was £1730, of
which £BB4 was lead-bonus.
According to U.S. forecasts, de-
mand for both metals is ex-
pected to steadily strengthen
over the next couple of decades,
and lead is in the stronger
statistical position. At the
moment it is not expected to
move much outside the £S9O-
- price-bracket, but there is
a wait-and-see attitude toward
zinc. The whole market back-
ground, however, is so fluid
that any long-term forecast be-
comes mere guesswork.
At June 30 last ore reserves
were “conservatively” put at
1,900,000 tons (down 50,000
tons), or six years’ work for the
mill at the current rate of
throughput—lo years, or a bit
more, is expected to be nearer
the mark. A subsidiary, Barrier
Central Pty. (nominal capital
£1,500,000), has been formed to
take over and develop the cen-
tral leases, where drilling to
date has disclosed mostly narrow
and relatively low-grade ore-
bodies. The co. is also jointly
interested with North B.H. in
the Oceana mine, a small lead-
zinc show at Zeehan (Tas.),
where a 25,000-ton-p.a. concen-
trating-plant is being installed.
In Queensland a lead-gold pros-
pect near Charters Towers and
two possible copper propositions
in the n.-w. of the State are
being investigated.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £3,801,411
and current liabilities £2,976,858.
In addition there were invest-
ments with a book-value of
£3,506,969, which turned in
£289,684 net last term, or 36.2
p.c. on capital.
Since the beginning of 1952
the price of the co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares, which for the most part
follow trends in the metal mar-
ket, dropped from 725. to 525.
At the lower figure the immedi-
ate return would be 9.5 p.c. on
the basis of a ss. (100 p.c.) div.


Women's Letters
MELDCDDNE
To the Navy Ball at the Royale came
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks, and the Governor of Tas-
mania, Sir Ronald Cross, with his wife
and daughter. Pillars in the ballroom
bore gilded crowns, white ensigns flew
above miniature cairns of gold tinsel in
the centre of every table, while huge urns
of gold-sprayed ivy-leaves were set in
the foyer.
Lady Brooks wore a wide-skirted
gown of white organza, screen-
printed with a grey lace pattern. Silver
beads encrusted the bodice of the dove-
grey chiffon gown Chosen by Lady Cross.
Her daughter Diana wore hyacinth-blue
tulle with a matching stole. Mrs. R. R.
Dowling, wife of Commodore Dowling,
was president of the ball committee, and
received the guests in pale-lime tulle
mounted on gold satin.
Mrs. Edward Campbell’s gown was of
peacock-blue-and-black-striped tie-silk.
Mrs. Gordon Darling’s lilac tulle frock
had a strapless top encrusted with match-
ing sequins and rhinestones. Nancy .
Woodrow and Anne Spraggett danced in
white tulle, Mrs. Dick Noone in pale-
yellow chiffon. Lady Clarke’s driftaway
gown was of emerald tulle, Mrs. Eric
Cottrell’s slim white lace gown had a
tiered skirt, Mrs. Charles Burge’s lacquered
satins were black. Her cousin, Miss
Hoogendoorn, was in black satin striped
in gold, blue and green. Patroness of
the ball. Lady Collins, wife of Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins, wore a slim
gown of apricot satin. Proceeds will aid
the Memorial Chapel Appeal.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel of
Scotch Chapel, Dorothy, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Egan, of
Double Bay (Sydney), and Russell Robert-
son, only son of Mr. and Mrs. U. Robert-
son Smith, of Kew, exchanged vows.
The bride’s gown of French faille was
cut on classical lines, and the finger-tip
veil fell from a Juliet cap of Guipure lace.
Margaret Tulloh was bridesmaid and Sue
Egan and Janet Midgely the flower-girls
—they wore pink marquisette over match-
ing taffeta. Reception was at No. 9
Darling-street. Receiving the guests, the
bride’s mother wore a grey lace frock
with a small cherry velvet hat. Mrs.
Robertson Smith’s amethyst silk chiffon
was worn with a tulle hat trimmed with
violets.
V V &
The Cup-eve dinner-dance at the
Delphic, in aid of Red Cross funds, was
suitably equine in setting and decor,
complete with a phantom broadcast
which didn’t pick the winner. Jennifer
Russell, who is a transport driver with
Red Cross, headed the committee, and
her fine black-checked moss-green tie-
silk gown had a halter neckline: Another
member of the committee, Mrs. Peter
Watkins, wore pastel-pink tulle.
Amanda Gfimwade, another worker
for this good cause, chose bouffant white
self-patterned organdie, whilst ticket-
secretary Carolyn Buxton danced in
black chiffon. Louise Landale’s satin-
striped crepes were pale green. Helen
Simpson had a cluster of blue rosebuds
at the waist of her ice-blue tulle frock ;
Patricia Downey’s bouffant white tulle
strapless gown had an overskirt of black
Chantilly lace ; Mrs. lan Morrison wore
a full-length scarlet taffeta coat over her
black crepe gown ; and Diana Learmonth
was in pale-gold satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor at the Ritz party given
by Mrs. Ray Joseph were Mrs. D. Leahy,
Mrs. L. Leahy and Aileen McKay, all
from Adelaide, and Mrs. I. Silk, of Syd-
ney. Mrs. Joseph wore with her black
faille suit a lovely hat which had a large
white brim and a crochet straw crown.
Among other guests were Mrs. P. L.
Coleman, in teal-blue suit and tiny flower
hat, Mrs. Jack Langley in scarlet suit
and matching beret, Mrs. C. Curtain,
wearing a small hat of white shells with
a brown suit, and Mrs. Les Sangster, who
recently returned from a trip to South
America.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the frivolous fancies noted
during the big racing carnival were the
caped highwayman’s coat of scarlet faille
worn by Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn;
Gloria Ladd’s white ostrich-feather
wreathed toque ; the black satin water-
proof swathed cap worn by Sydney
visitor Mrs. C. M. Guiney ; Mrs. Des-
mond Hollywood’s white daisy earrings,
the bunch of daisies on her brolly and
the daisy rosettes on her black suede
shoes; Mrs. Keith Laycock’s cyclamen
paper-shantung frock, matching parasol
and head-hugging hat of white spotted
grey chiffon ; Carol Griffith’s red-lined
wicker birdcage bag; Lady Gengoult
Smith’s tiny white bowler which had a
slot in the band with the legend “Letters
cleared Mondays to Fridays 9 a.m. to
5 p.m.,” while weighing down two black
faille ribbon-ends falling over one
shoulder were two white faille envelopes,
one addressed to Christian Dior, the other
to Jacques Path.
☆ ☆ ☆
Norma, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lowdon, is already a solo-
seal member of the Royal Academy of
Dancing, London, and during the last
season of ballet presented by the National
Theatre Ballet Co., was one of the star
dancers. She has also been with The
Firm —in "Song of Norway.” Norma was
understudy to the premiere ballerina.
Recently she was examined for a scholar-
ship with the Sadlers Wells Ballet, result
of which will not be known until next
year. A John Warlow photo.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Oaks Day those who braved the
chill winds in summer frocks reaped a
fine crop of goose-pimples. More
cautious racegoers went in suit or coat-
frock.
One fashion-touch greatly admired was
the pastel-pink-and-grey chiffon-scarf
finish to the grey satin frock worn by
Mrs. Clive Carney. Attached to the neck-
line, the scarf, caught at the waist, fell
in graceful folks to the hem. Eye-catch-
ing also was the blue-spotted white silk
frock of Mrs. Sam Hordern. Over her
teal-blue wool suit Mrs. M. Copolov
wore a citron-yellow shawl with a deep
black fringe edging.
Pleating was one of the features of
the silk frocks worn by the brave. One
charming example was the anthracite-
grey French silk worn by Mrs. Bill Mc-
Gowan, in which the wide skirt had the
pleating worked into a band of honey-
comb pattern at the knees. Mrs. John
Mollard’s very bouffant frock of white
coin-spotted grey paper-shantung was
fully pleated, and her hat was a white
straw cartwheel. Mrs. Yott Murray, of
Adelaide, wore grey linen with tiny tufts
of grey chiffon breaking the surface of
the fabric; her large citron-yellow straw
hat was matched with her bag. Mrs. Len
Buxton’s caramel shot-faille coat-frock
had pushed-up sleeves, Mrs. A. G. Silk’s
bronze-green frock was of pleated paper-
shantung, and deep-cream daisies were
set on the brim of Mrs. Jim Peters’s wide
black hat.
%. a.
Dr. T. C. Chen, Minister Plenipoten-
tiary for China, and Madame Chen were
guests-of-honor at a late-afternoon party
given by the Consul for China, Mr. T. W.
Liu, and Madame Liu, at their Balwyn
home. Dr. Chen and his wife made
official visits to South Australia and Tas-
mania and were also at the Melbourne
Cup meeting. Madame Chen’s national
costume was of bottle-green self-patterned
satin ; her hostess was also in national
dress; hers of deep-mauve satin, flower-
patterned.
Among the Chen guests were Professor
Brian Lewis and his wife, the latter wear-
ing black paper-shantung; ‘ the U.S.
Navy Attache, Captain R. Wayne
Denbo, and Mrs. Denbo, and the assist.
U.S. Navy Attache, Commander Robert
Macklin, and Mrs. Macklin. Mrs. J.
Toman wore a pretty cherry-red straw
bonnet with her navy jacket-suit, and
Mrs. Arnold Richardson a black frock
which featured a draped bodice and
pleated skirt.
STDNET
Melbourne Cup night was celebrated
at the Troc. by about 600 dancers when
the Horseshoe Ball was held in aid of
the Spastic Centre. Mr. Justice Maxwell
was president of the ball, and the guests
were greeted by Lady Braddon with her
usual easy friendliness. Madame Regala,
who, with Dr. Regala, was guest-of-
honor, wore a black dress with stiffened
butterfly sleeves sparkling with gold
sequins. Present were Greek Consul-
General A. C. Gooma and Mrs. Gooma,
Sir John and Lady McLaren, Mr. and
Mrs. Ahmed Ali, the Charles Parays,
Mr. and Mrs. Leo Lister, Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Ross and the Ralph Huntleys.
The decorations of the ballroom were
golden horseshoes, and the members of
the orchestra wore jockeys’ blouses (from
no identifiable stable, however).
☆ ☆ ☆
At most of the afternoon parties for
the Melbourne Cup no one listens to the
radio-announcer until he actually begins
on the race, so it wasn’t surprising that
members of the Australian-American Club
mistook a rebroadcast of last year’s race
for the real thing. There was great
anxiety when horses drawn in the sweep
weren’t even mentioned, and consterna-
tion when Morse Code fell over. One
member, who, like most Cup bettors,
doesn’t know a thing about racing, said
when it was all over, “Well, imagine
Delta winning again!” It all added to
the gay atmosphere. Somehow, one
seemed to be having a second chance
when the race actually did come on. Mrs.
Florence Taylor was hostess to about 70
members, including Mrs. E. Scorfield,
Mrs. R. Thomas, Mrs. S. King, Mrs. F.
Janes, Mrs. Harry Twigden, Mrs. Lionel
Cahill and Miss Cahill.
#. V V
This is Verlie Griffin, the gifted
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Griffin,
of Strathfield, who will marry George
Morrison on the 19th of this month.
George is the son of the G. R. Morri-
sons, of South Africa. Verlie is playing
the part of Wanda in "Rose Marie,"
which is being produced by the Campsie
Musical Comedy Company at Ashfield
Town Hall. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Several members of the National
Opera Company were present at the first
night of the Mosman Musical Society’s
current gay production of “Gipsy Love.”
Perhaps it was because Alan Light (the
original “him” of “Do Not Heed Him,
Gentle Lady”) is one of the N.O.C.’s
bright shining stars. Noticed Mr. and
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, Mrs. Barbara Ben-
nett and Miss Nancy Shankland enjoying
the show very much. Scheduled for a
fortnight’s run, this production has
another three nights to go.
* V. .V .
Many thrifty housewives dislike throw-
ing away medicine-bottles —it seems such
a waste, but there isn’t much household
use to be found for them. Well, it seems
that the secretary of Sydney Hospital
would regard it as a kindness if these
bottles (clean ones, of course) could |e
left at the hospital—the gatekeeper w|l
collect them. The hospital spends £7O
per month on new bottles, so it would
be a considerable saving if this could be
eliminated.
The Mosman Municipal Library is
loused now in a most gracious building,
one of the two mansions which the
coach-builder Keary brothers built near
Spit Junction in the ’sixties. It has been
redecorated —pale blue and white with
;ouches of primrose outside, soft pink
and cream inside —and, set as it is in a
spacious old-fashioned garden, it makes
an ideal place for recreation, reading and
earning.
The Minister for Education, R. F.
Heffron, opened it officially on Saturday
with Mayor Butterworth, of Mosman
(mighty handsome in his ermine robes),
as chairman. Tributes were paid to
many who had worked for the library
(Jack Carroll’s name seemed to come up
frequently), and a very suitable presen-
tation of the keys of the library was
made to Mrs. E. A. Allworth, Mrs.
Barnett, Mrs. I. M. Williams, Mrs. H.
M. Storey and Mrs. Peter Henk, women
who have all made this library one of
their chief interests.
The Sixth Mosman Art Exhibition was
also opened on Saturday. Hung in a
particularly beautiful room of the
library, 300 pictures were entered for the
contest (twice as many as last year). The
prize for oils went to Grace Cossing-
ton-Smith for her vibrant “Gum Blossom
and Drapery.” Weaver Hawkins’s “A
Country Road, Bayview,” was the winner
in the watercolor section. Highly com-
mended were J. L. Koskie’s “Near
Mackay, Queensland,” and Enid Cam-
bridge’s “Above the Weir.”
# V #
From Mrs. D. Watts (N.S.W.) comes
this interesting appreciation of a W.A.
headmistress of the past:
There passed away in Perth, in the first week
of October, Miss Lilly Lowe, and in the W.A.
papers there was not a word about her. Yet
40 years ago her name was known to everyone
in Perth. She was a notable character who in
a comparatively raw, new country tried to infuse
the-civilising feminine qualities of dignity,
graciousness and courtesy into a rigidly male
educational system.
At Perth Girls’ School she passed through
the wide, bare corridors and gravel playground
as though across century-old lawns, through
stately halls, quoting Browning and Rossetti.
Though not beautiful, she was tall, slender
and poised, and her clothes, of graceful line,
often had a larrap or tatter from them trailing
after her, if not like clouds of glory, yet with
a certain style. No other lady tried to be a
State schoolteacher quite so elegantly as she.
Towards the end of her career it is said she
became quite a trial to the teachers under her.
She would come sailing in during an algebra
lesson and command; “Girrls. Take out your
notebooks. Write Golden Thoughts,” proceed
to dictate a few golden thoughts and then sweep
out again. Exasperating? Very. Who wants
to be thinking golden thoughts when one could
be assimilating useful facts? But to Miss Lilly
Lowe the cultivation of character, tone and
good manners was just as important as learning.
# V V
Bass-baritone Russell Cooper, winner
of the Sydney de Vries Scholarship for
1952, is a Goulburn lad who has been
living in Sydney with his parents for the
past 18 months. The scholarship will
enable him to study for one year at the
Sydney Conservatorium. With Marie
Tysoe and Robert Bickerstaff he sang for
ex-members of the Lunch-time Music
Club at their third annual reunion during
the yeek. Miss Margaret Gillespie wel-
comed about 80 guests, including Lady
Anderson, Mrs. G. Scammell, Mrs.
Bainton, Mrs. Hope Gibson and Mrs.
Bryden Brown.
☆ ☆ ☆
Just when you begin to wonder if
there’ll ever be a new idea for a party
the Younger Set of the E.-S.U. thinks up
two. First is the “Sadie Hawkins,” on
November 29. Second is the Ghost
Party in February, where everyone will
represent a famous ghost. “Sadie Haw-
kins” is apparently a celebrated man-
hunter, so a feature of the party is to be
an obstacle-race where the girls chase the
boys (how true to life can we get!). It’s
to be held at Fairyland, Chatswood, from
8 p.m. onwards with a hayseed band and
American food. Committee members in-
clude Mrs. Jim Crawford, Eva and
Lilian Herz, Dinah Cullen, Elsie Jackson
and Robin McFadyen, with Freddy
Storch, American Fred Kinney and Eng-
lish Clifford Phillips among the quarry
in the obstacle-race.
# # V
Prettiest name for a party to date is
the “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” which
is being held at the Newport home of
the Ashley Buckinghams on November
21. Arranged by the “Young Marrieds”
for the Subnormal Children’s Associa-
tion, it promises “a parade of the loveliest
girls in Sydney,” a Spanish accordionist
and a floodlit pool. The invitations are
also about the cutest to come to hand yet.


is
is
1
'“■''iß|''"
|S|s
f %sm S SI
111
i
IMI
lili
ii
iif
mmm
mk'i
mm
wm»:
mmm : <*
THE BEST GOL BURNED WESTERN
SHOW ON THE AIR!
For laughs and songs in Western style, “Benning-
ton’s Bunkhouse Show” (Wednesdays, 7.30 p.m.)
is the happiest and best half-hour on the air.
Some of the main reasons are pictured—topline
entertainers like (1. to r.) Lou Campara, Noel Judd,
Diana Davidson, Keith Walshe, Tim McNamara,
Neil Williams, Lily Connors, Queenie Ashton and
George “Sassafras” Foster.
“Bennington’s Bunkhouse Show” is produced and
presented by Bennington’s Irish Moss for the
Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 3CV 6WB 6MD
Hope to see you next
Wednesday, folksl
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Indian Art
When a painter from India
submits a vigorous oil-painting,
which might almost have been
done by Ivor Hele, of a battered
and bluish-green pair of boots
standing in solitary splendor in
a yellow jungle, and entitles the
picture “War Worn,” the new
age in Indian art may fairly be
said to have arrived. And it’s
not a bad painting, either.
An equally astonishing
phenomenon at the exhibition of
Indian art at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery is Biren De’s
“A Bridge, Srinagar,” which,
clearly and realistically show-
ing a boat on a river
against a background of dark-
green mountains, is about the
first time this reviewer has ever
encountered in Indian art any-
thing which gave one the faintest
idea what India looks like.
It should not be assumed from
these phenomena that Indian art
has become wholly realistic.
The portraits in oils are
weak; oil landscapes likewise,
with the possible exception of
K. C. S. Panikar’s “Green
Pond,” a dazzle of color from
Cezanne. In fact the only really
distinguished oil is Gouri Kan-
jilal’s bold and vivid “Flower
Study” in reds and golds.
But the break with the
beautiful and decorative stylism
which has characterised Indian
painting for centuries remains
remarkable, striking and, with-
out the faintest disrespect to the
tradition, extremely hopeful.
The typical pictures of the exhi-
bition are of two kinds: firstly,
loose, free, graceful impressions
in watercolor such as S. K.
Thosar’s “Temples” and Satish
Sinha’s “Brother” with its lovely
portrait of a girl in a purple
dress which is not unlike the
work of the Australian water-
colorist Maude Sherwood ; and,
secondly, bright and gay
gouaches of bazaars and streets
such as the “Corner from Dhar,”
by B. G. Sapute, D. J. Joshi’s
“Goll Fair,” D. V. Deo’s “Cattle
Decoration,” Gopal Ghose’s
elusive “Cottage,” S. G.
Mehunkar’s “Timber Market”
and a host of others.
The total impression of the
show is of life and bright color.
With some beautiful reproduc-
tions of cave frescoes and tradi-
tional paintings, and photographs
of sculptures showing the unique
voluptuous charm of the past
giving way to the influence of
Epstein in his more realistic
moments, the exhibition is excel-
lently displayed and excep-
tionally interesting throughout.
It comes from the All-India
Fine Arts and Crafts Society,
New Delhi, and is sponsored by
the Government of India.
* ❖ ❖
Victorian Sculptors
Michelangelo found a sculp-
tor despairing over, his un-
finished statue. He told him
to take a lump of clay in one
hand, and with the other put a
bit on here and a bit on there
and punch a hole in this or that
place. Then he told him to step
back and look at the result. The
sculptor said : “I didn’t know I
had it in me.”
The impression given by the
current show of the Victorian
Sculptors’ Society at the gallery
of the Victorian Artists is that
in the majority of cases the hand
of the sculptor is being guided
neither by genius nor by per-
sonal observation but by one or
other of the prevailing fashions.
There are a few exceptions.
Julius Kuhn has a loosely-
squatting green nude with a face
that one hopes is caricatured. It
looks fleshy. The Hindu dancer
of Tina Wentscher looks like
something real, and, although
the lubra depicted by Jeffrey
Wilkinson in “Wailing Gin”
probably only existed in the
artist’s imagination, he has given
life to the graceful figure and a
remarkable glowing feeling to
the skin.
William Hill’s bronze nude
has points about it, and there is
dignity in Raymond Ewers’s
figure of “Victory” designed for
the Australian Memorial compe-
tition in London. Meszaros has
some of his Calvary series done
for the Canterbury Cathedral.
The rest are mainly echoes ;
some of the Congo and some of
Parisian art-journals. A string-
trio in black by Inge King
barely emerges from the material
of which it is constructed. A
memorial lion makes one think
of Nelson’s Monument; and a
horse with a pinhead and an
extraordinarily fat body with a
stout Lady Godiva sitting on it
makes one think of Walt Disney.
Clifford Last’s “standing ab-
stracts” make one think of a
pile of packing-cases.
❖ ❖ ❖
There is no sign of the
“modern” idiom, so-called, in the
canvases of Christian Asquith
Baker af the Peter Bray Gallery
in Melbourne. They are quiet,
sedate and polite, inclined to
romanticise a trifle, but even so,
much more sensitive to Nature
than any raucous “modern”
statement. She gets light into
some of her bush landscapes and
depth into her still-life, and when
Nature matches her own mood,
as in the large misty “Hillside-
Evening,” the effect is pleasant.
Her Central Australian land-
scapes give an entirely different
impression from Namatjira’s, but
maybe she has something he
hasn’t and vice versa.
Stage and Music
“Gipsy Love”
Len Gotting’s production for
the Mosman (Sydney) Musical
Society kept Franz Lehar’s three-
act operetta moving along at a
brisk pace, with dressing, mount-
ing and singing to good standard.
A, feeble plot such as that to
which Lehar fastened his lilting
tunes needs strong comedy on
the side, and this it didn’t always
have. Edwin Pfeiffer’s Dragotin
needed a more comic voice and
greater spontaneity. The rest of
the comedy work was fairly well
handled by Billie Shaw (Jolan)
and Terry O’Keefe, suitably
imbecilic as Kajetan.
The singing was particularly
good. Alan Light’s powerful
baritone bore much of the heat
and burden of the night, and
Shirley Priddle raised a mezzo-
soprano of nice quality as Ilona,
though her stage-work was rather
too subdued. Betty Cheal acted
and sang spiritedly as Lady
Babby.
Topicality of gagging is a
feature of which sufficient use is
not made in revivals of old
musicals. The one topical face-
lift / given one of Dragotin’s
lyrics wasn’t successful.
TTie orchestra of quite respec-
table tone and weight was under
the baton of Herbert Wyatt.
❖ * ❖
Anouilh
Melbourne Little Theatre
moved out of its tiny St. Chads
theatre in South Yarra to the
Union theatre across the river to
present the “Antigone” of Jean
Anouilh and “The Bear” of
Chekhov. The French writer’s
satire on Nazism cast in the
mould of Antigone’s stand
against the tyranny of King
Cleon has its awkward moments,
but Antigone was so well handled
by Beverley Dunne, and Stewart
Ginn was so impressive both in
his hope and his despair as
Creon, that on the whole the
play got its message over. The
rough fun of Chekhov’s curtain-
raiser was well done by Tana
Eyvans, Max Bruch and Jan
Hageboud.
Talkies
O. Henry’s “Full House”
This omnibus film at Sydney
Mayfair, comprising five of the
American master’s best-known
short-stories, is a full on aces.
The stories, shrewdly selected for
diversity of situation, mood and
characters, are introduced from
his library by John Steinbeck,
and each has a different cast and
director.
In only one is there a partial
failure to capture the true O.
Henry spirit: “The Ransom of
Red Chief,” one of his funniest
yarns. The boy who terrorised
his kidnappers, instead of
enjoying himself hugely, as
in the original, has been
allowed to become merely a
sullen, surly little brat, whilst the
kidnappers Fred Allen and Oscar
Levant, though they work hard
for the laughs that should be
easy, fail to do themselves justice.
The other stories are superbly
done. The best is “The Last
Leaf,” one of O. Henry’s most
movingly pathetic stories. The
direction here by Jean Negulesco
is inspired, and Anne Baxter as
the sick girl and Gregory Ratoff
as the old artist who paints his
masterpiece on the brick wall
carry it out beautifully. Another
gem is the whimsical and tender
“Gift of the Magi,” with Jean
Crain and Farley Granger. The
other two are “The Clarion
Call,” with Richard Widmark as
the vicious, confident killer, and
“The Cop and the Anthem,” in
which Charles Laughton gives a
brilliant little study of Soapy,
the park bum. In each story the
snap finish is well done.
♦> *t*
“My Wife’s Best Friend”
Thinking they are about to
die in a plane-crash, MacDonald
Carey confesses to his wife,
Anne Baxter, that he has almost
been unfaithful to her, three
years ago, with her best friend,
Catherine McLeod. The plane
lands safely ; Miss Baxter is on
the point of leaving her husband
when her clergyman-father, Rev.
Cecil Kelleway, suggests that she
take a more saintly attitude.
This she does, acting for a few
days in so saintly a manner that
her husband begs her to come
down to earth and be his plain
little wife again. This she does,
acting so much the obedient slut
that she almost loses him a
million-dollar contract with a
multi-millionaire he brings home
to dinner. Having been begged
again to act more like a rich
man’s wife, she performs as a
siren, and goes on the scoot with
the multi-millionaire. Miss
Baxter did so well that if one
reviewer had been so bold as to
get up and crown her, it wouldn’t
have been because she reminded
him of Miss Baxter. (Sydney
Century.)
* ❖ ❖ --
“The Merry Widow”
They have stripped Lehar’s
operetta down to a bare ten-
million - dollar extravaganza:
only Danilo (Fernando Lamas)
sings solo, although Lana Turner
mutters musically that she loves
him. There are several sets with
ballet and chorus backing
Lamas’s undeniably lush bawl-
ing; and the sets are got up
regardless: Maxim’s restaurant,
and a private dining-room there ;
a Paris pub, and the Palace and
inn at —Muskovia, is it? —leave
nothing to be desired except the
gorgeously-gowned cuties. Miss
Turner works well as the rich
American widow who, disgusted
that Count Danilo is trying to
marry her only for her money,
to pull his country’s treasury off
the rocks, decides to show him
a thing or two in Paris in the
guise of her companion, Una
Merkel, while Miss Merkel
receives his reluctant proposals
as the rich widow. The ending
is drawn-out by the parsimonious
desire not to waste any costly
ballet-routines, but it all makes
pleasant entertainment. (Sydney
St. James.)
* * ♦
“Beware, My Lovely”
Alone in her old wheel-spoke
finished, middle-American house
with a male daily-help who is a
homicidal maniac, Ida Lupino
tries to run out the front door —
he has the key; also he has the
key of the back door; he
threatens to murder children who
call if she squeaks ; she tries to
get word out on the back of a
cheque to the grocer’s-boy —the
maniac takes the cheque: he
tears the telephone out by the
roots, and follows her upstairs
into the bedroom ; and the end-
ing is a first-class bit of theatre.
Robert Ryan fills the part.
superbly, and it is amazing how
the screen-writers know so much
about what goes on in the mind
of a mad murderer —come to
think of it, how does one know
they know? (Sydney Palace.)
* * *
“Something to Live For”
The makers of this subdued
and rather lugubrious film at
Sydney Prince Edward trapped
themselves. Obviously they
wanted to turn out another “Lost
Weekend,” but with a woman
this time as the victim of chronic
alcoholism. Drunkenness in
women being particularly degrad-
ing, they decided to pull the
punches; in any case the usual
type of victim who would
warrant the help of Alcoholics
Anonymous would be a grave
threat to the box-office, so they
cast one of Hollywood’s most
refined-looking actresses—Joan
Fontaine. There is the snag. At
no stage throughout the rather
long-drawn-out proceedings does
Miss Fontaine ever look a drink-
addict ; she even gets to her feet,
albeit woozily, looking clear-
eyed and refined. Thrown in to
make up the weight is the old
triangle, but it is a half-hearted
affair, with Ray Milland, an ex-
addict co-opted by A.A. to get
the new victim out of the tail-
spin with the gin bottle, and his
mousy wife, Teresa Wright, as
the other two sides. The
denouement rings as true as a
leaden two-bob piece.
Searchlight Practice
So simple the hour looks,
the night so clear;
if sight could teach us peace
we might learn here
to set ourselves aside,
to be alone,
to let the world bear us
like a flower or a stone;
to let the hands fall,
the eyes forget;
to move like trees in the wind;
to be the night.
Escape the angel? Escape
the bond, the curse?
Great swords in front of the sky
spring up and cross.
q’land.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Sullivan's Whale
By H.A. LINDSAY
Mick sullivan was
awakened by a small
hand tugging at his
shoulder and a child’s
voice saying insistently:
“Ganpa! Ganpa! ”
“Yes,” he replied drowsily.
“Grandpa will be up presently.”
Having a grandchild to spend a
holiday with you had its draw-
backs, he reflected, as he tried to
sink back into slumber. It was
nice to have a bright little thing
like Cassy around the house —
but kiddies would awaken you
so confoundedly early in the
morning . , .
“Ganpa!, Ganpa!” the child
repeated, just as the old man
was dozing off again. He saw
it was hopeless.
“What is it?” he inquired,
opening one eye to peer at her.
Even without his glasses he could
see that she was very excited.
“Somefin’ big, Ganpa! On
the beach!”
“All right,” he yawned, swing-
ing his legs over the side of the
bed and groping for his slippers.
A fishing-cutter had drifted
ashore, he supposed. After
hitching up the cord of his
pyjama trousers he followed the
child to the front door. The
cold dawn wind made him shiver
as he stepped on to the veranda ;
then all desire for sleep was
driven from his mind.
“Something big” was on the
beach ; a hundred and fifty yards
away lay a stranded whale—
the first he had seen for more
than twenty years. The breaths
which it expelled showed as puffs
of steam above the spiracle on
top of its head ; its great flukes
were beating the water to foam.
“Good lord!” he exclaimed
as he hurried inside. “Get
dressed, dear, and I’ll take you
down to look at it.”
As he put on his clothes Mick
recalled that over a century pre-
viously this bay had been the
site of a whaling-station ; a lot
of the old implements were now
in an annexe at the institute, put
on display there by the local
branch of the Historical Society
as a tourist attraction, but nowa-
days even a whale out in the
strait was news.
Cassy came back, clad some-
what lightly for such a cold
morning ; the old man grabbed
a blanket off his bed and
wrapped her in it before he
carried her down to the beach.
They were first on the scene, but
a minute later a boy on a
bicycle appeared, followed by
the black dots of people hurry-
ing from the township. Within
twenty minutes a crowd had
gathered at the scene of the
stranding.
THE tide was ebbing and the
whale was doomed; with
no water to support the huge
body its own weight was crush-
ing the air out of its lungs.
Presently the tall, gaunt and
hawk - faced Miss Brougham
arrived. The crowd eyed her
expectantly, for her two great
interests in life were prevention
of cruelty to animals and the
abolition of blood sports. She
spoke sharply to the boys who
were throwing stones at the
whale; then eyed its struggles
with concern. '
’‘Why doesn’t somebody put
the poor thing out of its
misery?” she demanded. When
nobody replied she turned to Gill
Lindquist. “You’re never happy
unless you’re killing something,”
she said acidly. “Why don’t you
save this creature from a slow
death?”
It was not a diplomatic
approach, and GilPs reaction
was the natural one. “I haven’t
the right kind of gun for a job
like this. I’d need an eighteen-
pounder,”
“Can’t you borrow one?” she
suggested, then flushed as the
returned soldiers in the crowd
began to guffaw.
Police - sergeant McLeay
walked across to her. “An
eighteen-pounder is a field-gun,”
he explained, “You know, a
cannon. Candidly, it’s about the
only thing you could use on a
creature this size.”
“H’gh! ” sniffed the elderly
spinster, glaring at the grinning
faces in the crowd. “I see!”
She glanced again at the whale,
whose body was still heaving in
the effort to draw air into its
lungs, shuddered and walked
away. What a lot of heartless
oafs they were to rejoice in the
death-struggle of the great
animal! “I’ll write to the paper
about it!” she said aloud as she
strode back towards the town-
ship.
Pat Brodie was the next to
arrive; fifteen stone in weight,
red-faced and with a bullet head
covered in short curls of greasy-
looking grey hair, he was a
butcher by occupation, as well
as in appearance. He regarded
the whale with a shrewd and
speculative eye. What had that
article in the newspaper said?
The oil in the carcass of a fair-
sized whale was worth a couple
of hundred quid!
He needed a bit of ready
money. The rise in wool values
had sent the price of sheep soar-
ing, but that damned Prices
Commissioner expected you to
give the meat away! Nils Hen-
riksen, who had been to the
Antarctic with the Norwegian
whaling-fleet, had told him how
you did the job. If a man made
a donation to the funds of the
Historical Society they would
let you use all that old gear.. .
With shear-legs and an . endless
chain borrowed from the local
garage you could load the try-
pots on a truck . . . Brodie
hurried back to the township.
Mick felt a hand laid on his
arm and turned to see his wife
standing beside him. “Breakfast
is ready,” she informed him. She
peered at the whale through her
spectacles. “Is that thing going
to die there and stink us out
of house and home?” she in-
quired. Her tone suggested that
if her husband was not entirely
to blame for the stranding then
he must have had a hand in it.
“Aw, I guess it’ll float off on
the next high tide,” Mick said
placatingly.
“It’d better!” his wife
snapped, as she led the way to
the cottage. She said it in a way
which suggested that if the whale
didn’t float off of its own accord
then she would deal with it in a
fashion which would make it
glad to get away.
MICK returned to the beach
an hour later, eyed the
preparations of Brodie and his
two hefty sons for a time, then
walked back to the cottage with
a thoughtful expression on his
wrinkled face. From the book-
shelf he took a big volume,
referred to the index and started
to read. In the days of his
youth it had been his ambition
to become a lawyer, but fate, in
the person of his father, had
decreed otherwise.
“Ye’ll join the railways and
have a stiddy Guv’ment job,”
had been his ukase, “and be
damned to y’r highfalutin
notions, me boy! ” It had failed
to kill Mick’s interest in the
law, however. All his life, if he
had been off duty at the time,
he had attended the proceedings
at the local court-house; now
that he had retired it was his
chief hobby. From what he had
heard and seen there had come
a firm resolve never to take
legal action himself under any
circumstances.
At second-hand shops in the
city he had bought several
legal textbooks, and had studied
them closely. It was one of these
he now consulted.
“I’d like a bit of firewood one
of these days! ” his wife
reminded him, as she came in
to sweep and dust the room.
Mick ignored the hint.
“Brodie’s going to cut up that
whale and get the oil out of the
blubber,” he said.
“Then you keep away!” she
directed. “I know you. When
you go anywhere near that man
there’s an argument.”
Mick did not reply. He re-
turned the book to the shelf and
went out to the shed, where he
picked up a stingray-harpoon,
a coil of line, a pair of oars and
the wooden roller which he used
to launch his flat-bottomed boat.
Upon arriving at the beach he
took off his boots, rolled his
trousers above his knees, put his
boat in the water and rowed up
to the whale.
It was not yet dead; a
quivering and twitching of its
flanks showed that life still re-
mained. Straddling his feet for
balance, Mick flung the harpoon,
tied the free end of the line to
the ringbolt in the nose of the
boat, tossed the grapnel over the
side and waded ashore.
Ignoring the questions of the
crowd, he moved to stand
between the whale and Brodie,
who was now coming across the
beach. In one hand the butcher
gripped a flensing-knife, shaped
like a hockey-stick ; in the other
he carried a blubber spade. The
cutting-edges of both implements
gleamed through having been
sharpened on a grindstone.
“Just a minute,” Mick ex-
claimed, with every appearance
of surprise. “You weren’t think-
ing of cutting up my whale, were
you?” The butcher halted.
“Your whale!” he scoffed.
“Yes, my whale,” Mick re-
peated. He pointed to the har-
poon, line and boat. “I claim a
fast fish,” he added.
808 SINCLAIR, the school-
teacher, broke the silence
which followed.
“Whales aren’t fish,” he said,
in the didactic tone common to
people of his calling. “They’re
warm-blooded animals.”
“Excuse me,” said a small
man, who bore an air of
authority in spite of the fact
that he wore a disreputable old
pair of trousers and a wind-
jacket stained by sea-water. “In
the legal sense a whale is a fish.”
Sinclair stared, then laughed.
“No wonder old Bumble said
the law is a hass!” he com-
mented.
The face of the small man
reddened. “You misquote! ” he
snapped. “The words which
Dickens gave to Bumble run
something like: ‘lf the law says
that, then the law is a ass, a
idiot.’ In reality there is nothing
asinine about our laws. When
the regulations governing the
capture of whales were framed
it was held that whales were fish
in the legal sense to bring whal-
ing under the existing fishery
laws.”
Before the schoolteacher could
reply the police-sergeant led him
aside. “Don’t argue legal points
with that man,” he warned.
“He’s Pridmore, the Supreme
Court judge.” He looked where
Mick and Brodie were engaged
in a heated argument.
, “I’d like to see anyone stop
me from cutting up this whale! ”
the butcher threatened.
Mick turned to look at
McLeay, “Sergeant, I call upon
you to prevent this man from
touching my whale!”
The police-officer frowned in
perplexity, then he appealed to
the judge. “Would you mind
adjudicating, sir?” he inquired.
“It’s a bit beyond me.”
“Certainly,” Judge Pridmore
replied. He pointed with his
walking-stick. “A live whale
was harpooned. A line from the
harpoon has been made fast to
a boat. In the eyes of the law
this whale is the exclusive pro-
perty of the owner of the boat.”
A murmur of astonishment ran
through the crowd.
“In the phrasing of the regu-
lations, the whale is now a ‘fast
fish,’ ” the judge added. “The
penalties for interfering with it
—or the gear used in its capture
—are rather severe.”
McLeay thanked him and
walked across to Brodie. The
crowd did not overhear what he
said, but it made the butcher
breathe even harder than he had
done after winning the old
buffers’ race at the last St. Pat-
rick’s Day sports-meeting.
“We’ll say nothing about dirty
tricks,” he said to Mick. “How
much do you want for your
whale?”
The old man eyed the carcass
with a reflective air. “I don’t
know what to ask,” he replied.
“They don’t mention whales in
the fish-market reports nowa-
days.”
Everyone laughed except
Brodie; then Mick turned to
the schoolteacher. “What’s six
per cent. —compound interest-
on twelve quid for ten years?”
he inquired.
Sinclair began to work it out
on the sand with the aid of a
piece of stick, and the butcher’s
face assumed a purple tint.
Brodie could see it all now ;
Mick hadn’t forgotten that chaff
deal —and had seized this chance
to get even!
Sinclair said: “It comes to
eight pounds five and five.”
Brodie pulled out a roll of
notes.
“I won’t be hard on you,”
said Mick. “Make it an even
twenty quid.”
MRS. SULLIVAN stared
when her husband dropped
fifteen pounds into her lap.
“Where did this come from?”
she demanded.
Mick halted at the kitchen
door. “Remember the chaff I
bought off Brodie ten years
back? Stuff so musty the cow
wouldn’t eat it? Remember
how he wouldn’t give back what
I paid for it? Well, he’s paid
up at last.”
He walked out before his wife
could ask any further questions;
he wanted to keep a fiver of it
for himself, and he preferred to
do it without an argument.
During the rest of the day the
flensing and trying-out opera-
tions attracted a crowd of sight-
seers. Somebody enriched him-
self to the extent of a whole five
shillings by telephoning the news
to the A.B.C. It was duly broad-
cast, and a marked increase in
the number of visitors followed.
Next day a newsreel-camera-
man arrived and took some
shots of the work, but the
weather was now warming up
again, and the visitors showed
a marked preference for the
windward side of the operations.
The third day was hot, and the
great carcass started to do its
own publicity work. It made a
wonderful job of it; even
farmers on the far side of the
bay, across two miles of open
water, knew all about it.
Every seagull for miles around
had come to the carcass as soon
as Brodie started to strip the
blubber ; they were now joined
by countless millions of lesser
winged creatures, which hung
over the carcass like a gauzy
veil and made a noise like a
swarm of bees on the move.
Mick, happy in the knowledge
that his cottage lay to wind-
ward, derived endless enjoyment
from watching the approach of
visitors.
A quarter of a mile down the
beach was an invisible barrier
which nobody seemed able to
cross. As each group of sight-
seers reached it they shied like
startled horses, made a wide
detour via the sandhills and
approached from the windward
side.
During the following night
the wind swung to the south-
east —and the little township lay
to the north-west of the whale.
When Brodie and one of his
sons came down to start work
in the morning—the other lad
was looking after the shop —
they were met by an angry depu-
tation. Mick, coming close under
cover of the sandhills, caught
scraps of wordy battle in which
“public nuisance” and “court
injunction” were mentioned.
High above the growling of
male voices rose the re-
proaches of Miss Brougham.
Mick had been grinning at
the start of the argument, but
after a time his amusement was
replaced by a growing sympathy
for Brodie. To hear the way old
Lucy Brougham was carrying on
you’d think a bit of a smell
would kill her! After all, the
butcher was only making a bit
of money by doing some mighty
unpleasant work. Mick moved
closer to hear more clearly.
“We won’t argue another
minute!” said the chairman of
the district council. “If you
don’t clear your rotten whale
o Continued on page 22)
WEIRD THINGS
O where has Harriet gone?
Where is she walking?
It’s a strange night to be out
alone
And weird things are stalking.
She is young yet. She must be
lone
To find what is in the world
And which her own.
She’ll find naught tonight.
There is shadow on shadow
curled.
They writhe from the pallid
moon.
I’m feared of the wavering croon
The wind makes in the nearest
hill.
The stars are bleared and dull
Like grey unwelcoming eyes.
O do you hear the cries,
Up and down, up and down,
That drown with a sob in the
brown
Moonstruck waste of the valley?
Let her be. Let her be.
She’ll take what she must take
And come back when it’s taken.
What she, has found there and
what forsaken
We’ll know when we’ve set to
bake
Once in the Saucepan’s wake
A new moon and an old sun
Spiced with a life done
And the strange meal partaken.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


NICHOLAS for SERVICE
By A. E. STURGES
MY first morning there
Jim showed me round,
then explained the job.
In the main room there
was a big table littered with
technical journals, parts of a
meter, tools and a watchmaker’s
eyeglass ; a test-bench and panel,
bewildering with row on row of
meters, switches ahd red and
green lights, took up one com-
plete wall ; a high desk held a
drawing-machine and board;
and a cupboard filled with
shelves of instruments above
and coils of wire below stood
almost ceiling-height against the
end partition wall. A door near
this cupboard opened into a
smaller room containing a work-
bench with vice and jeweller’s
lathe, a small grindstone, a
locker of tools and washbasin
with roller-towel and mirror.
Jim showed me my chair at
one end, seated himself behind
the table with his back to the
wall and face to the door, and
pushed back meter-parts and
tools to make room for hia pipe
and tobacco.
“Well, Arthur, you’ll be want-
ing to hear all about the job.”
He paused for the ritual of
pipe-filling: the careful selection
of flakes, the gentle rubbing be-
tween palms, the ramming of the
charge in the bowl. He struck
a match, held it at the end be-
tween forefinger and thumb,
then looked at me suddenly from
under thick silver eyebrows.
Behind the flame his eyes shone
a surprisingly clear blue; and
his hair stuck up straight and
stiff like strands of silver wire.
“It’s this way.”
I watched, fascinated, as the
match burned almost to his
fingers ; at the last moment he
put the flame to the bowl, sucked
strongly three times, then
dropped the blackened match
carefully into the basket.
“I’m what you could call a
fault-finder. Electrical faults,
that is.” He chuckled. “An
emergency man, called when the
gang are baffled. And can they
be baffled!” He laughed,
pleasantly malicious. “And let
me tell you, electrical fault-
finding isn’t as easy as moral
fault-finding. No, sir,” He
looked at his pipe, tamped the
tobacco. “You’ve got to know
this game. Really know it.
You’ve got to be a combination
of a professor and a mechanic.
You must know the theory, you
must know the practice. Useless
knowing all about lights and
nothing about motors, or all
about motors and nothing about
transformers. You’ve got to
know A.C. and D.C., high-
voltage and low-voltage, from
the biggest generator to the
smallest instrument. The lot.”
HE took three long pulls to
make up for lost time,
inhaled deeply, blew gently with
evident satisfaction. He pointed
the pipe at me and smiled.
“Not you —me. Your job’s
to learn all you can in the twelve
months you’ll be here. I’ll teach
you what I can”—he leaned
forward and tanned the table
for emphasis—“if.. .you want
.. .to learn.” He sat back
and lifted a long forefinger.
“Don’t make any rash promises,
now. I’ve heard ’em before. But
get this clear: You’ll learn if
you’ve got the will. But you
must have the will.”
I nodded. Other apprentices
had warned me that what Jim
liked above all was a good
listener. Some of them had
resented him ; they preferred to
mess about at the bench ; he
bored them. For my part I was
well content; I could listen
for ever.
Jim went on. “That’s the
important part of our job, but
not all. We have to test and
service tricky gear the ordinary
blokes can’t handle, and some-
times we have to do a bit of
ordinary fitting.” There was a
wealth of scorn in the words
“ordinary fitting.” It sounded
like asking an eye-specialist to
yank out children’s tonsils.
“What it amounts to is that
here you have to use your brains.
Take the ordinary electrician.
Does he have to use his brains?
He connects a motor —well, a
child of twelve could do it if you
showed him twice. He runs
lighting-circuits—you could do
’em blindfolded in a week.
Mechanical stuff. But get a
station shut down and no fault
showing; or an emergency-
circuit on the blink just when it's
needed; or an operating-
department screaming that if
they don’t get power in five
minutes the whole works’ll stop.”
He chuckled, and stabbed his
pipe at me. ‘‘That’s when you’ll
see ’em running—round and
round like ants when you poke
a stick in the nest.” He leaned
back and tapped his chest. “And
that’s where Jim Nicholas comes
in. ‘Old Jim’ they call me—l
know. Too old for them, boy ;
old in the head.” He tapped his
forehead. “Brains, Arthur,
brains. That’s what you want.
Plus experience. And that’s why
they yell for old Jim Nicholas.”
I sat fascinated, awed by his
tremendous confidence. Others
I’d worked with, even highly-
skilled men, had invariably pre-
tended to less knowledge and
talent than they owned, to leave
a margin for error and bad luck,
or to gain more credit for their
successes. But Jim left no
margin ; he defied the malignant
gods that listen to our boasts. It
was something new to me. But
Jim showed no awareness of any-
thing out of the ordinary ; just
sat puffing his pipe and turning
the eyeglass over and over with
sure-looking fingers.
“Now your first job, Arthur,
is to make yourself familiar with
the equipment here. Everything
has to be in its place. Seconds
count in this job.” He pointed.
“That red box by the door, that’s
our emergency kit. For rush jobs
only. It .must be kept ready for
instant use.”
1 looked round the room
again. There was a lot to learn.
The test-panel alone looked a
six-months job. I nodded at the
drawing-board.
“You do some drawing, too?”
Jim frowned. “No. There’s a
young engineer has to do his
drawing here because of lack of
space. He won’t worry you.”
He made a gesture that wiped
the young engineer out of
existence; then smiled. “And
now I’ll show you something
really important: where to make
our tea.”
JIM sat sorting meter-parts,
occasionally pulling the eye-
glass down from his forehead,
where it protruded like a
monstrous black growth, to
examine a part more closely.
His head craned forward on his
thin neck like a tortoise’s poking
from its shell, and he held part
and eyeglass so close as almost
to touch. I itched for a look
through the glass, but was too
shy to ask. It amazed me that
anyone could make order from
the chaos of parts. I said as
much to Jim. He pulled up the
eyeglass and grinned.
“Aha, just leave it to
Nicholas.” He waved the
tweezers at me. ■ “Mind, it’s
not everyone could do it.
I’m always complaining to
the boss. He sends something
over to be serviced, and one look
shows someone’s
been tampering
with it. Makes
the job twice as
hard. But I might
as well save my
breath. What I
should do is refuse
to touch anything
t h a t’s been/
messed - about
with.”
He tapped his
pipe on the
basket edge, blew
down the stem,
stoked up. Put it
unlighted into his
mouth, pulled
down the eyeglass
and started again
on the meter.
“What year are you in at
night-school?”
“Third.”
“Had anything about meters?”
“A bit. Elementary stuff.”
“What textbook do you
have?”
“Maccall.”
“Maccall?” He pushed the
glass up and stared at me.
“Nothing elementary about
Maccall, son. On the contrary.”
I blushed. Many a time I’d
had it dinned into me that what
craftsmen hate most is the
apprentice who “knows it all” ;
now, not heeding the warning,
I’d bogged myself: old Jim had
the impression that I considered
Maccall elementary. I made an
effort to get back to solid ground.
“I didn’t mean it like that. I
meant we just touch on things,
don’t go into them deeply.”
“Oh.” He looked at me a
little less critically. Then pointed
to the meter. “Know what type
of instrument this is?”
“An ammeter.”
He gave me a hard look, then
chuckled. “Thought for a minute
you were having me on. I didn’t
mean that; anyone can see it’s
an ammeter —it’s got it on the
scale. But what type of ammeter
is it?”
I looked blank. “Well, they all
justmeasurecurrent, don’t they? ”
He smiled. “Haven’t they
taught you about moving-coil
and moving-iron types?”
“Oh.” I took a good look.
“That’s a moving-coil.”
“Good, good. And what’s the
principle of it?” His eyes
sparkled ; he was enjoying him-
self immensely.
“Well, it’s like a motor, isn’t
it? The field of the conductors
interacts with the field of the
magnet to produce a motion in
the coil.”
He threw back his head and
laughed heartily. “Good on you,
son, good on you. Just like a
textbook. Ah, there’s no doubt
about this night-school of yours.
They give you the right dope.”
He chuckled; then said, giving
the jam after the pill, “Like a
look through the glass?”
I pulled the elastic over my
head, settled the glass comfort-
ably and peered at the meter.
“Open both eyes, or you’ll
strain one.” I did. “Now hold
this close to the glass.”
I’d just got the focus when the
door opened ; I looked up and
got a blurred view of a stranger.
I pushed up the glass.
| T was a young chap in a
I boiler-suit, with a clean collar
and tie showing
underneath.
“Mornin’, Jim.”
He nodded to-
wards me.
“Y our new
gang? Got him
on the scientific
stuff already?”
He smiled.
I stood up.
Jim said, un-
usually stiff:
“Arthur, this is
Philip Saunders.
Engineer om the
station staff.
Arthur’s my new
offsider.”
Saunders held
out his hand.
“We’ll be seeing
a bit of each
other. I plague Jim occasionally
by doing a bit of work in here
at the board.”
Jim said no more, and with
another nod to me Saunders
crossed to the desk and started
work, whistling tonelessly as he
pinned a sheet of paper on the
board.
I sat down. Jim had the glass
on again and was working at the
meter. There was silence for a
few minutes; the only sounds
the sliding of the drawing-
machine over the paper and a
scratching as Jim picked up
another part.
The phone rang. Jim finished
what he was doing, pushed up
the glass and put down the
tweezers, picked up a pencil,
then lifted the receiver.
“Nicholas. Oh, yes. Yes. The
new one? Right. Yes, three
minutes.” He hung up.
“Emergency-box, Arthur.” He
reached for his hat. Saunders
swung round on his stool. “Bit
of trouble, Jim?”
“Yes. New converter at the
plating-plant. Come on, son.”
When the door slammed behind
us he turned to me with a boyish
grin. “Step on it, my boy.
Nicholas to the rescue.”
As we hurried down the track
I asked what was wrong.
“Never worry about that till
you’re on the job. Then forget
everything else.” He hummed
an old song.
THE boss was waiting for us.
I had to strain to hear him
above the noise of the machines.
“It’s the A.C. panel, Jim.
Machine runs 0.K., but behind
the A.C. panel everything’s hot.
Can’t track it down.”
“Let’s have a squiz.” Jim took
a general look at the back of the
panel, then his eyes followed
down the risers and along the
bus-bars to where they disap-
peared on the far side of the air-
duct.
“Bus-bars the most obvious
thing.”
“Five four by quarters —plenty
for that current, Jim.”
Jim nodded. “More than you
need probably with that cool
run. What about joints?”
“Fitter just checked the lot.
Not a loose bolt anywhere.”
“Rules that out, then.” He
felt carefully all the gear on the
panel, checking warmth against
warmth. Turned again to the
risers. Went down the steps to
the duct floor and peered closely
at a clamp bolted across the
risers. Looked up and
beckoned; I followed the boss
down.
“What’s this for, Tom?”
“Clamp to hold the bars in
case of short-circuit.”
Jim nodded twice, slowly.
“Make it here?”
“No. Came with the set.”
“H’m. Not often they slip.”
“Why, what’s wrong with it?”
“Take a look at this.” I
peered round the boss’s arm,
“See that steel strip across the
bolts?”
“Yes.”
“Shouldn’t be. Should be
fibre.”
“But there’s fibre between it
and the bars.”
“Yes. But look, there’s one
on this side of the riser, too.
Get me?”
“Good Lord.” The boss had
another look.
“A complete ring of steel. No
wonder they get hot.”
“Lucky it’s so simple; swap
those for fibre and she’ll be
right as rain.” The boss patted
Jim’s shoulder. “Jim, there’s no
doubt about you. I examined
that clamp and didn’t wake up.”
Jim made a formal bow, but
his eyes were sparkling
mischievously.
“Nicholas at your service, sir.”
Then he added “I’ll send you the
bill.” The boss smiled. “And I
deserve to be made to pay it.”
WE sat at the table, reading
journals. Saunders came
and went a couple of times, and
it seemed to me that he gave me
hard looks. I felt guilty; I’d
been having a look at his draw-
ings, and thought he'd noticed
the cover had been moved.
There was a new instrument on
the bench, and I asked Jim when
we were going to test it.
“All in good time, boy. Don’t
you worry your head about it.”
He ran his knife round the inside
of his pipe bowl, firmed the
tobacco and lit up. “Perhaps
you think we’re loafing.”
I hastened to assure him.
“Some people would. But
they’d be wrong. You have to
read the journals to keep in
touch. Textbooks get out of
date.”
There was a gentle knock on
the door.
“Come in, come in,” Jim
yelled. It was the boss. I stood
up, Jim just waved a hand.
“Mornin’, Tom.” The boss
returned his greeting and nodded
to me. “How’s your new man
progressing?”
“Ah, he’ll be O.K. when I’ve
corrected all he learnt at night-
school.”
They laughed. I got a chair
for the boss, then went into the
other room and pretended to
c.ean some tools.
The boss coughed, then said
quietly, almost apologetically,
“There’s a bit of a job in the
station I’d like you to do, Jim.”
He paused, Jim said nothing.
“A new panel to be fitted at the
transfer-switch. The old one
was smashed when a case swung
against it. The new stuff’s all
there ready.”
“Oh, yes.” Jim’s voice was
flat.
“Ordinary fitting,” I guessed,
and grinned.
“I wouldn’t worry you, only
we’re a man short with Vincent
si c k. M
“0.K., Tom, we’ll fix it.”
The boss went out and Jim
called me.
“Come on, son, we’d better
have a look at it. Probably
something the station-sweeper
could do.”
THE new panel and its switch
and instruments were stacked
alongside the wrecked one. Jim
grunted. “Looks like a bit o’
bullocking on the big drill.”
{Continued on page 23)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Slates.
RMI4
FONDE
*
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
fs
:
m
■MM
No Bags . . No Labour . . when you use the NEW
1L
$Mkht0b
t
TRUCK TO SILO
FIELD BIN TO TRUCK
GRAIN and SUPER ELEVATOR
THE MOBILCO BULK MASTER is a truly portable
auger for handling wheat and super in bujk. Light and
manoeuvrable, the Bulk Master is the ideal machine
for the farmer and grain merchant. It can be used
in your field bin or trailer, yet can be moved easily
and quickly for other jobs such as unloading rail trucks
or moving grain or bulk super into sheds.
No other auger offers such wide scope of application.
Machine operates from horizontal up to full vertical
lift. Available in 9' and 12' lengths with 6" diameter
tube, and powered with 4-stroke, 6 b.h.p. Mobilco
Engine.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW!
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
HEAD OFFICE - 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM. PHONE: WUIOBI (9 LINES)
f&F* 252
AGENTS ' *
"World
Destruction"
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? 'Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
Braille literature also available
for the blind.
The Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
CRIPPLING •
RHEUMATIC
MINS
quickly eased with
Dolcin, the result of
five years, intensive
medical research has
brought relief to
thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheumatic
Groups. Dolcin gives
prompt and pro-
longed relief from the
painful symptoms of
.a*** 00
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical
profession.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been ad-
ministered throughout the world.
. DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
off this beach we’ll charter a tug-
boat to come across and do it —
and you’ll have to pay for it!”
Mick watched.the deputation
hurry away, their departure
hastened by a temporary shift
of wind, then he strolled down
to the try-works.
BRODIE turned on him with
a savage scowl. “I’ve had
all I can stand!” he said omin-
ously. “Clear out! ”
Mick ’ stood his ground.
“Please yourself, Pat,” he said
quietly. “But I’m on your side,
you know.”
“On my side! ” the butcher
roared. “You’ve got the nerve
to try to put that over, after the
way you stung me for twenty
quid with a dirty lawyer’s
trick”
“Listen! ” Mick interrupted.
“Ten years ago you palmed off
some crook chaff on me. I told
you I’d get even, if it took me
the rest of my life. I’ve done it.
Now we can call it square and
be friends again—or we can go
on having a row every time we
meet. It’s up to you—but I want
to help you now. I’m a pretty
good bush-lawyer, although I
say it myself.”
Brodie considered the matter,
and his attitude became more
friendly. “Can they make me
shift that whale?” he inquired.
“Afraid so,”- was the reply.
“You can bet that judge who’s
here on a holiday is telling
them what to do.”
“It’s the blasted cityites who’re
making all the trouble,” Brodie
growled, and Mick nodded in
agreement. Durfhg the past
fifteen years the little town had
seen an influx of retired civil
servants, who had built small
cottages and were living on their
superannuations.
They were always finding
some cause for complaint. When
Bill Tregenza cut down a clump
of old tea-trees to clear a site
for a boatshed the newcomers 1
united in declaring it “an act
of vandalism” —though they had
not been able to tell Bill how
he could have put the shed any-
where else on his property with-
out first shifting away about a
thousand tons of sandhill.
They had raised a fearful fuss
about the proposal to build a
fish-receiving depot by the foot
of the jetty—and the depot had
been built in the rival town of
Port Flinders as a result. The
local fishermen had to go on
sailing acrqss the strait to get
rid of their catches.
“Those people have no more
idea of business than a blasted
billygoat! ” the butcher said con-
temptuously. “They’ve drawn
regular pay all their lives—and
they’ll go on drawing it till they
die. They don’t know how hard
other people have to graft for
a crust.” He glanced at the
whale carcass. “How the hell
can a man shift a thing that
size?” he inquired in a tone of
exasperation.
“See Ike Stevens,” Mick ad-
vised. With a sly grin he added:
“They didn’t say anything about
knocking off melting down the
blubber. All you have to do is
shift what’s left of the whale,
see? Well, by the time you get
back from having a word with
Ike, the tide’ll be low enough
for you to go on chopping off
the fat, and you keep on doing
it!”
“Gripes, you’re right! ” Brodie
agreed, and Mick looked at what
the butcher was doing. Mounted
on one end of a grease-soaked
bench was a machine like a
green-feed cutter ; he was using
it to cut lumps of blubber into
thin slices, which his son pitch-
forked into the two huge caul-
drons, occasionally bailing out
the oil and pouring it into
second-hand petrol-drums.
“I’ll take over this job,” Mick
volunteered,
j KE STEVENS owned the big-
1 gest of the fishing-cutters
which made the bay their head-
quarters ; he listened with sym-
pathy to the butcher’s tale of
woe.
“Here’s what gets me,” Brodie
said scornfully. “There’s that
old humbug of a Norman Carp-
well who’s so keen on local his-
tory. Writes a paper about the
first settlers in these parts and
reads it to his society over in
Adelaide. Praises up the old-
time whalers no end. Calls them
‘daring sea-dogs’ and whatnot.
First time he finds himself to
loo’ard of the real thing, though,
he howls blue murder!”
“Then he goes in for a dif-
ferent kind of wailin’, eh?” Ike
commented, “Well, Pat, we
can’t do nothin’ till high water
about three this afternoon, but
then I’ll run me boat down and
see what I can do with a towin’-
wire. Most times it’d be hope-
less, but this sou’-easterly is
backin’ the water into the bay,
and I reckon the tide’ll come
up a good foot higher than
usual.”
Although the carcass was lift-
ing as each wave rolled in at
high tide, Ike’s boat, with the
engine running at full throttle,
failed to move it. It made
Brodie very downcast. But Ike
was still hopeful. He buoyed
the end of the to wing-cable,
dropped it overboard, ran the
cutter a hundred yards to wind-
ward, let go his heavy anchor,
and paid out the full scope of
the chain cable. Then he picked
up the end of the towing-wire
again.
“Now,” he grunted, as he and
the butcher put their weight on
the windlass handles. “Either the
bottom of the bay comes up,
the whale comes off, or we’ll pull
my blanky old boat clean in
halves! ” It was the whale which
came off.
“What do I owe you?” Brodie
inquired when the huge mass
of rotten meat had been cast
adrift well out at sea,
“Let’s have a four-gallon tin
of the oil and call it square,”
Ike replied. “I reckon we owe
you a bit of a turn for the way
you give them cityites somethin’
to howl about.”
Brodie gripped his hand.
“You’ll never go short of bait
for your cray-pots as long as
I’m in business,” he promised.
~T HAT evening Mick stood on
1 the veranda of his cottage
and gazed out to where, unaei
a cloud of gulls, a black object
was drifting in the strait. Al-
though he had had a hot bath
and a complete change or clotn-
ing there still hung around him
an aura reminiscent of cod-liver
oil blended with the smell or a
tallow candle which has just
been extinguished.
Behind him in the cottage he
could hear his wife talking
furiously about soft-headed old
fools who volunteered to assist
at the trying-out of whale blub-
ber ; she punctuated her remarks
with an occasional “Po-ooh!”
and “U-ugh!”
‘‘When will the next whale
come, Ganpa?” Gassy inquired.
“I likes whales.” In her mind
they were associated with sweets,
for every day since the whale
had come ashsore, when her
grandfather went down to the'
town for the newspaper, he had
also fetched a bag of lollies.
“A present from Mister
Whale,” he had described them.
He now looked down at the
child, smiled and shook his head.
“I don’t know, dear. All I
know is if I ever harpoon an-
other one, poor old Pat Brodie
won’t be keen to buy it.”
FINIS
N.Z.
So ends a life of wild disharmony,
Bending of other wills across the knee,
Of unsought captaincy, passions now born
Of ravaged sanctities, yes, passions torn
Out of the wounded soul, now slyly feinted
With a scowling front and mask of rage
presented
While far below the surface strife is wanting,
As ocean deeps sleep sound when storms are
ranting.
To an unruffled peace now let him sink
Where of old slumbrous syrups he may drink,
In some secluded glen where all is still,
Calm waters take the shadow of the hill,
Disinterested thrushes sing with zest
And drowsy blackbirds charm the sun to rest;
Or in some dreamy inlet wild and shy
Where skylarks shrill and wistful curlews cry,
And rose-red headlands in the sunset light
Stretch far beyond the range of striving'sight.
ARNOLD WALL.


r*
SJ
m
m
The Flying “Whale”
LONDON, xBi6
UR aeronautical cor-
respondent yesterday
inspected a strange
dirigible which is at present being
constructed by S. T. Pauly and
Durs Egg, Swiss gunsmiths. The
airship is to be propelled by oars
and fins, powered by a kind of
atmospheric steam engine in-
vented by Mr. Collier. To give
control in climb and descent, a
hinged horizontal fin with an ad-
justable ballast weight is fitted.
“Free Ballooning,” said Mr.
Pauly, “is a pleasant enough pas-
time. But my aim is to produce a
controllable aircraft which is fast
and efficient; an aircraft as
renowned for these qualities 5 ’
and here he paused as if lost for
a word “as is the BP Aviation
Service. The public may not yet
understand that comparison, but
they will, gentlemen, they will!”
AVIATION
a
HE
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States
A subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company Limited, London.
He examined the mess. “Here,
son ; here’s a job for you. Th
terminal-board’s smashed ; yo
can cut a new one. There’s
sheet of half-inch carbolit
behind the tool cupboard. Cu
a piece the same size as this anc
then fix these studs to it
they’re still 0.K.”
“How do I fasten the stuc
in?”
Jim yanked the old board clea
and showed me the back. “See
Sink the nuts in the carbolite
Make the counterbore about th
same size as across the flats o]
the nut. Then hammer ’em in.”
I cut the carbolite carefully t
size, drilled the holes anc
counterbored them, and was jus
hammering at the first nut whe
Saunders came in.
“Hullo,” he_said. “Look who’
working. I thought you wer
going to spend your twelv
months listening to old Jim’
yarns and reading magazines.
I didn’t know what to say, so
said nothing.
“What’s that you’re on?”
I told him.
“And are you going to
hammer those nuts in?”
“Yes, why?”
“Who told you to do it tha
way?”
“Jim.”
He gave a short laugh. “Old
Tim’d never win medals as
fitter.”
I stared at him in surprise.
“You needn’t look so shocked
You think old Jim’s wonderful
but that’s only because he tolc
you he is. He tells ’em all.”
“He wasn’t just telling me
when he fixed the converter.”
“Maybe not, but it was pretty
simple.”
“The boss didn’t find it.”
“Must’ve had his eyes shut.’
Jealous, I thought, but didn't
say it; I wasn’t sure of how we
stood.
“Look, I’ll show you how to
put those nuts in.” He placed
one squarely over the hole, then
clamped it to the carbolite in
the vice. “There. Now gradu-
ally tighten the vice.” The nut
sank slowly and easily into the
carbolite. I undid the vice, the
nut was flush and central.
Saunders grinned and went
out. I did the others the same
way, then screwed in the studs.
It certainly seemed better than
hammering them in.
Jim seemed surprised to see
me. I gave him the board, he
turned it over.
“A good job. Have any
trouble?” I shook my head. I
didn’t mention Saunders or the
vice.
Jim had the new slate bolted
to the frame, and was marking-
out the holes for the instruments.
He connected the drill, and I
held a square against the panel
to keep him horizontal. It was
a heavy drill, and Jim cursed as
it ran from his marks. After a
while he put it down and told
me to pack up.
“I’m going to tell the boss to
get someone else to do this bul-
locking, then we’ll do the brain-
work connecting up.”
He came back looking serene,
and humming happily one of his
old songs. There was no need
to ask if he’d arranged the
bullocking.
ONE morning as we walked
up the track we saw two
men waiting at our door.
“Who are they, son?”
“Looks like the boss. Can’t
recognise the other one.”
WTien we got closer Jim said
“That’s Atkins, superintendent
of electric furnaces.” He hailed
them. “Morning, gentlemen.
What can we do for you?”
“Bit of trouble, Jim,” the boss
said.
“Aha, you’ve come to the right
place. Come on in and we’ll talk
about it in comfort.” He opened
the door, stood aside for them to
enter.
As I got chairs, Jim calmly
hung up his hat and coat, put
away his lunch-case, settled him-
self in his chair, polished his
glasses. Then looked up inquir-
ingly. Atkins leaned forward
He was a thin, nervous man
and his voice cracked with
anxiety. “Our power’s gone
The line’s as dead as mutton.”
Jim turned to the boss. “O.K
our end?”
“Yes. Looks like the cable.”
“Soon check that. Make your-
selves comfortable for five
minutes. Bring the megger,
son.” We went over to the
station. Jim made sure the line
was isolated ; then, as I turned
the handle, he tried between
phases and from each phase to
earth. Between red and earth the
pointer showed zero. “That’s
her. Red’s down to earth.”
We went back. Atkins swore.
“If the power’s not on by four
this afternoon we’re sunk for
afternoon- and night-shift. The
chief’ll go mad.”
“Well, it can’t be helped,” said
the boss.
Jim went to the phone, dialled.
“That you, Bert? Nicholas
here. Jim Nicholas. How
long’d it take your best man to
put a joint-box in the cable to
the furnaces? Eh? Five hours.
Right; another thing. Are you
there? Have you got the exact
length of that run? Good.” He
waited patiently; the boss
fidgeted, bursting to speak...
“Eight-hundred-and-sixty feet.
Exactly? Yes, that’ll be near
enough. 0.K., thanks, Bert. Get
your man to pack his stuff right
away and come up to the station,
will you? Tell him we’ll touch
Atkins for a drink if he does a
good quick job. So long.”
He hung up and grinned at
Atkins. Pulled out his watch.
“Half-past nine. Gives me an
hour {ind a half.” He nodded
to Atkins. “She’ll be fright.”
The boss broke out. “But, Jim,
have you forgotten that most of
that cable’s underground? There
won’t be time to uncover it.”
Jim smiled, patted his chest.
“Leave it to Nicholas.” The
boss grinned, and Atkins cackled
with relief,
Jim turned to me. “Right-
oh, son ; an oh-fifty ammeter,
oh-one millivoltmeter, plenty of
wire. Bring ’em over to the
battery-generator.”
WHEN I got there he was
waiting, coat off, sleeves
up, with the ends of the cable
disconnected at the box. In a
few minutes he had his circuit
connected. He started the
generator, made adjustments to
the resistance, jotted down
readings. Tripped the generator
’breaker, changed his circuit, re-
peated the readings. Stopped
the generator and seated himself
comfortably with pad and slide-
rule. In a few minutes he
nodded.
“0.K., son, pack up.” He
turned to the jointer. “Seventy-
eight and a half feet from this
end. Right from the terminals.
Can’t guarantee it closer than
an inch.” He grinned.
“That’ll be near enough for
me, mate. The box’ll take up a
couple o’ feet.”
As we carried back the gear I
said “Aren’t you going down to
check if you’re right?” He shook
his head. “Should be right. And
if it’s not it’ll be too late to do
anything more today.” He gave
me a quick look. “But you can
nip down if you want to. Here,
give me the gear.”
I hurried down the cable-
route. The jointer’s laborer was
just starting. In a few minutes
he struck the cover-boards ; he
pulled them off and shovelled a
working space round the cable.
They checked their measure-
ment from the last peg, the
jointer chalked the cable, marked
a foot either side where the cuts
were to be made, “Gives your
boss a bit o’ latitude. But I
wouldn’t like to bet on him,
just the same.”
He sawed the cable through
at the two marks and lifted the
piece out. At each end the cut
copper shone clean and bright.
He removed the jute, unrolled
the steel-tape armor, cut down
the lead sheath and pulled it off.
About six inches from one enc
the insulation from one core to
the sheath was charred black
The jointer whistled.
“The man’s a bloody wizard.”
“You don’t want that, do
you?” I asked him.
“No, no good to me, son. I’ll
have enough down here to
worry about for the next few
hours.”
I took the piece of cable and
hurried back. Jim stared at it
when I walked in. I showed
him the break ; he got out his
rule and solemnly measured.
Shook his head.
“I’m slipping. Getting too old
for this job. Nearly six inches
out.” He grinned boyishly.
“The jointer reckons you’re a
wizard.”
He laughed. “Obviously an
intelligent man.”
“How did you do it, Jim?”
“Brains, boy, brains. No,
there’s nothing to it. A simple
matter of potential drop in
proportion to length of con-
ductor.” He looked at me teas-
ingly. “You probably had it in
your first year at night-school.
Here, give us your notebook and
I’ll draw the circuit for you.
Might come in handy to yqu
when I’m dead.”
I WAS alone in the office one
1 morning when the phone rang.
It was the boss. “Tell Jim I’d
like to see him, please.”
Jim frowned when I gave
him the message. “Another of
his fool jobs by the sound of it.
Must think a man’s got nothing
to do but work.”
When he came back it was
plain he’d guessed right. “Come
on, son, bring a rule and sketch-
book.” The boss showed us
what he wanted: a trifurcating-
box, insulators and bus-bars in-
stalled in a concrete cubicle.
Jim made a rough drawing of
the layout, then took measure-
ments of the cubicle, the box
and the insulators. He sketched
a steel frame to hold the box
and gave the sketch to me to
take to the fabricating-shop.
Then he marked the positions of
the insulators and the holding-
down bolts and I plugged the
holes.
The steel frame wasn’t ready
when I’d finished, so Jim went
ahead cementing the insulators
in the wall. We’d just finished the
first when the boss came along
to see how we were going. He
was surprised when he saw the
insulator in place.
“Thought you’d need the
frame up first, Jim.”
“Why’s that, Tom?”
“To make sure of getting the
bars symmetrical.”
Jim frowned. “Be all right as
long as they make the frame to
the dimensions I gave them.”
The boss didn’t look con-
vinced. Jim worked on in
silence. When we had the three
insulators in place and the hold-
ing-down bolts grouted in he
sent me for the frame.
The box fitted the frame per-
fectly, but’when Jim connected
the bars only the centre one
lined-up with its insulator ; the
others were considerably out. He
swore. “They must have drilled
the frame wrong.”
He stood thinking it over. I
felt annoyed that our work was
spoiled by someone else’s mis-
take. “Pity we couldn’t have
made the frame ourselves, Jim.”
He just grunted ; and filled his
pipe. “Well, nothing for it but
to put a set in those two bars.”
He measured the error, un-
bolted the bars, took them to the
vice. When he connected them
again they lined up with the in-
sulators, but the look of the
cubicle was spoiled. Jim sent
me to tell the boss we’d finished.
The boss came with the leading-
hand and they poked their heads
in the cubicle. They looked any-
thing but pleased.
“Buses look a bit skew-whiff,
Jim.”
“Had to put a set in ’em.”
“What was wrong?” .
Jim just shrugged. The boss
and the leading-hand exchanged
looks. I waited for Jim to ex-
plain about the mucked-up
frame, but he didn’t say a word.
It made me angry to know that
he was shielding someone at our
expense. The boss and the lead-
ing-hand moved off to another
cubicle. Jim told me to clean up
and collect the tools, then
marched off. As the others
passed me on their way back I
caught a snatch of their conver-
sation.
“... . might be able to draw
the holes. Of course he should
have....”
1 WAS furious. I nearly jumped
* up and yelled after them what
the trouble was, but I thought
Jim might be annoyed.
I’d just finished cleaning up
when Saunders came along and
looked in the cubicle. He
whistled. “Gripes, what a mess*
Old Jim’s done it this time.”
I turned on him. “It’s not
Jim’s fault.”
“No?”
“No. Jim said the frame-holes
were out. But he wouldn’t tell
the boss.”
Saunders laughed. “No, I
don’t reckon he would. Now
{Continued on page 34)


OTIS LIFTS
PERFORM
EVERT DAY..
:
m
i
mm
AT TOWNSVILLE HOSPITAL
Yes, wherever uninterrupted service,, utmost safety
and superior performance are necessary to maintain
essential facilities, you’ll find Otis lift installations—
and in the, modern hospital much more than just a
lift is required. Only years of experience in design,
manufacture and installation will assure successful
results, and in such a capacity, Otis has served for
100 years. Townsville Hospital has three Otis Bed-
Passenger Lifts and one Otis Service Lift.
TOWNSVILLE • ARCHITECT: J P Oonoghue, S. T.
Gusick & P. A. P. Edwards.
HOSPITAL • CONSULTING ENGINEER: A. E. Axon
& W. E. Bassett.
• STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: R. J.
McWllliam.
• BUILDER; John Stubbs & Sons Pty. Ltd.
m
S
ELEVATOR GpMPflflY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
Missing Friend
TO KENNETH JAMES FENNTON-HILL
formerly of Caulfield but now of 1 parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HEATHER DOREEN FENNTON-HILL
has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary Law Courts Mel-
bourne on or before the 27th day of
November One thousand nine hundred
and fifty-two the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you wish to defend the said
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 4th day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-two.—JOHN I. SULLIVAN, 221
Balaclava Road, Caulfield, Solicitor for the
Petitioner,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
. TO NORMAN JOSEPH CARRAGHER late
of Warrawong Via Port Kembla in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET FLORENCE CAR-
RAGHER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2581 of 1952 on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness, and cruelty, and
habitually leaving her without the means
of support during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in • the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
13th January 1953 and obtain a copy of
tho Petition without charge from W. 0.
CURRIE, Solicitor, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES EXERCISING FEDERAL
JURISDICTION IN MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES. No. 758 of 1952.
TO JAMES HANCOCK late of Canberra
Labourer.—TAKE NOTICE that EDITH
HANCOCK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 758 of 1952 on the grounds of your
desertion during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 7th of
January 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from TAPERELL
& PETERSEN, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK WILSON DAVIS—TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET MAY DAVIS has
filed Petition No. 3627 of 1952 for Divorce
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry King Street Sydney by the 21st
January 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney,—J. QOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO JOHN PHILLIP ASTBURY formerlv
of Melbourne Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife JEAN DRAPER ASTBURY
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of de-
sertion If you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your Defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within forty clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment 'and
make Orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 31st day of October, 1952. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
TO RAY HOUGH SPENCER Address
Unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
VERONICA JOAN SPENCER has com-
menced' proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion for a
continuous period of three years If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Thirty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 31st day of October 1952.—■
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. STODDART
& WALTON, 135 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Life of Vice-Admiral
William Bligh, Admiral Arthur Phillip
and Sir Joseph Banks, all by Dr. G.
Mackaness.—s3s9.
To buy William Dumpier by Clerinel
Wilkinson and The Life and Times of
Captain John Piper by M. Barnard
Eldershaw.—s36o.
To buy biography of Maria Edge-
woith and history of the Edgeworth
family.—s 362.
Gent., middle-aged, Sydney, seeks
clerical position city or suburbs, full-
er part-time, used to handling invoices
and statements.—s36l.
To buy or borrow copy of The
Moon by Fisher. —5367.
To buy, new or second-hand, copy
of i Saw a Strange Land by Arthur
Gr00m.—5366.
To buy three copies of booklet
issued by the Victorian Department
of Agriculture in the early 1930’s on
passionfruit culture.—s36s.
Words of poem by E. J. Brady
containing the lines:
Come southward when the lobster spawns
In cool Cape Conran’s weed.
—5369,
Words of poem “Bill of Bendigo.”
—5368.
Words of verse by June Chrystal
referring to the sale of Kalinga band-
stand by the Disposals Commission.
—5570.
Information Sought
List of books of verse by E. J.
Brady, with names of publishers and
dales of publication ?
The Ways of Many Waters (Sydney,
the Bulletin Newspaper Co., 1899;
another edition, Melbourne, Thomas
C. Lothian, 1909), The Earthen Floor
(Grafton, the Grip Newspaper Co.,
1902), Bells and Hobbles (Melbourne,
George Robertson and Co., 1911),
Bushland Ballads (Melbourne, Thomas
G. Lothian, 1910), The House of the
Winds (London, George G. Harrap
and Co., 1919) and Wardens of The
Seas (Sydney, the Endeavour Press,
1933).
* * * *
(1) Objects of the Corps of Com-
missionaires (N.S.W.) and (2) condi-
tions of membership?
(1) (u) To provide disciplined,
uniformed men for either permanent
or temporary engagement at fixed
rates. (In general, the rate of wages
paid to a commissionaire is governed
by the award ruling for the particular
occupation), (b) To make provision
for the future against the time when
those who have served in her
Majesty’s permanent forces reach an
age when they must leave the service
and desire to re-enter civil life. (2)
Those eligible to join the corps are
men who have had active service
with any of her, Majesty’s forces or
who have served in the permanent
forces (Navy, Army and Air Force)
of her Majesty and have received an
honorable discharge therefrom. An
essential condition of the. corps is
that it is open to ex-members of any
of her Majesty’s forces, with identical
privileges for each. Members of the
corps are specially selected men, and
their integrity is guaranteed by the
corps under a fidelity insurance
scheme.
* * * *
Details of the “lightning” method
of tanning using bran and salt ?
Scrape off all flesh and grease and
trim-dp the edges. Make a solution
of -rib. of salt to every 2gal. water
and soak the skin in this for 24
hours. Make another solution by
pouring 6qt. boiling water on to
2qt. bran, then strain and set aside ;
make an equal quantity of salt-water
by adding to blood-warm water as
much salt as it will dissolve. Mix
the bran-water with the salt-water,
and to each gallon of the mixture,
when not more than lukewarm, add
loz. sulphuric acid. Immerse the
skin in this, stirring occasionally until
tanned, which should be in about
20 minutes. Rinse in clear water and
hang in a shady place to dry. During
drying, pull it into shape, stretch and
rub it to make pliable. Rub a little
neatsfoot-oil into the back to soften.
* * * *
What are the functions of the
N.S.W. Auditor-General ?
The Auditor-General is appointed
by the Governor, and holds office
during good behavior until the age of
65 years. He may be suspended by
the Governor, but is removable from
office only on an address from both
Houses of Parliament. He is required
to take an oath undertaking to per-
form his duties faithfully, and is
debarred from entering political life.
He is endowed with wide powers of
supervision, inspection and audit in
regard to the collection and expendi-
ture of public moneys and the manner
in which the public accounts, are kept.
The Auditor-General exercises con-
trol over the issue of public moneys,
and all warrants for the payment of
money out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund and certain other
accounts must be certified by him.
Matters connected with the public
accounts are subject to special or
annual report to Parliament by him,
and he may refer any matter to the
Public Accounts Committee.
* * * *
Some details concerning Lord Howe
Island ?
Lord Howe Island is a dependency
of N.S.W., and, for the purpose of
representation in the State Parliament,
is included in a metropolitan elec-
torate. It is situated about 300 miles
east of Port Macquarie and 436 miles
north-east of Sydney. The island was
discovered in 1788. It is of volcanic
origin, and Mount Gower, the highest
point, reaches an altitude of 2840 ft.
The climate and soil are favorable
for the growth of sub-tropical pro-
ducts, but, on account of the rocky
formation of the greater part of the
surface of 3220 acres, only about
300 acres are arable. The land has
not been alienated, and is occupied
rent-free on sufferance, being utilised
mainly for the production of kentia-
palm seed. The island, which is a
favored tourist resort, is linked with
Sydney by air. A Board of Control
at Sydney manages the affairs of the
island and supervises the palm-seed
industry. At December 31, 1951,
the estimated population was 202
persons.
* * * *
What steps are taken by the State
in N.S.W. to control and treat
inebriates ?
An inebriate convicted of an
offence of which drunkenness is a
factor, or, in certain cases, a con-
tributing cause, may be required to
enter into recognisances and to report
periodically to the police for a period
of not less, than 12 months; or
he may be placed in a State institu-
tion. For the care and treatment of
inebriates other than those convicted
of. an offence there are State institu-
tions under the control of the
Inspector-General of Mental Hos-
pitals. Judges, magistrates and the
Master-in-Lunacy may order that an
inebriate be bound over to abstain,
or that he be placed in a State or
licensed institution or under the care
of an attendant controlled by the
Master-in-Lunacy, or of a guardian,
for a period not exceeding 12 months.
An inebriate enter volun-
tarily into recognisances to abstain.
Inebriates are detained in some of
the State mental hospitals, and the
number under the supervision of the
Inspector-General of Mental Hospitals
at June 30, 1950, was 130 men and
59 women.
Brief Answers
C.C.: Get in touch with Mr. B. H.
Molesworth, Director of Talks, Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission, 264
Pitt-street, Sydney C.N-: Try Bel-
tane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965,
G.P.0., Wellington (N.Z.). If you
will give us a list of the titles you
are seeking we will run a “wants”
notice on this page P.M.; The
Teacher Librarian by Ernest Grim-
shaw, published by E. J. Arnold,
London A.G.8.: Write officer-in-
charge, Hydrographic Branch, De-
partment of the Navy, Sydney
C.D.D.: The Australian representa-
tive of Hamish Hamilton, Ltd., Lon-
don, is Edgar C. Harris, 431 Bourke-
street, Melbourne... .R.F.F.: We
have never encountered the phrase.
If you can supply the complete text
in which it appeared we may be able
to help E.L.R.; A copy of the
book of the date and in the condition
mentioned would be worth only a
few shillings M.G.: The subject
is covered in an article “Captain
Arthur Phillip’s First Landing-place
in Botany Bay” by C. H. Bertie in
the “Royal Australian Historical
Society Journal and Proceedings” for
August, 1952 V.H.: An “abridged”
edition can be used to describe either
a book put into simpler language or
one with certain parts omitted
altogether J.C.8.: “Limelight” de-
rives from the early gas-lamp—when
the burning of the gas was used to
heat lime to incandescence. These
lamps were used for theatre foot-
lights; hence “in the limelight” as a
term for the conspicuous... .F.J.T.:
The lines “Let dogs delight to bark
and bite, For God hath made them
so” were written by Isaac Watt (1674-
1748), the son of a Nonconformist
schoolmaster. He is remembered as
the author of Divine Songs for
Children, containing the well-known
lines about the busy little bee....
R. 8.; Write Commonwealth Statis-
tician, Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra E.G.: Ernest
Weekley, in Romance of Words, states
that “the original Hooligans were a
spirited Irish family of that name
whose proceedings enlivened the drab
monotony of life in Southwark to-
wards the end of the 19th century.”
P.L.: “Old Q.” is the nickname
of William Douglas, third earl of
March and fourth duke of Queens-
berry (1724-1810), a friend of the
Prince of Wales, notorious for his
escapades and dissolute life, much
interested in horse-racing. He was
satirised by Burns, and is the “de-
generate Douglas” of Wordsworth’s
sonnet.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;,
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
H.L.: It is strange, but stories
that begin with the adage “Truth is
stranger than fiction” never seem to
catch our eye G.8.W.: For a start
write about something you have ob-
served or experienced... .J.H.: You
can call and bail that drunk out any
time during business hours... .RJ.:
A bit soft for u5....8.M.: Almost
any reason for watching girls undress-
ing will do except the one you give:
that you like to see them without
their clothes W.R.: Nothing more
confusing than the horror-ghost story,
for the author who can murder and
haunt with impunity generally does
so without reason and clarity....
N.G.: A very shadowy performance.
... .L.H.: When you knock your
stock-characters about like that it’s
not surprising that they grow more
brutal from story to story... .H.H.:
No room for anything that “will be
printed in the Manchester ‘Daily
Dispatch’ later on” J. 1.: “Knight
Errant” not bad, but the cheerful
ending, though perfectly proper, was
a little too highly-colored to seem
quite credible... LG.: No imaginary
long-ago’s E.V.H.: We don’t
mind gangsters, but prefer them dead-
right (next to just dead, that is),
whereas yours enjoy some of the
imaginative brilliance which makes
our daily and Sunday papers so
enthralling... .G.S.: Nice to find
someone still finds such fish wonder-
ful, but we pay no quids for squids.
F.H.F.: It has a sort of homely
authenticity, so here you go:
SYDNEY'S WIDE DOMAIN.
Along a free-lined path I walk
In Sydney’s wide Domain;
The day was dark and overcast
With an occasional spot of rain.
A drunken man he sat upon
A seat beside the path.
His walking-stick hooked on the seat
And around his neck a scarf.
He wore a military overcoat
And sandals on his feet
(An empty bottle on the grass
Underneath the seat).
His chin was resting on his chest
As he mumbled in his sleep ;
A sharp-eyed willie-wagtail
Was swanking at his feet.
I retraced my steps and left the path
And walked up Figtree-avenue;
The honking cars went rushing past
And through the rain they flew.
I turned my head and looked around
And far across the park
At emerald-green and drooping trees
Which wore growing dark.
The drunken man he still sat/
In the driving rain,
A lonely man all by himself
In Sydney’s wide Domain.
. ...E.P.: There’s not enough in it
to make a story, but if it were true
it might make a good article....
J.W.: An incident that might have
made a story sends you into a
moralising flap... .C.W.S.: Yes, yes;
but, on the other hand, No, no.
B'.S.: If only you knew as much
about story-writing as you do abouT
tunnelling—but look at it this way:
what’s the use of a tunnel if it
doesn’t get anywhere? ... .C.G.: “The
plot is neither deep enough nor
clear enough P.T.8.: Shocking.
. ...D.M.S.: You need some kind
of reveille from such reveries—and
never, never damn your scripts at
first sight with the literary mannerism
of the second person: “ ‘You forget
it,’ you’d said,” etc V.C.D.; Nice
enough, in an ordinary, unbuyable
sort of way.... J.R.F.: Took too
long for the curry to explode
Boulanger: “Leave it to me.” We
shall... .T.M.W.: Four lines, then,
from your shopping tour on “A Wet
Day on Brickfield Hill”:
Mercery—men’s—dry-cleaning and suits ;
I will smoke a cigar while I look at the
boots. - ■
Dressing-gowns warm, all made in Aus-
tralia.
While here I may as well glance at
regalia. s, -
. ...G.V.K.: “The Swag man’s
Lament” is fairly rough going, but
you did have an idea in the lines:
There’s room for the lot on the three-
chain track,
My shadow, my troubles and me.
. ...J.A.S.; Dust your “dosts” and
do for your “doths” E.S.: All
bomb-poems are the same poem.
J.S.M.: Thought twice about
“Resurrection.”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A, H. DICKINS, Q. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
mm
am
SSI
mm.
ill
m
y
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked
men to try it ... 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut’’ . . . 76% said “Less razor pull . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” . . . 80% found “Smooth err feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
df
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • /EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
PSS/Ui
Australian Historical Sketches
THE LADY
AND THE PONY
By M. H. ELLIS
IT was Governor Phillip who
testified that the women of
the First -Fleet in general
possessed “neither virtue nor
honesty,” though he admitted
that there were a few convicted
of theft who might be better
than the rest and who might
therefore be kept together.
Most of the fact and legend
which has come down to us
supports the Governor, who was
perhaps prejudiced. All his
successors for a generation
shared his opinions about the
ladies exported from England.
Free women there were few.
The Governor had left his wife
ill in England. The “half-
farmer” chaplain, the Rev.
Richard Johnson, had a spouse
who was hot adjudged socially a
lady. The convicts ranged from
young girls to old crones, a
troublesome lot in a community
in which there were four men
or more to every woman.
And it was very hard to do
anything about them, as harassed
ship’s captains soon found out.
Only occasionally would you find
a lady who would “come quietly”
when retribution overtook her —
one you could tie up to a capstan
and give a dozen or so of the
best with a good stout rope.
There were hardy females in
Norfolk Island to whom a'dose
of the cat was bearable, and who
could take their twenty lashes
like men. But these were
exceptions.
Early travel literature is full
of stories of stout girls who made
their superiors wish that they
had left them alone—damsels
who lay down on the deck and
shrieked like furies when led out
to be whipped by a sore-tried
sea-captain, maidens who had
hysterics when invited to come
and be “pumped on,” a favorite
marine disciplinary measure for
the female sex and one much
dreaded, since presumably the
liquid which was “pumped” came
out of the ship’s bilges—a tasty
fluid even for devils. Some ladies
added to the inconvenience by
swearing to jump overboard if
so much as a finger was laid on
them —and doing it in mid-
ocean.
But there were, of course,
exceptions to general female
turpitude: the unfortunates who
had been scooped up for some
accidental crime, such as the
poor girl, beautiful, cultured, of
good military family, who was
caught in Bond-street in some
petty shoplifting done on the
impulse of the moment and
rather than let her family know
of her disgrace gave a false name
when arrested. She was con-
victed under it, was sent to N. S.
Wales, and by the time her
people had discovered that she
was not dead had married well
and happily after a period as
servant to the drunken Richard
Atkins, Judge Advocate.
And there was also Mary
Reiby, or Reibey, or Raby, the
young lady on whose adventures
the Rev. Mr. Cobbold drew in
the ’forties of the last century
when he created the Margaret
Catchpole of legend, and pro-
vided a phantom which has had
hold of more elastic legs than
any other in the Australian
record. For over a century
infuriated amateur historians
and naturalists have been shout-
ing “liar” and “forger” at Mr.
Cobbold, who no doubt con-
sidered himself an excellent
novelist in the Defoe tradition.
There was, of course, a
Margaret Catchpole. Mr. Cob-
bold knew her. It was his
family’s horse that she acquired.
But all the rest of the yarn is
quite evidently culled from the
story of Mary Reibey, as she
and her family well knew, since
they spent their lives trying to
overtake Mr. Cobbold’s yarn,
which persisted, with setting
complete, even to stuffed lyre-
birds in the Ipswich Museum
and fictional letters to con-
found historians. Even the
name of the romantic Margaret’s
lover, John Barry, was obviously
an anagram for Raby invented
by Mr. Cobbold.
Mary or Molly Reibey, whose
maiden name was Haydock, was
the daughter of James Haydock
and Jane Law, who were married
at Blackburn, Lancashire, on
May 22, 1771. She was
christened Molly when she was
baptised on May 29, 1777, at
Bury. Tradition declared her
family one of the oldest in the
great Royal County of John o’
Gaunt. Her father was described
as an esquire, and since he was
married by licence he was of
some consequence. According
to his daughter he was a surveyor
employed by Sir Robert Peel, the
elder.
Mary Reibey’s mother died
while she was very young. Her
father followed, killed by a fall
from a horse, and the poor girl
was left to the care of relatives
for whom she had no love what-
ever. She was sent (so she told
Bishop Nixon, of Tasmania) to
one of the best boarding-schools
in England. And one night,
when she was all of 13 years
old, she ran off “for a frolic
with a pony from a neighboring
field, without any intention of
stealing it.”
Bishop Nixon, of Tasmania, a
rosy young prelate with romantic
curls and soulful eyes who “did
not question the old lady too
severely,” suspected that “it was
a love affair.” But the old lady
herself said “Stuff and nonsense.”
She merely cleared out because
she didn’t like her guardians, and
when she was caught she was,
after something of a rumpus,
sent out to Botany Bay in the
care of a clergyman, a free but
indignant woman.
+ +
It was, however, generally
taken for granted in the colony
that she was a convict; that she
was sent out for her nocturnal
frolic with the horse under
sentence for seven years ; that
she came in the Royal Admiral,
and that she sailed under a false
name.
There were 47 women convicts
in the Royal Admiral when it
reached Port Jackson on October
7, 1792, to introduce the liquor
traffic and begin changing the
face of N. S. Wales society.
There were three girls within
range of her age recorded in the
journal of one Thompson, the
ship’s gunner: Ann Wilson, 18,
Ann Holmes, 16, and
Scott, 13. It is usually taken
for granted that Miss “Scott”
was Miss Haydock ; but against
this it must be reckoned that she
would have been 15, not 13,
when she voyaged to Sydney
Cove, that she obviously assumed
her own name there at once, that
there is no mention of her under
any other name in N. S. Wales,
that she married in that name
two years later, and that no
record has so far been found in
England of her trial, which, it
has been suggested, took place at
a non-existent place called
“Stoffen” on August 24, 1791.
So there may have been some-
thing in the old dame’s claim to
have “come free” after all. Amid
the excitement about all the rum
which Captain Essex Bond
brought with him her advent as
an immigrant under somebody’s
wing might easily have passed
unnoticed, though no clergyman
arrived in the ship.
The next we hear of her she is
marrying Captain Thomas Raby,
or Reiby, or Reibey, a gentle-
man officer of the East India Co.
service, on September 7, 1794.
And in no time (a fine, large,
“personality girl” she un-
doubtedly would have been
described by the Sydney evening
Press 160' years later) she was a
driving force in local commerce,
managing the affairs of her
husband while he was absent in
foreign parts, which he con-
tinued to be at intervals, until he
contracted sunstroke in the Indies
and expired at his home in
Macquarie-place in May, 1811,
leaving her a 34-year-old widow,
plump and businesslike, with a
family of a couple of daughters
and a couple of sons, a house
“near the Dry Stores” off
Macquarie-place, other premises
at 12 George-street, and still
others where John Sands’ shop,
next to the Sydney G.P.0., stands
today—or rather behind it, on
the Tank Stream, which runs
under the Post Office.
To that generation she was
what Mrs. Hordern was a
generation later —the fashion-
able purveyor of drapery and
mercery and female knick-
knacks, but also of sterner forms
of goods—she was not above
even importing a carriage in Eng-
land at a later stage when she
spent a luxurious holiday there
in 1820, hoping that some rich
emancipist would buy it.
Her cottage in the Macquarie-
place area she let to a fatted
young financier, Mr. Robert
Jenkins, until 1814, and when the
Bank of N. S. Wales was
founded at the end of 1816 she
became its landlady, and thus
provided housing for the first
financial and in fact first incor-
porated company in Australasia.
Despite the tablet which marks
a building facing Macquarie-
place, the cottage Entally House
actually stood down the lane
called Reiby-place on the site
occupied by the old firm of
Robert Towns. It faced the
front of Robert Gowen’s cottage,
was 50ft. long and 20ft. in
height, allowing for the attic.
Its roof-line can be seen in the
pictures done by Major Taylor
from a point of vantage
near Fort-street Sfchool in
1821, and it stood till quite
recent years. The bank paid
£3 a week for it until 1822,
when it moved to Mr. Chisholm’s
house on the east side of George-
street, where, until the gold era,
its customers were sometimes dis-
concerted when interviewing the
general-manager by finding his
children under their legs or the
table.
Mrs. Reibey, the bank’s former
] andlady, meanwhile was growing
in wealth, in houses, farms, ware-
houses full of goods, and a
family which was the pride of
her heart. Thomas, her son,
became a landed potentate in
Tasmania. He married Richarda
Allen, sister of George Allen, the
first locally-admitted solicitor,
founder of the second-oldest
legal firm of today in Sydney.
She was a granddaughter of
King George Ill’s physician and
a descendant of that “inimitable”
Elizabethan bearbaiter and actor
of the Earl of Worcester’s com-
pany, Edward Alleyn, founder
of Dulwich College “not
Roscius nor Esope could per-
form more in action, than
famous Ned Allen . . . Proteus
for shapes, Roscius for a
tongue”—and the husband of
John Donne’s daughter.
It was young Thornes Reibey
who was fined £lOO by a court
in Sydney for horsewhipping a
sprig of the Brookses of Denham
Court who had sneered at his
convict origin.
His sons, Mary Reibey’s
grandsons, went to Oxford.
One became the rector of a sub-
stantial Devonshire church. The
other made two careers for him-
self. He first became an arch-
deacon in Tasmania, and then,
having shown more affection for
a married lady in her own
drawing-room than was thought
consistent with gaiters even in
a convict colony, he turned
naturally to politics, and, kissing
babies instead of ladies, with
marked success, became Speaker
and Premier of the island and
died at a ripe old age. One of
his sisters, Mrs. Reibey’s grand-
daughter, married a nephew of
Governor Arthur, of Tasmania
and Bombay.
+ +
Of Mrs. Reibey’s daughters,
Elizabeth, in 1829, married
Lieutenant Joseph Long Innes,
adjutant of the 39th Regiment
(Dorsets), thus laying the foun-
dation of two generations of
famous N. S. Wales Supreme
Court judges—Sir George Long
Innes and his son, Reginald,
dead only in recent years. An
Usher of the Black Rod in the
N. S. Wales Parliament and
many other well-known citizens
have been born from various
lines of the blood of the old lady,
who, as years went on, became
as well-known a landmark as the
post-office clock, till she died
full of years and honor amid her
extensive estates on May 30,
1855, a fortnight after her 78th
birthday, and was laid in the Old
Sandhills Cemetery to rest there
until the building of Central
Railway Station called for her
removal.
An historian who saw her
coffin disinterred judged that she
must have been a large woman
—sft. Sin. or sft. 9in. high and
broad in proportion. A minia-
ture of her in the Mitchell
Library shows a spectacled
middle-aged countenance. At
first glance it might have
belonged to the mother of Mr.
Pickwick, but on close inspec-
tion it proves itself to be quite
in keeping with the reputation of
Sydney’s first lady commercial
magnate of note, and with her
own account of the interview
with Governor Macquarie at
which she received her first grant
of free land, all the rest of her
wealth having been acquired by
straightout business effort.
“How about Woolloo-
mooloo?” wheedled his Excel-
lency, offering her a hundred
acres or so of unwanted King’s
Cross and its vicinity.
“Wouldn’t feed a bandicoot!”
snorted Mrs. R. (the verbatim
report is her own).
“Well, try North Shore,” sug-
gested the Man of Mull, doing
his best to present her with
Neutral Bay, Mosman and
Cremorne. “You can have as
much as you like there.”
“Pouf! All rocks and stones,”
sneered the lady.
And she did not give in until
she had obtained some of the
best bits of the Hawkesbury
country. Her descendants must
be very sad about her obduracy,
though they certainly had
plenty to live on when her estates
were divided up, about as large
an exhibit of the wages of
juvenile sin as any moralist
could need to warn the rising
generation.
“This, children, is what you
get for stealing neighbors’ ponies
for a joke at night when you are
thirteen years old.”


WORLD FAMOUS
ZEISS
BINOCULARS
Now available for im-
mediate delivery in the
following range.
Lightweight, 8 x 30, for
general purposes; 7 x
50, for night shooting;
10 x 50, high power
Race Glass; 15 x 50,
for long range stock
inspections on Stations.
sd
Write for free illustrated catalogue and price list.
E. ESDAILE & SONS PTY. LTD.
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 9449.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LINDA GLADYS SMITH {nee KLUM)
late of Brisbane. —TAKE NOTICE that
HARRY RICHARD GOODWIN SMITH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4039
of 1952 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th January 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSIEURS HUGHBSDON
& DAVIS, of 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
■—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN TUB SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
to Allan edward cochrane late
of Bathurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS MAY COCHRANE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1522 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an ' appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 19th day of December 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. D. MULRAY & CO.,
Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY EVELYN HILL formerly
of Brisbane—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
DESMOND HILL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3979 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion by failure to comply with a
decree of this Court for Restitution of
Conjugal Eights If you wish to defend
vou may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 22nd of January 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from ARCHIBALD RAYMOND
SHAW, Solicitor, of 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
Spotting Notions
By running first, third arid
fourth in the Melbourne Cup
New Zealand stayers showed
their Australian counterparts up
in a poor light. Forlorn Vic-
torian outsider Welkin Sun (200
to 1) almost upset the apple-cart,
and had the Cup within his
grasp until favorite Dalray (5 to
1) came with a devastating run
to score by half a length. Re-
formed (25 to 1) was third,
another half-length away, and,
backing up the New Zealand
triumph, Unfaan was fourth.
Chockful of staying blood,
and with that will to win, Dalray
richly deserved his success,
especially as he carried 9.8 (81b.
above w.-f.-a.), truly an out-
standing performance ; one that
mightn’t be equalled or topped
for many years to come.
Dalray has now won £37,861
in stakes. If he comes to Sydney
for the autumn racing he will
contest the Sydney Cup with 9.7,
because that is the maximum
weight (lib. less than he carried
in the Melbourne Cup). That
certainly seems an invitation to
be among those present.
Palisade, Hawkesbury Maiden
Two-year-old winner, was not
offered as a yearling at Rand-
wick last autumn. He was cata-
logued, but .withdrawn from sale.
Reared at Baramul Stud, Kerra-
bee (N.S.W.), he is a first foal,
and belongs to the same family
as Ammon Ra and Elfacre.
Palisade is by the new sire
Stockade (imp.), a son of Big
Game, and is from High Stakes
by Brueghel (imp.). Famous
Carbine blood is linked with the
pedigree on the sire’s side.
Time Bell was an interesting
winner at Flemington on Oaks
day. He was successful in the
Byron Moore Stakes, so named
after a former secretary of the
V.R.C. for many years. Raced
by Mr. and Mrs. A. Flanders,
and trained by R. Sweetnam,
Time Bell is a bay colt by Piping
Time (imp.) from Village Belle,
a daughter of Lo Zingaro (imp.)
from Tinytown (imp.) by Lem-
berg, a son of Sunstar. The
youngster is a half-brother to
two Melbourne winners, Rustic
Glow and Rossfield, and was
bred by Lady Luxton at The
Lodge, Dandenong (Vic.). Piping
Time is a son of Midday Sun
and Calumet by Papyrus.
• • « 9
One of those pleasing stories
you still do come across in
racing attaches to the recent
Rosehili winner Tatyoon. Rose-
hill trainer John Booth, son of
a former prominent mentor
there, Bill Booth, who won hun-
dreds of races, kept Tatyoon for
the best. part of 12 months
before registering the name. His
father raced a well-known welter
performer under that name
several years ago, and young
Booth didn’t want to keep the
name going unless his Tatyoon
looked like turning out as
good as its predecessor. As it
happened, the four - year - old
Tatyoon, by Cragsman from a
Pantheon mare, won in impres-
sive style.
With Davey Jones, Hydrogen,
Peshawar, Opulent, Flywood and
Pressman among horses weighted
for next Saturday’s Williams-
town Cup, Victoria’s highlight of
the day, Sydney stables might
lift the big end of the stake-
money in this mile-and-a-half at
Caulfield. Davey Jones heads
the weights at 9.2, and could
make it interesting for the best
of the Melbourne horses, includ-
ing Bronton, Morse Code, Fetlar,
Quite Talk and Double Blank.
Melbourne Cup wins of Hiraji
and Foxzami were recalled at
Canterbury when St. Brigid and
Marino won respective divisions
of the Two-year-old Maiden
Stakes. St. Brigid is a half-sister
to Hiraji, and Marino is a half-
brother to Foxzami. Both
youngsters gave the impression
of soon adding to their winnings,
especially Marino, a stylish colt
described in the racebook as a
grey, but much more black than
grey.
St. Brigid is a daughter of
Gold Nib (imp.) and Duvach
<dam of Hiraji), a Foxbridge
(imp.) mare from Sunny Song
by Hunting Song (imp.), while
Marino, raced by E. R. Williams,
who was in Melbourne to see
his black horse Hydrogen win
the C. B. Fisher Plate, is a son
of Moorcock (imp.) and Honey-
wood (dam of Foxzami) by Fox-
bridge (imp.) from Air Lassie
by Romeo (imp.).
Moorcock, sire of Marino,
was represented for the first time
at the New Zealand yearling
sales last January, when his
draft of 17 was the largest
paraded. Moorcock did little
racing in England, where he
carried the colors of H.H. the
Princess Royal; hp met with an
injury in the One Thousand
Guineas, in which he was third
to My Babu and Pride of India,
and it prevented further racing.
He’s a son of French sire
Mieuxce (winner of the Grand
Prix de Paris, French Derby,
etc.), from Great Tit (an English
winner) by Stefan the Great from
Canary Seed by Cqrinader.
• • • •
Some of Australia’s best
horses have had lowly begin-
nings. Foxzami (Melbourne
Cup) and Sir Falcon (Sydney
Cup) were recruits from Mixed
vStakes, and the way Nagpuni has
won at his latest Sydney starts
in Graduation Stakes indicates
that he will go on to much better
things; maybe develop into a
useful stayer. He is by Gaek-
war’s Pride (imp.) from Crag-
nelia by Felcrag (imp.), and on
the dam’s side traces back to a
noted performer of early years,
unbeaten Grand Flaneur. Nag-
puni cost his owner £750 as a
yearling in March, 1951, and
already is much on the credit
side. Bred at Marylands stud,
Castle Hill, the colt is from the
family which produced four
well-known stayers, Windbag,
Poseidon, Loquacious and
Feminist.
Melbourne Cup running indi-
cated that Hydrogen is no two-
miler, at least in handicap
company. However, he carried
public confidence and atoned for
his Cup defeat by winning the
V.R.C, C. B. Fisher Plate, start-
ing at 5-to-4-on and beating
Aldershot and Davey Jones.
Another from Sydney, Gallant
Archer, won the Batman Stakes.
Gallant Archer is to take his
place in the Q.T.C. Derby field
this coming Saturday, and his
presence may scare some of the
locals, though Brisbane owners
generally manage to have a colt
ready for southern invaders.
Right at top of his form, how-
ever, Gallant Archer, with D.
Munro in the saddle, should
take a lot of beating.
Three-year-old Kashmir, who
recently made an unsuccessful
visit to Sydney, went out a warm
favorite for the mile-and-a-
quarter Summer Cup at the
"Happy landing!”
Doomben meeting, but the colt
had to be content with third
money. Swan b r o, second-
favorite, ridden by former Syd-
ney jockey V. Faggotter, won
from Lady Hannah. Swanbro is
a six-year-old gelding by Broc-
coli from Pegg’s Best. Head-
stockman, from Sydney, won the
Doomben Encourage Mile at
7 to 4 ; he was ridden by Sydney
jockey W. Campbell, who will
have the mount on him in this
Saturday’s Q.T.C. Derby. With
Gallant Archer out of the way
Headstockman would have had
bright prospects. He might still
have a winning chance, but his
record cannot be compared with
Gallant Archer’s.
V •_ ' ■ • \
A few seasons ago Attley was
one of Melbourne’s best milers.
Among races he won were the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes, with
10.6, and the Memsie Stakes. He
also ran a dead-heat with Royal
Gem in the 1945 Caulfield
Guineas, but he couldn’t stay,
and in the Victoria Derby
finished third to Magnificent and
Don Pedro. Attley’s first pro-
geny to win a race was In
Reference in the V.R.C. Ottawa
Stakes, defeating Hellfire and
Devon Oak.
Ascot, where they’ll run the
Queensland Derby, is one of the
best running-grounds in Aus-
tralia. The classic has been won
in the past two years by visiting
three-year-olds. Forest Beau
was successful last season over
Heelaman and Khazana, while
Melbourne galloper Basha
Felika was too solid for Mr.
Standby and Countess Rivoli in
1950.
There was a time when
southern-owned three-year-olds
didn’t bother to trip north for
the Queensland Derby, but the
£3OOO stake is something to
chase, especially by owners of
horses beaten into minor places
in the A.J.C. or V.R.C. Derbies.
The Q.T.C. classic dates back to
1868 ; the A.J.C.’s was first run
in 1861. Braeburn, from Syd-
ney, holds the time record for
the Queensland Derby, 2.3
(1932). Here’s an interesting
point about the northern classic:
In 1912 King Cleo and Koatanui
ran a dead-heat, and King Cleo
won the run-off.
In December, 1947, at Rand-
wick, two-year-old Dynamite,
ridden by A. Mulley, won the
Nursery Handicap from Phalanx
and Partando, starting at 25 to 1.
The also-rans included Benvolo
and Sir Falcon. That was Dyna-
mite’s first race start, and evi-
dently he surprised the stable.
He was then raced by Sir Samuel
and the younger Sam Hordern,
but they didn’t persevere with
the colt, which has since won
more than a dozen races, and,
though now an aged horse, is
still too good for younger rivals.
Dynamite won at both his latest
starts, Newcastle and Canter-
bury. He was one of two bright
spots so far as Canterbury book-
makers were concerned; he
started at 10 to 1. The other
was 33-to-l Karra Gene. Four
favorites and two second-
favorites were successful.
* * * *
The American pro. quartette
held The Lakes Cup at the
weekend, ending the contest with
seven games to five. A powerful
north-easter on Saturday made
the going hard, and, on the word
of American Jim Demaret, “The
wind saved us.” Australians had
their noses in front for a few
holes, but couldn’t hold their
more experienced opponents.
Von Nida beat Oliver, 4 and 3 ;
Thomson beat Turnesa, 5 and
4 ; Demaret beat Nagle, 5 and
4; Mangrum beat Pickworth,
2 and 1.
• • • •
Australian Norman Von Nida
has proved himself a world top-
ranker in golf. So far, he is the
only Australian pfo. to foot it
with the visiting Yanks. The
much younger Peter Thomson
has stood up well to the visitors,
and at present is the Von’s most
serious local rival.
* * * *
S. Africa v. S. Australia was
another draw, after S, Aus.,
having forced a follow-on,
appeared to have the game won
at the end of the third day. But
a skipper’s knock by Jack
Cheetham and handy efforts by
Keith and Murray staved off
defeat. Worth mention also,
Funston’s bright first-innings
knock. S, Africa 201 (Funston
44 n. 0.; Noblet 4-57) and 347
(Cheetham 83, Waite 67, Keith
50, Murray 47); S. Aus. 354
(Trowse 74, Langley 70, Ridings
64 ; Fuller 4-79, Tayfield 4-99)
and 0-35.
Both in Melbourne and Syd-
ney—S. Africa v. Victoria and
N.S.W. v. Queensland —at the
weekend the bowlers were
mostly on top. Tayfield (S.
Africa) took the hat-trick. In
Melbourne the prospective Test-
match skippers, Hassett and
Cheetham, were both
through injury, Hassett’s re-
placement, Ring, who was a suc-
cess with both bat and ball in
last year’s Tests, came to Vic-
toria’s rescue in their first
innings with a lusty 56 when the
score was 7-38.
* * * *
England’s Rugby Leaguers
had even less trouble trouncing
the touring Australians in the
second Test than in the first.
This time it was 21-5, including
five tries to one. ‘As it’s two
out of three, Australia bags the
sackcloth.
* * * *
Jack Read (old-time great
lightweight champion) farewells
a great ref.:
Joe Wallis, Australia’s greatest
boxing referee, and probably the
world’s, controlled the stagger-
ing total of approximately
60,000 contests. He was still
regarded as an exceptional ad-
judicator after officiating at
enough contests to cover two
or three lifetimes.
Like Benny Leonard, Ruby
Goldstein and many other great
American referees, Wallis was a
boxer before he took on the
third-man role. His career as
ref. started at Newtown (Syd-
ney) Olympia in 1914, and 99
per cent, of his rulings there-
after received endorsement from
as big a percentage of specta-
tors.
When Newtown Olympia was
burnt down in 1914 Wallis
refereed a number of supporting
contests at Thursday matinees
at Sydney Stadium before going
to Brisbane (1917). Returning
to Sydney, Joe got his big
chance in 1918, when Harry
Keesing, promoter at the Hay-
market Hippodrome, asked him
to become official referee at that
arena. Stadiums, Ltd., then took
over the Hippodrome, and
Wallis became referee at both
the Sydney Stadium and the
Hippodrome till the Hippo-
drome became the Capitol
Theatre.
Of the innumerable contests
he controlled, Joe considered the
greatest was Sid Godfrey v.
Frenchman Eugene Criqui at
Sydney Stadium on February 5,
1921. Godfrey was Australian
lightweight champion at the
time, but Criqui made him get
down to the featherweight limit,
and, as 9st. was five or six
pounds below Godfrey’s nor-
mal weight, he was so weak that
Criqui kayoed him in round 10.
Bill Henneberry took over
refereeing 'at Sydney Stadium
when Joe retired, but Henne-
berry collapsed while handling
a recent contest, and Vic Pat-
rick is now third-man in the ring
at Rushcutter’s Bay. Patrick
lately refereed the Alfie Sands v.
Bobby Greville contest there,
and acted very sensibly when he
stopped the scrap in round 10 to
declare Sands winner on a t.k.o.


SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
■JCIbS. .
!
1 ■' s t u r d I y
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Unhistorical, Unofficial
Lowlights
of a Grand Tour
By CECIL MANN (2291)
AS it is now a week or two
since W. A. Came (in The
Bulletin) started us off
from King George’s
Sound (W.A.) in that first
original Anzac convoy, here by
this time I suppose we must be,
somewhere out in the Indian
Ocean, going good.
And, one of the free travellers
on that grand tour asks himself
at this remote distance, what sort
of things in particular, brother,
do you seem to remember of it
all? The answer—no doubt
regrettable—is that what you
seem mainly to remember is
apparently exactly the stuff of
which they don’t make history!
For the historians are great
men, with great sweeping minds
and high thoughts. And you ?
Why, even to where, for
instance, you in your eighteenth
year are now headed on
this grand tour you simply
haven’t the faintest idea. What
you are going to —you have no
notion of that, either. And why
you are going you certainly don’t
know.
At any rate, so far it’s a very
nice tour; and you yourself
happen to be particularly lucky
to be on it. For back at
Enoggera, outside Brisbane, you
were one of the breakers-in of
the wonderful lot of brumbies
the bush humorists on stations
and the like chose from the un-
handled of their mobs and sent
off, patriotically, to serve their
country. Quite a lot of them had
never yet suffered the indignity
of ever even having been shown
a saddle, let alone asked to try
one on for fit; and, always
lucky, the 7th Battery and its
ammunition-column got more
than their fair share of them.
The history-books don’t bother
about such mere incidentals, but
as an example of bush humor the
fobbing-off on to the A.I.F. of
those wild-eyed, big-kneed,
leather-mouthed specimens of
horseflesh is at least worthy of
passing tribute.
The one of them that put you
yourself in the camp hospital had
far the best reach of anything
ever foaled. He could uppercut
himself in the teeth with the tip
of his hind hoof without turning
his head. It was there, at his
head, and that way he got you ;
just a tap above the right knee.
So there you were in the camp
hospital with a completely stiff
right leg when a mate came over
one night to tell you:
“Did you know we’re pushing
off tomorrow morning?”
By arrangement, he helps you
across in the early hours, to plant
in a G.S. wagon and thus ride
in state, as it were, incognito,
undetected, through parts of old
Bris. to the ship. And so to sea.
No trouble, actually, getting
taken on to strength and included
in the mess which called itself the
Dirty Fourteen, and which, be-
cause one of its number was a
parson who’d come down from
North Queensland and enlisted
as a gunner, for his special
benefit and improvement sang
regularly as grace before meals
an earthily ribald song to the
tune of the Doxology. He was
killed in France, a lieutenant;
and most of the rest of the Dirty
Fourteeners died with their boots
on, too.
But this was far ahead ; and
here at the end of the mess-table,
daily at midday on this grand
tour, is something else of no
interest whatever to historians,
though maybe it merits a men-
tion in tribute to the gods who
spare a thought for all Dirty
Fourteeners. . It is an enormous
silvery bucket a couple of feet
high, and it is filled with beer.
Thump the table, fill up the
mugs, roar out, you heathens,
your version of the Doxology.
Let it pass for a grace.
And other things that history,
very properly, hasn’t time for.
Just now, say, aboard this ship,
which is the Rangitira, the troops
are crowding round a small
cleared space on the deck. What
they’re watching isn’t, as it
happens, two-up. There wasn’t
(or so it seems) much gambling
at all on that ship of the Anzac
convoy certainly nothing to the
big schools later on, like the
splendid one with the pay in
golden sovereigns they gave us
between Egypt and Gallip.;
sovereigns to be scooped up off
the blanket in handfuls and
dripped through the fingers; and
Darky saying “This is how I
want to go out playing
hazards! ” ; and, in a manner of
speaking, playing hazards he was
when he did go out, copping
pretty well the whole contents of
a shrapnel shell at First Lone
Pine.
+ +
But that, again, is still ahead ;
and what we are watching now
is, in its way, just as Homeric,
and indeed, because of one of
the persons involved in it, per-
haps even worthy of a place as a
footnote in the history-books.
On the patch of cleared deck
two men, stripped to the waist,
sit facing, with soles of their feet
against each other’s and out-
stretched hands gripped on a
short piece of tough stick. In
size and body-build they look
like a couple of Japanese
wrestlers. As another sort of
footnote —to democracy—one
of them is our unit’s saddler, the
other its commanding-officer.
What they are about is the
gentle exercise called one-man
tug-o’-war. Ever tried it? Give
it •&. go some time, against some-
one about your own match in
strength; preferably for a bet.
Guaranteed to pull the guts out
of a bronze Falstaff.
This pair, the saddler and the
C. 0., are almost perfectly
matched. The saddler’s belly
hangs in wonderful folds over
his beltline; he is tremendous
beef. The C. 0., as becomes a
C. 0., is well rounded out, too,
though not anything so foldy.
Both have that colossal strength
which often inhabits such flesh
as theirs. No one else on the
boat can get within gunshot of
them at this caper.
The name of the saddler is
perhaps unimportant, and, any-
way, is forgotten. The C.O.’s
name is Charles Rosenthal.
Look him up one day in the
history-books or Who's Who,
where he figures as Sir Charles
and a general. We call him
Rosy, respectfully and affec-
tionately. You feel that way
about a general you meet from
time to time poking around
where a general, particularly an
artillery general, hasn’t perhaps
any right to be. It was all right,
no doubt, to sight Rosy spying
out the lay of the land over the
front-line trenches on Gallip., the
whole place there being more or
less a front-line trench ; but it is
something else, later, by when
you have left his crowd and are
doing infantry-artillery sigs, to
strike him struggling through the
mud a mile or so in front of his
guns, up past Westhoek Ridge in
the Passchendaele show or some
other unholy neck of the woods,
when he’d already been four
times wounded to your mere
twice.
“Gripes,” you say, passing him
there and bogging on through
the knee-deep muck, “that’s
old Rosy!” and, because that’s
a good place to get a laugh out
of anything, you laugh as you
remember Rosy’s voice thunder-
ing across the desert sand in your
direction at Mena the, for you,
ominous words:
“Close arrest, that man!”
It’s “close arrest” all right;
meaning that you’re in the bell-
tent boob with the very
malefactors you’d been on guard
over, with rifle-and-bayonet,
when you committed the crime
that landed you in the soup.
It has all come from being
kind-hearted. One of the chaps
you’re on guard over, where
they’re working with shovels on
one of the dazzling-white roads
which ran like streets through the
camp at Mena, has put to you
the very logical and sensible sug-
gestion that it must be about time
for smoke-o.
He being a mate of yours
(you’ll be elbow-to-elbow with
him later on when he gets hit
through the left eye, and spits
the hot bit of lead out of his
mouth —and recovers!), and,
anyhow, you feeling like a
smoke yourself, you of course
slope - arms, fall -in your
prison-gang, and march them off
to inside the hessian-walled
latrine, where they are seated
happily enjoying their smoke,
what-time you nonchalantly lean
and puff away, too, when, disas-
trously, a snoopy loot, the only
one in the outfit tall enough,
pokes his hawklike visage over
the top of the high hessian,
sizes-up the situation, and con-
ventionally tells you to con-
sider yourself under arrest.
And now it’s the loot march-
ing you and crimo cobbers back
towards the clink, and before
you get there breaking away to
hasten across to salute and break
the dire news of your fall from
grace to Rosy himself, who at
that moment has emerged from
his marquee, and who there-
upon, naturally, orders you
inside the canvas bars.
The charge is acting to the
prejudice of good order and
military discipline, or. words to
that effect. Unfortunately, it is
not your first fall, and the
sentence is 28 days—working
with a shovel on the bright white
road.
For sundry reasons this actu-
ally isn’t anything very much,
and as it so happens it’s going
to be even less than it seems.
For one thing, these are not
the first days you’ve spent on the
end of a banjo, having earned a
crust that way before you were
fifteen, and since. For another
thing, you could have copped the
brand of retribution called'No. 1
field - punishment, which is
another of those small matters
the historians pass over.
Indeed, there’s a strongly-
propagated myth that No. 1 field-
punishment was never known in
the First A.I.F. One of its
propagators ran a Digger feature
in the defunct “Smith’s Weekly.”
He said flatly there’d never been
any such thing. You yourself
wrote in at the time telling
“Smith’s” that it happened all
right, to cobbers of yours at
Mena, and at Mex (Egypt also),
and even as late as Etaples, in
France. As far as you know,
“Smith’s” never quite got round
to publishing this.
+ +
In case anyone shouldn’t know
about it, all it amounts to is that
you’re spreadeagled standing
back to a gunwheel, with your
arms strapped by the wrists to
the spokes. And to you, on the
potential receiving-end, they
seemed to hand it out with quite
lighthearted abandon, too. For
some reason or other they’ve
since given it away.
In any case, you yourself
missed it, and didn’t even have
to serve out your full time on the
roads, either. For (and this, too,
mightn’t have got into the
history-books) Christmas, 1914,
bobbed up just then most oppor-
tunely, and there, it seemed, was
good old Santa Claus himself, in
uniform, with amnesty for all
such backsliders as you in his
rather overflowing bag. They let
out the lot of us, spoke fatherly
to us, and, most important,
crossed the red-ink out of our
paybooks.
So now there you again are,
free in due course for taking the
next hop on the grand tour
outlined by W. A. Came in his
Bulletin essay. And, because
the red-ink is out of your pay-
book, in the meantime not only
free, but passably flush, which is
a happy condition to be in,
especially round about
Christmas.
For your own part, “taking”
the next hop, to Gallip.., has a
certain literal accuracy. Your
own section of Rosy’s outfit is
temporarily doomed to mark-
time in Egypt, and you in simple
innocence wish very much to go
on with the tour, wherever it may
be headed for.
With the move from Enoggera
for precedent, and this time a
couple of mates of the Bth
Battalion as aiders and abettors,
you make the next hop all right,
incog., and spend a few more or
less hectic days with the Vic-
torians, till, one of their loots
getting suspicious of you (you’re
the color of a Turk, though this
doesn’t occur to you at the time),
questions you closely and,
satisfied at least you’re no
Johnno, orders you hence with
the stimulating words:
“Anyhow, you can get out of
here! What the hell sort of a
row do you think I’d get intp if
you got killed in my trench?”
It makes you feel almost mean.
And so, a bit desperately, it’s
round the ridge to where your
own mob is, and, casualties being
a bit thick i ust then > surprisingly
quite welcome.
Meantime back in Egypt they
post you a deserter, since you
omitted to notify the orderly-
room you were going; but before
any of this catches up with you,
Allah be praised, Johnno does
instead, and you’re on the way to
England, that lovely land.
There, as of course thehistory-
books don’t say, you and some
20-odd more of about your size
and build and some modest
ability to sit on a horse are
selected and ride gloriously
through old London, in, of all
things marvellous in the midst
c f a war, the Lord Mayor’s
Show, along with Hussars and
Coldstreams and Highlanders
and Irish Guards and brass-
bands and pipers and carriages
and the Lud Mayor’s gilded
coach and whatnot. So you
wonder, as of the Dirty
Fourteen, how many, if any, of
that little bunch of pseudo-
Lighthorsemen, feathers and all,
are still on deck,
And tljen the grand tour
doubles back to Egypt, old Tel el
Kebir, and on to France, where
after many days (biblical
measurement of years) some 500
or 80 °f still-surviving, if a trifle
battered, members of that
original 1914 convoy are drawn
out of the line, and one day
marched into Bray (what’s left,
too, °f it), and lined up opposite
what was maybe once the Town
Hall steps. In time, after a bit
of a wait, along comes your
Prime Minister, “Billy” Hughes
in person.
It was this sort of thing, along
with the feeling that in “Billy”
there was always at least one on
your side, which led the First-
War Digger to make something
of an idol of “Billy”—an idol
w i t h no counterpart in War 11, as
f ar as y ou’ve ever heard. He was
t fi ere to see you off, on your way
home, and there weren’t planes
then f or him to frisk around in’,
Also, he was the one who had
personally fixed it for us to come
back on six-months leave, which,
as j t happened, turned into much
longer leave, since the old war
wore out and finished just as we
were getting to Fremantle. A
padre put his head down the
hatchway and broke that to us:
!... Armistice! ...
The war’s over!”
It would be a luxury to repeat
what we said to the padre, but
perhaps it wouldn’t do. It began
with words like “Get....” and
“So’s y0ur....”, which perhaps
goes to show that the supposed
refining and civilising influence
°. f § ra * d tours may have some-
times been exaggerated.
At any rate, this one is over.
a» . moe tto»tht to end up
Wlth ’ you w .° eidlstecl “
August, 1914, with artillery rank
of driver (meaning horse-rider),
carrying pay of seven bob a day,
are at the end of the war, all of
actl^ e S FJ IC * abroa f’ dul^
discharged with the signals lank
™ lldary ? L an J suroassed
equalled by few and p
oy none.
Watch out for the
weather
Feel edgy on a muggy day?
(Tests show such weather
makes children unruly.) Irrit-
able when it’s hot? (Crime
rates go up with the tempera-
ture.) Can’t think straight?
(The Bank of England makes
more clerical errors on foggy
days.)
November Reader’s Digest
tells how the weather affects
you how science has proved
that humidity and stupidity
are related after all.
In this same issue you’ll
find the month’s best reading
value 30 stimulating articles
condensed from the world’s
leading magazines and best-
selling books. All *the family
will enjoy November Reader’s
Digest. On sale now one
shilling and sixpence, at all
newsagents and bookstalls.


J
V)
Mn Euimrtng
token
of gooiitoiU
It is fashionable and sensible
this year to give gifts that are
practical. Definitely there are
few gifts more useful than a
Swan Pen and none that is more
gladly received.
Swan pens have a reputation for
quality and reliability that goes
a long way back. Today’s
models are worthy upholders of
this fine tradition.
MODEL "44" —14 ct. gold nib, 71/6
There are other models at prices jrom 50/■
to suit your needs. Ask any ' pen dealer.
PENS
100 YEARS OF GOOD WRITING
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
e
£
Ex
SpA'?
SOUTH AUSTRAL**
1858
ESTAB
SPECIAL HOSPJI
•niir. Vi
toll** «
peters. *o£t*'
TOUIV.
ST. PETIHS,
iggt Tottty. scott •
TSTJO.I2
Au
strgi
la’s
fin
es t Br
andy
for
nearly
eentn
ry
N.S.W, DISTRIBUTORSf TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICA'S NEW PRESIDENT
Wanted: Man over 33 to work for
133,000,000 bosses; 103-hour minimum
work week; seven-day week year
around; four-year contract. Must
he willing: to sacrifice all the free-
doms of private life. Must supervise
one or two million employees. Must
he willing: to make decisions that
affect the course of history and un-
told millions of people. Must be
willing; to accept loneliness as a
constant companion. Must be strong:
physically. Must be grifted leader.
Must like intense social life as job
calls for constant receiving. Appli-
cants are warned that job is often
literally a man-killer. Address: The
People, United States of America.
Written by John R. Steelman,
assistant to President Truman,
and published in the Congres-
sional Record, that would prob-
ably have the endorsement of
all who have done the job as a
fair enough summary of what
Eisenhower will now be facing
up to.
Maybe the job has its com-
pensations, too, but many who
have done it would regard the
summary as a considerable
understatement, quite a lot of
them (seven in all) having “died
in harness,” three violently.
So the well-publicised “reluct-
ance” of Eisenhower (and others)
to seek the post need not be all
sham, or even mere political
shrewdness based on the fact that
this is traditionally a job which
“seeks the man.”
The genuine Eisenhower
reluctance was widely noted, and
the same goes for Stevenson.
When they were nominated,
London “Spectator” said of
them: “General Eisenhower
made no attempt to conceal the
fact that he would far rather be
left where he was at S.H.A.P.E.
than be plunged in the welter of
a contested election, or even than
be installed in the White House.
Governor Stevenson had to be
almost literally dragged to what
for him meant the stake.”
Candidate Stevenson described
the Presidency as an office whose
potential for good or evil
“smothers exultation and
converts vanity to prayer.”
Eisenhower confessed to Taft
that the thought of the Presi-
dency was a “nightmare” to him.
Minor “nightmarish’’ aspects
of it would include “signing his
name at least 600 times every
day of the year,” and daily shak-
ing hundreds of hands. As the
Milwaukee “Journal” sees him:
“He’s the world’s No. 1
celebrity, and pays the price for
it.”
Set Against Ike
As the election campaign was
followed here (and in Britain,
too) in cables, a fair retrospec-
tive of it for many probably is
that they began by regarding Ike
as a good thing, and before
election - day were convinced
that Stevenson would beat him
—a striking tribute to the power
of propaganda, for in cables Ike
had a comparatively “bad,”
Stevenson a remarkably “good”
Press.
One leading Sydney newspaper
a week or two before election-
day quoted Stevenson at odds-on
in the betting. There was a
tendency to hedge before
election-eve, but all through the
build-up of Democrat candi-
date Stevenson was most
impressive.
Cable columns here paralleled
those in Britain. As mere brief
samples, a “Yorkshire Post”
report opened by referring to
“those who ‘like Ike’ less and
less”; London “Economist”
stated that “General Eisen-
hower’s friends are at a loss to
understand what has happened
to him”; and, not to prolong
the list, London “Times’s” Wash-
ington correspondent typically
reported:
“The Eisenhower crowds are
clearly there to watch, not to
listen. They stand and gaze
open-mouthed at the man about
whom they have heard so much,
and they can seldom remember,
if questioned afterwards, what
the great man said. But they
have seen him. Mr. Stevenson’s
crowds obviously come to hear
what he has to say. There are,
indeed, an increasing number of
banners at every stop reading;
‘Thanking you for talking
sense.’ ”
Not perhaps a complete ex-
planation of the remarkable
Stevenson build-up and the
wrong impression given of how
the election campaign was really
going, Joseph Alsop, as one of
the reporters touring the country
on the Eisenhower train, sent to
his paper, New York “Herald
Tribune,” the following rather
suggestive little piece:
“The 60 or so newspapermen
who barnstorm through the
country with Eisenhower are
almost solid for Governor Adlai
E. Stevenson.”
So possibly it is no great
wonder that cable columns
—New York “Herald Tribune”
“WHY, OF COURSE I WILL, DWIGHT—FOR A
FOUR-YEARS’ TRIAL”
should have reported on the day
after the election:
“World capitals were
unanimous today in their sur-
prise at General Eisenhower’s
sweeping victory in the U.S.
Presidential election.”
Ike’s Crusade
In America, despite plentiful
partisan reporting, a different
general picture of the cam-
paigners and the campaign's
progress was presented.
Stevenson himself—-scrupulous
in his whole campaign and a
great speaker —referred to Eisen-
hower as “a leader whom we all
respect,” and the Democrats’
campaign managers endorsed
that by shaping their fight not so
rhuch against the Republican
policies as specifically against
Eisenhower.
Americans, too, were told
things like leading commentator
Walter Lippmann’s report that
“Gov. Stevenson admits he is a
politician running for office,
whereas General Eisenhower
likes to dream he is conducting a
‘crusade’.”
Also, such pictures as James
Reston’s glimpse of Ike’s cam-
paigning, reported in “New York
Times,” gave Americans a fair
idea of what was really going
on:
“They [lke’s audiences] seem
to feel that they have heard an
honest man who represents the
ideals they associate with the
Presidency, and this is more of
a rarity than it ought to be.
“Besides, every stop in a way
is General Eisenhower's home-
town. Governor Stevenson may
have a cousin or an old aunt in
every big city, but Tke’ is
familiar everywhere. You see
this in their faces, which are
always friendly and smiling in
anticipation before they even see
him. You see it in the way they
bring their children down from
the fringes of the lonely towns
and hold them up, and in the
way they respond when he says:
‘Well, I haven’t said anything,
but here’s my Mamie’ [i.e., of
course, his wife].
“In Davenport, lowa, a little
boy kept shouting, ‘Hi, Mamie,’
and Mamie, who must be worth
at least fifty electoral votes, kept
smiling and waving to him under
her pocketbook all through the
general’s speech.”
Whereas (the same correspon-
dent noted) people would turn
with interest and curiosity when,
say, Stevenson and motor caval-
cade were going through a town,
but would keep on walking:
“Everywhere Eisenhower goes
he at least stops them. They
come out to see him, and they
crush out into the street and
wait for him under conditions of
great discomfort, sometimes for
hours. And when he utters the
most obvious platitude, they look
at that serious face as if they had
heard something that ought to
be graven in stone and passed
on to the third and fourth
generation.”
End of An Era
In point of fact voters all
through this year, in State after
State, in elections of all kinds,
for mayors, governors and
whatnot, had shown a desire for
change of party control; and
the Democrats had had Presi-
dential control for 20 years.
So an era has ended, and
“U.S. News and World Report”
gives these views of what may
now be expected:
“Ike will be different, not like
Truman at all. Personal aides
will tend a little to the military
side, efficient, cleancut, loyal, not
inclined to scheming or empire-
building on their own.
“Plans will be cautious. Not
everybody will be promised
everything. Ideas, where fancy,
will tend to go at a discount.
Power will be used with some
restraint. Ike will not take sides
in labor disputes. Influence of
the Presidency will be on the
side of harmony between the big
pressure-groups, not on the side
of discord. The Eisenhower bent
is for diplomacy, for getting
people to work together, to find a
way to compromise.
“Eisenhower, basically, is a
Conservative, not a radical. Ike,
essentially, in his background is
a pre-New Deal individualist.
“Unlike Truman, Eisenhower
has not known failure. His adult
life has been a military life, out
of the main stream. Unlike
Roosevelt, Ike has not been of
the so-called ‘upper crust.’ He
will not be the lord of the manor
who passes out favors to the
expectant and grateful multitude.
“Ike still believes in the old
virtues of hard work, frugality,
success for those who earn it by
honest effort. He’s not a modern
politician.”
On a more international note,
London “Twentieth Century”
records these expectations:
“Eisenhower is likely to
demand a clarification of the
aims of the Grand Alliance [the
Atlantic Community, the West’s
defences and all that].
“He is agreed that Europe is
more important than Asia, that
a hot war would be disastrous,
and that America needs allies;
but just because he agrees on
those issues he is almost certain
to demand that the Allies agree
with America on lesser details.
The attitude towards Communist
China, the problems of East-West
trade, are subjects on which
clarification is overdue.
“But the main issue, in which
Eisenhower is passionately
interested, is the future of
Europe. As a general he
attempted to conceal his deter-
mination that Europe shall be
united by a federal union. He
differs from most American
people on this only in that he
knows what he is talking about.
“With Eisenhower as President
the question of how far, how fast
and how extensive the process of
federalisation in Europe is to be
will become the number one
question for America’s allies.”


you want ,
boSSer plant ?
/
*
m, '
BABCOCK
Whether your requirement is 1000 Ib./hr. of process
steam at 100 Ib./sq. in., saturated ... or steam for
100,000 kw. of power at 1500 Ib./sq. in., and 1050 F.,
from one boiler unit, BABCOCK can supply it; and
not only the boiler but also all the essential auxiliary
services—coal handling plant, ash disposal equip-
ment, pipework ... in fact, a complete steam raising
plant, designed and manufactured entirely within
the BABCOCK organisation, backed by 75 years of
experience in steam engineering and by a world-wide
service.
Manufacturers of: Water-tube Boilers; Super-
heaters; Economisers; Air Heaters; Water-wall
Furnaces; Pulverised Fuel Plants; Travelling Grate
Stokers; Spreader Stokers; Soot Blowers for Manual
or Automatic Operation; Pipework; Attemperators;
Coal and Ash Handling Plant; “Hydrojet” Ashing
System; “Hydrovac” Dust Handling System; Cranes,
Transporters, Conveyors, Wagon Tipplers.
Equipment for: Oil and Gas Burning, Waste Heat
Utilisation, Bagasse, Black Liquor and other fuels.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Stales
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
A better job at less cost j
Nefolbil*
STEEL STANDARD
DOOR FRAMES
TEN-FOLD advantages over
the timber frame
snir:
Ip '
||H
vm :
... -
■
■
;
.
■1
■
• Durable, inseef and
vermin proof.
9 Won't sag, splinter
or warp.
9 Gives added
strength to surround-
ing brickwork.
9 Saves money and
erection time.
9 Enables all door
accessories to be
bench fitted.
9 Standardised and
made to take a 6'B"
x 2' 8" timber door
Jj" thick.
9 Fitted with 1" x
steel spreader set 1"
below floor level.
9 Complete with
hinges, striking plates
and rubber buffers.
® Supplies available
immediately from
stock.
Metalbilt
Standard Steel
Door Frames are
a product of
(Uld9S001)„F~
4i
BRICKWORK
« • 'o P.'
. •<?•. . ■ 0. •. . .
Ca V
Q
v t ;-.' cy . ;
WIRE
TIES
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
With Offices and Works at
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide*
Hobart, Wellington, Auckland
and Branch Offices at
Wagga, Orange, Geelong, Ballarat,
'Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin, Christchurch.
Monte Bello Results
The Monte Bella-explosion has
been widely hailed as sure to
reopen the way to full British-
American co-operation in things
atomic.
London “Economist” considers
the assumption rash:
“It is as well to understand in
advance that a return to war-
time partnership in atomic
matters could not be on a fifty-
fifty basis. Whatever the British
have to offer the Americans in
technical skill and the brilliance
of individuals cannot counter-
balance the enormous discrep-
ancy in the production and
resources of the two peoples.
This would be true even if Britain
decided to do some stockpiling
of its own weapon.
“The cards that Mr, Churchill
can play ih any future negotia-
tions with Washington are, there-
fore, probably not as strong as
some comment has assumed.”
Germany Works
All reports agree that Germany
is becoming an increasingly
serious trade rival of Britain.
One reason, commonly given,
is that, since the Germans are
not yet arming, they can con-
centrate wholly on exports.
“U.S. News and World
Report,” suggesting that this is
not a complete explanation, has
pointed out:
“Sweat and toil are the order
of the day in Western Germany.
Most Germans work at least 48
hours a week. They work longer
than the British for less.
“Absenteeism in German
coalmines is far lower than in
Britain. Housing conditions
are much worse than in Britain.”
Hence, “German exports tire
at a high level, sharply mount-
ing in British preserves like
India. Germany offers tough
competition, producing quality
goods. "Drive’ of the German
people is noticeable to any
visitor. Odds are German ex-
ports will continue high even
after defence production gets
rolling. There’s slack capacity.”
“New York Times” has singled
out the “continued economic
recovery” of Western Germany
as a “notable exception” among
European countries. The export-
rate represents “not only a post-
war high” but “surpasses in
dollar values the highest rate
before the war for all Germany.”
And “The German trade
figures are matched in other
fields. Industry is booming and
is now producing at something
like 140 per cent, of pre-war and
225 per cent. x of 1948, which
shows the rapidity of the rise
Agriculture is nearly back
to pre-war standards, and
though Germany, like Britain,
must import nearly half her
food, the German population
appears to be living under less
‘austerity’ than the British.”
U.S. and Anzus
While still holding that British
representatives should be
“associated” with the Anzus
arrangement, London “Times ’
appreciates that the U.S. has a
case in wishing to keep this
restricted:
“It is not simply that the
United States fears that, if once
Britain were invited, it would be
almost impossible to keep out a
flood of applicants.
“What America fears is that
the admission of new members,
beginning with Britain, would
require an alteration of her
whole defensive strategy in the
Pacific.
“This strategy is cautious. It
is based first and foremost on
securing the ‘island chain,’
stretching from Japan through
the Philippines to Australia and
New Zealand. The United
—Minneapolis ( U.S.A .) “Star”
“I’VE GOT A RICH UNCLE!”
States is extremely reluctant to
commit itself to action on the
Asian mainland in advance of
a real emergency. The reluct-
ance is all the stronger after the
experience in Korea, where inter-
vention was a departure from
the basic defensive strategy, and
was undertaken only in face of
flagrant aggression.
“Several of the most likely new
members of the new pact would
bring with them problems from
the Asian mainland —and the
American people, while affording
materia] help in need, fear that
they may be drawn into a general
war through Indo-China, or even
Malaya, just as much as many
Europeans have feared that they
might be drawn into a general
war through Korea.”
After Churchill
Like the Menzies Government
here, the Churchill Government
has become “unpopular” through
its inflation-curbing and other
measures in the national interest.
So much so that, though they
have a possible four years more
of office, the Churchills are
regarded by the careful London
“Economist” as doomed: “The
odds are heavily on a Labor
Government next time.”
Also, “The policy, and perhaps
the membership, of the next
Government will most probably
be determined by a minority of
opinion whose unstable con-
stituents are personal ambition,
class malice and a burning desire
to escape from reality and
responsibility [i.e., the
Bevanites].”
And again, for those who like
parallels, “In class relationships
it will most probably revert —
with what ease the record of
1945-51 makes clear —to that
policy of two - hoots - and -a -
tinker’s-curse which is the
cheapest and easiest way of gain-
ing extremist support. Worst of
all, its foreign policy will be shot
with ideological distrust of
Britain’s allies and with starry-
eyed illusion about its enemies,
to the detriment, if not to the
complete undoing, of the
Western alliance on which the
free world depends.
“Can anything be done to
fend off this catastrophe? Not
under the present electoral
system.”
Various Voices
Anthony Eden: “The
immediate risk of an aggression
against Europe has sensibly
diminished. This must be attri-
buted to the firmness shown by
the West, and to the action taken
to bind the free nations together
in a defensive alliance.”
John Allison, U.S. Assistant-
Secretary of State for the Far
East: “All the countries of
Asia, outside the mainland of
China, have demonstrated by
action that they wish to remain
free and independent, and that
they dp not wish to be slaves'of
any foreign ‘ism’. They are all,
I would say, non-Communist, if
not actively anti-Communist.”
Sidney D. Bailey, of the British
Hansard Society: “Although
Russia is likely to remain the
most powerful Communist State
for some years to come, the
ideological centre of world Com-
munism may well move towards
Peiping.”
x Britain’s Secretary of State for
War, Antony Head: “To have a
base somewhere in the Middle
East will always be immensely
important internationally for the
West. To have an administrative
base in Egypt will always be an
immense asset. I do not say it
would be impossible to have a
base somewhere else, but Egypt
is the logical place to haVe it.”
Japanese Foreign Office
official, quoted by a “New York
Times” correspondent: “The
maintenance of large Chinese
forces in Korea has weakened the
Chinese economy more than
most people realise.”
Ridgway, Supreme Allied
Commander in Europe: “Our
basic concept [in the defence
plans] does not call for huge
standing forces, maintenance of
which might jeopardise other
basic concepts —the economic
stability and the raising of the
standard of living. Rather, our
concept calls for an adequate
though small covering force of
land, sea and air always on
guard, capable of meeting any
sudden onslaught, and of parry-
ing any potentially disastrous, or
decisive, thrusts.”
Britain’s U.N.O. delegate,
Selwyn Lloyd {on U.N.O.’s tend-
ing to become a propaganda
platform “from which to make
bitter attacks on other nations”):
“1 am afraid that tendency is
growing. That is most unfor-
tunate. It increases tension and
increases the chance of
hostilities.”
President Soekarno, Indo-
nesia : “The flaming spirit which
the proclamation [of inde-
pendence] awoke in the hearts
of our people no longer exists.
In its place are only fatigue and
dissatisfaction.”
Dr. B. Ifor Evans, Provost of
University College, London:
“We may well be at the begin-
ning of a new industrial revolu-
tion which will change the shape
of things, and it is of first
importance that at such a time
every opportunity should be
taken to develop not only tech-
nology but also fundamental
research, without which techno-
logical progress will halt and our
industries become stagnant.
Obsolescence of the mind is even
more dangerous than obsoles-
cence in any other form of
equipment.”
Signor Taviani {assistant to
Signor de Gasperi at the Italian
Foreign Office): “The only
Europe which is at present poli-
tically possible is the six-country
Europe of the Luxembourg
organisation. To talk as some
do of a fifteen-Power Europe is
in practice, in present circum-
stances, not to want a Europe at
all.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Coming of Sense
Unemployment doesn’t necessarily
beget Communists (B. 15/10/’52). The
unholy creed didn’t gain a host of
adherents in Australia as a result of the
depression. That gave a setback even
to the Labor party. The Common-
wealth, N. S. Wales and S.A. Labor Gov-
ernments were swept from office. The
party did not rule again in the Common-
wealth for 10 years, in N. S. Wales for
nine and still doesn’t in S.A.
Similar things happened elsewhere. In
1932 the British Labor party was routed
at the polls and spent a long term in
Opposition. In Europe it was Fascism
rather than Communism that received
stimulus from the depression.
Communism became a force in Aus-
tralian trade-unionism, and a potential
menace to the country, in the post-war
years of overfull employment, easy
money and blackmarkets. Those factors
contributed to its gaining influence in the
trade-unions. Many workers listened to
Communist agitators who preached the
blackmailing of employers, because, with
plenty of jobs available, they knew that
use of the strike weapon, instead of the
Arbitration Court, could cause them no
economic hardship.
The knowledge that a job hangs on
the giving of good service, and that an
alternative cannot be easily obtained, goes
a long way towards promoting efficiency
and a sober outlook. It is no accident
that increased productivity and less indus-
trial unrest have coincided with tighter
industrial conditions and fewer easy jobs.
The boom years had another bad
effect. -Many people forgot that pros-
perity depends on hard work and thrifty
handling of the national income both by
public authorities and private citizens.
Annoyance at the fading of this pipe-
dream is the main reason for the reaction
against the Federal Government that cul-
minated in its Flinders defeat. At heart,
most of those who have turned against
that Government know it is right, but
they resent having their pleasant illusions
shattered.
It is doubtful if the depression looms
as importantly in the minds of most Aus-
tralians as some imagine. Only those
now over 40 were appreciably affected
by it. To the younger ones it is a tale
told by their elders. Of the older folk,
most were bred in a more realistic school
than those in the under-40 groups, and
they have never believed that they could
go through life without having to face
economic adversity. Many are retired or
pensioned ; and no longer have fear of
unemployment. They are rhore likely
to be concerned with the checking of in-
flation and with the Commonwealth’s
financial stability.
Australians are fundamentally sensible,
though they have a dislike for facing un-
palatable facts. But when there is no
room for illusion, when it is apparent to
anyone with a grain of commonsense that
national welfare is bound up with main-
tenance of sober economic policies, then
they reject emphatically the propaganda
of the demagogue and the revolutionary.
—Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Labor-management Co-operation
A Sydney union-secretary, Dr. Lloyd
Ross, speaking before that city’s Junior
Chamber of Commerce last month,
criticised employers and employees for
not having got together more often during
the joyous period of “full-employment”
and thrashed out their differences. That,
he claimed, would have led to better
industrial relations and may have pro-
duced new, improved techniques of pro-
duction.
It’s not too late to begin now. Such
get-togethers would probably solve most
of our industrial problems.
They would be an admirable means of
countering the propaganda of Com-
munists and other advocates of class-
struggle. They could be used to show
that it is to the worker’s interest as well
as the boss’s to have harmony in industry.
Full co-operation by labor and manage-
ment should follow. The strike weapon
would be outmoded —and outlawed.
For success to be achieved, of course,
it would be up to management to be
perfectly frank and honest. No half-
truths and special pleading. If the
workers are to play ball, management
must set the example.
An American union-president, Walter
W. Cenerazzo, a lifelong believer in co-
operation with management for more
efficient production, lately urged the train-
ing of all employees in the economics of
the company for which they work —that
is, the capitalisation of the company, its
financial obligations, the competition it
faces, etc. That training, he thought,
could only be done by the management.
If every firm embarked on such a pro-
gramme, and had a policy of promoting
those who improved techniques or the
finished product, he believed that it would
end all labor-troubles.
Industry here would do well to con-
sider introduction of such a system. It
may well produce those satisfactory in-
dustrial relations which, according to Mr.
Holt, Minister for Labor and National
Service, are “a fundamental requirement
for Australian progress:”— Roscoe (S.A.).
Kangaroo Island
South Australia may lead N.S.W. in
farms allotted to soldiers, though I doubt
it. Many of us agree with Charles Shaw
(B. 15/10/’52) and Dame Enid Lyons
that a man should be given a block if
“Not a chance, lady; it's me missus .”
he has t he spU nk to go out and develop
but have we rea ]l y that pioneer spirit
today?
" j’ ve lately visited the service-settle-
ment at p arn dana, Kangaroo Island, and
w h en j suggested that a man could clear
t h e i an( i w i t h an axe an d a firestick, I
was rem i n ded by my ex-sailor son that
t h oS e jays have gone. But I was
frightened by the way costs are piling up
—though if any land in Australia has a
c hance of steady development it is
Kangaroo Island. It has no foxes and
no ra bbits, and has an assured 20in.
ra i n f a ll spread well over the year (in
30 years j only knew the spring rains to
| a j[ oncCj an( j the winter rains never),
The c.5.1.R.0. (or the Waite Research)
discovered the answer to “coast” disease
- n co pper and other trace-elements. Eight
or nine years ago the S.A. Agriculture
Department established an experimental
block in the settlement area, and, when
the pasture was established, leased it to
a progressive farmer, who stocked it
according to the advice of the district
agricultural adviser, Rowland Hill. On
the experience gained there they estimate
the ultimate carrying-capacity at \\ sheep
to the acre. All the work has been done
by the prospective settlers at current
wage-rates.
They were housed in Army huts, each
of which contained two three-room flats.
plus bathroom and laundry-lobby. As
the farms were allotted and the lucky
ones moved out, other eager settlers
moved into the vacant flats. There are
now 35 farms occupied, and 40 families
living at the settlement. There is a
school with two teachers and 60 children,
and 25 new scholars are expected in the
new year.
The work was commenced in 1947, so
progress has not been remarkable, but
it is good to see the change in the three
years since 1949.
Roads have been made and houses
built; sheds, dams and fences erected or
sunk ; and the land is carrying a good
balanced pasture of fog-grass, Wimmera
or perennial-rye, phalaris and subter-
ranean clover.
Another batch of 35 farms has been
allocated and the settlers will be moving
in shortly.
It was intended to let all fencing by
contract, but it was found impossible, so
the settlers do their own at contract rates
—£ss per mile the minimum.
When they go on to their blocks the
settlers are still under the wing of the
Lands Development Executive, though
not on wages. All work is assessed and
paid for at contract rates, which are
estimated to produce £lO a week. That,
of course, will eventually be added to
development costs.
It is a proved practice on Kangaroo
Island (and it has been farmed for 100
years and more) to burn new land after
the first crop of grass or cereals. This
destroys the shoots. The L.D.E. frowns
on this practice and will not permit burn-
ing, and so the settlers get up to 10s.
per acre for cutting their shoots.
They are not allowed to stock with
sheep until the pasture is in its second
year, and then a maximum of a sheep
to two acres.
The Government does not provide
stock, but the stock-and-station firms
will make a 100 per cent, loan on sheep.
When the land is considered (or proved)
capable of carrying \\ sheep to the acre,
the L.D.E. hands over to War Service
Land Settlement, and the rent is fixed on
carrying-capacity, or cost of develop-
ment, whichever is the less.
The settler pays no rent for the first
year after the W.S.L.S. takes over, but
pays in advance thereafter. He has been
paying house-rent of £1 a week to the
S.A. Housing Trust (which built the
houses) since he went into the house,
and that is supposed to be credited to
development costs. Now the house is
valued and he buys it on the credit-foncier
system. This is separate from the rent
of the land, which originally was
not to be sold. Now, if they wish, the
settlers can make it freehold after 10
years.
Although the authorities claim that no
rent is paid until the W.S.L.S. takes over
and a year after, the settler has to pay
agistment as soon as a hoof goes on the
place. It is Is. 9d. a week for big stock,
2jd. per head for dry sheep and 3i-d. for
ewes and lambs. The settlers, who
did not know of this proposed charge
unt.l they went on their farms, are pro-
Agrkulture‘ n said in’ thaT the
Agriculture said in me nouse mat me
State has an arrangement with the Com-
monwealth to make thischarge and if
there is any writing-off to be done, the
money received for agistment will be used
for that purpose. The thing is utterly
wrong. Obviously, the only man who
would benefit would be the one who
failed. It could be that agistment fees
from Kangaroo Island would offset
failures at Wanilla on the west coast
or even in Tasmania or W.A. F. H. W.
(S.A.).
1M S Wales Rail wavs
the N. S. Wales
railways (B. 22/10/’52) are one side of
the story. Here’s my experience when I
decided to see the Ma 'State by rail. I
made arrangements in Melbourne and
went north in comfort in our own Spirit
of Progress. At Albury my seat awaited
me in the second division of the Sydney
express. When I alighted at Junee the
night-officer very courteously met me, and
found my bed for me in the R.R.R.
Next morning I went on to Sydney in
the Riverina express —seat reserved and
no trouble. Tearing myself away from the
Harbor City I took the North Coast mail
—one of the trains complaiqed about.
I got a comfortable sleep and was well
looked after.
From Glenreagh to Dorrigo and back
the train had its own eccentricities, but
the guard, who appeared to know every-
one in the district, was sufficiently in-
terested to see that I got a bed. Next
morning the whole train crew made it
their business to see that I was back in
Glenreagh in time to catch the second
Brisbane express. X didn’t notice the
S.M. there' taking any orders from the
guard, but I do know that my needs were
promptly and cheerfully attended to, and
when the train came the conductor was
on the lookout to meet me, take my bag
and show me my seat.
Returning from Brisbane, my seat was
waiting for me both at Roma-street and
Wallangarra, and the same thing happened
at Armidale when I continued my journey
in the Northern Tablelands express.
On the whole round-trip there was
never a hitch, and I met with courtesy
and helpfulness right through, leaving me
quite contented to do it again whenever
you like.— Try Anything Twice (Vic.).
Giving a Lead
There are signs that employers are
about to repeat the mistakes made by
the unions during the past decade —that
they think more of revenge than of
offering friendship and co-operation for
the benefit of all
In a country as politically divided as
Australia it is useless to expect the
unions to take the initiative in any
attempt at co-operation. They had the
chance but failed, and showed by their
parochial attitude to national problems
that their defeats in the past have scarred
too deeply for them to institute a new
approach to industrial relations.
Unionists still believe —not without some
justification—that all the gains they have
made in hours, wages and conditions had
to be fought for against strong employer
opposition. However, when the unions
called the tune, they too adopted a self-
first, irresponsible policy which served
only to widen the dangerous rift between
management and labor.
Now that many industries are facing
extinction because wages and conditions
have not been related to production, a
new approach to industrial relations is
imperative. Higher individual output will
not be enough to win back lost markets.
Greater capital investment for the
modernisation of plant and methods is
essential. The lag in production will not
be made up by sullen workers, performing
outmoded techniques on obsolete
machines and driven on by the fear of
losing their jobs. If employers yield to
this temptation and put self-satisfaction
before all else we are headed for more
industrial strife than we have experienced
already.
It is not illogical to expect employers
to take the initiative when the stakes are
so high. They have the most to lose.
They have wider experience and interests
and their position in industry testifies to
their personal initiative and leadership.
The appeals for co-operation made so
frequently by employers when their em-
ployees held the upper hand must be put
into effect immediately if they are to wipe
out the mistrust and misunderstanding
which are crippling our progress.
By adopting fair incentive and profit-
sharing schemes, which have proved so
successful in the isolated cases where they
have been tried, employers can prove to
their workers that what is good for the
boss and the country is good for them
also. —W. M. H. (S.A.).
Fruit—Vegetables
Sydney’s city marketing of fruit and
vegetables has never been satisfactory,
the gulf between the retail price and
grower’s return has been steadily widen-
ing, and the market has been at the
mercy of agents and middlemen. At
times growers have scarcely got back
cost of production, let alone a profit.
Price-fixing isn’t the answer, while
competition is so handicapped by un-
satisfactory conditions that it offers little
hope.
Consumers have become so impatient
that their demand for suburban markets


CEL
nqW of ft®
the top
IO£STOW
of the
veAK
£lOO.OOO
WAS
IPOS'
eta
ATP**
seVi ?"
is
lIIIIHI
s
II
ml
as
s
ill
ESI!
«
11 i
HP
The Most Attractive Interest Rate
Yet Offered for an Authorised
Trustee Security in Queensland
How You Can Invest . • •
This loan has a currency of only seven
years, the repayment date being
30th September, 1959. Interest upon the
amount paid at the rate of £4.17.6 per
cent, per annum will accrue from the
date of payment, and will be paid half-
yearly, on 31st January and 31st July in
each year. This payment is free of ex-
change, at any branch of the Company’s
bankers. The final payment will be made
on the redemption date.
Cash subscriptions may be paid in full
on application, or by deposit of 10 per
cent, on application and the balance not
later than 28th February, 1953.
The minimum amount that may be
applied for is £5O, and any application in
excess of £5O must be in multiples of £5O.
Why You Should Invest...
There is no sounder investment available
in Australia than this loan which, like
previous issues, will be spent only on
capital assets. City Electric Light Co.
Ltd. is the largest electrical authority
operated by private enterprise in the
Commonwealth, and its assets now
exceed £20,000,000. Subscribed share
capital is well over £10,000,000. C.E.L.
supplies power to the City of Brisbane,
a wide provincial area of S.E, Queens-
land, and the Tweed Shire of N.S.W.,
covering 10,000 square miles. The Com-
pany is carrying out intensive develop-
ment work to meet the rapid growth of
Queensland industry and the community
electrical needs. This involves the early
completion of a packaged power station
at Ipswich; the subsequent commission-
ing of a new major power station at
Bulimba, and considerable development
of the transmission system.
Make Your Savings Work for
Your Comfort and Security
loan OPEN NOW/
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co,, Melbourne,
Loan closes not later than November 29th, 1952.
Don't Delay!
Invest Now in Power !
City Electric Light Co. Ltd
A Company incorporated in Queensland, and also registered in > N»S»W* 9
where it is an electrical authority in the shire'of Tweed .
HEAD OFFICE: 156 BOUNDARY STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND. Phone 82333
Prospectus and Application Forms
fs
Prospectus and application forms are
available from any branch of the English,
Scottish and Australian Bank or The
National Bank of Australasia; Members
of Stock Exchanges; and at any office
of City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
156 Boundary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Please forward me prospectus and application form
for the C.E.L. £4.17.6% Loan.
NAME -
ADDRESS
can no longer be brushed aside. Here
is a golden opportunity for growers to
take a hand. A co-operative system, with
the growers controlling the marketing,
would solve a lot of problems. If, at
present, the running of their own co-
operative shops is too much of a dream,
they could at least establish their own
suburban and city markets.
Why shouldn’t such a system succeed
in the fruit and vegetable line as it does
in a dozen other things? The Mildura
settlers, faced with ruin half a century
ago, saved the situation by co-operative
effort. The Leeton canning industry is
co-operatively controlled, and the bulk
of butter-production all over N. S. Wales
is marketed by the producers themselves.
Fruit- and vegetable-growers have
little to lose and everything to gain
from a co-operative effort. —G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).
In the hills district of S.A. many people
employed locally or in the near-by city
spend much of their spare time garden-
ing. Some are lucky enough to find
customers for their vegetable surplus, but
many are not and a great deal of produce
is wasted.
Dairy products are collected daily, and
the hens are always a reliable money-
maker. There is a firm carrying these
items, and payment is made on the quan-
tities taken. Surely a similar service could
be started for vegetables.— Baroona
(S.A.).
Compensation Claims
Victims of Sydney’s Cumberland
County Council plan are still largely
unaware that, individually, they are
affected by a planning scheme which, in
very many cases, seriously limits their
rights to use their property as they wish.
Some of this property will ultimately be
acquired or resumed for the purposes of
the scheme, but much of it will be
affected to the detriment of the owners,
although not taken from them.
Those whose property has been, or
will be, resumed will be compensated on
a basis that is easy enough to compute by
experienced valuers. Those whose
property is affected but not taken from
them are in a somewhat different cate-
gory. They may claim compensation for
“injurious, affection,” except in certain
cases where the County Council has to
buy property when requested to do so by
the owners. There are those, for
instance, who bought home-sites in areas
which have subsequently been zoned
“open spaces” and are now unable to
build on or work their land except in
minimum lots of five acres. These people,
among others, may claim compensation
for “injurious affection.”
Claims for such compensation must be
lodged by December 26 this year, and
valuers and other experts whose job it
is to guide people in these matters are
inundated with claims that require careful
investigation so that the affected owners
may be able to treat with the authorities.
The work entailed in these claims will
take many months to do, and in some
cases —particularly where large industrial
and commercial organisations are
affected in respect to property worth
many thousands of pounds and where
some precedent is required in the absence
of any guiding principle laid down by the
Act —there is insufficient time before the
time-limit expires.
Experience has already indicated that
owners must be prepared for a certain
amount of “buck-passing”—how much
will depend largely upon how much non-
sense the public is prepared to take be-
fore getting mad about it. Examples
already exist to show that the Cumber-
land County Council is prepared to
shove responsibility on to local councils
if it can get away with it. There is also
/considerable doubt by owners of property
affected by proposed new roadways and
railways as to whom to tackle. Nominally
the Cumberland County Council is the
responsible authority, but one is led to
suspect that if the public awakens to its
peril in time to submit claims for com-
pensation, then the very size of the bill
will send the County Council scurrying
for the cover of the City and Suburban
Electric Railways Act and the Main
Roads Board legislation.
So far the council is buying up a bit
of suburban land cheap. It has spent a
few thousand pounds. How will it deal
with the problem when the bill amounts
to millions —as it surely must very soon
—and Mr. Cahill points to his empty
Treasury? Of course he can blame
Menzies, who jibbed at paying any of
the cost of the scheme a couple of years
ago. On the other hand, the council can
insist that claims for compensation must
be lodged on approved forms and neglect
to distribute sufficient forms to meet the
demand. Owners seeking supplies of
these forms at local council chambers are
already finding it difficult to get them.
Probably the weight of its financial
obligations will cause the entire scheme
to break down very shortly. The quicker
the better, really, because the longer it
lasts the greater the loss and inconveni-
ence that will be inflicted upon the public.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
d
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE,
f PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA OISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
•
fsd
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
’DISTRIBUTORS: -
Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.'), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
SnTH RI t D*®® 1 Venator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.. Melbourne.
feUUIU AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
T V A E «mANTA - A w STR n Ll n : ?'n F ' & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.. Perth.
1 * Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Karnes Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.). Wellesley Chambers.
Lome Street, Auckland.
YOUR BATTERY
Can Last Forever
With regular use of “CELL-PEP”
(TWICE Yearly)
MK. A. C. HUFFIELD, Longfleld
Street, Stawell West (Victoria),
writes: “My batteries were played
out and would not take a charge.
On adding ‘CELL-PEP’ these bat-
teries are now fully charged and
holding the charge as new.”
Your Battery Lasts Longer and
Gives More Power with
“CELL-PEP” BATTERY
REJUVENATOR
“CELL-PEP” removes sulphate from
the plates and prevents further sul-
phating. Freed of sulphate the lead
in the plates reacts with the sul-
phuric acid in the battery and the
flow of electricity is restored to
normal.
THE BATTERY WILL HOED A
CHARGE LONGER
IN TEN MINUTES you can prove
that “CELL-PEP” saves you big
money. Hundreds of testimonials
received from satisfied users.
Large size treats 12 batteries for a
year for 35/9
Lighting Plant size 37/6
FREIGHT FREE
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Australia)
Box 844, G.P.0., Sydney.
TILLE Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY , it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
THE MAN
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY,I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
Grass to Beef
Doddie Boy”; Ability of
cattle to turn grass into beef is
as important as breed-type and
conformation, an American
v ®*-» Dr. Fred F. McKenzie, told
the Aberdeen-Angus Society.
McKenzie is chairman of the
Department of Animal Hus-
bandry, Oregon State College,
Corvallis (Oregon, U.S.); and is
a Fiilbright scholar spending a
year in Australia as Dean of the
Faculty of Veterinary Science
and Animal Husbandry at the
University College, Armidale
(N.S.W.).
McKenzie told the society that
efficiency could be found in an
unattractive animal as well as in
a good-looking one. Further,
conformation or grade is not
necessarily associated with a
beast’s efficient use of its feed.
American research has made
it possible for stud-breeders to
select from among their attrac-
tive cattle the efficient feed-con-
verters, cull the uneconomical
beef-producers and build herds
on the basis of conformation
and feed-economy.
Cattlemen will look to stud-
breeders who produce bulls that
have been tested in respect to
rate of gain and economy in the
use of feed. In the U.S.A. cattle
are weighed individually when
they are young—off the cow —
and again five or six months
later when they are 12 to 14
months old. The daily gain then
is calculated, and the daily-gain
figure is used in conjunction
with conformation and breed-
type in making final selection of
bulls or heifers for use in stud
herds.
Research, he said, has con-
firmed that fast-gaining cattle
are also efficient users of feed.
Thus if it is inconvenient to
weigh the feed to animals —that
is usually the case under graz-
ing conditions—the liveweight
gain of an animal, particularly
while it is young, tells the story
even without feed-records. The
tests must be applied while the
animals are young and growing,
under 14 or 15 months. After
that age it becomes increasingly
difficult to sort out or distinguish
the more efficient cattle.
Research had also revealed a
marked difference in the capacity
of stock to make use of feed,
including grass. From 20 per
cent, to 40 per cent, was the
common difference between the
more efficient and the less
efficient. Assuming a breeder
had sufficient fodder just to care
for 100 head of the less efficient
but quite attractive cattle, the
same quantity would have sup-
plied the needs of 120 or 140
more efficient cattle.
Typical of American results
of experiments on the weight-
gaining capacity of stock were
those obtained at the Oregon
Agricultural Experiment Station.
The fastest-gaining bull put on
3001 b. weight—from 5001 b. to
8001 b. liveweight in 88 days, an
average gain of 3.411 b. a day.
The slowest-gaining bull, given
the same opportunities, took 163
days to put on 3001 b., a daily
gain of 1.841 b. Feed to effect
the gain in each case was
weighed to the bulls as fol-
lows : For the fastest-gaining,
11551 b. lucerne chaff, grain mix
4891 b. For the slowest-gaining,
22351 b. of lucerne chaff, 7801 b.
grain mix.
A herd of bulls was tested
during the experiment. The 25
per cent, which made the slowest
gain ate 35 per cent, more feed
for each 1001 b. liveweight gain
than the 25 per cent, which
gained weight fastest.
Dr. McKenzie said there was
a sex difference in the rate of
gain and the use of feed. Heifers
which gained weight fastest put
on gains, about two-thirds the
daily rate of bulls. Steers were
intermediate in their rate of
gain and in their efficient use of
feed.
Direct Supply
“Sundowner”; Pumping
skimmed-milk to piggeries is
universal in New Zealand. It
could be done more generally
here, as it is a labor-saver and
ensures that milk reaches the
pigs in the quickest possible
time.
The N.Z. method is to allow
the milk to fall directly from
the separator into a funnel con-
nected to the pump. The pump
is usually a plunger type with
valves—-driven by a ih.p. or
ih.p. electric motor.
Delivery-pipes are at least
50yds. long, as this is the closest
a piggery may be to a dairy be-
cause of the bad effect proximity
of pigs has on cream quality.
A |in. pipe should be buried
deep enough to be safe from
traffic, implements and stock. If
new galvanised-iron piping is
used see that it is always kept
full of clean water to reduce the
risk of zinc poisoning. Flush
the pipe before use. Keep a
supply of an 8-to-l solution of
molasses at the shed, and as
soon as the separator has been
flushed pour half a gallon into
the skimmed-milk funnel and
then pump water through.
Care of Belts
“Big Billy”: Driving-beltf on
farm machinery need care if they
are to last and do a good job.
Loose or tight belts waste power
and wear quickly. A belt should
have just sufficient tension to
prevent slip.
If pulleys are out of line flat
belts will not stay on and V-
belts will quickly wear out.
Keep belts free from lubricating
oil; particularly with the makes
containing rubber, oil will cause
rapid decay.
A too-small pulley can mean
more belt-slip as well as giving
trouble on the belt-fasteners of
flat belts. Treat canvas belts
“PULL, why don't y ! It ain't gain to fall on y'!”
occasionally with castor- or
linseed-oil and leather belts with
neatsfoot-oil. Keep rubberised
belts clean by washing in soap
and water, and give them a light
dressing of castor-oil.
Eye Film
“Farmer Bill”; Vets call it
keratitis or corneal opacity. It's
most common in cattle and
horses, but any farm animal can
be affected. Cause is inflamma-
tion of the cornea or front
membrane of the eye following
kicks, blows or lodgment of
foreign bodies such as chaff,
seed, grain pollen, etc. Early
treatment is necessary to save the
animal’s sight.
First symptoms may be a flow
of tears, gumming-up of the eye-
lids or some swelling. When
there’s ulceration the wall of the
cornea may be ruptured and the
eyeball collapse. If a foreign
body is the cause, remove it and
apply warm fomentations to the
outside of the eye. To clean up
pus or discharge, use a clean
cloth soaked in warm saltwater
—one dessertspoon of salt to the
pint.
Where eye-film is the result of
injury and you cannot get a vet.’s
help, follow this treatment:
Prepare a moderately-strong
solution of boracic acid and
warm water, syringe the eye
gently and smear a little vaseline
over the eyelids. Repeat three
times a day. If there’s a dis-
charge of pus, make an anti-
septic eye-lotion of one grain of
sulphate of zinc to loz. of boiled
water, and drip four or five
drops of this into the eye three
times a day.
Animals affected need some
form of eye-shade to protect the
eye against strong light, flies and
dust. A piece of calico stitched
to a halter makes a good one.
Pollard Substitutes
“My”: Good substitutes for
pollard are ground grain—wheat,
oats, barley or maize—oat and
rice pollards and rice - meal.
Their food-values approximate
wheaten pollard more closely
than the food-values of bran
substitutes resemble bran.
Weights of the various pollard
substitutes which contain the
same number of nutrients
(starch equivalents) as 1001 b. of
pollard are: Ground maize 90,
rice-meal 93, rice pollard 96,
ground barley 97, oat pollard
111, ground oats 111. For
poultry, add 10 per cent, of meat-
meal to the mash ; for pigs, |lb.
to 41b. of meat-meal per pig per
day.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The present control by the shorter Bruckner cycle
repeats the character of the 1916 season, which would
repeat that of 1881. In both there is a fairly long, dry period.
In the present cycle that period begins about early November
and ends with a heatwave, some moderate storm rains and
then a heavy storm, with normal weather to follow, and a
fairly cool Christmas. But there could be a shift of cycle
with the dry period ending about the middle of December,
but with only moderate rains and a hot Christmas.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
it was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled
and. Blended in j
Scotland /j
FSF
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
600N0KE
POLLED BOONOKE
WANGANELLA ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
F. S. FALEINER & SONS PIT. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa. N.S.W.
feaaaa f
■a
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 3'7}"i
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi", “Wonderheat" and
"Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
ffptutcU&el
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
™ NEVERTIRE
No. 697
g
■
Msißy
DOUBLE-ACTING
HIGH PRESSURE PUMP
Capacity 61 g.p.m. at 300 lbs. pressure
Complete with pressure gauge, relief valve and shut-off cock
IDEAL FOR
Orchard Spraying .... Bush Fire Fighting
Sheep Jetting .... Straight Pumping
Get full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
MALLOCH HOUSE, 10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5095 G.P.O. Box 509, Sydney
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay
Linseed in N. S. Wales
“C.S.”; A crop of Walsh lin-
seed grown at Pallamallawa
(N.S.W.), estimated to yield 22
bushels an acre —the State aver-
age last season was less than five
bushels —has won a Sydney
R.A.S. prize. The R.A.S. is
trying to find the best way to
grow linseed in northern N.S.W.
and irrigation areas.
Nine crops around Inverell
were entered. All competitors
sowed Walsh in quantities vary-
ing from 131 b. to 281 b. an acre.
Since 1946-47 average yield of
linseed in N.S.W. has increased
from 861 b. an acre to 2291 b. an
acre last year, and the harvest-
ing total from five tons to 1617
tons. Acreage under crop has
increased‘from 121 in 1946 to
15,785 last year.
The winning crop was grown
by Karoola Pastoral Co. It was
sown on May 26 at 241 b. of
seed an acre, and was later
sprayed to protect it from in-
sect pests. Jones and McDonald,
Moree, were second and L.
Ryan, Moree, third.
Cannibalism
“M.”: Most likely causes of
cannibalism in poultry are
dietary deficiencies (protein and
salt particularly). Contributory
causes are overcrowding, poor
ventilation, exposed nests,
depluming-mite or injuries.
Once acquired, the habit
spreads by imitation, and
damage can be serious. Re-
move any injured, diseased or
aggressive birds; make sure
that there are enough nests to
prevent competition among the
layers and that the nests are
raised above the floor.
Add salt to the mash, 4oz,
dissolved in water, for three
days, or, alternatively, double
the meat-meal ration for a few
days and then return it to nor-
mal. Provide a deep litter to
occupy the birds and put their
green-feed in racks above thdr
heads.
Tomato Pests
“Rooster”: Two of the worst
tomato pests are cutworms and
vegetable-weevil, which go for
the young plants, the stems being
cut off at ground-level.
For cutworms make a bait of
bran, 241 b.; Paris-green, lib.;
water, 3gal.; salt, Boz. Adding
half-a-dozen crushed lemons
increases its effectiveness. Mix
bran and Paris-green dry, then
add the solution of salt, lemons
and water slowly until a damp
(not sloppy) mash, is formed.
Arsenate of soda is an alterna-
tive to Paris-green, but slightly
less quantities are required—
12oz. to each lib. of Paris-green.
The bait, being poisonous,
should be kept away from
animals.
When veg.-weevils appear,
dust the plants with either a
25 per cent, lead-arsenate dust
or spray with lead arsenate ; 11b.
of powder to 16gal. of water.
Losses of plants will be mini-
mised if, before planting out,
the seedlings are dipped in the
arsenate-of-lead solution.
Dual Purpose
“Curious”; We have a her-
maphrodite fowl which func-
tions both ways. Thought it was
a hen until it was 18 months
old. Then fertile eggs appeared
in the nests, though we thought
we had ho rooster. The bird was
watched and the result positive.
It was then shut up alone and
laid an egg, developed hysterics
and cackled for an hour. It was
let out and mated with the hens
again. Shut up again it laid a
few days later. Is this the case
with all hermaphrodite birds?
Hints for the Farm
“Springvale”; Don’t plant
tomato seedlings unless good
weather is on. Plant deeply—
to the first pair of leaves is the
recognised depth. Dwarf varie-
ties require 2ft. between plants
and from 4ft. to sft. between
rows. Other varieties require
an extra foot each way.
“Sundowner”: Mix two parts
by weight of pulverised copper
sulphate with 11 parts of
ammonium carbonate. Let it
stand for 24 hours in a tightly-
corked bottle. When damping-
off affects young plants, dissolve
an ounce of the mixture in a
little hot water and make up to
2gal. with cold water. Use a
quart to each square foot of
surface through a water-can
rose.
“Myrr”: Bloat is due to a
distension of the paunch by
gases created from fermented
foodstuff, and most commonly
occurs when hungry cattle are
put on to young, succulent, wet
pasture with a high clover corr-
tent. It can come from gorging
on root vegetables—mangels,
turnips, potatoes, etc. Careful
management will prevent it, so
don’t put stock on lush pas-
tures when they’re hungry ;
don’t graze them on growing
clover pasture when it’s wet and
cold ; give them a feed of chaff
or meadow-hay before turning
them on to a lush pasture ; feed
roots mangels, potatoes,
carrots, etc., sparingly and well
crushed.
“M.”: Boys aged 15 years or
over at March 1, 1953, and who
have their intermediate certifi-
cate, are invited by Victorian
Department of Agriculture to
compete for agricultural scholar-
ships for a three-year course at
Dookie and Longerenong Agri-
cultural Colleges. Winners get
teaching, board and lodging
free.
“Silentio”; Quality and storage
of dressed beef and pork can be
appreciably improved by a high
sugar ration a few days before
killing. Crushed beet and
molasses are two favored foods
for this purpose.
“C.A.A.”: Chief points to
remember in conserving excess
grass as hay and silage are to cut
crops not later than early flower-
ing stage, harvest paddocks in
rotation, feed out hay or silage
on paddocks from which it was
made or on a poorer part of the
farm, give silage paddocks an
extra tqpdressing with phosphate
immediately they are harvested,
don’t harvest newly-sown areas.
“Composto”: No vegetable-
garden should be without a few
clumps of chives. A perennial of
the onion family, chives are cut
off just below the surface, and
the green tops chopped up for
soups, sandwiches or salads.
They renew themselves indefi-
nitely and are ready for picking
throughout the year in most
districts.


look, Arthur, use your block.
What’s more likely to be out-
holes in steel or an insulator set
in concrete? You can’t do pre-
cision work in concrete.”
“Well, there you are; what
can you do?”
“Only one thing to do in a
job like that: put your box on
the frame, fasten the frame
down, put your bars on and
then set your insulators in to
suit. You can’t go wrong.”
There was sense in what he
said, that was clear. My mind
clouded with confusion. Was it
just that Saunders was jealous
of Jim; or were his taunts jus-
tified? Was Jim a five-eight
fitter? And his self-confidence a
cloak covering lack of ability?
Words and pictures reeled
through my head: “ordinary
fitting” ; the vice pressing the
nuts in the carbolite ; Saunders’s
scornful laugh; drilling the
.panel—someone to do the “bol-
locking” ; “never win medals as
a fitter” ; the crooked bars in
the cubicle...
The rock of Jim’s assuredness
was changing to quicksand under
my feet; I clutched for support:
Jim had fixed the trouble at the
converter-panel, hadn’t he?...
Pretty simple, said Saunders;
boss must’ve had his eyes shut.
The cable fault. ..a fluke? No,
“no, no! But the cubicle mess —
how get round that?
I realised what my trouble
was: I’d made a hero of Jim,
and it hurt me to think my
judgment unsound. Then my
utter selfishness struck me. My
trouble? What of Jim ; his feel-
ings? Could he live this down?
JJis prestige as an expert...
I dreaded going back to our
room ; I imagined his clear eyes
clouded with doubt; the confi-
dent boasts replaced by uncer-
tain mumbling. I gathered the
tools slowly, killing time. I left
the station and dawdled miser-
ably along the track, not know-
ing whether the sun shone or
the wind blew ; all I felt was the
confusion within me.
SUDDENLY I was aware of
my name being called. I
looked up ; there was Jim at the
door waving impatiently. Hey,
Arthur! Step on it! I hurried.
I was surprised to see that he
looked no different, except a
little annoyed.
“Come on; I thought you
were dead. Get the box. Emerg-
ency circuit in the galvanising-
plant’s on the blink. Leave that
gear—we’ll have to fix it when
we get back.”
In a dream I grabbed the box
and hurried after him. As the
door slammed behind us he
turned to me with his old grin.
“Step it out, boy; they’re yel-
ling for Nicholas. And Nicholas,
as usual, must fly to the rescue.”
As morning light dispels the
nightmare’s fever, so now Jim’s
grin and jaunty air washed away
my worries. All was right again.
I strode along happily, the box
a feather in my hand. Jim’s
face was lifted to the sun, and
he hummed gaily a line or two
of an old song. I found that I
was humming, too.
BEER AN'D'OUST
by OLIVER FILTER
WITH each wave the boat
lifts and lurches and the
bottles in the bottom roll
and clink ; the pile of
oysters is growing and growing
until it threatens to swamp the
boat by the stern. Hunched over
with the hopeless ache of sea-
sickness, the fisherman on the
front thwart is hauling in the
kellick, There seem to be miles
and miles of rope coming in
and coiling and tangling all over
the boat and around his legs. At
last the end comes up, but,
instead of the kellick, there is
his wife’s face, white and wet,
looking at him.
“Frank. Oh, Fjank,” she
calls.
So, with a heave and a sub-
conscious stumble, Frank Wilson
awakes. But his bed does seem
to be lifting and lurching ; his
stomach does feel as though it’s
distended with warm oil and
barbed-wire ; and, from her bed
on the other side of the room,
his wife is calling “Frank. Oh.
Frank.”
He swings his legs from under
the blankets and sits on the edge
of the bed, nursing his head in
his hands. “Oh, hell,” he groans
and tries to cuddle his stomach
in his arms.
His wife has turned on the
light at the head of her bed and
is huddled up with her chin on
her knees. “Frank, I’m sick,”
she says. “I’ve got pains.”
“No, you’re not,” he says,
“I’m sick; you’ve only got
sympathy-pains.”
“Don’t be silly. I’m really
sick. Those oysters —I thought
they tasted funny.”
“Well, why in the devil didn’t
you say so?” He yawns, pain-
fully, then belches and grabs at
his belly again. “Yes ; it must
have been. I can taste bad fish.”
HE’S hot and sweating, even
though a 2 a.m. breeze is
blowing the curtains into the
bedroom of their flat. He stands
up and feels as though he and
the room are trying to spin in
opposite directions. Another
belch and he lurches for the
bathroom.
When he comes out his wife
is sitting at the table in the
breakfast-room. Normally she’s
a pretty little item; quite vital
in fact, with lively brown hair
and a scrubbed skin with good
flesh under it. Now, when she
looks up at him, her hair is hang-
ing damp and helpless on her
cheeks, and her face is about
the same texture as a candle with
a light glisten of perspiration
added. He is about to ask her
how she feels when she strangles
a hiccup and departs for the!
bathroom.
She looks so sick when she
comes back that he tries to climb
over his own bellyache and take
an interest in hers. He sits her
down and puts a rug over her
shoulders. “We’d better take
something,” he says.
“An emetic?”; she asks, look-
ing sicker than ever.
“No. Too late,” he says.
“Castor-oil.”
She looks even more sick, and
he feels about the same. He
finds the oil, a greasy blue bottle,
and pours it as meanly as Scotch.
“You first,” she says.
He tries not to smell as he
swallows and his stomach
“Hold everything! I want to see what he looks like
from the back first .”
reaches up for his throat. The
bathroom again. When he comes
back she has her head down on
the table and the bottle and
empty glass beside her. “Did
you take it?” he asks with a
shade of suspicion. She looks
up and he can see she did.
“Better go back to bed,” he
says. She goes to the bathroom
instead. Then they both stretch
out on their beds and wonder
if they didn’t feel better stand-
ing up. The bell goes. He
concedes her the bathroom and
goes to the front-door.
“Who on earth was it?” she
asks.
“Landlord,” he says on his
way to the bathroom.
“What’d he want at this
hour?” she asks when he comes
back.
“The old bitch underneath,’
he says. “Complained that
we’re deliberately flushing the
cistern to annoy her.”
“What’d you say?”
“Told him that fifty years of
spinsterhood does wonderful
things for the imagination.”
She manages something like a
smile, and they both feel a bit
better. He goes into the bath-
room just to flush the cistern
again. Presently the sky begins
to yellow and he gets up and
makes black coffee. While
they’re drinking it she says “If
you don’t see that fish-shop man
of yours today, I will,”
“Don’t worry,” he says. “I’ll
have pieces, of him.”
D Y eight-thirty he’s, shaved,
showered and dressed and
on his way to the bus-stop. The
footpath feels a little unstable
under his feet and his stomach
is unsteady as a spirit-level, but
he’s working out some nice
phrases for Tony Arminetti. The
morning air, which seemed so
good, seems to have gone bad in
the bus, and his stomach feels
like a bagpipe full of soup by
the time he reaches the city. He
decides to be late for work and
see Tony first.
At the fish-shop the smell of
last night’s fish-fat and tobacco-
smoke nearly sends him back to
work. But he pushes through
it to the back of the shop where
Tony is polishing his stainless-
steel tubs and counters, his great
slabs of flesh quaking in rhythm.
He comes forward to the counter
almost reluctantly.
“Why, Meesta Weelson,” he
says. “Why you so early? You
wanta breakfast?”
He notices that Tony has none
of his customary amiability. His
face is wax instead of olive, and
his eyes are those of a spaniel
with a secret sorrow. “Tony,”
he says, “those oysters you sold
me yesterday were bad. They
made us very sick.”
Tony rests the palms of his
hands on the newspapers on the
counter and looks amazed.
“No, Meesta Weelson; not
.d’oyst’. D’oyst’ never make you
sick.”'
He firms to the argument.
“We had beer and oysters for
supper last night, and my wife
and I had a terrible time all
night.”
“No ; not d’oyst’,” says Tony.
“I, too, have beer and d’oyst las’
night, and I’m ver’ sick, too.”
“Well, that proves it.”
Tony waves his hands. “No ;
you don‘ unnerstan’. I always
eat oyst’ and they never make
me sick. Never. So it couldn’t
be d’oyst’ t’is time.”
Wilson begins to wonder if
it’s all. a dream, last night
included. “Listen, Tony,” he
says. “We had two bottles of
beer and your oysters. Nothing
else. And we damn’ near died
with food-poisoning.”
“Ah,” says Tony, smacking
his hand on the papers. “D’
beer! That’s what make us
sick.”
1 ‘ Kl just a m i nute 5 Tony.
You’re being difficult.
Two bottles of beer wouldn’t
make me sick.”
“But,” says Tony, “you’ve bin
sick from beer other times.
Yes?” His eyes probe for the
truth.
“Well, yes,” says Wilson. “But
that was different. Very
different.”
“And,” says Tony, “you never
been sick from my oyst’ before.”
“Well . , . no ... not so far.
Until last night, that is.”
“So,” says Tony triumphantly.
“You see. You been sick from
beer sometime. I’ve been sick,
too, from beer sometime. You
never been sick from my oyst ;
I never been sick from my oyst’.”
“But,” says Wilson —but he
can’t stop Tony’s triumphant
flood.
“Las’ night we both eat my
oyst’ and both drink beer. Then
we both sick. It musta be the
beer. You see?” He waved his
hands to prove it.
Wilson tries to argue, but
Tony has proved the case to his
own satisfaction. “She’s funny
stuff, beer,” he says with a trace
of his usual amiability. “She
can make you very sick.” He
rubs his stomach and then his
forehead. “Las’ night. Oh-h-h.
You got no idea.”
Wilson made one more losing
attack. “But, Tony, I” ——
Tony shudders and stiffens.
“You musta pardon me, Meester
Weelson. I’m stilla sick. That
beer.”
He turns with surprising agility
and hurries towards the door at
the back of the shop, his flanks
vibrating like jelly under his
linen trousers. Wilson begins to
call after him, but something
stirs inside.
As Tony opens the door to
the back of the shop he turns to
say “She’s bad, that beer;”’
But Wilson has already gone.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 199
Across.
I—Whatever1 —Whatever is raised by heat to
urge Long John to hurry up. (11)
6 —Queer spirits. (3)
8— Yours Truly takes a conveyance
to America for the character
whose wings were melted by the
sun. (6) .
9 Medical matters in the wake of
an automobile are now corpses.
(8)
12 — Top-dressing. (3)
13 — Loincloth is torrid between the
coppers and Yours Truly. (5)
14— The last special compartment in
a theatre coffin? (3, 3)
15 — State piano is a booby. (3)
18 — Siamese courtesan who went east
with Alexander. (5)
19 — Giant near confusion in a
republic. (9)
21 —A shoulder decoration goes east
with Miss Goddard. (7)
23 — The premiere of a pre-eminent
season in the film business. (5)
24 — A Georgia governor in a country
near Caucasian Georgia. (3)
26 —I am between an indefinite article
and America as the actuating
spirit. (6)
28 —Relating to the birth of Gould
I and Capone. (5)
j 29—Blubber. (3)
31 — Trade gives fruit (not the rasp-
berry, though) to a crooner. (8)
32 — Piano weight to leap upon, (6)
33 — Impatient remark of an exhumed
Egyptian. (3)
34 — Crook vehicles for actresses who
play in “Twelfth Night” in Har-
lem. (5, 6)
Down.
1 — Riddles"' concerning a pound,
Diana and neckwear. (10)
2 I upset an imperial Italian and a
reduced state of sweethearts. (10)
3 Knockout you and_ a spinster
with fermented mare’s milk. (7)
4 Six and a joint by way of North
Dakota. (5)
5 Animal oar overturned on a
negro. (7)
6 Bustle growing in a swamp. (4)
7 An aerial or sails might be sus-
pended from this pig-food. (4)
10 — It sounds like the dismayed ex-
clamation that a drunkard might
make if he got it in France. (3)
11 — About yore meal. (6)
16— Diana associates with a Balt
insect before I finish off the
dabblers in the arts. (10)
17 — Boards in trunks —these people
who make the discovery for a
living noticed the family of a
great Australian all-rounder. (3-7)
20 —Fatty introduces the late king to
a midshipman. (6)
22 — Haircut available when Menzies
does a stretch. (4, 3)
23 Criticise the first Mrs. Copper-
field for the custodian of a box
full of afflictions. (7)
25—Phoebus Rosevear. (3)
27—One State ends with such mad-
ness. (5)
29 Stanley Bruce’s footwear imitated
the huanaco. (4)
30 — Bankrupt sculpture. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 198


TO BREED
A
WATER AND WORK-POWER DEVELOPING AUSTRALIA’S
Aerial view of 3
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hasfingr
Deering Northers
Research Reserves
Alice Springs area
with windmill bore.
300,000 - gallon
turkey-nest tank
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
trees.
"Caterpll I op”
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out a 3 million
g a II on d a m,
Hastings Deering
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude ®f
this task.
Close -up of big
earth > movlif
machines and
"Caterpi Ma r"
Tractors engaged
on dam construc-
tion, Hastings
Peering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
. ••STSy B ""'
O. *■ ...
FOOD
POTCHTMI,
fs
m
&
mmm
mmm.
mm
- - -
lpi®PlB
■ ■ :
•>•••: .-
*:N»Sa£sl
dfs
® ALICE SPRINGS
"Beef from our North" has
always appealed to Mr. H.
Hastings Deering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef is a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
long been Mr. Deering's
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Deering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads are being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greatly
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattle on well-
watered pasture areas.
Already notable progress has
been made and forward work
is being continuously pushed
ahead on well-organised plans.
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEERINC
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS DEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, NX
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs, Northern Territory.
„ „ „ „ Lae, New Guinea.
~ „ „ „ Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).


A “Highflyer” an imported
locomotive used on N.S.W.
tracks about 1885 . *
The old Eawkeshury River
bridge—completed 1889.
... :
'
m
.
p
ma
a
-
kkmm
r ■<> •
r Mk+
~ ' VI
m* h
::-r--- :*.Vi
iBiSI
...; .;: ■-•■
II
:VA
: ;
V •„.
gaga
A typical passenger train—circa 1920 *
aHMMH
m :
-'. c "■ ■
The
JL
:V ; . ■;••■■'■
A modem high-speed Diesel
locomotive.
■■■-:
■
*ll
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
m
~....
■ ' *'a r ■/ \
; ■ ■
ini
Established in 1886
mamms
i
*, rsar*'■‘3 *1
We grew up together!
They were busy years, the late 1800’s. Business boomed,
gold was found, the crops were good—and a steady stream
of migrants poured into the country—settlers, the gold hungry,
the hopeful, adventurers, gamblers, businessmen—a stream of
humanity going places.
To carry these busy thousands to the places where they would
make their homes was the job of the lumbering steam trains
of the time. And so as the stream of migrants swelled to a
flood new sounds shattered the quiet of the country-side . . .
the clang of steel on steel, the din of hammers, the hiss of
steam, the shouting and swearing of men straining with the
weight of heavy iron tracks —the noisy theme of the great steel
highway.
Year by year the spiderweb of steel* wood and stone traced its
shining network into valleys and over hills and plains — to
wherever men would build their homes.
It was during these busy years in 1886 that the M.L.C. was
founded. From about 5,000-odd miles of track open in 1886,
the Australian railways have grown to a hustling system of
some 30,000 miles of lines carrying more than four million
tons of goods and over 500 million passengers every year.
The M.L.C. has grown tremendously too —from a small two-
room office in Sydney—to an Empire-wide organisation giving
security to over 1,300,000 policyholders.
We grew up together—Railways and the M.LC.
MI4/FP
(* Photographs courtesy of the N.S.W. Government Railways.)
