

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3770
Wednesday, May 14, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IN TWIN-PILLARED ST. MAGNUS CATHEDRAL ITS NAMESAKE'S BONES WERE FOUND
TO the north of Scotland, across the Pentland Firth, lie two groups of
Islands, the Orkneys and the Shetlands, which are connected with the
mainland by frequent air and steam services. In these islands modern customs
and facilities exist side by side with the methods and manners of past
centuries. Miles of magnificent coastline, a striking Norse background and
the almost nightless summers are features which lend charm to these northern
latitudes. The Orkneys comprise some ninety islands, about a quarter of
which are inhabited, the largest of these being Pomona, on which is the
attractive little Cathedral city of Kirkwall.
The Cathedral, a cruciform building of red and white freestone, was
built in 1137, and replaced an earlier church founded in 1115 in honour of
Magnus, Jarl of Orkney, who had been murdered. In 1926 the skeleton of
St. Magnus was discovered in a pinewood chest within two pillars in the
Cathedral; his skull was pierced by the blow which caused his death. In this
Cathedral rested the body of Hakon of Norway, who died at Kirkwall after
his defeat by Alexander 111 in 1263 at the Battle of Largs. His body was
later taken to Trondhjem in Norway.
At the Reformation the Cathedral was saved from desecration by the
townsmen, and Kirkwall continued to be an episcopal See under a succession
of seven Protestant bishops until the Revolution. Cromwell’s troops used
the steeple of the Cathedral as a prison and as a fortress, and turned the
nave into a barracks and stable. In 1671 the spire was destroyed by lightning,
and restorations were carried out in 1845 and 1883. The exterior length of the
Cathedral is 234 feet and the tower is 133 feet high. The bells of the Cathedral
were cast by R. Borthwick, the master gunner who tried so hard to save
his master James IV from his own folly at the Battle of Flodden.
In the north transept of the Cathedral is a monument to W. B. Baikil
(1825-64), the African explorer, and the nave contains the tomb of John Rae
(1819-93), the Arctic explorer. Another monument is that of the historian
Malcolm Laing (1762-1818). In the vestry are preserved some seventeenth
century alms-plates, one of which has scenes from Paradise and bears the
inscription “Had Adam obeyed God’s word we should have lived in
Paradise.”
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4.


Learn
sd
mmm
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HEBE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age......
The Red Page
TRENDS IN POETRY.
Or more correctly, Australian and
New Zealand poetry ; for the editors of
Jindyworobak Anthology, 1951, in leap-
ing the narrower boundaries of that
school, have crossed the Tasman.
The book begins at early morning with
the statements of the nature poets. Mary
Gilmore in a lovely opening lyric defines
their state of wide sympathy;
And when a little ant
In running stood
And feelered at her hand,
Joy rose in flood.
This delight in the small, the rare, in
the subtleties of the bushland is something
new in our poetry. The broad outlines
of sunlit plains are known, but Neilson
is the only previous poet who turned
stones. For our rarer beauties must be
sought—though this is not always true
of ants. Eve Langley has an image for
the wildflowers of Australia:
a thin brown
Veil of lost autumn is somehow caught
around
Their stalks unspeaking, as though Spring-
time at the core
Was a small child lost in the bush forever
more.
It is good to find so many poets out
looking for her because, until they have
made her familiar to us and children
gather her sweets by name, Australia will
remain at heart a land of songless birds.
So discoveries come with the shock of
surprise. Douglas Stewart, whistling
foxes on “Mahony’s Mountain,” climbs to
where
The doubletail orchid, O like some fairytale
fox,
But whistled from earth by a wilder call
- than ours,
Pricks up its yellow ears and stares through
the mist.
The same novelty and mystery heighten
his “Sun Orchid” poem; it is as if he
were the first man in Eden. But he is
not alone; others are breaking through
the bush in the next gorge.
I lived where mountains moved and stood
round me. I saw their natures change:
deepen and fire from mood to mood,
writes Roland E. Robinson ; and his verse
carries immediate conviction. There is
the feeling of strange presences and that
these in their turn have changed and
deepened the poet’s nature as they went
to the moulding of Wordsworth’s mind,
indeed there is something Wordsworthian
about Robinson’s poetry that is more
fundamental than mere influence; one
senses an affinity not with the contem-
plative mystic, but with the man of
“strange fits of passion.” Much of
Robinson’s poetry is uneven, like a
clamber through the scrub, the rhythm
often tortuous, the lines overloaded like
a rucksack, and surplus imagery catches
at the sleeve ; but his passion carries the
reader on, here to a lovely tranquillity:
Looking ‘back from where I climbed
secret lay that still lagoon
holding double tree and cloud,
swans and solitary moon.
Eden, yes; and because dur countries
are both very young and very old. “In
the beginning was only the hill and fretful
pine,” says Ray Mathew ; and that was
only yesterday. This feeling of age and
youth, of “after-dinner sleep” is the
subject of two beautifully constructed
poems by Ruth Dallas. She listens to
the notes of the tui where
Under the domes and arches of the trees
The old deep silence lingers, listens now
As if it would hold the sound as the moss
holds rain;
and with a few words of poetic magic,
takes us back to
The singing of your oldest ancestors.
Yet, in “Country Road,” “The wind
brings no sad tales across the grass.” It
is not loaded with the dust of human
lives.
Over the grass and over, moves the wind;
This moment will not come again, white
dust
Upon green leaves as innocent as snow,
A wind that sings of nothing in the grass.
Though this remains subjectively valid,
there are half a dozen poets in this
anthology to contradict her, singing of
diggers and whalers —though not in the
full voice of Slessor’s Cook or Francis
Webb’s Ben Boyd—or with strange tales
of Maoris and aborigines. Two extracts
from Rex Ingamells’s Great South Land
glitter with curious names and more
curious implements. He has one star-
studded image:
The water speaking
night-long to sand-bars, cliffs and mud-
banks, took
the twinkle of stars and leaping tongues of
flame
into its shining darkness, bore the chants
of Totemites far up and down the reaches;
and birds in bushland, startled out of sleep,
made noisy protest, swelling the frenzied din
of stamping and quivering files of stamping
men.
It is a good image, but it does not make
one warm to these people; the vanished
IYeidji and Warramungas are still more
remote from us than the heroes of Troy.
And Ingamells’s verse —I refer to these
extracts only—lights few such corroboree-
fires in the imagination. Our failure of
sympathy is perhaps partly due to his
treatment (one is reminded here of the
contemplative Wordsworth, brooding in
tranquillity); for W. Hart-Smith in
“Raureka” has dramatised a Maori
legend, giving it a modern turn; and,
indeed, splendor remains. The whole
world today is out on this “journey with
Raureka, the mad woman.”
Nature poetry ; legend; back to the
soil, back to history, to myth. A going-
back to look forward. There are two
other trends in this anthology that go
back to look forward ; one of thought,
one of technique. They are both closely
allied; the first witnesses to our human
travail in the search for spiritual regenera-
tion, and to the moments of fulfilment.
This is the season Gina Balantyne is seek-
ing when she writes:
On the recurring tides
of Springs that come and go
never the same renewal
man and his dreaming know.
For man may be born again. Judith
Wright was the first in Australian poetry
to write of this scattering of the self in
the fallow. And now Rosemary Dobson
in “Night and the Land”:
Quiet beneath his cloak
Of shadow, hills and trees
Move in me, and the rivers
Flow down to the great seas.
Dark horseman of the night
What wonders shall be born?
For love, for life, for grief:
The rose, the leaf, the thorn.
The poets just considered silence the
prying acquisitive will in their search for
freedom, harmony, for the springs of
the spirit. There are others within ear-
shot, seeking to free the imagination from
the bonds of the critical sense, the muse
from the burden of social service. They
are inheritors of Dylan Thomas’s tech-
nical revolution, the eaters of George
Peele’s cockle bread.
Here is a stanza from Keith Sinclair’s
“A Night Full of Nothing”:
Her breasts were a gallon of gathering bees
And lily legs walked her down lover’s delay
As we ripened like raspberries high in the
O why did she linger and why did she stay?
Sinclair’s verse is gay, high-spirited, per-
verse ; his images take impossible leaps,
hang by their toes, while jugglers play
with words in the sawdust (lover’s delay
—lovers’ lane) and Groucho feels the
lady’s pulse : “Either you’re dead or my
watch has stopped.” But, like the shaggy-
dog story, it comes off, now and then,
with a surprising beauty.
It is usual these days for a poet
accused of obscurity to reply that he
draws his matter not from the conscious
but from the subconscious mind ; if his
images lack continuity, they reflect tne
disintegration of modern society. These
assumptions deserve looking into ; call for
a digression.
Actually the spring of poetic thought
is the imagination. And it is one of the
mysteries of the imagination that, in its
working, like is attracted to like, and
new kinships are uncovered in the seem-
ingly unlike by the use of metaphor and
simile. The imagination, in fact, seeks
to simplify, to bring to order.
The imagination is fed by the memory
which groups together allied experiences
in such a way that one memory recalls
another of the same kind, and any ex-
perience in the present is charged with
the emotion of similar experiences in the
past, A simple example is the playing
of an old dance-tune. But the imagina-
tion is an active force; by bringing
together it creates something new, it
creates images. The shock of their
coupling is the poetic experience. But
just as a particular outlook or point of
view implies an orderly arrangement of
experience, of memories, of things viewed,
so in a complete poem there must be a
certain cohesion of the images that go
to its make-up.
At its greatest, the imagination girdles
the earth with a chain of related images,
creating a new world in the image of the
old. In this it is akin to the Wor d making
iess light; to that lovely persuasion
ig order and form out of chaos
rents that are themselves merely
s of an underlying reality.
;e it is accepted that poetry has its
;s in the unifying force of the
nation, we are armed to meet the
ly obscure ; and can draw two con-
ns. If the images of a poem are
g in continuity or cohesion it is
iot to any breakdown of society,
re failure of the poet’s imagination
mring to grips with his subject;
ily, the poet who draws exclusively
some hidden strata of the mind is
reeing the imagination but restrict-
s does not imply that all good poems
>r could be, completely understand-
As often as not a poet is unsure
hat he is writing about until the
is completed ; and even then he
be incapable of giving it a prosaic
relation; may even miss the point
ly. This is not surprising when we
something of the working of the
mation. The poet writes in a kind
tuitive dream. In a not very dis-
ir state, the factory-owner plans the
sions fo his plant, the thief the
ct get-away, the lyre-bird prepares
ince, the tree to blossom, and in
nakedness Archimedes sprang from
ath. The imagination has done their
ing for them. At one time this was
1 inspiration, and I will use the word
ite of Nancy Keesing’s warning that
You may not have visions now;
There’s a rational explanation
And a formula in a book
For your regeneration.
ietry appeals to the whole man and
ot be understood by the mind alone,
we can expect continuity of image,
;c reasoning, with its Q.E.D. of
[action. And this is what Val Vallis
i us in “Song for a Moonlit Night” ;
ludith Wright in her “Lion,” perhaps
most satisfying poem in this coilec-
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Tasmanian Bushrangers .
“I always think that we hear tar too
much about Ned Kelly and other gangs
of more modern bushrangers,” says K. R.
von Stieglitz in his Tasmanian Bush-
rangers (author ; Angus and Robertson),
‘‘and not nearly enough about our own
Tasmanian bandits who, in the early days
of the colony, held our pioneers in a
constant state of jitters.”
And it must be said that Mr. von
Stieglitz’s little pamphlet produces for
the honor of Tasmania some very credit-
able scoundrels. Tasmania was, in fact,
especially favored; for the bushrangers
there were all of the convict period, there-
fore much more ferocious than their
latter-day imitators ; and then the very
worst of the convicts were sent to Van
Diemen’s Land —sturdy malefactors who
may originally have been dispatched to
New South Wales and, committing some
new crime there, were passed on to Port
Arthur to repent or to escape into the
bush and provide material for Marcus
Clarke and Mr. von Stieglitz.
It is a little saddening to the present
reviewer, who cherished a vague notion
that Michael Howe, that most celebrated
of all The Speck’s desperadoes, wrote
messages to the Governor written in
I human blood on a parchment of human
skin, to learn that the skin was only
kangaroo-hide and that the blood
(whether human or not Mr. von Stieglitz
does not specify; but one fears it was
kangaroo) may not have been used “to
add emphasis to his letters” but merely
“through lack of ink.” “It would be
hard to say,” says the chronicler.
But Howe certainly referred to himself,
pleasingly, as “The Lieutenant-Governor
of the Woods” in his correspondence with
the Lieutenant-Governor of the colony ;
and with quite exemplary ferocity he shot
Ins mistress, Black Mary, in the stomach
vhen she was unable (through pregnancy)
o keep up with him on one occasion
Mien he was running away from the
soldiers. His career, says Mr. von Stieg-
iitz, included a total of 50 murders, “but
ane of the most brutal things he ever did
was to apply a red-hot shovel to the
naked buttocks of an old woman who
had refused to tell him where her money
was hidden.” In the end he was cap-
tured by a ticket-of-leave. man named
Worrall, who, with the help of a soldier
named Pugh, wisely battered his head in.
Mr. von Stieglitz is perhaps too
generous to the reader in his account of
“that cruel brute Richard Lemon” when
he depicts that bushranger burning alive
a convict named Scandon who, out hunt-
ing had stumbled on his hiding-place. It
is an admirably fiendish story, but Scan-
don did not live to tell the tale; and,
though the chronicler says, most interest-
ingly, that he got the details from a Mr.
John Bishop, of Franklin Village, Tas-
mania, who died at the age of 90, one
prefers, in the absence of further
evidence, to take poor Scandon s charred
remains with a grain of salt. Lemons
opening gambit as a bushranger was to
bash Corporal Curry and Private Gnndle-
stone to pieces with a shovel, eventually
he was taken by three of Tasmania s
obliging ticket -of - leave men, who
delivered his head in a bag to Governor
Paterson
Other characters in the booklet include
John Quigley, who robbed three separate
parties of travellers on their way to a
steeplechase at Campbell Town in 1852
and who, when overpowered and deli-
vered for trial, refused to utter one word
throughout the proceedings and was
declared insane; Britton, who, when his
gang was broken up, left “his bare foot-
marks along the banks of the Mersey
but never another sign to show what
became of him; and Matthew Brady,
who dressed up a post as a scarecrow to
keep soldiers and settlers imprisoned all
one night in the Port Sorrell jail. But
Brady, who sang songs to the ladies,
including one of his own composition
(has anyone ever seen the words?), rather
spoils Mr. von Stieglitz’s bloodthirsty
little array of Tasmanians. He, like Gar-
diner, Ned Kelly and Ben Hall, was
almost a gentleman.
Island Story.
Like Dymphna Cusack’s Say No to
Death, Charles Shaw’s Heaven Knows,
Mister Allison (Shakspeare Head) is an
Australian novel which has had an
enthusiastic reception abroad. London
“Star” picked it as the best of a week’s
novels and said it “looks like being a
war-time Blue Lagoon.” Morchard
Bishop gave it the greater part of a full-
page review in “John ©’London’s,” and
commented:
This week has brought me an Australian
novel about a desert island north-east of
Borneo, a French novel about Paris, an
English one about the early days of the
Salvation Army and an Italian one about
nowhere in particular. For a number of
reasons 1 give pride of place to Heaven
Knows, Mister Allison, which I thought
excellent Mr. Shaw’s narrative manner
is good and simple, more in the tradition
of Weils perhaps than of Conrad, but
perfectly adequate to carry forward a tale
of desperate peril and human resourceful-
ness which is continuously exciting and,
what is still more, continuously credible.
A real feat of creative imagination!
For all that, Heaven Knows, Mister
Allison isn’t as good as a novel by
Charles Shaw about an Australian
country town which this reviewer read
in manuscript some years ago. The
court try-town novel was based in the
law son tradition of quiet realism, and,
esicles the humor and small-town
ramas of its story, it added something
> the total picture of Australia that is
eing built-up by our novelists. The new
ovel, though the English reviewer sees
le influence of Wells, reads more like
“Saturday Evening Post” serial; more
dished, more colorful than the other,
at, because Shaw knows Australian
ountry towns better than he knows
-epic islands, lacking final authenticity.
Concentrated on two people instead of
n the broad patterns of country life, the
ew novel is, too, narrower in scope than
Sie other ; more like a long short-story.
However, there is no doubt about the
opular appeal of Heaven Knows, Mister
illison. Dealing with a U.S. Marine and
Canadian nun who find themselves
narooned on their tropic island during
he recent war, it has a threefold interest:
hat struggle of civilised man to find food
tnd shelter in primitive conditions which
las contributed so much to the popularity
>f scores of books from The Swiss Family
lohinson and Huckleberry Finn to J. M
Jarrie’s The Admirable Crichton; the
sharpening of the adventures on the two
occasions when Japanese troops occupy
he island and the soldier and the nun
ire forced to take refuge in dugouts, the
>oldier coming out at night to fish and
iunt and on one occasion raiding the
lapanese stores; and finally the
dangerous situation, which Mr. Shaw
nanages to handle both convincingly and
actfully, that develops when the soldier
begins to regard the nun as a woman.
The whole situation and the island
setting are both remarkably well
imagined; and so, too with only two
characters to carry it along, is the story
admirably sustained in suspense.
Herbert: Alan Wood (Bodley Head).
A comic novel by the Australian autho'.
of The Groundnut Affair ; the birtn,
education and adventures in peace and
war of the illegitimate son of a lord JX
opens with a quotation from Anatoie
France ; but the model is more Candide,
and the style is a good deal too powerful
and bitter to achieve the subtleties of
either of the Frenchmen: Mr. Wood
would probably do better with a more
serious and heroic subjerf.


'■
Si
wiw'iimiiiiiiMii
L'lfst
> i‘
*
A:
-■■■
I
t*.M> t 0.,,
m
M
■
!*h*
1
Zzs>
:::
<3
O
r=
Fireproof, Economical, Clean, Compact
Ocean Portable Heater
A good book, a comfy chair and a cosy fire—and what
a wonderful way to spend a winter's nightl But when you
have an Ocean Portable Electric Heater (which can be
moved from room to room), you'll have warmth wherever
you go. Ocean combines all the advantages of the
electric fire with those of central heating. Attractively
designed, the Ocean is a self-contained unit. £36/10/-.
0
%
1
m
02
it'.
rs*
A’,
H
4
%
rT
>r-
y-x.
ncs
n
m
.A.--
* . >K._ OVrr-<
.v: m
kN> r'", u
Thermos Vacuum Flasks, 14 7 -
For picnics and car trips, you need a handy vacuum flask.
! -pint size—it keeps liquids hot for 24 hours, or cold for
72 hours. In metal case, Thermos is fitted with plastic cup.
Set switch on "high," then, when you have
the temperature you want, turn to "low"
or "medium" for heat desired.
The Humidifier keeps the air moist by a
simple-to-fili, removable water tray. Cannot
burn out, even when left on continuously.
All the Famous Names in Electrical Appliances
Featured here are just a few of the famous make appliances from our Electrical Centre.
Each one bears our personal guarantee for reliability and quality.
Dual Light Battery Light
Strong and compact, this portable
lighting unit is invaluable to farmers
and campers. With battery, 69/2.
‘Supreme” Electric Dryer
Dry your hair quickly, thoroughly,
with an electric hair dryer. Made
io moulded plastic case. £7/1/6.
“Ravia” Electric Griller
A griller that boils, fries, grills, or
toasts. 240 volt A.C. and 1,800 watts
only, £6/9/-. Flex and plugs, 9/6.
Gilford Auto Electric Jug
Accident proof, this jug switches
itself off when the water boils.
With safety "tip-up" lid, £3/8/9.
fds
Famous Sunbeam
Mixmasier
We have a limited number
of hard-to-get Mixmasters!
240 volt for immediate
delivery, £27/6/-.
32-volt models, £29/8/-,
for early delivery.
Roden Stovette
"Roden" are famous for their
special features oven
temp, indicator, 3 - heat
switch for top element.
No installation required. For
immediate delivery, £lB/19/6.
Si
He)
O
m
m
m
■’TRUTH IN ADVERTISING '
f
sd
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST„ ROX 3712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


PRODUCTS OF 7HI i
RooteSl
CROUP|
wans
Humber
Hillman
m
d
Sunbeam-Talbot
a
IT*
Commer
O
Karrier
Vulcan
fsd
Tilling-Stevens
W/AM
f/VAMS
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUN BEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
■CARRIER
VULCAN
TILLING-STEVENS
HOLMAN
L.
r.
TAiBOT
O
i
Men
fsd
MOTES CROUP
Under these world-famous names, the Rootes
Group produces no fewer than 29 separate
and distinct models a car, truck or bus to
suit every conceivable transport need.
Wherever the red, blue and gold Rootes
Group sign is displayed owners of Rootes
Group vehicles all over Australia find com-
petent courteous service.
ROOTES GROUP, FISHERMEN’S BEND, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA AND OF ENGLAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3770
Wednesday, May 14, 1952
hotel
bridal suite
I>o AJOf
D| STURB
mm »
“THE HONEYMOON IS OVER.”
“About time we woke them up, don’t you think, Artie? They’ve been in there for the last six years.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
**Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
EVATT, BURTON AND MAO.
Ten new bills were introduced when Par-
liament met in Canberra on May 6. None
was important. The real national issues
are inflation, production and defence.
Government plans for all three are made
on broad principles and are at some
stage of being carried out. The Oppo-
sition is hard at work doing its best to
see that they fail through lack of public
co-operation.
There is a Senate election on the horizon
for next year, perhaps a general one, and
a N. S. Wales State election is due. The
direction of “Labor” attack is planned
accordingly along lines most likely to
enlist the support of the kind of marginal
vote which always gives it power—the
vote of the loafer, of the pressure-groups,
the disloyal minority and the businessman
whose patriotism is kept in his wallet.
“Labor” concentrates on finance and
subjects connected with the cost of living,
with some excursions into the foreign
field, displaying strange and conflicting
attitudes.
Thus we find Dr, Evatt and Mr. Ward
at one moment complaining of the Gov-
ernment’s “warmongering” defence
schemes, and at another bleating with
alarm about the dangers of a rearmed
Japan.
It would be healthy if the Government
were to bring “Labor” out into the open
on foreign-affairs policy. As the Com-
munist party has a series of change-
able party lines based on no prin-
ciples save those of. expediency, so the
“Labor” party changes its line about as
often as a fashion-model changes her
clothing, and generally in the same
direction as the Communists,
“Labor,” for instance, boasts loudly
of its huge defence programme while it
was in office in the post-war years. But
when the measures used by “Labor” are
adopted and somewhat magnified by the
Menzies Government they become “war-
mongering.”
And while Moscow and Mr. Sharkey
call the Menzies Government “an
appendage of Wall-street” and Mr.
Menzies “Truman’s lackey,” Drs. Evatt
and Burton say much the same thing,
declaring the Government to be a
“satellite of the U.S.A.”
Mao Tse-tung in his annual report of
national progress in Communist China
wrote at the end of 1950 that the United
States had “deliberately concocted the
assault of the Syngman Rhee puppet gang
against the Korean People’s Democratic
Republic in order to expand its aggres-
sion in the East the U.S. aggressive
forces have invaded China’s borders and
may at any time expand their aggression.”
And thus Mr. Sharkey, head of the
Communist Party of Australia, in an
article (“Tribune,” 6/2/’52), approving a
message sent by Comrade Stalin to the
Japanese people:
Japan today is in the claws of the
American imperialist eagle. Its young:
men are regarded by Wall-street as an im-
mense reservoir of cheap cannon-fodder.
Wall-street proposes to use this cannon-
fodder for the conquest of Asia, for war
against People’s China and the Soviet
Union.... The country is being rapidly
militarised and prepared for new wars
under the direction of Wall-street.
But the Communists also point out that
the Japs may prefer to attack Australia.
Dr. Burton, “Labor’s” chief expert
adviser on foreign affairs during the war,
wrote in December, discussing the
Japanese peace treaty, that the
decisions of the Eleven-Power Agree-
ment to keep Japan disarmed have been
“tom up” and “the Japanese, a poverty-
stricken people, are being egged on to
fight for their living but to aggress
north instead of south.”
He declared:
The treaty in effect is an endeavor to
make a war-weapon with which to attack
the Asian continent. But clearly the
Japanese might not like to be used this
way, and the war-weapon is most likely
to be used to acquire a living for the
Japanese people. South-East Asia, in-
cluding Australia, will again be threat-
ened.
The Communist-party line is all
for the handing-over of West New
Guinea to Indonesia on the ground that
this would be the freeing of a colonial
people from the iron heel of the brutal
Dutch Imperialists. Australian “Labor”
showed itself not unsympathetic towards
the Communist viewpoint when it allowed
the Communist-led wharfies to ban
Dutch ships from Australian wharves and
to pelt the friendly Dutch with rocks
and verbal filth. Dr. Burton again shows
his feelings:
A deal was made [i.e., by the Menzies
Government], the Pacific Pact was traded
for rearmament of Japan, for breaking;
with the British Commonwealth mediation
In Korea, for leaving the question of
Dutch New Guinea unsettled to provide a
possible outlet for surplus Japanese popu-
lation, and for going quietly on the
Colombo Plan so U.S.A. could ensure no
aid unless Asian countries fall in with
D.S. policy towards the Soviet.
Dr. Evatt is outraged that there
should be a Japanese peace treaty with-
out Russia’s consent. In the past —in
1948 —he made it clear that he was aware
that in 1940 Molotov went to Berlin and
discussed the division of the world “in
general terms.” He knows that it was
necessary for him during the war, before
it was safe to take a ban of dissolution
off their organisation, to exact a good-
behavior bond from the Communist
party. He knows that it was necessary
to pass a special Act to safeguard the
atom-bomb range from their sabotage.
He must know that Russia in the Pacific
has broken every agreement shamelessly.
Russia armed the huge Chinese Army ip
Korea which is now fighting the United
Nations. It supplied it with aircraft and
instructors. The North Korean forces
today are little better than Soviet
mercenaries.
Dr. Evatt must know that at present
the Russians are operating a huge cam-
paign of hate against the Western Allies,
against the United Nations, against the
Eighth Army in Korea, of which Aus-
tralian battalions are a part; and their
charges are being supported with
loathsome faked pictures and even more
loathsome faked evidence; that they are
the products of malicious and horrible
invention.
Yet he wrote last December, on the
page of the journal opposite to that on
which Dr. Burton’s dicta, quoted above,
were printed:
It is quite contrary to the principles of
international justice as well as to the inter-
ests of Australia that the Government of
this country should become a party to de-
cisions repudiating the existing Eleven-
Power Agreement for a peace with
Japan.... The Allied Nations completely
reversed the process and chose to run the
risk of a rearmed and remilitarised Japan
contrary to binding international agree-
ments.
Binding with whom? So far as ten of the
parties were concerned they agreed
unanimously and perfectly legitimately
to scrap an old agreement and make a
new one suitable to changed conditions,
being forced to that position by the
menace of the eleventh party, which had
shown itself barbarous and aggressive and
had forfeited its rights under the original
arrangement by breaking it wholesale.
When the question of “Labor’s” attitude
was raised in Parliament last session it
sidestepped discussion, defending itself by
reflecting on the sanity and sobriety of its
attackers. But with the entry into the
lists of Dr. Evatt and his chief “expert,”
who last month became the endorsed
Federal A.L.P. candidate for Lowe, held
by Mr. MacMahon, the Minister for the
Navy and Air, it is imperative that their
attitude should be clarified and that they
should be given an inescapable oppor-
tunity to explain themselves in Parliament
on the earliest possible occasion.
The 40-Hours Depression.
There could be no better illustration of
the rabble that political “Labor” has
become than its sneering reception of
Treasurer Fadden’s interim financial
statement when Parliament met. His
statement was frank, factual and unim-
peachable as an analysis of the facts pre-
sented. The Opposition’s dislike of it
and snarling attempts to interrupt it were
a compliment to the Government’s case
for persisting with its measures to bring
inflationary influences under control. Not
least important was the Treasurer’s an-
nouncement of intention to present the
1952-53 Budget in July.
All that Dr. Evatt’s cantankerous and
obstruction-minded mob did was to brand
itself as barracking for more and more
inflation for the purely malicious end of
aggravating the difficulties which the
Government is supposed to tackle with-
out an ounce of help from “Labor.”
Manifestly, in the Opposition’s view, the
national welfare is beside the point.
“Labor” started out with the propaganda
that the Government could not succeed in
checking inflation, and therefore the Gov-
ernment must not be allowed to succeed.
All argument is distorted to serve that
end.
Yet, despite the Socialists’ grotesque
and surly misrepresentations, the Gov-
ernment’s attack on “the economy of
scarcity” is succeeding. Employers and
A.C.T.U. executive officers alike hail the
reduced rise of the basic-wage last quarter
as a sign that the slump in money’s value
against goods is slackening. Some more
rounds have yet to be fought, but the
enemy is weakening, and persistent
hammering at him should bring the
moment for the knockout. The manag-
ing-director of an important chemicals-
manufacturing firm is not the only witness
among employers that “credit restrictions
have scaled down the buying demand for
non-essentials and have improved labor
relations.” Treasurer Fadden is entirely
right in nailing the Government’s colors
in this matter to the mast. “Our aim,”
he told Parliament, “is to restore a funda-
mental state of balance within the eco-
nomy. Until that goal is much more
clearly in sight there cannot be any
thought of throwing our instruments
aside.”
This is exactly what the Prime Minister
and the Treasurer told the State
Premiers at the recent Loan Council
meetings, and it applies to them as strictly
as to any other employers as a ban
against non-essential expenditure of labor
and material and money. Naturally
enough, everybody from State Govern-
ments downwards who has been used
to easy money and unlimited credit at
pegged interest-rates is howling at being
financially on short commons. But no
amount of such howling can increase
basic production, the only means of
satisfying industry’s demands and creat-
ing new wealth. Australia has been in a
sort of depression ever since 1947 —a de-
pression, or slump, in production—and
“Labor” while in office at Canberra con-
doned it just as State “Labor” Premiers
condone it still. Every strike has aggra-
vated it, and striking wharfies in all Aus-
tralian ports have been performing the
appropriate accompaniment to “Labor’s”
political obstruction in Parliament and
press campaigns.
The Premiers at the Loan Council
meetings went on strike, too —a quite
futile demonstration, for even N.S.W.’s
Mr. Cahill, who must be feeling a little
distaste for having to shoulder Brother
Clive as well as the motheaten mantle
handed over by the departed Mr.
“Gimme” McGirr, announced on return
to Sydney that, while next financial year’s
State works would be planned “on the
assumption that the £247 million voted
for would be realised,” it would be “neces-
sary to proceed very cautiously” because
the “actual amount of money available
would not be known for six months.”
What, then, was the use for practical
Budget purposes of either the Loan
Council meetings or of the Premier’s
strike? And what is the point of all Mr,
Cahill’s lamentation about reduced Gov-
ernment housing-funds if he now
proclaims that he has more materials to
use in State works because less of them
will be in demand for home-building?
It simply gives away the whole “Labor”
argument.
The Prime Minister’s broadcast com-
ments to the nation on the Loan Council
meetings were masterly in matter and in
tone, both as explanation without rancor
of the Government’s stand and as re-
assurance of public confidence on the eve
of his mission in Britain and the United
States. The N.S.W. Premier’s second-
thoughts, like those of other States’
leaders, were obviously induced by a
realisation of the need for sobriety in
their forthcoming appeals from the loan-
platform if loan-money is to be en-
ticed from the investor. All Government
leaders, State as well as Commonwealth,
had better take notice of certain harden-
ing sentiments in the community on the
matter of high taxation to pay for Gov-
ernment works on “Government stroke.”
To say that before there can be any
substantial resort to bank credit to finance
either public works or Budget deficits in-
flation must be overcome means that
the production-slump must be overcome,
that a fair day’s work on Government
jobs must be required for a fair day’s
pay, and that in all industry either the
standard-hours week must be honestly
worked or the 40-hour limitation must go.
The “milk-bar economy,” legacy of
the Socialist era of loafing and living on
tick, is not yet subdued, although
Treasurer Fadden sees some “gratifying
movement of labor into the basic indus-
tries.” It is reasonable to suppose that
this movement will increase if the Gov-
ernment remains firm, in the fashion to
which the Treasurer has pledged it,
against the efforts of pressure-groups to
whittle down its anti-inflation policy. The
diversion of labor forces into coal, steel
and cement and farming industries is as
important for the realisation of the State
Governments’ huge programme of works
as the retention of labor for those works
themselves about which the Premiers at
the Loan Council were so concerned. If
those Premiers call for bank-credits to
eke out inadequate loan-subscriptions, they
must surely join with the Commonwealth
Government in the checking of inflation,
which is laid down as the antecedent to
any such use of bank-credits. If they
demand larger subsidies from annual
taxation they must necessarily join in
reducing Government expenditures—
those, for instance, which go to maintain
swollen staffs in the civil services.
Above all the State Governments must
face up to the cause of their worst current
troubles. Their Budgets have gone hay-
wire because their transport services are
bankrupt, because the railways are fail-
ing more and more to do their job as
charges for those services rise, and the
swift, modern and efficient road transport
with which private enterprise has come to
the rescue of national industry is being
taxed savagely in order to prevent its
operating where the railways have fallen
down. Whatever may be said about the
effect of the reduced working week in
industry generally —and mostly “40 hours”
is a mere mask for 30 or 35 —it is plain
beyond all disguise that “40 hours” has
decimated the Government transport ser-
vices in every State and the mounting
cost of this failure is passed on all through
the national economy. The Governments
want money for more water-conservation
to increase farm production when the
railways cannot carry the extra freights
even at annually-increasing charges which
inflate costs on every hand. They want
more money for housing, hospitals,
schools when the building industry (as
Treasurer Fadden says, and as every
home-builder knows in bitter resentment)
“has been a hotbed of go-slow, overtime-
chasing and blackmarketing in materials.”
Blackmarketing may not apply on Gov-
ernment building jobs as such, but
Government housing jobs have been
notoriously the target of thieves, whose
felonies are inseparable from the organisa-
tion behind blackmarketing.
Sooner or later, and it may as well be
sooner, the Commonwealth Government
will be obliged to call on the State Gov-
ernments to join with it —Governments
being the largest and most extravagant
employers in the land —in reversing their
former application and moving the Arbi-
tration Court to review the standard-hours
award, especially as the court itself has
declared that the 40-hour week is not
being worked. The banning of overtime
by Communist-bossed unions is a direct
flouting of the 40-hour award, anyway.
It is a load the country cannot carry any
further, and dare not attempt to carry
further if inflation and the producing-
slump are to be overcome.
A State of Transport
Emergency?
Thomas Percy Holland, of Swan Hill
(Vic.), has written on these lines to
Minister for Commerce McEwen in Can-
berra :
I am making urgent representation direct to
you to seek Federal Government aid to declare
a state of emergency for a period of not less
than 10 years to take over from all State
Governments the control of heavy road trans-
port, to fix one registration for Australia at
not more than £5O a year, and to import without
delay at least ten thousand or more heavy vehicles,
preferably from America, for road hauliers and
men on the land throughout Australia to buy for
essential work. Fully 30 p.c. of road transports
now operating are worn out and should be
scrapped. It takes an operator or a man on the
land nine to 12 months to secure a heavy
transport from the time when he lodges his
order to secure a new one. All restrictions
regarding operating should be removed.
Australian State Government-owned railways
are a disgrace to present business requirements,
and are unable to cope with existing traffic. It
is the Australian road hauliers (private enter-
prise) who are saving Australia from a complete
breakdown in transport.
Recently the N. S. Wales State Government
raised its registration-fee on heavy road trucks
from an average of £94 to an average price of
£239—a rise of £145. This is a blow to men
on the land, particularly in western N. S.
Wales. The pastoral industry mainly depends
now on road transports, as there are no
drovers. With a fall of wool prices and the
collapse of sheep values it is impossible to
market sheep from beyond the railway-lines.
In our stock business in Swan Hill we have
31 road hauliers booked from various centres
to transport sheep in large numbers from north-
western N. S. Wales, mainly to Swan Hill and
Victoria. . . .
All these men are in private enterprise, good
workers doing a vital job day and night that
Government employees would not care to do.
They all realise they must pay taxes, but present
conditions of excessive taxation with Govern-
ment interference is making it almost impossible
for Australian hauliers to continue. Unless this
is rectified, then Australia’s financial recovery
will be retarded. . ,
If another World War breaks out immediate
road transports will be a major defence force—
possibly 100,000 heavy trucks will be required.
There is a lot of plain sense in what
Mr. Holland has written. But the chief
targets of his criticism (so far as road
taxes are concerned) should be the State
Governments; the Commonwealth has
limited powers to deal with intra-State
transport except in case of war. Import
of heavy trucks does, however, come
within the Commonwealth’s orbit.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Berlin, Korea and Hong Kong.
Timed with what seems like a breakdown
of the armistice negotiations in Korea,
the sudden threats which have emanated
from Eastern Germany have an ominous
ring.
On May 9, following various provoca-
tions, including the Russians’ shooting-up
of a French unarmed passenger-aircraft
entering Berlin on an agreed route and
under agreed conditions, and the sudden
blockage of normal Allied traffic, Eastern
Germany held “a day of defence” of the
homeland to celebrate the anniversary of
its “liberation,” which was obviously
organised for the purpose of serving an
ultimatum on Western Germany and the
Atlantic Powers.
It was marked by the receipt of a tele-
gram from Stalin pledging the U.S.S.R.
to defend Eastern Germany against all
“attacks.” This promise was backed by the
presence of about 300,000 troops of the
“peace-loving” Soviet Union, armed to the
teeth with the most modern of weapons.
Herr Grotewohl, the “Premier,” who is
of course, a puppet of the U.S.S.R., com-
menting on West Germany’s decision to
join the Atlantic Pact forces, declared
that the East German Government will
not put up with a coup d’etat and its
consequences without a fight.
This, following directly on the approval
by the North Atlantic Council of the
reciprocal guarantees that the N.A.T.O.
Continental Armies will support Western
Germany if attacked, has a disquieting
sound. It is clear that East Germany is
full of troops of which Russia has re-
cently been at pains to deny the presence,
and that last week’s gathering was a move
to put East Germany on a war footing
and to intimidate Western Germany into
an isolation in which it could be
swallowed. Or perhaps it was a first
move towards a coup to seize Western
Germany. Or just propaganda to bolster
Russia’s now-threadbare device of a plea
for one more conference.
The six members of the European De-
fence Community—France, Germany,
Italy, Holland, Luxembourg and Belgium
—initialled the Treaty of Mutual Defence
last week, but it cannot be signed as a
preliminary to the creation of a European
defence army until the contractual agree-
ment between Britain, the United States
and France with Western Germany has
been signed. And signature has been
delayed while investigation is being made
of the Russian suggestion for another
Four-Power Conference to determine
whether elections for the whole of Ger-
many cannot be held as a preliminary to
a peace treaty for all Germany and a
withdrawal of occupation troops.
If Russian policy is sincerely in favor
of this it will only be because Stalin
wishes to extend to the West the system
which has been already adopted in the
East—the creation of a Communist Ger-
many which can be armed to fight the
Western Powers as China has been armed
to fight them in the Pacific zone. The
attempt to bully the British Government
into ceasing to try to punish traitors and
Communist plotters in Hong Kong has
a familiar ring at this juncture.
Union-made Unemployment.
During the third week of April the
ban on overtime imposed by the
Communist-bossed Waterside Workers’
Federation —in breach of the union’s
award—laid idle 136 ships in nine Aus-
tralian ports and lost 28,621 man-hours
of work. The Commonwealth steamship
owners thereupon moved the Arbitration
Court to order compliance with the
award. The working-time lost through
the same cause has since been consider-
ably increased.
Last week the Full Bench of the court
unanimously made the requested order.
Counsel for the wharfies vainly submitted
that the court had no jurisdiction.
While the case was being heard the
union ordered a 24-hour stoppage in
all Australian ports on May 6. Sydney
spread the strike till the day after the
court’s order, and then the union ordered
resumption in design to earn overtime
rates of pay over the weekend. On the
same day that the court’s order was
published the wharfies in Port Adelaide,
following an address by Communist
Roach, general-secretary S.A. branch of
the union, resolved to continue the over-
time ban and to stop work for another 24
hours on June 4. The same meeting
condemned any move to have union
ballots conducted by the court.
In Sydney, apart from the overtime
ban, the three-day stoppage was ordered
when the owners dismissed a union
delegate who refused to cease distributing
Communist leaflets among gangs during
working-hours. Again in Sydney work
was stopped on Friday night when
wharfies working on one ship refused to
work overtime.
In Hobart the ban caused the non-
shipment and likely wastage of some
500,000' cases of apples for overseas.
These are all political strikes by a
Communist-riddled union against the law
and the community.
In other directions the indiscipline of
unions engaged in the heavy industries
and the metal trades and the sabotage of
essential production continue. Early this
month Judge Kirby, of the Arbitration
Court, granted in chambers an order nisi
to A.I. and S. against the Boilermakers’
Society to show cause why it should not
be deregistered.
Previously the metal-trades employers
in Sydney had obtained a similar order
against the same union and three others
—the two engineering anions and the
ironworkers —directing compliance with
the Galvin award. Last week the Chief
Judge said the court would not proceed
with these cases till the High Court had
delivered its reserved decision in a case
challenging the Galvin Award.
Representative of the metal-trade
employers told the court that the four
unions had been striking for two months
and had stopped ship-repairs in Sydney.
At the weekend the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission entered the picture when it
summoned to a compulsory conference at
Newcastle nine unions with members on
strike at A.I. and S. at Kembla—rep-
resenting 3500 out of the company’s 4800
employees. The boilermakers, A.E.U.
and the ironworkers are included among
the nine. So also is the Communist-run
Building Workers’ Industrial Union,
which, in Melbourne, has been moving
the Federal court for re-registration on
verbal undertakings offered —and not
accepted by the Chief Judge—that the
union “would oppose strikes” if granted
re-registration. The 8.W.1.U. has been
deregistered since 1948.
While all these strikes are crippling in-
dustries upon which a host of other
industries depend, Trades Hall leaders
and “Labor” politicians in Parliament
are howling about “unemployment caused
by the Menzies Government’s policy.”
The East Sydney "Line. 11
Last week Mr. E. J. Ward, member for
East Sydney, during the debate on the
Opposition’s censure motion in which
he was one of the Labor parly’s
official speakers, said that on May 6 or 7
—“the day before the banks were told
that no more letters of credit for imports
were to be issued” —the manager of the
branch of a bank in Martin-place, he
thought the Australia and New Zealand
Bank, advised the Customs Department
that David Jones’, Ltd., had made
arrangements for irrevocable letters of
credit for £200,000 per month for 12
months —a total of £2,400,000.
He continued:
If this firm had not some prior know-
ledge restrictions were to he introduced,
why did they arrange irrevocable letters of
credit? ... .They were obviously told. If
not why did they write to the Customs
Department?
Then he added that Sir Charles Lloyd
Jones was a personal friend of the Prime
Minister, that he had received his knight-
hood from the Prime Minister, and that
“the same gentleman after the 1949 elec-
tions gave a very elaborate party in cele-
bration.”
The denial of David Jones, Ltd.,
came promptly, and the Prime Minister
refuted the allegation that before the
import restrictions were imposed there
had been contact with Sir Charles Lloyd
Jones:
I find it necessary to ask the Leader of
the Opposition whether he associates him-
self with this charge. Not that I believe
he does; but I am asking, because if he
does, then I will appoint a royal commis-
sion on one condition of the waiving
of Parliamentary privilege by the man who
made this foul charge, and that he, like
myself, will go into the box and submit
himself to the judgment of the court.
Dr. Evatt declared that he did not
know, and he thought no other member
of the Opposition knew, that Mr. Ward
intended to make the charge, and that
so far as the Prime Minister’s own assur-
ance to the House is concerned, I accept
it as a completely correct version of the
facts. I would not question it for one
moment....
Mr, Ward, as usual in such circum-
stances, went straight for the hollow-log.
His charge and the circumstances are
all of a pattern with those of many other
groundless charges which he has levelled
at opponents. It is parallel to the Bris-
bane Line lie —he then claimed to have
been “most reliably informed” that docu-
ments relating to a plan framed by the
Menzies Government to “abandon the
women and children of the North to the
mercy of the Japanese” if Australia were
invaded were missing from the official
files; but again he had not informed
his colleagues of this horrible scheme and
grave leakage. He refused to face a
witness-box or to waive his Parliamentary
privilege. But without his help it
was proved irrefutably before Mr.
Justice Lowe that the plan about
which he had been “most reliably
informed” had never existed in the
Menzies-Fadden Government’s time. No
documents were missing from the Defence
files and no such plan had been suggested
except during the reign of his own
Government.
If Mr. Ward refuses to prove his
charges and disclose their source in the
present instance to a royal commission,
then Parliament can appoint a Committee
of Privilege which can compel him to
give evidence. And if such a committee
finds that he had not firm grounds for
his charges, then on the face of his long
record of privileged slander and his con-
tinual threats to opponents to produce
skeletons from their cupboards, even the
Opposition could scarcely vote against his
expulsion from the House of Representa-
tives. He would be no more missed than
the man to whose influence he first owed
his nomination —J. S. (“Jock”) Garden.
Always Good in Crisis.
One comforting aspect of the terrible
Sydney electric-train smash last Wednes-
day, in which eight died and 130 were
injured and which was accompanied by
the inevitable scenes of tragedy and
horror, was the remarkable speed of
rescuers and rescue.-services in getting to
the scene.
The accident occurred at 7 a.m. at a
somewhat isolated suburban station.
Within minutes people were at work on
the wreckage, in answer to broadcast
appeals and telephone-calls police and
ambulances were racing to the spot, fore-
men in factories near by mustered crews
and armed them with crowbars, axes,
acetylene cutters and sent them forth, a
R.A.A.F. station sent men and equip-
ment. As these began rescue work
hospitals were organised, medical and
nursing staffs mobilised, and as the in-
jured began to arrive the work of caring
for them flowed smoothly and efficiently.
Meantime, calls sent out for blood-
donors from the Red Cross centre in the
city were instantly answered by hundreds
of people. The staff, at full strength be-
cause those off duty had been mustered,
was “flat-out” all that day and managed
to deal with 437 of the 1000 and more
who waited to give their blood. All the
rest of the week donors kept on offer-
ing, and the blood needs of the wounded
were more than satisfied. This modern
aspect of rescue-work probably saved
many lives.
Cause of the accident is the subject of
inquiry, and speculation thereon is unfair
and useless. But it is worth recording
that once again, as has been shown all
through their history, Australians never
hesitate when the call is urgent and the
need great. And it is something to know
that organised rescue-services, many of
them staffed by volunteers, can go into
action with such speed and efficiency.
N.S.W.'s Food Shortage.
Minister McEwen, in the censure
debate, said “Labor’s” simulated concern
for priority of consideration for farming
industries was of strangely sudden growth.
Its allegations of Government responsi-
bility for the decline of many of them
under the inflated price for wool was
strange coming from such a quarter.
N.S.W., said Mr. McEwen in a lively
thrust, had been for 12 years under a
“Labor” Government, and in that time
the richest State of the Commonwealth,
containing 40 per cent, of the Australian
population, had been reduced to relying
on imports for basic foods —wheat,
potatoes, onions, butter, meat —to an
extent per capita almost as great as
dependence by the people of Britain on
the same imports.
Stung by this gibe out of the comatose
state of mind which followed the high-
flying loan-antics at Canberra, N.S.W.
Premier Cahill retorted heatedly that if
there was any confusion over wheat
shortage it was caused by the Australian
Wheat Board, “one of McEwen’s own
agencies” ; that N.S.W. had been an ex-
porter last year (as well as an importer,
which he did not admit) in all the food-
items named ; and that, if the Common-
wealth Government had not refused to
join the States in chasing imaginary loan-
funds into sky-spaces where only oxygen
supplies would enable them to keep their
breath—his own phrase was that the
Commonwealth had “refused to dole out
the finance needed” —his Government
would be able to overtake the food-
production lag.
All of which, of course, does not alter
the statistical facts that, thanks to the
“milk-bar economy” with which “Labor*"
demoralised the Australian economy, and
to the encouragement of city-loafing which
is “Labor’s” standing electoral appeal,
the rural industries have been deprived
of much of their labor-force, and the
worst record of all in this respect is
that of New South Wales. Neither of
the parties in these exchanges once men-
tioned the dead-hand of Government
planning on all rural enterprise except
wool (which the “planners” have been
forced to leave severely alone) as a root-
cause of the trouble they were arguing
about.
A Chemical Tonic.
In the middle of all the squealing from
importers. State Premiers, alleged labor
leaders, rural pressure-groups and all the
other disgruntled people who prefer to
yelp rather than act, a Bulletin man
went, with other journalists, to have a
look at a chemical factory in the Sydney
suburb of Villawood. It was as good as a
smack on the back from an old mate —
the old mate in this case being the real
Australia.
A year or so ago in Adelaide the same
man was struck by the eager Australians
he found doing things. All far too busy
and far too cheerful to waste time
yelping. Adelaide isn’t as noisy
as Sydney, and he made the mis-
take of assuming that the smaller city had
the better men. Villawood corrected that.
A few days earlier this same man was
up in the Caper tee Valley, beyond Lith-
gow, where he eyed the sheep-runs and
farms under the mellow autumn sun,
watched the farmers at their work and
talked with them. Again he mistakenly
assumed that Sydney didn’t possess men
like them. It took Villawood to correct
that.
“If, instead of sitting down and
whining about import-cuts ruining
them,” said Norman Hall, boss of
Taubmans’ Villawood works, “some
of these manufacturers looked round for
raw materials in Australia they’d be sur-
prised to find how much there is. Im-
porting is just a habit with some people.
I’ve seen makers of products containing
chemicals in a panic about import-cuts.
We can supply practically every chemical
they want, so can our business rivals, and
when the oil-refineries get going here I
can’t think of anything we won’t be able
to supply.
“The overall anti-inflation plan of
the Federal Government is really
working. All the evidence points
to that —if anyone looks at it
honestly. Look, in the past few years
grave shortages of basic materials tad
services heavily cut down chemical-
making here. Now there’s a sharp tain
for the better. Credit and import re-
strictions have reduced the buying de-
mand for non-essentials and improved
labor relations. I give the Federal Gov-
trnment credit for that.”
Mr. Hall and his staff can be given
credit, too, along with all the other Mr.
Halls and their staffs: credit for keeping
the country going and doing their level
best to make Australia what it still is—the
land of opportunity. Any of them,
whether boss or laborer, is worth a dozen
Canberra lobbyists.
Trouble in South Africa.
The Colored Voters’ Bill, which places
coloreds and part-coloreds on a separate
roll from whites, having been passed in
the South African Assembly, and the
Supreme Court’s power to veto it having
been destroyed by legislation which
appears to be perfectly constitutional.
South Africa now has its crisis. There
is still a constitutional way out of it —
at the elections, due to take place in a
few months —but threats of violence and
mass-action are rife.
Dr Malan is an austere descendant of
pioneer Huguenots. He is a Doctor
of Divinity, the only clergyman
Prime Minister in recent British Com-
monwealth history. He is not basically
anti-British. His policy, as stated in the
days of his early leadership of his party,
was “separation from the British Empire,
but not from the British Crown.” «■ He
has Boer feeling with him on the native
question almost unanimously. It has
always been an issue between the Dutch
and British elements in S. Africa.
Mr. Churchill wrote of a discussion he
had with his Boer captors while a p.-0.-w.
during the South African war:
What is the true original root of Dutch
aversion to British rule? It is not Slagters
Nek, nor Broomplatz, nor Majuba, nor the
Jameson raid. Those incidents only fos-
tered its growth. It is the abiding fear
and hatred of the movement that seeks to
place the native on a level with the white
man.... The dominant race is to be robbed
of its superiority; nor is the tigress
robbed of her cubs more furious than is
the Boer at this prospect.
The same feeling is alive today, in spite
o Continued on next page.}


s
im
wmm
M-- I
L
I •
A 195
Your ANA Hostess is a Trained Officer. ..
Young ladies ... charming ... friendly .;; eager to help. Your A.NA
Hostess, thoroughly trained, ensures your every comfort when you wing
your way by Australia's most experienced airline . . . A.N.A.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
smut
MOtlV
k
NVIMISn
a^SKfSS
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY. LTD.
Brandies end Ag.nl> Utr.ngßonl 111. Conunonwedlli
of the compromises in favor of the native
in the Constitution. The Boer has never
forgotten Dingaan’s Day and the
numerous massacres which wiped out
hundreds of Boers, including many
Malans; but, on the other hand, the people
of the British Colony of Natal have not
forgotten that when they were struggling
against Boer invasion in the days of
Colenso and Ladysmith the Zulus did not
rise, as they might easily have done, but
stayed loyal. In both Natal and the
old Boer Republics, therefore, each is
firm upon the issue, but opinion is not
nearly so regimented in the Cape, with its
Hottentots and its half-breeds.
Moreover, the support of “Sailor
Malan (leader of the Torch Commando)
and his methods is not so stabilised
or so wide as it might be. For one thing,
the fact that his address is “care De
Beers” is apt to tell against him; for
another, the bloc support of the Indians,
Communists and other extremist and dis-
loyal elements is not helpful to the cause
of native and half-breed equality among
many elements.
Generally speaking the people most
concerned —in most parts of the Union,
the natives—don’t care a button so long
as they are prosperous. If they did really
care there would be no Malan Govern-
ment. But the native-infused whites,
subjected to isolation from the whites by
the apartheid prohibition against the
marriage of pure Europeans to those of
mixed blood, are another matter. It is
their cause which has set fire to public
sympathy, especially in those quarters
which resent the Government’s leaning
toward a Boer rather than an all-British
outlook.
POLITICAL POINTS
Star-item in the cable-news for the
“Labor” party’s barrackers for higher in-
flation in Australia: “U.S. ends credit
controls.” What “Labor” ignores is that
the high rate of man-hour production in
U.S.A. has provided such a volume of
consumer-goods that there is no further
need for credit controls. Hard work has
created real money to exchange for goods.
A Melbourne headmaster came back
from the U.S.A. to say that the 40-hour
week works there because everyone
works a 40-hour week. Here the thing
has never had a fair go because the Com-
munists spragged it and too many
workers regard 30-hours as near enough.
Labor has captured at least 21 cities
and towns in the local-government
elections in England and Wales, the most
striking reversals of voting being in the
depressed cotton areas of Lancashire. In
the borough elections the party captured
a net 641 seats from the Con-
servatives in a total of 3357. But past
experience has shown that these polls
give little indication of national electoral
opinion. On the Conservative land-
slides of recent years at local-govern-
ment polls Attlee’s party should have
been almost wiped out at the last general
election ; but it wasn’t.
Federal Minister McEwen’s charge that,
after 12 years of “Labor” rule, the richest
and most populous State in the Common-
wealth has been obliged to import almost
as much per head of basic foodstuffs
as the U.K. got well under Premier
Cahill’s skin. If the proof of what Mc-
Ewen said is not shown by the outstand-
ingly higher cost of C-index foodstuffs
in N.S.W., what do those statistics mean?
N.S.W. Premier Cahill has “appealed”
to Commonwealth and States to “work
enthusiastically” together. Cahill’s Gov-
ernment has never been known to “work
enthusiastically.”
Having had a look at the Snowy River
project, Premier Cahill returned to Sydney
and joyfully announced that by 1954 the
outfit would be producing 60,000 kilo-
watts. This, he added, would be “fed
into the N.S.W. interconnected system,”
and “electricity-distribution problems”
were arising. They’ll certainly arise if
Cahill assumes that his big, overcrowded,
half-starved and chronically blacked-out
capital is to rob the Murray Valley of
Snowy power.
What sort of a yes-no business on elec-
tricity is going on in N.S.W.? A couple
of weeks ago State Electricity Authority
“spokesmen” were warning people to ex-
pect more and longer blackouts this
winter. Then Premier Cahill announced
that “optimism was called for rather than
pessimism,” that things were being done,
new plant installed and so on. Where-
upon Electricity Commissioner Conde
arose, accused the Federal Government
of blocking plans to “give Sydney more
electricity” by import and credit restric-
tions, and when asked to forecast a time
when Sydney would be free of blackouts
said he couldn’t and added, “Who the
hell could?” Yes, while the Cahills and
the Condes run the show, who the hell
could?
Reported missing at Lloyds: The
$2,000,000 Liberty ship N.S.W. Electricity
Commissioner Conde was going to buy
in America to sail up and down the
N.S.W. coast pumping in electricity to
places suffering from blackouts.
Astonished residents of Rosebud, Mel-
bourne bayside suburb, looked out of
windows the other morning and saw the
Orcades filling up the foreground. The
liner had missed the channel and gone
on a sandbank. Tugs pulled her off and
she continued her voyage, which was a
pity. If half-Premier Cain had been a
whole-Premier he could have bought her
and run her as a cabaret-lottery joint in
aid of hospital finance. Squizzy Taylor
would have.
After the Loan Council Half-Premier
McDonald was heard talking about com-
pulsory loans to finance his public-works.
This was met by stony silence. Now
he’s talking about a loan in London,
where a long queue of Empire borrowers
is already waiting. The man keeps talk-
ing about money and loans. It would
be too much to expect him to assist
Menzies in the anti-inflation fight—he
has to keep in mind the wishes of his
“Labor” —er —supporter.
South Australian building authorities
rightly resented Fadden’s general de-
scription of the industry as “a hotbed
of go-slow, overtime-chasing and black-
marketing in materials.” S.A. home-
building costs are “substantially lower
than in other States” ; new five-roomed
houses are selling for £2500 —a similar
home in Sydney would cost £5OOO,
Fadden’s strictures apply only too well
to N.S.W., and nobody in that mis-
governed State had a word to say.
Nature took a commonsense hand with
the 127 “staydown” strikers in the Collins-
ville (N.Q.) pit; after nine days under-
ground an outbreak of ’flu tended to
stimulate a little intelligence among the
exhibitionists. Still, because electric light
and ventilation were restored to them in
their underground habitation they claim
to have won a “victory,” and also to have
established an Australian record in “stay-
down” stupidity.
J. H. Strong, Director of the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, told a Catholic
rural-movement conference at Albury
that farmers ought not to “develop cer-
tain of the tactics of organised labor”
in their battle against prevailing condi-
tions. Right enough, except that farmers
are as apathetic as unionists as to what
their so-called leaders do and say.
Largely for that reason they’re in danger
of being as misjudged as is the average
unionist.
Comrade Rowe, of the A.E.U., was
defeated in a union ballot for re-election
as a paid councillor —one of three—-on the
A.E.U.’s Commonwealth Council, after
holding this control-post for the Reds for
nine years. Moscow won’t like it.
Another Communist, “Jackie” Brown,
secretary of Vic. branch of the A.R.U.,
lost an application to the Arbitration
Court’s Industrial Registrar to have Vic-
torian A.R.U. election rules altered to
enable the State conference to “choose”
its chief officials, including Comrade
Brown, instead of having them elected
by union ballot. Registrar Taylor said
the proposals were “tyrannical and
oppressive,” were a defiance of branch
and Federal rules, and disqualified practi-
cally every member from standing for
office, and would disfranchise 99 per cent,
of members. Next, directed by the Vic.
Industrial Registrar to conduct an election
of officers, R. C. Nance, Commonwealth
Electoral Officer for Victoria, invited
Brown to supply him with lists ot
the names of union members by April 30.
Brown failed to comply. The electoral
officer then applied to the Arbitration
Court, and Justice Dunphy ordered
Brown to “show cause.” The case began
in Melbourne on Friday.
Queensland Premier Gair was
prominent in Brisbane “Labor” Day cele-
brations, and at the showground told the
crowd that he “feared depression No. 2,”
because “I feel that Menzies and Fadden
are already planning for it.” Where on
earth has Mr. Gair been? Dr. Evatt and
Eddie Ward discovered that way back
in 1949.
Put it to Fadden’s credit that he was
quick to see the force of the argument
about land tax, especially the change in
land values which brought small blocks
under the tax-axe because of the pre-war
£5OOO exemption limit. Fadden has raised
the limit to £8750, with assessments based
on current values, and abolished the super-
tax (20 p.c.) on land above £20,000 in
value. The flat Id. in the £1 on absentee
owners on the first £5OOO of taxable value
doesn’t start now until the value exceeds
£8750. Indirectly this is a direct recog-
nition by the Commonwealth that 1942
land values no longer exist; whether it
will impress the land-grabbers in the
Sydney Government is another matter.
“Federal and State Governments should
abolish all controls over the sale of rural
products so that they could fetch their
real prices at home and abroad,” declared
the Federal rural conference of the
Liberal party at Albury recently. This,
according to the N.S.W. branch, becomes
Liberal-party policy. We can hardly wait.
J. O, Cramer (Lib.), talking in Federal
Parliament about the howling from
Premier Cahill, said N.S.W. needn’t have
been short of the £3 million or so it
wanted for schools, and instanced the
McGirr-Cahill compulsory purchase of
Balmain electric company. Cramer said
this was unnecessary, and hadn’t given
the State an extra unit of power. True,
but it stopped those people not connected
with Balmain from asking pointed ques-
tions as to why the private show didn’t
have blackouts like the Government one.
Buying Balmain gave everybody black-
outs.
Heading in Melbourne paper: “Hands
Off Public Works, Says Labor.” If only
somebody would put their hands to public
works.
The N.S.W. State Director of Employ-
ment (A. C. Caldwell), confronted with
union leaders who demanded that some-
thing be done about New Australians who
refused to join unions in the Newcastle
steel industries, said he would get the
district employment-officer to call the
migrants before him and explain the
benefits which Australian unionism had
given workers. Perhaps that’s already
been explained.
“Eclair”: Anzac Day in Broken Hill
dawned wet, cold and cheerless, but
transports packed with people came in
from the suburbs and from the Central
portion, until thousands were lining the
routes as marchers swung past to the
War Memorial. May Day (May 4) saw
beautiful autumn weather and the May
Day procession of a handful watched by
a few citizens who happened to be
strolling in the glorious afternoon sun-
shine. It shows the contentment of the
average worker with his lot if left alone
these days. Of course, most of them are
little capitalists and happy with the owner-
ship of their homes, but the continuing
improvement in civic pride is rapidly
transforming this isolated city.
The East Sydney squib fizzled out
again.
The fact that a new commander of
the British Commonwealth Division in
Korea takes over as from August and
that the Australian battalions are to form
the substance of a brigade under an Aus-
tralian, Colonel Daly, shows what little
hope is held out for success m the armis-
tice negotiations. The new G.O.C. of the
British-Australian Division in succession
to Major-General Cassels will be Major-
General M. M. Alston-Roberts-West,
D.S.O. and Bar, 45-year-old, a veteran
of Burma and afterwards C.O. of the
British School of Infantry.
Communists are hypocrites. When
R. G. Casey, now Minister for External
Affairs, was on a lecture tour some years
ago Corns ganged up at his meetings to
accuse him of engineering a famine while
Governor of Bengal. Then and since
they’ve had a lot to say about “our starv-
ing comrades in India.” Last spring, as
part of the Colombo Plan, the Common-
wealth Government gave India wheat and
flour worth over £2j million. Subse-
quently the ship Mildura was sold to
Japanese, and the Indian Government
chartered it to take 4500 tons of the gift
flour to India. The Communist-run
Seamen’s Union demanded £25 a week
per man plus return air-fare to man the
ship, refused to allow an Indian or any
other crew to man her, the Japanese
couldn’t get enough Australian credit to
meet the union demands, and the ship
has lain with her flour cargo in Sydney
Harbor for months. Now the flour is
weevily, has had to be fumigated, and is
of doubtful value for human consump-
tion, And “our starving comrades in
India” are still starving, what time
W. Bird, Com. secretary of the Vic.
branch of the Seamen’s Union, is in
Peking assuring the Chinese Corns of his
worth.
Extraordinary statement from a Gov-
ernment which, running nationalised rail-
ways and nationalised road-haulage, is
putting the latter up for auction to private
enterprise; “The general effect will be
to re-establish a measure of competition
between road and rail in long-distance
journeys. This should lead to better and
cheaper transport.” Before anyone sup-
poses that some Australian Premier has
lost his mind let it be stated that it was
the British Government.


sd
rWv
&
BOTTLE
DEW,
fsd
GOOD FISHING!


Have you chosen your
Executor wisely?
The qualifications of an Executor who can
be depended upon to administer an Estate,
efficiently and economically, are many and
varied. It is imperative, also, that he should
be immediately available, in good health, and
of sound judgment when called upon to act.
If you have already appointed a relative or
friend, you may be sure that he will welcome
your suggestion that you should appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as Co-
Executor. It will relieve him of a heavy
burden of responsibility.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to discuss
with you the services offered by Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited—and their advan-
tages. You are invited to ring B 0377, or
write, and make an appointment. There is
no obligation on your part.
Delay is dangerous when it comes to
assuring the future security of your family.
Why not make that appointment to-day?
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
B. K. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ABMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Offices at IF AG GA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
HP
g
si
imm
17 JEWELLED
SWISS
WATCHES
Ckoictvf,
J 0X 'tori
No. 8
TOLD BY BELL S
r*
i
7'i
:
*CS
&
Indians draw
blank
In 1834, a tribe of savage Saticoy
Indians attacked the lonely Mis-
sion Church of San Buenaventura,
in Mexico. Hoping to frighten the
raiders away without killing any
of them, the kindly priest ordered the defenders to fire only
blank cartridges. Unfortunately, this piece of benevolence
played right into the hands of the Saticoys’ chief medicine
man. He claimed that his magic spell had robbed the Span-
iards’ weapons of their sting. Luckily, at the time of the attack,
one of the priest’s servants was in the bell tower mending a
frayed rope. Seeing the Indians gathering for the final swoop,
he rang the bell. The alarm brought reinforcements of settlers
hurrying in from the fields—and, after a fierce fight against
real bullets, the Saticoy were forced to retire.
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature
Whisky—ring for Bell’s, the good old whisky!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled and blended by Arthur bell & sons ltd.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1825.
AFORE
GO -
&cotcfi
Business Rollery Etc.
Heavy Pastoral Taxation
The introduction of provisional
taxation to the pastoral industry
has had the effect of some
woolgrowers receiving fantastic
assessments the last few weeks,
Where pastoralists are taxable
at a rate of 10s. in the £ or
greater they are being asked for
more than what their net income
was for the taxation year 1950-
51, which was a record income-
year.
On a 10s.-in-the-£ basis, a
taxpayer is asked for 10s. for
1950-51 and provisional tax of
10s. plus 10 p.c. (making 11s. in
the £) for 1951-52. Total tax
demanded now is thus 21s. in
the £.
Where the taxpayer’s rate is
15s. in the £, over 30s. in the
£ of 1950-51 is now being asked
for. This is clearly a fantastic
and impossible demand.
To begin with, a woolgrower’s
current income is much lower
than it was this time last year,
(The wool cheque is averaging
less than half.) His net profit
for the current year might
be much less than half of
what it was in 1950-51. This
makes the incidence of provi-
sional taxation a vastly different
thing from what it would be in
the case of a salary-earner, who
is more likely to be on an in-
creasing income than on a declin-
ing one.
Also, it is now a great deal
more difficult to raise a bank
overdraft to meet taxation com-
mitments (or outgo of any kind)
than it was a year ago. In the
upshot, it may be said that in
the great majority of cases it is
quite impossible for pastoralists
to meet current taxation assess-
ments without selling either their
stock or their property.
In the case of newcomers to
the wool or grazing industries
the problem of having to meet
two years’ tax (plus 10 p.c. in
the second year) is a particularly
difficult one, especially where the
incoming pastoralist strained his
financial resources in order to
buy a property.
But it would appear that
pastoralists and graziers who
have received such heavy assess-
ments may with safety regard
the provisional-tax part of it
as a tentative claim, and of their
own accord deduct 40 p.c. of it
when paying their tax, at the
same time asking for a question-
naire-form on which they may
state a case for a revision of the
whole provisional assessment in
the light of their own estimates
of the current year’s income and
their present financial circum-
stances.
Inquiries among taxation rep-
resentatives in Sydney have re-
vealed that the department itself
is worried about the incidence
of provisional tax on rural in-
comes in present changeable
economic circumstances. The
Treasury, too, has made several
announcements about offering
tax-relief in cases of hardship,
especially where drought and
bushfires have added to economic
difficulties.
Government Banking
The outcry of Government
back-benchers against the com-
petitively unfair expansion of
the Commonwealth Bank’s
trading activities is generally sup-
ported by figures. In respect of
advances and deposits, statistics
from the Commonwealth Bank’s
monthly bulletin reveal the
trend.
Since 1939, advances made by
the private banks have expanded
by 85 p.c., and from 1946, shortly
after the introduction of the
Commonwealth Bank Bill and
Banking Act, the expansion has
been 131 p.c.
This compares with increases
of 521 p.c. and 447 p.c. respec-
tively in Commonwealth Bank
advances over the same periods.
Because of its expanding ad-
vance policies the Common-
wealth Bank has increased its
deposits, these rising by 112 p.c.
since 1946. This compares with
a 94 p.c. increase in private-
bank deposits:
Private banks — 1939. 1946. 1951.
(£ million.)
Advances, dis-
counts, etc. 290.7 231.9 536.7
Deposits .. 321.5 625.6 1,219.4
Special de-
posits .. 252.9 527.9
Commonwealth bank —
Advances .. 17.6* 19.8 109.3
Deposits .. 87.2* 57.6 122.2
Special de-
posits ..
* Published balance-sheet figure for
1938.
It has been their special deposits
with the central bank which
have clipped the wings of the
private banks. These had risen
from 252.9 million in 1946 to
527.9 million last year. (They
were down to £436.2 million on
March 19 this year.) The Com-
monwealth Bank has suf-
fered no such drag on its ex-
pansion. In fact, it seems more
than coincidental that, when the
special-deposit item is deducted
from total private-bank deposits,
the ratio of advances to deposits
is almost the same as that of the
Commonwealth’s trading bank.
In other words, besides skim-
ming-off surplus spending-power
through deposits with the private
banks, the system of special de-
posits could also serve as regu-
lator of private banking activity
while the Commonwealth Bank
expands.
True or not, this conclusion,
besides breeding the dangerous
suspicion that there exists one
law for Government and another
for private institutions, also
detracts considerably from the
prestige of the Commonwealth
Bank, which, for a large finan-
cial institution and certainly for
a central bank, should be of the
highest order.
Victorian Antimony
Victorian Antimony Mines,
Ltd., is asking the public for
£50,000 in 200,000 ss. shares,
while another 100,000 shares
(£25,000) are reserved for cash
subscription by shareholders in
a vendor co., South Costerfield
Antimony and Gold Mining Co.,
N.L. Vendor’s consideration is
another 228,000 ss. shares.
Estimated profit from the
treatment of 5000 tons of ore
a year is £102,100, based on
antimony at £A2SO per ton.
Present Australian price is £465
a ton. Paid capital to commence
will be £132,000.
The new co. is consolidating
the Costerfield, Minerva, Bom-
bay, Alison, New Alison and
South Costerfield mines, about
80 miles from Melbourne, which
in the past have produced 55,000
to 60,000 tons of antimony and
a large quantity of gold valued
at more than £1,000,000. Only
the South Costerfield Mine is
operating at present, but the
directors intend to unwater the
main 1000 ft, Costerfield shaft
and develop the main reefs on
the field. The Alison and Bom-
bay mines also are reputed to
contain payable ore.
Installation of specially de-
signed plant to recover antimony
and gold from the treatment of
ore on the site is expected to be
completed in six to eight months
at a cost of £15,000. Previously
it has been necessary to transport
bulky ore at high cost to out-
“And now the highlight of this actuality broadcast-a few
words from ‘ Cracker ’ Sykes himself."
side concerns and pay them
smelting charges.
Mining engineers speak of
sufficient ore to occupy the plant
for many years. Already, at the
South Costerfield mine, 3000
tons of ore had been developed
for stoping above the 285 ft.
level, and 10,000 tons more are
indicated above this level. Seven
samples taken averaged 21.3 p.c.
to 60 p.c. antimony and 0.850 z.
gold a ton, which is consistent
with the record of the field. Ore
veins are said to be going
strongly underfoot at 285 ft.
The ore is a complex gold-
antimony mixture, but the anti-
mony content is high. A great
deal will depend, in the case of
the present float, on the future
price of antimony.
John I. Proud, mining en-
gineer, reported to the co.’s
brokers:
I wish to state that in my opinion
the proposed activity at Costerfield
by Victorian Antimony Mines, Ltd.,
as set out in the prospectus to which
the report is attached, should be
achieved, and there is a reasonable
expectancy of continued operation for
some years ahead. I recommend that
there be a minimum of delay in the
launching of the project.
Antimony is largely used to
harden alloys of lead, as in
battery - plates, bearing - metals
and type-metal.
Not much that is cheering has
happened in the Australian wool-
len textile trade so far this year.
Any Government contracts that
have been secured by individual
mills appear to have been got on
a cut-price basis. A hope of the
industry is that June will bring
normally cold winter weather
and a revival of interest in
woollen clothing. The price of
wool at auction has recently im-
proved.


IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
380 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Issue of
£3,000,000 h%
Registered Mortgage Debentures
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS NOW OPEN.
ISSUE CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 31st MAY, 1952.
Prospectus may be obtained from
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED,
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
'*Phenovis " Worm Remedy
k
K
-
o
get
SiS
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
sdf
PHE.BX.BO
m
\\
sd
mm.
m
fs
df
,tl mi ill'll
Consider the many
advantages that
come your way
immediately you
embark on a service
career. Instantly,
you gain a new sense
of pride—a pride
that comes with
doing the job that is vital to Australia. And
it’s a life you enjoy right from the start.
At once your future prospects brighten.
The immense range of specialist activities
in the modern Navy, Army and Air Force
provide scope for every kind of talent.
Guaranteed continuity of engagement and
generous retirement benefits assure economic
security. A Serviceman can retire on a
pension or gratuity while he is still young
enough to enjoy it.
The generous pay advantages allow the
Serviceman to save while he serves. An
18-year-old Serviceman who has completed
his basic recruit training (normally 3 to
6 months) earns over £9/10/- a week*and,
in addition, his food, accommodation,
medical and dental attention, and an initial
clothing issue are provided free. There are
also special extra allowances for married
men.
* Subject to further increase during May.
JOIN
THE NAVY
THE ARMY or
THE AIR FORCE
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King St. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
PF29.112.22
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Human nature, it is said, will
never change. Stubbornly un-
responsive to the superior know-
ledge of its bureaucrats and un-
grateful to the well-meaning
didacticism of its legislators, the
nation’s workers still prefer to
occupy their leisure and spend
their money in their own way.
According to the early Fabians,
careful planning and the “in-
evitability of gradualness” would
bring about a new condition.
Science would alleviate the
tedium and cut down the hours
of work, leaving the workers
ample leisure in which to enrich
the arts.
It is a matter of record, rather
than of social censure, to show
that the Welfare State has not yet
reached this ideal. Work
obstinately proves to be tedious,
even with shorter hours, and en-
grossment in the arts gives com-
pensation only to the narrow few.
The economic realists who
affirm that we, as individuals,
can afford to pay in full for our
food, health services and fares
can put up a case that is diffi-
cult to answer. One-sixth
(£1543 million) of the nation’s
total annual spending (£9253
million) goes in tobacco and
drink. Top-grade Association
Football alone attracts more than
1,000,000 spectators a week,
and to this may be added the
expense of following the local
club to “away” matches. Foot-
ball pools have “investors’ ” lists
that must run into several mil-
lions. The average weekly “in-
vestment” is not known, but is
probably surprisingly high. Even
the well-known “Treble Chance,”
which frequently pays out
£75,000 “dividends” for a six-
penny “line,” is not the long-
odds chance that it might seem,
for, by increasing the permuta-
tions, the original outlay of six-
pence not infrequently becomes
£1 10s. —or £2 —a week.
8.8. C. Audience Research has
now published a report on TV
which shows that nearly 80 p.c.
of viewers are earning £l2 a
week or less and that 50 p.c. earn
less than £8 a week.
There are two important con-
clusions. One is that a tidy sum
is being paid out every week for
non-essentials (very few TV
sets are bought outright) and the
other is that this money is being
spent largely by those in the
so-called “lower-income” groups.
These are the supposed poor
who, because they pay little or
no income-tax, are ineligible for
the higher reliefs of Mr. Butler’s
Budget, and whose plight is at
present so much the concern of
Labor propagandists.
Thrust and Parry
"There is nothing to suggest
any abatement of the war be-
tween the opposing forces at
Westminster. The battle
promises to become fiercer, since
the first offensive has not yet
reached its climax. This will
come when the Government sets
about the unscrambling of the
nationalised iron and steel indus-
tries and road-transport services.
Because of effective filibustering
during the debate on health-
service charges (the Opposition
took 25 hours over the first five
lines of the bill), the Govern-
ment had no option but to apply
the guillotine.
Led from the rear by Mr.
Bevan, the Opposition is so
determined, partisan and jealous
that Mr. Churchill can evade
attack only by giving in to Mr,
Bevan’s pistol-at-head threat of
refusing the House all facilities
unless the Government does as
it is told. If Mr. Churchill
strives to remove measures
sacred to Socialist doctrine he
can naturally expect fierce
opposition. But if he, as
guardian of a reconstituted Wel-
fare State, acts for the common
good or in any other way im-
presses the people as a whole the
abuse is even more virulent.
His intervention over the
issue of increased fares
caused much controversy. Since
the transport services must, by
law, pay their way a Cabinet in-
quiry is considered to be a waste
of time—unless it chooses to
recommend a subsidy. The very
mention of this is sufficient to
swell the anger of responsible
opinion. Another subsidy! For
has not Mr. Churchill promised
to spare nothing in the thorough-
ness of his radical cure?
Another symptom of mild
discontent has evidenced it-
self among the Tory back-
benchers, who are becoming
restive because they feel that the
Government is acting too much
on the lines of its predecessors
and without a distinctive Tory
punch, Mr. Churchill’s answer,
no doubt, is that the present
period is one of transition and
that it is too early yet to change
over. Other points of issue are
the questionable effectiveness of
“overlords” Woolton and
Leathers and the need for a
Leader of the House who can
give all his time to that strenuous
office. The pace is hard. One
—the Minister of Transport —
has already cracked up under
the strain of overwork. It must
be very heavy going for an old
man, even if he happens to be
Winston Churchill.
Poesy and Putrefaction
Franpois Villon, “immortal
beggar-poet,” has inspired
several dramatists to weave
fanciful romances about his
errant life. In “The Other
Heart” (Old Vic.), James Forsyth
has made a courageous bid to
present Villon as he was, against
a fifteenth-century Paris as it
was. His central figure is no
composite D’Artagnan - Robin
Hood - Till Eulenspiegel, chuck-
ling before combat and light-
heartedly vaulting from escapade
to escapade. Villon, from his
first entry as a tipsy-sick, newly-
capped Master of Arts to the
mawkish self-pity of his rags-
and-tatters end, is a hangdog
recidivist, a premature old lag
who cozens, bites the generous
hand that feeds him, commits
murder and sacrilege, and who
appears to be too busy dodging
the lash and the torture-chamber
to have time for verses.
The result, although compel-
ling and worth while, is not
wholly successful. So multifari-
ously is the picaresque young
man steeped in vice that the play
(without ever seeking to point a
moral) only serves to postulate
the feverish squalor of low-life,
in fact if not in fiction. A
salutary lesson, perhaps, but
hardly drama.
Villon, though even fouler in
real life than in this version, was
also a poet of genius. Here he
is not. The writing is often flat-
footed and, in the wooing scene,
pretentious. In one instance it
is even banal. Villon, after
screaming in nightmare obsession
with recent water-torture, is dis-
covered lying broken, in a filthy
cell where a black rat is gnaw-
ing at his toes. He is heard,
with some embarrassment, to
cry:
What a hellish, inconsiderate thing
To hang a poet in the spring!
Since Villon left Paris after
his second banishment at the
age of 32 and was never heard
of again, his fate is unknown.
The author’s surmise is inventive
enough but too near to melo-
drama.
The saintly guardian, William
Villon, is made to lose his reason
by worry (he certainly had
plenty) and is exquisitely por-
trayed by Paul Rogers. Alan
Badel has all the makings of a
silken-voiced tragedian in the
Martin Harvey tradition, but is
commendabiy restrained as
Franpois. As Catherine de Vaus-
selles (the nearest that he came
to true love) Irene Worth sug-
gests a feline Gorgon rather than
a heartless schemer.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”; It was a “bomb” of ancient
vintage, and the music coming from its
innards as it chugged up the street approxi-
mated a cross between an asthmatic chaff-
cutter and a concrete-mixer. But its
owner was well up on the trend of motor-
car manufacturers to give their product a
peripatetic advertisement. Pasted below
where the rear window should have been
was the’crudely-printed legend “Another
Old ’Un.”
* * * *
“U.H.S.”: Apropos a recent jolt for
those who carve their names on things:
It depends where, how and why. In our
’Ol boarding-school, Dick and Mick
learned that “summus mons” meant the
top of the mountain, but literally trans-
lated was “the topmost mountain,” which
suggested the dome on the dome of the
Melbourne Exhibition. There they went:
Nick, being in the Latin discussion, tag-
ging on. A ladder up the outside of the
“Ar, break it up, pal. I'm just as much dressed as some of these here
sheilas."
main dome, reaching to the topmost
dome, was.found barred by a plank.
Dick and Mick climbed up the underside
of the ladder ; Nick looked up and stayed
down. The view was worth while for
Dick and Mick, but they pushed still
higher, and inscribed their names higher
than all on those heavily-inscribed walls
inside the dome—on the ceiling. Mention
of the matter at tea-time brought a
scathing lecture on vandalism and exhi-
bitionism for Dick and Mick, and praise
for Nick. But Dick and Mick went on
climbing; Dick writing his name on the
sumraus mons of Australian education
and economics, Mick getting his near the
top in finance. Nick remains still on
safe, level ground, looking up, but stay-
ing down.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Sutroh”: Two kids on their way to
Manly on a Far West-scheme holiday
were each presented at their outback
siding with a bag of bananas. In the
first tunnel, one 1 nudged the other: “Eh,
Bill —eaten your bananas yet?” “No,”
Bill said. “Well, don’t,” the first kid
said, “because I’ve gone blind.”
* * * *
“Taswegian”: Lovers, mathematicians
and wives-being-handed-a-drink-w hil e-
blowing-their-noses dislike interruptions,
but the oddest reason for concentration
in my experience was that of a girl-
telephonist at our exchange. A senior
tapped her on the shoulder and pointed to
a call-light that had been glowing in
vain for a considerable time. The girl
still sat as though in a trance, but after
a few moments looked up and explained:
“When the light came on I was humming
a tune; I wanted to finish it,” She’s
cutting-up plums and white turnips at the
jam factory now.
* * * *
“Ceg”: When people say that our
note-issue, a mere £3OO million or so,
has no gold-backing, we should remember
that in 1855 a reliable witness carefully
computed for a Select Committee of the
Victorian Legislative Council that Vic-
toria’s unmined gold (quartz and alluvial)
was worth £26,783 million sterling. In
1855, gold was bringing £3 15s. 6d. an
ounce. The 1952 price of more than £l7
raises the expert’s estimate to some
£lOO,OOO million, after allowing for gold
mined in the intervening 97 years, figures
which make Sir Artie’s record Budget
look like chickenfeed. The catch is that
the gold is still in the bowels of the earth,
and that a major operation would be
necessary to extract it. Still, it is nice to
remember this “pleasing probability,” as
the Select Committee’s report had it, and
to think that, if our notes lack backing,
they at least have standing.
* * * *
“Wackford”: The day the N. S. Wales
Director of Education disclosed his
teachers’ closely-guarded secret, that
homework was not compulsory if parents
objected, the boys at our school were
pathetically disappointed to find the usual
amount of homework set. Discreetly
inquiring later on, the staff learned that
all the boys had asked their parents to
object; but that only one parent had
been a sport —to whom the head gently
pointed out that as his son had been
a truant for all but one week of the term
the question of homework hardly arose.
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: I doubt whether this year’s
secret-weapon tests will fail as dis-
mally as that of the Great Panjandrum in
England during last war, a cable-drum
like a huge cotton-reel, packed with
several tons of T.N.T., and propelled by
rockets. Top brass and technicians were
invited to judge the Great Panjandrum’s
ability to smash German fortifications
on the French coast. Instead of charg-
ing up the beach on first being rolled
ashore, it bogged down in soft sand,
On its second trial, with fresh rockets, it
moved all right, but veered off-course,
straight a-t the observers, then toppled
over, smothering most of its rockets,
%///■//
“Say, pal, just tie it up with this string of pearls."
The observers had no sooner relaxed
than rockets on top of the Panjandrum
ignited and screamed across the beach in
all directions, like jumping-jacks. When
the astonished onlookers cautiously
emerged from their hideouts all that re-
mained of the Great Panjandrum was a
heap of tangled wreckage—instead of
blowing-up fortifications it had blown
itself up.
* ~ * * , *, .
Pl P T ° k : A woman driver explained
to a-Perth Beak that she had driven to
the city, parked her car, gone shopping,
and, absent-mindedly, gone home by
tram. The Beak rewarded her with a
parkmgjfine. #
“5 G.R.”: “’Member 37 years ago?”
an old butcher said to me on Anzac Eve.
“Get anything to eat at The Landing?”
All X could remember was breakfast next
day—raw bacon and a biscuit. “I was
lucky,” he said. “Struck some Indians
killing a goat, grabbed the liver, carried
it day and night in my tunic-pocket,
brought it out next morning, rubbed off
the tobacco-dust, lit a fire and grilled it.
The mob, with noses like goannas, came
sniffing round, but too lafe—Darky and
me scoffed the lot. And was it lovely!”
* * * *
. wuuorv, ex,of Vw
Melbourne,
years ago ; he says Gieseking’s final
rpHtal in Mplhnnrnp will be bis last He
recital m Melbourne will ne ms lasi. tie
first heard Paderewski in London 62 years
ago, and Paderewski’s last Melbourne
concert, at the old Auditorium.
’ * * *
“Pawang”: I tried Dr. Bates’s visual
re-education (B. 16/4/’52). Having read
Aldrmc RiiyWq arrmint of the method
Aidous Muxleys account or me memoa,
which freed him from heavy glasses m a
few months, I stood beside a window,
removed my bi-focals, and sunbaked my
eyeballs, blinked, shaded and performed
other prescribed exercises tor 10 minutes ;
then looked at a page of Huxley’s book.
To my surprise, the small print leapt out
in perfect symmetry and blackness, but
after a tew lines faded to dimness and
distortion. Now, I haven’t been able to
read print without glasses for forty years,
and have been receiving stronger and
stronger glasses for some imagined defect
since I was 19 ; evidently there is some-
thing in Huxley’s contention that such
aberrations, in many cases, are psycho-
logically, not physically, determined. But
to get full results, Mr. Huxley says, I
must throw away my glasses and practise
the exercises for at least three months ;
so as my job requires incessant reading,
and mv glasses don’t worry me, I’ll take
it as r e a d.
* * * *
“Sebak”: In Castlereagh-street uni-
formed police—not Brown Bookers —
waved cars away from the Hotel Aus-
tralia entrance until a huge navy-blue
limousihe slid into the kerb ; two striped
police-officers stood to attention; the
commissionaire opened the door and
saluted as the passengers got out and
were ushered up the steps. A few minutes
later a girl passing by said to her young
man, “Gosh! Look at that car!” The
youth wanted it to be seen that he knew
cars, “They’re the real modern cabs—
get the glass partition between the driver’s
seat and the passengers? That’s because
so many taxi-drivers have been donged
by their fares.” A real car-addict would
have known that “C” on a numberplate
does not mean cab; and although the
guest-of-honor at the Coral Sea battle
anniversary. General Eichelberger, has
arranged a few dongings in his time, he
would probably consider taxi-drivers un-
worthy of his powers,
* * * *
“K.R.”: “Folksongs” are, of course,
traditional airs, usually of unknown
origin and great age, though some well-
known ones are of more receflt origin
and b known compoS er S . However, I
can>t believe that Chopin wrote “O
Tannenbaum” (B. 7/5/’s2)—it hasn’t the
Chopin style for one thing. Again, no
Hst of Chopin > s works that r ve seen
includes it. Anyway, could a Pole write
a German folksong? #
* T . „ _ ... -
Clem Lack: The chief reason -
disputing Captain Forbes s claim th t hi
ship m on( j
day on March 1, 1854, is that the ves el
as 111 ] at - deg. 30 sec. north, long,
13deg. 50sec. west on February 28, b
ker portion was , no f 81v f n f? r IT
as sk ® kad made her landfall. There
was therefore no means of checking the
run. Nevertheless, Lightnings consis-
tency as a speedster was shown by her
subsequent voyages. On March 21, 185 /,
when she was under command of Captain
Enright he wrote a letter to his passengers
m which he sad:
1 cannot hel P informing you of the
extraordinary run we have made during
the last 48 hours—or rath'er, allowing for
change of time, 46 hours 48 minutes.
During this time we have run, by
thoroughly good and trustworthy observa-
tion, not less than 790 knots or 920 statute
miles, being an average of nearly 17 knots
or more than 19* statute miles an hour.
Yesterday our noble ship made not less
than 43Q knot amounting t 0 an average
during the 24 (23i) hours of more than 18
knots. Our change of longitude has
amounted to 18 degrees, each degree being
has ever accomplished. I hope this informa-
tion will in some degree compensate you
for the inconvenience which the heavy
weather has occasioned you
In 1856 Lightning covered 2188 miles n
the seven-day period from June 28 .o
•'my 4.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare and Co. may
have lost their tribal customs but they
haven’t lost their appetites. In private
life Maoris are great eaters, but when
assembled together, like children at a
picnic, their appetite is abnormal. Recently
in Hastings, north island (N.Z.), there was
a tribal gathering, lasting one day and
a half. And this is what was consumed
(the gathering numbering 5000): Eight
tons potatoes, 20 cattle, 30 pigs, 300 head
of poultry, 1300 loaves of bread, a
quarter-ton of butter. The amount of
waipiro drunk was not disclosed, but
it must have been a vast quantity. 'Hn s
ki would have sustained 20,000 pakeha*
for the same period.
FOOD FOR THOUGHT.
“Government parties assembled at Canberra for
out-of-season meetings criticised the President of the
Senate, Senator Mattner, because they were unable
to get meals in Parliament House, but had to go to
their hotels at dinner-time.”
Senator Mattner, Senator Mattner,
They say you’re cheese-paring, they say you’re
a whittler;
Your job is Chief-Parliamentarian-fattner,
Not starving them littler and littler and littler!
They come from the outback, they come from
the city,
They come from the stations, they come from
the slums,
These poor, underprivileged objects of pity,
Hoping to fill up their cavernous turns.
You don’t know the lives these unfortunates
follow,
Flying all over the country like birds,
You cannot imagine the things they must
swallow.
Including, least tasteful of all, their own
words:
The stinking red herring, the rotten tomato,
The wine of illusion, the unpalatable truth,
The sour plums of office, the unclean potato,
The over-ripe time, the green theories of
youth,
The promise of piecrust, the bone of conten-
tion,
The apple of discord, the trough full of swill,
The half-baked idea, the seeds of dissension —
They all culminate in the bitterest pill.
So, Senator Mattner, please show some con-
trition ;
Answer with pure food their urgent appeals,
Or we’ll put you away to the Liquor Com-
mission
For holding a licence hut not serving meals.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“A.S.”: A New Australian priest, he
had picked up his Bulletin at the news-
agent’s one Wednesday and was carrying
it, folded, under his arm. A tap on his
shoulder halted him. “Pardon me.
Father,” a chap beside him said, “but
you shouldn’t be reading that paper.
Why don’t you read the ‘Tribune’ in-
stead?” The priest still reads The Bulle-
tin. He happened to have hailed from
Poland, where the Communist is well
known for what he really is, especially
since Russia’s betrayal of Warsaw.
* * * $
“Doric”: The male American appears
to be very sensitive about displaying bare
knees. Even small boys don’t wear short
pants like our lads, and in football and
baseball knee-bloomers are always worn
—only in tennis and basketball are shorts
the thing. Have you ever seen a film
star surf-bathing? Immediately he leaves
the water —even before drying—he en-
“Gripes y’r dad looked silly when’e Was young."
shrouds himself in a heavy dressing-
gown ; he never seems to sunbake. I
don’t think one would ever see in the
States our familiar suburban sight of Dad
doing the garden dressed in a disreputable
old pair of shorts. American women,
on the other hand, seem to glory in a
leg-display—no view of any beauty spot
would be complete without some scantily-
attired girls in the foreground. Dorothy
Lamour and others seem to do their
household chores clad in very brief shorts.
* * * *
“Kelms”; School-age vandals, in the
course of wrecking a W.A. country
library, had danced on a table with hob-
nailed boots, and Perth’s “Daily News”
headed the story “The Hobnailed Boots
the Young Vandals Wore.” It took a
minute for it to sink in, then it came
back —the old song we sang as' kids:
Me and me brother at the age of four,
Up to eleven used to sleep and snore.
While I sat covered in a box of straw
And the hobnailed boots me old man wore.
There was a chorus, yelled at the top of
our voices: “Yah, yah, yah, yah, yah.”
After I’d decided it must have been one
of the older subs who wrote that head-
ing I got to wondering how the kids
got hold of the boots. I don’t think you
could buy real hobnail boots now. They
were heavy, made of real leather, and
their thick soles were studded with
quarter-inch-headed nails. It was hard
work to drag them around, and it’s
probably as well they went out of fashion,
yet the old-timers—me old man among
them —seemed to get around in them
easily enough. The nearest I’ve seen to
them was the heavily-studded Army boot.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Attilio Gurracino, a 20-year-old
Italian migrant, saw two men, one 76
years old, adrift in a pontoon in high
seas off the Port Melbourne foreshore;
he stripped and swam a hundred yards
and, after half an hour in freezing water,
got a rope from the pontoon to the deck
of the wrecked Nairana. The Navy
finished the job with a rocket-gun. Back
on the esplanade, the shivering New Aus-
tralian found that his pockets had been
rifled, possibly by an Old Australian.
* * * *
“H.M.”; New Zealand critics have
written much mush to celebrate the
centenary of Uncle Tom’s Cabin; one
called it a “classic” and said it prepared
the ground for the abolition of slavery.
Uncle Toms Cabin prepared no ground:
Mrs. Stowe merely threw a match into a
warehouse of inflammable goods. She
did not emphasise that all American
Christian churches endorsed slavery,
nor did she realise that thousands
of New York slum-dwellers lived in
worse squalor than the slaves. Irish
landlords could throw tenants out to
starve on the' roadside ; slave-owners were
prevented by law from doing that.
Lecturing in Glasgow a little before the
book was written, Colonel Cox, the
Abolitionist, read out to a puzzled audi-
ence descriptions of slaves’ food, housing
and living conditions. After the lecture
he asked the chairman why the audience
had seemed so puzzled. “My dear sir,”
said the chairman, “there is not a working
family in the British Isles enjoying such
food or such a high standard of living.”
The South was justified in suppressing
the book; as the editor of a Southern
paper said, it was a gross libel on
Southern whites. Mrs. Stowe knew no-
thing at first-hand; she had been told of
atrocities that had disappeared, years
before; and what facts she had were
distorted. At the time the book was
written, slavc-Stotes had tightened their
regulations. The Civil War was not
fought to prevent slavery, but secession.
And after their liberation the slaves were
a hundred ner cent worse off than before
a hundred per cent, worse on man oeiore.
Nevertheless, slavery would have ended
without the Civil War ; the aversion to
“Blackmarket tobacco. Of course, it'll go under the counter."
it, both in the North and South, was
growing stronger every year; besides,
the slave-owners had too many slaves
and not enough land. The point is that
Mrs. Stowe’s “classic” was factually at
fault and in feeling ridiculously senti-
mentalised. It neither caused abolition
nor gave a clear picture of the times and
circumstances.
* * * . * ,
“Burglar’s Laborer”: Conscience does
its work in queer ways at times. On one
occasion Long Bay chuckled over the
reported act of an inmate on remand on
a charge of murder—a somewhat brutal
affair of which he was subsequently con-
victed He asked for special permission
to send some of his monev out of the jail
to send some °I. ms money out vlukj
as an act of restitution , t g
granted and assisted Jus request. Auer
having cleared this worry from his mind
he faced the prospect of being hanged
with resigned cheerfulness—eventually he
„ 7 „_ . Ap ppntpnee wa? com-
was not hanged , the sentence was com
muted. He had sent a sum of conscience
money” to the railways to cover the fare
he had somehow dodged on his way to
Sydney to murder his wife and children.
* * * *
“Rann”: A little-known provision of
view FHnratinn Act allows a
the N.b.W. Education c t anows
clergyman to take the pupils oi n
denomination for the first hour of each
day for religious instruction. One country
minister made
small school whenever he happened to
be near it. The teacher tolerated it m
the early part of the year, but as the
pvamc ramp near he became impatient of
exams came near ne becameumpauexii or
having his lessons interrupted witno
warning. He protested to the minister,
and in quoting the Act stressed the fact
that it must be the first hour of the day.
The minister took him at his word, an
for a fortnight appeared regularly at 9.30
to take his hour. At the end of the
fortnight he gently suggested that they
might go back to the old arrangements,
The teacher meekly but quickly agreed.
* * * *
“Gulliver” regrets the passing of an
industry:—
Sixty years of boatbuilding at Swansea, on
Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.), came to an end the
other day when the trawler Red Fish slid down
the ways at the yard of J. L. Boyd and Sons
—the last to be built there. First to take the
water was the Swansea, well known for many
years as a trader between the Lake and tne
South Coast, built by the founder (who died last
year) for one of his three brothers, all captains
of small coastal traders. Since then Boyd’s
boats have carried cargo, hauled nets, floated
fishermen and surf crews on almost every
stretch of water along the N.S.W. coast. During
World War II they poked their bows into quite
a lot of other waters as well, the yard pro-
ducing about 100 45ft. fdft Jtrawlers
and the* British" American C. H
Boyd, last of the family to operate the yard,
says scarcity of materials, high prices and sales-
tax on pleasure-craft have made it impossib e
to carry on; boats that once cost about 3Us.
a foot now cost more than £5 a foot —plus tax.
Admittedly there’s no real need for pleasure-
boats in Australia’s present economic position,
fehm*bMts, al S S as°what°ha3 e happened to
Boyd’s yard must happen to others, it’s hard
to see where they’ll come from if the small
£, f £S.ed°in I day! Sdli, there
was no moaning at the bar when Red Fish
we nt down the ways. The traditional bottle
smashed against the stem, there■ was b cro
t 0 clieer her < and al ™ ost ?Q uall y trac si, fv
helped to brighten the afternoon. Thirty
se * en s h e was built for Bill Collett, partner
in the trawler Viking Queen, who took to the
sea after service with the A.I.F. in Syria, Midc lk-
East, and a spot of compulsory railroad con-
struction for Hirohito in Sumatra. sne s
destined for South Coast waters.
« * * *
“Historian”; While Solomon certainly
could not compare in importance or
wealth with the rulers of great States like
Egypt, Babylonia or Assyria, “Mark
O’Polo” may be inclined unduly to belittle
his standing (B. 9/4/’52). The American
author Madge Jenison describes him
very differently in her book Roads :
Solomon was a copper- and shipping-
magnate, with interests as importer 'of
spices. Along the eastern border of his
kingdom, and probably in Mount Sinai, lay
great deposits of copper and iron. At his
Red Sea port great smelting plants with
double rows of flues and interconnecting
air-currents were built, placed by the king's
engineers in the path of a powerful wind,
which blows continually southward in that
country. Here they operated without any
bellows system. His city was a manufactur-
ing city. He dealt in copper, raw and pro-
cessed; his main article of export a great
variety of metal products. A great indus-
trial organiser and merchant prince, with
copper, the basic ingredient of bronze, as
his outstanding stock-in-trade.
His port on the Red Sea put him on the
direct route to the great spice and scent
trade, and he concerned himself with that.
Between the Red Sea, the Mediterranean
and the Syrian Desert he sat astride of this
route as tollgate keeper who could extract
a levy from every caravan, and through his
pro-Arabian policy touched the ends of the
earth. So he received with honor the
Arabian Queen, the Queen of Sheba, and
gave to her all that it pleased her to ask.
She says further:
The stables alone of Solomon’s palace
were of such size that two thousand horses
and fifteen hundred camels could be stalled
therein.
A petty ruler, little better than a desert
sheikh, would hardly have such elaborate
stabling accommodation.
* * * *
“The Missus”: Immersed in stories of
early Australian exploration, my school-
girl daughter came up with a contribution
to your symposium on wheel-and-compass
surveying. Recording the start of the
Hume and Hovell expedition to Port
Phillip in October, 1824, Hovell’s journal
says, “Left Mr, Hume’s, crossed the Cow-
pasture River, and commenced measuring
our distance by perambulator.” With
visions of an expedition accompanied by
the most juvenile of explorers, we con-
sulted the Oxford Dictionary: “Peram-
bulator: A machine for measuring dis-
tances, a hodometer, a waywiser.” The
hodometer was “An instrument attached
to the wheel of a vehicle which records
the distance traversed: also a wheel used
by surveyors having a recording
apparatus in the centre and trundled
along by a handle.” The expedition's
faithful instrument had measured-off 670
miles, and the ocean had been sighted,
three days’ march away, at Westernport
Bay, when it ended a tiring and lengthy
journey. The hill where it decided to
turn no more was named Perambulator
Hill in its memory.
AS WORN.
,< Rlapk will be all the go this winter.”
BiacK w —Fashion note.
From Paris comes the imperious injunction:
A “must” this winter season will be black
For all occasions and for every function,
For cocktails, church bazaar or racing-track.
The dictatorial trumpet has resounded,
Forbidden are the many colors gay
And though the world of women be confounded,
Though criticisms of it be expounded,
You’ll find they’ll all obey.
The pink in which they hoped to be disporting
(For which they’d parted out a lot of pelf)—
Well, could you blame them if they did some
snorting ,
On seeing it relegated to the shell /
Black may not suit milady’s high complexion;
Her angles it might obviously proclaim;
It might show up some other imperfection.
But still, she’d never think of insurrection—
She’ll wear it just the same.
Men laugh to see domestic gubernators
Who care for hub’s authority no hoot,
Stretching their necks out when the dress-
dictators
Demand some parking-spaces for their boot.
A woman may opine there’s nothing duller
Than black on her— it doesn’t suit, you know.
Yet Fashion’s blandishments will quickly lull
her.
You’ll see —she’ll wear the same funereal color,
This winter, as the crow.
As well as being the current color-passion
In coat and blouse, in jumper and in skirt,
Black will elsewhere be equally the fashion
For this and other seasons, that’s a cert.
This will be specially noted by the smoker
Who underneath the counter takes a squint.
On bottled beer that’s peddled by some joker
Named “George,” or “Pete,” bound for some
night-club soaker,
There’ll be the sable tint.
And where the sturdy, muddied oafs forgather
To kick and pass the oval leathern ball,
Getting their partisans in quite a lather
The while they’re working off some private
Where Fitzroy’s team the Tigers are assailing,
And tempers, too long bottled up, explode;
When “Newts” meet Souths, into each other
whaling
With savage joy, and fists are fiercely flailing,
They’ll wear eyes ala mode.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


=S=J
&//»
m
The Flying " Whale”
LONDON, 1816
i
w
UR aeronautical cor-
respondent yesterday
inspected a strange
dirigible which is at present being
constructed by S. T. Pauly and
Durs Egg, Swiss gunsmiths. The
airship is to be propelled by oars
and fins, powered by a kind of
atmospheric steam engine in-
vented by Mr. Collier. To give
control in climb and descent, a
hinged horizontal fin with an ad-
justable ballast weight Is fitted.
“Free Ballooning,” said Mr.
Pauly, “is a pleasant enough pas-
time. But my aim is to produce a
controllable aircraft which is fast
and efficient; an aircraft as
renowned for these qualities”
and here he paused as if lost for
a word “as is the BP Aviation
Service. The public may not yet
understand that comparison, but
they will, gentlemen, they will!”
AVIATION
A
SERVICE
m
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
Professional.
ACCOUNTANT, qualified, for large Mining
organisation in Pacific Islands. Liberal
Salary according to experience. Excellent
conditions, including Superannuation
Scheme. Married man preferred.
Apply in writing with copies of testi-
monials to —
JOURNAL,
c/- Mercantile Exchange,
880 Collins Street, Melbourne.
a MATTER OF
KNOWLEDGE
By
W. E. HARNEY
CALOWA, of the Oralilli
tribe, and I came down
by the same boat from
Darwin, He was a real
tribesman, but had gone to the
town to get some trouble in his
nose fixed up, and now he was
returning a cured man, and
happy. He had been away
nearly eight months, and he was
eagerly looking forward to the
day when he would put his foot
upon his tribal lands.
The boat we were travelling
in was of the small coastal kind
that, after leaving a mission-
station on the Arafura Sea, was
bound for the river ports of the
Gulf of Carpentaria ; and, as our
destination was an island before
these, we knew that ours would
be the next stop.
I was trepanging at the time,
and had been to Darwin on
business; and, the anchorage
of the ketch lolanthe being some
distance from the vessel’s route,
we were finally landed on the
opposite side of the island to
our camps. After saying good-
bye to the captain and crew, I
watched them depart. I found
my black friend on the beach
looking amidst the grass and
trees.
“Come on, we go now,” I
called. He came down to join
me and I asked where his people
were.
This started him talking; and
knowing that he did not under-
stand anything about the months
of the year, and more especially
that this was June, I was in-
terested to hear what he had to
say on the matter.
“Look!” he said in his own
language. “You see that flower?”
He pointed to the flower of the
bottlebrush-tree, known to his
people as Nindrupa. “That
flower comes before the big
winds blow from mumrequa
[south-east], and where that
honey-bearing tree flowers is the
home of the honey-bee, and my
people will be at that place
where the trees are plentiful.”
Then he called the name of a
place ahead and told me that
there he would find his clan.
So we walked along. His
route was the same as mine, and
we talked to make the miles go
by, just as one reads a book in
a train. I asked him about
his sickness and what he thought
of the white doctors in the
town of Darwin, and his opinion
of the tribal medicine-men on his
island. For he had been told in
the hospital that if he had not
come to be cured by injections
his nose would have been eaten
away as had happened with
others on this island.
“W ell, blackfellow-doctor
different; sometime him good
and sometime him just rogue.”
He paused to look at some faint
human footprints on the sand,
then continued.
“One time when I was a young
lad I saw an old man called
Mearowa try to cure my mother
who was very sick. All day he
tried to drive the evil spirits
from her body, and as I was
behind a bush near by and could
see him at his work, I noticed
that he cut and sucked some
blood from his arm, and with
his mouth full of this blood, he
first beat mother’s body with a
bush, then gammoned to suck
her. Hard I looked at this
business and saw him put a
little white stone into his mouth
with the blood, and as he did he
ran to the camp to vomit the
blood and show to all the little
white devil-stone he had taken
out of my mothers body.
“And as I saw this thing I
knew that the old man Mearowa
was a rogue, so I decided to
give him a trick by pretending
to be sick and so beat him at his
own business” . . .
WE had crossed a salt-water
creek as Calowa reached
that part of the story about the
pretended illness, but he had for-
gotten the tale now as he ran
over to an old camp-site on the
bees’-nest place where his people
should have been camping, then
he returned and with a voice full
of anxiety remarked:
“Everybody has gone—some-
body has died.” He went on to
explain that his people should
have been here, with others of
the island, for the creek we had
just crossed was the boundary
of the honey spirit, but now the
tracks were faint because of the
wind. He continued explaining
the thing in more detail. “Some-
body been die one moon ago—
somebody from other side of
island —not my family.”
Further explanations revealed
that when the clans are hunting
on a food area and one of them
dies, the place is immediately
under a food taboo, and as a
result all must leave the area to
the “dead one’s shade,” who
wanders around eating the sacred
food, and will continue to live
on this food till the rains come
on, and a new crop is grown.
And when this new food comes
in the tribes will gather to “lay
the dead one’s shade and so
free the fand of the food taboo.”
Thus, by Calowa’s reasoning, no
people on a spot where they
should be hunting meant a death
in the clans.
He was silent after this dis-
covery, and shortly afterwards
we sat under the shade of a
beach tree to have our meal, and
as we ate Calowa showed to me
a little yellow flower and re-
marked.
“My people will be at the yam
place, for that flower always
comes to tell them when these
things are ready—that good, for
the yam place is on our road.”
So we had a meal and a rest
and afterwards as we walked
along I reminded him of the
trick he had been about to play
on the old medicine-man
Mearowa. He laughed and went
on with his story.
“Well, I gammoned to be real
sick, and as Mearowa looked at
me I heard him tell my father
that he would need much food
to get ‘properly strong’ to cast
out the poison within me, for
the blackfellow doctors, like the
white ones, always want plenty
things if they think they can
get them.
“Then came the big cure. But
I had come prepared, and in
my hand I had some little white
stones stained with blood, and
as old Mearowa brushed and
sucked I secretly put one of the
stones onto my chest as he was
looking away, and I nearly burst
into laughter as I saw the look
upon his face when he saw it.
“My word, that old man ? s
face was properly different when
he saw that stone, for he thinks
‘This is real magic,’ and as he
turned to show my father the
devil-stone he had taken from
me, I put another in the same
spot. When he returned and
saw this one he was sure
that here was some doctor-
blackfellow business, not from
Mearowa, but from the big
spirit doctor-blackfellow of the
dead people. That old fellow
was Look! ”
The last exclamation came
from the storyteller as he
pointed to some new footprints
which had come out of the
jungle behind the beach and
were going in our direction.
“See!” he exclaimed excitedly
as he looked intently at them.
“This my people.” He pointed
out one of the tracks and re-
marked, “That my father’s track,
and this one here is my brother
—ah 1 ” The last exclamation
came as the footprints moved
off at a tangent towards the
jungle, “Must be they have seen
something.” He spoke rapidly
as one who is seeing action.
“They have thrown a spear.”
I looked to where he was
pointing and could see the
tracks deep in the sand as one
would expect them to be during
a throw. But the footprints
continued on their way along
the beach; and seeing this
Calowa sadly remarked. “They
been miss.”
BUT as he said those words
the tracks went off again
towards the jungle, and as we
followed them Calowa gave a
running commentary about the
hunters.
“They sneak up,” he whispered
intently at me as though his own
voice would disturb the prey.
“Now look,” he shouted. “They
have thrown spear again, and
see, they have got him!” This
because the hunters’ tracks were
running in the direction of their
throw.
By this time Calowa was
running up the sand beach to-
wards the jungle* and from there
he called aloud in triumph, “Big
kangaroo.”
We followed along the tracks
after this, and Calowa kept tell-
ing me about the greatness of
his father in the hunt, an oration
only ending when he saw a place
where the hunters had made a
fire to cook their food. At that
place many other footprints came
up, and for the next ten minutes
Calowa was reading their story.
He told me how his littlest
brother had grown up because
he had a bigger foot-track, how
his mother still had the bad leg
because she still walked with a
limp and laid down only on one
side when resting.
“Why don’t you send her to
the white doctors?” I asked him.
“They may be able to fix her
up.”
Calowa gave a long sigh as 1
spoke, then said sadly, “She
THUNDERBOLT.
When I have heard nothing and seen nothing
After a day perishing in the grey bush
With my gun and my dog, is it proving
Existence matters or not, that makes me push
Tobacco into the bowl and, impersonal, watch
The tortured char of the match?
That captured feeling of eyes under the tons
Of ashes (our skies) and top-heavy clouds of noon
Crashing in five-o’clock storms like guns
Around me, oppresses. Will escape come soon?
Not out of moonlight have the arid paddocks been cut;
And it is anger of fists batters the roof of my hut.
Drowsing, I pass into legend out of this day.
This way Thunderbolt rode: no different now.
The weatherboard hut that he passed along the way
Is the same with its rusting tank in tow.
The slow round-up of years has altered little
But what the storms and the winds laboriously whittle.
But time is still time. Past time and present touch
Alone at the instant, Now, and are parted. Much
Of doing, is what is done—as when Thunderbolt
Storming the instant would inflict his will
With fist and pistol, wings of a stolen colt:
While ours outslept the moment of time’s evil.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


. . . SEEDING?
• • . make ’52 your Bumper Year—with
FORDSON MAJOR
Farmers with a weather-eye on costs, are buying more
Fordson Majors than any other make of tractor I
SEEDING is only one of the many jobs that Fordson
Major does thoroughly and very economically,
SEEDING is also a job that won’t wait. Don’t
gamble on a last minute delivery ORDER YOUR
FORDSON MAJOR NOW! There’s a model to suit
your soil conditions and to work with your trailing
and attached implements. And after Seeding ?
There’s no end to jobs that Fordson Major can do
right through to harvesting . . . plus the incidental
jobs like pumping water, cutting wood, digging post-
holes etc. SERVICE is nation-wide anywhere
anytime ! Standard equipment on all models includes:
Lights, Starter, Brakes, Belt Pulley, Radiator Shutters
and Power Take-off. And the best bit of news is
the last Fordson Major’s prices are lower than
other makes!
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR:
S§3
b^
IMPORTANT
Order right
away!
tA
FM26-HP
£641
Kerosene Model with
Steel Wheels
Kerosene Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
£1312
Diesel Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
Fordson Major Farms Australia
Enquire from your nearest Fordson Dealer
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
won’t listen, always want doctor-
blackfellows. Reckons white-
doctor only kill people.” With
the talk about doctors and
doctor-blackfellows I suddenly
thought about Mearowa and his
finding the devil-stones, so I
asked him “Did the old man
ever find out? What happened
to him?”
“I been fool,” glumly from
my black friend. “I told an-
other young man about the little
white stones, and somehow it
got to Mearowa’s ears, and that
is why I went to Darwin.”
“Why Darwin?” I asked him
with surprise
“Well, you see,” explained
Calowa, “when Mearowa found
out about the little white stones
he was very angry and in revenge
he sang his magic song that
made my nose sore, and when
he would not take the poison
away from me my father got
angry and sent me to Darwin
and the white doctors,”
f ( D UT, Calowa, old chap,” I
O said incredulously, “you
don’t believe now that the old
man could cure you. Come
on!” I continued laughingly.
“You told me yourself that he
was an old humbug.”
“Might be humbug sometime,”
naively from Calowa, “but some-
time him proper danger man;
doctor-blackfellow, some good,
some bad.”
“But what about Mearowa
now?” I questioned him. “Hell
sing you again, won’t he?”
“Him can’t now because that
was him who died back there at
the honey place,” Calowa said
simply.
“But how,” I asked, “did
you find out that?”
“Well, that dead .one
[Mearowa],” he replied, “had my
sister for his wife and in my tribe
all women go to the country of
their husbands, and hers would
be on the other side of the
island, and they would have re-
turned there after the death at
the honey place . . . But look! ”
He pointed to a footprint on the
beach a little bit away from the
others, then went on with his
deductions. “Well, that’s my
sister’s track.”
And as we went along he told
me how he had seen old
Mearowa’s track back at the
honey place, but the tracks were
vary faint, and in places were
nearly trampled out by the others.
“So he was there,” he said, “when
they went to get honey, but he
must have died there because
my sister’s here with us again.”
Then came a long dissertation
on tribal custom, of how a
woman will return to her clan
when her husband dies, and will
wait there till her husband’s
shade is laid to rest; and with
that ritual she becomes the wife
of the dead one’s brother next
in line.
“But what about the tracks on
their own?” 1 asked.
“Sister must ‘keep wide,’ ” he
answered. “For my custom says
that she, too, is taboo, for the
dead-man shade may be follow-
ing behind her, so her tracks
keep out from the people when
they walk —that easy.”
“Easy when you know how,”
I thought to myself as I watched
some aboriginals in a camp ahead
of us stand to their feet and
point in our direction.
So I rested at their camp that
night and heard them tell the
story of the kangaroo hunt and
the death of the old medicine-
man. Calowa’s sister was there,
so was his mother, who walked
with a limp, and looking over
them as they walked about naked
in the camp I could only smile
as I heard Calowa tell them
about the wonderful and very
clever white people he had seen
in the township of Darwin.
CAESURA.
Sometimes at night when the heart stumbles
and stops
a full second endless the endless steps
that lead me on through this time terrain
without edges and beautiful terrible
are gone never to proceed again.
Here is a moment of enormous trouble
when the kaleidoscope sets unalterable
and at once without meaning without motion
like a stalled aeroplane in the middle sky
ready to fall down into a waiting ocean.
Blackness rises. Am I now to die
and feel the steps no more and not see day
break out its answering smile of hail all’s well
from east full round to east and hear the bird
whistle all creatures that on earth do dwell?
Not now. Old heart has stopped to think of a
word
as someone in a dream by far too weird
to be unlikely feels a kiss and stops
to praise all heaven stumbling in all his
senses . . .
and suddenly hears again the endless steps.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications
insufficiently stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the Editor ,
F.H.F.; Style too rough and old-
fashioned. An interesting dream,
though It really ends at
“Who plays it?” M.G.: The spirit
is willing but the verse is weak
A. : If your theme is as simple
as “Woman with a Hoe” you don’t
need phrases such as “vicarious
renascence” E.C.: “The Little
Fish” is a nice little fish, and if you’d
given him a better tail we’d not have
thrown him back Jack O’Lantern:
Come in, then; but don’t send the
clipping to Masefield:
1 am feeling far from gay,
I wish the sea would go away.
I wish it wouldn’t heave at me,
My stomach heaves in sympathy.
People say it has romance,
I do not think it worth a glance;
There is no doubt that it is there—
The beastly thing is everywhere.
A.M.S.: A little elementary,
dear Watson P. 8.: All those
people being together on a boat
wasn’t a coincidence; it was a miracle.
... .A.J.: She did get het-up....
D.J.H.: Well, so long as she doesn’t
try suicide again, we won’t print it.
. ...D.M.F.: Animal stories in type-
writing we can sometimes get through;
animal stories in pen-and-ink, rarely.
A.J.M.: Overdone and under-
written E.D.: “Anything Can
Happen”—but here we like to stay
within the bounds of probability,
not possibility... .0.M.: Much too
sympathetic E.M.M.; Good ole
Granpa A.C.: Ever listened in a
law court? L.K.8.: Not for us
W.G.D.: Come in and roar:
At the election just concluded.
Wages, with conditions included.
Were fully known to each candidate,
And by none pronounced inadequate.
No sooner is the result made known
Than excessive energy is shown.
Members and Senators, in one score,
Added sixty thousand pounds or more
Extra wages, for themselves, each year.
To serve a nation, this way, seems queer!
. ...L.H.: Reading your stories, we
miss the Westminster chimes on
the quarter-hours J.P.: “Miner’s
Right” stories are all as like as two
miner’s rights E.D.; Your magis-
trate doesn’t carry conviction....
B. : Not our line P.G.; An
old routine poorly remembered
A.H.: The feeling that life is corrupt,
joyless and futile has now left the
endings of short stories and joined
the Communist party P.T.; Nice
but slight A.E.8.; You fail to
arouse the curiosity which you do
not satisfy H.P.: As soon as we
knew he was dead we lost interest.
E.W.: They say the stationers
are putting out a plastic swivel for
changes-of-heart, a cross between a
compass and a setsquare, that enables
you to alter a short-story character
almost in less time than it takes to
tell A.E.G.: Afraid it’s rather too
close and personal M.L.; A bit
too rosy T.T.: Not our style
E.G.W.: Not bad, but the bit
about the rescuer wasn’t very clear.
H.D.: Afraid animal stories have
to have something extra-special....
Too much good - nature
too long ag0....G.W.: Neither....
1.0. R.: None T.T.: Nothing to
them 8.5.: Point’s hardly there—
he was too shy to declare himself, but
she would not have accepted him it
he had B.: “The Man Who Had
Lived Three Hundred Years” need
still not fear embalming in these
columns... .J.M.T.: More astonish-
ing things have happened in King s
Cross, but you make yours seem less
credible E.J.: Strange that the
parody of surrealism otten uncovers
a formless brilliance as regrettable as
that of its subject—.P.H.: Not so.
. ...1.C.E.: Such a cactus of arid
small-farm emotion to come from
Wahroonga!... .N.K.; Used to be a
good story, but the fashions change
from year to year.... R.H.: A good
bit of leering by the down-at-heel
skipper, but it doesn’t quite make a
story C.L.K.: Ditto, except for
the leering R.A.: One of the best
stories we’ve seen for years, but the
dogs are barking it, and even a Syd-
ney columnist printed U....C.H.:
You spoil a really eerie midnight
scene by explaining it as Granpop
getting to work in heaven a few
minutes after kicking the bucket....
C.R.: No deals with devils.. . .L.H.:
Nothing like mechanical stories for
getting involved J. 8.: No sym-
pathy with your hero: if he had ful-
filled his duty to society by marrying
one woman she would have protected
him from all those others... .R.D.:
The dialogue is stilted and the story
pointless.., .M.T.: Probably it would
go better about modern whites than
ancient abos, but although it would
then be fairly deft, it would still not
be one of ours.... J.A.: We do not
find ourselves under the spell of
“Mulberry Magic”... .D.J.H.: You
go to some trouble to build up your
home-auction scene, then spoil it with
an unlikely and insignificant accident.
J.P.: Fustian A.F.P.: “Rode
a Brass General”—forced humor on
forced-march J.K.0.: Barber story
not bad, but a little thin on top.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Glen”: The present good seasons in
the Mallee don’t make me forget the bad
ones. I think of Lousy Ned, the then
local watch-mender. He followed, with
a bad grace, the unwritten law of giving
the poor cocky credit in bad seasons —
down to his last £BOOO or so, he was.
One Friday, shopping day, a cocky and
his missus plonked their eight-day-clock
on his counter. “Won’t go, Ned,” said
the cocky. Ned fiddled and opened the
little back-door, to reveal much dust and
a spider in a spider-web. “Gripes,” the
cocky said, “don’t that beat the band!
That hasn’t been opened for months.
What d’ you reckon he lives on, Ned?”
Ned shut the little door with a bang, and
began carrying the clock behind the
scenes. “Lives on? He lives on tick—
like you other b s,” he snarled.
$ * $ $
“R.W.”: Mat and his mate, who occa-
sionally find surcease from the machina-
tions of farmers’ daughters by doing a
bit of grape-snatching at Mildura, would
have a soft spot for the picker who was
up before the court some time back
L
Ht S
U.lip
“ Right-oh , Stayput—We'll get you back to port!"
on a charge of being drunk. He pleaded
guilty, of course. “Ten-bob or 24 hours,”
snapped the Beak. A constable beckoned
to the accused to leave the court* but he
seemed reluctant to go. His Worship
frowned over his specs, at the sergeant,
who glared at the senior constable, who
i n tqrn glowered at the constable. The
clerk of courts came to the rescue. He
leaned over and blew softly in the great
man’s ear. “Do you wish to say any-
thing?” asked the Bench. The string of
the picker’s tongue was loosened. “Yes,
sir,” he answered. “I’d like to know if
it’s raining outside. If it is, there’ll be
no picking today and I may as well do
the 24 hours. If it isn’t raining, I’ll pay
the ten bob and go out and earn three or
four quid.” It was raining, so he did his
24 hours, saved the half-note and the
day’s exes, as well.
# * * *
“Old-timer”: He was too young to be
the kind of swagman I once knew, and
though he wore a beard and the
inevitable open vest and battered
hat he also wore shorts and thick
woollen socks rolled down over his
big boots. I’d have dismissed
him as a sort of hiker if it hadn’t
been for the expertly-rolled swag,
the nosebag over his shoulder and
the big black billy in his hand.
What prompted me to speak was
the color of the outside blanket
of the knot —a vivid orange!
“Yair,” he could do a drink.
“Yair,” he was on the track be-
cause he liked it. “Work?” Well,
there was plenty and at good
money, but he’d given work away,
except when he wanted a few quid
to carry him along. “Handouts?”
Blimey, they rush you now with
’em because they reckon there’s
always a chance you might take a
job on the place. “Future?” His
future was always in the next
hour ; some people thought he was
cracked, his own opinion was that
most people were cracked, other-
wise they’d take to the track and
enjoy theinselves. “I couldn’t help
noticing the color of your swag,”
I said. He looked at me thought-
fully. “How long since you
humped a knot,” he asked. “Get-
ting on for twenty-five years.”
“Ah, not many cars in your day.
They’re everywhere now. I got a
bloke to dye the rug this color. Y’ can
see it for miles. Not much chance of a
car runnin’ into y’ when y’re amblin’
along with that on your back.”
* * * ♦
“Loulalo”: Listened the other day to
an argument the basis of which was:
“Is it possible for a man or animal to
lengthen a jump after it has been com-
menced?” Sam said it was impossible,
that a horse which had taken off too far
from a fence could not correct his error
evep if he realised it once he was in the
air. Old Brett disagreed. He cited the
time when, jumping a gully, he noticed
a snake occupying the log on which he
had proposed landing. He vowed that,
although both feet were off the ground
and he was quite two-thirds of the way
to his landing, he forced himself to travel
quite another 2ft. above and beyond the
original distance. He made it sound con-
vincing, too.
“Speck”: “Nakhoda” (B. 6/2/’52) is
somewhat out in his distances when he
states that Chile is “a thousand miles
from Easter Island.” The actual distance
is 1960 nautical miles (2260 land miles).
We flew that lonely stretch of stormy
ocean east and west last year in Frigate
Bird 11, the only break being Juan Fer-
nandez Island, a barren piece of earth
350 miles from Valparaiso. It was here
that Alexander Selkirk lived alone after
shipwreck for several years, and inspired
Daniel Defoe to write Robinson Crusoe.
Captain Taylor, by the way, did not
“land” on Easter Island, but “alighted”
on the raging sea on the lee side of the
island. It was here that he performed the
epic feat of sailing the aged Catalina
right around the island when a sudden
change of wind left us stranded on the
windward side. We left at dusk, and that
flight was our third night without sleep.
Mid-morning the following day, after
passing Juan Fernandez, I looked hard
towards the horizon at some peculiar-
looking clouds of a type I had never seen
before. Alone in the cockpit, I suddenly
realised what they were and shouted for
the rest of the crew to come forward.
We were looking at the snow-capped
“Stop doodling. Smith , and get on with your painting .”
peaks of the mighty Andes east of Val-
paraiso.
* * * *
“Harbel”: When you blokes have de-
termined which sound carries the farthest
in the bush, how about coming-in on the
subject of which bird-cry has the longest
range? The white cockatoo can certainly
make a decent row, but I doubt whether
his screechings can travel as far as what
Paterson calls “the clang” of black
swans. We used to hear the long-necks
hollering to one another as they swam on
a dam nearly two miles away. And
Kelly can make himself heard from a re-
spectable distance: I recall the cusswords
of a pair I saw fighting it out with an
eagle. The big fellow was as silent as a
henpecked husband, but the “caws” were
still coming back to earth when the com-
batants looked like two commas and a
semi-colon on the sky. It is possible, too,
that tone rather than volume determines
the carrying-power. Recently an infec-
tion of the ears left me temporarily deaf.
For two days I lived in a strange, silent
world in which radios whispered faintly
and huge trucks were noiseless. That
strident-voiced fowl, the peewee, made
no audible utterances, although I knew
well that he was shrilling his own name
whenever he perched on a limb, lifted his
wings with the flight-feathers pointing
down like spread fingers, and jerked
his shoulders convulsively three times in
succession. But one bird-call still reached
me: the liquid, gurgling notes of a
magpie—and he wasn’t even in sight!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Cashed up, we were at
a flash pub for a bit of a break, and for
both of us it was a change to observe the
manners and habits of the rich. Mat was
particularly taken with the shower-rooms,
a line of cubicles with waterproof cur-
tains, hot and cold water and all the trim-
mings. “This’ll do me,” he declared, and
was under a shower at every opportunity.
One evening he was enjoying himself as
usual, splashing and blowing, and swap-
ping cheerful talk with somebody he
could hear in the next cubicle. Then
Mat’s curtain was suddenly jerked aside
and a female voice said “Come on, are
you going to be there all night? Be-
fore Mat could get a word out she said
casually “Oh, sorry. Thought it was my
husband. This must be him next to you,”
dropped the curtain and, as Mat stood
stricken, she moved on. After he told me
about it he said “We’re pullin’ out.]]
“Why. She wasn’t upset, was she?”
“Upset! Not her. But think, mate,
think. She lifts the curtain and sees me
and jt’s all right with her. Just a mistake.
But if I happen to pull a curtain aside
in this place—-Mime, a man’d get six
months! ” So we moved to a pub where
there was less danger.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: One of the outlying
islands of the Monte Bello group (B.
7/5/’52), which are some 900 ship-miles
north of Fremantle, was visited by Euro-
peans long before the Napoleonic era. On
July 5, 1622, 10 men of the English ship
Tryal arrived in Batavia. Three days later
her pinnace, with 37 men, arrived. They
told the Dutch there they had lost and
abandoned their ship with 97 men and
cargo on rocks, the stated location tallying
with what are now called the Monte Bellos.
The Dutch made some passing efforts to
discover and succor these lost ones, but
without success. The mysterious reef was
given the tentative name of Tryal Rocks;
so that those Englishmen suffered ship-
wreck off the coast of Australia 66 years
before Dampier, given credit as being
the first Englishman to set foot on New
Holland, came within sight of its shores.
His visits were mostly made during the
time of William 111.
* H* * ♦
“Wog”: Dick and Mac were on a
property out from Bourke (N.S.W.)
cleaning up the wild pigs. Things hadn’t
been panning out too well, and the snout
tally was low. Mac was going through
the supplies the
mailman had
brought out and
was grumbling at
nearly everything
Dick had ordered
reckoned he
was getting
extravagant. 1 n
particular he went
crook about the
dried peaches,
contending that
they couldn’t
afford “home luxuries.” Some time later
he came upon Dick squatted on the
ground punching two holes in each
peach. Dick looked up. “This is more
profitable than stewing ’em, Mac,” he
said, tossing another peach into the tally-
bag. “Snouts are worth three-bob each,
ain’t they?”
H: * * *
“Sari”: We were yarning over rifles.
“I’ll bet none of you blokes ever had as
good a gun as an old Lee-Eniield my
old man had,” said Jim. “You talk
about the distance it could kill at! He
knocked a ’roo over one day, and be
the time he’d walked up to look at it the
crows were just finishin’ the last of it off!
“Chuck”: Always eyed the breast-
strappings on city police-horses —except
the martingale—with a tolerant eye,
thinking the trappings were merely
for show, as I had never met a
hack that needed ’em. Now I have. I
wondered, at the sale, why local bios
were less enthusiastic on this particular
pony, and, getting her home, I learned
the reason; her widest part is where the
girth should be, and she slopes away
wedge-shaped to the hindquarters.
Quarters are sturdy enough and well
built, but without breast-straps one
is constantly dismounting to
the saddle forward before it reaches
her rump. Obviously her previous
owner tried girthing at full-strength,
for no sooner is the saddle thrown
on than the mare sets herseli
solidly and holds her breath, awaiting
the operation.
THE SHEPHERDS.
“It will be drought next year more like than
shepherds from the mountain in their
beards;
“For the bamboo flowered at Port Essington,
And claybanks on the ’Bidgee cracked to shards.
The quondongs withered by Old Tylden tank,
Muttered shepherds from the mountain m their
beards,
As they snugged their sheep by Tumut and
Glen Wills. . .
Ascent from Tambo Valley stringing out the
herds, .
Drovers to the Dargo brought their cattle home,
While shepherds combed the snowflakes from
their beards.
On blacksoil plains the floods lay long and low;
On western flats ewes lambed on beds of reeds;
Then mirage danced and wind came red with
rage;
Flames roared like giant shepherds in their
beards.
(But stirred, as ending song or death will stir—
Strength of their own land savage in crimson
and black —
Broken by fire, men of the plains watched,
wondering,
Knowing in trouble their own strength and
lack;
And through the summer haze a dim ship
waited,
Waited all night till grey of sky and sea —
Water and air in calm and storm prevailing —
Was parted by the sword-thrust of a city.)
All, of fragility everlasting as change—
Sly drift of sand to period of marram—
Shielded from loneliness by stone and water,
Conflict of earth and wind, build spirit’s home,
Until, levelled from Cape York to Eden shore,
High places are a wilderness of words;
The drovers to the Dargo ride no more,
The shepherds on the mountain clip their beards.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Shadow-chaser”: The finding of six
lost hikers after they had wandered six
days in the snowy wilderness near Marys-
ville (Vic.) reminds me of the three-year-
old girl who strayed into the scrub with
a pet cat. A few days later the cat
came home alone; hundreds of people
searched the bush for a week until a
farmer, rounding-up a flock of mountain-
bred sheep, nearly fell off his horse in
surprise at the sight of the little girl
running with the flock. The sheep showed
no alarm at the presence of this lost lamb,
which proved that the child had been
with them long enough for the novelty
to have worn off. The child was quite
strong; it is presumed that she ate grass
with the flock by day and camped with
them by night. Sheep usually choose the
warmest site, most sheltered from wind,
and besides this, the weather being ex-
tremely cold, the girl had the sheep’s
fleeces to warm her. Perhaps I can pass
on some German advice to hikers: Take
a local dog, and if you get lost put him
on short commons and follow him when
he walks out on you.
♦ * * *
“Burra”: Delving into the early history
of Lake George, that sometimes-dry
expanse between Goulburn (N.S.W.) and
Canberra, I was struck by the informa-
tion given by abos to explorer Throsby
that the waters of the Yass River,
Murrumbidgee River and the lake were
tidal. Throsby recorded that one night
the lake near his camp fell 6in., and it
was evidently normal again the next
morning. This, coupled no doubt with
the high degree of salinity in both the
lake and the Yass River (Throsby had
not, at that time, located the ’Bidgee), in-
duced him to send a party with instruc-
tions to follow the Yass down to the
“Tides Way.” Taking the natives’ idea
of distance and what was known of the
interior of the continent into considera-
tion, Throsby was justified. The tide in
the lake, however, was a different proposi-
tion, and apparently he couldn’t see the
obvious explanation, and no more could
I till a grinning district-surveyor gave it:
“Change of wind,” he said. “The fall
m the lake’s bed is only one inch in ten
chains. Thus, if a bloke camped
near the waters at the Collector end
was unlucky enough to get a stiff breeze
from the Bungendore end it wouldn’t be
"Don't mind helping with a bit of baggage, Miss."
long before he had six to eight inches
of water in his tent, and havfto wade
the best part of a mile to get out of it
Camped on the same spot if he got a
wind from behind him, he’d soon have
to walk the same distance to fill his billy,
THe rise and fall of the water-level It
either point gives the impression of a
tide.”
* * * *
Swelpme ; Seated in the back of the
old utility I suddenly realised that some-
thing pretty serious was wrong, though
exactly what it was I couldn’t guess. Ab.,
driving, was already fighting a grim battle
with the steering-wheel. He knew what
had happened. His missus, in the blissful
complacence of supreme ignorance, was
still enjoying the ride. “Look!” she
exclaimed in amazed amusement. “Some-
body’s wheel must’ve come off.” She
was right; the wheel bowling along
merrily about six paces ahead had slipped
off the back axle of somebody’s vehicle —
ours! Ab. didn’t reply. He was still
performing an uncanny feat of balancing,
while trying to recuperate from the soul-
shaking shock of seeing your own wheel
racing you down the grade. For fully
50rt. he contrived to keep the old bus on
a level keel, though her progress was like
that of a blundering pointer pup with a
nest of -burrs in a hind foot, then he
brought her to a halt in a perfect three-
point landing. It was after the excite-
ment had died down that a worried
expression began to grow on his face.
He searched the cabin casually—then
thoroughly. Puzzled, he walked back
along the road, searching. He returned
shaking his head. For three or four
hours afterwards Ab. was a very edgy
man. Shock? Nervous reaction? No ; he
was just wondering what dire effects half a
cigarette would have on a fellow if—as
all the evidence seemed to indicate —he
had really swallowed it.
* * * *
“Ajax”: Darky and his mate had
finished their dam-sinking contract, and
for the past week had been cutting-out
the cheque at Tim O’Toole’s shanty-pub.
For the first time since his arrival Darky,
who was slowly
regaining con-
sciousness, visited
the communal
bathroom—a tin
lean-to only
to emerge a
few minutes later
like a tornado,
holding at
arm’s - length a
tattered, filthy rag
which looked as
if it may have once been a towel.
Savagely he barged into O’Toole’s private
parlor. “Stone th® crows! Look at this! ”
he blazed. “A nice ruddy thing to give
a man to wipe on after he’s busted his
cheque in this thieving joint.” O’Toole
didn’t bat an eyelid. “With this water-
shortage a towel’s got to do ten blokes,”
he said. “You’re the tenth. If y’ like
to book out an’ then book in again an’
pay another week I can let you be
Number One to use the dean towel.”
* * * *
“Kros”: May I come in to defend
“Slot” (B. 16/4/’52)? “The expansion of
a * r the path of the discharge [of
electricity]” may immediately precede the
noise of thunder, as “Derf Reltuc” says
(B. 23/4/’52); but surely it is the spark
which causes the expansion of air that
must be rated the real cause of thunder.
“Slot’s” description of thunder as “the
crackle of a mighty spark” is close
enough for most purposes. After all,
every sound (crackle, hum, the roar of
an explosion or human speech) is im-
mediately preceded by vibration of the
air; for a person to hear a sound, air-
waves from that sound must impinge
against his eardrums. On the question of
lightning, Sir George Simpson’s theory
attributes the formation of the electrical
charges to the breaking-up of raindrops,
which receive positive charges while the
air becomes negatively charged. It rises
more rapidly than do the drops, and a
flow of electricity is induced. The insula-
tion of the air breaks down, and the dis-
charge follows. Apropos, scientists in
Britain and elsewhere are now working
in the effort to harness lightning, which
they regard as a potential source of im-
mense electrical power, to the service of
mankind.
* * * *
Solitude : The rain was pelting down
solidly, and at the door c f the hut
Seventyfiver congratulated himself on not
having to go out that day. “Think I’ll
“On your own?”
mend that smashed bridle,” he decided,
“and put a new piece into me girth.” He
picked up his hat. “Better get some
wood in first, though.” Some time later
he staggered in with an armful, built up
the fire, steamed himself for a bit, then
went off to catch and feed his nag. Back
again, more steaming before the fire,
a few minutes sorting the broken
bridle, and he was off round the yards
once more in a half-hour search for
a length of strap he was sure must be
somewhere. Still the rain descended in
force. The bridle was barely completed
when a noise shot the old bloke outside
hatless, to disentangle his nag from a
length of barb it had picked up; and an
hour later the wood supply was again
replenished. The next day was fine, but
Seventyfiver was stiff, and limping
slightly, as he caught his horse for the
town trip. He still limped on his return.
“Gripes, that bush nurse is barmy, the
things she says,” he growled, chucking
his belongings in the corner, “Run into
her at the post office, an’ she reckons
it’s gettin’ wet that gi’ me this flamin’
rheumatiz. Wet!” he snorted disgustedly.
“Gripes, ’ow could a man git wet when
he stopped home all the flamin’ day! ”
* * * *
“Norga”: A scribe in these columns
claimed that porpoise-hide boot-laces
were actually made from the hide of a
small type of whale found off Norway.
Someone must have been having him on.
Commercial “porpoise-hide” comes from
the horse’s rump—a strip extending from
the hock over the back to the other hock
and along the back from the root of the
tail to the hang-your-hat bone. When
tanned it is about iin. thick. It is then
split and dressed with a waxed finish.
The leather, though very pliable and
elastic-soft, is tough and durable.
* * * *
“Rooster”: May I point out to
“Salmon Gums” (B. 30/4/’52) that, as
with most plants, modification, mutation
and hybridisation continually create new
species among eucalypts ; but the varieties
still retain the principle characteristics.
Were this not so there would be no such
thing as adaptability. There may be, as
“S.G,” suggests, many species undis-
covered. Still, that is beside the point,
since only a few of the hundreds of
species are known to be best suited for
the preparation of medicinal, industrial
and perfumery oils. Among these are the
blue mallee, black peppermint, narrow-
leaf peppermint, broad-leaf peppermint,
Paddy’s River box and the lemon-scented
gum. Allowing that there may be up to
800 species, only 30 or 40 of these are
listed in Trease’s Pharmacognosy as
suitable for use in medicine or industry
—apart, of course, from timber yielding
turps.
* * Sfc Sfc
“Emjai”: When Homey McGurk and
Paddy Malone, on a stock-buying trip
from Victoria into N.S.W., reached the
cross-over to foreign territory at
Corowa, the day was already a sizzler
and irrigation was indicated. Paddy
called for a pony-beer, which was not his
form ; sipped and swallowed, and then
answered Homey’s questioning stare:
“Yes, it’s Victorian beer. Now we’ll have a
drink —pots.” They had several. As they
drove on northwards the heat and
shimmer increased. Through Widgiewa
station and beyond, the mirage surpassed
anything they had seen. For miles ahead
the baked-out road appeared to be a
morass, with truck-ruts showing realisti-
cally through the water, and merinos in
the distance looked like donkeys on
stilts. Up Urana way they were to look
at a big line of bullocks. When they saw
them Horuey’s eyes lit up. They were
good at the price, but they were a bit
skeery, and while they were being
manoeuvred closer for a better look
Horney’s gaze fixed on something in the
distance. He turned to his mate. “Are y’
sure that was Victorian beer?” “Cer-
tain!” replied Paddy. “Why?” “Well,
d’y’ see what I’m seein’?” Homey asked
anxiously. Paddy looked and goggled.
“ ’Struth! ” he exclaimed. It was the
Narrandera-Tocumwal rail-motor scooting
along in mid-air, with feet of shimmering
daylight between it and the rails. “Let’s
get out o’ this,” said Homey. “If we stay
in this place they’d be sellin’ a bloke a
mob of poddy calves!”
* * * *
“Springvale”: The frog is endowed
with the nervous and pigmentary reac-
tions which occur with other color-chang-
ing creatures, but it is a much slower
process than that which impels the chame-
leon or octopus to indulge in quick-
change artistry. The frog’s range of
colors result from the interplay of
three pigments: melanin (pale brown
when thinly radiated, black when dense),
a yellow or orange-yellow pigment, and
an opaque-white. The branches of the
melanin cells often interlace, producing
a dense network of brown-black “pat-
terns” ; the yellow pigment collects or dis-
perses at will; the white is immovable,
and therefore is the most likely color for
the batrachian to use when in a com-
pletely relaxed state. The green, oddly
enough, isn’t due to a pigment at all. It’s
an optical illusion. Except when the skin
is in its darkest phase, light penetrates
through to the static white, which acts as
a reflector for blue-green wavelengths.
The frog picks up the various conditions
of its surroundings by the eyes and the
skin acting as receiving-sets. By a com-
plicated relay system between nerves,
glands and brain the required stimuli are
produced, releasing hormones through
the bloodstream direct to the skin.
0. * * *
“Binjang”: A man who won “the
Lottery” the other day said that it would
enable him to live in a congenial environ-
ment, adding that the more he saw of
human beings the less he liked them. It
would not be unreasonable to assume,
then, that he now intends to consort with
birds, animals, reptiles or insects for a
change. Let me warn him that he may
not find their companionship as congenial
as he imagines. I once shared a shack
with them, but only because they had
been living in it for years and refused to
move out when I moved in. My efforts
to become their friend were a failure.
Regarding me as an interloper, an
incubus and a blight, they vented their
hostility upon me unceasingly. Although
I tried to avoid offending them, the ants,>
flies, bees, spiders, mosquitoes, fleas and
wasps attacked me with virulence. In
the dead of night snarling possums leapt
on the bed from the rafters. Rats and
mice, from their nests in the mattress,
gnawed still more holes in it and bit me
through them. Birds kept on swooping
at and pecking me as I went in and out
the door. The shack zizzed and hummed
perpetually with the hostility my presence
in it engendered. They soon got rid of
me. Realising that the environment
would never become congenial, I fled with
what remained of my tattered possessions
and sought shelter in a near-by cave,-
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Humpty-back lived at the bottom of Dead-end
Lane. .
Even a mother’s mention or his name
Sent children in delighted fear to bed
As though boogie-boogie-man were said.
Humpty-back minded the timber yard
And lived in a cubby-house, painted and tarred,
But with hessian fop windows and boxes for
chairs —
We used to feel sorry when saying our prayers;
But in the broad and the length of a too-short
day
When a mother was yelling to come in from
play
We thought about Humpty and his happy life:
He could have eaten his peas from a knife.
He got up in the morning, had no jobs to do.
He used to eat off the floor and sleep on it,
too.
Somebody told me so, I never saw,
But she was older than I was, two years or
more.
One night I said because the room was dark,
And, in any case, going to sleep’s a nark,
“Will Humpty come if I don’t go to bed?”
“Sh! In you go! Humpty’s dead.”
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
fsd
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12*% Sales Tax
sa
fds
f
<; Hunter stnrtr Sydney.
KUP mom SAFE!
SANDERS
Correspondence. tovol c-m *.
•totemenli. ale., fllad In tha
"Sander*" can ba aacuraly
bound and converted Into a
parted book of reference ol
the and of aach a.JDth —or
any other period.
‘ ;y^vi
Pri«w and fur-
ther talormlloe
«po» appll«*tl«»
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (AusLJ
&
tkr
/IS SERGEANT IAM
patrolled the park.
He heard two sneezes in the dark.
With staff gripped tight, he flashed
his light.
His stern tones echoed through the
night,
"Kape ahf th’ grass! ye cooplc there;
Yure dith av cowld ye’ll get, ft
shurc!
Come! hurry home, ye love-sick pair.
And both take
Woods’ Great Peppermiat Caro.**
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HIGH BIDDING FOR GERMANY.
Dr. Adenauer: “I believe that
the latest Russian proposals are
a proof that the point will
soon be reached when the
Russians are ready to negotiate
sensibly.”
By all report, quite a lot in
Western Germany go even
further than their Chancellor in
taking latest Moscow baits seri-
ously—and favorably. And
most outside commentators
agree that they should be taken
just as seriously by the Western
Powers.
All are well enough aware of
the Soviet motive —to take Ger-
many out of the Western camp.
How loaded the proposals were,
how surely calculated to appeal
to resurgent German nationalism,
two provisions in them suffi-
ciently indicate;
(1) German national land, air
and sea forces “essential for the
defence of the country” and the
“war materials and equipment”
necessary to supply them.
(2) Permission for all former
Nazis and Wehrmacht officers,
except those serving sentences
for crimes, to re-enter German
public life.
“Tremendous Danger”
The shrewdness of the move
and the awkwardness of the
problem worrying the N.A.T.O.
side are pinpointed in the com-
ment of a Bonn correspondent
of “New York Times”: “Simul-
taneously Germans are being
offered unity and neutrality by
the Russians, and integration
with the West and security
through mutual aid by the
Atlantic Powers.”
On that a New York “Herald
Tribune” writer elaborates;
“This proposal has driven the
Germans, and it will drive us as
well, to see that they are now
offered on the one hand unity
with Western Europe founded on
the disunity of Germany, and
that on the other hand they are
offered the unification of Ger-
many first, and after that a
number of interesting opportuni-
ties. In the face of the new
situation it is impossible for the
Western nations to claim that
their present policies mean the
unification of Europe. They do
not mean that. They will have
to revise their policies in order
to make them mean that —if the
West is to cope successfully with
the tremendous danger of the
Soviet campaign.”
Soviet Somersault
“There should,” London
“Economist” has commented,
“be no illusions anywhere in the
Western countries about the
meaning of the Soviet proposals
for Germany. Without much
regard for consistency with their
previous attitudes, the Russians
now propose that the present
occupying Powers should sign a
peace treaty with an independent
German Government, represent-
ing a unified country, and with-
draw their armies of occupation,
leaving the new Germany com-
pletely sovereign and free —
among other things, free to have
its own national army, provided
only that it was pledged not to
enter into any alliances or coali-
tions.
“The magnitude of the somer-
sault involved in these proposals
in itself reveals their purpose.
They are plainly designed as a
dramatic move to stop Western
Germany from becoming a per-
manent partner and military ally
of the Atlantic Powers and to
work for the withdrawal of
American forces from central
Europe. For 18 months the
Soviet bid for German favors
has been steadily rising towards
this point.”
Moscow Offer’s Appeal
No one, the “Economist”
has also commented, should
underrate the appeal of these
proposals to the Germans —and
not to them alone.
To the Germans, as “a defeated,
occupied and partitioned people,
unity, national freedom and
equality have an emotional
appeal which, for all but the
most wary, may well overwhelm
all sober, logical calculations of
advantage and all fears of pos-
sible consequences.”
The Western occupying
Powers, not so affected by emo-
tion, can give the Trojan
horse from Moscow a cooler
scrutiny: “But to them also
it has a number of apparent
advantages. There are many
people in the West who have
shown a liking for the notion of
a free and united Germany
pledged to neutrality. Western
Germany is larger than Eastern
Germany, and it is tempting to
take it for granted that a re-
united Germany, whatever else
it might be, would not be Com-
munist.”
The “Economist’s” own view
is that “Unfortunately, it is
almost certain that acceptance of
the Russian proposals would not
lead to the idyllic state of bene-
volent neutrality for which the
wishful thinkers in the West
yearn.”
The Russian Ace
Reporting that the various
Governments involved, including
the German, view the proposals
as much more than mere propa-
ganda, a New York “Herald
Tribune” writer has pointed out
that, for the first /time since
the end of the war, Russia is
proposing a settlement which
differs radically from the prin-
ciples of the Potsdam agree-
ments ; but, though Moscow is
“now offering the German nation
everything that a German
nationalist could want,” there is
one big exception—a revision of
the frontiers tentatively estab-
lished at Potsdam:
“All the rest is conceded:
reunification and the removal of
the Iron Curtain in the midst of
Germany; no restriction what-
ever.... in the development
of her peace economy and no
restrictions.. . .with regard to
trade with other countries —
namely with Russia, China and
the satellites ; no more de-Nazi-
fication, no more military occu-
pation, and a rearmed Germany
capable of exercising influence
and power on the European con-
tinent.”
The writer believes the Mos-
cow calculation is that “the time
has now come to begin to play
the very high cards which the
Soviet Government has always
held in Germany: “The high
Soviet cards have always been
the fact that the Soviet Govern-
ment could grant or withhold
unity, the end of the occupation,
the restoration of German mili-
tary power, and the return of
some or all of the lost territories.
“Moscow has now begun to
play all of these cards, excepting
only the territorial revision. That
is, of course, the ace of trumps.
It will be played, we must
assume, when and as necessary
and as most expedient.”
Surprise to Other Corns
The Leftish London “New
Statesman,” commenting on the
proposals as having embarrassed
Dr. Adenauer, added:
“But the embarrassment of the
Communist party —particularly
in France —is no less obvious ;
overnight they have been forced
to give up the root-and-branch
resistance to any form of Ger-
man army, which was their most
popular propaganda line.
“It must also have come as a
shock to every Slav Government
in Eastern Europe. The Poles,
for instance, though they may get
a little satisfaction from Stalin’s
insistence that the Oder-Neisse
line shall be the frontier of the
new State, wall hardly be able
to suppress the fear that once
again the Russians are con-
templating a deal with Germany
at their expense.
“What has prompted a plan so
sensationally at variance with
established Russian policy?
First and foremost, of course,
the need at all costs to put a
spoke in the German wheel of
Atlantic defence. With the initi-
ative wrested from his hands
during the last 12 months, Stalin
has been faced with a clear-cut
choice: he must either negotiate
at once or accept a fait accompli
in the West.”
Crisis This Year
To agree with the Russian pro-
posals would, in London
“Observer’s” view, mean agree-
ing to the inclusion in the
Russian Empire of everything
east of the Oder and Neisse;
and “To accept such a settle-
ment would be to sell out Eastern
Europe for ever. It would be
a super-Munich on a gigantic
scale. And we would have no
guarantees that the peace so
ignominiously bought at the price
of other peoples’ freedom would
last longer than the peace of
Munich.”
The “Observer” thinks the
Russian move may mean that
Moscow wants to create a make-
or-break situation this year,
while Russia is still stronger than
the West.
“It is not impossible,” it com-
ments, “that we are slowly
moving towards a critical situa-
tion in the second half of this
year. To stand up to the tempta-
tion of an offer of a spell of
peace on dishonorable terms,
coupled with an implied threat
of war, will demand great clarity
of purpose and strength of nerve.
“If one conclusion stands out
from this beyond a possibility of
doubt, it is the overriding need
for speed in our rearmament.
Our defences may be put to the
test sooner than we like.”
Soviet Subs.
Though the Russians might
well be able to put into the
Atlantic twice as many sub-
marines as the Germans ever
did, it is unlikely, in London
“Economist’s” view, that they
would be as efficient.
Also, it is probable that anti-
“Die Weliwoche,” Zurich.
THE TEMPTATION OF THE GERMAN.
submarine action would quickly
be more effective than in the
last war.
Mines, the “Economist” be-
lieves, particularly those laid
close to the ports, would prob-
ably be a greater danger to con-
voys.
It adds that it’s by no means
certain that sweeping of the
modern type of mine will be
possible.
Dragnet Digest.
The Sinners Repent. —London
“Daily Mail”: “We are all in
favor of brands plucked from
the burning and sinners who
repent. We welcome, therefore,
the new-found Socialist enthu-
siasm for the British Empire.”
Franco Dug In. —Veteran cor-
respondent Vemon Bartlett, after
lately visiting Spain, made this
assessment in London “Spec-
tator”: “Last summer I decided
that there was no foundation
for the sensational reports of an
imminent change of regime in
Spain. I would now go further,
and venture the statement that,
with the help of last year’s good
harvest and the prospect of an-
other good one this year. Franco
is as firmly established in power
as almost any other ruler in
Europe.”
Corns Rattled. —As they have
a law over there under which
Corns can be jailed “for advocat-
ing the violent overthrow of the
Government” and as just that is
a Com.-platform plank, it’s no
wonder the Comrades are taking
a pasting in the U.S. Their
strength now the “New York
Times” puts thus: “Even if we
assume there are 10 sympathisers
for every member, the total
number of Communists in this
country is well under one-half
of 1 per cent, of the population.”
Chiang’s Raiders. —“Chinese
Nationalist troops,” declares
“U.S. News and World Report,”
“are conducting rather frequent
raiding parties on the coast of
Communist China, destroying
military property and gathering
information. These raids are
launched from small islands
closer to the mainland than
Formosa. The U.S. Seventh
Fleet, blockading Formosa, does
not consider that its orders call
for interference with military
operations from other islands.”
Training Germans in U.S. —
Paris “Le Monde” takes a poor
view of the report that the core
of the future German Army is
going to be trained in the U.S.
If so, it says, “a very close link
will be established between the
American Array and the future
German Army, which will put
on a secondary plane the Euro-
pean framework into which they
have been talking of putting it.
If such collaboration has reasons
of a technical order, it promises
also to be an insurmountable
obstacle to the construction of
a European political structure
and to any political accord be-
tween France and Germany.”
The New Imperialists.
Suspicions of Japan in some
countries and of the West in
others makes impossible for the
present a general Pacific
arrangement comparable to the
North Atlantic Pact. “But,”
comments New York “Herald
Tribune,” “today the threat of
[Communist] aggression is bring-
ing a new unity of will and pur-
pose, and this should be pro-
foundly strengthened as the
Western world is seen clearly to
stand for the freedom of nations,
with Communism representing a
new and ironclad imperialism.”
Rocketed Monkeys. —British
R.S.P.C.A. protest: “The use of
animals to test offensive weapons
for the defence of civilisation
might be defended, but can any-
one claim that to send monkeys
on a rocket journey into space
even if the animals are
anaesthetised is a moral thing to
do? Is not the whole matter
parallel to the experiments that
were conducted on human beings
in Nazi prison camps?”
Imperial Preference Gainers. —
As looked over by London
“Financial Times,” the primary
producing countries, with few
exceptions, no longer require, as
they did in the ’thirties, the
special protection of their
markets for food and raw
materials in the United
Kingdom: “The main benefit,
in fact, now goes to the British
exporter of manufactured goods
to Commonwealth markets.”


|i:
TISW
SC'A T
n eub |T,s
s**
VECT' Ve ,
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
f/MM
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/5
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Bo* 1552,
&.P.0., Sydney,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD HENRY LONES late of
Warne Street Crookwell N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET AGNES
LONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 411 of 1952 on the grounds of deser-
tion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 23rd day
of July 1952 Copy of the Petition may
be had without charge from HANCOCK
ALLDIS & CO., Solicitors, of 225 Forest
Road, Hurstville, or their Sydney Agent,
FRED CROAKER, of 14 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DQUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MAY GWENDOLINE WALTON late
of Warren.-—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES
GEORGE WALTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1568 of 1952 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 14th day
of July 1952 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE. Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free brook-
let, “How Will It All End?”
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
CAR’S INSIDE STORY
Mai about the fewiin
You can sit comfortably behind the wheel of a car and never know
what the chap in the back suffers.
That’s one of the first points you notice about the Javelin in the back seats
your knees are nowhere near your chin. Two men with lanky legs
can stretch and 101 l about. And there’s a feeling of confidence in the car
the way it helps out the driver and takes a grip of the road.
If you’ve not been in a Javelin before, just come for a short drive . . .
effortless acceleration (0 to 60 in 22-4 secs.) 80 m.p.h. from
a flat-four 13 h.p. T| litre engine cruising up in the 60’s.
Perhaps this is the first time you’ve experienced what torsion bar suspension
can do to bumps perhaps you’ve never cornered like this before.
Perhaps you’re already saying to yourself what so many say after
just one ride in a Javelin one day this car is going to be yours.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care what a car does.
There’s such a lot built into it that doesn’t really show until you have one
in your hands real family comfort and performance,,
Top speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration 0-60 m.p.h.
in 22 *4 secs. (“The Autocar” 1951 Road Test).
Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives 30 m.p.g.
m
The 11 litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day it has to be TOURS!
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd.. Sydney; Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Redman Motors Ltd., Brisbane; B.E.A. Distributors [Ltd.,
Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by jowett cars limited, idle, Bradford, Yorkshire, who make the Jowett Jupiter Convertible
class winner of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 —and, of course, the famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford
commercial vehicles.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"LUCIA DI
LAMMERMOOR."
There are snags a-plenty ' for
the producer of this opera by
Donizetti, whose enemies sneer-
ingly—and fatuously—called it
a “string of melodies.” A string
of melodies it is, all of them lush,
and Cammerano’s text, derived
from Scott’s novel, gives so
much emphasis to the dramatic
highlights that, unless delicately
handled, the whole thing can
easily fall into banality. This
production by Lennox Brewer,
and the staging by Stefan Haag
for N.S.W. National Opera, ne-
gotiated the shoals successfully,
and, purely Caledonian opinion
notwithstanding, they trotted out
ample confirmation that haggis
with spaghetti can make an
appetising dish.
So much depends on Lucy her-
self. She has not only to possess
a coloratura able to stand up to
a punishing test of sustained
vocal acrobatics but has to com-
bine it with histrionic skill of
no mean order to make the so-
called Mad Scene workable.
Barbara Wilson acquitted her-
self to the extent of becoming a
major “find.” She sang with
beautiful clarity and flexibility,
and her dementia was quite con-
vincing. John Dudley’s Edgar
was manly and forthright, his
tenor virile and well charged
with emotion, and his death
scene a gem of realism. Robert
Simmons threw his weight and
baritone about adequately in
bullying his ill-fated sister, and
subsidiary roles were cap)ably
handled by John Young, Marie
Tysoe, Michael Khlentzos and
Ronald Neill.
In the great Sextet —very well
sung—all action was suspended
while the six singers faced the
audience. That may have an
acoustical advantage, but it seri-
ously detracts from the dramatic
impact of the words. This, the
best and most dramatic con-
certed number in the whole
range of opera, needs the added
drama of action, as was origin-
ally intended.
Joseph Post and his orchestral
forces again notched a success,
though at times the chorus came
in half a beat either fore or aft.
Roland Wakelin.
Strength, solidity and
simplicity are the outstanding
qualities of an admirable show
of landscapes by Roland
Wakelin at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries ; with occasionally, as
in the prosaically-titled “Market
Gardens,” a rich concentration
of green earth under clouds
floating in light, a flash of lyrical
poetry.
It is not often that Wakelin’s
paintings, so far as this com-
mentator sees them, make that
decisive escape from paint into
an illusion or image of reality
which is what anyone who cares
for nature as well as art looks
for in landscapes and which is
to be found in the school of
Australian “impressionism”
which runs from Tom Roberts,
Gruner and Streeton to Lance
Solomon. Concerned with mass,
structure, composition, and
lighting-effects which are not
quite light—maybe a little more
—Wakelin uses nature to work
out problems of art and, no
doubt, to convey the personal
vision of life implied in his
heavy and rather sombre mascu-
linity.
From the naturalistic point of
view one might, then, ask
questions about the texture of
the road in “Lenah Valley
Track.” Is it clay, metal, con-
crete, plasticene, or just paint?
It is not, somehow, quite alive.
But it is better to accept
Wakelin on his own terms ; for,
if you put such questions aside,
“Lenah Valley” is really an
exceptionally strong and lovely
painting; making a blunt and
powerful statement about the
massiveness of mountain shapes
and the drama of contrasting
colors: the tall red country
building that should have been
a church, the brown height of
the ridge, the pinky-grey road
winding back to the blue hills
floating in space.
The show is, in part, a report
on a return visit Wakelin has
apparently made to his native
New Zealand: and the giant
bulk of New Zealand hills,
towering and crowding upon the
observer in a way very different
from the static cliffs or gentler
undulations of Australia, have
given him some subjects
excellently suited to his
approach; notably the rocky
heights of “Maheno Bay” and
“Rugged Foreshore.”
Society of Artists.
There is a comfortable, almost
portly dignity about the autumn
exhibition, by members only, of
the Society of Artists at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney. If no
one ventures a “ten-league canvas
with brushes of comets’ hair,”
nor does anyone find a small
perfect note of poetry. At best
it is an unruffled display of styles
mastered and competence ac-
quired ; at least, the same.
John Eldershaw and Kenneth
Mac Queen make slight depar-
tures Mac Queen leaving his
usual glassy patterns for a quiet
moment with “Into the Dream
Time,” aborigines beside a tree-
shaded water; and Eldershaw
coming from his familiar visions
of sweeping landscapes and roll-
ing hills to a quiet but lively
watercolor of trees and bush
road in “The Tent.” Lloyd Rees
shows his dark, cold “South
Coast Road,” which won the
Kuring-gai Jubilee Prize for oils,
and “Midsummer Day,” lighter
—almost sunny, in fact—but still
standing mainly on its hard, cold
strength; and George Lawrence
repeats his flare of dark color
under what looks like the smoke
of industry in “Wheat Silos,”
White Bay” and “Cockatoo
Island.”
Adrian Feint has two waxen
reports on flowers and there are
other flowerpieces by Nora
Heysen, Margaret Preston, Maud
Sherwood and Grace Cossington
Smith. The general effect is of
mass and color rather than dis-
crimination, although Grace
Cossington Smith makes some-
thing charming of “Banksia with
Drapery” and “Coral and Bush
Foliage”—neither of them, how-
ever, as successful as her
recently-exhibited “Gum Blos-
soms with Drapery.”
Douglas Annand and J. Car-
rington Smith have slight pleas-
ing watercolors ; Arthur Murch
a light “Wind in the Trees” and
a charming “Morning” ; Cav. A.
Dattilo Rubbo a “Vegetable
Garden” and “The Mountain
Train,” rather large for its con-
tent and purpose; Roland
Wakelin a warm, softly-lit
“Pastoral”; Orban a sombre
“The Big Still Life” and a dark
report on “The Outskirts of
Prague”; Drysdale a hazy
“Mount White” —like something
lost in furnace-smoke ; and Nor-
man Carter his portrait of Lloyd
Rees.
Pretty well every second pic-
ture at the Victorian Artists’
autumn exhibition is reminiscent
of somebody else’s picture,
particularly in the section
devoted to the “moderns.” In
between, there is some unpre-
tentious small stuff. Alastair
Gray’s “The Avenue” is a nice
sketch of a bush-track; Lola
Companez has a relaxed nude
in “Robin,” that goes to bits a
bit about the legs; Ludmilla
Meilerts’s “Palm” is a quiet
harmony of color; and there is
character in the fowls in Renate
Vitolin’s “Backyard Farm.” There
is a spontaneous effect of light
in “Ti-tree at Hampton” by
Arnold Holst, and Aileen Dent’s
“Peaceful Afternoon” is atmos-
pheric. Easily the best in the
collection are Sonia Skipper’s
evening sketch “Pier,
Williamstown,” Lesley Sinclair’s
“Sunny Afternoon” and
Madeleine Jorgensen’s rich
“Dahlias.”


fyCTH
SEC
The only Trustee Company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE
uses "Local Knowledge"
to benefit
Your Estate
THERE is one exclusive feature of Union Trustee
Company service that can be of direct benefit to your
estate. This is the “local knowledge” gained by having
offices in three capital cities. Each office has its individual
Board of Directors, each its own highly skilled staff of
experts. Thus, whether an estate has interests in more
than one State, or is concentrated in a single area, the
Company is ideally equipped to act as Executor, Trustee
or Attorney.
In appointing Union Trustee as your Executor you are
assured of continuity of service—and charges are
exceedingly moderate for the services rendered.
A senior officer of the Company will gladly explain in
detail the wide variety of services it performs.
Call or write for your copy of the booklet, “Important
Facts’’ —which will be forwarded, post free.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury. Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton UTI2
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r- Dividends- N
. jf, ref - To Re- Re-
No Profit. 71 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1941.. 35,434 76,000 Nil 870 125
1943" 360*345 75’non Nil 12,391 882,*516
1944" 187'IfiR 75’nno Nil 275,345 1.157.861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
urd. div. appropriation added re-
serves, £91,675 ~ ~ 1 Qfii QO4.
1945.. 159,695 75,000 Nil 84,695 1*446,599
1947“ 418*570 75’nnn 235^00 36,872 1,483,471
1948" 278*9 nr Nil 343,570 1,827,041
1949’' 210*884 -s’non 203,026 2,030,067
1949.. 210,884 /5,00° Nil 135,884 2,165,951
1950 £72 ’ 212 -.2,093,739
1950.. 63 7,621 75,000 Nil 541,621 2,635,360
p.c.
1951.. 550,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2,835,837
As a young and expanding economy, one
of Australia s vital needs of the moment
t" 6 f°PPnation of new capital assets.
And it there is one organisation more
than another which contributes to this
n l- 13 B.H.P. and its subsidiaries, of
which this A.I. and S. co. is the largest.
Steel is the most important fabricated
material of modern industry. Every
sector of the economy depends upon it
to , s ° me extent, the largest users being the
building and construction and engineer-
ing and shipbuilding trades and the rail-
ways.
Ever since B.H.P. bought the 4,700,000
A.I. and S. £1 ords., and with them con-
trol, in 1935, the story has been one of
expansion, which has called for heavy
capital outlay. And the development is
not yet complete. During the last three
years B.H.P. has put up £8,800,000 of
fresh ord. capital at par., making its total
holding £13,500,000. The £1,000,000 of
7j p.c. pref. money was subscribed by
the public early in the piece, when
Hoskins’s Lithgow plant was transferred
to Port Kembla. And B.H.P. has placed
public interest in front of its own im-
mediate requirements. Over the last 16
years it has received only two modest
divs. 5 p.c. in 1946 and p.c. last term
—thus enabling practically all the profits
(totalling £2,851,434 after payment of
pref. divs), together with heavy allow-
ances for depreciation (aggregating
£11,414,900), to be ploughed back into
the business.
In size the Kembla plant now rivals
that of the big Newcastle steelworks.
But output, to which the level of costs is
closely related, is well below capacity,
because of continued shortages of good
coking coal, skilled labor, materials and
transport difficulties. The coal and labor
problems are gradually becoming less
acute, thanks to modernisation of the
co.’s four collieries on the N.S.W. South
Coast and immigration, but the housing
remains a handicap.
Output of coke, pig-iron and steel-
ingots (based on monthly production
figures) compares as follows for the last
two years:
Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 . . 615,436 559,317 612,128
1951 . . 685,468 577,032 642,663
Still, last term’s outturn of ingots was
below the record 1942 figure, despite the
increase in plant capacity meanwhile.
Rising wage and other costs, including
the cost of expansion, gobbled all the gain
from last term’s bigger production and
£67,144 besides. The £550,477 of profit
was written after allowing £1,243,899 (up
£22,501) for depreciation and unspecified
amounts for taxation and other conting-
encies. It covered the pref. div. and a
moderate 3.5 p.c. on ord. capital as it
stood at the close of accounts, compared
with 4.9, 1.9, 4.3 and 7.3 p.c. back to
1947. A lot of money, however, is still
represented by assets not yet revenue-
producing. Hence potential earning and
dividend-paying capacity— they directly
affect the equity value of B.H.P.’s shares
—are far greater than results to date
would suggest.
The year’s £2± million of fresh share
capital, together with an extra £4,635,616
from sundry creditors, etc., and more
besides, went into fixed assets (up
£5,551,091 net), stocks (up £1,407,526)
and book-debts (up £376,796):
.. . „„ 194 »- 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £8,000,000 £12.000.000 £14,500,000
Sundry creditors,
etc.f .. .. 5,478,864 5,023,570 9,659,186
Fixed assets .. 12,280,497 15,764,128 21,315.219
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 386,497 386,497 386,497
Stocks . . . . 2,076,596 2,453,396 3,860,922
Book debts 844,412 1,071,570 1,448,366
Cash, Govt, bonds 21,101 20.839 21,519
t Includes provision for taxation.
S-H.P. also figures amongst the creditors
for £2,400,000 (£300,000 at the previous
balance).
The 24 new by-product coke-ovens
(making 144 in all), an additional open-
hearth furnace and installation of a new
motor for the blooming-mill are
scheduled for completion during 1952.
Portions of the hot-roughing and hot-
finishing mills, and plate-finishing section
of the hot-strip mill, have also been in-
stalled. Until these and some other items
of construction are out of the way, it is
not expected that much progress will be
made with the two major projects now on
the list—a big cold-rolling mill and tin-
plate plant, which are being erected in
association with B.H.P.
A lot more money will be needed to
see the programme of expansion to com-
pletion. To meet immediate financial re-
quirements the board has arranged for a
loan, amount and terms not mentioned.
So it might be a while before B.H.P.’s
shareholders are asked to assist further.
Union Trustee Co.
r t To Re- Re-
eb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £, £,
1944 .. 9,382 6 p.c. = 8,250 1,582 78,191
1945 ~ 15,441 7J„ „ 10,312 5,129 83,320
? 9 f6 " n > 756 6 » „ 8,250 3,506 86,826
79 f 7 * • 9 > 317 6 ” » 8,250 1,067 87,893
1948 .. 7,310 6 „ ~ 8,250 86,953
1949 .. 9,932 6 „ ~ 8,250 1,682 88,636
1950 .. 13,228 7J„ „ 10,312 2,916 91,552
1951 .. 11,951 7J„ „ 10,313 1,638 93,190
1952 .. 7,484 6 „ „ 8,250 92,424
The trustee cos. are treading a more
difficult path than most other traders
at the moment. They are rendering an
essential, extensive and efficient service
to their clients at fees which are below
cost, and shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) are showing a net
return which is 1 p.c., or thereabouts,
less than can be had from purchase of
Government securities in the open market.
Inflation, which in this instance means
the relentless pressure of rising costs
(mainly salaries and wages) against a
ceiling of corpus and other commission
charges fixed by legislation, is the trouble.
When the various special Acts under
which the cos. operate became law half
a century and more ago a pound was a
pound for a lifetime, and people could
think in terms of fixed charges and a
prescribed range of investments and still
be sound in their economics.
But war, the planners and rearmament
have upset all that, and the time has now
arrived for revision of the special Acts
under which the cos. themselves operate
and of the Trustee Acts in the various
States, too. A formula for a sliding-scale
of charges based on officially ascertained
costs would be equitable, and so would
the widening of a trustee’s power to
invest, which, under existing conditions,
is unduly restricted by the Trustee Acts.
Preservation of capital for the remainder-
man and provision of a reasonable
income for the life tenant are, in very
many cases, now virtually impossible
unless the settler “contracts out” of the
Act by including a clause in his will
giving the trustee special powers in
respect of investment. Hence the need
for revision of wills and inclusion therein
of such a provision.
The 67-year-old Union, second-largest
of its kind in Australia, operates in the
three eastern States, where it enjoys
strong connections in pastoral circles.
Despite continued increase in the volume
of business entrusted to the co.’s expert
care, earnings have been fighting a losing
battle against costs ever since World
War H began. For the six years to 1940
profits averaged £13,098 (9.5 p.c. on
capital), for the next six years £10,449
(7.6 p.c. on capital) and for the six years
to the close of last accounts £9871 (7.1
p.c. on capital).
Last term commissions, rents, etc.,
turned in an extra £47,406, which sug-
gests a healthy increase in the volume of
business on the books:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1940 .. ~ £107,743 £92,031 85.4
1947 .. .. 151,648 142,331 93.8
1948 .. 159,205 151,895 95.4
1949 ~ .. 176,651 166.719 94.4
1950 .. .. 196,568 183,340 93.2
1951 .. .. 221,077 209,126 94.6
1952 .. .. 268,483 260,999 97.2
* Excluding reserves for taxes until 1945.
But exes.—they amounted to 97,2 p.c. of
income—gobbled all the gain and £4467
besides. There was thus a drop of 37,3
p.c, in net earnings (£7484), which were
equal to 5.4 p.c. on the £137,500 of paid
capital as against 8.7, 9.6, 7.2, 5.3 and
6.7 p.c. back to 1947. On shareholders’
funds the year’s profit was a mere 3.2
p.c., which, with things as they are, is
not a fair return on capital involved and
services rendered. The div. was lowered
from 7£ p.c, to 6 p.c., which called for
£766 more profit than was earned.
Whether continued expansion of busi-
ness and the recent small increase in com-
mission charges will be sufficient to offset
the growth in costs during the current
term remains to be seen. Much will
depend upon the Government’s success,
or otherwise, in its fight against inflation.
The market, surprised by the cut in the
div,, and uncertain about the outlook,
shortened its bid for the 50s. shares paid
to 275, 6d. each from 345. at April 23
to 245. 6d. following publication of the
accounts. At 245. 6d. the return is 6.7 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 455. lid, per share, mostly in
freeholds, worth a lot more than their
book-value.
At Feb. 29 freeholds figured in the
books at £154,159, Government securities
£69,090, book-debts £1286 and cash
£30,561, Only liabilities were provision
for taxation £21,000 and final and un-
claimed divs. £4172.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serve*, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 58,243 6J p.c. = 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334 673
1944. . 112,589 8J p.c. = 65,625 1 36 96 , „ 71
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ) 6b ’ ybi 371,637
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
3945.. 96,732 8J p.c. = 65,625 I , 07
To staff fund, £5,000 .. ) 26,107 524 > 2j6
Unexplained addition, £152,594 .. 676,850
1946.. 80,401 SJp.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 .. 692,262
1947.. 89,086 8} p.c. = 65,625 23,461 715,723
Unexplained addition, £4109 .. 719,832
1948.. 97,079 8J p.c. = 65,625 81,454 751,286
Unexplained addition, £48,469 .. 799,755
1949.. 94,018 SJp.c. = 65,625 28,393 828,148
Unexplained reduction, £953 .. 827,195
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893,008
1961.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,573 917,581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952.. 96,441 10 p.c. = 75.000 21,441 955,485
At 455. (58s. 9d. a year ago) the scrip in
this well-entrenched island trader offers a
satisfactory immediate return of 4.9 p.c.
on the basis of last term’s distribution —
10 p.c. Fiji is worth 11.1 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency at the present rate of
exchange—with a visible net tangible
backing of 455. 5d., and prospects of
future benefits as a holding proposition.
Paid capital is £750,000, and has been
ever since the co. took over B.P.’s South
Seas business in 1920 for £500,000, in
scrip—the other £250,000 was put up in
cash mostly by those on the parent co.’s
register. From the start the policy was
to keep the div. moderate and finance ex-
pansion out of earnings, thus strengthen-
ing the value of shareholders’ equity in
the business. Divs. averaged 6.1 p.c. for
20 years to 1940, and 7.5 p.c, for the
five years to 1949, followed by a steady
10 p.c. for the three years to the close
of last accounts. And, since 1943,
reserves have been strengthened by no
less than £566,064 from undisclosed
sources.
Since the war the co. has strengthened
its inter-island trading fleet and passed
its assets in the New Hebrides to a sub-
sidiary tor £314,960 in scrip. Though it
has not yet paid a div., this offshoot is
reported to be operating successfully.
Last term copra and all other island
produce continued to fetch satisfactory
figures. The gains from a “small” in-
crease in the co.’s merchandise turnover
were mostly offset by the growth in
operating exes., including taxation, as the
following comparison of p. and 1. figures
shows:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit .. .. £331,665 £365,338 £403,753
Working exes.* .. 205,442 225,001 256,413
Depreciation .. . . 36,146 28,909 43,686
Bad debts, etc. .. 3,375 11,855 7,213
Net profit .. .. 96,702 99,573 96,441
* Includes unspecified provision for taxation, and
contributions to staff fund.
The slip of £3132 in net earnings was due
to the heavier allowance for deprecia-
tion (up £14,777). The £96,441 of profit
was equal to 12.8 p.c. on capital as
against 13.3, 12.9, 12.5 and 12.9 p.c.
back to 1948,
That leaves out of the reckoning an
unexplained addition of £16,463 to sundry
reserves. So the 10 p.c. div. remained
a comfortable matter ; and there is nothing
in sight at the moment to suggest that
it is likely to be interfered with. The
co.’s losses in the severe hurricane which
swept across the most thickly-settled and
richest districts of Fiji in January last
were not severe, and have been provided
for, the chairman says.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital . . £7 50,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 182,744 170,001 161,755 213,502
Final div. . . 37,500 37,500 37,500 37,500
Properties, ship-
ping, etc... 196,167 182,882 214,242 229,619
Shares subsid. 130,500 304,500 314,960 314,960
Investments .. 15,016 107,084 107,799 108,584
Stocks, etc... 1,045,346 975,140 984,108 859,372
Book debts . . 112,992 100,232 165,744 230,703
Owing by sub-
sidiary . . 179,849 11,344 4,390 119
Cash .. .. 118,522 125,214 75,593 213,130
Stocks, etc. —the etcetera includes an un-
specified amount of advances and deposits
—were reduced by £124,736 and the cash
holding was strengthened by £137,537.
F. H. Paulding and Co., Ltd.
and Subsidiary.
t Pref. To Be- Be-
June, Profit. 6& 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1949.. 45,588 10,460 6 p.c. = 5,507 29,621 120,887
1950.. 53,824 10,460 7 „ „ 25,697 17,667 138,554
Share premiums, £55,065 . . . . 193,619
1951.. 63,415 10,460 8 p.c. = 34,324 18,631 212,250
* After deducting intangibles. £20,127.
To help lighten the outside debt and
provide for further growth of the busi-
ness, those on the ord. register of this
more-than-century-old Adelaide manu-
facturing chemist and wholesale druggist
at May 30 are to be offered 143,170 new
£1 ords., three for 10, at a premium of
7s. 6d. each. The premium, which will
bring in £53,688, has been charged in
order to maintain the ratio of reserves to
capital, and it will make an 8 p.c. div.
worth only 5.8 p.c. on the new shares.
The issue will lift paid capital to £822,004
in 38,000 first 6 p.c. and 163,600 second
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 620,404 ords. On
that lot the pref. divs. and 8 p.c. to the
ords. will call for £60,092, or £3323 less
profit than was shown last term.
The premium was stiffer than the
market anticipated, and the price of the
old ords., which had dropped from
475. 3d. early in 1952 to 395. 6d. in April,
fell to 325. 6d. following announcement
of the issue. After exercising the rights
and allowing for brokerage, the net cost
at 325. 6d. is 31s. Bd., giving a return


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys,
422 Colling Street, Melbourne, C.l. Aus-
tralian and Overseas Patents and Trade
Marks. — Advt.
Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS oiy
OSUITJVAfv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETIERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
To treble Australian output
of FINE SHEET STEEL
When ample supplies of
suitable raw steel are avail-
able, this great Mill will roll
upwards of 80,000 tons of
the highest grade sheet steel
a year—three times more
than was available before.
Because only Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division makes Aus-
tralia’s high grade sheet
steel, this is significant news
for many manufacturers and
the public generally. As
well, this Cold Reduction
Mill, the largest in the
Southern Hemisphere,
strengthens Australia’s
defence potential.
sd
9
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia] Pty.
Limited—General Sales Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place.
MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADE-
LAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner
of Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.: John
Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
CK2A.52
Public Notice.
I, LUCIA MILAN, of Yugoslav nation-
ality, born at Rosolina Rovigo, Italy,
resident two years in Australia, now
residing at Mater Hospital, Crows Nest,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE &. CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Kobin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION
BOTANY VACANT POSSESSION
MODERN FACTORY
Byrnes Street (off Bay Street)
SUBSTANTIAL SINGLE STOREY BRICK BUILDING
WITH STEEL TRUSSED SAWTOOTH ROOF AND
FLOORS OF WOOD ON CONCRETE
Total Floor Area approximately 14,700 Square Feet.
Located in an UNRESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL AREA, handy to
transport and good reservoir of labour. This is an excellent
building, in excellent order and designed to provide maximum
light and freedom of movement.
Modern change rooms with toilets are provided.
An Automatic Fire Sprinkler System is Installed
Throughout, and Ample Auxiliary Power is
Available
Land: 133 ft. 6in. (irreg.) x Ir. 29 Jp. (irreg.). Title; Torrens.
INSPECTIONS BY APPOINTMENT THROUGH
AUCTIONEERS ONLY
Solicitors, Minter Simpson & Co.
Auction Sale Date 27th May, 1952.
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED.
Auctioneers and Real Estate Agents
98 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. BW 8401 (10 lines)
GRINNELL PROTECTION IS
FOR THEM AS
WELL AS YOU... /
m
IMH
A
/V
Nv
ilr^frK
/■OS&
/
J?
- -11
V
I
in
■ :
1
6'''
You may say you’ve taken every precaution
against ordinary fire hazards. That you can
depend upon ‘fireproof’ construction.
Aren’t you over-confident? Human negli-
gence in one way or another continues to
be the greatest cause of fire. So-called ‘fire-
proof’ buildings continue to become furnaces
for inflammable contents.
What most people ignore is that, regard-
less of the cause of fire, regardless of the
building construction, it is the proper control
of fire from the first spark that constitutes
full and adequate protection against fire.
Grinnell is on guard 24 hours a day. It
kills fire, automatically, at its source.
You’re paying for Grinnell Protection
even if you haven’t got it. Insurance com-
panies allow a rebate of up to 50% on Fire
and Loss of Profits premiums where buildings
are Grinnell protected.
Wormald Brothers’ long-experienced
engineers will help you plan fire protection
for your specific risk.
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Wellington, Auckland
and Branch Offices at Broken Hill, Orange, Wagga, Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville. Darwin, Dunedin, Christchurch
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES: KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. :: STEELBILT LIMITED
of 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The 5 per cents at 21s. 6d. yield
4.6 p.c. The 6 per cents are
seldom traded. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover is
£2B 12s. 7d. firsts, £6 9s. Id.
seconds and 28s. 7d. ords.
There is a subsidiary in Wes-
tralia and warehouses in all
State capitals except Hobart,
which are fed from the co.’s own
laboratories at Adelaide, Perth
and Sydney, and from a London
office which looks after the im-
porting side of the business.
Public interest in the undertaking
—it has been largely in the hands
of the Scammell family since the
1860’s —dates from 1947, when
paid capital was £338,704. To
help finance the rapid and
balanced growth since, share-
holders will have put up £483,300
of fresh capital (including the
present issues), plus £116,482 of
share premiums.
The management has thus
made the most of the new oppor-
tunities which post-war condi-
tions created in the Australian
market for light chemicals,
drugs, etc., and recent import
cuts have further strengthened
the co.’s position. Last term’s
record turnover more than took
care of advancing costs, leaving
net earnings £9591 stronger at
£63,415. That was after allow-
ing a generous £58,464 (up
£34,880) for taxation and some-
thing for depreciation, etc. The
£63,415 covered pref. require-
ments and 12.3 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 11.8 p.c.
and 9.5 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. On shareholders’
funds the year’s profit was 6.9
p.c., so the pref. money is earn-
ing more than its keep. The ord.
div. was lifted a point, making
it 8 p.c., and it is difficult to say
when better can be expected.
Half-way through the term
shareholders put up £165,195 —
£110,130 capital and £55,065 pre-
miums. Together with an extra
£51,188 from the bank and
£89,688 from creditors, etc., the
money went mainly into stocks
(up £233,605), book-debts (up
£115,911) and fixed assets (up
£48,434);
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 568,704 568,704 678,834
Mortgages .. 78,400 78,400 116,400
Bank overdraft .. 148,137 162,253 213,441
Creditors, etc... 121,067 148,426 238,114
Tax provision .. 38,992 28,227 59,943
Final dividends.. 16,243 19,914 26,705
Freeholds .. 242,074 255,355 301,526
Plant .. .. 86,583 93,500 95,763
Stock .. ..517,593 528,289 761,894
Debtors .. 240,929 261,844 377,754
Cash and invest-
ments .. 5,251 5,490 8,750
Intangibles .. 20.127 20,127 20,127
The year’s improvement in the
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£610,195) was £173,390.
N.G. Timber Venture
After extensive preliminary
tests and market investigation,
Bulolo Gold Dredging has in-
duced the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to come into a joint-
venture for production of ply-
wood and sawn timber from big
stands of hoop and klinki pine
in the Bulolo Valley, New
Guinea.
A new co., Commonwealth-
New Guinea Timbers, Ltd., is to
be formed for the purpose. It
is to be registered in New
Guinea with a nominal capital
of £2,000,000 in £1 shares, of
which half are to be issued. The
first parcel of 500,000 are to be
taken 249,999 by Bulolo and
250,001 by the Government,
which will thus have a control-
ling interest. A second and
similar parcel is to be put out
about six months later, and will
be taken in equal proportions
by each party. All shares taken
are to be paid for in cash, except-
ing an unstated number of f.-ps.
to be handed to Bulolo for
equipment, etc., transferred.
Bulolo will finance its holding
from its own amortisation fund
(£A 1,554,000-odd at May 31,
1951).
The new co.’s first permit will
be to cut 100 million board-feet
of pine at an average rate of
’lO million feet p.a., as well as
secondary timbers. Royalties for
the first five years will range
from Is. to 7s. per 100 board-
feet. A 10-year renewal permit
to cut a further 100 million
board-feet is also provided for.
If the partnership proves success-
ful there is an estimated further
300 million feet of pine awaiting
treatment in the 40,000-acre
forest concerned.
No estimate of probable net
returns from the venture is given,
but a “suitable return on capital”
is anticipated.
For the year to May 31, 1951,
Bulolo paid divs. totalling 75
cents (15 p.c.) per $5 share, sub-
ject to Canadian absentee tax of
15 p.c. For current term an
interim 50 cents a share was paid
in Nov. last. With things as they
are there is about 12 years’ work
ahead of the co.’s dredges. After
sales at 70s. a month ago, sellers
on Sydney ’Change recently
asked 80s. for the scrip.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(DIVORCE).
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY.
No. 62 of 1951.
TO DOUGLAS ROY WOOD formerly of 156 Hobart
Road Launceston In Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in the Court endorsed with a
notice to you to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of VERA ELIZABETH WOOD of 156 Hobart
Road Kings Meadows Launceston in the State of
Tasmania praying for a dissolution of her said
marriage with you on the ground of desertion In
default of your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid within 30
days after the date of this publication an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street (Frank-
lin Square) Hobart or at the Launceston District
Registry Cameron Street Launceston. —D. W.
SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N. 8.: Friends of the abovenamed DOUGLAS RO i
WOOD who may see this advertisement are requested
to bring it under his notice.
TO ALLAN EDWARD SHELPER address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife DULCIE PEARL
SHELPER has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Australia for
divorce on the ground of Desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years or more IF you
desire to defend such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within THIRTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so doing the
cause may proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 2nd day of MAY, 1952. —G.
J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place, Perth, in the State of Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Perhaps because of the perfect moon-
light, or maybe because of the good
organisation, which included constant
free beer for one and all, the dance
on the Show Boat held for the delegates
to the Engineering Conference went as
merrily as a marriage-bell. It was rather
quaint to find oneself in the barn-dance,
swinging along to the strains of “Sweet
Rosie O’Grady” and the like with a suc-
cession of professors, doctors of engin-
eering, scientific geniuses and research-
artists for partners. There was a spirit
of bonhomie aboard which caused every-
one to enter into the mood of the dance
with pleasure. It is nice to report that
Dr. Rosenthal and his wife, Dr. Rosen-
thal-Snyder (who was one of Einstein’s
assistants), can tread a very pleasant
“Pride of Erin.” Mrs. Vivian Brain, who
with her husband and Captain and Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutcheson received the guests,
was in a glamorous dress of moonlight-
blue satin embroidered with rhinestones.
Mrs. Hutcheson’s dress was delicate ice-
blue waterwave moire worn with a short
jacket. Mrs. C. H. D. Harper wore pale-
gold brocade. Mr. and Mrs. Hope
Gibson were present, also Professor and
Mrs. David Myer. One of the prettiest
dresses, pearl pink brocade, was worn by
Mrs. Gosper, and the guipure lace worn
by Mrs. Norman Craigie was also attrac-
tive.
The exhibition of paintings by John
Maund at the Grosvenor attracted quite
a considerable crowd, representative
mostly of the art and legal world, as Mr.
Maund, a well-known legal eagle, is also
a trustee of the National Gallery.
Although he has been painting for many
years, this is his first exhibition. “You
have to die or expand,” he quoted, “and
I’d rather do the latter —hence this show-
ing.” Present at the exhibition were
Mrs. L, G. Mitchell, Margaret Sinclair,
Mrs. H. A. Showers, Isabel Mackenzie
(who bought “Blue Metal Boats,” a
charming watercolor), Elizabeth Mc-
Intyre (Mrs. John Eldershaw), Margaret
Coen, Dora Jarret and Mrs. Rah Fizelle.
Catchy slogans on church signboards
seem to have become quite a feature of
the Sydney scene. St. Barnabas Church,
in George-street, has, of course, made a
feature of these for years, and must have
provided some thousands of people with
food for thought thereby. Signs like
“Success Comes in Cans, Failure in
Bottles” are the sort of things that stick
in the mind. The latest —“Silence Is Not
Always Golden. Sometimes It’s Merely
Yellow”—comes from a Darlinghurst
church, and the startling announcement
outside the Baptist church in Northbridge
“Don’t Send Your Children to Church”
caused many an incredulous eye to linger
on the sign so that they read in small
letters underneath: “Bring Them.”
To meet Mrs. J. J. Cahill, the wife of
the Premier, the Lady Mayoress invited
leading members of Sydney society to a
reception in her rooms at the Town Hall
during the week. The Lady Mayoress
wore an attractive dress of navy moire
with a really dashing feathered hat. Mrs,
Cahill, who was accompanied by her two
teenage daughters Margaret and Mary,
pinned a beautiful spray of dark-red roses
to a black dress which was worn with a
plum velvet hat. Mrs. Cahill’s interests
have lain mostly in her home hitherto,
but she seems to look forward with
equanimity to a life of greater social
activity. Mrs. O’Dea, the Lady
Mayoress, who is now one of our most
energetic socialites, said that when she
first became Lady Mayoress she cried
for a fortnight, which must be rather an
exaggeration from one who now takes
in as many as four engagements in a
day and appears to enjoy them all.
After all the talk about the autumn
tints on the Blue Mountains it is pleasant
to report that they are well worth a visit,
although there are places where the bush-
fires’ ravages have undoubtedly
diminished their beauty. A weekend on
the mountains when the rain (“a fine
mountain mist,” according to the inhabi-
tants) obscured all else was brightened
and inspired by the glorious colors of
the maples and poplars at Leura,
Katoomba, Medlow Bath and Black-
heath.
Many country visitors are expected to
attend the Catholic Ball at the Troc on
June 2. Held under the patronage of
Cardinal Gilroy, this ball is always a
highlight of the year’s Catholic social
activities. This year the debutantes will
be presented to Archbishop Eris O’Brien.
Heading the committee is Mrs. K. Burrow,
who is president of the Legion of Catholic
Women, and helping her are Mrs. M. J.
O’Neill, Mrs. G. Scarf, Mrs. H. H. Now-
land, Mrs. C. York, Mrs. V. Ferrari,
J. Crowe, Mrs. M. Noonan and
rS- M. Doolan.
This is a recent study of Jill Corner,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Lance Corner,
whose marriage to Gordon Jaques took
place during the week. Unusual dresses
°f dark-red velvet were worn by the
bridesmaids, Robin Corner, Helen
Burling, Rosemary Stobo and Shirley
Pink, which made a dramatic contrast
with the bride’s lovely dress with its
bodice of white lace and its bouffant skirt
°f white nylon net. The bridegroom is
the only son of Mr. Lionel Taques, of
Cammeray, and of Mrs. Henry Hill
Osborne, of Darling Point. His grooms-
men were Peter Raine, Sam Walder, Ward
Booth and John Read. After the
wedding a reception was held for 140
guests at Florida House. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
The Coral Sea Ball, always one of the
best-dressed of Sydney parties, was im-
pressive in its ceremony this year when a
roll of drums announced the official
guests, General Eichelberger and Mrs.
Eichelberger, and the flags were unfurled
as national anthems were played. The
president of the ball committee was Mrs.
Frank Packer, whose beautiful cream
dress was embroidered with pearls and
sea-shells. She included in her party
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Smith, Mrs. Ernest
Watt, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Albright and
Mr. and Mrs. George McCadden. Mrs.
Eichelberger wore a lace gown covered
by a mutation mink coat, definitely in the
glamor class. In one report this appeared
as imitation mink, which must have
caused a smile or two, as mutation mink,
which can be bred any color from white
to deep blue, is quite the most expensive
type one can buy.
Sydney’s John Alden Shakspearian
Company seems to be having a tremendous
success in other States. It is to open at
His Majesty’s Theatre, Brisbane, next
Monday, when the repertoire for the
season will include “King Lear,” “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “The
Merchant of Venice” and “Merry Wives
of Windsor.” When “Merry Wives” was
first played at the Independent, in Sydney,
one of the first-nighters said “Really it
was such good fun one didn’t feel that
one was being educated at all.”
Apropos of the Independent—its new
play, “It All Takes Time,” which is a
comedy in three acts by John Watson,
deals with an interesting subject—the
assimilation of New Australians into the
Commonwealth. Aileen Britton and
Grant Taylor are in the cast and also
four new artists who have had extensive
European experience. Their Christian-
names are Inge, Guido, Gunther and
Schelto, The surnames can be given next
week after you have mastered the first
ones. The play starts on Thursday night
and has the distinction of being a “world
premiere.”
Kathleen Scarr is presenting the
brilliant young pianist Igor Hmelnitsky
at the Conservatorium on Saturday, May
17, when the programme will include
the Twelve Studies (Op. 8) by Scriabin.
The Bread and Cheese Club Com-
posers’ Group (who will welcome any
new members, by the way) has been cele-
brating the success of several of its
members. Dr. Mary Bertram won the
Anzac Poem, Roy Barnes has had his
song,, “Beside an Old Lattice Gate,” pub-
lished by a Sydney firm, and the play
“They’re Racing,” which was performed
at the St. James’ Theatre recently, is by
Cynthia Skrine and Ron Ringland, who
also belong to the club. Whether in
honor of these successes or not this Letter
cannot say, but the B. and C. Club is
donating a prize to the City of Sydney
Eisteddfod Unpublished Song Section.
Maybe one of its members will win the
prize, or maybe the winner will become
one of its members.
From Melbourne
In the march through the city to com-
memorate the Coral Sea battle, the Navy,
Army and Air Force turned out, the salute
being taken by the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks. When the U.S. ex-servicemen
marched past, the salute was taken by the
U.S. Naval Attache, Capt. Richard
Denbo, and the Army Air Force Attache,
Col. John L. Sullivan. After the march
the official party'were entertained by the
Lord Mayor, Cr. O. J. Nilsen, and the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster.
The battles of the South Pacific were
fought and won all over again when
Lieut.-General R. L. Eichelberger renewed
friendships with the men he fought with
in New Guinea. First function at which
civilians met the General and “Miss Em”
(his wife) was the late-afternoon party
sponsored by the Australian-American
Association in the lounge of the Royale
ballroom. The 300 guests were received
by the president of the association, Sir
John Latham, and Lady Latham, who
wore a brown-beaded felt cloche with her
beige ensemble. Mrs. Eichelberger wore a
silver-mink jacket over her black pleated
frock ; her tiny beret was of cherry-toned
velour. Among the guests were the U.S.
Consul-General, Henry E. Stebbins, and
Mrs. Stebbins, whose frock of beige
honan-silk had a pleated three-tiered
skirt and whose tiny cloche was in match-
ing beige melusine. Mrs. Max Wyatt,
formerly Diana Parnham, wore with her
mink-coat a tiny mink-beret. T. T. Holl-
way, looking fit after weeks of building
and gardening at his home at Point Lons-
dale, was with Mrs. Hollway, her dyed-
ermine coat worn with small black velvet
hat. The Lionel Newtons, just back from
the U.S.A. and South America, were there,
she in black frock, white llama jacket
and small black velvet cap. Other
recently-returned travellers were Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Watts, the latter wearing a
smart black-and-white-check taffeta
frock and black velvet hat.
Very striking was the floodlit model of
the aircraft-carrier U.S.S. Lexington,
sunk in the Battle of the Coral Sea.
The model was arranged on the stage of
the Town Hall behind the table where 30
official guests sat for the Commemora-
tion luncheon arranged by the Aus-
tralian - American Association. Lieut.-
General Eichelberger was guest-speaker,
and was introduced by Sir John Latham.
Sir Edmund Herring, who served with
the General during the war, proposed the
vote of thanks to the speaker. At the
official table were Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins, Sir Charles
and Lady Lowe, Sir Owen and Lady
Dixon, Mrs. R. G. Casey and Mr. and
Mrs. H. Hamilton.
Picture this week is of Bobbie, attrac-
tive wife of the retiring U.S. Army Air
Force Col. Frank Gillespie, and
mother of three sons. Mrs. Gillespie was
an active member of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital. Her bright and vivacious per-
sonality is always expressed in her smart
clothes. Her husband will take up a
new appointment in Philadelphia.
Last of the farewell parties for Col.
Frank Gillespie and his wife was at the
Dorchester, when six well-known young
married men were co-hosts and afforded
ample proof that husbands can manage
these things quite well. Mrs. Gillespie
danced in a gown of flame chiffon. Mrs.
Bruce Rose’s strapless ballerina frock was
made of layers of emerald-green tulle, Mrs.
John McKay’s dark-brown bouffant tulle
frock was mounted on matching taffeta.
Mrs. George Uhrich’s sage-green chiffon
frock had a full-pleated skirt. Mrs.
Tim Joshua wore a short filmy black tulle
gown. Mrs. John Griffin allied a black
tulle skirt and a bodice of white guipure
lace.
Mrs. Harold Holt’s gown of black
French crepe was sewn with masses of
black sequins. Mrs. Chester Guest’s
swirling draperies were of dove-grey
chiffon. Mrs. Douglas Candy was in
black tulle; Mrs. W. W. Killough in
white taffeta on which were green ivy-
leaves. A gold-embroidered stole was
worn by Mrs. J. L. Sullivan with her
strapless gown of white faille. Mrs.
Robert Macklin’s frock was of white
faille ; Mrs. Richard Denbo’s, soft beige
chiffon. Mrs. Bertie Hotchkiss’s black
crepe gown had petal shoulder-straps.
Mrs. Frank Watts wore ice-blue laces,
Lou Anne Wilson cinnamon-brown silk
taffeta. Mary Coles teamed a midnight-
blue silk organza skirt with a white lace
top.
Toorak Presbyterian Church was the
setting for the marriage of attractive
Josephine Mary, only daughter of Mrs.
F. Hargraves, of Sydney, and the late Mr.
W. E. Rumbles, of Aberdeen, to Wing-
Commander Brian Alexander Eaton,
D.S.O. and Bar, D.F.C., only son of Mrs.
S. A. Eaton, of Canterbury, and the late
Mr. Eaton. The bride’s picture-gown of
white nylon tulle and Chantilly lace had
long sleeves and a high collar; the skirt,
fashioned of layers of tulle, had a slight
train. A flat band of pearls across the
head held the simple tulle veil, and the
posy was of white hyacinths. Mrs. Jack
Wright, the bridegroom’s sister. Win
Caro, of Sydney, and little Jan and Gay
Wright were the bride’s attendants. Mrs.
Wright and Win Caro wore frocks of
midnight-blue nylon tulle with paler blue
bodices; the tiny girls wore frocks of
blue, white-sprigged organdie. All wore
circlets of blue flowers on their heads.
The bridegroom, who is the commanding
officer of R.A.A.F. No. 78 Jet Fighter
Wing, which will go overseas in July, had
Hamish Pearson as best man and Wing-
Commander Dick Cresswell as grooms-
man. Reception was at the home of the
bridegroom’s aunt, Mrs. J. E. Pearson,
Davaar, Brighton.
A well-known hostess in this city has
just returned from a short visit to Hono-
lulu with a sample of American
whimsey: permanently-pleated nylon
stockings, done exactly as nylon dresses
and undies. The pleats disappear when
the stockings are being worn, but the
moment they are taken off to be washed
back come the pleats.
“No Trees in the Street,” the play by
Ted Willis, author of “The Blue Lamp,”
has its setting throughout in the squalor of
the slums, and most of the characters
portrayed are as unsavory as their sur-
roundings. A number of representatives
of youth-welfare organisations were in
the audience on the opening night, for
the play deals with the effects of slum-
life on the growing boy and girl. Among
theatrical personalities there were Frank
Tail and his wife, she in black frock and
silver-fox furs, producer John Casson and
Mrs. Casson, Margaret Reid, Loveday
Hills, Tivoli star Babs McKinnon with
her mother. A sleeveless black silk jersey
frock and silver-blue mink stole were
worn by Mrs. Philip Dare. Mrs. Norman
Lynch’s frock was of soft-blue-and-grey
patterned silk. A short black faille skirt,
white guipure-lace top and a tiny black
faille bolero comprised Jill Daveron’s
ensemble. Mrs. John Carrodus s short
frock was of black and soft-rose brocade.
Mrs S. Aarons wore a platina fox stole
over her black frock. Of dove-grey faille
was Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s bouffant
frock. Mrs. Colin Russell’s choice was
black-and-white pin-spotted faille.


When It's an
Exide—you start!
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Visiting his home-town, Melbourne,
Brigadier John Rockingham, of the
Canadian forces in Korea. The route to
Canada was a bit devious. A Melbourne
Grammar boy, he was jackerooing in
Westralia when his father, a Pacific Cable
Board official, was ordered to Vancouver.
John went with him, became a transporta-
tion-officer with the British Columbia
Electric Railways, and from that entered
the Canadian Army. With the Royal
Hamilton Light Infantry in the late war,
he was at the Normandy landing and the
Rhine crossing, winning D.S.O. and
C.B.E. He was then invited to organise
the Canadian brigade in Korea, which
was first hardened-off with a winter in
Alaska. After that he found the Korean
climate mild, but could sympathise with
fellow-Australians who went straight from
beaches to blizzards.
Dubois caught Charles Shaw trying to
explain what it feels like to discover that
one has written a successful novel. His
Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison (Frederick
Muller and Shakespeare Head), which has
just reached Australia, won instant praise
FROM BUSH TO JUNGLE.
from London critics, has been sold for
serialisation to English and Australian
magazines, is now in its third English
edition and is to be published in New
York in both full-size novel and sub-
sequent pocket-book editions. Shaw,
well-known to Bulletin readers as
“Mat’s Mate” and “Old-timer,” and as
author of Outback Occupations, The
Warrumbungle Mare, etc., went clean
away from his beloved bush for theme
and setting of the new book. He says he
sought a means of attracting overseas
publishers and that the idea for the story
“came out of the blue.” What worries
him now is how far it will put him “in
the red” with Sir Arthur Fadden.
Joseph Wood knows his woods, having
been Professor of Botany at Adelaide
University for close on 20 years and pre-
viously lecturer there in the same subject.
Now, in addition to his several doctorates,
he has collected the Clarke Memorial
Medal, bestowed by the council of the
Royal Society of N.S.W. for his dis-
tinguished research into vegetation in arid
areas of Australia and into the mineral
nutrition of plants. A pleasant-faced 51,
with a military moustache, he spends his
spare time trying not to expose the grass-
roots of Adelaide’s fairways.
Tom Hungerford’s fine war novel, The
Ridge and the River (Red-paged last
week), had a warming reception from
critics. And, apparently, from the public
—the first edition has sold out. A second
edition, almost twice as large as the first,
is due out next month. Anguis and
Robertson opine that it’s a long time
since a first novel in Australia has shown
such fine promise.
Shifting from command of the Mediter-
ranean Fleet’s destroyers to what the
South Atlantic station has in the way of
long-arm guardians, Vice-A dmi r a 1
P. B. R. W. William-Powlett, C. 8., C.8.E.,
D.S.O. The “W” in the initials stands for
Wallop, on which no doubt some pungent
puns have been made by captain’s de-
faulters. Other wallops experienced were
Gallipoli and Jutland in War I, and the
job of Chief-of-Staff to Somerville's
famed Force Hin War 11. This was the
unit which sent Renown and Ark Royal
north from Gibraltar to get in the car-
rier’s torpedo-wallops at Bismarck, crip-
pling the great ship so that she was forced
into-wind to await the C.-in-C, Home
Fleet. William-Powlett played Rugby for
England in 1922. He relieves Vice-
Admiral Sir Herbert Packer, who was in
the Pacific in battle-cruiser Australia in
the Kaiser’s show, and, later, in Warspite
in the same scrap. He went back to War-
spite in 1943, this time in command.
Though old, Warspite was recognised as
one of the finest gunnery-ships in the
British Navy —Packer would appreciate
this ; he went to her from command of
the R.N.’s gunnery-school at Whale
Island, well-remembered by Australians
lucky enough to be drilled there.
“Nakhoda”; Who says Asiatics aren't
adaptable? Sow Khong Chang, a
Malayan Chinese who has just graduated
from Melbourne University, came pre-
war from Kuala Lumpur with the idea of
becoming a dentist and attending to his
nation’s molars. Then the war came ; he
entered the Australian Army and served
as an artilleryman in New Guinea.
Knowledge of Malay and Chinese got
him a transfer to the Intelligence section,
and he was sent to the Philippines. In
1945 he received his discharge in Mel-
bourne and went back to his Alma Mater.
But things had changed in his native
country, where the authorities had
thought for the first time of introducing
a new form of tooth-extraction —namely,
income-tax. Chang concluded that ac-
countancy would be a better profession
to practise in Malaya than tooth-pulling.
So he returns to Kuala Lumpur (which,
incidentally, means “muddy mouth”)
with the degree of Bachelor of Economics
and an associateship of the Common-
wealth Institute of Accountants.
There are two Victorian Bladins, both,
in a sense, in armies. One, Air Vice-
Marshal Francis Masson Bladin, C. 8.,
C.8.E., Air Member for Personnel in
Melbourne, did the planning for the 6th
Airborne Division paratroop-landing in
France on D-Day. The other, Com-
missioner J. S. Bladin, of the Salvation
Army, is his cousin. As travelling repre-
sentative of General Orsborn, cousin will
attend the congress of Salvationists at
Melbourne Exhibition Building this
month.
Retiring after 34 years of Army and
Air Force, Air-Commodore Ulex Edward
Ewart, officer-commanding at Point Cook.
Entering Duntroon in 1918, in 1946 he
converted R.A.A.F. headquarters in
London from a war- to a peace-footing as
officer-commanding. Back in Australia
in 1948, he organised the first Air Staff
College established hereabouts. Per-
haps the biggest of several important
War II posts was that of assistant chief-
of-staff at Allied Air headquarters in
the Pacific. He is a son of the late Prof.
A. J. Ewart, D.Sc., Ph.D., of Melbourne.
Perhaps the most appropriate place for
the portrait of the senior-officer of the
Royal Navy to be hung is in the Naval
College at Greenwich, where are trained
his officers. New Zealand-born Sir
Oswald Birley painted the George VI
portrait there. Also, he did its well-known
row of War II British admirals, as well
as George V and Queen Mary for
Windsor Castle. The Queen Mother’s
likeness, in the Queen Elizabeth, bears
his signature, as does the Marquess of
Linlithgow’s in the Viceroy’s House, New
Delhi. Born in Auckland, Sir Oswald
was schooled at Harrow and Cambridge,
became a member of most of the im-
portant portrait-societies of Great Britain,
and put away his brush long enough to
win M.C. in the Kaiser’s war. The other
day he died in London, aged 72.
A hardy Norseman with much experi-
ence of whaling in southern waters, Cap-
tain J. H. Andersen is again in Westralia.
Before taking a trip to his native strand
in October last year, he had served for
three years with the North-West Whaling
Company. He’ll hunt whales from the
south-western tip of Westralia, in com-
mand of a 380-ton vessel, the first chaser
of the Cheyne Beach Whaling Co. Built
in Norway, the chaser will operate from
the base used by the former Albany
Whaling Co. several years ago, close by
the old Norwegian whaling-station in
Frenchman Bay. *
vSir Herbert Gepp writes in: 1 was
glad to note in B. 30/4/’52 the good
notice given to Dr. G. K. Williams’s
recent award of the Gold Medal of the
British Institution of Mining and Metal-
lurgy. But the institute which gave him
its medal in 1942 is the Australasian In-
stitute of Mining and Metallurgy, not the
Australian Institute. In addition to
Gilbert Rigg and myself (who received
the British Institution’s Gold Medal con-
jointly in 1924), W. L. Baillieu and W. S.
Robinson also received similar medals,
four years later. I regard Robinson as
having probably the brightest brain of
anyone I know. Williams worked with
me in research for some years when I was
g.-m. of Electrolytic Zinc of Australia,
Ltd., before he went to Port Pirie. He is
a magnificent type of research man, and
his work on the de-silvering of lead-
bullion by his continuous process was one
of the finest pieces of research work —
applied on a practical scale —of which I
know.
A pencil-portrait by Norman Lindsay of
the poet David Campbell.
Having housed 70,000 people in 17,000
houses in the last 14 years, J. N.
O’Connor is retiring from the chairman-
ship of Victoria’s Housing Commission.
Set up in 1938, the commission started
with exasperating slowness, but got into
its stride later —in his final year
O’Connor’s output has been 250 a month.
He will be succeeded by his secretary,
J. H. Davey, who will have direction of
a job that has been marked “Urgent” for
the past 30 years—rebuilding to transform
Melbourne’s slums.
Bulletin artist Prior went backstage at
Sydney’s Empire Theatre to draw Kiwi
comic Red Moore (B. 30/4/’52). Hav-
ing done his worst with Moore’s facile
face in the dressing-room, Prior lingered
in the wings to view the show. Where-
upon the victim (who had put in 12
months at the New York School of
Cartoonists) got out his own pencil and
ARTIST BY ARTIST.
paper and got his own back on Prior.
The victimiser victimised is here
presented.
Former Director of Military Art at
Duntroon, Colonel Thomas Daly will
have the chance to put his precepts into
practice—as newly-appointed commander
of the Commonwealth Brigade in Korea,
which includes the Australian Royals.
G.5.0.l of the Fifth Australian Division
when it proved its mettle at Milne Bay
and Salamaua, the new c.o. in 1944 was
given command of the 2/10th Battalion,
in time to lead it ashore at Balikpapan,
He won 0.8. E. in the first campaign,
D.S.O. in the second. After the war an
instructor at a British staff-college, Daly
was Director of Infantry at Melbourne
headquarters at time of his present
infantry-directing appointment.
Into the Silence: —-
In Melbourne, Arthur Henry Willey, one-
time secretary of the Australian Literature
Society and Dickens’ Fellowship and member
of the Gordon Lovers’ and Henry Lawson
societies. For years a prominent bowler and
winner of several championships, and managing-
director of the well-known Melbourne jewellery
firm of Willey, Dumbrell and Co., he was one
of the oldest members of the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club.
In Perth, Mrs. Susan Adelaide Casson,
the second woman to be commissioned as
justice of the peace in Westralia. Keenly
interested in welfare work on behalf of mental
patients, she had been a member of the Clare-
mont Mental Hospital board. She was also on
the Lemnos Soldiers’ Hospital board, and was
founder of the Mental Hospital After-care Asso-
ciation. Awarded the M.8.E., she has an en-
during monument in the Casson House Rest
Horae, opened in North Perth two years ago.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 77, Archibald
William Blair, for 20 years, till he retired in
1948, a Supreme Court judge. Earlier a partner
in the Wellington legal firm which gave Skerrett
to the chief-justiceship, Blair himself had been
acting in that capacity in 1946, the year he was
knighted.
In Sydney, Alan J. Williamson, a Kentish
man who came to Australia in 1932 as represen-
tative for Gaumont British. Later rep. for the
Rank organisation, he had had just five years
short of 60 years’ association with the film-
industry—which means just about its whole life.
He photographed Queen Victoria’s Diamond
Jubilee. His link with Legacy went back a
goodly way as well —to the old R.F.C. in the
early days of War I. In 1942 he was Legacy’s
president.
At Liverpool (N.S.W.), Julius Edward Tegel,
who shifted from the retail grocery-trade to
found the largest poultryfarm in the State at
Kooree Grange, Leppington (near Liverpool), in
the early days of the commercial poultry-
industry after War I. Today, still the largest
farm, with over 30,000 White Leghorns, it
is run as a family company. One of the early
members of the Egg Marketing Board, J.E.
was chairman for a term.


Australia's finest
Brandy for nearly
a century...
few*
Will
&
s#i
&
♦ x >/v
9s
s:?*:. o,
&r
ft '<€
ti'k!**:**
Uj
N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTORS!
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
T8T.18.11
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL HOSPITAL
BRANDY
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
A banking pattern
that men find
GOOD
For 117 years this Bank has
been weaving a pattern of service
and strength that four generations
of Australians city men and
country men alike—have found
good.
It is at the service of men and
women who understand the value
of it.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which it amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Fodder Process.
“C.S.”: If claims made for a
South African discovery are
justified—and they seem to be
—all the old straw, thatching,
dead maize-stalks, dried grass
and other similar stuff on farms
can now easily be turned into
good feed. The “Farmers’
Weekly” there thought so highly
of the discovery that it ran a
special supplement about it.
A man named Ernest A.
Ritter, conducting papermaking
experiments with old wheat- and
rice-straw, noticed that the
material, after going through a
fermentation process and being
stacked outside, was greedily
eaten by mules. That led to
tests which proved to practical
farmers and veterinary experts
that a new fodder source had
been opened up.
Here is the process; A quart
bottle of sterilised water is
heated to lOOdeg. F. To this is
added a heaped dessertspoon of
sugar and two fresh baker’s
yeast-cakes. In an hour this is
bubbling well and ready for the
next step.
To a 44gal. drum of water add
3 parts per 100,000 of chloride
of lime (a slightly heaped tea-
spoonful) to sterilise it. After
30min. add |gal. of molasses and
stir well. More molasses up to
2gal. may be added if you wish.
An hour later add the bottle of
yeast-culture. Keep the drum
tightly covered. Fermentation
can be hastened in cold weather
by heating the drum to lOOdeg.
F. and in 24 hours the lot
should be actively fermenting.
Next thing wanted is a lOOOgal.
tank nearly full of water, which
must be sterilised in the same
way (i.e., 3 of chloride of lime
to 100,000 of water, or 23 tea-
spoonfuls). An hour after
sterilisation add from 10 gallons
to 12 gallons of molasses and stir
well. Let that stand overnight,
then add the drum of fermented
yeast-culture.
In 48 hours the lOOOgal.-tank
lot should be actively ferment-
ing. Have a cement-vat 10ft.
long, sft. wide and 2ft. deep, or
as near as can be got to that.
Run off enough of the fer-
mented stuff to fill the vat 18in.
deep, which will take about
450ga1. Into that goes the old
straw, bagasse, maize-stalks or
what-have-you, which is soaked
for about 15min. and then
forked out to drain. While it is
draining another vat lot is filled
and the next lot of stuff soaked
in it.
After the stuff is drained build
it into a fairly tight stack, say
10ft. high by 10ft. wide and as
long as you like. Or pack it into
a pit-silo. More sterilisation.
this time of the ground on which
the stuff is stacked; 1| table-
spoonfuls of chi. of lime to
20gal, of water, sprinkled
through a watering-can. This is
to avoid loss at the bottom of
the stack, caused by foreign
bacteria.
This soaking, draining and
stacking is continuous. As it
cuts out, the lOOOgal. tank is re-
filled and treated again. In
South Africa they reckon three
native workers, using forks and
a handcart, can put through
three tons of dry stuff a day.
In the stack the heat should
reach lOOdeg. F. in 12 to 18
hours and mounts at sdeg. to
lOdeg. a day to a peak of about
140 deg. It takes two to four
weeks, according to the pro-
portion of fibre in the stuff, to
complete the process. The
finished product has a sweet,
honey-like smell, is soft and
succulent and stock go for it.
No claims are yet made of
the food-value of this sort of
fodder, and won’t be until ex-
haustive metabolism tests have
been made. But palatability is
proved beyond doubt, even with
20-year-old grass thatching.
Cost of the process is very small.
Ritter has apparently imposed
no patents or restrictions. Any-
one who wants to try it may go
ahead.
It is regarded in South Africa
as a beginning. More is ex-
pected of it when further tests
are made and improvements
tried. Meantime —what a chance
to save what is usually burnt
or allowed to rot away!
Pasture-sowing.
“Mr.”: The rate of seeding of
a new pasture need not be high
if certified seed is used. In fact,
heavy sowing can have a sup-
pressive effect. Thickly-sown
perennial rye-grass, for example,
will often overcome clover seed-
lings, cocksfoot and other desir-
able associates. In Victoria,
autumn sowing is best (April-
May), although in the higher-
rainfall areas (30in. or more)
seeding could be deferred until
late August or September,
In country with a rainfall
averaging 25in. sow 101 b. of
certified perennial rye-grass and
21b. of mid-season sub.-clover
an acre. This can be sown with
a cereal crop or on stubble
ground after wheat or oats.
Where the fall is 30in. or more,
cocksfoot and white clover could
be added to the mixture.
A suitable combination would
be 101 b. of certified perennial
rye-grass, 51b, of Victorian or
N.Z. certified cocksfoot, lib. of
N.Z. white clover, 21b. of sub.-
clover and |lb. of strawberry
clover per acre. A rapid grazing
or an early mowing of the young
pasture will do it good.
The Breeding Sow.
“A.M.M.”: After the sixth
litter the number of pigs a sow
will rear falls away, largely be-
cause older sows are clumsier,
more careless or more irritable.
Over-fat sows kill more pigs at
birth than do sows in fine con-
dition. A healthy sow can
easily produce good litters up to
“ Th' orf-th'-face style suits y' best."
and beyond the 12th if she has
done it with earlier litters. Old
sows should be well-fed for six
weeks after weaning, but they
should not be allowed to get fat
in the next three months.
A sow gives its maximum
milk-yield when nursing the
third, fourth and fifth litters,
and then the yield gradually
drops.
The Ruakura experimental
farm in New Zealand proved
that the best time to feed con-
centrates to breeding-sows is im-
mediately after weaning. This
flushes the sow prior to mating,
and increases the number of
piglets born per litter, whereas
feeding concentrates prior to
farrowing has no effect except
to increase slightly the weight of
the pigs born. A sow properly
fed after weaning her litter can
be turned out to a pasture
and will hold her condition. This
is only during summer.
A sow should be brought in a
reasonable time before farrow-
ing to give her time to get used
to her surroundings. She should
not be too fat, but should be
welhfed. Prior to farrowing
a daily dose of cod-
liver oil will benefit the sow.
For 24 hours after farrowing
she should have plenty of water
and should be fed bran-mash
mixed with a little molasses. No
set rules for feeding can be laid
down, but commonsense in feed-
ing will bring .success. If she’s
thin, give her more feed —if she’s
fat, reduce her rations. Regu-
larity in feeding is important.
and “a little often” is a. good
slogan.
The Value of Sulphur.
“Hortus”: I’d never be with-
out sulphur. As much as you
can place on a threepenny bit
in the food once a fortnight will
keep a dog free of ticks. For
mange, apply a paste of sulphur
and lard, one of sulphur to five
of lard. Chickens will have no
worries about lice if small
quantities of sulp h ur are
mixed in the feed twice a week.
Blow down the throats of fowls
suffering from gapes a mixture
of two parts of sulphur to one
of pulverised alum. This ailment
is caused by a small red worm
lodging in the fowl’s wind-
pipe. Sulphur-and-lard made
into pills is a good remedy for
roup.
Constipated pigs are relieved
by t\vo teaspoonfuls each of
sulphur and Epsom salts, mixed
in the feed three times a day
until the bowels are thoroughly
opened.
A mixture of equal parts of
sulphur, salt and wood-ashes
placed for sheep all the time
will keep them healthy and pre-
vent both ticks and fluke-worms.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
May is not likely to bring big rains or unseasonal cold
unless there is a further strong sunspot outbreak. At present
(7/5/’52) the sun is clear of spots. The prompt sunspot
effect was well proven at the end of April, when a quite
ordinary spot suddenly developed into a triangle of large
spots. The effect was the cyclical rain of early May and an
unseasonable cold spell.
Unless a similar outbreak comes, and they are not
common, May will be a quiet month until its last days, when
more cold is likely. June should have good widespread rain,
almost general, though not in the tropics except in the
Herbert and Barron districts of Queensland.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
9
mm
m
NO
EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
1
I
• '
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:"
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St Perth
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services,
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers
Raffles Place.
,RF.
of t tP*
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOEE
WANGANELLA ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
F.S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Eoonoke North. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
w
•ft 0/1
f *W£SS4/ASHTZZ
K
r
*
Wm<
mm
m
ssm
HP
** ■
Section of the electrically-operated French Combing Plant at John Vicars & Co. Ltd.
From wool clip to woollen cloth
AIDING AUSTRALIA’S ADVANCE
No. 4 of a series
HM C LAREN
DIESEL-ALTERNATOR SETS
boost vital production
In Vicars woollen mills dependable power is essential for the un-
interrupted carding, combing, spinning and weaving of cloth vital to
Australia’s defence and civilian needs. BOEAUST has contributed its
share of this power by the installation of three “McLaren” self-
contained Diesel Generating Sets and one large 500 kVA “Petter-Brush”
Generating Set. Should continuous production be your problem, let the
specialised technical ex-
perience of BOEAUST
engineers give you the
facts about low-cost,
efficient BOEAUST
Diesel-electric installa-
tions. Capacities from
50 to 2,200 kVA.
At right, the three
“McLaren-Brush” 60 kVA
Generating Sets operating
in parallel.
m
m
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A'SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney. 368 Collins St., Melbourne. Distributors in all States.
i HfUfa# ESfETOgSI (national
-IB
Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group—now the
largest producers of industrial Diesel Engines in the world.
Two kinds of lice infest
cattle bloodsucking- and
biting-lice. The short-nosed
bloodsuckers are found on
neck and shoulder. Apply an
ointment made by mixing an
ounce of sulphur with 4oz. of
lard. This will also relieve
horses from lice attack.
If seedlings are affected with
“damping-off,” a species of mil-
dew caused by warm, humid
weather and infesting spindly
plants grown too closely to-
gether, thin them, reduce the
water, add a good stimulating
fertiliser, and then spray with a
solution of loz. of liver-of-
sulphur to Igal. of water.
For an all-purpose spray
combination, mix lime-sulphur
with arsenate-of-lead. This will
check fungus disease and chew-
ing and sap-sucking insects.
Lime-sulphur is invaluable for
mildew control, especially for
cucumbers, melons, squash,
marrow and pumpkin.
Mallee Pastures.
“Myrr”; Most promising
pasture species tested at the
Mallee research-station, Walpeup
(Vic.), are barrel-clover and
Wimmera rye-grass. The tests
show that a balanced pasture
can be established by sowing
lib. to 21b. of barrel-clover and
21 b. to 41b. of Wimmera rye in
the autumn, using wheat as a
cover crop. These species have
proved superior to the “native”
pastures, but, under Mallee con-
ditions, neither can take the
place of the cereal crop for the
production of early greenfeed.
Table Poultry.
“M.”: Costly food is forcing
producers to grow their birds
rapidly and dispose of them as
soon as they are ready for
market. A good flesh-forming
(as distinct from a fattening)
ration should contain not less
than 10 per cent, of meatmeal.
A fattening ration is low in
protein (the flesh-former) and
should be fed only to mature
birds.
Begin with a chicken-mash:
ground wheat 501 b,, ground
hulled oats 201 b., bran 101 b.,
maizemeal 101 b., meatmeal 101 b.,
salt |lb. From eight weeks till
marketing, feed ground wheat
201 b., pollard 401 b., bran 201 b.,
maizemeal or oaten pollard
101 b., meatmeal 101 b., salt 11b.
Add greenstuff and shellgrit.
The Grease Gun.
“8.J.L.”: “Grease is cheaper
than spare parts” is the slogan
of a famous manufacturing firm.
True; and to supply it calls for
a good grease-gun. For a small
farm an ordinary pusher type is
useful, but for a farm with a
fair amount of machinery a gun
with a lever pump is quicker
and holds more grease.
Better still is the big stirrup-
pump type that fits on a 361 b-
. of grease, which tin is the
same size as a four-gallon con-
tainer.
However, if either of these
last two is used it is necessary
to obtain a small gun, such as is
supplied with baby cars, for the
more inaccessible nipples. Make
sure that at least one of your
guns has a nipple socket small
enough to fit into awkward spots
such as tail-shaft universals.
All nipple-sockets are not
standard size—a point to be
watched. Always clean the top
of nipples with rag or waste
before using the gun.
Refilling a grease-gun is
simple. If it is the pusher type
from which the plunger is re-
moved, ram grease home with a
ramrod no bigger than half the
diameter of the gun. If it is the
lever-pump type, the cap screws
off, leaving the plunger in the
gun. Draw the plunger only a
quarter of the way back, then
fill this portion of the gun. Then
draw the plunger half-way back
and it will suck the grease down
with it. Fill again and continue
in this way until the gun is full.
Never use a wooden grease-
pat. Tiny particles of wood will
come off even dressed timber
and will eventually choke the
outlet. An excellent grease-pat
can be cut from a piece of sheet-
iron with a pair of tin-snips.
“Spes”: For heifers with
rudimentary extra teats, wind a
good-quality rubber band
around an empty tube that will
fit over the teat. Press the tube
against the udder and push the
band off. It will tighten round
the base of the teat. This stops
the circulation of blood and the
teat will atrophy in a week or
10 days. It’s far better than the
cruel and messy scissors-cut.
“My”; If peach-aphis eggs
are destroyed in winter there’ll
be little need for a nicotine-
sulphate spray in spring to kill
hatched insects. Applied
thoroughly, taking in every twig-
tip (where most of the eggs are
laid), an ovicidal spray (tar
distillate one in 35) will save
trouble and expense. The same
spray will clean-up the black
cherry-aphis while still in the
harmless egg - stage. Protect
yourself when spraying by
smearing hands and face with
lanoline or paraffin-jelly.
“Sarina”; “Bumble foot”
occurs when fowls have to jump
down from high perches on to
hard ground. The blister should
be lanced with a sharp knife and
drained of matter, then treated
with carbolised vaseline. Mean-
while, lower the perches or
soften the ground under them.
“W. Court”: Without pro-
tection young trees may be
destroyed by heavy frosts.
Empty bitumen-pots left by
road-repair gangs make good
protectors. Burn out all the
bitumen and cut the bottoms out
of the pots. Put the pots over
the young trees every evening,
covering the top with a bag or
sheet of bark.
“Wilco”: If the bolt turns
when unscrewing a nut, have an
aperture cut in one end of a
length of flat steel or iron about
12in. long by 2in. wide. Hammer
this in until the neck of the bolt
is firmly gripped in the opening,
when the bolt will be prevented
from turning.
“Billjim”: When planting
trees, a good root is more valu-
able than a big top. Smaller
trees of between 9in. and 12in.
can adjust themselves more
readily to the rougher conditions
of the plantation site. If raised
on the holding, trees should be
prepared for lifting by periodic
wrenching from the time they
are 4in. high. This will increase
the fibrous roots.


grand cigarette for
all occasions-
Capstan’s own blend
of fine Virginia
leaf cannot
be equalled.
m
1
M/lfl
That 9 s why if s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE DEPENDABLE CIGARETTE
WCii
ll
medium
ONVZNI3
m
ilMi
mm
n
m
\jn$>
... $
X«»)XW)«(
the name is
(0 Colluins
the whisky is
Mt
|| Distilled and blended in Scotland
SMOKE-OH!
Treating chronic alcoholics in
British hospitals, Dr. James Harper
has found three different groups of
confirmed drunkards.”
Different types but kindred
spirits.
4* 4* 4*
“The drainage problem of this
municipality has been paramount in
my mind for over six years.”
—Suburban alderman.
Just pipe-dreams.
4* 4* 4*
“Do people think a girl looks cheap
if she smokes heavily?”
—Correspondent in daily paper.
On the contrary, expensive.
4* 4* 4*
“Intelligent women turn to hats for
i release from tension.”
— Women’s magazine.
And let their heads go com-
pletely.
4* 4* 4*
“Book lost, Sat. night, city, humor.”
‘S. M. Herald.”
Somebody probably took it
for a joke.
“Sashes and belts are a wonderful
way to cut your height in half.”
—Fashion hint.
But your figure will still be
true to scale.
4* 4* 4*
“A jury awarded £2700 breach-of-
promise damages to a former beauty
queen whom a dentist married
bigamously.”
More than ever the defendant
will look down in the mouth.
Heavy Going.
I m out of step. I cannot cope
With life these stringent days. I
grope
In failure’s dark. I’m but a
wraith
Of what I was. I have no faith.
I ve lost the knack to pick and
choose
With verve. I tremble in my
shoes
And sway to any fickle breeze.
I’m nervy and I’m ill-at-ease.
I ve got my Sunday suit in pawn.
My eyes are grave, my face is
drawn.
I’m liverish and getting thinner —
It’s ages since I backed a
winner !
P.O.M.C.
Bedtime Story.
“Well, kiddies, are you all
comfortable in front of your
radio-sets, all ready to tumble
into bizey when we’ve come to
the end of another episode of
your favorite serial? It’s brought
to you, don’t forget, by the
makers of Burpo, the famous
effervescent tonic drink.
“Do you toss and tumble, un-
able to get to sleep, after
Mummy has tucked you into
bed? It might be caused by
your having run around too
much at play, from thinking too
much about your homework or
from eating too many green
quinces. Whatever it is, insist
that Mummy mix you a great
big drink of Burpo. But don't
forget, if you take a big drink,
you must call Daddy when you
wake up later in the night. He’ll
love that! And if you get
Mummy to give you a handful
of aspirins with your Burpo you
won’t wake up screaming out of
a nightmare which you might
have got from reading one of
those adventure strips. Burpo
has a lovely flavor, too —a
mixture of aloes, chocolate,
jalap and ipecacuanha—m-m-m!
I wish my Mummy would give
me Burpo to drink.
“Well, kiddies, we’ll get on
with the next episode of your
favorite serial, ‘The Horned
Vampire.’ You remember last
night the episode finished with
the vampire bending over the
sleeping form of Carlotta when
there came sounds from outside
the locked door. It was
Mustapha Pheed, the famous
Arabian detective, and Tommy,
the wonder-boy tracker. Now
here is the next episode. Grip
your chair-sides
“ ‘There’s someone in there,
Mustapha—l think it’s the
Vampire. Let’s break the door
down.’
“ ‘lt might be the Hooded
Terror, Tommee. Remember, the
ACf'O%%R 9-
'eaSfeiv
/©? Di®
«!73§^
Mad Scientist let him loose, and
he’s carrying a butcher’s-cleaver,
the blade-edge of which is tipped
with a deadly poison from the
Brazilian jungles. Any victim
he uses the cleaver on will die of
poison in eight seconds unless
the juice of a nutmeg can be
squeezed on to the wound in
time. Now get back here and
we’ll both hurl ourselves at the
door with our shoulders.’
Crash !
“ ‘There’s no one here. He
must have gone! But it must
have been the Horned Vampire
—see the red mark here at the
base of Carlotta’s throat. He
was drinking her blood when we
disturbed him. Another few
seconds and we’d have been too
late —as it is she’s pretty white.
I’
“ ‘See —the open window,
Tommee. The Vampire must
have got down the ivy-vine and
dropped into the garden. Let’s
follow him, quick!’
“ ‘Look, Mustapha, I can pick
up his footprints here. You
can’t mistake them. He always
wears a heavy iron boot on his
right foot to crush in the skulls
of his victims after he has drunk
all their blood, and a sandshoe
on the other to give him speed.
He was making for the trees
behind the sundial. Let’s’
“ ‘My God, Tommee, did you
hear that terrible scream? It
seemed to come from Barbara’s
room this time. Look! The
figure with the awful face just
went past the lighted window,
and it had a meat-chopper in its
hand. The Hooded Terror!
We’ll be too late,’
“ ‘l’ll scale up the ivy,
Mustapha. I might just be in
time. It’s our only chance to
save Barbara, if that maniac
hasn’t already got her,’
‘“Wait, Tommee. Look!
There he is again. He’s back-
ing across the lighted window
now, and he’s got the chopper
raised to strike. There’s some-
one following him. It’s the Mad
Scientist, and he’s got his hands
out in front of him trying to
mesmerise the Terror. The spell
must have been wearing off and
he’s trying to renew it. Look!
They’re struggling. The Mad
Scientist has grabbed the wrist
of the hand holding the meat-
chopper. If he touches that
blade he’ll be dead.’
“ ‘There goes the wolf-howl,
the Hooded Terror’s death-call!
Nothing can save the Mad
Scientist now. He’s down on
his knees, he’
“Quick, Tommee, this way.
We’ll throw the master-switch
outside the front-door and
plunge the house into darkness.
It will give Barbara a chance
to escape, if she isn’t already
chopped to pieces. Hurry!’
“ ‘There! It’s as black as ink.
There goes that awful scream
again. And another! The fate-
ful chopper has done its fell
work. Nothing can save the
Mad Scientist now —there’s not
a nutmeg in the house.’
“ ‘Switch the lights on again,
Tommee. Now have you got
your lassoo ready? We’ll creep
up the stairs here. What a
deathly silence! What was
that ?’
“ ‘Mustapha, I felt something
cold and clammy brush past me,
but there’s nothing I can see!’
“ ‘lt must have been the Mad
Scientist—remember, he has the
power of making himself in-
visible. He must have strangled
the Hooded Terror. What’s
that? I can hear a gurgling
sound.’
“ ‘Barbara! It must be the
Vampire come back again. He
has sucked all her blood and
that’s the air in her veins making
that sound.’
“Here’s a body outside her
door. My God! It’s the half-
witted hunchback, the Mad
Scientist’s half-brother. He’s been
sucked dry! Now open the
door, but jump back quickly in
case the Terror is behind it with
the meat-axe.’
“Where is the Hooded
Terror? Is he behind the door
ready to make his death-stroke?
Has he killed Barbara? And
what has happened to the Mad
Scientist and the Horned Vam-
pire? Don’t forget to listen-in
tomorrow night at the same time
for a further episode of ‘The
Homed Vampire.’
“Now off to bizey, kiddies, and
don’t forget—if you can’t get
to sleep because of excitement
at being taken to the zoo to-
morrow or at having been given
a new kite or a doll, get Mummy
to give you a great big drink of
beautiful fizzy Burpo and you’ll
sleep like a top. Bye-bye now.”
BO.
Hard Tack.
“Dehydrated beer and stout can
now be sent to troops overseas
without taking up so much shipping
space.”
With what delight our fighting
men abroad
Would welcome cubes of beer at
frugal board,
Yet one might hear a deep
nostalgic sigh
If this new solid, meant to
quench a thirst,
Proved tasteless at the best; or,
at the worst.
Left tonsils, parched for cooling
liquid , dry.
And think of this; if one should
spill a glass
Of beer no doubt he’d let the
matter pass,
Another bottle could be drawn
from stock;
Whereas a solid ration dropped
perchance
Would make a man do more than
look askance —
In fact, it’s certain he would do
his block.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Political Blight
While political-planners and blueprint-
experts have been plotting their fanciful
graphs on food-production, railway
charges, driven up by basic-wage in-
creases and ever-shortening hours of
labor, have risen from 2s. to 6s. 3d. on
a bushel of fruit, and from 9\d. to 4s. 6d.
each on just the empty case. At the
same time the withering hand of this State
monopoly has increased the transport
charges on every other perishable product,
and that, of course, has been added to
the average wage-earner’s tucker bill.
Along with that has gone the alarming
rise in road-transport costs and registra-
tion fees —increases that are alleged to
keep “our railways’ solvent and in “fair
competition” with road-users, and to keep
our roads in good order and repair. Yet
coincident with the rise is the fact that
after almost every shower of rain farmers
are bogged on roads which are fast de-
generating back to the packhorse era.
The costs of postal and telegraph
facilities —lifelines of our open spaces—
have also risen out of all proportion to
service rendered, and electricity, adminis-
tered by still another authority, has be-
come a staggeringly expensive item. One
farmer whose home was quite close to
the main power-lines was billed £lB5 for
one pole to tap the main ; another, whose
crop depended on water for spraying
against disease, was refused the necessary
50yds. of wire to couple-up a pump be-
cause “wire was short.” He finished up
spending £lOO on a kerosene-driven pump.
No amount of political planning or pie-
in-the-sky will till the soil or produce an
ounce of food while every avenue of
food-production is hamstrung by Socialist
control and political appointments. The
natural, almost instinctive aim of the
farmer is to grow and produce, but the
dismal fact remains that the more he
produces the more heavily he is hit by
assorted Government authorities.
While Governments wangle themselves
into and hold office by cashing-in on
town and city votes, millions of acres re-
main unpeopled, roadless and waterless;
and while tens of thousands of men who
should be tilling our soil are enticed or
driven to the cities and held there, only
a few air-hours from our shores are mil-
lions of unhappy and underprivileged
beings living on a handful of rice and
ready to boil-over into any space tha t might
give them food and room to produce it.
All our Governments seem able to do
about it is to plunder landholders by seiz-
ing their properties at 1942 valuations,
and to obstruct farmers at every turn
with a maze of boards and controls. What
they should be doing is granting long-
term loans at low rates of interest to
enable farmers to build homes and pro-
vide amenities for family units of farm-
workers. Also they should be ensuring
farmers cheap materials for fencing and
other purposes. Certainly they will never
feed thousands and thousands of migrants
by holding conferences and drawing up
beautiful theoretical blueprints.
Australia can survive only as a great
farming country, and to do that it must
sell the products of the land to countries
which can provide us with the goods we
cannot produce except at the expense of
the land. Any other course spells dis-
aster, even though it may be temporarily
staved off or obscured by import restric-
tions and other artificial means. —
Ellesell (N.S.W.).
Co-ops.
“Inall” states (B. 23/4/’52) that the
Supreme Court of S.A. lately granted an
injunction to a co-operative dairy-factory
restraining a dairyfarmer from selling his
milk elsewhere than to the co-op. The
truth is precisely the opposite. The
court refused to grant an injunction.
Press reports of the decision, in this
State, at least, were quite clear and leave
no room for “Inall” to have made a
mistake. His remarks regarding Leeton
should, therefore, be scrutinised very
carefully before being accepted.—J. S.
Kentish, Hon. Secretary, Co-op. Societies
Association of S.A.
Taxation
Our present taxation policy penalises
the successful producer and discourages
individual effort. The man who dares
to increase his crops, flocks or herds is
"I'll lay you four-to-one on Smithy!"
Stung when he should be rewarded. The
inevitable result is that output is re-
stricted at a time when every bushel of
wheat and every pound of meat or wool
is needed to balance the national budget
and feed and clothe our growing popula-
tion.
This applies also to the bench or forge.
Workers lose interest in their task when
they realise that their extra hours of effort
are progressively taxed until overtime is
of less value to them than normal time,
and that they lose little by indulging in
an occasional holiday or rolling strike.
No employer would dream of lowering
the wages of his best workers because
they were the most efficient; he would
rather offer bonuses for more speed.
The Treasury concentrates on acquir-
ing cash to enter in its books when it
should be boosting production for home
and foreign markets. Taxes are a neces-
sary evil at all times, but when they are
inflicted as a scourge on those who con-
tribute most to the real wealth of a nation
they are a crime. If they were gradually
tapered off on incomes above average
there would be some incentive for both
bosses and workers to increase their
quotas. — Jock (S.A.).
“Snarlers”
At different times I’ve been a foreman
at two warehouses, with about 20 men
under my direction at each. The first
firm expected from employees obedience,
loyalty and a certain amount of overtime
without pay because they were paid a
bonus every year. If the men were re-
quired to work half an hour late, or cut
short a lunch-hour, it was my duty to
tell them not to murmur “overtime” be-
cause of the “bonus”; they must be
prepared to give and take. Anyone who
did not concur was told the firm would
rather he did not work there any longer
—it wanted only workers who were com-
pletely satisfied and happy with its dic-
tates.
Consequently I had around me a
servile bunch of “yes”-men who wouldn’t
say a word against the boss, even among
themselves. Their work was not of the
highest efficiency, for each man’s aim,
subconscious or otherwise, seemed to be
to do as little as possible, to get even
with the boss.
For some time now I have been em-
ployed by another firm —a firm which
gives no bonuses, allows no concessions,
demands a fair day’s effort for a strictly
award wage, and has a manager who tells
his men that if they are not prepared to
work he will find someone who is.
The men have a strictly 40-hour-week
complex, won’t work five minutes late of
an evening unless they are paid for it,
curse the boss and the company among
themselves and to me, seek union inter-
vention for alleged breaches of award
and conditions, and have even appeared
as witnesses in the Arbitration Court
to give evidence against those they work
for, But most have been with this boss
for years, and, though all agree he is
hard, respect him as a man. He in turn
has confided to me that he holds the same
admiration for his bunch of “union-
cursed,” “clock-watching” workers.
Having had experience of both types
of men. I’ll take the “snarlers” every
time they are men, and excellent
workers. Lord Kitchener once said “It
is the man who complains the most who
is the best worker,” an observation which
I fully endorse. —C. A. L. (W.A.).
Give ’Em a Go
Another reason for low production: A
foreman can’t pay more money to the
good man or less to the inefficient, par-
ticularly in Government or semi-Gov-
emment jobs. The legend has grown that
foremen and other responsible people
must be popular with the men—don’t
push them ; don’t be difficult with start-
ing- and finishing-times and time to get
the bets on; don’t hurry them with their
tea-breaks and smoke-ohs; be easy; give
the no-hopers a go.
All this is standard practice these days.
Any foreman whose efforts to get things
done result in complaints to the higher-
ups—as they certainly will—soon finds
himself in difficulties. The bigger the
organisation the less support he gets.
We won’t have better production until
the higher-ups, expect their foremen to
insist on a fair go from the men and sup-
port him when the row develops. There
wouldn’t be many rows. —3130 (Vic.).
Insurance
Th» “Victorian Government Gazette”
of March 5 records that licences to carry
on fire, marine and fidelity guarantee in-
surance business were granted to 139
different companies.
That number suggests that insurance
business must be fairly profitable, an
assumption supported by figures. Fire-
insurance, in particular, seems to be the
least risky of the different types of insur-
ances undertaken, and policyholders in
that department could be excused for
thinking that the premiums they pay go
a considerable way towards paying
various other claims which the companies
have to meet.
As most of the companies licensed in
Victoria also operate in the other States
of the Commonwealth, the figures com-
piled by the Commonwealth statistician
relating to fire, marine and general insur-
ance transacted in Australia in 1949-1950
are interesting.
Total revenue was approximately
£48,500,000, of which about £47,000,000
came from premiums and the balance
from investments, etc. Gross claims
accounted for about £21,000,000 and
“other expenses” (management, etc.) used
up about £16,000,000.
Thus, after satisfying all claims and
charges, there was a surplus of approxi-
mately £11,500,000.
The statistician gives a very detailed
analysis of operations under the different
headings. Some of the more important
are;
Premiums. Claims.
£ £
Fire .. .. 12,343,000 2,429,000
Employers’ liability
and workers’-com-
pensation .. 11,555,000 6,292,000
Motor vehicles (ex-
cept cycles) .. 7,912,000 4,730,000
Marine .. .. 4,296,000 1,784,000
Compulsory third
party (motor
vehicles) .. .. 2,383,000 2,694,000
In the last category, claims exceeded
income, and that has been the case for
the past three years.
To one not well up in the intricacies
of insurance the figures seem to show that
when the house- or other property-owner
insures against fire he is helping to pay
claims for other risks underwritten, and
in which he is in no way concerned. It
would be interesting to hear from an in-
surance expert on the subject, as, in the
absence of some proper explanation, the
ordinary holder of a fire-insurance policy
would be justified in thinking that his
premiums are much too high.— Ceg
(Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 173
Across.
I—Worthless1 —Worthless nag in ornamental
stone is to weary. (4)
3 —ln favor of bridge preliminaries,
or not in favor? (10)
10 — A piece of sculpture might be
expected to sit on this. (4, 6)
11 — Defeat an eider’s coat. (4)
13 — Mrs. Baba Sr. has a genus of
aquatic plants. (6)
14— Mother swallows an insect and
you in Virgil’s hometown. (6)
16 — This has taken orders. (3)
17 — Plenty whose spouse turned to
salt. (3)
18 — Fish of the French enemy of a
quiz contestant. (6)
20—Fruit assignation mentioned in
“1066 and All That.” (4)
22 — German city comment on the
monogram of Mary Miles Minter.
(3)
23 — A hundred overhead in a famous
race. (3)
25 French bear yours and mine. (4)'
26 European river upset Miss Gwyn
for a fertiliser. (6)
27 Branch weapon. (3)
28— Sack the catch of a huntsman. (3)
30 — What follow 22 across with you
about to make certain? (6)
31 — Strive for a steeple snake’s fury.
(6)
33 —Eft went wrong. (4)
35 —Male painting and spoilt broth
causes some excitement to a
bobby-soxer. (5-5)
37 — Barker floor-covering is the editor,
and laid down the law. (10)
38 — Sign of mirth is not enough for
a Montenegrin. (4)
Down.
1 — A sudden spasmodic movement
in a jacket. (6)
2 One for the road is to act with
an Oriental detective before the
Day begins. (4-2-5)
4 Klemperer provides staff for fur-
niture Turks. (8)
5 Hollow roar in a harbor bar in
time of prosperity. (4)
6 Act. (2)
7 Nip statesman, there’s nothing to
it. (3)
8— Part of a ship sends a lethal
weapon to Cambria. (8)
9 Shorten a game of cards. (7)
12—Strike down and strike up. (3)
14 — Majestic potentate lets Roy Rene
pull up. (5)
15 — The bride’s follower puts up with
the railways. (5-6)
19 —Ring doctor about a card-game.
(5)
21 —Idol swallows Jules and rules in
the past. (8)
23 —Interpret the meaning of studies
with the loyal. (8)
24 —Protests I am in vegetation. (7)
27 —Larsen collected in galleries. (3)
29 —Responsible for the decline and
fall of a monkey? (6)
32 —By one Persian elf like lolanthe.
(4)
34—Funnyman is to cause some agita-
tion played by truants. (3)
36—Is this why Philadelphians call
their State the fatherland? (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 172


<0
\
v
Atone/
a a
nsNHHHDSa
that slip; through your finger;
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
%
mmmt
4 :
Ml
m
The
■
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS
Assurance Co. limited
• V: •
■ .
!S>-
#■l
v <<-v
•. . ...I-
, ■
