

The Bulletin
*The Bulletin/’ Vol. 73—No. 3778
\Vednesday, July 9, 1952
fcf 3 Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN MILITARY MAJESTY ALNWICK CASTLE GUARDED THE TURBULENT BORDER
TT'OR over eight hundred years Alnwick Castle, the great Border stronghold
J 7 of the Percy family, has stood on its ridge of rock high above the River
Ain in Northumberland. It is one of the most imposing examples of a medieval
fortification in Britain, and during the days of Border warfare it withstood
many sieges. Before its walls in 1073 the Scottish king Malcolm II was killed
during an attack, and there, also, in 1174 was captured William the Lion.
The foundations of the original castle were laid by Gilbert Tyson,
standard bearer at the Battle of Hastings in 1066, but the earliest parts of
the present castle were completed by Eustace Fitz-John in the twelfth century.
In 1309 Alnwick was bought by Henry de Percy (from whom the present owner,
the Duke of Northumberland, is descended). Henry, the first Lord, restored
and renovated his great possession, and his son strengthened its defences by
building the octagon towers on the keep. These additional fortifications were
tirgcntly needed in the disastrous reign of Edward II (1307-1327), for after the
Battle of Bannockburn the raiding Scots took revenge by laying waste the
whole countryside of Northumberland.
The garrisoned castle of Alnwick served as an important rendezvous for
punitive expeditions against the Scots, and was needfully very strongly fortified,
with its curtain walls, towers, moat, drawbridge and portcullis. The ancient
Postern Tower, dating from 1309, now serves as a museum of Roman and
Ancient British antiquities, while the interior of the Castle itself is a treasury
of great works of art, furniture and decorations. Paintings include those by
Titian, Raphael and Tintoretto, while among the many objects of historical
interest are Oliver Cromwell’s nightcap and the hair-net of the unfortunate
Mary, Queen of Scots.
The third Percy of Alnwick was the first Earl of Northumberland who
appears in Shakespeare’s “Richard II,” and with his son Hotspur in “Henry
IV.” The powerful Percy family, in helping Bolingbroke to overthrow
Richard 11, were rewarded with the greater part of South Scotland.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
II
■nrii M.i, J
X
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
1 rospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
__ 'OO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
'CUT
STOTT'S: Pl«tBC Bend your Literary
i ro»j)rctu», free and without obligation.
My Name ..............
Addles* ........
TWO CHARMING STORIES FOR GIRLS
By Nourma Handford
• CARCOOLA.
A novel and exciting tale of breathtaking
adventures of schoolgirl twins on an outback
Australian station. The galaxy of youthful
characters live clear-cut and vivid to the very
last page. 7/8 (post 6d.)
• CARCOOLA ADVENTURE.
Sequel to “Carcoola.” Takes the delightful
young people you meet in “Carcoola” through
a further series of amusing escapades. The
book ends with a series of events, absorbing to
girls of any age. 9/6 (post 6d.)
Clean. Healthy Books for the Juvenile Library
From all Booksellers or from
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
The Red Page
TINTORETTO.
Though overshadowed on the one hand
by Michelangelo in religious decoration
on the grand scale, and on the
other hand by Titian in grace of
portraiture, warmth of flesh-painting
and suavity of rich color, the supreme
dramatic force of Tintoretto has
never lacked appreciation, from Ruskin to
John Addington Symonds; and the critic
who, like Eric Newton in Tintoretto
(Longmans), 'attempts to say something
fresh about him faces a task of con-
siderable difficulty. Mr. Newton has, in
fact, written a whole book to reveal what
Thomas Craven, for instance, in his notes
to the superb color-reproductions in the
Simon and Schuster A Treasury of Art
Masterpieces, said in a paragraph:
Always audacious, he designed the picture
[“Presentation of the Virgin”] on a reces-
sional plan, and flooded it with startling
lights. By his ability to compose groups
of figures in a world of three dimensions,
and by his mastery of light and movement,
Tintoretto gave a greater impetus to the
modernisation of painting than any other
Venetian, and his influence has been trans-
mitted by the Spanish, Flemish and French
schools to artists of the present time.
But it is one thing to sum up Tintoretto
in a paragraph and another to go right
through his gigantic output with intimate
knowledge, with meticulous scholarship
and with an intensely sympathetic eye as
Mr. Newton does; telling his hero’s life-
story as he goes and, after dismissing his
portraits as inferior, describing and
analysing in detail all his principal works.
What may have been said before —and is,
anyhow, always worth saying again—is
here driven home with fresh force and
in a style which, if sometimes rather dry,
is always lucid and capable of rising to
a fine enthusiasm:
The most magical of the pictures painted
in this mood is the unforgettable “Susanna”
in the Vienna Gallery—one of those inspira-
tions that seem to derive from some acci-
dental experience. The pose of Susanna
herself has almost the air of a snapshot,
as though Jacopo had chanced to walk into
the room while Faustina was drying herself
after the bath. It belongs to the same
family of gestures that the aged Degas set
himself to study when he made his long
series of pastels of a model at her toilet
Even the lighting is exceptional.
Tintoretto’s normal habit is to direct his
lighting hither and thither so that it lies
impartially across figures and their environ-
ment, fusing the two together. But here
Susanna and her personal possessions seem
to live in a phosphorescent light of their
own. The light and shadow that dapple
her body are subordinate to her inner glow.
lt is a green picture, rich and deep,
like the heart of a beech forest in high
summer, but broken by three splashes of
warm color —the peachlike radiance of
Susanna, the bright orange-and-white beard
of the crouching old man in the foreground,
the pale wine color of the distant elder.
The book has an added interest for the
specialist in a concluding section in which
the author’s wife (an expert in Renais*
sance costume) endeavors to fix the dates
of Tintoretto’s paintings on the evidence
of costume and hair-styles.
Houghton and Swinburne.
Part of James Pope-Hennessy’s pur-
pose in Monckton Mlines; The Flight of
Youth (Constable) is to clear Milnes,
afterwards Lord Houghton, from the
often-repeated charge of having corrupted
the poet Swinburne by introducing him
to his library of erotica and to the
traveller-writer Richard Burton, who, on
the threefold basis of his courageous ex-
ploits in Africa, his handsome physique
and his interest in barbarous and
abnormal behavior, rapidly took his place
in Swinburne’s procession of heroes.
It should be enough for Milnes’s defence
to say, as Mr. Pope-Hennessy reminds
us, that though it was indubitably in his
library at Fryston that Swinburne first
read the Marquis de Sade, it was Milnes
who suggested to the poet that he should
write the Greek tragedy which became
ms masterpiece, Atalanta; and to reflect
that the corruption of so strange and
orchidaceous a freak of nature as the
flame-haired Swinburne was really hardly
possible.
But writers who have an aberrant
genius to defend love to have a bogy to
blame. One remembers D. B. Wyndham
Lewis’s pin-pointing of Jack -Wilkes as
the villain responsible for Boswell’s pecca-
dilloes. And some very vehement things,
Mr. Pope-Hennessy recalls, have been
said about Monckton Milnes and his
“Mephistophelian malice.”
But Swinburne was theoretically in
love with Sade’s writings before he had
ever read them, and wrote a long poem in
French, Charenton, in praise of them (the
poem, hitherto unprinted, makes, with an
also-unpublished love lyric, an interest-
ing appendix to Mr. Pope-Hennessy’s
book). Milnes’s comment to Swinburne,
on receiving a copy of Charenton, was to
describe it as “a physiological extrava-
ganza” and to advise the poet to “clear
his head of the subject.” Swinburne con-
tinued to beg to be allowed to read Sade ;
and when he did —
I never laughed so much in my life [he
wrote to Monckton Milnes]: 1 couldn’t
have stopped to save the said life. I went
from text to illustrations and back again,
till 1 literally doubled up and fell down
with laughter—l regret to add that all the
friends to whom I have lent or shown the
book were affected in just the same way.
One scene between M. de Verneuil and
Mme d Esterval I never drought to survive.
I read it out and the auditors rolled and
roared. Then Rossetti read out the dis-
section of the interesting Rosalie and her
infant, and the rest of that refreshing
episode: and 1 wonder to this minute that
we did not raise the whole house by our
screams of laughter. But on reflecti'on I
found the impression left on me to be
precisely the same as that of Landor’s
heroine on her first view of the sea. “Is
this the mighty satyr? is this all?” I did
hope that this one illusion might have
turned out a reality. Weep with me over a
shattered idol!
But though Mr. Pope-Hennessy thus
makes it clear that Swinburne was rather
uncorrupted than corrupted by Milnes,
the ultimate and most solid defence is in
Milnes’s character and the whole story
of his life: in which the brief friendship
with Swinburne was no more than an
episode in a series of literary friendships
with all the great men of the period from
Keats to Landor, Hawthorne, Browning,
Tennyson and the tragic young Scottish
poet David Gray, whom Milnes tried to
save from disaster ; and in which a genial
man-of-the-world’s liking to dip occa-
sionally into a naughty book (nicely
printed) similarly disappears amongst a
tremendous variety of interests, social,
amorous (Milnes was in love with
Florence Nightingale), literary and
political—the most amusing of which is
Milnes’s lifelong hunger for a peerage:
his indignation when his father declined
to accept such an honor from Palmer-
ston, and his somewhat uneasy gratifica-
tion when at long last Palmerston got
him his title of Lord Houghton as, in the
unkind words of Brookfield, “one of
the rockets that go off at the Prince of
Wales’s marriage.”
ADDRESSES WANTED
“The Bulletin” has been asked
by a literary historian to find the
addresses of the following Austra-
lian writers:——
D. W. Burbage, Peter Cowan, Velia
Ercole, Leslie Meller, Leslie Parker,
Elizabeth Powell, D. K. Puckridge,
A. B. Sherlock, Flora Sandstrom,
Vernon Thomas, L. A. Heney.
Replies to "The Bulletin's” Service
Department will be forwarded.
Escape.
In Visas for America (Villon Press,
Sydney) Salamon Dembitzer tells the
story of the escape of a Jewish journalist
and his mistress from Belgium to France,
and from France to Portugal, as the Nazi
armies overran Europe. The story has,
of course, been told many times in
fiction ; but here the details of innumer-
able visits to consuls and men of influ-
ence in search of visas and of aid in
obtaining visas sound unusually authentic.
The book begins with the fugitives
beating upon the doors of France that
reluctantly open into a crowded refugee-
train which stops and starts and meanders,
no one knows whither, across the country-
side to Bordeaux; from there journalist
and friend go to Biarritz, crammed with
refugees whose only interest in the sea is
to cross it to somewhere safe. The radio
tells them of the progress of the war,
and warns Frenchwomen not to be seen
in the street in slacks. They hear that
they may get passports for Portugal at
Bayonne; they go there early in the
morning and find a heaving mob there
before them, but, to their surprise, their
applications receive priority over all the
others —they get their visas. Then the
problem becomes, to get into Portugal
without crossing Spain. To wangle a
Spanish passport. To go by sea on a
ship already overcrowded. Even when.
by devious means, they get to Portugal,
they are marooned in a town away from
the capital, and the whole process of visa-
getting begins again; the appeals to
consuls, the letters to men-of-letters . . .
The book shows again and again on
what thin threads are suspended indi-
vidual fame and self-respect; one day a
British consul is angrily thrusting the
Jewish author out of his office as just
another Pole; another, this same Pole
becomes ,a famous and powerful author
after an official has accorded him
priority because someone he has never
heard of has said he was a famous author.
These ups-and-downs are multiplied
infinitely among the many other refugees
the book portrays; a nightmare of un-
comfortable finesse and playing-f op-
position which, for most of them, had a
bright morning, but which, as the author
says in his epilogue, “seems today to have
been little more than a holiday and
pleasure trip in view of the fate of those
who were unable to get away, in par-
ticular his kinsfolk, the seven million
Jews.”
Reviewed Briefly.
The Running Child: Mary Treadgold
(Cape). An unusual little novel about
a little English girl who spent the recent
war on a farm near the coast; her family
speaking of emigrating to Canada,
runs away to get back to the farm of
happy memories.
* * * «
Patrice Periot: Georges Duhamel
(Dent). The French Galsworthy, keeping
pace with post-war France, here depicts
the modern French struggle as it splits
the household of a French scientist, a
member of the Institute, who has won a
prize for his researches. The old man is
persuaded by the Communist friends of
his lawyer-daughter to put his name to
political letters and petitions—scientific-
ally—in the cause of human progress.
From the ensuing disillusions, the sad
and weary old scientist is rescued by the
faith of his religious son ; and the book
ends with the old man saying a few well-
chosen words on the uses to which' Com-
munists put scientific names.
* * * *
Unique to Australia: Bill Beatty (Ure
Smith Pty., Ltd.). This is a little book
(with photographs) about curiosities of
Australian natural-history, divided into
chapters on aborigines, animals, birds,
earthworms, the Barrier Reef, wildflowers,
etc. In its way it is amiable stuff, pleasant
for children and mildly interesting for
adults; but it is all rather hackneyed
and obviously derived more from books
than from direct observation —books
which Mr. Beatty occasionally misreads.
For example, the lyrebird which “builds
its dancing-mounds sometimes to a height
of thirty feet from the ground”—a
phenomenon unknown to the Red Page
and equally surprising to Mr. K. C.
McKeown at the Australian Museum,
with whom this reviewer checked, the
point— must be regarded as unique to Bill
Beatty.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
The Australian Snow Pictorial: Com-
piled for the Ski Club of Victoria by
Stan Flattely, editor of the club’s journal
“Schuss” (Georgian House). This re-
viewer has one minor criticism to offer:
why not open the book with a quotation
from an Australian poet (David Camp-
bell’s “Winter Stock-route,” for ex-
ample ; or some of Elyne Mitchell’s
prose) rather than a doggerel adaptation
from R. W. Service? But apart from that
detail the book is admirable in every way ;
whether as a souvenir and (in part) guide-
book for skiers; for tourist publicity ;
or for anyone who cares for beautiful
photographs of mountain scenery, such
as Pascoe has published in New Zealand.
There is a short introduction covering
“The Snow Country of Australia” with
particular emphasis on ski-grounds, then
118 large photographs taken around
Kosciusko, Bogong, Hotham, etc.; among
which some outstandingly fine effects are
C. Toye’s frontispiece of “Sunshine and
Shadow,” Mr. Flattely’s “Snow Coral”
and F. Tolra’s astonishing “Bill Harris
Stunts on Skis.”
Various Verse
BEDLAM HILLS.
Corroded flat as hills allow,
stubbled with stones arid brittle weeds,
only the thorn blooms here
and scatters its seeds.
The hills are blank and pale now
beneath the clear and static air. j
The landscape is as empty
as a blindman’s stare.
Mad Clare, the story tells,
gathered her sticks and pieces here.
Her mind wore on the open rock. y||
But we forget Clare,
walk over and over the hills of strewn
and fractured rock where the berry
suckles the given stone
and the light breaks clearly.
These are the cold, the worn hills
with madness in their monotone s |
and emptiness where no life moves ,
beneath a stone.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
MOSQUITO ORCHID.
Such infinitesimal things,
Mosquito-orchids flying
Low where the grass-tree parts
And winter’® sun lies dying
In a flash of green and bronze
On the dead beetle’s wings
Among the broken stones.
Such infinitesimal things
And yet so many, so many,
Little green leaves like hearts, -
Bright wings and red antennae
All swarming into the cold,
It seems the whole hillside stings
And glints from the grey leaf-mould.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE TRAVELLER AND THE
ANGEL.
When I came to the strength of my
youth
1 set out on my Journey,
and on' the far aide of the ford
the angel waited.
His voice-— -himself invisible-
rang through my careless song.
“I am the first of your tasks. 1
Learn now your own strength.”
And hia hand on my .shoulder
' was like an awakening-™
the challenge' of his touch lit up
delight on delight in me. , ; j
How long it was that we wrestled
I hardly know—time waited ' j"'
while through defeat on defeat
I reached my triumph,
Full-tested, the pride of my youth,
strained to each farthest limit,
found its strength, made greater,
its courage tried end proved;
and all that light was joy— I
shall I ever know joy fiercer?—
feeling the subtle angel |
shift from one trial to another.
Marvellously and matched like lovers
we fought there by the ford, .3
till, every truth elicited, -1
I, unsurpasanbly weary,
felt with that weariness 'y
darkness increase on my sight, H
and felt the angel failing y!
in his glorious strength;
altering, dissolving, vanishing
he slipped through my fingers,
till, when I groped for the death-blow,
I sought and could not find him.
But his voice on the air
pierced the depths, of my heart.
"i was your strength; our battle
leaves you doubly strong. ■
“Now the way is open
and you must rise and find it—
the way to the next ford
where waits the second angel."
But weak with loss and fear
! He yet by the ford.
Now that the angel is gone
I am a man, and weary.
Return, angel, return.
I fear the journey.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


A distinguished Glace Kid. In Black or Brown. £7/8/6
Brown Willow or Black Calf. £7/8/6
Men’s Black Calf Boot by Sir Herbert Barker. £B/17/6
T. —tex'.
* —
err
■j<-
r
Si.
I Mv
Nflfc
T£
SKaT
i*
3?
m
r\ i
i
1./
■
i/
ORTHOPAEDIC SHOES
THOUSANDS OF MEN AND WOMEN HAVE FOUND COMFORT IN THESE SHOES
Until recently, men regarded orthopaedic shoes as a luxury that was only for women. Many
Australian men suffered tired, badly supported feet. They thought they’d just have to be rugged
• s i
|s ij&m
I j
m.
n
.
m
M
I
HP
|iil*iipiii MHmniVMi
: V
m
mm m
-- s jrs ? < ■■■■v
r mT\" -< "
■
’
; s'i V
A. Ladies’ Perforated Oxford. Featuring welted soles, leather
heels; these colours in Kid, Black, Brown, Navy. £6/14/-
B. Navy Suede and Calf. Derby tie, lightweight sole. £6/16/-
C. A Dress Court Shoe. With light soles and covered Cuban
heels. In sumptuous Kid of Black or Navy. For £6/14/-
D. Suede Ghillie. With a Kid trim. In Black Brown,
or Navy. Strong welted soles, leather heels. £6/16/-
1
individuals; grin and bear the excru-
ciating pain of unhealthy shoes. But
now, from England, we’ve imported
an exclusive brand of Orthopaedic
Shoes and Boots designed by the
world-famous Orthopaedic Surgeon,
Sir Herbert Barker. There are many
distinguished styles for MEN and
WOMEN. Many
thousands of Sydney
men and women are
now walking proof
that, at last, here are
shoes that are scien-
Sir Herbert Barker
tifically fitted for cushion-soft com-
fort, made for durable wear. Our
experts will be happy to fit you
immediately with the shoes your foot
shape and measurements demand.
For your health, comfort, your way
of walking and posture, wear these dis-
tinguished shoes by Sir Herbert Barker.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING '
I*l
tre
N'S FOOTWEAR, GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
LADIES' SHOES. 2nd FLOOR.
BOX 2712 C.
G.P.0., SYDNEY. 'PHONE: M 2401


//
\»
FINEST WAY TO
5L^
wilillii
.
»"*wiii
V
II
'• : > : : :
, V>
> ;
*
B
HI
-V
on a
Round-tbe-World
concession air ticket
FLY
THE
BRITISH
QANTAS BO AC BCPA TEAL
ROUND-THE-WORLD >
YSTE
ADVANTAGES OF THE BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM
4
k
Your entire trip planned in advance without booking
fee. One ticket all the way. Traditional British
service, delicious hot and cold meals, complimentary
refreshments.
Break-of-journey facilities in the world’s great cities
at no extra air fare. Transport and hotel accommo-
dation at ail night stops. Courteous British tourist
advisory service at every point.
mj
Mil
DBM
P
ŕ
Characteristic British attention to every detail of
on-the-ground service as well as in the air—all in-
cluded—no gratuities. Hospitality and dependable
flying skill every mile of the way.
BASS
%
y v
u.
Q
9:
O
//f OUND
See INDONESIA • MALAYA
INDIA • CEYLON . PAKISTAN
LEBANON • EUROPE • ENGLAND
U.S.A. • CANADA • HAWAII
FIJI • NEW ZEALAND. Book
through your Travel Agent or any
office of QANTAS or BCPA.
To bring you an entirely new conception of
Round-the-World travel comfort and convenience
these four great British airlines are linked in one
unique global system.
One all-inclusive, British concession ticket takes you
all the way , through a dozen or more countries,
to the world’s most colourful cities, ancient and
modern, in luxurious four-engined, pressurised
airliners under the skilled command of veteran
British fliers. Choice of direction —East to West or
West to East. Choice of timetable —circle the earth
in less than a week, or take as long as you wish.
Enquire now about this British System of Round-the-
World air travel with “short trip” convenience.
etr
Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD .
(inc. in Queensland)
MEMBER
.
THE BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM WITH 8.0.A.C., BCPA AND TEAL


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3778
Wednesday, July 9, 1952.
I
v£. %
%
US
\
%
&
A DIFFICULT LADY.
“Wotcher want to hurt it for, mug?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
PRESSURE-GROUP POLITICS.
A wailing of pressure-groups through-
out the land has supplanted and sur-
passed the previous wailing over inflation,
probably for the reason that leaders of
“Labor’s” unremitting obstruction of the
Commonwealth Government —the only
policy of that defeated party since the
elections of 1949 —recognise now that the
Government’s measures against inflation
are succeeding. These pressure-groups
extend from the daily Press, notably in the
chief industrial State, to those Com-
munist executive officials usurping
control in the key trade-unions whose
rank rebellion against the industrial law
is approved even by the A.C.T.U. as a
useful weapon in the hands of an ally.
Sydney “Herald” addresses the Govern-
ment on its task of preparing the Budget
in language open to interpretation as a
direction to the Commonwealth Treasurer
to “frame the Budget with next year’s
Senate elections firmly in mind.” Till the
“Herald” spoke not even Premier Cahill
had thought of blaming Mr. Menzies
for the coal-carrying deficiencies of the
N. S. Wales railways. The secretary
of the Melbourne Trades Hall gets
lavish space in the Melbourne papers
for a daily prophecy of imminent depres-
sion, financial collapse and general panic
unless the Government abandons its anti-
inflation programme and turns on the note-
printing machinery at full speed. Other
spokesmen for the Trades Hall from
Cape Moreton to the Leeuwin, along with
leaders, high and low, of “the move-
ment’s” political wing, howl to the
heavens about raging unemployment be-
cause there is now a reduced excess of
jobs over the hands available. The “fear
complex” has been made by “Labor” to
rule debate at every by-election.
Manufacturers variously wail against
import restrictions and against adjust-
ments which will admit some additional
imports. “Labor” politicians stump the
country denouncing import-bans because
they upset Britain’s export trade, while
the textile unions threaten more strikes if
the same bans are relaxed. Dr. Evatt
finds no difficulty in exploiting both
views. He demands that the Government
shall “find” huge new sums of money for
the profligate States, for “social-security”
largesse, for large-scale development of
agricultural production, and simultane-
ously insists that taxation shall be re-
duced all round, sales-tax cut to the bone,
and Commonwealth subsidies provided
on every item of popular consumption to
peg prices. Another howl goes up that
the Government shall assure payable re-
turns to every farmer —by which rural
voters are incited, without much diffi-
culty, to join the chorus—and it mingles
with the further howl that prices of farm-
products are driving every city housewife
mad, provoking her assistance to “vote
‘Labor’,” and obstruct the Government’s
efforts.
This bedlam of shouted propaganda
is calculated to impress Australians with
the idea that they are being severely and
needlessly hurt by a Government charged
with having “no plan for overcoming the
nation’s difficulties.” It is calculated to
prevent the electors from understanding
those difficulties, and to convince them
that under “Labor” rule it would be a
simple matter to provide them with every-
thing they want on the ground that
anything they want they have a
right to obtain. No intelligent citizen
can really believe that any Government
can act to “put back value into the
pound” without some sacrifice —or more
effort —to that end by everybody.
A testing-hour at the Loan Council
meetings is at hand. There the State
Governments and all the other pressure-
groups are due to be told by the Prime
Minister from first-hand examination
abroad the full facts of the situation in
the whole sterling area. Mr. Menzies’s
absence may have delayed Commonwealth
Ministers’ move to the counter-offensive
in this matter; certainly they have rested
on the defensive for long enough. New
South Wales under “Labor” has been
the worst-managed area of the Common-
wealth, but is now being closely pressed
for this reputation by Victoria under
“Labor’s” puppet McDonald Ministry.
Premier Cahill, of N.S.W., publishes—as
a reflection, of course, on Canberra —his
own Government’s transport losses for
1951-52 as just under £6 million (they
were £8 million in the previous year).
Victorian transport, states the unrepentant
Half-Premier McDonald, reveals a loss of
£8 million. “Labor’s” Brisbane City
Council had overspent the other day to
the degree that it had nothing in sight
for six weeks with which to pay its em-
ployees. Adelaide Municipal Tramways
Trust is on the rocks of something of the
same sort. Westralia has been financially
stunned by a two-months’ transport strike.
In Queensland Premier Gair represents
“Labor” successes in local-government
elections as a censure of the Menzies Gov-
ernment for not providing money to
spend. In Victoria “Labor” leader Cain
and his Charley McCarthy who reigns as
Premier won the Legislative Council
elections on the same depression-howling
stunt against the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, but the “Labor” bill for a replica
of the Greater Brisbane Council in a
Greater Melbourne Council looks like
getting the green light on an electoral
verdict which, as sought, had nothing to
do with it.
Perhaps the supreme impudence is
that of N.S.W. Premier Cahill, whose
party-organisers owed their win at
Ashfield partly to the tactics of present-
ing their candidate as “another Mr.
Richardson.” Mr. Cahill now presents
Ashfield as a claim on the Loan Council
to provide him with all the money he
“demands,” and threatens, quite regard-
less of whether or not loan money can
be raised, he will hold State general
elections before their due time in order
to cry panic and register State-wide
endorsement of his “demand.”
But when asked about demanding a
reversion to the days when the States
raised their own income-taxation, Premier
Cahill answered in disinterested fashion.
Under the States’ pressure-group tactics
for the Loan Council meeting the Com-
monwealth’s levying of taxation for the
States to spend seems now to have
reached the ultimate stage of political
indecency.
Mr. Menzies and Treasurer Fadden are
due to conduct some attacking of their
own. Whatever the avoidable inequities
(frankly specified in The Bulletin) in the
operation of the Government’s Budget
measures. Treasurer Fadden deserves
praise for his unflinching stand against
the pressure-group racket. But some
plain and public review of the whole
field is now due. Certain alleviations of
hardship from the inequities mentioned
have been forecast. But the general course
the Government has taken for ayoidance
of the overwhelming disaster assured from
unchecked inflation is one that cannot on
any ground, economic or political, be
deserted now. As for States’ loan-money
“claims,” only the establishment of stable
money-values will restore the confidence
of loan-investors.
At the Loan Council the Com-
monwealth Auditor-General might be
invited to attend and present a faithful
picture of the States’ transport finances,
the core of all State Budget troubles. By
and large, easy money and the 40-hour
week have bankrupted all State transport
systems. And it would be enlightening to
get an up-to-date report on the Blacktown
(N.S.W.) State tileworks—a “works”
fiasco for which Mr. Cahill himself is
Ministerially responsible. As for the
raising of the year’s loan money which
Mr. Cahill, from the senior State,
“demands,” the Commonwealth should
on behalf of the investing public require
a businesslike scheme of priorities in
loan-works, and should summon the State
Treasurer to provide, in support of their
claims, some evidence that the investors’
money sought is available, and to name
the interest-rfe.te they are willing to offer
in order to attract it.
From their response the Australian
public should be able to appreciate
something better than the face-value of
this guerrilla warfare against the best
interests of Australia,
Mr. Menzies at Home.
It is traditional for Prime Ministers re-
turning from abroad to say how glad
they are to be home ; but Mr, Menzies,
returning after a very hurried tour, has
little to make him glad, except for his
achievements overseas.
Mr. Menzies has made more than the
ordinary impression abroad. As an
orator he is a match for anything in the
British Empire, and his oratory has had
constructive content which a lot of
oratory hasn’t. He has shown common-
sense in his approach to Imperial
problems, and has not sought, as Dr.
Evatt usually did, to widen any schism
that came in his way for purposes of
personal publicity. He has not at any
time overseas made a party approach to
his problems, but has adopted a dignified
national outlook. He has faced realities in
defence, and has not come home bluster-
ing and boasting, as Chifley-Evatt expedi-
tions usually did, of friendships with the
wrong people and of friends vanquished
round the council-tables of Westminster.
If he has not saved the country’s economy
by selling the promising, but as yet un-
charted, deposits of uranium ore at
Rum Jungle—a proposition to which the
economists of the Sydney evening Press
seem to subscribe as the panacea for all
our monetary ills —he certainly has
bettered relations abroad in half a dozen
countries, smoothed over in discussion
with the heads of the British Government
the rough and irritating edges of natural
conflict about import restrictions, helped
to streamline both British Commonwealth
and Western defence and to give a greater
British ingredient, vital to its successful
organisation, to Pacific- and Indian-Ocean
defence arrangement.
In general, the arrangements he has
made with Mr. Churchill knit more closely
the plans for British Commonwealth
supply of defence materials on a plan
which will help to ease the burden
imposed by Australian import regulations.
Much that was originally to be produced
here with no regard to time, cost or to
the Australian taxpayer, in small-scale
plants yet to be established in the Com-
monwealth, will now be manufactured
well ahead of previous schedules in the
newest-model British plants, of which the
output will go to pay for Australian food
products, if Australia can produce them.
The agreement is not one to reduce
Australian employment; neither does it
involve a slackening of Australian effort.
It merely plans a rearrangement of duties
in defence as between integral parts of
the British Commonwealth to make for
speed in the attainment of security and
the application of an economic policy to
suit the needs of each component country
as far as possible.
Any arrangements for the sale of
uranium are, of course, important, as is
the securing of regular loans from the
International Bank to improve the Com-
monwealth’s dollar position ; but they are
incidental to the larger issues of close-
knit co-operation between the united
British Commonwealth and the United
States in attaining sufficient defence set-
up before the storm breaks.
The trend of Mr. Menzies’s discussions
was all the more important because his
policy clearly recognises what “Labor”
has long ceased to admit—that the British
Commonwealth, with its vast store of
experience in the scientific, industrial and
technical field, is, in terms of long-term
thinking, still the most powerful world
influence. The very strategic distribution
of its nations and of its resources must
continue to make it so, as long as it
stays united under a common overall
policy. Regarded, as Dr. Evatt amateur-
ishly decided to regard it, as a loose
conglomerate of “great nations,” each
fighting the other for precedence with
the help of any outsider who cared to
join in, it was no stronger than any of
its units. But as a welded bloc its
future is illimitable. And what is true of
it is equally true of the North Atlantic
Treaty organisation.
It is only commonsense, if there is a
world alliance to provide defence against
Communism, that the means as well as
the aspiration should be world-wide, and
that the Evatt theory that the Pacific
Ocean is a watertight compartment in
matters of defence and politics should be
jettisoned, as Mr. Menzies by his dis-
cussions has made it plain that he thinks
it should be.
The defence of Western Europe is just
as important to Australia—indeed more
so—than the defence of India, since we
could continue to live without India, but
trade with Western Europe* and the
United Kingdom is the lifeblood of the
Australian economy, and whoever
controls Great Britain and the areas on
the Continent which buy Australian
exports holds our prosperity in the
hollow of his hand. Not even Mr. E. J.
Ward could confute that. Equally, who-
ever holds the rice-bowl countries of
South-East Asia controls Asian policy
outside Russia.
At home Mr. Menzies comes to a situa-
tion which must make him yearn for
London. Though the economic position
has improved, thanks to his Government’s
measures, the political position has drifted
to the worse. The Liberal-Country party
combination during his absence did not
display itself as an imposing force in
public relations. It has been on the de-
fensive the whole time. It has not capi-
talised its political chances. It fought
the issues of the Peking “peace confer-
ences” and Communist infiltration of the
public service in a feeble manner which
so far has left “Labor” at an advantage.
“Labor,” after fighting against every
measure to oust the Communists from the
trade-unions as an interference with the
constitutional rights of unionists, has been
enabled to take credit for the victories
of moderates in the key unions run from
Moscow for years, without an audible
claim to credit being raised on the Liberal
side. The N.S.W. Cahill Government,
bankrupt, shabby, desperate through its
own squandering and maladministration,
goes its way in the manner of the worst
kind of political gangsterdom. Never
was a Government more vulnerable to
attack on almost every ground, ethical
and economic, on which a Government
can be attacked. Yet it wins by-elections,
and has the support in its general outlook
of big Sydney newspapers whose policy is
based on the assumption that everything
their known friends do must be wrong.
The N.S.W. Liberal-party organisation
has become a feeble thing, yet the poli-
tical wing has done nothing about it and
has allowed it to call the tune.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Menzies will
now apply to the local situation the same
vigor which he has devoted to the issues
with which he has dealt overseas. The
situation, especially with wheat acreage
and yields falling and the butter price
rising—a fact which looms larger to the
ordinary housewife than the threat of
Moscow—calls for a strong hand and an
optimistic technique. It calls for no
surrender to carping critics of the Sydney
“Herald” type ; also, for no retraction of
any restrictions which responsible Minis-
ters feel to be necessary to mend or limit
to reasonable size for the present the still-
wide gap in the national trade balance.
If changes make a popular Budget with
reduced taxation possible, well and good.
If not, and Australians are not prepared
to put up with a little sacrifice, much
less hardship, and are ready to sell them-
selves for immediate favors to a crowd
like that which calls itself “Labor,” they
are not worth saving. The existing imposts
are far from breaking anybody’s back or
even causing general hardship.
A Swirl in the Murray.
“Old-timer” : If anybody wants to form
a society for the prevention of ichthyo-
logists I’ll be in it. I never took much
notice of these blokes until now, regard-
ing them as a necessary evil because
somebody has to know what makes a
fish tick, otherwise we couldn’t have any-
thing much in encyclopaedias about fish,
and little children in school (it seems)
must be taught the difference between
the Crustacea and the mugilidae before
being let loose to encounter the benefits
of the 40-hour week, matrimony and the
right to strike.
According to Sydney “Herald,” Aus-
tralia’s “oldest fishing controversy” is
whether “the Murray cod is one or two
species of fish.” You might just as well
suggest a controversy on whether the
Murray magpie is one or two species of
peewee. It isn’t; neither is the Murray
cod. The peewee isn’t a magpie because
it’s smaller and has different markings.
The rock- or spotted-cod isn’t a Murray
cod for the same reason, being smaller
and differently marked. Another obvious
difference is in the phantoms on the
membranes of the windbags of the respec-
tice cod—all Murray men know that the
Murray-cod phantom is that of the tree
it was caught under, whereas that of
spotty is a map of the roads and lanes
round Boree Creek.
However, it seems these ichthyologists
got themselves into a bit of a stew about
the thing, and, instead of capturing a
’Bidgee whaler or asking the overseer at
Tammit, they went out and murdered a
Murray and a spotty and sent samples
of their blood to a university in New
Jersey (U.S.A.). There, probably sup-
pressing their astonishment, savants made
“serum tests” and found a difference
sufficient to separate the Murray and
spotty into two species. Thus has the
majesty of science teen moved to sub-
stantiate what pretty well everybody be-
tween the Marthaguy and Little Prill
Lake already knew.
However, since it’s possible that this
scientific support may prove of value to
the N.S.W. Fish Board or have an in-
direct and possibly beneficial effect on
the next basic-wage decision, and may
pacify the controversialists in the Murray
camps, I’ve no complaint about that.
But they’ve named spotty the “trout
cod”! This is a direct slur on both the
Murray cod and spotty, both native Aus-
tralians and therefore superior to a mere
immigrant, and neither of which looks
like a trout. And just before any trout-
fisherman gets his lines in a tangle lei
me ask how he’d like to hear one of his
pets renamed a “cod trout” by a bunch
of ichthy-somethings who can’t mind thsir
own business.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Bookie Is Dead.
A Sydney bookmaker has died leaving
estate valued at £271,000. By no means
a bad fellow in his way, he was liberal
with his easy money and could, had he
chosen have amassed a great deal more
than £271,000. Be that as it may, none
of his punters or those of his surviving
brethren, at least half a dozen of whom
take wagers that he would have refused (it
is nothing for them to lay the odds to
thousands), is ever likely to cut up for
more than a fraction of £271,000 as pro-
ceeds of punting. Yet, especially m
Sydney, though it applies to all the capital
cities and large towns, there are far more
punters—on gallopers, trotters, dogs and
Government lotteries —and they risk far
more of their money, than ever before.
This mania for gambling is due for
attention. There is nothing like it any-
where in the English-speaking world.
Racing has become the principal topic of
newspapers morning, evening and
Sunday —of radio stations ; of working
men ; in many cases, even of working
women. Nothing is so common these
days as to hear some housewife or city
assistant say she has put “sixpence each
wav” on “the card,” and intends spend-
ing Saturday afternoon listening to
descriptions of the races from 2YZ or
some such joint. It would be hard to find
a suitable designation for persons who
take sixpenny wagers from women ; but
these unclean creatures are to be found
everywhere, and in Sydney they swarm.
And along with this craze for racing
goes the craze for lotteries, which is
rampant in four States ; in N. S. Wales,
of course, most of all. The director of
N.S.W. “Labor’s” lotteries has been say-
ing that “we draw a lottery each week-
day and an extra one on Saturdays,” are
“selling 600,000 tickets a week,” and for
the year to June 30 had “gross receipts
amounting to £8,775,000.” None of his
“Labor” bosses is ever heard to express
a wish that even portion of this money
and of the probably greater amount
gathered in by totalisators and by book-
makers would be transferred to Govern-
ment loans. It is so much easier, and
more profitable politically, to rail at
Menzies for not giving his “Labor” crowd
everything it asks for.
Indeed the punting madness plays right
into the hands of these “Labor” worthies,
and of Communists also. The by-
elections of which so much has been said
were decided by punters; and, as a rule,
punters are bad losers. Of course, they
are not so thickheaded as to allow that
Menzies was to blame for their losses
in the lottery or the bad day they had
“Satterdee,” but they are all too ready
to believe that Menzies is their enemy
bent on ending the conditions which
enable them to gamble to their heart’s
content, and they are easily caught in
that state of mind by “Labor” canvassers
and union bosses. For, unlike their
fathers and grandfathers, they take no
intelligent interest in politics. Apart from
their domestic concerns, they can talk of
little else but racing, and that only with
secondhand “information” ; and there is
no duller subject of conversation under
heaven.
At a time when Australia, in common
with the other United Nations, is prepar-
ing for a Communist war, when China
has become a military Power and when
Japan is turning nasty again, this nation-
wide absorption in gambling is not only
discreditable, but dangerous.
Once More in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The departure of No. 78
Fighter Wing, R.A.A.F., for Malta was
an historic occasion. It sailed from
Sydney in R.M.S. Asturias, one of the
British Commonwealth’s largest liners
sent out specially to carry it.
Its members were given a great but
rather undemonstrative send-off by
Sydney, though there seemed to be little
appreciation of what their going actually
means.
Many of them have served abroad
since the war. Their commanding officer,
Wing-Commander Brian Eaton, com-
manded No. 77 and its sister squadron at
Iwakuni, and it was largely due to him
that No. 77 was able to put its heart into
the Korean campaign without preliminary
war training. Never has an Australian
unit of any sort, outside the R.A.N., been
thrown into action so quickly and so
effectively.
Now, for the first time, an Australian
force is going in peace-time into the
European area to serve in companionship
with British and other forces associated
with N.A.T.O. They are going to the
key station of the Mediterranean, from
which, more than any other, the Middle
Eastern naval and air war was won in
1939-45. Many of them, including Wing-
Commander Eaton, are already familiar
with it and its surroundings, its customs
and its problems of living.
It is all an advertisement of how
dangerous is the move of the bullying
State Premiers who met in Canberra, and
who apparently decided to demand a cut
in defence works to produce more money
for Socialistic public works and for vote-
buying for Mr. Cahill’s next State
election, A situation is rapidly being
reached in Australia in which a dictator-
ship of State Parliaments and local metro-
politan newspapers is being established,
and in which the Federal Government is
expected to be a mere rubber-stamp for
money-sucking parish-pump interests--a
mere provider of spending-money for
anybody who cares to squander it and of
“employment” for those who hate hard
work.
Next war there will be no question of
time-lags between attack and the crucial
phase. The struggle will reach its most
important point as quickly as it did in
Belgium and Northern France in 1914.
Every ounce of weight will have to be
thrown into the battle at once, and the
situation will not be one that the Sydney
newspapers can decide by hysterical
propaganda. They will be fighting some-
body even more dangerous to Australian
security than the Menzies Govern-
ment, which they appear to fear more
than Comrade Stalin or his Australian
agents.
The N.S.W. Liberals.
Not only the results of the Ashfieid by-
election, but also the uninspired fashion
in which it was conducted by the Liberal
party —the party with the offensive in
N.S.W. —has made clear that the State
organisation and the leadership are due
to be radically reformed. The use by
“Labor” of office in State Parliaments
in order to vilify and obstruct the Com-
monwealth Government’s legislation and
executive administration is a new and
entirely malignant development in
Federal-State relationships.
N.S.W. and Victoria provide between
them two-thirds of the membership of
the House of Representatives in Canberra
and the domicile of the great bulk of
Australian industry. With “Labor”
Governments in these States making their
primary aim the blocking of the national
Government’s policy and operations, in
the avowed purpose of “preventing the
Menzies Government from governing,”
ail constructive effort to stabilise a
dangerously unbalanced Australian eco-
nomy is being frustrated.
Only a united effort throughout the
nation can cure within reasonable time
an inflationary condition of a gravity
which the public is far from understand-
ing, The whole attitude of “Labor,”
using its destructive influence through the
State Parliaments and the unions, is to
resist any such united effort. So far as
“Labor” is concerned, inflation is some-
thing to be maintained in order to “pre-
vent Menzies from governing.” No real
relief from high taxation, or of high costs
of living—certainly no return of confi-
dence to the Government loan market —
is possible while inflation is nurtured, and
even welcomed, as a means of serving
selfish political ends by a party represent-
ing half the electorate.
This disgraceful obstruction, entirely
hostile to the national welfare, has been
the sole visible purpose in office of the
“Labor” Government in N.S.W., the
chief industrial State, since 1949. During
the past two years the insignificant
Country-party Government in Victoria,
as the price of being kept in office by
“Labor” there, has joined the Evatt-
McGirr-Cahill conspiracy. Both in this
performance, quite outside the sphere of
authority to which these Governments
were elected, and in the shocking
deterioration of State finances, business
undertakings and Parliamentary prestige
which has marked their periods in office,
these State Governments have been, and
are, as vulnerable at by-elections as any
Government in our history. That they
have succeeded not merely in eluding on
every occasion electoral judgment on their
own rotten records, but have been allowed
to take the offensive against the national
Government’s pledged efforts to clean up
the economic mess left by the late Chifley
Government, is patently a reflection on
the Liberal party’s organisation and
leadership.
It may be that the superior publicity
through the radio to Commonwealth Par-
liamentary debates, and the resultant
limelight cast upon members of the
national legislature, have led to State
Parliamentary seats and office being rated
as secondary in the eyes of aspirant
politicians of all parties. Certainly the
spectacle of State Parliaments today sup-
ports such an assumption. But, whatever
the explanation, the defects manifested
are making a mockery of representative
government.
The Liberal party, if it is to preserve
public respect, dare not remain indifferent
to its loss of political reputation in N.S.W.
and Victoria. “Unpopularity” of the
Commonwealth Government’s measures
is being used as excuse for apathy, inertia
and lack of leadership. That a party which
in the N.S.W. Assembly numbers with its
Country-party ally just short of half the
House has apparently given up any hope
of functioning even as an Opposition is
inexcusable ; it is a surrender of any right
to sit in Parliament for operation of rep-
resentative self-government in the British
tradition.
"Atrocities" at Kure.
Japanese accusations of “atrocities”
against Japanese citizens by Common-
wealth troops in Kure, Australian head-
quarters in Japan, are to be the subject
of an inquiry by a commission composed
of members of the Japanese House of
Representatives Legal Affairs Committee.
On the surface Kure has always been
a model town under British Common-
wealth jurisdiction, and the demeanor of
our troops there has generally been a
matter of pride.
There have been strict patrols. Until
quite recently non-fraternisation policy
was maintained with a discipline that was
actually resisted most strongly by the
Japanese themselves. There were no pro-
tests which have been heard by the out-
side world. Indeed, if there has been one
complaint from the local Japanese it has
been against thK bans on inter-racial
intercourse. If there has been any change
in British and Australian .behavior, it
is a sudden and recent development. It
is certainly difficult to believe that there
has been a “reign of terror.”
It is a matter which should be treated
seriously by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. In all probability the origin of the
complaints is Communist, even if the
complainants are not themselves Com-
munists. A few of the areas under Aus-
tralian control during the past seven
years have had a serious ingredient of
Communist organisation, some of it stem-
ming from Korea and obviously Russian-
directed. And the Japanese Press is even
more susceptible to agitation and ready
to indulge in wild hysteria than the Aus-
tralian Press.
The tales are being made use of by
Moscow throughout Asia, and their
emergence sounds like the beginning of
a general attack on British and Aus-
tralian morality for Communist purposes.
The Australian Army would do well to
hold its own inquiry, and if there is the
slightest ground for the accusations,
which is highly doubtful, deal with the
situation
Putting Beef Into It.
Mr. Menzies’s report on agreement with
the British Government that Australia
should undertake a great increase in pro-
duction of foodstuffs —the good old wheat
and beef and butter—as her part in the
common Western defence effort embraces
views which are not new. This policy
was, in fact, the recommendation of the
Government’s National Security Re-
sources Board 12 months ago.
There can be little doubt from the
results of the Prime Minister’s dollar-
hunting in U.S.A. that the American
Government’s view of the natural and
most useful direction of Australia’s part
in the Allied drive for greater production
entirely coincides with what Mr. Menzies
has discovered in London.
When the N.S.R.B.’s recommendations
were published last year it was pointed
out in these columns that this was the
easiest line of development for Australia
as well as the most useful for our
powerful friends overseas; that it must
win much greater returns than could ever
be derived from time and money and
energy spent on manufacture for home-
service of specialised modern armaments ;
that to establish Australia as a vast and
reliable food reservoir for the support
of the free world in the Communist cold
war would assure from our allies overseas
the liveliest possible interest in our
security; and that investment of capital
and energy in food-production could not
possibly fail to pay dividends whether the
threatened Communist war were averted
or not.
Food-production is, in fact, the key to
development of the north ; the means of
opening up much farming land within
reach of present railway systems, with all
their defects; and the only method of
counterbalancing the overconcentration
of population in our cities or of reducing
local costs of food-commodities. Especi-
ally with the food shortages in Asia,
nothing could so surely earn Australia
and the whole sterling area the tradmg-
dollars so sorely needed.
Money Before Merit.
Local-government in N. S. Wales lies
under threat of being reduced to the dis-
graceful standards set by the State
“Labor” Government in the decision of
the State A.L.P. conference that aldermen
and councillors should be paid £250 a
year. Not the least disturbing feature
is the apparent apathy with which the
proposal was received by citizens and
those public organs which are supposed
to protect the public against political
banditry.
It remained for the “Shire and Muni-
cipal Record” to give the thing what it
deserved; —
There is no need to be mealy-mouthed
about it. The proposal is little else than a
plan of attack upon the civic purse for
personal gain....It was made by members
of a body outside of local-government who,
as such, would have no thought for the
present occupants of civic office but might
well nourish some personal ambitions for
the future.
....To introduce payment of aldermen
and councillors would be to strip the
office of all its honor and deprive it of its
merit....
Efforts to introduce politics into local-
government have not been very successful,
largely because of the indifference of the
party followers to undertake a task without
reward. That, to them, is a “mug’s game.”
The paper goes on to warn its readers
that, if the Cahill Government accepts
the proposal, the 1953 local-government
elections will be distinguished by party
campaigners, blatant speeches, the
spending of “election funds,” deliberate
attempts to mislead and confuse electors
and all the other dirty features of party
politics by “strangers to civic life, now
eager to serve the people —or, anyway,
to get their hands on the money.”
All of which sums up the scheme pretty
thoroughly.
Withdrawals on Several
Fronts.
Last sitting before the law vacation: —
The royal commission on liquor sat on only
two days last week, but it witnessed almost as
many withdrawals as a busy savings-bank in
Christmas-week. J. L. Geraghty, M.L.A. for
North Sydney, put his name to all but two of
them. One of the exceptions was the with-
drawal by Mr. Justice Maxwell of Mr. Clive
Evatt’s leave to appear for Geraghty after
heated exchanges over the cross-examination of
a witness; the other was Evatt’s withdrawal of
his person from the precincts of the court.
When proceedings opened Mr. Justice
Maxwell drew Geraghty’s attention to a report
in Sydney “Herald” ascribing to him the words
“I was delighted to accept the commission's
invitation to attend and state my views.”
Geraghty said the report was not correct. He
admitted that he had not accepted an invita-
tion ; he had been subpoenaed. He had declined
an invitation last September. He denie'd having
used the words quoted. The “Herald” reporter
responsible for the passage quoted told the
court he had telephoned Geraghty the night
before. His report of the latter’s remarks was
correct; he had taken notes of the conversation
at the time and he had his notes with him in
court. The judge said he wished to make it
clear that he was himself personally responsible
for issuing the subpoena and that it required
Geraghty “to attend and give evidence.”
Two of Geraghty’s withdrawals concerned
statements he had made in Parliament about
the Licensing Court. First: —
The court is a subsidiary or annexe of
the breweries or it is under their domina-
tion. Those who comprise the Licensing •
Court are acting as rubber-stamps and
rendering no other service.
Under cross-examination Geraghty said his
grounds for the statement were that “repeatedly
appeals from the Licensing Court have been
invariably upheld by a judge”; his other reason
was “the number of brewery applications which
go through the Licensing Court.”
Asked whether he was aware that the last
new publican’s licence was issued in 1929,
Geraghty said “No.”
Mr. Justice Maxwell: Do you withdraw
that as one of the grounds for the accusations?
—Yes.
Geraghty then instanced the granting of a
licence to Romano —“One of the breweries’
good customers, I imagine.”
After his Honor had described it as fantastic
to take that as an indication of brewery
domination of the court, and Smyth, Q.C.
(counsel for U.L.V.A.), had said “Don’t you
think you ought to abandon that as one of the
grounds?” Geraghty said, “Well, all fight.”
He then agreed to withdraw the original accusa-
tion, and, after another round of questions and
answers, he also withdrew an allegation made
in October, 1950, that “any variation of the
law applied for by the booze-barons seems to
find ready concurrence in that court.”
In regard to another speech which he made
in Parliament in 1946, and which said, in a
passage discussing the U.L.V.A.,
“Mr. Connolly, the secretary of this asso-
ciation, said in a Press statement recently
that 25 per cent, of hotelkeepers in this
State are blackmarket thieves. He included
the wine-and-spirit merchants,”
Geraghty admitted making the statement and
also to saying on the same occasion “I say
unhesitatingly he has. condoned the action of
blackmarketeers in this State.” Asked what
foundation he had for his comment, he said
the fact that Connolly had taken no action
against blackmarketeers.
Mr. Justice Maxwell: Did you not admit
before in the witness-box that vou had no
(Continued on next page.)


mm
. v-wm
If' .
—
!»V* <
mm
!S
94 P
* £
w
••:«® -C •
s
Your ANA Hostess is a Trained Officer. .
Young ladies ... charming ... friendly ..: eager to help. Your A.N.A.
Hostess, thoroughly trained, ensures your every comfort when you
your way by Australia's most experienced airline . . . A.N.A.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
ss
AUSTRALIAN
Branches
NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY,
and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
LTD,
foundation for such a statement?—l did, your
Honor.
Mr. Smyth: In the light of that do you
now withdraw it? —I do withdraw it.
Not in the Parliamentary sense, but because
you admit it has no foundation?—l do.
Geraghty gave evidence that he was licensee
of Crow’s Nest Hotel for 11 years to October,
1945. He managed the hotel for the lessee,
Walter McGrath, who was also lessee of three
other hotels. The Crow’s Nest was owned by
Toohey’s brewery, and was “tied” to the
brewery. He never saw anything he would
regard as interference by the brewery in the
conduct of the hotel. He claimed that under his
management it was run as a model hotel.
Asked for an example of a hotel where, to
his knowledge, brewery control operated against
the public interest, Geraghty mentioned the
Railway Hotel, Railway-square, where Gregg
(the manager) “did not have the free control
of the hotel a private lessee would have. He
was under instructions in everything he did.”
When Geraghty said he had not actually seen
any interference and did not know whether
Gregg could give any actual examples, his
Honor said: “Well, that disposes of the Rail-
way. You say you cannot assist us with facts
in regard to the Railway?”—“That is so.”
Later his Honor said: “I invite you now to
give us any facts within your knowledge, other-
wise I may have to fall back on the Book of
Common Prayer and say, ‘Forever after hold
your peace.’ ”
Geraghty replied: “How can I possibly know
the conduct and control of somebody else’s
hotel?”
His Honor: I take that as an answer.
Mr. Dovey, Q.C.: So there are no facts
within your knowledge about management and
control other than those you have given? —
That is so.
As an instance of a lessee who had built up
the business of a run-down hotel and had been
penalised at the end of his lease by being
charged a higher bonus and rental, Geraghty
named “Mr. Walsh, of the hotel at Richmond.”
He did not know whether Walsh was still at
Richmond, or whether the hotel was a tied
house; it had been years ago. When Mr.
Dovey told him that Licensing Court
records showed Michael Walsh as owner of the
freehold of the hotel from 1929 until May,
1952, and his son, James Joseph Walsh, as
owner since then, Geraghty said he would
withdraw his statement, but wished to make an
explanation—Walsh was somewhat indebted to
the previous owners.
Mr. Justice Maxwell: With the added
explanation is it not clearer than ever it fails
as an instance of prejudice?—lt does.
Shortly after this the commission withdrew
for the winter law vacation.
POLITICAL POINTS
At the weekend it seemed that Com-
monwealth policy at the Loan Council,
partly as a result of Menzies’s return with
promises of defence equipment from
Britain and a loan from the International
Bank and partly as an aftermath of a recent
by-election, would tend towards meeting
somewhere about half-way the States’
demands for increased loan-money. A
proviso was to be acceptance by the
States of a plan of priorities for public
works. This suggestion of compromise
found no response in the heart of John
Joseph Cahill, who, just before leaving
Sydney for Canberra, thundered in a loud
squeak that he’d have nothing to do with
any priority plan. All his works—or at
least 94 per cent, of ’em—were high
priority (like the Blacktown State tile-
works, which provide “relief-work” for
a large number, but which still are doing
little or nothing to relieve the shortage
of tiles in Sydney).
Cahill is riding high on a wave of
Federal Government unpopularity. He
shouldn t trust it too long; it could be a
dumper.
In one week Clive Evatt managed the
hat-trick. He walked out of an
R.S.P.C.A. meeting, and talked himself
out of the royal commission on liquor.
Then Premier Cahill left him out of his
Loan Council delegation.
Let those who criticise Socialism and
State-controlled industry think again. In
New South Wales an industry entirely
under State control has shown a record
profit for the year. It wasn’t the Trans-
port Department— that’s nearly £6
million to the bad. And it wasn’t the
State coalmines or the State brickworks.
It was the State Lottery, which made a
profit of £3 million, and the director of
which is able to boast that there is a
drawing every week-day and an extra one
on Saturday, and that 600,000 tickets are
sold every week —and this in a State
whose Premier sees stark ruin and de-
pression just around the corner.
It seems reasonable to suppose that if
N.S.W. Liberal-leader Treatt had re-
covered quickly enough from the Ashfield
shock to have run round to Premier
Cahill’s office he would, have found Cahill
in a state of shock, too.
Final figures for Ashfield; J. F.
Richardson (Labor), 10,566 ; R. S. Watson
(Liberal), 9697. Party strength in N. S,
Wales House of Assembly: “Labor,” 481
Liberals and Country-party, 45; Inde-
pendent Labor, 1,
Cahill’s Ashfield win, while encourag-
ing his party’s hopes of victory at the
next general election, deprived him of his
excuse for an early appeal to the country ;
he now has a clear majority without
worrying about Geraghty. Of course, if
he wants to revert to the pre-Ashfield
position he can always expel Clive Evatt
—or can he?
The attitude of defeated Liberal Ray
Watson in refusing to offer customary
congratulations to his successful opponent
at the declaration of the Ashfield poll
was foolish, even if not as ungracious as
some papers represented it. (Watson
apparently did shake his opponent’s hand
quite cordially.) The man who
shows he can take his defeat in
good part has already won back some
votes for next time. A bad loser justifies
those who deserted him and humiliates
those who stayed loyal, r
Half-Premier McDonald got quite
angry in the Victorian Assembly when
an ex-service member of the Opposition
party charged the Government with hav-
ing failed to provide enough funds for
returned-soldier settlement. McDonald
retorted that the R.S.L. was “using
pressure-politics to force the Government
to do what it should not do.” When it
comes to pressure-politics McDonald
should know.
Next week the Cain-McDonalds will
reintroduce to the Legislative Council
their bill to widen the powers of the Vic-
torian Housing Commission to give it
power to develop any land for housing
and other building, construct roads and
drainage and provide water, electric light,
gas and sewerage. In the recent election
Liberal-leader Norman described the bill
as turning the commission into a gigantic
octopus with power to nationalise the
building industry. The description still
holds.
Although Malik has been as vociferous
as other Russian propagandists in accus-
ing America of germ-warfare, when a
U.S. proposal for an investigation by the
International Red Cross came before the
Security Council he not only emulated
Brer Rabbit in lying low and saying
“miffin’,” but he did not even listen to
the interpretation of any speech. In-
stead, he spent the session reading
“Pravda” and “various documents.” One
document he might well have read is a
report of a speech by Stalin on January 7,
1933, in which he accused Russian
peasants of spreading rust in wheat crops,
putting insects in the potato-fields and
boll-weevils in the cotton, Stalin said the
peasants’ leaders were
organising wrecking activities in the collec-
tive farms and State farms, and some of
them, including certain professors, go to
such lengths as to inject the germs of plague
and anthrax into the cattle of the collective
farms and the State farms, and help to
spread meningitis among horses.
Malik should be familiar with this
it appears in Stalin’s Problems
of Leninism, part of the cultural read-
ing of all true Communists. He would
also be aware that the speech was fol-
lowed by the liquidation of the peasants.
Which seems the more likely? That the
Americans have adopted and improved
upon the tactics of the peasants in 1933,
or that the Kremlin, having invented a lie
19 years ago to explain away the initial
failure of collective-farming, have refur-
bished it to serve a wider purpose in
1952?
What sort of upheaval was it that has
thrown “Fixer” Ashley up as spokesman
for Federal “Labor” in N. S. Wales?
If the latest casualty-list from Korea
represents a true cross-section of the
Royal Australian Regimem, it is no
wonder Red Robbie has been caustic
about the reluctance of young Australians
to join the services. Of the 21 men named
in the list, 10 came from Britain.
Considerable publicity has been given
to minor reductions in staff in textile
and other factories, but an item of
news on the other side of the ledger seems
to have passed almost unnoticed. A
couple of weeks ago the International
Harvester Company opened a million-
pound truck-works at Dandenong, 20
miles from Melbourne on the Princes
Highway. The new outfit is already
producing one vehicle for every 20
minutes of operation.
Employees of the N.S.W. State Dock-
yard, at Newcastle, will receive £45,000
as their share of the profits for the year.
If Sheahan’s railways worked on a profit-
sharing basis, N. S, Wales railwaymen
would go pretty hungry.
It is getting harder and harder to dis-
entangle “Labor” and Communist labels
on the waterfront. The A.C.T.U. has
suspended the Waterside Workers’
Federation because of its affiliation with
the Red W.F.T.U., but is supporting the
Federation’s illegal ban on overtime in
defiance of the Arbitration Court. In
the current election for officers of the
union, the A.L.P. has warned its members
not to allow their names to be coupled
with Communists on how-to-vote tickets.
In Sydney some “Labor” men have defied
the warning and are threatened with dire
results; in Brisbane three candidates
whose names have been so coupled have
dissociated themselves from the card.
Seen purely in the light of his with-
drawals in the witness-box at the liquor
commission Jim Geraghty’s earlier ful-
minations against booze-barons, tied
houses and the Licensing Court recall
the remark of the Fat Boy in Pickwick
Papers —“l wants to make your flesh
creep.”
It is being reasonably asked in Federal
politicals why Messrs, Dan Mulcahy and
Dan Minogue, M.P.s, have not invited
themselves to give evidence before the
N. S. Wales Liquor Commission. And
Mr. Dan Curtin, M.P. The information
gained by him in the practice of his
profession should be of inestimable value.
If the A.L.P, rebukes Evatt minor for
acting—or endeavoring to act —as legal
adviser at the liquor commission to rebel
Geraghty who was expelled from the
party for opposing an endorsed “Labor”
candidate, he can claim a good precedent.
Brother Bert appeared as counsel for
Communists before the High Court, and
although “Labor” vows it abhors the
Reds it elected him leader of the party.
Having provided themselves with
thumping salary-increases and a fleet of
new motor-cars at the workers’ expense,
N.S.W. “Labor” Ministers are now
considering whether to bung a-penny-
a-mile tax on intra-State air travel
in the hope of forcing people to
use the trains. Wasn’t it Premier
Cahill who said, a couple of years
ago, “If people want to travel in
luxury they must pay for it”? If this
thesis is followed out, train-travellers can
expect to be taxed for not travelling in
horse-coaches.
Conde, the N.S.W. Commissioner for
Blackouts, has changed his tune. Ou
Friday he said there was “no prospect of
ending zoning completely. It will be
retained indefinitely.” A few months ago
he was promising N.S.W. that its electri-
city troubles would end in 1950-some-
thing. Next week or the week after
Premier Cahill is certain to assure every-
body that there’ll be continuous electricity
for all next year. If talk were kilowatts
N.S.W. would dazzle the heavens with
light.
Salvador de Madariaga on disarma-
ment: “Nations do not differ because
they are armed ; they are armed because
they differ. You do not disarm to become
secure, but when you are secure,”
Final figures in the postponed Gipps-
land poll in the Victorian Legislative
Council election gave the seat to the
holder, C.P.-member Trevor Harvey,
McDonald’s Minister for Labor. Party
strength in the Council is Labor 15,
L.-C.P. 10, C.P. 8, Independent Liberal 1,
Dozens of books have been written
with titles such as “Civilisation at the
Crossroads,” “Democracy at the Cross-
roads,” “Communism at the Crossroads”
and so on, but nobody has yet called a
book “Bureaucracy at the Crossroads.”
It never is.' It just keeps marching,
straight ahead.
The A.W.U., which has always favored
piecework rates of pay where they can
be applied, accepted them for its members
driving the tunnels for the Sydney Eastern
Suburbs railway. Result, the men earn
more, cost of tunnelling dropped from
275. to 19s. a yard, and progress in-
creased 50 p.c. If piecework were applied
to a few more Government jobs loan-
money for public works would stretch
a lot further.
New York State has lifted its ban on the
sale of table margarine, which had been
in force since 1896. There’s no ban on
margarine in Australia, but several States
restrict production to a fairly low figure,
in order to protect the dairying industry.
With butter up beyond 4s, a pound and
our export-income falling, it seems time
for margarine quotas to be raised, if not
abolished.
The president of an N. S. Wales house-
wives’ organisation demands a royal com-
mission on food-supply “with Mr. Justice
Maxwell and Mr. Dovey in charge.” So
far not a single butcher, baker, milk- or
egg-vendor has rushed to her support.
Saying that it was done “to keep golfers
in the game,” three makers of golf-balls
reduced their prices. Additional reasons
were that high prices had reduced sales,
and a fourth maker had refused to im
crease prices. This shows the benefit of
competition. All that’s needed now is for
the makers of household commodities to
take the same steps to keep housewives
in the game.


" c °St^ R
I#’**-
so L Z^wp&j<
'f&*£ A
qp<ODH
aai mi?
tebssK voai?
amp
'smoS^-
A^v
'f'SA\S y^t t
tassf'"**'
olv£
vsr
aumis
Avay
X>OVID£R
XZoo M
vV v\'>
w&vctf!
'ioovo
J#^A /
&
*■
BACK TO THE ELIZABETHAN.


» J
«*\S
iS
5f 4? tT
»»
sa
i
V'
O
0
Step into
another
world...
LON
for a vacation
packed with
COLOUR, ROMANCE.
ADVENTURE!
You’ll love Ceylon! You’ll love
her exotic tropical beauty . . . her
two separate climates—like an
English Spring in the hills . . .
bathed in glorious tropical sun-
shine on the plains. You’ll thrill
to the rich colour and pageantry
of religious ceremonies . . . and
the ruins of a 2,500 year old
civilisation.
Yes, you’ll love Ceylon. In fact,
you’ll want to return again to
this romantic island gem.
Plan now for your tour of Ceylon.
Choice of accommodation
luxury hotels or any of Ceylon’s
famous Resthouses (Tourist Inns).
Sporting facilities include trout
fishing in Waltonian streams and
deep sea game fishing, surfing,
golf, and the famous Colombo
Racecourse.
mat
Jim Uii’l
The Octagon, Temple of
the Sacred Tooth situated
at Royal Kandy, last capi-
tal of the Sinhalese Kings.
Numerous tropical, palm-
fringed beaches where you
may relax and swim in
shark-free waters.
Further information, free
maps and literature can
he obtained by writing to
the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST
BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Air-
lines in Australia.
lours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents
through the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission.
CT.3.16
kuv mom saw
Y/ Qitfis
SANDERS
m& f ile|
ftffv;
>.*i
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc.. Died in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of ,each month —or
any other period.
Price* end fur-
tiler information
• pou application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lxa
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Auat.J
THIS IS THE BANK YOU OWN
T'
sa
SsV
SC
0>
v\^
m
■
*
it
O
a
quality of service rendered by
any bank depends mainly on
the staff—the men and women who conduct
the business of the bank’s clients. Behind
the scenes in the Commonwealth Bank the
careful training of the staff is going on
continuously. You may be certain, therefore,
that in this bank officers attending to your
needs know banking from A to Z and can
handle your business speedily and efficiently.
In addition the Commonwealth Bank
employs highly trained specialists whose
knowledge covers the many aspects of
finance and economics. These officers are
all working in your interests.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
Oi&rv"'
C. 5.8.28-82
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Coming Budget
Until the Budget for 1952-53
is presented, probably early in
August, there will be con-
siderable uncertainty in business
and on the Stock Exchanges.
One thing in particular is hold-
ing up a good deal of buying at
present, and that is the prospect
of a reduction in sales tax on
some lines which were “upped”
to a high level last September.
There is a lot of speculation on
this point, but no certainty. One
thing, however, is clear: the
higher sales-tax levies on many
lines had the effect of reducing
revenue below the Treasury
estimates. Thus it would appear
that the Government’s objective
of curbing luxury spending and
restricting unnecessary manu-
facture (so as to save materials
and manpower) has been fully
achieved. One reason for this
has been the contraction in
spending generally that has been
the experience in Australia over
the past nine months.
What the buying end of busi-
ness is most concerned about at
present is: Will some rates of
sales tax be lowered ; and, if so,
what lines will be affected?.
Because stock bought before the
Budget carrying present rates of
sales tax would be impossible
to shift without loss of margins
if postcßudget stocks bear a
lower rate of tax. Commodities
bearing high tax are therefore
very hard to move at the present
time.
An early Budget is necessary
this year because of the changed
economic circumstances com-
pared with last. There has been
a rumor that the 10 p.c. pro-
visional-tax payment will be dis-
continued, as well as talk of
other tax concessions. Whatever
the foundation for these stories.
it will be as well for the taxation
position to be known to industry
before accounts are presented
for the year which ended on
June 30. If the Budget is
brought down no later than the
first few days of August it will be
in time for most companies to
make appropriate provision
before their reports to share-
holders are printed.
But too much should not be
expected of the Budget. A con-
tracting tax revenue means less
Government spending, especially
if it shuns the use of bank credit
—as in these still-inflationary
times it should. No real pros-
perity will unfold in front of
Australians until a great deal
more basic production is forth-
coming from each man, each
hour. Some increase has already
come from the Government’s
policy, but the trend has really
only started to develop.
As regards allocations of loan
and other funds for State
“works,” the Loan Council
should be particularly wary
about N. S. Wales demands. Too
many State “Labor” “works
projects” are just a sink for
losses, like Premier Cahill’s
Blacktown tileworks. All the
figures of that fiasco should be
presented to the Loan Council.
Imports Now Falling
Australia’s overseas trade
deficit of £377 million for the
year which ended on June 30
compared with a credit of £238
million for the preceding year.
Nothing, perhaps, could illus-
trate the change in economic
conditions over the past two
years better than these compara-
tive figures. Wool prices started
to fall in March, 1951. But
imports continued to come into
the country on the basis of the
1950-51 wool cheque until late
into the 1951-52 year. Even with
the import restrictions imposed
three-quarter-way through the
financial year, goods brought
into the country from overseas
were valued at £1053 million for
the 12 months, compared with
£744 million in the preceding
period. But exports fell to £676
million, compared with £982
million in 1950-51.
In the last mccith of the recent
financial year the value of
imports started to decline. At
faw ;
4^
80^-
“ Wonder if you can play tunes on it ?”
£57 million they were well below
the average for the year, and
considerably below the corres-
ponding figure for June, 1951,
which was £77 million. The
month of June, 1952, showed a
favorable balance of £1,300,000
•—the first of its kind during the
whole financial year.
During the 1951-52 trading
year the decline in the Common-
wealth Bank’s holding of gold
and balances abroad was about
£420 million —about £43 million
more than the trade deficit. This
is subject to undisclosed move-
ments in other balances which
Australia may possess overseas.
There is, at the moment, a
good deal of criticism of the
Government’s import-restriction
policy. Some merchants are
complaining about the action
ever having been taken at all.
Others are prepared to admit that
action should have been taken,
but much earlier than it was.
As to the first argument, it may
be taken for granted that the
position would never have
corrected itself, by itself, as
critics contend. During the de-
pression, when buying-power
was at its lowest ebb in Australia,
it was necessary to curb imports
—especially in hard times, there
is always a tendency to buy in
the cheapest market, regardless
of the strain imposed on the
exchange-rate.
As to the second, it should be
clear enough that the Govern-
ment might have acted a few
months earlier, but little more.
Imports were regarded as an
anti-inflation factor, and it was
only as a last resort that action
was likely to be taken. When it
was, it was in concert with other
Western countries.
Guns and Butter
It appears that Australia’s role
in the event of a third world war
will be more clearly defined than
it was in World War 11. During
that conflict there was a great
dispersal of effort both inside
and outside the fighting forces,
with consequent wastage of man-
power, materials and money.
That wastage is still a burden to
be carried by the present genera-
tion, and is reflected in the
deterioration of our transport
and similar services, in the
decline of rural production and
in the great inflation that has
occurred in our economy.
It is doubtful indeed whether
Australia could stand the neglect
of its essential industries during
a third world war on the scale
of the neglect and abuse of the
1939-45 period. Already many
of our essential services are at
cracking-point, and we are
threatened with a food shortage.
In the strategy of the Western
nations it looks, at this stage,*
as though the Commonwealth
will be asked to concentrate its
energies more upon the produc-
tion of food and essential raw
materials than upon the turning-
out of aeroplanes, tanks and
highly-mechanised arms in the
event of war with Russia or its
satellites. Not that all aircraft-
manufacturing will be discon-
tinued ; present undertakings
seem reasonable enough. But
the wholesale, absorption of man-
power into munitions-manufac-
turing, such as occurred during
the reign of the Curtin and
Chifley Governments, was in
many cases a grave mistake. A
number of such projects became
mere high-wage trade-union
rackets to keep men out of com-
petitive industry and out of the
Army.
If Australia can provide food
for the major Western Allies the
idea at present is that those
Allies will provide Australia with
more efficient and more modern
arms than it is likely to be able
to produce itself at reasonable
cost. That does not mean that
Australian infantry arms and
artillery should not be abund-
antly manufactured as hitherto,
together with chemicals and
explosives. It is the more
intricate and ambitious arms now
in the process of development
that should be left to the older
countries.
But in this exchange of the
essential sinews of war Australia
should insist on a much fairer
basis of valuation than was the
case in the balancing of our lend-
lease account with the United
States during the last war. At
United States domestic prices
Australian reciprocal lend-lease
was probably of considerably
greater value than the material
and arms which America
supplied to us. But the account
rendered by Uncle Sam in the
wash-up made it look very much
otherwise, though little cash
changed hands in the end.


HOUSE—FOR SALE.
Sydney Bungalow residence (Cre-
morne). Harbour front, three bed-
rooms, reception, two bath, carpeted
throughout, separate staff flat and
double garage, £lO,OOO. Terms.
DR. CBOIiIj,
139 Macquarie Street,
Sydney.
XY 2728 Evenings.
AIDING AUSTRALIA’S ADVANCE
No. 5 of a series
w
a *fnsH 0/1 H/0/*O /AMM/frr £/g
a
m
%
I
&
niiuiiiiHiiu
mmi
trail*
‘IUUUtt
mi*-
tmi
mutmuiuimii
Cmatiowall
power maintains production of
vital powerhouse equipment.
These giant vertical plate bending rolls,
used in the manufacture of huge power-
house boiler drums, can be kept in con-
stant production despite restrictions by
“National” diesel-electric power.
They are part of the vast plant at
Babcock & Wilcox of Australia Pty.
Limited, Regents Park, N.S.W. —largest
boilermaking establishment in the Southern
T he “ National” installation at Babcock and Wilcox.
Hemisphere —where uninterrupted power is ensured by
two “National” R4AB Diesel Alternator Sets with a total
output of 540 KW ... a recent BOEAUST installation
to aid Australia’s advance.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A’ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St„ Sydney. 368 Collins St., Melbourne. Distributors in all States,
ret
inaaaaa
1VN0I1VN)
ret
ret
Part of the Associated British Oil Engine Group—now producing
the largest number of industrial diesel engines in the world.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Welcome, if slight, income-tax
concessions, introduced by Mr.
Butler last April, have just come
into effect. The delay, due to
the complicated and expensive
accounting machinery under the
pay-as-you-earn system, is com-
pensated by a sizeable addition
to the wage-packet for the first
week under the new table. There
is a touch of irony in the fact
that, during that very week, the
miners have put forward a claim
for an extra 30s. to meet “the
increased cost of living due to
the Butler Budget.”
It seems as if the momentum
behind wage-increases is beyond
check. Another union the
enormous Transport and General
—is less specific. Its executive
council agrees that restraint is
“necessary,” but that wage-
claims are justifiable as offsetting
the price-increases due to the
Government’s budgetary policy.
“Manchester Guardian,” stung
by the cynical equivocation of
this announcement, pungently
asks: “What of the price-
increases due to successfully
pressed wage-claims?” The
same editorial, after referring to
the ever-hardening plight of
pensioners and the serious effect
upon export prices, calls upon
“all concerned in trade-union
policy-making” to “accept that
they cannot say one thing and
do another.”
Other policy-makers—notably
those whose job is to make their
concerns in full agree-
ment. Yet there can be little
hope that the facile formulas of
the conference-rooms will give
place to a more realistic identi-
fication with the wider problems
still threatening, and still un-
resolved. Whether public
opinion, once so vital a force in
British life, can introduce a
modicum of hard sense where it
is most needed is also doubtful.
The Government will first have
to break down the class-war
and political cleavage which the
Labor politicians so sedulously
foster in their narrow self-
interest.
That Mr. Churchill could do
much more than he has done to
explain his Government’s policy
to the people, and to better his
haphazard methods of public
relations, is a cause of general
complaint. Cabinet Ministers,
it is true, are altogether too
heavily taxed by their exacting
duties to spend their weekends
addressing public meetings (Mr.
Eden, scarcely one to have time
on his hands, is the notable
exception). But, for so
prominent a journalist, Mr.
Churchill is singularly unrespon-
sive to the call for more
enlightenment.
Labor’s Foreign Policy
Peace on earth, mutual under-
standing among peoples irrespec-
tive of race or color, abolition
of poverty and unemployment
and promotion of trade are
Labor’s aims in foreign policy,
according to a booklet recently,
issued for the benefit of the
Socialist faithful in anticipation
of the annual conference next
September. Few will quarrel
with these sentiments (although
the addition of a gentle innocent
in the shape of an international
Tiny Tim might help to round
the picture off), but it may well
be wondered what bearing they
have upon the actualities of the
real world, which, for very lack
of these admirable conditions, is
such a sorry disappointment.
The answer, soon noticed to be
forthcoming from responsible
commentators, is “little or
none.”
The booklet’s cloying phrases
and wishful blinking are skil-
fully contrived to give no offence
where offence might easily be
taken, and, since no conference
agenda would be complete with-
out a reference to foreign affairs,
to fill that gap. It blatantly
skates over two controversial
points: the scale of rearmament
and Western Germany. The
former is dismissed with: “A
peaceful settlement must be the
sole aim of Western policy in the
cold war. The Labor party is
convinced that Britain, and the
other nations who support
United Nations action in Korea
or elsewhere, must have sufficient
strength to fulfil their interna-
tional relations under the United
Nations.” A similar sop to the
pacifists is the expressed belief
that the West, by plodding on
with negotiation feelers, may
soon find the Soviet ready to
plav ball with, “we hope, con-
oau wun we P
sequent international disarma-
ment
mem.
Played Out
Despite the wider general
interest in music, British
orchestras are in for a bad time,
especially those outside London,
, ! u f s u ,, . nrestioe
the Halle, lor all its prestige
and tautly-disciphned musician-
ship, is in difficulties, notwith-
standing its annual grants of
£lO,OOO from the Arts Council
an d £5OOO from Manchester
corporation. A probable deficit
°f £15,000 for this season alone
threatens to gobble up the
reserve fund of £lO,OOO. And
the recently - formed Leeds
Symphony Orchestra, which
based its budget upon support
from other Yorkshire munici-
pahties, has already had one
defection Bournemouth has
shocked the musical world if not
its own ratepayers, by withhold-
mg the annual subsidy of
£27 000 and reducing its
orchestra of 70 into a pier-
pavilion band of hall that
number Many music-lovers,
appalled at this apparent philis-
tmism, are arguing that Bom ne-
mouth - Britain’s wealthiest
borough—is cheeseparing, and
| p
inai me saving or zu. on me
rates is niggardly. But the hard
remains that the well-to-do
mefcSts and manufacturers
who retire there mainly from
the north, prefer the easy
pleasantries of the Palm Court
to the hushed concentration of
the concert hall
me conceri nan.
« j l f j c w : n<y ~
A different situation exists in
the strange economics of the
commercial theatre. While the
individual ‘Tittle” theatres are
barely keeping afloat before the
crushing waves of taxation and
production costs, some shows are
—unlike any orchestra, without
exception—making huge profits,
So huge, m fact, that heavy
taxation eats much of the profit
away. The amDmaly (n
means confined to theatrical
finance) is that it is the taxpayer
who sustains the roundabout
i oss< A flourishing management
can p Ut on a pj a y c f several
scenes and a large cast for a
i imited season 0 f a f ew weeks,
d i c five .fi gU re loss with-
ds s LmLlders being a
WO rse off °The
isXfnrofits-tax on
explanation is mat proms ax
a success 1S to pay for
an expensive f a il ure This left-
expensive laume. ims icn
handed procedure is not
“"helpful to the drama since
™ an V it di's-
Gainst the
, experimental theatres who
f maJl experimental meatres wno
have ever y resource except
monev
. . . (
An instance in point, o
interest to theatre-historians it
not to many others, was Pinero’s
“Trelawny of the Wells,” which
the powerful Tennent manage-
ment tried out at the Lyric,
Hammersmith. It failed, as so
many revivals do. Yet it leaves
us a little more knowledgeable,
if not entirely impressed. This
“comedietta” is both good and
bad Pinero. A stirring second
act, tense with conflict and rich
in comedy, is breathtaking. It
rather suggests a sugar-coated
Anouilh, proving that good
theatricality is, perhaps, not as
outdated as some of our
modernists would have us
believe. But the rest is mainly
padding, with overlaid sentiment
and pathos that jars upon audi-
ences less stuffy than those of 60
years age. The sleazy mounte-
bankery of Pinero’s theatre-
folk and the poor-girl-to-great-
lady theme also seem oddly out
of key.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Pat”; Another illusion was cruelly
shattered the other day when a friend
invited me along to a rehearsal of 10
debutantes and their partners. In the big
hall we watched for almost an hour while
the 10 belles undulated up the centre,
made their curtsies and partnered off
into a waltz. The organiser professed
herself delighted with the performance.
“For he's a jolly good fellow !”
“Now just do it exactly like that on the
night,” she pleaded, “Everything exactly
the same as you’ve done it today, and it
will be beautiful. Lady Soanso will be
most impressed.” I don’t know Lady
Soanso, or what her views on feminine
deportment and manner may be, but if
the girls did it “exactly like that” on the
big night she could not fail to be im-
pressed by one striking feature. Ten out
of 10 debbies who went through their
paces so perfectly chewed gum Visibly
and audibly.
* * ♦ ♦
“Findy”: The radio-play reached a
tense moment as the hero burst into a
nightclub and confronted the villain.
Apparently he had made up his mind not
to waste words. “Take that!” he said,
and there followed a sound obviously
intended to indicate a clenched fist strik-
ing moie-or-less solid flesh. I’ll designate
the sound by “ clunk .” Fast on the heels
of the clunk came: “Take that.” Clunk.
“Take that,” Clunk. “Take that.” Clunk.
“Take that.” Clunk. By this time it was
obvious to an experienced radio-listener
that a scratched record or some other
“circumstance over which the station has
no control” was interfering with the
script, but it wasn’t until about a dozen
more “Take thats” and an equal number
of clunks had come over the ether that
the studio surmounted the hurdle and the
dialogue continued as intended by the
playwright. The next line was, in the
circumstances, a triumph of understate-
ment: “1 think he’s had enough.”
♦ ♦ ♦ #
“Apollo Bay”: If what they have seen
recently is a fair sample of the New
Journalism the residents of this Victorian
coastal hamlet are not impressed. Floods
isolated us for nearly a week. That was
not a bad story in itself, but it was not
good enough for a section of the metro-
politan Press and one national broadcast-
ing station ; the story needed a little more
drama. An isolated town that was short
of food was better news than One that
wasn’t, so they promptly put us on short-
rations, had us suffering an acute food-
shortage and virtually dropping dead in
the street from hunger. While I was
tackling a juicy steak, plus the usual
trimmings, for dinner one night I was
surprised to hear on the radio that our
food position was so grim that there was
talk of sending a boat with supplies. I
took another look at my steak, decided
it was tangible enough, and proceeded to
polish it off, following it with some fresh
bread from, the baker to accompany the
cheese which the grocer had sold me that
day in unrationed quantity. There was
never any shortage of in the town,
except, possibly, of fresh vegetables for a
day or two for those who do not grow
their own. Who manufactures these
yarns? Our townspeople, hearing and
reading the stories from the Barwon
Heads and Forbes flood areas, are now
saying to each other, “Are they any nearer
the truth than what they have been saying
about us?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Youanmi”: News of those unfortu-
nates forced to take refuge in trees from
N. S. Wales floodwaters reminds me:
There was (and may still be) a swamp
near Claremont (W.A.) which, in time,
most kids in the district used to cross
by wading, sometimes up to the armpits,
in the murky, leech-infested waters. There
were three of us when I made the cross-
ing, all naked and with our clothes in
bundles held high overhead. About half-
way across one took fright and, refusing
to go forward or back, compromised by
scaling a paper-bark and wedging himself
firmly therein. Persuasion, threats and
entreaties were of no avail, so the two of
us left him up the paperbark, naked,
shivering and forlorn. Since I never
heard of him again I presume he got
home saicly, but sometimes a vague doubt
crosses my mind, and 1 wonder if there
is a legend in those parts of an old man
of the swamp.
* * * *
“F.C.R.”: TeU “McCag” the look he
saw on Admiral Vian’s face: (B. 11/6/’52)
was as nothing to that seen by the V.A.D.
who tried to pull the hair from his ears
in the mistaken belief it was cotton-wool!
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”; As prices drop and
houses get harder to sell, the flowers of
estate-agent prose bloom again in Sydney.
Like this, from an ad. in “S. M. Herald”:)
Moulded into this unique bushland set-
ting, this Modern Bungalow, scintillating
as a jewel, as the tender rays of the winter
sun, mellowed by the icy blasts of the
gusty sou’-wester, intermittently force their
way through the foliage of the towering
gums, bringing into sharp relief a picture
of charm and enticement and worthy
of gracing the canvas of the artists of the
century.
The only thing the house seems to lack,
I regret to add, is a verb.
* * * *
“Tom Trout” (London): Prime
Minister Menzies tooled a felicitous
phrase to this city’s beauty when, at one
of the junketings in his honor, he spoke
of “a magnificent conspiracy between
Portland stone and the
London weather.” It was
a compliment, and, as
such, well received. More
mundanely, what he was
referring to was the
peculiarly patchy streak-
ings of dirt suffered by
white Portland stone under
the sooty embrace of Lon-
don air. Portland stone,
from the Isle of Portland
in Dorset, is an “odlithic
limestone” —“odlithic” be-
cause the grains of car-
bonate-of-lime of which it
is composed are egg-
shaped. Wren used it in
St. Paul’s, and, among the
many other examples, it
provides the Gothic flurry
of the Law Courts in the
Strand. The beauty to
which Mr. Menzies referred is due
to the unevenness with which the
patina of grime is absorbed into the
stone. This effects remarkable contrasts
of color and tone, affecting even a single
block, sometimes of violent suddenness
and sometimes a gradation, from the
pristine bleached-bone of the stone
through velvety yellows and browns to
murky black. At times there is a regi-
mental regularity about these contrasts,
as when one side of each pillar in a
row is white and the other black, or the
topsides of arches are a washed-white
and the undersides a brooding brown.
At other times nature has worked with
an inconsequential and unpatterned free-
dom of fancy. It all adds up to beauty.
« * * *
“King’s Arc”: Don’t know about
collar sizes (B. 25/6/’52), but I can
remember visiting a men’s-wear place
with my father shortly after the Kaiser’s
war, when salesmanship must have been
at somewhat the same low ebb that it
reached after the recent scrap. Only for
the fact that my father’s clerical collar
somewhat hampered his splutterings 1
might have had an earlier introduction
to non-clerical language when, in reply
to my father’s request to be shown some
size 1\ headgear, the youthful assistant
patronisingly informed him “We don’t
keep hats for heads like that.”
* * * ♦
“Red Light”: The contention of
“M.G.S.” (B. 18/6/’52) that locos need
something better than penny whistles is
best answered by the evidence given by
the assistant chief mechanical engineer
of the Victorian Railways at the inquiry
into the Beaufort-crossing disaster. He said
that Victorian loco, sirens (not whistles)
could, under favorable conditions, be
heard 10 miles away. I agree. I drove
engines for more than 40 years and I
have owned a car for 25 years, so I speak
from experience. When substantial gates
will not keep some motorists off the
tracks, how will a whistle stop them?
Never a week goes by without two or
three cases of cars smashing into gates
in Victoria. I can assure “M.G.S.” that
loco.-men are more concerned about
level-crossing accidents than the general
run of car-drivers. Near-misses are not
recorded, but there are scores of them,
and their effects on train crews are nearly
as bad as those from direct hits. I would
say to motorists: “Use your eyes, and
don’t depend on some other fellow
sounding a whistle.”
* * * ♦
“Bo”: It couldn’t happen these days,
telegraph-superintendents having long
been shorn of their almost tyrannical
powers, but it did happen at Sydney
G.P.O. in the days when “Doc” Grace,
mnemonical pride of that institution, used
to be able to play poker while his line
was sending messages, finish the game,
snap off his o.k. to his vis-a-vis and then
write down in copperplate, using only a
nib dipped in ink, the last four messages,
plucked out of the pigeon-holes of his
memory. The super.’s daily and invariable
habit was to get well sozzled after work.
One night, after the last broken shift and
approaching the cot-case stage, he dimly
recalled that his suburb of Pyrmont
“Remember the honeymoon , Gertie —don't
make yourself bilious !”
wasn’t the most salubrious, and handed
to a telegraphist in the pub his gold
watch-and-chain, with orders to bring it
to him on the morrow. Then he was
carried to a cab, and so home. Next
morning the trusted one turned up five
minutes late, and the super, peremptorily
ordered him to pay a quid fine, pronto.
The morse-man protested he was broke,
and couldn’t pay, and was ordered to
bring it next morning. The following day
he “forgot,” and the trump threatened
that if he didn’t have it the next day
he’d double the fine. When he next
appeared the super, snarled, “Well, did
you bring your fine?” The telegraphist
tossed down the “flag.” “There it is,
and” —flinging on top of it a pawnticket
—“that’s where 1 got it. It’s all yours.”
* * * *
“Becks”: To illustrate the extra-
ordinary mixture of races that compose
the population of Hawaii, a columnist
instances one of the most beautiful girls
in the island of Oahu being “four-tenths
Hawaiian, two-tenths Japanese, two-
tenths Chinese, one-tenth Caucasian, one-
tenth Korean.” I don’t for one moment
dispute the fact that the lady may have
included all those races in her choice of
ancestors. I wouldn’t even argue if she
threw in a dash of Hindu blood, a few
drops of Amerindian and a soup9on of
Hebrew. What I cannot accept is the
division of her ancestry into tenths.
Eighths, sixteenths, thirty-seconds and so
on, by all means, but 1 don’t think any
theory of intermarriage, double-unions or
cross-matching can produce tenths.
*“* * ♦
“X.S.”: Unusual jobs? A Melbourne
car-cleaning company holds the contract
for washing the mud of a zoo jumbo.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: There are people who
would get knocked over by a tortoise—
if it were heavy enough—and the last
thing Melbourne’s cable-cars deserve is
to be accused of pedestrianicide (B.
2/7/’52). I doubt if they’d ever have
been abolished if Melbourne could have
seen its modern traffic problems, for the
electric-trams take up much more space
in congested streets and their speed is
such that few cars can pass them safely,
which means that almost every tram has
a flock of cars following it. The old
cables had a lot over the modern electrics,
not the least of their assets being an
active man’s ability to board or leave
them while they were in motion. And
if one broke down a few strong men
could run it off the lines into the kerb
and, provided the cable was still running,
all the following trams could go through.
Probably what sealed their fate in _Mel-
bourne was the burning of one by rioters
during the police strike of 1923 ; official-
dom was horrified at such an affront and
no time was lost in getting the heavier,
steel-built electrics on to the streets.
MAIL.
“A confidence-trickster, claiming to be imprisoned
for bankruptcy in Mexico, is writing letters to Sydney
businessmen asking for help in securing 450,000
American dollars ‘hidden in an American Customs
House,’ and offering in return ‘a third part of said
sum.’ Mr. Cahill, Premier of N. S. Wales, says that
there may be an election if the Loan Council refuses
his request for more money.”
Dear Mister E. Lector,
Please, do not reject a
Demand from a man in a half-bankrupt State;
The trouble that’s brewing
Is all my own doing.
But I’m blaming the Canberra folk for my fate.
By. using our powers
We cut working hours
To get ourselves in the good graces of workers,
Then up went their wages
By breathtaking stages,
Converting the nation to overpaid shirkers.
Thus, a young man-of-fashion
Will squander his cash in
An effort to get himself thought a good-fellow,
And then he’ll discover
The party is over,
But won't like to say so because he’s too yellow.
So I want Bob and Artie
To pay for my party
With another big slice of the Federal capital,
So the stay-ins and stand-outs
Who live on my handouts
Will still say, “That Cahill, now; he’s not a
bad chap at all!”
I say there are millions
And billions and trillions
Of pounds hidden up in some Federal vault —
Don’t ask where they may be:
I say it’s their baby,
And if they can’t find it, it’s all Fadden’s fault.
Allow me to hint —it
Is easy to print it —
But don’t let me plead or explain. Let me
threaten!
In case of defection
I’ll stage an election
Where followers of Artie and Bob will be beaten.
At least, I expect a
Good vote, Mister Lector,
No matter what killjoys may mutter or snarl;
I’ll convince Doubting Thomases
With promises and promises
Of rubber-wheeled trams
And gold-mounted dams,
And a job that’s assured
On the Maritime Board,
And hot-buttered bun
At a shilling a ton,
Or pie in the sky
If they happen to die,
And I’ll gibber and squeak
For a Thirty-Hour-Week,
So long as you vote for
Your Premier,
J. Cahill.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Alma”: The weather bureau has done
it again. A treacly voice has just an-
nounced placidly over the air that “In
the metropolitan area it will be mostly
cloudy at times.”
* * * ♦
“Uncle Bill”: In 1940 I was on the
recruiting-staff in Martin-place, Sydney.
A prospective hero entered and said he
wanted to see me “private like.” I went
with him into the street, where he asked
how he would get on for separation
allowance for his wife and children if he
enlisted. I told him. “But I’m different,
mate,” he explained. “You see, I’m
married, but 1 ain’t living with me missus,
though we’ve got some kids. I’m living
with another shiela, and me and her has
got some kids, too. Will 1 get separation
allowance for both of ’em and all the
kids?” He didn’t enlist that day.
* * * *
“Swelpme”; Is the Australian male
ever more childish or stereotyped than
when he is expressing anger? Ninety per
cent, of belligerents lead with the cliche:
“ Don't come in yet —I'm changing.”
“What’s up with you?” And, far from
being mollified at this request as to their
ailments, parties of the second part in-
variably answer menacingly, if they are
men of action, “I’ll show you what’s up
with me!” or, if they desire to keep the
thing on a wordy plane: “Nothing’s up
with me. But,” etc. The most inanely
innocuous utterance seems to be regarded
as a verbal broadside if it is delivered in
anger. Recently 1 walked out of a con-
tinuous picture-show and found myself
“Exhibit A” in a wordy conflict raging
between a commissionaire and an intend-
ing patron who had evidently been sold
a ticket although the back aisle was
jammed with people who had not been
found seats. “There y’ are,” blustered
the angry ciient, as 1 came out. “They’re
walking out on y’!” The commission-
aire’s face was white with temper as he
hurled back: “That’s all right, skipper,
don’t worry about it!” “But lam worry-
ing about it, see?” snarled back the other
savagely. “1 am worrying about it.” He
darted back into the show like a man
who had landed a verbal k.o. “I put
him in his place,” breathed the com-
missionaire darkly.
*«« ' *
“Zake”: The foreman of a big Sydney
works had got the junior to requisition
for some linoleum from H.Q. Scanning
the completed form, he questioned the
spelling of the floor-covering, but the
junior claimed he was right. The fore-
man sent for a senior, who confirmed the
junior’s spelling ; still the foreman was
unconvinced. “1 tell you it’s 1-i-l,” he
maintained. Shortly afterwards the junior
staggered in bearing a heavy tome, and
set it in front of the foreman. “You’ll
see it in that,” he said. Confidently the
foreman licked his finger and flicked over
the pages till he came to 1-i-l, appearing
puzzled when he couldn’t see the word.
“Now look for l-i-n,” said the appealed-
to clerk. Slowly the leaves were turned
until the word was found. “There y’are,”
said the junior triumphantly. “Told y’ I
was right!” The foreman closed the
tome, looked at the printing on the spine
and said scornfully, “Webster—well, why
the hell should he know so much about
it!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Great hopes have been aroused
in some quarters by the fact that, after
an N.S.W. engineer had set up mirrors
on the Darwin waterfront and focused
them south-eastwards in the expectation of
breaking the N.T. drought, rain fell —
which is rather unusual in that area at
that time of the year. Some people have
associated the mirrors with the down-
pour. S. H. Ebery, the seasonal broad-
caster who has his own meteorological
station at Black Rock, near Melbourne,
points out that much more ram fell over
this area in May last year. The present
fall gave a mean of 96 points, but in
1932 just on double that amount fell.
Good general rains were received over
the whole of the Territory in May of
both 1914 and 1915—a1l this without the
aid of mirrors. As with most of the
so-called rainmaking experiments, coinci-
dence looms largely. Indications of rain
were in evidence days before the mirrors
were focused.
• # • •
“Clooter”; It is a matter for profound
thought that the people of Sydney, biggest
city of Australia, are as easily panicked
as a mob of Shorthorn yearlings, and
often with far less reason. A State
Minister, with his tongue in his cheek.
announced that he had “advice” that
tea would rise Is. a pound—it was a
couple of days before a by-election and
such a statement was calculated to do the
opposite side no good—and immediately
there was a stampede to buy all the tea in
sight. The same thing would have hap-
pened had it been sugar or soap or
sardines—nobody would have stopped to
examine the statement. Most of the
public discussion one hears concerns the
doings of some tennis-players abroad, the
apparition Of a crowd at a place called
Warwick Farm (which farms nothing),
whether or not there is more bottled beer
available than there was, and similar un-
important matters. Yet, day after day
and night after night respectively, factories
and transport stop for long periods and
thousands of homes lie cold and light-
less for hours on end. In this electric-
age the shops do more business with oil-
“So glad you brought these electric blankets."
lamps and oil than with electric-globes,
and city and suburbs at night frequently
look like places trying to hide their where-
abouts from enemy airmen. Nobody
seems to worry about it, at least not
actively, though in any other country in
the world it would have long since resulted
in the authorities responsible for it being
thrown out on their incompetent ears.
* * • *
“Ceg”: Captain Cook and that vellum-
bound book (B. 18/6/’52). It was the
log-book of the Eagle, not Beagle.
Early in 1755 Cook, till then a merchant-
seaman, joined the R.N. as a volunteer
in the Eagle, of 60 guns, under Captain
Hamer. It is not clear how an A.B.
could come into possession of the ship’s
log-book, but the volume is apparently
genuine, and I assume one of Cook’s
descendants was responsible for the
erasure and altering “A. 8.” to “Captain.”
* * * *
“Melb’n”: Another hold-up was
narrowly averted when the freighter
Daylesford’s hatches packed with hides
were opened the other day in Melbourne.
Tied up for three months over a dispute
about her cargo, a blast sufficient to lift
penalty-wages skyhigh was expected, and
the otcvedonng-inspector was standing by
to measure the strength and thickness of
the aroma. Instead a delicious odor
reminiscent of a lady’s boudoir floated out
into the sunshine. Boxes of a well-known
brand of toilet soap had been packed atop
the cargo.
* ♦ * *
“Oliver Filter”: I’ve generally been
able to hazard a rough guess as to the
identity of those nocturnal scribblers who
chalk or paint on Sydney’s pavements
and walls such advice as “Eternity” or
“Ban the A-bomb|,” or a remarkable
range of opinions about Mr. Menzies
and Dr. Evatt, but I’m a little puzzled
about the motive behind an inscription
I noticed on the footpath in Jamieson-
street (Sydney) the other morning. It
announced simply: “Dogs stink.” So
far 1 have only been able to reason that
it was written by (1) a husband who is
compelled to take his wife’s lap-dog for
a walk every evening, or (2) a disgruntled
ex-official of that tether disgruntled body,
the R.S.P.C.A., or (3) an educated cat.
* * * «
“L.S.M.”: A house-for-sale notice in
a Melbourne newspaper recently might
well serve as a National Safety Council
warning to motorists. Although the fact
was not mentioned in the advertisement,
the reason for the sale is that five people
have died in the front bedroom, as the
result of accidents, during the last three
years. The house is on a corner where
accidents are a frequent occurrence and
the residents have “had” it.
« * ♦ SI
“Brick E.”: My current work-mate, a
newly-arrived Italian, is a good worker,
decent fellow, and both a humorist and
good tradesman as far as his knowledge
of English Will permit. But his vocabu-
lary is limited to about 20 words. Beyond
that he just looks bewildered, shakes his
head and sadly says; “Not uner-stan.
I would never have believed it possible
to work mates with another brickie who
couldn’t understand even the simplest
trade-terms, and still get results; yet that
is what’s happening. A door-opening has
to be set out in Mario’s wall. 1 maiK
the place and say “Door.’ He looiss
puzzled. Then the pantomime starts,
make all sorts of silly signs. Still he
“not uner-stans.” Finally I turn an
imaginary handle, pull back an imaginary
door and—“Por-tar! ” he exclaims with
delighted understanding. And I’ve learnt
another word of “Italiano.” Ino longer
try to tell him where doors and windows
go in a house; it’s something like “por-
tar,” “fin-rm-tar” in a “cass-ar.” At
lunch-time today the boss gave me the
signal. “Mun-/ar-ie,” I hollered to Mario.
“G.K.,” he replied. Two ladies from a
neighboring house were passing. “That
chap seems to be a New Australian,”
said oner—and pointed at me.
m * * *
“M’Lou”; Crows had a field day at
Edenhope (Vic.) golf-course on the day of
the recent club championship; they got
away with 22 balls. Even the winner
found the day unprofitable; he lost four
of those balls.
* • ♦ *
“St. Leger”; Walhalla (Vic.), historic-
ally famous for gold, has been a “ghost
town” for a long time. Artists spent
pleasurable hours there drinking in its
beauty, and putting it on canvas when
the spirit moved them; otherwise, except
for a handful of residents, no one
bothered about the old town. Now it is
in the news once more; it has endured
not only a baptism of flood-waters, but
avalanches of mud. It has almost dis-
appeared, but the people who love it are
absolutely determined to remake it.
Seventeen inches of rain caused the
havoc, and yet Erica, only <- nine miles
away, had only two inches! Locals are
hopeful that Walhalla may again become
one of the most talked-of towns in Aus-
tralia, because amongst the filth and utter
ruin gold specks are shining, and the
optimists are hoping the terrific upheaval
of millions of tons of earth may have
uncovered fresh gold deposits.
* * * ■ *
“W.M.H.”: Bass Strait passenger-ship
Nairana had the distinction of taking part
in one of the first combined operations
involving land, sea and air forces. De-
signed specially for the Tasmanian trade,
the vessel was taken over by the
Admiralty before completion, and con-
verted to a seaplane carrier. For a while
she served with a battle-cruiser squadron,
then, in the summer of 1918, a task-force
consisting of Nairana and one British
and one French cruiser was sent to
Archangel to forestall German attempts
to use the port as a submarine-base.
When the French ship went aground the
task-force was heavily outgunned by the
shore-batteries, the Nairana having only
her'seaplanes and the rifles of her 200
French infantry as offensive weapons.
After the shore-defences opened fire and
caused some damage, several seaplanes
were put up, and quickly bombed the
forts into silence. A landing-party was
put ashore, and within 24 hours the tiny
combined operation had achieved its
objective. After the war the Nairana war
converted back to a passenger-ship, and
was handed over to her Melbourne
owners in 1920.
SOUND ADVICE.
"Young man, be more aggressive in your job
if you would succeed in a business career. Ine
sensible employer will ever* welcome any criticism,
realising you are taking an interest in the firm s
progress. Eemember, push will get you anywhere.
v ° —Psychology article.
Don't let your ego suffer from suppression
And get a mould upon u from disuse;
Pin all your faith to unalloyed aggression,
Don’t hesitate to use some rich abuse.
What though your know-how quotient’s some-
what slender? .
The wings of confidence you’ll quickly sprout.
If everyone’s affection you’d engender,
Just be a curt, cantankerous contender,
And shng your weight about.
As junior clerk your wits might soon be pitted
Against those of some high executive.
Assume that he’s no more than quarter-witted;
Some organising hints you well might give.
Tell him his views are marked by obfuscation
And that he dithers like a hen that’s wet.
You’ll quickly earn his earnest admiration
Provided (he might lack appreciation)
The bullet you don’t get.
The general-manager should be delighted
When his office-boy informs him that he’s
“nuts,”
That his blundering incompetence has blighted
The company—he knows the lad has guts.
So, boys, take heed: be brutally expressive
When talking to the trump; and take this tip:
If you consider his demands excessive
Just blow your top in manner most aggressive—
And don’t take any lip.
Of course, if with the customer you’re dealing,
Shove out your nether jaw in manner grim
Should he about some trifle start his squealing,
And tell him plainly what you think of him.
You needn’t be in fear of any sacking;
For showing just how forceful you can be
The boss must give you all his moral backing.
He’ll be quite pleased, in fact, that you’re not
lacking
In strong asperity.
Above all, what you must develop, sonny.
Is that essential attribute called “Push.”-
Once you’ve acquired it —why, you’re in the
money
It’s Sydney for you then, never the bush.
’Twill get you anywhere. It’s militancy
Makes an appeal that’s simply beautiful
To these psychologists. But, then, 1 fancy
Success with this bright theory would be chancy
Tried on a door marked “Pull.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


CHALICE MALICE
By C. S. BARRY
CLOUDLESS sky is oven-
dry and scorching. Effort
is required to roll a brined
eye at a buoyant beauty.
She cruises languidly on her
back propelled by feathering
ankles.
Clean green Indian Ocean
flows under her head, purls down
her lissom length, chops milky in
her wake. No chaperone on
hand to shield her from weak
men, strong drink and the
temptation of chewing-gum.
I trudgeon off the starboard
beam.
The lissom lady notices me.
She glistens. I tread water.
Elegantly. Welling waves pulse
past. We bob up. We bob down
on the seesaw surface. The sun
glares hot as Chile wine.
The lady smiles and nods.
Reflected sunlight smudges cheek
shadows upward. I goggle like
a dhu-fish. Then I gaze out to
sea. Casually. I swallow part
of a wave. Frying-size fillets
reward my casts less than rarely.
The lissom lady slips into
Charlton six-beat. She paces a
comber. She slides the sweeping
slope churning her own white
wake. I lose her in the-explosion
of spray and sandy foam.
Her copper-colored hairdo
appears as she coasts with the
wash. A crystallised cherry in a
swizzled martini. I bludge short
bumpy rides on a session of
breakers. I wash up behind her
on the burning beach.
A SUN - CANDIED gorilla
basks beside my towel and
scuffs. He’s got cadmium
shoulders and print gold flames
swirling his swim-shorts.
“Home-wrecker,” snarls the
cadmium gorilla. “How’s your
black heart?”
“Good evening. Mister
Riolio,” I murmur. Respectfully.
Mister Riolio’s muscles look
splendid to Mister Riolio. Hard
as seasoned jarrah. With sinews
wiry as paddy’s lucerne.
He is a hero escaped from a
fourpenny flabbergaster.
“Shouldn’t risk your teeth,
pansy,” says Mister Riolio.
“They’re so expensive.” His
face resembles aborigine initia-
tion art.
“What’s the trouble?” I shoo
some He screws his eyes.
“Missus Hubble is the trouble,
Romeo.”
“You’re narrow-minded,” I
point out. “Or jealous.”
“I’m a friend of the family,
wife-snatcher,” he says.
“Don’t intimidate me,” I
threaten.
He gives me a grisly hint
wrapped in wondrously rowdy
soldier-talk. “Step up any time
you like, cobber. And don’t
think I’m kiddin’ ’cos I’m fair
dinkum.”
“Missus Hubble can look after
herself.”
“She’s twice your age, psycho-
path ; lay off.”
Mister Riolio’s combustible
disposition is a rehabillyashun
problem. He stooges as jabber-
jockey at a local radio-station,
but he acquired his education in
the world of canned rations,
machetes, rifles and insect-
repellent. Civilisation’s last hope.
This one. He’s got a punch they
measure in mach numbers.
“Enough dove - roaring.” I
swallow his menaces like a
sword-swallower taking aspirin.
THE lissom lady paces past.
Mister Riolio twists pleats
in his neck to get a better look.
Her flared hair burns right back
at the setting sun. Hair the color
of banksia-blooms. She has
solemn eyes, antennse brows,
classic legs and pastel-apricot
skin.
“Yeow, girlie!” yeows Mister
Riolio. Inviting. That saluta-
tion. Like a saw of teeth in a
grey-nurse.
The lady watches the winking
light on Rottnest. Unmoved.
The score is love-fifteen with
Riolio to serve again from the
end of his tether.
“Hello, girlie,” tries Mister
Riolio. She is a fruity cutie. But
not for sale. A plastic apple arc-
welded to a bullet-proof dish.
“Please,” says the lady. A
cool-to-cloudy conversation.
“Yeah,” says Mister Riolio.
He smoulders quietly like a
furnace banked for the night.
The lady winks at me. Riolio
goes to work on his chewing-
gum. He gathers his frog-
flippers, webbed gloves, ear-
plugs, troglodyte mask, latex
skull-limpet. He takes his solid
rubber ego and goes to get wet.
Spare and simple. This Cottesloe
cowboy.
I give the lady a patented
smile. “I’ve had a hard day,” I
confide. “Didn’t get a single
whistle.”
The lissom lady fills lungs with
muggy air to bolster ample
portions of uplift. “You don’t
know me,” she says.
“Your Holden is parked
almost atop my Fiat.”
“Don’t drive a Holden.”-
“I don’t drive a Fiat.”
I towel my lovely spindle legs.
She does some more lighthouse-
watching.
Pick-ups are routine for me.
Like bilked tax-returns. “What
about a meal down Hay-street?”
I offer.
“What about a drink?”
I never despise temptations.
They might not recur.
»
GREEN creeper drapes walls
of the- beer-yard. Iron
tables are grill-hot and crowded
with swim-shorts, sunsuits,
swanky sweeties, sophomores,
stevedores, rorty sorts, portly
sports, drowsy youngsters,
frowsy tonguesters. I see no
suspicious characters. But it’s
early yet. A radio agonises from
a hotel bedroom.
At the back window I wait for
Swan schooners. Service is
syrup-slow. “I’ll get you a made-
to-measure,” says the lady.
She ventures inside to the
cocktail-bar. She brings out a
long glassful. Garnished with
cucumber-peel, capped with
sepia souffle, shot through with
red-lead and cochineal. Misted
with dew and iced. “Breath of
death,” she explains. “The blend
is a secret.” A secret blend. A
ghastly blend. Egg-yellow spiked
with atropine.
“What’s your profession?” I
ask the lady. I try a chaste taste
of the laced paste. Aromatic as
cloves and infecte, as the French
say.
“Engineering student,” she
says. I can’t imagine those
classic legs, antennae eyebrows
mixed up with test-tubes and
camshafts.
“And you?” She sips milk
and soda.
“Ballet.” I sip the volcanic
conflagration. Erk.
“You perform?”
“I instruct.” Tonsils feel
cemented to the soft palate. I
send in an expeditionary thumb
to clean up.
“Glad we met,” she says.
“I’ll shay,” I shay.
“What’s up?”
“Tongue is clogged with
essence.”
Essence?
“What C Jnn f 9» he SUP '”
“-p p ‘. , ...
Tongue is clogged with
‘ . .
Essence. She twines like
tobacco-smoke.
“Please,” I pant. I drain the
hoopla. Through woolly smog
her inspired contours waver
moltenly.
“Have another,” she
commands.
“Peritable vleasure,” X scin-
tillate.
'"TIME to go. I flounder like
I a flying-fox caught in sun-
light. We meander to her
vehicle. I feel superb. I miss the
kerb.
She picks me up. She shakes
me out, folds me behind the
windscreen. The centre line
ahead wriggles like traces on
seismograph-strips. She drives.
A snappy chauffeur for a happy
loafer. Through sandy couch-
grass country, into a rabbit-run
of back streets. She walks me
through the tradesmen’s
entrance, upstairs to my room.
I feel able, but unstable. Legs
like bed-springs. I collapse in
the only chair. She sits down.
She’s heavy as aching hearts.
She surveys the disordered
array of a bachelor’s hideout.
On the dressing - bench she
notices my sweetie’s photo
behind sherry glasses.
“Your mother?”
“My sweetie.”
“Who is she?”
“Missus Hubble.” I feel like a
beerfly woozy from dichloro-
dipheiyltrfcMoroethanc. ] try a
few portentous coughs and
burps. All I need is a shot of
insulin
“She’s old.”
“Scandalous, isn’t it?” I agree,
The table-lamp filtered light
over thick carpet and over
treacle-skin of sunburnt legs.
Radio beats through a drowsy
lullaby.
She lights an oval smoke and
dribbles blue fumes from one
nostril.
“Naughty girl,” I say.
Approvingly.
“You’re terrific,” she tells me.
“Yes,” I agree.
She tells me sweet words.
Sweet as dust-jacket blurbs. Her
calorific coiffure scalds my
weatherbeaten brow. Her cheeks
glow from mystery within. Her
eyes darken from light
leschenaultia to heavy hovea.
“Let’s get some air,” she says.
She resketches contours for her
upper-lip, runs through some
labial contortions and smacks a
neat magenta mass on to a test
tissue.
ALONG Matilda Bay we
enjoy aroma of riverside
breweries mingled with ferment-
ing low-tide. We are attracted
to the university by piteous honk-
ing of stalled traffic. Cars cluster
along Mounts Bay-road in front
of the university driveway. The
clock-tower beckons with both
hands. She yanks our vehicle
round in a double-U to gain a
head start on astonished drivers
down the driveway.
Over Whitfeld Court barefoot
folk-dancers gyrate on cropped
floodlit turf. Radiant suntanned
girls and blokes with rolled-up
trouserlegs. Jumping like
gazelles, moiling sacred sward..
Splashily-designed floral frocks
and white shirts flickering
through gaudy patterns like
chaos in a paint factory. We
walk in among spectators, among
lawn rugs, pencil-pines, academic
timber, pepped-up jargon under
a night-sky warm and still like
mulberry-brandy.
‘"T HE last black sedan
* manoeuvres down the drive-
way. Mister Riolio gets out.
“My pal Roly-Polio,” I snarl.
Missus Hubble alights after
him.
“My sweetie,” I purr,
“Grass is damp,” says the
lissom lady, “Come in the car.
You’ll catch your death.”
We cramp in the back seat
with a lot of junk that looks
like innards for a ruptured radio.
She fingers my toni waves. I
smell the singed hairs. She mops
equatorial sweat from my brow.
I am mesmerised. Eternity ought
to be like this.
Her eyes sparkle like dew on
gin glasses.
* ‘ P ORGET Missus Hubble,”
A she tells me. Cool as
bottled beer in crushed ice,
“I need the money,” I tell her.
“She pays for affection?”
“She pays for silence.”
“Silence?” She uses her surf-
towel to brush my fevered scalp.
“The Hubble couple never
legally married,” I explain. “It
didn’t matter. Once. Now a
scandal could hurt.”
“You’re smart.” She slips a
cork-tip between my teeth and
flicks her lighter.
“A man’s gotter make a quick
quid.” Her lipstick tastes like
cherry brandy.
“Don’t they call it extortion?”
“In a friendly sort of a way.”
“What about Mister Hubble?”
“He doesn’t know about me.
Yet.”
She nestles the towel behind
my head for a pillow. “You’re
clever,” she admits. “Isn’t it
dangerous?”
“You scare me to death, Miss
Hubble,” I sneer.
SHE drops her jaw and rolls
her eyes. I laugh a bit at her
surprise. Jumpy reflexes charac-
terise these academic types. I
pat her arm fraternally. She
seems in a narcotic trance. It’s
a nice arm.
Miss Hubble leans across and
flicks the headlamps. On and
off.
“Good evening,” says Mister
Riolio. Politely. The chill words
fall like hailstones at high-noon.
His face is ugly as empty beer-
glasses. He puts junk from the
back seat into the front seat.
He levers her wrist from my fist.
“Thug,” I say.
“Mug,” he says.
From the towel that mopped
my brow Miss Hubble unpeels a
microphone. No hurry. No
hesitation. No hanky-panky.
She fiddles with junk in the front
SUMMER SEQUENCE.
I. Summer.
He was my compass in that golden land.
Who led me through the dappled-sunlight day;
Through latticed tree-trunk shadow, and the gay
Stiff curtain of a flowering creeper; past
The ants* tall, slender castle glowing red
And sterner gleam of dusty gums, to stand
Where hung the willows’ deferent green strand
To shadow-pleat the clear creek’s stony bed.
And it was he companioned me at last
In naked ecstasy through crystal streams;
Who wandered in my sun-engendered dreams
In Hebrides beyond possessive cast
Of envy’s nets, where mirrors do not lie
And say that youth and summer both must die.
II. Boy with a Shell.
Pressed coolly in the day’s dry heat to ear
That heard its sea-voice whispering, the shell
Curved waterways of longing wide and clear
To break the bushland’s summer-blasted spell.
He lay, one hand encompassing the shell,
The other’s fingertips edged to the dry,
Harsh splinter-touch of parched grass, while the swell
Of many waters doused the brazen sky.
And as he juggled two worlds in a shell
He faltered at the touch of whitened bones.
At sound of what the magpie had to tell
To sun-dried waterholes and calcined stones,
So that the worlds fell in a single tear
Dropped on the shell that brought delight too near.
III. The Waterfall,
Beside, the waterfall a shadow stands.
The molten years pass swiftly through his hands.
Down from the height the dancing waters swing
A sunshot belt of soapstone-green and white
To where the pool lies in a frothing ring
Of winking, globuled water, air and light.
The green depths heave and spread their gleaming ribs
To quieter reaches in spent indolence,
Save where a wind-frayed current whitely jibs
At polished stone and bustles in defence.
And, swathed in mist, a naked lad dives deep
To break with truth the long, enchanted sleep:
Those argent spheres dissolving into air,
Like youth are there, and suddenly not there.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.


ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.N.: Come again, but not with
the poker... ,M.W.: Type, or get
someone else to write them out for
you. Can’t judge a poem that looks
like a swamp at midnight J.T.:
“Vagabond Rovers” needs fattening.
E.M.: “There’s something magic
about the train.” Yes, but you’ve
missed it... J.D.R.: Orchestral poem
more like tuning-up than the full
blast FJ.P.: A glimmer in both.
... .A.P.: It’s a warning to wantons,
and so would be wasted on Bulletin
readers... J.J.A.: Are we being as
nice to them as all that? W.R. :
It’s a good idea, about the elephant
and the water, but you spoil it by
repeating the trick several times after
the silliest of humans would have
thought cut a way of foiling the
elephant... .S.McL.: It’s a pretty
fantasy, but too Jong by more than
half; and your efforts at idiomatic
and racy speech sound like amateur
musical-comedy... .J.M.: Not our
kind of writing L.C.: (a) Most of
the time we tell most of the people
to write about real life; but (6)
some of the time we tell some of the
people that real life is unbearable
unless -you can take a cheerful attitude
Missing Friend.
WOULD GEORGE HENRY GAMBRILL.
formerly R.A.N. and Sunshine, Vic., but
late of Auburn, N.S.W., or anybody
knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate with Messrs, Jones and
Kennedy, Solicitors, Footscray, Vic.
MARRIAGE:
The Art of
Lasting Happiness
DAVID R, MACE
M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D.
Formerly General Secretary and
Director of the National
Marriage Guidance Council of
Great Britain.
Price 13/3
(Postage 7d. extra)
Obtainable from
WILLIAM TYAS
558 George Street. SYDNEY
HE HAS A
UPTURE
re
. . .PUT HP
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARREBi
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebe distribution CO.
(Dept. 2x), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath
ill
■M' r a
11 i |W!!l' n
;■ d
!'
mi
£ Vj#
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
RCOM-ONLI RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: TEOMAS A. MAGNEY-, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A, C. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager,
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all States.
This tractor hauled
Tooo.oOOk
SUPER FEET OF TIMBER
V in less than 18 months!
No hold-ups! No replacements!
The old Koreelah Timber Company in Queensland reports that their
TCA 60 Ansaldo Tractor has been in service since 27th October,
1950, and has hauled approximately one million super feet of timber
to date (March, 1952) without any hold-ups. No parts whatsoever
have been purchased, and the tractor has been performing very
satisfactorily. This is a practical illustration of the remarkable
performance you can always expect from Ansaldo Tractors.
tre
:
PROUDLY
PRESEN TS
TWO POWERFUL NEW MODELS
TCA 70 and AF 8
TCA 70 Alfa Romeo four-cylinder direct
injection four-cycle diesel engine, maximum draw-
bar horsepower 60, continuous drawbar horse-
power 52.
AF 8 Alfa Romeo direct injection six-cylinder
four-cycle diesel engine, maximum drawbar horse-
power 125, maximum belt horsepower 135, 5
forward speeds, four reverse.
Get further details, find out how Ansaldo can
help lift profits on your farm or property —
contact your local distributor listed below —
DOMINION MOTORS, 52 William Street, SYDNEY.
MA 9017. BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Tractor Division,
Graham #Street, PORT MELBOURNE.. MX 2171.
HUDSON TAYLOR & CO., 606 Murray Street, PERTH.
B 7908. CLYDE MOTORS, 165 Brunswick Street, Forti-
tude Valley, Brisbane. L 4237. POWER PLANT LTD.,
100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE. LA 2111.
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia:
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY. LTD., 5th Floor,
61-65 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, N.S.W. MA9141.
2407
seat. An unknown voice,
daintily timbred, vibrates:
A man’s gotter make a quick
quid.
Miss Hubble cuts in, loaded
with femininity:
Don’t they call it extortion ?
MY head is wedged between
the seat and Mister Riolio’s
elbow. Tffp elbow is soft as
hangmen’s hearts. Occasionally
I get a whiff of fresh air to keep
me awake. Mister Riolio reeks
like scorched seaweed, “Tone
quality is poor,” he comments.
Solemnly. “But clear enough.”
Miss Hubble slips a plastic
reel into the glove-box and locks
it in.
“Snap that canvas cover
back,” directs Riolio. “I’ll be
sacked if we bust this machine.”
“You can make a tape say
anything,” I accuse.
“Miss Hubble and I will back
it,” Riolio assures me. “On
oath.”
Floodlights over the sward are
turned out. Dantesque dancers
steal away through., shadowy
shrubbery. Like spectral
memories of balked and
blighted hopes. A cool breeze
pours in from the south.
towards it—it’s all dreadfully perplex-
ing, but yours is ( b ) M.R.: You
did not bring her to life; you only
told us what she did and how she
felt —if she finds “the greatest happi-
ness she has ever known” in Eng-
land it may well be because she is
no longer restricted within the narrow
bonds of oratio obliqua.... R.C.:
Can’t confirm “The Diagnosis”
Sunshine: Come in then and shed
your little ray;
A friend of mine came up from town
To catch a cod or perch or snag;
With heaps of gear he was loaded down,
And asked me where to fill his bag.
To Stoney Crossing we did fare
With loads of grub and worms galore.
He boasted and talked, all hot air,
1 felt like socking his blanky jaw.
Another cast, now watch that log.
What’s gone wrong with the bally sinker?
Bad luck, of course, but it stunned the
dog,
A rotten try, in fact a stinker.
Oh whoppers today, a fish at last,
Now keep your head and play him awhile,
He’s properly caught, the hook is fast.
My friend did brag with sjmirk and smile.
Twenty pounds, and what a beaut
In shimmering glory he lay on the grass
Then started to slither the elusive coot.
(Get out of my way, you silly ass.)
The bloke just yelled and gave a leap.
Fair on the fish he planted his stern
And man and cod all of a heap
Went back in the drink, it gave me a turn.
All dripping wet with shrimps in his hair.
Out he crawled onto the bank ;
His pants were ripped and waiting there
The dog had a hunch and bit the crank.
K.: No, no; the satirical fantasy
must be done with an absolutely
straight face... .L.O’L.: Short of
movie-pubflicity, of which one fools-
cap page reduces to one sentence,
we’ve never seen anything so ecstatic.
G.K.: “Everything Happens to
Me”—well, one thing won’t....
H.W.: It’s too good to be true
L.H.: You try so hard, and your
wretched ham actors always let you
d0wn!....F.M.: “Sex! Ha! It
didn’t appeal to him, somehow.” No
doubt that’s better than if it didn’t
appeal to him nohow J.W.W.: No
use writing about the modern world
in the poetic language of last century.
S.G.: “What lacks?” Originality.
CJ.R.: Thanks; but we don’t
reprint M.W.: “Shed the old abode
on the passing wave” may be good
advice for New Australians, but you
should remember there’s a housing-
shortage W.T.: Just another sun-
set.... M.F.; Pleasing, but slight
A.M.C.: But surely you don't imagine
Beethoven wandering on a “lonely
trot ” G.M.R.: “Greetings. 1 send
a fable called ‘Rats.’ ” Greetings—
and rats—returned.... Doric: It
seems questionable whether Dr. Evatt
is a hopeful subject for poetry
W.T.: Well, you certainly haven’t
missed anything:
I have heard the curlew calling and the
bellbird’s tinkling ring
And quite a lot of other things of which
the poets sing ;
The whipbird’s whiplash cracking, the
kookaburra, too,
I’ve seen the emu and the possum and the
bounding kangaroo.
P.M.J.; A dash of something in
“Cocktail Party”... .R.H.W.: Looked
twice at the wild duck before he flew
out... .H. 0.8.: Not very fond of
“The carrion pack’s primeval lusts.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Emjai”: There was a whopping
something in the hole at Henley’s Gap,
on the Ovens. No one had seen it, but
many had made contact and had had
heavy gear busted. The big hole, with
steep rock-face at the outer bend, and
shadowed by the gums on the high bank
and willows on the low side, was deep
and dark enough to be the lurking-place
of fantastic riparian monsters. At Keady’s
pub they talked of colossal cod and
bunyjps, and Shane and Yoxy reckoned
they’d give it a proper fly. From the
homestead-boat they trailed an outsize
spinner, sunk deep on a plough-rein tied
to the stern. In the second run the boat
dipped with a bump, swung with the
plunging something and was taking water
when the line parted. The cod, bunyip
or something grew at the pub, so the next
move was to commandeer a crab-winch
being used in snagging on the bank, and
attach to the wire-rope a set of butcher’s-
hooks baited with rabbit. A supple-
mentary line registered the bite, and when
the windlass of the crab-winch took the
strain the fun started. The monster dived
and plunged about, with occasional
glimpses of a dark-ridged back, and when
finally surfaced disclosed itself as a
corrugated-tank minus top and bottom,
which had come down in the floods and
lain quiet in the depths until tilted into
bucking activity in the current, like a
kero.-tin lid on a hand-line. “Well, there’s
y’r bloomin’ big fish,” said Shane, as the
winch hoicked it out. “Aw! That’s
just his ’ouse,” said Yoxy. “Look who’s
at home! ” as he unwrapped tangled lines
within and produced two big cod,
anchored on the spinner and the meat-
hooks.
• * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Who said black
swans won’t go to sea? Twenty-five
years ago it used to be open-season for
swans in Tasmania, and at such places
as Little Swanport beaters used to send
the big black fliers down-river past the
guns of so-called sportsmen. The great
part of the flights everywhere, of course,
went on out to sea for protection, and at
such times, coming along in my father’s
vessel about Maria Island, it was quite
disturbing to see rows of black objects
on the rough waters until we identified
them as swans. Two years ago off
Barwon Heads in the steamer track I
saw a mob of swans on the briny. But,
Coonewarre Lakes, Swan Bay and all
thrown in, the place that takes the belt
for swans is to seaward of the mouth
of the Bass River, Westernpdrt. There
even today the birds are often in tens of
thousands, and if it comes high-water
and there is anyone about the seagrass-
eaters go out on the ruffled waters of the
bay. The sight of rows and rows of
black-and-white wings putting to sea as
they thrash the water is a sight which
was commented on by Bass when he dis-
covered the river back in 1798 on his
famous whaleboat voyage of exploration.
♦ * * *
“Bass”: You don’t get mirages (B.
4/6/’52) in Australia like you do in the
U.S.A. I think it was Zane Grey who
once used one to foil a nefarious plot.
The hero, struggling across the sun-
scorched desert, saw a mirage of a distant
rauen-nouse, and watched while the
hitherto unsuspected villain went about
his underhand work. No one was more
surprised than the villain when he was
unmasked —unless it was some of the
readers.
* * ♦ #
“Sackfair”: Jock doesn’t usually talk
much about the years he spent knocking
about the islands, but “Shamuseen’s” par.
on primitive peoples’ efforts at fisticuffs
(B. 18/6/’52) drew this out of him: “My
cook boy really could fight. A couple of
sailors had taught him a little bit of
boxing, and he was naturally quick and a
hard puncher. Occasionally some of the
other boongs could be persuaded to put
the gloves on with him, but none of ’em
was silly enough to challenge his claim
to be ‘champun’ of the island —on our
side of it, anyhow. Then a rumor spread
that another champion had sprung up on
the other side of the island. We Euro-
peans didn’t take much notice of it —until
we heard that the contender and his sup-
porters were preparing to march across
and deal with the opposition. That was
pretty serious news; a thing like that
could erupt into really savage bloodshed.
We decided that the only thing to do was
stage the bout in a ring under Queens-
berry rules and proper control. The fight
came off, and my boy walloped the day-
lights out of the other boong, finishing up
by k.0.-ing him in the third. After we’d
patched the loser up we were having a
drink and a yarn when a boy rushed in
with the news that the fight was on again
outside. It was. The other-sider was
copping another hiding. When we had
stopped the massacre I asked my boy:
‘What for you hit him more fella? You
knock him out before time.’ That
right,’ he admitted. ‘But before time
knock him dead-fella to show him-fella
that me-fella champun. Now me-fella
knock him dead-fella for bein’ cheeky
fella too much and think him champun.’ ”
* * * *
“Bulloo”: Whether or not horses are
as good today as they were (B*. 11/6/’52)
is purely a matter of opinion,' but it is
incontestable that they are broken-in
better these days. The horsebreaker
today uses more science than the old-
timers, most of whom pinned their faith
to roping it, choking it up to a post,
saddlihg-up and then riding it till it was
exhausted, afterwards turning it out for
a six-months spell. When it was brought
in again for work the prad was inclined
to be resentful of its early treatment,
with the result it too often became a
buckjumper. The main force that drives
a horse to attempt bucking is fear, so
naturally, being afraid of man after
his “breaking” experience, he has
no confidence and no liking for another
dose, and bucks the harder on being
ridden again. Mainly, horses today are
well-handled and -mouthed before being
ridden, with the result they are more at
ease with their riders, and the ineffectual
pigroots mentioned by “Betcha” are no
more than a playful expression of spirit,
with none of the vicious, frightened frenzy
of a mishandled horse. I have a black
mare that has never dropped her head
in her life, yet she is as spirited and fiery
as any horse can be.
“Taffy”: The list of numbers quoted by
“Loulalo” (B. 25/6/’52) and used for
counting sheep by the old Cumberland
shepherd consist merely of the numbers
as spoken in the ancient, and long-extinct,
Cumbrian tongue. As in many other
cases, numbers have survived, in rural
districts, long after the language itself
has died, and I doubt if the shepherd’s
knowledge of the speech of his fore-
bears extended beyond the 20 words
given. Cumbrian was a Celtic dialect
closely related to the living Welsh
(Cymraeg), the dying Erse and Breton
and the dead Cornish. The equivalents of
the 20 numbers in modern Welsh are:
Un, dau, tri, pedwar, pump, chwech,
saith, wyth, naw, deg, un-ar-ddeg,
deuddeg, tri-ar-ddeg, pedwar-ar-ddeg,
pymtheg, un-ar-bymtheg, dau-ar-bymtheg,
tri-ar-bymtheg, pedwar-ar-bymtheg, ugain.
“Tangreen”: “Loulalo’s” shepherd was
using a language thought by some philo-
logists to be a Neolithic survival. The
sing-song cadence of the words is typical
of the manner of Celtic speech which still
persists in the Welsh tongue, with its
rising inflection at the end of each
sentence and its hurried metre. Yan,
tyan, tethera, nethera, pimp, through to
dick, bumfit, giggot, were until a few
years ago, if not till now, in common
use by shepherds in the more sparsely
populated hills of not only Cumberland,
but of Northumberland, Westmoreland
and the high moors of North Yorkshire,
taking their place among the few sur-
vivors of pure Celtic words which in-
clude bin, dun (the color), combe (a
narrow valley bordered by steep hill
slopes) and basket. Their survival in
those parts is all the more mysterious as
those areas were never Celtic strongholds,
but were early overrun by Angles and
Norsemen, although they may have
“No multiple-hiring, sah !”
escaped, in their solitude, the Roman in-
fluence. It is significant that these words
have remained in use Over the centuries
only for the counting of sheep, their
survival probably a comment on the
traditional loneliness and independence of
shepherds throughout history.
“Brolga”: I learnt the dialect
numerals which “Loulalo” sets out
from an old farmer in the Cumberland
“We can go in and just try them on —we don't have to buy them ,
you know."
(Eng.) dale where I spent my boy-
hood. He did not use them himself, but
said he could remember his grand-
father counting in this fashion. The fact
that the numbers only ran to 20 is prob-
ably explained by the local custom of
tallying sheep by the score, a shearing
(“clipping”) tally being referred to as so
many score. Shearing was —and still is,
as far as I know—a leisurely business on
a dales farm. In a yard shaded by leafy
trees a catcher deftly tied the legs of the
black-faced Herdwicks, then dumped
them on low wooden trestles about 2ft.
wide, which were straddled by the
shearers as they plunged the blades into
the coarse, hairy wool. And, believe it
or not, you A.W.U. blokes, during the
afternoon the womenfolk brought along
cans of ale for the shearers. Rams
(“tups”) were generally hired from stud-
masters for the season, and the “Tup
Fair,” when these hirings were arranged,
was an event in the farmers’ year. When
rams were not with ewes they were
chained together in couples in the fields
to stop them fighting. Each dale farm
carried the right to graze or “stint” a
fixed number of sheep on near-by open
fells or mountains. Individual flocks
were distinguished by large tar-brands,
and there was always an event at sheep-
dog trials in which two dogs, working to-
gether, would cut out (“shed”) strange
sheep from a small number of sheep on
the fellside a quarter of a mile or so
away from their master ; an everyday job
for them when gathering from the fells.
At least one Cumberland farmer, J.
Relph, of Threlkeld, exported a number
of sheep-dogs to Maoriland’s South
Island, where his breed of Border Collie
was very popular in the rough country.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Mat and I got taken
on at the Sunshine Harvester Works in
preference to some other applicants be-
cause both of us knew the difference be-
tween a peg-drum and a duckfoot harrow-
point, and apparently the other appli-
cants didn’t like it. Anyhow, we’d hardly
been on the assembling-floor an hour when
a bossy little bloke showed up and
demanded to see our union-cards. “What
union?” Mat demanded. “Implement-
makers’,” Mat eyed him. “Me and the
mate,” he said coldly, “belong to the
A.W.U.” “Aw, that’s a bush union,”
came back the bossy bloke, with some
contempt. “If y’re goin’ t’ work here
y’ got t’ be in the Implement-makers’.’’
“Nobody tells me what I got t’ do,”
roared Mat. The bossy bloke went away.
Shortly the foreman came and called us
together. “Look,” he said, “it don’t hurt
f be in the union.” “We’re A.W.U.,”
Mat announced stoutly. “I know, I
know. But just t’ avoid trouble, y’ could
take a ticket in the Implement-makers’ ”
Mat pondered* “All right,” he said
gravely, “I’ll turn. But don’t blame me
if there’s trouble. Nothin’s worse than
a flamin’ convert tryin’ t’ keep his own
conscience quiet, an’ that’s what 111 be
doin’.”
CROC-SHOOTING.
The motor-launch goes drugging through die
, grey
Grim wall of night. Then as the flash of day
A searching beam leaps out, a spear of light
That stabs into the dark mysterious night.
The startled nankeen’s harsh and raucous boom
Comes from within the tangled mangrpve’s
gloom.
A water-rat makes haste to reach its lair,
And cranes sit mute Within the blinding glare.
A trigger-neck—caught in the dazzling beam —
Drops as a plummet to the tidal stream.
A long-tom skitters, leaps ... an arc of white
Flicks through the light-rays to a wall of night.
Tft tensed on deck, behind , the blinding glare
Of searching light, men watch; their keen eyes
* stare
Into the spot of light within its beam,
They search the surface of that tidal stream.
Now comes the whispered word, “There! Over
there! ”
The light’s rays focus on the baleful glare
Of surfaced crocodile ... Its eyes are bright
Red glowing orbs within the yellow light.
Now eyes are fixed on eyes, all else is still;
Each to his place on board, eager to kill,
fhe man with rifle, man with the harpoon-spear
Tensed as the monster draws more near, more
near.
“Ready now! Right!” The chugging engine’s
beat
Dies in a swirl of sound and shuffling feet.
The harpoon-barb thuds home, the rope’s in
play
Where jaws are thrashing in a whirl of spray.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
mk
s?\%
S/
19 s?
TO-DAY —AS FOR 117 YEARS
The Best in
Banking Service
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
mun
The pen
with the
perfect nib
tre
TRADE MARK
t
This nib is the most important
part of your pen. Swan nibs are
hand-made by experienced crafts-
men, and are perfect in every way.
There is a nib to suit every style
of writing. Swan Pens are attrac-
tive in appearance. They look
good and they are good. They
will serve you for a lifetime.
MODEL 31, PRICE 50/-
’wan PENS
MABIE, TODD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
(4.M '
“E.”: Was in the store the other day
when one of the new settlers came in
and asked for credit, explaining that he’d
pay monthly or quarterly. “Sorry,” said
the storeman stonily. “Only cash.” “He
should be right,” 1 volunteered, as the
settler left. “He’s got one of the Station
Creek blocks.” “Yes, and owes for most
of it,” came the retort. “If he doesn’t
make good I’d lose. Can’t take the risk,”
My thoughts went backtracking. In the
mining days credit was generally avail-
able, though a man had nothing but a
panning-dish, a missus and eight or ten
kids. The stores carried him till he struck
pay-dirt, and miners everywhere were
grubstaked While they were fossicking. If
they struck it, they squared off their bills ;
if they didn’t, it was bad luck all round.
Butchers, bakers, pubs —they were all in
it. Two blokes I know were supplied
regularly by the butcher for 14 months
before they collected a color towards their
o.s. account Often, when a miner struck
a patch the stores got the lot; then they
carried him while he hunted more.
* * • * *
“E.H.M.”: Who said nut-grass could
get into filter-press mud (B. 18/6/’52)?
All juice runs over screens smaller than
a pin’s head before it is pumped into the
clarification system. After the mud has
been dropped into the bin over a concrete
slab motor-trucks remove it to the farms,,
In the N.S.W. north-coast mill where I
work about 120 tons a week is removed,
and I have never heard a complaint in
25 years from farmers about nut-grass
being transferred via filter-press mud.
The yards of some mills are infested with
nut-grass, and it could be carried on the
tyres of the trucks.
* * * ♦
“Dune”: Maybe what is now Lake
George (B. 18/6/’52) was once the crater
of a volcano, and “Eurimburra’s” ex-
planation of the disappearance of its con-
tents quite feasible ; but it is rather at
variance with the habits of what are
definitely two extinct volcano craters on
the Atherton Tablelands (N.Q.): Lakes
Eacham and Barien, Situated in heavily-
timbered and almost jungle country, these
beautiful lakes are almost circular in
shape and several miles apart. Unlike
Lake George, however, the level of the
water in them never varies, no
matter what the climatic conditions.
Locals claim that they have never been
depthed ; another legend is that the two
lakes are connected by a subterranean
passage, which would account for the
water-level in both lakes being identical.
In support of the latter claim, they tell
of a gin years ago who fell into Eacham
and was drowned and several weeks later
her body turned up in Barien.
* * * *
“Lyle”: The scion of the Archer clan,
mentioned by “Laetitia” as going to the
Californian goldfields (B. 18/6/’52), was
presumably Thomas Archer, who wrote
Recollections of a Rambling Life, which
contains a vivid account of his experi-
ences in California in the 1850’s. Archer
“Stop that doodling and get y'r mind on y'r work!"
completed it when on a voyage to Japan
—a fellow-passenger was explorer Donald
Mackay—and published it in Tokyo.
According to Charles Barrett only 25
copies were printed, for distribution
among members of the Archer clan.
Sydney’s Mitchell Library, however, has
one. It is a pity a full edition of the
book was not published, for, apart from
the interesting glimpses of pioneering life
in Australia and California, it is racily
written. The old “Sydney Mail” serial-
ised it about 20 years ago. It’s a wonder
some enterprising publisher hasn’t re-
printed it.
* * * #
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve met experts like
the one who advised “Billy See’s” editor
on the subject of the electricity generated
within a petrol-tanker in motion (B.
18/6/’52). Still, as he did admit that some
electricity would be generated, let’s use
that as a basis for explanation. That
electricity may be, as he says, positive
and incapable of discharging within itself,
needing instead contact, or near-contact,
with a negatively-charged body. Then
that contact is all that is needed to create
the spark. Right? Now, having removed
the chain from the chassis, let’s drive that
tanker, fully charged with positive elec-
tricity, up to a bowser to discharge. The
discharge hose with its metal nozzle is
placed in the underground tank from
which highly-inflammable fumes are
rising. As the petrol emerges from that
hose it establishes contact with a negative
body, the earth, and provides a path for
the positive electricity stored in the
tanker. The resultant spark should
explode, amongst other things, “Billy
See’s” naive notions about electricity. To
prevent that explosion is the sole reason
why that chain is employed to make
contact between tanker and earth.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In only one particular
“Bo’s” par. on the old Merrylands estate
(B, 18/6/’52) fails to coincide with the
information since passed on to me by an
old-timer who was born 64 years ago in
a house that still stands less than half a
mile away from the site of the historic
old home. My informant, Mr. Colin G.
Brown (now of West Tamworth, N.S.W.),
alludes to the house as Locksley Hall, a
name it bore in later years when I first
saw it, and after which the subdivision
was called. Still, Sutherland House could
have been the name given to the home
by the original owner. The artificial lake
where the waterlilies grew also contained
an island on which was a pigeon-loft, Mr.
Brown recalls. And that information has
set me thinking. I don’t remember any-
thing close to the old site which might
have been an ornamental lake at one
time, but between Guildford and Merry-
lands stations, on the opposite side of the
railway-line, there is a large dam with an
island in it, and, until recent yeafs, a
structure similar to a summer-house stood
on the surrounded plot. But the railway-
line was constructed in 1856, which means
that either the estate extended on both
sides ot the line or a wealthy neighbor
also had an ornamental lake with all the
fixings. I’d be interested to know which.
# * * *
“Kriz”: In addition to Moola Bulla
cattle-station, of H million acres
(B. 18/6/’52), the W.A. Government
established others at Happy Valley
(1,000,000 acres) and Violet Valley
(500,000 acres), besides providing
about 30 free-ration stations and
subsidising five or six Mission stations.
Despite the lashins of beef the
abos could get for the asking, it was
many years before the establishment of
these sources of free tucker had its effect;
cattle-spearing continued and whitemen
lost their lives. As late as 1922 Joseph
Condren and Tim O’Sullivan, at Sturt’s
Creek, were speared while overlanding
700-head of cattle. The marauding abos
then ran down the pick of the beasts,
cutting-up and carting away much more
beef than they could possibly use. Even
in 1927 Leopold Overheu had to walk
off Nulla Nulla cattle station, about 60
miles west of Wyndham, which he and
his partner had stocked-up in 1922 at a
cost of over £6OOO, after another abo.
spearing.
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In W.A., which
already has the longest fence in the world
—the No. 1 Rabbit-proof which spans
the State from south to north —there’s
some talk of another bit of a fence to
keep emus out of part of the wheatbelt.
It would run from a point on
the No. 1 fence north of Southern Cross,
through part of the Yilgarn district, and
connect with the rabbit fence again south
of the Cross. When emus appear in
strength they usually do more damage
than rabbits —they’ll flatten a crop, and
one year several farmers around Three
Springs failed to market a bushel, solely
on account of emus —but by the same
token it will take a stronger fence to slop
them. If an emu gets its head through
a fence he kicks the rest of his frame
through and the next emu to come along
walks over what’s left of the fence. About
20 years ago a machine-gun company
carried the war into the emu country and
retired in confusion, leaving one dead
emu behind. But why try to exclude the
long-legs? Why not encourage them in
and eat them? Properly cut —across the
grain—and with the fat, which is strong,
cut off, emu steak is good. It looks rather
like beef and tastes better than beef you
buy now.
TEN FIFTY-NINE.
One morning when the sky was glass
And the ground was wedding-caked with frost,
Because the sky was dancing bright
And her horse was stamping witn delight,
I tried to kiss the tomboy lass
Who’d ridden to meet me with some news
That couldn’t wait arriving.
And she, who knew just what I was,
Played hard-to-catch, and turned her head;
So nose met nose, with a sunlit clash
Of smiles, and a snorting from the horsey—
Which made us laugh. And then she said,
“Young girls are careful. Times are hard.
Kissing’s forbidden
Before eleven.”
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ANTI-AMERICAN.
“There is a lot of loose talk
about the United States from
people who refer to American
imperialism and similar phrases ;
but no country in history has
ever made greater efforts to help
other countries than the United
States has done in the last six
years.”
. In that comment Mr. Attlee
may have been having a shot at
his Socialist-party’s “rebels,”
among whom, as in the British
Leftish Press, anti-Americanism
has been notoriously blatant. But
the anti-America phenomenon
has not been restricted to those
quarters, nor to Britain either.
A New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent has
lately reported American officials
in Europe are becoming more
and more concerned about it.
Commenting that without doubt
there is “an increasingly deep
and wide range of feeling in
Europe that resents or fears or
opposes” certain aspects of U.S.
policy, he lists some of the
grounds; in general: “Euro-
peans, though grateful for the
aid and leadership of the United
States in this tense cold-war era,
feel that America is often
too domineering, sometimes too
impatient, sometimes too
impetuous in the conduct of its
relations with Europe.”
Rich-uncle Complex
One specially sore point
listed is the extent to which
Europe generally is dependent on
the United States for military
and economic support;
“Nobody likes it. And there
is a steadily growing desire
for independence, at least
in the economic field. Here, it
is the old relationship between
the rich uncle and the poor but
proud nephew. The United
States has not learned, or been
willing to practise, the finesse
required to conduct the rich-
poor relationship without hurt-
ing feelings and often irritating
its best friends. The outstand-
ing example of this is the way
in which the United States has
forced the pace and laid down
the basic lines of the peace settle-
ments with Japan and West
Germany. Neither of these
settlements is regarded with
enthusiasm in Europe.”
Another point is the growing
U.S. tendency to raise tariffs
against European goods, as a
result of which Europeans “are
increasingly wary of making a
major effort to sell their goods
in the United States and thereby
ease their national dollar crises.
They fear that once such a
major effort begins to prove
successful, the tariffs will be
pushed up and they will be shut
out.”
In other fields, the French
greatly resent the U.S. appearing
to side with the Arabs in
Tunisia and feel that they are
not getting enough help in Indo-
China.
British Grouch
A listing of British grievances
(most of which go for Europe,
too), set forth in London “News
Chronicle” by its Washington
correspondent as gleaned by “an
American who knows his way
' about Britain,” includes the
following:
Germany and Japan.
America is forcing the pace too
fast, insisting on settlements to
which opinion in Europe is not
yet reconciled and growing
querulous when everyone
doesn’t at once agree with her.
Rearmament. America ex-
pects Western Europe to fall in
and follow a plan which can
only be fulfilled if it is buttressed
by foreign aid which America
cannot guarantee and which
may be overturned if a new
President who doesn’t believe in
it is elected next November.
Trade. America demands
that Western Europe give up its
trade with Communist countries,
but shows signs of slapping on
fresh tariffs against any country
which tries to sell any significant
volume of goods in the United
States.
Mediterranean Command. —
America wants to manage all the
ships,
Korea. Americans have
shockingly mishandled Koje
Island prison-camp.
The list went on to take in
such matters as the American
suspicions which have prevented
a continuation of the U.S.-
British-Canadian atomic partner-
ship of the war days and the
barriers erected against would-
be immigrants or visitors, and
it ended:
Elections. —How can anyone
be sure ’whether the present
American policy is going
to be maintained, dropped or
modified?
U.S. Performances
On all of which the corres-
pondent commented that any
anti-American nurturing the
listed complaints against the new
world leader might, in fairness,
consider:
“If America, on attaining her
supremacy, had behaved accord-
ing to the old and more comfort-
able rules of diplomacy and
statesmanship... .she could have
taken none of the post-war
actions which, though they are
already discussed as though they
were part of an inevitable land-
scape, have, in fact, set a new
and enlightened standard of
international behavior.
“There would have been no
Marshall Plan—no billions of
dollars to rebuild Europe.
“There could have been no
effective Atlantic community
without American military aid ;
and whatever fears there may
be for the outcome of American
pressure behind the European
Army, the Schuman Plan, and
the reconciliation of France
and Germany, Mr. Dean
Acheson was unalterably right
when he said that ‘generations
of statesmen have vainly tried
to achieve what was recorded in
the actions at Bonn and Paris
[in the recent signing of agree-
ments].’
“And if America had not
promptly and resolutely fought
in Korea, the Communists
would have been in possession
by now of a great deal more
than compounds on Koje
Island.”
Against and For
For all that, the anti-
Americanism remains as
reported on by London
“Economist”: “If thete are men
and women in America who
want to ‘keep out of Europe,’
there are men and women in
Europe who want them to do
exactly that. Communists and
fellow - travellers have never
wanted anything else, and
Europe has also had its
neutralists ever since the end of
the war. But in 1952 the travail
of rearmament and the turbulent
problem of Germany have
aroused much wider distrust of
American policy. Men as
divergent in their political views
as General de Gaulle in France
or the supporters of Mr. Bevan
in Britain have attacked the
American association. In fact,
more time and more emotion
seem to be spent these days in
attacking the Atlantic com-
munity than in reaffirming, with
all possible vigor, the reasons for
its birth.”
The “Economist” comments:
“Those who deplore America’s
Atlantic policy might usefully
ask themselves in what state,
without American rearmament
and the American commitment
to Europe, the free nations of
the Atlantic fringe would find
themselves today.”
Dollar Imperialism
London “Observer” reports
that the “strong current of
irritation with the United States
has been flowing beneath the
surface of British public life” for
“some years past.” As a
summing-up on which, Desmond
Fitzgerald, in a London “World
Review” editorial, makes some
pointed comments. He says:
“There is no such thing as
gratitude between nations (and
very little between persons), but
it does seem to me that most of
us are remarkably ungracious,
to say the least of it, about the
help given to us by the Ameri-
cans.
“One of the most alarming
features of our present condition
London “Daily Express."
“HERE, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, NELSON’S COLUMN
SYMBOL OF THE BRITISH NAVY!”
is the eagerness with which
people will snap up and repeat
slogans, applying them as if they
explained everything, without
examining their meaning, if any,
or wondering who first produced
them. ‘Collective Security’ and
‘Peace Is Indivisible’ are two
examples from the recent past,
‘Dollar Imperialism’ and ‘Coco-
colonisation’ from the present.
“Two plain undeniable facts
about Western Europe today are,
firstly, that the main reasons why
the Russians have not taken
over (either directly or through
agents) the whole area is the
Americans’ possession of the
atom-bomb and the Americans’
determination to fight for,
Europe, and, secondly, that the
main factor in European re-
covery has been the willingness
of American taxpayers to give
away large sums of money.
“It is quite easy to see why
the Communists and their half-
baked supporters should call this
determination and generosity
'‘dollar imperialism.’ It is not
quite so easy to see why so
many people who owe their
safety and comfort (however
precarious) to the Americans
should be so offensive.
“Of course it is not really so
uncommon to bite the hand that
feeds you; there is something
very galling about accepting
charity, especially if you con-
sider your benefactor to be less
cultured, enlightened and deserv-
ing than yourself. There is also
plain envy, the impotent anger
of the new poor at the rich who
can still travel first-class..
“For people of the Left in this
country [Britain] there is, as well,
a permanent sense of grievance
—extraordinary when you think
of it—-against the Capitalist
country which cheerfully
financed six years of Socialist ex-
periment.”
Europe's Pitfalls.
Borrowing a term from the
Marxist lexicon, London
“Times” sees the European
Defence Community as suffering
from' “internal contradictions”
which may prove fatal to it even
without any direct Russian
aggression.
One it lists is the fact that
British, American and French
troops will remain in Western
Germany although the “occupa-
tion” has been brought to an
end. The “Times” holds that,
however skilfully the contract
has been drafted and however
much goodwill exists, that rela-
tionship is bound to be difficult.
The second contradiction is
between the French Govern-
ment’s genuine wish to welcome
Germany as a partner in Euro-
pean union and its natural deter-
mination to see that she does not
become too strong a partner:
“The European Defence Com-
munity is designed to be at once
a clubhouse and a guard-room.”
The third and most serious
contradiction is that the Germans
who join can do so only by leav-
ing 20 million of their com-
patriots outside;
“It seems likely that, as time
goes on, the West Germans will
become either increasingly dis-
satisfied with a community which
leaves East Germany under
Communist rule or increasingly
eager to think in terms of its
liberation.”
Various Voices.
Churchill: “The spectacle of a
number of middle-aged gentle-
men, my political opponents, in
a state of uproar and fury is
quite exhilarating to me.”
Eisenhower: “The chance of
a deliberately provoked war is
not great,”
British M.P., Cyril Osborne :
“Last year under Socialism the
British people ate 25 per cent,
more than they earned. Every
fourth bite of food was either
on tick or charity.”
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury : “A family only truly
begins with three children.
Therefore, you get two parents
and three children and majority
rule becomes at once possible.
After all, that is the beginning of
democracy and to some extent
the beginning of wisdom.”
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Butler: “I do not
mind telling you that when I
want to hear about the cost of
living I do not appeal to
economists. I ask my wife. I
find that she is at once more
polite and more coherent.”
British M.P., David
Gammons: “Do those trade-
union leaders who are pressing
indiscriminately for wage-
increases realise that they may
be leading their members straight
into an unemployment queue?”
Truman : “The Kremlin is not
going to take a vacation just
because we are having a Presi-
dential election in this country.
The Kremlin is going to make
the most of this year to try to
frighten the West —to try to
undermine the morale of the
free nations and split them
apart.”
John Foster Dulles: “It can
be taken as almost certain that
no possible outcome of the
[U.S. Presidential] election will
end the policies which express
the conviction of the American
people that the security and
welfare of the United States are
inextricably involved with those
of other free nations.”
General Mark Clark ( U.N.
Commander in Korea ): “Com-
munist China with an armed-
forces strength of almost
4,000,000 men, and even with its
other military commitments in
Asia, can well afford her size-
able contribution to the Com-
munist aggression in Korea.”
French President Auriol:
“Social democracy cannot live
and prosper without political
democracy, and political demo-
cracy is the very reverse of
hatred and violence —it is
progress through law, and
respect for all individual and
public freedoms,”
Lord Ismay, on N.A.T.0., of
which he is Secretary-General ;
“Provided we can by resolu-
tion, unity and some self-
sacrifice get over the next two
or three years without a collision
the day will c6me when our
energies need no longer be con-
centrated on defence, but on
those other fields of common
endeavor which can bring happi-
ness and prosperity to the
peoples of the free world.”
A. Wilfred May, executive
editor of ’ the “New York Com-
mercial and Financial Chronicle,”
after attending the Moscow
“economic conference”: “I
really think they can’t stand
a war. I think they are wide
open. They have much more to
lose than to gain from war. I
think that the only way this
regime could get out of power
would be through a war.”
U.S. Assistant Secretary of
State, Howland Sargeant: “The
Asians do not realise that Com-
munist imperialism would impose
a colonialism far worse than the
old pattern. Communism has
been —and is being—sold them
as an escape from their miseries.
The new and greater miseries
that it imposes are not so
evident.”
British Assistant Postmaster-
General, David Gammons: “We
now have a three-party system
in Parliament —the Conserva-
tives and two brands of
Socialists. Certainly in foreign
affairs and in some aspects of
home affairs the things which
divide the Attleeites and the
Bevanites are far greater than
what separates Mr. Attlee from
Mr. Churchill’s Government.”
U.S. Secretary of State,
Acheson: “We [Americans]
have three choices: the United
States can cut its exports, which
would have a serious effect on
our economy and create unem-
ployment ; we can continue
indefinitely to make gifts of
dollars, which means the United
States will never be paid for its
exports and the American tax-
payer will make up the differ-
ence ; or we can allow the
nations of the free world who
need American products for our
joint defence to sell us their
products and so help earn the
dollars they need to pay us. This
is by far the best solutions”


DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 37|";
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi", “Wonderheat" and
"Warmray" stoves.-
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
Fireplace surrounds
I OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
m
-K-
-■ /
i
A Vacuum
is lighter than air
BRESCIA 1670
REAT INTEREST has been aroused by the publication
of a scientific treatise by the Jesuit Fancesco de Lana.
The author, well known for experiments on determining
the weight of air, speculates on the use of aircraft for
transport and military purposes. He describes his con-
ception of an aerial ship, supported by four evacuated globes
and propelled by sails or oars.
“The principle,” affirms de Lana, “is sound enough. The
ship is bound to rise from the ground. And what other
means of propulsion is practicable? As soon as you invent a
machine you need proper fuelling arrangements, and so far no
one has even thought of the BP Aviation Service. But I
expect they will; and a very good fuelling service it will
be, as everyone will know.”
AVIATION
t
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
SUNDRY SHOWS
ALEC TEMPLETON.
Having been led to the Mel-
bourne Town Hall piano, the
blind musician, Alec Templeton,
settled down to a gentle pro-
gramme of Bach, Beethoven,
Brahms and Schumann played
sensitively and surely with seeing
fingers. Then the real business
of the evening started, and the
audience laughed and cried and
stamped and howled while the
little Welshman played his varia-
tions on the aforementioned
classics. Advancing the debat-
able proposition that if Bach had
been alive today he would have
loved jazz, Mr. Templeton pro-
ceeded to syncopate that master.
Then he asked his hearers to
name two, popular pieces and
two classics, and out of them
weaved a masterly concerto.
Even a Puritan would have
smirked when he played and
sang “The- Lost Chord” in
Gilbert-and-Sullivanese.
Templeton has an extra-
ordinarily nimble brain. A piece
of Bach suggests a bit of
Gershwin, and a snippet of
Schumann suggests a bit of
someone else, and straightway he
mixes them together on the key-
board. Nor is there ever a sug-
gestion of hotchpotch ; beneath
it all is sound musicianship. The
astonishing thing about him is-
that he can be given five notes,
and on the spur of the moment
make a theme of them and then
work them out in fugue-form
and in the style of any com-
poser the audience likes to
mention.
Moving on to Sydney, Mr.
Templeton quickly had his first
audience completely in his grasp.
Admittedly, his straight Beet-
hoven lacked profundity and
fire, though a Bach Prelude and
Fugue and his Debussy com-
manded respect. But his true
forte is as a musical humorist.
Probably the most uproarious
thing ever heard on a concert
platform was his imitation, first
of America’s latest groaner, and
then of some highly-emotional
Italian opera in which he
employed a comic soprano, tenor
and baritone, with his piano
imitating the orchestra an
amazingly clever skit.
His improvisations and his
astonishing ability to play any-
thing in any manner, from the
polyphonic style of Bach to the
bravura late-romanticism of
Rachmaninoff, from the
modernistic jangl i n gs of
Stravinsky to the saccharine lut-
ings of Gershwin, have to be
seen to be believed.
Jessie Matthews.
“Larger Than Life,” which is
Somerset Maugham’s “Theatre”
done up in play form by Guy
Bolton, was put on at Melbourne
Princess to enable Aztec Services
and Garnet Carroll to present
Jessie Matthews to the Australian
public. She proved thoroughly
engaging, especially with regard
to her legs in the first act, when
the play was less Maugham than
Matthews.
Miss Matthews is a quick,
witty, vivacious actress, with
what entrepreneurs would call a
great feeling for audience-
appreciation and a knowledge of
all the tricks that get it, so she
was well cast in a play dealing
with the ageing actress who
refuses to lie down. She overdid
things a trifle in the first part of
the evening, but got caught up in
the play later. In the last act
she was splendid, lost herself in
the part and became an artist.
It isn’t the best of the
Maugham cycle, but it is a good
description of its subject.
Leonard Bullen, as the divorced
husband of the famous actress
who keeps up the illusion that
he and she are the Darby and
Joan of the theatre, was effective,
and John Edmund did well as
the accountant for whom Miss
Matthews gets an inexplicable
obsession.
Elena Nikolaidi.
When, in one fell swoop,
plague bereft Gustav Mahler of
all his children, the despair of
the composer was terrific. The
only way he could solace himself
for his feeling was with music,
and he wrote “Kindertoten-
lieder” while his children were
dying.
“Songs on the Death of
Infants” were five of a panel
which Elena Nikolaidi sang
without intermission at the latest
celebrity concert in Melbourne,
and her lovely contralto voice,
which, like a great painter’s
brush, can search out every
nuance, gave intense poignancy
to an evening which had already
been made poignant enough by
the orchestra’s playing of the
“Liturgical Symphony” of
Honegger, with its raging Dies
Irae and its wailing De Pro-
fundis.
Another first performance
was the Symphony No. 1
of Robert Hughes, the Australian
by adoption who is employed
by the A.B.C. as an orchestral
arranger. The opus sounded
robust and truly worthy, seemed
to stand on its own feet and
never wandered from its subject-
matter. It was the winning Aus-
tralian entiy in the Jubilee Com-
posers’ Competition.
Michael Rabin.
An admirable feature of
Michael Rabin’s violin-playing
in his Sydney recitals has been
that he has made no attempt —
as so many prodigies do—to put
the accent on virtuosity for its
own sake. His opening pro-
gramme contained works of
some austerity: sonatas by
Vivaldi and C£sar Franck and
the unaccompanied Sonata in
C Major by Bach. Any one
of the six unaccompanied
Bachs is a severe proving-ground.
Rabin commands a tone of
fine clarity. His bowing arm has
the flowing ease of the true
master of his instrument; and
in the slower phases his natural
lyricism always found full
expression, with a particularly
lovely tone on the G-string’s
lower reaches. Even at 16 years
of age Rabin was able to capture
some of the religious rapture and
mystic qualities inherent in the
Franck work, whilst the Vivaldi
had its meed of warmth.
In shorter pieces he moved with
equal authority from Chopin to
Saint-Saens, and, in some encores
—remarkably generous with six
—delighted with the lighter
classics, of which a Slavonic
Dance by Dvorak brought out
some rich double-stopping.
It was a magnificent swan-
song that John Brownlee sang to
Melbourne. It was not so much
his voice, rich and full as that
was, but his experience of opera
which lifted Mendelssohn’s
“Elijah” to a higher level than
the Philharmonic Society has
reached for a long time. Even
the most oratorical parts of the
oratorio were given meaning, and
the dramatic parts were sung
with an intensity of feeling that
awed a packed house —especially
the anguished “It is Enough”
and “Night Falleth Round Me.”
The orchestra, under Bernard
Heinze, was on the ball in the
instrumental sections, and very
properly took a back seat when
the soloists were in operation.
* ♦ * *
Berlioz intended a gargantuan
orchestra for the “Symphonic
Fantastique,” that musical record
of his unrequited passion for
Harriet Smithson, a leading
Shakspearian actress of his day.
Sir Bernard Heinze took the
liberty of playing it for the first
time in Brisbane with the
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
only slightly augmented for the
occasion. Ever a good conductor
for seizing on the right spirit of
romantic music, Heinze gave a
convincing and sometimes excit-
ing performance. Jiri Tanci-
budek was soloist in the Mozart
Concerto in D, which more often
turns up as a flute concerto, but
the Czech virtuoso made a good
case for its survival in the litera-
ture of the oboe.
"The Cocktail Party."
After conceding the youthful-
ness of some of the players, it
was practically impossible to
fault seriously Queensland Uni-
versity Dramatic Society’s pro-
duction of T. S. Eliot’s “The
Cocktail Party.” Settings,
costuming and speed of presenta-
tion were admirable, and the
performances of John Green-
wood and Edward Chamber-
layne and Irene Erbacher stood
out as the most completely
integrated characters, completely
understood by their youthful
players.
One wonders, however, if
the overseas success of the
play were not due to such per-
sonalities as Alec Guinness and
Rex Harrison rather than to the
script with its creaking
machinery of plot, amateurish
situation, and verbosity of much
of the alleged poetry. The situa-
tion of a saint in a modern
social group is handled more
effectively in the dated “Third
Floor Back,” and with surer
literary merit in Synge’s “Well
of the Saints.”
Art.
Somebody has dug up a collec-
tion of drawings, watercolors
and sketches which show that
Bob Russell, Melbourne’s first
surveyor-general, was not only
a good surveyor but an architect
and artist of distinction whose
work surpasses most of Vic-
toria’s early artists. St. James’
church, one of the loveliest old
fanes in Melbourne, was his
work. Artists weren’t specialists
in those days as they are now.
His first sketch was made in 1836,
when he came from Sydney to
make the first survey. He con-
tinned to record his environment
as it grew around him, and some
of his pictures of bush, streets,
ports and rivers are much more
like impressions than those of
the so-called Impressionists.
* * * ♦
There is, about the paintings
of Wladyslaw Dutkiewicz at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, a
suggestion of furious energy, but,
apart from a very slight hint of
observation in the face of
“Actress” and in “Exam. Fever,”
the overall impression is of a
determined slash and dash of
paint in pursuit of something
that neatly eludes capture.


"SIRIUS-
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. ,
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
r*
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
*4
tre
42 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
£3B/10/-
+ sales tax
*
BW 8631.
Why some firms have
no labor trouble
Is it possible for both man-
agement and union to get what
they want without strikes,
bitterness? Yes, they can and
do, says an authority.
In July, Reader’s Digest
Stuart Chase reports on a
highly significant study, made
by experts, of 30 companies
where unions and management
get along well together. Emerg-
ing from this study are eight
basic rules for “working har-
mony” creating the psycho-
logical atmosphere where men
and management respect each
other and get on with the job.
Your whole family will enjoy
July Reader’s Digest —in the
new natural-color photographic
cover. 30 articles of lasting
interest. One shilling and six-
pence, at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
*«»//
©
fc:
V
5
and frayed.
His boots were down at heel.
He didn’t run a bank account.
And be often lacked a meal.
But one thing that he ne’er
forgot
In his pocket to carry secure,
Was that most excellent remedy—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Robert Harper & Cos., Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
A B Nomina!
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar.) Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£* & £/£/£/ £,
1945.. 37,296 10,500 24,000 2400 396 423,093
From inner reserves, £64,346.. .. 487,439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490,966
8 p.c.
1947.. 32,317 10,500 19,200 2400 217 491,183
From tax reserve, £29,710 .. .. 520,893
Unexplained addition, £6842 .. .. 527,735
10 p.c.
1948.. 42,418 10,500 24,000 2400 5,518 533,253
From inner reserves, £15,925 .. .. 549 178
1949.. 49,730 10,500 24,000 2400 12,830 562,008
Unexplained addition, £4568 .. 566,576
8 p.c.
1950.-41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 9,149 575,725
Unexplained addition, £6813 . . . . 582,538
Profit, sale freehold, £100,932 .. 683,470
10 p.c.
1951.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 681 684,151
Unexplained addition, £942 .. .. 685,093
Profit, sale assets, £5321 .. .. 690,414
8 p.c.
1952.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 38 690,452
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
The wholesale dry-goods trade has
always been one of the most difficult
sections of industry in which to win satis-
factory profits, and it is becoming increas-
ingly so, as the figures of this ably-
handled and well-entrenched manufac-
turer, importer and distributor of a wide
range of grocery lines show. Though
the trade usually holds well in all
economic climates, competition is very
keen, margins narrow and selling-prices
are largely controlled, all of which makes
net results very sensitive to turnover and
costs.
The policy has been to keep the div.
steady at 8 p.c.—an annual event since
1918 —and sweeten it with bonus addi-
tions as circumstances permit. The 2 p.c.
bonus added in 1951 was dropped last
term, making the average distribution
over the last eight years 9.2 p.c. Since
war ended an expanding home market,
spurred by inflation and immigration,
has absorbed the increasing output of the
co.’s factories, on which a lot of money
has been spent on modernisation and
extension, thus quickening and relatively
cheapening output and distribution. But
for the last three years the steep and
persistent rise in wages and all other
operating costs has outstripped the growth
in productivity and selling-prices, thus
gobbling the gains from expanding turn-
over and more besides. This dangerous
costs spiral contains the seeds of both
consumer-resistance and unemployment,
which are harsher and more severe
correctives than timely wage adjustments.
Turnover notched anew record in both
quantity and value last term. The trouble
was the time-lag between the rise in costs
and lift in controlled selling-prices. After
setting aside £20,290 (down £21,741) for
depreciation and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation, the slip in net
earnings was £5443. The £32,138 of
profit—it is well below pre-war average
—was only a shade over 2.8 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). It was enough to pay the pref.
and B-share divs. (together £12,900), and
show a wink over 8 p.c. on the £240,000
of ord. capital, compared with 10.3, 11.8,
15.3, 12.3 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1947.
The co.’s new factory at Woodville
(S. Aus.) came into operation during the
year, anew mill building at Melbourne
was completed, and the whole programme
of plant reconstruction, etc., is nearly at
an end. To help meet the outlay on free-
holds (up £113,666), plant (up £55,857),
stocks (up £126,396) and book-debts (up
£27,133) investments and cash were
drawn upon for £139,629;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Tax reserve.. 44,469 56,381 51,116 69,207
Overdraft .. 40,335 76,473 194.053
Sndy. creditors 59,052 84,607 162,105 131,883
Final dividend 15,600 10,800 15,600 10,800
Freeholds ..
Plant, etc. .. 71,028 148,953 262,240 318,097
Stocks.. .. 218,461 316,519 341,057 467,453
Sundry debtors 91,756 123,700 209,951 237,084
Govt, securities,
cash, etc. .. 483,660 319,373 216,117 76,488
Goodwill . . 80,000 80,000 80,000 80,000
The overdraft was raised mainly to meet
an advance cash payment in connection
with the rice crop. The amount coming
to trade creditors was reduced by £30,222.
Buyer-resistance has increased since the
close of accounts, and the management is
concentrating on production of high-
quality products to meet the present
selective demand. The co.’s high reputa-
tion in the trade, its Commonwealth-wide
connections and improved plant capacity
and efficiency place it in a strong com-
petitive position.
At 48s. (565. a year ago) the ords. return
3.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for a shade over 5 p.c.
on his money counts on a 12 p.c. distri-
bution. The prefs. at 255. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £7 9s. 4d. prefs. and
775. 6d. ords.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adel.)
- Dividends \
Ist 2nd 3rd Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1942 7,388 7\ 6 lO 5,600 23,049
1943 8,294 74 6 lO 5,600 25,743
1944 9,704 74 6 lO 7,020 28,427
1945 19,213 74 6 lO 8,700 38,940
1946 23,422 7\ 6 5 10 12.265 50,097
Consolidated Figures.
1947 24,310 74 6 5 10 16,200 58,323
Share premiums, £45,000 .. ..'103,323
1948 52,675 6 5 10 29,075 126,923
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 73 6 5 15 57,200 259,390
1950148,808 7| 6 5 15 79,700 328,498
Revaluation assets, £140,000 .. .. 468,498
1951 190,838 74 6 5 15 79,700 579,636
Taxes, previous years, £5530 .. .. 574,106
1952 144,822 73 6 5 15 79,700 639,228
Advance tax provisions, £39,000 .. 600,228
This 20-year-old Adelaide-controlled co.
and its two operating subsidiaries and
three sales and/or servicing offshoots,
which have Commonwealth-wide connec-
tions, have put up an excellent perform-
ance to date. They turn out high-grade
domestic and commercial refrigeration
units, electric petrol-pumps, washing-
machines and other domestic appliances.
Ord. divs. averaged 7.5 p.c. for the first
four years, followed by a steady 10 p.c.
for the 11 years to 1948 and then 15 p.c.
to the close of last accounts. The pay-
ments were also 'sweetened with new
share-issues on favorable terms —paid
capital shot up from £64,941 in 1939 to
£200,000 in 1945 and to £680,000 in 1949,
and has remained steady since. And at
the end of March last there were reserves
of £600,228 to support and assist the
share capital.
Since some of the conditions which
made possible the rapid growth and high
earning-power are now passing away, and
since we appear to be entering upon a
more competitive era, the past cannot be
accepted as a reliable guide to the future.
Last term started well but finished with
a reduced demand for the group’s major
products, heavy stocks and a still-spiralling
costs structure —an unwelcome combina-
tion.
Government statistics show that
production of domestic refrigerators in-
creased during the first half and then
began to taper. Over the full term the
co.’s turnover expanded. The slip of
£46,016 in net earnings was due partly
to heavier provision for taxation
(£196,000, up £44,410) and partly to the
pressure of costs. The allowance for
depreciation was £10,553 heavier at
£98*319, equal to 14.6 p.c. of plant at
cost. The £144,822 of profit was enough
to pay the pref. divs. (£12,200) and show
an attractive 29.4 p.c. on the £450,000 of
ord. capital as against 39.7, 30.2, 29.1,
18 and 19.2 p.c. back to 1947. That dis-
regards £5530 underprovided for taxation
in the previous term and £39,000 ear-
marked for advance taxation payable in
respect of 1952-53. Still, the 15 p.c. div.
remained a comfortable matter.
The trade trend again shows up in a
heavy growth of £827,783 in stocks and
reduction of £114,477 in book-debts, lo
help finance the difference the co. went
to its bankers for £402,369 and increased
the amount coming to the trade creditors
by £102,938:
Parent and Subsidiaries. ,
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. . . £230,000 £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ordinary .. 450,000 450,000 450,000 450,000
Overdraft . . 103,974
Creditors, etc. 323,779 462,326 734,414 837,352
Tax provision 100,989 128,395 182,840 336,151
Final divs. . . 37,600 51,100 39,850 39,850
Freeholds . . 140,494 151,251 329,119 336,545
Plant . . 191,383 195,788 225,812 240,689
Stocks* . . 1,012,934 983,659 1,200,557 2,028,340
Debtors . . 160,429 225,000 404,315 289,888
Cash . . . . 492 94,621 56,937 536
* Includes work in progress.
The immediate problems facing the man-
agement are to work down stocks, which
appear at cost or market-value whichever
is the lower, and reduce the outside debt.
The recent rise in the price of steel and
continuance of import restrictions have
lessened part of the danger inherent in
this problem; there is already evidence
of some price-cutting in the trade. Share-
holders, however, have the board’s assur-
ance that plant is modern, the technical
set-up flexible and that earnings are not
too dependent upon any one line. Pro-
vided costs, mainly wages, don’t get out
of hand and place selling-prices of end
products out of reach of a proportion-
ately increasing number of people, turn-
over is not expected to recede much
below its current level. Subject to satis-
factory adjustment of its immediate prob-
lems, the long-term outlook for the co.
is encouraging.
At 9s. 9d. (14s. early in 1952) the f.-p.
ss. ords. would return 7.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. on a p.c. distri-
bution. All the prefs. are priced to yield
approximately 5 p.c. Net tangible coyer
is 375. Bd, per share —the prefs. enjoy
priority as to divs. and capital and share
in surplus assets.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
f Dividends — >, Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves,*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1943 ~ 6,703 8 5 4,691 15,579
1944 . . 7,616 8 5 4,691 18,504
Profit on sale of freehold, £145 .. 18,649
1945 . . 8,645 8 6 5,228 22,066
Recovered loss of subsidiary, £1539 23,605
Expenses of share issue, etc., £733 22,872
1946 . . 9,299 8 6 5,948 26,223
Expenses of share issue, £905 .. 25,318
1947 .. 12,951 8 6 7,742 80,527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 .. 28,825
1948 . . 30,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 . . 41,523 8 10 17,958 68,538
Revaluation reserve, £84,000 .. 152,538
Share premiums, £SOOO .. .. 157,538
1950 .. 52,737 8 10 22,567 187,708
1951 55,485 8 10 27,180 216,013
* Subject to £4878 goodwill.
An encouraging performance consider-
ing overall economic and other trends.
Behind the brisk post-war advance in
profits and lifts in the div. are modernisa-
tion and extension of the factory to the
benefit of output and costs, addition of
some well-known agency lines to goods
handled, and boom conditions, which are
now losing some of their impetus. The
factory at Rosebery, near Sydney, turns
out sheep-shearing and milking machines
and petrol and diesel engines, etc. The
agencies include Electrolux refrigerators,
Hawkins pressure-cookers and the N. S.
Wales and Queensland franchises,
acquired a year or so ago, for Chamber-
lain and Steyr-Daimler tractors. A small
Queensland offshoot (paid capital
£15,000), which looks after sales in the
northern State, is making satisfactory
progress.
Although drought and the fall in wool
prices took some of the buoyancy out of
primary producers’ incomes last year, the
market for the co.’s main lines held well,
export sales increased, and the tractor
venture has proved satisfactory. The
improvement in the year’s gross
profit (£385,729) was £49,088. Including
£5455 (down £6524) for depreciation
exes. (£274,206) took only £16,750 of the
gain—it is a fine testimony to the effi-
ciency of both plant and management,
The Queensland offshoot sent alone
£6462 (up £1910). But an extra £31,50C
was earmarked for taxation (£62,500):
so the Treasury, not shareholders, has
reaped most of the harvest from the good
work done by the management. The net
result was only £2748 stronger at £55,485,
which covered the pref. div. (£2000) and
21.2 p.c. or ord. capital as against 24.6,
24.7, 23 and 12.4 p.c. back to 1947. After
repeating the 10 p.c. div., £28,305 (41 p.c.)
of the year’s profit was ploughed back
into the business, lifting reserves to
£216,013, subject to £4878 of intangibles.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a combina-
tion of expanding business and cost-and-
price inflation: —
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . £184,532 £184,532 £276.799 £276,799
Mortgages . . 38,802 70,000 77,500 85,000
Overdraft . . — — 24,845 94,964
Creditors, etc.* 154,488 269,487 167,421 305,073
Final div. .. 9,774 9,774 18,590 13,590
Freehold . . 76,337 85,799 170,000 174,127
Plant . . 50,871 55,404 61,968 78,673
Shares subsid. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock . . 182,795 285,211 286,209 448,715
Book debts .. 99,160 152,102 209,808 270,046
Cash . . . . 3,522 8,936 — —
Goodwill .. 4,878 4,878 4,878 4,878
* Includes provision for taxation.
There was an improvement of £13,473
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£220,134). To carry an extra £162,506
of stocks, £60,238 more book debts and
add £20,832 net to fixed assets the co.
increased the outside debt by £215,271,
thus raising the amount of outside money
in the business to 19s. 8d. for every £1
belonging to shareholders when the books
closed. Stocks appear at cost or lower
and debtors’ balances after deducting pro-
vision for doubtful debts.
As for the current term, trade promises
to be less buoyant and the size of the
inventory might have to be reduced. In
this connection import restrictions, the
recent rise in the price of steel and the
easing of bank credit, especially where it
relates to primary production, suggest
that shareholders have little to fear.
Hopes are that there will be a slight
easing of the tax burden. Costs, which
are still on the upgrade, will be the
toughest nut to crack.
The market, which doesn’t expect the
10 p.c. div. to be interfered with, prices
the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords. at 19s. 3d. (22s. 3d.
six months ago) to return 6.4 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution. The
pound prefs. at 28s. yield 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £19 10s. 5d. prefs. and
22s, lid. ords,
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Permewan' Wright and Subsidiary.
1946 .. 32,725 11 p.c. = 22,000 1 R
To doubtful debts, £4000 .. f 6,725 143,298
1947 . , 39,153 ,10 p.c. = 20,833 1
Premiums, new issue, £12,500 [ „„ Qori
To doubtful debts, £6000 .. f 23,820 167,118
To Red Cross, £1,000 .. I
1948 .. 48,335 10 p.c. = 25,000 I qqk -too aaq
To doubtful debts, £8000 ,, 15,335 182,453
Share premiums, £53,625 .. .. 236,078
Fire loss, £9814 . . . . . . . . 226,264
1949 .. 60,700 10 p.c. = 29,333 1 o« 7 o 50 631
To doubtful debts, £7000 .. ) - 4 ’ 367 Z60,b
Share premiums, £27,500 .. .. 278,131
1950 .. 74,706 10 p.c. — 33,338 1 na o no ana 504
To doubtful debts. £15,000 .. | 26,373 304,504
.1951 .. 113,718 12 p.c. = 51,000 1 04709-'
To doubtful debts. £20,000.. )
Share premiums, etc., £36,874 net .. 384,096
1952 . . 147,848 12 p.c. = 55,500 1 M q 4 r,i 444
To doubtful debts, £25,000..)
It was a highly profitable and eventful
year, which opened and closed with
turnover moving in opposite directions,
and that called for a reversal of policy in
some respects. Here is the picture as the
chairman himself paints it: —
Trade was extremely buoyant during most
of the year. In the second half, however,
some degree of buyer-resistance developed.
While sales continued at a comparatively
high level, they showed some decline from
October to the end of the year. One of
the effects of this was that our branches
did not dispose of the volume of goods


NEW HOMES
AND RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Ed., Balwyn, Vic-
toria. WF 4551. After hrs. XB 6524
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known-
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6f x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
tre
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
lAvm i
17 JEWELLED
SWISS
WATCHES
Choicer,
jlilliot™
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
I, VERA JOSEPHS, Stateless, born at
Ratibor, Germany, resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 78 Newcastle
Street, Rose Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS DAVIES late of Cessnock.
—TAKE NOTICE that ANNE CAMP-
BELL DAVIES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4780 of 1951 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 26th day of August 1952 at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney and obtain a copy of Peti-
tion without charge from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, of Bank Corner, Wickham, New-
castle, or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Addreaa;
Corrientea, Briabane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Come
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House. Eagle Street. Brisbane
RMI4
FONDE
*
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Instant, Positive Protection against
every type of FIRE RISK!
m' ?
m.
1
fV ,
lilSi
M
«■::<-
»
■“}
,
€
■
lII*
To kill fire
effectively,
each type of
fire requires
a different
extinguishing
technique
A “SIMPLEX” OR “LUX” FOR EVERY TYPE OF FIRE RISK
C & D
m ii
fAI "Simplex" Auto Type Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC). Capacity: 1 d u ° ri ‘
For motor lorries and cars, lift motor rooms, small electrical switchboards and
other electrical risks. _ • , ...
/d\ Simolex 11 Stored Pressure Garbon Tetrachloride (GTC) Type, -g
Opacity For large electrical installations, telephone exchanges and similar risks.
theatres, homes. u
( E ) "Lux" (Hand) Carbon Dioxide Gas (CO2) Type, 12-lb. capacity. Has mo
damaging after-effects. Particularly specified for P rot °^°l!°[ d ™ t hb '
electrical motors and apparatus, and certain inflammable hazards.
* “Simplex” and “Lux” Fire Extinguishers
are
self-contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Each does a specific
job. At your office, factory, engineering
shop, warehouse or store on farm or
station —in your car, truck or yacht
they’re always ready for instant, positive
action in an emergency. “Simplex” and
“Lux” Fire Extinguishers are approved by
all Government Departments, and used by
the Navy, Army and Air Force.
SIMPLEX and LUX
HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
t
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Wellington, Auckland,
and Branch Offices at Broken Hill, Orange Wag go,
Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin, Chnstcnurcn
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. STEELBILT LIMITED
anticipated, and stocks therefore in-
“eased Special steps were promptly
taken to meet this situation, and
locks on hand are being steadily
reduced.... Trade generally can be
said to be in a state of flux.
Assisted “substantially” by
importation of heavy hardware
lines, turnover increased by 40
p c., passing the £7-million-mark.
The combined net earnings of
the parent and its subsidiary
increased by £34,130, reach-
ing a record £147,848. That
includes £4583 added to the
insurance reserve, and was after
allowing for depreciation
(£29,657, down £7773) and taxa-
tion (£154,540, up £53,540). The
£147,848 was 31.9 p.c. on average
capital as against 26.7, 22.4, 20.7,
19.3, 18.7 and 16.3 p.c. back to
1946.
Repetition of the 12 p.c. distri-
bution, of which 2 p.c. is labelled
bonus, was thus an easy matter.
Of the £92,348 that remained,
£25,000 was openly transferred
to provision for doubtful debts,
making the amount so provided
over the last eight years £87,389,
which is deducted from the asset
concerned in the published
accounts. The other £67,348 of
the year’s net earnings lifted
visible reserves to £451,444, of
which £50,000 is earmarked for
possible “stock depreciation.”
Reserves also benefited by
£36,874 net of share premiums.
To help finance the bigger
trading and carry more stock,
£IOO,OOO of 4jr p.c. unsecured
notes with a six-eight-year
currency were issued in August,
1951. At the same time 75,000
new £1 shares were put out at
a premium of 10s. each. lo
provide still more funds a Mel-
bourne freehold, bought in Sept.,
1950, for £41,000, Avas taken
over at an unstated figure by the
trustees of the co.’s staff
provident fund. But all this was
not enough; when the books
closed the amount coming to
sundry creditors, including the
bank, had also increased by
£202,490. All these moneys, and
more besides, went into stocks
(up £651,493), which appear at
or under cost;
, —P.W. and
1950. 1951. 1952.
£
Paid capital . . 425,000 425,000 425,000
Notes ..
Creditors* . . 660,371 903,769 1,106,259
Taxation prov. 75,347 175,827 282,014
Pinal div. . . 17,583 29,750 30,000
Property and
plant . . 251,321 322,001 335,883
Stocks . . 595,721 729,405 1,380,898
Book debts . . 593,592 771,387 679,277
Shares other cos. 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 37,372 53,976 68,864
* Includes unspecified “provisions.”
Fixed assets (up £13,882) are
known to be worth a lot more
than book-value. The contrac-
tion of £92,110 in book-debts
reflects the falling-off of turnover
already referred to. The
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£61,566) was
£165,344. Still, when the books
closed there was 255. 4d. of
outside money in the business
for every pound belonging to
shareholders. Hence the need
to work down stocks and lighten
the debt.
At the moment appearances
are that the co. may be able to
do this without serious mishap.
It caters mainly for primary
producers and distributes a wide
range of merchandise through a
chain of 44 branches —26 in Vic-
toria, 17 in N. S. Wales and one
in South Australia.
At 355. 6d. (455. six months
ago) the shares return 6.7 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. distribution, or 5.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
38s.
Jelapang Tin Dredging
A couple of years ago it was
expected that the dredge, operat-
ing at Ulu Kinta on the
Ipoh-Jelapang road (Malaya),
would have treated all payable
ground by mid-1951. But the
rise in the price of tin has
enabled some fat profits to be
won from lower-grade dirt,
despite a sharp rise in costs, and
digging is likely to continue until
about the end of 1952. Here are
dredge performances over the
last three years: —
, —Year to Dec. 31 —\
1949. 1950. 1951.
Treated, c.y., ’OOO 1,687 1,567 1.517
Tin ore, tons . . 455.71 345.71 300.77
Yield, lb. per c.y. 0.60 0.49 0.44
Costs, pence per c.y. 10.63 10.80 12.88
The ore assays about 76 p.c.
metallic tin, and the average
price received last year was
£1036.4 per ton of metal as
against £750.5 and £559.7 for
the two preceding terms. The
profit was £78,191 (up £42,391)
and the div. was lifted from Bs.
to 10s. per £1 share, subject to
Malayan income tax of 30 p.c.,
which makes the 10s. worth 75.,
or 35 p.c. (£42,000), in the hands
of shareholders. Another 10s. a
share was paid in March last.
Terrorist activities have made
prospecting impossible, but the
hunt for anew property is to
begin as soon as circumstances
permit. The old property (cost
£73,005) figures in the books at
only £5 and the dredge, etc. (cost
£138,245), stands at £9106. In-
eluding stores, etc. (£21,255),
current assets total £281,228 and
current liabilities £48,421. There
was still £17,304 to come in
respect of war-damage claims,
against which there is a rehabili-
tation loan of £7697. The co.
is thus in a position to finance
transfer of the dredge, if and
when a suitable new area can
be found.
Paid capital is £120,000 in £1
shares, which recently fetched
50s. 3d. in the Australian market
as against a low of 275. in 1951.
Peko Gold Mines (Tennant
Creek), N.L., has run into some
rich copper-and-gold ore at
shallow depth, and, over the last
couple of months, the price of
the co.’s f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares have
shot up from Is. 3d. to ss. 2d.
in the market. At the 200 ft. level
copper content is said to be
about 33 p.c., and 240 tons of
the ore yielded £29,000 after pay-
ing freight charges. At 300 ft.
the face of a 128 ft. crosscut is
still in ore showing 3dwt. gold
and 12.2 p.c, copper per ton.
The last 35ft. of this crosscut
shows values averaging 12.4dwt.
gold and 15.6 p.c. copper.
Whether this is a flash in the
pan or whether the ore-body and
values live down remains to be
seen. The field has a reputation
for being very patchy. The co.
took over the Peko gold leases
(about 50 acres) on the Warra-
gamba field, Tennant Creek,
from the Tennant Creek
Development Cos. in 1949. Paid
capital is now £IOO,OOO.
111-fated Blue Spec Gold, near
Nullagine on the faraway
Pilbara field (W.A.), has just
made “satisfactory” arrange-
ments with B.H. Associated
Smelters, at Port Pirie (S.A.), for
treatment of the co.’s antimonial
concentrates, which have always
been a headache to the manage-
ment. Among other things this
means that production will be
stepped up, that the free-gold
premium will now be received
on all gold in the ore—only
about 30 p.c. previously carried
the premium—and that profits
instead of losses will probably
appear in the working account.
The market expressed its hopes
by lifting the price of the co. r s
f.-p. ss. shares from ss. 6d. to
7s. 6d. following the announce-
ment. Paid capital is £162,000.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
When Trade Counsellor for Canada
C. M. Croft and Mrs. Croft give a recep-
tion it is essentially a party, with a care-
free air of enjoyment that is not always
present at receptions. Canada Day, July
1, brought another of these happy occa-
sions, when William Morris Hughes, who
is one of the Queen’s Privy Councillors
for Canada, was the first to arrive at the
Crofts’ Elizabeth Bay home. Elizabeth
Northcott was present, wearing an engag-
ing little hat of pearl-pink feathers, and
the Lieutenant-Governor, Chief-Justice
Street, who wanted someone to sing “O
Canada” (“Not me,” said Mr. Croft.
“Everyone starts to go when I start to
sing”). The reception-room, which is
furnished in blue, was decorated with
poiusettias and red berries. In other
rooms were masses of pink camellias.
Among the guests were Sir Norman and
Lady Nock, Sir John and Lady Butters,
Sir Claude and Lady Plowman, Mr.
and Mrs. R. F. Boyer, Colonel and
Mrs. Bruxner, Mr. Vernon Treatt, Mr.
Jean Strauss and Mrs. Strauss (who is a
Canadian by birth), the Roy Millers, Mrs.
Ewart Brisbin, Mr, and Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan (she wearing a beautiful
coat in yellow with a black collar), Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Harrison.
At the door oi the Pickwick on July
17, when the Ravenswood Old Girls hold
revel, there will be a larger-than-life-sized
rabbit dressed in the school uniform and
looking, no doubt, just the way we all
felt on our first day at school. Bringing
parties to the dance are Elizabeth Roberts,
Betty Whittle, Judy Gamboge, Valda
Rickards and Shirley Tebbutt. Among
the lads of the village who have it on
their date-pads are John and Marsden
Hordern, Bob Bufnett and John Hold-
away. Culcairn’s Jill Odewahn will be
there, too, with her fiance, Philip
Atkinson.
Alec Templeton’s concerts made this
Letter think of how one used to have to
eat up all the bread-and-butter before
one was given any cake. During the first
half of the programme the audience sits
in absolute silence (absolutely absolute ;
Alec Templeton, who is blind, can hear
a cat walk) listening to classical numbers.
Then, after they’ve been so good, he treats
them to some brilliantly-clever improvi-
sations and extraordinarily funny imita-
tions, Johnny Ray singing “Cry,” Harry
Lauder singing the same number, a duet
in German between a tenor and a soprano,
etc. Perhaps Mr. Templeton keeps these
treasures till the last half-hour for fear
people might die laughing if he did it all
evening.
Committee members of the Bankers’
Club went along with their wives on
Saturday night to be greeted by the presi-
dent of the club, Mr. G. W. Halliday, and
Mrs. Halliday, at the party that cele-
brates the end of the financial year. No
doubt it was the healthy balance-sheet that
prompted the general spirit of bonhomie,
but certainly the gathering in the attrac-
tive clubrooms was a particularly genial
one. The men had organised the supper,
which, with its curried prawns, chickens
and mushrooms, fruit-salad, strawberries-
and-cream, gets here an honorable men-
tion. During the evening a beautiful
microgroove radiogram was presented to
Mr. Halliday, who is retiring from the
presidency after three years’ service, and
a watch was presented to the secretary,
Mr. N. J. Last. Among those enjoying
the fun were Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Byrne,
Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Jones, Miss Norma
Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Bell, Mr.
John Atwill, Mr. R. A. McKell, Mr. R. H.
Wilson and Mrs. Wilson (who is the well-
known pianist Gwen Aldis), the H. N.
Mitchells and the A. K. Mcßeaths,
Roland Foster’s birthday-party (he’s
70-plus) was full of nice surprises devised
by wife Thelma. The birthday-cake, for
instance, contained 70 threepences and
sat on a luxurious bank of 70 brand-new
pound-notes. There was also a knife to
cut the cake shaped like a boomerang,
which possibly meant that the notes had
to go back. About 70 guests were present,
representative mostly of the musical
world of Sydney, who filled up the charm-
ing sunlit Foster flat at Darling Point, and
who, according to Roland, “inundated
him with liquor and literature.” The
Raymond Beattys were there, accom-
panied by Mrs. Beatty’s sister, Miss
Kinnaird. Miss Carrie Lanceley and
Mrs. Arline Hagon wore very enviable
ermine coats. Mr. and Mrs. S. Cox
came along with daughter Betty, Lady
Plowman with daughter Jeannette. The
Baintons were there, the Langkers,
Godfrey Stirling, the Wilfred Arloms,
Mrs. Helen Fitzpatrick, the Sid Albrights,
the Greek Consul and Mrs. Gooma,
Madame Baja, the C. T. Lorenzes, Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Charlton and Mrs. Felix
Jansen. It was a very happy party made
even more delightful by the singing of
youthful Marjorie Conley and the playing
of pretty Joy Cross.
Pianist Frank Hutchens’s reply to the
Fosters’ verse invitation was one of the
most amusing read out at the party. It
began:—
The hour is late, I’ll have to watch it
And shortly leave my little crotchet;
Your joyous note dispelled the gloom
- In my rheumatic attic room;
For now is Roland’s natal day,
And I’ll be there, though come what may.
As the centenary of Sydney University
is also the centenary of the Arts faculty,
all the B.A.s, the M.A.s, the D.Litt.s (if
any), with the diploma-holders in anthro-
pology, education and social studies, will
meet at a dinner at the Union on Tuesday
next at quarter to seven. The tickets
are £1 each, which includes wines—very
reasonable, at present-day values.
The Eastern Command Ball, the out-
standing Army social function of the
year, will be held at the Troc. on July
23, starting at 8.30 p.m. and finishing
at 2 a.ra., which gives one a good long
spin for one’s money. (Tickets, by the
way, are by invitation only.) Heads of
the three fighting services will be present,
the R.A.N. being represented by Rear-
Admiral J. W. Eaton and Rear-Admiral
H. A. Showers, and the R.A.A.F. by Air-
Vice-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley. Debu-
tantes, escorted by members of the Army,
will be presented to Lieut.-General and
Mrs. F. H. Berryman.
Here is Patricia Lithgow, who gives a
sensitive performance as Mary a in the
Metropolitan Theatre’s “Three Sisters.”
by Anton Chekhov. Opportunities to see
Chekhov are so rare one feels like passing
a vote of thanks to the Met. for their
courage in tackling so difficult a task.
One production of this kind is of more
value to repertory and the public than 10
farces glibly slicked off. The producer,
Dennis Glenny, should specially be con-
gratulated on the skilful way he
manoeuvres so large a cast on so small a
stage. Chekhov in this play stresses the
boredom and frustration in the lives of
the sisters, but the presence of so many
eligible young men somehow detracts
from the effect, in this Letter’s eyes at
any rate. Patricia’s photograph is by
Allan Herbert,
About those pearls-and-potato table
decorations mentioned in this letter a
couple of weeks back, a reader says:
“Walking down Rowe-street (Sydney) any
time for years passers-by would see
decorations in fruit and vegetables on
one side, at Marion Best’s, where onions
and potatoes are no strangers, and on the
other side, in the window of the Robin
Lea, where bright persimmons, pale-
green chokos, purple egg-plant, red chil-
lies, miniature pumpkins, tomatoes,
bananas and African cucumbers nestle up
against golden corn-cobs and pineapple-
tops.” Sounds lovely! The more adven-
turous and tasteful of Australians have
undoubtedly done wonders with these
fruits and vegetables for decoration, but
Miss Easterbrook’s book is the first to
show the novice clearly just how to dp it.
Nightclub life is at a very low ebb in
the city at present, the liquor commis-
sion’s revelations and the tightening-up
of credit being responsible, no doubt. It
would be a pity, however, if the better
type of nightclub were to disappear from
Sydney life. They are very pleasant places
to spend an evening, and, in many
instances at any rate, not so very expen-
sive. The food is good, and an evening
of dancing with a supper of oysters and
chicken Maryland would cost about
£2 10s. for two. Beer'cost is about 10s. a
jug (including tips), so that with three jugs
during the night the whole evening would
cost about £4. For a special occasion or
to entertain visitors to the city this isn’t
really exorbitant, and compares very well
with cost at a ball, where tickets (without
liquor) are now at least 255. each.
From Melbourne
The Fourth of July celebrations com-
menced with a luncheon in the Lower
Town Hall given by the Australian-
American Association. President Sir John
Latham, with Lady Latham, received the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who was
the guest speaker, and Lady Brooks. U.S.
Consul-General Henry Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins, Col. Rufus Ramey, U.S.
Military Attache, and Mrs. Ramey, the
Harold Rablings, Sir John and Lady
Collins and Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Ince
were in the official party. Later in the
day, Mr. and Mrs. Stebbins gave a
late-afternoon party at their South Yarra
home, where, in the foyer, the Aus-
tralian flag hung below the American
emblem. Many Americans were re-
ceived, among them Professor and
Mrs. Paul Sharpe, who will shortly visit
Sydney before going on a visit to England
and then back home to the U.S.A.
Pictured here is Sonya Corbeau, singing
star of the Folies Bergere. Now 18,
she has been on the stage for three
years. Sonya was born in Lebanon (her
mother is French, her father English);
she was taken to Malaya, where her father
was an engineer. During the war she
was sent to Sydney, where she attended
convent. Sonya collects antique jewellery
and shawls —on&. of her favorite shawls
came from Damascus and is made entirely
from silver mail. Her English is as
fluent as her French, and she acts as
interpreter for other French artists in
the Folies Bergere, which opens at
Sydney’s Tivoli on July 18.
The committee of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital certainly “went to town” on their
Fourth of July Ball effort, which took
the form of a Manhattan Pent House, at
St. Kilda Town Hall. The decorations
were striking. A red-and-white-striped
canopy covered the foyer and there was
a doorman with a toy French poodle on
a leash at the curb. A Manhattan street-
directory in the foyer guided guests to
their tables, named for New York streets
and avenues. Life-sized black top-flats
and canes with white carnations adorned
the tables, while the official enclosure was
set in Fifth-avenue. The white satin-
covered tables had tall gilded candles,
and there were old-fashioned street-
lamps twined with gilded foliage. The
stage, decked with red-and-white garden
furniture, was the roof-garden of the
pent-house; around the walls were set
murals depicting life in New York.
Around the balcony were replicas of
famous New York club-signs interspersed
with tall champagne-glasses.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
received by Mrs. Earl Daum, president
of the auxiliary, and her husband. Lady
Brooks wore over a bouffant gown of
white tulle a black-and-silver-f ringed
shawl. In the vice-regal party was
Marion McPherson, also in white , tulle.
Mrs. Daum’s gown was of midnight-blue
taffeta. Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, wore a gown of
slate-blue shantung with an up-
standing fichu outlining the wide portrait
neckline. Mrs. C. Day, who took the
opportunity of making the ball a celebra-
tion also for her brother Stan’s 21st birth-
day, was in sea-green chiffon. Mrs. Con
Curtain’s white chiffons were diamente-
trimmed. Mrs. T. Newton danced in
dove-grey chiffon, Catherine Hale in
Kelly-green satin and Shirley Bourchier
in pastel-pink organdie trimmed with
white eyelet embroidery.
Nuptial Mass was celebrated at St.
Mary’s Church, East St. Kilda, by Father
J. Durkin, following the marriage of
Jocelyn Anne, eider daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. F. Barclay, and John Francis,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Martin, of Hawthorn. With a full skirt
of white French organza the bride wore
a swathed short-sleeved bodice, with long
separate sleeves of organza. Bands of
white Swiss embroidery were used on the
skirt, and clusters of orange-blossom
attached to a tulle cap kept in place the
finger-tip veil. Geraldine, sister of the
bride, and Margaret, the ’groom’s sister,
attended the bride. Their bouffant frocks
were of White organza and their tiny caps
of tulle ; they carried bouquets of gar-
denias. Reception was held at the
Armadale home of the bride’s parents.
Mrs. Barclay wore cinnamon-brown
angora beaded in copper and dark-brown,
Mrs. Martin wore a scarlet folded beret
with a junior-blue jacket suit. Former
school friends at the reception included
Margaret O’Grady, Anne Brennan and
Mrs. Tony Lewis. Terance, the bride-
groom’s brother, was best man and Des
Skeehan groomsman.
Despite bleak weather, first-nighters for
the “Annie Get Your Gun” revival at
His Majesty’s turned up in quite a respec-
table proportion of glamorous frocks.
Lady Disney’s black velvet was beaded
down the front of the slim skirt. Mrs.
Frank Tail’s black satin frock had cap
sleeves edged with a pleated frill of pink
chiffon. Over her black gown Mrs. F. W.
Thring wore a white Arctic-fox stole;
Mrs. Garnet Carroll wore black Duchesse
satin. Joy Turpin, lead in “Kiss Me
Kate,” chose white chiffon; a white-
ermine coat covered Gloria Ladd’s del-
phinium-blue satin frock. After the show
Mrs. Percy Henry entertained Evie
Hayes and a large party at her East St.
Kilda home. Her daughter Margot, in
scarlet chiffon frock and gold satin coat,
helped receive the guests.
At the afternoon party held at Red
Cross headquarters the chairman of the
Citizens’ Appeal Committee, Major-
General F. Kingsley Morris, thanked all
those who had assisted the appeal to
reach the sum of £lOO,OOO. In her charm-
ing manner Lady Brooks neatly turned
the tables on both Col. A. Spowers,
chairman of the Vic. Division of Red
Cross, and Major-General Kingsley
Norris by thanking them for their leader-
ship and organisation. Among those at
the party were Mrs. S. B. Futcher, of
St. Kilda, who has to her credit 50 years
of unbroken service to Red Cross ; Dame
Mary Daly (who was responsible for the
Red Cross Ball) and those she had
gathered round her to help; Mrs. A. A.
Lord, Mrs, Jim Peters and Mrs. W.
Calanchini; Mrs. Norman Shepherd,
Lady Snow, Mrs, Ross Shelmerdine,
Heather Menzies and Marion McPherson,
who had worked hard to make the
“Kangaroo” film-night a success;
Jennifer Russell, who represented the Red
Cross transport division, and Mrs. Basil
Logus, representing the Greek branch of
Red Cross.
The Scarlet and Grey dinner at the
Royale Ballroom, attended by more than
500 members of the Royal Australian
Army Nursing Corps, celebrated 50 years
of service in peace and war. Instead of
the familiar uniforms, evening-gowns were
worn with decorations, but runners of
scarlet and grey paper were set on the
tables decorated with sprigs of scarlet
holly-berries. Pale-grey menus and place-
cards were tied with scarlet bows. Clouds
of grey tulle and a great bowl of scarlet
poinsettia were on the official table, and
a huge replica of the badge of the
R.A.A.N.C. was set high on the stage.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, honored
the occasion by wearing the scarlet mess-
dress of the Royal Marines and was
accompanied by Lady Brooks, the draped
bodice of whose black chiffon dinner-
gown was cut wide to the shoulders; her
cape was of natural mink. The vice-
regal party was welcomed by the president
of the Returned Nurses’ Club, Mrs. J. G.
Fussell, the two vice-presidents, Misses
J. Gray Robertson and Elizabeth Johns,
the principal matron, Southern Com-
mand, Miss Lydia Shaw, and the Matron
in-Chief of the R.A.A.N.C., Miss A. M.
Sage, R.R.C. The one solemn note in
the gay evening followed the National
Anthem, when one minute of silence was
observed in memory of the nurses who
gave their lives for their country.
Among the many interesting women at
the dinner was Mrs. E. Lloyd, who served
with the Imperial Yeomanry Hospital in
Capetown during the Boer War ; she wore
a decoration presented to her by Lord
Roberts. Nine members who joined the
Service when it originated in 1902 were
also present; they were Miss I. O’Dwyer,
R.R.C., Miss H. Samsing, Miss E. A.
Cuthbert, Mrs. J. McHardy White,
R.R.C., Mrs. M. Glover, Miss Jane Bell,
Mrs. P. Sutherland, Miss Clara Ross and
Mis. P. Kirby.


When it's an
Exide—you start!
* L.
Hxtbt
I
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX 2.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
Stepping down from the chairmanship
of 8.H.P., 71-year-old Essington Lewis
was the firm’s managing-director in 1926,
chief general-manager between 1938 and
1950, and chairman after that. The
citation accompanying his appointment,
in 1943, to, the Order of Companions of
Honor was itself a rare honor, and covers
the man pretty adequately. “No Aus-
tralian,” it stated, “has given more
unreservedly of his talents and energies
in the service of his country or rendered
greater service in the production of
weapons for the defence of Australia and
other parts of the Empire.” He was then
Director-General of Munitions and Air-
craft Production; the job he did is
history.
The wiry build and weathered phiz of
Keith Collingwood McKeown suggest
that he has looked up a lot of dry gullies
in his time —as he probably has. He has
also probably looked under a lot of logs
and stones and into many nooks and
crannies in the course of collecting some
of the knowledge for his post as Assistant
Curator of Insects at the Australian
Museum, Sydney, and some of the
material for a string of publications on
spiders, insects and similar beasties —his
latest is Australian Spiders, published by
Angus and Robertson. Born at Burwood
NEW SPIDER-BOOK.
(N.S.W.), McKeown was educated at
a bush school near Wagga, joined the
Water Conservation and Irrigation Com-
mission as a clerk and then switched to
the field where he developed the consum-
ing interest in the insect world which
finally took him to the staff of the Aus-
tralian Museum as assistant entomologist.
At 60 he doesn’t look it; speaks with a
dry, modest humor and, although slightly
surprised that an entomologist should be
expected to have any hobbies, nominated
photography, reading and the company
of his son.
Vale Jimmy Bancks:
The passing of Jimmy Bancks in Sydney made
a notable rent in the ranks of Australian black-
and-white artists. He was the first, to show
what a good hand an Australian could be on
colored comics. The inimitable Ginger Meggs
(known, perhaps, to as wide an adult audience
as he was to children) has had 30 birthdays, and
hasn’t grown a day older in all that time. When
Bancks was starting he offered (“to get my
name known”) some free black-and-white draw-
ings to a small paper which Harold Mercer
had launched, the inability to make payments
having been explained. Bancks developed
his art under Julian Ashton, and had
his first joke-block in The Bulletin in August,
1914. Though he was never on the staff, the
paper guaranteed him £8 a week. He left for
a three-year contract on the Sydney “Sunday
Sun.” As the expiry-date drew near, Jimmy
came back to his Alma Mater in something of
a quandary, seeking advice on his future move-
ments from his old friend, H. K. Prior. The
advice he got was: “Ask for a renewal of
contract and £5OO a year more! ” Jimmy, albeit
apprehensively, did so; and was given what he
asked. At the end, of course, with Ginge
known in S. America, Canada, England, France,
Holland, Spain and the U.S., Bancks was in the
happy position of being just about able to write
his own ticket. One of the earliest members
of the Sydney Black and White Club, he
developed into a much-sought-after after-dinner
speaker, his forte a dry wit which tickled with-
out stinging. It is evident also in the kindly-
shrewd dialogue with which Mum receives the
importunings and flattery of Master Ginge.
Present writer contacted many of Jimmy’s con-
temporaries—Emile Mercier, Stan Cross, Arthur
Mailey among them —and found that on one
characteristic of Bancks’s they all were
unanimous, generous and definite —like his comic
characters, everybody liked him.
Although Jimmy Bancks’s
immortal hero never showed any loss of
inspiration, his creator often felt no
spontaneous flow towards him when he
sat down to draw his weekly issue. It
must be over 20 years since I
dropped in on him at his studio
above Swanston-street, Melbourne, and
found him in one of his periods
of despair and disillusionment. “I wish
I’d never met the blighter,” he said. “Why,
what’s the matter with him?” I asked.
“I’d like to do something more creative,”
said Jimmy. “Well, what would you
do?” I said. He pondered gloomily for a
moment and then said: “A joke-block for
The Bulletin.” Jimmy got his idea of a
strip-character who would make a weekly
appearance when he was doing a weekly
political cartoon for The Bulletin, and
went to S. H. Prior about it. S.H.
wouldn’t have it. So it was in the columns
of another paper that Ginger Meggs
made his first bow to the public.
With 30 years in Atlantic Union Oil —
including a post-war term as treasurer in
the U.S. —F. H. Carlson goes up to
managing-directorship, for which he
served a solid apprenticeship as acting
managing-director throughout the late-war
years. Atlantic Union supplied an
astronomical gallonage of petrol and oils
to the Allied forces in the Pacific.
Strange beats in faraway places have
been trodden and ridden by Inspector E. J.
Pollett, now handing in his baton after
37 years in the Westralian Police Force.
Much of his early service was in the un-
charted north-west. In 1921, with three
others, he spent four months tracking six
native murderers through unsurveyed
wastes in the West Kimberleys. At one
stage tucker nearly ran out, and the party
spent five days on small rations of rice.
Pollett’s narrowest escape occurred in the
mining town of Day Dawn. An escaped
prisoner was just about to chop him down
from the rear with an axe. A woman’s
scream prevented a tragedy. Since 1949
Pollett has carried out safer duties as
inspector in charge of the Liquor Branch.
“Macnell”; There were few ships better
known to, and respected by, the U.S.
Command in the Pacific operations than
those game little Australian craft which
surveyed .the approaches for just about
every amphibious operation from Milne
Bay to the Philippines, There were eight
of them, ranging from Kwato, a 60ft.
former island-trading launch, to sloop
Warrego and frigate Lachlan. At
different times between 1940-45 George
Dalton Tancred commanded every one
of ’em. Apparently periods in battle-
ships Royal Oak and Royal Sovereign
gave him enough of the big fellows —he
shifted to submarines in 1927, and already
had six years with his main love, survey-
ing, by the time Hitler made his bid.
Surveying is slow and painstaking work,
Australia had only one ship on the job
pre-war, and when names like Milne
Bay, Buna, Salamaua were put on war-
planners’ maps, the call went out for
more survey-ships. Tancred and his team
were ready As evidence of their daring,
they surveyed Seeadler Harbor at Manus
while the Jap was still in possession;
and the small, select band won two
0.8.E.5, 13 D.S.C.s, four D.S.M.s and
14 “mentions.” Tancred himself collected
D.S.C. The other day he put up his
fourth, captain’s, ring.
Within the one year Pilot-Officer Bill
Simmonds, of Bunbury (W.A.), has quali-
fied as an elector, been posted to an
active-service squadron (No. 77) of the
R.A.A.F., and been awarded the U.S. Air
Medal for distinguished service in Korea.
The youngest of the latest batch of
Westraiians to be decorated by Uncle
Sam, Simmonds started work in the
Westralian Education Department, but
gave that away in 1948 for Point Cook.
He won his medal by shooting down an
MIG fighter.
In 1947 the Victorian R.S.L. decided
to foster sport among its members to
bring them together on a common field ;
Roy Pitcher was appointed sports
organiser. It was a pretty good selection.
An old R.A.A.F. man, Pitcher repre-
sented his college at Melbourne University
in athletics, rowing, tennis and football,
and is a B-grade tennis-player. Today,
between 5000 and 6000 ex-Diggers take
part in xegular organised sport, apart
from the enormous numbers who play for
their branches in the country centres.
There are over 60 metropolitan branches
actively interested in inter-branch sports,
including billiards, golf, tennis, football,
cricket, indoor bowls and darts. Over
1000 took part last year in the annual
tournaments at Kooyong (tennis), the
Show-week tournaments at Long Island
(golf), swimming carnivals and electric-
light bowls; and there are inter-State
matches against N.S.W. and S. Australia.
Pitcher, whose hand is in all this, also
finds time to run a radio-session, R.S.L.
Spotlight on Sport, and to write the ex-
servicemen’s column in the “Argus.”
Major-General Victor Windeyer having
decided to celebrate outside the active forces,
in 1954, the centenary of his family’s military
connection, his first step (while remaining on
the Military Board) has been to hand over
command of the Second Division, C.M.F.,
to Brigadier Ivan Noel Dougherty, 0.8. E.,
D.5.0.-and-Bar, a native son of Leadville
(N.S.W.) who found his way 26 years ago
from Mudgee High School, of which he
had been captain, to the N.S.W. Teachers’
College. A Bachelor of Arts and of Economics,
Dougherty was deputy-headmaster of Armidale
West practice school when War II broke out,
having recently been promoted lieut.-col. com-
manding the 33rd Militia Battalion —the New
England regiment. He joined the Second A.I.F.
as 2 i.c. the 2/2 Battalion, and from August,
1940, commanded the 2/4th through the opera-
tions at Bardia, Tobruk, Derna and Benghazi
in the Western Desert advance, earning his first
D.S.O. He was at the actions of Veve and
Braillos Pass in Greece, and held his battalion
at Herakleon throughout the Cretan campaign.
He commanded the 23rd Brigade in the N.T.
early in 1942, taking over the 21st Brigade in
New Guinea in October in time for Gona and
Sanananda Road, where he added a Bar to
his D.S.O. after a campaign which reduced his
brigade to a shadow. In the fighting in the
Finisterres, Shaggy Ridge,was captured by his
NEW COMMAND.
men. He was at the Morotai landing with U.S.
troops, led one of the two assault brigades at
the Balikpapan landing and was given a C.B.E.
And, after six years of almost continuous
action, he was welcomed home in December,
1945, by a railway strike, and found it difficult to
fight his way home to Goulburn! He went up
to major-general’s rank on assuming command
of his division on June 30. In civil life he
is district inspector of schools in the Sutherland
(N.S.W.) division. Now 45, he v,ould expect
high command in any war within the next five
years. He is a fine all-round athlete.
Another young Australian musician has
won overseas distinction—Robert Cooper,
the Melbourne violinist who went to
London for study, competed recently
against other young British Common-
wealth musicians at the final concert of
the Festival of Commonwealth Youth in
London, and won the medal for the best
performance. All competitors had been
selected to represent their respective
countries by the Overseas League.
NEW LUD MAYOR —Frank Roberts, of
Brisbane.
Two unusual incidents occurred at the
latest of the A.B.C. celebrity concerts in
Melbourne Town Hall. For the first time
in history in Australia a composer was
rushed and kissed after the performance
of one of his latest works, and a Greek
contralto appeared with an enormous
moustache reaching from ear to ear. The
singer was Elena Nikolaidi; the
moustache was an illusion produced by
the shadow thrown by a wire of the
A.B.C.’s broadcasting system which had
slipped its moorings. Actually Miss
Nikolaidi is a beautiful woman, as well
as a lovely singer. The one who
received the reward of feminine oscula-
tions was Robert Hughes, the Scottish-
born composer who for 20 years has been
writing music in Australia without having
been observed yet by the Australian
Who’s Who. The kissing was done by
delighted members of the orchestra which
had performed his latest opus, a
symphony without a title. There were
enthusiastic shouts for “author,” and the
composer made an entrance, nearly up-
setting a viola-player’s stand in the
process. He is a shy 40.
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, at 65, Henry George Edwards,
Judge in Divorce in N.S.W. since 1950.
a man who made a habit of doing so well in
temporary appointments that they became per-
manent. In the five years from 1935 he had
been an Acting Judge of the District Court*
an acting-member of the Industrial Commis-
sion, and an Acting Judge of the Supreme
Court; in each case a full-rank status followed.
A Sydney University graduate, he had been
associate to Sir George Rich for a time, and
afterwards devilled for Jerry Boyce. For the
past 12 years he had dealt mainly with divorce.
At 72, in Melbourne, Captain Ignatius Lloyd,
who joined up with the Melbourne S.S. Co.
at the turn of the century. What he didn’t
know about the Tasman Sea and the Indian
Ocean wouldn’t take long to write. Thickset,
face weathered into deep lines, he had salt-
water sailor written all over him, and extended
his acquaintance with the Pacific when, in com-
mand of the liner Duntroon, he carried thou-
sands of American troops on their island-
invasions.
At 78, in New Zealand, Engineer Rear-
Admiral Ernest Sydenham, one-time Director of
Engineering in the R.A.N. Before seconding
from the Royal Navy, Sydenham was in charge
of H.M.S. Highflyer’s engine-room when, in
the first naval engagement of War I, she sank
the Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse off the coast
of Spanish Morocco. Later he' stood-by the
building of the Hood in Glasgow, and, in
1927, of our cruisers Australia and Canberra.
In Melbourne, at 86, Dr. J. J. Kitchen,
grandson of the John Kitchen who founded the
soap firm. Successor to his father as treasurer
of the China Inland Mission, J.J. divided his
time between medicine and missionary activities,
founded the Melbourne Bible Institute and was
chairman of the Upwey Convention for 20 years.


ret
ret
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
0*-
ASK
ome*
J
56 ft
I
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD LIMITED
Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD.
Queensland:
FLINDERS MOTORS LIMITED
South Australia:
KINGS WAY LIMITED
Western Australia:
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Its 6-way power means it does
more jobs, returns your
investment all through the
year. Its drawbar h.p. the
top of its class—means it does
more work, earns more profit
per hour. And its remarkable
economy saves big money on
fuel bills.
You get the same versatility
and efficiency, even greater
economy with the Nuffield
Universal Diesel
ret
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE
PARTS AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
AOraOBISHI
NUFFIELD
DEALER
rRALIAI PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH WAll
" Phenovis” Worm Remedy
zam
\
9
M
S e * 4/JS
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORN REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
re
PHE.BX.BO
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Protein for Dairy Cows.
“Dub”; Low protein intake
contributes to the spread of t.b.
in dairy-cows, because lack of
protein helps to reduce an ani-
mal’s resistance to disease. The
safeguard is to reorganise the
cow’s feeding regime to ensure
that her protein intake is ade-
quate.
Most roughages will fall
under one of three headings;
namely, lucerne, cereal hays, the
.sacchaline-sorghum group. The
concentrate mixture to be fed
with lucerne will need to con-
tain 14 per cent, crude protein,
that to be fed with cereal hay
will need to contain 18 per cent,
and that with the sacchaline
group 22 per cent.
The nature of the mixture will
depend on what protein-rich
feeds are available. Those high
in protein are linseed-meal,
coconut-meal, meatmeal, pea-
nut-meal. One or more of these
can be used with the other com-
mon feeding-stuffs, such as
bran, pollard, wheatmeal,
crushed oats, etc. Before mix-
ing find out the percentage of
crude protein in each type of
feed. The Department of Agri-
culture will supply a table giv-
ing the figures. Then, by sub-
tracting the percentage of crude
protein in each feed from the
needed protein percentage of the
mixture, or vice versa (which-
ever is the larger), the amount of
each feed to be used can be
found.
For example: If lucerne hay
is the roughage it will need a
14 per cent, protein concentrate
mixture. The concentrates avail-
able are linseed-meal (30 per
cent, crude protein) and wheat-
meal (12 per cent, crude pro-
tein). Subtracting 14 from 30
gives 16 parts of wheatmeal.
Subtracting 12 from 14 gives
two parts of linseed-meal. Of
course palatability must be
watched when using large
amounts of linseed-meal or
meat-meal.
The next step is to divide the
herd into, say, three groups—
heavy, medium and light pro-
ducers. Each group is fed
separately. Each cow in the
group is fed at the rate of the
average for the group. Feed-
ing according to production in
this way involves the accurate
determination of the yield of
each cow, but the trouble in-
volved pays dividends.
Then t(ie concentrate mixture
is fed at the rate of 41b. of mix-
ture per gallon of milk pro-
duced. Each cow is allowed
roughage ad lib.; i.e,, she fills
herself with roughage after she
eats her concentrates.
Reorganising the feeding pro-
gramme to provide proper pro-
tein intake not only helps to
build resistance to disease, but
allows the cow to produce at
full capacity.
Not So New.
“T.0.K.”: The description of
a “new” lucerne type (B.
11/6/’52) reads very like the
description of a then-new type
described in B. 8/5/’29. It was
called Tagerim lucerne, and a
Melbourne firm advertised
plants for sale, but I’ve never
come across anybody who tried
it.
The 1929 article said: “A
peculiarity of Tagerim is the de-
velopment of the crown several
inches below the surface, thus
rendering it immune to damage
by close grazing, and its roots
are so numerous and penetrat-
ing that it is practically drought-
resisting.” It said, further, that
Tagerim had been tried on
various classes of soil in New
Zealand in 1925-26 and on loam
over a stiff clay subsoil (condi-
tion uncongenial to lucerne) had
produced 60 tons of green
fodder from an acre ; that it
was “a new form of the cele-
brated Grimm variety produced
from a single plant selected in
1916 by Alexander Macpherson,
M.L. Government lucerne
specialist” ; that the Grimm was
evolved under very severe
climatic conditions in Minne-
sota (U.S.A.), where it was
regarded as superior to all other
lucernes.
But J. N. Whiffet, agrostolo-
gist of N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, declared that the
“ Don't be impatient; We cant start till it gets dark."
claims made for Tagerim had
not been substantiated by de-
partmental experience—though
tests had shown Tagerim to be
worthy of further trial, it had
not been proved superior to
Tamworth and Hunter River
lucernes.
Hybrid Maize Again.
“Y. Dent”: A dry sowing sea-
son and severe frosts on the
early growth failed to stop
hybrid maize on the N.S.W.
New England tablelands. At
Glen Innes E. Foot got 60
bushels an acre and E. Doug-
lass got the same at Armidale.
The crops won prizes m the
R.A.S. maize contests for then
division, but It took 130 bushels
to win out at Mudgee. This was
Sunrise hybrid gro™ by R.
Menchm and Sons at Wilbertree
Fiat. Las year these people won
a prize with a 120-bushel crop of
Sterling h.
H. N. Sarina, R.A.S. registrar,
noted the success farmers made
of reclamation work on land
long used for cultivating crops.
At Glen Innes Foot (Sterling h.)
sowed his crop on land which
had been cultivated for 60 years,
Rejuvenation had been obtained
by growing two crops of can-
ning-beans and a crop of peas
before the maize was sown. No
fertiliser was used,
At Armidale Douglass grew
his D.S. 336 maize on land
which had been cropped for 50
years. Before the maize the
land had carried grazing-oats for
several years, and was spelled in
1951. Again no fertiliser was
applied.
The Menchirt crop was sown
in an alluvial loam-soil paddock
used for 20 years for lucerne.
Curll Brothers, of Green Hills,
Tumut, got 70 bushels an acre
from Sunrise on land sown for
20 years to pasture and maize.
Green Firebreaks,
“Kappa”: During the 1944
bushfires 40 people lost their
fives in Victoria, 14 near Mor-
well alone. This number would
have been greater but for the
haven supplied by two green
oases, one a patch of millet and
the other of lucerne. On these
areas , scores of people took
refuge with what possessions
they could carry. Around them
homes, buildings, lences, hay-
stacks, sheep and cattle were
destroyed. .
Thiayear, despite that expert-
®ncf’ !° PfoP 1 ® W ul h b fir ” t to
death m Victorian bushfires
. Firebreaks are the best de-
fence. One type consists of 12it-
wid„ , rj 'f oughed 0 r rotary-
hoed p ral and about half
a chain apart. This break needs
, f ttent ion and throws
some land out 0 £ production, but
ith objection should be
regarded se ' iously .
Where paspalum has been
sown on t h e s t r [ps an annual
mow i n g produces a surprisingly
good green break. a fihough the
mown paS palum-hay isn’t of
much use the reS ultant green
growt fi g i ves a fair feed return,
Tbe king c f a fi g reen breaks is
undoubtedly lucerne, especially
if a ra i n f a H of 20in. or better is
ava ii a ble. This plant is far more
adaptable than is generally
reco gnised. It prefers lime y
conditions, but where they are
absent periodic , lime top-dres-
sings can be given,
At long last the C.5.1.R.0. is
to undertake research along
these fines, and will investigate
green-break plantings and bush-
fire stoppers.
. . ,
Variegated 1 Histlc.
“Mr.”: On volcanic plains
near Melbourne 24 two-year-old
heifers turned on to a fallow on
which variegated-thistles were
the only vegetation all died
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
More rain may be expected because there is now in
transit across the sun a series of southern sunspots, one of
them of the complex order usually associated with rain.
As long as the present cyclical repetition is maintained
the season will be a good one, but this cycle is at times
erratic and may revert to the double cycle, which is drier
but still means a good season. The July rains should extend
to the Richmond area of Queensland.


> fSF*.
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
BOONOEE
POLLED BOONOEE
WJNGiNELLJ ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
r. S. FULMER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
r
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
NO
EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vie.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,. Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
L
the
name is
(I) Cdlloms
the whisky is
Fir
!J
«
m
m 'r~\m' w
,-. •.-.va'av/a’aww- ■ < <9mV «(*«_ <b> .
m •• y ' <i::; ** "V*-
m.
£KB
°ots
NSgsr*
?w : misaes
Distilled and blended in Scotland
m
■
MU
Goldsbrough, Mort
and Co. Ltd.
Chairman’s Speech-Annual Meeting
Speaking at the Annual Meeting held in Melbourne on
Friday, June 27, Mr. K. M. Niall, Chairman, said:—
THE BALANCE SHEET
Totals of creditors and debtors have
shown some reduction in sympathy with
reduced values of wool and sheep. Ex-
penditure on materials for and cost of
building wool stores in Perth and Adelaide
are the chief factors in the increase in
Freehold and Leasehold property, and we
still have substantial costs to face before
the minimum essential building is com-
pleted. Unfortunately, building costs
have risen to such extreme heights that
only building of most urgent importance
can be contemplated.
Merchandise stocks have shown an in-
crease due to a slowing down of the rate
of purchasing by clients for improvement
work.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Seasonal conditions in the Eastern
States have had a marked effect on our
operations during the year. As a result
of the reduced clip, receipts of wool in
Sydney and Brisbane are down by over
20,000 bales on the previous year, but
this was largely offset by increases in
Adelaide and Perth, making a net’ decline
for the year of 6000 bales. More wool
was sold during the year, and the carry-
forward has been reduced.
Stock markets have been much less
active than for the two preceding years.
Sheep handled totalled under 4 million,
as against 5,700,000 last year, and cattle
435.000, as against 500,000. Pigs totalled
130.000, and the value of land sold was
down one million pounds to £6,500,000.
Sheep prices have fallen markedly in
sympathy with wool prices, and the com-
bined result has been a drop of
£27,000,000 in our turnover figures from
last year’s record of £109,000,000.
During the first half of the year, mer-
chandise turnover was very high indeed.
It has since fallen back to more normal
levels, and in some lines is being affected
by the import restrictions.
The most noticeable feature of the
account is the continuing increase in ex-
penses. Much of this is, of course, com-
pletely beyond our control, but your
directors and management, both at head
office and branches, have been giving
considerable attention to the question of
increasing efficiency; nevertheless, the
maintaining of reasonable profit margins
appears likely to become .very difficult.
Taxation on company profits at 9/- in
the £ is too severe, particularly when
you bear in mind that shareholders have
to pay tax ore the same profits when dis-
tributed.
THE WOOL MARKET
The season now concluding has forced
readjustments on all sections of the in-
dustry—the average price of wool fell to
half that realised last season, and, as a
consequence, many buyers have suffered
severe losses and growers’ incomes have
been much reduced.
The average price of greasy wool sold
in the Commonwealth has moved as
follows:
1947- 89.50 d.
1948- 48.07 d.
1949- 63.85 d.
1960-51—144.19 d.
1951-52—72.78 d. (11 months).
At the opening auctions in September,
prices continued the decline which com-
menced in April, 1951. There was a
sudden short-lived upward swing in
October, but the general trend of„ the
market was downward. Recently, it has
shown more strength—influenced at least
in part by the anxiety of mills to accumu-
late stocks for use until the opening of the
new season next September.
The extraordinary price fluctuations of
the past 18 months naturally have in-
volved the wool textile industry in con-
siderable difficulties. The fact that the
current clip has been sold says a great
deal for the basic soundness of the in-
dustry and gives grounds for hope of
more stable conditions in future.
This season the Continental sections
could be considered to have been the main-
stay of the market. Great Britain has
acquired reduced quantities but, aided by
Government stockpile orders, that country
probably will still lead the list of pur-
chasers from the Commonwealth for the
season under review.
U.S.A. requirements have been on a de-
cidedly steadier basis than last season,
while Japan has operated on an increased
scale.
Australian mill purchases have con-
tracted severely, operations on their be-
half being considerably reduced, and in
common with most other countries—ex-
cepting Japan and Italy—may have
suffered because of the textile slump.
As indicated above, purchases have been
well spread amongst wool using countries,
and the policy forced upon users of keep-
ing purchases and sales as evenly balanced
as possible should help demand for this
forthcoming season. Consumers have re-
duced their retail purchasing, but there
has been considerable buying for military
needs and Government stockpiling.
Although the general public is apparently
still reasonably well equipped with goods
because of substantial purchases made in
previous seasons, trade stocks of raw wool
are low, J.O. stocks are exhausted, and
world production is showing only slight
increases, so that wool still occupies what
can be considered a sound position.
Military and stockpiling demands could
still substantially affect the market. The
basic need, however, is a smoother flow
of international trade, and it is evident
that, in this regard, there are still many
difficulties to be surmounted.
Two payments, both of £25,000, have
been made to growers out of the Aus-
tralian share of the profits arising from
the operations of the Joint Organisation
—one in November, 1949, and one last
March—and the responsible Minister has
announced that the balance, estimated at
considerably over £40,000,000, will be
distributed to growers in three annual pay-
ments. It is hoped that the first of these
will be made within the next few months.
The Australian Wool Realization Com-
mission is now in process of winding up
its operations and I again wish to ex-
press my appreciation of the satisfactory
result achieved, and of the assistance it
has given to Brokers and to the Wool
Trade generally.
It is essential that a proportion of the
Stores erected by A.W.R.C. during the
war should be retained by the industry
to assist Brokers in handling future clips.
'
COMPANY’S OWN
PROPERTIES
Seasonal conditions in the past year
have at times given concern, but with the
advent of recent serviceable rainfalls the
outlook is now very favorable for at least
some months ahead.
Lambings generally were disappointing,
and this could possibly be accounted for
by abnormal seasonal conditions and the
rank character of the feed at joinings.
You will have observed from the
Directors’ Report that, spread over the
next three years, large areas of our four
properties in the Western Division of New
South Wales are being resumed for Closer
Settlement. I wish to refer to this in
more detail because of its effect upon
future earnings of the Company and upon
our national economy.
In 1934 an agreement was entered into
between Western Lessees and the Crown,
whereby the Lessees —by surrendering half
their leases over a number of years—were
granted an extension of the balance for a
definite period. Despite the fact that
these balances have still a long term to
run, the New South Wales Government has
repudiated the agreement and has required
Lessees to surrender their Leases. We
are being allowed to retain comparatively
small areas from each property, but the
npmber of stock which the Company will
run in the future will be considerably
reduced. This will, of course, have a
serious effect on the Company’s earning
power, and 1 fear that this cutting up of
the whole Western Division must also have
a serious effect on our national economy.
The Western Division generally is not
Closer Settlement country in the true
sense. Admittedly, it has been so over
the past seven years, but in that time
we have had a most remarkable run of
good seasons and phenomenal prices for
wool and stock which are quite unlikely
to be repeated.
This Government action means the dis-
appearance of many clips well and favor-
ably known to buyers for over half a cen-
tury, and the straight lines of wethers
and of breeding ewes now eagerly sought
after by growers in the inside country
will also disappear.
CONVERSION OF SHARES TO
STOCK
This conversion authorised by the
General Meeting last year to take effect
as on 3 Oth November last has now been
substantially completed, as 90 per cent, of
the new Stock Certificates substituted for
the old Share Certificates have been
issued. Those who are still holding the
old Share Certificates are urged to submit
them for replacement by Stock Certifi-
cates.
You may be interested to hear that
there are over 9000 separate holders on
our Stock Registers, but the actual number
of individuals interested in the ownership
of the Company is much greater than
this. There are many large totals regis-
tered in the names of the leading Trustee
and Nominee Companies, and a consider-
able number of Investment Trusts with
their very wide spread of Shareholders
are amongst our stockholders. The Com-
pany’s own permanent Staff is also inter-
ested through the stock held by the
Provident Fund.
GENERAL
Since I spoke to you a year ago, finan-
cial and economic conditions have changed
tremendously, and, temporarily at least,
Australia is much less prosperous. This,
of course, is largely due to the fall in
the value of the , wool clip from
£636,000,000 last season to slightly over
£300,000,000 this season.
The Commonwealth Loan market is in
a very unsatisfactory state, and it is
essential that a more realistic approach
must be adopted by the various Gov-
ernments to the problem of how best
to use Australia’s limited resources.
In recent months the impact of Taxation
on the woolgrower has been very severe
indeed, although the attempt which has
been made to adjust to more reasonable
figures the estimated provisional taxes
relating to the reduced income of the
current year has been helpful. The basic
fact is that current taxation rates are so
high as to seriously discourage develop-
ment in an industry subject to seasonal
and price fluctuations such as we ex-
perience.
Production costs have continued their
rapid increase while national income has
dropped markedly with the reduction in
wool prices. In the 1949-50 season greasy
wool averaged 63d. per lb., and its pro-
duction was very profitable. This season
the average price is higher, but costs have
risen so seriously in the two-year period
that the margin left to producers is not
nearly so satisfactory. It is essential that
the upward movement of costs should be
halted and reversed. About a year ago
the Government and the Central Bank
intensified efforts to this end, but so far
with only limited signs of success. How-
ever, there are definite indications of an
improvement in efficiency in industry as
both management and labor respond to
the impact of more difficult conditions.
This is a hopeful sign as there is con-
siderable scope for increased efficiency.
Costs of some industries—transport and
building are widely recognised examples
—have risen far more than the general
average and are a serious drag on the
whole economy.
Australia requires a more widespread
and realistic recognition of the need for
a co-operative effort by all sections of
the community to meet our problems.
within a few hours and without |
a struggle.
Thistles and samples of
stomach contents were sent to I
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, which found that the 1
thistles contained large quanti-
ties of nitrates and the stomach
contents some nitrates and a
high concentration of nitrites.
It seems that, in the rumi-
nant’s stomach nitrates are re-
duced to nitrites, which are
absorbed into the bloodstream
and taken up by the haemoglobin
in much the same way as
carbon monoxide. The haemo-
globin is then converted to met-
haemoglobin, which is unable to
convey oxygen to, or carbon
dioxide from, the tissues. When
sufficient met-haemoglobin has
been formed the animal goes
into a coma and dies.
There is usually no indi-
cation that anything is wrong ;
death occurs so quickly that
there is seldom time for treat-
ment. The thistle isn’t always
poisonous, but fatalities occur so
often as to make it always
dangerous.
In this case the thistles
absorbed large quantities of
nitrates which had accumulated
in the fallow and dissolved in
the soil moisture, the soil
being saturated by continuous
rain. There had been insufficient
sunshine to enable the thistles to
assimilate the nitrate as fast as
it was taken up by their roots.
Consequently the plants were
highly charged with nitrates
when the cattle ate them.
The plant can be controlled
by spraying with a hormone
2,4 D spray.
Winter Bee-feed.
“C.H.”: Don’t attempt to
feed liquid syrup to a bee colony
in the cold winter months even
if the feed stores are low. At
this time of the year bees are
unable to take up and evaporate
the syrup in the ordinary way.
Exposed to low temperatures
even temporarily, individual
bees are chilled and die. Hard
candy, placed where they can
get it easily, is the best food.
To make the candy pour
white granulated sugar slowly
into a pot of hot water until the
syrup is very thick. Dissolve the
sugar by stirring before boiling
begins. Boil very slowly until
the candy hardens quickly in
cold water but softens slightly in
the mouth. Pour into shallow
moulds of waxed paper and
when nearly hard crease with a
knife so that it can easily be
broken into squares.
A fair-sized cake placed over
the winter cluster of each hive
will be welcome.
#
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Cut cauliflowers
as they mature and before the
curds reach full size. A crop
rarely matures evenly, which
suits the home-gardener. During
frosty periods cut only in the
middle of the day to avoid
impairing the keeping quality of
the heads.
“C.A.A.”: Early weaning of
calves will save milk. Feed 50
to 60 gallons of whole-milk per
calf for the first eight weeks. If
a calf is below average size con-
tine this feeding for an extra
two weeks.
“M.”: When cattle go down
with botulism bone - chewing
usually gets the blame, but there
are other causes—mouldy fod-
der, trampled tussocky pastures,
mice- or manure-contaminated
feed in stack-butts. Destroy or
fence-out all of these likely
sources of contamination and,
to correct any tendency to a
depraved appetite, give the cattle
a lick made of 80 per cent, salt
and 20 per cent, bonemeal.
“My”: Full-strength Bor-
deaux at “bud - swell”
(15:15:100) protects peaches,
apricots and cherries against
brown - rot; peaches against
rust, shot-hole and leaf-curl;
and apricots, plums and cherries
from scab. Dissolve the blue-
stone (151 b.) in the vat and dilute
to about 80gal., then add 151 b.
of freshly-slaked lime and make
up to lOOgal. The mixture will
then be a bright, sky-blue color.


1 Y I
1 J\l La
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DIOKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
'Refreshed...
because you fly relaxed, in luxurious
Canadian Pacific “Empress” airliners.
Specially designed “Loungaire” reclining
chairs give you extra comfort aloft. Court-
eous, efficient stewardesses are always on
hand to serve appetising snacks at a
moment’s notice. Enjoy delicious full-
course meals, bar service and champagne
—complimentary, of course! Yes, you
arrive refreshed because you fly relaxed
. . . Canadian Pacific style.
SYDNEY . AUCKLAND . FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
%
{Free stopovers at Fiji — 13 hours;
and Honolulu —32 hours.)
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents) at 2Jfit George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad to
offer you full information,
AIRLINES
"Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Scheinfeld ridicules the value of a
family-tree.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
However, there’s something to
be said for shapely limbs.
4* 4* 4*
“When you’re climbing to the top
in sport the public are behind you.
When you are at the top they are
just waiting for you to fall.” — Former
tennis champion Fred Perry.
Particularly if you’re a high
jumper.
“Brains don’t handicap a girl it
she keeps them well hidden behind a
low neckline.”
—Actress Vanessa Brown.
Unless she’s pestered by
phrenologists wanting to read her
bumps.
•I* 4* 4*
“I do not believe you will hurt this
young man in the end.” — Answer to
correspondent in women’s paper.
He must be callous in the
extreme.
•1* *l* 4*
“Wanted, middle-aged woman pen-
sioner, light duties* two adults, own
bathroom, radio, heater, sorry refer-
ences necessary.” —Suburban paper.
The best sob-story will get the
job.
4* 4* *l*
“Wanted flat, flatette, one child.
Will do plumbing repairs.”
—Suburban paper.
No drips tolerated.
Dark Thoughts.
Here where Port Jackson breaks
in coves and bays
And wharfies spend the sequence
of their days
In lovely somnolence, like well-
fed drones;
And where blackmarketeers
make handsome gains,
Where brawn pays bigger
dividends than brains
And s.-p. men sit hunched beside
their phones,
The mugs among us spend our
years in toil,
Not that we love it, just that we
recoil
From crooked stuff through
instincts in our bones.
Ah, well! Some day we’ll come
to our reward
Though we accumulate no
earthly hoard.
Yet Heaven’s great arch will
echo to our moans,
If we who live where blackouts
make us blind
Should win to Paradise and
merely find
Its brightness rationed out in
rostered zones.
D. H. E.
All Very Lucid.
When I answered her call I
found Agapanthus sitting at the
breakfast-room table with an
empty open purse beside her,
and in front of her an open
account-book. I recognised it
as the one I’d bought for her.
It was my idea. She could
never make out how her house-
keeping money went, so I had
come to the rescue. I explained
how the account worked. On
the left-hand side, marked
Receipts, she was to put all
money received, and on the
right-hand side, marked
Expenses, she was to itemise all
outgoings. If the total of the
right side at the end of the week
was less than the left-hand total,
the difference must represent the
money in hand. She would then
put “By balance” alongside the
amount; the two totals would
then be equal. She would draw
a line under them. Then on the
left-hand side put “To balance,”
bring down the amount over, to
which would be added the next
week’s allowance, and so forth.
",Do see if you can balance
this thing,” she said. “It doesn't
work out right for me. I can’t
understand why.”
“What’s the trouble?” I
asked.
“Well,” she said, “by my
calculations there I should have
£2 Os. Bd. over, and 1 haven’t
anything.”
“Now let us see,” I said, draw-
ing a chair up. -
“Your housekeeping allowance
—you’ve put it here on the
expenditure side. That’s wrong
for a start.”
“Why is it wrong?” she
defended. “I’ve spent it all,
haven’t I, so it must be an
expenditure,”
I groaned, and turned to a less-
snagful question. “You have
here on the receipts side,”
I pointed out, “ ‘Butcher
£3 12s. Id.’ That can’t be right.
You don’t get money from the
butcher. Anyway, it seems a lot
to pay for meat.”
“Oh, that includes a pound the
butcher’s wife paid me back.
You see, I’d lent it to her the
day at tennis. It also includes
shares for lottery tickets we’re
buying—they all paid me two
shillings each and I’m sending
for it tomorrow when I get my
next allowance.”
“But why put them in here at
all?” I asked.
“Because it was a receipt,
silly,” said Agapanthus, “You
said plainly to put everything I
got into the receipts. Well, I
have. I put when I paid the
butcher in as well because I
couldn’t remember just how
much I paid him, because he’d
overcharged me for that leg of
veal the week before last. So I
just took a guess at it.”
I hurled from me the fistful of
hair I’d torn out and picked up
the pencil.
“Look,” I said despairingly,
“you’ve got here the same entry
on both sides: ‘Lay-by for
corsets 10s,’ If you’d paid out
ten-bob on your lay-by it should
only be shown on the expenses
side.”
“Should it!” she replied
scornfully. “You forget I put
aside specially out of the house-
keeping allowance as soon as I
got it 10s. for the lay-by. If
that’s not a Receipt I don’t know
what is.”
“And this entry on the right
side —Gas bill £6 18s. 6d. —you
couldn’t possibly have paid that
out of the week’s allowance.”
“Of course I didn’t. But the
bill came in and it will have to
be paid sometime, and it is an
expense, so I put it down on the
proper side.”
“And what’s this item ‘Cards,
3s. 6d.,’ on the right-hand side?”
Agapanthus looked puzzled.
“I don’t remember buying any
birthday- or get-well-cards,” she
said. Then she brightened.
“I remember —I won it at
bridge the other afternoon.”
“But” —I tried to keep my
voice down to a shriek —“it
should have gone among the
receipts —it’s something you got,
isn’t it?”
“You don’t understand,” said
Agapanthus. “You see, I had
to take four shillings from the
insurance money to get a wet-set,
and I had to pay that back —so
I did with what I won, or
almost. That’s why it’s among
the expenses,”
“But you’ve already paid that
—look at this entry: ‘Wet-set,
honey, bacon, fruit, bus-fares,
dry-cleaning, 17s. 6d. for twin-
set that shrunk, sold to Mrs.
Leach, library, total £2 12s. sd.’
You’ve put the wet-set down
twice.”
“Yes, but that’s only 3s. 6d. It
still doesn’t explain the £2 Os. Bd.
I’m out, does it?”
“There’s an amount here on
the receipts side for 12s. for a
dress-length—did you sell it to
someone?”
“No, I bought it.”
“How could it be a receipt
then?”
“Well, you see, I got a four-
• yard length of shantung—it’s
coming out c.o.d. next week —
that Cashley’s were selling at
only 14s. lid. a yard—it was
specially reduced from 17s. lid.
So I saved 12s. That was a
“How did you get home last night, Joe ?”
"I dunno —DID I?"
profit, so 1 put it in the receipts,
of course. And that 255. there
on the same side is for the cloche
of mine—l sold it to Mrs.
Wilson; I never liked it on
myself ; it wouldn’t sit properly
somehow and it wasn’t the right
shade to go with that honey-
beige crepe frock. She's going to
pay me as soon as she’s got her
car-registration and insurance
paid.”
“Well,” I said, “I can’t rpake
head or tail of the thing.”
“There! ” said Agapanthus
triumphantly. “How do you
expect me to then? It’s a silly
idea. I’ll stick to my old way
in future. 1 always knew where
I stood then. You’d better give
me the £2 Os. Bd. I’m short of.
It’s your fault for getting me lo
use this stupid account thing”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Private Enterprise
Economist Colin Clark has said, with
dry humor, “The mere possession of
money doesn’t necessarily put a man in
the wrong.’’ He was discussing the
current outcry that always goes up about
shortages: “The man with the money
will get it all” (if it isn’t controlled). 1
saw a man with money the other day, and
what he has done with it would not put
him in the wrong, at all events.
Near Toodyay (W.A.) is a new factory
for processing white-gum-trees into tannin
extract. Here, at Boddington, the parent
factory has been operating for about 15
years, exporting the humble white-
gum-tree in processed form all over the
world. I have been fairly intimately con-
nected with the parent factory, as a con-
tractor supplying timber. The whole
organisation is a queer mixture of bush
and factory work —fitters, electricians,
boiler-attendants, firemen and engine-
drivers rub shoulders with experienced
fallers, bushmen who have been in the
scrub all their lives. A huge organisa-
tion, it rears itself up on a white-gum
flat in the middle of the bush.
The brain behind it all' managing-
director H. V. Marr has probably made
a great deal of money. So have a lot of
other people, some of whom probably
wouldn’t have made any at all if it hadn’t
been for the new industry.
I saw this man-with-money the other
day, and I saw what he had done with
it. He has built another factory, in the
bush near Toodyay. The factory building
seemed to me to represent the embodi-
ment of man’s constant efforts to trans-
form natural wealth into consumable
goods. It was an epitome of that much-
abused term “private enterprise.”
No Government “assistance” has so far
laid its dead hand on this venture. Under
its own steam, Industrial Extracts, Ltd.,
has founded a valuable export trade based
on the raw natural, resources of the
country in which we live. This export
money has been wrung from the heart
of the Westralian bush; from hundreds
of square miles of it.
The timbergeUiog is a special kind.
The whole tree, every tree, all the
branches down to bin. diameter are cut
by power-saws into 12ft, lengths. Special
loading rigs dump the logs, many weigh-
ing two and three tons, onto big diesel
semi-trailers, and the loads are winched
off at the ramps at the factory.
Making roads through winter slush,
and bumping over red-hot rocks in
summer, they cart 50,000 tons of wood
into Boddington each year, with very little
waste, the treated crushings being used as
boiler fuel. A strong, profitable industry
has been created, employing many men
and causing the building of houses and
even towns.
No, the mere possession of money
doesn’t necessarily put a man in the
wrong. It’s what he does with it that
counts. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Road Patrols
A trunk road in Oxfordshire (Eng.)
became so notorious for traffic accidents
that a special patrol of police was
arranged so that at no time was a motorist
out of sight of a uniformed officer
throughout the danger area. Accidents
fell to nil, but the heavy expense made
the continuance of the patrol financially
impracticable.
Later, a plainclothes patrol —two
officers in a cleanskin police car
patrolled the road, and although several
prosecutions resulted the accident rate
shot skywards.
Then someone had the idea that results
might appear if the anonymity of the
“demons” were advertised. Hoardings
announced that the plainclothes patrol
was operating on that stretch of the road.
Accidents fell to almost nil. It’s the
old schoolboy psychology of “The Old
Boy’ll catch y’ if y’ don’t watch out”;
“ Under the Hollywood harem system they have their wives one at a time"
knowing the “Old Boy” was on the road
had the desired result of making motorists
watch out.
I regularly travel for six miles along
a road outside a Queensland city,
passing, at the half-way-mark, the pub,
adjacent to a sawmill, a fiveway cross-
road, a railway crossing, and a river-
bridge—all within one hundred yards.
From Monday to Thursday, driving at
sundown is a hazard. “One-eyed” cars,
lightless cars, overtaking on the bridge,
children fishing from the decking with
bicycles and fishing-gear spread on the
right-of-way, speeding motor-cycles, light-
less cycles and a conglomeration of cars
cluttering the road outside the pub all
these are to be regarded as normal
hazards
Friday to Sunday shows a marked im-
provement. All traffic keeps rigidly to
the left, motor-cycles are models of silent
decorum, the bridge is clear, and one-
eyes” and others are safe abed by sun-
down. Reason? On Friday at 5 p.m.
the P.D. car is in evidence to keep the
pub quiet for the mill pay-day and the
inevitable dances. Saturday sees it stoog-
ing around on s.-p. patrol, and on
Sunday it does the regular road patrol
between the city and the half-dozen
beaches which dot the adjacent coastline.
If the element of uncertainty were
introduced, and the hog who over-
takes me on a narrow bridge could
be persuaded that the approaching Model
“T” might contain a couple of demons,
then peace and safety would come to our
roads. The system has one great thing
to commend it —it would add nothing to
the expenses of the Police Department.
—Video (Q.).
Floods
The Lachlan floods now seem to have
taken on a “hardy annual” character, and
it’s no use blaming abnormal rainfall.
The cause lies deeper than that.
Nothing has ever been done to keep
the Lachlan, or any of our rivers for that
matter, in a decent and safe state. It
stands to reason that, with the advent of
civilisation —cultivation and ringbarking
and the consequent erosion—that the
rivers must eventually become silted up,
just as the cocky’s own paddock-dams
do.
When a river-bed becomes silted and
clogged-up with snags, the waters have
to go somewhere, and that somewhere
now is valuable farming and grazing
country. It’s time State Governments
devoted some of their funds to cleaning
up the rivers. Otherwise, in a few genera-
tions there’ll be no safe river grazing
country left. — Dune (N.S.W.).
Betting in N.Z.
In a referendum last year Maoriland
voted for off-course betting to be
legalised. Like me, the majority did not
think it out fully—we liked to have the
odd bet with the bookies, and for the
most part they gave good service although
their terms were perhaps a bit tough,
especially on the smaller meetings.
The Totalisation Agency Board was
set up and is getting into its stride.
Properties—good ones in the busy
parts of the towns —are being bought, and
I just hate to think of the staff that will
be required to run the joints. As well as
the chief agencies, the T.A.B. started to set
up sub-agencies in shops to get as wide
a coverage as possible, but that caused
such a newspaper and political hullabaloo
that the Government was forced to step
in and check these sub-agencies.
To my mind the whole scheme is going
to work out wrong. It is making betting
just too easy and encouraging it in every
way. It is talked about in the homes,
and the youngsters hear too much of it
—every tobacconist and hairdresser has
a sign out advertising betting-slips and
addressed envelopes, and the crowds
round the betting-shops are deplorable-
men, women and kids, the half-maimed
and blind, many of them doing-in
the weekly housekeeping money or wages.
Already in Timaru one bright lad of
17 was able to misappropriate a sum of
£6OOO, and something like £3OOO-worth of
betting-slips were found when he was
arrested. The whole thing is bad, and
it would have been a hundred times better
to have licensed and properly-controlled
the bookies than to have foisted
this huge non-productive incubus on the
country.—Noo Zee (N.Z.).
Pensions and Tax
Whether or not it’s advisable to abolish
the means-test and thus enable everybody
to collect the old-age pension, I feel that,
having worked all my workable life and
saved for my old age, I should be entitled
to deduct from my income-tax payment
the amount of such pension saved to the
Government. It seems no more than a
fair go.—O. (Vic.).
Prices
M. F. Dixon’s notions about prices (B.
7/5/’52) won’t get anyone anywhere.
The farmer is in business to earn a
living, and the least he should have is an
Overall price to cover costs of production
and a fair living and to allow for the
risks of drought, fire and flood,
Dairyfarmers work seven days a week
for prices politically controlled to keep
down the cost of living in towns and
cities where the votes are. It is nonsense
to suggest that coalminers would receive
a charge of buckshot if they went north
to step-up production during a butter
famine. Assistance is one thing; intimi-
dation another. When farmers went to
Sydney during the wharf strike they had
the nation behiqd them in a fight against
Communism,
Those who, like “M.F.D.,” believe that
incentives are valueless, and that living
costs could be brought down by forcing
farmers to work harder for less, might as
well argue for bringing kanakas into
Australia to force the Australian worker
to work more for less.
All the blueprints and arguments of
our Canberra planners won’t produce a
grain of wheat or an ounce of meat or a
fraction of butter if the production of
food represents bankruptcy to the farmer.
During the war Canberra planners seized
all apples and pears grown in the Com-
monwealth at such a shockingly low price
that growers were forced off their farms,
bankrupt. But the community still had
to pay top prices for all this seized fruit.
Some of the producers who objected to
the madness were thrown into jail.
The high cost of living and the infla-
tionary spiral are caused mainly by
drones and parasites breaking the back
of industry, with the assistance of stand-
over unions and in defiance of helplessly
cumbersome Government machinery.
L. S. Loewenthal (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 181
Across.
1 —Stupid urges Edward to stay
dose at hand. (9)
6 —The reverse harbors a sharpener.
(5) ■ ■ ,
11 — Time for a greeting to ancient
capital. (4)
12 — Decorative ring by the Royal
Navy and a cuckoo. (10)
13 — Subject for discussion by a
French Hamlet in a tree. (4)
15 — Encircling hail to the opening. (7)
16— What a quitter does to an ancient
capital has encountered a food-
fancier. (7)
18— Scrutinise the encircled nothing
of a needle. (3)
19 — Winkle epitaph raises the rent. (3)
20 — Alternative gold in Gaul. (2)
21 — The polluted marched in a single
column. (7)
23—Maudlin personality, possibly,
notes a Scottish johnnie bearing
beef. (7)
25 — Firm military boss. (2)
26 — Fuel turning to sink in the
middle. (3)
27 — English dty is barely disbarred.
(3)
29 — Pardon a seaman to get the
enigmatic answer. (7)
30 — Plaster scattered by the first
European to write an account of
the kangaroo. (7)
31— Maori dance. (4)
35 — Lace to fondle it and “square-
off.” (5, 5)
36 Publicity on oomph knows the
way into mine. (4) .
37 — Celebrated when Edward is
absent. (5) .
38 — Hobo who beats a heavenly
body. (9)
Down.
1 — American is more like a light
soup apple? (7, 8)
2 Dopes go north with the income
curtailed over the top decks at
the sterns. (11)
3 An opening move suggests an
American limb that has been
attacked by teeth. (6) -
4 Bird and a brown one who
becomes less youthful. (7)
5 Pulled 500 wearing tatters. (7)
7 Article is drunk by a Frenchman.
(3)
8— Balderdash. (3)
9 Pronoun. (3)
10 —Piano remainder and I use the
spade with it on a rocky moun-
tain conjuror. (15)
14 —Yellow-brown duck is a clown.
17—The act of injuring the place
where skin blemishes come off the
train. (11)
22 —By surrounding the sick boiler
or the Little Digger. (5)
24 —Those who require to have seen
rod. CD
25 —Venus. (7)
28—Drink the pianissimo circle where
Othello dealt with a turban d
Turk. (6)
32 — A shivoo causes a fuss. (3)
33 Carson equipment. (3)
34 — Swallowed the blind impulse
which leads men to their ruin. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 180


TO BREED
A,
K-POWER DEVELOPING AUSTRALIA S
FOOD
DARWIN
Aerial view of 23
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hastings
Deering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area,
with windmill bore,
300,000 - gallon
turkey-nest tank,
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
trees.
"Coterpil lar"
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out a 23 million-
gallon dam,
Hastings Deering
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude of
this task.
Close -up of big
earth - moving
machines and
"Caterpillar"
Tractors engaged
on dam construc-
tion, Hastings
Peering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
*■
s', m
mm
m
?smi
'
-
; -
,y ; .<:
mm
m
m
m
n
■
n
m
- - :
m
iW.
m
V .
■A '
- ;■• •
H
Si
s.Vs ■:■■
-5..-
81---5
;
MS
H
■
IBS
i
■
?»»
i
:>•
m
Wmm
m
wmlm
S-;
m
mm
m
.
. \ Ss V
■
V. *
mm
m
. *■ 8
, * ’K k’
'■
%
ii
m
■
yS
m
UK
m
m
m
HI
m
y : -
"Beef from our North" has
always appealed to Mr. H.
Hastings Peering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population' and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef is a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
long been Mr. Peering 5 *
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Peering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs 1 area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads ore being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greatly
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattle on well-
watered pasture areas.
Already notable progress has
been made and forward work
is being continuously pushed
ahead on well-organised plans.
tr
® ALICE SPRINGS
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODOCTION
HASTINGS DEEDING
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS DEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, NX
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs, Northern Territory.
.. .. .. Lae, New Guinea.
„ „ „ „ Head Office; William Street. Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).
