

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3759
Wednesday, February 27, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CABOT’S MEMORIAL TOWER
OVERLOOKS
HIS BELOVED BRISTOL
TDRISTOL, the thriving modern city on
the River Avon, seven miles from the
Bristol Channel, is one of the great sea-
ports of Britain. For over nine centuries
the men of Bristol have welcomed ships
from the sea which ascend the tidal Avon
to the very heart of the city. In the
neighborhood of the old quays may still
be found ancient taverns that were once
the haunt of pirates in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. The half-timbered
Llandoger Trow Inn is reputed to be the
inn which figures at the beginning of
R. L. Stevenson’s “Treasure Island.”
Bristol was founded in the sixth
century b.c., and at the time of Domesday
Survey it ranked in importance next to
London, York and Winchester. Before
the Conquest, Bristol was the great mart
of the trade in English slaves, and
centuries later it became the chief centre
of the African slave trade. More honour-
able, however, is its connection with
medieval maritime adventure, for it was
from Bristol in 1496 that John Cabot
and his son Sebastian sailed across the
Atlantic in their search of the north-west
passage to Japan, and, in so doing, dis-
covered the mainland of North America.
Their ship the “Mathew,” of only a
hundred tons burden, was manned by a
crew of eighteen, and their voyage lasted
fifty-two days. In the following year
Sebastian Cabot explored the American
coast from Newfoundland to Florida. In
later years he was concerned in promot-
ing and directing the Company of
Merchant Adventurers, which opened up
British trade with Russia in 1553.
These intrepid explorers are com-
memorated in Bristol by the Cabot
Tower, 105 feet high, which surmounts
Brandon Hill in Bristol. It was erected
in 1897, 400 years after John Cabot’s
voyage of discovery, and is a lasting
memorial to these great discoverers.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4


IffTi'liJTl
31
at HOME,
Write now for Free Illustrated HAJNU-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(58.352) Age
The Red Page
A LIFE OF GORING.
Maybe the chief crime to be charged
against Hermann Goring at this stage of
his career, since his little phial of
potassium cyanide in the prison of the
Allies settled his other accounts, is that,
unlike Ciano, Goebbeis, Schacht and
others, he didn’t leave an autobiography ;
or if he did it hasn’t been found and pub-
lished.
Willi Frischauer’s Goring (Odhams)
isn t quite the next best thing; that is, a
scholarly and penetrating biography. The
reader has to allow for some natural
hostility in the author —though Mr.
Frischauer does his best to be dispassion-
aQd does pretty well, he whangs his
subject with a damaging phrase whenever
he gets the chance; and if hostility is
very much justified when he is writing
about the bombing of Rotterdam or
Coventry there is still no reason for an
impartial biographer to describe Goring’s
delight in paintings, sculpture and
antiques as “childish,” as Mr. Frischauer
does on page 108.
Then there are Mr. Frischauer’s rather
amateurish attempts at Freudian
psychology. Little Hermann is supposed
to have said, whenever he had to go back
to school after the holidays, “If only
Fuerth would burn down”; and Mr.
Frischauer, donning his Freudian gown,
comments severely, “Was it an early
instinct—to burn down what he hated?”
But most of us, after all, wanted to burn
down our schools at some time or other
(this reviewer’s ambition was to shoot
his headmaster with a pea-rifle and go
and live the life of an outlaw in a
neighboring swariip), and few of us have
grown into Gdrings.
Hermann’s very natural and normal
feelings about his schooldays are demon-
strated clearly and amusingly in the
anecdote Mr. Frischauer records of
Goring’s visit to his old school when he
was passing through Ansbach in 1935:
“A flustered headmaster hurriedly pre-
pared a speech to greet the Prussian
Prime Minister In glowing words he
told him that Ansbach was proud to
count the Premier among its old boys ;
he asked nothing of his present pupils
except that they should model themselves
on the great man who was a product of
their school. Goring burst into laughter.
‘My friend,’ he said, T only hope that
none of your pupils feel about the school
the way I did.’ ” Which reminds you of
Bernard Shaw, asked to donate an annual
prize to a schools jubilantly offering a
reward for the worst-behaved boy of the
year.
Mr. Frischauer likes to trace Goring’s
character to the fact that he was
separated from his mother in his infancy
—his father, who was a friend of Cecil
Rhodes and tried to model himself on the
British Empire-builder, was Reich Com-
missar for South-west Africa, stationed
in Haiti; his wife came home to Bavaria
for Hermann to be born, and left the
child there in the care of friends when
she returned to her husband. Mr.
Frischauer writes;
In 1938 Hermann Goring forced the
Anschluss of Austria. Among the refugees
who fled from Vienna before the brown
flood was Sigmund Freud, who has taught
the world to trace the effect of infant
experiences on adult life. Hermann Goring
was a classical example to prove many of
Freud’s findings In later life he de-
veloped many characteristics of a child who
was weaned too soon from his mother’s
breast. Subconsciously he was always
trying to recapture the mother love which
he had missed in his infancy
Well, maybe ; but a lot of children are
separated from their mothers at the age
of six weeks without growing up into the
mountain of jovial and ferocious flesh
that was Hermann Goring.
However, if you disregard Mr. Fris-
chauer’s explorations into psycho-
analytical theory and allow for a few
occasions when the author, by summaris-
ing Goting’s letters instead of quoting in
full, misses his great opportunities to
show us what the man was really made
of —the “long sentimental letter” he
wrote to his mother on the outbreak of
(he 1914 war, for instance —the book is
very readable in a journalistic way, as an
assemblage of facts, compactly and
colorfully put together.
There is the young Hermann being be -
friended by the Jewish family of Dr. von
Eppenstein, who gave Hermann’s father a
castle in Franconia to live in when he
retired from Africa ; the boy at various
schools, including the Cadet School at
Karlsruhe which, so Mr. Frischauer says
with presumably some slight exaggera-
tion, “brooked no individualism”;
Lieutenant Goring in the first World War
mechanising himself on a borrowed
bicycle and trying to capture a French
general, then transferring without per-
mission to the Air Force (a military court
sentenced him to three weeks’ confine-
ment to barracks, but the verdict never
caught up with him), and so developing
that habit of chivalry—towards rival air-
men, not towards the unfortunates on the
ground below—which persisted all his
life, and winning his tremendous war-
record as the successor to Richthofen:
Every airman in the German Air Force
now hoped to approach the achievement of
the late great hero. Lieutenant Ernst Udet
was well in _ the running as the most suc-
cessful surviving fighter pilot. Hermann
Goring steadily increased his scores. In
May he achieved his twentieth “victory in
the air,” and with it the ambition of every
German soldier—the award of the Order
”.° ur If Merite, the German equivalent of
the Victoria Cross, which is worn on a
ribbon round the neck. It was one of the
three decorations—the Iron Cross First
Class and the Airman’s Golden Medal were
the others —without which Goring was
rarely seen.
So to the defeat, when revolutionaries
in Munich were attacking the soldiers
and stripping their decorations from
them —they attacked Goring and, says
Mr. Frischauer, in one of his bits of
psychoanalysis, “he vowed that one day
he would win more medals —and nobody
ever was going to take them from him.”
Then the various associations of ex-
officers, all meeting and planning for re-
venge ; Goring’s days as a barnstorming
areoplane-salesman in Denmark and
Sweden ; his meeting with Karin, his first
wife ; his “instantaneous and impulsive”
surrender to Hitler as the one hope for
Germany ; his adventures in the putsch
in Munich during which Goring was
wounded’ in the leg and afterwards
arrested ; the rise to power, and the death
of Karin—her body brought home from
Sweden to rest in the fabulous marble
mausoleum at Karinhall where Goring
had planned to live a “simple,” princely
life of hunting and entertainment; his
remarriage to the actress Emmy Sonne-
mann and their joint protection of the
Jews—so far as they dared —when Hitler
and Goebbels were hounding them out
of the theatre ; the beginnings of his art
collection —he detested Picasso and loved
above all the nudes of Lukas Cranach ;
his swaggering and ruthlessness in the
early days of World War II and his
virtual retirement, probably in both dis-
grace and despair under his confident
mask, after the failure of the assault on
London ; his emergence at the end to
take command of Germany when Hitler
seemed lost in his cellar (a procedure
which, though Goring acted loyally
throughout, nearly cost him his life when
he was arrested by the emissaries of the
enraged Fiihrer); and his jovial meeting
with the American troops in the calm
assumption that they would take him to
“see Eisenhower” and the two would talk
the whole thing over and he would talk
his—and Germany’s—way out of it.
Some particularly interesting facts and
theories that Mr. Frischauer brings out —
some established and some speculative—
are that Goring’s parents were married in
London, where his father, at Bismarck’s
suggestion, was studying colonial ad-
ministration ; that Goring himself visited
London for the coronation of King
George VI in 1937 and was quietly per-
suaded by the Foreign Office to go home
again ; that he received the Swedish in-
dustrialist Dahlerus and the group of
British big businessmen who were trying
to preserve the peace in the last days
before the invasion of Poland —only
Goring didn’t precisely want peace, but
British consent to the invasion ; that, not
wanting to displease the Swedish-born
Karin even in death, he persuaded Hitler
to exclude Sweden when the Fiihrer was
planning his invasion of Scandinavia ;
that Hitler couldn’t swim and had never
had a bathe in the sea; that Hess was
sent by Hitler to persuade England to
join him in war against the Soviet; and
that Martin Bormann, having escaped
from Hitler’s cellar, is “still alive and in
Russia.”
Around Victoria.
Among the forest of compliments and
hearty good-fellowship in Dale Collins’s
Victoria’s My Home Ground (Cheshire)
there are some interesting observations.
Mr. Collins lamented to Mr. Jack Ezard,
of Swift’s Creek, on the Great Divide,
that in his children’s book Bush Holiday
he had stretched the probabilities by
giving an inhabitant of that district an
aeroplane. Said Mr. Ezard:
“Don’t give it another thought. Between
the wars 1 owned my plane and flew every-
where on business and pleasure. My son
had 60 flying hours in when he was a year
old. See the logging machine? I heard
]t was rotting away somewhere along the
Murray, and J flew across the Alps and fol-
lowed the river down at tree-top height
until I located it, and then I landed in the
nearest paddock and bought it.”
At the old mining town of Aberfeldy,
deserted and then burnt to the ground,
Mr. Collins remembered Sam Knotti
original of the poster: “I always have
one at eleven”:
Broadbent— what a debt we owe him,
pedalling on his pushbike round every mile
ot road in the State and charting it so well
that, like Captain Cook’s, his surveys still
hold good—was given a drink of water
rrom his billy by a swagman. He promised
;At. ea ,. v f kim a drink at the Royal Mail
(Aberfeldy), and did so, Sam Knott
appeared to claim his drink, and remained
there for many years as potman. Then he
went down to McVeigh’s, where he again
worked in the local hotel. It was there the
snapshot was taken which was to turn into
the poster, and Sam spoke the phrase which
remains part of the Australian language,
hie died a while back.... Poor old Sam'
was buried in a coffin knocked up from
packing-cases, with the printing still show-
ing on the sides. It was raining so heavily
that the grave flooded. Some of the
mourners had to stand on the floating
coffin while the earth was shovelled back.
At Echuca he met Allan H. Morris,
history master at the high school, who
had secured two drayloads of old Murray
River steamer log-books, bills of lading,
insurance documents and other records
and who after they had provided a
three-months job of classification (20,000
letters alone) for Miss Ingham, of Mel-
had got as far as extracting
100,000 words from them:
The pay-sheet of the Alfred and barge
-Uarling in ’7B showed the monthly wages.
Ihe skipper got £l6, engineer £l4, mate £9,
bargemaster £B, cook (Chuck Sam) £7, three
firemen £7 and three deckhands £6.
In Melbourne Mr. Collins found a
repository of Australian bush songs in
the Rev. Dr. Percy Jones:
Catholic Church, a Doctor
°t Divinity and a Doctor of Music. In
addition to being in charge of the music at
"atpck s Cathedral and carrying out
other church duties he is a vice-director of
the Conservatorium of Music at the Mel-
bourne University ... I’m going to call
him Percy.
8° in P eace > Mr. Collins; for
Ihe Wild Colonial Boy,” as noted by
the Rev. Dr. Jones and quoted by the
irrev. Mr. Collins, said;
“I’ll fight but not surrender,”
and not, as others have urged,
“I’ll fight but I won’t surrender.”
Mr. Collins prints a dozen or so
ballads from Dr. Jones’s collection, and
concludes with harsh words on having
had to pay publishers for the right to
print a verse and chorus of “Waltzing
Matilda” in his children’s book ; he
concludes darkly:
Banjo Paterson—that maker and collector
of Australian songs—left his fortune to his
widow.
His fortune amounted to £225.
There is a chapter on a stay Mr.
Collins made at the Falkiner station,
Boonooke; and there are accounts of
the Melbourne Show, the little Show at
Noorat, Eildon Dam on the Goulburn
River, the Kiewa hydroelectric project,
a ride with Forestry Commission officers
up the Howqua, German dredgers and
briqueting plants at Yallourn, an immi-
grants’ camp at Bonegilla and a stay in
one of the Commission cottages on the
wild-life reserve at Wilson’s Promontory.
In England—Now.
One of the helpful primers of one’s
boyhood was a treatise on how to become
a ventriloquist ; the first necessity, the
book said, was to “get the buzz”—a kind
of droning in the mouth by which one’s
words would be transported to another
corner of the room; and it often seems
that the news-commentator on the radio
and the writer of popular books on
politics and sociology pass examinations
in some similar accomplishment; the
tone of authority they all share, the feel-
ing of infallibility they communicate, of
having worked out, or contrived, the
whole world situation, of knowing exactly
what was jn Roosevelt’s, Churchill’s or
Truman’s mind—of having put it there—
must surely be taught in some university
course not open to the general public.
Only another news-commentator could
scratch the diamond of a commentator’s
aplomb (to put it euphoniously), as when
in Home and Away (Hutchinson), Adam
de Hegedus encounters Boleslav at a
party, and Boleslav chips away:
“By origin and tradition you are a ..mem-
ber of the historic classes, even if your
grandfather had to sink so low as to
become a judge. You were a young boy in
London, I remember you very well. Your
ambassador Zichy-Rubido launched you
among his friends. They took to you
because they recognised the common back-
ground at once in you and because you
amused them but you had two fatal and
unforgivable faults in the eyes of the
intelligentsia of the ’3o’s. One; you had
no guilt feeling, and why the hell should
you have? You were very poor. And,
two, you loved England, desperately, hope-
lessly, as only foreigners can. That, my
friend, was unforgivable and ridiculous.
So you were left in the cold, and took to
the upper classes for shelter. You wrote
your first book at Broadlands, staying with
the Mount Temples, and most of your
second staying at Colworth with the Mel-
chetts....! know all the secrets about you
and the upper class. That’s why you know
them so well.”
“You are wrong. 1 don’t know how well
I know them or how badly, but the upper
class for any writer who knows them is the
easiest class to describe, because they are a
tiny, closely-integrated group ” y
no’lon e g n er y 0 s U eli a ” andoned them ’ because lhe y
l‘‘°V}? e contrary they sell enormously.
Ju st ask Nancy Milford’s or Evelyn
Waugh’s publishers.” *
The combination of sociologist with
naturalised Hungarian makes for a view
ot the English as interesting insects, am
tins extends even to ]VIr. De Hegedus ,<
studies of writers ; he says he has a psy
chologist and endocrinologist friend who
is keeping notebooks the size of ledger
on the sexual habits of English writer
and important men; concerning whoir
he makes some very sweeping assertions
Mr. De Hegedus himself has an in
teresting theory on English writing, which
he has developed in answer to the
American critic Edmund Wilson’s ques
tion: why no working-class authors came
up to take the places of Wells, Shaw
Bennett, Barrie, Masefield, Hardy, D. H
Lawrence, etc. His answer, condensed
is that the brilliant men from the working-
class get more power by going into the
jobs which their author-predecessors o
the working-class threw open to them
while literature, freed from political anc
social propagandism, is satisfied to remain
merely amusing in the hands of such as
Evelyn Waugh, Anthony Powell, William
Plomer, George Orwell, C. Day Lewis
W. H. Auden, Graham Greene, Nige
Balchin, Henry Green, L. P. Hartley,
Joyce Cary, Rex Warner, etc., all Uni-
versity wits. But our author enters a
caveat:
The general view today is, I presume,
that the Public School University writer is
more entertaining or amusing than the
others, but there is far more to it than
that. For one thing, his outlook is more
universal, because his culture is wider. He
is also more subtle, his sense of construc-
tion is better and so is his discipline, which
m plain English means that he is a better
“artist” The working-class writer (Jim
Phelan, Rhys Davies, James Hanley, Her-
bert Hodge, Mark Benny, Coombes) lacks
lustre, glow, wit and polish, and as a com-
pensation he has not got the strength, the
force, the vitality that his background
would suggest.
If this is so, then it looks a pretty sad
scene all round: that in a civilisation that
produced Shakspeare, Shaw, Fielding,
Dickens, Trollope and Conrad a writer
like Waugh should be considered a
novelist of “the front rank” amounts
almost to a charge of flippancy ; and that
Rattigan should be hauled out to show
the triumph of Harrow over the “Jower-
middie-class” Noel Coward in the post-
war theatre is ridiculous special-pleading.
What seems a better conclusion is that
in England the power of writing is de-
clining, that it is being left to dilettantes
and those trained to techniques rather
than ends; while those of the lower
classes who want to gain more than praise
or money from their efforts are going
on to the committees and councils and
Government offices which confer powers
of change and organisation.,
We learn also that, under the impulse
to get on, and probably under the influ-
ence of the 8.8. C., the British lower-
classes are deliberately learning to speak
English and drop their dialects—even
Cockney; we are taken among the
workers and the potteries at Stoke-on-
Trent ; and among the workers and looms
in Lancashire ; and among the workers
and spinning mills of Yorkshire; and
among the boys at Eton (a year at Eton
costs about £350):
There must be at least a million families
in England who can easily invest that £l6OO
into a son's education, and another million
who can do it at a pinch.
There are also spivs, and a nineteen-
year-old Yorkshire typist who keeps a
python and two boa constrictors in the
kitchen, at home as pets, the longest
being twenty-two feet long. And in a
study of a “typical middle-class” couple
in Yorkshire we get what, to the reviewer
at least, is the best phrase in the book —
on the wife’s reading: she reads only
“commodity” novels. Now, there is a
phrase which, just as a matter of satis-
faction, like a good cheese, or a pleasant
claret, a reviewer can let linger on the
palate; a Commodity Novel —a good
phrase, a tasty phrase, an avenging phrase,
a phrase which conjures up a thousand
memories . , .


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
tre
m
an
New Combination Knife Set, 36/-
This new combination knife set is complete with a very strong leather sheath and the
blades are made from William Rogers high-grade cutlery steel. Large
knife, five-inch blade and three-inch skinning knife. Both knives have
laminated leather handles with brass guard. Price complete, 36/-.
m
w
m
m
G
G
n
m
■
ill
a
£
;
%
m
■
21/6
Leather Sheath illustrated
below priced at only 2/- extra.
:
vm
17/6
15/6
22/6
16/6
Knives— —helpful companions for
fishing — hunting—bushwalking , . .
William Rogers six-inch scimater blade
with shaped leather and brass laminated
handle, brass guard. Priced at only 22/6 ea.
“The Boone,” manufactured by Wade
and Butcher, a top grade Sheffield steel
four-inch blade knife. Blade has raised
rasp back, leather, brass and fibre laminated
handle. Price, 21/6.
true blades , strong handles
Hunting knives from 15/6
Hunting and skinning knife, “The Dorko” five-inch Solinger steel blade, made
in Germany. Laminated leather and brass handle. Price, 15/6.
“The Stag” high-grade German steel knife with blood letting groove. Five-inch
blade, horn handle with brass guard. Price, 16/6.
The “Nest” Southern and Richardson, Sheffield, England. Five-ipch broad blade
with laminated leather and brass handle fitted with brass guard. Price, 17/6.
■ ' ■
! 1 mm ■■ WmBmm
m
■
WWmr
m Wmm
WmM
mm
*
mm
fc | m ' * »
liili . |
mmm
' j :
• •: -••. ■•■ ■. : •.
William Rogers narrow blade of
finest grade Sheffield steel.
Shaped leather laminated
handle, brass guard. Price, 17/6.
William Rodgers three - inch
blade, mirror finish steel
with leather laminated handle,
14/6. Leather sheath at 2/-.
Clasp knife with two blades of
German steel. Made with metal
staple to attach to any belt.
Priced at only 4/9 each.
KNIFE DEPARTMENT—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. ’PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


I
» *
***\% \ * >
*/ *' ** % * % % \ * / *> \ ■<
• »
awiKl
M
% w
si
' /
■
H
. ' I
wmm
mm
M
<
L
Steaw
r
' ; v
I
ii
sp
» pi <
. ; s **
a«i
ill
r3J
»M
>*» }
at®
1 he basis of good tailoring is the
quality of the cloth. Your tailor can
give you the clothes you like to wear
when he uses VICARS fine worsteds
of Fine wool.
oO
Vf
V\^ e
d*
lOHN VICARS & CO. LIMITED, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
in,-- 52678


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No, 3759
Wednesday, February 27, 1952
-.o*'
r dr
A POTENT BREW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
N.S.W.'S GREAT SLOTH.
According to the Minister for Agri-
culture in the McGirr Government, wheat-
growing in N.S.W. has “tended to become
somewhat unpopular.” So, in the terms
of Premier “Gimme” McGiir’s own
recent lamentation, have dairying, all
rural labor, brickmaking (New Austra-
lians have been bumping that up), going
to sea in coastal shipping—in fact, any
form of productive work that entails what
used to be called “honest sweat.”
The McGirrs affect not to know why
this is, except that it is all the fault of
the Commonwealth Government’s restric-
tion of bank-credit. On this reasoning
they naturally have only one proposal
for providing that the people of N.S.W.
shall have enough to eat —without being
asked to do any hard work, of course.
That is that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment shall do something about it—in
effect, that the people of the other States
of Australia shall send round the hat to
keep the richest State going. Thus Agri-
cultural Minister Graham puts out a
“10-point plan” for a conference with
Federal and State Ministers “to boost
food-production”— to make wheatgrowing
“popular” again under a sapless “Gov-
ernment” whose whole policy consists in
creating a dozen city street-loafers,
“sports” and racketeers where but one
existed before.
At the same time the McGirrites
regard as “intolerable” a disinclination
among the rising generation in the farm-
ing areas to stay on the land and grow
food to maintain a breed of city loafers
for which Sydney, under the McGirr
Government, is becoming a sort of stud-
farm. Commonwealth Minister McEwen’s
comment when he heard of the latest
N.S.W. money-cadging scheme did not
beat about the bush. “The only novelty
about these ten points,” he said, “is that
not one of them embraces any proposal
that N.S.W. should do anything about
the problem.” And that is really no
novelty, either.
When Premier McGirr tried brow-
beating the N.S.W. farmers last October
he threatened dairymen and wheatmen
alike with expropriation of their land
unless they did their job to keep his city
voters in food. Any union in the city
could go on strike and the McGirrs
would not say a word against it; but if
the farmers struck they were “for it.” He
warned them that under a system of
“permits” he would direct them what to
grow and how much ; and if that did not
get results he would give their farms to
others. “The fault must lie with the
farmers,” he told a New England dairy-
men’s deputation, and as for wheat—
“wheatfarmers have sown only 3,000,000
acres this harvest, the lowest for seven
years.”
In the same month the McGirr Gov-
ernment brought in drastic railway
charges, increasing freight-rates on wheat
by 166 per cent., superphosphate 100
per cent., cornsacks by 50 per cent, and
stinging increases on other stock and farm
requirements. What sort of incentive this
provided for farmers struggling against
the worst drought within memory, cart-
ing water, feed petering out (“only a
month’s supply in sight for starving
stock,” said one expert), and fires every-
where burning homes and fences —no one
in this purblind Government could
say. But it was clear that Government
interference with primary industries was
under challenge, and controls and boards
and price-fixing, together with stagnated
shipping (also under Government
controls) and chaotic and bankrupt State
railways were rapidly killing the small
farms. Farmers are turning over to the
easier living of sheep-raising, was the
official explanation. The attractions of
sheep-raising lie not only in the current
(though declining) high overseas prices
for wool; what stares every farmer in
the face is that wool is the one industry
which is free from Government control.
Bar a brief session for business be-
ginning a week hence. Parliament under
the McGirrs is not scheduled to meet
until the end of September. Having got
supply at the end of last year for six
months ahead, and being able to run on
for a further three months on tick, the
McGirr Government is actually showing
itself exceedingly gracious in reassembling
Parliament at all before October. It is
scandalous that in the critical conditions
of this time the Parliament of the chief
industrial State should be closed for
nearly 12 months save for this brief pre-
Easter meeting.
The condition of the railways is
deteriorating fast under the McGirrs’ 40-
hour week, the reckless increase of run-
ning-costs and the seemingly endless
internal vendetta which has been destroy-
ing morale in the service. Losses are now
doubling themselves every year, and train
services are being increasingly reduced.
The McGirr Government is sedulously
feeding the general inflationary condi-
tions of the national economy with the
crippling costs of transport reflected
throughout industry, the losses and
wastage from electric-power shortage, the
tinkering about with “temporary”
auxiliary power-plants, its absolute indif-
ference to coal shortages and the clogging
of Sydney and Newcastle ports under a
go-slow policy which the unions impose
in complete harmony with that of the
McGirr Ministry itself. A general
obstruction of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is the McGirr crowd’s chief
motive for clinging to office. From
Premier McGirr downwards the Gov-
ernment of N.S.W. has long ceased to
concern itself with any programme except
that of seconding the aim of its Chief
Secretary’s brother, leader of the “Labor”
Opposition in Canberra, to defeat Mr.
Menzies and spread over all Australia
the current “Labor” blight in N.S.W.
Mr. Treatt, N.S.W. Opposition-leader,
has estimated that every working citizen
of the State is paying about 15s. a week
in inflated costs as the result of the daily
power blackouts. On the present rate
of State transport losses he is slugged
with approximately another 10s. a week
of inflation. The McGirrs’ 40-hour week
has cost the community 10 per cent, in
loss of working output, and with ruling
wages at about £l2 a week the individual
can work out for himself a rudimentary
figure for the added cost of that also in
the prices he has to pay for everything
under Mr. McGirr. Mr. McGirr says
that any action necessary is not for his
Government but for the Commonwealth.
As for what goes on under the sur-
face of this regime, the electors can
ponder the disgraceful liquor-trafficking
now being exposed by a royal commission
which would never have been appointed
but for the insistence of one independent
“Labor” supporter, and the dead silence
which has prevailed since last October
over the vanishing of certain depart-
mental files dealing with big contracts
for railway rolling-stock, concerning
which the Minister himself had earlier
said in Parliament that there had been
“gross negligence.”
But a typical picture of the N.S.W.’s
Great Sloth may perhaps be seen in the
port of Newcastle. One wharf there is
pushed further out of plumb whenever
a ship ties up to it. On another a sunken
surface was raised by filling with asphalt,
which then “completely covered the rail-
way-lines.” The report of a Common-
wealth Shipping Ministry official last
October detailed other defects in cranes,
dredging plant, silting which is “a posi-
tive danger in defence emergency,” and
declared:
The port is controlled by five separate
State authorities. Although the State
Government has various proposals in view
to improve conditions, there is no evidence
that any effect will be given to these pro-
posals in the immediate future.
That makes a lifelike profile of the
McGirr Government.
The Crusaders.
It seems a great pity that before the
Committee of Inquiry into the Salaries
and Allowances of Members of the
National Parliament published its find-
ings it was not allowed to have played
over to it the proceedings of the House
of Representatives during the debate on
the motion of no-confidence moved by
Dr. Evatt.
It was quite a normal, average debate.
But it might have cured the commission
of some of its delusions that the “profes-
sional politician—the man who regards
a seat in Parliament as a source of liveli-
hood and not as a means of furthering a
cause and thereby serving his country” is
“not likely to hold his seat for long.”
The committee in its finding assured the
electors who are to pay the inflated
wages awarded that “among candidates
and members the desire to serve the
country or a cause is the dominant motive
for entering public life, and that almost
all members have something to
contribute.”
What some of them have to contribute,
as illustrated by the censure debate, is a
strictly party vote and an echo of the
unanimous opinion of the A.L.P. execu-
tive or the Liberal-party organisation so
little embellished with original thought
that a postal ballot conducted by the
Whips would serve the same purpose.
A visitor from Mars might well think
any community stark, staring mad which
pays great salaries and gives great
privileges to numbers of party helots to
do this sort of thing, and if the defence
should be entered that what is done is
done to serve a cause, the obvious counter
is that causes are not served by exhibi-
tions such as those which characterise the
attack whenever “Labor” makes a move
of this sort.
Nothing rings true in the resolution
which Dr. Evatt brought forward:
That the economic and financial policy
of the Government, especially its high
taxation and drastic restrictions of bank
credit, is causing injury to industry and
production, both primary and secondary,
and is undermining the established
national policy of full employment.
Nothing could be more politically dis-
honest than this preface, coming from
the erstwhile deputy-leader of a Gov-
ernment which soaked with a viciousness
beyond previous experience anybody
who looked rich through his own enter-
prise, which “regulated” not only
bank credit but every kind of credit
except that obtainable in the blackmarket,
and which allowed the primary and
secondary industries to be stripped to
serve the purposes of the refugee luxury
tertiary industries of the amusement,
nightclub, liquor-selling and car-dealing
types.
And what can be said of a leader of a
great Parliamentary party, imminently the
potential recipient of about £5OOO a year
for doing his Parliamentary job, who
justifies his legal training in logic and
reason by coming forward with the
following on top of a decade during
which he and his colleagues have
preached loaf, class-war, tolerance of the
Communists (whom he himself has de-
fended both in Parliament and in the
courts), and the strangling of private
enterprise:
... .As the result of inflated prices and
the Government’s failure to restore the
purchasing-power of the Australian pound,
special hardship is being inflicted on
families dependent upon fixed incomes,
such as social-service and restoration
benefits, and the standard of living of
wage- and salary-earners has fallen and
is falling.
It is certainly not falling for Dr. Evatt
and other M.Ps., and if it is falling else-
where it is because of the universal greed,
grab and something-for-nothing attitude
which started to destroy this country
after Dr. Evatt and his followers began to
preach the poisonous and soul-sapping
doctrines which political bosses like Mr.
J. A. Ferguson and Dr. Lloyd Ross and
Mr. J, S. Garden imported into the
“Labor” movement from the Communist
party, in which they were schooled.
It takes a lot of nerve in a leader of
such an outfit to come forward with the
solemn assurance that the “only way out
is a national attempt at stabilisation of
the economy on a just and equitable basis
with emphasis on production and with-
out interference with full employment or
standards of living,” and “that the trade-
union movement has never objected to a
just system of price- and wage-stabilisa-
tion, provided always that the lag of
wages behind prices was accounted for
so that the standard of living could be
maintained.”
In practical fact the leaders of nearly
all the largest unions which have financed
Dr. Evatt’s “Labor” movement, with the
exception of the A.W.U. and a few others,
have objected to anything which would
bring about adequate production and an
accord between prices and wages. They
have been for shortages of supplies which
strengthen their hands in bargaining.
Their main objective has been disruption
in the interest of the Communist party, of
which the bulk of them —Clerks’ Union,
Building Workers’ Union, big metal
unions, coal unions, transport unions and
many more —have been members and
leaders or associates.
It is an impertinence for Dr. Evatt to
talk of full employment and production
in the light of the long records of wanton
strikes, the set policy of go-slow and the
deliberate and regimented plan of obstruc-
tion to production which has helped to
raise labor costs to the skies and to create
“the economics of scarcity.” The
Waterside Workers, a union which forms
a section of Dr. Evatt’s party, was hold-
ing up 59 ships through a strike while
his censure motion was being debated.
Stabilisation of prices is a matter which
Dr. Evatt should blush to mention. He
must have a very short memory indeed
if he does not remember the results
his Government’s “control” of prices
and home-purchase, so generally flouted
that when his erstwhile leader was offered
a “thousand instances” to prove that the
only result of control was a vast, uni-
versal and scandalous blackmarket, all he
could do was reply feebly that it was
“impossible to prosecute everybody.”
He also cannot have forgotten that
when his Government tried to perpetuate
price-control by a constitutional refer-
endum in 1948 his proposal was defeated
in every State by a whacking majority.
In the circumstances all the “Labor”
time-wasting on the subject has
been done tongue-in-cheek, and purely
as part of the cunning Communist-
type programme of destruction of the
machinery of Government and creation
of alarm and unrest among workers
through the propagation of evil slogans
with “depression” and “unemployment-
pool” themes. This is being implemented
in the hope of creating an atmosphere
in which no party save “Labor” will
have a chance of governing.
“Labor” leaders know, and everybody
else knows, that full employment and
reduced prices cannot be attained without
the achievement of something which
political racketeers of their type will never
advocate: a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay.
As examples of the crusading sincerity
which Mr. Justice Nicholas and his col-
leagues attribute to Parliamentarians,
members of the present Opposition would
all be eligible for the Order of the
Thimble and Pea, Second-Class.
"Labor" Sport Too?
From “The Hill”; As was recently
recorded (B. 30/1 / ’52) the Wollongong
Showground has gone to the dogs under
the administration of a newly-constructed
trust of all-“ Labor” membership—or
nearly all “Labor” —and now it is nothing
but a dog-racing haunt from which the
trustees have successively pushed out the
military, the Legacy Club, inter-district
cricket, the New Year Highland Gather-
ing, and finally the Wollongong Show
itself. Pushed out, that is, by making
charges so extortionate that the Wollon-
gong Show, a fixture now nearly 60 years
old, and a three-days and two-nights
event, has been reduced to staging a one-
day gymkhana at Bulli instead. The
military, the Illawarra Regiment, can
probably get by on pressure it can bring
to bear ; but “Labor” politics on the trust
has put the kybosh on the others.
Now the new amalgamated Cricket-
Sports-Ground Trust in Sydney has been
packed by the McGirr Government to
assure a “Labor” majority—six out of 11
—permanently in control, with Dr. Evatt
at its head. After the Wollongong
example, what is this crowd’s long-range
aim in Sydney? There are plenty of
observers to explain to anyone who cares
to listen that the bookies have been look-
ing for a clear run on League-football
business which will not clash with
Randwick business on Saturdays. What
better than to provide them with a free
go at League football on Sundays?
Does anybody think that, if the bookies
demand Sunday League football games
from the “Labor” C.G. Trust, Brother
Clive’s devotion to Sunday-observance
(if still extant) is going to avail anything
in opposition?
Not long ago Dr. Evatt was intent on
rallying the Church vote —any church
to “Labor.” Some of those ministers of
the Gospel who fell for the line of talk
he dished out to them are due to be dis-
illusioned. “S. M. Herald” thinks Dr.
Evatt “has long had a genuine and very
useful interest in football.” It even
believes that “no cricket-ball or football
has ever come within 50 yards of Dr.
Evatt without bouncing in salute.” Before
long “S.M.H.” may be able to descry all
the bookies saluting Dr. Evatt, too
even saying prayers for him—as chairman
of a Trust majority able to insist that the
grounds shall be given over to League
football on the Sabbath.
Of course there will be a struggle when
church bodies are aroused by the threat
to Sunday. It is then that the voting-
value of such opposition will be nicely
calculated, and if it pans out as expected
dissenters, religious and other, on the
Trust will be met by the solid phalanx
of the “Labor” majority. It would be
interesting to know what the qualifica-
tion for “Labor” selection to the new
Trust was. Usually “Labor” nominees
are required to sign a pledge to vote as
caucus might direct. And caucus seems
very keen on turning Sunday into a
second Saturday.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Evatt and "Chance It."
The Federal Government made the mis-
take of opening the debate on the ratifi-
cation of the Japanese peace treaty on
the same day as a Mr. Barnes, a
cricketer, asked the Board of Control
why he was left out of a Test team to
play the West Indians.
The result illuminated the sense of pro-
portion of the Press which reflects the
sense of proportion of the community.
The “S. M. Herald” devoted 471 inches
to the opening debate on the treaty and
57 inches to the wail of Mr. Barnes and
the board chairman’s reply. And, prob-
ably, the debate report would have had
less space if Mr. W. M. Kent Hughes, as
a prisoner-of-war, had not made a defence
of the treaty which was generally re-
garded as “sensational” and likely to sell
a few more papers than an “unsen-
sational” speech.
Actually the address was more common-
sense than any delivered during the de-
bate because it had a sound basis of
understanding of the realities in its asser-
tion of the futility of trying to “build any-
thing on the foundations of continuous
revenge and hatred.” There is no chance
of Japan not being allowed to rearm sub-
ject to limits in the supply of material
allowed her by the Western Powers.
There is also little chance of her being
able to turn her rearmament against
the Western Powers for many a long day
to come. She is in the same boat with
them, first down on the Russian list for
conquest, her shores within sight of Rus-
sian territory bristling with warlike pre-
parations. “Korea is a dagger pointed
at the heart of Japan.”
Nobody can take seriously Dr. Evatt’s
sneering and scandalised cry that the
Government’s policy is “Chance it.” The
Government has to chance it because the
peace treaty with every other country on
the Allied side has been determined upon.
In any case the hypocrisy of the Doctor’s
alarm is proved by his own Government’s
readiness to chance it in 1948, when it
began to pull out Australian troops and
leave the occupation of Japan to the
Americans, and by the eagerness with
which he was prepared to chance follow-
ing any policy which Russia cared to put
forward to oppose the Americans. He
had no qualms about letting the Russians
into Manchuria, giving them Dairen and
the Kurile Islands, and thus virtually
handing China over to the Communists
on a platter together with a base from
which the U.S.S.R. could threaten Japan
from the north as well as the United
States.
The real test of “Labor’s” sincerity lies
in what it would be prepared to commit
itself to to keep Japan disarmed. If it were
asked to keep even one Australian brigade
abroad for the purpose it would have to
perform the acrobatic feat of throwing
overboard every principle which it has
enunciated. It wouldn’t even agree to
Australian militia being sent to help beat
Japan on Japanese soil —their use was
limited even in the last phases of the
Pacific War to areas south of the Equator.
And it had to go down on its knees to
get the A.L.P. juntas, which are its
masters, to agree to that.
Chifley Answers Evatt.
Through the voice of the late J. B.
Chifley, “Labor” had already answered
all Dr. Evatt’s points before he spoke in
his censure motion on the Government’s
anti-inflation Budget. Here is the answer
in no uncertain words:
[Under “full employment” as a permanency]
no guarantee can be given to anybody that they
can stay put in a particular industry, but there
will be work for all.... There will have to be
transfers of workers if there is going to be
expansion. 1 am not going to fool anybody in
that regard. ( Address to special trade-union
conference on the need for work in essential
industries, Oct., 1948.}
The “Labor” party must be ready to adapt
itself to the demands of a vastly changed and
troubled world... .Today Australia has full
employment for the first time, but that condition
will not always be maintained. Unless the
workers are prepared to play their part the
“Labor” party’s objectives cannot be achieved.
The trade-union movement has a duty not only
to its own organisation but to the nation....
There have been some strikes [where]... .it
is shocking that trade-unions have not accepted
the verdict of the judicial authority. Such situa-
tions are subjects for comic-opera writers
In the Pacific we have to build a much stronger
nation than we have today. {Address to annual
A.L.P. conference, N.S.W., June, 1947.}
I made an appeal some time ago for utmost
production from every worker. I make that
appeal again today. I make it because needs
are far ahead of production in the present time
of full employment. {Address to A.L.P. con-
ference, N.S.W., June, 1948.}
The Treasurer has indicated that he proposes
to finance certain public commitments not from
revenue but from loan money. I shall express
the view of the “Labor” party upon that kind
of procedure... .When a country is in a pros-
perous condition it should pay its way and if
possible provide an additional sum for capital
works or for reserves. I make no bones about
the attitude of the “Labor” party m that matter.
That is the proper and businesslike method to
ad The “Labor” Government in which I was the
Prime Minister and Treasurer was obliged o
do some most unpopular things.... I a , m really
alarmed at the growing spiral of mtia 10 .
Neither this Government nor any other Govern-
ment can be blamed for the inflationary
elements. World prices and various other factors
have caused the situation... .Every man in
public life who has a sense of responsibility
must give serious consideration to such matteis
as the country’s honor, economy, prestige ana
standing abroad, and the heritage of its future
citizens.
1 hope the Government will do something to
correct the present disturbed state of our
economy, whether such action be popular 01
unpopular. (As Leader of the Opposition,
Supply Bill, Oct., 1950 Q
In the Martian Twilight.
The normal type of celebration of Red
Army Day on February 23 served as a
reminder that Russia is still belligerent
and threatening. The capital of the base
of world peace” quivered with the roar
of aircraft-engines and the thunder of
guns and goose-stepping feet. And from
the tomb of Lenin, the man who envisaged
world conquest by force, the usual snarl-
ing threats were uttered by a row of
bemedalled dictators in military uniforms.
Their theme was, as usual, “let the world
beware ... we are armed to the teeth.”
As long ago as last spring it was known
that Russia had 175 divisions, of which
there were eight armored, 10 mechanised,
four rifle, two artillery and eight a.-a.
divisions in Eastern Germany; two
armored and two mechanised divisions
in Poland ; one mechanised, one rifle and
one a.-a. in Austria; two mechanised in
Hungary; and two mechanised and one
a.-a. in Rumania.
All these were up to strength, and take
no account of troops in Bulgaria, Czecho-
slovakia, Bulgaria and Albania, the huge
armies along the Turkish frontiers, the
great Siberian army which is feeding the
Chinese and North Koreans with
resources and experts.
In Australia defence has had an
unusual run of attention in the Press
this past week, because of the fact that an
atomic weapon is presently to be tested
out on the Woomera Range.
The news of the prospective atom test
in Australia, however, is of secondary
importance to the final detailed decisions
to establish an expanded Australian
defence and to make a six-nation security
army in Western Europe, the achievement
there being in the fact that at last an
arrangement has become possible under
which France and Germany can co-
operate, along with Italy, Holland,
Belgium and Luxembourg, to provide a
Continental force of 500,000, divided
into 43 groups, equivalent to divisions or
thereabouts, of which Germany will pro-
vide 12 groups.
These are, of course, exclusive of
United States and British forces, the
British today having the strongest defence
forces in the European zone, despite the
popular belief to the contrary. The
impact on Australia of the general situa-
tion, and particularly the situations in
Korea, where U.N.O. has 400,000 men,
and in Indo-China, is the expansion of
the Australian programme. The ceiling
for service numbers has almost doubled
since 1949, and is now 190,000; >—124,500
for the Army, against the existing 61,000-
odd ; 27,000 for the R.A.N., an increase
of 6000 on present figures; 33,637, includ-
ing 16,794 permanents, for the R.A.A.F.,
which is to have 17 squadrons at peak.
The cost estimated on present bases
will be £885,000,000 for a three-year plan.
The main point which should strike
a chord in the mind of every thinking
man and woman is that the objective of
this great and costly effort is to have
Australia ready for immediate mobilisa-
tion at the end of 1953.
A.B.C. "Talks."
From M. F. Dixon, former head of the
A.B.C. news department:
It is understandable that The Bulletin
(20/2/’52), or, for that matter, any outsider,
should assume that Mr. McMahon Ball’s talks
on the air are given with “the obliging co-
operation of the news-editors of the A.B.C.
The plain fact, however, is that all talks on
the A.8.C., whether they deal with news, politics
or scientific subjects, are controlled by the
talks department, which has its own director,
assistant-director and a large staff, and works
independently of the news department. Even
parliamentary broadcasts are the direct concern
of the talks department. The first “talks” head
of the A.8.C., away back in the early 1930 s,
was a sporting commentator; he was followed
by a university man; and a uni. man is still
head of the department.
Soon after the outbreak of the European war
in 1939 the news-commentaries, which had been
under the control of the news department, were
assigned to “talks”; and even correspondents
who were sent into the field to cover the Pacific
war were jointly controlled by the talks and
news departments, and were often the nominee
of “talks,” with no training or experience in
news.
The “talks” policy of the A.B.C. is laid down
by a National Talks Committee, which in my
time at the A.B.C. used to consist of university
or ex-university men. The commission itself
has always had a sprinkling of university men
on it. A former chairman, W. J. Cleary, was
a graduate of Sydney University; and the
present chairman, R. J. F. Boyer, is also an
M.A. of that institution. Another commissioner,
Sir John Medley, is ex-Vice-Chancellor of Mel-
bourne University. In the circumstances it is
understandable that university men should have
a powerful say in commission policy, and that
most of its speakers should be drawn from
university ranks.
The growth of the talks department of the
A.B.C. in the last 15 years has always been a
subject for comment among senior officers of
the commission, particularly when listener-
research figures show that its most popular
feature, “Guest of Honor,” has only a com-
paratively small audience, despite the fact that
it comes immediately after the 7 p.m. Sunday
news.
The news department has often been blamed
for the A.B.C.’s election-night broadcasts, but
this feature, although it is largely handled by
members of the news staff, has always been
controlled by the talks department. Even
weather broadcasts, which frequently have the
highest news value, were placed outside the scope
of the news department by a programme con-
ference decision some years back. They have
since been handled by the rural broadcasts
department, but as a special concession, “news”
is permitted to use them when they ar’e “of
general interest.” Could anything be more
absurd?
Voices That Deceive.
Whatever else Australia may be short
of it is not short of policy-makers. They
are thicker than blowflies round a sheep’s
carcass and buzz a darned sight more.
From newspaper-offices, radio-stations,
chairmen and secretaries of commercial
organisations, banks, trade - unions,
farmers’ unions 4 retail stores, State Gov-
ernments, the churches and pretty well
everywhere else pours a torrent
of advice to the Commonwealth'Govern-
ment on how it should do everything
from saving the workers to telling the
President of the U.S.A. what to do with
his dollars.
It’s not new. Perhaps it’s not funda-
mentally a bad thing. But just now the
number of policy-makers is a bit over
the fence, and the noise they make is apt
to deafen the people—and themselves —
to the voice of truth. The somewhat
dangerous aspect is that so little of it is
inspired by national vision or ideals.
Almost all of these “statements” and
“messages,” when closely examined (some
don’t even need close examination) show
that what the policy-maker wants is some
special treatment for his own particular
interests. That, too, is fair enough, but
it ought not to be put out with tongue-
in-cheek embellishments about the
“future of the nation,” “the problem of
defence,” “the security of the economy”
and so forth ; nor ought it be given such
prominence as to suggest that the words
come from one whose wisdom is beyond
all doubt. In nine cases out of 10 what
the man is really saying is that if he can’t
sell as many stockings this year as he did
last all Australia will go down in ruin.
Largely, Australia is in the position
of a fellow who has been on a glorious
spree, shouting drinks for all and sundry,
and is now suffering recovery with an
aching head and not much left of the
cheque he started with. And all round
him on the pub veranda those who took
their share of his spree are going crook
because he won’t have any spare cash
until he gets up and gets to work and
earns some.
False Prophet.
When Deputy Opposition-leader Calwell
was Minister for Information one
of his favorite pastimes was producing
snippets of speeches made by his
opponents in time past and which he felt
might prove embarrassing to them.
“Would that mine enemy would write
a book!” he was heard to quote more
than once. Arthur himself is rather
difficult to embarrass—that being yet
another point of resemblance between
him and the African rhinoceros—but
when, in the course of the no-confidence
debate, the Prime Minister reminded him
of a speech he made at the Brighton
Town Hall last year, he probably had a
momentary pang of misgiving.
It was nothing new to have Mr. Cal-
well criticise the Government’s financial
policy and blame it for inflation. That
is exactly what he did at Brighton 12
months ago, in the speech quoted by the
Prime Minister. But, on that occasion,
having slated the Government for not
taking steps to combat inflation, he
tendered his audience advice which, if
taken, could only aggravate inflationary
tendencies.
Buy all you can; don’t save your money,
because the position is going to be desperate
There’ll be a lot of people in Mel-
bourne who won’t have any Christmas
dinner in nineteen fifty-one... .Money is no
good in the bank while prices are rising so
fast. Many people have wakened up to this,
for bank deposits are not rising Put
your money into goods before prices rise
further.
That must surely be the most reckless
and irresponsible advice ever offered to
the Australian people by an allegedly
responsible public figure. It must have
been obvious even to those “Labor”
members who possessed less knowledge
of economics than Mr. Calwell that if
everyone rushed to turn their savings
into goods, as urged by him, the only
possible result would be a commodity
famine accompanied by gigantic black-
markets, skyrocketing prices and infla-
tion on a nightmare scale.
Fortunately no one took Arthur’s
advice. If last Christmas was a hungry
one for “a lot of people in Melbourne”
they kept very quiet about it, and there
was no indication of a shortage of spend-
ing money. The Commonwealth note-
issue at the time of Calwell’s Brighton
speech was £253 million; by Christmas
it had increased to £3OB million. The
increase certainly reflected a rise in
prices, as it did a rise in the basic wage,
but it did not result from a rush to
withdraw savings, which, indeed, con-
tinued to increase, deposits in both
savings banks and trading banks being
appreciably higher in December than in
February, 1951. Relative figures were:
Feb., Dec.,
1951. 1951.
Savings banks .. £7Bom. £B63m,
Com’th bank .. 115 m. 140 m.
Trading banks .. 1198 m. 1242 m.
Even that part of his speech devoted
to wishful-thinking, though partly ful-
filled, rebounded upon the thinker and
his party. He told his February, 1951,
audience that “Labor” was prepared for
an election at any moment. “I am ready
right now. We want the people to choose
their programme for nineteen fifty-one.”
He got his election and the people chose
their programme, but it didn’t include
putting Calwell and his kind in charge of
the nation’s finances —for which deci-
sion. considering again his speech of a
year ago and “Labor’s” financial policy
as revealed in the no-confidence debate,
the people may well congratulate them-
selves.
Eastern on Newcastle.
“Abdul Assiz”: Newcastle has now had
time to digest the section of the report
by H. B. Basten which is devoted to the
problems confronting its port, and there
has been a remarkable and almost un-
animous chorus of praise from all strata
of the Newcastle community, irrespective
of their political color. Discordant notes
which have originated within the several
bureaucracies controlling some part of
the harbor activities may be discounted
as born of departmental fears and
jealousies.
The Basten recommendations do not in-
clude any novel remedies for the present
desperate position, but this can hardly
evoke surprise, as every cure —probable,
possible and downright ridiculous —has
been ventilated in the Press and by public
bodies and politicians over the last
decade. The Basten report does, how-
ever, separate the wheat from the chaff
in a workmanlike manner.
On many points the conclusions
reached in the much-criticised document
published last October by L. T. Kelly, of
the Department of Shipping and Supply
(B. 17/10/’5l), are substantiated. It
emphasises the necessity for single-
authority control and for the modernisa-
tion of wharf equipment and transport
facilities —points which bring rare agree-
ment between the Newcastle Chamber of
Commerce and the Waterside Workers
Federation. A high official of the W.W.F.
has gone as far as expressing the opinion
that the single authority “should be the
Maritime Services Board, which knows
the harbor and its requirements.”
The recommendations for increases in
the number of waterfront workers have
not met with much enthusiasm on the
labor side, due, doubtless, to the fear that
the very sane device will lead to a re-
duction in the nuisance-value of go-slow
tactics and strikes. As the secretary of
the No. 1 branch of the W.W.F. naively
puts it: “Consideration of this question
must wait until the increased facilities
and harbor improvements are installed.
It would be foolish to admit new
members at present while, at times, there
is not enough work in the port to give
our present members a decent living.”
The relations between the Ministry for
Public Works and the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce remain strained,
although Mr. Cahill is likely to visit the
port in the near future to discuss the
Basten recommendations with both em-
ployers and employees. In the meantime,
also, Newcastle harbor is up to its usual
tricks
To the surprise of most Newcastrians,
the fully-loaded Iron Yampi, at the end
c Continued on next page.)


vmm
■vW-''
c
mm
4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVEN'A'
ILu,/'
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPOTATION FOR QUALITY
w
%
of January, reached the B.H.P. wharf
without grounding, with 10,000 tons of
Western Australian iron ore aboard, and,
even more remarkably, she swung round
without trouble. This feat caused much
elation in the Public Works Department,
and the district engineer stated on
January 31 that not only could the steel-
works channel accommodate vessels of
the Iron Yampi class (9440 tons), but that
there was sufficient water in the swinging
basin to allow them to swing fully loaded.
Joy was short-lived. On the morning
of February 1 the inter-State ship
Beatrice N., of 7046 tons, grounded in the
swinging channel for 35 minutes. At the
time the ship was drawing 21ft. on a
flat-tide. On the afternoon of the same
day a passenger-ferry was grounded near
Stockton wharf for 40 minutes and her
steering-gear was damaged.
The Basten report describes the Hunter
as an “unstable river.” So, on a much
larger scale and to a greater degree, is the
Mississippi, but energy and foresight
have enabled the American waterway to
remain an artery of wealth and transport
and to support, in increasing affluence,
many important cities.
Relatively the Hunter is as important
to Australia as the Mississippi is to the
United States, and, prior to 1930, was
as useful. When the effects of muddle,
multiple-control and parsimony have
been overcome, this river may again
resume its legitimate role in the economy
of the Commonwealth.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies says he would prefer to
call members’ tax-free allowance “non-
taxable reimbursement of expenses.” Call
it what he will, the rose—er, rise —will
smell just as sweet to members receiving
it, and just as unsavory to taxpayers
meeting the bill.
T£ er ®’s a lesson for Australian
Labor” politicians in recent utterances
by Herbert Morrison and Arthur Deakin
on the subject of political strikes. In
Britain as in this country the one-day
strike, the overtime ban and the rejection
of weekend work are part and parcel of
the Communist plan to undermine pro-
duction and impede national recovery,
and in both countries there is an increas-
ing tendency to stage these wanton
stoppages, not for industrial reasons but
as “protests” against Government policy.
On Friday Morrison spoke out
strongly against such strikes, saying that
such efforts at industrial coercion were
“wrong in principle, difficult and ill-
advised in practice and damaging to the
Labor movement.” Deakin, chair-
man of the T.L.C., spoke in similar vein,
pointing out that reckless industrial action
would only bring the country greater
difficulties and reduce the standard of
living. He went further:
“I believe the day of strikes and struggle
to obtain the considerations that we, as
trade-unionists, regard ourselves as being
entitled to, has passed.
Many Australian “Labor” leaders also
hold this opinion, but unfortunately few
have the courage to express it. At the
time of the 1948 coal strike many of them
condemned the “political strike,” but it
seems the condemnation was only in-
tended to apply to such strikes as
occurred while “Labor” happened to be
in power. The party doesn’t actually
advocate strikes, although it is insistent
upon that outworn shibboleth, the “right
to strike” ; but a large proportion of its
members seem to think that when
“Labor” is in opposition it is the duty of
the industrial wing to embarrass the Gov-
ernment as much as possible. As long as
this is achieved the incidental harm done
to the country’s economy doesn’t matter
two hoots.
Asked to comment on the remarks of
Morrison and Deakin, J. A. Ferguson,
of the A.L.P. executive, expressed agree-
ment with the right of a democratically-
elected Government to govern, but said
that this did not imply abject acceptance
of Government wrongdoing; he still
regarded the right to strike as
“sacrosanct.” What had to be avoided
was “Communist interference and
improper use of strike action.” He
added; “At this stage we must guard
against and oppose political stoppages
of any kind likely to impede economic
recovery and so worsen living standards.”
Presumably Ferguson is to be the
judge of what constitutes the proper use
of strike action and of when “this stage”
ends.
Bruce Graham, Liberal member for
SL George (N.S.W.), put it rather well
when he said that the only way to be
absolutely sure there would be no resurg-
ence of Japanese militarism would be to
exterminate the race, and that none of
Dr. Evatt’s party would advocate that.
The two treaty speeches which moved
the House most came from former
p.-0.-w., one for and one against. A. R,
Downer, Liberal member for Angas
(S.A.), said that America had led Britain,
Australia and the Western allies into
error, and that he could not support the
treaty. He thought the Allied occupation
should have continued for several more
years, during which attempts should be
made to grapple with Japan’s problems
of raw materials, foodstuffs and excess
population. W. S. Kent Hughes, Minister
for the Interior, also an ex-prisoner of
the Japs, spoke feelingly of the sufferings
he and thousands of others had had to
endure, but added: “We also realise that
one cannot build anything worth-while
on bitterness and revenge,” He felt that
the lesser risk was to make a treaty with
Japan and admit her to the comity of
nations.
The N.S.W. South Coast has at last
lost its shipping service, and will hence-
forth have to depend on road transport
for marketing its products and receiving
its goods. McGrrnr’s transport tsar
Winsor called the inevitable confer-
ence, which will have the inevitable result.
Meantime the collapse is another black
mark against the Sydney Government,
which is always blathering about
“decentralisation.”
For the sake of his own reputation it
is time Jock Garden answered a simple
question. Did he or did he not teach
Bert Evatt the elements of economics?
Losses on the Adelaide trams, which
are run by a trust of municipal councils,
have agitated the powers there so much
that they propose a levy on ratepayers
to meet them. The Mayor of Norwood
seriously suggested a levy of £1 a head
on all S.A. motorists, on the ground that
because they owned cars they were doing
the trams out of their fares. So far
Adelaide hasn’t thought of the Sheahan
method of evading responsibility for far
more thumping losses in N.S.W.
Sheahan appoints tribunals to take all the
raps, do all the dirty work, and shift all
responsibility from his own department.
As a, result of an “enthusiastic” hand-
shake with another official of the party
a Liberal organiser in Sydney sustained
injuries to his little finger and was
awarded £75 by the Workers’ Compensa-
tion Commission. A directive is now
expected from party headquarters
instructing officials to eliminate the hand-
shake from their ritual and to substitute
a courtly bow from the waist. Back-
slapping is also out.
Handshaking is also a lively topic
among the upper hierarchy of the
“Labor” party, where they are looking
for someone who can persuade
Dougherty of the A.W.U. and Ferguson
of the Federal executive to shake hands
and make up.
W. A. Swanbury, president of the
Federal Chamber of Automotive Indus-
tries, announced the other day that “the
automotive industry faces a declining
market this year because of Federal Gov-
ernment policy on taxation and restric-
tion of credit.” So that’s the reason?
Some people thought it was because the
public had become tired of buying
motor-cars at prices which would once
buy them a house.
Occasionally a famous sportsman has
become prominent in public life —there
was cricketer Joe Darling of Tasmania’s
Legislative Council, Olympic swimmer
Frank Beaurepaire who became Lord
Mayor of Melbourne, and now “Oppy”—
but that doesn’t necessarily mean that all
politicians are peculiarly qualified to be
trustees of sporting arenas. But the
Macquarie-street statesmen apparently
think it does—they’ve just put six of
their number on the new trust to control
Sydney Cricket Ground and Sports
Ground. Attorney-General Martin gets
a seat by virtue of his office and drops
one if he loses the other, but the rest of
the boys are there till they reach 70.
They are Health Minister O’Sullivan,
Renshaw (Lands), Sheahan (Transport),
McGrath the Government Whip, and
Shannon, “Labor” member for Phillip.
And, of course, there’s cricket-fan Bert
Evatt.
In Brisbane a man who pleaded guilty
to breaking and entering a shop and
stealing goods worth nearly £350 got
two years. He could have stolen a £lOOO
motor-car and got off on a good behavior
bond by pleading guilty to “illegal use,”
“Old-timer”: A Geelong (Vic.) firm
issued advertising slips which careless
persons could mistake for £1 notes, and
when sundry people complained about
getting them in change police and mint
officers stepped in, grabbed the printing
outfit and banned further issues. It’s
many a long year since, driving with my
father across some Vic. Mallee by-road,
he pulled the horse up, uttered what
seemed like a prayer of thanksgiving and
retrieved a £5-note from the dust. When
smoothed out it revealed itself as an advt.
for somebody’s pianos, the £5 part
referring to the deposit. Still, in the semi-
gloom of the Woomelang pub that night
it got the old man a pint of beer, bed
and breakfast for himself, me and the
neddy, and three bright sovereigns in
the change. To my nine-year-old queries
as to the hurry next morning the old man
said he reckoned driving in the hour
before dawn was an experience not to
be missed.
Rabbits used for experimental pur-
poses at the Baker Medical Research
Institute in Melbourne have been inocu-
lated against myxomatosis. The news
that there is such a vaccine offers a great
opportunity for those tender-hearted folk
who have been protesting against the use
of myxo. against rabbits. They can now
organise bands of volunteers to roam
round the back-country inoculating
bunnies against the disease.
According to the secretary of the
Queensland Licensed Victuallers’ Associa-
tion, Brisbane needs 200 more hotels. It
isn’t likely to get them, but if it did their
beer quotas would probably be sufficient
to justify the opening of 25 more night-
clubs. That’s reckoning on the Sydney
basis.
During the financial debate “Labor”
ex-Minister Pollard became almost
incoherent with indignation in refuting
a charge that the Chifley Government
used influence on the Arbitration Court
in 1947 to reduce the working-week to 40
hours. In the court’s judgment it was
declared that the court had been
“pressed” by four Governments (includ-
ing the Commonwealth Government) to
reduce hours, and quoted Mr. S. Lewis,
for the Commonwealth, thus:
The Commonwealth says to the Court,
through me, as its spokesman, with con-
sidered words, that after full consideration
of all the material the Commonwealth’s
view is that the evidence warrants the
granting of a 40-hour week.
Voting in the by-election for the Lyne
(N.S.W.) seat in the Reps, will take place
on March 22, with the Country party
putting up two candidates —D. J. Lan-
caster, managing-director of a co-op.
dairy company, and P. E. Lucock,
Presbyterian minister at Wingham—and
“Labor” one not yet selected. There was
talk of a Liberal candidate also, but
fortunately the party decided against it.
Any other decision would have been
about as silly a political act as could be
conceived at present,
A few weeks ago the Victorian
Premier, the Melbourne City Council and
other officials made a secret tour to
investigate the traffic snarl. A committee
on Immediate Metropolitan Traffic Prob-
lems was created, marked urgent. It has
appointed a special sub-committee to
consider parking matters and to work in
conjunction with the three committees
appointed by a State Government con-
ference, a parking sub-committee to help
No, 1 committee to find parking-sites.
Melbourne officialdom should be able
to claim the world’s highest birthrate in
committees.
The story has been revived in Can-
berra that Army Minister Josh Francis
may resign this winter and be appointed
High Commissioner in South Africa.
Following on the recommendation of
the Basten Report, and on its own
information (as reported in the Press)
that “Communist leaders of the water-
siders’ and seamen’s unions are deliber-
ately slowing down the whole waterfront
industry,” the Commonwealth Cabinet
was stated recently to favor a complete
reorganisation of the waterfront industry.
Legislation, however, was expected to be
delayed till after the Royal visit. There
should now be no need for delay.
New South Wales folk, bucking about
their Government’s increase in motor-
registration fees, should hear the Queens-
landers screaming. Taking three different
cars, the comparative charges are: Queens-
land, £l7 45., £l2 65., and £9 ; N.S.W.,
£lO 18s. 6d., £7 18s. 6d., and £7 15s. In
other States, too, the fees are much
lower than in Queensland. But then other
States haven’t the blessing of a Govern-
ment which has so arranged the seats
and the electoral system as to make its
return at elections almost a certainty.
Canberra is hinting at a referendum
“next year” on the question of no
socialisation without a referendum—one
of the promises made by the Menzies
party before election. If it comes it
will probably coincide with the Senate
election, which must be held before June
30, 1953. As long as it comes before the
“Labori’-Socialists get hack the people
won’t mind.


Mlm
ifjS-
cSW ' ( ?fmJhu/c,
f pon't^
Jaywalk
THE ARTIST AS A CRIME-INVESTIGATOR.
(Heth was “booked” the other day for jay-walking.)


/ '•< ..i
mmm
mm
w
One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
U&.%JO Ldl.ll’s own
blend of fine
Virginia Tobacco is
flavoured Nature
and mellowed
hy Time ...
iS
11
ƒ
That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Share Bargains
During last week there were
registered some of the most
spectacular falls seen on Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges since
the surrender of Singapore in
February, 1942. The textile
group suffered most, but retailers
were also prominent, and very
few issues escaped the general
selling pressure.
In the present state of the
sharemarket sales of scrip to
meet probate expenses, especially
where death-duty was assessed
on values prevailing four or five
months ago, have a very depres-
sing effect on values. And liqui-
dation of invested funds in order
to meet current taxation assess-
ments is similarly depressing.
With buyers holding back, any
extensive selling is likely to
reduce the price of a stock to a
ridiculous level. And this is
particularly so of the lesser-
known listings.
The wonder is that institu-
tional investors (life-offices and
the like) have not come in more
strongly as buyers now that
Burns Philp shares may be
bought to yield 4,2 p.c., B.H.P.
3.7 p.c., Bradford Cotton 6 p.c.,
Frederic Ash 6.6 p.c., Edwards
Dunlop 4.7 p.c., F. J. Walker
6 p.c., Tooheys 4.6 p.c., Kandos
Cement 4.4 p.c., John Mc-
llwraith Industries 5.8 p.c. and
Australasian Paper 5.3 p.c.
Among stocks which have yet
to establish their div.-paying
rate as public concerns, but
which appear very low in the
market, are Patons and Baldwins
(225. 6d.) and F. W. Hughes
(18s.), Each has the cachet of
able management and a
successful past behind it, but
textile associations have had a
specially depressing market
effect.
Good stocks in many cases are
now really cheap on Australian
’Changes, but little strength is
discernible anywhere in the
sharemarket.
Credit-expansion
Though complaints against
banking policy are widespread,
Australian trading-bank ad-
vances increased from an
average of £568 million in
September last to £625 million in
December. Over a year the
growth was £134 million. The
Commonwealth Bank has also
increased its advances.
Apparently the excessive im-
ports of the past seven months,
which sent our visible London
funds down from £720 million
in June to £338 million on
February 13, have been largely
responsible for the rise in bank
advances, which has made it
tough for all other industry.
Coal and B.H.P.
Coal shares have had extra-
ordinary support in an extra-
ordinarily depressed market.
J. and A. Brown £1 shares shot
up to 28s. 3d. last week, to yield
5.3 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis.
(An interim distribution is due
in April.) Highest price in 1951
was 295. 6d. and lowest 235, 6d.
—in December last.
Other collieries to be sought
after at near or above the peak
prices of 1951 have been
Caledonian, Cessnock, Excelsior,
Invincible and Newcastle Walls-
end. Hetton Bellbird, though
it firmed to 13s. 9d., is still
below the top 16s. 6d. paid in
1951.
Coal, like food, is an under-
supplied essential. And pro-
duction figures have been a little
better lately. Possibly higher
dividends are in sight, whilst
yields available on scrip still
below par is already fairly high.
But steel is almost as vital
(and as undersupplied in Aus-
tralia) as coal; yet B.H.P. shares
have slumped with the general
slide in the market lately. Even
if the United States is soon over-
producing, its steel will not
undersell the Australian product
even if dollars are available to
buy it.
The yield from B.H.P. shares
(3.7 p.c. at 455.) is still on the
low side, but it is equal to the
long-term bond rate. And the
fruits of its great recent expan-
sion have yet to come. Its profits
for many years have been
estimated after providing
heavily for depreciation and
taxation.
Textiles
Imports of textiles into Aus-
tralia during the six months to
December 31 soared to £124
million, compared with £6O
million in the same part of the
preceding year. By far the big-
gest item was cotton and linen
piece-goods (£40.4 million, com-
pared with £15.6 million). Silks
and rayons (£l7 million, against
£10.6 million) and carpets and
linos. (£10.5 million, against
£6.6 million) were next in order,
apart from cornsacks, etc. (£12.6
million, against £4.6 million).
Woollen textiles were
relatively small at £2 million
(compared with £1.7 million).
Though excessive cotton and
rayon stocks will have a depres-
sing effect on the wholesale and
retail trade generally, it is re-
assuring to note that the Aus-
tralian woollen textile industry
is not exposed to excessive com-
petition from abroad, and the
position of the Australian manu-
facturers should grow stronger
as British cheap-wool stocks are
exhausted.
The future of the Australian
textile industry depends on its
power to compete with overseas
manufacturers. We may have
too many makers of woollens in
Australia (though increasing
population should look after
some plant capacity that was
previously regarded as excess),
but the worsted position is com-
paratively robust.
Glen Davis For Sale
“Petro”: At last the long-
heralded and much-a bused
shutting-down of the Glen
Davis (N.S.W.) plant is to be-
come an actuality. Advertise-
ments inviting tenders for the
purchase of the entire plant and
assets of the National Oil Co.,
“as they stand or in part,” have
appeared in the Press throughout
Australia. The closing date is
March 14.
Items for disposal comprise
the shale-mine and all equipment
for retorting and refining, and
stocks, with the exception of
“trading stocks of petrol,
petroleum coke, petroleum pro-
ducts and by-products.” The
real estate held by the co., in-
cluding industrial and domestic
buildings, is also on the market.
It is difficult to visualise a
buyer for the shale-mine, as the
remaining reserves of workable
shale are not likely to attract an
operator prepared to install
modern equipment and to work
on the scale which will allow of
any hope of profit.
In fact, the only items on the
sales-list whose present value
may cover the cost of dismant-
ling, transport and reassembling
are the Dubbs thermal cracking
plant with coke-chambers, the
reformer coil and the poly-
merisation unit.
In June of last year it was
announced by the Minister for
National Development (Senator
Spooner) that this equipment
would be shipped to Bell Bay,
Tasmania, where it would be
used to refine imported crude
petroleum and to produce the
coke essential for the electrodes
employed in the manufacture of
aluminium. In December this
statement was confirmed by an-
other Minister, In view of these
statements, the inclusion of the
units in the Glen Davis sale is
difficult to understand. In any
case, the net proceeds of the
sale are unlikely to reduce,
appreciably, the enormous Glen
Davis deficit, but the saving of
around £lOOO a day through the
closing-down of the plant will
be a welcome economy.
Bradford Cotton’s interim ord.
div. has been maintained at 10
p.c. p.a., likewise the distribu-
tion of Sydney Cotton Mills.
But the scrip in the first-named
has slumped to 325, 6d. ex div.
(highest price in 1951 was
565. 3d., cum rights), at which
figure the yield is just over 6
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. In
the term to June 30 last, Brad-
ford earned at the rate of 20.4
p.c. on average ord. capital.
Sydney Cotton’s earning-rate
was lower at 13 p.c., but
apparently any setback that may
have occurred in the cotton-
textile industry had not en-
dangered the 10 p.c. div. during
the first half of the trading year.
Sydney Cotton’s shares last sold
at 40s. 6d. Buyers later offered
305., sellers asking 40s.
Bradford Cotton’s ords. at
325. 6d. seem an attractive pro-
position even in the present
market. The business is still ex-
panding, and the benefits of de-
centralisation are now beginning
to be felt. Trading in textiles
has become more difficult, but
conditions are not so hard yet in
the cotton section. Imports of
canvas and duck have been com-
paratively small, though increas-
ing. In the half year to
December 31, they aggregated
£2,183,000, compared with
£908,000 in the corresponding
period of the previous year.
* * * *
Batons and Baldwins scrip at
225. 6d. in Melbourne represents
a drop of 9s. a share in about
three weeks. The co. carries
large stocks of wool, but in its
half-year’s trading to October
last operations were reported
satisfactory. It showed 16 p.c,
on ord. capital in its last corn-
pleted trading term. Whilst con-
ditions in the textile trade are
at present difficult, this old-
established business is well
placed to take advantage of any
change for the better. The co.’s
plant and buildings have been
most conservatively valued in the
accounts. No dividends have
yet been paid as a public co.
Flotation was in 1951.
* * * *
F. J. Walker 10s. shares have
been selling at 15s. each. Last
year’s div. was 9 p.c., partly tax-
free, and earnings were 17.3 p.c.
on capital. The co. has a wide
spread of subsidiary interests,
which should tend to stabilise
the profits, as follows:
Australian Chilling: and Freezing
Co., Australian Wool and Produce
Co., Australian Natural Gut Mfg.
Co., Commercial Freezing Co.,
Hunter River Meat Preserving,
Metropolitan Meat Co., Sydney Meat
Preserving Co., Walker Trading Co.,
Waterside Cold Stores Pty.
At 15s. the yield is 6 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
At 225. 3d. in Melbourne the
IQs. shares in John Mcllwraith
Industries (established 1854,
floated last year) return 5.6 p.c.
Main manufacturing activity is
in plumbers’ brassware, sheet-
lead and lead pipes. Earnings
for the last trading period were
at the rate of 20 p.c. p.a., and
the div. was p.c. p.a. An
interim in respect of the present
term was maintained at that
rate. At June 30 last finances
were comfortable.
* * * *
Though the several pastoral
properties in the F. W. Hughes
woolgrowing and industrial
empire must have been affected
by the long dry spell, and wool
prices are weak at a time, also,
when the textile section of the
organisation has been hit by a
slump in the clothing trade, the
£1 ord. shares in the F. W.
Hughes co. seemed unduly low
at 18s. last week. There was a
good deal of backing left for
incoming shareholders on the
basis of flotation late last year.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
'AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
BUY
INSURANCE
AT KEENEST RATES
THROUGH
EDWARD LUMLEY
IN ASSOCIATION WITH
I.OHOOH
MARINE, FIRE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
ALL FORMS OF INDUSTRIAL &
COMMERCIAL INSURANCE
Edward Lumley & Sons, as insurance
brokers, operate not in the of
any specific insurance organisation
but through the world’s strongest
underwriting companies, including
Lloyd’s of London. Obviously this
independence of choice enables the
best and soundest insurances and the
lowest premiums to be obtained.
It will pay you to consult Lumleys—
Australia’s largest insurance brokers.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SOUS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 'Phone B 0538
287 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
'Phones: Cen. 6191. Cen. 1415
And all other States
A sensible suggestion
Recently I called on the manager of our local
branch of the Bank of New South Wales, and
arranged to open my own account. My husband
thought it would be a good idea if I were able
to pay the doctor, the dentist, the butcher and
the baker, and all other household bills without
having to keep money in the home. So now I
make all payments by cheque. And if I have
financial problems I seek the friendly advice
of the “Wales” manager.
You, too, should consult and use— ■
'KkU
df
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Mill BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IK NEW SOUTH WALES WITS LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5201D
electric
REI LAX spray paint unit
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
f
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOUKNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
J. W. EARNSHfIW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney Phone X 83950
have a full range of BROADHURST .
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
CLARKSON
ƒ dfds
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25,
£l3/10/-
+ 12*% Sales Tax
f f
ƒ ƒ
ds
HSSBBmsa
if any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The official capacity of
the King as head of the State
involves the scrutiny of State
documents, interviews with
members of home and
Dominions Governments, diplo-
mats, prominent visitors and so
on. It is an exacting and nerve-
wracking task, calling for an
impersonal and objective ap-
proach. Mr. Attlee, after 11
years of close association, has
remarked in tribute to King
George that his courage came
second only to his sense of duty.
The happy, natural and irre-
proachable family life of the
late King and his Queen has had
immeasurable influence on
human conduct, even in
countries beyond the British
Dominions, at a time of decline
in moral values.
There never was an English
King who identified himself so
closely with his people. He was
not, as he said, “palace-minded,”
and eschewed the stuffy Court
etiquette known to earlier
generations. His own boyhood
appears to have been far from
happy, and his father’s too-rigid
discipline is held by many people
to have been a national mis-
fortune. It is a tribute to his
strength of character that he
outgrew this circumstance and
brought up his own daughters
with wide tolerance and under-
standing.
God Save the Queen!
The King is dead, but the
Monarchy lives on, unbroken
even in continuity. Like her
father. Queen Elizabeth was not
born to reign (even less so, since
her birthplace was a private
house), but she has had seven
full years of preparation.
Wherever she has been she has
won the hearts of those who
waited to see her. She has pro-
claimed the dedication of her
life to the British people. Her
marriage is no instrument of
State, but a love-match to a life-
long friend. If one earnest en-
treaty may intrude among the
many expressions of confidence
and hope, it is that her counsel-
lors will not overload her with
duties, so that the attendant
physical and nervous stresses
may be avoided.
It was natural that a coincid-
ence of age at accession should
invite comparison with Queen
Elizabeth’s illustrious namesake,
but not quite as fortunate that
the Duke of Edinburgh should
be compared to the Prince Con-
sort who, notwithstanding un-
doubted virtues, was never a
popular figure in England.
The Duke of Edinburgh is
manly, unassuming and level-
headed. He is the very opposite
of a “stuffed-shirt.” His attitude
is wholeheartedly British and his
down-to-earth unconventionality
is not to be found among most
of the young men who are
described as being “in the Court
circle.” Popularity hangs
naturally and effortlessly about
his movements. As helpmate to
a reigning monarch rather than
“support” for her, his present
status is not of the happiest,
since it is entirely ignored by
law. It is expected that her
Majesty will remedy this
anomaly by causing to be con-
ferred upon her husband the
greater dignity of Prince Con-
sort. No announcement would
be more welcome.
A New Era?
To hark back to the unopened
world of 1558, with its pocket-
size cities and scope for adven-
ture, is perhaps more romantic
than realistic. The present-day
world, with its teeming con-
gestion, jealous frontiers, rapid
communications and terrible in-
struments of war, does not sug-
gest an ideal background for a
Golden Age. Yet history re-
minds us that Britain was in a
sorry plight 400 years ago and
that, badly-handicapped, she sur-
mounted her difficulties, soared
to prosperity and coincidently
flourished in the arts.
The magic of the word
“Elizabethan” has extended un-
challenged down the centuries.
No other adjective so typifies
bold individual purpose, ener-
getic self-reliance and intel-
lectual vigor.
And now we are all of us
Elizabethans a consciousness
that must surely be far-reaching
in its inspiration.
A Good Time for Some
Many hands have contributed
to “The Happy Time,” a
British version of a Broadway
success. Samuel Taylor has
based his play on a novel by
Robert Fontaine. Laurence
Olivier and Gilbert Miller pre-
sent the play at the St. James’s
theatre “by arrangement” with
Rodgers and Hammerstein.
Equally numerous are the
reactions to this comedy of un-
conventional, rollicking French-
Canadian family life in the
1920’5. It is in turn enchanting,
poignant, hilarious, insouciant,
rousing and distasteful. Broad-
way enjoyed it for 18 months,
Edinburgh acclaimed it, and
London has received it with a
mixture of delight and shock.
Of the Bonnards, only Maman
(Rachel Kempson) is conven-
tional, and she is a right-minded,
loyal, generous Glaswegian.
Grandpere (Ronald Squire) is a
senescent libertine. Uncle Des-
monde (Peter Dyneley) is a com-
mercial-traveller who uses the
house as a pied-a-terre between
philandering-cwm-business trips.
Uncle Louis (George Devine) is
an indolent tippler who shelters
from a termagant wife and Papa
(Peter Finch) is a scatterbrained
musician who combines re-
spected fatherhood and marital
felicity with benevolent under-
standing of his family’s indis-
cretions.
The trouble, both for the
Bonnard family and for a dis-
cerning audience, springs from
the presence of Bibi (Andrew
Ray), a 12-year-old boy who,
considering his environment, is
less precocious than backward.
Grandpere, on one ever-recur-
ring theme, talks to him as an
adult. Desmonde flaunts his
amorous personality and passes
on “La Vie Parisienne” while
Papa, believing that “what is
natural cannot be evil,” never
interferes. From time to time
Maman shows concern and
pleads with her menfolk (quite
rightly, we feel. At least, she
could have sent the boy away to
school and let the audience re-
lax). The arrival of a pretty
housemaid, lately an acrobat, is
the direct but innocent cause of
a double set of complications
which ultimately resolve them-
selves happily.
It is an actors’ play, with a
diversity of rich parts, and all,
with only two exceptions, are
brilliantly and sensitively played.
But many good parts do not
necessarily make a good whole,
especially when, as here, the
playing is so markedly con
amore.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Eurimburra”; A quarter of a mile
from the station she is hitting 25. Pass-
ing the engine-sheds it is 30 or more, and
as the last car swings out of sight on the
grade to the junction it’s a steady 40. You
can set your watch by her and rarely be
astray. She was on time when I saw her
last Friday week, for at one minute to
noon I could hear the unmistakable
stuttering, hurrying sound of the big green
“38” approaching the engine-sheds. As
she swung into sight to climb the grade,
with her long line of smoothly-following
cars, a whistle went at the sheds. The
stuttering ceased as the driver shut oft
steam, and she came to an almost noise-
less stop half-way up the incline. The
white-overalled crew climbed down and
stood dwarfed alongside their engine.
Inside the cars passengers were standing
up. Two minutes later the whistle at the
sheds sounded again and the train-crew
climbed back. A few shuddering blasts
from her sawn-off stack and the big train
moved off, gathered speed and was gone,
leaving with me an enduring memory
of the “Riverina”—crack train of the
south-west—-paying her tribute to a dead
king.
“Vino”: One of the functions cancelled
because of the death of King George VI is
the Vintage Festival, held annually in
the Barossa Valley, the centre of the wine
industry in South Australia. The 10
towns of the valley give themselves over
to carnival for two days in April each
year to celebrate the climax of the vintage,
and the festivities attract thousands of
people from all parts of Australia. South
Australia produces above four-fifths
of the Commonwealth’s output of wine,
and Barossa Valley, pressing 10 million
gallons a year, is responsible for more
than half of the State’s total.
* * * *
“Charbro”; Proclamation of Indriss el
Senussi as first King of Libya reminded
me of the first time I heard of the Senussi.
In January, 1915, at the military work-
shops in Cairo I saw about 20 military
drums of extraordinary shapes and
colors, and was told by Andersen Bey,
Q.M.G. of the Egyptian Army, that they
were to be sent “out to the west” to a
powerful religious leader, Sidi Ahmed,
known as the Grand Senussi. “His forces
are considerable,” said Andersen Bey,
“and the German and Turkish agents are
already there with gold—but we are try-
ing another line. The Grand Senussi has
a passion for pageantry and, in particular.
for large and impressive bands. We are
building up a band of fantastic propor-
tions and shapes, and it will be sent with
great ceremony to Sidi Ahmed. We are
hoping that our band will beat the
German gold.” A few months later I
ran into a pal of mine, a sergeant in the
Light Horse, who told me he was off next
day to the Western Desert. “There’s
some bloke out there called the Senussi,”
he said. “He’s in against us, and now
we’re off with a composite force to crack
him.” Apparently the gold spoke louder
than the drums, after all.
♦ * * *
“Emel”: Artist Such (B. 6/2/’52) is
another who, like Scorfield (B. 12/12/’5l),
has apparently been brought up in the
Yugoslav tradition of knitting socks
from the toe up. As the procedure in the
English-speaking world is to cast on, knit
the leg, turn the heel and knit on to
the toe, there finishing off, where do our
artists see these odd knitting feats they
depict?
* * * *
“Gulliver”: For more than 30 yearj>
I’ve wondered what happened to the man
who went to Coogee with a fowl’s liver
on top of his brand-new straw-boater
one summer Saturday in 1919. I was a
kid at the time, and was taking home a
pair of fowls for Sunday dinner. They
were wrapped in newspaper, each with
its liver tucked under one wing, and I
boarded a Coogee tram at Hunter-street,
about midday. The tram was crowded,
so I stood and hung the chooks —they
were end-to-end —over the rail above the
seat. Presently I noticed signs of merri-
ment about me. I inspected my buttons
—all in order. At Cleveland-street the
whole tram
seemed to be in
stitches, and the
more I sought
the reason, the
more they
laughed. Then I
looked down.
There below my
fowls sat a
smallish gent.,
dressed to kill,
crowned by a
brand - new
straw-boater, garnishing the glossy
top of it a gory mess —a liver from
the parcel above. By now he was
the only one who didn’t know
what was up. The tram rocked
with laughter. At the Randwick tram-
sheds my nerve cracked. I grabbed the
chooks and bolted. What happened after
that I can only conjecture. Did some
kindly soul tap the boatered one and say
“Pardon me, but there’s a liver on your
hat.” Was he suffered to remain
ignorant, so that in promenading at
Coogee later he wondered why so many
damsels smiled upon him? Did he meet
some lady by appointment, and raising
the lid with a flourish dump the whole
mess at her feet? I don’t suppose I’ll
ever know—but, gosh, I’d like to.
* * * *
“Swelpme”; A lady in our locality
grows magnificent roses. Recently she
found that the biggest blooms were being
stolen every afternoon. She waited in
hiding. The culprit was almost caught
retihanded—a barefooted schoolboy’s
ability to vault fences from a standing start
“This is our lady's model, with ‘ bump-dozer' and unbreakable headlights."
ensuring his escape. A schoolgirl volun-
teered the name of the flying figure, and
the horticulturist, her ire abating some-
what, made a sporting offer: “Look, you
tell that boy I’ll give him some roses if
he comes and asks for them, but I won’t
have him stealing them.” To her surprise
the miscreant turned up next day,
apologised for taking the flowers and
asked for some. Delighted that she had
brought out the best in the boy, the lady
let her head go. The following afternoon
he backed-up again. And again. It be-
came an embarrassing position for the
donor: she didn’t want to go back on her
word, but the thing could be overdone.
On the other hand, the lad would scarcely
want them for himself —perhaps he had
a sick mother in hospital? She decided to
ask him. The boy’s selfconscious evasion
convinced her that she had guessed
correctly. With tactful sympathy she
pursued the subject. Finally the kid
confessed: “There’s a possum in our shed
roof and I’m tryin’ to tame him. Gosh,
they love rose petals >"
“Biggest fool of a scarecrow I’VE ever seen!"
“K.R.”: Can’t pronounce judgment on
the relative scragginess of bottle-ohs’ and
clothes-prop-men’s nags (B. 20/2/’52) —
it’s so long since I’ve seen either. So it’s
puzzling me greatly in just what back-
woods neighborhood “Wheels” lives,
where such gents still ply their trades. I
think I’m safe in ruling it out as any-
where in Sydney; none of the suburbs
of that city with which I am familiar has
seen aught of either merchant since the
war. Incidentally, another equestrian
gent, I haven’t seen around the streets
since the ’thirties is the Chinese fruit-and-
vegetable-man in his big, solid, roofed-
over cart. Inflation a'nd “full-employ-
ment” have seemingly finished-off all of
them and the once-essential services they
provided,
* * * ♦
“Jasby”: People who boast of the
number of monarchs they have lived
under have a long way to go if they
contemplate an attempt on the standing
record, held by Thomas Parr, during
whose lifetime there were 10 kings and
queens of England. “Old Parr” was
born in 1483, the last year of Edward
IV’s reign, and died, in his 153rd year, in
1635, half-way through the reign of
Charles I. A farm-laborer, he lived at
Alberbury, in Shropshire, and in the last
year of his life was induced to visit
London, where he was presented at Court.
Charles is reputed to have said to him
“You have lived longer than other men.
What have you done more than other
men?” The old boy racked his brains
for some worthy achievement and then
replied, “Well, your Majesty, I did
penance when I was a hundred years
old.” Making allowance for a slight
inaccuracy of a few years the record says
that he spoke the truth. At the age of
105 he was made to do penance, attired
in a white sheet, at the door of the parish
church in Alberbury “in consequence of
an intrigue with Catherine Milton” —
when his first wife, whom he married at
80, was still alive. At 120, some years
a widower, he made an honest woman of
Catherine, taking her as his second wife.
♦ * » *
“Melbn”: The Olympic torch was
borne recently on its 140-mile journey
from Morgedal in Norway to the Bislet
Stadium in Oslo, 50 skiers being deputed
to carry the symbol in relays from the
heart of the Telemark Mountains to the
Norwegian capital, where the Olympic
flame was lighted from it. It is presumed
that the committee knew the address to
which it had to go. By the time the next
Games come around Melbourne’s
Olympic committee, on present showing,
won’t know whether to make it Flera-
ington, St. Kilda, Royal Park, the M.C.G.,
Albert Park, the Carlton Oval, the Uni-
versity or Black Rock.
s£ He He *
“Macnell”: British naval survey-vessel
Challenger has done it again. Last June
her asdic’s sonic fingers searched down
into the lightless Pacific and recorded a
depth of 35,640 ft. —the closest man has
ever got to Earth’s centre. The other day,
back in the same area. Challenger
dropped, on the end of miles of
immensely strong piano-wire, a heavy
deep-sea lead fitted with a brass rod open
at the bottom. The cast took five and
a half hours. When the rod surfaced it
brought with it a blob of reddish clay —
at 34,464 ft., the deepest-ever specimen
obtained from the ocean bottom. Com-
posed largely of volcanic dust, the clay
had been forming for millions of years.
Some 80 years back Challenger’s name-
sake, under hydrographer Captain G. S.
Nares, made her deepest sounding of
26,850 ft., .only 50 miles to the eastward
of the latest delve. As well as her
sounding-machine wire, present Chal-
lenger uses a special asdic-set which
shafts out, instead of the embracing
cheese-shaped fan of the anti-submarine
variety, a vertical direction beam.
♦ * * *
“Looby”: Having a phobia about
beds falling through he slept on the floor,
but unfortunately he chose just the wrong
spot. A hunk of plaster fell from the
ceiling and knocked him cold. Yes, they
put him to bed.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Dahaka Las”: Kitbag passengers (B.
23/l/’52). When an American unit left
Milne Bay, Jerry, a Papuan lad from a
local village and a prime favorite with
the unit, was smuggled on board the
troopship in a kitbag. Jerry soldiered on
with the unit as a mascot and eventually
arrived in the States ; having grown a little
he enlisted in the U.S. Forces. While
serving,in JJawaii, he was sent back to
Papua by the Australian Consul. Now
back again in his own district he is a
complete misfit.
* * * ♦
“Uramao”: “Croid” asks how long is
“temporary” (B. 26/12/ ’51)? Might I
quiz; How long is “late of”? Michael
Bannion arrived in our small community
from Sydney 70 years ago sporting side-
lever whiskers and a billycock hat. He
had his name inscribed in 2ft. letters on
the side of his pub; “Michael Bannion,
late of Sydney.” For 20 years it
remained there; then No-licence was
carried, and for another 40 “Michael
Bannion, late of Sydney” flaunted itself
in the public eye. Ten years ago the
broth of a bhoy went to his fathers, but
his spirit lived on high up on the pub
wall until quite recently a garageman
bought the hostelry building for his own
purposes and “Michael Bannion, late of
Sydney” was at last obliterated.
BARGAIN TIES.
“A rash of bargain ties has erupted on city necks,
some having been reduced from as much as 40s. to
4s. each.”
The Ties of Empire brave the gale,
And Buying British sets our fashions
Except when there’s a bargain sale,
And then we Buy United Nations.
For clerks and persons of that ilk,
The army of the newly-poor.
Are soon seduced by foreign silk,
Reduced from forty-bob to four.
One such was Reginald, a crank
With leanings towards the high-and-mighty;
He bought two English ties, one Yank,
Two French ties, and one Ey-tiddly-i-tie.
Perhaps the silk was not all pure,
And led him on with base designs
And crushed caresses, to ignbre
Proprieties and color-lines,
For when, restored to British phlegm,
He matched the ties with suits next day
To see how they would go with them,
He found they went the other way.
He chose a red tie with a frown,
His heart half-bursting into song,
But as he wore it in to town
He knew that he was doing wrong.
Though every male that Reggie passed
Sported a brilliant bargain tie
From which his coat recoiled aghast*
He was not comforted thereby.
He called upon an auctioneer,
And neighbors heard his family weep
That woollen suits should be so dear
And silken ties so cheap:
To match his ties he sold his shack;
His children’s money-box, he burst it;
Tweeds, saxonies, adorned his back,
But in one detail he was worsted:
No matter what he wore it with,
His red tie seemed perverse and arty
Until, renounced of kin and kith,
He joined-up with A Certain Party.
The Comrades have relieved him of
His problems by persuasive arguin’:
His wardrobe is their treasure-trove—
In fact, they think him quite a barguin.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Petra”: Westralia’s prospective oil
refinery (B. 6/2/’52)? Yes, it has arrived
—and the cynic is able to enjoy a de-
lightful comedy. Kwinana, the proposed
site, was until yesterday an area of
sand - dunes and barrenness, though
sought after to some extent as a seaside-
cottage resort, being handy to Perth and
giving the, best of sea-bathing and toler-
able fishing. Came the proposed spend-
ing of £4O million, and blocks for which
the owner was willing to consider £lOO
leaped overnight to £BOO and £lOOO. But
now comes a dreadful rumor that the
State Government intends to resume all
land likely to come within the residential
requirements of those who will build and
operate the refinery. And then there is
another side. Kwinana looks on to
Cockburn Sound, surely one of the most
lovely waters on the globe. Beaches white
as pearl. Waters as blue as the Mediter-
ranean. And in the near distance islands
set like jewels. Now £4O-million-worth
of towers, chimneys and other hideous
erections will disfigure the shore ; escap-
ing oil, crude and refined, will spread
over all the lovely sea, killing the fish,
clogging the feathers of the sea-birds so
that they either drown or die of starva-
tion. I suppose it’s progress!
* * ♦ *
“Brora”: Although a performance of
“A Sleep for Prisoners” has not been
permitted in Scotland, several perform-
ances of “The Three Estates” have been
given in the Assembly Hall in Edinburgh.
Last year not only was that play staged,
but at Dunfermline a play dealing with
incidents in Scottish history was per-
formed in the lovely old Abbey, the cast
being headed by Australian John Mac-
Callum. The Carnegie Trustees paid
£250 for the play, written under their
commission. The adjoining modem
church building was used as a dressing-
ro v om, and we visitors were asked to
curtail our inspection of the church so
that the players'could put the final touches
to their make-up. Time did not
permit our seeing the play, but we were
informed that MacCallum had done a
wonderful job in the lead. Admission?
Ten shillings.
“Loulalo”: Controversy regarding the
performance of the Fry play, “A Sleep
of Prisoners,” in church buildings seems
to have overlooked the long and honor-
able alliance between church and drama
during which each drew freely for its own
advancement and maintenance on the
other. Main argument is, apparently,
centred round the charging of admission.
I’ve never seen admission charges dis-
cussed in connection with medieval
drama, but no doubt the actors were
recompensed in some way, and most
likely the recompense was in proportion
to the public response to the play —
“Box-office” in modern parlance. Some
of the old miracle plays were much
cruder and broader than the Fry play
appears to be ; and, anyway, the disputed
piece appeals more to my idea of what
is reverent than the frequent showing of
“Was it NECESSARY to bring Sinatra with us?”
lantern-slides and moving-pictures which,
because of the fixed nature of church
furnishings, must almost always be shown
on a screen stretched across the chancel
and obscuring altar and cross-—the
sacred heart of the entire building.
w * * *
“Bass”: A Perth man who bought an
old car advertised as being in perfect
condition found that it wasn’t. He got
an official estimate of what the necessary
repairs would cost and sued the seller.
For the defence it was claimed that the
buyer wasn’t entitled to expect an old
car to be perfect, but the magistrate ruled
that he bought it on that understanding
and awarded him a 50-quid rebate. The
judgment has had a chastening effect on
used-car advertisements.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Subiaco, three miles west
of Perth, has a population of 20,000 and
a revenue of £20,000, so it becomes a city,
the third in Westralia. Perth and Fre-
mantle being the others, the three cities
are practically on one another’s
boundaries. It was in 1851 that W-A.’s
Benedictine community moved from
Guildford to a locality near Lake
Monger which was called New Subiaco,
after an Italian town about 33 miles
from Rome in the Sabine Mountains.
The “New” was dropped when the
Perth-Fremantle railway was opened
and a station provided for the con-
venience of the monastery. It was from
Subiaco that Dorn Salvado went to com-
mence his homeric struggle with the
wilderness and to found the flourishing—
and famous—settlement at New Norcia.
Dom Salvado’s chief, Bishop Serra, writ-
ing from the monastery in 1858, said:
“In order to help the community at New
Subiaco to become a self-supporting
town, I have caused the bush around it
to be cleared and a vineyard to be planted
which now contains 60,000 vines, also
numberless fruit-trees of all kinds —olives,
oranges, . lemons, figs, apples, pears,
almondsf etc., all of which are growing
marvellously well round about these
hallowed walls, and have made New
Subiaco a most delightful spot.” Subiaco
is now a residential and factory area
I mean city. It is not a beach, though,
despite The Bulletin’s attempt to make
it one on Personal Page 6/2/’52.
« * * *
“Theatre Lover”: Perhaps “Doric”
(B. 20/2/’52) will also recall seeing
Dorothy Dix as Mercia, with William
Desmond as Marcus, in “The Sign of the
Cross.” That was in 1911, and the little
Christian lad, Stephanus, afraid to face
the lions in the final scene, was excellently
played by a young and promising
beginner —Dorothy Brunton, Miss Dix
later appeared with Desmond in Conan
Doyle’s “The Speckled Band,” also in
“Alias Jimmy Valentine” with Cyril
Mackay,
* * * *
“The Missus”: The old “bride’s-side,
’groom’s-side” convention (B. 6/2/’52)
was under discussion when my son
recalled a recent experience as usher at
a posh wedding. Greeting the guests at
the church door, he was murmuring the
usual inquiry as to which side they
wished to be seated, preparatory to usher-
ing them to a pew. He had just observed
to a fellow-usher that the bride seemed
to be leading two to one, when a smart
young matron arrived. To the customary
inquiry she waved a casual hand at her
sheepish escort and made a cheery
response: “We’ve been trying to decide
about that all the way here, but, so far,
we seem to be neutral. My husband sug-
gests you might give us a couple of chairs
in the aisle.” Son placed them on the
’groom’s side, because “The poor cow
needed ’em.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: The objection of an Edin-
burgh minister who challenged a
surgeon’s right to perform prefrontal
leucotomy because it was blasphemous
and might irrevocably interfere with a
patient’s soul begs the question inasmuch
as nobody knows where the soul is. The
“ Sorry — I'm going up”
Malays place it in the liver, which is as
good a guess as any; so they would have
equally valid objections to an operation
on that organ. All we know about the
soul are its manifestations in love, hate,
rage, jealousy and so forth, just as all we
know of an electric current are its mani-
festations in light, heat, etc. What the
surgeons do is to remove the portion of
the brain which in their opinion deter-
mines the social manifestations in their
patient, and of which the patient himself
disapproves. Surgeons claim that with
some it means all the difference between
a life of worry and disturbance and a life
of quiet peace of mind, so, metaphori-
cally speaking, they step between the
soul and a bad habit, and a better soul is
produced by their interference. The
psychiatrist claims he does the same with-
out a physical operation by operating
on the patient’s psyche. With his analysis
he makes him ashamed and selfconscious
of the false track he is treading, and thus
forces him along a new track.
♦ * * *
“Vingter”: That odyssey of an s.-p.
man (B. 6/2/’52) somewhat parallels that
of an acquaintance of mine who began
as a lowly civil-service minion and ended
as a big noise in the financial world.
The transition started when, from his
small and arduously accumulated savings,
he settled the claims of a moneylender
who was threatening to put a friend
through the hoop. The mate honored his
debt fully and paid only a nominal rate
of interest. The good deed was noised
around, resulting in the philanthropist’s
being besieged by clerks vainly endeavor-
ing to get out of the moneylender morass.
Charging a slightly higher rate of interest,
he obliged as much as possible, though
it meant selling most of his negotiable
assets. As the first debtors paid their
fortnightly instalments he lent the cash
out, again at an increased interest-rate
to an ever-enlarging clientele. Eventually
the very high-ups were tipped off by pro-
fessional sharks enraged at a falling-off
in their businesses, but by that time the
no-longer-simon-pure amateur philan-
thropist had a sufficiency of top-ranking
seniors in his own department as clients
to guarantee him immunity. Eventually
his business got too big and he resigned
to make moneylending his full-time
occupation.
♦ * * *
“Spasebo”: A parallel to the Kyneton
(Vic.) “Whose baby?” case comes from
the Swiss alpine, village of Raezis, except
that the' outcome has been entirely dif-
ferent. Four years ago a Mrs. Grob and
a Mrs. Vetch left hospital each with a
baby. They rarely saw each other in the
village, and it was some years before
Jacob Grob brought home Werner Vetch
to have a look at his toy engine. Mrs.
Grob’s heart stood still when she saw
Werner. Possibly the maternal instinct
told her he was her child or possibly
some feature reminded her of her
husband. The hospital refused to give
her suspicions any consideration, so she
took her child for a blood-test. Jacob
didn’t belong to the same blood-group as
herself or‘her husband. The Law took
a hand and ordered Mrs. Vetch and
Werner to submit themselves for a blood-
test. This showed that Werner belonged
to Mr. and Mrs. Grob’s group, where-
upon the Law ordered the babies back to
their rightful parents. Now nobody’s
happy. Mrs. Grob says she knows that
Werner is her child, but she can’t feel he
is; she feels that Jacob is her child,
although she knows he isn’t. Mrs. Vetch
is in a similar emotional tangle. If the
two were philosophers they could con-
template the problem, but being just
plain, ordinary people what can they do
about it?
* * * *
“Mark O’Polo”: That 15th-century
English mariner of MacMillan Brown
(B. 6/2/’52) who reported seeing a lot
of lights on a vast coastline in the Pacific
Ocean certainly was off his course; at
least 100 years off. Normal history-books
have it that the first European to see the
Pacific Ocean was the Spaniard Balboa
in 1513, the first European to sail on it
the Portuguese Magellan in 1520, and the
first Englishman to make a log entry in
the Pacific Francis Drake, 60 years later
still. The suggestion that the ancient
Egyptians, whose maritime efforts were
confined to floating gibbers down the
Nile on rafts, and to coastal raiding and
trading, suddenly shot around Asia and
half-way across the Pacific, takes a lot
of believing. It seems more probable that
the Easter Islanders came there per favor
the n.-e. and s.-e. trades, and the north
and south equatorial currents, and not
against them. That is the direction in
which the first known crossing of that
vast sea was made, and the direction in
which all the big migrations have been
made on land or sea since the Deluge.
THE PARAGONS.
"Moscow Radio has claimed that by proving the
equator is really an oval, Professor Izatov has shown
that Western scientists, who had calculated that the
equator was a circle, were wrong.”
Hail to a genius! One of a noble herd
Who’ve brought the bacon home to Soviet
science
Most churlish it would be, and quite absurd
For Western lands to question the reliance
Of such a claim, when we’ve a Russian’s word
That he is right. Let there be meek com-
pliance, . ...
Remembering, as we must, the impressive lists
Of feats by famous Russian scientists.
The inventor of the telephone, Yanks claim,
Was Bell. That’s bunk! His name was
something-iski.
Serge Boozov is a highly-honored name:
He was the very first to make Scotch whisky.
And various Russkis take the praise (or blame)
For those inventions others deemed too nsky:
The atom-bomb, gun-cotton, T.N.T.,
The hand-grenade, even the snickersnee.
They thought of radar first, the safety-pin,
False teeth for cows, of course, and television.
Even before the days of Catherine,
Ivan, with wondrous patience and precision,
Had plotted every star that swam within
The firmament—register no derision!
Small wonder, then, that Uncle Joseph gloats
That all his scientists make ours look goats.
Now this! How floundering science in the West
Has been humiliatingly confounded,
It’s crackpot calculations made a jest
By this new theory Izatov’s propounded!
The waistline of our earth he’s proved by test
To be elliptical, not merely rounded.
The girdle that our globe has got to wear
Apparently just touches here and there.
Perhaps you’d thought through inter-stellar
space
Our world with rounded evenness was
spinning,
Like other orbs, in its accustomed place,
Just as it should have been from the
beginning,
Bowling along at quite a breathless pace,
Quite a mad race that none could e’er be
winning.
You’re wrong! Our earth rotates (this has you
floored)
Much like an egg that’s rolled along a board.
Who hasn’t noted that the world’s all wrong?
That it seems skew-whiff few would be
denying.
See how it staggers drunkenly along,
So that the pessimists are prophesying
It can’t be long before it “gets the gong.”
Yet we’ve this thought, so glad, so fortify-
ing:
Joe’s scientists are on the job—don’t gape!
Theyil find a way to put it into shape.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Youngest
member of
Australia 9 s
largest familg
m
mi
m
m
m
, wmm.
On the average ...
one family in three
relies on the A.M.P.
The A.M.P. family is a special family. Not
bound by blood . . . they are bound by common
ties and common interests. They pool their
savings in the interests of each and all. They
mutually share in the benefits of their thrift, for
the A.M.P. has no shareholders, all surplus being
returned to policyholders.
No wonder that in little more than a century the
A.M.P. has become the largest mutual life assur-
ance office in the British Commonwealth, and far
and away the largest life assurance office of any
kind in its home country of Australia.
. Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
a skill on your family finance so as to obtain
the maximum value of protection for you
• • and your family. His background and
y training make him the ideal person to
V assist you. The A.M.P, Agent is a "Sure
Friend in Uncertain Times",
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
Branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand
and Great Britain,
The A.M.P. is the
largest mutual
Life Assurance
in the Empire.
General Managen M. G. Buttfield . Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
AZ/201
FACTORY
NEWCASTLE
VACANT ROSS. 13.000 SQ. FT.
Of interest to:
Bakers and Pastry Cooks, Food Processors,
Cordial and Aerated Water Manufacturers, The
Transport Industry, Warehousemen, Laundry-
men, Dry Cleaners and Bond Stores. Local
labor easily obtainable.
IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO THE CITY
PROPER AND WITH BUS TRANSPORT
AT DOOR, THESE PREMISES WOULD
BE READILY ADAPTABLE TO MANY
PURPOSES.
A Substantial brick building in good order set
in f acre of land.
Construction is of brick with high ceilings, iron
roof and concrete floors, comprising main fac-
tory section with loading bay, cool rooms, &c.,
and modern office section comprising general
and private offices with staff amenities, strong
room, &c.
A telephone switchboard of two lines and eight
extensions is available.
The building comprises over 13,000 sq. ft. of
floor space and is set well back from the road
in land of approximately 33,660 sq. ft. Land:
204 ft. X 165 ft. Title: Old System.
Inquiries will be welcomed from local agents
and any agent actually introducing the
successful purchaser in the first instance
in writing, will be paid one half the normal
commission on completion of sale.
For further details and inspections apply
Sole Agents
L J. HOOKER LIMITED
98 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BW 8401 10 lines
CLARA
by ROLAND E. ROBINSON
CLARA, with the
blackened gallon can of
stewed tea and a piled-
up armful of bread and
scraps, with the three mongrel
kangaroo-dogs following at her
heels, going down through the
thin grey gums and brown grass
in the blue-grey time of after-
sunset, Clara, in the dirty white
dress made from the linen flour-
bags unpicked and sewn to-
gether. Clara, with that
leisurely, savage dignity in her
carriage and manner, going
down towards the tangled trees
where the fires were winking out
and drifting smoke across the
camp and tents of the blacks.
Clara was always the last to
leave the kitchen. Murray
would come in and the washing-
up would be done, the dishes
and cutlery carried in and put
away, the pots washed and left
upturned on the bench outside,
and the fire and ashes raked out
of the kitchen-range. Clara
could set up and bake bread,
the best bread he’d tasted,
Murray reckoned; there was
substance and roughage in it
and it was baked just right, with
a good golden crust. There was
always something she had to do
after the other lubras had left
in the dusk. Murray often found
her moving around the kitchen
with a lantern, corking down
yeast in a bottle or covering up
a batch of bread to be baked in
the morning.
Clara would pick up the
scraps, crusts and ends of bread
she had laid by, lift off the stove
the blackened gallon can, into
which all the teapots used dur-
ing the day were emptied, and
which was now filled up with
the last of the hot water, flash
Murray a look as she said “Bo-
bo,” and start off through the
dusk towards the camp.
He would stand in the door-
way watching her. The three
kangaroo-dogs walked slowly in
a file at her heels. From the
camp would come the throb-
throb of the bamboo “drone-
pipe” like the pulse of the
deepening night, then the first
wailing-like sound of the sing-
ing. He would lean against the
doorway, smoking, watching her
until she was merged into the
trees and the dusk.
Collins, the overseer, had his
own lubra, of that Murray was
sure. She came to him late at
night and was gone long before
dawn. Murray had never seen
her, but the lubras read the
tracks. Collins always took the
white man’s attitude.
“You must never let them get
over the top of you,” he said.
“The white man must always let
these niggers know who is boss.”
YET Murray knew how Clara
affected Collins. He re-
membered how some visitors
had given the lubras cast-
off clothing. Clara got an old
colored print dress. She would
wear it to work in, to lie down
in, in the shade at the back of
the kitchen, with the dogs and
the cats. The dress was soon
dirty and falling apart, but she
took Murray’s breath away to
watch her walking, moving
about in that torn flame of a
dress, with that savage, careless
dignity of hers, with her thin
face with high cheekbones under
the wild cloud of her hair.
He remembered how a girl in
the south had written to him.
“They tell me that, if you stay
there long enough, those lubras
begin to look like film-stars.”
It was true. He sometimes gave
Clara a cigarette and she would
stand smoking it: savage,
abstracted, looking away to-
wards her country, her eyes half-
closed, the cigarette hanging
from her lips. She looked like
Marlene Dietrich then.
“How could Collins appre-
ciate a creature like Clara?”
thought Murray. Collins would
come into the kitchen with his
stupid orders and jokes, and the
lubras would talk and laugh
about him in their own tongue.
Collins was for ever trying to
maul, slap or pinch them when
he could. But not Clara. There
was something in Clara that
warned Collins off. There was
a dark, narrow pantry attached
to the kitchen. Two people
brushed one another in passing.
It was one of Collins’s crude
plans to go into the pantry
when one of the lubras was in
there. He had tried it once with
Clara, and she had almost met
her teeth in his arm and had
then picked up the butcher’s
knife lying on the bench. Once
in a rage Collins had said to
him: “You and Clara make a
good pair: all sugar one minute,
gall the next!”
MURRAY knew of Collins’s
tricks and would deliber-
ately step aside for the lubras.
One afternoon they had brought
in some killers to the yards, and
Murray went over to the kitchen
for the bucket and the knives.
The lubras had been sleeping,
and, as he came over, Clara sat
up from the sagging, bag-covered
stretcher on which she had been
lying in the shade of the big
fig-tree. She sat there sleepily
pushing back her dark hair,
looking at Murray as he came
up.
“I bin dream abopt you,” she
said.
“Yes?” said Murray, trying to
joke. “I bin singum you all
day.”
She looked at him sideways
from under her hands and her
hair, then got up lazily and
went into the kitchen. Murray
got the bucket and went in for
the knives. They were in the
pantry. He stopped. He knew
that Clara was in the pantry.
He waited for her to come out.
He felt his heart thudding. He
waited for her to come out, but,
persistently, she would not. At
last he went in.
Clara was coming down the
passage towards him. He stood
back against the wall to let her
pass. He waited for her to pass,
but she stopped as she was
opposite him. She was facing
him, tall, savage, mocking. He
felt her thin limbs against him.
Murray seemed to go blind. Her
breasts touched him. t He felt
his arms about her, hatyds know-
ing that proud arching back,
the swift flow and fullness of her
hips and thighs. Shje rested
against him for a moment, then
Murray fought back. | Simul-
taneously she was gone from
him, leaving him still with the
sensation of the savage, thin-
limbed creature he had held.
There was the timf: he had
come upon her at the Red Lily
Lagoon. She had been;gathering
lily-bulbs and mussels, feeling
for them with her hands and
feet in the deep, blue mud
below the water. He had ridden
up quietly, and the big, black-
and-white, dark - blue - necked
jabiroo, pacing slowly on its red-
yellow legs at the further end
of the lagoon, had not flown
away. Clara saw Murray from
where she stood waist-deep in
the water. Her hair was wet and
lay over her shoulders. Beyond
her were broad, deckled, float-
ing leaves and the indolent,
opened, red lotus-lilies. She
watched him with one hand rest-
ing on the half-filled coolamon,
the other fallen at her side.
Murray rode on, looking back
through the tresses of the paper-
barks. As she stooped again he
saw the flash of her teeth as she
laughed.
The natives along this valley
believed that wild, very beautiful
lubras with streaming hair lived
in the waters of the river. They
called them Nyal-Warrai-Warrai.
Always now this was his secret
name for Clara.
Yes, he knew that Clara took
all the food she could'from the
homestead. He knewi that she
was feeding Buninjiwar and
Markal, her younger brother and
sister. Collins knew that if he
employed a native then he must
feed the native’s family, too.
Yet Collins intimated to Murray
that Clara was feeding someone.
THE trooper of the area was
after an old, crippled, blind
native who was supposed to
have leprosy. Murray had seen
him because the natives some-
times invited him to their camps
in the river-bed when they were
holding their half-corroborees,
half-sing-songs. The trooper
had often been through their
camps, but could never find the
suspected leper. When the tribe
knew that the trooper was com-
ing, they dug a hole in the sand
in which the cripple sat. A
blanket was spread over him,
and his relatives sat in a circle
on the edges of the blanket and
played cards. When the trooper
arrived the cripple was nowhere
to be found.
Murray had once run down
the dry bed of the river to warn
the tribe when the trooper had
arrived at the homestead.
Collins knew of this cripple, and
Murray remembered how
Collins had said to him: “That
old cripple’s Clara bunjamun,
her husband, you know. Your
nose or your fingers might drop
off.” Murray had paused with
the quart - pot half - raised.
Collins’s words made him go
sick and weak, then he burned
with an anger that could have
battered Collins’s head against
the rock where he was sitting.
He had come down into the
kitchen before dawn. Clara was
there with a lantern set on the
table. She had lit the fire and
made some tea. They were
always making tea. She poured
him out a mug, and he came
over to warm himself at the
stove. Murray shot a look at
her. She sat by the stove drink-
ing tea. Her hair was matted
and dishevelled. She must have
slept in the dirty, flour-bag
smock she had on. Her eyes
were bleared, and when she
asked Murray for tobacco he
gave her some and then took up
his mug and went into the
house.
He remembered her when
they had killed the beast,
remembered her scavenging
with the other blacks among the
offal. She had slashed open the
paunch and was pulling it over,
emptying it and turning it inside
out.
WITH two of the blacks,
Digger and Five - mile,
Murray was working at laying
pipe - lengths from the
Ronaldson - Tippett pump,
installed on the bank of the
billabong, to the homestead.
Suddenly Digger paused and
looked up.
“Trooper come, Boss,” he
said.
Murray looked and saw Hall,
the trooper, riding out of the
timber where the road emerged
at the homestead. Murray
watched for a minute. The
blacktracker was not with him.
“Digger,” said Murray, “run
down along the river and let
your mob know.”
“No good. Boss,” said Digger.
“Policeman savvy. Police-boy
findem that old man.”
Murray dropped the wrench he
had been using on the pipes and
went walking over towards the
homestead. The trooper had


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i TEARS OP SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
m
m
ms
fs
C,
6no
m
ULCER
PAINS
GO
Relief from ulcer pains or
your money back.
Don’t suffer a minute longer with
gnawing ulcer pains. The amazing
“Ulcerine” formula is guaranteed to
give relief from the pains of duodenal,
gastric or peptic ulcers without diet-
ing. It permits the same curative
principles as used on external ulcers
to be applied to internal ulcers. Tested
with complete success on many suf-
ferers, “Ulcerine” is instant in its
action and yet is quite harmless.
“Ulcerine” is obtainable in Australia
•only by mail from the distributors,
Missenden Laboratories. Unless you
experience real relief your money will
be refunded immediately in full. Write
enclosing £2 2s. for your initial bottle
of “Ulcerine” to Missenden Labora-
tories, P. 0., Box 63, Chippendale, or
send coupon for further information
and copies of testimonials.
Missenden Laboratories,
P. 0., Box 63,
Chippendale, N.S.W.
Please send me further
information.
NAME
ADDRESS
S : •-
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
application
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary OupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Ik Divorce.
TO DONALD WALLACE CAMERON late
of Alexandria. —TAKE NOTICE that
ANNIE MAVIS CAMERON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2014 of 1950 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you might
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th day of March 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN E. OUPIT & BEST,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutual Chambers,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
the'brasNf
with
(IS
*
m
mm
mm.
m
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down’’ look!
Dry Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
e Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tubs
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
IZI/IHI
Sold at all
Chemists & Stores
RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rfgiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses,-
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft ATroflasta pads
(non-infiaced) for the
hernia region.
7
_ :
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
reeulate tension
at will.
THE RI6IFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Coiiins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
ADDRESS ....
, . STATE
tied his horse up at the fence
and was going into the home-
stead. Then he saw Murray and
waited,
“Hello, called over for a
drink,” said Hall.
“We can easily get you that,”
replied Murray. “What brings
you out this time?”
“Well, I came to look at those
ruggers camped down the river,
I heard that that Mineroo mob
had been through here lately.
O’Connor’s stockyards were on
fire the other day. Those niggers
should all be in compounds.”
“Yeah?” said Murray slowly,
“I reckon they were here a long
time before we were. Even
though we come here and build
homesteads and stockyards, they
still reckon it’s their country,
Why, every rock, every water-
hole”-
Murray broke off. There was
an outcry from the back of the
kitchen. One of the lubras was
beginning to wail.
Murray | jumped up, guessing
the truth. He crossed the cool
room that was the underpart of
the homestead built on piers. A
string of natives were coming up
from the river. They were talk-
ing excitedly, breaking out of the
file to argue, run and catch up
again. In the lead walked a native
carrying someone on his back.
It was the cripple. The black-
tracker, in his police-boy’s shirt,
trousers and hat, was with them.
From where it had been wait-
ing back in the timber, Murray
saw the police utility emerge. He
saw the vehicle drive out and
meet the oncoming natives. The
blacks crowded round the utility
and the police-boy pushed
through them. The cripple was
lifted into the back and the
utility drove off, taking the road
that led down into the valley.
Murray turned round to the
trooper.
“I’m sorry” Hall began.
“Sorry!” Murray blazed. He
was incoherent. “Sorry that you
hound down the blacks! Sorry
that these things will earn you
another stripe! Sorry that you
couldn’t leave that old cripple to
die in his own country! Do you
know he’s got leprosy? Are
you a doctor?”
Murray stopped himself,
knowing the insults that were
leaping up in him. He began to
realise who it was that had in-
formed the trooper. It was
Collins who hated the blacks,
Collins who was getting at Clara,
Then, like a secret joy, a secret,
deep shame, he knew he was
glad. Wasn’t he pleased that the
contamination of Clara’s “hus-
band” had been removed? And
then, following this, wasn’t he as
bad as Collins, scheming among
the natives to satisfy his own
lusts and desires? Murray
stopped. He grabbed his hat
from the table, jerked it down
over his eyes and strode out into
the glare of the sunlight, his
mouth contracted to a thin line.
CLARA, in that torn flame
of a dress. Clara, with that
dark cloud of hair, with that
savage, high cheek-boned face
that revealed nothing of what she
felt or thought or knew. Clara
standing in the aviary he had
made, where he kept the finches
imprisoned, the painted- and
zebra-finches that would not live
long in captivity. Clara poking
grasses and seeds through the
wire and calling to the finches,
“Nin, Nin, Nin, poor fella Nin.”
And Clara, sitting in the shade
at the back of the kitchen with
the cats around her, making a
little white dress out of flour-
bag linen, who, when he asked if
she was making the dress for
her little sister and said that she
was a good, kind girl, ignored
him and went on pushing the big
needle through the material with
her long, thin fingers.
Murray lay on the stretcher in
the Army tent he had set up
under the figs and paper-barks
down by the river. It was a hot,
still night and he had thrown
down the book he had been
trying to read. He lay watching,
through the opening of the tent
above his head, the fire-beetles
winking in and out among the
dark leaves patterned against the
night. Far up the river there
was a terrific splash as though a
beast had leapt into the water
from the steep bank. “Must be
that salt-water croc, the blacks
are always talking about,” he
thought to himself. The night
was silent again, yet, for Murray,
tense and waiting. He waited
for one sound alone. One call
alone would bring him upright,
destroy the control he was trying
to establish. Perhaps she would
not come after all. When he had
asked her he was not sure that
it mattered to her. She was
washing-up at the time and he
could not believe that he had
brought himself to ask her. He
had stopped beside her to pick up
something off the bench and had
spoken low and quickly to her.
“Yo-ai,” she had said, “I
whistle.”
She had gone on washing-up
as though he had asked her to
put the goats out of the enclosure
or to be sure and wire the gate
before she left.
He lay there, telling himself to
relax. Most likely she wouldn’t
come. Now, he thought, it would
be far better if she didn’t. He
wondered how ever he had
brought himself to ask her to
come. His heart began to thud.
The night seemed unbearably
hot and still and then, un-
mistakably, tremulous through
the night, came that low, shaken-
out whistle,
He sat up, trying to collect him-
self. Should he go to meet her?
What excuse could he make?
Outside, it was dark. He
stumbled off the track. Through
the leaves the stars were piercing
bright. He found the track and
forced himself along it, coming
to a space where the big fig-trees
stood back a little Then again
that whistle, quieter, like a, bird
waking in the night and finding
itself alone in the darkness.
Murray saw Clara move from
the deeper shadow of the far
trees. She came down the slight
incline to him, and Murray, now
that he had drawn the girl to
him, was drawing back. He was
fuff of doubt. He was afraid.
He caught Clara’s outstretched
hand. He held it, clenched in
his own, to his chest.
“Clara —Clara, I —l’m sick
fella. You savvy? More better
you go back to camp,”
Clara had stopped as he had
taken her hand. Murray saw
her face in the dimness. She
looked at him and then laughed,
low, tremulously. Then she had
thrown his hands away.
He saw her teeth flash in that
thin, savage face. “Alla-a-same,”
she had said. “I catchem fire-
wood.”
Murray stood in the track.
He saw Clara stoop near the
shade of the trees, dragging out
dead branches. She gathered an
armful as though that was what
she had come from the camp to
do. She moved into the shadow
of the trees and was gone.
MURRAY remembered with
shame how he had asked
Clara again to come to his tent.
She had turned round to him
lazily, her eyes smiling. “You
gibbit me silver,” she had said.
And again, when he felt he
could stand the torture no longer,
he had come to her. “Yo-ai,”
she said. “Tonight. You come
alonga camp, throwem little bit
stone on my tent.” And she
had laughed at him.
Collins had been away for a
fortnight seeing the Administra-
tor about the lease. Murray had
returned after the mustering at
the Yellow Waterhole and had
found Clara gone. The lubras
told him that some white people
had come in a truck and taken
Clara away. Jessie, the old
lubra, said that at first Clara b?d
not wanted to go, but that
white people had made a lot of
talk to her. They had said that
Clara’s real husband worked at
their hotel. He was the same
“skin” as Clara, and he said that
Clara had been promised to him
when she was born. These
white people had shown Clara a
dress she could wear if she went
with them. They had told her
that the homestead was only a
“rubbish place,” and that she
was only & “bush lubra” while
she stayed there. Old Jessie told
him that the white people had
kept on talking at Clara until
she had gone down to the camp
and got her swag. Clara had
got into the truck and it had
driven away,
Murray raged about the
homestead thinking what he
could do. He caught his horse
again and rode into the police-
station. Hall was out. The
blacktracker did not know when
he would be back. Murray wired
to Collins and waited and waited,
but there was no reply Then,
long after sunset, he went out to
“* h ° lSe
MURRAY saw Clara once
more. It was not long be-
for e he Collins and his
station. It was Sunday, and,
walking back after a swim in
the river, he found a big red
truck pu ui ng up outside the
homestead Before the dust had
settled an d t h e white people had
started to get the natives,
brought for the outing, were
j um pi ng down from the back of
tbe The bucks were flash
| n t ar t an and check shirts, and
the j r trousers and shoes were
new xhe gins were in colored
dresses and wore handkerchiefs
round their hair. They were
laughing and calling out to one
another as they jumped down
and made off towards the camp,
Murray watched a lubra as
she put one hand on the edge
of the truck and jumped down.
Zet on
the stores dresses ffiyhe others,
She started to run in the high-
heeled shoes - sh ® ’ T*®L^lSv
then, withtan impatience Murray
recognised, she stooped and
stood on one leg in turn as she
wrenched off the shoes. Laugh-
ing, she threw the shoes back on
to the tray of the truck and then
ran to catch up with the others;
then she saw Murray,
From the distance she waved,
He saw her join the rest, speak-
ing to them. He still had his
hand held up in recognition
when one of the bucks looked
back and laughed.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kelms”: What is the farthest-reaching
and most-arresting sound in the Aus-
tralian bush? I’ll nominate the call
a desert aborigine makes when he wants
to attract the attention of other natives.
I’ve heard: it carry, clearly, well over half
“A nice spot of home-brew , what?”
a mile* and it’s a sound no native ignores,
There may be 150 simultaneous noises in
a camp, from yapping dogs to playing
youngsters, but immediately that parti-
cular cry is heard everyone stops dead
and looks to see what’s wrong. Even to
white ears it has an urgent note. I’ve
caught the same sense of urgency in the
cry of a bird which brought a quick
silence to the bush as every living thing
paused to listen.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: Visited Sydney, whence
all blessings flow, and in one of
the biggest hardware stores asked for a
camp-oven. The dark young attendant
had beautiful manners and tried hard to
understand, but apparently they don’t
have camp-ovens in Prague or Riga, so I
moved on to the next chap. “A camp
whaht, sor?” There being insufficient
dust about, I had to draw it in the air,
but they didn’t seem to know about the
noble utensil in Seattle, either, so 1
looked for the oldest inhabitant of the
place and told him I was after a lOin.
camp-oven. The pathos in his speech
shook me: “Laddie, you’re ten years too
late. They’ve stopped makin’ ” His
voice seemed to be breaking, so I drifted
away. Served me right, I thought; a
bloke ought to know that the further he
goes from the mighty metropolis the
better his chances of finding the things
that make life worth while, so I dropped
a note to a cobber beside the Darling.
Yes, he could get me one, a real beaut—
big enough to bake a batch of bread for
all the hands at the mill. Wonderful!
But I only want to bake a couple of
fish, or roast a duck—not bathe
in the flamin’ thing. The local stores
haven’t even got one in their museums,
the local junk-dealer says he’s forgotten
what they look like, the third white city
in the Empire has failed me. What can
the Council suggest?
* t- * *
“Shamuseen”: Back in the days
when shearers first took to pushing
bikes on the flat country between Long-
reach and Winton (C.Q.) some of them,
following the lead of one who
had been a sailor before drifting
out to the sheds, hoisted a species
of leg-o’-mutton sail on their grids when-
ever they struck a following wind in their
trek across the plains, thereby consider-
ably lightening the pedalling job be-
tween sheds. The motor-bike ended the
short-lived sailing-cycle era, and those
who had caught the canvas craze were
quick to seize an even easier means of
locomotion: the sight of a motor-bike
towing a string of pushbikes across the
plains became quite a common one in
those parts. All the grids, of course, had
the inevitable layer of wool wrapped
around their tyres for protection against
bindi-eyes.
* ♦ * *
“Bass”; Someone once estimated that
if the population of China were to march
past four-abreast the procession would
never finish because of the high natural
increase. A somewhat analogous situa-
tion is developing in the north of W.A.,
where a recent estimate puts the number
of kangaroos at about 16,000,000, or four
to every sheep. A mate of mine who’s just
come down from the Fitzroy River
district still sees Toos when he closes his
eyes. The Fitzroy Plain is rich country
—very rich—but it is being eaten out by
euros. These hairy brutes—they don’t
carry fur like the reds—aren’t worth
shooting for their skins, and a dingo
won’t bother with them while he can get
sheep, so they have an open go. Where
water is scarce they can be poisoned at
waterholes, but you can’t do that on the
Fitzroy, where the big billabongs keep
them going. One station built a V-shaped
fence, drove the pests into it and shot and
clubbed them, but it was like fighting a
"It's not a question of our liking HIM. Does he like US?”
bushfire with q, dry bag. At Mt.
Anderson they tried poisoned oats and
got a few ’roos, but that’s a risky business
—sheep eat oats, too. The station people
are scratching their heads and watching
the menace increase, while the vermin-
control heads admit it’s a major
problem. Well, come in, you bush-
whackers. How do you poison ’roos in
sheep country?
* * * ■*
“Wippegong”: Hovering 30ft, up,
this fowl could be mistaken for a kestrel
by the casual observer; but the wing-
beat is more rapid, the final dive swifter,
then the take-off and climb stronger than
that of his little cinnamon-colored
cousin. He sails over the grassy pad-
dock, wheels into wind and glides down
towards a dead tree. Six feet above a
bare branch the silvery wings flutter
delicately, yellow legs clad in snowy
shorts reach daintily down and the
streamlined body comes to rest smoothly,
softly, and then only are the wings folded
in, carefully and deliberately, as a beetle
would do it. The lizard in the talons
still trails limply, for the black-shouldered
kite — Elanus axillaris, if you insist —has
an audience; he turns his head full side
on and stares at us with his chin just
takes his vernacular name. He poses
there, like a glamorous celebrity waiting
to be photographed; then, wearying of
the attention, begins to toy with his catch.
There are two of these birds in our
valley, though I seldom see them together.
Male and female are each capable of
making a living where and how it best
pleases them, coming together briefly only
when it suits them both. The modern
touch.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Mac’s type is not at all
rare: he served in both World Wars, but
refuses to wear a Digger’s badge; flatly
declares that anybody who thinks of join-
ing the Army is not right in the head ;
uses the most violent language in con-
demnation of the powers-that-be and all
branches of officialdom; and often
makes statements that could only
be classed as treasonable. But on
Thursday, February 7, 1952, he was un-
naturally subdued. Tony, the Italian
laborer, paused while passing his bench.
“Your King die, Mac,” he remarked with
no visible emotion of any kind. Mac
looked at him bleakly. “Your King
died,” he corrected. “Nota fear. I not
da Pom or da New Austrail; Taliana,
me,” declared Tony. Mac put down his
hammer and confronted the Italian.
“Listen, you were glad enough to come
here, weren’t y’?” he demanded. “Oha,
yes ; dat Mussolini he wasa da fair cow.”
“Well, Musso’s dead. When are y’ goin’
back?” Tony looked bewildered. “I
nota go back. Who tell you I go back?”
The back of Mac’s knuckles rapped on
Tony’s broad chest as though it was a
door. “Then don’t come tellin’ me my
King is dead,” he said with deadly,
threatening calm. “Our King died, see?”
No, Mac’s type is not at all rare —and
there is something very warming in the
thought, even if startled foreigners do
think they are dangerously insane.
* * * *
“Molar”: It is with a certain modest
pride that I record this, for it was I who
fitted Bill with his double dentures. In
defiance of the accepted pounds-per-
square-inch relationship of pressure with-
stood by artificial dentures before dislodg-
ment. Bill demonstrated his ability with
them to remove the sealed top from a
bottle of beer. As well as being a tribute
to the set of crockery, it is also
one to the toughness of Bill’s gums.
Possibly his addiction to this spectacular
form of bottle-top removal was respon-
sible for the loss of the set of tombstones
given him by Nature, which hadn’t
allowed for seal-tops *in the scheme of
things. Only a dentist knows the damage
that can be done to the teeth-roots by
subjecting teeth to that abnormal pressure.
* * * *
“Propalong”: I have never been able
to believe that, among the rancid pork,
rat-chewed biscuit and spare leg-irons, the
“little people” came out as stowaways in
Arthur Phillip’s fleet. Nor could I ever
visualise woodland spirits embodied in
the hides of koalas, wombats or bandi-
coots. I have, therefore, had to regard
my native land as lacking the more frolic-
some of the faery folk. But now I’m not
so sure. I came along the track nearing
dusk. The paddock to the west was
unromantic enough: white, bleached
grass and a tiny dry creekbed bordered
with an occasional wild artichoke. And
by that creeklet, in plain view, at 80yds.,
after a day blameless enough to qualify
me as a blue-ribboner, I saw, and I sat
and watched, the
mystic dance. The
two little people
stood very erect,
facing each other,
only 3in. or 4in.
apart. Their fore-
arms were extended,
the hands raised at
the wrists, as though
ready to clap palms
at certain eso.teric
intervals. Although
the bodies were
vertical the knees
were bent and the
dance consisted of
a light, effortless, rhythmical ’ up-and-
down motion. Xhe whole business was
chacterised by ease, unselfconsciousness
and an utter absorption that hinted at a
state of self-hypnosis. To the onlooker
the dance would have been monotonous,
had it not been for its airiness of move-
ment and the perfection of the balanced
dancers’ pose. The spiritual concentra-
tion, too, could be felt across the dried
grass. And now that I have seen the
hares’ dance. I’ll not be surprised to see
Puck in a wattle-tree, or Pan piping on
a saltbush plain.
* ♦ * •
“Hughie”: Concerning pars on ‘‘Send it
down, Hughie!” In 1894 a verse appeared
in the “Riverine Grazier,” Hay (N.S.WO,
entitled “A Wet Shearing,” by “W.P.T.
I stiff have it in my scrapbook. It ends
thus: “And a voice calls, ‘Good old
Hughie, send it down.’ ” The rousies, of
course, wanted it to rain.
* * * •
“Sou’-west”: Well enough for Ted
Scorfield’s wharf fisherman optimistically
to tie about his waist that heavy rope (B.
6/2/’52), but let him not do the same
with a strong fishing-line in shark-infested
waters. Mandurah (W.A.) has a legend
of an angler who did it. Out after dark
for estuary kingfish, which might weigh
up to 601 b. or 701 b., he had a line strong
enough to hold a bullock. But sport
seemed right off, so, weary of holdiqg
the line, he tied it around a bare ankle,
and, so runs the legend, a shark took
the bait, a small live mullet, and had the
luckless angler out into deep tidal water
before he was properly awake.
THE HODLE ROAD.
Astray are the mists from the marshlands drifting
homeless and white
Where the pitted road crawls over the mountain
side.
Down slides the trinket moon from among the
jewels of night,
Drenching its silver horn in the southern tide.
How like a will o’ the wisp bidding the fearless
to come
Glimmers a hurricane-lamp in an urchin’s
heaven!
Now shivers a pillioned sweetheart clinging and
whispering of home,
Yet hating the hour when she and her love
are riven.
Here clatters a happy tourer, freighted with
warmth and wool,
With empty flagons and sleepy-lidded eyes,
Astride the hurdle of Monroe’s Hill to where
the night hangs cool,
Clean and cool as the roofs of Paradise.
The dark of the Hoddle Range is lost in the
moonless dark,
Whiteness of gravel craters gleams not now;
And the tall old gum that stood for years
cracking its whips of bark
Is the only torch alight on its shaggy brow.
The emerald eye of a fleet fox shoots the road
like a star,
Rabbits falter bemused in the headlamp’s
gleaming:
At the root of the sea’s fingers, the muted waves
at the bar
Call, like sirens to sweeten the traveller’s
dreaming.
Gasping, a truck creeps slowly with a load of
echoing tanks.
Ambles a stockman home from the Toora sale;
And the chestnut needs not spur nor crop to his
stiff and salty flanks
Whose nostrils take the tang of the stalky bale.
Cypress-huddled, the little town blinks with a
misty eye,
A mongrel waits to snap at the passing wheels;
Roisterers leaving a party are cawing a hoarse
goodbye,
The half-clad nuisance sings a song as he reels.
Steady around the gravelled curve, into a tunnel
of leaves.
Threading the lichened boughs of the orchard
croft.
Then for the friendly teapot, the bedstead under
the eaves,
The scent of apples mellowing in the loft.
All night the ebony highway is swept with a
thrusting light,
The ceaseless torrent of life goes rumblin'' by,
But the sleeper returns to the byway to swing
on the skirts of night.
And gather a crate of stars from the open sky.
VICTORIA.
BETTY MARTYN.


“G’roper”: The debunking of abo.-
sounding names by proving them to be
of Anglo-Saxon origin is right enough
(B. 6/2/’52), but occasionally the de-
bunkers go off the rails. Running through
a Perth suburb is the Njekenbooroo
Creek, which name they have tried
to sheet home to the visit in the
1860’s of the then Duke of Edinburgh,
claiming that in their enthusiasm over
the Royal visit the Perth abos named the
watercourse the Duke of Edinburgh
Creek. When said quickly it does sound
something like that, accompanied by
aboriginal gutturals. Still, the name is
abo. all right: it was known and named
long before the Royal duke called in on
the world’s smallest capital at the end
of the earth. Another debunked is
Wyalkatchem, a faraway town on the
W.A. wheatbelt. Local humor has it
that in the long ago a trooper named
Wylie arrived in pursuit of an aboriginal
recalcitrant. Taking keen interest in the
chase the local medicinemen were strong
in their assurance that “Wylie catchem.”
Sounds good, but the W.A. Lands Depart-
ment maintains that Wyalkatchem is pure
aboriginalese.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Mulgan wasn’t as smart
as he thought he was when he tricked
that alleged carpenter into working for
him (B. 6/2/’52). A real tradesman
wouldn’t “sit on his bag o’ tools” —allow-
ing there may be old chippies who
have stuck to the old-fashioned concave-
shaped bag made of canvas or woven
straw. “A good tradesman looks
after his tools” has always been an
accepted axiom in the building-trade, and
sitting on ’em certainly wouldn’t improve
tools, not to mention the iron—er —con-
“I adore the can-can !”
stitution the sitter would need to stay
seated For a couple of decades, however,
the bag has been almost as extinct as the
celluloid collar which old carps used to
wear to work (often without a tie). These
days chippies carry their tools in a
wooden box just long enough to take a
rip-saw, about 15in. high and 9in. wide,
Part of the side drops down on hinges,
an-d the interior is divided into drawers
and compartments according to the indi-
yjdual ideas of the maker. The adyan-
tages of box over bag are: small tools
are easier to locate, keen edges are not
gapped on other tools, a padlock can be
applied—a necessary precaution, alas,
these days—and little space is taken up
when numbers are stacked in a shed.
Now, if Mulgan had seen a bloke sitting
on a well-worn tool -box he might have
got a carpenter worthy of those “good
wages,” instead of a tomahawk wood-
waster with a scratch kit in a sugar-bag
and a lot of sheer hide.
* * * *
On personal observation,
the English perch or red-fin, though pre-
datory, doesn’t menace the cod to the
extent that trout and carp do, these being
spawn-eaters. The danger in the red-fin
lies in its rapidity of breeding, with con-
sequent competition for the available
food-supply. With about 35 years’
experience of the cod extending from the
Darling to Burrinjuck, the Castlereagh
to the Murray, I am convinced of its
gradual extinction. The red-fin is
merely an extra nail in its coffin.
The trout will eliminate it from the
fast water as they have done from the
headwaters of the Goodradigbee, the
Murrumbidgee and the Tumut, Burrin-
juck alone • being its salvation on
Monaro. Wyangala may do the same in
the Lachlan and Abercrombie, though
in time the carp will account for the cod
here, as they are doing in the headwaters
of the western rivers. There is only one
sound course, and that is a programme
of breeding and distribution by artificial
means on a scale comparable to that
available to the rainbow and brown trout.
* * * *
“WJ.D.”: During the 20 years I have
been preparing railway-sleepers I have
never used, nor have I seen other men
use, an adze (B. 2/1/’52). After the
billet has been split and roughed-out
with the Kelly the squaring-axe will do
the rest. A cabinet-maker with his plane
couldn’t put a much better finish to it
than that achieved by a good square-axe
man. My timber experience has all been
on the N.S.W. northern rivers ; perhaps
they still stick to the adze in W.A.
* * * *
“Übet”: For years George had been
wanting the store enlarged, and now,
with the builder lined up, he explained
his needs, moved everything beyond
danger-range, and carried on busi-
ness in one comer. The roof was
ripped off, and the wall pulled
out. Then it began to rain. Like a mad
steer George charged everywhere at once,
grabbing up groceries and shoving them
somewhere else. The rain set in harder.
His wife rushed in to wail about water
coming into the house and was waved
frantically aside from beneath a bag of
flour, as the old bloke made for the
cellar with another load. Three inches
fell the first night, it drizzled through the
following day, and the next morning it
was still raining. George sought dry
clothes and found the drawer half-full of
water. Came a rumbling sort of noise, and
George raced out to discover the cellar
had caved in, covering his precious goods
with several tons of earth. Wet to the
hide, and plastered with yellow clay, he
crawled from the hole, grabbed a shovel,
and was racing to turn a stream that
poured in his front door, when Cockie
Hogg strolled in. “Great rain, George,”
the farmer greeted. “Do a lot o’ good,
this. Just what we wanted. The crop
is... Twenty minutes later Cockie
woke up; but he doesn’t know what hit
him. * *
* ,m * * *
“Hist”: I parked the car at old
bachelor Mac’s gate and went in after
the weekly grocery order. The job took
a while, because his housekeeper is a
Newstralian still a bit shaky on our
language. It was a lean enough order
when I got it. When I returned to the
00 MOT
REMOVE
YOUR
HAT
car the ignition-key was missing. I felt
in aU my pockets and searched about a
bit, then back-tracked towards the house,
thinking I’d dropped it. About half-
way a whisper came from behind a hedge
and Mac beckoned me into cover.
“Here’s yer key, lad,” he “I
took it to make sairt’n o’ catchin’ y’.
I dunno what the lassie yonder ordered,
but double it, lad, double it! I’m all
for economy mesel’, but she’s bein’ that
eeconomical wi’ m’ money I’m fair
starvin’.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Champions of animals as
weather-prophets will take heart at an
announcement from the U.S., where
they’re going to investigate the claims of
a black-and-brown-striped caterpillar.
Rural types have for years maintained
that the width of the caterpillar’s stripes
forecast the severity of the approaching
winter, A sceptical committee from the
Museum of Natural History, New York,
essayed to debunk the theory and ended
up more than half-convinced itself. If
the present investigation ends in favor
of the caterpillar, I’d like to have a yarn
with the committee. There’s a small
matter of black cockatoos and flowering-
gums that I’d like to discuss with them.
« * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The question of
whether musk-ducks can fly was settled
in our neck of the woods the other day.
Repeated efforts to make a bird rise from
the swamp were unsuccessful until Ted
arrived with his gun. There were enough
of us almost to surround the small swamp,
and we kept the duck on the run, gradu-
ally driving it towards Ted, who finally
let fly in front of it as it surfaced. It
took off in a slow, lumbering flight, its
small stumps of wings flapping quickly,
and it was still airborne as it crossed
the low rise between us and the next
swamp. It didn’t rise more than about
4ft. from the ground, but I gained the
impression that it could maintain that
flight for a considerable distance. That
settled, for me, at any rate, the question
of how the birds travel from swamp to
swamp, and appear at nesting-time after
a long summer absence; but now we’ve
got another poser, Pompey claims the
birds are in process of becoming flight-
less, while Ted maintains they are just
acquiring the art of flight. Both base
their contentions on the observations of
60 years in the bush, and they aver,
respectively, that the birds now fly far
better, and far worse, than when they
first knew them. I can’t give an opinion
on the subject. Can anyone else?
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: My experience is that you
can’t stop a dog from fighting. I’d booted
my kelpie-cross, roared and whaled into
him with a stick on every aggressive
occasion, but still he snarled, snapped
and charged every dog in the pack for
no reason whatsoever. We were rabbit-
ing when he did it once too often, and
the pack took to him, going berserk in
their fury. When I arrived, panting
madly, half a dozen big red-eyed mongs
had a mouthful each and were tuggmg
in different directions in a bloodcurdling
pandemonium Of noise. When eventu-
ally I managed to salvage the victim he
was in a bad way. Ruptured inside, he
had skin and flesh torn, half an ear
gone, and was bleeding from many
skinned areas. For a week I left him at
the old salt-hut where I carried him, and
gradually he learned to eat again, <mcl
then to walk. Jhe day I brought the
groggy tyke home he tottered weakly
behind me up the path between the sleepy
pack. Came a sudden snarl, a snap, and
I turned quickly to stop another fight in
its infancy. The wounded kelpie-cross
had again picked one of the pack in
passing.
* * * *
“E.”: I hadn’t long left school, I
remember, when I first called on Jerry
Rogers. I had untied an old iron bed-
stead, lifted away three broken rails, a
battered sheet of iron and two boxes, and
untangled a piece of netting and two
barbs. Then I had led my horse through
into his yard and replaced the barricade.
When I was leaving, Jerry had walked
with me as far as the entrance entangle-
ments. “Must get a noo gate f’r ’ere
some time,” he drawled, “soon’s I c n
afford it.” Several years had gone into
the discard before I again called on
Jerry. I untied a smashed tabletop, lifted
away three broken rails, a battered sheet
of iron and two boxes, and untangled a
piece of netting and two barbs, to get my
utility inside. When I was leaving, Jerry
walked with me as far as the front fence.
“Must get a noo gate f’r ’ere, soon’s I
c’n afford it,” he drawled. “This thing
ain’t never been quite the same since the
bedstead went.”
* * ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: As the battle for
possession of my home increases in
tempo I’m acquiring an even greater
respect for the intelligence of the bloke
who’s trying to evict me. I’ve got justice
on my side —I want to live in the house,
while he wants to eat it. Parts of it, that
is, because there’s a lot of the timber he
won’t tackle. But a termite is as con-
scienceless as a blackmarketeer, and I ve
no guarantee that I won’t be evicted.
The other day a fruit-case was left on
the floor of a room. The termites won’t
tackle the floor, which is jarrah, but
within 48 hours they’d eaten a hole, just
large enough to take one white-ant at a
time, through a board on which the fruit-
case was resting. I thought it was a
jarrah case, but it wasn’t—it was karri,
which termites love. But how did they
detect its presence? The house is on
stumps and the floor is 2ft. from the
ground. An analogous feat would be a
hungry man detecting food 30ft. under-
ground without the possibility of a fluke.
Their nest is probably a big structure
covering many square feet, and it may
be not far below the surface, but I can’t
locate it. I don’t even know where to
look. Discouraging? It’s frightening!.
JUMPED.
It was my Father’s seventh shaft
To find a reef below;
His duffers all lay fore and aft,
Down thirty feet or so.
And he had tunnelled east and west,
And also north and south,
Until at last he gave it best
And chewed his rocky mouth.
Most disillusioned there he sat
And twice tried hard to spit,
And failed to spit as well, at that—
And home he went dead-beat.
Then later, passing this last hole,
He heard, deep down, a sound
Of someone working—’pon his soul,
Someone was underground!
“He’s jumped my claim,” thus Father spoke,
And his loud voice sped down
The shaft, and then up came a bloke,
Clay on his wrinkled crown.
Then Father laughed with fearsome mirth,
Burst his thin belly-band,
The very heavens broke their girth,
Convulsed was all the land.
He held a rope, he tied a noose
And to that miner said,
“Well, now you’re there, and in my place—
You hang yourself instead.”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Fly by “Kangaroo” Service
N°wS days to
EUROPE
by Qantas-B.O.A.C. Constellation
Fastest and finest by far, the QANTAS-B.O.A.C.
all-Constellation service to Europe flies you direct in
just 3 days—with super service at your command all the
way. You can save precious time on a speedy business
trip—or take it easy on stop-overs anywhere en route,
all Europe is so easy to reach —there’s an alterna-
tive route across the Continent from Rome to London
with stop-overs at Geneva and Paris—at no extra fare.
Fly by dependable QANTAS-B.O.A.C. pressurised
Constellation—no change of ‘planes—see East and
West on one trip. No currency problems—con-
venient currency coupons make it easy to buy souvenirs
and enjoy recreation.
I
A
Restful all-night stop at
famous Raffles Hotel,
Singapore.
I
De-luxe cabin service—2
stewards and a hostess.
as
BE
Stop-over anywhere en
route —no extra fare.
Regular route via Calcutta—alternative via Colombo•
5 services weekly. See your travel agent .
HANTASBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE
BRITISH
AIRWAYS LTD.
OVERSEAS
(Inc. in Queensland) in parallel with
AIRWAYS CORPORATION
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THIS IS DANGER YEAR.
In the view of practically all
overseas official and newspaper
comment this 1952 is the real,
and could be the last, danger-
year.
In specially “well-informed
quarters,” reports a London
“Sunday Times” writer, reasons
why this is regarded as the
danger-year are that the state of
Western preparedness, coupled
with the American Presidential
election, might well tempt Russia
to “precipitate a crisis”;
“The initial step would prob-
ably be another aggression of
the Korean pattern, and the
promptitude or otherwise with
which it was countered might
well determine whether things
went further or not,”
BIG “IFS”
On the preparedness effort, a
London “Observer” writer lists
a string of “ifs,” and they are
mighty big ones:
“If, during 1952, the rearma-
ment programmes of the
North Atlantic Treaty Powers
are given first priority and
carried through according to
plan; if the rearmament of
Germany and Japan is started
in earnest, and the new German
and Japanese forces are properly
dovetailed into the Allied Com-
mand ; and if supra-national
Military Command structures,
like that created in Western
Europe in 1951, are built up for
the Atlantic, Mediterranean,
Middle East and Pacific areas:
then by the end of 1952 the free
world could feel safe from
military aggression.”
If those “ifs” are realised,
then “The balance of power
would have tilted against Russia,
and no country on Russia’s
borders would any longer live
defenceless and at her mercy.”
But “The fact that 1952 will
bring this achievement within
reach makes the year inevitably
a dangerous one.”
The U.S. Presidential election
means that “during the inter-
national ‘crisis season,’ from
August to October, American
government will be largely in
abeyances”;
“If Russia wants to gain her
ends by direct military force,
1952 presents her with her last
chance of adding the resources
of Western Europe to her own.”
WEAK BULWARK
The most assiduously propa-
gated notion of Russian armed
might has a familiar ring—the
old build-up of an irresistible
steamroller.
On paper it certainly looks
formidable, and the West’s
chance of stopping it anywhere
short of the Channel still prac-
tically nil.
U.S. Defence Mobilisation
Director Wilson’s latest estimate
puts the total armed forces of
Russia and satellites at 9,000,000
men. Russia, he states, has more
than 200 divisions fully mobi-
lised and “a massive trained
reserve.” Its air force has “more
than 20,000 aircraft, many of
them of excellent quality.”
A New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent reported
this month from Washington
that “The Soviet Union is now
outproducing the United States,
and by an incredibly wide
margin, in modern combat
planes.”
The actual Western troop-
strength on the spot is compara-
tively meagre. Both the U.S.
and Britain kept their under-
takings to have, respectively, by
this year six and four divisions
in Germany. “Neither country,”
London “Economist” has
pointed out to the lagging Con-
tinental nations, “has ever made
a comparable effort in peace-
time, and the British people can
fairly claim to have tried to save
Europe not only by their
example but also by their exer-
tions.”
France having failed rather
Akron ( U.S.A. ) “Beacon-Journal”
CAREFUL, HE’S A LIGHT SLEEPER!
badly and not a German soldier
having yet been recruited, those
10 divisions would have the job
of opposing “a Communist
promenade to the Channel,”
though before this could be
launched the necessary Soviet
preparations for the offiensive
would give Eisenhower time to
bring up French and other
support:
“But it is common knowledge
that his 10 divisions have to
fight a rearguard action and that
the present arrangements for
training, mobilising and moving
reserves are quite inadequate,”
not only on the Continent but in
Britain also.
Hence, “the British Army’s
spearhead will be perilously
extended during 1952, unless
France and the smaller allies
provide the promised formations
and unless the American equip-
ment for them arrives.”
STEAMROLLER BRAKES
One steadier to the “steam-
roller” noted by the “Econo-
mist” is America’s possession of
atomic shells ready for use by
its artillery against ground-
troops, which at least improves
“the possibility of stopping a
Russian advance by land in
Europe.”
A probably even more potent
steadier could be the present
actual state of things in Russia.
One of the most telling of
reports on this was made by the
manager of Coutts’ Bank,
J. L. E. Smith, after visiting
Russia a month or two back.
Stating that he had found
“almost everything in a state of
utmost decay,” he commented;
“If the roads, railways and
buildings and what is being done
to them are any guide, then
Russia has every reason to
remain at peace.”
Advocating (as previously
noted here) “freezing the cold
war solid”—i.e., cutting Russia
off from the West altogether—
he held that, if this were done,
even though Russia’s people
work harder than Britain’s,
Russia would “fall slowly so far
behind that war, perhaps in one
generation, would become im-
possible.”
Similarly debunking the
alleged colossus, on a shorter-
range view, a leading London
“Daily Express” correspondent
has quoted an official British re-
port which “for the first time
goes into just the sort of detail
the Iron Curtain was meant to
conceal.” This British official
document “demonstrates that the
deterioration in the morale of
the Soviet occupation troops in
Germany has become a major
problem of military and politi-
cal security for the Soviet
authorities.”
The document is based on
interrogations of recent refugees
from the Soviet side, 98 p.c. of
them officers, n.c.os. and men
of the Russian occupation
forces, drawn from many parts
of Russia:
“The picture of the Soviet
Union that these reports add up
to is that of a drab, dilapidated
country inhabited by a cowed,
underfed, ill-clothed people, with
inefficiency, sloth, carelessness,
apathy and corruption every-
where. It is a picture hard to
reconcile with that of the Krem-
lin herrenvolk, producers of new
guns, tanks and planes, ambi-
tious to boss the world.”
SPIRITLESS
Contending that the Soviet
Army by itself “could not even
dream of winning a major war”
and that much therefore would
depend on the fighting quality
of the satellite forces, a London
“Fortnightly” writer asks: “But
what of the spirit of these
armies? Are they ready to die
for Stalin?”
He thinks not: “Among the
oppressed and exploited peoples
Moscow will not succeed in
arousing hatred against the West
in general and the United States
in particular. The Eastern Euro-
pean nations are not the allies
of the Kremlin; they are its
janissaries. By dynamic states-
manship and a clear demonstra-
tion of military strength on the
part of the Western nations the
satellite nations not only might
be neutralised as accessories of
Russian power but also secured
as allies of the West.”
BEWARE OF BAITS
All going along on present
lines of Western plans this year,
Russia by 1953 (in the assess-
ment of a London “Twentieth
Century” writer) “will have lost
the initiative in European
politics.”
This, therefore, is a year “in
which the West will have to
tread very warily in order not to
upset developments which, if left
undisturbed, will by themselves
produce security and the mili-
tary basis for a future political
offensive. During this year it
would be very unwise for the
West to enter into negotiations
with Russia in order to change
the status quo. The balance of
available force does not warrant
that yet; on the other hand,
time is now on our side. From
the Western point of view noth-
ing could be more welcome than
if the cold-war front remained
frozen and quiet during 1952.
“But 1952 is also the year in
which Russia is likely to do
something in order to get the
cold-war front moving and to
upset the Western strategy of
quiet building-up of superior
strength. It is not a year in which
to expect genuine Russian re-
treats, bona fide offers of peace
and attempts to regain lost good-
will in the West, For that
there will still be ample time.
It is the year when the Kremlin
can for the last time hope to
gain victories; when, seeing the
initiative, which it still possesses,
slowly slipping from its grip, it
is likely to make the most of it
to reverse the trend and resume
the political offensive ; and when
therefore its every move will
have to be scrutinised with a
double dose of caution.
“Speaking in somewhat over-
simplified terms, one might say
that 1952 is the last year when
Russia can consider making pre-
ventive war. The possibility that
any Russian move in 1952 might
mean a gambit for war rather
than an overture for peace
should therefore never be far
from our thoughts.....
“Who sups with the devil
needs a long spoon ; and for the
next 12 months our spoon will
still be too short. Precisely for
that reason the devil is likely to
offer us several tempting suppers
during these 12 months. We
must forgo them.”
Dragnet Digest.
Bunyan Lovers. —For what
significance there may be in it,
London “Times” records that,
of overseas visitors to a Bed-
fordshire Bunyan shrine over a
six-months period, the largest
number was from Australia,
beating not only N.Z., Canada
and South Africa (in that order),
but also the U.S., which was
runner-up.
Others Worse Off. —Consol-
ingly, a “World Affairs” writer
in it, a “World Affairs” writer
points out that, though the
British are eating 10 per cent,
less meat than before the war,
the Germans have only 62 per
cent, and Austria only 59 per
cent, of pre-war meat supplies.
Also, Britain’s milk consumption
is now 155 per cent, above pre-
war, though Germany, Austria,
Belgium, Greece and Sweden are
all drinking appreciably less
milk than they used to.
Ignorance Pays. —Somebody
having got back to England with
the report that he hadn’t met a
single Russian in the U.S.S.R.
who had heard of the slave-
labor camps, London “Econo-
mist” dryly commented; “A
Russian has the best of reasons
for professing ignorance about
his country’s correctional labor
camps—namely, that he does
not wish to be sent to one of
them.”
Uneasy Partners. —As Lon-
don “Times” sees them: “The
friendship of Britain and France
can never be taken for granted.
No alliance is more firmly
based on a community of
interests or has greater benefits
for both sides, yet none is more
delicately balanced or more
liable to be disturbed by careless
handling.”
Eisenhower, A mateur. Re-
publican bosses, says a London
“Financial Times” writer, have
never been strongly in favor of
General Eisenhower: “They
look upon him as an amateur in
politics who would show an
awkward conscience in adminis-
tering the spoils system. They
fear, and rightly, that if General
Eisenhower were President there
would be few jobs for the
hungry Republican boys who
have now been out of office for
20 years, and are so thirsty for
office that their tongues are
touching their boots.”
Television v. Films. Re-
ported in a London “News
Chronicle” article by American
correspondent Robert Waith-
man that since television began
to transform American habits
the American film audience has
declined from 90,000,000 (in
1948) to 60,000,000; “Film
theatres are closing at an alarm-
ing rate, and last year only
13,600 were employed on film
production, whereas 22,100 were
at work in 1946.”
No Wreaths, No Flowers. —
“Philadelphia Inquirer,” grimly
sorry: “The most undesirable
job in the world of sports next
year unquestionably will be that
of coach of the Soviet teams at
the Olympic Games to be held
in Finland. The announcement
that Russia will take part in the
games, for the first time since
the Revolution, must have come
as paralysing news to those in
charge of Soviet athletics.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 4 of 1952.
BETWEEN WILFRED BATEMAN Peti-
tioner and GLADYS ELIZABETH BATE-
MAN formerly Gladys Elizabeth Graham
Respondent and PHILLIP NORMAN
BRADLEY or PHILLIP NEILS BRADLEY
alias SORENSON Co-respondent. ,
TO Phillip Norman Bradley or Phillip
Neils Bradley alias Sorenson late of the
Canberra Railway Station Canberra. -
TAKE NOTICE that the said Wilfred
Bateman has commenced a suit against
you and the said Gladys Elizabeth
Bateman in this honourable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of his marriage
with the said Gladys Elizabeth Bateman
on the grounds of your adultery with the
said Gladys Elizabeth Bateman AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at
the office of the Registrar of this honour-
able Court at Canberra on or before the
fourteenth day of March 1952 and in the
event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time
the petitioner may proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge. Dated
this twelfth day of February, 1952.
O. W. DAVIES and R. G. BAILEY,
Solicitors for the petitioner, Melbourne
Buildings, London Circuit, City, Canberra.
—(l.s.) B. MARTIN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FRANK LEE late of Oammeray.—
TAKE NOTICE that RUBY WILGA LEE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3312
of 1950 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
might enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th day of March 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN E. OUPIT & BEST,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutual Chambers,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
m
Tf
C&unitaa
Qujzlity Siuis/?
"3
guaranteed never to fade or shrink
I
m
m
mm
m
VLue
COID
HOT
BLOOD
Red
Moodfarstu.
BLOoD
Blood
(ißftvy
Blood
C/o
m m blood
s>.
3s
IH/A
an
EMIC
OP-
fcLom)
F
LS
F.
r : --:
i
/
ROUP
ITR
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since IB3S.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"LOHENGRIN."
Everything in the initial pro-
duction of the National
Theatre’s opera season at the
Princess, Melbourne, was well
done—very well done. The
augmented orchestra, which had
pinched several rows of the
fr°nt stalls, played with nice
discrimination under Joe Post’s
baton, and the breathlessly
lovely prelude with its array of
motives was well enough done
to make one think at once of the
superb musical taste of Wagner.
When the curtain went up on
the banks of the Scheldt near
Antwerp there was nothing to
offend the visual sense as there
is in most operas. King Henry
(Alan Eddy) looked majestic, the
counts and nobles and the ladies
didn’t look out of place in their
medieval costumes, and when
the slender white figure of Elsa
(Betty Fretwell) slowly advanced
with timid footsteps to answer
to a charge of brother-murder it
wasn’t necessary for the observer
to abstract the music from the
action or the action from the
music to enjoy either. Which
was what Wagner wanted.
When Elsa’s knightly
champion arrived in the person
of Ronald Dowd in silver armor
he seemed to be the visual
answer to Wagner’s announcing
music. Decorist Desmond
Downing didn’t make the swan
convincing, but then nobody has
ever made the swan convincing,
even in the most expensive pro-
ductions, and Wagner probably
never expected that they would.
Mr. Dowd was an admirable
Knight of the Holy Grail, gentle,
tender, valorous and impas-
sioned, and equipped with a
singularly expressive tenor.
Nothing he did conflicted with
the music, nor did Elsa. She
was poignantly effective on the
wedding night when her
feminine curiosity got the better
of her, and she bust the whole
show up by asking her
anonymous lover what his name
was and got the information in
the glorious aria of Lohengrin
in the last act but lost a husband.
There was a momentary con-
flict between drama and music
when the swan reappeared to
carry Lohengrin back to Mont-
salvat, the dove of the Grail was
seen descending, and the swan
was untidily transformed into
Elsa’s brother; but it was all
lost in the glorious falling sound
of the combined violins and
wood-wind which seemed to
open one door after another on
to infinity as Lohengrin was
drawn off. If Elsa’s marriage
didn’t come off, the marriage of
music and drama did, or very
nearly.
Highest vocal honors went to
Betty Fretwell. She seems to
have the makings of an operatic
singer of the first-class. Ronald
Dowd was good, and so was
Alan Eddy as King Henry, A
slight monotony afflicted the
scheming of Neil Easton and
Justine Rettick, as Ferdinand
and Ortrude.
"Lucia di
Lammermoor."
Donizetti’s opera was the
second barrel of the National
Theatre’s Art Festival; and it
went off with a considerable
bang, which is saying something,
for the composer whose father
wanted him to be a lawyer sets
producers a dreadful problem
with his strange mixture of
Italian emotionalism and Scot-
tish savagery and dourness, his
sometimes monotonously tune-
ful music and his great
ensembles.
Producer Lennox Brewer
solved it by revving up the
action to a high speed so that
murder and madness followed
hard on the heels of suicide and
murder, and by dandifying his
savage Scotsmen until they
looked like a parade of 10
centuries of fashion. Henry
Ashton’s red wig flew off the
head of Robert Simmons during
his duel with Sir Edgar, but Mr.
Simmons made amends by giv-
ing the villain an excellent sing-
ing voice and a cunning
malevolence of expression.
As Sir Edgar, the last of his
doomed race, Ivor Sheridan sang
with great dramatic force though
little color. His sudden appear-
ance just as Lucia has signed the
marriage contract with Sir
Arthur and his frantic rage were
most impressive, but not as
subtle as Barbara Wilson’s
gradual declension through
sweet clinging femininity to mad-
ness and the manner in which
she put into her pleasant voice
all the necessary accents. Keith
Neilson took some of the vocal
honors for his lovely singing of
the Chaplain.
"Point of Departure."
Hana Pravda’s production for
the Tana Co. of this drama of
Jean Anouilh’s at the Arrow
Theatre, Melbourne, maintains
the standard set by Irene
Mitchell with “Salome.”
The French playwright
appears to be a sort of meta-
physical Chekhov attempting to
retell the myth of Orpheus and
Eurydice in modern language.
He describes a commonplace-
enough situation a young
violinist falls in love at first
sight with a young actress he
meets in a station restaurant.
She fulfils his associations and
he fulfils hers, he forgets his
violin and she forgets her former
lovers and off they go on the
same old wild-goose chase after
immutable love and a relation-
ship that will last for ever.
In this case it lasts no longer
than the first night they spend
together, which is in a dilapi-
dated bed in a dilapidated hotel
in Marseilles infested by a
melancholy waiter. Anatole
France said that the best part of
love was the coffee and rolls next
morning, but they don’t even
get that. All Eurydice gets is a
guilty conscience in relation to
her former lover and all
Orpheus gets is a hysterical
young woman. He can’t lift the
repression, because he sees his
desire through the same eyes as
she does, and M. Anouilh,
despite his French sophistica-
tion, can’t do anything about it
either.
He evidently sees that the con-
ception of love they have only
works out in despair and disil-
lusion, but it doesn’t occur to
him that the conception might
be altered, so he brings in meta-
physics in the shape of Death,
who dispatches the girl to the
hereafter. This certainly solves
the girl’s problem, but it doesn’t
solve the young man’s, so
Death sends him off to join her.
The emotional scenes between
the lovers were brilliantly done
by Alex Scott and Jane Adams,
and Death was extremely well
done by George Phillipe, a
Czech actor.
Shaw.
“F.S.” Those critics of Shaw
(B. 20/2/’52) who have lately
been arguing for and against his
cruelty and unkindness have been
barking up the same old wrong
tree that has served so often as
a haven of refuge when
humanity starts taking post-
mortems on its great men,
Shaw may have been an
intellectual sadist who got
pleasure out of hurting people’s
feelings, but the important thing
is: was what he said true or
false? Shaw spent his whole
life criticising people’s attitudes
and the traditional conceptions
of love, art, beauty, how to live
together, eating, drinking,
vivisection, medical science,
illegitimacy, capitalism, diet,
hanging, government and more,
and if we felt criticised at the
time he said it we must have
been open to criticism —our
peace always comes from within,
never from outside.
I'once spoke to a critic coming
away from a Shaw performance.
“Pouf! ” he said. “We know all
that —the old boy’s outmoded.”
But we didn’t know it at the
tim'e Shaw said it. We were no
more sensitive to it than society
was sensitive to children being
sent up chimneys to sweep them
before Dickens wrote about it.
Dickens made his generation
sensitive about it and now no-
body sends boys up chimneys ;
we only send them to school to
swot for examinations. Shaw
tried to make us sensitive to that
form of cruelty, as well as many
others, but he didn’t succeed
very well; and as he sadly said
just before his death, “They
haven’t caught up to me yet.”
Nevertheless, G.B.S. did
change the attitude of his genera-
tion on all sorts of subjects and
the critic who said that he knew
all that had had his attitude
changed by Shaw, although he
possibly didn’t know it. To have
an attitude changed hurts, but if
the attitude is a false one, has
the changer been cruel or
kindly?
The Queensland Symphony
Orchestra introduced itself
very graciously to its public
for 1952 in a series of
three concerts. John Farns-
worth Hall went direct to a wide
range of compositions by Holst,
Brahms, Weber, Rossini and
Dohnanyi, and showed how those
masters attained their effects by
writing for the various families
of instruments housed under the
title of symphony orchestra. The
programmes also contained a
long list of suites, variations and
symphonies to illustrate the
problems of rhythm, form and
expression that have been
mastered by composers from
Haydn to the present day. In the
final programme —the best of the
three —the orchestra gave a
lovely version of the Vaughan
Williams “Fantasia on a Theme
by Thomas Tallis.” In this, and
in the Brahms Second Sym-
phony, the strings have never
sounded better, and the entire
short introductory series could
not but make many new friends
for the Queensland Orchestra
and its genial resident con-
ductor.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
McPherson’s, Ltd.
Parent Only.
June, I rofit. f Dividends— N serves. serves.
E” Ord.
1948 Exce 57 't 74 11 P 8 = 106 - 232 151.142 1,419,507
tax provision, £lßl3 .. 1,421820
£rom specific reserves, £30,723 .. 1,452!503
1949 Tfio nZ S^ Sid ;'n £ 6390 •• •• 1.458,433
FxJl 2 ’? 0 13 . , 10 = 132,845 129,159 1.587,592
Excess tax provision, £2816 .. 1,590,408
1950 r CSe^' es * £2OB 1.590.616
1951 “ wilt 10 = !34,529 167.045 1,757,661
P 951.. 429,285 15 10 = 206,788 222,447 1,980.108
Iwo outstanding features of the latest
accounts of this old-established and
well-handled organisation—the founda-
tions were laid by Thomas McPherson,
who set up as a machinery merchant at
Melbourne in 1860—are the remarkable
growth of the business and maintenance
of earning-power of capital at a high
level, notwithstanding that over one-
third of total capital was at work for
only the last half of the term.
The group consists of parent, four sub-
sidiary and three associated cos., and is
engaged in manufacture and/or distribu-
tion of a very wide range of engineers’
supplies—they include drilling-, milling-
and planing-machines, lathes, power-
hammers, pumps, all kinds of machine
and trade tools, bolts, nuts and workshop
equipment, etc. Since all these things are
among the essential needs of an expand-
ing economy, the business, which is spread
throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand, has grown rapidly since war
ended, chief limiting factors being short-
ages of materials, electric-power and
skilled labor.
The public became interested in Dec.,
1944, when existing shareholders sold
225,000 £1 shares at 40s. each. From
mid-1945 to the close of last accounts
shareholders put up no less than
£1,205,180 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £486,087 of share premiums. The
last £684,893 was gathered at par in Jan.,
1951, lifting paid capital to £1.988,079
m 1,828,499 ords. and 159,600 ‘'E”
shares. The latter (issued to employees
for cash) rank equally with the ords. for
divs., but, at the discretion of the board,
may receive up to one and a half times
the ord. rate. In a wind-up or return of
capital they also rank equally with the
ords. up to 20s. a share, but do not parti-
cipate in surplus assets. For the last two
years they have received their maximum
div. entitlement (15 p.c. p.a.).
To finance continued expansion of
manufacturing activities and provide more
working capital, the board sought C.I.C.
authority, since the close of accounts, to
ask shareholders for a further £610,000
of new capital at par, but received
consent, in November last, to issue only
£250,000. Now it has applied again to
make another new-share-issue, details of
which are to be announced if and when
approval is received.
The growth in sales (up £2,290,732, or
39 p.c.) was more pronounced last term
than in any other year:
Revenue— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Sales .. .. £5,125,534 £5,879,981 £8,170,713
Divs. subsids. . . 12,463 16,672 17,122
Sundry income. . 4,202 6,489 7,637
Total .. £5,142,199 £5,903,142 £8,195,872
Outgo—
Exes., etc.* .. 4,652.170 5,816,305 7,218,566
Depreciation .. 62,025 85,268 121,021
Tax provision .. 166,000 200,000 420,550
Total .. £4,880,195 £5,601,568 £7,766,187
Net profit . . 262,004 301,574 429,235
* Includes cost of goods sold.
Including the cost of goods sold, exes,
(up £1,902,261) took 88.3 p.c. of sales
revenue as against 90.4 p.c. in 1950, The
wages bill alone (£906,059) increased by
35 p.c. After making what looks like
generous allowances for depreciation and
taxation, declared net earnings benefited
by £127,661, reaching £429,235, or 21.6
p.c. on average capital (ord. and “E”
shares combined) as against 23.5, 20.1,
19.8, 13.7 and 13.4 p.c. to 1946.
Divs. remained steady at 10 p.c. ord. and
15 p.c. “E” shares. The £222,447 that
remained (£15,659 more than was distri-
buted) lifted reserves to within £7971 of
paid capital at June 30 last.
And the position was better than the
parent’s accounts alone claimed. The
parent’s share of the combined net earn-
ings of the four subsidiaries was £62,946
(up £18,688), or 21.8 p.c. on the £288,445
of capital involved as against 19 p.c. for
the previous year. Last term’s combined
net earnings of parent and subsidiaries
was therefore £475,059 (up £145,899), or
Ha pC- . on avera ge capital as against
25.4 p.c. m 1950.
The year’s fresh capital (up £684,893),
together with surplus earnings and pro-
visions and an extra £292,827 from
sundry creditors, was used to carry more
debts (up £535,752) and stocks (up
’ and to ex Pand fixed assets (up
£88 91 9). and shareho!din 8 s (up
Paid „ 194S - 1950. 1951.
aid capital . . £1,803,186 £1,303,186 £1.988.079
Or. n diw rdraft '• 200 - 268 010.771 851,767
;.;k v, • • 383 - 683 586,316 , 879,143
?T^V< Ubsid -- 16 ' 439 14,478 21.940
Pinal P dil 1Si0n • * 166 * 000 200,000 427,630
* ! div. ... 182.845 134,527 206,788
Plant 0l etc *’ 804 ’ 608 614,620 561,591
Sharp’, , -V 280.251 887.623 529,526
Othlr SUbsld< 217,526 232,526 288,445
Stocks h • • , 429 * 278 182.778 215,778
Debtors “ “ 1, o?!’ 343 ll961 - 616 2,331,172
OwinT hv ‘ , V 961 ’ 895 1.317,346 1,858,098
by subsxd. 80,039 49010 9q qqq
!I:S! SS
* he improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£2,372,849) was £579,547.
locks and book debts, largest and most
vulnerable of the assets, appear at or
under cost and less provision for doubtful
debts respectively.
The immediate outlook suggests that
demand for the co.’s products on defence
% mig 5 t - offset » or largely offset,
any lalhng-off m the private sector of the
economy, where the co.’s net is widely
spread. The long-term prospects for the
business depend upon a wide range of
national and international factors, the
background of which is very fluid at the
moment. The most heartening is the
prospective growth of the Australian
economy, spurred by immigration. How
long expanding turnover will continue to
take care of the growth in costs remains
to be seen.
At 53s. the ords. give an immediate
return of 3.7 p,c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis,
Net tangible cover (parent’s accounts) is
39s. Id. The investor who looks for
4.3 p.c. on his money counts on a one-
ror-four new share-issue at par and main-
tenance of the div. at 10 p.c.
Australian General Insurance
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1943.. 15,965 10 p.c. = 7000 ? £ £
Staff fund, £2000 .. .1 8 >965 115.508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c. = 7000 ?
Staff fund, £1000 .. .[ 6,900 122.408
1945.. 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000 I
Staff fund, £1000 .. r 9,556 131,964
1946 8tafl 1 ftSd, £100o" C ".T T 9 > 241 141.205
1947 Staff 8 fund! £1000 P ‘ C ‘.7 7 °°° } 23 .231 164,436
1948 ‘: « 33 ’ 047 12 p ’ c - = 3400 ? 23 647 188 0K3
Staff fund, £1000 .. ) d ’° 4 ' 188,083
1949 Fr ° m qo t aL reS^ 1 e ’ £800 ° ”” *• 196 .° 83
I960 " ioi P'C' = 11.750 24,694 220.777
las?” cHo- 12 f ” •• 12,500 30,292 261*069
1951.. 58,237 12| „ „ 12,500 45,737 296,806
Sound insurance scrip lost less ground
than most other equities in the
drift of security prices last year
Speaking generally, that was because of
the security offered for both capital and
income, combined with prospects of
benefits at some future date. The dividend
is usually covered, more or less, by re-
UPns from a wad of Government and
other sound securities, thus leaving the
underwriting surplus, or most of it, avail-
able to swell investments and the returns
therefrom. This policy of profits-alloca-
tion ensures strong and steadily mount-
ing reserves, with a consequent high
over-all earning-power in relation to
capital, and, at intervals, increases in the
amount distributed as dividends, or the
issue of bonus-scrip, or request for fresh
cash-paid capital on favorable terms.
Certainly underwriting runs into bad
patches at times, but over-all the theory
of averages has worked well.
This 38-year-old Sydney-controlled
fire, marine and accident office has a paid
capital of £100,000 (in £1 shares called
and paid to 10s. each), which had the
support and assistance of £296,806 of re-
serves—£140,000 of which was earmarked
for unexpired risks —at Dec. 31, 1951.
To date no bonus-scrip has been issued,
and the only call to shareholders was
for 3s. a share in 1949. The div., steady
at 10 p.c. for the decade to the close of
accounts in 1947, was lifted to 12 p.c. in
1948 and to p.c. for the three years
to the close of last accounts. And the
12£ p.c. called for only £1475 more than
last year’s net return from investments
(£11,025, down £584).
The high-low price bracket for the
scrip in 1951 was 50s.-45s. Last week the
figure stood at 48s., or thereabouts. The
immediate return at 48s. is only 2.6 p.c.
on a 12£ p.c. distribution. Including the
reserve for unexpired risks, net tangible
cover is 39s. 8d. So the investor who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 20 p.c. div., or, say, re-
quest for another 5s. per share and a
15 p.c. div., or other benefits. At the
moment there is nothing to suggest that
any of these eventualities are likely to
occur at an early date.
Expansion remains the keynote of the
latest accounts. Last year’s gross pre-
miums (£497,417) stepped up by £133,065,
reinsurances (£148,113) were £20,241
heavier, leaving the gain in net premiums
at £112,434:
Loss Exes.
Net Itatio, Raiio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1939.. £98,988 £47,910 £44,309 48.4 44.7
1946.. 113,409 57,809 46,168 50.9 40.7
1948.. 169,310 78,056 66,781 40.0 39.4
1949.. 198,774 87,077 85,485 43.8 43.0
1950.. 236,870 110,394 95,292 46.6 40.2
1951.. 349,304 164,269 137,823 47.0 39.4
Another pleasing feature was the year’s
drop of 16s. p.c. in the expense rate,
making the contraction over the last two
years £3 12s. p.c. The loss rate, over
which the management has little direct
control, was Bs. p.c. heavier, due largely
to the unsatisfactory nature of motor-
vehicle risks.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£47,212 (up £16,028), of which £30,000
(up £15,000) was added to the reserve for
unexpired risks, making it £140,000, or a
shade over 40 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, which is the amount usually con-
sidered adequate. The net surplus was
thus £17,212 (up £1208), which, added
to the return from investments, made
available profit £28,237 (up £444), or
28.2 p.c. on capital as against 27.8 p.c. for
the previous year. As for the current term,
much of what the co. misses on the
swings if might pick up on the
roundabouts.
The financial structure is sound:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 86,496 104,846 122,248 157,012
Tax reserve .. 27,000 18,500 29,000 27,000
Final dlv. .. 4,900 6.000 7,500 6,250
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 28,379
Mortgages .. 19,917 46,817 45,318 24,780
Debentures . . 6,000 6,000 39,500* 35,750*
Shares other cos. 6,461 26,475 52,466 108,503
Govt, securities 258,588 276,681 318,073 325,251
Book debts .. 22,857 23,354 34.170 89,615
Cash, etc. .. 61.155 65,295 17,789 24,790
* Includes fixed deposits.
Over 55 p.c. of total assets is represented
by Government securities (up £7178).
The year’s addition of £56,037 to share-
holdings and of £25,879 to freeholds
augurs well for maintenance of the return
from investments.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
w . . To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 97.859 12} p.c. = 95,054 2,305 314,467
oMI 6 12 t ” ” 95 > 054 1,022 315,489
iQja" fM? 1 n * »,, 85,549 9,882 325,371
Ifldf” o ” ” 60 * 835 6 > 543 330,914
8 » »60,835 6,153 336,067
m’l, 1 ! f ~., 60,835 4,678 340,745
1947“ o ” ” 60 > 835 4,983 345,728
iqls” o ” ” 60 > 885 4 ,333 350,061
194 o" ! » ” 60,835 5,508 355,569
lo™ ‘ I ” ” 60 > 835 5 - 635 361,204
1900. . 66,266 8 .. „ 60.836 5,431 366,635
Reserves capitalised, £114,065.. . 252 570
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 270’587
Unexplained reduction, £755 .. " 270’139
1951.. 69,922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270i178
At a time when investors need to be
more than usually selective, it is worth
asking whether there are any industries
that have so far been held back by post-
war factors and still await opportunities to
expand and do themselves justice? Cement
comes near ,to answering this question.
On the demand side the outlook for the
industry is one of growing pressure for
some time to come. The heavy consumers
of the stuff—hydroelectric, water-
conservation and road-construction work,
etc,, and factory and office premises—
have yet to satisfy their accumulated
appetites. And now a newcomer, defence,
has joined the front of the queue.
So, to meet current demand and cater
for the future needs of an expanding
economy, most of those in the industry
are extending their plant capacity, not-
withstanding that coal, labor and trans-
port difficulties have hampered maximum
output to-date. The investor, however,
needs to remember that selling-prices are
controlled, which means that profits
depend partly upon determinations of the
control authority, and partly upon the
level of costs and output. Subject to all
this, those old-established, efficient and
moderately capitalised concerns, whose
plant as a whole appears in the books at
a conservative figure, are well-placed to
win satisfactory returns per ton of
output.
Australian Cement (issued capital
£947,766) and Kandos Cement (paid
capital £748,736) have been equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., biggest producer of its kind in the
Commonwealth, since 1930, when, seeing
trouble ahead in the industry, they de-
cided to get into double-harness. The
operating co.’s two plants are at Fyans-
ford (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.).
Annual capacity of the Fyansford works
was recently stepped up from 260,000
tons to 300,000 tons, and is presently to
be further increased to 330,000 tons. The
capacity at Kandos, which used to be
200,000-odd tons p.a., is also being in-
creased. To finance the outlay and pro-
vide more working funds, the operating
co. issued £300,000 of fresh capital over
the last couple of years, lifting its paid
capital to £2,300,000. Each of the hold-
ing cos. has also agreed to take up a
further 100,000 £1 shares at an early
date, and still more will be required for
ancillary equipment needed to bring the
kilns at both centres to full productive
capacity.
Since 1943 the big operating co., over
whose figures the curtain is kept drawn,
has sent along a steady 6 p.c., as against
9 p.c. for the five years before that. The
margin between its earnings and distribu-
tions is believed to be comfortable ;so
the 8 p.c. paid by Australian Cement
might be a more comfortable matter than
it looks.
In January, 1951, those on Australian
Cement’s register took up 73,269 new £1
ords. at a premium of 10s. each. At the
same time they received £114,065 of
bonus-scrip, three for 20, thus taking the
sting out of the premium. That raised
issued capital to £947,766, all but £9276
of which was in hand when the books
closed at Nov. 30, 1951. There was also
£4639 of share premiums still to come.
Assets at that date consisted of shares
in the operating co. £1,150,000, shares in
Bates (Aus.) Pty. £3750, and Government
securities, cash, etc., £108,426, which is to
be used to take up the further 100,000 £1
shares in the operating co. already re-
ferred to. However, to help pay for f 5
additional ancillary equipment, Austra-
lian Cement will presently ask its share-
holders for more, the amount and terms
of the issue to be announced when
approved by Capital Issues Control.
All told the market is therefore pre-
pared to accept a low immediate return
from the scrip:
Face Net
Value Mkt. Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/ 46/- 8 p.c. 3.5 p.c. 26/1
Kandos . . 16/- 36/3 10 „ 4.4 „ 34/2
* Per pound of paid capital.
Kandos has not yet announced its inten-
tion of making anew share-issue. At the
moment there is nothing to suggest that
better than current rates of distribution
need be expected.
Squatting Investment Cos. (Melb.)
To Re Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 24,722 6.6 p.c. = 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943.. 26,818 10 „ ~ 24,334 984 2.347
1944.. 14,800 8.3 „ „ 8,111 6,089 9.036
1945.. 0.684 8.3 „ „ 8.111 1,572 10,609
1946.. 24.012 6.6 „ „ 16,222 8,090 19.299
1947.. 66.812 16.6 „ „ 40,556 16,256 35,555
1948.. 97,672 28.8 „ „ 56,779 40,893 76,448
Surplus sale assets, £27,162 .. .. 103,610
War-time disposals profit, £22,851 .. 126,461
1949.. 140,057 86.6 p.c. = 89,224 50,833 177,294
1950. .274,628 46.6 ~ ~ 113,557 161,071 338.365
Loss realisation bonds, £13,692 .. 324,673
1951. .176,678 46.6 p.c. = 113,557 63,121 387,794
In this class of business —the co. has
been a run-owner in Western N. S.
Wales and over the border in Queens-
land for the last 69 years—the gamble is,
as it always has been, with seasons, prices
and costs. And now the big squatters
are being driven farther and farther west
by Government resumption and sub-
division of their leaseholds. Hence
average rather than immediate return is
the only fair basis on which to assess
long-term prospects of the scrip as an
investment. The last four years cannot,
therefore, be taken as a reliable guide to
the future. They covered an extra-
ordinarily favorable combination of
events —good to fair seasons and
phenomenal prices for wool and live-
stock —which now appear in part at any
rate to be passing from us. During this
period divs. averaging 43.2 p.c. were paid
from profits averaging 68 p.c. on capital.
For the preceding decade divs. averaged
6.8 p.c, and profits 9.4 p.c., and for the
decade before that the figures were divs.
3.8 p.c. and profits 1.1 p.c.
Seasonal conditions on the co.’s three
principal properties were mostly dry last
term, as the following comparison of
rainfalls (in inches) shows:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Thurulgoona* ~ 17.83 13.08 19.25 83.05 10.38
Quantambonef • • 20.84 16.86 19.18 34.89 7.69
Teryawyniat ..
•Near Cunnamulla (Q.). t Near Brewarrina
(N.S.W.). J Near Menindie (N.S.W.).
Thurulgoona, comprising 421 square
miles held under occupational licence,
was partly subdivided and selected in
October last, and the balance is to be
balloted for next month. Several other
properties have been inspected with a
view to purchase, but nothing suitable
has yet turned up. Also, toward the
close of accounts, bushfires destroyed
much fencing and some sheep, both of
which were insured against fire risk.
A lighter clip fetched lower, but still
very remunerative, prices;
f Sheep
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Dee., Shorn. Dec. 81. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1946.. 80,362 63,781 2486 £77,120 £3l/0/5
1947.. 72,126 93,157 2176 102,160 46/18/11
1948.. 82,889 116,564 2861 183,624 64/10/0
1949.. 86,551 105,217 2755 202,152 73/2/2
1950. . 88,012 104,784 2838 494,448 174/4/4
1951.. 95,411 87,897 2459 267,774 108/18/0
Sales of livestock, etc., turned in £145,083
(up £83,042), and a refund of £35,459 was
received on account of the wool contri-
butory charge, making total income
£448,316. After allowing for deprecia-
tion (£7llO, down £177) and taxation
(£183,000, up £9000), the net result was
£97,950 less at £176,678. Excluding
the refund just referred to, the year’?


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ś
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREBE
No Pads —
No Springs
' The NEO-BAKEEEE
acta like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE .
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE
‘“WILD CAT MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
SUPER NU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, Mew Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes, Super
NU-METAL P will recondition your motor while you drive. P ®™anently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest engines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users since
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners. Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs for 1 Cyl., 10/6, 4 Cyls., 30/-,
NU-MEJAL No. Mor Bearings, Noisy Gearboxes and Diffs. Price 29/6.
Call, write or phone. Aiali orders please aucl 1/0 Vw IUU
2/- Interstate for packing: and postage. Sorry, no C.O.D. s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque, M. 0., P.N., for — --“-vrr^r--
Or send me an Illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-METAL.
NAME (Block Letters)
ADDRESS
B. 27/2/’52.
BBICTfIt TBfIDIMC CO.
Ist FLOOR, BRISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone MA 7250 (Near Market Street)
Immediate Benefits
from
Early Investment
in the next
(15th) SECURITY
LOAN
There is no need to wait for the opening of the next (15th) Security
Loan to secure all the benefits this Loan will offer. You may make an
advance subscription now and enjoy, immediately, the combination of
complete security, guaranteed regularity of interest payments, and
Income Tax concessions which only Security Loan investment provides.
Interest on advance subscriptions will accrue from the date your funds
are lodged at a bank, provided the subscriptions are not withdrawn.
Every person lodging an advance subscription has the right of with-
drawal up to 7 days after the Loan opens. Minimum subscriptions:
Long-term securities, £lO. Short-term securities, £l,OOO.
See your Bank, Savings Bank or
Stockbroker, and
Make an Advance Subscription
NOW
The next (15th) Security Loan will help to pay for important national works
on which Australia’s future depends. The sooner you subscribe, the sooner
your money will assist these vital undertakings.
P155L6.114.22
profit was £141,219, or 58 p.c.
on capital as against 112.9,
57.5, 40.1, 23.3, 10.2 and 3.9 p.c.
back to 1945. The distribution
was maintained at 46.6 p.c., of
which 33.3 p.c. was labelled
bonus.
For the first time in its 69
years’ existence the co. has lately
enjoyed an embarrassment of
riches:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,838 £243,338
Liabilities .. 2,753 6,516 2,478
Tax reserve 109,713 91,362 155,378
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 113,781 111,558 108,330
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 34,209 36,046 30,025
Wool unsold 2,415 50,840 960
Cash, etc. . . 463,806 578,472 747,008
When the books closed cash and
Government securities totalled
£736,687 (up £166,177), some of
which will be needed when a
suitable new property is found.
There has been no writing-up
of the book-value of freeholds
or livestock.
As for the current term, loss
of Thurulgoona will reduce the
co.’s total clip, drought condi-
tions prevail on all the other
properties, prices for wool and
livestock are down, but still at
profitable levels, and operating
exes, continue to climb. It all
means a substantial drop in net
earnings.
At 78s. the f,-p. 30s. shares
(90s. a year ago and 58s, 12
months before that) return 18
p.c. on the basis of last term’s
distribution. The investor who
looks for 5.8 p.c. on his money
counts on distributions averag-
ing 15 p.c. Net tangible cover
is 775. lOd. per share.
Austral N.Z. Mining, Ltd.
To avoid further losses, and
owing to the unpromising out-
look, the co. has ceased dredg-
ing the auriferous gravels near
Cromwell, on the Clutha River
(N.Z.), and, on March 7, share-
holders will be asked to authorise
the board to sell the dredge and
other assets.
For the year to Sept.
22, 1951, the dredge treated
4.228.000 c.y. for 75020 z. fine
gold. The loss oa mining was
£4275, which overhead and
interest on a loan of £85,071
from the parent increased to
£9966, reducing the credit in the
p. and 1. account to £16,303.
Paid capital is £211,750 in
210.000 f.-p. £1 shares and
35.000 Is. deferreds which rank
after the ords. for capital. When
the books closed there were
stores (£22,952), debtors (£321)
and bullion and cash (£13,311)
totalling £36,584 to meet £2453
coming to sundry creditors and
the loan from the parent. The
dredge figures at a written-down
book-value of £222,140, build-
ings, etc., at £10,579 and the
mine at £43,353. What the ords.
are likely to rescue out of the
venture depends upon what the
dredge fetches, when a buyer
can be found.
The co. is the only member of
the Austral Malay group that
has proved a disappointment.
Formed in 1936, it got its dredge
going in 1940, but has never
paid a div. And prospects of
it ever being able to do so
became doubtful, owing to
pressure of rising costs against
a fixed price of gold, which was
reduced by £NZ2 3s. per fine
ounce following appreciation of
the N.Z. currency in 1948. The
probable gain from sale of out-
put on the free market would
not warrant continuance of
operations. Recoveries were
disappointingly below bore
values from the start. The gold
occurs in narrow gutters and
pockets on an undulating blue-
clay-and-schist bed, and an
undue proportion of the original
bores appeared to have
bottomed in the recesses.
The market recently priced
the pound ords. at 25., thus
valuing the undertaking at
£21,000 net.
New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, at the Barrier (N.S.W.),
promises to show more profit for
1951 than it did for the pre-
vious year, when £8472,731 (42.1
p.c. on capital) was netted, and a
Is. 6d. div., subject to U.K. in-
come tax of 9s. 6d. in the £, was
paid. Last year the co. mined
211,608 tons of its own ore as
against 165,668 tons in 1950,
when 43,332 tons of richer ore
was also purchased from Zinc
Corp. under contract, since ex-
pired. So the actual increase in
the quantity of feed treated was
only 2608 tons. But the London
average price of lead for 1951
was £8163.66 and of zinc
£8171.76, compared with £BIOB.I
and £8119.35 respectively for
1950. The rise in costs and the
lead bonus will, of course, take
a deep bite out of the increased
revenue. An interim div. of Is.
per ss. share was paid on Jan.
1, 1952. In the previous year
the interim was 6d. and final Is.
per share. The scrip, which
fluctuated between 345. and
41s. 6d. during 1951, sold at
325. 9d. last week.
* * * *
The distribution of about
£1,175,000 cash to shareholders
in the nine Australian-owned
Malayan tin-dredging concerns
which merged their interests in
Consolidated Tin Dredging
toward the end of 1951 is now
nearly complete. Payment was
delayed because secretary L. C.
Cooke fractured his arm and
had to go to hospital. Accord-
ing to Ronpibon’s chairman,
A. W. Palfreyman, “quite a
number of properties” have
been submitted to Consolidated,
and, when conditions in Malaya
become more settled, it is
thought that several might be
worth acquiring. The intention
is to undertake an active pros-
pecting campaign, when
terrorist activities permit. Asa
result of the merger some of the
group’s dredges have now
become available for transfer to
more suitable properties.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS PATRICK WINCHESTER late 40 Alt
Street Ashfleld.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY BELLA
WINCHESTER has filed Petition for Divorce ho.
4414 of 1951 on the ground of desertion for 3 years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may file an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by sth of May 1952 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from LESLIE BUNDLE, ob
King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. — In Divorce.
TO PATRICK FRANCIS COOPER formerly of 83
Asquith Street Auburn near Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MAY COOPER has filed a Petition for Divorce ho.
4645 of 1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 9th day of May 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from Messieurs
E. R. TRACEY & COMPANY, Solicitors, or 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend.
ASPINALL, William, deceased—Will any person
knowing the present address of HARTLEx
ASPINALL and Mrs. FLORENCE LOVERIDGE, the
children of WILLIAM ASPINALL, late of Burme.
Tasmania, please communicate with RITCHIE «
PARKER, ALFRED GREEN & CO., Solicitors, 81
St. John Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The popularity of the vice-Regal
family stems no less from the unfailing
good humor and courtesy which mark
their official appearances than from the
®2 C !°, US little acts performed in an un-
offidal capacity. As, for instance, when
this Letter received from Government
House a small piece of wedding-cake with
b £ar ing the simple inscription,
With best wishes from Jean and Robin.”
The Women s Group of the Australian-
American Association met for the first
time this year at a luncheon at the
Delphic. New members among the 170
present were welcomed by the newly-
elected president, Mrs. R. G. Casey. Be-
tween courses Mrs. Casey ably disposed
or the business part of the proceedings,
and luncheon over, got down to the en-
tertaining side, when she told of her
recent experiences overseas, where she
accompanied her husband to Paris for
the United
Nations confer-
ence and there
met Mrs. Dean
Acheson and,
once again, Mrs.
Eleanor Roose-
velt, whom she
greatly admires.
Among those at
the luncheon were
Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, who is
a vice-president
of the group. Mrs.
Frank Gillespie,
Mrs. W. S. Cox,
Mrs. Hylton Dale,
Mrs. Ken Mc-
Lean, Mrs. Peter
Condon, Judith
Silk, Mrs.
Leonard Darling,
Mrs. Rupert
Downes and Mrs. Maurice Nathan.
Myra Roper, principal of the Uni-
versity Women’s College, replied with
her usual appropriateness of words to
the welcome given her as new presi-
dent when the Meet Your Writers
Organisation met for its monthly
luncheon at the Federal Hotel. The
general disappointment at the non-
appearance of authoress Miles Franklin
was compensated for by the lively and
interesting speech by producer John
Casson. Mrs. Olive Thring, in a short
speech, thanked John graciously for his
talk, which concerned the co-operation
of playwright, producer, actors and
management—not always a happy one
for the playwright, whose play must of
necessity be subject to numerous changes.
Others present were Miss Kate Baker,
0.8. E., who has been associated with
Miles Franklin in several books, Mrs.
George Gill (Esther Paterson), Mrs. lan
Potter, Mrs. Hattie Leckie and Dr. Mary
Kent Hughes, author of Matilda Waltzes
With the Tommies.
Guests arrived at Menzies to greet
Queen Elizabeth’s milliner, Aage
Thaarup, only to find that he was
delayed in Sydney because of bad
weather. Fortunately however, there
was Reta Findlay available to entertain
guests with stories of her experi-
ences during the 15 months she spent
overseas. She told of being invited by
London’s Lord Mayor Lowson to a
dinner at the Mansion House, Reta arriv-
ing dressed in the grand manner, to dis-
cover she was the only woman present; of
attending a function to which Queen
Mary came wonderfully gowned in tur-
quoise-blue, with hat, shoes and parasol
to match; of being taken by Aage
Thaarup to dinner at Battersea Gardens,
where, the rain pelting down, her host,
fearing that Reta’s gown would be ruined,
pulled up one of the large sun umbrellas
adorning the garden and rushing her to
the dining-room, dry and unruffled.
Eventually Aage cast up at the party
Lom the airport. He’s a dapper Dane,
but has lived so long in London he re-
gards himself as an Englishman. He said
the Royal family were most interested
when they knew he was coming to Aus-
The Queen Mother talked of the
trip she had made to this country and
was quite sure he would have a wonder-
ful time. Aage told the story of the Tri-
corne hat he designed for the Queen, then
Princess Elizabeth, who was to take her
father’s place at the Trooping of the Color.
He made it of bearskin felt and took it to
Buckingham Palace for the King’s
approval. His Majesty was slightly per-
turbed when he saw it and said “Well,
let’s see it with a horse.” So off to the
courtyard they went, and the Princess
mounted a horse, and at last the King
said “Yes, I like it.” This Royal hat-
maker has very definite ideas of what
women should wear, and he sees that
when they come to him the hat does
everything it possibly can to flatter.
Aage’s models will be showing at
George’s, in Collins-street.
The marriage of Jeanette Muriel, only
daughter of the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and Lady Brooks, to Lieut.
Robin Edwin Byrne, R.N., was solemnised
at Christ Church, South Yarra, by the
Archbishop of Melbourne, Dr. J. J.
Booth, assisted by the vicar of Christ
Church, Archdeacon Schofield. Because
of the Governor’s illness his private sec-
retary, Colonel R. W. Spraggett, gave the
bride away. Jeanette’s gown was of ivory
silk slipper-satin lined with stiff white
taffeta. The slim, long-sleeved bodice,
fastened at the back with a row of tiny
buttons, continued into an apron over-
dress. Beneath this flowed the long full
skirt, and a short train was attached at
the waist. The deep neckline, cut to a
point back and front, was finished with
a deep cuff of satin and filled-in with a
band of cream guipure lace on which
was worn a diamond brooch. Medallions
of similar lace were appliqued on bodice
and overdress. The full-length two-tiered
tulle veil was attached to a tiny cap
finished with pearls and a small spray of
orange blossom. The bride carried an
ivory prayer-book and bouquet of
gardenias and tuberoses.
The four girls who were to have been
bridesmaids, Heather Menzies, daughter
of the Prime Minister, Gillian Pain, Anne
Spraggett and Marian McPherson,
waited in the porch for the bride and
her tiny attendant, Joanne Baillieu, who
was a dainty figure in filmy white tulle.
Lady Brooks, who came to the church
with Captain T. Kirwan-Taylor, aide-
de-camp to the Governor, wore a frock
of black French crepe with trimmings of
black guipure lace, relieved by a corsage
of gardenias and tuberoses ; her picture-
hat of fine black ballibuntal straw was
swathed with black velvet. Lady Brooks
was attended by Mrs. R. W. Spraggett
and Betty Everard, who also wore black
ensembles. The guests originally invited
to the reception, which was cancelled
owing to the Royal mourning, filled the
church, which was decorated with huge
bowls of blue and white hydrangeas and
agapanthus and gladioli. Among those
in the church were a former Governor
of Victoria, Lord Huntingfield, and Lady
Huntingfield, the Lieut.-Governor, Sir
Edmund Herring, and Lady Herring, the
Premier, J, G. B. McDonald, and Mrs.
McDonald, the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
John Inkster, U.S. Consul-General Henry
E. Stebbins and his wife, Lady Collins,
and Mrs. S. F. Rowell and her daughter
Rosslyn. A family luncheon at Govern-
ment House followed the marriage
ceremony.
Happy and informal was the party
Lieut.-Col. A. E. Reed and his wife gave
at their Caulfield home for their
daughter Gwen and her fiance, John
Cordner. It was also a farewell,
for Gwen, with three of her friends,
is now England-bound in the Otranto.
Mis. Reed wore a draped frock
of navy-and-white tie-silk, while Gwen
wore black faille. John’s parents, Dr. and
Mrs. E. R. Cordner, were present, also
his brothers Denis and Ted with their
wives. Mrs. Denis Cordner was in junior-
blue faille, Mrs. Ted Cordner black faille.
Mrs. A. C. Hawthorn wore with her
black satin frock an aqua-blue, silver-
beaded jacket. Mrs. J._ B. Cordner’s
dove-grey faille frock went with a tiny
hat of aqua-blue feathers. Mrs. John
Millis contrasted her navy frock with a
floating pink chiffon scarf at the waist.
From Sydney
There has been a great gathering in
Sydney of trotting enthusiasts for the
inter-Dominion pacing championship,
which, although the 11th of its line, is
being held in this town for the first time.
Maorilanders abounded, and participants
paged over the air at Harold Park were
nearly all from faraway places, many
with strange-sounding names. The meet-
ings have been like carnivals with colored
lights, flags and the cocktail-party type
of dressing worn by the women in the
members’ stand. There is a beauty about
trotting not seen at other races, with the
rhythmic swing of the racers, the floodlit
track and the flat in the centre dark and
mysterious-looking like a shadowed pool.
Trotters that win seem to keep on win-
ning. Avian Derby, for instance, has won
11 races in succession. Still, Ken Howard
in his mock broadcast of the final at the
cocktail-party on Thursday gave the
decision to Floodlight. We’ll see.
At this cocktail-party and reception
held at the Troc the guests-of-honor
were the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress. The official table was decorated
with the floral kangaroo and kiwi which
adorn all the functions (fresh dahlias
decorating them every day). Wife of the
president, Mrs. W. J. Dunlop, wore black
velvet and a snappy little white hat.
Assisting in the entertainment were Mrs.
Alton Cusick in gold-threaded brocade,
Mrs. J. R. Reeves, Mrs. R. G. Potts, Mrs.
E. A. Birch, Mrs. O. Daley and Mrs.
Ray Fitzpatrick. From the South Island
came the Patemans and the Ruffells
(Blenheim), W. J. Murray and the G.
Hemings (Malborough) and Mr. and Mrs.
J. Still (Christchurch).
A magnificent attendance of 1450
people marked Legacy’s 25th anniversary-
dinner at the Trocadero. Special speaker
was Immigration Minister Holt, whose
theme was that the voice of the knocker
was loud in the land of Australia, that
it was fashionable to find fault with
everything; an attitude of mind which
was impeding the progress of the country.
Director of Appeals, Saide Parker, spoke
of the power of Legacy to sow seeds of
happiness and quoted Van Dyke in ask-
ing “Are you willing to forget what the
world owes you and think of what you
owe to the world?” For £25 the welfare
of one child in legacy for a year can
be provided for, and this was one way
in which we could prove we had not
forgotten the men who died in two world
wars.
Recently returned to Sydney by the
Otranto is musician Mrs. Molly Niven,
who in the Old Country had the interest-
mg experience of playing with the Liver-
pool Philharmonic Orchestra. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
A younger set has been formed of the
Far West Children’s Health Scheme.
Ten business-girls attended the inaugural
meeting, three of them from the clerical
staff of Australian National Airways and
two from broadcasting station 2UE. The
secretary is Diana Wilkinson. Already
the committee has arranged to hold a
moonlight excursion on Saturday, March
15, to Clarke Island, in Sydney Harbor.
Fashion points for the new season noted
at the Germaine Rocher Showing in-
cluded sleeve emphasis (some elbow-
length flared and flounced), the use of
cravats and big bows (you must have one
perched stiffly on the centre of the
bosom), and the increasing ascendancy of
fullness in the skirt. Among the models
from Paris were several evening-gowns,
obviously designed to be worn during the
Royal tour. One, by Griffe, had a magni-
ficent navy faille skirt with a sash of
cyclamen whose bow was large enough
to form a cape. Another, by Lanvin, was
a narrow gown of gold satin with a
bodice of red velvet embroidered with
what looked like the Crown jewels. For
cocktail wear the colors were rather
sombre; brown, caramel, gunmetal and
black, the materials brocade, velvet and
lace. The coats were definitely tent-
minded, with a liking for Persian-lamb,
especially in combination with a scarlet-
red reminiscent of the Christmas-card.
Emerald-green for accent was again noted
as color most likely to succeed in the near
future.
Just when most of us have grasped the
idea that cream is a good color to use in
interior decorating it seems that cream
is going out and color is coming in. Well,
that’s progress—or change, at any rate.
It was Lady Mendl who, in the ’thirties,
“dashed through Europe with a bucket
of whitewash,” covering up all the dark,
harsh colors of the past. The cynics say
that the new vogue for pale-grey arose
from Lady Mendl’s whitewash having
accumulated the dirt of years.
According to Donald Shaw, who directs
Taubman’s new color service at Asbestos
House, the amateur interior decorator of
today should aim to use color bravely,
and to make use in the home
of all its vibra n c y. There is
a trend, he says, towards the use of
scarlet in the kitchen, allied sometimes
with eggshell blue (for accent and on
the inside of the cupboards).
Subtle combinations of color in deli-
cate shades need skilful handling, so the
Taubman service has opened to give free
advice to any homemaker who seeks it.
Not only general color-schemes for the
home are suggested, but exact shades and
directions for quantities to mix are given.
All this seems a very good idea, as it
saves worry and the expensive method
of trial and error.
Anyone who has “seen over” a paint
factory must have been impressed by the
amount of work there that is dependent
on personal judgment. Color - mixing,
testing, matching, does seem to depend
in the final analysis on the human eye—
a pleasant thought in this machine age.
When the Composers’ Group of the
Bread and Cheese Club met last week to
choose a theme song the prize went to
Rosalie Wilson Blanche, with Mrs. F. K.
Robinson of Arcadia as runner-up. This
group of the Bread and Cheese Club
consists of men and women lyric writers,
composers and singers, and the next com-
petition will be for a melody to fit Mrs.
Blanche’s lines.
Results of the 1951 Sydney Savage
Club’s Scholarship were announced last
week. The £5O scholarship goes to
Leonard Burtenshaw, a 20-year-old pipe
organist; the two special scholarships of
£25 each have been won by Joan
Rawlings, 19-year-old pianist, and 21-
year-old violinist Barbara Tyler. There
were 13 applicants for these awards,
which are financed by a special contri-
bution from members’ subscriptions, and
are designed to help young Australians
to study the various arts.
Those who thought they would get a
laugh from the Men’s Fashion Round-up
of the Trocadero must have been sur-
prised by the earnest seriousness of the
whole parade. The atmosphere was
extremely masculine, men making up
about 90 p.c. of the audience, and for
refreshment, instead of cups of tea or
cocktails and savories, large jugs of beer
were supplied to the fashion-conscious
spectators. According to organiser John
Comans, buyers had come from all points
north, south, east and west for the show,
which featured men’s suits, coats and
accessories from Australia’s leading
manufacturers. Main trend seemed to be
towards the long-cut coat and the long
lapel. Innovations included a dress-jacket
in the Royal Stewart tartan, a tuxedo
with a slotted pocket and a lapel rounded
at the base, arid the use of an emerald
bow-tie and handkerchief with a fawn
tux.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Added the Von Mueller Medal for
1951 to the other four he’s entitled to
wear on his watch-chain, William Noel
Benson, though born in England, spent
much of his early life in Australia, his
father having been a shipping-manager
in Sydney. The son’s Bachelorship of Art
derived from Cambridge, his Doctorate
of Science from Sydney University.
While attached to the latter institution he
probed the structure of South Australia,
Tasmania, N.S.W. and New Guinea,
perhaps his best-known work being that
on the Great Serpentine Belt of the Ma
State, wherein he treated the strato-
graphy, physiography, tectonics and
petrology of the belt—in fact, belted
the belt pretty comprehensively. Since
1917 he’s been in the Chair of Geology
at New Zealand’s Otago University ; a
Fellowship of the Royal Society came
his way in 1941.
Over the past few years Marcel Wattel,
Sydney-born and -bred, has established
himself as one of the Independent
Theatre’s best actors, with such note-
worthy performances as the scheming
parasite, Ligu r i o, in Machiavelli’s
“Mandragola”; as the bland, ex-
pansive company - promoter in
Giraudoux’s “Madwoman of Chaillot” ;
and as the weary old general who chases
chambermaids and relives past battles in
the current, excellent performance of
Anouilh’s “Ardele.” Seem from the stalls,
Wattel looks like a combination of hard
work and natural talent topped off with
his own distinctive flourish ; seen from
the street, he looks like an affable and
ACTOR.
prosperous businessman ; seen all round,
he works for a shipping concern, Birt
and Company, by day and acts, for the
love of it at night. Wattel was educated
at St. Atoysius’, where the late Father
Tom Walsh (vice-president of the Shak-
speare Society of N. S. Wales when he
died recently) “tried to get me into
Shakspeare performances, but I was
always too bad.” He dabbled in acting
before the war, had four years in the
R.A.A.F. during it, and, after that, took
to the stage seriously,
Rear-Admiral J. A, S, Eccles, C. 8.,
C.8.E., who turned over command of the
Australian Squadron to Rear-Admiral
Eaton recently, goes to a job important
in these touchy times. He's to be Admiral
Commanding Reserves. It can be
assumed from Eccles’s record that what
the Old Firm has up its sleeve will be
maintained shipshape and “ready in all
respects.”
“Billy T”: To the wrestling fans at
Sydney’s Leichhardt Stadium Tony
Lamaro, back on the bill there, may be
just another bundle of brawn; but to
R.A.A.F. personnel who served in S.-E.
Asia he was an institution. Tony went
to India years ago on a wrestling trip,
liked the place and stayed ; when war
came he was running a tea-shop in Cal-
cutta’s Chowringhee, but when the Anzac
Club was opened in Short-street he soon
found it, or it found him. The club was
the upper story of a large home; any
Aussie could get a stretcher there and
squeeze in somehow —as near the big
fan as possible—but apart from break-
fast, no meals were served. Not too
early in the morning Abdul or Chundra
or somebody, with sundry relatives in
tow, would make tea and fry eggs. If
you had shopping to do you went down
to Hogg’s Bazaar, had a bite while you
were out and wandered back in time to
strip off and snore. But at 4 p.m., like
possums at dusk, we all woke up; for
then Mutlab or Mahomet or somebody
made large pots of tea in readiness for
the arrival of Tony Lamaro’s big box
of fresh yeast buns —and, as often as not,
Tony would be with them. Then you
took one of the rickshaws camped at the
gate down to Firpo’s or the Cathay to
dine, filled in the sweltering evening
somehow, and went back to the little
club to take it easy till bun-time came
round again. Tony never charged at the
club—he was a worthy member in a
remote oasis where a bloke could laugh,
loaf and hear his own. language spoken.
And so Tony is back on the mat, grunt-
ing to make a Leichhardt holiday. Good
luck to him!
James Sinclair, who had the Citizen
Air Force Air Efficiency award pinned on
him in Melbourne by Air-Vice-Marshal
Bladin, has been around a bit. One-
time ballet-dancer, drummer, League
footballer and ship’s steward, he is now a
bus-conductor with the South Australian
Tramways. In 1936 he danced with the
Russian Ballet in Melbourne. Air-Vice-
Marshal Bladin was his old boss in the
Air Force.
First-prize of £lOOO in the Common-
wealth jubilee composers’ competition
goes to an Englishman, Dr. David Mpule-
Evans, of the staff of the Royal College
of Music, London. Second-prize to Mel-
burnian Robert Hughes, Scottish-born
but a migrant in his boyhood. He studied
music part-time at the Melbourne Con-
servator ium while working in a factory,
later became music arranger for the
A.8.C., and orchestrated works for the
Boyd Neel Orchestra and the Ballet
Rambert when they were in Aus-
tralia. “Festival Overture,” which won
the A.B.C. Composers’ Competition for
the proposed Royal visit, is his best-
known composition. Third-prize to Clive
Douglas, associate-conductor of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
Forty-two-year-old War II Digger
S. E. I. Johnson retained the Leederville
seat of the Westralian Assembly for
Labor in the recent by-election. Joining
the A.I.F. a private, he had lieutenant’s
pips up by the ceasefire. In Civvy-street
a bank-officer and executive member of
the A.L.P. Metropolitan District Council.
Considerable Australian talent will be
deployed on to the stage of St. Patrick’s
Hall in Eourke-street by the Melbourne
Ballet Guild on March 14, for the purpose
of presenting “The Sentimental Bloke”
in the form of ballet. Choreography by
Laurel Martin, special ballet-music by
John Tallis, the composer-son of the late
entrepreneur Sir George Tallis, one-time
of the Firm. Vance and Nettie Palmer
worked on the poem to produce the
script, which Miss Martin translated into
the language of the leg. The decor —
beg pardon, clobber —has been designed
by artist Charles Bush. The “Bloke” will
be danced by Geoffrey Ingram; Miss
Martin and Temara des Fontaines will
alternate in the part of Doreen. It isn’t
known in what musical form the great
Australian adjective will make its appear-
ance, but the dressing fashions will be
those prevalent in Collingwood in 1912.
John Locke, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
having stepped past his 96th milestone,
must be the last remaining personal link
with Adam Lindsay Gordon. He knew him
when the poet lived at Dingley Dell nigh
Port McDonnell, at the most southerly
point of the South Australian coast. A
noted horseman himself, Locke speaks of
steeplechases run around the environs of
the now big Blue Lake town. His dad
kept an inn at the port in Gordon’s
days ; the young shaver rode his pony
in encouragement from the rhymester.
Professor G. A. Currie, Vice-
Chancellor of Westralia’s University, goes
to a similar post in New Zealand’s. A
Banffshire Scot with a lively humor and
a mort of scientific and administrative
experience, he’s an honors graduate of
Aberdeen, served with the War I British
Army, and managed a sugar-growing con-
cern in Queensland for three years.
Switching to cotton he researched in that
field for another three years, and for the
next 10 he was in charge of research on
the control of noxious weeds for what
was then the C.5.1.R., at Canberra. With
that behind him he came to Westralia
in 1939, Professor of Agriculture, with
appointment to the Vice-Chancellorship
the following year. He visited British,
European and American universities in
1948.
If Allan Dawes gets any of his own
cheery personality into his biography of
Priminister Menzies it should be a happy
record. There is a characteristic story
told about this bulkiest —and one of the
ablest —of war correspondents in the
S.-W. Pacific area. Widely experienced
himself. Dawes got tired of tyros prefac-
ing dispatches with:. “X was the first
correspondent into ...” such and such
a place. His own next story began:
“I was the last correspondent into
Salamaua ...” Widely respected, with
a grin never far below the surface of his
well-nourished dial, Dawes, in the Ernie
Pyle tradition, concentrated on the human
side of the war, and wrote a good book
about what he considered the most
important element in it —Soldier Superb.
In S. M. Bruce’s day a Melbourne “Age”
man and Mollison scholar in Japanese at
Melbourne University, Dawes was later
with Sydney “Sun” and “Daily Tele-
graph,” and, in Melbourne, the “Argus
and “Herald” —special writer with the
last-named since 1941, In 1947 he was
appointed publicity adviser to the
Liberals' Federal Secretariat, when he
would have seen his present subject at his
fightingest. Dawes hopes to have the
Menzies manual on the bookstalls early
next year.
Resigned from the managership of the
Speck’s Agricultural Bank, S. R. Adams,
after 40 years in the State’s public service.
Overseas with the First A.I.F. in 1915,
he was blown up in a gas-attack, and,
back on his feet, transferred to the Agri-
cultural Bank in 1920, becoming manager
the following year. Adams fostered its
growth to one of the biggest State Govern-
ment departments. Boss, as well, of the
State Meat Board, he was a leading figure
in the development of the fat-lamb export
industry before War II and controller of
meat supplies during it. Boats and fishing
are his loves ; he should be in his element
where he’ll retire—on the Speck’s mild
east coast at Triabunna, home-port of a
fishing-fleet.
In Melbourne veterans of the hot sport
have forgathered for the first Australian
Crocodile Shooters’ Convention, which is
holding a barbecue whereat every known
tropical product that can be eaten will
be attacked. Two baby crocodiles
will attend —but not on the menu. The
sport is not confined to the well-lined
purse—Lloyd Grigg, a Frankston (Vic.)
carpenter, gave his saw a rest last year
and spent six months on far-north
rivers, returning with 355 skins which
more than paid his expenses. Another
member is Vince Vasloff, guide and
shooter, who has some 1000 saurians to
his credit, though he would as soon make
movies of them as bag them. His wife is
also a shooter. Toby Flinders, an abo.
guide, lends color to the convention.
Reputed King of the Barra tribe, he
wears the insignia of his rank —a brass
label.
John Bridges, who dropped in on The
Bulletin on his way round the world,
has been director-general since 1945 of
the British Travel Association, and known
to many Australians before that his
earnest face being the first they met when
landing in Liverpool from air-training in
Canada. Then personnel-embarkation
officer, R.A.F., he learnt his man-handling
through the tour-managership of several
world-known shipping-lines before the
war ; so that he was a natural for putting
into effect the Old Country’s awareness
of the value of “tourism.” What he’s
done to encourage visitors to Britain is
TEMPTER.
evidenced by last year’s figures —£105
million of foreign currency was brought
to the U.K., £23 million of it in dollars.
Representing British shipping-lines, air-
lines, hotels, tourist-camps and so on, and
supported by the Government, Bridges’s
association goes out of its way to make
touring easy—no ration-tickets are needed
for 91 days, concessions are made on the
entry of cigarettes and suchlike, and in
the A.R.P.-like headquarters accommo-
dation can be arranged at the flick of a
telephone-dial. Born in Glasgow, the
tourist-tempter goes via New Zealand,
Honolulu and the U.S., eager to get back
to handling his next haul—tourists for
the Coronation.
The physog finger-supported here in
this court item from Coventry is the sole
property of Lawrence Eric Clarke, who
for the past couple of years has presided
as police magistrate in Adelaide cpurts.
In practice for nine years after admission
to the Bar in 1920, he had three years as
deputy-registrar of probates before start-
ADJUDICATOR.
ing on 16 years as S.M. in the same city.
In the Kaiser’s show a lieutenant with an
infantry battalion overseas, in Hitler’s
he was a major and chief legal officer of
the 2nd Australian Division. Recreations
—golf, billiards and chain-smoking.
Visiting his native strand, Enzedder
W, N. Searle, a Harley-street specialist
in obstetrics. Nearing Panama on the
way out a call came from a Norwegian
tanker whose engineer was critically ill.
Taken aboard the steamer, he had the
Harley-street man to operate on him.
Dr. Searle had been obstetrical surgeon
at Wesminster Hospital, London, as well
as Registrar of Chelsea Hospital for
Women.
“R N C.”: Colonel F. H. Howland, of
Mt. Gambier (S.A.), is, at 89, the last
surviving commanding-officer of the eight
contingents which left South Australia
for the Boer War —he commanded the
first. Born in London, he migrated to
Trinidad, spent three years in Port of
Spain, journeyed back home for three
years with the Middlesex Engineers, then
sailed for Australia. Barred by age from
active soldiering in the Kaiser’s war, he
was accepted for transport duties to
Egypt, but was later invalided out, to
become recruiting-officer in his wide
district round Mt. Gambier. His term
of 28 years as secretary of the
local R.S.L. must be close to an Aus-
tralian record. In the Blue-lake town he
has served his fellows well, particularly
with his work for boys’ clubs and other
youth movements.
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (M.Z.), at 63, S. Austin Carr,
senior partner of the firm bearing his name;
director of the South British Insurance Co. and
of the Guardian Trust and one-time president
of the Agricultural and Pastoral Association.
He was at Gallipoli and later commissioned m
the Auckland Mounted Rifles.
In Fremantle, at 52, Captain George B. Sin-
clair, master-mariner and pilot, who trod ns
first deck on the lighthouse-tender Penguin m
1914. After a stretch in a four-masted barque
he joined the State Shipping Service, with a
master’s ticket, in 1927, to become one ot the
best-known of the skippers on the west coast.
During a memorable cyclone which swept the
Broome area, gallantry in saving life at sea
earned him a presentation by the Common-
wealth Government. He had been with the
Fremantle Harbor Trust since 1940.
At 92, in Melbourne, Arthur Capel Hadley,
the oldest living Old Boy of Scotch College
1866 to 1876 were his years. He graduated
from Melbourne University as a civil-engineer.
In Perth, at 73, Thomas Howard Hannah,
former magistrate on the goldfields, at
Geraldton and in Perth. At 16 he tramped the
115 miles from the railhead at Southern Cross
to Coolgardie, then developing from rag-town
to riches; and from 1894 until he began pre-
siding over police courts in 1920 he was mining-
registrar in various outback goldfields areas,
ending as principal registrar of the Westrahan
Mines Department. His humanity, both as
registrar and magistrate, earned him the name
of Uncle Tom from old-time prospectors.
At 70. in Brisbane, Harold Vernon Foxton,
well-known medico and former State president
of the B.M.A. An Old Digger, he retired last
year from close on 50 years m practice. His
elder son is medicoing in Tasmania; his
younger is in his final year of medicine at
Queensland University.
In Adelaide, at 71, Maxwell Fothenngham,
head of the sharebroking firm of the name and,
with election to the Adelaide Stock Exchange
in 1904, one of the city’s oldest brokers. One-
time vice-president of the South Australian
Rowing Association, he twice rowed for his
State.
In Melbourne, at 83, Frederick William
Strack, well-known Australian banking identity.
He wrote Australian Banking Problems and
other banking texts which have been known to
bank staffs since 1908.


ŝ
P»sa
5% DDT
HOUSEHOLD SPRAY
■'T
>7"
w • . '>PT.
W tv*
b '/
v\
\
DOESN'T GIVE FLIES AND HOUSEHOLD
PESTS A CHANCE —ABSOLUTELY THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST SPRAY AVAILABLE
Allfox kills flies. Rufox kills mosquitoes. Ru fox kills fleas. You don't waste
spray in the air— Rufox all surfaces where insects appear—windows, lamp
shades, carpets, lounges, picture rails, walls, W.C.'s. Rufox remains deadly
to insects—harmless to humans. Buy it in every size from pints to 44-gallon
drums.
A Product of: TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY . NEWCASYLE . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE « ADELAIDE • BERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Fertiliser Facts.
“Phos”: Estimated world
shortage of sulphur is at least
a million tons for both 1952 and
1953. In Australia, even with
recently diminished agricultural
production, the demand for
superphosphate is much greater
than the supply, which has been
reduced by the shortages of
sulphur, manpower and rail
transport.
The quantity of raw rock
phosphate obtainable is not a
limiting factor, but it is believed
that the price of ground-rock
phosphate suitable for fertiliser
would, for some obscure reason,
be not less than the price of
manufactured super. The raw-
material, even finely ground,
would not be suitable for wheat
or other annual crops under any
conditions, because of its
entire immediate insolubility and
its slow availability as plant-
food in the soil.
On the other hand, for long-
term pastures, especially under
irrigation or in the high-rainfall
coastal belt, this slow avail-
ability is not of such concern,
and it would be hastened
sufficiently, particularly on acid
soils, to serve a useful purpose.
At least some sulphur would
be saved by use of raw rock
phosphate if, when finely
ground, it could be sold at a
price cheaper than super.
A saving of sulphur is made
in U.S.A. by the manufacture of
double and treble superphos-
phates containing up to 50 p.c.
of soluble phosphoric acid,
compared with 20 p.c, in
ordinary super. These more
concentrated forms, which con-
tain more phosphate and less
sulphur, have another advantage
in the saving on freight,
bags and handling.
A method of eliminating
sulphur in the manu-
facture of super, is now
being explored in Great Britain
—the use of nitric in place of
sulphuric acid in the manufac-
ture. This gives a fertiliser
which contains about 4 p.c.
nitrogen with slightly less phos-
phate.
Another fertiliser, made in
Canada, ammonium phosphate,
contains higher percentages of
nitrogen and of phosphate, being
a combination of super, and
ammonia, the nitrogen of which
is obtained from the air. Both
would find uses in Australian
agriculture, even if not in the
wheatbelt, where nitrogen has
not proved beneficial to any
extent.
A granulated form of super,
manufactured in America and in
Great Britain is considered to
be more economical of phos-
phate (and therefore of sulphur)
under certain soil conditions.
The Australian farmer is
poorly served in having super,
as the only form of phosphate
fertiliser available for the various
crops and pastures and the
various soil and climatic condi-
tions.
Cattle-Sheep Combined.
“R.N.”; That cattle and sheep
can be run together on an
irrigated farm has been
proved by Wes. Kirkup, a
Gogeldrie (N.S.W.) ricefarmer.
Telling an agricultural official
that he is running 16 grade
Aberdeen-Angus cows and a
pedigree bull, he added:
“I use these cattle as a second
string to clean up pasture pad-
docks after the sheep and even
to graze the troublesome ditch
weeds. After the sheep have
cleaned up the pick of the feed,
the cattle are turned in and
eventually clean up the
pasturage as well as the coarse
rubbish. Although they lose
some condition on this type of
grazing they soon recover when
put on good feed.
“Main pasturage, 400 acres, is
a mixture of rye, sub. and
lucerne; no summer irrigations
from October to March, with
oats the main fodder crop and
20 acres of natural swamp land.
I am on a 60-acre rice rotation,
but wheatgrowing has been on
a reduced acreage each year
until now itls out altogether.
“I carry from 900 to 1000
ewes, including a Corriedale
stud, and my experience is that
the practice of combining cattle
with sheep has proved most suc-
cessful.
“The number of sheep that
can be carried economically on
these farms is limited to between
1000 and 1400 ewes, despite the
tremendous amount of pasturage
that the land is capable of pro-
ducing. I am seriously consider-
ing limiting the sheep to my pre-
sent numbers and making the
build-up with cattle. The com-
bination of the two is necessary
for the welfare of the pastures
as well as maximum stock re-
turn.”
End of the Clydesdale.
“C.S.”; Not a Clydesdale
stallion will be seen at Sydney
Royal Show next April. It’s the
first time in Sydney R.A.S. his-
tory that the Show has been
without these magnificent horses.
Mechanisation, cost of rearing
and feeding have reduced breed-
ing of heavy horses to almost
nothing. Yet without the Clydes-
dale the agricultural develop-
ment of Australia would not
have been what it is, no “Across
the Black Soil Plains” would
have hung in the Art Gallery,
millions of acres would never
have been cleared and cropped,
millions of bags of wheat and
bales of wool would never have
been hauled to railhead and sea-
board. To those familiar with
the horse and his work, his
absence from Australia’s biggest
agricultural Show is the end of
an era.
Onion-growing.
“Wilco”: Onions are helpless
against weed-growth, which
means that extra care should be
taken in preparing the land.
Swift-maturing varieties, though
they may lack the high quality
of late-maturers, are most satis-
factory for warm climates.
If sowing a big crop put the
seed in at a rate of from
to 21b. per acre in drills from
12in. to 15in. apart. Trans-
planting is only worth while
in small gardens.
Onions rarely fail when once
established, but they need to be
kept growing or they will be hot
and unpalatable. To this end the
soil should be enriched with
stable manure or green manure
before the crop. Lack of mois-
ture during the growing period
accounts for many failures or
partial failures. Inter-row weeds
are now destroyed with power-
kerosene.
Dealing with White-ants.
“Billjim”: Pull out and burn
badly white-anted wood. Where
it can’t be removed bore £in.
holes and blow in a teaspoonful
of white arsenic. The holes
should be 3ft. to 6ft. apart, and
should be closed with corks after
the poison has been blown in.
Dig a trench Sin. to 12in.
wide and Sin. to lOin. deep
around all foundation walls
inside and out, all piers and
chimney-bases. Fill any cracks
with melted pitch. Make a solu-
tion of lib, of sodium-arsenate
to a gallon of water and pour
into the trench a gallon to every
running foot. Replace 6in. of
soil and repeat the treatment,
then fill the trench.
Paint all woodwork in con-
tact with foundations with creo-
sote. This would need to be
done every three months. In-
spection of this work once a
year is advisable.
Mulch the Veges.
“Sarina”; Mulching will con-
serve moisture, lessen the need
for constant cultivation and
somewhat check weed-growth
during hot, dry weather. Dried
horse-manure rubbed down to
powder cannot be faulted, be-
cause the dung will be immedi-
ately beneficial to the plants, a
quantity being carried into the
soil with every drop of water.
Such a mulch will need re-
plenishing every week or two.
Grass, leaf-mould, straw, old
chaff, sawdust, rotten wood,
newspaper or old hessian sack-
ing form good mulch material,
and ultimately enrich the soil by
being left to rot on the ground.
Whatever is used, the area
should be well watered the previ-
ous evening. Next morning cul-
tivate the ground around the
plants and then spread the
mulch. The mass should not be
so thick that water cannot
readily get through during sub-
sequent waterings.
Another method of conserv-
ing moisture for growing crops
is to avoid “hilling” where pos-
sible. Rather transplant seed-
lings in slight hollows, getting
the roots well down in the soil.
Throw a few handfuls of dry or
partly-dry soil over the soaked
area after watering.
Why Not Coffee?
“W. Court”: Coffee grows
wild in north Queensland, and
might be worth developing com-
mercially. The plant springs
from seed which may be sown
where the shrubs are to grow.
However, where summer heat
6 iD
It 's hard t' leave the old place. We were very comfortable
there."
is too much for seedlings,
they are best raised in nursery-
beds in the shade and set out in
the open a few months later. A
sloping area with rich deep
soil (quite common along the
Queensland coast) is suitable, the
land being worked on the
contour to reduce erosion.
When harvested the berries
are squeezed between rollers to
release the beans, which are then
sieved, fermented, washed and
dried. Hulling comes next, after
which the beans are ready for
baking and grinding.
Without doubt, these various
processes have prevented great
interest being taken in this crop
up to the present. But with
coffee no longer cheap that may
alter.
'Feeding Milch-goats.
High - producing
milch-goats such as Toggen-
burgs and Saanens require care-
ful feeding, because, in propor-
tion to their body-weight, they
produce more milk than any
other dairy animal. The protein
value of fodder needs to be care-
fully watched; fats and carbo-
hydrates can easily be supplied,
but protein deficiency means a
drain on the animal, followed
by a rapid lessening of milk
yield.
Where lucerne-hay or chaff
can be fed a low-protein mix-
ture is all that is required. A
good combination is five parts
of oats, two of bran and one
of linseed-meal, by weight, plus
1 p.c. of bonemeal, 1 p.c. of
salt and 1 p.c. of carbonate of
lime.
With low-protein cereal-hay
or chaff it is best to feed equal
weights of oats, bran and
linseed-meal, with minerals as
above. Where linseed is unob-
tainable feed one of oats, one of
bran and four of coconut-meal.
Where milch-does can be run
on pasture high milk yields will
never be obtained unless it is
clearly understood that protein
values of pasture grasses vary
with the seasons. In the autumn
the young first growth is very
high in protein. Milch animals
on such grass need plenty of
roughage, and a concentrate
mixture high in carbohydrates,
such as the mixture first men-
tioned above. Plenty of oats is
a good rule at this time of the
year.
As the grass matures, and
especially in the spring, its carbo-
hydrate value rises (it be-
comes good for fattening), but
its protein value falls. The
heavy milker now needs a high-
protein food—plenty of linseed-,
coconut- or peanut-meal.
Shade Trees.
“Mr.”: A good shade^tree
should have a dense, spreading
crown, and, for the purpose,
deciduous species are preferable.
They drop their leaves in winter,
admitting air and sunlight, and
provide a dense shade when it is
most wanted.
For the cooler districts in Vic-
toria the elm, poplar, weeping-
willow, oak, plane, linden, horse
chestnut and ash do well. The
evergreen conifers, pine, cedar
and cypress, also flourish in these
localities. For the warmer parts
of the State a selection could be
made from both deciduous and
evergreen.
Some of the best are Queens-
land white-cedar, kurrajong,
jacaranda, pyramid - tree
(.Lagunaria patersoni), cape
chestnut and native pine ( Calli•
tris glaucd). The trees can be
planted as single specimens or
in clumps, but if planted to-
gether they should not be set too
close or crown-spread will be
affected.
Compost.
“Big Billy”: For the small
garden area a compost-heap
must be built in a series of
layers, first vegetable-matter not
more than 6in. thick, then 2in.
of , manure followed by a
sprinkling of |in. earth soaked
with liquid manure and mixed
with wood ashes or lime. Spray
this heap with sufficient water to
dampen but not soak it.
Go on repeating the layers
until the heap is 3ft. 6in. high,
then make ventilation holes with
a crowbar at intervals of 3£in.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
Under the cycle the next important rain is due about the
end of March or early in April, as the cycles concerned give
two such indications, and this will probably mean a com-
bined date that will be decided by the solar action at the
time.
There is a new southern sunspot now of some Importance
which will reach its active position,in a day or two, and this
will probably augment the mid-February rains, which were
reduced in some places and made irregular by the then weals
state of sunspot action.
The whole season corresponds very closely to the sequence
of the great drought of 1915-16 combined in a new way
with the droughts of 1880-1 and 1867-68.


Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'JACKSON^
o'suiuvan
MARK
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
M Phenovis *' Worm Remedy
X
rv
r
*
...///waif for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
şd
■PHE.7XIB.
Cronulla’s Leading Guest House
THE WESTELLA
New dining-room, excellent cuisine.
Licensed to serve drinks with meals.
Full board. Hot water all rooms
First-class Accommodation for 80 Quests.
HONEYMOON’S.
Book Now for Easter, LB 5922.
Under Entirely New Management.
FRENCH
ICorn Cure)
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’]
Who wants an
"orphan" engine ?
sd
(“ Orphan ’* one without
parents, lacking that love and
care which only parents can
give.)
Similarly an “orphan”
Engine is one from a
maker (generally
distant) who cares little
about the Engine’s
performance or the
supply of spare parts.
That is why the logical
choice is a Ronaldson-Tippett Engine, because,
being made in Australia, parts are ALWAYS
available-promptly-even for the earliest models
which, after 40 years, are still in active service !
Quality considered, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines cost less in the long run because they
are lifetime engines !
Even if you should have to wait a little,
remember that it is better to buy a Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine, backed by a nationally-known
organisation, ready and willing at all times to
give you first-class service !
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria. Melb. Office; 628
Bourke St. N.S.VV. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. &
Tippett Ltd., Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (QTand) Pty.
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ECHO
- over 65,000
alreadu sold.'
Commonwealth
d
of Australia
NATIONAL SERVICE
NOTICE TO MEN ATTAINING THE AGE OF 18 VEINS
BETWEEN Ist lANOARY and 30lh APRIL 1952
Under the National Service Acts 1951, all male persons, not
exempt under the Acts from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 18 years between Ist January,
1952, and 30th April, 1952 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BY TOth MARCH, 1952.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
Any person who is required to register and who fails to do so is liable to
th^penahdes^grescribec^jndeiMjTe^iCts.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Acts,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aboriginals.
EARLY REGISTRATION
if a male person of 17 years of age has good reason tor wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may register voluntarily even though he is not 18. Further
details may be obtained from Commonwealth Employment Service Offices.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and Commonwealth Employment Service Offices. Addresses of thi,
latter offices are in Telephone Directories. Detailed instructions on how
to register are in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
from the top nearly to the bot-
tom. After temporarily cover-
ing the heap leave it for three
weeks before giving a first turn-
ing. A second turning should
follow five weeks later, and this
time break up the lumps and
work the outside into the centre
of the pile and add water at
intervals. Then re-cover. The
heap should be ready for use
about three months after first
preparation.
Autumn Drenching.
“Billjim”: Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture says drench-
ing of sheep should immediately
follow autumn rains. Further
drenching may be necessary
during winter, depending on
weather, pasture and intensity of
stocking.
Phenothiazine is the stuff to
use, lib. to U pints of water,
in the following doses: weaners
loz., hoggets Hoz., sheep l|oz.
To cut down wool-stain from
the chemical, crutch ewes as
usual in autumn and drench
them at once. Possibility of
stain will be increased if sheep
are retained in the yards after
drenching.
A later winter drench could
coincide with shearing to save
losses from stained wool. After
drenching place the sheep in
paddocks which have been
spelled for four to six weeks.
Turkeys.
“My”: The feeding of turkeys
differs only slightly from the
feeding of fowls. For the first
three weeks provide a dry chick
mash in hoppers and feed a wet
mash twice a day as well. At
the end of three weeks reduce to
one wet mash a day and the dry
mash until the birds are six
weeks old, when the wet mash
can be dropped and replaced
with a daily evening feed of
whole wheat with cracked maize.
When the birds are out on
free range and getting plenty of
grass-seeds and insects the dry
mash can be eliminated, feeding
only the grain to encourage the
birds to return to their roosting
quarters. Three or four weeks
before marketing revert to a
wet mash in the morning, giving
them as much as they will eat,
as well as grain in the evening.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: When stacking
baled hay a level foundation is
of first importance. When
bottom tier is put down, out-
side bales should be tilted in-
wards by spreading loose hay
along the outside edges. See
that rectangular-shaped stacks
are built end-on to rain-source
direction. Build this end up so
as to allow for run-off. Leave
a gap or gaps in bottom tier
with a 4ft. 6in. wide space along
centre to prevent bulging later,.
Build the bottom tier from the
centre outwards. Reverse this
for other tiers, which then are
built from the outside to the
centre.
“C.A.A.”: Where cereal hay
is stacked in the -open it is im-
portant to protect it adequately.
Surround stacks by two fences
of plain iron about 30in. high.
Framework of the fence could
be on the inside and the outside
surface kept quite smooth to
make it impossible for mice to
get in. See that no sticks or
boards are allowed to lean over
the fences to form bridges. As
a weather cover, sectional board
covers (10 by five feet), thatches
of straw or tarpaulins may be
used.
“Hortus”: When using a
plane see that you stand cor-
rectly. The feet should be about
2ft. 6in. apart, left foot parallel
to the bench and right foot
at right angles to the bench.
That will give you a good, firm
foothold. Grip handle with right
hand and front top of plane with
the left. See that elbow points
directly ahead,
“Hydro”: In bulk storage of
grain a moisture content of
about 12 per cent, is generally
considered to be about the safe
limit. A rough test is to fill a
small dry bottle about two-
thirds full of grain, add one-
half teaspoonful of ammonium
chloride, fit a tight stopper and
shake it up. If ammonium
chloride does not stick to the
sides of the bottle the grain will
be dry enough for storage.
“C.A.A.”; To check mycotic
dermatitis of sheep (an inflam-
matory condition of the skin)
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture recommends dipping in
a bluestone solution, 11b. to
50gal. of water. To avoid wool-
staining sulphate of zinc may be
used instead of bluestone. Badly-
affected sheep should be treated
two or three times at intervals
of a month, and advanced cases
destroyed. Autumn dipping will
help to ward off incipient attack.
“A-Jay”: Red-legged earth-
mites, pest of peas, appear after
the first autumn rains and pre-
vail under damp conditions,
particularly on light sandy soils,
until the soil dries out in spring.
Where infestation is severe the
foliage takes on a bleached
appearance and begins to wilt.
Young seedlings are the most
severely attacked. Clean culti-
vation is of major importance.
D.D.T. as a 2 p.c. dust or 0.1
p.c. spray has been used suc-
cessfully. D.D.T. dust at the
rate of 14-201 b. per acre is the
simplest control measure for
large areas.


the name is
(D'ColUuns
the whisky is
o^^
OKt
0)
'f\
%
•3S;
«oy
Distilled and blended in Scotland
MI2
:
i j
\ ■
ms
mmk
r
r
\
AKUBRA
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“A mother is none the better
because she has been to a university.”
—Educationist A. Hoare.
If she is, it’s only a matter of
degree.
4* 4*
“Barbed wife machinist required,
experience not essential, good pros-
pects in modern factory.”
—Adelaide “News.”
There need be no shortage of
applicants.
“The admiral, who resigned as
U.S. Ambassador to Moscow, said;
‘The Russians yearn for freedom from
the Bolshevik yolk.’ ”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
The plan is to egg them on to
revolt.
•h ❖ *i*
“Orange-growers in N.S.W. often
receive less than 25 per cent, of the
proceeds from the sale of their fruit.”
—Trade journal.
This squeezing gives ’em the
Pip-
-4* 4* 4*
“Dogs which make rounds and
ring bells have been installed on the
nightwatchmen’s staff at a huge ware-
house.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Their main virtue is that they
won’t forsake their posts.
“Parents should encourage children
to do crossword puzzles.”
- —“New Idea."
Thus ensuring that they learn
to do things on the square.
Language.
In the far outback, or on the
fishing-grounds.
Wherever smen can mutter
what they please,
In camp' 1 and club, in shed and
paddock, sounds
The murmur of innumerable
To B or not to B, that is the
question :
Whether to swear or sternly
forswear swearing,
Whether to vent one’s spleen
and indigestion
In words, or deeds, or
apoplectic glaring.
When we were young, and never
quite at ease.
Full of strange oats and
bearded like the peach,
We strove, with pipe and pants
and reckless Bs,
To climb to manhood —just
beyond our reach.
It’s not enough to prove one-
self no prude :
B-attitudes are not beatitude.
NEIL MILLAR.
Acute Angle.
“At present it costs an owner
£8 Bs. a week to have a racehorse fed
and framed.”—“ A.B.C. Weekly."
According to the figures, sir,
your horse
Costs you a pretty packet.
You need to be a lucky man, of
course,
(Or rich ) to stand the racket.
You’re saddled, too, with for-
feit, fine, or fee
Each time the prad engages
A field. But what about the likes
of me —
It costs us half our wages!
P. O. M. C.
How to Be Popular at a
Holiday Guesthouse.
Nothing will help to establish
you more firmly in the affections
of the guest-house proprietor
than to get up from your first
cold-salad evening meal and, as
she passes the dining-room door,
call out in a loud voice: “Well,
I’m going down the road to get
a feed at the cafe —anyone else
coming?”
In view of all the petty back-
biting that seems to be an in-
tegral part of all guest-house life,
the adoption of a fearlessly out-
spoken attitude to other guests
will set you in the highest esteem
—you immediately gain the
reputation of being above that
behind - the - back whispering
which is so strongly condemned
by those who indulge in it.
When, therefore after tea in the
lounge the first night, a young
woman comes up and asks if
you play cards, and mentions a
game of rummy, indicating a
near-by table at which a couple
of old girls are sitting, im-
mediately say: “I wouldn’t mind
a game, but not with that pair
of scrawny battle-axes —they
never stop yapping.” Whilst
you may risk a slight loss of
popularity with her when it
transpires that the battle-axes
are her mother and her aunt,
you should certainly gain
tremendous popularity among
the others who have been trapped
into a game.
When you are awakened on
your first morning at about five
o'clock—after an indifferent
night’s sleep owing to the strange
bed—by children rushing madly
up and down the corridor out-
side your bedroom and shouting
at the top of their voices, the
mild remonstrances coming from
their parents’ room being quite
ignored, don’t make the mistake
of tearing out in a rage and
booting them out into the yard.
Wait until very late that night,
when everybody has retired, and,
to a couple of cupboard-hooks
(never travel without them)
screwed into the skirting
opposite one another in the
corridor, stretch tautly a thin,
strong piece of string. When the
first early-morning shouts and
sound of running shoes are fol-
lowed by a dull thud and then,
a second or so later, by agonised
howls you may turn over,
assured of some slumber while
the first-aid is going on and
“Don’t tell me what you're wishing !”
while the rest of the kids are
banished to external areas.
Time your unscrewing of the
cupboard-hooks and pocketing
the string for when the parents
are returning along the passage
to their room after breakfast.
You should be firm friends for
the remainder of your stay.
There will inevitably come the
time during your vacation when
a fellow-guest who can’t con-
trol his or her inquisitiveness
will find you sitting alone on a
lounge-chair or garden seat, in-
dulge in a little preliminary con-
versational sparring, then shoot
in the straight left —the very
purpose of the approach: “And
what line are you in, Mr.
Whizzle?” Never fall for this
one; it may turn out that he or
she is in the same game as you
are, and you’ll get nothing but
“shop” all the while you’re
there. So you say “Oh, I’m a
globulist at the Museum.” This
is sure to evoke a high raising
of eyebrows. “You work at the
Museum, eh? That must be
very interesting. But what is a
globulist—l’ve never heard of it
before.” “Neither have I,” you
return smilingly, and get up and
go for a walk. You’ll be tops
with your interlocutor after that.
A modest deprecation of
your skill as a billiardist is an-
other of the popularity-raising
things in a guest-house. When,
for instance, a fellow-guest hap-
pens to come in while you are
strolling around the otherwise
empty billiard-room glancing
idly at the pictures of famous
racehorses on the wall and asks
do you play, say “Oh, very little
—I just know one end of a
cue from the other,” At that
he’ll brighten up and return
with, “Well, I’m a mug at it,
too. So we’ll be evenly matched.
What about a hundred up?”
Take him on and invite him to
open up. When he does, and
peters out at four, take the cue
and rattle up a break of 76.
You’ll be so popular with him
he’ll be sure to want to take you
down to the pub and shout you.
The tennis-court is another
place where popularity.
especially with the middle-aged
ladies, can be cultivated. It is
best for you to take your racquet
out, but sit on a seat reading the
paper, and when one of the
ladies says: “Oh, Mr. Whizzle,
we’re one short for a mixed set
—would you make a fourth?”
Counter with: “No thanks, I’ll
be playing tennis later on —hav-
ing singles with Bob, the A-
grader. That hit-and-giggle stuff
would put me off my game.”
The esteem this will engender
will be further enhanced if you
join forces with the waspish old
codger who always comes
around to the court every morn-
ing to get away from his
missus; he’s also there to
surreptitiously screw off the
array of legs. Give a
running commentary on the
ladies’ doubles, laughing heartily
when one of them serves a
double, singing out “Timber-r!”
when another gets the ball on
the edge of her racquet, making
comments about a hole in the
racquet when a shot is missed
altogether, and saying that one
old duck who is pushing over
donkey-drop stuff would need
only slightly more pace for it to
be a bullet-service.
But undoubtedly the surest
and swiftest way to attain
popularity is to fluke the jack-
pot on the poker-machine with
one lone zack just after half a
dozen old girls have finished an
unsuccessful hour’s session with
it.
Bo.
Quite Likely.
“A man’s faith gets a severe test
when he finds himself in church with
nothing smaller than a five-dollar
bill.” —“Saturday Evening Post.”
You’ll find the staunch parish-
ioner —
We’ll call him Mr. So-and-
So —
Will always solemnly aver
That naught his faith could
overthrow.
His doctrines would withstand
the shock
Of worldiness, it would be
found,
And steady as the solid rock
His principles would hold
their ground.
And yet this chance is not re-
mote !
His faith cpuld get an awful
fright
If he’d to part up with a note;
He’d then agree that “mite is
right.”
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Taxing Farmers
For some time farmers’ organisations,
particularly those representing wheat-
growers, have been calling loudly for tax-
concessions for farmers to encourage
them to produce more.
Now Colin Clark, economist-turned-
journalist and formerly Director of the
Queensland Bureau of Industry, has
joined forces with them.
Despite glib arguments to the contrary,
it would be an obnoxious thing for
farmers, as a group, to enjoy taxation
benefits denied to the rest of the com-
munity. Granted that food-production
is of great importance, so is the produc-
tion of coal; so, for that matter, is the
care of the sick, or the building of
dams or the manufacture of drugs.
But what is even more to the point is
the question whether farmers really
would produce more if their taxes were
lower. Admittedly taxation is a deterrent
to the industrious of all walks of life,
but taxation is not stopping manu-
facturers from manufacturing or doctors
from doctoring.
Clark and his supporters in the ranks
of the farmers claim that taxation is a
factor in the decrease of land production ;
they also say that low prices for primary
products, especially wheat, are respons-
ible.
Obviously the two factors are incom-
patible. If the prices are too low to allow
of a reasonable profit, the taxation on the
net return should be negligible. But
everyone knows that the taxes levied on
farmers are high, and it; is therefore
reasonable to suppose that their opera-
tions show a considerable profit
It is understandable that farmers, who
have always been that way, should com-
plain about the system of things and
about their own lot in particular. It is
not so easy to understand an economist
championing their cause and actually ad-
vocating that farmers should escape the
taxes levied -in fair proportion on all
other sections of the community, or at
least on all who play fair with the
Taxation Department.
Another significant point for Mr.
Clark and others of his school of
thought: in 1931 the wheat price reached
its lowest ebb, falling to less than 2s. a
bushel, but in that year there was a
bumper crop, only to be exceeded in the
1945-46 season.
The real fact of the falling-off in farm
production is bound up in the price
factor, and to a lesser extent in taxation.
If a farmer can make enough money to
balance his budget, with tax thrown in,
by growing only 200 acres of wheat, he
is unlikely to grow 400 acres. But if the
price were cut in half he would have to
grow the 400 acres to maintain the same
standard of living.
It’s the small men who are letting us
down on the production side. The big
graziers are unable to reduced their flocks,
and they are the ones paying the big
tax bills. But the man who can reduce
his cropping, and who carries a small
flock of sheep, can afford to laugh today.
If the wheat price fell, and the wool price
fell, he’d soon increase production, as in
the past— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Co-operatives and Taxation
“Dick Turpin” is rash when he asserts
(B. 19/12/’5l) that the Treasury is yearly
deprived of millions by producer co-
operatives catering for wealthy share-
holders. Wealthy people are not co-
operators as a rule, and those who do
share in bonus distributions have to find
up to 15s, in the pound for taxation,
compared with the company rate of
9s. in the pound.
It is obvious that co-operatives can
only keep their own taxation low by
allowing heavy rebates, and so trans-
ferring the liability, and if the recipients
have to pay much higher than the com-
pany rate the Treasury is actually better
off. But that is too general a statement
of the position. The large producer co-
operatives have as great a need to satisfy
the prior demands of capital and to
build up reserves as their private com-
f NO \
WMiw
petitors, and even though the amount is
not always disclosed there can be no
doubt that they do pay heavily in taxa-
tion.
“D.T.” will draw comfort from the
payment of £BO,OOO this year by Westra-
lian Farmers Co-operative, Ltd., and
£60,000 by Gippsland and Northern Co-
operative Co,, Ltd., in Victoria, as dis-
closed in published balance-sheets. —W.
Blackwell (W.A.).
Insurance
A friend of mine has just received two
reversionary-bonus certificates from his
life-assurance society, plus a little note
which suggested that the time was oppor-
tune for him to review his life-assurance
programmes. (Incidentally, never was
time less opportune, and he has only one
programme.)
The note went on to state that, with
changing economic conditions, existing
policies may not now provide the
complete protection that was originally
considered sufficient to meet present and
future needs. The society was entirely
correct in that surmise, and if inflation
continues his policies may not provide
for anything more than a packet or two
of cigarettes to be smoked by the
mourners at his funeral.
As the policies were taken out a quarter
of a century ago, and the inflation is of
more or less recent origin, he is interested
to know what can be done about it. The
society would no doubt be astute enough
to realise that 25 years have been added
to his age and increase the premiums
accordingly. For a retired businessman,
on a fixed pension income, to receive
such an intimation is delightful. As the
value of the £A is less than half of what
it was when the assurances were effected,
it follows that he must (at least) at once
double his life-assurance cover.
How that is to be done will be the
problem with which he proposes to
confront the society’s “experienced
representative.” There is, of course, one
way out of the trouble, and that is for
the assured to borrow to the full extent
on his existing policies and use the money
to pay the premiums on the maximum
amount of new cover obtainable, pro-
vided he can pass the quack. He then
waits two years or so and places his head
in a gas oven.
I hope that the “experienced repre-
sentative” of the society may be able to
suggest some less drastic method, but he
will be a wizard if he can. —G. A. D.
(N.S.W.).
Beef
Beef-cattle production in Australia is
as backward and as wasteful as a blacks’
camp ; it has not improved much since
1900. The beef shortage will continue
and grow worse until our graziers
change over from grass-feeding to fodder-
raising.
The north of Australia is our greatest
beef-producing area —the Gulf country,
western Queensland, the N.T, and the
Kimberley, which should all be lumped
together as an economic unit. The pre-
sent method of grazing cattle was all
right in the pioneer days, but pressure
of population and the need of beef for
Britain demand a. more scientific
approach.
The rate of production in the north is
50 acres to the beast, down to 1000 acres
around Central Australia. That does not
mean it is poor country; only that it is
dry country.
It takes at least three years before
grass-fed cattle are fit for the butcher,
and then they weigh only up to about
6001 b. Fodder-raised cattle are ready as
“baby beef” at 20 months or two years,
and they weigh up to 8001 b.
To. increase beef production we would
need to dam or weir many of the
northern rivers and irrigate the great
black-soil river-flats to grow lucerne and
other fodders for cattle. We could breed
the cattle on the highlands and fatten
them on fodder grown on the river-flats.
We could use sprinkler-irrigation and not
flood-irrigation.
At present during a drought beef-
squatters just sit and watch their cattle
die ; they’ve been doing that for 50 years.
If you suggest using any of the large
northern rivers for fodder-growing they
say it can’t be done. The late Dr.
J. C, Bradfield suggested what could be
done, and so did lon Idriess in The Great
Boomerang.
The cattle-country needs more young
men —for preference, young men trained
in soil-culture and fodder-raising of
cattle. —M. S. (N.S.W.).
The Call
Possibly “The Call” has evoked little
but apathy and mild derision from the
public, but it certainly wasn’t “just
another of those pieces of rhetoric” (B.
23/1 / ’52). Its authors were motivated by
the highest ideals and an accurate aware-
ness of the dangers which beset the
nation. The exhortation to every indi-
vidual to play a part is both positive and
explicit.
A call directed to self-respect and con-
science is hardly likely to arouse a fiery
zeal in the hearts and minds of men, for
both qualities are singularly lacking in
individuals and communities today.
Old truths retain their character —they
remain old truths. Despite divisions of
doctrinal opinion, it is the churches that
continue to expound the truth and wisdom
of the ages amid a torrent of ideological
propaganda and vilification. The blame
does not lie with them if humanity has
chosen to turn its back on God in a futile
search for luxury, sensate pleasure and
ease. Chesterton said “Christianity has
not failed ; Christianity has never been
tried.”—B. L. (Vic.).
Wheat
So The Bulletin thinks the wheat-
grower, who is asking for an end to
concessional sales, should remember his
bounties received in the past. But the
£3O-odd million received by the wheat-
grower has surely been offset by the £9O
million given by him to the community.
The grower is not unmindful of these
things. At meetings which I have attended
the majority have always decided not to
oppose the home-consumption price for
the human population, and I gathered
that this was in gratitude for the time
when the home - consumption price
actually exceeded export.
Surely The Bulletin does not think
it right that one industry should subsidise
another. If the pigman, the poultryman
and dairyfarmer and the graziers (with
their swollen wool cheques) have to be
subsidised, surely that is a matter for the
community.
About those early bounties; In my time
two were paid—one for drought and one
for grasshopper-infestation. The Gov-
ernment decided that the bounty should
be paid on a bushel basis and not on an
acreage basis —it couldn’t subsidise bad
farming. But storms can fall one side of
a fence and not another, and when the
grasshoppers hit us I remember they used
the same formula—though how the
’hoppers knew the good from the bad
farmers I don’t know.
In the drought year I collected no
subsidy, and in the grasshopper year a
tenner, I have contributed a lot more
than that in concessional sales.-
“Are we to believe that a grower would
rather go broke and starve than grow
wheat at current prices?” (B, 6/2/’52).
No, but a grower would rather grow
something else than grow wheat and
starve.—A. W. B. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 162
Across.
I—Amusement by his Majesty is
showing the white feather, (7)
4—Pronouncing a malediction to let
a mongrel imitate Melba. (7)
8 — Thrash the French thousand. (3)
9 Acts of savagery in two places
for drinking one with neckwear.
(H)
10— Language of Zanzibar. (7)
11— This can be eaten by vegetarian
or carnivore. (5)
13 — Where fine and short legs are
placed. (2)
14— Noah who invented the spinning-
frame? (9)
17 —Horseman carries a vehicle with
everything upsetting crude metal.
20— Are back for a considerable
period. (3)
21 — Catches for musicians. (5)
22 — Fish with one before the Italian
I finish off for a Shakspearian
character. (8)
24 —Morning singer almost loves these
diplomats. (11)
26 —Emu heart is shrunken fay French
money. (3)
27 — Although confused, I snared this
little swimmer. (7)
28— Club might make the pen write
a letter or two without ink. (7)
Down.
1 — Cruel skin cut down a barren
hill. (4)
2 Title drink for Nips or somebody
who shares my monicker. (8)
3 Dressing a fish crooner. (7)
4 China tea disturbance against
authority in Ben Hur’s contrap-
tion. (7)
5 Bowling averages are thus when
I am among the runs. (5)
6 Flora is about the eminence. (6)
7 Snail flower on a published
, musical work swallowed by the
god. (10)
9 —Feature of head-of-the-river sign
that a big serpent has passed by.
(4, 5)
12—Tyler unit of work and a girl
egg-preserver. (10)
15— -Bucks. (7)
16— Disease doubles a topic for
Hamlet's soliloquy on the small
American Sthte. (4-4)
17 — It is by no means heartless
nourishment. (7)
18 — Degrees shortly seen and heard
in a low wind. (7)
19 — Sixteen down loses its eyes for
an African. (6)
23 —Trash craft. (4)
25 —Sporting equipment. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 161.


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA; Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth,
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty* Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
EL AGRICULTURAL AEUIS
TWs entire page Is a PAH) ADVERTISBMEffT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMIxBD
February
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
1952
NATIONAL ECONOMY THREATENED
BY AUSTRALIA-WIDE FIRES
The barrenness of the pock-marked valley is dotted with thousands of dead sheep and cattle, while a shambles of
twisted iron and timber is all that remains of many homes.” That's what a reporter from the Albury Border Morning
Mail saw when he flew over the once-rich Murray Valley District last week.
Hundreds of square miles of lush grazing land had been ruined . . . many families had lost their homes . . . and
thousands of head of livestock had perished ... in a bushfire.
f hat fire could have been started accidentally. It may have been intentional. Now it is too late to go searching for causes
. . . we have to analyse the results and make sure that it will not happen again.
Today we are facing the worst series of
bushfires the country has seen for years. It is
too early to assess the value of the lives,
property, and stock lost . . . but everyone,
from farmer to factory worker, will be hit.
Most folk read their newspapers. They
swallow the stories of burnt-out families . . .
men trapped in flames . . . cattle and sheep
burnt to death . . . along with their bacon and
eggs . . . then they turn round and throw their
cigarette butts from the car on a Sunday
afternoon drive.
These people dismiss a bushfire as some-
thing that’s not going to affect them personally
. . . it’s just an unfortunate cross the rural
community has to bear.
That is where they make their big mistake.
In a vague sort of way they realise that milk
rationing is in some way connected with the
fires . . . that the shortage of butter came about
because some dairies were burnt to the ground.
What they don’t feel directly is the colossal
loss to our export income because so many
sheep are burnt . . . and so many wheat crops
razed.
Everybody has to wake up. The apathetic
ones, and the ones who know all about it, but
just don’t care, should be taken on a trip
through a fire-stricken area . . . not a month
afterwards ... but right behind the fire.
They would see thousands of dead, black-
ened sheep and cattle, lying stiff-legged in
smouldering grass. They would see others,
wandering around, blistered and blinded, wait-
ing for a merciful bullet to end their sufferings.
They would see men, women, and children . . .
too stunned and shocked to cry . . . going
through the burnt-out wreckages of their
homes, looking for some little thing the fire
might have left.
When they see this they would realise that
bushfires must be stopped, and stopped for
good, somehow.
It should be easy to stop all this suffering
. . . and this wicked waste of Australia’s
resources, when it’s considered that nearly all
bushfires are man-made.
One hundred and sixty odd years ago,
before the white man came to this country,
bushfires were hardly ever heard of. Nature
stopped them by making heavy, light-proof
canopies of the trees. The forest floors were
clean.
The white man came, and wrecked the
forests. He started fires to bring on grass, and
burnt out the canopies. The undergrowth took
on a hold, and the cycle began.
Today, there are hundreds of fires every
year. Some are caused by carelessness, and
some are lit deliberately. In most cases you can
discount the stories of branches rubbing
together, and lightning striking, as just very
bad excuses. So, with only the human factor
to consider, we must be able to stop the bush-
fires.
Stronger legislation, more equipment, well-
organised fire-fighting teams, can all play their
parts in stopping the havoc ... but the biggest
factor is to bring home to everyone just what
damage the fires do to them personally.
Bushfire Advisory Committees in every State
give advice, keep records, supervise the forma-
tion of bushfire brigades, and try to educate
the people through the use of posters, leaflets
and stories.
Like the fires they are only given publicity
in the bad years. But they keep on working all
the time . . . trying to encourage the people to
stamp out these bushfires.
This year everyone listens . . . but if these
Bushfire Committees are not supported only
the ones who have suffered will keep on
remembering.
The others will just drop back into the old
routine, throwing cigarette butts out of win-
dows . . . leaving campfires burning . . . until
another bad year, and a few more deaths bring
back their responsibilities to them.
Bushfires have cost the nation millions.
Losses to our export income will be directly
traceable to fires this ye«r. Everyone will suffer
. . . from the man who actually loses his stock,
to the man in the city.
Bushfires have become a national danger
. . , they are a national responsibility ... so the
whole nation must work to prevent another
year like this one.
A Moffat-Virtue Firefighter mounted on the back of a truck, with refill pipe running to a dam
in the right foreground.
FIGHTING FIRES WITH THE
U.S. ARMY
Moffat-Virtue Equipment Proves Itself
When the U.S. Army arrived in Australia during the last war, they set out to equip their
camps and supply dumps with efficient fire-fighting equipment. After examining all types
they finally selected Moffat-Virtue Firefighters as standard.
Large orders were placed, and for the rest of the war
Moffat-Virtue Equipment stood guard over U.S. Bases
throughout the Commonwealth.
Today the equipment that proved itself to the U.S.
Army has been adapted for fighting Australian bush-
fires. The Forestry Bureau at Canberra, many Shire
Councils, and prominent pastoralists have installed it.
• The M-V Firefighter is fitted with an M-V 2£ h.p.
Petrol Engine.
0 It has a double-acting, totally enclosed self-oiling,
piston pump, driven by two vee-belts, direct from
the engine shaft. This pump has a pressure
chamber and gauge, and delivers the water at a
pressure adjustable from between 150 and 250 lbs.
• The nozzles on the high-pressure hoses are con-
trolled by hand-lever operated valves, an automatic
by-pass sends the flow from the pump back to the
tank when the hoses are closed.
0 The filler pump has a capacity of 35 gallons per
minute. The tank holds 200 gallons.
As well as the straight-out Firefighter, Moffat-Virtue
Ltd. also manufacture a Jetter-Firefighter Combina-
tion. As a jetter this machine has been designed b>
co-operation with Entomologists at the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and practical sheep-men from
fly-stricken areas throughout the Commonwealth.
Fitted with a pump for refilling the tank, and two
extra nozzles and hoses, it can be turned into a first-
rate Firefighter. . ,
Particulars of both these Plants can be obtained
from any one of the Distributors listed at the bottom
of this page.
