

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3767
Wednesday, April 23, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
A MAGNET FOR MANXMEN IS CASTLE RUSHEN
IN the Irish Sea, midway between England and Ireland, is the Isle of Man,
one of the many islands that comprise the British Isles. It is the home or
the smallest nation in the Western world and the possessor of the oldest
continuous Parliament in existence. .
The island has known many invasions throughout its long history, wnen
it was dominated in turn by the Celts from Ireland, the Norsemen, the boots
and the English. The first Norse ruler was Orry, son of the King of DenmarK,
who conquered the island in the ninth century and left behind not only
place-names, monuments and curious customs, but also a system of govern-
ment which still functions today. Its most significant feature is an open-air
ceremony known as Tynwald, which has been observed annually without a
break for over a thousand years. At this ceremony, which takes place on
July sth, the laws passed by the island Parliament during the previous twelve
months are promulgated to the people from the Hill of Tynwald, in the
Manx.and English languages. British Acts of Parliament do not apply to the
Isle of Man unless expressly so ’enacted, but the laws of the Tynwald require
the approval of the Crown. The Queen is represented by the Lieutenant-
Governor, and the legislative authority is the Council and the House of Keys,
with twenty-four elected members.
Ten miles from Douglas, the chief town, is Castletown, which is dominated
by Castle Rushen. Castletown was originally the capital of the island, ana
the fortress was for centuries the home of the Kings and Lords of Man. In
castle originated in the tenth century, but the present massive structure was
built during the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. It has a central keep,
surrounded by a high curtain wall, and fortified gateway with portcullis and
drawbridge. The outstanding events in its long history of sieges is its capture
by Robert Bruce in 1313 and its gallant defence against Cromwell s forces by
the Countess of Derby in 1651, immediately after her husbands execution at
Bolton. In later years Rushen Castle served as a prison and as the seat of
the legislature.
Motor-cyclists throughout the world know the Isle of Man as the venue
of the famous Tourist Trophy and Manx Grand Pnx motor-cycle races which
are held annually on the island.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
UDELMDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON JLC.*.


Learn
fs
ffliiUKd
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) A S e -
The Red Page
ART AND ACCIDENT.
To the mere layman with a love for the
arts the life of a landscape painter seems
the most enviable in the world. All you
have to do is to sit around in the sun-
shine in the glorious Australian country-
side and paint. In its warmth and idle-
ness, enlivened by happy creative activity,
it is like the life the magpies lead, carol-
ling on the ringbarked gums. But alas,
nothing can be quite perfect on this
earth ; there are bulls and there are land-
slides ; there are snakes and there are
critics.
In the letterpress accompanying the
reproductions in The Art of Ernest Buck-
master (Lothian) the artist gives as
alarming an account of the perils of a
painter’s existence as has ever been
written.
In his boyhood, when his passion for
painting was already flowing strongly and
steadily, he was nearly drowned when a
raft sank with him in “the forbidden
waterhole at an old pottery-works near
Blackburn” ; and if sailing on a raft made
from two old doors tied together and
propelled by a paling from a broken
fence cannot precisely be described as
practising the fine arts, it must be ad-
mitted that the youthful landscapist was
already absorbing the landscape,; in fact,
in its fluid form, he absorbed too much
of it. The same, no doubt, may be said
of the occasion when he was charged by
the brindle cow, which pinned him
against the cowshed wall with one horn
on each side of his shoulders.
But these mischances were merely
child’s-play, figuratively as well as liter-
ally, to what came next. When he was
sketching the outer suburbs of Melbourne
his bicycle got caught in the points of a
tramline and, in the face of oncoming
traffic, bucked him off. When he was
doing commercial art as a young student,
painting “a huge kiwi on the top front
of the new Kiwi boot-polish factory in
Richmond,” the fibro roof gave way
under him and nearly hurled him to the
street. When he was on a painting trip
with a doctor they ran into bushfires near
Eden and, just as the motorists had
decided they must turn back, a burning
tree fell across the road, blocking their
retreat.
In south Gippsland he was bothered
by bulls; “and if ever I saw fear on a
man’s face it was then as we literally
flung ourselves forward through the
nearest fence while the bull ripped at the
posts and wire in a really rage-maddened
effort to get at us,”
In London and Madrid, travelling to
see the world’s art, fate seems to have
given him a respite; but in Switzerland
he became dizzy on top of a waterfall,
trying to paint it, and had to lie down
“face against the rock, seeing nothing
till I could recover.” Then a sapling
which he had hooked with his easel
sprang back and tried to throw him over
a precipice into Lake Brienz. "Hien, in
avalanche country, he plunged into the
middle of a snowdrift, still indomitably
painting, and “suddenly felt the whole
mass slip.”
A painter is surely entitled, whatever
may be expected from bulls and bush-
fires, to rely on the landscape not to
move from under him ; but even when
Buckmaster came back to Australia,
thousands of miles from the avalanches
of the Alps, the countryside continued
to be unstable; at Kilcunda a cliff gave
way beneath him and he “expected with
every breath to loosen another fraction
of earth and crash straight down on to
the rocks at least 200 feet below.” Two
days later when he was painting the sea
from the rocks a wave came up and
“completely engulfed me and my gear
in a seething welter of water, tearing at
everything as it surged by.”
He chopped at a tree which, blocking
the road, was lying across telephone-
wires which it had borne down to the
earth and, when the cut was nearly
through, “the log was flung one way and
I and the axe another as the flying wires
flashed back to their normal place fifteen
feet up in the air, and my friend had a
narrow escape of having his face lifted
as one wire clipped his ear. ‘Well,’ I
said, ‘it could have been much worse;
you might have no head right now.’ ”
There were more bushfires. There was
a flood through which the artist had to
wade waist-deep while the waters rushed
into his car and made themselves at
home in his tent. There were logs from
a timber-lorry spilt dangerously over the
road in a misty dusk. And of course —an
inevitable hazard for the Australian artist
—there were snakes:
Once, when I was painting a small study in
a sketch-box, while sitting on a high bank
above the road leaning back against a tree,
I became conscious of a curious rustling
sound at rqy side, and when I looked to
see what it was, there was a nice black
snake trying to get into its hole. I was
practically sitting on it. I stayed quite
still, the snake got in, and I went on with
the painting and forgot it.
It is a curious theme for an auto-
biography, this series of anecdotes of
accident; of danger just missed by a
whisker. Buckmaster is attempting, in
part, to present the metaphysical drama
of an artist’s life; how destiny preserved
him to do his painting. And that may
be true enough: who knows what destiny
may be up to? But it also seems likely
that when he began the narrative the
artist didn’t mean to confine himself so
strictly to the one theme. But one acci-
dent reminded him of another; and he
didn’t want to discuss his private life,
nor did he want to talk about personali-
ties in the art world; and so the auto-
biography became a longish essay on this
single theme: which, though too narrow,
makes indeed very pleasant, curious
reading; with just the touch of other-
worldiiness about it that is appropriate
for an artist.
There goes with the “chapter of acci-
dents,” too, a perfectly satisfactory
account of Buckmaster’s career as an
artist; the boyhood passion for drawing ;
commercial art, when he painted his own
head on the inside of a shop window as
an engineer holding up a motorcycle
engine; student days at the Melbourne
National Gallery under Bernard Hail and
Mclnnes, with Penleigh Boyd giving him
his first prize for painting ; his portrait
of Adam Lindsay Gordon, reluctantly
done from a photograph; his love of the
London landscape with the fiery sun
illumining the buildings through the
smoky and foggy atmosphere; his
admiration for the Velasquez masterpieces
in the Prado, of which he says, “From
the day I first stood before these mighty
pictures I’ve had no hesitation in assur-
ing anyone who might ask me who was
the world’s greatest artist, that the incom-
parable Spanish master, Velasquez, stands
alone in sheer painting ability above any
other who ever lived.”
We meet Howard Hinton, buying a
Buckmaster for Armidale ; there is his
winning of the Archibald Prize in 1932 ;
some revealing notes on how pictures are
selected or rejected at art-society exhibi-
tions ; some pleasant days in Sydney with
the landscapist Robert Johnson _; his win-
ning of the Melbourne Gallery’s £5OO
prize for the best Australian subject-
picture in 1941 ; his commission to paint
in New Zealand in 1944 ; his 1944 exhibi-
tion in Sydney, upon which “The critic
for The Bulletin was very favorable”;
his journey to Singapore to do paintings
for the Australian Military History,
including one of the surrender of the
Japanese which he refused to do because
he would have had to work from photo-
graphs . . . altogether a useful and infor-
mative account of a distinguished career,
lit all the way through by his love for
the Australian countryside and conclud-
ing with a fine tribute to Streeton, whom
he does not hesitate to place, at his best,
in very high company: “Pictures such as
‘The Topers’ by Velasquez, Sargent’s
‘Hospital at Granada’ and Streeton’s
‘Purple Noon’s Transparent Light’ [it
should, of course, be Transparent Might ]
being the pinnacle of achievement in the
art of drawing and painting, and new
works on the same lines by geniuses to
come, will survive and outlive anything
in the modern idiom as ‘Time marches
on.’ ”
As one of the traditionalists in Aus-
tralian landscape, Buckmaster has natur-
ally been attacked of late by the daily
newspapers in their anxiety to keep
up with the latest European fashions;
and in this book he hits back hard at
“the poisonous monster of ultra-modern-
ism” ; at the “eccentric muck” he saw in
Paris ; and at the critics and painters who
are “driving the bewildered public into
an interest in new cars, or racehorses, or
anything else but art.” One is reminded
of one of the best of his bull-stories:
“That was the day when a Jersey bull
scared me away from a sketch I was
doing. I got down into a watercourse,
as he knocked my easel over and started
to trample on my sketch. That did it.
I picked up the largest branch of a tree
I could find and charged the bull in a
bigger rage than he was, and he cleared
off.”
But the best of the 33 reproductions
in this book (most of them in color) need
no such ardent defence. They speak for
themselves, clearly and attractively. No
doubt the originals vary in quality ; but
there can be no question about the
technical capacity, nor of the artist’s
personal sensitivity, shown in the green
bush and blue distance of “Landscape,
Olinda,” the soft browns and greens of
“The River, Warburton,” the sunlit
poplars and willows of “Corabella Creek”
and, especially, the hazy and luminous
tranquillity of “Breathless Morning.”
An English War Novel.
The title of William Baxter’s Look
Down in Mercy (Heinemann) is borrowed
from Prayers after Low Mass: —
Oh God, our refuge, and our strength,
look down in mercy on Thy people who
cry to Thee....
The novel, then, has a religious con-
tent. It may be more accurate to say
that it is contained within a religious
concept of life which the author skilfully
restrains from impinging upon the narra-
tive. Religion, as such, is never men-
tioned. But it is curious how this concept
—the unspoken proposition-—softens the
horrors, physical and psychological.
The central figure is Kent, a young
English officer whose dissolution of
character is traced clearly, if a trifle
improbably, from his seduction of a
Eurasian nurse. Much of the action takes
place in Burma, in the fighting with the
Japanese; a subject that practically
guarantees horrors. There is one scene—
of a wounded man and escort surprised
by a Jap patrol—that for calm terror
outweighs anything this reader has seen.
It is a terse little scene, and but for an
incident which looks too inhumanly foul
in print could be quoted in full. Yet its
essence is its quietness: the truck beside
the road, the men “brewing-up,” the quiet
appearance of the Japanese; and the
Englishmen surrendering, only half-believ-
ing their captors are Japanese, incapable
of comprehending the nature of the
people who now hold them in absolute
power . . .
In other words, they were unready ;
and so the scene has a certain symbolic
force.
Kent, too, was unready for the test of
war —to his great surprise. It may be
objected that the interpretation of his
character is too simple; and the objec-
tion may be sustained. But there is high
subtlety in the telling. First, infidelity to
his wife ; then infidelity to his men ; then
infidelity to himself. From the Indian
scenes of Kent, the very model of a keen
young company-commander, writing list-
lessly to his wife, drinking with moderate
eagerness with his N.C.O.s at a unit
dance, there is a stealthy, fluid process.
Character dissolves.
A glimpse of the Japanese, tough, cruel,
ready ; and possessing their own faith;
It was exciting and amusing to watch
their enemies die bizarrely, and at the same
time shocking and horrifying to listen to
them begging for mercy on their knees,
begging for the incomparable disaster of
being taken prisoners.
As far as the Japanese were concerned
such men deserved to die, it was blasphemy
to call them men, they were lower than
dogs and swine.
By this time, one feels, the Japanese
have been adequately documented. A
history of the destruction of character,
too, has obvious limitations; besides in-
viting dangerous comparison with the
work of the English, French, Russian and
—if one counts Conrad —Polish masters
of the novel . , .
But there are other aspects of Look
Down in Mercy which make the novel
something more than a good first novel
and Book of the Month choice. One is
the sustained picture of regimental life
and, closely involved with this picture, a
style which seems to be typical of some
of the best of the younger English writers.
Among others, the book recalls In the
Green Tree by the Welsh poet Alun
Lewis, who died on active service.
The Americans have written good war
books; but they have a tendency to be
boring, in a rather amateur way, on
certain military subjects—so do Aus-
tralians, incidentally—and the best of
their war novels have what may be called
a cinematic technique,; a series of action
shots.
The English way, when it is not marred
by jaunty understatement —a sort of
journalese —is truly restrained. There is
less emotionalism, whether of patriotism
or impiety, and technicalities such as
ration-returns, sitreps, fire-control and the
like are handled neatly and professionally.
Emphasis, when emphasis is required,
comes as it should in well-mannered
prose; like the crack of a whip. There
is a fastidiousness and felicity of phrase.
Baxter’s picture of the English “other
ranks” is the most vivid since Kipling.
Baxter’s regulars are not Kipling’s.
Reluctantly—since Kipling is a childhood
idol and because he has been unfairly
assaulted by the moderns—it must be
admitted that Kipling was a bit of a
sentimentalist, after all. Certainly he was
capable of no such savagely faithful
portrait as Goodwin, blackmailer and
murderer. Nor of Kent in his more
degrading moments.
The whole is built up atmospherically;
the sweat and boredom of barracks, the
unit dance, the bazaars. The Eurasian
girl, Helen —nearer to Forster than to
Kipling—is a perfect study of a charming
and touching type of femininity, more
prim than exotic; and through her of a
whole thin-skinned, desperately clannish
and hauntedly ambitious class of humans.
Yet the portrait is not without humor. It
is only on turning back to the central
character that there is a doubt, a pause in
the mind : perhaps because homosexuality
has been used as part of the mechanism
of Kent’s failure; perhaps because Kent,
in betraying British positions to the
Japanese, under torture, really completed
his ruin before the author officially
finished with him; and there simply
remained no more to say. Somewhere
along the line the bridge of sympathy
between Kent and the reader failed. It
is a matter of interest that it revives, for
a little, towards the end of the novel,
when Kent, blackmailed by Goodwin,
shoots his tormentor —when emotion is
purged in action.
The central failure of the novel was,
perhaps, inherent in the theme. But
Look Down in Mercy remains a remark-
able book—a strange compound of bril-
liance and disorder, horror and pity. A
little of each ...
J.F.
Reviewed Briefly.
Horses in the Making: Lady Went-
worth (Allen and Unwin). Lady Went-
worth has bred world’s-record holders in
both long-distance and sprint events, and
she began riding (in a Shetland pony’s
pannier) at the age of six months. She
deals with stabling, breeding, breaking,
learning to ride, illnesses, and the prob-
lems of buying; a book for the novice
and the expert alike.
Jk * *
To Seize a Dream : Virginia Hersch
(Hutch nson). Eugene Delacroix, re-
putedly the illegitimate son of Talleyrand,
was bom three or four years before
Napoleon turned the French Revolution
into an imperial progress, and he lived
through two more revolutions to see the
Second Empire under Napoleon 111
tottering towards its ruin, but for the
greater part of his life he was to French
artists the symbol of another rebellion
—against classicism in art. He left, in
addition to his huge canvasses in the
Louvre and other galleries and murals
of a scope that had not been known since
the Renaissance, a journal which in the
printed edition runs into more than 1400
pages and a vast collection of letters. It
is on these sources that Virginia Hersch
has drawn in writing her fictionalised
biography of the painter. Delacroix,
speaking of an early stage of his career,
once said “I was enchanted with myself.
Enchantment must be contagious, as Mrs,
Hersch’s enchantment with ' Delacroix
verges on ecstasy —so much so that her
novel gives the impression of having been
written standing on tiptoe. To appreci-
ate it properly the reader should probably
adopt the same position; but this reviewer,
finding himself unable to maintain that
posture for more than a few pages,
tackled the book in a series of running
jumps, eventually jumping backwards.
♦ * * *
Begin Murderer!: Desmond Con
(Shakspeare Head), The young author
of Secret Ministry marches on towards
the vacant Cheney throne with the
murder of an artist and art-collector on
the steep steps leading down to the sea
from his lonely mansion, the body being
discovered by Lindsay Grey, the detec-
tive, who has driven out in answer to a
phone-call from the murderee. He be-
comes entangled with the artist s
daughter, and even more entangled wit
his beautiful young second- wife widow,
one who can’t keep her hands off men
as Mr. Cory is not backward in demon-
strating there are a couple of evil types
pursuing both mother and step-daughter ,
and the solution is a clever paradox m
terms of art, as the solution of an artists
murder should be.


Just Arrived from Belgium —the long awaited
"Browning automatic 12 gauge shotguns
Now at Anthony Horderns 1 the long awaited Browning Automatic Shot-Guns. Not only one model, but three
improved types. The Browning Gun is renowned for its accuracy, which makes this gun a wonderful investment
for the Australian Hunter who loves his shooting. They are solidly constructed and with the normal care that
the general hunter gives to his gun, will last for many long years in perfect condition.
In the top photo, guns left to right are the Engraved Model,
Standard Model, Ventilated Model .
Bottom Panels :
Left: Standard Middle: Ventilated Right; Engraved
Model. Model. Model.
Price, £63 Price, £74/10/- Price, £66/10/-
Our Gun experts will only be too pleased to answer enquiries.
truth im adv^r
df
sd
GUN DEPARTMENT-LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. TELEPHONE M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


* - :Wm
I
1
m
%
m
XT
N#
■/
-
Slsife
*
m
m
m
m
m
# f •
m
m
i
-m
*
H
r *
r m
I
*3
%
%
*v ■
I
m t
m
m
%
■/*»'
tm
At General Motors-Holden’s everything depends on people...
People ordinary down-to-earth people, like Jack
Smith next door or Mary Jones round the corner—are
the soul and substance of any business, small or large.
General Motors-Holden’s is built up from just such
people as these people who by their knowledge and
skill produce things other people want. General Motors-
Holden’s came into being in an age that respected the
overriding importance of people and from the very start
was attuned to the idea that people were the most vital
part of their activity.
Basic to the thinking of all General Motors’ operations
is this philosophy: to provide more and better things for
more people everywhere. More than 10,000 G.M.-H.
employees in Australia are daily implementing that
philosophy, bringing to you the people of Australia
the things the people at G.M.-H. make. Right through,
the predominant theme is people!
IE
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
... c/iam 0/ c/iuMuidtfJ) MeMtM
4948 G
Passenger Vehicles HOLDEN • VAUXHALL • CHEVROLET • PONTIAC • OLDSMOBILE • BUICK • CADILLAC
Commercial Vehicles HOLDEN COUPE UTILITY • BEDFORD TRUCKS, UTILITIES & BUSES • CHEVROLET TRUCKS, UTILITIES & BUSES • MAPLE LEAF TRUCKS & BUSES • G.M.C. TRUCKS, UTILITIES & BUSE'
Non-Vehicle Products NASCO Division: Automotive Parts and Accessories • FRIDIGAIRE Division: Domestic and Commercial Refrigerators • IDEC Division: G.M. Diesels and Industrial Equipment


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3767
Wednesday, April 23, 1952
cfjo^
df
s£>s-&
THE MORE IT CHANGES THE MORE HE REMAINS THE SAME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P, H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
A.L.P. SEANCE OMENS.
The Easter Conference of the A.L.P
Victorian branch was about the leas
unanimous assembly held in that State
since the fight at the Eureka Stockade.
There seems to have been no attempi
to hide its antipathies and antagonisms
or to mend its publicly-advertisec
schisms; and it was conducted in an
eerie atmosphere of unease which almost
all the time suggested the presence o]
gremlins.
While its victims were being politically
slaughtered the rattle of skeletons
dragged from the innermost recesses of
Labor’s council chambers seasoned the
proceedings. And even the grandmotherly
oration of the Federal Parliamentary
leader. Dr. Evatt, delivered with the
cautious sedateness of a plump old lady
walking the tightrope, seemed to be
pervaded by a ghostly background-
whisper emanating from somewhere in
the immediate vicinity of the misan-
thropic Mr. Arthur Calwell, M.P. ;
“Arthur’s the friend, not Bert.”
The destruction wrought among the
seemingly secure leaders of the party was
indeed terrible, and explainable only by
one hypothesis, which was perfectly
obvious except in the case of Mr. P. J.
Clarey, a veteran stalwart, an ex-Minister
and a Federal M.P. His defeat for the
Federal executive by Mr. D. Lovegrove,
who proved—like Mr. J. A. Ferguson—
that a Communist-party training provides
a sound approach to Labor leadership,
might have been explainable on several
grounds. Voters may have considered
that his state of health makes him a
natural reject from among the forces
which will take part in the flesh-tearing
forays of Labor factions until the next
elections. Or, like the unfortunate Frau
Schleicher on another Night of the Long
Knives, he may have exhibited too large
a bump of loyalty and been outed while
trying to shield some more important
victim. He is a loyal man inclined to
stick to his leaders and possessed also of
an ability which makes him a natural
mark for the henchmen of aspiring
persons in the Federal caucus.
Generally speaking, however, Clarey’s
defeat means little more does the
defeat of Senator Devlin for the State
executive. But the ejection of Mr, P. J.
Kennelly from his 14-year-old monopoly
of pre-selection for the Legislative
Council on the direct challenge of an
official of the industrial groups and his
subsequent defeat for the State executive
has an entirely different complexion.
For years Mr. Kennelly has been virtu-
ally king of the Labor machine in Vic-
toria. He has the support of the Federal
executive. He is the bosom political
friend of Mr. Ferguson, the Federal
president. Opposition to him marks not
only the defeat of a party boss. It marks
a declaration of open war by the
industrial-group leaders on those who sit
on the fence or those who pander to
Leftist influences, as both Mr. Ferguson
and Mr. Kennelly undoubtedly have
done, the latter having openly failed to
associate himself with the groups.
It is true that Mr. H. G. Clarke,
secretary of the Waterside Workers, who
was also dropped from the State execu-
tive, is an “industrial-grouper,” but
probably his crime was that his group,
like those in Mr. Ferguson’s A.R.U., is
not very active.
The dominating issue and attitude of
the conference majority were ex-
plicit, and both the Federal executive and
the Federal Opposition-leader must have
viewed the happenings with the greatest
uneasiness, especially having regard to
the atmosphere of the South Australian
conference earlier in the year. It is
obvious that unless Messrs, Evatt and
Ferguson can establish themselves with
the industrial-groups before the Senate or
general election which they expect next
year their position will be awkward.
It is doubtful whether Dr. Evatt could
hold the leadership even now if there were
in the party an industrialist with a union
background of any stature and with Dr.
Evatt’s abounding energy. He is not a
popular leader but a compromise, poli-
tically neuter gender as far as faction is
concerned, since he is a Labor man by
adoption rather than by training, aloof
(like the Crown) from the internal in-
dustrial political issues of the movement
and ready to lead any section which is
in the ascendant. Whether he can lead
where the ascendancy is determined by
an issue peculiarly germane to union
government is a matter which has yet to
be determined.
It is true that Mr. Laurence Short and
others have protested that they owe their
ability to oust the Communists to the
sovereign remedies provided by the
Chifley Government in its amendments of
1949 to the Conciliation and Arbitration
Act, but these protestations of gratitude
have so far produced only a most un-
natural abstention from confirmation and
self-adulation on the part of Dr. Evatt.
It is not like this statesman and his
fellows to refrain from self-praise when
they become the authors of some great
public reform.
In this case, particularly, one might
have expected them, as the supposed
deadly enemies of Communism, which
their own Federal triennial conference
declared to be wholly abhorrent to
Labor, to rejoice with Mr. Short and sing
their own praises as the forgers of his
weapons. But it surely must occur to
Mr. Short and his fellow-crusaders that
their political leaders have been singu-
larly absent from the ranks engaged
against Communism in the unions. In-
deed, it may even be remembered in some
quarters that Dr. Evatt led his Parlia-
mentary followers in opposing the
Menzies Government’s legislation (passed
last year) which made the Chifley amend-
ments workable and sealed the fate of
Communism in union leadership.
In ordinary circumstances it would not
be impossible that Dr. Evatt should yet
appear some morning burning with en-
thusiasm in the role of giant-killer and
claim credit for all that Mr. Short and
the industrial groups have done. A
leader who could attack the Menzies
Government in August, 1941, for exagger-
ating the danger of attack by Japan for
its own mean political purposes and who,
from December the same year onwards,
was one of the most vocal leaders of the
Labor wolf-pack which sought to tear
Mr. Menzies’s reputation to pieces on the
ground that he had failed to see the
danger and make due preparation is not
likely to split straws when in peril. But
this time he will not find his line of re-
treat so well marked out. The cohorts of
his own Praetorian Guard stand across
his path. The spectacle of Mr. E. I.
Ward shouting hallelujahs at the defeat
of Communist leadership in the unions
would be the most unusual sight since
Joshua saw the sun stand still. And the
weight of Dr. Evatt’s own defence of
the right of the Communist party to
freedom of action, which could have been
based only on the ground that it could
be trusted to act as a genuine and honest
political organisation, has surely fallen
to the ground in the light of the revela-
tions of its hideous chicanery and of the
atmosphere of gross illegality in which it
has kept its stranglehold on the unions.
On the face of events at the Victorian
conference, the N. S. Wales A.L.P.
conference due to take place in a couple
of months’ time should be extraordinarily
interesting. Especially for Dr. Evatt and
Mr. J. A. Ferguson.
Our Gambling Economy.
There was no chorus of welcome for
the increase in the basic wage, which,
with the new rises averaging 6s. in all
capitals, brings the wage up to almost
unworkable levels. Mr. Menzies, how-
ever, feels satisfaction that the increase
in the wage has slowed up.
It might be true today that the implica-
tions of the real wage are more
important, together with the distribution
of employment and the fall in produc-
tion against the rise in remuneration. In
practical industrial terms the basic wage
means nothing. Only the decrepit and
the nearly unemployable would think of
accepting it. The state of competition for
labor is still such in many industries that
legal wages do not count. The question
at issue is what shop-stewards or indi-
viduals find they can squeeze out of
industry, irrespective of basic-wage
or other awards.
And the more the wage rises the more
discontent there is, the more motor-cars
there seem to be on the road, the more
beer there seems to be drunk, the more
gambling there appears to be and the less
money devoted to the really solid things
of life and to saving.
In the week in which the wage-rises
came there were lot’ries drawn every day
in Sydney. The Sydney Royal Show
ended with a record attendance —
minimum charge, apart from extortionate
fares to the ground, 6s. 6d. for bare entry
and a seat on cement under the sky.
Settling-day for the Easter Randwick
races took place, the Sydney papers
recording that instead of £lO notes
for the winners being tied up in
bundles of 100 they had in some cases
to be tied up in 500’s in order to get
through in the time. The squandering
orgy was topped off at the yearling sales,
where 10 youngsters were sold for 25,600
guineas, prices ranging from 1000 guineas
to 6500 guineas.
On that day, too, it was announced also
that a mere £75,000,000 loan launched by
the Commonwealth to provide work and
defence and keep the muddling and
bankrupt States from ruin failed to attain
its objective by £14,000,000, though it is
the kind of investment the members of a
frugal household might be expected to
put their savings in.
And of course the squanderers will
shriek with anguish when they find that
the result of this sort of thing is increased
taxation. And possibly they may even
consider throwing the Menzies Govern-
ment out because it doesn’t “do some-
thing”—something, of course, which will
not damp the country’s carnival spirit.
Playford's Empire.
West of the Darling River and south
Of .the Murrumbidgee the predominant
political idea is to be free from depen-
dence on New South Wales and N.S.W.
politics—both Parliamentary politics at
Canberra and union politics in Sydney.
For the past 20 years the struggle out-
side party politics, instinctive rather than
vocal, may be described as one of The
Rest versus N.S.W.
It was a South Australian Minister,
member of more than one Nationalist
(Liberal) Government between the two
world-wars, who openly proclaimed this
sentiment. Today South Australians are
organising as energetically as Victorians
to win economic independence of an in-
dustrial overlord on the east coast. The
motive force to this end is personified
in the most popular and enduring Premier
that S.A. has produced, and the student
of the Australian political scene, seeking
to account for Tom Playford’s long
reign in Adelaide, who omits this con-
sideration will find his argument missing
on at least one cylinder.
Never before in our history have
negotiations for the undertaking of a
first-class enterprise in national develop-
ment been conducted with powerful over-
seas investment-interests without the par-
ticipation of N.S.W., if only because coal
was always involved. The British and
American Governments, which will share
in the exploitation of the uranium fields
of Radium Hill, south-west of the Barrier,
have been talking with the Commonwealth
Government and the South Australian
Government only among the States, and
in this matter the man who, in American
naval parlance, has “got de braid” is Mr.
Playford.
If the latest feather adorning the Play-
ford cap had been won by McGirr, that
part of the welkin in which the chief
Press organs reverberate would have re-
echoed with congratulations. As it is,
hardly any noise has been heard at all.
An acute ear might have caught Mr.
Playford and all Adelaide saying that it
was worth while bidding to harness atomic
energy to factory machines in 10 years’
time if only “to make those high and
mighty people in N.S.W. sit up,” but, as
Gilbert Chesterton long ago pointed out,
the distinguishing mark of tribal gods
is their deafness quite as much as their
strength, and the eastern Press has been
deaf. It had better not be blind also
to what is happening over there.
For Adelaide is humming like a sew-
ing-machine. So also is a larger area into
which local enterprise is fast reaching out.
It is happening partly by means of a
brown-coal fuel from Leigh Creek which
N.S.W. furnaces would despise, and
partly through the family of Diesel, now
multiplying like rabbits. In South Aus-
tralia’s “lower North,” from the inter-
state border to the western side of the
twin gulfs, everybody seems to own a
diesel, mobile or stationary. Within this
area the organisation of electric-power in
one compact system for all purposes looks
like winning against any commensurable
region in Australia. It will overseer the
Renmark irrigation pumps equally with
the Adelaide street-lights. Along the mid-
Murray private enterprise is dipping
diesel suction-plants into the river or the
river creeks to water hitherto-barren
sandhills good for only porcupine-grass
or stunted mallee, and turning them into
peafields and orange orchards. The en-
thusiasm for hard work at this occupation
is remarkable, even allowing for the tat
current returns and the glorious climate.
Incidentally, it is possible to gather
from talk with the family successors of
the most tenacious wheatgrowers in the
world—the century-old German settlers
in this region—why farmers have to be
persuaded to grow more wheat. They
are bred to wheatgrowing, their sheds are
full of plant for the job, they are all
well off; but wool has been so profitable
that in mixed-farming, where previously
a few sheep were the auxiliary to the
main purpose, wheat is now regarded as
the extra to sheep—as the bringer-in of
the additional income which bumps up
the income-tax liability. The higher tax-
rate incurred through growing wheat on
top of the wool-crop which comes from
a man’s sheep without effort of his own
is what makes, as he says, wheatgrowing
unprofitable. It is “unprofitable” only in
that sense. This is, however, not a peculi-
arity of the S.A. wheat-belt.
The rural enterprise thus sketched has
this connection with the main South Aus-
tralian purpose: that it is reinforcing
a popular conviction—much keener there
than in New South Wales —that the com-
munity must produce for export in order
to pay for the imports upon which it has
always depended and must now depend
more than ever. The South Australian
does not worry about dependence upon
his imports so long as it is not N.S.W.
coal. Next to that he hates relying upon
N.S.W.-priced goods of any sort. The
N.S.W. industries which presume from
long habit that they have S.A. in their
pocket will before long be obliged to
change their ways. Adelaide started out
with pronounced advantages from its
admirable planning with broad streets and
ample park-lands surrounding the whole
square of the inner city. Its delayed
arrival at the stage of large-scale indus-
trial development is a further advantage
because this also can be planned on
modern lines of satellite towns.
One such is to arise on the long stretch
of formerly uninhabited mudflats along
the Port Adelaide river, which is to be-
come a sort of London-river—at least,
a waterway serving new industries on the
redeemed foreshores. The marshy, sand-
hill waste behind the isolated seaside
villages of Henley Beach and Grange is
marked out for a new, spacious Adelaide
airport, immediately adjacent to the city
as the 12-mile-distant Parafield is not.
Just beyond Parafield the former country
town of Salisbury is rapidly turning into
a special satellite-town for the manufac-
ture of rocket-weapons, a distinction
which Playford’s State won against all
that eastern commercial influence could
bring to bear. Gawler is another satel-
lite convertible, and itself is at the
threshold of Adelaide’s richest and most
charming countryside, the Barossa Valley,
which produces year by year about half
the total wine-output of all Australia.
However, the comer Premier Piayford
has his eye on for the sensational develop-
ment of the future is at the head of
Spencer’s Gulf. This is the longer of the
two long tongues of the sea which seem
designed for service of the plans now
taking shape. At the top of Spencer’s
Gulf are Port Pirie, which smelts Broken
Hill ores, Whyalla on the opposite side,
B.H.P.’s new shipbuilding town at the
foot of a mountain of iron, and Port
Augusta, where the Leigh Creek coal
arrives first at an electricity-generating
house. “If I were to make a guess at
where the choice will fall for a site for
the uranium-treating plant,” said Premier
Piayford the other day, “I would name
the shore of Spencer’s Gulf.” It would
probably be as safe a bet as the hour of
the next high tide in Port Jackson.
As for the city of Adelaide itself,
named after a Queen, whereas other State
capitals acknowledge mere politicians, it
splashes at evening in its new multi-
colors. Its hills are located by Nature
to form as lovely a residential quarter as
those of Durban, save only that lack of a
water-supply militates against that
development. Maybe the Murray, already
employed to serve domestic needs as far
as Whyalla and shortly to serve Adelaide
city also, will in time water those hill-
tops, too. Then the present spread of
suburbs into the foothills will extend,
and Adelaide from the heights will seem
to cascade down from its fair metro-
politan uplands and spill through a plain
of trees and gardens, and a minimum of
city factory smoke, to the sea.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Menzies for London.
Mr. Menzies goes to London in May
possibly via the United States and Canada,
though arrangements seem as vague and
fluid as daily-newspaper conceptions of
the visit.
These conceptions are formulated
according to the papers’ views on the
Menzies policy and performance. Some
suggest that he has been called hurriedly
chiefly to deal with British hostility to
the import-restriction programme. Some
opine that he is, inter alia, to discuss the
appointment of a new Governor-General
—which is certainly overdue. Some even
think the discussions will mainly centre
round proposals to link Australia with
N.A.T.O.
The commonsense deduction is that
Mr. Menzies has merely been invited to
London to have a general discussion with
Mr. Churchill about the numerous
problems of British Commonwealth
integration, security and development.
In the next few years the closest accord
will be needed between the British Com-
monwealth nations. For survival of the
whole a nice economic balance must be
preserved among them, to ensure that
the measures of one integral nation do
not contribute unnecessarily to the vicis-
situdes of others and that there is concert,
or at least agreement, among all on a
general defence policy and a common
front against Communism.
Moscow’s policy at present is to split
the Commonwealth internally by leading
off the newly-fledged lambs of India,
Pakistan, Burma and the rest from the
common fold of British nationhood. It
is also bent on separating the British
Commonwealth of Nations from the
United States. Unfortunately the Soviet
effort is not altogether futile. The
Moscow conference on trade, like the
Moscow conferences “for peace,” has
achieved some prestige, though actually it
has produced no new trade which the
Russians could not have generated by
simply going to British or other firms and
putting their money down with their
orders. Moreover, if precedent means
anything, the normal course of events will
be followed —that the overseas countries
of the West will keep their agreements
and the Russians won’t keep theirs.
As Mr. Acheson pointed out at the
weekend, the trade conference, like the
“peace” conferences, was merely another
golden apple of discord flung into the
international ring to split the nations of
the Atlantic Pact. Proof of this was to
be found in the vicious programmes of
abuse and insult which were broadcast
from Moscow during the weekend, and
which combined suave, insinuating propa-
ganda about the need for Anglo-Russian
friendship and closer relationships be-
tween the “British and Russian peoples”
—not Governments —with venomous
abuse of the United States as the world’s
No. 1 warmonger, and the announcement
(in China) that Russia is stepping-up the
supply of arms to the Communists in
Korea so that they can kill more British,
Australian and American soldiers.
If Mr. Menzies goes to reach an agree-
ment fo strengthen the associations of
Australia with the United Kingdom and
N.A.T.O. defence plans, and particularly
for the mutual defence of the Middle
East, posterity at least will not be likely
to grudge the cost.
A Church at the Alice.
John Flynn is to have a memorial in
the shape of the first Presbyterian Church
in his beloved Inland. To build it at
Alice Springs a fund is now being or-
ganised by the Rev. Ken Beckett, an old
R.A.A.F. padre who finished his war in
the first flight of occupation troops in
Japan and who recently has been work-
ing in Flynn’s footsteps in the Red Centre.
The Alice is a fit place for the memorial
to stand, for that thriving town, now one
of Australia’s most popular tourist
centres, is itself a monument to his faith.
Few people, when he began to develop
his inland medical services and to preach
the greatness of the country of the Arunta
and the Warramunga 40 years ago, en-
visaged its recent growth. Its locality,
with its rugged purple and blue moun-
tains and its golden spinifex fading into
the mulga among the red sand, he loved
greatly. And it has the additional quali-
fication that it stands in the very centre
of Australia, throughout the whole of
which the name of John Flynn became a
household word.
On the day on which he died a new
transmitter for his Flying Doctor wireless-
service was opened at Broken Hill by the
Governor of New South Wales, Sir John
Northcott, who paid a moving tribute to
him as the founder of the service which
brought the people of the west into daily
contact with each other and with medical
aid —a service, too, which played a part
in assuring Australia’s safety during the
early days of the Japanese war, for with-
out it the continent would have been full
of blind spots to its defenders.
Donations and they should be
numerous and generous —can be sent to
the director of the John Flynn Memorial
Appeal through the Presbyterian Church
office in any State capital.
Perhaps John Flynn himself does not
need a memorial; he is his own, since
he is now as much part of Australian
history as the Inland itself. But it would
certainly give him great pleasure to know
that he had been the means of building
a church at the Alice. And the outback
owes him more than a little for his ser-
vices to the people of the sandhills and
the spinifex.
Lot'ries, How They Love 'Em!
One of the strange anomalies abouti
these Socialists who call themselves
“Labor” is their love for State lot’ries.
How do they square their Socialist pro-
fessions with this obsession?
The guiding principle of Socialism is
a more equitable distribution of the
world’s goods—those who have more than
their share must part with some of it to
improve the lot of those who have less,
Lot’ries work on the opposite principle ;
a large number of people each contribute
a small sum in order that a few of them
can collect a large sum.
Anyone who thinks that is a good thing
is welcome to his opinion, but he has no
right to spout about Socialism or
condemn capitalism.
State lot’ries are conducted in four of
the six States. Tasmania inherited Tatts
from colonial days and that sweep is still
a private concern, though run under Gov-
ernment supervision and paying a big
rake-off to the Tasmanian Treasury. The
Queensland, N.S.W. and Westralian
lot’ries were all begotten of “Labor.”
It is no coincidence that the two
States without a Government gamble
are the two in which “Labor” has spent
most of its vears on the Opposition
benches.
Not that it hasn’t tried hard to get
Parliamentary consent to complete the
chain of State Blotteries ; in South Aus-
tralia the most recent attempt failed only
a few months ago, and at the Easter
conference of the Victorian A.L.P. the
Parliamentary party was instructed to do
its best to bring in a lot’ry bill.
All the usual arguments were trotted
out —the people want it; it is the only
possible way to finance the hospitals ; it
will keep inside the State money at
present being seduced out of the pockets
of honest Victorians for “investment” in
Government gambles supporting “foreign
hospitals” in other States. This last
argument demonstrates the futility of
lot’ries from the “investor’s” point of
view.
One delegate, a member of the Vic-
torian Assembly, said it was degrading
for women to stand in the street rattling
tins to beg for money for the hospitals.
Presumably he would see nothing de-
grading in the same women being pushed
and jostled in a milling crowd of would-
be “little capitalists” such as can be seen
any day at the Sydney lot’ry office. But
the chief advocate seemed to be Barry,
M.L.A., who has a great ambition; he
hopes “to see the day when every post-
office is a registered office for selling
lottery tickets.”
What an ambition for an alleged legis-
lator! And what a commentary on the
standards of “Labor.”
Golden Age in Retrospect.
Dr. Evatt (to the Victorian A.L.P. con-
ference) is confident that all electors look
back with longing to the “comfortable
and reasonable conditions” of the days
when “Labor” was in power. In point of
fact, of course, they were so contented
that they heaved him and his colleagues
out of office with a crash that cracked
the “Labor” movement down the centre,
and confirmed their affection last year
when Dr. Evatt tried to come back.
Dr. Evatt’s picture included the bandit
Liberal Government “stealing the
people’s assets,” such as the Common-
wealth Shipping Line and the A.W.A.
shares, and selling them to the profiteers.
But perhaps delegates remembered that
Dr. Evatt and his colleagues were
wrenched from the eminence from which
they were scattering happiness because of
an attempt to carry out a monstrous steal
of the assets of the private banks —a steal
as illegal as burglary; not a step based
on legal Acts.
Dr. Evatt is shocked by the expansion
of taxation under the Menzies Govern-
ment, His squandering Ministry was, in
his view, a frugal concern bent on reduc-
ing costs to relieve the toiler of his
burdens. He forgets to say that the
Chifley Government’s reductions of tax
were from a war peak-level and that most
of the inflation on the succeeding Gov-
ernment’s Budget is due to the legacies
left behind by himself and his colleagues
in the shape of a huge civil service, non-
producing and subject to the soaring
basic wage, and a general inflation which
his Government made no real attempt to
check.
He is particularly annoyed at the
increase in defence expenditure, since
he believes the way to war lies
through building-up armament. He
is right in one sense. Abject
surrender is a sure preventive of
war, but it is not beyond Dr. Evatt to
feel that if only he were given the chance
he could handle Comrade Stalin. His
past record in pandering to that gentle-
man did not give encouraging results.
In any case he is woefully inconsistent.
While he holds, apparently, that arma-
ment against attack by Russia might
promote war with Russia, he does not
concede that armament for defence
against Japan would bring war with
Japan. He says that kind of armament
is necessary.
One newspaper report said that Dr.
Evatt’s reception at the conference was
“tumultuous.” From the contents of his
speech, the main ingredient of the noise
might well have been loud and cynical
laughter.
"Ending in Frustration. 11
Five years ago, when the Great McGirr
took over the N.S.W. Government, one
of his first acts was to legislate for a
reduction in the working-week which not
only assured a boost of the inflation
spiral by 10 per cent, (basic wage then
was £5 125.), but was in contempt of
the Arbitration Court, engaged in
hearing evidence on the same matter.
Now, on the latest quarterly increase
in the basic wage. Premier Cahill, who
has succeeded Mr. McGirr, describes the
wages movement as “an endless spiral,
ending in frustration.” He further de-
clared that it was demoralising his Gov-
ernment’s undemoralisable economy and
shaking the unshakable industrial stability
it had given to N.S.W. The rosy views of
these abstractions were those, anyway, of
the late incumbent of Mr. Cahill’s office.
Mr. “Frustration” Cahill is quite right.
Frustration has been his Government’s
lot ever since its late leader accepted the
Premiership as a puppet of the Trades
Hall. Frustration is the just desert of a
so-called Government which has reck-
lessly wasted the State’s working
resources and its revenues, which calcu-
lates the worthiness of a job of work by
what it cost, and whose standing griev-
ance is that, as a bankrupt, it cannot
persuade anybody to lend it more money.
The “endless spiral, ending in frustra-
tion” is the traditional bankrupt’s lament.
As far as N.S.W. was concerned the latest
security loan was practically foredoomed.
Its objective was advertised as to pro-
vide the State Governments with loan
money ; and when Mr. McGirr —now
relegated to the political silence, golden
silence, of the Maritime Services Board
chair —took the mike over a national
hook-up; also illustrated advertisement
space in the Sydney Press, to identify
himself with the appeal, the loan’s fate in
N.S.W, was virtually sealed.
What response could be expected
(with enthusiasm for Government loans
at a low enough temperature already)
when Mr. McGirr in one breath appealed
for confidence in that the money would
assist to build schools, and in the next
said that £64,000,000 he had already
received from the Loan Council would
not permit him to continue present work
on school-buildings because £64,000,000
was to his Government mere chicken-
feed?
Now Mr. Cahill has a brand-new pro-
posal for Government-sponsored food-
farming, dependent upon receiving
£15,000,000 or so of Australian taxpayers’
money, to be spent in the State where
money goes less far than anywhere else.
Government farming schemes are at a
discount since the British Socialist Gov-
ernment’s peanut scheme in Africa and
sorghum-and-pig scheme in Queensland
both flopped ; but for the Cahills there
is an election in prospect to be faced.
Big Pot, Little Kettle.
When announcing the cancellation of
a small N.S.W. airline company’s licence,
the State Minister for Transport, Mr.
Sheahan, was quoted by a Sydney
morning newspaper thus:
Public interest must come first, and I
have no intention of granting licences to
any company which cannot meet its obliga-
tions to the travelling public.
Overland Air Services itself stopped run-
ning, and some action had to be taken.
We received countless complaints from
Cootamundra and other places from passen-
gers who had waited for long periods for
aircraft to appear and finally were forced
to find alternative means of transport.
This from a Minister running a trans-
port service which every hour of every
day fails to “meet its obligations to the
travelling public.” Which has become a
byword for disrupted schedules, mount-
ing losses and indiscipline of employees.
Which seeks by penal taxation and other
means to put private transport off the
roads and out of the air. Which imposes
outrageous fares and freight-rates and
refuses to accept obligation or responsi-
bility.
Which, in short, substitutes the Sheahan
sort of verbal balderdash in lieu of
government.
An American Sees Us.
An American named John E. Burchard,
Dean of Humanities and Social Studies
at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, spent about four months in Aus-
tralia last year lecturing and observing,
then went home and told readers of the
“Christian Science Monitor” something
about us.
He found that, “never lazy when the
chips are really down,” the Australian
“when the bushfire has got out of hand,
when a hard mission has to be flown in
Korea, proves himself to be energetic,
resourceful and indefatigable,” but seems
a different character when things are
normal. Then he is content to dodge
along, unconcerned as to whether a build-
ing might be completed this year or next,
not bothered that under the wages system
and union domination it takes him four
times as long to earn the price of a car
as it does an American doing the same
work, though he wants the car as eagerly
as does the American.
Which isn’t a bad summary of the
average Australian attitude towards work
and crisis. Dr. Burchard believes that
“Time will undoubtedly correct it.” He
probably meant time and events, but it is
doubtful if we have much time left,
since events are marching at ten times
their former speed and occur now with-
out the old familiar warnings.
We dropped our alleged laziness in
1914-18 and astonished the world with
our capacity for war, repeated the per-
formance in 1939-45, and are repeating it
on a smaller scale in Korea today. The
Old Diggers, the New Diggers, the men of
Korea are not special elements of our
community, singularly fitted by birth and
training to excel in war. They were and
are ordinary everyday Australians, drawn
from all walks of life.
Though it is not possible in peace-time
—even in an uneasy peace-time— to
simplify national issues or clearly identify
national dangers, it would be possible to
make most Australians realise that it’s a
lot later than they think. This is the job
confronting all leaders —political, trades-
union, agricultural, newspaper, pulpit,
radio, educational and industrial. If
they gave their minds to it the job would
be done.
ANZAC DAY.
Rachel weeps today for her
children,
not as before,
when she would not be com-
forted,
because they were not;
Time that has wiped her
vehement tears away
has framed her sons in pictures
to hang on the walls
of suburban homes, and on
Anzac Day
the softened word is what
Rachels say,
while the early winter winds
in squalls
run round the house, first this,
then that way.
RacheVs words are a breathed-
out kiss
for her men sons she didn’t
see grow:
“He was good to his mother,
he was, my Joe.”
N.S.W. R. McDonnell.
[From “My People,” placed second in the
Jubilee long-poem competition.]


POLITICAL POINTS
The statement that the £75,000,000
Commonwealth loan was estimated to be
£14,000,000 short in subscriptions did not
put the position squarely. The fact was
that only £25,000,000 was contributed in
cash. The rest was accounted for by con-
versions of other stock. It shows what
sort of realists the State Premiers were
who envisioned a £225,000,000 expendi-
ture on their airy projects from Loan
Council funds.
If those responsible for planning
expenditure on State works have any
sense of national responsibility they will
be spending this week rigorously over-
hauling their programmes in an effort to
see that the figures they present at the
Loan Council meeting next week repre-
sent the bare minimum needs, not merely
a fictitious sum to be used as a basis of
haggling. The harsh realities of the loan
market must by now have convinced even
Cahill and McDonald that they can no
longer play politics by picturing the
Menzies Government as misers with
bursting money-bags refusing to help the
deserving poor.
Failure of the 15th Security Loan ought
to convince N. S. Wales schoolteachers
and others who signed petitions calling
upon the Federal Government to make
an immediate loan of £l2O million to
the States for educational purposes that
they have been tricked into lending their
support to a political stunt. If it doesn’t
then they are sadly in need of a little
education themselves.
Basic-wage increases for the six
capitals:
Increase. New figure.
Sydney 7/- £ll 3 0
Melbourne 3/- 10 12 0
Brisbane 8/- 10 7 0
Adelaide 6/- 10 11 0
Perth 9/- 10 14 0
Hobart 6/- 10 14 0
The Sydney figure compares with 9s.
in February and 14s. in November, 1951,
indicating that the upward climb of costs
is gradually levelling off. Expressed in
terms of percentages of their respective
basic rates the last four quarterly rises
have been: August, 7.22; November,
7.26 ; February, 4.35 ; May, 3.24. The
trend justifies the hope of the Prime
Minister that “this upward movement will
be arrested within a measurable time.”
“The beginning of the end of inflation”
is how Professor Wood, Melbourne Uni-
versity economist, described the latest
adjustment of the basic wage. He said
that the Government’s policy to arrest
inflation “is now having a pronounced
effect.” Albert Monk of the A.C.T.U.
also gave it as his opinion that “the infla-
tionary trend had been checked,” though
naturally he handed the Government no
bouquets. Other “Labor” leaders tended
to cling to the traditional creed of the
party—that no increase in wages is ever
big enough and that prices should stand
still while wages go up and up.
What seems to be most needed in the
next few months is an all-round effort
towards self-restraint—unions to refrain
from pressing for wage-increases ; manu-
facturers and producers from seeking
price-rises. On past experience it won’t
be forthcoming, but at least it can be
hoped that those tribunals and authorities
to whom the “gimme” appeals are directed
will exercise restraint in granting them.
Fifteen good “Labor” men and true are
trying their luck for the McGrrrrr
succession in Liverpool. It should be
made clear to the winner that the
Assembly seat does not necessarily carry
with it the right to the succession as
Chairman of the Maritime Services Board
there will be other “Labor” men with
prior claims to the party plums.
Sweet amity in the N. S. Wales Cabinet.
Ex-Chief Secretary Evatt, now Minister
for Housing, announces that he will give
first priority to slum-clearance, thereby
seeming to imply that ex-Housing
Minister Kelly, now Chief Secretary, had
been unmindful of the conditions of
slum-dwellers. Chief Secretary Kelly
grants betting permit for live-hare cours-
ing, previously refused by ex-Chief Secre-
tary Evatt. A meeting of the Sydney
R.S.P.C.A., called to consider the dis-
missal of its secretary by its president,
Clive Evatt, passes a resolution —Evatt
presiding—praising Evatt for his “humane
and enlightened action when Chief
Secretary,” and “roundly condemning
Chief Secretary Kelly” for his action.
Chief Secretary Kelly announces that he
will call for a report on an announce-
ment that ex-Chief Secretary Evatt
had granted permission for the Banks-
town Trotting Society to hold 12 trotting
meetings a year. Ex-Chief Secretary Evatt
explains that “experimental meetings”
were approved “to test public support.”
No wonder McGrrrrr sought a quiet
retreat from Cabinet meetings.
If the wharfies won’t work ships in
overtime hours it is time the work was
thrown open to those who will.
The Australian managing-director of
an English motor firm said that Australia
should “absorb 120,000 vehicles a year
for 1952 and onwards.” We might absorb
them, but how are we to get ’em through
the traffic-jam at Sydney Harbor Bridge
approaches night and morning?
Dr. “Nugget” Coombs, governor of
the Commonwealth Bank, was appointed
by the Curtin-Chifley Socialists as a sort
of financial wizard preliminary to be-
coming the nation’s financial boss when
the banks were nationalised. The banks
were saved, and the Socialists reduced to
Opposition, but Coombs survived in his
position. He knew what was destined for
him when he accepted the Curtin-Chifley
appointment and he must have subscribed
to the Socialist notion of nationalisation.
Is he to be still there in that future
which may see “Labor” returned to
power and Socialisation on the way
again?
A Sydney writer, enthusing over the
wonders of the Electronic Exhibition
staged by Amalgamated Wireless, spoke
of the almost unbelievable diversity of
machines made possible by electronics
and said there was scarcely any field of
human endeavor unaffected by the new
science. There are a few. So long as
“Labor” remains in power in N. S. Wales,
electronics won’t affect such jobs as chair-
man of the Maritime Services Board, the
Milk Board or the Meat Board. These
will still be controlled by the party
machine.
Queensland police are to take a secret
ballot as to whether or not they’ll strike.
It will probably be two months before
the result is known. That gives every-
body time to cool off and reconsider, and
the police ought to welcome the chance.
Throughout history many nations
engaged in war have found themselves
breathing the prayer “Heaven save us
from our allies”; McDonald’s Spring-
street Farmers must have echoed the
sentiment on reading the proceedings of
“Labor’s” Easter conference. One group,
headed by Keon, M.H.R., was all for
breaking the alliance with the Country
party. Keon claimed that all “Labor”
was getting out of the present arrange-
ment was the doubtful honor of being
blamed for the Cockles’ faults and fail-
ings. He accused Cain of trying to avoid
discussion of the question. Cain, in
effect, replied that he didn’t care a hang
how soon conference decided to break
the alliance, and Lovegrove, secretary of
the party, urged the continuation of the
pact for the present. In the end the dis-
cussion was shelved, it being considered
that the time was not yet propitious for
ending the beautiful friendship. All of
which goes to prove what did not need
proving—that the C.P.-“Labor” marriage
was a wedding of opportunism and ex-
pediency.
fit.
Coal production in N. S. Wales is well
up on last year’s figures both from under-
ground mines and opencuts. Output up
to April 12 was 3,948,000 tons compared
with 2,964,000 tons for the corresponding
period of 1951. The improvement is in
part explained by the one-day-a-week
stoppages which hampered last year’s pro-
duction ; this year has been relatively
trouble-free, which suggests that the
Gallagher bonus for continuity of work
is getting results,
A few words on elementary diplomacy
from Sir Carl Berendsen, who, as New
Zealand’s delegate to U.N.0., has listened
to millions of words about peace:
World peace can’t be kept by words
alone. You cannot have a gentleman’s
agreement without gentlemen. Nor can
there be any lasting agreement at all
between nations unless all parties are pre-
pared to keep their word.
“Labor” has been choosing its candi-
dates for the next Federal election. Most
N.S.W. sitting members have been en-
dorsed unopposed, but in some electorates
the old hands struck strong opposition.
Eight candidates aspired to take Rowley
James’s seat from under him, but he
managed to stay put. Former Minister
Nelson Lemmon will again try to wrest
St. George from Bruce Graham. “Labor”
is very optimistic about St. George, but
so it was in 1949 and 1951. Preselection
for Werriwa, which H. P. Lazzarini will
relinquish at the end of the present Par-
liament, went to E, G. Whitlam, barrister,
national-quiz man and son-in-law of
Dovey, Q.C., whom he is assisting on the
royal commission on liquor.
There is a, suggestion that a new
approach is needed to the raising of Com-
monwealth loans. Why not appoint
S. P. Lewis, ex-president of the N. S.
Wales Teachers’ Federation, as Director
of Loans? If raising the dough is as easy
as he professes to think it is he should
jump at the chance.
Melbourne “Argus,” which wants to
inflict a State lott’ry on Victoria, calls
the gamble a “solution” to the hospital
problem, and says “If the Premier rejects
the proposed solution the onus is squarely
on him to find another way.” McDonald,
apparently, would sooner carry an onus
than a stigma,
A Melbourne medico who, as honorary
surgeon to a big institution, gives free
service worth easily £lOOO a year vows
he will resign immediately if ever the
fine hospital in which he works becomes
dependent on a State gambling joint for
any part of its revenue,
Sydney newspapers carry a large
advertisement for a new magazine called
“Voice —the Independent Monthly—A
Review of Current Affairs,” The list of
contributors is given as Canon E. J.
Davidson (the repentant ex-president of
the Australian-Russian Society), J. A.
Ferguson (Federal president of the
A.L.P.), J. B. D. Miller on “the East
Asian Upsurge,” Dr. J. W, Burton (A.L.P.
candidate for Lowe at the last Federal
election), Allan Fraser (Labor M.P, for
Eden-Monaro), John Ewers and Vance
Palmer. It is rumored that a rival “inde-
pendent” journal to be called “Oh Yeah?”
is also projected. The names of its
independent contributors on current
affairs will be Stalin, Molotov, Vishinsky,
Mao Tse-tung and Sharkey.
When Half-Premier Mac. announced
he was going to challenge uniform-tax
legislation in the High Court, he said
other Premiers might be invited to join in
the challenge. Apparently no invitations
have been issued yet. At any rate,
Queensland’s Mr. Gair hasn’t received
one, and when reporters asked him what
he was going to do about it he told them
his Government had lost interest in the
matter because of lack of information
from Victoria. If that is so his interest
in the first place must have been great
indeed.
The noise being made about Australia’s
“declining” beef production—declining
when measured against increased popula-
tion which reduces the exportable surplus
—could mislead people into supposing
Australia was peculiar in this regard. It
isn’t, Argentina, traditionally a great
meat-exporter, has found it necessary to
impose two meatless days a week on
Argentinians, Uruguay’s pre-war annual
export of 100,000 tons is down by half,
Brazil’s by three-quarters, and New Zea-
land’s by a quarter.
Victorian “Labor” M.L.A- Barry hopes
to see the day when every post-office
will be an agency for lottery-tickets. One
Sydney post-office anticipated his dream
some time ago; alongside its stock of
telegram forms it was customary to find
a pile of application-forms for tickets in
“an inter-State consultation.”
According to a Potato Growers’ Asso-
ciation man, Sydney will be “desperately
short” of potatoes from July till
November. That isn’t news to anyone
familiar with controls. There’s a Potato
Board, just as there are boards controlling
eggs, milk, fish. And wherever a board
controls a commodity it seems to restrict
production, hamper free marketing and
act as a general obstacle between pro-
ducer and consumer, at the same time
increasing the cost to both.
“Since 1939 the country has quadrupled
its national production and raised the
average living-standard by 50 p.c. Last
week the Government was able to reduce
taxes and the value of the national
currency rose to .25 more than the
American dollar. The value is still rising
and the country will have to raise the
price of its exports to America or try
and absorb the difference in exchange.”
It’s Canada, of course, and envious as
Australians may be when they read it,
the fact remains that Australia could have
done the same, had its post-war Govern-
ment concentrated on realities instead of
Socialistic fantasies.
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill seems to
have joined the queue of “Labor” leaders
who are pinning their faith on another
depression to sweep the Menzies Govern-
ment from office. He has no doubt that
“an unemployment pool is now forming”
and he blames the Commonwealth’s “re-
strictive financial policy.” As evidence
he points out that a couple of years ago
there were 200,000 vacant jobs in Aus-
tralia while today there are only 84,000.
What sort of mental process translates
84,000 unfilled jobs into an unemploy-
ment pool? Is it pessimism or wishful
thinking?
In the week Cahill issued his depression
forecast £859,447 passed through the
Randwick totalisator at a four-day meet-
ing—£121,810 more than was wagered
at the same carnival last year. Tote
figures may not be a very accurate guide
to the state of the nation, but Cahill
hasn’t been heard warning punters to go
easy on their bets and put something
aside for the slump.
“X.S.”; Another escape from Pent-
ridge has moved Premier McDonald to
propose an inquiry. What does ask for
an inquiry is the extraordinary publicity
given to escapees by Melbourne dailies.
One young criminal, Skinner, at large for
several weeks, was front-page stuff;
dished up daily in prose and picture
surrounded by policemen until
juveniles must have endowed him with a
halo. Actually he is a frightened-looking
youth, obviously a case for a
psychiatrist; he looked immensely pleased
at the publicity he was getting. In the
latest attempt to break out of the jail one
man was shot dead on the steps of a
church by a warder and the other was
pushed back into the enclosure. The
man who was pushed back was Skinner,
who, as he was led off by an army of
policemen, remarked that he would go on
escaping.
Although Short and his industrial-
groupers have wrested control of the
Ironworkers’ Association from the Reds
the tidying-up is still in progress. Latest
loose end adjusted concerned money
withdrawn from the union’s banking
account by McPhillips and McHenry
after their removal from office. They
claimed that at the time they still had
authority to operate the account and that
the money was required to pay legal ex-
penses incurred on behalf of the union in
the Arbitration and Equity courts. On
Wednesday, in the N. S. Wales District
Court, judgment was entered, by consent,
in favor of the union, the two Macs
agreeing to pay the full amount claimed,
£348.
Another challenge to a Red union
ballot is threatened; industrial-groupers
in the Sydney wharfie outfit intend to ask
the Arbitration Court to, test the validity
of the 1950 election of officers for the
union.
“Gage Roads”; National Service
trainees caused a spot of consternation
when they went on to the platforms of
an important Westralian railway junction,
but the railway men breathed more freely
on finding that the soldiers belonged to
the Land and Water Transport Unit and
were there to see what made the trains
run. The lads received a churlishly
hostile reception when they went on to
a wharf at Fremantle ; waterside workers
told them that “scabs” were not wanted
on the wharves. Within a few days the
watersiders were scabbing on Australia
by staging one of their apparently cause-
less and clueless strikes.
“Den”; A factor that probably con-
tributed substantially to the increased
Labor vote in Lyne was the demand
made by certain groups that the Federal
Government should shoulder the whole
cost and responsibility for a scheme of
water-conservation and flood-prevention
in the Macleay River area (B. 9/4/’52).
Labor supported the proposal, unscrupu-
lously alleging that it was as much within
the competence of the Federal Govern-
ment as the Snowy River scheme. Fadden
pointed out that the project was purely a
State concern, but one prominent
Country-party supporter who was among
its leading sponsors ostentatiously resigned
from the party on the eve of the election.
A local issue like this can sway many
votes.
A San Francisco message says that fish
can be found at a depth of 23,000 ft., but
no deeper. Sydney housewives say you
can’t even find them at ground level.
South Korea, a country which contains
about 4,000,000 refugees and the greater
part of a large war, has not lost its
sporting courage. It proposes to send a
soccer football team to the Helsinki
Olympiad, which is more than Australia
is doings Its match against the Moscow
Dynamos should be worth watching.


/tf*/
I^%
T* /vT\y-t.
r "" book here t
Sp#
f u /'book here
ISax Tmv£ r
SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.


w
i
One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOJS a,
dSUJJUtVAN
i* pnoju *,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Tha«i a GOODYEAR
mm
No matter
what you're
driving
ii
TRACTOR or 80AT...
get MORE POWER to start
with - MORE STAMINA to
keep going .... from
a guaranteed
GOODYEAR
BATTERY
GOOD
sd
YEAR
3'. ■
BATTERIES
"As Good as the name they bear"
D'E LUXE Insulated with Felted
Fibre Glass for longer plate
life. The finest battery you
can buy.
ALL-WEATHER HEAVY
DUTY for all types of service.
Recommended for long service
at lowest cost.
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
625-24
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Loan Failure
Failure of the Commonwealth
£75,000,000 3| p.c. 15th Security
loan —it was undersubscribed by
at least £l4 million —was due
to financial stringency
and other changes, and
threatened changes, in the
economic climate . and the
market’s reaction thereto.
Briefly the history of the
public-loan market is that for
over a decade the Government
pursued a cheap-money policy,
and succeeded, by means of
monetary controls and favorable
economic and other circum-
stances, in screwing down the
rate of interest on Common-
wealth loans from 3i p.c. in
May, 1939, to 3} p.c. in 1940
and to 3i p.c. in 1947, The rate
was held at the lower level until
May, 1951, when £4O million of
3i p.c. paper was offered at £99',
giving a redemption yield of
£3 4s. Bd. p.c. Oversubscription
of the loan was officially re-
ported ; yet the whole market
continued to weaken, and in
Sept., 1951, a Commonwealth
cash loan of £4O million,
carrying 3| p.c. at par, was
undersubscribed by £8 million.
And the weakness has continued
since. The bond-market closed
with yields approaching the
4 p.c.-mark last week.
There is less money available
for investment in gilt-edged
paper today than there was a
year ago, and earlier. This be-
cause of the sharp contraction
(about 58 p.c.) in the Australian
wool cheque, the shrinkage in in-
flow of capital from abroad
(£265 million in 1949-50 and
£125 million in 1950-51), and the
liquidity crisis that has arisen
throughout trade and industry
generally, following the recent
flood of imports, tightening of
credit and high level of taxa-
tion. Many large commercial
concerns, which used to be
regular subscribers to Common-
wealth loans, have now joined
the queue of applicants at the
tax-office seeking time-to-pay—
and mostly time is granted
but at high (6 p.c.) not
low rate of interest. Meanwhile,
the big life offices, and other
institutional investors, in search
of higher yields have been
switching from bonds to
mortgages and to preference and
ordinary shares and industrial
debentures—over the last year
or more they have been, on the
average, net sellers of bonds.
Just how far the Government
may have to let interest rates
rise on its public-loan issues in
order to ensure full subscription
remains to be seen. Nothing
short of a stop to inflation will
remove the fundamental weak-
ness underlying the bond-
market. If the general price-
level turns downward, bonds
will automatically become more
attractive, because the value of
a fixed £lOO will grow in pur-
chasing-power. Meanwhile, the
sharemarket for equities will re-
main sensitive to what happens
in the bond-market, as well as to
a lot of other things.
History shows three of the
main causes of inflation to be
war and its aftermath, change in
the supply of and demand for
labor and materials, and an ex-
panding credit base. Over the
last few years we have had all
three causes together. Inflation
can be stopped, or greatly
abated, by internal and/or
external pressures. At the
moment the external spotlight is
on the U.S., Germany and
Japan. The U.S., by reason of
its extensive purchases in world
markets and the size of its re-
armament and foreign-aid pro-
grammes, is the world’s key
economy today. When the other ■
two countries mentioned, whose
people work harder than we do
and are satisfied with a lower
standard of living than ours,
become major exporters again
competition from their wares
could easily produce a crisis
that would stop local inflation
dead in its tracks.
Internally attention centres
on the Federal and State Gov-
"It' s your turn t' pour the afternoon-tea, Arnold .”
ernments, the trade-unions and
employers anti - inflationary
measures are national, not party-
political, in character, and there-
fore call for all-round co-
operative effort. The Federal
Government has already taken
the appropriate steps to steady
and correct the position that has
developed ; but it has not re-
ceived the support its actions in
this direction merit from some
of the State Legislatures and
trade-unions. The recently-
imposed import cuts (administra-
tion of which has come in for
some criticism here and in
Britain) are a temporary
measure designed to correct a
threat to our international
solvency arising out of a
balance -of - payments position
that was allowed to drift too
far. While measures designed
to produce an immediate impact
on the external balance, whether
on the side of imports or of ex-
ports, or both, are valuable in
restoring confidence, they pro-
vide only a breathing-space.
They are likely to prove ineffec-
tive if the degree of internal in-
flation is left the same as before.
Interest therefore centres
largely in what lies ahead in
other directions. Having rightly
slimmed the private sector of the
economy by curbing its expen-
diture on both consumption and
capital accounts, the question
arises as to how long and to
what extent the Commonwealth
Government can go on acting
like a benevolent foster-mother
to the States, and at the same
time go on drawing from the
taxpayer sufficient revenue to
meet still-growing expenditure
on services, etc. In the absence
of a substantial loan from
abroad, or heavy deficit financing
(against which the Government
has rightly set its face), current
conditions in the local capital
market suggest that heavy cuts
will have to be made on account
of public works. And since
revenue from Customs and in-
come tax at current rates looks
like shrinking, there might yet
have to be some pruning on
account of immigration, social-
services and other Government
activities, at least until the period
of readjustment is complete.
The Government’s main task
will be to halt inflation by limit-
ing its own demands on national
production. When nothing is
done to check Government ex-
penditure, a rise in the long-term
rate of interest has only a slight
moderating influence. If we can
reduce capital expenditure,
public and private, into line with
our own savings, and when dis-
inflationary measures have had
the effect of bringing down
wages, prices, costs and taxes,
our resources will be less
severely strained and the whole
economy will be in a much
healthier condition. Obviously
a lot will depend upon what
happens at next month’s meeting
of the Loan Council and in the
next Budget, both of which will
be awaited with interest.
Imports by Woolworths, Ltd.,
consist almost entirely of goods
listed for 80 p.c. cuts. They in-
clude many items in daily
demand which are not produced
in Australia, and surplus stock
on hand and in transit will use
up practically the whole of the
co.’s overseas quota for the next
12 months, chairman C. Scott
Waine told shareholders at the
annual roll-up last week. How-
ever, since the bulk of the goods
handled by the co. are purchased
on the local market, the impact
of imports cuts on turnover is
not likely to be severe. The
board’s biggest problems at the
moment are narrow gross
margins, rising costs and the
need to finance an expanding in-
ventory total out of surplus earn-
ings. It is estimated that over
£500,000 of additional working
capital is needed to carry the
growth on stock-values under
existing conditions.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 TEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
From a banker’s diary
iVo. I
Monday: Mr. Baaaa, exporter, called
to enquire about markets over-
seas for some local products.
Wmm
wil
r; : .-.--:-:---. :-.-:-.-.-.-;:'v-v.,..,,
KivX-y
The case of the enterprising exporter
Helping Australians to sell their products
abroad is part of our daily work at the “Wales”.
So I arranged for the exporter to see one of our
Commercial Relations Officers who put him in
touch with foreign buyers through banks in
other countries which act as our agents.
Result a sale which pleased buyer and seller,
and which ensured continued work for Aus-
tralian producers and their employees.
You, too, should consult and
use
v *
k
—
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
( IXCOKL’ORATED IS KEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED UABlLITIt
A5202C
fs
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. Afeeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
n n ,^ri
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Import Cuts
With competition rising, world
markets shrinking and export
prices for all products except
foodstuffs going for a skate. New
Zealand’s 80 p.c. foreign-
exchange rationing plan wasn’t a
surprise to those who had their
ear to the ground, although
many inside and outside the
Dominion were taken unawares.
Maoriland’s mistake was its
move a year or more ago
in sweeping away exchange-
control on all delicensed im-
ports, which let importers loose
to join in a free-for-all rush to
buy abroad after 13 years of
tight import - rationing. But
for a buoyant season for meat
and dairy produce to take the
worst of the shock on the ex-
change front M.L.’s Government
and Reserve Bank would have
been forced to take much more
drastic emergency action.
Still, this was drastic enough
to make many wince, and more
drastic than it seemed. Many
traders spent the lion’s share of
their 80 p.c. exchange alloca-
tions, based on 1950, during the
first quarter, and some had used
up nearly the whole of it.
There’s a lean time ahead for
these for the balance of the year.
Others figure out that the
quantity of stuff they can buy
will be well below 80 p.c. of
1950 levels when higher prices
and freights are reckoned with.
It all adds up to a stiffer dose
of austerity than Maorilanders
expected when they were told
in mid-March that restrictions
would be confined to motor-cars
and dollar goods. What
brought this change? The drift
in wool, hides and skins, and
skyrocketing overdrafts. The
country was spending beyond its
income and had to cut down.
The 80 p.c. isn’t hard and fast,
and traders who have the cash
shouldn’t have much trouble in
converting it into sterling, but
there aren’t many in this happy
state. The majority are up to
their ears in debt to the banks
and won’t be in a position to re-
sume buying for months. There’s
no automatic grant of credit to
take up exchange. With over-
drafts stretched to the limit, the
banks will have to be tough with
those who demand or plead for
borrowed funds.
Some critics of the banks have
castigated them for inflating
credit and have laid the blame
for the import boom at their
door, but the boot is rather on
the other foot: the goods
flooded in when control was
lifted from most soft-currency
lines and the banks had to ex-
tend credit to save traders from
bankruptcy. They had to take
the course they did, or leave
traders to their fate.
Maoriland is in a tight corner
financially, but if firms can sit
it out things should come right in
the thaw. Meanwhile, no one
is thinking much about long-
term plans, such as laying the
foundations for an orderly ex-
change system to keep external
income and payments in bal-
ance. New Zealand’s total of
more than £5OO million annually
for outside transactions is large
enough to make a complete for-
ward exchange scheme neces-
sary, and that’s one of the re-
forms that will have to be looked
into.
Welfare-State Burden
With Maoriland profits fall-
ing back from post-war peaks
over a good deal of the business
field there is growing uneasiness
about the drift in social-security
channels. As the cost, now
around fl£ million weekly,
continues to soar while pros-
perity wears thin, businessmen
are beginning to see danger, and
are asking for an expert probe
into all aspects of the top-heavy
scheme, which has no reserves,
no actuarial basis and no funds
beyond what can be raised
year by year.
Since 1947 a third of total tax-
income has been swallowed up
by the lavish system of bene-
fits, and over the decade £lOO
million has had to be taken from
ordinary tax proceeds to supple-
ment the yield of the universal
social-security tax of Is. 6d. in
the pound.
The damage done by heavy
taxes, which haven’t been eased
much by last year’s cuts, isn’t re-
paired by large-scale State hand-
outs to families as child benefits
and by free medicine, much of
which either goes down the sink
or is in half-empty bottles that
clutter up cupboards and
medicine-cabinets.
New Zealand’s system of col-
lecting millions to hand them
back to the payers isn’t the key
to perpetual prosperity, and is a
main obstacle in the way of the
production drive that hangs fire
in towns and cities. The vast
inflationary process will be hard
to stop, but something will have
to be done about it soon.
Interest Rates
Since New Zealand’s last
3 p.c. loan of £l3 million was
floated in mid-1951, just before
money-rates broke adrift, interest
has been following an uncharted
course, with investors and the
banks making the moves.
Things were going quietly
until the banks tightened their
purse-strings last December and
called a halt to easy money ; but
after that gilt-edged yields for
long-term scrip jumped quickly
to around 3| p.c., at which there
has been a pause, and Maori-
landers have been left guessing
whether this will be the rate for
their 1952 loan.
Prime Minister Holland has
warned that a great demand for
capital is developing, and that
“if things aren’t managed care-
fully there could soon be a rate
for overdrafts that would shock
people.”
But the Government isn’t
going to let interest get out of
hand, no, sir. There are too
many schemes and projects
ahead to let this happen, what
with 15-year arrears in national
and developmental works in
many directions ; and equally big
pent-up demands for commercial
and industrial expansion. Just
how things are going to be
arranged Maorilanders haven't
been told lully yet. In interest
the choice seems to lie between
a straight-out 3i p.c. or 3| p.c.,
with a discount to give some-
where near the same yield,
Other borrowers are waiting for
the answer to figure out where
they stand.
ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY
ALL PREVIOUS RECORDS SURPASSED
The thirty-third annual general meeting of the English
Electric Company, Ltd., was held on March 27 in London.
SIR GEORGE H. NELSON, F.C.G.1., M.l.Mech.E., M.I.E.E.
(chairman and managing director) presk%d, and in the course
of his speech, said:
Turnover and production have again
been substantially increased in volume
and value during the year and the net
profit has risen by £203,984 to
£1,132,550 thus in all respects creating
records over past achievements.
DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS
The expansion of the company’s
business, the rising costs on both
capital and revenue accounts, and the
absence of depreciation allowances
adequate to meet the fall in the pur-
chasing power of the £ in terms of the
replacement of plant, make it wise,
in the interests of the shareholders, to
follow a conservative profit distribu-
tion policy.
It is proposed, therefore, to transfer
£550,000 to the general reserve, and to
pay a final dividend of 10 per cent.,
less income-tax, on the Ordinary stock
for the year ending December 29,
1951, making, with the interim divi-
dend, a total of 15 per cent., less
income-tax, for the year, leaving the
carry-forward at £477,186, which is
£188,434 more than last year.
Inflation remains a serious threat
to our national economy. We wish it
to be widely known that the level of
profits in our company is extremely
modest and does not contribute to
the lowering of the purchasing power
of the £.
INCREASED EXPORTS
By heavy capital expenditure after
the war on plant and research equip-
ment, by intensive selling efforts in
our markets throughout the world,
and stupendous efforts by our produc-
tion executives, the company has in-
creased its turnover since 1946 by
£24 million and raised the percentage
of its exports from 20 per cent, before
the war to 50 per cent, of a vastly
greater volume of business to-day.
WORKING WITHIN
THE COMMONWEALTH
We have always believed that a
closer economic working between the
countries of the Commonwealth must
benefit the Commonwealth as a whole,
and were encouraged by the declara-
tion made after the meeting of the
Finance Ministers in London of their
determination to co-operate in build-
ing up the economic stability of the
Commonwealth.
Our company now has works in
Canada, South Africa and Australia,
which act as springboards from which
the results of our vast research and
development activity in this country
can be made available for the develop-
ment of the economic resources of
those countries to further the eco-
nomic and strategic strength of the
Commonwealth.
We shall continue to make every
possible contribution to build up
industry and to foster the exchange
of commodities within the Common-
wealth so that the interests of each
country can be dovetailed into the
economy of the whole, and so ap-
proach the ideal of a single economic
unit.
CONTINUED EXPANSION
OVERSEAS
In Canada our subsidiary, John
Inglis Company, Ltd., raised further
capital to finance its expanding busi-
ness. Your company has taken up
slightly more than its due proportion
of these new shares, and we now own
a 54 per cent, interest in the Canadian
group.
In South Africa production at our
Benoni works has again increased, but
costs there are still higher than in this
country. We are fortunate that our
South African company continues to
receive substantial orders for power
plant, transformers and switchgear
made in the United Kingdom.
In Australia our new factory at
Brisbane continues to increase its out-
put, but costs have increased here too ;
the flow of orders on the home works
for the Australian market has steadily
continued. In spite of the new restric-
tions on imports of domestic products,
there is no restriction or substantial
recession in demand for capital goods
for which Australia has placed sub-
stantial orders with us.
DIESEL electric
LOCOMOTIVES
Further orders have been received
for diesel electric locomotives for use
at home and overseas, including the
first main line diesel-electric loco-
motive in Australia, which was commis-
sioned and is now in service with the
South Australian Railways. The first
batch of diesel general service electric
locomotives for Tasmania are now in
operation.
Steel plant commissioned includes a
hot reversing drive of 17,500 h.p. peak
capacity for Sweden and a reversing
mill equipment of 21,000 h.p. peak
for Australia.
TRANSFORMERS
A noteworthy event was the despatch
of 220 k.v. transformers, including
one of 64,000 kva. weighing 240 tons,
to Finland. We have also despatched
single-phase 230 kv. units forming
50,000 kva. banks for service in Aus-
tralia.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
I have referred to some of the fields
of research and development in which
we are engaged. To give you an
overall picture of its measure, 1 would
say that we now employ about 6,000
people, scientists, designers, engineers,
draughtsmen and craftsmen for our
own and sponsored research and asso-
ciated design and development, involv-
ing an expenditure of £6£ million per
annum. This, of course, does not
include work on products like hydro-
electric, steam generating nor steel
works plant, which are normally
designed to suit the application.
GROUP ACTIVITIES
The accounts of D. Napier and Son
Limited show a substantially increased
net profit. The company has a sub-
stantial part to play in the country’s
rearmament programme, including the
production of Rolls-Royce “Avon”
aero engines.
The Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph
Company Limited and The Marconi
International Marine Communication
Company Limited have both again
had a successful year. The Marconi
Companies’ leadership of research in
their special electronics field is ack-
nowledged all over the world and has
been maintained in 1951.
The report and accounts were unani-
mously adopted.
At a subsequent extraordinary
general meeting the proposed increase
of the company’s authorised capital
to £10,000,000 by the creation of a
further 2,000,000 Ordinary shares of
£1 each was approved.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Pitt St.”: I’ve seen some good sales-
men and psychologists, but easily the best
was an unlettered bloke at Sydney City
markets last Saturday morning. He was
selling a mixture of half-grown and
somewhat ancient poultry, and for a
while bis rather monotonous cry, “ ’Ere
y’ are, ten-bob a pair, who wants ’em!”
failed to attract more than an odd
customer. Then he altered his attack.
“ ’Em y’ are, four for a quid; Look,
foqr for a quid!” he bawled. Then, in a
“Your lipstick is a little bit too high up, Pamela dear.”
tone of pure astonishment at such a
bargain, “Four for a quid ! Y’ wouldn’t
read about it!” Within two minutes he
was hidden by a herd of eager buyers.
♦ * * *
“Pip Tok”; Decision of the Northam
(W.A.) Road Board to ban shooting from
motor-cars set a bell fa'ntly tinkling in
the background of r y sub-conscious.
Then I remembered a quaint General
Routine Order issued d-iing the Kaiser’s
War. It was printed for the benefit and
information of officers in charge of troops
travelling by train through northern
France, and instructed officers to “take
steps to ensure that men travelling under
their command do not discharge firearms
at parties of German prisoners working
by the railway-line.” The order went
on: “This is an extremely dangerous
practice. It endangers the lives of the
escort, and has already resulted in a
valuable horse being killed.”
* * * *
“Bo”: What has happened to the old
“smoke concert”? It was an admirable
institution, designed primarily, like lodge
night, to allow Father to get off the chain
for an occasional evening. The concert
itself, I recall, was merely an excuse. It
started off while everyone was compara-
tively sober with a bathroom baritone
beefing out “When the Great Red Dawn
Is Shining” or “Mate o’ Mine,” apprecia-
tion of his efforts taking the form of
table-thumping and stentorian shouts of
“Good on y’, Johnno!” As the wassail
began to circulate more freely the funny
man of the outfit would get up and start
to tell a yarn, which would be hastily
interrupted while an inconvenient waitress
who was still distributing the biscuits and
cheese was ushered out, giggling. As
the night wore on the second keg would
be tapped, the hammering-in of the bung
offering strong competition for the elocu-
tionist giving “The Green Eye of the
Little Yellow God.” Strangely, the
silvery tenor would always wait till the
second keg was almost done before he
launched into “Because” or “Take a
Pair of Sparkling Eyes” ; but by that time
he couldn’t be heard above the din and
he could scarcely be seen through the
haze made deeply blue by a hundred pipes
and cigarettes and the stories being
retailed. The self-appointed barman
could always be determined, even if his
face wasn’t seen, by the high-beer-froth
mark around the cuffs of his strides. The
concert inevitably ended with sentimental
swearings of eternal affection by those
not engaged in fights, and “Sweet Adeline”
delivered in excruciating ensembles. Ah,
well! Perhaps they still have them in
other capital cities. But in Sydney who,
except nightclub proprietors, has any
hope of landing a couple of “nines”?
* * * *
“C.H.R.”: Twins-insurance (B. 2/4/’52)?
Back in 1910, in London, the first man
to take out a policy did not collect. He
insured against twins, but triplets arrived
and that risk wasn’t covered.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Some men whose deeds were
known to me in the First World War I
have always wanted to meet. One was
the M.O. attached to the 13th Aust. Field
Ambulance who, when a badly-wounded
Digger died under the anaesthetic, opened
his thorax, pulsated his heart and restored
life. Unfortunately gangrene, already
evident when the man was brought in to
the dressing-station, finished him off 18
hours later. The second man I’d like to
meet is the young lieutenant who shot
dead an apparent British staff-officer who
ordered the withdrawal of his unit.
Several British units had been withdrawn
on similar orders by German spies who
had acquired British uniforms and spoke
excellent English, and this man was
proved to be a spy. A third man is the
chap who got through orders both to
battalion headquarters and the Q.M. that
in view of the strenuous fighting we had
been having in rotten weather an extra
issue of rum should be given to all troops
in our lot. A written order was said to
be following; but it never came. Our
rum did, though.
* * * *
“Yen”: Brocken spectre (B. 9/4/’52)?
With two friends I experienced this
phenomenon early in September, 1950.
Just after a heavy snowfall we climbed
the Horn—Mount Buffalo’s highest point
—reaching the small lookout on the
summit a little before sunset. Clouds
and mists were banking up in a valley
to the east, and to our wonder and
delight our giant images, surrounded by
a great colored halo, were projected on
“Fares, please."
to the white screen they formed. This
wonderful sight continued for at least a
minute, when mist rising in the west
obliterated it.
» * * ♦
“Market Garden”: Approaching Berlin
by train from Russia not long before
the First World War I noticed in the outer
belt of the city thousands of tiny allot-
ments each with a tiny building on it,
too small for human habitation. A
fellow-passenger explained that Germans
lived mainly in their cities and satisfied
their yearnings for nature by cultivating
flower and vegetable plots outside the
city, the little houses being lock-up tool-
sheds. With every flat went automatically
a patch of soil outside the city. The
high price of foodstuffs has produced a
somewhat similar effect in Melbourne.
Flat-dwellers now cultivate carrots,
turnips, onions, tomatoes and even cucur-
bits in kerosene-tins, every second
suburban allotment is now groaning under
intensive culture, and in some of the
newer suburbs even the nature-strips
have been pressed into service.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The principle of the
Hippocratic oath which ordains that a
doctor’s consulting-room is as sacred as
a priest’s confessional was upheld the
other day by the B.M.A.’s ethical com-
mittee. If it became known that medical
practitioners acted as police informers,
the report said, it would at once become
an effective bar to seeking medical aid
for some in great need of it. But recently
a Melbourne malefactor in need of
medical assistance gave away the secret
without the help of the doctor. A party
of policemen struck a trail of bloodstains
in St. Kilda and followed it for a quarter
of a mile to a doorstep. Then the sleuths
rang the bell, arrested a patient in a
doctor’s consulting-room and charged him
with breaking a plateglass window with
intent.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The just-deceased grand-
opera season at the Princess, Melbourne,
by the National Theatre Movement was
a revelation of how rapidly people—or
at any rate, Australians —can absorb and
repeat an alien convention. It hasn’t
taken more than a couple of years for
Gertrude Johnson and her helpers to
drill-up the local talent, from singer to
scene-painter, to the point where it is
possible for critics to make comparisons
with the original article without exaggera-
tion. Now Premier McDonald wants to
see the Princess purchased and turned
into a permanent national opera house.
Of course, he isn’t going to pay for it —
the public is to do that, and, judging by
the houses during the current season, a
bit could be contributed by the N.T.M.
itself.
* , * * rzw
Minto : Cable-trams (B. T-
One man who was sorry to see them
depart was Unc e Dan chairman o a
textile firm near the Sarah Sands Hotel at
Brunswick (Vic.); his mckname was
derived from the fact that his nephew was
managing-director. Uncle Dan loved to
ride on the front of the dummy ana
often insisted on paying the fares of all
on board-something like shouting for
the bar. Often we tried to tempt him to
accept a lift in cars owned by the lesser
lights of the factory, but Uncle Dan was
adamant—the tram was slow but sure, he
claimed. One day he relented and off
we set at a merry 30 m.p.h. Half-way to
the city our petrol ran out. That was the
last car trip Uncle Dan accepted until the
cables were torn up. He then bought
himself a limousine and engaged a
chauffeur to make certain of reliable
driving. But at heart he remained a
cable-tram man to the end,
* * * *
“Becks”: Contemporary evidence in
addition to the ship’s newspaper
preserved by the Currie family does exist
to support the claim of the Champion
of the Seas for the longest day’s run by
a sailing-ship (B. 16/4/’52). Melbourne
“Argus” on December 28, 1854, recording
the arrival of that vessel, had this to say:
The Champion of the Seas is not only
the largest sailing-vessel that has ever
entered the waters of Port Phillip, but she
is without question the noblest that has
anchored in Hobson’s Bay.. . .Of her sail-
ing capabilities there can be no question;
she has made the run in 72 days and some
few hours, having been under canvas 67
days. In 24 consecutive hours she ran the
astonishing distance of 465 miles —a run
never yet equalled, so far as we believe,
by any other sailing-vessel in the world,
and her average run during the passage
was 192 miles the day.
The Champion landed 780 passengers at
Melbourne, and their testimonials to
Captain Newlands —nicely compartmented
into three groups, cabin, intermediate and
steerage—filled nearly two columns on
the advertisement pages of the “Argus,”
* * * *
“Harbel”: A love-story has been un-
folding on our railway-station. The man
appears to be middle-aged (it’s hard to
tell accurately when the guessee is sport-
ing a black beard) and the lady would
be —but that’s dangerous ground. Any-
way, they look about the same age and
are both obviously New Australians. At
first he used to walk towards her,
smile, and raise his hat. And I mean
raise —not merely touch it in that self-
conscious compromise we native sons
have adopted. Stage two: Daily
approach the same, also the smile and
the raised hat; but now the hand leapt
from the hat to extend and grasp in a
fervent handshake. Things progressed.
The left hand also began to caress the
fair fingers. More progress. And before
a staggered mob of us the suitor stooped
and kissed his lady’s hand. It became
the morning’s “must” to see the
Continental greeting. Then, about a
fortnight ago, the chap strode on the
platform. The lady saw him coming—
and looked in the other direction. He
passed her without a nod. Two hundred
phlegmatic Aussies were aghast. The
rift remained —to the obvious pain of
“regulars” down the line who couldn t
understand the two isolated seats
business. And then —this morning he
approached ; he smiled ; she smiled. He
raised his hat, took her hand, shook it,
stroked it and finally kissed it. We all
smiled.
A NOTED IMPROVEMENT.
“According to an official of N.S.W. National Opera,
the alleged ‘temperament’ of opera stars is as
fallacious as the belief that sopranos have to be
heavyweights.”
There used to be, when we were young
(And “uproars” then were really sung)
A brace of bright traditions:
One was that gall and voices blent,
That stars must have a temperament
(The “temper” part, by mass consent.
Required no inhibitions);
The other was that only she
On opera stages flourished
Who was —and, oh, so obviously
Exceedingly well nourished.
When Violetta they’d portray,
Or ill-starred Mimi, gaunt, but gay,
Producers showed their gumption
By casting—just to be exact —
Twelve-stone sopranos who, with tact.
Would snuff it, in the final act,
Of galloping consumption.
Any Delilah could with ease
Toss Samson to the ceiling.
Stage lovers she could gently squeeze
Until she had ’em squealing.
And if the tenor in the wings
Said to the diva nasty things
She’d rush off in high dudgeon.
Cancel her contract then and there,
Rage up and down and tear her hair,
Fell her tormentor with a chair —
Lacking a heavier bludgeon.
She’d bite conductors in the ear,
Kick prompters in the bingy,
Go berserk with a super’s spear
At managers too stingy.
Coloraturas and their ilk
Are now, you’d say, as mild as milk.
Bassos don’t burst out bawling
If someone in the front d.c.
Sneezes or scratches at a flea
When they are taking lower E
A crime that is appalling.
Top-ranking mezzos once were wont
In rage to chew the score up.
In these enlightened days they don’t
Even thb callboy roar up.
When understudy gets a cheer.
Does leading tenor hit the beer
To drown humiliation?
Nay! Why, he’s really quite a toff.
Magnanimously (never scoff),
He volunteers for “noises off” —
Such his self-abnegation.
Lyric sopranos don’t outweigh
A full-grown dromedary.
The operatic trend today
Is anti-inflationary.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“C.Q.”: A Canberra parson has re-
fused to marry couples if one or other of
the parties has imbibed too freely. Isn’t
he aware of the awful terrors that afflict
a bridegroom? I was on a ship bound
from Sydney to Darwin and there was a
girl aboard going up to be married to
a young man who had been working an
inland station. The account she gave
of the young man’s virtues, disposition,
intelligence and good looks prepared us
for a cross between Clark Gable and
Ronald Colman. The wedding was to be
on the day of the ship’s arrival and the
young man was riding down from his
station and would be on the wharf to
meet her. He was. As the ship drew
in we saw two tall bushmen holding up
between them a limp figure with his long
legs trailing in the dust behind him and
his head hanging beneath his shoulders.
It was the bridegroom, well prepared for
the ordeal. The young lady took the
same boat back to Sydney.
* * * *
“Irving”: The staff car which halted
to disgorge an entirely unexpected
brigadier caused a stir among members of
our small detachment which was sweat-
ing it out in an unidentified area of
Centralia in 1941. We had no officer in
camp, but our company sar’-major
ushered the brass-hat into the tent which
served as the officers’ mess. Here the
brig., seemingly a little affected by the
heat-haze, invited the C.S.M. into the
“Haven't you typed those letters yet?"
mess to surround the half-dozen cold
beer which the batman produced from
the cool-box in the staff car. Affected
either by the elevated atmosphere or the
unaccustomed grog the C.S.M. teetered
over the border of normalcy into an
ecstasy of hysterical hospitality. He
blew for the orderly corporal and gave
orders for sandwiches to be prepared for
the general. Less than three minutes
later he blew again and demanded more
and instant action from the now-resent-
ful corp., who responded with devastating
alacrity by rousing and detailing every
manjack of our strength of 70-odd for
sandwich-making and delivery-duties,
From cookhouse to officers 7 mess the
human chain toiled with feverish
activity. Not until, across the field-table,
the tiers of sandwiches deposited by a
smartly stepping and silent succession of
soldiers threatened to destroy all inter-
visibility between brigadier and C.S.M.
did the startled brass-hat suggest: “You
might tell your sandwich-cutters to stand
down for a while —I suggest six months.”
* * * ♦
“Petro” reconciles two irreconcilables:
It so rarely happens that two specialists are
both right in an argument dealing with a subject
foreign to one of them that I feel that artist
Lusby (B. 9/4/’52) deserves it to be placed on
record that his statement that “fossil-hunters
deduced the age of fossils from the geological
strata in which they were found” is completely
accurate. That was the way in which surveyor
William Smith, who is the father of scientific
British geology (and, for that matter, of all
field geology), got palaeontology recognised as
an applied science. In those happy days of
non-specialisation the geologist carried in his
own head all the necessary ancillary sciences for
his hobby. Usually he made his living by
surveying or in the practice of medicine, and
such pioneers worked out the sequence —and
hence the relative age—of fossils from well-
exposed sections of strata. That, in effect, is
Lusby’s statement. Later the knowledge thus
laboriously gained was applied to determining
the relative position (or age) of isolated fossil-
bearing strata exposed elsewhere. And that is
Harold Fletcher’s statement. Today it is the
technique most widely adopted, as it better
meets present requirements. There are, how-
ever, snags in both procedures. The geological
column may be overturned, broken by faults
and have parts missing, thus giving an upside-
down or false sequence, and the fossil eyolu-
tionary trends may be so modified by environ-
ment that the age-direction is uncertain. That
is a long story, but I think that I have said
enough to show that both artist and fossil-
hunter were correct in their apparently con-
tradictory opinions.
* ♦ * *
“Pip Tok”: Another old and half-
forgotten law has been used against a
defendant in a Perth court. An employ e
of a country flourmill left his job tor
one that suited him better, without giving
the customary week’s notice. As this
didn’t suit the milling people, they took
action under the Westralian Masters and
Servants Act of 1892, under which a
week’s notice is obligatory on both sides.
Reminding the defendant that he would
have expected a week’s notice if his boss
had wanted to fire him, the magistrate
translated into legal language the Diggers’
saying, “You can’t have jam on both
sides,” and ordered him to pay his former
employers nearly £l3 and £3 7s. costs of
court.
“Zake”: Sydney’s two afternoon
papers have long been conducting an
intermittent poster feud. When, for
instance, there was a heavyweight world-
title bout in the U.S., the “Sun’s” cable
edition would keep prospective readers
tantalisingly in suspense by displaying on
its poster “Result of Title Fight.” Its
contemporary would act the nark and
come out simultaneously with a can-
spilling of the beans: “Ezzard Charles
Wins.” When turf doping inquiries be-
came an almost daily feature the “Sun’s”
“Dope Inquiry Finding” would be made
look silly by the “Daily Mirror’s” bland
“Dope Inquiry: Trainer Outed.” This
must certainly have caused a sharp rise
in the blood-pressure of those “Sun”
executives who stuck faithfully to their
policy of denying parsimonious citizens
some news on the cheap. Wearied at
last, however, of trying any longer to
veil the actual tidings until the fourpence
had been handed over, the “Sun” last
week announced boldly: “Striking Rail-
men Return”—which was the very day
selected by Ezra Norton’s organ to
reverse policy and come out coyly with
the legend “Result of Strike Decision.”
* * * *
“O’Coilleann”: Failure of other con-
tributors to find any Irishmen who say
“Begorra” or “Bejabers” reminds me of
one of the tales of my grandfather. The
years he had spent in the Army before
coming to Australia had whittled away
his brogue, so one day when a neighbor’s
wife remarked “You don’t speak like an
Irishman,” he retorted gruffly, “No Irish-
man does.” Despite sweeping assertions
of that nature, the old boy had a degree
of tolerance. Once, while he and one of
his cronies were trying to recall the name
of an old regimental comrade. Grandpa
said: “I knew him well, but I just can’t
think of his name. He was a Belfast
“Learn all you can now. It cost a packet to get in."
man, but mind you, he was an awfully
decent fellow.”
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Nomenclature applied to
newspapers and periodicals (B. 2/4/’52)
reminded me that in the sweet long ago
when I was a pupil there the Warrnam-
bool (Vic.) High School published a
school mag. titled “The Breeze.” Begun,
I think, about 1917 it appeared two or
three times a year until it fell a victim to
the paper-shortages of World War 11.
There seems a chance, however, that the
old “Breeze” will blow again someday,
My niece, now attending the school, tells
me that a rather less ambitious publica-
tion has lately made its bow, its title
“The Zephyr.” The school, situated on
the pinnacle of a high hill, is a wind-
swept, draughty building, but I never
heard the origin of the name “Breeze”
explained satisfactorily.
* * * *
“Rann”: Hospital and hell to pay over
accidents to schoolchildren (B. 26/ 3/ ’52)
is only too true. When a child is hurt
at school the headmaster must (a) obtain
a report from the teacher on duty in the*
playground where the accident occurred,
( b ) obtain reports from any other
teachers who might have been anywhere
near the accident, (c) obtain reports from
at least two pupils who witnessed the
accident, ( d) notify in writing the parents
of the injured child, (e) draw a plan of
the playground where the accident
occurred showing the position of all
witnessed, (/) heave a sigh of relief and
post the lot to the Department of
Education. At one city school when a
boy broke his arm the head phoned the
parents, who collected their boy from a
near-by hospital. A month later the
accident report came back from the
department with a note pointing out the
omission of the copy of the letter to the
parents. The headmaster then had to
write to the parents to tell them that their
boy, who by this time had been back at
school a fortnight, had met with an
accident.
* „ „ „ * „ .* ,•*
Boro-Belle : Buying shipwreck
doesn t always pay. When the Dutch
freighter Crimmen was wrecked on St.
Bees Island, near Mackay (Q.), in the
war years a man of energy bought her
for £3OO. He established a home aboard
for his family, and after many months
hard work had a stack of thousands of
feet of teak. The first vulture appeared
to collect Customs duty, closely followed
by the taxgatherer. They left him £320
out of pocket. He fled to New Guinea,
where a turn of Fortune’s wheel brought
him several hundreds, from timber con-
tracts—and the dough was tax-free.
s * * *
“Swelpme”: At one end of the kiosk
a girl was concentrating on ice-creams,
A boy bought three wafers, and the lass
shot her eyes to a sheet of paper pinned
to a shelf, then said “One and a penny-
ha’penny,” A young fellow ordered two.
Again the girl looked at the rough scrawl
on the page before announcing “Nine-
pence.” My request was for three; the
sheet was referred to yet again before I
received my change. Outside the shop
my cobber, a pretty successful business-
man, commented: “An girl,
that.” I chuckled at his sarcasm, “No,
he went on, “I mean it. There’s a
difference between being brainy and being
intelligent. A brainy girl could mentally
multiply fourpence-ha’penny by any given
number in a flash; but that girl’s got
brains enough to know she’s dull, so she s
made her own ready-reckoner. Being
thickheaded is a handicap only if you re
too thickheaded to know how thickheaded
you are.”
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: If “Findy” (B. 2/4/ 52)
mutters in his time he reads
about a “daring hold-up” I gnash my
teeth when I hear the A.B.C. news
bulletins refer to “new” developments
when obviously they mean
developments; “centre around when it
should be “centre in” and “9 am. this
morning” when it should be “9 o’clock
this morning.” Another favorite practice
is to ring the changes between “slowed
up” and “slowed down” when referring
to military advances or retreats; and
often I have heard mention of a “sense of
false security” when by all the rules of
good English it should be a “false sense
of security.” Parents who encourage
their children to listen to radio news
bulletins on the assumption that they are
models of good English—as they should
be—would do well to think again,
* . * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Critics of Australian
broadcasting, particularly of the tardiness
of the official attitude with regard to
te i ev i s i o n, should consider the air-mailed
o pi n i on of a friend of mine at present
touring America; “I have seen television
j n pr i va t e homes, clubs, bars, etc., and it
amazes me that a presumably sane people
puts up w ith such a monstrosity. Techni-
ca t h e images are mostly distorted and
blurred. The standard of programmes
wou hj disgrace Woop Woop. Children,
i nstea d of learning to be normal, sit pop-
eyed at a jj hours watching ancient
Westerns, sub-normal cabaret singers or
a u ege dly ‘funny men.’ It is an indict-
ment Q f American public that it
to j era tes this sort of thing, much less goes
thoroughly wild over such trash. When
I get back I’ll have some apologies to
ma j ce especially one to the A.8.C.”
* * * *
“Vingter”: “B.J.L.’s” gauge of a
copy's prosperity by the kind of sedan
be owns reminds me of a meeting, after
a 20-year break, with a sheepman who
was a bullocky before he drew his first
grazing-homestead lease at a Crown
L an d s ballot. The erstwhile oxen-
conductor, in all the habiliments of
SUCC essful squattoeracy, stepped gingerly
out bis Super Swish, carefully nursing
a s b ng -bound right arm. In response to
m y j n q U iry as to his injury he replied in
purest bullocky: “It’s them blasted kids
—they won’t leave anything alone. I
went down to the woolshed to start up
the plane for a run down to the city for
the directors’ meeting and I copped this
when I swung the prop. The little blanks
had been mucking about with it and left
it on compression stroke.”
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
With thousands of my sisters I
Came smiling from the factory.
Two hemispheres of shining leather
Indissolubly bound together,
A perfect sphere, a lovely thing,
Though filled with gritty cork and string;
Long months I slumbered in a case
Bandied about from place to place,
And then, an article of trade.
In a shop window was displayed,
With other implements of cricket,
Bat and stump and bail and wicket;
So I was sold and swiftly passed
Into my active life at last.
How well they treated me at first— ?
In a warm pocket I was nursed,
Carried home and on a shelf
Left to recollect myself,
Till, ah, alas, the evil day
When men and boys went forth to play—
How little could poor I foresee
What fearful pangs awaited me.
The bowler, lusting to begin,
Fondled me and stroked my skin,
And turned me gently round and round,
Then, like a tiger from his lair,
Launched me forth upon the air—
How pleasant seemed my course, for I
Seemed to grow sudden wings and fly:
How could X guess that it would bring
Such a rude awakening?
Now, when I met the batsman’s blade,
I understood why I was made,
He dealt me such a thundering knock
My vitals quivered with the shock
The fieldsman threw me in and then
The dreadful sport began again.
But why prolong the dismal tale?
A thousand times I had to quail
Before the batsman’s cruel stroke
Into my brief illusions broke;
So to the ending of the game
Bruised and sore at length I came,
With roughened skin and entrails shaken,
My silly dreams all from me taken,
To early dissolution fated,
My maker’s name obliterated,
For ever lost my glow and gloss
And my complexion a dead loss;
So, while you sit and idly watch
The changing fortunes of the match,
Pray spare a sigh, spectators all,
For me, the poor unlucky ball.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


From Australia—to all 6 Continents
Swift, sure, 8.0.A.C. Speedbird services link 51
countries on all six continents , . . save days,
even weeks of travelling time. You fly without
delay—on one ticket all the way. Four-engined
Speedbird aircraft are pressurized for smooth,
above the weather flying. You relax in deep-
seated comfort, enjoy complimentary meals and
meal-time drinks, and courteous, friendly attention.
No tips or extras for traditional Speedbird service
and experience.
m WBH ID
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA
PAKISTAN • MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. « CANADA • CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Fly your freight by 8.0.A.C., too
Information & Bookings ; Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwtn
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A30/AU
m
I
was a monarch most droll.
And his frolics were fast and free;
The goal of his soul was a flowing
bowl,
Which he’d share with his fiddlers
three.
A gallon of punch with his dinner
or lunch
Was the only draught he’d endure;
But if sore throat should hap, the
cunning old chap
Took
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure*
Mm
f.v
ywmtr
sd
1
S Af
p
*
**
I* 1
TYRES
OT4I.tS.SO
The BARDIE BLOKE
by K.H.BRADSHAW
I WAS on my way to do some
burr-cutting when I met him.
We were in the same goods-
truck under the tarpaulin,
and I trod on his shin as I was
scuffling to get in under. It is a
matter of speed when you’re
jumping the rattler, although
some Queensland train-drivers
are pretty good at giving you
enough time to get aboard, and
that’s when the boys can get a
free trip out to a job of burr-
cutting. Casual labor they call
us, but we are expected each
year out there, to hoe out the
Bathurst.
This time there were just the
two of us, and we had plenty
of room to stretch our legs on
the hard floor. About ten miles
out I pushed back the tarp.
and looked out on as sweet
a night that ever was. We were
bumping past a few houses now
and then with warm, yellow light
in the windows, and sometimes
the tents of the gangers beside
the railway had large shadows
from the kerosene-lamps. There
were dead ironbarks standing out
like gibbets in the moonlight.
I offered him the makings, and
he rolled himself a racehorse of
a cigarette, tucking in the ends
with the wax-match. There was
the sudden flare as he lit it, and
the comforting smell of hot wax
as he waxed the end of the
paper. Of course we got talk-
ing after we’d had our smoke,
for a man needs company when
his bones are being shaken up
on a train, and he’s just said
goodbye again to the wife and
kids.
1 took him for a burr-cutter
until he grinned and brought out
an old envelope. He hauled out
the contents, and even in the
moonlight I could catch the
glint of opal. I’m superstitious
about opals, but it was easy to
see that this bloke was mad
about them. At last he showed
me his best —I thought it was a
fake when he showed me. It
was for all the world like a
bardie grub, the ones the abos
eat, except that it was pure opal.
There were the ridges on it and
the little things like nipples with
the colors changing from blue to
white as you turned it.
It gave me the willies, it was
so perfect. He’d found a bit of
wood once that had been turned
to opal, and there had been
borers in the wood. At the
bottom of each hole he’d found
one of these borers that had
become opal, too. Freaks they
were, and he told me that every-
one thought they were bardies
and that was why he was known
as the Bardie Bloke.
It was getting light when we
turned north and I began to see
the old landmarks. There used to
be lots of emus running beside
the train at one time, now we
just scared a plain-turkey every
so often and it flapped slowly
away. I wished I had a shotgun.
The season must have been a
good one, for the Mitchell-grass
was over a foot high, but there
were bruises in it and that was
a good sign for me —that was
the blue-grey Bathurst-burr and
there would be a sure job for
me.
The Bardie Bloke slipped off
the train as it was pulling up the
long hill and said he was making
further west after he'd called on
some friends of his. And I
thought that was all I’d ever see
of him.
| GOT a job all right. The boss
showed me a couple of new
hoes he’d kept specially for me,
and then told me to doss down
in the usual room at the
woolshed.
That sounds like a room at a
pub—it was about eight-foot
square, with an old stretcher on
one side, a canvas chair and a
kerosene-lamp hung on the
rafters. The same old chest of
drawers was there and I knew it
had been cleaned out, for the
newspapers in it hadn’t had time
to go yellow.
That day I spent having a
look at the paddocks to see how
the Bathurst crop looked. It
was promising, best of all near
the waterhole, where the white
cockatoos rose in clouds as I
rode to the edge. In their
screeching I find a sort of
welcoming note, and the clean
white of their wings against the
blue sky is a lovely sight.
I boiled the billy and leant
back against the old gum, throw-
ing stones in the waterhole to
see the ripples. Next day I’d
be right on the job, and so I was
counting up the money I’d be
able to send home to Molly by
postal-note. The money and a
letter scribbled in pencil would
be all that would give her some
hope for the kids, and perhaps
a visit to the pictures.
There was a French johnny
once who said that saying good-
bye was like dying a bit. He
was right, but Molly knows that
even if I do die a bit each time,
I like the bush and she lets me
go walkabout when I get. the
urge. And I kid myself that I
wouldn’t be able to get a job
back there anyway.
If the French johnny had
finished it off he might have been
able to say what coming home
again is like. If you have two
homes, one the lonely bush and
the other Molly, then it seems to
work out. Maybe that was what
drove the Bardie Bloke each
year to look for more opals, but
I don’t understand how you
can get to like dead things like
opals.
That night I went to bed early,
just after the martins had
stopped wheeling about the
Moreton Bay ash-tree, and
dreamt that I was cutting out
burrs in a railway-yard, when
suddenly I saw a grub in the
roots. When I picked it up it
was hard and cold, it glowed for
a while then went out like the
coals on a wood fire when you
throw tea-leaves on them.
J WAVED to Tom in the cow-
* yard next morning as I set out
for the waterhole. The sun had
just thrown the dark off in the
east and the grass was still crisp
underfoot. When I arrived I
sharpened the hoe afresh to feel
the keenness of the blade on
my thumb again, and I swiped
into the first patch of burr like
a two-year-old. You have to get
rid of all the burr, roots and
all, stack them into heaps and
burn them when the sun has
dried them out. That looks easy,
but after a spell in the city you
get soft. Your back aches like
a tooth and a blister starts to
shine on the side of your thumb.
It becomes a struggle between
you and the burr. It hits back,
too —with unfair things like the
Barcoo-rot that sets your skin
alive with little burning sores,
or you get burr-blind so that
you can’t see a burr three feet in
front of you.
When you go round and fire
the old heaps of yellowed leaves
they burn angrily, stubbornly,
with a pathetic plume of smoke.
You curse the burr and take the
edge off the hoe on a gibber.
That makes it worse, and ten to
one that’s the time a kookaburra
will start laughing his head off
at you. But when you’re by
yourself that is the moment you
hitch up your belt and get stuck
into it even harder.
This first day I was really
sweating, and to make it easier
I chanted in rhythm to myself
as I swung the new hoe. Any
old thing, but the best rhythm
came when I started saying
“The Bardie Bloke, the Bardie
Bloke, the Bardie Bloke ...”
like an old witch-doctor. I was
just about to knock off for the
morning smoke when in the wink
of an eyelid the hoe slipped.
There was a crunch, and a warm
feeling in my right boot. Fair
to the bone.
I swore blue murder, I
damned the Bardie Bloke
through three generations, and
blasted the rotten luck in meet-
ing the bloke who liked opals.
Somehow he was the thing
responsible for this, instead of
my own carelessness. If he’d been
handy I’d have broken the hoe
on him. This was the end of my
burr-cutting season, and I’d have
to go limping home to Molly
until it got better.
Gingerly I took off the boot
and bound up the ugly mess. It
was agony riding back to the
homestead, but they were very
gentle there. The missus washed
it and tore some strips off a
sheet to bandage it. Of course
I had to say that I couldn’t do
any more burr-cutting, and then
the Old Man slipped me a quid
and said he was sorry. He was
a sport.
WELL, I won’t tell you of
the trip back home. It
was a hell of a journey, with
the foot throbbing ; like an
engine. The guard on the train
was a mate of mine, and he
brought along a billy of tea at
one station. But I was as
cheerful as a dead duck, and
wondering where I was going to
get some cash to live on in the
next few months.
When I finally dragged in to
Molly she was all anxious about
my foot, and made me feel like
a worm about the whole business
while the kids just stood at the
door round-eyed. In a week I
was able to hobble down to the
pub to see the boys, and
we were in the middle of a quiet
beer when in walked the Bardie
Bloke himself. I lay into him
with my tongue first, and if the
boys hadn’t stopped me would
have carried the argument out
info the backyard for a go. The
Bardie Bloke just kept grinning,
so X went off home.
"T HAT’S all there was to it, for
t the war broke out a month
later, and we all went into the
Army. Not the Bardie Bloke ;
he said he was heading outback
to a place where he knew there
were opals fit to set him up for
the rest of his life.
Molly used to send me the
newspapers in the Middle East,
and one day I came across a
whole column on the Bardie
Bloke. He’d found his pile of
opals all right; he’d dug a mine
into the side of a hill and then
it had fallen on him. There had
been no one about, and it was a
week before they found the spot.
In his coat they’d found the old
envelope and the opal wood-
borers.
But it still gives me the creeps
when I think of the Bardie Bloke
buried under the dirt, and at
nights I sometimes dream I see
him. For I cursed him once,
and in my dreams when he looks
at me there are no pupils in his
eyes—just a cold, hard stare like
opals.


mm
m
m
m
m
'7s
dog 5
0
&
IF ONLY I GOT THE AFFECTION
YOU GIVE "ROVER ! JUST
NAME MY TROUBLE
FOR ME,HONEY?
rBOB. I CAN'T ! YOUR DENTIST
IS THE. ONE TO TELL YOU <
ABOUT... WELL... BAD
IT HE'S GOT A POO'S CHANCE! J
& t>
-2
i COLGATE DENTAL CREAM m
CLEANS YOUR BREATH WHILE]
UT CLEANS YOUR TEETH,., J
'AND THE COLGATE WAY OF 1
TEETH RIGHT J|
AFTER EATING
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST t
f
sdf
Later
thank*
1° ..
THAT COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM ADVICE HAS
y 808 SITTING
PRETTY
v nice!.
1
5
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating With
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and two years’
research showed the
Colgate way stopped
more decay for more
people than ever before
reported in dentifrice
history! No other
dentifrice offers such
proof the most con-
clusive proof ever re-
ported for a dentifrice
of any type.
AMERICA’S LARGEST, AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST,
THE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM X
*S TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
✓ WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH
V AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST*
tov
Buy ihe
Big Family
Economy Size
05/182
The f WEST
C OOKE««‘ wt ' NO *
#
*
$
o
*
rv
t
i
cs
S’
£■
co
CO
o
o
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and three
baths a day. Economical fuel consumption is
guaranteed and the hot water service is run
from the one small single fire. Life with Aga
is so easy!
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
V Sole Australian Agents for the AGA
COOKER end the BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST TO-DAY for Free Leaflet
LEVIN & CO. LTD., 45 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
Please send me full particulars of the Aga Cooker.
NAME.
ADDRESS...
FIRST
FLIGHT
by OLIVER
FILTER
IN the evenings, when the
winds were in the right direc-
tion and the air of the right
density, old Sebastian Stone
would go flying. That is,
although he never actually flew,
he would go down to the big
barn, climb the ladder to the
platform he had built on the
roof, and sit there surveying the
spaces around him, turning his
face to the winds like a dog and
feeling the air with his hands
with firm upward gestures as
though letting it run through his
fi n B ers -
Nobody knew how the flying
bug first bit him, but bite him
it did, and hard, so that within
a couple of years he changed
from a toiling, prosperous
farmer to a vague-eyed dreamer
wno gazed into distances, rested
under trees or leaned on stumps
while his farm declined, the
rabbits multiplied and the fence-
posts rotted and lay where they
lel ‘-
His wife, Esther, of course,
was very distressed. At first she
had listened to his ideas about
flying with dutiful respect, but
as it dawned upon her that he
was afflicted by, or giving him-
self to, some foolish mania, she
sharpened her tongue to nag him
away from his folly. Which,
naturally, only drove him, in
defiance and refuge, deeper into
it.
Esther, in her turn, and either
as an example to him or as a
pathetic attempt to demonstrate
t 0 t be community at large that
wba t had befallen them was not
her fault, became a magnificent
example of the perfect farmer’s
wife. She kept herself starched
and spotless, preserves plentiful
and prizewinrting; her house a
cool, dustless and well-ordered
haven.
xhe community at large
i isten ed to Sebastian with fine
simulated attention while he
exp o U nded his theories on flight
and certainty that soon, next
week pro bably, he would be air-
borne When he had gone they
smiled and said it was a pity —
a pity about his farm, a fine pro-
perty gone to the rabbits; a pity
about his wife, a fine woman
struggling to keep up appear-
ances; a pity about old
Sebastian himself, a fine old boy
really, but —well, just a little
queer.
ONE by one the farmhands
left as the farm’s production
dwindled, until there were only
Sebastian, his wife and Young
Bill Walters—Young Bill was
seventy-three, but as his father,
Old Bill, was ninety-five a dif-
ferentiation had to be made.
On the evening that the main
gate leaned wearily on its
hinges before falling to the
ground, Sebastian came home
excited, as he had often done
before.
“The wind is perfect tonight,”
he announced. “Straight up the
valley and just strong enough.”
Neither Esther nor Young Bill
was particularly interested.
Esther asked a little tiredly, as
she often had “What good will
it do us if you ever do fly? If
you ever do. Will it make a
living? Or save the farm?”
“Thass right,” said Young
Bill. “No good at all. An’ it
ain’t right for a man of your
age to be foolin’ round with such
things. Leave it to the kids.”
“If!” said Sebastian. “Good
Lord, woman!”
He went out more scornful
than annoyed, and Esther set to
clear-awaying the dishes and
washing them. When she had
finished she went out to her chair
on the veranda to reflect on her
misfortunes in the cool evening
air. Her urgent cries brought
Young Bill from his room at the
back of the house at the nearest
pace to a run he had achieved in
the last ten years.
Sebastian, the object of
Esther’s concern, was down
by the shed, and, if he wasn’t
flying, he was certainly defying
some of Newton’s most cherished
principles. With his body as
stiff as a log and arms outspread
he was taking an erratic course
through the air rather like a
torpedo that had partaken too
liberally of its own alcohol. He
was moving at about thirty miles
an hour about fifty feet above
the ground and appeared to have
only a little and very desperate
control of his movement, direc-
tion and speed.
He veered from the machinery
shed and hurtled towards the
house, narrowly missing the
great peppercom-tree by the
fowl-runs. Near the house he
lost height and passed over the
gesticulating figures below with
a noise like washing on the line
on a windy day. ■
“Help me! Help me!” he
yelled as he passed over and was
gone towards the gate.
Esther was crying with excite-
ment and consternation. “I
should have known. I should
have known. He always does
what he says. But what’s he
want? What’ll we do?’
There’s not much you can do
about a man thirty feet above
you and travelling at thirty miles
per hour —unless you bring him
down with a shotgun,
“Damn’ young fool he is,”
said Young Bill. Then, “Come
down,” he yelled as Sebastian
passed over.
“I can’t,” he shouted back,
and made a clumsy circle of the
house.
“Well, slow down, blast you.”
“I can’t,” yelled Sebastian
before he disappeared around the
corner again.
Sebastian’s problem th e n
dawned upon them. He was in
the air and couldn’t get out of it.
He couldn’t slow down, and he
couldn’t very well hit the ground
at thirty miles an hour without
considerable risk of breaking his
neck.
Esther and Young Bill stood
in front of the house, she wail-
ing helplessly, and he calling
angrily, like a hen abusing a
hawk, each time Sebastian
passed over.
Finally he gave up his abuse
and fell to muttering “T’aint
right. Damn’ foolish thing for
a man of his age. Damn’
foolish thing.”
The rest of the farm was also
voicing its disapproval. The
fowls were in a squawking,
feathered maelstrom, the horses
galloping around their paddock
snorting and with tails streaming
as though they were about to
join Sebastian, and the cows had
taken up the excitement and
were bellowing their nervous
discontent.
Sebastian might still have been
flying around the farmhouse, or
to the m oon for that matter, if
b j s great, despairing “For God’s
sake do something!” had not
finally stirred his wife to
coherent thought.
“The haystack! ” she screamed
to b j m “The haystack! ”
TIE heard her, and as they
p] started running towards it,
he bankec j c i um sily away from
the house towards the stacks. He
m ade three approaches, but his
n erve failed each time and he
swerve d away from them. The
f ° Ur,h time ’,
SSSSffi? £
appeared up t 0 his ankles.
They hauled him down or,
rather, helped him as he fell.
jj e was b i ancbed> trembling and
SQ set that he could barely
stand. The most he could say
as they helped him to the house
was a long succession of groan-
m g, moaning Ohs and Ahs.
j n tb e bouse be swall9 fi l6
cook } n g brandy his wife gave
b j m and j a y back j n a n arm-
chair thoU g bt ,” he muttered.
tbo ught it would be like . . .
like '' ' nothing like that " „
“ You were marvellous,
Sebastian,” his wife told him.
“1 bdleved ln
you from the start.
“Marvellous! ” he exclaimed,
“It was terrible.”
“That was only the first time,”
she said. “It will be much easier
next time.”
« Next time ,„ he almost
shouted « There?ll never be a
next time Never! Woman, you
dorPt know wba t I’ve been
through. Suffocated! Buffeted!
Dropped! Thrown! Nothing
I could do. Absolutely helpless,
Oh, my heavens no. There’ll
never be a next time.”
. ND tbere never was
j\ firs( . £ stber tried, ‘ w j tb
careful suggestions about wind
a nd air, to urge him to another
attempt. Then she took to tell-
ing him he should do it for her
sake; make them rich and
famous. But it was no use.
“i’ll never fly again,” he told
b er. “And I’ll never tell a soul
j ever d j d And that’s final.”
. , , ... „
abif fte "arm^n^hisworas 1
*** TaE
“ifealed, “he"fenceposted
upj the farmhands reappeared,
and the little farm became again
w hat it had been, the showplace
0 f the valley,
psther on the other hand
J| no longed
and tless she
brooded . the house had a kind
of makeshift cleanliness ; and
sbe took to telling visitors, very
confidentially of course, that her
busband re ally could fly if only
be ’ d make the effort.
n>e community at large slowly
chan ged its opinions. Sebastian
was a fine fe n ow ; h is property
was a fine farm ; tat it was a
pity a bout his wife; a fine
woman, really, but—well, just a
little queer.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”; “Wimmen,” Mat said,
“have got me beat. I’m waitin’ for the
Coota. train on Red Bend siding, where
y’ got t’ use a flag t’ stop the train, and
a girl comes along with her bag and
starts waitin’, too. I’m feelin’ sort o’
bright an’ friendly an’ I says t’ her,
‘Nice day.’ She gives me one o’ them
cold looks. After a bit I says, ‘Train’s
late. Ought t’ be here be this.’ She looks
at me again an’ snaps, ‘Why don’t you
mind your own business?’ That’s good
enough f’r me, so I blow off along the
platform a bit an’ sit on a bench. A
young bloke come from somewhere, eyes
me off an’ then makes for the girl. He
words her, she tosses her head an’ walks
away. He follows an’ talks some more.
She won’t have him on. He’s still at
her when the train comes. I hop in,
an’ strike me if she don’t get in the same
compartment. You know what she said?
She looked at me, real annoyed, an’
said, ‘Couldn’t you see that man was
annoying me? Why didn’t you speak to
him?’ ‘Strike me fat,’ I says, ‘y’ told
me t’ mind me own business.’ Yair,
they got me beat, all right.”
* * * *
“Phwee”: Old Baldy Jepson, the
stationowner, had worn a wig for years,
though none of the local abos had ever
seen the boss without his ersatz thatch.
One hot day the boss, myself and
Corporal, an abo, stockman, were riding
past the lagoon and the Trump decided
on a swim. We peeled off and Corporal
headed in. “Watch this,” chuckled old
Baldy, as the abo. disappeared under the
water, and, snatching off his wig, he
followed him. Corporal surfaced first.
Then with shiny white pate and hollow
mouth (his dentures were now out, too),
his employer rose beside the abo. and
grimaced. One terrified shriek of “Debil-
debil” and Corporal was off, waiting
neither for clothes nor horse. He showed
up some days later, but the wig was back
on and the boss refused to enlighten him.
Corporal still can’t be persuaded to go
near that lagoon.
* * * *
“Long Bob”: The curlew (southern
stone-plover) seems to have the ability
to vary the color of its egg in different
country. Perhaps each pair never sticks
to a particular district. But here in the
N.S.W. central west, at Gilgandra, I’ve
seen red-speckled eggs on sandy red
ground and green-speckled ones on black
soil, and only a mile apart. These birds
depend entirely on camouflage to protect
their nests.
» * * ♦
“Laetitia”: That old fossicker who
made no attempt to avert his sozzled
mate’s imminent collapse into the fire (B.
2/4/’52) reminds me of the Thursday
Island skipper who, though awash to the
back teeth, successfully negotiated the
choppy length of the town jetty and then
stepped into the water when he missed
by several yards the gangway leading to
his moored craft. A few seconds later
he found himself safely aboard after
rescue by two of his native crew, to whom
“Eggs are up to sixpence now, girls—but dont forget what happened to
the goose that laid the golden one."
he was bibulously grateful till the very
speed of the save set him thinking. It
occurred to him then that his rescuers
must have been already in the water
waiting for him to take his involuntary
header, the idea of prevention’s being
better than cure apparently never occur-
ring to the Binghi mentality.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Chicker has always been
the most improvident bloke that ever
rode a push-bike along a murderous rural
road. I’ve never known him to carry
even such an essential as a block-spanner ;
he never has a
repair-outfit with
him, and it’s very
seldom that a
pump is between
the clips on the
frame. As for a
lamp! Knowing
those things about
him I was naturally amazed to see a
motor-bike horn mounted on his dis-
torted handlebars. “Well, I’m gettin’
old,” he explained, “and them drovers
will let their sheep spread all over the
blasted road from fence to fence. When
they see you’re only a bike they just
won’t bother to order the dogs to open
'em up for you. A bloke’s got to get
off and snake his way through, barkin’
at ’em like a flamin’ mong. But I’ve got
’em where I want ’em now. I just sneak
up quiet, then all of a sudden thump the
siren like mad. She goes ‘parp-parp-
parp-parp’—you’d think there was a
couple of speed-happy young louts racin’
each other on motor-bikes. Scares the
daylights out of the drovers, it does.
They’re whistlin’ instructions to their
mongs before they’ve woke up to
’emselves. And I’ve only got to follow
the dogs.” “But what’s your getting old
got to do with it?” I asked. The old
cove looked thoughtful. “Well, I used to
chip ’em about wantin’ all the road,” he
said. “But some of them young blokes
can ‘go’ a bit.” He fingered a dried scab
on his nose reflectively.
* * * *
“The Missus”: An abo. place-name
that always appeals to me is that of
Wulgulmerang (Vic.). The translation,
I’ve been assured, is literally “Where do
we go from here?” Reference to an
ordnance map will prove that Binghi
was, as he nearly always is, pretty correct
in his choice of a descriptive name, for
Wulgulmerang, with its 3000 ft.-odd
elevation, is getting up into the southern
alpine regions of East Gippsland and is
situated amid a maze of confusing ranges,
winding creeks, running sometimes east
to the Snowy River gorges, sometimes in
other directions to feed different water-
sheds. Even with a road one sometimes
feels a bit the way the weary blackfellow
must have felt when, pausing to look
over the muddle of geographical land-
marks in that uncharted land, he asked
himself; “Wulgulmerang?”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; I never think of a Sydney
Royal Show without remembering the
time Pocketknife went to it. He left the
station with about £25 in his kick, and
took the city and Show quietly —until
Easter Saturday. Most of that day he
spent watching the woodchops, with
intervals for refreshment, got himself a
meal and, with the shades of night down
and the floodlights glowing, made for the
stands to watch the night ring-events.
All stands were full and closed. Pocket-
knife withdrew behind the Coronation
stand and considered. Then he heard a
faint clanking. Above him in the dark a
windmill turned in the breeze. A long
wooden ladder led up to the platform.
Up the ladder went Pocketknife and from
there got a fair view of the doings.
After the last event he made to come
down. No ladder (it turned out later
that Show windmills are not usually fitted
with ladders, and the one he’d gone up
had been left there temporarily and he
didn’t notice its removal). Pocketknife
yelled, but nobody heard him. He tried
to come down the girders and struts, lost
his grip and fell into the 200 gal. tank
from and into which the mill pumped
water. The splash brought a couple of
attendants. “Watcha tryin’ to do, mate?”
they demanded, fishing him out. Pocket-
knife, shocked and angry, roared, “What
the blazes y’ mean —leavin’ tanks lyin’
about like that? I might ha’ broke me
ruddy neck! Get me a cab! ” And they
were so dumbfounded that they did.
♦ # * *
“Jurumudi”; I see that the Deputy
Leader of the Queensland Opposition is
objecting to Russian snipe making a land-
fall in Australia, waxing fat on Australian
pastures and then returning to Russia to
go into the moujik’s stomach. They
used to descend on us in Java, and the
ricefields would suddenly fill with the
whirr of their swift wings almost on the
same day every year. Long before that
the Englishmen would have started clean-
ing and oiling their guns and going over
their ammunition and instructing their
native “boys” in the art and mystery of
snipe-shooting. Guns banged all over
Java, frightened water-buffaloes broke
their tethers and gored a few sportsmen,
the farmers came to the Dutch controleur
with their usual ineffectual protest against
the Englishmen breaking down the dykes
of their ricefields, and for a few weeks
we had fat snipe, deliciously cooked by
our Chinese cookie, to relieve the mono-
tony of buffalo-steak. Then the birds
vanished as suddenly as they arrived,
apparently in the direction of Australia.
One year I borrowed a gun and went out
and came home with the biggest bag on
local record, but they turned out not to
be snipe, which are hard to shoot because
of the extraordinary zigzag flight they
have developed through long acquaint-
ance with British sportsmen, but the
slow-moving snippet—quite inedible.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The weather fore-
cast was “storm approaching.” There
wasn’t a cloud in the sky, but the air was
heavy with promise. The Army, fearing
that its troops on Rottnest Island might
be cut off from the mainland 13 miles
away, withdrew them a few days earlier
than had been planned. Twenty-four
hours later there still wasn’t a cloud in
the sky, but you could feel the approach-
ing storm, and the Weather Bureau could
even tell you where it was and the direc-
tion in which it was moving. That night
the sandhill leading down to the dry
swamp was alive with small—about lin.
long—black frogs. They were active, but
they weren’t moving as a body in any
particular direction, just aimlessly hopping
around. In the morning they’d vanished
and the swamp was still dry. That was
three days ago, and it still hasn’t rained.
I’m wondering if those frogs were tricked
as effectively as everyone else was, and
what happened to them?
sf: $ $ *
“Sixty-niner”; The best roasts I ever
had in a lifetime of good eating came
from a camp-oven (B. 26/3/’52). It was
all my mother had; it was standard
equipment for my long-haired mate when
we started off on the W.A. goldfields.
The camp-oven had one big advantage:
its good-fitting lid had all the virtues of
the modern pressure-cooker. When steam
got too high the lid just lifted a little
and eased it down. But the supreme
virtue was that, with the body of the
oven resting on a bed of coals, the cook
could top off to a browned or crusty
finish by putting a shovel of coals all
over the lid. The viands were thus cooked
top and bottom.
4s
“Colonial Cove”: All the arguments as
to whether the kangaroo embryo was or
was not born on its mother’s teat inside
the pouch would have been saved if a
sailor hadn’t been a bit clumsy over
a century ago. Dr. Bynoe was the
(surgeon-naturalist in place of Charles
Darwin when H.M.S. Beagle made its
second contact with Australia. It was
during his examination of the coasts of
nor’-west and north Australia in 1837-40
that Captain Wickham, in command,
discovered and named the Fitzroy River,
and there a doe kangaroo was shot.
Dissecting scientifically, Dr. Bynoe dis-
covered that this doe was carrying in its
uterus an embryo in a well-advanced
stage of development. Anticipating a
solution of the question that even then
was interesting scientists, Bynoe packed
his evidence in a bottle of spirits, which
was given to a sailor to carry. When,
however, the ship was reached on return
and the doctor asked for his prize the
seaman confessed that two days before
he had let the bottle drop and smash but
had said nothing about it. After that,
since the chance of a scientific dissector
happening on an embryo in just that stage
of development was remote, the question
continued to be argued right into this
century.;
“Why don't you make one? It saves your tyres.”
JACK UNDERWOOD.
Jack Underwood I’m writing on,
A bushman. He is dead and gone,
Jack Underwood is gone.
At Putty Hill he was shot dead
By some mischance, straight through the head,
His hunting days are done.
At Putty Hill, straight through the head.
Down by the creek they made his bed
And there he sleeps alone,
But still he’s more alive than most
Who ride the bush with their own ghost
Following close upon.—
Many there are who still recall
How Jack all night in Putty hall
Like some mad demon danced,
And how he laughed and how he sang
And how he made his banjo twang
Till girls like trout in summer sprang
And lads like Brumbies pranced.
At flopd-time, or when men turn out
To build a dam against the drought
His name falls on your ear:
“Seems heavy work without poor Jack,
My word, I wish we had him back,
He could do everything, poor Jack,
I wish we had him here.”
Or when the races come around a
And thunder rises from the ground, 1\
And when the field’s away, \t
Someone is sure to say:
“I wish poor Jack was riding there, '
With him about ’twas fair and square;
He could do everything, old Jack,
Wish he was riding there.”
When lies the party-line inflame
To poison honest women’s fame
Or when the Progress-meeting bogs
And cousins snarl like hungry dogs
They reckon “Jack could fix this up”
And at the thought the quarrels stop.
There is a ring, a special ring,
About this word, this everything
That Jack, they say, could do:
As if the spirit of the place
Had suddenly assumed a face —
The cheerful dial of our race,
Indomitably new!
And so in Putty to this day
Jack Underwood still makes his way
As if he had not died,
And Tom, his son, takes after him,
A bush boy, soft of speech and slim,
And bold, and steady eyed.
VICTORIA.
DAVID MARTIN.


“Kelms”; I asked (B. 27/2/’52) what
is the farthest-reaching sound in the Aus-
tralian bush, and a friend from Mukin-
budin (W.A.) wrote to tell me. He says
that during a recent heatwave he drove
out from the township one evening, had
tea, and was preparing to turn in when
his nearest neighbor arrived. Within an
hour he had half a dozen callers, the
farthest coming from five miles away.
He says he hadn’t realised how far the
sound of bottles being put into a refrige-
rator would carry on a still night.
* *
“Derf Reltuc”: “Slot” (B. 16/4/’52)
is off the beam in saying that thunder is
caused by the crackle of a mighty spark.
Thunder, which follows a flash of light-
ning, is caused by the sudden expansion
of air in the path of the discharge. Also,
since sound travels at approximately
1100 ft. per second and light immensely
faster, the interval between the lightning
and the thunder is about five seconds for
each mile of distance between the observer
and the discharge. When the distance is
considerable the sound becomes rolling,
partly because of the reflections of clouds,
etc,
* ' Jfc
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver listened
solemnly to the butcher’s complaints,
pocketed his pound of bladebone and
turned homeward. “Hear him, Sol?” he
drawled, as we rode along. “Hear him
growlin’ about things? Cripes, them
blokes ’ve got nuthin’ t’ growl about
no*wadays. Not like when Hec Brown
wus butcherin’ f’r the miners on Long
Gully. Meat was cheaper in them days,
o’ course, but most o’ the miners never
had two-bob, an’ they used t’ strap up
their meat an’ hope for a strike t’ pay
the bill. Hec hoped, too ; an’ when the
stock-sellers pushed him to pay for his
fats he’d collect some more promises
from Dud Grubber or old Ben and pass
’em on. Dud owed*Hec quite a bit, an’
his claims weren’t worth workin’.”
Seventyfiver chuckled reminiscently. “I
was workin’ near the crossing the day
Hec suddenly slammed his door and
started up the track at a trot. It appears
Dud had packed and was clearing out,
an’ by Hec’s pace I reckoned he didn’t
have much lead. I bet my braces on Hec.
Well, hours passed, an’ about dusk a
Agger comes slowly over the ridge
towards town. It was draggin’ a leg.
one eye was bunged shut, an’ its battered
mug trickled blood, Yair, it wus Hec
awright. Had Hec’s striped pinny on.
An’ he’d done it,” nodded the old-timer.
“Like he said, he’d collected somethin’
from Dud, awright.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The first rains have
fallen and the seeds which the eucalypts
have thrown to the winds will now lie
soaked and buried. If the next few
weeks are exceptionally flns and warm
some of those seeds may germinate, but
mostly they’ll be wasted. The eucalypts
that now rear their bulk out of the
bottomless sand that Westralians call the
coastal plain thrust their first leaves to
the light during the hot summer months
—probably during December. That’s
when eucalypts germinate best. The seed
requires a heavy summer rain, of course,
and that comes to this part of the West
possibly once in a decade, but when it
does come the little seedling gets off to a
flying start. The rain isn’t retained in
the top soil for more than a week or two,
so the newcomer has to follow it down.
Thus, during the first few weeks of its
life it develops the taproot which, thrust
deep into the lowering watertable, is to
sustain it for the rest of its life. Just
how necessary that taproot is to the plant
is shown when eucalypt seedlings are
transplanted from a nursery. You can
damage the small branches, break surpris-
ing numbers of the minor roots, and the
plant will thrive. But if you break the
taproot or even expose it to air on a
hot day the plant will always be stunted.
Copious watering throughout its life can't
compensate for the loss of the one
member which can supply its liquid needs.
Nature knew what she was doing when
she arranged germination during the
season when the seedling just has to sink
for water. But I still feel mighty humble
when I see two tiny leaves peeping
through the sand and know that they will
one day develop into a forest giant simply
because at that moment a thin, thread-
like taproot is driving furiously down in
the wake of the departing watertable.
* * * *
“The Missus”; Number among Binghi’s
ancient methods which parallel white-
pfeller medical practice (B. 2/ 4/’52) the
oiling, instead of washing, of frail, pre-
maturely-born babies. Twice daily the
puny body is anointed all over with the
rich, buttery-looking oil roasted from a
grub of the witchety type; failing a
supply of grubs the oil or fat from a
goauna or animal is used. But the grubs
are regarded as the best strengthening-
agents. White-pfeller prescribes olive-oil.
But they both do the same job.
“Edx”; “Loulalo’s” “four or five
chains” and “FJ.’s” “40 to 60 yards”
(B. 19/3/’52) reminded me of old George,
one of the finest judges of distance on
the W.A. goldfields. Show him a
shaft or any other hole in the ground
and he’d give you its depth to half an
inch. If he could see the bottom he could
tell immediately ; for a deep shaft he’d
drop a stone down, mentally count the
time until he heard the thud or splash
of it hitting
the bottom,
and then
work out the
depth, using a
secret
formula some
scientific
bloke in
Perth had
given him.
He’d never
been known to fail, and one day two
visiting surveyors decided to test
him. They selected a shaft and
Lofty climbed down the ladder with the
end of a 100 ft. steel tape while his
mate. Shorty, stayed on top to read the
depth. This done. Shorty strolled over to
George and invited him to gauge the
shaft’s depth. George inspected the
shaft and, ear downwards, listening
intently, stretched out his arm and
dropped the stone. On hearing
the thud, he sat up, thought deeply
for several seconds, and announced,
“She’s eighty-five-foot-three.” Shorty
couldn’t conceal a grin. “Sorry, old man,”
he said, producing the tape. “My friend
“ How long have I been Waiting for the doctor? Bless you, I AM the
doctor!”
and I just measured it; ninety-one-foot-
six.” The old chap’s pained bewilder-
ment was pitiful to see, momentarily de-
priving him of speech. At last he said,
“But are you sure your mate had the
tape on the bottom? Where is he, any-
way?” It was Shorty’s turn to be sur-
prised. “By Jove, I’d forgotten him ; he
must be still down there.” They called
down the shaft. No answer. They hurried
down the ladder and after some time and
trouble raised Lofty, unconscious, to the
“Those in favor of cutting out the egg-and-spoon race at the annual picnic
this year say 'Aye'!”
surface. George gazed on the long form,
enlightenment in his eye. “Just lend us
that tape a minute,” he said. He measured
Lofty. “Six foot four, eh? Your mate
a bit round-shouldered when he stands
up, is he?”
* * *
“Curate’s Egg”: I’ve known a lugger
to be fairly swarming with big cock-
roaches a few hours after the vessel had
been refloated following a three-months
submersion. The secret of the pests’ sur-
vival is, of course, their ability to take
wing and cruise miles in search of a
landfall when their late quarters disappear
below. But what puzzles me is the nature
of their intelligence system which tips
them off that the refloated residence is
again available for occupation. The
northern ’roach, as distinct from its
effete southern counterpart, will literally
stand up on his hind legs and fight to
the death when cornered.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: They are Kadaitcha
slippers, not “boots” (B. 19/3/’52). I
once owned a pair. They were made
from the breast-feathers of the emu,
cemented together with human blood,
particular thickness being given to the
soles. Quite neat workmanship, the
slippers evidently had been moulded
round a human foot. Eyelet-holes were
provided down the split instep: laces
were of plaited human hair. Thus the
slippers could be laced securely on to
the killer’s feet. The aboriginal donor of
the slippers told me that should a woman,
old or young, accidentally catch sight of
the “Kadaitcha man” as he walked, it
was equivalent to a sentence of death.
In primitive aboriginal society the
kadaitcha man was the official killer,
taking orders from the inner council of
the old men, themselves incapable of
carrying out an execution —though occa-
sionally a buck with a grudge might get
hold of the slippers and carry out a
private revenge. To the skilled abo.
tracker prints of the naked feet were as
individual as the countenance is to the
white man; hence the feathery slippers,
which left only a blurred impression and
concealed the identity of the killer. That,
naturally, made the mere threat of the
kadaitcha man walking something greatly
to be feared. The cult was widespread,
though evidence is lacking that it was
practised by the tribes occupying the
south-west corner of W.A. Feathers were
not always used: I have seen kadaitcha
slippers from the Kimberleys made of
goat-hair, but always the “cement” is of
human blood,
* * * *
“Bass”; An ant identified as a relation
of the Argentine has been found
at Coolgardie, and I’ll bet a lot of argu-
ments have been revived. When the
Argentine first appeared around Perth
old-timers who’d knocked around the
bush swore it was only one of the bush-
ants getting a clear go in the city. It’s a
point on which, in the absence of any
expert knowledge, you could argue
indefinitely. I’ve been plagued in the
bush with ants that, to me, are identical
with some that pass for Argentines now,
and I know there are several varieties of
Australian ants which, like the new pests,
have no smell when crushed. Moreover,
there are about three or four different
types that pass for Argentine in different
Perth suburbs, so there are obviously
some varieties which are just making
their presence felt after years of com-
parative inactivity, or else an ant-con-
scious public has got itself in. Anyway,
this new type from Coolgardie makes
a good argument for those who
claim to have met the Argentine in the
bush years ago.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Our hoddie recognised
the new bloke the moment he stepped on
the scaffold. “How y’ goin’, George?”
he greeted. “How’s the sheep?” It
seemed a strange question to ask a
brickie, but the long, raw-boned bloke
grinned his understanding. On pay-day
I began to see the joke. George care-
fully tore the figures off his pay-envelope,
solemnly extracted two notes, placed
them down south with reverent care,
then, seeing me watching, grinned an
explanation: “Just separating the sheep
from the goats before the missus gets a
go at ’em,” A completely wet day, and
consequent loss of pay, was a bugbear to
the long bloke, since it cut down the flock
before he commenced drafting, but a day
of brief showers brought the smiles to
his sinful old mug. “This’ll build the
sheep up again,” he would chuckle.
“Mum’ll be quite happy when I tell her
I only got in three hours’ work all day,
and was lucky to get that in between
washouts.” Came the time when we did
a job in the country. George hadn’t the
right sort of face for poker; his sheep
changed hands, so did next week’s flock
—and Mum’s goats. Something had to
be done to explain why the weekly
money-order would not arrive back
home. He scribbled out a wire: “Rain,
rain, rain, rain, rain. Love, George.”
The storekeeper-postmaster counted the
words and address, then announced:
“There’s one word too many for nine-
pence.” “Aw, well, you’d better cut one
out,” decided the stony one. “Cut out
‘love.’ ”
COMPANY.
Buggy wheels and cart wheels,
Slow wheels and smart wheels
Passing along at night:
We’d glance up from our book
And at each other look;
Which meant that it was Grogan,
Or Mathieson, or Brogan;
And we were mostly right.
linker wheels and gig wheels,
Slender wheels and big wheels,
Every sort of sound:
The soft ones and the loud,
The timid and the proud;
We’d nod to one another,
Especially to Mother,
In ways that looked profound.
Spanking wheels and old wheels,
Shaky wheels and bold wheels
All in the night so still:
“Bill Thorn is late tonight.
Young Simpson must be tight.
It’s Tod—but he’s not driving.
Old Nelson’s trap’s arriving” —
And they went over the hill.
Grinding wheels, creaking wheels,
Pounding wheels, sneaking wheels;
But friendly wheels at that.
I hear them rumbling yet,
Hear Wagner’s wagonette,
Brown and Jones and Maddison,
Kite and Cobb and Addison:
The wheels we could not see
Keeping us all company
As round the fire we sat.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
a
3
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.**
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H Way, Vice-Chairman.
Q. Moncrieff Barron. 0.8. E.. M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S s
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
'Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.48.15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHY THEY WANT IKE.
General Eisenhower: “Of
course I am not indispensable
[in Europe], even if at one time
many thought me so. If I were,
then I should actually be to some
extent a failure, for one of my
primary objectives here has
been the development of an
organisation that can carry on
despite any loss of personnel—
from the Supreme Commander
through all levels of the staff.”
Regarding hi s successor,
before announcement the over-
seas comment had unanimously
agreed on an American choice,
with Ridgway, Collins, Bradley
and Gruenther then* the
strongest tips.
“Manchester Guardian” noted
one potent, if curious, reason
against Montgomery:
“As he would probably be
among the first to say, his un-
popularity with some people in
the United States could too
readily be used for rousing
partisan opposition to the
Atlantic Treaty’s work.”
In any case, it saw many good
reasons for not changing from
an American command:
“First, among the active forces
in Europe the United States con-
tingent is the largest on land and
one of the largest in the air.
“Secondly, the coherence of
the whole force will for years
depend on the presence of
American troops. While an
American is supreme commander
Congress may be less urgently
anxious to withdraw the United
States contingent.
“Thirdly, for a long time the
Continental armies will have to
rely on American arms, for
which they may not be able to
pay in dollars. A supreme com-
mander who is a United States
citizen can argue with Congress
about appropriations, A British
or French general would
properly be held back by un-
willingness to presume on
American generosity. An
American can tell Congress
plainly that adequate appropria-
tions are in the interests of the
United States itself,”
As for the U.S. Presidential
call to “Ike,” leading American
political commentator Walter
Lippmann has thus summed it
up:
“His mission in American
politics is to reunite the
American people, to heal their
divisions, to assuage the bitter-
ness of regions, of interests, of
classes and of sects.... The
popular strength of Eisenhower
grows from the conviction that
the disunion and distrust in
American politics are becoming
insufferable.”
That conviction may be there,
but if so it’s of the subconscious
variety, according to a “New
York Times” writer’s feeling of
the national pulse:
“It can be claimed that the
eruption of popular support for
General Eisenhower’s candidacy
is largely due to his personal
popularity, a response to what he
is without much thought of what
he stands for. It means, in a
word, just what the slogan says;
‘We like Ike.’ ”
On Eisenhower’s leading
opponent for the Republican
nomination, here are sample
U.S. and British views. First,
James Reston in “New York
Times”;
“More dubious assumptions
are made about the senior
Senator from Ohio [that is, of
course, Taft] than about almost
any other man in contemporary
American history. He is popu-
larly supposed to be a snappish,
unpleasant character, but he is
actually an attractive human
being. He is supposed to be
well-informed and intelligent,
yet his speeches often reveal the
most abysmal ignorance of
history and his policies the most
unintelligent estimates, even of
his own best political interests.”
A. J. Cummings, in London
“News Chronicle”;
“The real danger with Taft is
not that he will go to war with
China but that he will pull out
everywhere. Already, be it
observed, he is calling Korea
‘Mr. Truman’s unnecessary war.’
“He has said that if the
Korean talks break down he sees
no choice ‘except to fight an
all-out war against Red China.’
His own alternative may prove
to be to pull out in Korea and,
when he has tried the pulse of
the nation, in Europe as well.
“He has been dubbed a
quitter. It is not without signi-
ficance that General MacArthur
has refused to support Taft. He
knows his man.”
For the Truman-successor
event London “Times’s” long-
range tip is Governor Stevenson,
of Illinois: “The President might
well wish to cast the mantle upon
him, for the continuity of both
progressive politics and foreign
policy would be safe with him ;
and the Democratic party will
weigh hopefully his appeal to
the voters in the great industrial
regions.”
West-East Trading.
Britain (by London “Econo-
mist” figures) has the largest
trade with the U.S.S.R. and
the satellites. It has an import
surplus with each of them.
Exports from Britain to both
China and the satellites declined
during 1951, but exports to the
U.S.S.R. increased sharply in
the third quarter. This was due
to shipments of rubber which
were previously sent from
Malaya ; the annual quantity is
still being kept below 100,000
tons, which is considered normal
civilian requirements for the
U.S.S.R.
America sent nothing to the
U.S.S.R. last year, but continued
to import Russian goods on a
fairly large scale. Its trade with
China and the satellites has
tended to decline, though its ex-
ports to China were still much
larger than Britain’s.
France’s trade with the
U.S.S.R, is small, though its im-
ports from that country increased
in 1951 ; larger imports were also
received from China and the
satellites.
German imports from China
rose sharply last year, especially
in the third quarter, but Ger-
many’s trade with the satellite
countries was smaller than in
1950.
“What seems to have escaped
notice,” the “Economist” com-
ments, “is the fact that the
United States, through its im-
port surplus with the Russians,
is providing them with a univer-
sally accepted currency that is
an important means of fostering
illegal transactions.”
U.S.-Occupied
France.
In a spirit of mercy (where
most strain that quality rather
thin), London “Time and Tide”
sympathises with the French on
—"Washington Star."
PRIORITY PROBLEM
what’s apparently becoming a
sore point.
It sees the American “occupa-
tion” of France as “a fiction in
its literal sense,” but in a larger
sense something “which exists
and which is profoundly disturb-
ing to Frenchmen who are far
from being Communists”:
“The French respect American
technical achievement and
acknowledge the obvious fact of
American strength; but they
resent what they take to be an
attempt to impose by various
means an American way of life
which they find less satisfying
than their own.
“The feeling is widespread and
it is made up of many elements.
There is undoubtedly an element
of envy at the fact that Ameri-
cans who suffered relatively little
during the war should now be
so prosperous. There is the
natural desire to minimise one’s
own shortcomings by dwelling
on those of others. Above all
there is fear—the fear of war,
and of the fact that France’s
destiny is tied so closely to that
of the United States, which some-
times seems to show a tendency
to seek solutions by violence.”
Korea Casualties.
Among other things, the
latest lists in “New York Times”
show how much of the U.N, job
in Korea has been done by the
U.S.
Total U.S. losses (including
killed, wounded and missing)
are given as 106.794.
All other U.N. forces corn-
bined have lost 8698.
These figures exclude the
South Koreans, whose total is
given as 301,864 ; of these,
missing and p.-0.-w. come to
171,273.
Enemy losses are put at
1,614,710, with a further 37,760
“civilian internees” added for
good measure.
Total U.S. and U.N. aircraft
losses (combat and accident
inclusive), about 1800 to 1900
planes; enemy, 469, with claims
to upwards of 500 more
“damaged.”
Dragnet Digest.
United U.S. —As seen by
“Washington Star”: “In ratify-
ing the Japanese Peace Treaty
by the overwhelming vote of 66
to 10, the Senate made clear to
the world—particularly to the
Kremlin —that on basic issues of
foreign policy, even in this
superheated election year, a near
unanimous spirit of bi-partisan-
ship still prevails in the United
States. The men of the Kremlin
would do well to note the Senate
action with care. In its own
way, it is a warning against
further aggression.”
Slump. —Differing in some
measure from Mr. Fadden’s
assurances to the contrary, the
British Budget (as noted by
London “Economist”) implied
that there was “little inflation to
fight,” and Chancellor Butler has
since “made explicit his fears
of a recession of trade”: “Mr.
Butler is the first Chancellor for
a long time to base his policy on
the belief that deflationary forces
may soon be pressing on the
economy.” The “Economist”
itself sees no signs of a general
slump now.
Germ Warfare. —The North
Korean side of course refused
Red Cross examination of its
germ-warfare allegations, and
commentators had no trouble
killing the stunt with no other
weapons than the Corns’ own
“evidence” and conflicting
accounts. “Manchester
Guardian” summed-up: “From
first to last the Communists have
produced nothing like proof.
They have published photo-
graphs of spiders and canisters:
(his is like producing a knife
and saying it is proof of n
murder. The accounts which
they have produced bear little
relation to germ warfare as it
would be waged by scientific
experts using up -to - date
knowledge.”
The “Soft Spots:— Like most
other overseas commentators
just now, “New York Times”
military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin rules Europe out for
the present, but the problems of
Asia and the Arab world have
created numerous “soft spots,”
which Communism may well
try to exploit. He lists, in order
of immediate importance,
Korea, Indo-China, Iran, Burma
and Kashmir as now the most
acute danger-spots from which
a world crisis might develop.
J. Bull’s Front Line.— 1 There
is,” comments London “Econo-
mist,” “no land defence for
Britain in Britain. To hold a
fairly advanced line on the Con-
tinent is the essential condition
for an adequate air defence of
this country. The place for the
British Army, as well as for im-
portant units of the Fleet and
of the Air Force, is abroad. That
is where they are. Of the Army’s
11 effective divisions, five are in
Europe and six are spread over
the rest of the eastern hemis-
phere. There are now no regular
combatant units here [in Britain]
at all.”
The Bear Eats Light.—Look-
ing into official Russian budget-
ing, a London “Observer” writer
finds it clear that food produc-
tion, like consumer goods pro-
duction, has, to put it mildly,
not kept pace with industrial
development: “Nobody would
have called the 1913 Russian
standard of living a high
standard. There was a great deal
of hunger. But in 1913 there
was more meat and milk avail-
able per head.”
The Armament Race. —The
U.S. (reports “New York Times”)
is to spend about 20 per cent,
of its “gross national product”
on defence during the coming
year, Britain 12.8, France 11,
Western Germany 10.5. “But
these amounts are far exceeded
by Soviet Russia, which sets the
pace for all by devoting approxi-
mately 30 per cent, of its gross
national product to rearmament.
This raises the question as to
whether the democracies can
rise to the danger before it is
upon them.”
The Yanks Pay. —As London
“Daily Telegraph” puts it:
“Thanks to the enlightened
policy of Mr. Truman and of
Mr. Acheson’s predecessor,
General Marshall, the citizens
of the United States have spent
£2B per head in less than four
years upon the economic re-
habilitation of what they think
of collectively as ‘Europe.’ ”
Churchill Dominance. —How
Mr. Churchill dominates his side
of the British political scene, as
viewed by London “Economist”:
“He has not only gathered the
reins of policy-making and
administration relentlessly into
his own hands; he has also
assumed complete control over
the party’s political strategy.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER TASMAN AOKROYD late
of Bankstown.— I TAKE NOTICE that
RUBY PHYLLIS AOKROYD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 841 of 1952 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 23rd day of June 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. J. MANN & K. H.
WILSON, Solicitors for the Petitioner, 84
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
HE HAS A
IPTURE
sd
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo-barreke
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABKERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2s), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
" Phenovis" Worm Remedy
t
iaaassam:
\
a
get
“PHENOVIS"
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
fsd
PHE.BX.BO
Instant, Positive Protection against
every type of FIRE RISK!
u
m
m
-
m
•r >■ '
i
I
f
A “SIMPLEX” OR “LUX” FOR EVERY TYPE OF FIRE RISK
fs
B
TO
C & D
or •* m
k\
E
(A) "Simplex" Auto Type Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC). Capacity: 1 quart.
For motor lorries and cars, lift motor rooms, small electrical switchboards and
other electrical risks.
(B) "Simplex" Stored Pressure Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) Type. 1-gallon
capacity. For large electrical installations, telephone exchanges and similar risks.
(C) "Simplex" Foam Type, 2-gallon capacity. Specified for all highly inflamm-
able liquids and materials when, in case of fire, a blanketing effect is desired.
(D) "Simplex" Soda Acid Type. 2-gallon capacity. For all general fire
protection purposes. Install in offices, factories, hotels, halls, farm buildings,
theatres, homes,
(E) "Lux" (Hand) Carbon Dioxide Gas (CC2) Type, 12-lb. capacity. Has no
damaging after-effects. Particularly specified for protection of switchboards,
electrical motors and apparatus, and certain inflammable hazards.
To kill fire
effectively,
each type of
fire requires
a different
extinguishing
technique
“Simplex” and “Lux” Fire Extinguishers
are self-contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Each does a specific
job. At your office, factory, engineering
shop, warehouse or store —on farm or
station —in your car, truck or yacht
they’re always ready for instant, positive
action in an emergency. “Simplex” and
“Lux” Fire Extinguishers are approved by
all Government Departments, and used by
the Navy, Army and Air Force.
SIMPLEX .nd LUX
HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
df
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Wellington, Auckland,
and Branch Offices at Broken Hill, Orange, Wagga
Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin, Christchurch
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. :: STEELBILT LIMITED
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Father."
The addition of Strindberg’s
“The Father,” with its power,
intolerable misery and final
tragedy, makes a sudden and
considerable corrective to
Sydney Mercury Theatre’s
repertoire, which, what with only
Anouilh’s “Point of Departure”
set against the assorted merri-
ment of Shakspeare, Moliere,
Plautus and Christopher Fry,
was previously a little over-
weighted in the matter of
comedy.
The gloomy Swede, of course,
is just the man to provide such
a corrective, and, likewise, “The
Father” is just the item—an in-
tense and detailed study of a
practical, intelligent man, a
cavalry captain, being slowly
and deliberately driven insane
by a cold and ruthless wife.
There are the weaknesses that
one expects in Strindberg—the
complete subjectivity; the
attempt always to use personal
experience as logical argument
for sweeping, almost Shak-
spearian generalisations. Thus
here we have something of
Strindberg’s personal tragedy, of
his miserable experiences of life
and marriage, coming to light in
a tremendous and bitter
denunciation of women and
marriage. The weakness is
obvious; Shakspeare contrived
to put a little of most women
into Lady Macbeth to make one
woman; Strindberg seems to
pour all of one kind of woman
—or his view of her—into the
wife to represent all women.
Still, the very depth and force
of Strindberg’s personal bitter-
ness, along with his dramatic
power and extended observation
of the ways and wiles of women,
give the play an almost over-
whelming strength; and pro-
ducer Alexander Archdale and
the main members of the cast
showed every evidence of know-
ing precisely where and what
that strength was. As far as
the production was concerned
there was no let-up in the con-
centrated bitterness of the attack,
and, in the acting, Archdale, as
the Captain, went with wonder-
ful variety from the tempers, the
fitful misgivings and sudden
nervous sallies of strength in the
early stages to his final, pitiable,
whimpering collapse.
Ruth Cracknell set herself
magnificently against him as the
wife, coldly and almost statu-
esquely beautiful, torturing and
tormenting him with cold spears
of feminine hatred and slowly
strangling his will with the
relentless serpentine ceilings and
twistings of her own mind. And
if Miss Cracknell can blame the
author for making her an im-
possible representation of
women in general, she can also
thank him for giving her the
material for a superb study of
the bewildering manner and
speed with which the feminine
mind can trap you with the
words you’ve spoken,
Minnie Love was tempted
occasionally to find humor
where none existed, but with
Marcia Hathaway, William
Eldridge, John Barnard and
John Ewart, she made the most
of what little the author,
characteristically, leaves for the
supporting cast.
"Seagulls over
Sorrento."
This made -to - measure,
thoroughly well-tailored and (in
Navy language) pusser-built tale
of the R.N. in peace-time by
Australian playwright Hugh
Hastings is on at Melbourne
Comedy, and follows lines
hallowed by tradition. There is
the usual collection of mess-
room types —the dour ’Aggis, the
sentimental Lofty, the gentle
Sprog, the loquacious Badger
and the village Casanova—who
are barked at morning, noon
and night by the usual brutal
sergeant-major beg pardon,
p.o.—-until just before the final
curtain, when, as they are about
to be court-martialled as de-
faulters, they are rescued by the
deep understanding of Lieut. -
Commander Redmond, D. 5.0.,
D.S.C., R.N., and Sub-Lieut.
Granger.
The messdeck is a room in a
disused naval fortress on an
island in Scapa Row where the
seagulls scream an obbligato to
secret experiments with new
explosives being conducted by
brilliant young scientist Able-
Seaman Hudson. Hudson, A. 8.,
blows himself up in the course
of his investigations, but the
Navy carries on as usual, Sub-
Lieut. Granger takes over the
researches, and his assistant is
selected by lot from the comic
characters in the messroom.
Mr. Hastings evidently knows
his Navy—at any rate, he knows
its language—and he makes the
clash of temperaments on the
messdeck really living. All the
nine characters are well acted,
and William Hodge as Badger
repeats his success in “Worm’s
Eye View.” The stage set by
J. Alan Kenyon and Cecil
Newman should be inspected by
the producers of “Saint Joan” at
the Princess to see how a wall
should be painted.
Puppets.
Between sessions of “Seagulls
over Sorrento” at Melbourne
Comedy there is an almost con-
tinuous uproar. The uproar
comes from myriads of invisible
kids who are sitting in the
darkened theatre surveying the
misdoings of the Hogarth
Puppets presented by Joan and
Betty Rayner, of the Australian
Children’s Theatre.
Puppets usually irritate the
present writer —nobody seems to
have been able to get their lower
extremities into harmony with
the upper and they tend to sug-
gest paralysis rather than life.
Still, Goethe wrote puppet plays
and Mozart and Haydn com-
posed music for the puppet
theatre, and the Misses Rayner
have put on a good show which
is often funny—dreadfully so in
the case of the Circus, in which
Muffin, the horse, the snake-
charmer, the strong-man chair-
balancer, the elephant and the
showman attain to an uncanny
life of their own and can almost
be believed in.
The gods in the machine are
actor Jan Bussell, actress Ann
Hogarth and their 15-year-old
daughter Sally, and their narra-
five and sounds off-stage aren’t
the least clever part of the
entertainment.
The Kiwis.
Though “Cassino” is little
different from other Kiwi pro-
grammes seen in Sydney some
two years ago, the Fernland
funsters, back at the Empire,
continue to pack ’em in.
For those who liked the gags,
gals and guffaws of the earlier
shows (and the box-office will
testify gratifyingly to their
number), there are the same
Stan Wineera, who opens his
mouth only to put his foot in
it; the hip-tease acts of glamor-
ised Bruce Miller and Bill Bain
(their Charleston dance-scene is
really funny); the professional
smoothness of tenor James
Lavery; and, of course, John
Hunter.
One of the show’s stanchions,
if not its star, is Red Moore.
In his impersonation of Bing
Crosby—the soulful eyes, soft
hat, pipe—he is Crosby; and in
his role of a visiting French pro-
fessor lecturing a children’s
radio-audience on the story of
Cinderella, Moore offers plenty
of evidence as to why Chico
Marx rated him good enough to
take back to the States from
Melbourne in 1948.
Gieseking.
For his farewell solo concert
at Melbourne Town Hall Walter
Gieseking selected four of
Beethoven’s best-known and
most often-heard sonatas.
Millions wag their heads out
of tune daily to the strains of the
Waldstein, the Appassionata, the
Pathdtique and the Moonlight
coming from radio or record,
and it is customary to call them
stale and hackneyed, as if
“hackneyed” were a property of
the music, which, of course, it
isn’t. It might just as well be
said that “two-and-two-is-four”
is hackneyed from constant
exhibition. The German pianist
showed that these familiar pieces
were anything but hackneyed.
The crammed house seemed
overawed and was extraordin-
arily silent and absorbed even
before the white-haired old man
made his appearance, and if any-
body had coughed during the
performance it would have
sounded like a bomb exploding.
Whether or not they were new
interpretations or nearer than
anybody had ever got before to
the intention of the composer,
it seemed as if one were hearing
the sonatas for the first time, and
the pianist’s strange ability to
make sound float just above the
zero of silence was exemplified
again, especially in the loveliest
of the slow movements —the
adagio of the Waldstein.


Wi
Ul]* D U!llm*xrl imutiiit taxatio.
"- tIL tITATI STOCX A STATIC!
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
W<aJes and Queensland.
UT7
Your Estate will be Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
,r , COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
(Incorporated m Victoria) (Established 188 S)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St M Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Industrial Acceptance Corp.
/ Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 87,224 = 37,500 49,724 268,192
Special div., £135,611 .. .. 182,581
Sundry additions, £120,838 .. .. 253,419
Share premiums, £150,000 .. .. 403,419
To special tax res., £86,031 .. .. 317,388
1948. .215.598 —12 i 125,000 90,598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/off, £10,921 . . 397,065
1949. .270,823 5 12£ = 144,271 126,552 523,617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
1950. .396,161 5 = 165,625 230,536 879,153
Share premiums, £400,000 .. .. 1,279,153
1951. .481,450* 5 12.9 = 218,750 262,700 1,541,853
* Includes £36 surplus on sale shares.
This co. is one of the largest hire-
purchase finance houses in Australia. Its
activities cover all States and embrace a
wide range of goods, chiefly motor-
vehicles, tractors, refrigerators, furniture
and other household and electrical appli-
ances, etc. It has extensive and strong
connections, including several large car-
selling and furniture-retailing houses, and
also owns three subsidiaries, largest and
most important of which is the recently-
acquired Ajax Insurance Co., which has
been very helpful in providing funds for
expansion of the parent’s business.
Formed in 1926 as an offshoot of
American interests, the business has been
entirely Australian-owned since 1930.
Outstanding features of its recent develop-
ment have been: (1) the extraordinarily
rapid growth over the last four years—
the public became interested in Dec.,
1948, when one-third of the issued ord.
capital was made available at a premium
of 120 p.c.; (2) the board’s marked
affinity for cheap money ; (3) the high
rate of profit in relation to ord. capital,
partly because of (2); (4) quick growth
of reserves, helped largely by share
premiums ; (5) the large amount of out-
side money in the business.
Paid capital, which stood at £500,000
at end 1947, had grown to £2,000,000 in
500,000 £1 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 6,000,000
ss. ords. at Dec. 31, 1951. The increase
included the whole of the pref. money
and £1,000,000 of ord. capital, which
brought with it £675,000 of share
premiums. The latter were added to re-
serves (now £1,541,853). Shareholders’
funds thus total £3,541,853.
One of the anti-inflation aims of
central-bank policy has been to induce
vendors of short-term consumer-credit to
finance expanding turnover from outside
the banking system. And, since the
abnormal demand for this class of
accommodation rests partly on the quick-
sands of an inflationary boom, the board
has sought to avoid the danger of being
caught with a top-heavy structure of
permanent share-capital later on by issuing
long- and short-term debentures. No
less than £5,459,400 has been thus raised
over the last two years. The structure of
the debenture debt is:
f Amount
Maturing. Interest. Dec.,’so. Dec.,’sl.
31/3/’53 .. 4J p.c. £2,960,000 £2,980,000
31/10/’55 . . 4| „ 310,300 450,800
90-days . . 3J „ 1,934,500 2,007,100
90-days .. 2| „ 21,500
Total .. .. £5,204,800 £5,459,400
Last term £160,500 was added to the
4} p.c. issues and £94,100 net to the 90-
days’ paper, the outstanding amount of
which fluctuates during the year, of
course. At Dec. 31 last the co.’s entire
debenture debt was costing 3.87 p.c. p.a.
Since the year’s profit, plus debenture
interest, was equal to 7.7 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds and debenture capital
combined, the debentures were earning
nearly double their cost.
Last term an extra £3,754,009 was put
at work under h.-p. contracts. The leap
in gross earnings was £485,074:
1948. 1950. 1951.
Gross earnings .. £637,098 £1,214,894 £1,699,968
Exes 295,944 535.774 773,007
Depreciation . . 4,556 7,459 12,547
Taxation .. 121,000 275,500 433,000
Net profit . . 215,598 396,161 481,414
Exes, (up £237,233) gobbled 45.4 p.c. of
gross earnings as against 44.1 p.c. in
1950, which suggests that a tight hold
was kept upon controllable outgoings.
After allowing for depreciation and
heavier Government bleeding, the net
gain was £85,253. The £481,414 of profit
covered the pref. div. and 30.4 p.c. on
average ord, capital compared with 33,
25.1, 21.5 and 17.4 p.c. back to 1947.
The div. was lifted from 12.5 p.c. to
12.9 p.c., leaving £262,700 (54.5 p.c.) of
the year’s net earnings to plough back
into the business.
Early in the term the co. bought the
60,000 f.-p. £1 shares in the Ajax In-
surance Co. for £650,000, paying in
1,000,000 of its own f-p. ss. shares
(£250,000) issued at a premium of Bs. each
(£400,000). Including £547,971 reserved
for unexpired risks, the insurance co.’s
net tangibles amounted to £928,762 at
June 30 last. Total assets were £1,515,168,
of which £1,204,500 was represented by
advances to the parent. Profit claimed
was £33,220; but that was before trans-
ferring £36,375 to tax reserve, which re-
duced the net result to a loss of £3155.
No div. was paid. The year’s net
premium income was £1,020,619, of
which claims took £668,324 and exes.
£266,549. After adding £134,659 to the
reserve for unearned premiums (£408,239),
the net underwriting result was a loss of
£48,913. Investments turned in £82,133,
leaving a profit of £33,220, before allow-
ing for taxation.
To meet the growth in h.-p. contracts
already referred to, the parent gathered
an extra £1,171,386 of fixed deposits and
added £1,633,153 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, chiefly advances from
subsidiaries:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,750,000 £2,000,000
Debentures . . 5,204,800 5,459,400
Overdraft . . 3,951,184 365,042 99,820
Fixed deposits . . 1,900 1,174,669 2,346,055
Sundry creditors. . 502,140 306,498 1,939,651
Unearned income 891,292 1,353,229 1,816,615
Staff fund .. 26,684 30,272 42,780
Tax provision . . 183,591 307,547 510,665
Final divs. ~ 75,000 90,625 112,500
Freehold .. .. 2,600
H.-p. debts . . 7.480,288 11,281,314 15,035,323
Shares subsids, etc. 128,092 128,096 778,075
Office equipment, etc. 32,295 36,765 40,415
Cash . . . . 14,733 15,660 12,926
The growth of shareholdings in sub-
sidiaries (up £649,979 net) reflects the
Ajax purchase. When the books closed
there was £2 4s. Bd. belonging to deben-
ture-holders, fixed-depositors and the bank
in the business for every pound of share-
holders’ funds.
The board’s financial problems—they
continue to grow—are largely wrapped
up with the size and nature of the out-
side debt, the increasing need for liquidity
in trade and industry generally, and the
huge portfolio of h.-p. contracts, the
soundness of which will partly depend
upon the level of employment and the
size of pay envelopes. To lighten its
short-term debenture debt the co. has
just issued £500,000 of five-year 4\ p.c.
paper, which has been underwritten.
The market expresses its confidence in
the management by pricing the ords. at
10s. 6d. (14s. a year ago) to return 6.1 p.c.
on a 12.9 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
19s. yield 5.2 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £7 Is. Bd. prefs. and
7s. 7d. ords.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
—Dividends x
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 7-5 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1943.. 24,022 9,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,366 9,000 15,000 366 100,778
124 p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25,000 2,689 103,467
1946.. 45,825 9,000 25,000 11,825 115,292
1947.. 43,705 9,000 25,000 9.705 124,997
Unexplained addition, £5OOO .. 129,997
1948.. 47,091 9,000 25,000 13,091 143,088
1949.. 53,558 9,000 25,000 19,558 162,646
1950.. 48,526 9,000 25,000 14,562 177,172
Revaluation assets, £200,000 .. 377,172
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 277,172
1951.. 64,294 9,000 32,500 22,794 299,966
10 p.c.
1952.. 73,215 9,000 30,000 34,215 334,181
♦After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
The cut in the div. from 12j p.c. to
10 p.c. can be taken as an indication of
what lies ahead in the trade. Yet the
cut is more apparent than real, because
the 10 p.c. is worth 15 p.c. on ord. capital
as it stood before the one-for-two issue
of gift-scrip just before the close of
accounts in 1951. The gift (£100,000)
came from a revaluation reserve of
£200,000, created by writing-up the book-
value of the freehold, which was bought
in the early 1920’s and is situated at one
of the busiest corners in Melbourne,
namely Bourke- and Elizabeth-streets,
opposite the G.P.O.
Expanding turnover, due largely to
higher prices, more than took care of the
slimming of gross margins and a sharp
rise in wage and other operating costs
during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. After setting aside what-
ever was considered necessary for taxa-
tion and writing oft' £l4Ol (down £185)
for depreciation of plant, etc., there was
an encouraging leap of £8921 in net earn-
ings. The record £73,215 of profit
covered the 9 p.c. pref. div. —a reminder
of the dear-money days of the early
1920’s —and 21.4 p.c. on ord, capital
compared with 18.4 p.c. for the previous
term. It was a very heartening
performance considering the trend of
events during the last half of the
term, notably the flood of imports, slack-
ness in the textile trade, tightening of
credit, growth of consumer resistance and
easier tendency in retail turnovers to-
ward the close of accounts.
The co., which specialises in medium-
priced tailoring, mercery and sporting
goods, buys and sells largely on a cash
basis, which means that its trade commit-
ments, both as creditor and debtor, are
moderate. Also it has been able to
finance the recent inflationary growth in
stock-values mostly from its own
resources, as the following comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £400,000 £400,000
Mortgages . . 99,000 99,000 99,000 99,000
Creditors .. 29,396 42,314 60,414 51,349
Tax provision 35,000 30,000 44,000 54,427
Final div. .. 15,000 15,000 22,500 15,000
Property, etc. 444,456 444,690 644,993 653,763
Plant, etc. . . 2,693 3,424 8,467 2,833
Shareholdings. 4,188 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks . . 170.832 177,012 199,480 269,959
Book debts . . 18,490 16,217 17,102 22,839
Cash, etc. . . 383 17,955 64,401 875
To meet last term’s growth of £70,479
in stocks and £5737 in book-debts, as
weft as snip £9065 off the amount coming
to creditors, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £64,026, and surplus earnings
provided the balance.
As for the current term the co. will
be fortunate if it is able to hold turnover
around last year’s level. This puts fresh
emphasis on the threat from rising costs
and the need for greater flexibility in
price-control. To what extent, if any,
recent import cuts will affect the business
remains to be seen. Among other things
they mean withdrawal of a substantial
volume of goods recently available for
consumption in Australia. Still, if costs
keep on rising, these import restrictions
might yet have to be supplemented and
reinforced in the Budget and in the public
works, immigration and possibly defence
programmes for 1952-53. The shopping
public will have less spare cash in its
pockets, and is likely to become more
discriminating and price-conscious in its
purchases. Also credit restriction an
the fact that many traders are overstocked
in relation to the current level of turn-
overs might lead to price-cutting in some
lines in order to regain liquidity.
In a nervous and oversold market,
sellers recently asked 33 s. for the co. s
£1 ords., which fetched 475. a year ago.
At 335. the return would be a satisfactory
6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 295, lOd. also yield 6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £7 6s. lOd. prefs. and 425. 3d.
ords.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends— \To Ke- D®"
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. flcit-T
£ £ £ £
1942. . 13,751 12.4 p.c. 2$ p.c. 8,652 5,099 11,420
To tax reserve, £7500 .. •• ••
1943. 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. 8,203 10,311 8,609
1944.. 14,209 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 6,006 2,603
Kes.f
1945.. 13,086 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 4,883 2,280
From staff reserve, £lO,OOO . . • • 12,280
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,238 7,464 19,744
1947.. 27,587 7.5 „ 7$ „ 11,424 16,163 35,907
1948.. 36,190 8 „ 8 „ 12,186 24,004 59,911
Share premiums, £lO,OOO •• •• 69,911
1949.. 29,967 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 18,254 11,713 81,624
1950.. 26,809 8 „ 10 18,254 8,555 90,179
Unexplained addition, £5144 .. .. 95,323
1951.. 28,881 8 &5„ 10 „ 22,500 6,381 101,704
t After deducting goodwill (now £25,000).
There was more capital to feed, and
operating and other costs continued to
climb. It was expanding turnover that
enabled a bit more profit to be shown
and the 10 p.c. to the ords. to be repeated
with a fair margin.
To finance bigger trading and further
strengthen the capital structure the co.
issued, early in the last term, 16,602 £1
ords. at a premium of 7s. 6d. each, 1072
£1 first 8 p.c. prefs. at a premium of ss.
each and 50,000 £1 second 5 p.c. prefs.
at par. The issues, which were under-
written, lifted paid capital to £260,000
in 50,000 8 p.c. first and a like number
of 5 p.c. second prefs. and 160,000 ords.
It is not stated what was done with the
share premiums, but there was an un-
explained addition of £5144 net to the
dividend equalisation reserve (now
£15,144).
The £67,674 of fresh capital, together
with share premiums and surplus earn-
ings, etc., was used mainly to reduce the
overdraft (down £58,337) and the amount
coming to sundry creditors (down
£18,328) and carry more book-debts (up
£13,784):
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £152,326 £192,326 £192,326 £260,000
Overdraft .. 71,663 13,326
Creditors .. 48,848 42,479 51,239 32,911
Tax provision 46,000 36,004 29,000 45,000
Staff funds .. 8,690 7,797 9,441 10,215
Final divs. .. 7.735 10,561 10,561 12,850
Freeholds .. 110,985 125,042 154,332 158,227
Leaseholds .. 31,705 32,005 33,562 31,943
Plant .. 23,194 30,628 42,699 48,021
Stocks .. 109,120 142,530 189,246 189,432
Debtors .. 26,904 24,745 32,889 46,683
Cash, etc. . . 21,602 15,835 1,681 1,700
Goodwill . . 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000
The net addition to freeholds and plant
was £9217. The growth in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£123,503) was £71,591.
When the books closed, there was only
2s. 4d. belonging to the bank and sundry
creditors for every pound owned by
shareholders in the business. The co.
is thus in good trim financially.
Last term production benefited by
recent additions to the Yenda winery
and distillery, where a private railway-
siding has just been installed to quicken
and cheapen transport, and the co.’s en-
larged and reorganised cellars at Camper-
down, near Sydney, contributed to im-
proved efficiency and economy in work-
ing, too. Helped by a lift in selling-
prices, gross earnings increased by
£51,492, or 49.5 p.c.:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross profit .. .. £110,322 £103,780 £155,272
Exes 54,690 56,644 86,684
Depreciation .. .. 6,940 10,263 6,785
Tax allowance .. .. 18,725 10,064 32,922
Total .. .. £80,355 £76,971 £126.391
Net profit . . .. 29,967 26,809 28,881
Owing to the proportionately heavier
growth in exes, (up £30,040) and bigger
tax allowance (up £22,858), the net result
benefited by only £2072. The £28,881
of profit was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (together £6500) and show 14 p.c.


Mining Notice.
Copper mine for sale, very true and
extensive lode averaging 17 per cent.;
going concern. XX 2548, Sydney.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientea, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER,
C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION. General Manager,
Branches in all States
Agencies In all Country Centres
Make Sure that
every £lOO you save earns
A
H|r every year—
Invest Promptly
in
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
Issued at par for a currency of 10 years, the Loan
gives your money the opportunity to earn much more
than bank interest. It is an Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland and Tasmania, and
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ARE
GUARANTEED BY THE
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
Decide Now—Apply Today!
Apply at your nearest branch of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, the Sydney Water Board, or through
any member of a recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
Prospectus and Application Forms are available.
£42
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.,
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THIS AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
sd
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-13 Parramatta Road,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.S.W.
From
Scotland^—
every
precious
drop
A
=-=a
Scotch
WHITE
BUCHAHAItf
COW.SCOi
cwumtuo wxoclt o«nu» *md natv*(B m icoiun*
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BLACK & WJHITE
ipbciVl ’iue n o’o/*
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTILLI «S.
CCAWCOW a. CONDON.
atWAOCHtM OISTIIIt«V.NUISEII.S«YSIOI.SCOTIAN
NET CONTENTS I PINT e FLUID 02*
BUCHANAN'S
‘BLACK & WHITE"
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment to
the late King George VI
ill
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
J. 8.3
Sp
Is
zuztEJWnmm
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & BIIGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
locorporattd In Queensland. 1893,
RE I LAX spray pamt unit
i portable pressure gun unit for
AUL PAI NTS—for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts I
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
2
WM
Alto available
at petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. modelt for
lighting sett.
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
MANUFACTURED BY:
J. W. EONS Haw PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-'Phone X 83950
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
on ord. capital as against 15.9,
tsi 31 2 23.7 and 13.2 p.c.
Mck to 1946. On shareholders’
net tangible funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year s
profit was 7.9 p.c., so the new
second prefs. are earning more
than their keep. Over the last
decade ord. divs. have averaged
7 p.c.
The 1952 vintage operations,
now well in hand, are expected
to show a “substantial” improve-
ment on the 1951 gallonage, and
thus strengthen the co.’s stocks.
Increased demand, however, has
sent the price of grapes up, and
operating and other costs are
still on the up-grade. All but a
small fraction of the wine pro-
duced in Australia is now con-
sumed locally, and demand is
still growing, but how long it
will continue to do so is doubt-
ful at the moment. However,
the board expects the current
year’s net earnings to be main-
tained on a fairly even keel.
The market sums up the less
immediate risks by pricing the
ords. at 275. 6d. (345. 6d. a year
ago), giving a return of 7.4 p.c.
so long as the 10 p.c. div. con-
tinues. The first prefs. at 235.
yield 6.9 p.c. The seconds are
not quoted on ’Change. Net
tangible cover is £7 4s. Bd. firsts
and 325. 9d. ords.
Peninsula Tin, N.L.
This Melbourne-controlled co.
(paid capital £199,387 in f.-p.
15s. shares) stood out of the
recent merger which amalga-
mated the interests of nine other
Australian - owned tin cos.
operating in south-east Asia, Its
property is at Langsuan (Thai-
land), where it got its 160,000-
ton-per-month dredge into com-
mercial production again in
August, 1949. The machine has
since worked at only 60 p.c.
capacity, or less, owing to
shortage and poor steaming
quality of the firewood.
Performances to April 30,
1951, have been as follows:
Year to April 30,
1950.* 1951.
Treated, c.y. .. • • 528,500 804,200
Recovery, t. 0., tons .. 221.7 9
Yield, c.y., lbs. .. .94 .83
Costs, c.y., pence .. 21.36 30.1.1
Profit, £ . . . • 16,196 70,096
* Eight months.
Last term more but slightly-less-
rich ground was treated for an
extra 78.2 tons tin ore, assaying
72.8 p.c. metallic tin, and there
was a sharp rise of 8.83 d. per
yard in operating costs. How-
ever, after allowing £16,605 for
depreciation and £12,000 for
taxation, there was a spring of
£53,900 in net earnings, thanks
to the rise in the price of the
metal. The amount realised per
ton of tin ore was £676.2 as
against £409.6 for the previous
term. The £70,096 of profit was
equal to ss. 3d. per share (35.1
p.c.). Since the close of accounts
two Is. divs. (total £26,585),
equal to 13£ p.c., have been
paid.
The current term promises to
be better than the one on whose
heels it treads. For the 10
months to end Feb. last 210.25
tons t.o. were produced, and the
London average spot price of
metallic tin was £S 1079.75 per
ton for 1951 as against £5745.9
for 1950. This lift of over 44
p.c, in price should more than
take care of the advance in costs,
including taxation. The board
makes no mention of banditry
troubles; and, to relieve the
boiler of part of its load and so
help the rate of digging, a diesel
plant was installed in January,
Under existing conditions
appearances are that the London
price of tin is likely to fluctuate
within the £S9OO-£SIOOO bracket
during 1952, What the less im-
mediate future holds for the in-
dustry is anybody’s guess at the
moment.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £131,381, of
which £34,240 was dredge
spares, etc. There was £36,307
coming to sundry creditors and
£63,931 to the Government.
Since the close of accounts
£75,425 has been received in
settlement of war-damage
claims, thus wiping out the Gov-
ernment loan, and leaving
£11,494 to put in the bank.
The scrip, which dropped to
16s. 6d. in the market in 1951,
fetched 21s. 9d. last week.
Whether Mt. Morgan (Q.) will
be able to treat its big dumps of
iron pyrites, aggregating some
3,000,000 tons, on a large scale
depends upon whether the
Federal and Queensland Gov-
ernments decide to go ahead
with the erection of fertiliser
works, which the co. and others
hope will be erected in the
neighborhood of Rockhampton.
The co. has offered to sell up to
150,000 tons of pyrites per
annum at £3 a ton, and to pro-
vide the technical staff to
operate the plant, which would
produce about 100,000 tons of
fertiliser annually and involve a
capital outlay of some
£8,000,000. The importance of
fertiliser in stimulating both the
quantity and quality of a wide
range of primary products is
beyond question; but, with the
loan market as it is, and with
the emphasis on economy in
public spending, the project
seems likely to remain in the
blueprint stage for the present.
Morgan’s 2s. 6d. ords., which
reached a peak of 295. 6d.
during 1951, recently sold at
21s. 6d.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
At the first meeting of the Victorian
Division of the Navy League, it was
decided to establish a memorial to the sea
cadets who served in both world wars.
This will take the form of a building to
accommodate 500 boys for training on
week nights and at weekends. A grant of
land has already been made by the Albert
Park committee of management. A ball
to help further this aim will be held on
July 11 in the Royal ballroom. Presi-
dent of the ball committee is Mrs. Arthur
Laver; Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade is
deputy-president. Ticket-secretaries are
Mesdames Bruce Rose, C. F. H. Green
and Norman Dodd. Secretary and
treasurer is Brigadier Guy N, Moore,
official secretary of the Victorian Division
of the Navy League. Tickets (single,
two guineas, double £3 10s.) will be
limited to 800. It is hoped that the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks will be present as guests of the
league. A special sub-committee is
handling the decorations, and if they are
in line with the decorative motif used last
year, they will be original and in keeping
with the spirit of the Navy.
Popular Canadian Commercial Coun-
sellor, Frank W. Fraser, and his equally-
popular wife are regretfully saying
goodbye to all the friends they have
made in this country over the past seven
years, for they are bound for Sweden,
where Mr. Fraser will take up an appoint-
ment. Mr. and Mrs. Fraser will go first
to Canada, where they will spend some
time before going on to London, thence
to Sweden. In Canada they will see for
the first time their baby granddaughter,
Nora Anne, the two-year-old child of
the son, Dr. F. Clarke Fraser, who lives
in Montreal. In London they will visit
their son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. Tim Hewat. The Frasers were fare-
welled recently by fellow-members of the
English-Speaking Union. Vice-president
of E.-S.U., Sir Charles Lowe, welcomed
guests, who included the recently-arrived
U.S. Air Force Attache, Colonel John L.
Sullivan, and Mrs. Sullivan, the departing
U.S. Air Force Attache, Colonel Frank
Gillespie, and Mrs. Gillespie, Lieut.-
Colonel and Mrs. Robin Hearder, Mr.
and Mrs. T. B. Scotcher, Captain Robert
Denbo, U.S. Navy Attache, and Mrs.
Denbo, and Cyrus Townsend Brady,
Jnr., who is here on holiday from the
U.S.A.
The Central Auxiliary which works for
St. Ives Hospital has done great work
since its formation. Like every hospital
in this city, St. Ives, which is conducted
by the Sisters of the Community of the
Holy Name, has had to struggle against
rising costs, and the auxiliary has held
several functions to raise money for
necessary hospital equipment. Latest was
a dance held at the Delphic. In the
flower-decorated foyer Mrs. George Bell,
president of the auxiliary, welcomed
dancers in a grey-and-black brocade
gown. She was assisted by the secretary,
Mrs. Athol Teare, in black net over
deep-red taffeta, and treasurer Mrs.
Edward Lesh, whose black chiffon was
cut on slim lines. Kathleen Lascelles,
who organised the dance, wore a silver-
grey Chantilly-lace gown which featured
a front panel of graduated tiers of the
lace. Later, when with her partner T. Van
Erp she danced an exhibition French
tango, her gown was black chiffon with
turquoise scarf draperies. Dancers in-
cluded Mary Briggs, who wore turquoise-
blue chiffons; Beryl Cadogan, in frock
and matching jacket of green-and-white
brocade ; Canadian visitor Christine Mc-
Kenzie, whose white pique was em-
broidered at the neckline and at skirt-
hem; Mrs. Sheila Phillips, who had a
swathe of chiffon on the off-shoulder
bodice of her pastel-pink tulle; Mrs.
Bruce Nevin, her black tulle and black
velvet cap gay with sequins; and Mrs.
George Jackson, whose choice was a
midnight-blue, silver-embroidered sari
gown.
That there will be all the fun of the
fair at Xavier College, Kew, on Saturday,
May 3, is guaranteed by Godfrey
Stewart, who is the busy president of the
committee arranging the function, pro-
ceeds from which will go to the Australian
Jesuit Mission in India Appeal. The fair
will be divided into two parts: one for
juveniles, which includes a merry-go-
round, pony rides, suitable films, square-
dancing and—most exciting of all —learn-
ing to fly in the Link Trainer ; Gertrude
McKenzie, a woman pilot, will be in
charge of this. For adults there’s a flower
show, Dutch auctions, and, from 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m., a barbecue.
Judith Minogue, who has just
announced her engagement to Dr. Bill
Coates, is a sister at Heidelberg
Repatriation Hospital and a trainee of
the Alfred Hospital. She is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Minogue,
of Tottenham, and formerly of Tennant
Creek, Northern Territory. Her fiancd is
the elder son of well-known surgeon Mr.
A. E. Coates and Mrs. Coates, of Toorak.
Wedding will take place in June, and the
young couple plan to make their home m
Edenhope, where Dr. Coates is taking up
a P rac h ce - .....
Another engagement ts that of Mmam,
° n > y ??K hter \ u , £us Ramey -
U ..S. Military Attache and Mrs, Ramey
°f Toorak, to Reginald WiUiam youngest
so " o£ f l r :„ and ,- Vlrs - R ?S lnald Williams,
0 Rox Hill. Miriam has been a keen
® A e „. mer , lca " Wojtien s
Auxiliary of the Children s Hospital, and
« alao b “ ay £ ° r tha success f
tbe fourth of July Ball. Engagement-
™g is a sapphire surrounded by
diamonds. ITeA . u T ,
.Uj l a visd f rom U.S. A. is Mrs. John
Lindsey, who was formerly Joan, elder
daughter of Mrs. Olga Moss, of Toorak,
and an old St. Catherine s girl. Joan met
her husband here, but soon after her
marriage went to live in New Jersey.
The Lindseys have two children, Cheryl
Anne and John Alexander. Since her
return Joan has been busy renewing old
friendships.
A popular pair who bade goodbye to
friends recently were Commodore H. J.
Buchanan and Mrs. Buchanan, who have
gone to Sydney to make their home —
the commodore has relinquished
command of training at Flinders Naval
Depot to take over command of the air-
craft-carrier Sydney. The venue for the
valedictories was their home in Flinders
Naval Depot, where the reception-rooms
were decorated with flowers from the
garden. Mrs. Buchanan received her
guests wearing a pewter-and-pink-shot-
silk faille cocktail frock. Guests included
Captain and Mrs. R. Woolcott, Com-
mander and Mrs. J. Mesley, Commander
and Mrs. W. B. Marks and Lieut.-
Commander and Mrs. Dacre Smyth.
Captain D. H. Harries, who replaces
Commodore Buchanan at Flinders Naval
Depot, is expected in this city at the end
of the month, and Mrs. Harries will
follow him.
Scotch College’s Littlejohn Chapel was
the setting for the wedding of pretty
blonde Barbara, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. H, Chandler, of Heidelberg,
and Bruce Osborne, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Robertson, also of Heidel-
berg. The bride’s gown of pastel-pink
Chantilly lace h#d a bouffant skirt which
swept into a full train ; from her jewelled
Juliet cap fell a finger-tip veil of pink
tulle and she carried a posy of tuberoses.
Her only attendant was flower-girl Gay
Elizabeth Anderson, whose full-skirted
long frock was of pastel-pink nylon tulle ;
her small bouquet was of Cecil Brunner
roses. Bruce had his brother James as
best man. Reception was at the Australia.
The mother of the bride wore cinnamon-
brown tulle with a small hat of lichen-
green feathers. Among the guests were
Mrs. Alwyn Spicer, whose black crepe
gown with its finely-pleated skirt was
worn with silver-fox furs; Mrs. A. Hall,
in smoke-grey tulle ornamented with
silver sequins; Mrs. S. Casey, whose
blonde gown featured a draped bodice ;
Pat Lukies, wearing a dove-grey-and-
blue pin-spotted brocade frock with a
small matching blue satin cloche; and
Bel Thomson, in jade-green satin brocade.
Racegoers at Caulfield huddled into
furs and topcoats to counter a wind which
had an edge to it more in keeping with
mid-winter than mid-autumn. Mrs. Ken
McLean, wife of the acting-chairman of
V.A.T.C., entertained at lunchepn in a
navy suit and a pastel-blue felt cloche
which matched her blouse. Mrs. A. G-
Hunter teamed a black Persian-lamb
coat and a yellow beret. Mrs. Frank
Gillespie covered her charcoal-grey
flannel frock with a black Persian-lamb
coat; her duck-egg-blue cloche flew
emerald ostrich-feathers. Mrs. Colin
Kennon’s forest-green velvet coat was
worn with a snug black felt hat. Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas was cosy-looking in
a vibrant-red velour coat and small veiled
black beret. A huge bow of bright navy
velvet was splashed across the front of
the grey coat worn by Mrs. John Rodd.
From Sydney
The autumn meeting restored Rand-
wick to its full glory as an outstanding
social occasion in Sydney. In spite of
the crowds, “strolling on the lawns” was
quite a reality, and those lawns were
brilliantly green and springy, though
maybe a little damp underfoot. There
were rainbow rows of zinnias, banks of
cyclamen and feathery hanging baskets
of flowers throughout the Members’
Stand. In the Paddock the new Beer
Garden (at any rate on Ladies’ Day) was
a restful spot to celebrate or relax between
races, and the company seemed not so
intent on getting and spending as on
meeting friends enjoying the happy
spectacle.
Devotees of the grey suit were Mrs.
Ray McCaughey and Mrs. Berryman,
whose suit was of gaberdine trimmed with
braid and worn with a small black hat.
White hats, especially in hatters’ plush,
were top favorite. Mrs. Tom Bateman
sported one of these with a glamorous
brilliant ornament attached. Color was
supplied by Madeleine Archbutt in prim-
rose with a green hat, and her companion,
Robin McFadyen, whose red hat glowed
richly. One of the few unusual styles
was featured by Mrs. Brian Oxenham,
whose belted coat was of black-and-white
checks in a quilted material.
The dressing was good, taken all round,
but nowhere breathtaking. Sydney
women seem to have realised that the
trim suit (grey for preference) and the
colorful hat (generally small, veiled and
discreet of ornament) makes an unim-
peachable outfit, and indeed it threatens
to become almost a uniform. The suit,
of course, must have a nipped-in waist-
line, a rounded hipline, as established by
Monsieur Dior, and it may be worn
with a lapel ornament of rhinestones as
sponsored also by him.
Here is Marjorie Lane, of Mosman,
who will play the name-part in “Major
Barbara,” which opens at the Shavian
Playhouse tonight. Marjorie has had a
good deal of experience in repertory,
having played Regina in “The Little
Foxes” when she was 19, and having
toured with both the Mosman Children’s
Theatre and the Children’s National
Theatre. Recent performances were with
the Metropolitan as the eldest daughter in
“The House of Bernarda Alba,” and as
the Countess in the Shavian production
of “Too True to Be Good.” Very ver-
satile, she is capable of practically any
job in the theatre, including costume-
designing, which she did for the recent
production of “Hansel and Gretel” at
the Con. Her photo is by Alexandra Lee.
For her wedding to Armand George
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Jennifer
Snelling wore a lovely classical gown of
magnofia satin and a' veil held in place
by a tiara. Her bridesmaids, Susan
Snelling Patsy Scammell, Marilyn Rogers
and Annette Lane, wore pink organza,
hand-beaded and sunray-pleated. Jennifer
is the daughter of the late Captain R. L.
Snelling and of Mrs. Joyce Snelling, of
affton Gardens, who was Assistant-
Controller of the A.A.M.W.S. during the
war. Present at the wedding were all
four bridesmaids who had attended her
mother. Little Jan Vesper, who was
flower-girl with Karin Goddard, is the
daughter of the bride’s mother’s flower-
girl, now Mrs. Peter Vesper. Mr. and
Mrs. J. Cudmore, of Quirindi, were
present with their sons Jim and Peter,
who acted as groomsmen. Among the
guests were General and Mrs. Berryman
and Brigadier and Mrs. Galleghan.
This Letter can’t let the 1952 R.A.S.
Show recede from view without passing
on the information received thereat about
miniature poodles. The poodle, regarded
by most women as a dilly-dolly type of
dog, is apparently a very useful member
of society, well able to earn its living as
a duck-retriever, and barbered in that
apparently absurd manner for very good
reasons. The legs are shaved so that the
hair won’t drag the dog down in the
water, the ruffles left on the joints to
prevent the little worker getting rheu-
matism. The face is shaved and the hair
drawn back to prevent eye-trouble, to
which poodles are subject. The cynic
may remark that it would be easier to
get some other dog to do one’s duck-
retrieving, but after seeing these bright-
eyed, exquisitely dainty little creatures all
prepared to go hunting it seems a mortal
shame that they should never have an
opportunity of doing so. It is sad to
report that the poodle hasn’t done any
duck-retrieving for some 500 years, and
that during all that time he has waited
patiently, all dressed up, with no place
to go.
Some Sydneyites will be tempted to
hop down to Wollongong on Saturday
when the Red Cross Branch there is
holding a gymkhana in aid of Red
Cross funds at the Kembla Grange pro-
perty of Dr. and Mrs. John D. Maude.
President is Mr. Jim Campbell (late of
Quirindi, now of Dapto). Secretary is
Helen Frazer, daughter of the Noel
Frazers, of Wollongong, and niece of
the new Commissioner for Railways.
Mrs. Fred Chenall will judge the ring
events, whilst Charles Lysaght, John
Norton and Neville Wentworth will be
stewards.
To clinch restored faith in Daisy Ash-
ford’s authorship of The Young Visiters
comes a letter from Mrs. H. Luson, of
Essendon (Vic.), who has a 1920 edition
of Daisy Ashford, Her Book, which con-
tains masterpieces called “Where Love
Lies Deepest,” “The Hangman’s
Daughter” and the like, with a story
called “The Jealous Governess” by her
sister Angela, and a reference to another
story by her sister Vera. This is re-
assuring, but Mrs. Lusbn’s letter implants
another doubt by adding “the preface to
this volume states that the owner of the
copyright of The Young Visiters was
Miss Margaret Mackenzie,” whereas the
report from “Time” said that Daisy was
still raking in the royalties. The facts
are not irreconcilable, however, so maybe
we can take it for granted that Daisy did
indeed write the book all unaided.
A group of public-spirited citizens are
trying to ensure that Macquarie Fields
House, Glenfield, shall be preserved for
future generations as a very good type of
our early Georgian architecture. It
belongs to the State Government, but the
fear is that it might follow the fate of
Burdekin House and Henry Lawson’s old
home near Gulgong. What interested
people are asked to do is to write to
their members of Parliament and to their
local councils stressing that the property
be retained and vested in a trust as is
Vaucluse House.
There will be an opportunity to see
the many developments that have taken
place in recent years at Hammondville
when the settlement celebrates its 20th
anniversary next Saturday. Archbishop
Mowll will preside at the opening
ceremony at 2.45 p.m., when the Governor
will also be present. Visitors should take
the 1.29 p.m. train from Central, which
will be met at Liverpool by special buses.
The old people who live in the Ham-
mondville cottages pay £1 per week, which
includes electricity, and during the
coming year the trust plans to build a
home for single women who have only
the pension to live on.
The United Nations Flag which was
seen at the C.W-A. Handicrafts Exhibi-
tion last week and is on view at I e
Assembly Hall during the C.W. A. Con-
ference was made by Mrs. A. M. Leye .
of Manly branch. The intricate design
of the globe surrounded by laurel-leaves
on a pale-blue background, handworkea
in applique, is to be repeated by mem e
of the Country Women’s Association a
over N.S.W. for presentation to school*.
It is felt that by undertaking this project
the association will be doing some =
practical to further the cause of Unites
Nations, as it will undoubtedly give j
to much talk and discussion of the wor
and value of U.N.


"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
'.<WSX
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
fs
Vf.idcdk.
AND SONS
PTV LTD.
df
£3B/10/-
+ 12 %% sales tax
♦
BW 8631.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
e s *
?%
I
11
iu
;yiti«, ; i|i?,»:i!iJv“'
■.Hil.il.J II ifeii;
"‘i i i, r MinsJ «
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY KATES:
Single Booms —
From 13/6 per night
Doable Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,"
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
PERSONAL ITEMS
A man unique this side of the Green-
wich meridian stepped off a plane in
Sydney the other day: Charles Hazlitt
Upham, a Canterbury (N.Z.) sheepfarmer
who, if Hitler had not beaten the gong,
would in all probability have quietly
applied the farm-management course he’d
just finished to his property on the rich
flats round Canterbury—and remained an
average farmer thereon. But Upham
left for the Middle East, sergeant with
the 2nd N.Z.E.F. He was a lieutenant in
charge of a platoon when he met the
Germans in a savage stoush in Greece.
He came out of it with the Victoria
Cross. Then in the following year he
repeated the performance, gaining a Bar
to the priceless red ribbon at Ruweisat
Ridge, in Egypt. He was, as well, men-
tioned in dispatches. On Anzac Day,
with Major-General Sir Howard Kippen-
berger, his C.O. in Greece, Upham will
represent the New Zealand Government
at the unveiling ceremony in Athens of
a memorial to Allied servicemen who
died in War II Greece.
Hilary St. George Saunders (who
wrote those excellent official war publica-
tions —Battle of Britain, Bomber Com-
mand and so on), in his Combined
Operations, the story of the commandos,
covered the landing at Vaagso, in
Norway. After putting the Red Devils
ashore in the face of heavy fire, he wrote;
“While Group 2 was thus involved in
heavy fighting, Group 3 had been more
fortunate. To the sound of their
commanding - officer. Major Jack
Churchill’s bagpipes playing the ‘March
of the Cameron Men,’ they had landed
dry-shod on Maaloy Island.” Group 3
soon ran into very stiff stoushing. Their
Major Churchill of that occasion is now
a granite-faced lieut.-colonel, training
paratroopers at the Army-Air school at
Williamtown, near Newcastle. Churchill
(no relation to the other eminent fighter
of the name), holds D.S.O. and Bar and
M.C. Captured by the Germans
in Yugoslavia, he escaped twice.
Tired of denying what the Germans
were convinced was his relation-
ship, he accepted their conviction,
and heard the German broadcast to the
effect that General Churchill, a relative
of the Prime Minister, had been captured.
His acceptance brought him special
attention —lodgment in a concentration-
camp. Churchill brings with him a new
idea of launching paratroops by drop-
ping the bottom out of a plane. He
himself has made 42 jumps.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne pianist Manfred
Clynes is manysided. While teaching and
studying at Princeton University (U.S.A.),
under the Juilliard Scholarship he won
from Melbourne University, he took a
philosophy course at Columbia Uni-
versity, which turned his interest into the
psychology of music. Now Princeton has
invited him back to continue his research
and studies. While teaching at the Con.
in Melbourne he kept in touch with
American pupils by giving them their
lessons on a tape-recorder. Thirteen
when he landed in Melbourne from
Hungary, he took a job in a factory,
won a scholarship in engineering, and
while doing that took up music, to gain
degrees in both subjects.
Colonel Tom Collier, M.C., father
of Marie Collier, the chemist’s assistant
who made such an enormous hit at her
debut as Santuzza in “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana” at the Melbourne Princess, won his
decoration in War I. In War II he
looked after troop-trains as Director of
Rail Transportation, Now he’s the Vic-
torian Railways’ assistant chief traffic-
manager.
Put into Melbourne on his 37th voyage
to Australia, Captain John Carlson,
skipper of the Hawaiian Lumberman.
His first visit was as a lad of 15 aboard a
windjammer, which paid him off and left
him stranded in a port that hadn’t a
mast in it. He promptly acquired a
bluey, learnt the local accent (especially
with regard to free tucker) and padded
file hoof from one end of the State to the
other, his sojourn in the country costing
him nothing and gaining him a hull-full
of experience. He’s rounded the Horn
18 times.
S. A. Taylor, Old Digger, has been
reappointed Westralian Public Service
Commissioner, for a further term of seven
years. A genial 59, he entered the
service he now controls as a 14-year-old
messenger in 1-907, studied accountancy,
then went on public service against
the Kaiser. He lost a leg while a
sergeant in the Bth Battery on Gallipoli.
From 1936 till first appointed Public
Service Commissioner in 1945, he was
State Auditor-General.
Loose poll flopping above a recurring
grid of wrinkles; eyebrows rising like
gull-wings astride a yacht-keel nose; sad
spaniel eyes popping and retreating
behind the visor lids ; mouth contracting
from Cheshire-cat size to an “oohing”
moustache-fringed perforation; check
shirt flapping outside long grey slacks ;
spindly six-feet-odd slumping into an
armchair, gesticulating languidly—that’s
Mischa Auer, cornered by Lusby in a
King’s Cross flat. With his accented
voice richocheting sharply from the ceil-
ing or sliding lugubriously along the
carpet, the Hollywood comedian spoke
proudly of his family, disparagingly of
his own talent. The latter he attributes
to maternal grandpa Leopold, a
Hungarian Jew, “the greatest of all
teachers of the violin.” Auer’s father
was in the Russian Navy; at 14 young
Mischa found himself in the U.S., where
acting ambition carried him to Holly-
wood, where “One lived on
NOTHING! ” —hands, voice, eyebrows,
up. His film success took him back to
MISCHA AUER.
Europe, to marry, in Rome, a young
Russian he met in Paris. His facile face
worked hard for Uncle Sam against
Adolf, gaining an award for raising more
than a million dollars for war-funds.
Next to Gieseking, Auer loves miniature
trains. He made a special trip to Sydney’s
Royal Easter, to peer closely at the
Railway Department’s Iron Pony housed
thereat. The I.P. endured the scrutiny
with credit.
Descended on Melbourne the other day
amidst a cloud of executives, H. J. Heinz
the Second, lord of the 57 varieties —a
small, neat, intense young man who is
completely focused on his pickle-empire.
His latest project is probably his vastest;
he has had it all worked out to the last
screw and nut by his corps of biologists,
culinary and agricultural experts and
so on. It comprises 70 acres of processing
plant at Dandenong, on the Prince’s
Highway, its nextdoor neighbors on each
side being International Harvesters and
General Motors. The factory, designed
by Melbourne architects, will cover
400.000 sq. ft. of floor space; will
employ 800 people; will be the largest
processing plant in Australia and possibly
the world, and certainly the largest and
most modern in Heinz IPs empire. Cost-
ing £3 million, it will be ready for the
tomatoes and cucumbers to pour into it
the moment it is finished (predicted 1953),
Heinz II having already applied his
system of contract-crops to the farmers
roundabout. Into its maw will go the
vegetable production of over 4000
intensely cultivated crops, the seedlings
coming from the Heinz nurseries in
N.S.W. and Victoria. Heinz has his home
in Pittsburg (U.S.), near one of his plants,
but spends most of his time airborne visit-
ing his other factories. He flies some
80.000 miles yearly.
Diggers Old and New have a soft spot
for the familiar red-triangle mark of
the Y.M.C.A. in the field. Though War
I men will hardly remember a young
officer of the association who served
them in France, many of the later vintage
will recall W. E. Pickering—he was the
association’s commissioner in the Middle
East, and remained with the A.I.F.
till most of it was demobbed.
Just retired from the general-secretary-
ship of the Perth branch, he’s
had 43 years with the Y.M. Relieving
him in Perth, Ivor Hager carried the
triangle to the Eighth in Malaya, and
had three years’ Jap prison- time,
“H.W.M.”; If precedent counts in law,
Sir John Latham, who doffed his wig the
other day as a comparative lad of 74,
should live long yet. Sir Isaac Isaacs
went on to 92; Sir Edward Holroyd,
88; Sir Hartley Williams and Sir
Charles Powers, 86; knights Frank
Gavan Duffy, Robert Molesworth and
William Irvine, 84 all; Sir Thomas
a’Beckett, 83, Sir Archibald Michie 86
and Judge Moule 81. Judge Backhouse,
of N.S.W., was 88 and Sir David
Ferguson, of the same State, 80. Sir
Frederick Mann is 83 ; Sir George Rich
is 88. But Sir William Mullock, who was
Chief Justice of Ontario, Canada, beat
the benchful —he reached the century.
Juan Jose Castro, the Argentine rebel
who has come to Melbourne to conduct
the Victorian Symphony Orchestra for
six months, is unusual in two things.
Unlike most conductors he writes music ;
his opera was greeted with whistles and
hoots when it was produced last year at
La Scala. Which doesn’t mean that it
was a bad opera—the same thing hap-
pened to Wagner and Verdi. Curiously
enough, Castro’s opera was written to
mark the 50th anniversary of Verdi’s
death and won La Scala’s competition.
He also performs the surprising feat of
conducting Stravinsky without score,
which is rather like being able to recite
James Joyce without Ulysses. The
Argentinian fell foul of Peron when he
signed a letter, along with other pro-
fessors of the University of Buenos
Ayres, disapproving of the regime. That
was in 1943. He then left for Montevideo
and has since conducted orchestras in the
two Americas and Europe. He will intro-
duce many new works to Melbourne,
including Stravinsky’s Symphony in Three
Movements.
With Melbourne’s big roar just com-
menced, Bruce Andrew, secretary of the
Australian National Football Council, is
here presented. When Mcßeath tackled
him he was working overtime on the
organising side of flying the various
League teams that this year will, for the
first time in the history of the game,
show the colors in Brisbane, Sydney,
Hobart, Albury, Central Gippsland and
the Goulburn Valley as part of their
normal fixtures. Champion wingster for
Collingwood for the four memorable
years 1927-32, when that team walked
BRUCE ANDREW, of the A.N.F.C.
over all-comers, Andrew was the
R.A.A.F. public-relations officer in
London in Hitler’s war. When he wasn’t
sneaking aboard aircraft to see just what
a real scrap in the air over Germany was
like, he organised off his own bat an
R.A.A.F. cricket team to play at Lord’s.
For this he was reprimanded, but the
team he got together, which contained
such players as Miller, Carmody and
Sismey, went on to become the Australian
Service team, which eventually played the
first series of post-war “Tests” in
England.
Chief Rabbi Israel Brodie, who was
rabbi to the Melbourne Jewish congrega-
tion at the Synagogue St. Kilda for 12
years before 1937, returned to Melbourne
the other day as spiritual head of the
600,000 of the Chosen Race who live in
the British Commonwealth. During War
II he was senior Jewish chaplain to the
British forces.
Into the Silence : —-
At 66, in Melbourne, Walter John Rose, one-
time on the Commonwealth Tariff Board,
managing-director of the Titian Manufacturing
Co., and member of the Superphosphate
Industry Committee. Well-known Rotarian
(president in 1930), Old Digger and M.C.
In Melbourne, ex-Superintendent Michael
Joseph Bannon, leader of the Terrible Ten who
broke the pushes in Collingwood, Carlton and
Fitzroy in the ’nineties. He later led his cohorts
against Squizzy Taylor and Long Harry Slater
when those two gangsters fought the longest
gang-war in Melbourne history.
In Brisbane, at 75, Chris Dahl, after 60
unbroken years in journalism (possibly an Aus-
tralian record), first with the Brisbane “Courier,”
then with its successor, the “Courier-Mail.”
Starting at 15 in the “Courier’s” composing-
room, he graduated from reporting—one of his
best stories was the Pearl ferry-disaster in the
1893 flood —to the sub’s room, eventually com-
bining, in a 25-year stretch, the jobs of chief-
of-staff and chief sub-editor. He was chief-
of-stafi when, in 1933, the “Daily Mail” and
“Courier” were wedded.
In Perth, at 56, Professor Othman Frank
Blakey, who had filled the Chair of Engineering
in Westralia’s University since 1947. Bom at
Herberton (N.Q.), he took his Master of
Engineering degree at Queensland University,
held a job as constructional engineer to the
Commonwealth Bank in Victoria, and in 1927
was appointed lecturer in Structural Engineer-
ing at the W.A. uni. and subsequently professor.
President of the Australian Institute of En-
gineers in 1945, he was the youngest to hold
that post since the institute was founded in
1919. Another presidency was of the W.A.
Rugby Union.


FOR IOOZCAREOF
YOUR^^^I
FlOCMtilga
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS
PTY. LIMITED . . . SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
A
RUDIP Dua, - D p r p rpose
For absolute control of ked and lice.
Rudip makes dipping safe, foolproof
and economical —it does not strip out.
Any Rudip left over after dipping can
be used for blowfly control.
For Ked and Lice Control:
1 gal. to 250 water
For Blowfly Control: 1 gal. to 62 water
DIICCDT Antiseptic
KUvCr I Emulsion
Powerful cleansing germicidal for every
use in shed or yards. Sterilizes, non-
corrosive, easy solubility. I gal..
4 gals.
SULFADIP development
of sulphur treatment of Itch Mite and
Mycotic Dermatitis. 28-lb., 56-lb. bags.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
Thistles, Burrs, Castor Oil Plant, Docks, Horehound,
etc., can be economically eliminated.
Skeleton Weed in CEREAL crops reduces yield,
down-grades hay quality and can damage valu-
able harvesting machinery.
TAUBMANS No. 6 2-4 D Hormone Weedkiller
TAUBMANS No. 8 2-4 D Amine Hormone Weed-
killer give positive control
SEE OUR NEW WEEDKILLER LEAFLET
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef-cattle Values.
“C. Punch”; Expressions of
astonishment over the fact that
prices generally for stud beef
cattle at the Sydney sales just
before Easter were down any-
thing up to 25 p.c. compared
with last year indicate that a
number of people go about with
their eyes shut. All prices are
down by comparison with last
year. Not in actual fact,
perhaps, but because there isn’t
so much money about, nor are
people spending it so recklessly.
The lower wool prices, of
course, were bound to affect the
cattle sales, since most of those
who breed, buy, sell and other-
wise traffic in stud beef are de-
pendent on wool for large
portions of their income. The
truth is that, all things con-
sidered, the stud beef values were
pretty good.
A champion Poll Hereford
bull made 2300gns. His breeder
got 3500gns. for a similar bull
last year, and that is an Aus-
tralasian record. But last year
was a year of records in such
matters. The champion Hereford
bull this year made 1800gns. and
sundry other Herefords made
four figures. These are good
prices for stud bulls.
Aberdeen-Angus reached four
figures, the junior champion bull
going at 1850gns. The Shorthorn
and Poll Shorthorn tops made
top figures—3ooogns. for a Poll
and 2600gns. for a hornie. J. T.
Scrymgeour, who sold the Poll,
averaged 1533gns. for three
bulls. Devons and Red Polls,
which seldom come into the
prices limelight, brought prices
ranging from 80gns. to 450gns.
for Devons, and around 90gns.
for a Red Poll.
Had the sales been held a few
days later, when news of good
rains in the drought-stricken
cattle country in the north
reached the Sydney showground,
prices would have been higher.
That’s the way things go in the
pastoral industry. A man might
pay 200gns for a bull while
drought is on the cattle country,
and 2in. of rain that night puts
50gns. on the bull’s value.
Dairy Cattle on Show.
“Pakenham”: Although the
dairy industry has been variously
depicted as being somewhere
between imminent bankruptcy
and sunk without a trace,
nothing seemed to be wrong with
it if the exhibits of dairy cattle
and dairy products at Sydney
Royal Show at Easter are any
guide.
There were more dairy cattle
seeking prizes than ever before
at a Sydney show, and their
owners, the judges, the herders
and others associated with them
looked pretty prosperous and
contented. This isn’t to say that
the dairy industry is thriving,
but it suggests that it is a long
way from ruin. A bankrupt
industry couldn’t have produced
cattle of that quality and
number. Nor could it have paid
some of the prices realised at
the sales of stud dairy cattle.
There was a fair tail among
the Jerseys, though it was con-
fined to younger cattle. Coastal
floods, bushfires and drought of
the past couple of years prob-
ably caused some of it, though
it was poor judgment on the
breeders’ part to stand up cattle
which were far from Royal
Show standard.
A.I.S. quality, however, could
hardly be faulted. The cows,
particularly, were shown in
excellent condition, and the
quality of some of the young
stuff was so good that, although
top honors went mostly to old
stock, the youngsters will be
heard of at future shows.
The Scottish judge who came
to look over the Ayrshires found
the young cattle good and even
in quality, but something of a
tail among the oldsters. Ayr-
shires, with their bright con-
trasting colors, wide and up-
sweeping horns, and bold head
carriage, are amongst the
showiest of all cattle.
Faulty udders were too
frequent among the Guernseys,
and the Gippsland judge warned
breeders to set about correcting
it. Generally the tops in the
classes were good cattle, and the
young stock full of character and
promise.
The Friesians were a pleasing
lot —the breed is not nearly so
numerous in Australia as it
might be—and the champion
bull went pretty close to being
the best dairy bull on the
ground. The Friesians were
notable for their general even-
ness of conformation and
quality.
Main awards: Jersey champion
bull, Oxford Lincoln, shown by T.
Grey, Albion Park (N.S.W.); reserve,
Wollingurry Bruce, C. A. Rowe,
Plumpton (N.S.W.); champion cow,
The Meadows Logan Brae, T. Grey;
reserve, Arawa Gamboge’s Vanilla,
Sir F. Stewart, Narrabeen (N.S.W.).
Guernsey champion bull, Moongi
Pleasant Laddie, E. E. Cooke, Lis-
more (N.S.W.); reserve, WoUongbar
Flares, N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture; cow, Banksia Flower Girl,
W. McMaugh and Mrs. Nelson,
Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.); reserve,
Meadowbank Kathleen, E. W.
Everett, Gloucester (N.S.W.). Ayrshire
bull, Uroonda Master Jean, Mclntosh
Bros., Narellan (N.S.W.); reserve,
Glengowrie Flash Baron 2nd, Foletta
and Sons, Buxton (Vic.); cow, Wood-
side Park Cheerful, F. A. Mclntosh,
Berry (N.S.W.); reserve, Bathurst
Pilot’s Fleurette, N-S.W. Department
of Agriculture. A.I.S. bull, Oakleigh
Royal, Mcßaron and Son, Raleigh
(N.S.W.); reserve, Glenlawn Quality,
W. L. Heuston, Singleton (N.S.W.);
cow, Parkview Fussy 88th, Dudgeon
and Sons, Albion Park (N.S.W.);
reserve, Glencoe Myra 26th, Heuston
and Son, Singleton (N.S.W.). Friesian
bull, Wyoming Pretty Pal, Shearer
and Son, Singleton; reserve, Sunny-
brook Paul, T. L. Furness. Bunda-
noon (N.S.W.); cow, Brunaee Rose-
bloom 9th, V. J. Lamond, Nowra
(N.S.W.); reserve, Brundee Lunta’s
Mercedes 4th, V. J. Lamond.
Santa Gertrudis Cattle.
“Oxo”: The company—King
Ranch (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. —which
is importing them into Aus-
tralia proposes to retain close
control over the breeding of
pure - bred Santa Gertrudis
cattle. No pure-bred heifers
from the original shipment, sub-
sequent shipments, or from the
first calvings will be sold.
From the outset, however,
pure-bred Santa Gertrudis bulls
will be available to the Aus-
tralian cattle industry. Of the
50 bulls expected to leave
America in May, 25 will be
offered at auction soon after they
arrive at Risdon station, near
Warwick (Q.).
The company has also bought
Twin Hills, in the Clermont
district, where S.G. bulls will be
mated with selected Shorthorn
heifers. Risdon will be used as
a pure-bred bull breeding depot.
Twin Hills is in the ticky area,
and Sir Rupert Clarke, a director
of the company, says it will
provide an opportunity for S.G.
bulls to show their ability to
transmit tick resistance and
early maturity in a commercial
herd conducted under conditions
peculiar to the tropics.
Crofton-weed Control.
“Agric”; The stem gall-fly,
introduced into Queensland
recently from Hawaii for control
of crofton-weed, appears to
have established itself, but
Lands Minister Foley has
warned landholders not to
expect immediate results or
spectacular destruction such as
was obtained with the cacto-
blastis.
Experience in Hawaii had
shown that at least 12 months
“With the price of bacon what it is , Mrs. Tamworth , us
girls ought to be Wearing fur-coats .”
Foulbrood and Drugs.
“Drone B.”: In the early
stages of experiments with sulpha
drugs against bee foulbrood in
America (B. 26/3/’52) the
disease was checked. Treatment
was discontinued when a cure
had apparently been effected, but
shortly afterwards foulbrood
broke out worse than ever. I
have yet to read of an authentic
cure made with sulpha drugs.
The nature and life-cycle of
the causative organism conspire
against the effective use of the
drugs. When administered to an
infected colony, sulpha will check
the growth of the vegetative
phase of the organism. How-
ever, the disease is a spore-
forming bacterium and the
spores are resistant to many
natural and artificial agents, in-
cluding the common therapeutic
chemicals. Once the treatment
is discontinued the spores will
germinate and the disease carry
on where it left off.
Burning infected materials is,
therefore, still the standard treat-
ment for American foulbrood,
must elapse before the fly be-
comes numerous in any parti-
cular area. Control with the
gall-fly is a very gradual process
—the initial damage reduces
flowering and consequently
seeding. Stocks of the fly are
not to be made available to land-
holders, but the department will
continue its distribution in all
areas where crofton-weed
occurs.
Fence Repairs.
“Shadow-chaser”: In country
where grass-fires are likely,
never dummy a broken post, be-
cause the double post could
make a bonfire on its own.
Remove the broken post by
splitting down the line of the
wire-holes, place the new post
side-on to the fence, and secure
the wires by staples after —not
before —straining.
Gum-posts should have pref-
erence where fire-risk is acute.
Ironbark or box is more durable
but highly inflammable. If
either must be used char the
butt-ends whilst still green to at
least half the height of the fence,
thus making them more fire-
resistant, more durable and less
tasty to white-ants.
and is compulsory by law in
Victoria.
Protecting Our Stock.
“Howie Wing”: An outbreak
of foot-and-mouth disease in
Canada caused some tightening
of Australian quarantine pre-
cautions, but the need to keep
the disease out isn’t properly
appreciated. Foot - and - mouth
can be spread in uncooked
animal products, including meat
and wool, and if the disease
appeared here entry of these
products into other countries
could be prohibited or made
subject to severe restrictions.
Our quarantin e-officers
sterilise migrants’ woollen
clothing, leather boots, felt hats,
etc., but the danger is that some
small item such as a wallet may
go undetected. Prompt report-
ing of any unusual symptom is
every stockowner’s duty and best
insurance.
Overdoing the Clover.
“Big Billy”: Clover can run
riot in high-rainfall districts,
and when it does it can make a
sward which stock won’t eat
until the start of the main
growth in spring. It can cause
other troubles, even disease.
Too much clover in meadow-
hay can turn profit into loss.
The ideal pasture combination
is 70 p.c. to 80 p.c. grass and
20 p.c. to 30 p.c. clover. This
may be got by sowing equal
quantities of Mt. Barker and
Wimmera rye (say 41b. each
with a bag of super to the acre).
If after the third or fourth year
clover is predominant, sow rye-
grass and oats.
Sow as soon as possible after
autumn rains and mix super and
seed in half-bag lots to give
even distribution. Graze as
early as the plants will allow on
a rotational system, but not too
heavily. Close the paddock in
mid-September to allow the
pasture to seed. Mowing of
weeds in early October will give
ample time for the grass to
recover.
Gift to the Nation.
“R.N.”: Roy McCaughey, of
Coonong, Narrandera, and his
brother Sam are establishing a
pastoral-research and -training
institute at Coree, near Jerilderie,
as a memorial to Lieutenant
Samuel M. McCaughey, son of
Sam McCaughey, and Air-
Gunner David L. Macpherson,
nephew of the donors. They
were killed in World War 11.
Main endowment is 24,000
acres of Coree, one of the
stations formerly owned by the
late Sir Sam McCaughey and
later by David McCaughey,
father of the donors. Nominal
value of the benefaction is
£50,000. A trust has been
created to run the station as a
commercial enterprise, and use
the income for the gradual
development of research and
educational activities.
On the educational side the
plans provide initially for
demonstration days and short
courses. Facilities will be offered
to the University of. Sydney for
research and practical training
of agricultural and veterinary
students in pastoral animal
husbandry. The McCaughey
brothers follow a great family
tradition of generosity to educa-
tion and research. Sir Sam was
one of Sydney
greatest benefactors, and left his
home at Yanco to the State to
found the Yanco Agricultural
High School.
Seed-size Potatoes.
“Spudato”: Since the advent
of the new American potatoes,
Sequoia and Sebago, and New
England Experiment Farm
varieties, Monak and Moona,
N.S.W. Tableland growers are
getting better yields and bigger
potatoes.
Coastal growers run more risk
with the crop than those on the
highlands, and they cannot
afford to use more than about
half a ton of tubers per acre
for planting. They have to do
far too much cutting of big
tubers to get seed size.
Tableland growers ignore the
need for small seed-spuds. If
they don’t wish to dip their
planting seed in the new com-
pound, thiourea, to reduce the
size of the tubers at harvest, they
could plant their seed closer in
the rows, even five or six inches
apart, as is done for special seed
requirements in U.S.A. Such
close planting is not likely to re-
duce the total yield as does the
thiourea treatment. All it does
in a normal season is to produce
a higher total yield of smaller
tubers.
When a rich season threatens
to produce big tubers, despite
closer planting, tableland


3&Attßßms»
&
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. LtcL-
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
sdf
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Oupli
DETAILS AND cator will reproduce
PRICES ON Typing, Writing. Plans,
APPLICATION .. .
Music, etc.
Built entirely t* Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
CINZANO
XT'
W -
Sweet*
or
Dry
sd
SERVICE
when & where you want it!
SPRAY
ainbovv
wm
LW
ill
RIGAT lON
IRRIGATION
LTP
?n
42 s
rM
trength
5 •
p|TT
AND
LIGHTNESS
83
for
UMIN ,uM
SY?
Kgs
li miles of Rainbow aluminium pipe line and parts leaving the factory direct to the customer.
SYDNEY
GRIFFITH
ORANGE
MUSWELLBROOK
GUNDAGAI
MELBOURNE
MILDURA
LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
NEW ZEALAND
To-day the Rainbow Spray Irrigation Organisa-
tion is fully equipped to give a full measure of
“on the spot” service with branches strategically
located throughout N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania, and agents in other states. These offices
and field representatives are at your service at
all times to offer advice and service on all
irrigation problems.
fsd
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 3425
Branch Offices—Griffith: 127 Banna Ave. Orange: 84
Byng St. Muswellbrook: 5 Bridge St. Gundagai: 230
Sheridan St. Victoria: 64 King St., Melb. Mr. C. Beau-
mont. Mildura: 29 Deakin Av. Mr. C, Beaumont.
Distributors— STH. AUST.: Mr. R. Curry, 24 Light Sq.,
Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Waugh & Josephson
Ltd., 102 Melbourne St. WEST AUST.; Mr. F. C. Korwill,
68 Hobbs Av., Nedlands, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND AGENT: Freshfields Ltd., 118 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
B 60/83.14
CASTRATE
& TAIL
50/msmt with the
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
AUTOMATIC
RING LOADER
(PATT.APP. No, 315231/49)
for use with Elastrater instrument and Elastrator ringr.
Castration and Tailing the Elastrator way is already famous
for its efficiency. Now it is quicker, even cleaner than before.
Order your Elastrator Automatic Ring Loader now from your
usual Elastrator supplier.
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD
82/S2.
You’ll profit from
70 years
of Skilled Breeding
when you invest in
HADDON RIG
BLOOD
Now in its seventieth year, Haddon Rig is
widely recognised as second to none among
Merino Studs. As your future profits vitally
concern you, you have everything to gain by
enriching your flocks with Haddon Rig
Blood; you will be taking practical steps to
increase the quality of your flock and quantity
of future wool clips.
Haddon Rig Stud Rams are notable for their
massive frames, true conformations, and
dense, soft-handling wool. High lambing
percentages, allied to robust constitutions and
great hardiness, are other characteristics that
will reward you for your enterprise. Haddon
Rig’s astonishing aggregates at the Sydney
Ram Sales prove that the pastoral industry
recognises Haddon Rig Blood as a very
sound investment. Over the last twelve years
(1940-52), Haddon Rig has secured over
25% of the proceeds of all Merino Rams
sold under the hammer. In 1951, top aggre-
gate —£38,377 —again went to Haddon Rig
for the tenth successive year.
HADDON RIG
STUD
WARREN. N.S.W. TELEPHONE WARREN 74
HR.1.52
growers could stop the growth
by killing the plants somewhat
earlier than natural maturity.
Smoke ’Em Out.
“Bundaburra”: According to
“Dawn” (a N.S.W. magazine for
abos), rabbits, foxes, etc., can be
smoked out of their holes with a
flannel cartridge soaked in
chemicals.
Saturate 6in. by 6in. squares
of flannel with a solution of one
part of saltpetre and two parts
of water. When the squares are
thoroughly dry, sprinkle the
rough side of the flannel with a
finely ground mixture of one
part of cayenne-pepper, one
part of dry mustard and three
parts of sulphur.
Roll the pieces, and cement the
loose edges in place with water-
glass. To use, light one end
of the roll and push it as far
into the hole as possible. The
fumes will do the rest.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.S.C.P.R.”; Coins can be
handy when small weights aren’t
available. A threepence weighs
20 grains, a zac 40, a shilling 80.
A shilling and a trey weigh 100
grains or approximately a
quarter-ounce, two shillings and
a zac just on half an ounce. The
nearest to the equivalent of an
ounce is three pennies.
“Girrip”: If rats or mice keep
re-opening holes one way to
stop them is to soak old news-
paper in a strong solution of
soda and hot water, squeeze it to
a pulp and bung the holes with
it. The stuff sets like concrete
and the soda stops the vermin
nibbling at it.
“T.R.”: If the hens begin
laying smaller eggs it’s almost
certain they’re not getting enough
greenfeed. Too many people
throw away lawn clippings,
weeds such as sow thistles and
various grass pests which the
fowls would enjoy.
“Sandy”; Color of the blood
from a cut tells whether it’s a
vein or an artery. Blood from
a vein is dark red, that from an
artery bright scarlet. A cut
artery squirts jets of blood in
time with the heart beats; a
cut vein flows or oozes. For an
artery cut put finger pressure on
a point, between the cut and the
heart, where the artery can be
felt and get a tightly-bound pad
on to it as soon as possible. If
a ligature has to be put on,
loosen it at less than 20min. in-
tervals. A pad usually serves
for a vein cut. All artery cases
should be rushed to a doctor ; so
should deep vein cuts,
“One Jack”: There wouldn’t
be these outbreaks of dog-
poisoning in suburbs and country
towns if the owners taught their
dogs to avoid baits. It’s easily
done. When a pup is a couple
of months old load bits of meat
with cayenne pepper and drop
one every now and then for the
pup to find. After a few weeks
of getting a burnt mouth he’ll
not eat anything except what his
owner gives him.
“D.F.G.”: To work out what
weight a pig will go when killed
and dressed, measure from be-
tween the ears to the butt of the
tail, and take its girth behind
the shoulders. Multiply one by
the other in inches and divide
the result by 12. The answer is
the dressed weight in pounds.
For the liveweight add 20 to
25 pounds.
Lactation in dairy-
stock without pregnancy has
been recorded but is not usual.
Michigan College (U.S.A.), using
a hormone treatment, brought
two Guernsey heifers into pro-
duction and they milked for
306 days. One made 3311 b. of
butter-fat and 66621 b. of milk
and the other 3231 b. of butter-
fat and 66811 b. of milk —pro-
duction not often attained from
heifers on their first calf. The
first heifer started to produce
milk on the 64th day and the
second on the 97th day.


r usaber
St
m
•3
■I
GUARANTEED NEVER, TO FADE OR SHRINK
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
mmm i
mm
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
‘World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m
m
mm:
iH
m
m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOB!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it ... 81% reported ‘‘Beards easier to
cut” ... 76% said “Less razor pull . . . 71% said
"Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
fs
BANKERS
PSS/ISi
The shaving cream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAW/EHS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Silver-colored metal kites that can
soar out of sight are on sale for
American children.”
They’ll soon be in demand
here for use as price-tags,
q.
“Australian axes compare favorably
with those produced in any other part
of the world.” — Sydney manufacturer.
Unfortunately, they are not
used on some of our boards.
•I* -I*
“Steady has only 71b. in the Cup,
and Purtell will have to ride him a
few pounds overweight.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
A real lightweight.
“Is there any way in which I can
make my ears look smaller?”
—Correspondent in women’s paper.
Yes, dear. Lop them.
•h *b
“Many girls married men they at
first disliked.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
After discovering their real
worth.
Marriage a la Mode.
“Romance Department” cries the
letter-heading:
“Dear Sir, The law requires
you to be matched.
Henceforth your soul will yearn
towards a wedding.
Fill in the application-form
attached.”
Upon this form the eager client
states
His Size of Ear and other
claims to fame,
His Educational Certificates
And his Great-Aunt Matilda’s
maiden name.
The wedding is conducted
through the mail;
The ’groom, awaiting Love in
joy and terror,
Discovers he’s been married to
a snail —
Romance Department has
achieved an error.
Official comment: “Snails may
not be kept
Without permission of the
Livestock Dept.”
NEIL MILLAR.
Exit.
“But, Lady Dash,” I said,
flicking a speck of dust from the
sleeve of my impeccable morning-
coat and hitching my striped
trousers, “what you ask is pre-
posterous. Besides, your hus-
band might be home any
moment,”
Her deep liquid eyes burnt
into mine, and her girlish figure
undulated as she removed her
diamond tiara and placed it upon
a near-by wicker whatnot.
“Hubba hubba. He leaves for
Africa within the hour,” she
murmured, half-aloud.
I started. “Surely not huntin’,
shootin’ and fishin’?” I
began.
Her eyes answered. With a
sudden gesture I pressed my
signet-ring deep into the hot wax
of a melting candle and gazed a
moment at the family crest —a
black cat rampant, regardent,
argent, completely surrounded
by roof-tops. My throat grew
parched—but too late! She was
in my arms!
Just then her husband rushed
in, so I dived through the
window and cut quite a dash in
my morning-suit!
Jonas Dill.
►l* *1- *i*
“Good dressing begins with the
first thing you put on.”
—Fashion article.
It lays the foundation of the
whole structure.
* * *
“He was fined £25 and disqualified
from diving for a year on a charge
of being under the influence of drink
while in charge of a car.”
—Court report.
The Beak was determined to
keep him dry.
Strange Remedy.
“A Sydney woman, interviewed
after she had won £12,000 in the
Special Lottery, said ‘When I heard
the result over the radio I was all of
a tremble. I decided to go shopping.
It calmed my nerves.’ ”
Back in the bad old days,
when there was plenty of every-
thing in the shops, including
courtesy, and Sussex - street
agents and shopkeepers could
afford to trade-in their cars for
new models only every second
year, going shopping as a nerve
restorative would have been
absolutely useless. But in these
times of planned shortages anci
controls, and that touch of old-
world, hand-rubbing courtesy
that makes things so delightful,
shopping can be a real tonic for
tautened nerves.
You are shaken to the back
teeth by the good tidings,
received from a firm of
solicitors, that your late Uncle
Eustace has bequeathed to you
his pet porcupine and devised
you a block of land, the accumu-
lated unpaid rates on which are
approximately £5O more than
you could get for it. To stop the
points of your nerves jangling
together you naturally are
impelled to rush out and do
a spot of shopping.
Strangely enough, going and
buying a few beers, whilst it
could be categorised as such,
strictly speaking, can scarcely
for purposes such as this be
considered shopping. Shopping
presupposes a salesman presid-
ing behind the counter, and what
“Have you seen my fez ?”
pub would need a salesman to
sell the stuff?
Swinging on the strap all the
way into town, you frenziedly
dodge the nightmare traffic and
charge into a shop. Well, there’s
nothing like buying a new hat
to get you back into your
wonted state of serenity. After
waiting about ten minutes for
someone to come and serve you,
what time you have chewed your
fingernails down to the quick
through still chewing over your
inheritance, an assistant strolls
over and says “Whatchafter,
sport, a snap-brim felt? Hey,
Norm, fix Egghead up here, will
y’—l’m shootin' through to
lunch.”
Five minutes later Norm casts
up alongside you and tosses the
looped line of conversation over
your bollard. Within the space
of four try-ons he has told you
three winners, the m.p.g. he gets
out of his beaut, new motor-
bike, a couple of cerulean-tinted
yarns, what a sawny old
blankard the floor-walker is, that
he knows for a positive fact that
1200 were put off at the hat
factory last week, and the hat
you came in is certainly getting
pretty warby.
By this time about ten other
customers have drifted in, and
Norm starts tearing backwards
and forwards, slinging fresh hats
on your head, and cursing that
blasted Wally for mizzling off
early for lunch and leaving him
with all these adjectival blanks
who don’t seem to know what
they want. The hat-sizes he has
brought, you find, are all from
61 to I\. You take a 6|; and
the shades he is pressing on you
are mostly bottle-greens and a
revolting shade of ginger. You
simper before a mirror hoping
vainly the hats will sit on your
cranium like those in the colored
ads. do on the handsome young
men with deeply-cleft chins, rich
suntan complexions and highly-
varnished hair. Instead, you
have to confess they make you
look sub-normal.
Soon you start shivering; but
don’t become needlessly
alarmed. It isn’t your nerves so
much as the draught you’re stand-
ing in—this is caused by the
assistant rushing backwards and
forwards from the other
customers, and slinging more
hats on your head. You try to
run your hand around the brim
to get the high effect in front like
in the ads, but all you succeed
in doing is make it a hopelessly
amorphous thing, which when
you don it raises a titter. In the
end your nerves are so restored
you buy a panama —it’s mid-
winter —a grey belltopper and a
sailcloth hat, and you are so
overcome when you are paying
up that you ask the salesman
can he let you have a “Get well”
card to put in with ’em.
Better, perhaps, to seek the
remedy for which your wife will
give her unqualified testimonial,
and do her weekend shopping.
Nothing is more calculated to
calm the nerves than to wait in
the three-deep mob in the
delicatessen, and to find, when
you eventually get to the
counter, that the customer before
you got the last half-dozen eggs,
that the baker’s bloke will be
along with his delivery in half
an hour if you like to wait, that
he didn’t get any liver sausage
or brawn this week, but he
might have some next Thursday,
that he’s only got the pressed
corned-beef, and the bacon is
the lance-corporal stuff and the
wife specified definitely shoulder-
rashes.
So to the grocer. Coarse salt's
off, but there’s plenty of the
shaker variety at six times the
price. You exercise his Nibs’s
risible muscles by suggesting
powdered milk, and his horse-
laugh at mention of a pound of
butter is guaranteed to put your
nerves in the right soporific con-
dition.
It needs then only a short
half-hour session at the butcher’s
(“no beef owing to the abattoirs
strike, chump chops are off, no
veal, and that leg of pork there
is ordered, but you can have a
small shoulder of mutton for
twelve and a kick”) to bring you
to that final degree of nerve
restoration where you get the
urge to rush out and heave your-
self in front of a passing semi-
trailer.
Bo.
Invitation.
“Charges for sleeping accommoda-
tion in Sydney are extortionate.”
— Visitor's complaint.
Come where the snooze is
cheaper.
Come where there’s scorn of
gain.
Come where the sleep is
deeper —
Here in the free Domain.
B. B.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Liquor Reform
Breweries, publicans and Licences
Reduction Boards notwithstanding, the
reatest enemy of reasonable and satis-
factory drinking conditions is still the
wowser Were it not for his skilful and
ceaseless opposition, public opinion and
the law of supply and demand would
soon force publicans and breweries to
provide decent amenities.
F pables and chairs for comfortable
drinking, space to do away with crowded
bars, opportunities to eat while drink-
irm—those “amenities” can be obtained
only by the force of enlightened public
opinion. Alteration of trading hours, and
the doing-away with the 6 p.m. rush,
would soon follow.
The main job of the most inaptly-
named “temperance” movement appears
to be to prevent the establishment of
enlightened public opinion. The attitude
of the wowser is conditioned by the
knowledge that sane, modern drinking
conditions would destroy his. main argu-
ments—the sight of the drunk staggering
down the street, the breaking-up of
family life by rushed drinking and its
consequent overconsumption, and the
menace of insobriety on the roads.
One would think that the defeat of
these evils would satisfy the temperance
movement. True temperance would be
very satisfied, but the wowseristic move-
ment which claims the name “temper-
ance” will be satisfied with nothing less
than the forcing of its own type of self-
righteousness on the whole public. The
removal of the evils of overconsumption
of alcohol would make their demands for
total prohibition seem ridiculous, so they
oppose any improvement in drinking
conditions.
It is unfortunate that any attempt to
improve drinking conditions and defeat
drunkenness must find itself opposed by
the “temperance” movement. —Mullum
(Vic.). __
The N.T.
Apparently Mr. Kelly, of the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics (B. 19/ 3 / ’52),
has wasted nearly four years on a station-
to-station survey of the N.T. to come
away with the impression that the
Territory had best be left to wallow along
as it has done for the past 70 years-—in
the hands of a few cattlemen holding
more country than they cart improve to
a safe and profitable state.
One thousand square miles anywhere
within 200 miles of the coast would be a
reasonable proposition, as that portion
of the Territory is only fit for cattle-
hreeding— and agriculture in the not-far-
distant future. But to apply the same
conditions to the balance of the N.T. —
which contains all the best cattle and
sheep country, with an average rainfall
of 6in. at the S.A. border, gradually
increasing at the rate of about 2\m. every
100 miles up to 26in. in some favored
parts—would simply amount to handing
°ver the best of the Territory to a few
capitalists and combines to exploit at the
expense of the taxpayers of the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. Kelly estimates that it would cost
to establish each cattleman on
1000 square miles, and that’s quite
a reasonable estimate. But the question
is: What is the Federal long-distance
objective for the future of the N.T.? Do
we or the Federal Government aim to
make it a successful self-supporting State
of the Commonwealth, carrying a
population commensurate with its
potentialities, paying its own way and
adding something to the wealth of Aus-
tralia? Or does the Government propose
to continue to administer the Territory at
the expense of the taxpayers of the other
States for the benefit of a few?
Closer-settlement has proved its value
in the Western Division of N. S. Wales,
which in the early 1880’s was practically
all big cattle-stations. Much of it is now
carrying Merino sheep at the rate
of 40 to 200 to the square mile on an
average rainfall of 6in. to 15in.— Henry
Hall (N.T.).
Supply and Demand
I don’t think that “if the price of wheat
and wool fell the farmer would soon
increase production as in the past” (B.
27/2/’52). If only wool fell he might
return to wheat, but if wheat fell it could
BQMBO
RESIOeNTIftU
MerftL
fttL CAtze
I TA.*£N
f NO
ReSPONSIffIUTV
“I been in these dumps before!”
only be because there was less demand,
and to produce more under those condi-
tions would surely depress the price
still further. You can’t get rid
of gluts by producing more to
make the price right. That was the folly
of the Scullin Government in 1930.
The same kind of arguments are being
put forward in regard to textiles, supplies
having overtaken and passed demand.
Those interested want more financial
assistance to carry stocks and produce
more and higher tariff protection. This
might put off the evil day, but it will
make for a bigger slump later. Most of
these things cure themselves if left alone,
although it means hardships to those in
the industry.
Another foolish argument is that be-
cause there are 90,000 vacant jobs, skilled
textile-workers will be easily absorbed
and suffer no hardship. But, taken away
from our particular work to join the
ranks of the unskilled, we cannot become
farm-workers the next day, nor would
the farmer employ us—those remarkable
changes are the privilege of politicians,
who, after a few sessions, become
eminently suited for an administrative
position on some control board.
Men have always had to adjust them-
selves to changing conditions and always
will. The Government can only help by
means of unemployment-relief, although
some Labor members seem to think the
Government should provide money to
keep textile-workers in the same job, even
if their products can’t be sold— Chips
(N.S.W.).
The Welfare State
It is a mistake to think that the “Wel-
fare State” is synonymous with Social-
ism. Statesmen the reverse of Socialistic
have been, and are, adherents of the Wel-
fare State, arguing that a soundly-planned
social-welfare economy is the surest bar-
rier to Socialism. Its purpose is not to
weaken private enterprise or personal
freedom. Rather, through judicious
regulation in the public interest, both are
given greater stability.
The Social Welfare State is not new in
theory or practice. It was accepted as the
natural order throughout Christendom in
the Middle Ages, the then powerful in-
fluence of the Church being strongly in its
favor. Typical manifestations were that
cornerstone of the medieval economy,
“the Just Price” ; Church emphasis on,
and the practical example given of, the
virtue of charity to the poor; and the
protection accorded by the guilds to
their members in the matter of working
conditions, and to the consumer by their
regulations against shoddy workmanship.
In England the tradition continued
strongly through Tudor times and well
into the 17th century. Indeed, it reached
its highest expression during the personal
government of Charles I.
As the 17th century advanced, a con-
trary school of thought, the ancestor of
the “rugged individualism” of the 19th
century, began to make headway. Its
advocates favored low wages, freedom
from Government control of business
activities and use of land, and a pool of
unemployed. That school became in-
creasingly influential in the 18th century,
but it was not until the 19th that it won,
temporarily, complete ascendancy.
Even then some of the noblest minds
in Britain opposed the prevalent economic
creed. Thus, Sir Walter Scott advocated
unemployment insurance and other social
reforms that have only become law within
the 20th century. Robert Southey took
much the same line. In the mid- 19th
century —when unrestricted individual-
ism, with its accompanying “cut-throat”
competition and “the weakest-to-the
wall” psychology, had roused such socia
discontent that many were tending t
turn to Socialism—Disraeli’s Youn
England group came forward with it
programme of social reform untainte
with Socialistic ideas. The basic prii
ciples of the Young England philosoph
have profoundly influenced all subse
quent Welfare State advocacy that aim
to avoid totalitarianism.
Twentieth-century British Welfare Stat
developments have also been mainly th
work of non-Socialist statesmen. Th
first Baldwin (Conservative) Governmen
of 1924-29 stands out particularly. “A
subsequent Government,” says Dougla
Jerrold in England, Past, Present an
Future, “have merely carried to then-
logical conclusion the principles laid
down by the Conservatives in 1925.”
The British Labor party’s main contri
bution to the evolution of the Welfar
State has been to imperil its economi
basis. The Welfare State is dependen
for effective functioning on private in
dustry being able to make satisfactory
profits. Attlee’s nationalisation schemes
extravagance in administration anc
crushing taxation were threatening to
have the opposite effect.
The Welfare State, basically, is simply
the application of Christian principles to
politics. The public-spirited employer
who treats his work-people generously
and strives to give true service to the
customer is voluntarily practising its
principles. It is the duty of the Govern-
ment to see that this type does not suffer
—Economist (S.A.),
Power of the Co-ops.
The Supreme Court of S.A. lately
granted an injunction to a co-operative
dairy factory restraining a dairyfarmer
from selling his milk elsewhere than to
the co-op.
Following closely on the enactment
of a special bill in N. S. Wales
Parliament designed to force Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area fruitgrowers
to sell their produce to the co-
operative cannery at Leeton, the S.A.
decision is further proof of the extreme
powers co-ops. possess in Australia.
In both the S.A. and Leeton cases, how-
ever, only shareholders of the co-ops. are
involved —a fact that should cause
potential members of co-ops, to stop
and think.
There is little wonder that, with the
powers and privileges they possess, the
co-ops. are so powerful politically. And
as long as they enjoy freedom from
company-tax their power must increase.
A person buying shares in a bank, or
a retail store, would probably resent
being forced to give his custom to the
show in which he had invested his money,
although, all things being equal, that is
where he would naturally take his
custom.
The Leeton fruitgrowers were selling
their produce to private concerns simply
because these were prepared to pay more
than the co-operative cannery; now they
have to deliver their entire crops to the
co-op., whether they like it or not.
First sign of any weakening of the
co-ops.’ position is the renewal of the
investigation into their taxation privileges
by the finance committee set up by the
Commonwealth Treasurer. An earlier
investigation was pigeonholed, but
evidence taken recently deals with the
Leeton-cannery episode, as well as the
way in which co-ops. beat the high com-
pany tax private enterprise has to pay. —
Inall (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 170
Across.
I—Fish-propeller and a disease-
carrier on a flood-resister are a
criminal-betrayer. (10)
Prophet body backing as sur-
rounding Roy Rene. (4)
■“Cloak on a slow bowler having
a frohe. (8)
JNuts on topgear noted for larks.
16)
12— -Part of the back of a boast con-
13— S6S tbe °f beasts. (4)
A thousand a year fieldsman is
a hanger-on. (8)
17 '~^ 0c ’ s Pain (anagram). (8)
with this food. (3)
ignifying the now one in dis-
order. (3)
Herb makes arrogant changes
* f road-binder and a student
23 Jn, k by the Ie § side - (8)
baher rU ( B ) S bave returaed a foot-
er be Wown or rounded and
the view of a rhino-
-27-n (4)
method of a con-
federate general. (6)
28 —Fossilised one who does a little
tough guy. (4-4)
29_Feed to repletion, but took a
seat in olden days. (4)
30—Brought a long way, but treated
hyperbolically. (10)
Down.
1 — What is under a professor ot
sense? (7)
2 Cloth to rest relations. (6)
3 -Count a listener up to 50. (4)
4 Virile and noble place of per-
manent waves in Sydney? (5)
6 Substance in opium holds me firm
against a baseball team. (8)
7 Uphold a late meal with wine. (7)
8— Animal and X separate the
orchestra from the silly fool. (9)
11 —Morning and a wife for Elyot. (6)
14 —Fling to measure an authority of
the chateau. (9)
16 —Writer notes a cradle in the
southeast. (6)
18—The silliest leave a duck cry of
defiance to a saint. (8)
20— Spaghetti for blockheads. (7)
21— Relations of a soft-hearted Com-
munist. (7)
22 —An evil god mentions a lake
named after an Australian
comedian. (6)
24—Banter in the nosebag. (5)
26 —The tide turns, yet the editor still
does this. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 169


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Go. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a PAID ADVEBT1SBMENT
fipepsred monthly hy MOFPA T-VTRTTTE OMITED
April
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
1958
A WEEK’S SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC LIGHT
AND POWER FOR A FEW SHILLINGS!
Light and Power Plants
Prove Economy
Here’s a testing bench at Moffat-Virtue’s
Rosebery, N.S.W., factory. This is where
the M.V. Light and Power Plants undergo
a final rigorous test before being checked
out as perfect.
During a recent economy test a 1000 Watt 32 Volt Moffat-Virtue Light and
Power Plant produced enough electricity to last a normal household for a
week to ten days for a total running cost of only 5.3d.
This test was run under actual working conditions, and at times, particularly
in the case of the electric iron, the Plant was asked to do more than it would
normally do under similar conditions.
The Plant’s storage batteries, with a capacity
of 170 ampere hours, were charged from flat
to full, and the usual appliances run from them,
for times similar to those taken by the average
housewife. «
The fuel used to charge the batteries was then
measured, and costs estimated. These costs
were broken up in proportion to the amount
of current used by each appliance.
This is the result:— s . d.
• A 40 Watt light was run for 42 hours for a
cost of about 2/3rds of a penny an hour 2 3
• A 120 Watt vacuum cleaner was run for
2 hours for 3J
• A 200 Watt washing machine was used
for 1 \ hours for
• A 75 Watt electric fan was run for 5
hours for 5£
• A 480 Watt electric toaster was used for
1 hour for 8£
• A 550 Watt electric iron was used for
hours for 1 1
(Normally the iron is used only when the
plant is charging. It runs off overflow
current, and does not cost much at all.)
TOTAL OF WEEK TO TEN DAYS’ RUNNING
COSTS FOR THE NORMAL FAMILY .... 5 3
This test proves the sound economy of buying
a light and power plant. It was based on the
1000 Watt Petrol Engine Plant, and figures
would have been even lower, if a diesel or kero-
sene plant of larger capacity had been used.
Moffat-Virtue Light and Power Plants are de-
signed to give this really economical perform-
ance. Every part is finely machined from the
highest quality raw materials. The plants
undergo rigorous testing in the machine-shop
before they are allowed to leave the factory.
• The engines used are precision engineered
by skilled Australian tradesmen. They
range from the h.p. M.V. Petrol Engine
in the 700 Watt 32 Volt Plant, to the 8 h.p.
M.V. Diesel, in the 4KVA, 1 1 0 Volt Plant.
• Generators have been especially designed
for cool, trouble-free running. Housing and
armatures are larger than standard, thus
limiting the temperature rise to 40 degrees
C. above the surrounding atmosphere.
• Switchboard instruments are mounted on a
highly polished black panel. A complete
range of first-class instruments is used, vary-
ing with the requirements of the plant.
The engine and generator are mounted on a
rigid steel base. All plants are fitted with an
efficient vee-belt drive, which can be adjusted
for tension by sliding the generator.
Moffat-Virtue Light and Power Plants are.
manufactured under high-speed, mass-produc-
tion methods, at Rosebery, N.S.W. The Plants
are turned out in the most efficient and eco-
nomical way possible, without in any way
lowering the high standard of workmanship that
goes into them.
When you buy an M.V. Plant, you are not
paying for the wasteful mistakes of old-
fashioned equipment or unplanned methods.
Every step in manufacture is planned for utmost
efficiency and economy, to bring you Plants
that are unbeatable in cost, running efficiency,
and quality.
Moffat-Virtue Plants are made in a complete
range of sizes—-so you can be sure of getting
a Plant that will fulfill your every requirement
—without being wastefully oversize.
For the very small installation, there’s the 700
Watt 32 Volt Model, powered by the famous
M.V. 2i h.p. Petrol Engine. In the 1000 and
1 500 Watt range, you have the choice of seven
different Plants, in 32, 50 or 110 Volts. They
are powered by Petrol, Kerosene, or Diesel
Engines.
For big installations, Moffat-Virtue can supply
Plants ranging from 2 to 4 Kilowatts, as stock
models. These are powered by rugged M.V.
Diesel Engines, to give really economical ser-
vice. Larger Plants can be built up on request.
Get full particulars of all Moffat-Virtue Light
and Power Plants from any one of the Dis-
tributors listed at the bottom of this page.
Washing Clothes
with Waves
of Sound
Australian housewives will be able to steal a
march on their much-envied American counter-
parts with the latest thing in washing machines.
It’s a washer, about as big and as heavy as an
electric jug, that actually cleans clothes with
high-frequency sound waves. The Manufac-
turers say it is absolutely harmless to the most
delicate fabrics . . . getting dirt right out of
them in next to no time.
The electrosonic washer is just another of the
thousands of labor-saving devices that work
from electricity. Unfortunately a 32 Volt
model is not available at the moment . . . but
in the meantime the country housewife can
still have practically every electrical appliance
on the market ... if she has an electric light
and power plant to drive them.
Appliance manufacturers are realising the vast
market that waits for them in the tens of
thousands of low-voltage light and power plant
users throughout the Commonwealth.
Washing machines, vacuum cleaners, irons,
toasters, fans, radios, and sewing machines, all
for operation on 32, 50 or 110 Volt Light and
Power Plants, are being made by several well-
known Australian manufacturers.
Small electric motors are also available for use
on low-voltage systems. By coupling them to
your workshop tools you can do all those heavy
jobs by just flicking the switch.
Today, no matter where you live, you can have
bright, constant electric light to read by, and
electric power to drive those comforts and
labour-saving devices that were once for city
dwellers alone.
Contact any one of the Moffat-Virtue Dis-
tributors at the bottom of this page for full
particulars.
A Knocked-Over
Oil-Lamp
could cause this
A weatherboard cottage . . . a naked light
knocked against a curtain . . . and in a
few minutes the whole place is a roaring
inferno. It’s as easy as that to start a fire
, . . and in country districts , where there’s
no chance of getting a fire-brigade, the
danger risk from using naked lights is
high.
Insurance companies have special rates for
the country. Their statistics show just how
real the danger is. You can reduce your
chances of being burnt-out by installing
electric light and power. Do it the easy,
economical way . . , with a Moffat-Virtue
Light and Power Plant.
