

ROYAL PUR RLE PARA
THE BEST PORT WINE IN THE WORLD AT THE PRICEI
A PRODUCT OF THE
Lio?
P P E LT
B. SEPPELT &
ADELAIDE SYDNEY
SONS LTD.
HILL ALSO AT
88
CANNON
STREET
E.C.4
The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3787
Wednesday, September 10, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LODESTONE FOR SCOTS THE WORLD OVER, THE BURNS MONUMENT
'T'HE Royal Burgh of Ayr is known throughout the world for its associations
A with Robert Burns (1759-1796), the Ayrshire ploughman who became
Scotland’s national poet. His gay humor and lively characterisation, his
fervent pleas for the freedom and equality of man, and the beauty of his
love songs have endeared him to generation after generation of his own
countrymen and to many others who journey from far and wide to visit the
Burns country. Almost all the buildings and places made famous through
the poems of Bums are to be seen within the boundaries of the Burgh, and
these include the Tam O’Shanter Inn, the Twa Brigs of Ayr, Burns’s Cottage,
Alloway’s Auld Haunted Kirk, the Auld Brig O’Doon and the route of Tam
O’Shanter’s famous ride.
Ayr is imbued with the spirit of Robert Burns, whose statue stands
in the city square which bears his name; two miles away, at Alloway, is the
simple thatched cottage where he was born on the 25th January, 1759. His
parents occupied this humble cottage between the years 1757 and 1766 before
moving to Mount Oliphant, a nearby farm. The cottage, visited by thousands
of pilgrims each year, still retains its original character, and the furniture
and homely appointments which the poet knew so well are still to be seen.
The many interesting Burns relics include manuscripts, letters, engravings
and the family Bible, all of which are housed in the museum adjoining
the cottage.
Another museum is incorporated in the Burns Monument, illustrated here,
which stands in a garden overlooking the quiet waters of the River Doone at
Galloway. The Monument takes the form of a round Grecian temple with
nine fluted Corinthian columns. It was built in 1820 and within it are
preserved, amongst other relics. Jean Armour’s wedding ring and the Bible
which Robert Burns presented to Highland Mary across running water, thus
wedding her in the old Scottish style. Nearby is a grotto containing life-sized
figures of Tam O’Shanter and Souter Johnnie.
Robert Burns spent the last five years of his life as an exciseman at
Dumfries, where he died in poverty on 21st July, 1796. To his countrymen he
has left a deathless heritage of literature, and his philosophy of life, summed
up in his often quoted words, is a worthy goal for the nations of the world:
That man to man the warld o’er
Shall brothers be for a’ that!


[Learn
mm
atHONE
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—CUT here and maw— ——-
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.162) Age
w
DON
DALLAS
“Don Dallas has brought Russia to Life”
Walter Allen
Don Dallas was a newspaper correspondent in
Moscow for two and a half vital post-war years.
The reader is shown the interiors and working
of Russian theatres, a Russian court of justice, a
marriage registry office, a Moscow school and a
summer Pioneer camp for children. This book
reveals how Russians live, love and die under
the banner of Stalin.
At all Booksellers, 26/6. HKINEMANN
The Red Page
GLIDER BRIGADE IN BURMA .
It is exceptional to hear war delighted-
in for its own sake, as in the auto-
biography of Carton de Wiart, or as in
Prisoners of Hope, by Michael Calvert
(Cape). The tone is unmistakable:
I saw something had to be done pretty
quickly, so 1....t01d everyone we were
going to charge Pagoda Hill So, stand-
ing up, I shouted out “Charge” in the
approved Victorian manner,, and ran down
the hill with Bobbie and the two orderlies.
Half of the South Staffords joined in.
Then, looking back, I found a lot had not.
So I told them to “ charge, what the
hell do you think you’re doing!” So they
charged. Machine-gunners, mortar teams,
all officers —everyone who was on that hill.
By this time 1 was not in front. I had
not reckoned on a sunken road, which
reminded me of Waterloo. However, the
gallant South Stafford officers and men were
across the road, and climbing up the other
side with us close behind. At the top the
Japs, entering into the spirit of the thing,
got up and charged us. This definitely was
not in the book. There, at the top of the
hill, about fifty yards square, an extraordi-
nary melee took place, everyone shouting,
bayoneting, kicking at everyone else, rather
like an officers’ guest-night. In front, I
saw Lieutenant Cairns have his arm hacked
off by a Jap, whom he shot. He picked up
the sword and carried on. Finally we drove
them back behind the pagoda. Paddy
Dermody and Lance-Corporal Young had
been doing valiant work while protecting
me, with Lance-Corporal Young shouting,
“Be careful, sir. Be careful, sir!” as he
shot Japs.
Then there was an intermission while
both sides lobbed grenades over and around
the pagoda Freddie’s boys [Gurkhas]
had also charged down the valley and were
hacking about with their kukris Some-
one shouted, “We are short of ammunition.”
I immediately thought that if we were short,
the Japs must be shorter, as they had been
fighting longer. The Japs were yelling at us
in English, “You dirty, hairy s,” etc.,
so I shouted, “We will retreat as fast as
possible in that direction” —pointing towards
the enemy—“Staffords right, Gurkhas left.
When I say the word ‘Now.’ ” Up all the
unwounded jumped, and tore around the
pagoda. By the time I was around, the hill
was ours, and we were pursuing them into
the village of Henu.
11l 1944, at the age of 30, with war-
time rank of brigadier, Calvert was put
in command of 77 Brigade, which was
carried in gliders behind the Japanese
lines into Burma to cut and block
Japanese rail-, road- and river-communi-
cation between lower and upper Burma,
and later was instructed to march north-
wards to help the Chinese moving into
Burma under General Stilwell in the
reduction of the Japanese stronghold of
Mogaung.
The book is the history of this 1944
campaign. It opens with the night-flight
of 54 gliders to “Broadway,” a jungle
clearing in Burma some 30’ miles from
the road and railway at Mawlu. From
the beginning it was no picnic. Thirty-
seven of the gliders landed at “Broad-
way,” with 350 men of all ranks alive,
30 having been killed and 21 wounded
in the landing; six gliders fell into
Japanese-occupied territory in Burma
and 11 made forced landings in Assam.
Many of these strays got back to India,
like Lieut.-Col. Peter Fleming’s party,
whose 100-mile trek back through
Japanese territory is reported in the
appendix, and then rejoined their
battalions. But 66 missing officers and
men did not return.
Calvert’s brigade was only a part of a
huge lift, which set down British forces
in other parts behind the Japanese lines
as well:
In‘a few days we had 12,000 men, 3000
mules, masses of equipment, anti-aircraft
and field-guns all established behind enemy
lines.
From March 5, when 77 Brigade flew
in, to August 1, when it flew out, after
taking Mogaung, 211 officers and 4009
men served in the brigade; and total
casualties were more than 50 per cent,
of the entire brigade, including 450
killed and 797 wounded.
Lieutenant-Colonel Calvert writes for
soldiers, giving all the orders
and instructions, anxious to spread the
gospel of glider-commandos flown in,
flown out, fed and supplied from the
air. Light aeroplanes flew out wounded ;
heavy artillery, heavy earth-moving
equipment and ammunition were all
°^ u §ht in by air. Generals and other
officers hopped from one base to another
over enemy patrols by air—Calvert has
an interesting couple of pages on this
point; supplied by air, a unit does not
have to carry reserve supplies, especially
of ammunition ; supplies can be switched
quickly from a unit not immediately in
need of them to one that is ; “delivery
is made direct to the consumer,” so that
a division of 20,000 men may be all
“potential enemy-killers” instead of
10,000 fighting men and 10,000 “lorry-
drivers and distributors of supplies and
their barnacles and units carrying around
reserves of supplies”:
Any commander who has once tasted the
wonderful freedom given by air-supply
cannot easily reconcile himself to return
to the fetters of road-supply, any more
than a man who has once tasted the un-
trammelled liberty of a free country would
voluntarily surrender to the thraldom of
totalitarianism.
Apart from its satisfying quality as a
complete history of a modern army
operation—which, because it is by a com-
mander still young enough to be enthusi-
astic and generous enough to survey and
admit his mistakes, gives one a rare in-
sight into the mind of a fighting leader
—the book is full of detail which must
interest the unmilitary reader —the con-
glomeration of races, for instance:
British, Americans, Sikhs, Gurkhas,
Chinese, Burmese; Kachins organised
into a secret-service by a casual Ameri-
can ; big-businessmen of the Burma
Rifles who would go away and come
back with whatever a commander
wanted; black Nigerians who cut off
Japanese heads on patrol with their
machetes and returned with them to
headquarters, who sometimes pilfered
from stores dropped at a distance, so
that one large African was found “sit-
ting under a banyan-tree eating and
greatly enjoying biscuits spread with
blood-plasma which he thought was jam.”
And Field-Marshal Lord Wavell’s
son Archie, who lost a hand and refused
to be evacuated before other wounded,
so that three weeks later, some 60
wounded having been evacuated, Calvert
got an instruction to put Captain Wavell
on a plane or give up his command —
if the “Indian National Army” fighting
with the Japanese had captured Wavell
they might have tortured him to make an
impression on his father, the Viceroy.
And Japanese burnt-out of cellars with
flame-throwers, or putting their heads
over a grenade in the cave-hospital on
the northern march; and elephants used
to bring in heavy equipment that had
been dropped far away from “White
City”—one overbalanced carrying a
heavy motor across a river and began
to sail down-stream upside-down, so
they cut the ropes that held the motor
and he came right-side-up again.
For the Americans who piloted his
gliders when the British said it couldn’t
be done, and did so much of the supply-
work, Lieutenant-Colonel Calvert cannot
find enough praise ; but for those around
Stilwell whom he suspected of minimis-
ing the British efforts, and especially for
one thought responsible for a Press
announcement attributing the fall of
Mogaung to Stilwell’s forces alone, he
reserves about the only venom to be
found in this most generous and forth-
right of books.
There are four colored pull-out maps,
an appendix of strength of 77
Brigade, an appendix of casualties and
a long appendix of statements by
Japanese commanders interrogated on
the value and effects of 77 Brigade’s
campaign.
Stirring Times.
An Englishman trying to make some-
thing of Australia, Mr. Nevil Shute is
overcome in his latest book. Far Country
(Heinemann), by an embarrassment of
themes. The book opens with a jackeroo
in love with the squatter’s daughter—
Mr. Shute’s interest in this affair peters-
out half-way through the book —mean-
while, we have been introduced to the
squatter, John Dorman, a hard-working
man on a small Victorian station, who
has just received a wool-cheque for
£22,000.
A little of him, and then, his English
wife having decided to send £5OO to Aunt
Ethel, we are spirited away to Ealing,
London, where Aunt Ethel is dying of
starvation because the Labor Govern-
ment has made no provision for widows
of Indian officials who lost their jobs on
the cession of India. And so we are
introduced to the heroine, Jennifer, the
daughter of a doctor in Leicester, who
comes to visit her grandmother (Aunt
Ethel) in Ealing, receives as a dying gift
the £5OO sent from Australia, and decides
to go to Australia with it to see what is
to be seen (and maybe write a novel).
On the Dorman station, the Dormans
drop out of the picture when Jennifer
meets the Czechoslovakian migrant, Carl
Zlinter, who is serving out his time at
felling trees in the forest, although his
main use to his employers is in the practice
of illegal medicine and surgery upon
stricken foresters, his European medical
degrees not being recognised in Australia.
They fall in love over an amputation and
a dangerous head-operation in the bush ;
then Jennifer has to hurry back to her
father in England. For his part, Mr,
Zlinter is lucky to escape prosecution for
illegally practising his profession, though
he is able to show that no other aid was
available ; and he is warned that he must
never practise as a doctor in Australia
without doing a course at a British uni-
versity.
In these circumstances he is singularly
forfbnate in discovering that another by
the name of Zlinter had lived and died in
those parts during the palmy gold-rush
days, for this amazing coincidence em-
boldens Mr. Shuts to the even more
astonishing discovery of a treasure of
gold-nuggets under the hearth of the bad
old bravo’s razed hut: turning this into
saleable rings and bangles to avoid ques-
tions by Treasury officials, Carl Zlinter
hurries off to London to medical studies
and the open arms of his Jennifer.
As an ingenious stringing-together of
a varied set of subjects of present-day
interest, it is more readable than a series
of articles would be ; as a novel, it makes
good journalism
THREE TREES AT SOLSTICE.
Comes with autumn the spent moment,
When, polarised to stillness,
The soul thereafter waits on death
As oaks on winter,
As oaks by winter water.
So stands the sun for springing and failing
time;
And a life ending is less than a stream
failing
Until, sunk deep in a white meander,
Black clouds settle like swans at brood,
And flows again the white water.
The silver tree of the stream
Fails not for the sea,
For the thirst-hewn rocks of the valley;
But fails the red, bright tree
In each man’s breast—
Drooping to winter’s rest;
Fails the yellow tree
Of each day’s light—
Fails from sight,
Tails in the west.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
Three Cricket Books.
Neville Cardus, protesting a great
reluctance to write another cricket book
(“I tried to break myself of the habit
years ago ; I wished to devote myself to
music”), explains what finally changed his
mind. After persistent threats and
cajolings from his publisher had been
unavailing,
I was standing near the Green Bank
[at Lord’s] when a schoolboy came to me
and asked please would I give him my
autograph. “But lam not a cricketer,”
I explained, and he answered, “I know
that, sir, but you’re a jolly good author.”
No man of letters has received a tribute
better worth having and preserving than
this. Straightway X looked for my
publisher....
The result is Cricket All the Year
(Collins), Cardus’s first cricket book since
1937, In the meantime he has, of course,
been writing on the game, when not
covering a symphony concert.
The book is in the refreshing style of
his other books, if at times perhaps a
trifle too highfalutin and * musical-
metaphorical. It is brimful of story and
anecdote, always gently told. He is never
moved to spite even when hitting at some
objectionable feature such as the dreary
“negative batting” which is destroying
cricket.
“Myself When Young” is the longest
and most vivid essay in the book, full of
nostalgic love for the cricket gods of his
youth. But then he can turn with appre-
ciation to later lights, Bradman, Miller.
The book winds up with a resume of the
1950-51 Australia v. England Tests.
>To turn to Keith Miller and R. S.
Whitington’s Straight Hit (Latimer House)
is like going from champagne to beer,
Though they avoid in this book their
insistence ad nauseam in previous books
M references to Miller (mostly
eulogistic) are to be taken as the opinion
of his co-author only— to say so once, as
they’ve now done in a footnote, is surely
sufficient—they still permit irritating
repetitions of grandiloquent cliches, such
as the description more than once of the
same young Australian batsman as “that
aristocrat of the crease.”
Revision and sub-editing should have
eliminated these faults, and also one or
two slips in fact and figures; a West
Indian score is wrongly given as 6 for 96
instead of 5 for 96 ; Bill Johnston takes
6 for 82 (in a total of only 105), when it
should have been 6 for 62 ; the former
S. Aus. batsman Nitschke is misspelled;
the caption to a photo of Stollmeyer being
hit by a Lindwall bumper puts it in the
third (instead of the second) Test.
However, the book (which deals mainly
with West Indian cricketers, the longer
Part II being a summary of last year’s
Australia-West Indies Tests) makes
several good points and contains some
sound criticism of Australian cricket
officialdom (in particular in the Barnes
incident and the botch that was made
of the Australian team for the fourth
Test when Hassett was unfit to play on
the day of the match); of the Australian
selectors for giving Burke and Archer
the “rawest of deals” in Tests; and
of radio broadcasts of cricket (“admirable
things in their way,” especially as
“expertly and entertainingly as they are
given in Australia”) for being an import-
ant cause of declining Test attendances.
Talking of Cricket, by J. L. Guise
(Methuen), is a sort of lemonade —a
series of broadcast talks given in a
children’s hour. The informal approach
of the talks helps to make the book a
readable and helpful guide to the cricket-
learner.
All three books are illustrated.
K. R.
Reviewed Briefly .
I Thought of Daisy : Edmund Wilson
(W. H. Allen). America’s foremost
literary Critic is always a critic in his
stories —in the Hecate County memoirs,
a critic of American society, publishing
and erotics ; and in this new novel, of
the half-world of literature in the New
York of the early 1920’5: Rita, the young
poetess burning with a hard, gemlike
flame ; Daisy, the mistress passing from
flat to flat in an atmosphere of wild
parties, gramophones, amazing conversa-
tions, literary judgments and pistol-
wavings. Perhaps the essential ingredient
which Wilson, an economist and a former
student of Marx, brings to the novel-
recipe is a keen study of economic neces-
sity ; and because money is the most
general standard of present-day life his
acerbic actuarial reports, though they
rarely achieve profundity, seem as close
to realism as our age can get. The last
stages of Daisy make a rare case of
Wilsonian pathos: she, who wanted
nothing and gave everything, was fitted
to receive the pity of the -economist and
the love of the critic.
* * * *
A ustralian Setting: George Farwell
(Evans). Published overseas, evidently for
the British market, this book is more
likely to interest overseas readers than
Australians, who found plenty of meat
in Harwell's study of Broken Hill, Down
Argent Street, etc., but to whom this
coast-to-coast survey of Australia may
seem thin because most of it will be
familiar to them ; although, as with most
of Harwell's work, the scenes have a
freshness of view and anecdote which
comes from first-hand investigation.
There are seventeen full-page photo-
graphs, some by the author.
* * * *
The Singing Earth: Douglas Gibson
(Heinemann). Gracefully-written but un-
interesting lyrics, mostly on nature themes.
The writer prefers to describe, comment
and conjecture rather than to fashion
what he sees into images.


...
m
mm
1
r*-*.
*
I—-.
m
r ''^.
■—
ms
I
fSi
X
II
Wooden Venetian Blinds made
to order in 4 weeks
These very attractive wood Vene-
tian blinds are made in our own
factory by skilled workmen.
These blinds are styled to add charm
to the finest interiors; they handle
easily and hang gracefully.
The materials used are only the
finest: the laths are selected
Canadian cedar, and the finish is
satin smooth and stands up to alt
abuse. The tapes are Carr's English
ladder tape.
These blinds give • you a most
permanent beauty.
We can match any colour to any
colour scheme. Priced at 6/11 sq. ft.
Minimum, 12 sq. ft. per blind.
Write, phone or call and we will
forward our easy guide to measure
on all types of blinds.
To glamorise your home
Jeldi. Pacific and
bedspreads
-
1
8 »
I
f I
m
&i
.
;>>
v r
s:-?'
lii
:v -'•
fT*> * 5
Hi
' v I
mr.
M
Left:
Gladys Grieve No. 663. Box-
tailored bolster style. Six
inch box heading on skirt in
honeycomb pattern. Throw-
back sham with skirted
ends. Colours: Rose,
Green, Beige, White,
Mushroom, Blue and
Gold. Price £l4/12/6
3ft., £l4/19/6 double.
And in pastel shades.
Above Right:
Jeldi Spreads In a full price
range from £5/9/6 to
£l3/6/9. Featured style No.
5A in full range of colours
and in pastel shades. 3ft.,
£4/19/6; double size, £5/9/6,
Ruffles illustrated at left on
window in White plastic with
Red, Blue or Green trim, 32/f
Below Right:
Pacific Velwlck Chenille No. 20.
In tailored style in all colours
and pastel shades. £lO/13/6
3ft.; double-bed size, £lO/16/9.
ŵ
ẁ
-' ■ \
m
m
mm?
SeaSKSK
mwmwmm.
'mmm
*msm
. .
1
ana*
■•< •<
v *s®
:*SSXS;?&X« * « ** **
mmm.
"ft i : -.
XTVa
v -V.
V~«
:;.:•■■■; >•
is
.
wm.
wm
riS
Sms?
FURNISHING DEPARTMENT,
THIRD FLOOR, BOX 2712 C, 5.P.0., SYDNEY. ‘PHONE M 240!. FREIGHT


FASCINATING FACTS No. 3
The “Magician’s Crucible” of Modern Times
I
- - . --
i
i
,
i>*
i
x!
\
3
Medieval alchemists merely tried to
change other metals into gold, but oil
refineries do more remarkable things
than that. Besides producing about 600
million tons a year of petrol, kerosine,
lubricating oils, bitumen, wax and hun-
dreds of other oily or greasy substances,
they produce more than 5 million tons a
year of substances that don’t even re-
motely resemble oil and grease.
LC
y
,'V.
iS££
ISH
«
Great quantities of artificial rubber for
instance are made out of oil so are
plastics—fertilizers—washing powders
—paints—artificial fibres—explosives—
medicines and about 200 important
chemicals and many other things.
Half the organic chemicals used today
are made out of oil or oil gas, and as a
consequence, chemical-using companies
can now make better and more varied
products than ever before.
Si
I*
a
£
*
a
Don’t ask us “how” unless you’re a
scientist but the oil industry makes
“unoily” things out of oil by juggling
with uncountable millions of molecules
and atoms. It boils and super-boils
them, freezes them, squeezes them, ex-
pands them, “cracks” them, separates
them, “marries” them to other molecules
and atoms. Only 75 tons of “unoily”
substances a year were made out of oil
25 years ago, yet five million tons a year
are made now. The oil industry cer-
tainly “gets cracking”!
ẃ
Only 60 years ago the only thing made from
oil was lighting kerosine, but imagine how
different our lives would be now without
petroleum products with no aeroplanes,
hardly any cars or trucks, no motor-cycles,
no oil-driven ships or oil-powered factories,
no kerosine, no diesel engines, no bitumen
roads, huge shortages of lubricants, drastic
scarcities of chemicals. Our standard of living
is so dependent on oil that world demand rises
by tens of millions of tons a year. A huge
programme of building extra refineries is
necessary.
■ J
■SSS
-1/ '
"fSrn
t-iJ&rl J
I 3VJ
ffhl
...lib, |®fw.M
; i i
Our own big country needs big thinking
and planning in oil as in all other needs.
Shell’s new Australian refinery, which
will process a million tons a year, is to
be followed by refineries by other pro-
ducers an investment programme of
about £80,000,000 to make Australia
stronger. In refining, Shell has been a
leader since “kerosine-only” days. Shell
always ploughs back great proportions
of earnings into exploration, research,
and construction, to make oil a better
servant of mankind.


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No, 3787
Wednesday, September 10, 1952
PALSIE-WALSIES.
“If the umpire gives either of you fellows out I won’t play; and, what’s more, I’ll throw stones at him afterwards."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
UNIONS ABOVE THE LAW?
For the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court to treat as a serious affront the
“ultimatum” delivered by the A.C.T.U.
Congress would probably be a mistake.
It is so deliberate and pointed a
defiance that the A.C.T.U. might be
regarded as inviting a dispute over “con-
tempt of court” in order to produce a
situation in which it could protest that
it had, as a champion of union feeling,
been hindered in access to a tribunal
which had itself described its functions
as those of an industrial legislature as
well as a judicial body.
The A.C.T.U.’s description of its reso-
lutions as an “ultimatum” lend color to
this assumption. They call for mass-
meetings of unions on the Sunday after
the' hearing begins, to pledge them-
selves “to resist any order that may be
made by the court” which may not con-
form with the A.C.T.U.’s notions of
what that order should be.
This flamboyant political stunting is
done ostensibly in the name of a “Right-
wing,” anti-Communist majority on the
A.C.T.U. executive and among congress
delegates ; but in fact it conforms with
Communist defiance of the court and
rejection of its authority.
The contradiction between A.C.T.U.
professions and actions is matched by
the inconsistencies in its executive’s
statements on the economic situation
and on incidents in the present claim ;
and the latter weakness in the unions’
case is heightened by the A.C.T.U.’s
palpable desertion in this “ultimatum”
of any defence based on industrial
evidence. Its resolutions and the recom-
mendations to the unions are based
from first to last on political argu-
ments which are matters of opinion only
—and of minority opinion at that —and
are flatly disputed by the N.S.W. “Labor”
Minister responsible for the largest single
employment undertaking in the land.
The A.C.T.U. resolutions are a con-
fession that the unions’ case before the
court is so poor that no industrial argu-
ment can justify it. They fear, it
would seem, that on the facts the court
would probably have to revise the
standard-hours experiment of 1947 and
the basic-wage structure, and they de-
mand that the court shall decide in the
unions’ favor, even, if necessary, against
the weight of evidence. “We, the unions,”
have spoken “our” decree.
Politically, this is a bid to establish
the tyranny of mob-leaders. Industrially,
and in the immediate issue, it requires
the court to take on a bias in favor of
the unions at the peril of being accused
of bias against them if it does not.
True, political intervention by the Chifley
Government during the hearing of the
standard-hours case five years ago still
lies like a smear over these union pro-
ceedings. But the settlement of what is
a fair day’s wage for a fair day’s work
is not usually determined by mere
political hot-air. That is part of the
trouble today.
Although the first part of the A.C.T.U.
“ultimatum” acknowledges the condi-
tion of an unbalanced economy as
evidenced in the need for “remedial
measures to meet depleted overseas
prices for primary g00d5.... .unem-
ployment .... hardships on the busi-
ness community and consequent loss
of confidence,” this is contradicted in
the A.C.T.U. president’s sworn affidavit
made to the court a week before. Therein
it is expressly declared that “the nation’s
economy is not precariously unstable,”
that “public confidence is not being
undermined,” that “although there has
been a readjustment of economic activity,
which is still proceeding, the economy is
fundamentally sound.” Mr. Monk
further swore that in the metal and
engineering industries, in which most of
the vacancies for employment (he said)
had been registered, “there have been
notable increases in employment.”
Last week’s A.C.T.U. “ultimatum” de-
clared that a decline in workers’ living
standards had been accentuated by
“huge” price-inflation. Yet in support of
it Mr. Monk’s fellow-executive on the
A.C.T.U., secretary Broadby, confessed
that “while everybody is concerned about
inflation, I am of opinion that the workers
are much better off.”
In other words, inflation and an un-
balanced economy suit trade-unionists
—or it suits them at the moment to say
so—and therefore its progressive threat
to employment and the whole national
economy does not matter.
t To this medley of contradictions the
“Labor” Minister for Transport in
N.S.W., whose services have been made
bankrupt by inflated wages and costs
and reduced standard hours, concurrently
added his contribution when he told the
N.S.W. Assembly that “the Common-
wealth Arbitration law is crippling the
State transport services,” and that “every-
body agrees that the operation of the
basic-wage structure has failed.” Yet Mr.
Sheahan’s colleague, the N.S.W.
Attorney-General, is appearing before
the Arbitration Court to oppose any
amendment of this “structure.”
The Prime Minister has commented
on the A.C.T.U.’s defiance of the court
as “just silly.” Its denial of the need for
a correction of this inflated Australian
economy which only the court can supply
is equally stupid. The employers’ repre-
sentations in support of their motion for
revision of a wage-system which, in the
N.S.W. Minister’s words, “everybody
agrees has failed,” and for a reversion to
the 44-hour week in order to increase
weekly output, are expressly submitted
in the interests of reducing costs and
maintaining employment. The public is
plainly taking a hand in the fight against
high costs by restricting its spending, and
there is no source of wages but the pro-
ducts of business enterprise. These
truths are known to the A.C.T.U. execu-
tive and to every unionist on whose be-
half this “ultimatum” defies both the
court and the facts of our condition.
The case for revision of the facts at
issue are, indeed, so clear that the “ulti-
matum” avoids them. Instead it demands
removal of any examination from the
court and an entirely political treatment
of the economic disorder. Specifically
it tells the court that this treatment
should consist of: re-election of “Labor”
to power in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, Commonwealth price-control
(under high taxation for subsidies),
priority of capital expansion for State-
owned undertakings, “maximum use of
taxation” to finance State works, pur-
chase of “urgently-needed” capital equip-
ment abroad by use of “overseas funds
and international credit” (international
credit, no doubt, to be likewise extorted
by force), and reduction of defence
expenditure to what is left in the Trea-
sury (if anything).
All this, along with the defiance of the
court, is uttered by a group of indi-
viduals in some self-bestowed right to lay
down the laws with which the Australian
people shall conform, and which Jthe
courts, at requirement, shall enforce. As
for inflation, since the unions like it, let
it go its hardest; if it hurts the majority
of the community that is just too bad.
Offices of Profit.
It will be surprising if the debate
at Canberra on Parliamentary under-
secretaryships has brought about the end
of what the “S. M. Herald” calls the
“unnecessary and undignified controversy
initiated by Mr. Cameron” —who did not
initiate it, and who was merely doing his
duty in giving an opinion, when formally
asked for it.
The “S. M. Herald” chides the Speaker
that his view is “narrow and legalistic,”
but he cannot be too narrow or too
legalistic in interpreting a law which
might be applied to dislocate the working
of Parliament and vacate the seats of
members whom he is there to safeguard,
and involve them in fines of £lOO for
every day of wrongful sitting.
The Commonwealth Parliament, be-
cause of its written Constitution, can act
in clearly defined matters only within
“narrow and legalistic” limits. Its actions
are governed sometimes not by what it
would like to do but by what the Con-
stitution says it can do, and that position
cannot be altered one iota except by a
referendum of the people.
This principle, however, does not seem
to have been recognised in the last few
years in matters which affect members
of Parliament, who, if the English
language is clear, appear to have made
a new Constitution governing their own
interests without reference to their
electors. The prime authors of this new
charter were, of course, “Labor”-
partyites, who were so zealous in defence
of Mr. Cameron and so. anxious for a
High Court ruling, though they would
have run a mile if they had felt that
their plea would be successful.
The Liberal-C.P. party has been only
too ready to adopt such basic principles
of “Labor,” just as it has in some matters
adopted “Labor’s” basic principles of
Socialism. It has not gone as far as
“Labor” did in openly appointing
members, and even its Speaker, to
paid executive offices not concerned
with the conduct of Parliament, in
a way sufficient to have rendered
their seats vacant and left the
House of Representatives in a tangle of
problems at any moment —a position full
of staggering possibilities affecting the
legality of legislation and the acts of
members in general. Yet “Labor” main-
tained these and other appointments just
as much open to question with the silent
support of the Liberal-C.P. Opposition.
Section 44 of the Constitution Act says:
Any person who —
(iv) Holds any office of profit under
the Crown, or any pension payable
during the pleasure of the Crown out
of any revenues of the Commonwealth
....shall be incapable of being chosen
or of sitting as a Senator or Member of
the House of Representatives.
And Section 45 declares that “a
member’s place shall become vacant” if
he “directly or indirectly takes or agrees
to take any fee or honorarium for services
rendered to the Commonwealth, or for
services rendered in Parliament to any
person or State.” Only Ministers of State
or those receiving service pay or half-
pay or service pensions are exempted
from these sections, which seemed to be
contravened again and again during the
period of “Labor’s” rule, and which pos-
sibly are just as flagrantly broken today.
On the face of the interpretations of
May’s Parliamentary Practice, the
standard authority to which Speakers of
British Commonwealth Parliaments turn
for guidance, the under-secretaries as
they were conceived by the Government
at first (when it was proposing to pay
them salaries, as it did until the Nicholas
Commission cast doubt on its ability to
do so) certainly seem to have come within
the ambit of the sections, and perhaps
they do still. Their appointments are at
least of doubtful legality for other Con-
stitutional reasons, and the Government
obviously knows it or it would have taken
more explicit action regarding them,
authorising them by statute if it had felt
this would be valid and not leaving them
in their present undefined condition.
But the under-secretaries are of relative
unimportance beside the issues which
arise out of the new Parliamentary Allow-
ances Act passed last year.
Under Section 48 of the Constitution
“each member of the House of Repre-
sentatives shall receive an allowance of
£4OO a year until the Parliament other-
wise decides.” Parliament has never been
backward in “otherwise” deciding on
giving its members rises, the last con-
summated at a time when the Govern-
ment was preaching the effect of a high-
wage policy on the national economy and
the Opposition moaning even more loudly
about the imminence of depression and
the rising tide of unemployment.
In the Act which brought about these
latest increases the M.P.s seem to have
been generous to a fault to themselves —
so generous that they have come peril-
ously near to endangering the seats of
many, if not the whole, of them. It
seems doubtful whether the simple section
of the Constitution which excepts their
allowances from the principles that govern
acceptance of offices of profit envisaged
separate salaries and expense allowances
for members —especially separate allow-
ances differentiated in amount as between
electorates, and which are tax-free —apart
from swelling perquisites.
It is also doubtful whether the High
Court would agree with the Prime
Minister and Dr. Evatt that “nobody
thought... .the Speaker the Whips or
the Leader and Deputy-Leader of the
Opposition and Third Party Leader” were
holders of offices of profit under the
Crown within the meaning of the Con-
stitution. The Speaker obviously is, but
his case is covered by Section 35 of the
Constitution; for, though he is the
Speaker of the House, his appointment
must be approved by the Governor-
General —i.b., the Crown —and when he
tenders his resignation it is not to the
House but to the Governor-General. He
is thus in a different category from all
other members, who resign to the Speaker.
The Constitution gives no recognition
to the existence of the Leaders of the
Opposition and the Whips in any shape
or form. Their offices, as now recognised,
are the creation of the Government and
Parliament by statutes which must come,
like other Acts, within the ambit of the
legality of the Constitution.
These officers are paid salaries which
are euphemistically called allowances
attached to their offices, but which do
not seem to be provided for by the Con-
stitution, if words mean anything, and
second allowances specifically in respect
of their positions as M.P.s.
Despite the fact that their salaries—
frankly and openly so described by the
Nicholas Commission—are described in
the Act as meant to meet “the expenses
of discharging the duties of their offices,’ -
nobody even attempts in real life to dis-
pute that these payments are salaries
Therefore they hold offices of profit. And
that those offices of profit are under the
Crown seems equally clear, since they
are, and constitutionally can only be,
paid out of the consolidated revenues of
the Crown and out of the appropriation
for Parliament which is secured by a
resolution passed annually in the form:
That there be granted to his Majesty to
defray the charges for the year (e.g.,
1952-53)... .for the several services, a sum
not exceeding....
Then follows the list of services, headed
by “Parliament,” which covers their
salaries which are paid for out of the
Crown vote.
It seems that much more than a some-
what vague party-sponsored resolution
carried in a single House of Parliament
is needed to settle the legalities of the
matter. The House can vote —even pass
standing orders and statutes—till it is
black in the face, without determining
if unconstitutional action is involved.
The Government should certainly lay
on the table its legal opinions on the
whole question and make them public
property, so that electors can feel con-
fidence in its submissions. It would be
safer, however, if it were to state a case
to the High Court on the whole of the
salary and executive-appointment issues
and settle them once and for all. If it
does not some organisation, or some
person with an urge to acquire a few
hundred pounds or thousands from
wrongly-sitting members, *may take the
matter into the court. If a particular case
like some in Labor’s time happens to be
selected the price of the chaos which
might result would certainly make the
cost of a reference to the High Court
look cheap. And the step is all the more
necessary since Ministries and the leader-
ship and committee work of Parliament
are inevitably bound to expand, and will
inevitably call for far more salaries paid
for by the taxpayers unless the essential
nature of politicians undergoes a basic
change.
Melbourne "Slums."
■‘Bumpkin” ; To carry out his promise to
abolish Melbourne slums Premier Mc-
Donald has found £500,000, though the
ultimate cost would run into several mil-
lions, and the Housing Commission is to
start off in November. It will build two-
and three-story walk-up flats, semi-
detached cottages and terrace units on
suitable blocks, transfer the occupiers of
houses in slum pockets to these new units
as they are completed, demolish the
vacated houses and replan and rebuild
where practicable on areas where houses
have been demolished.
In releasing this information Mr.
McDonald disclosed the interesting fact
that a survey by the commission revealed
that, even in the worst areas of bad
housing, at least 50 p.c. of the homes
were in good condition. Having lived
in one myself for seven years, I would go
further and say that hundreds of the so-
called slum terraces and houses are better
built and more solidly constructed than
the commission’s modern houses, and
vastly superior architecturally to the
“dream homes” that are popping up in
every suburb. All they lack is modern
amenities, and, generally speaking, the
rooms are too small, though the reverse
is the case in some instances.
Though it was marked for demolition,
the house I lived in had large rooms and
lofty moulded ceilings, large French
windows which didn’t rattle and massive
doors which had been so well hung that
80 years of slamming hadn’t hurt them
one iota ; and the facade, from which the
balconies had been torn off for their
iron, was a perfect example of Georgian
which would have graced any manorial
estate in England. A master-builder who
visited me one day said sadly “We can t
build as well as this in these days.” Look
along a street of Melbourne terrace
houses —and there are hundreds of them,
many of them long since condemned b>
order of the City Council—and divest
yourself of your fashionable prejudices
and then ask yourself if they don’t look
nicer than any modern garden suburb.
It would be sheer vandalism and a waste
of money and good material to destroy
them when an architect with imagina-
tion, given the necessary powers, could
remodel the interiors at a fraction or
what it would cost to demolish them and
erect new gimcrack houses.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Country Has Rights.
Pleading guilty to having wounded an-
other man “with intent to murder him,
a 24-year-old Sydney homosexual was
ordered by the trial judge to go to the
country and not come near any capital
city for at least seven years. The judge had
heard “two distinguished psychiatrists”
and took the action on the ground that
“the temptation to which this man suc-
cumbs is to be found only in the cities.
It is not present in the country.”
It is likely that the judge, fully aware
that a jail term is no solution for this
kind of problem, saw in country life a
chance for the offender to redeem him-
self. The problem itself is as old as
history, and so far is still a problem.
From time to time city courts order
law-breakers of one kind and another
to go to the country. The principal aim
is to get the offenders away from their
associates in the hope that they will
reform. As a theory it looks all right;
in practice it seldom works, because every
non-metropolitan community has a collec-
tion of locally-bred drongoes, village
idiots, perverts, loose women, thieves,
spielers and other undesirables, and to
them the deported one usually gravitates
as naturally as a crow to carrion.
Thus the country is not at all enamored
of this form of judicial decentralisation,
having enough troubles of its own without
having more foisted upon it. What’s
more, there is a local tolerance for local
offenders which is not understood by
metropolitan people, but which, in its
way, keeps local offences down and en-
ables local police to keep the bad element
fairly quiet.
When a bad character arrives from
somewhere else it is almost inevitable that
a flare-up follows, and in the subsequent
sorting-out the community finds it has
acquired a new citizen with “a record.”
Sometimes the local police carry the thing
further by ordering the character to go
somewhere else, whereupon the process
is repeated.
The country point of view is that if
metropolitan communities cannot work
out some system of correcting their bad
elements they have no right to inflict
them on the country. One of these days
some indignant rural community, having
suffered damage at the hands of one of
these deportees, will adopt the practice of
the Commonwealth Government, which,
when it finds an undesirable immigrant
on its hands, sends him back whence he
came. Or a country court will one day
startle a city by ordering some notorious
local to keep out of the country.
The Gamblers' Party (No. 2).
Dimanchet Empson again:
The business, or disease, of betting has been
the subject of a Queensland inquiry by a
“Labor”-appointed royal—yes, royal—commis-
sion. If, as is most likely, its recommendations
are adopted, Queensland will have the
malodorous distinction of being a State in which
betting-shops are recognised; in which tough
characters trading on ignorance ministered to
by newspapers and radio-stations may skin
breadwinners with the full sanction and protec-
tion of State law.
The main idea is to set up a triumvirate with
power to license off-the-course bookmakers in
all parts of Queensland except Brisbane, Too-
woom.b'a, Rockhampton, Ipswich and Warwick;
except, indeed, within a hundred miles of Bris-
bane and within 25 miles of Rockhampton: Mt.
Morgan is significantly excluded. Of course,
all these places already have s.-p. joints, but
the vested interests of the proprietors are to be
respected. Licensees are to pay the State Gov-
ernment annual fees as fixed by the tribunal,
the lowest being £5O; their clerks, if any, are
also to be charged £1 a year. They are to be
permitted to sport their bags on racecourses;
but only with clubs’ permission. And, provided
the tribunal consents, a “connection” may be
assigned, transferred or sold.
The Government is not only to get fees from
shop-bookmakers and their clerks. It is to
receive two-thirds of a tax of sixpence on
every betting-ticket written (the other third is
to go to the district racing club or clubs), issue
of which is made obligatory on the bookmaker
and reception of it by the backer. The “royal”
commission seems vague as* to the penalties to
be imposed on backsliding punters, but
“drastic” punishment is recommended for a
bookmaker found guilty of a first offence and
forfeiture of his licence if he repeats it. And
he will be required to record “immediately” all
wagers made by letter, telegram or telephone
and issue betting-tickets accordingly. This part
of the report must have been read with not-so-
innocent merriment by the host of persons
interested in applying for licences, and even by
some of their prospective clients, although the
average betting-shop punter, male or female,
has no sense of humor. To make it effective
a legion of police like the “stern-faced men”
who “set out from Lynn” would have to be
enlisted to watch the additional army of
pencillers and punters.
There is one flaw in the sorry scheme. To
become effective it would need the co-operation
of the Commonwealth Government, which
would be required to attend to letter and tele-
gram deliveries and telephone services to the
legalised betting joints; and this might possibly
be refused. Refused on one or more of many
grounds —that the sowing of Queensland with
such plague-spots would sully the reputation
of a grand State, and thus of the Common-
wealth itself; that betting is already a national
disgrace which is having palpable effects for
evil on public loans and savings banks; that
the immense vogue of it is destructive of
manners and sound thinking; and that it is
high time Australians abandoned the vain pur-
suit of wealth by backing horses and dogs recom-
mended by semi-illiterate tipsters and gave
serious attention to their accumulating internal
and external troubles, above all to the sudden
emergence of China as a great military Power
whose soldiers and airmen are killing Australians
in Korea.
It is not really expected that the present
Commonwealth Ministry will veto the legalising
of betting-shops in Queensland and other States
(“Labor” N. S. Wales would copy “Labor”
Queensland for a certainty); but it could —and
should.
Outside Russia.
“L. 0.”: To condense into two lectures
of an hour each the work of 80
research students who have collected
data over several years—mainly by
“telescopic” methods and have
analysed and collated the facts obtained
both psychologically and anthropo-
logically is a superhuman task. This
is true even when the project has
been amply endowed and has been
directed by a brilliant author and anthro-
pologist. It is not surprising, therefore,
that Professor Clyde Kluckhohn, the
Dyason lecturer for 1952, found the
attempt to carry his audience with him,
through an exposition of the application
of anthropology to the solution of the
Russian problem, rather heavy going.
Analysing the Slav mentality, the pro-
fessor emphasised the lack of half-tones
in the make-up of that race. The Russian
peasant, as in the Tsarist days, still alter-
nates, with equal inconsistency, between
fierce jubilation and utter depression. At
one moment he exhibits intense virility,
followed immediately by complete
apathy, and he is so introspective that he
lives in an atmosphere of self-torture.
Not remarkably, he has known little other
rule than that of tyrants.
On such ground the seed of Marx and
Engels was scattered; but Russian Com-
munism today has no relation to the
Marxian doctrine, except that Marxist
slogans are invoked as an excuse for and
a legitimisation of political dictatorship.
In fact, Marx would now be happier in
Australia or U.S.A. than in Marxist
Russia, where the idealistic goals of both
Engels and himself have succumbed to
the acquisition of power by an elite caste
who have adapted the popular legends of
Tsardom to apply to Stalin. Only in
Russia is revolution preferred to evolu-
tion ; the elite mistrust and despise the
people, and brotherhood has been cast
aside for doctrinaire ruthlessness.
The astounding fact is that this
exploitation of paranoid dynamics and
machine-mindedness functions with rea-
sonable efficiency in the face of discon-
tent. The split, when it comes, will
originate not with the people, but at the
top.
The second lecture dealt with
similarities between Western democracy
and Eastern totalitarianism. The
speaker’s touch in dealing with these was
notably lighter than in the first lecture.
The ends, he asserted, were in each
case the same ; it was only the means of
attaining the universally-desired goal of
better living which differed. The
lecture ended with the warning that the
Communistic ideologies might overcome
those of the democracies unless the
latter, while employing the techniques of
1952, improved on their method of
approach, which was that of 1852.
That Literary Fund.
Whatever else it may have done, the
controversy in the Canberra Parliament
about the Commonwealth Literary Fund
shows that its administration and the
form of grants are badly in need of
revision.
As conceived some 20-odd years ago,
the idea of granting Australian writers
pensions and certain sums for the
writing of specific works or for financ-
ing their publication had much to com-
mend it. Its weakness is that its
management has always been politico-
bureaucratic, and it has been wide-open
to opportunists of the local literary field.
Priminister Menzies, defending the
fund, said that the committee which
made the final awards consisted of
himself as Prime Minister, Federal Trea-
surer Fadden, Opposition-leader Evatt
and J. H. Scullin, who was Prime
Minister of the “Labor” Government
which initiated the fund. This committee
receives from a “literary advisory board”
a sort of preliminary selection of cases
which the board deems worthy of
financial aid.
With all due respect to the eminent
politicians of the committee and the
gentlemen who comprise the board, this
is a peculiar and cumbersome method of
deciding which literary works or which
literary people merit these annual hand-
outs of taxpayers’ money. It probably
results in the publication of some good
works, but it also results in the
sponsorship of a lot of rubbish.
One reform badly needed is an end to
the system of making cash grants to
writers before, instead of after, the work
is written. This system attracts oppor-
tunists and wire-pullers, whereas pay-
ment for results instead of proposals
would go far to achieve the fund’s main
object— to find and assist the nation’s
outstanding writers.
To Jo'burg by Air.
Australian civil aviation’s opening,
through Qantas, of regular air service
from this country across the Indian
Ocean to South Africa concludes a
great feat in organisation. The palm for
the pioneering of it belongs to
two Australians, Captain P. G. Taylor
and his assistant. Jack Percival, and dates
from 1939. But the first regular flights
were made by the Dutch K.L.M. (using
the R.N.’s ground station in Mauritius)
with Lockheed Constellations in 1949.
They flew past Cocos to and from Java
direct.
The pioneering was the thing. The
demonstration that the aeroplane could
conquer the great ocean spaces which
separate Australia from the inhabited
world has been in each instance done by
Australian airmen.
Other countries have produced the
designers of the powerful aircraft capable
of performing these long ocean flights.
But no one has done more to inspire the
trend of aircraft-construction than those
Australians whose feats sounded the call
for them.
The Sydney-Johannesburg air-route is
of, immense strategical value with the
waning British authority in the hitherto-
vital communications area of the Suez
Canal and the air-stations around Asia,
The British Government acknowledged
after World War II that the work
done by Taylor and Percival in their
Catalina in opening the Indian Ocean to
air transport had permitted war-time
policing from the air of these vast waters
and the flying-boats engaged in it to save
more than 1000 lives.
Defence and Hysteria.
“Ek Dum”: One of those periods is in
progress during which the daily Press is
anxious to take over the defence of the
country. Great concern has been shown
about the Russian submarines alleg-
edly seen a couple of thousand miles
from Sydney. The thought that any sub-
marine might penetrate within 2000 miles
of a Sydney newspaper office seems to
fill its inmates with terror.
It is certain that if the Navy knows
anything about Russian submarines it
isn’t going to tell the Press —or the Rus-
sians and whatever defence it has
planned of the approaches of the north,
about which Mr, Ward as well as the
papers is worried, it will not tell the
Sydney Press in particular, because scoops
with it come before security.
All through the past month or so
various Australian papers have been
explaining how wide-open Australia
is to attack by anybody who likes
to land from sampans and live
off the country. There is a danger
from sampan attack, but scarcely
in the initial stages of war, and the idea
of Asiatic armies of large strength
living off the land in the Northern Terri-
tory and the Gulf country would make a
possum laugh. They would have been
living off the land in large numbers cen-
turies ago if it had been possible.
In any case, if the Government moved
to institute the kind of defence which
would make the whole northern coast-
line secure a yell would go up of “Why
don’t they reduce taxation?” and Mr.
Ward and his fellow-patriots would
shriek “Warmongers!” and accuse them
of planning to attack the friendly Soviet
Union.
Added to the other silly-season essays
on defence by people who know no-
thing about it is a new outcry at the an-
nouncement that the Government has
decided to limit the regular forces of the
three services to their present strengths
and to reduce the R.A.A.F. National
Service trainees programme, while main-
taining the present National Service intake
of the Army and Navy. This plan will
hold the defence forces for the moment
at the level of about 120,000.
There is no ground for anxiety in this.
The strengths of the forces have increased
with phenomenal rapidity since the entry
of the present Government regulars
from 37,066 to 58,859, citizen forces only
slightly to 26,784, but to these must be
added the splendid National Service units,
which have been a brilliant success, and
are beginning to give off reserves in
quantity.
Beer—At Home and Abroad.
Brewery executives, one would gather
from last week’s evidence at the liquor
commission, are not easily influenced by
newspaper propaganda. Tom Watson,
general-manager of Tooth’s, questioned
about a “Sydney Morning Herald” article
on blackmarket beer and asked whether
he had investigated it, said “I would not
know where to investigate it. It is a pretty
wild statement.” A report that two wine-
and-spirit merchants were selling prac-
tically their entire quota “on the black” he
thought “too improbable.” Other reports
he described as “wild and irresponsible,”
which led Maxwell, J., to comment: “The
facts here show they are far from wild
and irresponsible. Has it not been estab-
lished that bottled beer can be got at
places, some reputable, some dis-
reputable?”
Watson : I still think some of them
irresponsible.
His Honor: I still think the evidence
bears them out.
B. A. Hollingdale, chairman of directors
of Tooheys, was questioned on the
arrangement whereby D. F. Collins, trad-
ing as the Sydney Liquor Service, had
since 1946 been distributing something
like 500 dozen bottled beer a week on
direct orders from the brewery. He
agreed that this was quite a departure
from the ordinary trading methods of
the company, but nothing struck him as
very strange about it. Mr. Justice
Maxwell then said: “A complete stranger
gets the field, and in quantities infinitely
greater than well-established companies.
Would you regard that as being strange?”
Mr. Hollingdale replied “No, I would
not.”
Hearing of evidence is expected to end
this week, after which Mr. Justice Max-
well will go abroad to study conditions
in the liquor industry in other countries.
Bread and Jam.
It is “Labor” dogma at present that the
Menzies Government is to blame for
inflation and the high cost of living. If
this is so, then it is surely reasonable to
expect that the effect of these evils will
fall less heavily upon those States for-
tunate enough to have a “Labor”
Government to cushion the impact of the
Canberra tyranny.
With this thought in mind, Adamson,
M.L.A. for Concord, quoted some
interesting figures in the N. S. Wales
Assembly. He showed that the Sydney
housewife pays more for bread than her
sisters in every other capital except Mel-
bourne. If she decides to cut down the
bread-bill by baking scones she finds her-
self paying top price for flour, and when
her youngsters ask for jam to put on
the bread or scones it is the same story.
The figures:
Bread S.-r. Flour Plum Jam
(per loaf), (pkt.). (tin).
Sydney .. 11.8 d. 16.3 d. 29.0 d.
Melbourne .. 12.0 d. 13.7 d. 27.0 d.
Brisbane .. 11.Od. 14.9 d. 24.7 d.
Adelaide .. 10.5 d. 12.9 d. 19.5 d.
Perth .. .. 11.Od. 14.7 d. 24.9 d.
Hobart .. .. ll.Od. 15.5 d. 29.0 d.
It is recognised, of course, that just as
man does not live by bread alone, neither
does he live by bread-and-jam alone. A
more comprehensive diet is needed to
keep body and soul together and also to
provide a more complete picture of living-
costs in the various States. Mr. Adamson
also produced these figures, which were
published by the Commonwealth Bureau
of Census and Statistics. They show the
cost-of-living increase in the various
States between August, 1939, and March,
1952:
N. S. Wales .. .. 177.7 p.c.
Victoria 158.0 „
Queensland .. .. 173.0 „
South Australia.. .. 157.1 „
West Australia .. .. 137.9 „
Tasmania 158.5 „
For the last 11 years of that period
“Labor” has been in power in New South
Wales. Speak as Mr. Cahill will of
the blessings of “Labor” rule, he cannot
dispute the fact that during his party’s
reign living-costs have risen far more in
his State than in any other part of the
Commonwealth.
Spring in Canberra.
From Molongloside in September:
The unseasonable weather spoilt the early
blossom in Canberra, and the late blossom is
not yet out; but it has not kept visitors away.
Never in history have the Parliamentary gal-
leries been so full; never have the debates
been so dull. Nobody has been thrown out;
courtesy everywhere; the only worry of the
chairmen of committees the tendency of every
member to get out of order and to keep out
of order in spite of admonitions. But the
general goodwill seems to have affected chair-
men as well as everybody else.
The only known upheaval during the week
was at the “Labor” caucus, through which a
((Continued on next page.)


'SIRIUS 1
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
r
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
ẁ
ẃ
AND SONS
PTV. LID.
£44/10/-
2\% sales tax
*
BW 8631.
SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
TOlbs.
Sturdy
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONE Y BATES:
Single Rooms —
From 13/G per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
23
ft 0t
,: mil*
: mu;
i:
p I.Wli ..
iti teu ■
to ■
V
4
large tornado seemed to sweep, on what issues
no man knows, though the daily Press pro-
fessed to know. There was certainly dissension
inside the party about Mr. Keon’s joint attack,
with Mr. Wentworth, on the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. And there was anger at the
Government for having extended the term of
Sir William McKell until early in the new year,
when Sir William Slim arrives. “Labor’s"
attitude to its former hero is causing consider-
able merriment in the Government parties. One
disgruntled Laborite has been walking round
all the week muttering against the privilege
rules which debar him- from asking in the
House whether the Government would release
his Excellency from office as early as possible
so that he might give evidence before the
liquor commission.
The position has its comic-opera aspects. The
Liberals, who raged with indignation when
Mr. McKell was elevated, and threatened to
get rid of him the moment they took office,
have extended his term and given him a
G.C.M.G. The one man whose attitude has
not changed since 1950 is the Speaker, with
the result that, while two years ago “Labor”
was howling for his dismissal for “insulting
his Majesty the King’s representative,” it is
now all his way in this matter. The
Speaker appears to wear the Opposition’s
approval with more reticence and modesty than
some members of the Opposition wear their
future intentions about the incumbent of Yarra-
lumla. As one put it: “He thinks he is going
to retire into private life. He has another think
coming.”
The under-secretaries question seemed to have
been forgotten this week, but behind the scenes
it is not. It is known that a Queensland group
is taking legal advice on the matter in more
than one capital. And the meeting of the
Standing Orders Committee at which Mr.
Menzies intends to propose to amend the
Standing Orders to permit these nebulous
officials to take charge of the passages of
clauses in committee is awaited with some
anxiety. The meeting is scarcely likely to take
place soon, because with Mr. Alan McDonald
overseas “Labor” would be in a majority. In
any case, if the voting goes as it did in the
House on party lines, the matter must be
decided against the Government on the
Speaker’s casting-vote. Even if his views were
not what they are it is standing practice for
the Speaker on such occasions not to cast his
vote in favor of change from established
practice.
There are the usual grumblings on both sides
of the House —the Senate has not yet met—
leadership, but “Labor” is much more
'seriously in trouble than the Government, which
is better off than it has been for months, and
will continue to be unless bungling by its
organisations in Victoria lead to the loss of
Flinders, a disaster which would bring out
whatever latent hostility there is to Mr.
Menzies’s leadership. However, in any circum-
stances it would be difficult to find a challenger
to Mr. Menzies; there is nobody in his class
likely to want his job at present, and nobody
in the offing, either, in the reserve ranks of
Liberalism, except, perhaps, Mr. Paul Hasluck,
who is doing a good job in his comparatively
minor post and who looks as if he might have-
after a due apprenticeship has brought them to
the surface—a good many of the qualities
which have made Mr. Playford master of South
Australia. He is not a Playford yet, though
he has proved himself a shrewd, commonsense
and adroit administrator and one of the few of
the new men whose reputations have improved
with Parliamentary wear.
The Estimates debate has approached its end
in an atmosphere generally satisfactory to the
Government, with surprisingly little criticism
of its broad principles of finance and with even
the Sydney Press recording with elation the
swelling of production, the apparent recovery
in the textile industries and the general justifica-
tion of Government policy by events. These
things, used properly, should be a great help
in Flinders; and in Flinders the Government
will need help, since “Labor” intends to extend
every effort to win it and has a strong can-
didate.
POLITICAL POINTS
Because the A.C.T.U. rejected a Com-
munist-inspired resplution urging a one-
day strike and adopted instead the mass-
meeting plan and an ultimatum that the
movement would not accept an adverse
decision from the Arbitration Court,
general Press comment was that the Reds
had suffered a big defeat. They suffered
nothing of the sort. For years the Com-
munists have been out to destroy the
arbitration system, while the A.C.T.U. has
been proclaiming its support of the court.
No matter who proposed the “ulti-
matum,” its acceptance by congress is a
definite victory for the Reds.
The A.C.T.U. is saying to the judges
“Give a decision in our favor and we’ll
accept it ; give one against us and we
won’t.” That attitude is more than con-
tempt of court; it is contempt for all laws
except the law of the jungle—or of
Moscow.
Mr. Justice Maxwell (to a witness at
the liquor commission):
Did you merely treat the press-cuttings
as some politicians do, as fireside reading,
or as something to be acted on?
Now what politician could his Honor
have had in mind?
“Foreign orders” —articles for private
use made in the employer’s time with the
employer’s materials and machines —are
to be banned in Government transport
workshops in N. S. Wales. If the ban is
successful it will mean almost a realloca-
tion of duties in some shops.
When a “Labor” member asked why
duplicators had been removed from
Federal members’-room in the State
capitals, Minister for the Interior Kent
Hughes said this had been done on his
orders because members had abused them
by using them —plus stencil-sheets, ink
and paper paid for by the taxpayers—for
circulars and other matters of a purely
party nature. In other words the public
was being make to pay for party propa-
ganda. “Foreign orders,” it seems, aren’t
confined to workshops.
First War historian, C. E. W. Bean, in
a letter to Sydney “Herald,” has drawn
attention to what appears to be a serious
defect in the Commonwealth medical-
benefits scheme. Bean attempted to
join the Medical Benefits Fund and found
that persons over 65 were not eligible. He
reckons that, as persons in that age-group
have for the most part paid social-service
tax for years, their omission from
the scheme is outrageous. He’s quite
right. The only people now compelled
to bear their full medical costs are elderly
folk whose thrift has made them ineligible
for age-pensions. It may be actuarily
sound, but it’s outrageous all the same.
Those Melbourne citizens who can’t
afford to pay their electric-light bills but
have to are getting some wry amusement
out of the S.E.C.’s announcement that it
can’t pay its bills. The S.E.C., however,
is more fortunate than they are. Its
creditors can’t come along and cut the
juice off.
Mr. Sheahan, the N.S.W. Minister for
ruined transport services, told the Sydney
Parliament that Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion law was “crippling the State trans-
port services.” This will do much to
correct the erroneous impression enter-
tained by many that Mr. Sheahan was the
culprit.
Refusing a Liberal request for an
amendment to the law dealing with theft
and illegal use of motor-vehicles, Vic-
torian Half-Premier McDonald declared
that it was a magistrate’s job to decide
what constituted theft and what illegal
use. That’s the trouble. Until the silly
“illegal-use” definition is abolished and
the taking of another’s property regarded
as what it is—plain theft —the evil will
continue.
Report of a World Bank mission which
examined the economic position of Cey-
lon found among other things that school-
children in the balmy isle “dislike the
prospect of manual work,” and that their
conception of the ideal job is one which
“consists in sitting at a desk and telling
others what to do.” That is a condition
of mind not entirely peculiar to Ceylon—
or to schoolchildren.
Last year’s telephone-bill of one
Townsville s.-p, agency was £5775, the
Queensland Commissioner of Police told
the royal commission, adding that “if he
could obtain the co-operation of the
P.M.G.’s department” he could entirely
eliminate off-the-course betting. But that
would be asking the P.M.G. to sacrifice
some of his best customers!
' . : jJsSm ,_jj-
Not everybody subscribes to this
“depression and unemployment” scare:
Don Aylett, Nottingham (Eng.) textile
, manufacturer: Australian import restric-
tions haven’t affected English industry as
seriously as expected.
A. M. Simpson, Adelaide Chamber of
Commerce: The Australian economy is
one of continued and irresistible expansion
hardly interrupted by the present readjust-
ment to a less inflated level.
Albert Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.:
Latest figures indicate that the unemploy-
ment trend is halting... .last week 700
fewer people sought unemployment benefits.
The first two statements seem to have
been accepted as reasonable comment by
the audiences which heard them ; Albert’s
remarks, though based on cold statistics,
brought from A.C.T.U. delegates “uproar
and laughter.”
In Britain electors now know exactly
how much their vote is worth. A Blue
Book recently published contains details
of electioneering expenses of candidates
at the last general election. Average ex-
penditure of the 1376 candidates is listed
at £687, ranging from £llOl spent by the
unsuccessful Conservative candidate in
south-east Derbyshire to £1 outlaid by
an Independent who contested one of the
Cumberland seats —also without success.
For the whole election the average expen-
diture for each vote cast was just under
eightpence.
A well-attended meeting at Sydney
Trades Hall on Sunday carried this
resolution:
We consider it is a bad time to impose
a 100 p.c. burden, as the naturally receding
economy is already accounting for large
numbers of our members. This extra
burden will drive many others out of busi-
ness, causing widespread unemployment and
hardship to employees.
It was a meeting of bookmakers called
to oppose the N.S.W. Government’s new
betting tax. Too bad if the “naturally
receding economy” forces them to
lengthen the odds.
“C. 8.”: The fire-engines of more than
100 brigades will be blessed shortly at the
Upwey Oval in the Victorian Danden-
ongs, where bushfires are particularly fond
of raging. The blessing ought to be ex-
tended to the first Government to make
ash-trays compulsory in motor-cars and
railway-carriages.
N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Sheahan’s bill to limit the number of
hours for which drivers of heavy trucks
may operate their vehicles aims, he says,
at cutting down road accidents caused
through fatigue. If so it has a worthy
motive, but the Minister will surely admit
that it fits in remarkably well with his
current campaign against road-hauliers.
Even at this late date it might be worth-
while calling Madame Panza to the royal
commission on liquor to see if she can
amplify the information contained m
this advertisement:
The Life, Adventures and Confessions
of a Sydney. Barmaid; being a truthful
account of Private and Public Bars, the
Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations and Morals
of Barmaids, generally, with a glance at the
patrons of Private Bars. Highly interesting.
To be had only of Mdme. Panza, Box
913, G.P.O.
The advertisement appeared in The
Bulletin, October 10, 1891.
Maritime history of the worst sort has
been made by the tug Howard Smith,
£200,000-worth of which steamed 10
weeks ago into Port Phillip (Vic.), a
brand new ship purchased by the Harbor
Trust and proudly acclaimed as the finest,
latest and one of the most powerful tugs
in existence —and certainly the most
powerful ever to enter Melbourne waters.
Now the vessel is for sale for anything
it will fetch, the Seamen’s Union having
declared it unsafe and in need of costly
alterations, although independent experts
have a contrary opinion and old-fashioned
seagoing men think she is a wonder.
Latest and cheapest, way of seeing the
world is to become a “peace-lover” —
Moscow brand. In addition to the gang
going to Peking this month to fraternise
with those responsible for killing Aus-
tralians in Korea, another batch will
attend a so-called Peace Congress in
Vienna in December. Somewhere in be-
tween a third party —styled “a delegation
of Australian unionists,” but every bit
as keen on peace as Stalin himself—will
make a personally-obstructed tour of
Russia.
“S.V.”; Opposing the extension of
liquor hours in Melbourne, a Local
Option spokesman recalled the “drunks’
expresses,” allegedly a nightly feature of
city life when the pubs were open till
eleven. Evidently he thinks six-o’clock
closing has eliminated this evil. It hasn’t;
there are drunks’ expresses by the thous-
and after six o’clock —and the drunks
drive them.
A High Court writ has been issued
against the Commonwealth acquisition
(under the Chifley Government) of a 10-
acre Melbourne city block. It was
acquired for Commonwealth offices, and
the writ challenges the acquisition as
being ultra vires the Constitution.
The N. S. Wales electoral commission
expects to publish its plan for redistribu-
tion of State electorates within a fort-
night. This plan will be a “tentative”
one; interested parties will then have a
fortnight in which to lodge objections,
after which the commission gets to work
on its final plan.
Churchill forecasts that the sterling
area will be in balance with the rest of
the world by the end of this year and
that Britain herself will also be in balance
with the non-sterling world (though
apparently not with the rest of the ster-
ling area). With a snap over his shoulder
at his predecessors, the old wardog said,
“We are not living on the United States,
nor are we abusing them in spite of
receiving their aid.”
In one more attempt to find a solution
Coal Board chairman Cochran is going
abroad with E. E. Warren, chairman of
the Colliery Proprietors’ Association, and
J. B. Barrett, check-inspector of the
Miners’ Federation. On past experience
there’s little doubt as to what their recom-
mendations will be; but will the federa-
tion believe ’em?
In the next session of the Commons
the Churchill Government intends to
introduce bills to begin the denationalisa-
tion of road-transport and steel. Out
here it looks as if the nationalised ship-
ping line may be changing its clothes
round about the same time.


w
ẅ
~y
(jSevNezwy
w
\^y
< D/><ro{ZjP/^y'.
IN TRAINING.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
m
BBANDY
i
KNFOIDS
mm
mm
PSQ/53
•THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac
lion ol their cost. The
' National" Rotary Oupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entire/j In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
8.0.A.C. takes good care of you
FROM AUSTRALIA
Across the
m -■
World...
8.0.A.C. takes good care of every passenger,
but especially good care of babies travelling
with parents and children travelling alone.
Special foods, drinks and all those comforts
these young travellers need are supplied by
attentive, well-trained stewardesses. Con-
cession rates apply for infants, babies,
children—and students to the age of 26.
8.0.A.C. Speedbird services link 51
countries on all 6 continents. Stop-overs
at no extra fare. No tips ;no extras.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA
PAKISTAN • MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA
EUROPE • GREAT BRITAIN *U.S.A.» CANADA
CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
B. 0. A. C. - first with the
Comet services now operating
Johannesburg London, and Colomoo London,
are forerunners of world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
(jmtfc
FL Y- BO A C
information & Bookings : Qantas hmptre Airways Lta.,
{8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities ana towns,
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
-A33/AU
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Coal “Surplus”
The announcement by
National Development Minister
Spooner that Australia was seek-
ing overseas markets for some of
its coal should not lead anyone
to assume that this country has
any great surplus of coal. But
it is great news just the same.
It is true that during 1951-52
the N. S. Wales output of black
coal was a record at 14,949,000
tons, compared with 12,684,000
tons in 1950-51 (which up to
then was the best for many
years). Output from other
States will probably bring the
1951-52 total up to about
19,000,000 tons. This is some-
where around present require-
ments, assuming that general
industrial activity does not fall
away much further.
It is likely that Australia will
need more coal than this in the
near future, especially if an out-
put at even higher levels can be
relied upon. Much more coal
would be used in the Common-
wealth and near-by Pacific
countries if regular supplies were
assured. Transport, both by land
and sea, is an uncertain quantity
at present.
Quality as well as quantity of
coal has to be considered. A
surplus of opencut or deep-
mined small coal may exist at a
time when there is a shortage of
coking and gas coals. Victoria
and South Australia are even
now short of gas coal. At
present,- subject to transport,
Australia is in a better coal
position than at any time since
World War II began. But its
supplies are adequate only be-
cause we are working a 40-hour
week and because all our power-
houses are not yet in operation.
In the circumstances the Com-
monwealth Government is wise
to finance the stockpiling of coal
that for the time being is
“surplus.” Provided the coal is
of a kind that will “keep” while
stockpiled at grass it is always
a valuable national asset.
B.H.P. Steel
The fact that B.H.P. is in
danger of losing its pre-eminence
as the world’s cheapest producer
of steel largely for the reason
that the 40-hour week has sent
wages and production costs soar-
ing should .be a sobering thought
to any conscientious trade-
unionist, however “militant” he
may be. It has been a matter
for national pride for 20 years
that in one of our secondary
industries—and our greatest one
at that —we could face the world
on better than even terms.
On June 25 this year the price
of foundry pig-iron was raised
by £3 ss. to £lB 7s. 6d. a ton, and
basic steel products propor-
tionately. Because of the last
increase in the basic wage and
recent lifts in freights and other
costs, B.H.P.’s chairman, C. York
Syme, sees a further increase in
steel prices on the way.
The output of steel ingots at
Newcastle and Port Kembla
during the financial year to May
31 was 1,472,000 tons, represent-
ing 84 p.c. of capacity. This is a
considerable improvement on the
previous year. Along with this
recovery there has been some
slackening in demand as a result
of the fall in construction
activity. Steel orders still remain
high, however, and the co. has
difficulty in meeting demand.
But temporarily the output of
pig-iron is in excess of consump-
tion, and the co. is arranging to
export the surplus “at satis-
factory prices.”
Big expansion is now under
way at Port Kembla. Plans to
double Australia’s steel-produc-
ing capacity are in train, which
will partly depend on the exten-
sive mechanisation of the Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel South
Coast collieries, which has been
in progress for several years now.
It is proposed also to dredge
“That gang on Number Four chimney have beaten the gun
again — it's only a minute to five!”
Tom Thumb Lagoon, near Port
Kembla, to make another
harbor.
C.S.R. Debentures
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co.’s £4,000,000 issue of 5 p.c.
debentures (underwritten by lan
Potter and Co., of Melbourne,
who have taken £1,500,000 firm)
is said to be needed to finance
extensions on the sugar side,
though it may also help to re-
place the bank overdraft, which
at March 31 last totalled
£5,217,871.
The co.’s big building-
materials and chemicals divisions
have run it into huge capital out-
lay over the past few years, and
expenditure still goes on. Like
all concerns which have
expanded rapidly since the war it
has paid through the nose for
new plant and for construction
work —that is, judging present
costs by pre-war standards. Thus
a lot of pre-war ideas and
standards have had to be
dropped so far as financing
capital outlay is concerned.
The C.S.R. has been very con-
cerned, for example, about the
inadequacy of the taxation
authorities’ tax-free allowance
for depreciation on plant bought
before the war. Present allow-
able deductions come nowhere
within cooee of replacement
costs, and there is, indeed, a very
serious “capital erosion” # that
will eventually make itself
apparent to shareholders.
Another blow has been the
abolition of the 40 p.c. initial
depreciation allowance on new
plant. Many concerns with large
expansion programmes had
made their plans with the 40 p.c.
allowance in view, and its aboli-
tion last year was a blow.
It can. be taken for granted
that for some time to come the
new capital investment in the
building-materials and chemicals
sections of the C.S.R. will not
yield the return that has been
customary on the written-down
assets of the sugar section. In
all the circumstances the resort
to debenture finance, though
•foreign to previous C.S.R. policy,
is completely understandable.
The debentures should prove a
first-class security of their kind,
and they are likely to distract
investors’ attention from other
investment stocks while the issue
is being filled.
Geiger-happy!
“P. Mobile”: The news that
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is considering setting up a
commission to control the pro-
duction, export and stockpiling
of uranium suggests that the De-
partment of National Develop-
ment has outgrown its useful-
ness, particularly with reference
to this still immature item in
Australia’s mineral wealth..
Already the department’s
Bureau of Mineral Resources
has proved itself inept in the
search for petroleum,-and it has
long been obvious to the mining
industry that the mapping of
extensions of the known reserves
of coal and other minerals
would have been done far more
economically and expeditiously
by the Departments of Mines in
the several States had even a
quarter of the equipment, staff
and funds, so freely allotted to
the bureau, been made avail-
able to the State organisations.
The published reason for the
formation of a uranium com-
mission is that the present con-
trol of the mineral in Common-
wealth Territories is vested not
only in the Department of
National Development but also
in those' of Supply and of
Works. This tripartite arrange-
ment —a shining example of
bureaucracy in the toils of its
own. red-tape—could be over-
come by giving the local authori-
ties greater power together with
a fraction of the money which
would be saved by the dissolu-
tion of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources, whose essential func-
tions —which consist of the col-
lation and co-ordination of
mining activities on a Common-
wealth basis—could be carried
out at low cost by a small staff
of Federal officers.
South Australia has already
proved itself more than capable
of developing its mineral de-
posits, including radioactive
ores, without outside interfer-
ence, and the other geological
State surveys have shown a de-
gree of caution in the appraisal
of alleged uranium discoveries
which might well have been
copied by the Geiger-happy
Federal bureau.
The existing inadequate staffs
of the State Departments of
Mines could be augmented to
meet the additional work in-
volved by the transfer of selected
officers, now in the bureau, to
State organisations, from which
many of them had been
attracted by offers of higher
salaries than the States could
pay.
Thus would be avoided both
the heavy expenditure qf public
moneys which the bureau’s
existence entails, without com-
mensurable return, and the pos-
sibly still heavier drain of yet
another commission.


you —-
BABCOCK
Whether your requirement is 1000 Ih./hr. of process
steam at 100 Ib./sq. in., saturated ... or steam for
100,000 kw. of power at 1500 Ib./sq. in., and 1050°F.,
from one boiler unit, BABCOCK can supply it; and
services—coal handling plant, ash disposal equip-
ment, pipework ... in fact, a complete steam raising
plant, designed and manufactured entirely within
the BABCOCK organisation, backed by 75 years of
experience in steam engineering and by a world-wide
service.
Manufacturers of: Water-tube Boilers; Super-
heaters; Economisers; Air Heaters; Water-wall
Furnaces; Pulverised Fuel Plants; Travelling Grate
Stokers; Spreader Stokers; Soot Blowers for Manual
or Automatic Operation; Pipework; Attemperators;
Coal and Ash Handling Plant; “Hydrojet” Ashing
System; “Hydrovac” Dust Handling System; Cranes,
Transporters, Conveyors, Wagon Tipplers.
Equipment for: Oil and Gas Burning, Waste Heat
Utilisation, Bagasse, Black Liquor and other fuels.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
bei
not only the boiler but also all the essential auxiliary
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
From a banker’s diary
No. 5
Tuesday. Mr. BBBOBi came in to
introduce his son, John (18),
who opened a cheque account
with an initial deposit of £lO
HI
I
Make an early start on the right road
; \
This man has been our customer for some
time. He believes that the sooner young people
learn to handle their own money the better. So
when his son began to earn a regular income,
he brought him into the Bank to open his own
cheque account.
For parents who believe in giving their
children sound financial training, the “Wales”
has published a folder —“A cheque account for
your son or daughter.” Ask for
a copy at any branch of
A
■ VO» .
tV»
'•^sssssss^''-
NEW
BANK OF
SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5206C
i
MW
• -
-m
the
name is
fO c CoJLlam’s
the whisky is
r
m
i m
WyMf'W
m
s m m
Wg,
s>
'£3
'*3£*
£KB
«
sSN>
9 °>j
*, •: ...>r- &•• • :.<
■c, '■?:
Distilled and blended in Scotland
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Korina Textiles
Maoriland’s big spanking new
textile mills owned by Korma
Textiles (N.Z.), Ltd., Auckland,
have had a hard uphill struggle
since the day the combine was
formed in 1946, and finished the
latest term (to March 31) with
overdraft lifted £418,236 to
£732,059, along with a new
liability of £322,258 labelled
“bills payable,” while the fac-
tories were bulging with stocks,
trebled to £1,301,111. Net profit
for the million-capital outfit
was down £10,603 to a mere
£7775, which wasn’t much more
than half the amount needed to
pay 5 p.c. on prefs.
After six years’ operations the
co. is mortgaged up to the hilt.
Chairman Jim Gentles debits the
sharp setback of the past twelve-
month to “extraordinary and
violent fluctuations” in wool,
and to the flood of made-up
goods that poured into Maori-
land from last spring onwards.
Consumer-resistance, the inevit-
able upshot of a glutted market,
hurt the co. more than most be-
cause of its youth and size.
Its hope now is that exchange
rationing will steady things, give
it a chance to recover its bal-
ance and convert its outsize
stocks into marketable assets.
All cos. in the industry have had
more or less a hard time since
sudden decontrol, after years
of tight restrictions, brought
quicker effects in textiles than
in any other line of trade. A lot
of the stuff brought in was at
knock-down prices to clear end-
of-season surpluses from John
Bull’s and other big markets.
Dumping duties weren’t high
enough to have much effect, and
M.L. Will have to be more vigi-
lant if it is to avoid similar
shocks in the future.
Funds for Imports
When it leaked out lately that
funds for private imports into
New Zealand next year were
likely to total £145 million sterl-
ing, and that traders might fare
a lot better than they expected
when basic exchange allocations
were cut to 40 p.c.—half this
year’s figure—Maorilanders were
left wondering why they’d been
kept guessing. Probably the best
explanation was sensitiveness at
high levels to any reaction in the
present state of business.
While traders were more or
less up in arms over the basic
cut, which left them with only
£56 million to spend free of tags,
they weren’t allowed to know
that there would be £B9 million,
in addition, to buy bread-and-
butter lines and utility goods.
When these two totals were
grouped the 1953 estimate
looked fairly generous and as
much as Maorilanders could
hope for with wool as it is. It
stood comparison with £lBO mil-
lion for private imports this year
and £202 million last year —both
peak years—and with £l4O mil-
lion in 1950, before the boom.
Governor E. C. Fussell, of the
Reserve Bank, made it clear to
Maorilanders at the end of
August that the basis had to be
scaled down heavily to help the
bank to take the strain of
special import demands while it
waited for the secrets of one
and a half wool seasons to be
unravelled. He could have added
that nothing but a rise in wool
would release M.L. from ex-
change austerity while it had to
finance purchases of capital and
consumer goods abroad wholly
out of current income, although
some of the pressure might be
taken by getting rid of excess
money inside N.Z., which is
what credit-control is doing.
The banks can’t assume that the
Dominion would put utility first
as a matter of course if controls
were taken off.
Interest-rates Up
When the borrowing-rate for
New Zealand local authorities
was lifted by 15s. per cent, to
4 p.c. late in August the first
breach was made in the pattern
of pegged bedrock interest-
levels which had ruled in Maori-
land for more than a decade,
and for many Maorilanders it
was the end of an era.
It was only a limited and
timid move, but, for good or ill,
it broke the ice and was a hint
of other moves to come. Cheap
money had a longer reign in
Maoriland than in Australia,
thanks to Maoriland’s sterling-
value pound (restored in August,
1948), which extended it per-
haps a couple of years, also to
better-balanced trade and pros-
perity, and to N.Z.’s freedom
from such highly inflationary
influences as Australia’s
quarterly wage-rises. But the
real break was made last year,
when the market took the bit in
its teeth.
For more than twelve months
before officialdom woke up,
cheap money was on the way
out, and borrowers like local
authorities, who weren’t allowed
to offer more than the pegged
rate —in their case 3* p.c.—were
left stranded. Month after
month this went on, with feeling
among mayors and local-body
chairmen rising to near bursting-
point. At length the Govern-
ment took notice and the stale-
mate was ended, with diehard
Socialist cheap-money cranks
screaming abuse at this
“appeasement of the money-
lenders.”
The show of extravagant
indignation impressed no one
but extremists, for the great
majority of Maorilanders
realised that something had to
be done, and that money was
still cheap, anyhow—so cheap
that there wouldn’t be anywhere
near enough to satisfy the
borrowers crowding at the
barrier. The lucky ones would
be the big fellows like regional
boards, hospital boards, city cor-
porations and a few others who
had enough power or influence
to push their way to the front,
and the others would have to
kick their heels, with only a dim
prospect of sharing in 4 p.c.
funds.
Long before much headway is
made against the banked-up de-
mand the Government itself
will be wanting millions to
finance urgent national projects
and development. It’s 15 months
since M.L.’s last 3 p.c. national
loan was raised —£13| million —
and nothing less than 3| p.c. will
bring a response when the hat
goes round again. This year a
fat budget surplus, following tax
windfalls from wool and record
imports, has been sufficient to
keep capital works going ; but
the Government will have to
come on the market again early
in 1953. With money hardening
under credit-control, interest-
rates are likely to be higher next
year than this —barring, of
course, help from the printing-
press, which all but the cranks
hope to avoid. If any doubts
exist as to demands they should
be removed by a mere glance at
the prospectus for the Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co., which will
want millions for the Murupara
scheme, to launch the newsprint
industry. Altogether, New Zea-
land seems to be in for a long
uphill struggle to meet its capi-
tal needs, and it’s as plain as
daylight that money will be
dearer if the Government holds
to its present sound policy of
safeguarding the pound.
Accounts-presenlation
Old-fashioned ideas and prac-
tices in the company world will
be cast overboard next year
when long-overdue changes in
the law come into force in New
Zealand. As in the past, J. Bull
has been looked to for guidance.
Generally, the aim is to give
shareholders and investors intel-
ligible and adequate information,
with these main objectives:
To overcome abuses which experi-
ence has brought to light;
To require all cos. to measure up
to higher standards in presenting
annual accounts and prospectuses
(some have already reached, or
passed, this standard' voluntarily) ;
To give shareholders more ulti-
mate control;
To protect minority shareholders.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“The Boorie”; Yakka’s well-fed black
17st. pursues a crust on what remains of
Darwin’s wharf. Recently, when a small
quantity of coal was being unloaded,
Yakka’s gang missed out on the job and
its accompanying “dirt-money.” Then
they were put on to handle some damaged
bags of flour. One bag burst in the
sling directly over Yakka, who collected
most of the contents. He blew, blinked
and, turning on his heel, lumbered up
to the trump. “I want dirt-money for
handling that flour.” “What!” yelled
the trump, “Dirt-money,” repeated
Yakka. “If it’s good enough for the others
to get it for black dust on their white
skins, it’s good enough for me to get it
for white dust on me black skin. Dirt-
money or I call the mob out.” He didn’t
get it and “the mob” stayed in, but his
case sounds logical enough.
* * * *
James Hackston: With Ted Brady
probably passed the last of those
picturesque poets, writers and artists
who, on special occasions, could be seen
in frock-coat and silk-hat. I remember
once meeting Brady sailing down the
Melbourne Block in a frock-coat and a
high silk-hat, and, as he shone down on
me, the glare from his glistening topper
almost dazzled me. Next time I saw him
was in Bourke-street, and he was the poet
again. Another writer I saw in full
bloom was Arthur Adams—arriving in
crush-hat and cape, or cloak, to see his
play “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier,”
which was being put on in Melbourne.
This was a case in which an author did
not come down to popular expectations ;
it took me all my time to convince my
friend that Adams was a writer and not
the manager. Among artist top-hatters
and frock-coaters, Streeton looked most
ambassadorial when I saw him at the
opening of one of his exhibitions at the
Victorian Artists’ Society in East Mel-
bourne. But just as X came up the stairs
the magnificently frock-coated “Smike”
spotted some prospective, rich-looking
art-buyers coming up the stairs, and as
he made an important and hurried move
across the main gallery to greet the great
ones his foot caught in the edge of the
carpet and he tripped, almost coming a
cropper—if such an ordinary word is
permissible in connection with a frock-
coat. Another artist who flowered occa-
sionally was George Lambert. At one
Melbourne Cup meeting I walked round
the saddling-paddock with him. It was
the Saturday before Cup day, and he was
dressed in an ordinary suit with a well-
worn felt hat pulled down over his eyes
as he made quick studies of Eurythmic.
But on Cup day there was the Master
placed, elegantly and gracefully, fair bang
on the middle of the lawn in front of
the grandstand: a picture of a frock-
coat, top-hat, gloves and spats nonchal-
antly surveying the Philistines.
* * * *
“Jasby”: One of the things they seem
to do so much better in other countries
is the organised demonstration ; in par-
ticular, the slogan-shouting, as reported
in the cables from time to time, moves
me to admiration. The latest example
comes from South Africa, where about a
thousand non-Europeans and “a sprink-
ling of assembled outside a
courthouse at Witwatersrand and shouted
“Afrika, Afrika.” Now, I’ll guarantee
that an Australian crowd, even ,if it
practised for a week, would not be able
to achieve that delicate nuance of pro-
nunciation. Try as they would, their
efforts would still sound like “Africa,
Africa.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: The Australian workman
may have his faults, but nobody can
deny that he has a nice way with kids.
Three council employees were having
lunch in a suburban street when the little
girl came past. One of the men warned
her of the danger from the hot tar. She
didn’t seem to understand. He called her
“Love,” and explained again. Suddenly
she produced a notebook and pencil and
4s'
wrote —in a fair hand for a six-year-old
—“I am deaf and dumb.” The effect on
those tough-looking blokes was amazing ;
they fairly cracked their hard dials with
the benevolence of their smiles. One
fellow took the book and pencil and
carried on a labored conversation while
his mate crossed the road and bought the
little girl an ice-cream. The third chap
tried some entertaining with a scrap of
pencil and a box-lid. Beneath the draw-
ing of an animal he wrote; “Dog.”
Quick as a whip the girlie crossed it out,
wrote “Cat” in its place, and stood back
with a bantering grin. No child with all
her faculties could have done it more
smartly, yet there are still unthinking
people who insist on using the word
“dumb” as a synonym for mentally-
deficient.
* * * *
“Doric”; When arranging presenta-
tions for staff members at my office on
“You didn't tell me your Ma rode a motor-bike."
the occasion of their resignation or
approaching wedding I have been rather
surprised at some of the answers given
by the recipient when asked what sort of
gift he would prefer. Several have wanted
the cash, but have been too embarrassed
to say so. One prospective bridegroom
plumped for a wristlet-watch —for him-
self! But the most unexpected was the
old chap, retiring at 75, who asked for
—and got—a pushbike! He had five
years of happy pedalling, and, contrary
to all expectations, died from natural
causes.
* * Hi #
“Strict Veg.”: Various theories are
being advanced in Melbourne to explain
the increased demand for that pungent
vegetable garlic, but it is really quite
simple. Unable to afford the price of
the conventional leg of mutton, round of
beef or two pounds of steak, the house-
wives have taken to studying Continental
cookery-books, A characteristic of
European cooking is its ability to make
unconventional parts of cows, sheep and
even horses palatable by the use of in-
gredients, of which the most important is
garlic. In a well-cooked dish garlic is
delicious, but it is all-pervasive. Italians
can’t understand Australian objections to
it; they don’t notice its effects on one
another because they all eat it. Which
reminds me that a greengrocer friend
used to have a market-garden and his
neighbor’s cows kept breaking in and
doing a lot of damage. Their owner
wouldn’t keep them home despite all his
protests, so one day he fed them a few
bunches of garlic. He had no further
trouble, the neighbor preferring his milk
straight.
* * * *
“Croid”: Having told a friend I had
bought a car, I was rather surprised at
his cheek when he asked “Did you get
an overdraft?” Still, I replied that I
had. “Great idea, isn’t it?” he said.
“Makes it so much lighter on petrol.” I
puzzled over that for 24 hours before I
realised that what he had really said
was “overdrive.”
“Macnell”: It may surprise naval
surface-shipmen as well as civilians to
learn that in the modern submarine there
is no such beastie as the “conning-tower.”
Between the two hatches which seal the
long, vertical shaft leading upwards from
the control-room there is a compart-
ment which could be identified with the
old conning-tower, but it is now used as
an escape-compartment. What is generally
spoken of as the conning-tower is now
the bridge. There is only one other way
to reveal so tellingly to a submariner
your ignorance of his craft —that is to
call it a “sub.” or a “ship.” Know ye
all, it’s either a submarine or a boat.
♦ * * *
“Oliver Filter”; When I recorded in
B. 13/ 8/ ’52 the news report from Syd-
ney’s “Daily Mirror” that Picasso had
at last admitted to having pulled the col-
lective leg of artists and critics with his
“painting jokes,” I mentioned the possi-
bility of the story being a wild-’un. It
would seem that that actually is so,
the “Mirror” having published a denial
by the artist himself. I still maintain,
of course, that the substance of the
remarks attributed to Picasso was true;
the only difference now being that he
hasn’t admitted it.
* * ♦ ♦
“T.McN.”; Receiving an indignant
complaint from the mother of a six-year-
old girl that a classmate had spat upon
her darling, the headmistress interrogated
the class-mistress and discovered that the
offender had developed a passion for
spitting. So she had the offender up.
“So you spat on Mary Nemo?” “Pleathe,
Mith, no, Mith.” “Now look, Viola, it
only makes it worse if you tell fibs. Go
over in that corner and stand there for
a minute and think about it.” Sixty
seconds later. “Now, you did spit on
Mary, didn’t you!” “Pleathe, Mith, no,
Mith.” The headmistress put on the
wounded look she used for such occasions,
It reduced Viola to tears. She was com-
forted, told that spitting was a nasty
habit, and once more was asked for the
truth. “Pleathe, Mith, I didn’t thpit on
her, I mithed.” Cathe dithmithed.
* * * *
“Ah Pooh”: Were it not for stray
paragraphs in the Press and occasional
moans from my friends, I should remain
unaware of the fact that rice is un-
obtainable except for invalids, armed with
medical certificates, and patrons of
Chinese cafes. I have always believed
that rice-eaters in Asia consume their
delicacy more from necessity than choice,
that it is their staple diet because of its
cheapness and their inability to afford
anything better. Certainly none of my
moderately well-to-do Chinese friends
appear to notice the omission of rice from
our Australian menus; they all devour
a chop with as much gusto as the native-
born. Being, however, a public-spirited
citizen, I consider it is wrong that the
stuff should not be available to anyone
who wants it. Apparently the shortage
is due to a moral obligation we have
assumed of exporting it in vast quantities.
And to whom do we send it? As far as
I can see, mainly to rice-growing countries
whose inhabitants are too busy opposing
European law and order to find time for
growing their own food.
* * *
“Mac Veg”: In our flat-garden the
prize goes to Gran, who tended a puny
pumpkin vine in a square-foot of precious
land beneath an overgrown privet.
Climbing sturdily, the vine bent the tree
to bump on the rooftops of cars passing
down the driveway. Complaints brought
investigation, and a 401 b. pumpkin
tumbled down.
* * * ♦
“Pongo”; “Becks’s” remarks re
Marjorie Jackson’s baton-dutching,
photo-finishes and so on (B. 13/8/’52)
take me back to a night at Sydney
Natatorium, now the People’s Palace,
in the late ’nineties, when an outsize
blue occurred after the finish of
the 220 yards swimming champion-
ship of Australasia. W. J. (Paddy)
Gormly was regarded as a moral for the
title and carried little money, but there
was heavy betting on Jack Hellings
(N.S.W.) and Synott (N.Z.) for second
place. Additional interest was aroused
by the use, for the first time in any
country, of a mechanical judging-
machine, patented by an Australian
named Baird. The race was over six
laps of the pool and 20 yards. As ex-
pected, Gormly early went to the lead,
and at 200 yards, with 20 yards
to go, was almost a lap ahead of the
other two. As Gormly approached the
turn the bath attendants placed the
judging-machine across the pool at the
20-yards mark. Gormly finished all right,
but Hellings and Synott were caught on
the wrong side of the machine. Then
the row started. Hellings’s backers
claimed second place, because their man
was ahead when stopped by the machine.
Synott’s supporters refused to pay on the
grounds that, with 40 yards to go, their
man could have headed Hellings. I don:
remember how the bets were settled, bn:
as far as swimming was concerned, tha:
was the end of Baird’s mechanical
judging-machine.
SPRING SONG.
“Gay gentlemen will blossom like gardens this
spring... .mostly single-breasted... .flowered cotton
beach-shirts....”
Gay gentlemen, the papers sing,
Will bloom like gardens in the spring:
O water me with a whiskying-can
And make me a gay gentleman!
All winter I’ve been so depressed,
My cares have filled a double-breast;
Now single-breasts will be the wear,
So half my troubles disappear.
But why must one tfe fashion’s thrall?
Why must one have a breast at all?
Where women’s fashions take the plunge,
A man may well throw up the sponge:
Away with coats! In shirts of roses,
And pants bestrewn with fragrant posies.
I’ll make myself a seaside bed
Where some surf-girl may lay her head.
Drab though she be beside my flowers,
I’ll let her stay there, hours and hours,
Till children’s voices say “Eh, Pop,
Mom says this kind of thing must stop!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Te Ngakara”: Our language still
holds a few pitfalls for new arrivals from
Europe. That’s why the young migrant
who, with the help of a Polish-English
dictionary, spelt out a cable to his folks
back home had the counter-clerk to whom
he handed message and translation rather
puzzled. “May the Lord pickle you!”
hardly seems a proper message for a
dutiful son to send his parents. Still,
after all, a pickle is a preserve.
* * * *
“Uramao”; It couldn’t happen in N, S.
Wales, of course, but I’m told it’s
common practice in Oireland, where
publicans and police conduct their affairs
with a minimum of botheration. Dan
Finnigan told me that as he and some
of the bhoys were jubilating after hours
at Terry Clancey’s hostelry word came
from the police-sergeant of an impending
raid. The sarge’s communication was
read out by the publican. It said that
at 10.30 p.m. would Jerry please request
his clients to remove themselves to Mick
Mclldowney’s pub round the corner till
after the raid. In the brightness of Me-,
Ildowney’s parlor a similar Communica-
tion was read to the effect that as a raid
would be made on Mick’s hotel at 11 p.m.,
would Mick dispatch his patrons back to
Jerry’s so that the raid might be facili-
tated without hardship to anyone.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: September 14 is the 100th
anniversary of the death of the Iron
Duke. Those who look for such things
will find a number of coincidences in the
lives of Wellington and Napoleon. Both
men were born on an island in 1769,
and both were left fatherless at 16. They
attended a military school in France at
the same time and became lieutenant-
colonels within a day of each other.
Though each, in his military career, spent
hours in the saddle daily, neither became
an expert horseman. Fighting on opposite
sides for years, they were only once per-
sonally opposed on a battlefield—at
Waterloo, on the day when each, at the
early age of 46, had his last experience
of war. Wellington’s first important duty
after Waterloo was performed on
December 29, 1815, when, by order of
the Prince Regent, he invested Vice-
Admiral Sir Sydney Smith with the
insignia of Commander of the Bath. Thus,
the man who first checked Napoleon at
Acre, and so ruined his only campaign in
the Middle East, was decorated by the
man who finally ended the Emperor’s
career. The investiture took place in the
Bourbon Palace, one of Napoleon’s
favorite residences, and to which he
retired for a brief period after Waterloo
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Co-Ed”: Dancing as part of the
school curriculum (B. 27/8/’52)? We
had it; one of the trials of my teenage
was the monthly excursion our girls’ class
made to a near-by boys’ school. Before
setting off we used to be briefed; “Just
as important as learning to dance is to
jbe able to converse with your partner.
Find out his interests, and talk of them.”
That is why the sessions sounded some-
thing like this: “Turn, turn, te, do you
fly model-planes?” “Yes.” Reverse
amidst silent concentration, then take a
breath and smile winningly. “Do
Y° u play cricket?” “Yes.” More silence
“Do V Oll hke football?” ' “Yes,” And
so on until, at the end of the dance, the
boys congregated at one end of the room
and talked about model-planes, cricket
and football; while the girls talked about
“Taking EVERYTHING into consideration , I'm afraid Miss De Vere
gets the position”
—well, what terrific conquests they had
made with the boys.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: I don’t know about fingers
and molten metal (B. 27/8 / ’52), but years
ago our local bank kept a huge enamel
basin of sealing-wax in a perpetually
molten state over a small gas-jet. It
was used for sealing documents and
envelopes. One day one of the staff
tripped and accidentally plunged his fist
into the wax. Involuntarily he clenched
his fist and, as the outer coating of wax
hardened almost immediately when the
hand was withdrawn, his fingers were
forced to retain a lump of slowly-cooling
and hardening material clutched against
the palm. Treatment was painful and
tedious, but no permanent damage was
done. He told me later that there was
a discussion by two of the doctors regard-
ing the molten-lead trick, and one of them
suggested that one of the secrets must be
in keeping the fingers rigid. His own
“Well, if you say it will hold me”
opimon was that the hand would never
stand a ball of molten lead grasped as
the wax had been, even though the metal
might not adhere as tightly as the wax.
* * * *
“Icebergs”: These cold-shower fiends
afe sissies compared with a one-time
acquaintance of mine who boasted,
though his grimy appearance was against
it, that he had had a cold plunge-bath
at 6 a.m. daily for 40 years. He had
given up telling most of us about it, but
when a couple of new hands came on
the job he tackled them. “Y* know,”
said the iceberg, “I’ve never missed a
cold bath for forty years. Wonderful
tonic, cold water, I can tell y’.” It was
too much for old Charley, the timekeeper,
“He’s right, lads; he’s right. He’s never
missed his cold bath for forty years. Y’
want to know why? Well, what you’ve
never had y’ never miss.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Many will remember the beach
troupes which before the Kaiser’s War
were main attractions at /Melbourne’s St.
Kilda. There were the Pierrots run by
Rob and Will ThomaS, Edward Brans-
combe’s Dandies, and Fred Waller’s
Butterflies. But I recall another original
entertainer who also had his stand down
there. His was a good show and it was
free. Outside the Pierrots’ building was
a stage with many pots of paint and a
huge easel on it. These were the props
of the Poster King; a gentleman who
dressed in a beret, baggy velvet suit with
flowing bohemian tie and, I think,
sported an eyeglass. He was an artist
who “knocked off,” at lightning speed,
full-sized posters advertising Various
wares ranging from grocery items to
clothing. Some he would paint upside-
down, to the puzzlement of the audience,
who would not know what he was up to
until the finished picture was turned the
right way up. Sometimes he would
invite a member of the audience to come
up and make a few wild strokes with
brushes of different colors. He would
then take over and turn the daub into
quite a good picture. His “canvases”
were of paper, about 6ft. square, and
when a poster was finished he would rip
it off the easel, wrap it round a sample
of the article advertised, and toss it out
to the audience. One night he was at
work on a whisky advertisement and the
suspense was terrific. In due course a
bottle of the doings was wrapped in the
opus and out it went. St. Kilda then
saw its nearest approach to a riot.
“Looby”: The party was getting a bit
hectic when the quiet cove in the corner
was called on for a song. “No,” he
said. “I’m only fifty ; you need to be
seventy before you can sing.” After
the guffaws died, he went on. “I mean
it. You’re safe at seventy. So long as
you make a stab at hie tune it doesn’t
matter if your voice cracks every third
note; people will always say, ‘He must
have been good once.’ They never wake
up, somehow, that your voice was just
as crook when you were twenty.”
“Centen”: A 1952 jubilee that seems
to have passed unnoticed is that of
“Smiler” Hales’s McGlusky, hero of 20
or more books, the sales of which have
passed the 2,000,000-mark since the first
of them, McGlusky; Being a Compila-
tion from the Diary of Trooper McWiddy,
of Remington’s Scouts, was published in
London in 1902. Hales’s character was
an Australian of Scots descent, a religious-
minded fighter who “went through life
with the relentless conscientiousness of a
man with a mission.” McGlusky was
bent on reforming the world, and
wandered through most of the places
Hales had been to —England, France,
Italy, South America, New Zealand, Scot-
land, Utah, India, the Persian Gulf
country, and most States of his native
continent. His interests were as varied
as those of Hales himself, and included
mining, soldiering, cricket, seamanship,
boxing, politics, revolutions and racing.
I seem to recollect McGlusky once read-
ing something in The Bulletin that had
some bearing on the plot in hand, but it
was one of the 40 or so of Hales’s books
that did not deal with McGlusky that
Smiler dedicated to “one I. F. Archibald,
Esq., editor of the Sydney Bulletin,
not out of any feeling of personal friend-
ship (for no Australian literary man owes
him less than I do), but because of his
splendid services to the cause of Aus-
tralian nationhood, and the example of
fearlessness and honesty he has set ail
Australia's younger journalists.”
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: Clay bricks have
received a nasty clout in East Gippsland
(Vic.) since a businessman on a tour of
America investigated the lime-and-sand-
fused article and on return home set up
a factory which is expanding as quickly
as the necessary machinery can be
obtained and installed. The sand and
lime are fused under a 'h : gh steam-heat
and pressure. The brick, of standard
size, is hard, true on every face and
edge and it absorbs far loss water than
a clay brick. Priced's a little above clay
bricks, but there are no doughboys and
no culls.
“Lucky”: The unannounced descent of
an air-vice-marshal with a retinue of
brass of lesser timbre sent every manjack
and womanjill on our R.A.F. station into
the flattest of spins. Resourcefully our
grouper C.O. steered the brasshat towards
the Stirling, whose apple-pie inspection-
order had been frantically signalled to
him by a sweating W.O. engineer. The
vice’s swift vision swept cursorily the
shining magnificence of gadgets in the
bomber’s innards, and he pounced pre-
datorily on the stale bumper reposing
unobtrusively near the pilot’s dash. With-
out comment he picked it up and handed
it disdainfully to our C. 0., who in turn
passed it to a unit of the lesser brass.
And so down the human chain it swept,
in silence, with a nice adherence to rank-
ing precedence, till handed by the station-
engineer-officer to the aircraftsman 2
standing by the kite. A few seconds after
the visitors had swept on the A.C.2, with
an “all’s well with the world” swagger,
walked off puffing luxuriously at the cause
of the station’s disgrace.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The female of our species
is universally convinced that her husband
is totally blind when it comes to looking
for things. “How you do look!” she
can usually exult. But occasionally
our side has a win. A fellow-unfortunate
recently mislaid his wallet. His SOS
brought the answer: “It’s in the ward-
robe.” He still couldn’t find it. “It is
there, I saw it yesterday,” and in she
strode. She looked; looked closer;
searched. A week later the wallet
turned up—by post. There was no money
inside, merely a note stating that the
empty wallet had been found in another
suburb.' * The probable solution to
the mystery came from the postman:
“A sneak-thief has been working
this district. When he sees a front-door
open he’ll creep in and pinch money or
purses or wallets. Seems to be frightened
to touch jewellery.” The four fiddlies,
alas, will never return ; but many a man
would cheerfully “do” four quidlets for
the pleasure of being able to say; “See.
It’s not there, smarty!”
VANISHED VENUSES.
“It used to be the tradition in Sydney’s hotels
to have barmaids of the buxom type. Today
hotelkeepers prefer thin energetic ones. They
might be quicker, but are they as ornamental?”
—Letter to Sydney paper.
Back in the days when gallants wore tight pants,
Sported fur-collared overcoats and spats,
Mutton-chop whiskers of luxuriance,
And even went to business in top-hats,
The Margueritas and Violettas whb
Upon the operatic stages flourished
Couldn’t have possibly made a debut,
Much less have got a favorable review.
Had they not been exceedingly well-nourished.
The masculine eye in those days seemed to dwell
With favor on the rather luscious curve;
It cast upon the owner quite a spell,
And from its patent charms he’d never swerve.
He never liked to be aware of bone.
Highly desirable, howe’er, would she be
Who tipped the beam at nigh on thirteen stone.
Particularly did he like full-blown
And comfortable his beer-pump goddess,
Hebe.
And, like the breweries which took special pride
In horses of an amplitude renowned,
The cynosure of citizens, admired
As nobly they transported beer around,
So Bung, aware that skinnjes would be duds,
Likewise selected gals in prime condition
To measure out the tots and splash the suds;
He knew they’d fascinate the city’s bloods.
For beef went hand-in-hand with imbibition.
They liked to see, back in those spacious days,
A Brobdingnagian arm pulling the pump.
The hand that pushed the grog across they'd
praise
Only if it were white and soft and plump.
And though with all her customers (as now)
She battledored and shuttlecocked the twaddle,
Things were more leisurely, you will allow.
She had no need to hurry, anyhow.
Her gait was casual, more like a waddle.
Those days are dead. We’re streamlined now —
and how!
Where crush the guzzlers in at hogswill-time
And the poor welkin’s ripped up with the row —
Making a sight you’d scarcely term sublime —■
The barmaid of proportions rather vast
Would, you’ll admit, be an anachronism.
Bung banks on someone tenuous and fast,
Dashing and cashing, who he knows will last
The distance till the hectic rush is past—
No Hebe, but a human cataclysm.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


CAR’S INSIDE STORY
If that car had been a Javelin you'd have noticed.
When you’re in one you feel something happening
you know it’s not an ordinary car. There’s that quick
gear change all the experts praise; flashlight acceleration
(0-50 in 15-4 secs.); a genuine 80 m.p.h. and torsion
bar suspension that does what only torsion bars can
do to bumps.
It only needs one short ride in a Javelin for you to
start thinking, yes, one day this car’s going to be yours.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care
what a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that
doesn’t really show until you have one in your hands
real family comfort economy and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15-4 secs. (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test). Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
mm
US3S
The li litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day — it has to be YOURS !
DISTRIBUTORS; Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors, Brisbane;
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
M
The intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of
making result in
duction of to-
la vina— 17-jev
Swiss master-
pieces.
the
pro
mm
WATCHES
as^erpieces
LW27.W
The BLACK MARE
by ROLAND ROBINSON
IWAS coming back from
a race-meeting with the
two horses, riding the bay
mare and leading the geld-
ing. We had had no success at
the meeting. The gelding could
jump out from a standing start
and be galloping at his best in-
side half a dozen strides. I
knew we could always count on
a couple of lengths at the start,
but three furlongs was all he
could manage. They had used
for a barrier a single elastic cord
which was released from one
end. The gelding was aged. He
was quiet enough on his own,
but he was quickly stirred-up in
company.
The thing to do was to keep
him away from the other horses
until. they were lined-up. But
there had been two false starts.
The first time he had jumped
out and was clear away but the
barrier-cord had caught one. of
the riders round the waist and
pulled him off his mount. They
roared for us to come back.
Pulled-up and taken back, the
gelding was dancing mad. He
had been used as a eattle-drafter,
and he knew his own way and
had to have it. He hated to be
beaten, and although he was
foam-flecked, white-eyed, mad
for his head, he watched the
moves of the other horses as he
would watch and anticipate a
beast,
I was weak from excitement
and trying to hold him in the
light pad. Called back for the
last time, we came up, a swaying
tense line. The gelding didn’t
think, he anticipated, he knew
before I did. As the line of
horses seemed to come right,
the gelding jumped, throwing up
his head. He hit me a stunning,
sickening blow on the forehead
between the eyes. He took over
then. 1 just hung on. We were
hugging the turn when I began
to come-to. We must have been
three lengths in front then. The
demon was up in the gelding and
he had been flat-out all the way.
But the straight, the long straight
with the incline to it—l knew
the gelding would blow out:
half-way up the straight he
seemed to be going up and down
in the one place. I could hear
the field coming behind me.
Then a bay horse ranged along-
side. The air was filled with a
crack-crack-crack of whips. We
swept past the post with two or
three horses. I hoped, but I
knew it was no good. The bay
horse had beaten us by a neck.
AND the mare? Well, the
mare was temperamental,
that was the trouble. She could
be gentle, tractable, and she
could be a bitch. But it was
the mare who could really
gallop. She had class, she was
well-bred. She liked to gallop
over a distance ; and today her
race had been half a mile, too
short for her. The sire who
figured in most of the horses’
breeding in this district was a
black horse named I Reckon,
The people of the town and
district were all interrelated and,
to an outsider, seemed to keep
themselves apart. Their horses
usually managed to carry off ±e
best prizes at their meetings.
The champibn of the place was
a young dun-colored horse, with
a star on his forehead, named
Dark Pine. They said that as
yet he had never been beaten
on his home course ; and today
had not been an exception,
I knew when I took the mare
onto the course that she was
cranky. When I gave her the
preliminary she was short in her
stride and galloped with her
head to one side. I knew what
was the matter with her. She
desired the stallion.
The half-mile start was round
the back of the course among
some thin dead wilgas. When
they released the barrier 1
foolishly gave her the spurs. She
immediately ducked her head
and bucked, propping. I sent
her after the others, but it was
useless. She made-up some
ground, but it was the dun-
colored horse. Dark Pine, who
won this, the main race of the
day.
I T was late in the afternoon
' when I rode down the sandy
road that wound out of the
town among the cypress-pines.
I reckoned on camping at a
creek I knew that Crossed the
road at a widening of the stock-
route. I was about two miles
from the creek, riding along the
fence of an open, well-grassed
paddock. Suddenly I heard a
long, high, piercing whinny and
thunder of hoofs behind me.
Instantly the mare’s head
came up. She whinnied in
answer, shaking me as she
looked back. Down through
the grass in a curve a black
horse was racing. His head and
tail were held high ; a star was
on his forehead. He whinnied
again, piercingly. The horses
were reefing, the gelding running
round in front of me on the
lead. The black was a stallion.
I knew it must be I Reckon.
He was a demon, a beauty. He
trotted springily alongside on
the other side of the fence, reach-
ing over to the mare with long,
snakelike head and neck, his
ears flattening, his teeth bared.
His fine black coat wrinkled like
silk as he arched and reached
with his head and neck. He
nipped the mare and she
screamed at him. It was when
we came to a fence that cut him
off at a right-angle that I thought
he would break through to us.
He went galloping up along
the dividing'fence, seeking a way
through. Then he wheeled
round, thundering back to plunge
and rear in the corner in a cloud
of dust.
I gave the mare the spurs to
send her on and kept the geld-
ing on a short lead, his head at
my knee.
It was a good camp in the
company of some belars. There
was good grass and water and
I could hobble the horses out.
I thought at first that I would
let the mare feed, hobbled, until
dark, then catch her and tie her
up. It was comfortable under
the belars. They kept up a sigh-
ing, singing in the wind, now
high and thin, now with a deeper
sound. Down towards the creek
I heard the bell on the gelding.
The two of them were feeding
quietly, keeping not far from the
camp. I was thinking of the
dun horse Dark Pine and of
meeting the black stallion.
Well, what if the mare did
make back along the stock-
route? But what if she hurt
herself in the fence? That
stallion! What a demon he
was! I suppose I should go out
and get the mare.
The belars were hushing,
hushing. The coals of the fire
glowing out as the ; wind took
them.
j WOKE feeling tired. I had
1 been dreaming of the black
stallion. I had wakened once
because it seemed I had heard
him scream in the sound of the
trees. It was late. Already long
faint shadows lay over the
ground. I sat up, listening for
the bell. I could hear nothing.
Then once, faintly, I heard it.
It was far down the creek. Get-
ting the halter and bridle, I
went after the sound.
I was walking through crow-
foot, and my trousers and boots
were getting drenched with the
heavy dew. I stopped and
listened. There was the bell
again. The gelding at least was
there, and feeding. I came on to
the fence and followed it down
and then I saw the gelding. He
was feeding not far from the
fence. The mare was nowhere
to be seen.
Then I saw how the crowfoot
had been trampled down along
both sides of the fence. The
black stallion! I had known it.
Then I saw the top wire of the
fence hanging slack. I followed
it down. Here it was. She had
broken the top wire and jumped
the fence here. Caught in a
figure-eight knot in the wire
were some bay hairs.
The tracks went out from the
fence through the high crow-
foot. The stallion must have
jumped the dividing fence and
followed the stock-route down.
I was getting drenched to the
waist with the high crowfoot.
Then I saw them. The black
stallion and the mare feeding
together. They saw me and
looked up, their ears pricked,
watching me As I came closer
the stallion became uneasy, toss-
ing his head, snorting and walk-
ing round the mare. But the
mare was quiet; she was content.
She was always good to catch. 1
did not try to walk round them
as I knew that the stallion would
realise what I was doing and
would try to lead the mare off.
The mare recognised me and
put her head down again to
feed. I called softly to her as
I came up, but kept my eye on
the stallion. I had the rope of
the halter ready and I rubbed
her forehead under the forelock
and slipped the lead round her
neck and gathered it. As I did
so, the stallion came at me. I
was waiting for him and caught
him across the eyes with the
bitted and ringed bridle. He
reared, his pawing forelegs
striking through the air on each
side of me. Then he was off,
swerving round us in an arc
Again he came at us, but I had
the bridle ready and he knew it.
I led the mare back to the
fence, the stallion escorting us.
I tied down the wires and led the
mare over them. She jumped
them easily. Swinging the bridle,
I sent the stallion gallopmg off
while I found a length of wire
at the strainer-post and tied up
the top wire. The mare had
broken her hobbles at the ring-
strap. I knelt in the crowfoot
and unbuckled the broken
hobble.
BACK at the station, I gave
the boss an account of the
meeting and reiterated my faith
in the galloping ability of the
mare. Of the black stallion I
decided to say nothing.
“Ah, yes,” the boss said.
“She’s just good enough to get
beaten. We’ll turn her out with
the stallion. Maybe we’ll gi
something to beat the crowd
the Marthaguy yet.”
The bay mare’s foal was a
filly, a black filly with a blaze
on its face and one white, near-
hind foot. I knew the filly as
soon as 1 saw it. I was the first
to put a halter on it. I taught
her to lead and tie up. 1 could
groom her and pick up all her
Teet in turn.
At two years the boss let me
mouth her and put the saddle
on her. She was spirited, and
yet she was gentle. She had a
beautiful head and neck. She
was tall, yet deep in the girth
with promise of plenty of power
in her hindquarters. One or two
days a week I rode her after
stock, mustering and walking her
round and behind the mobs.
AGAIN I was on the road
with the two horses, taking
them to the meeting. After the
BIRDSEYES IN LATE WINTER.
Now while winter still clutches to her throat
The white sheets of the frosts and the winds make ready
To deliver the spring; while crows in the backwood gums,
Like a confederation of germs, plan their various murders;
Before the dawn and the magpie, this little flower
From its green sheath, an archer among temple trees.
Sends up its stars, its ladder of climbing buds,
Its Lilliputian stairway for the giant year.
Each bud mounts upon the shoulders of its fellow,
As season clambers upon season. Here is the succession:
Flower to seed to budding flower, and nothing lost,
The long spiral towards light, although the frost
Bite at the root and tempering winds lay over
The topmost climber, that Everest may feel
The leap and thrust of life amongst its snows.
Here too you may study another but similar journey
Through the storms and calms. This bud was a time of
drought,
There spring carps early and the compass-pointed swallow
Danced like a skater on the skim-ice of the dam.
Yet joining season to season, an intelligible progression.
Though far from straight, here cocked aslant, here veering,
Is the thin green theme of the stem. Oh may our hearts
Be simple and spontaneous in this coming year.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; P. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. BUTTER, General Manager.
Thone: BW 8361. 1 29 pitt Street *
Branches in all States .
- a
%
A/
M
*
-A
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The Master climbed down
off his stool.
And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of
magic balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that
wintry day.
With
Woods 9 Great Peppermint
Core.”
With "Bob" on the Job!
you’ll find life easier—in the workshop,
office, honje or on the farm. “Bob” is a
sturdy stapling and tacking tool that’s
worth its weight in gold for fixing labels,
posters, gauze; for mending shoes, belts,
bags, harness, covers; for making boxes,
folders, toys, for installing wires and for
a thousand other jobs. Besides tacking
and stapling, it drives nails in comers
where a hammer’s useless. “Bob,” with
two locking levers, a steel plate for
clinching, a magnet and about 1000
assorted stainless staples, all in a solid
wooden box, costs 29/6 (postage 27-
extra). It would make an ideal gift.
Send Order Today I —DOMEX TRADING 00.
(Dept. 22E), 248 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
»m
SMS
m
w
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPKEME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce..
TO NORMA GWENDOLINE LORNA
JENKINS late of Camden. —TAKE
NOTICE that THOMAS AMBER
CLARENCE JENKINS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No 3797 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
14th November 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WARRINGTON CONNOLLY &
00., Solicitors for the Petitioner, of 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAXWELL COLIN TONKS late of
17 Telford Street Newcastle. —TAKE
NOTICE that NELLIE MAY TONKS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 569 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 18th November 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. A. ALISTER JOHNSON
& McDonald, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or their Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
2 York Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM Alfred HEMMINQS late
of 89 Gipps Street Drummoyne.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARY WATT HEMMINGS
has filed a Petition in Divorce jNo. 448
of 1952 on the grounds of desertibn with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney' by the 14th day of November
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HICKSON, LAKE-
MAN & HOLCOMBE. Solicitors, 10 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Wx-. .... v.-A-.:- vsvw<
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 374 j
WIDTH: 6'6i”; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi", "Wonderheat and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
FONDE
*
EN 1724
EMU
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
night’s camp, I had to go back
the way I had come for a couple
of miles to where there was a
creek of cold clear water. I
was anxious at the time lost, but
leaned forward and patted the
long neck of the black mare.
She walked fast with a long
reaching stride, head and neck
below her withers. Her soft
black mane lay over my hand
on her neck. The bay gelding
trotted and walked easily along-
side in her company.
The creek was in a deep gully
that the road crossed, and I
hurried down to fill the open
waterbag and the big billy. The
water was clear and cold. In my
haste, filling the waterbag, I
stirred up the water so that in the
billy it was muddied. The fine-
legged gelding with the smooth
coat came forward nudging and
nosing for the water. He drained
the waterbag. The mare was
watching with whited eyes from
where she was tied up, but she
would not drink the muddied
water, and the gelding came over
again to me, wanting more. He
would not keep still as I loosed
the halter on him, but kept
throwing his head up and down
and nudging me.
So I swung up on to the tall
black mare and we started out
again, I was worried in case we
did not reach the town before
dark, and kept niggling at the
mare and then having to check
her back as she broke out of her
fast walk.
It was just on dark as we came
along the sandy road that led
into the town. It was a cold
night, and when I dismounted in
the yard at the hotel the mare
was drenched with sweat and
looked tucked-up. I rubbed
them both down, hard and long,
in the stables and led them each
out for a drink, but the mare was
fretful and only nosed at the
water and pretended to drink. I
gave them each their measure of
chaff, and then stole back to
hear if the mare was eating. For
a while she was persistently quiet
in her box, and then I heard her
nosing the chaff and then start
munching.
CARRYING out the boss’s
instructions, I got out about
dawn to take the horses down
to the course for their exercise.
The mare was still wet in patches
on her haunches and was
trembling a bit with cold. She
still looked tucked-up to me,
although she had eaten all her
feed. I put the pad on her and
walked them both down to the
course.
Afterwards, Keith Wilde, the
jockey who was to ride the
mare, came down to the hotel to
look the horses over. I led the
mare out into the sunlight for
him. She was apprehensive and
touchy and would not stand, but
backed and sidestepped as I held
her.
“I’m afraid she’s a bit poor,”
I said to Keith Wilde.
“Ah, no,” he said, as he
watched her. “That’s how I like
to see her.”
He came up to her head, run-
ning his hand over her and fol-
lowing her round as she backed
away.
“Yes, son,” he said. “Just
keep them quietly in the stables
here, and bring them down
about half an hour before the
gelding’s race. And don’t worry
about the mare, she’s in good
nick.”
I was riding the gelding in a
race before the mare. The mare
was entered in the “Bracelet,”
the main race of the meeting.
To me the riding of the gelding
seemed like some formal pro-
ceeding I had to go through
before the mare should race.
A LTHOUGH Keith Wilde
rv was the only person who
had approached me since I
brought the horses to the town,
I could feel that everyone knew
about the mare as I brought the
two of them down to the course.
After making the minimum
weight, I girthed-up the pad on
the gelding and gave him a short
preliminary gallop as I went
down the course. In the race I
missed at the jump-out and was
pelted with clods most of the
way round the track. A creamy
horse, with a long creamy mane
and tail, won the race. He was
the best sprinter in the town, and
the result was as everyone had
expected.
It was late afternoon when the
mare was to race in the
“Bracelet.” I can remember
Keith Wilde being perched up
on the mare and taking her
quietly down the course. The
sun was low and he rode against
it. Only one other horse came
out, and this was the dun-colored
horse with a star —Dark Pine.
His owner rode him, and they
had already won a shorter race
that afternoon. The rider was a
good horseman and could ride a
finish with his hands or with the
whip. I had watched the finish
he rode with Dark Pine. He
was in a bunch of horses coming
up the straight, but he and the
dun-colored horse seemed to
dominate them. The rider asked
no more of Dark Pine than
was necessary to win. He rode
Dark Pine with his hands,
seeming to lift the horse along
with a circular movement of the
reins as the horse reached out.
He finished about a length in
front of the others, and the dun-
colored horse knew when he had
won, and was one of the first to
pull up and return to the
enclosure. Now Dark Pine
and his rider cantered down the
course to catch Keith up ; and I
watched the two horses and men
walk round together.
YOU could not see properly
for the low sun, and people
leaned out over the rail; and it
was quiet, and seemed getting
dark as we waited for the start.
The two horses were standing
together and they appeared to
come up and move slowly away
as they started. They were to-
gether all the way round the
back of the course ; and I could
not tell which was the mare and
which was the horse in the
distance and glare of the sun.
They were coming fast now and
one seemed to fall back a bit.
I thought it was the mare, and
reckoned that the turn would
account for the lost ground.
As they came round the turn
I could see the black mare with
the blaze on her face on the out-
side, Keith was leaning over,
and the mare was flattened out
and coming round the turn with
the horse ; not giving away an
inch. As they straightened up
they were as one, Keith crouched
and tense, with a good rein on
the mare. She was galloping
with her beautiful, low, reaching
stride; but still the horse and
the mare were together. I was
frightened that the horse was
biding his time, and I felt the
gentleness and quality of the
mare, and even as I thought of
it the mare started to draw past
the horse. The rider on Dark
Pine was up in the stirrups and
riding the horse with his hands
and feet, asking from the horse
his utmost, but the mare came
clear away, and as she passed
him and went on to win, I
jumped up and shouted “And
the further the race the further
she’ll leave him! ”
Keith brought the mare back
breathing hard through her
dilating nostrils.
“Well, here you are, son,” he
said, as he jumped down and
started to take his pad off her.
“She certainly likes to get her
head in front, and I knew she
had his measure once she did.”
“And she could do with a lot
more distance,” I adjoined. “Oh,
but, you had me pretty scared! ”
“We did, eh?” laughed Keith.
“Now walk her around for a
while, and then give her a good
rub-down. Yes, you’ve earned
your oats tonight, old girl,” he
said as he slapped the mare on
the withers.
I WAS rubbing the mare down
1 and talking to her. She was
scored rather badly by the spur
on the near-side. I looked up
and the rider of Dark Pine
was walking over to me.
“Looks as though his spur-
roller jammed, mate,” he said,
referring to the scoring on the
mare’s side. “I reckon you were
lucky that my horse had had a
hard race before he met your
mare. He’s not as young as he
was, off the grass, too, and your
mare’s been fed on oats.”
“Yes,” I replied. “That may
be, but I still know the mare is
too good for him.”
The rider of Dark Pine was
eyeing the mare,
“Who did you say this mare
was by?” he asked.
“Well, her dam was put to the
stallion over at Talbragor,” I
informed him.
“Yes?” he queried. “Well, if
I didn’t know, I’d pick this mare
for I Reckon stock. You
know, if you care to make a
match any time, I’ve got ten or
twenty pounds to say the horse
can beat her,”
“Well, my money’d be on the
mare, but you would have to fix
it up with the boss. She belongs
to him, I guess. But I’d certainly
like to take you up. This is not
the only place that can breed
horses,” I said as I carried on
rubbing down the mare.
I took the horses back to the
hotel and stabled them for the
night. Before sunrise I was out
on the road. We came down
through the pine-trees with the
gelding trotting easily alongside,
keeping the lead slack. After a
while the mare settled down to
her long, striding walk. I leaned
forward and patted her slender
neck and told her again what a
beauty she was.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.: Each time it looks like your
continuing with a story, you branch
out on another... .E.R.H.: Not for
us.. ..M.L.: One of the more blood-
thirsty women’s papers should revel
in it J.W.; Afraid, as you seem to
fear, your storytelling isn’t as good
as the story... .J.W.: “His shiny spud
of a nose and bright red ears” —your
heroine sounds too able to look after
herself G.JVL.-P.: Not our kind
of opium den... .L.G.H.: Your hos-
pital story seems to have been on the
benzedrine A. : Bunyips leave us
shivering with incredulity... .V.E.C.:
Afraid you didn’t make “The Mole-
hill” into anything J.R.: The
portrait of “Grandmother” was fair
enough; but the whole story needed
a gayer and more satirical touch.
Bellerive: Regions Shakspeare
never knew:
R.M.; Another spring poem that
bit the dust K.M.: Phew! We
are still wiping the perspiration from
our brow... .R.W.M.: Why did you
send it to us six months after the
event? D.A.N.; Can’t afford you
space to patch up your lover’s tiff.
H.W.: You shouldn’t send us
provocative titles like “You Wouldn’t
Read About It” M.L.: It’s the
old joke about the restaurant-manager
having gone out for lunch
C.W.A.: It occurs to us that the no-
drink-for-aborigines law is to stop
short-story black men fighting for
gins E.H.: “Widows’ Weeds” have
been weeded 0ut....C.M.: “Two of
a Kind” was too kind K.A.: Not
as a story; but it would make a
paragraph... .A.M.N.: He became
father of triplets and you still call
him “Lucky”! J.A.: Your re-
corder-player doesn’t seem to strike
the right note H.W.: We limit
ourselves to one stray elephant a
year, and this year’s is already in the
pound T.M.H.: Not bad, but not
quite L.H.: No matter how quietly
your stories open, there is generally
a body to dispose of on page 4
J.F. and P.N.: He didn’t like the city,
and she didn’t like the country: that’s
where the story begins, not where it
ends. But even if you were to work
it out it looks as though it would
be a bit gloomy for us C.8.H.:
Bright story; might go elsewhere
H.M.; No cookery G.K.: Guess
we laughed the wrong side of our
face E.C.R.: Today we’re a little
out of sympathy with ants J.8.W.:
All thunder and no lightning
G.V.K.: Only notes for a story
R. 8.: Nine thousand words about
chooks is a lot of cluck....C.: Too
bed E.V.F.; Some women’s paper
might take it in.
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT IN THE FAR OUTBACK.
’Twas a midsummer night.
The pale moon on high
Shone down in splendor
From the starry sky.
Unstirred by the breath
Of a fanning breeze
Spectre like stood the
Broad shadowy trees.
Venemous snakes from
Their burrows were out.
’Neath the silvery moon
They did glide about.
Fluttering bats did
Cleave thro’ the air
The call of the mopoke
Wafted out from its lair.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: “Wimmen’d cruel any-
thing,” Mat said. “I had one o’ them
jobs y’ dream about; drivin’ a van on
a mail-run in the Vic. north-east. Forty-
odd mile out an’ back, it was, droppin’
mail an’ bread an’ odds an’ 'ends an’
sometimes passengers in the cockies’ mail-
boxes an’ pickin’ up mail an’ stuff for
town. Nice easy day’s work. Best part
of it was cartin’ bottled beer for some
of ’em, because my commission was a
bottle for every dozen, an’ when the
summer come I’d sometimes have ten
dozen aboard. There was a schoolteacher
sent up to a school eight miles out on
the run an’ she used t’. ride out with me
an’ back to town with me every after-
noon. Nice girl, she was, pretty an’ no
funny business about her. I’m a bit
scared she might try t’ get her hooks in
me at first, but she had no ideas like
that an’ we was just good mates. Some
o’ the blokes in town chiacked me about
her, an’ I had to do one bloke over, but
after that they let it go. Yair, I reckon
I enjoyed havin’ her with me on that
run.” He broke off and sighed. “What
happened?” I asked. “Aw,” he said
disgustedly. “She presoomed after a
while she was a kind o’ mate o’ mine an’
started helpin’ herself to me beer.
Wimmen! ”
* * * *
“Composto”: Gordon’s libel about
“bright blossoms are scentless” dies hard.
After I’d shown a visitor round the
native section of my Adelaide suburban
garden and heard her noncommittal
comments, we came to a rosebush in full
bloom. She rushed to it, sniffed like a
horse coming to water at the end of. a
long dry stage and informed me that no
Australian plant could yield such
heavenly perfume. I said nothing, but I
suppose I should have drawn attention
to the fact that that particular rose is
almost devoid of perfume, and that
underneath its shade a foot-high boronia
was covered with almost too many
blooms for its size.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Idling along a back track
in the Blue Mountains, with all the under-
growth brilliant green and the first flush
of spring on the heights, I came upon a
couple engaged in an age-old game. The
gent, wore a ruby-red waistcoat, dark-
green and blue overcoat and a bright and
brilliant eye. He was busy on the end
of a fallen gum branch, snapping off the
dried gumnuts and hopping upstairs to
where his lady, only slightly less gaudily
clad, received them with that somewhat
aloof and yet eager air which ever char-
acterises her sex, whether the offering be
chocolates at Bs. a pound or gumnuts for
free. The gent, was pitching a pretty
good tale, at once commanding and
cozening, and interspersed with affection-
ate little chuckles, which were received
with an occasional cluck and a nod or
two of the head. On sighting them I was
not more than 12 feet away and had stood
with one foot lifted, trying to look like
a dead tree. But 1 had to put the foot
down. He saw the movement, said some-
thing, and the pair flitted up into a tree.
I’m prepared to swear that what he said
was “Damn’ nark! ” though a king parrot
disturbed in courtship is likely to say
anything.
“Alison”: How long can ants live under
water? Before the ’5O floods on the
’Bidgee there was a huge ants’ nest at
our front-gate, and they used our track
as a highway, with branch roads 4in.
wide through the grass. Floodwaters
covered all our land to a depth of at
least 2ft. 6in., and it was 10 days before
we plodded back through the mud, sink-
ing ankle-deep in the cultivated parts.
“Stick her in here, son —blunt end first."
There were the ants, busy as ever, bring-
ing out wet little mud marbles instead
of their usual crumbly material.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Piper”: The snake puzzling ‘Top
Rail” (B. 3/9/’52) is probably John Boyle
O’Reilly’s “The Dukite Snake” in his
narrative poem of that name. The verse
may be found in O’Reilly’s Songs from
the Southern Seas and in D. B. W.
Sladen’s A Century of Australian Song.
Although O’Reilly wrote many colorful
episodes of the convict days in W.A. into
his narrative verse, his own history is
stranger than anything he concocted.
Sentenced to death in 1866 for participa-
tion in Fenian troubles, his sentence was
subsequently commuted to 20 years’ penal
servitude. He arrived in W.A. in 1868,
but the next year escaped to sea in an
open rowing-boat. He describes his
adventures in the dedication of Songs
from the Southern Seas: “In February,
1869, I left the coast of Western Aus-
tralia in a small boat without a sail.
Peculiar circumstances rendered it im-
possible that I should return my boat
was seen from the masthead of the
Gazelle, commanded by Captain Gifford,
“Big Charlie oughter win — 'e's quicker on the draw."
who picked me up and treated me with all
kindness during a seven-months’ whaling
cruise....” At the Cape of Good Hope
Gifford landed his passenger and lent him
20 guineas, which paid his passage to
America. There he became a well-known
journalist and lecturer, dying in Massa-
chusetts in 1890.
“Stweeler”: The 1952 floods in the
Murray seem likely to rank with those
of 1870, 1890 and 1917. In this flood,
however, there are fewer steamers to go
astray on the waters (either deliberately
or because they were bushed) than on the
floods of the past, in the 1917 floods the
Gem tied up to the pepper-tree at the
back-gate of the Royal Hotel at Went-
worth, far above the flood-submerged
wharf, and the Ruby cut straight across
country from the Darling Junction and
tied up in the main street of the town.
On one of the floods the Jane Eliza is
said to have wandered some miles out
of the river and to have found her way
back only after having taken aboard as
pilot an old whaler who had been treed
in a big gum by the rising water, and
had been living off his tucker-bag for
five days.
* * * ♦
“Brick E”: Without commenting on
the abo.’s ability or otherwise to transmit
messages by mental telepathy (B.
13/8/’52), I can’t follow that smoke-
signals could not be readable as such
because the aboriginal has no written
language. At the moment I’m working
with a Pole, a Swiss and an Italian. We
have no written language that any two
can read, and very few words of speech
understandable to all four. But signs and
pantomime enable us to work together
and even converse in a sketchy fashion.
Is it so fantastic to think that, if we were
primitive people in need of a long-range
system of communication, we could con-
vert some of our signs and symbols into
puffs of smoke? Binghi has had thou-
sands of years to perfect his system.
Nor is he the only native that uses smoke-
signals. Unless my boyhood reading
was completely false, the North American
Indian sent messages by smoke. Nobody
, ~
seems to have credited him with being
an exponent of mental telepathy, and
he had no written language. It has never
been denied that the African natives beat
out messages on the drums, and they are,
as Mark Twain puts it, as unlettered as
the backside of a tombstone. So, if it
is possible for an illiterate to learn by
heart a code that requires only the sens©
of hearing, why should it be impossible
for him to do the same when sight is
the sense involved?
* * * *
“Fairf”: A pair of budgerigars in my
breeding-cage hatched a pied-winged
cobalt-blue. There was something
peculiar about him from the time he left
the nest. Although his wing-feathers
were fully developed he made no attempt
to fly, but huddled in a comer and
squawked unnaturally whenever any-
thing frightened him. Yet he didn’t seem
weak or sick. A closer examination dis-
closed that his eyes were as blue as his
breast —an unheard-of thing in my sphere.
It wasn’t until the youngster was trans-
ferred to the big aviary that I began to
wonder. Now I believe the bird is almost
completely blind. He can find the feed
and water without trouble, but on the
wing he flutters and hovers doubtfully,
and when frightened flies direct to the
wire and clings to it, which —seeing that
a normal bird flies high when alarmed—
seems to indicate that he makes for the
strongest light. If I’m correct about the
bird’s vision, another problem arises: Is
the color of the eyes responsible for (he
defective sight, or are the sightless eyes
acting as mirrors and reflecting the blue
from the bird’s plumage?
“Bass”: A stallion’s way with his
harem (B. 13/8/’52)? Depends on the
stallion. One that I struck on a Murchi-
son (WA.) station had the mares terrified
of him. As soon as a new mare was
put in the paddock he’d proceed to belt
the daylights out of her, and within a
day or so, whenever he approached, she’d
stand, trembling, iike all the others, and
accept his services. He ruled supreme
until one day he savaged a little mare
with more spirit than sense, and the boss
shot him as he stamped on her mangled
carcass.
* ♦ * ♦
“Harbel”: A stranger in my erstwhile
home town, I stood in crowded solitude
forlornly gazing at the signs of progress.
A huge elaborate picture-show towered
on the site of the old corrugated-iron
structure. It was there I revelled in a
serial called “Liberty,” with Jack Holt
the hero and the Mexican Army all
baddies. No doubt it was as bad as
modern serials, but it seemed a classic
then. “The Clutching Hand” was another,
and “The Railroad Raiders.” I knew the
greatest thrills of
my young life in
that show —and
one of my deepest
humiliations. I’d
grown to man-
hood then —four-
teen years old—
and for the first
time in my life
had paid for my
own ticket. Like
some slumming
aristocrat I sat
amongst “the
school kids.” Sud-
denly a piercing
whistle came
from the dark-
ness near me. In
spite of its humble structure, the show
was run with puritanical decorum. A
torch flashed down the long oregon-
batten seat; a huge figure in the gloom
hissed “Do that again and out you go!”
I trembled for the culprit. Scarcely had
the heavy footsteps thumped away on
the asphalt floor when a shriller whistle
nearly deafened me. Thirty seconds later
a heavy hand jerked me to my feet and
I was chucked out. I was recalling the
painful scene when a two-fingered whistle
brought me back to the present. Obvi-
ously it was directed at a boy on a bike;
he wheeled and rode back to a woman
standing by the kerb. Thirty-odd years
had changed Evy Thomkins’s figure and
general appearance, but her whistle was
still as powerful,
* * ♦ *
“Bamekaw”; Missed the giant taipan
at the Brisbane Show (B. 27 /8 / ’52), but
have no doubt it was genuine. Once,
however, I was enticed into a sideshow
on the spruiker’s assurance that inside the
charmer was handling the world’s most
deadly snakes. Thus I renewed acquaint-
ance with several of our least noxious
bush reptiles. The green tree-snake was
sheepishly trying to look like the horrible
African mamba; a common old carpet
was billed as the American moccasin,
while the alleged hamadryad I recognised
as the black-headed rock python, whose
kin I had often kicked contemptuously
out of my path in North Queensland
scru b—a specimen about as lethal as a
garden worm. Still, having the average
citizen’s aversion to handling snakes, no
matter how harmless, I kept my mouth
shut, having no relish for the inevitable
invitation to “Hop in the pit and have a
go yourself, mate,”
MOON LULLABY.
Look at the ibis-beaked moon, little warrior.
Flying so silently through the night:
Learn to walk silently, too, Atnunga,
Then you will tread the way that is right.
Look at the boomerang-moon, little warrior,
See how he throws himself at a star
And knocks it away from our sight, Atnunga;
You learn, too, to throw very far.
Look at the billabong-moon, little warrior,
See how he curves like a strip of sand,
Dreams of the lost mother-stream, Atnunga,
As you may soon dream of my gentle hand.
Look at the swift-fish-moon, little warrior,
See how he leaps from the foaming waves:
Swims down deep and dives, Atnunga,
Into the dark and hidden cloud-caves.
Look at the oyster-moon, little warrior,
In his curved shell of colored grey;
Paint like that for the borga, Atnunga,
And then you will see rain fall next day.
Look at the fat-ant-moon, little warrior,
See how the sky-god squeezes him thin
Until he is small as a worm, Atnunga,
And his honey-gold lies on the sky-god’s chin.
Look at the long worm-moon, little warrior.
See, he is food for the ibis-beak;
Thus must we all help each other, Atnunga,
And be like the things of which I speak.
QUEENSLAND.
JEAN J. LAIDLAW.


“Blime”: Bob was crossing the low
bridge over the river when his dog, going
in after a wounded duck, was washed
under the bridge, and caught against one
of the stringers. Bob hung low over the
side to investigate, then, hurriedly pulling
off shirt and blueys, jumped in. The
dog’s head was under water, and by the
time Bob could reach him and manoeuvre
him back out, the animal was drowned.
Followed some hopeless working over the
body, a mournful cussing, then Bob made
for his duds, only to discover his blueys
had been blown into the flood and washed
away. Up and down the bank he went,
then, desperately donning his shirt, he
glanced warily along the track and
started homeward. Keeping to the scrub
as much as he could, and taking the
cleared stretches at a gallop, he had nearly
made the distance back to his hut when
he ran into Herb. Herb took in the
short-shirted, wet and shivering figure,
stared round in all directions, his face
falling slowly into a gape of stark amaze-
ment, “ ’Struth, Bob! ” he gasped then.
“W-where —where on earth’s your dog?”
* * * *
“Loulalo”: During this year’s floods a
telephone-pole was washed out from the
line running along a near-by road and
carried away by floodwater. After the
river had retreated within its banks the
pole, still trailing lengths of copper wire
and with cross-bar and insulators com-
plete, was found stranded on one of our
flats, about a furlong from its original
position. The department was told of
its whereabouts, but merely replaced it
with an iron pole, leaving the original
where it had come to rest. Mum sug-
gested it could be sawn up for firewood,
getting round the technicality of whether
it was ours or the P.M.G.’s by nominat-
ing it as driftwood and quoting “Kelms”
(B, 20/8/’52) as her authority. Dad, who
hates chopping firewood, countered by
asking if it was llotsam or jetsam and
which was the one to which the finder had
a legal claim. Mum’s still working that
out,
* * * *
“Sebak”: Siddie, my neighbor, was
busy putting down a concrete path when
the commotion broke out. He rushed
down to where his fowls had a free range
—and arrived just as a big dog bit a
Leghorn pullet’s head off. The wrath-
fully-flung plasterer’s-trowei almost scored
a hit, but it wasn’t a wise action. For
one thing the
handle split
off as the
missile struck
the ground;
for another,
it caused the
tyke to
change his
course and
bolt straight
across the
wet path.
Little S i d
stormed; then, deciding that the culprit
was the dog from down the street,
marched down to interview the owner.
He received sympathy, but a gently firm
insistence that it was a case of mistaken
identity. “Old Tige wouldn’t touch
chooks,” declared the owner of the huge
hound sprawled on the doormat, “He
was brought up amongst ’em. I’ll bring
him up to your place and you can see
for yourself.” Tige proved worthy
of his master’s faith: with fowls
all around him he merely looked bored.
The trio were strolling up to the back
veranda when Smoky, the cat, sighted the
canine intruder and leapt to the attack.
Tige yelped and bolted—straight across
the concrete. “There you are,” exclaimed
his boss triumphantly. “He won’t even
defend himself!” But Sid wasn’t listen-
ing. “Strike me blasted roan! ” he roared,
“That’s the second mong that’s run over
me path!” Suddenly the tirade changed
its note. “No, it ain’t,” he said ominously.
“One mong’s run over it twice.” Thus,
once again, fingerprint evidence sheeted
home a murderer’s guilt.
* * * *
“I Site”: Tell “Horseless Horseman”
(B, 27/8/’52) that the English naturalists
are right animals can’t see in the dark.
But what most animals (and some
humans) can do is to utilise what light
there is, even on the seemingly blackest
night. Dark, in the sense that the 8.8. C.
men spoke of, is the sort of dark you
TRujt V
YE. TA(?(?y-
“ Steam-clean and panel-beat?”
cannot imagine unless you have been in
a sealed room with no chinks, or, for in-
stance, indulge in that most claustrophobic
of all pastimes: cave-exploration. Bats,
which do “see” in such darkness, achieve
their sight by means of a sense akin to
radar, not by the use of eyes conforming
to the laws of optics. Night-hunting
animals have pupils which dilate to a
much greater extent than those of
primarily day-sighted creatures. Because
their pupils cannot contract sufficiently
to exclude strong light they are partially
blind in the daytime. Many stockhorses,
bred for all the qualities which are neces-
sary for their work, have among other
excellences doubtless arrived at a high
degree of optical adaptability*
* * * ♦
“A. 8.”: Re “Bass’s” remarks (B.
27/8/’52) about cows achieving some
degree of immunity from poison scrub ;
I found that some horses bred out Dan-
daragan way (W.A.) could be run in
poison country without any apparent ill-
effects, They did all right and worked
well —until you asked them for that extra
few pounds in a bog or somewhere;
then they were just as likely to drop
dead. Vet’s diagnosis was always poison.
* * * *
“Eyenan”: Akin to the incidence of
freshwater springs amid saltwater lakes
“ Claude , your wife just rang up—she wants y' to bring home a
clothes-line.”
as recorded by “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
20/8 / ’52) is the situation at Lake Charm
(Vic.). Here the Murray Valley High-
way, after leaving Kerang for points west,
runs for some miles through country
dotted with lakes. North of the high-
way, between the road and the Murray
River, the lakes are very salt, so much
so that in dry weather evaporation leaves
a thick saline crust on the lake-bed, and
this is mechanically harvested. The lakes
to the south of the highway, however,
are fresh, reed-edged and with fish and
waterfowl in and upon them.
* * * •#
“Kelms”: Despite “O. K. Lee” (B.
13/8/’52) I remain unconvinced of the
aborigine’s ability to find his way around
in strange country. The natives who
helped explorers could lead them to
waterholes, even though they may
never have been in the district before,
because the signs which they read were
much the same as in their own country.
Some of them may have been expert
bushmen in every way—intelligence varies
amongst them just as it does amongst the
members of any race —but from what
I’ve seen I still think that the average
abo, is a poor hand at finding his way
about in strange bush.
* * * . *
“Jasper”; Our kookaburra is held
responsible, on the other side of the
Pacific, for more than adding color to
Mexican scenery (B. 20/8/’52). A few
years ago in New York I was amused to
hear on a news-broadcast that on the
previous evening the police had been
swamped by frantic calls from terrified
parkside residents who had heard “peal
after peal of maniacal laughter” coming
from Central Park. Instead of the
imagined monster, it proved to be the
solitary kookaburra in the park zoo
laughing for the first time on record,
“This strange bird,” confided the
announcer, “is a native of Australia and
lives on snakes and platypuses.”
♦ * * ♦
“Edx”: Young Luigi was the strongest
man on the mine. He had the body of
an. Ajax and a happy, almost childishly
simple disposition that made him a
popular and easy mark for the jokers
underground. It was said, and Luigi
used to claim, with typical inoffensive
frankness, that he could up-end a full
ore-truck. At crib-time down below one
day, two miners going out to the plat
came upon a truck full of ore half-way
along the drive. Taking pains worthy of
a more serious end, they stopped long
enough to pass a length of steel-wire rope
under the rails and through the wheels,
and bind the truck tightly down at both
ends. At the plat they passed the word
around. After crib the group of men
began to move back along the drive.
They came to the ore-truck. Someone
said “Come on, Luigi, let’s see you tip her
up.” But Luigi had been caught before.
“Naw, naw,” he laughed. “I have to
peek-a heem up again.” “No, Luigi, fair
dinkum, we’ll shovel it up again.”
“Fair-a deenka? You shovel-a heem
up?” “Yes, Luigi.” The grin vanished
from Luigi’s face as he tossed aside his
crib-bag and flicked off his singlet. Tak-
ing a stance on a couple of sleepers, he
bent to the truck. In the glare of the
carbide-lamps Luigi’s greasy hide
shadowed and gleamed as the tremendous
muscles bunched under the strain. He
gasped and grunted. The truck creaked,
shifted a fraction. A small rock crunched
under his iron-shod heel. He eased off,
panting hard, a look of amazement on his
honest face. He had another try, and
made no greater impression. “Come on,
Luigi,” they said, “We thought you
could tip it up.” Bewildered and excited,
he made a third attempt. In vain he gave
the fixture all he had. His face grew
black with effort, his great body quivered
and he groaned in a torment of shame
and despair. In the end he exhausted
himself, and they led him away to his
machine, faint and in tears. The jesters
undid the truck and shoved it away. The
next truck to come over that piece of fine
was derailed. Examination showed that
the rails had spread, due to the dog-spikes
having been lifted out of several of the
salmon-gum sleepers.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: According to the just-
published Everyman’s Encyclopaedia of
Gardening, issued by Dents of London,
our handsome giant Eucalyptus globulus
makes a good house-pet. The author
says of it: “The popular Blue Gum, so
often grown as a pot-plant for standing
in halls and porches for disinfecting pur-
poses,” Even the resourceful lady noted
by “Macquarie” (B. 13 /8 / ’52) would be
hard put to it to provide a container for
the rather stunted specimen near our
front fence. A mere 16-footer, it is quite
small for its type.
* * * *
“Wog”: A visitor to the N.T., he was
overtaken by the beginning of the wet
season. His car becoming bogged on a
river-bank, he decided he’d have to chain
it to a near-by tree to prevent its being
washed downstream, and come back
for it after the rains. He was mak-
ing preparations when his attention was
caught by another chain around the
same tree. Following it, he found a
bumper-bar protruding from the mud.
Apparently the mailman had had the same
idea the previous “wet.” Luckily a tank-
sinking plant with a bulldozer was
located in the district and the car was
soon safe. The next day there was 30ft.
of water over the spot.
« * * *
“Byram”: Long, long ago there was
a warrior named Talloon, who lived with
his people on the seashore ; far away in
what is now known as the Gulf country.
At break of day Talloon would set off
with his companions, to catch fish, which
was the tribe’s main food. Talloon
always insisted on fishing by himself, and
when he returned at the end of the day
his catch of fish would always be small.
In the evenings when all the tribe were
assembled around the campfire Talloon
would tell his fellow-fishermen how the
“big fellow fish” he had caught got away.
One day, when the rest of the tribe were
looking for a likely place to cast their
stringybark nets to fish along the water’s
edge, they came across Talloon fast
asleep on the rocks, and by his side were
a few small fish. The tribesmen holding
council among themselves decided Talloon
was lazy and only a talker, and not the
great fisherman he pretended to be. So
they put down their nets and, creeping
silently upon the sleeping Talloon, pushed
him into the sea, where he sank down
into the depths of a great marine cave;
there and then he was transformed into
a fish and he has never been able to
close his eyes since, just like the “big
fellow fish” he always told of that escaped
his assiduous fishing. And this is why
the big groper can be caught along our
rocky shores.
THE PHANTOM FOREST.
Morning light on the slopes and levels
Of paddocks painted with capeweed gay—
You never would guess at the lurking e _yns.
The hate of the trees, in the light of the day.
Ploughed and sown are the ferns and wattle,
Bald and shaven the timbered hill,
But in spite of the pigs and sheep and cattle
A forest once is a forest still.
When the Jerseys rise and begin to wander
Restlessly round the paddock gate
As the turn of the tide begins to thunder
Out of the silence from Bass’s Strait,
When a great-owl screams from the wayside
scrub,
Shrieks like a woman in wild despair,
My heart stops beating, but —here’s the rub,
Those owls have gone and no scrub is there.
The creek runs wild through the mountain-ash,
Down gullies of gloom laid bare to fear;
I hear a startled wallaby crash
Through the ferns, and ihe whizz of a phantom
spear—
But no indifferent human ghosts
Kill my courage on nights like these:,
It is only the unforgetting hosts,
The great green enemies, of the trees.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.
FARM PADDOCK.
Sweet as the baking bread the gum-leaves smell,
Here where the green waves swell
In summer paddocks all the afternoon;
Through bearded trees, rusted with mistletoe,
The shouting parrots go,
Chasing the summer days that fly too soon.
And when a moon, unshadowed by the earth,
Brings to their birth
The silk-swathed moths; when cheerful insects
creep
From spicy bark, knowing the moon will break
White waves, then bush-things wake
To joy unknown by day-things swathed in sleep.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


R e B d. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MAHP
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality —for economy —for safety vou must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the: highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. C.I.
viwm
the worlds
best pen
Buy a Swan pen and you
gain a friend for a lifetime
a pen that writes
smoothly and freely under all
conditions. The secret
is in the nib made by
hand, one at time,
by craftsmen of long
standing skill.
r/tlHf/H
PENS
ẅ
TRADE MARK
MABIE. TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY. NAff.
BMi
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
IF ANOTHER BLOCKADE, WAR.
Another all-out Soviet
attempt to blockade West Berlin
would very likely mean war.
To this fairly unanimous view
Washington correspondents of
New York “Herald Tribune”
add forecasts of what would
probably happen.
Another airlift, they report,
has been ruled out as a merely
defensive and inadequate
response. Russia, in any case,
“can now wreck an airlift simply
by jamming the radar at the
Berlin airfields.” There would
thus be only “one way to hold
Berlin —by breaking any block-
ade by the direct use of military
force”:
“This does not mean, how-
ever, that if a blockade is im-
posed on a Monday an armed
convoy need necessarily be
ordered to break it on a Tues-
day. Sufficient stockpiles of
food and other necessities have
been built up in the Western
sectors of Berlin so that there
is more room for manoeuvre
than there was when the first
blockade was imposed in 1948.
Western Berlin now has suffi-
cient stocks to carry the city,
without an airlift, for about six
months. Therefore a military
showdown need not come im-
mediately after a blockade is
imposed.
“Thus, according to present
intentions, the first step by this
country [U.S.A., and perhaps its
allies] would bb to order full
mobilisation. In brief, the Wes-
tern Allies would publicly pre-
pare to fight a war, if necessary,
rather than abandon Berlin,
“Full mobilisation by the
West during the time provided
by the West Berlin stockpiles
would, of course, telegraph the
punch to Moscow. But tele-
graphing the punch is thought
to be actually desirable, simply
because this would give the men
in the Kremlin time to think
again, and the policy-makers
still believe that the Soviets wish
to avoid a full-scale war.
“This breathing spell would
also provide time for final
negotiations with the Russians.
But these negotiations would be
far different from those under-
taken in 1948 by General Bedell
Smith, then U.S. Ambassador to
the Soviet Union. For this time
the Western spokesmen would be
armed with the warning that,
unless the blockade were lifted,
military force would be used to
break it. Then, if these last
attempts to negotiate failed,
Western troops would be ordered
to open the land corridor be-
tween Berlin and the West.”
Editorially the “Herald Tri-
bune” interprets this, along with
policy statements by Secretary
of State Acheson, as meaning
that in Berlin the U.S. will at
least not repeat the mistakes of
Korea, where, through “inde-
cisiveness and lack of retaliatory
plans,” it as good as “invited
the enemy to come in.”
The "Death Beit."
Russia, it has been said, is
not interested in territory —she
has plenty already.
“If anyone still thinks so,”
says a London “Daily Tele-
graph” special correspondent,
“I recommend a 500-mile tour
along the frontier between East
and West Germany and between
the Soviet zone and West
Berlin.
“This would enable him to
survey—preferably from a safe
distance —the flattened 10-yard
‘death belt’ and the deserted
three-mile martial-law belt
behind it.
“If he has any doubts about
the scope and severity of these
measures he can visit some of
the camps set up inside the
Western frontiers for the thous-
ands of refugees who left their
homes, their belongings and their
cattle and escaped at the risk of
their lives. They are the for-
tunate ones—many times their
number were deported east-
wards at a few hours’ notice.”
The rate of escaping west-
ward was recently put by “U.S.
News and World Report” at
14,000 a month, and “Since the
end of World War II almost 10
per cent, of the German popu-
lation [of the Soviet zone] has
fled west.”
The “death belt,” it reports,
is in three strips. All along the
western border a strip 10 to 20
yards wide has been made into
a no-man’s-land. Buildings have
been torn down, residents evacu-
ated, forests cut away. Police
are under orders to shoot on
sight anyone seen over this dead-
line.
A second strip is a quarter
of a mile deep. In this strip a
third of the population has been
removed from some towns. A
dusk-to-dawn curfew is in effect.
People who remain must carry
special permits at all times.
Public gatherings indoors or out
are banned.
The third strip extends inland
from the border for three to five
San Francisco “Chronicle.”
LINK BY LINK.
miles. Evacuations are being
carried out here, too, although
they are less drastic than in the
land closer to the boundary.
The whole area is closed to visi-
tors. Even those who remain
must have special passes to
move about. The border zone
bristles with gun-towers, police
lookout-stations and barbed-
wire.
The “death belt” serves at
least two purposes. It makes
escaping westward more peri-
lous, and behind it the “indoc-
trinating” and military training
of German youth go on. The
number of these ready now was
lately put in the House of Com-
mons at over 70,000, and a
London “Economist” report has
debunked as pure delusion the
notion that they would not fight
for Russia against the West.
Britain's TV Lead.
With the opening of the
Wenvoe station for the west of
England and South Wales the
net of television has been “cast
over more than three-quarters
of the population of the United
Kingdom,”
A London “Times” special
correspondent hails this as plac-
ing Britain “again in the fore-
front of television development,
with the biggest national cover-
age in the world.”
Its closest competitor is the
U.S., Britain having, of course,
the advantage of much greater
density of population in a con-
venient area. For economic
reasons part of the development
programme has been suspended,
but when completed some 88
per cent, of the population of
Great Britain “will be within
the effective range of television.”
With successful experiments
from Paris, “international tele-
vision has become a fact,” so
much so that “the 8.8. C. pro-
poses to relay the Coronation
scenes next June to the south
coast, from where they can be
relayed and broadcast simul-
taneously oyer the several
national television networks in
Europe.”
Various Voices.
Montgomery: “At Trafalgar,
at Dunkirk, at Alamein, the
enemy was plain and clear. To-
day we are confronted with a
far more insidious foe; the
weakness and disunity within
ourselves, from which alone
great nations fall. We have
temporarily forgotten how to
pull together and how to fight
our way out of our difficulties.”
German Chancellor,
Adenauer: “If it is given to us
to achieve the unity of Europe
the consequences will be so in-
calculably great that we must all
work for it. We in Europe are
the custodians of the treasury of
humanistic Christian thought.
We have taken over a heritage
from our forebears which the
whole world needs, which the
United States needs and which
Soviet Russia needs.”
Retiring U.S. High Commis-
sioner in Germany, McCloy:
“Germany is now stable. What
it will be like five years from
now I can’t say. But today
West Germany has a representa-
tive form of government, hard
currency, and the social disrup-
tion of the early days has
largely been stabilised. Youth
has been reoriented.”
U.S. Presidential Democratic
candidate, Stevenson: “Our
troubles are all ahead of us. We
are now on the eve of great de-
cisions, not easy decisions like
resistance when you’re attacked,
but a long, patient, costly
struggle which alone can assure
triumph over the great enemies
of man—war, poverty and
tyranny.”
Sir Alexander Cadogan, on
his appointment as 8.8. C. chair-
man : “I know nothing about
the 8.8. C at all. I
have not the- slightest idea why
I was chosen.”
Porter McKeever (till lately
with America’s U.N.O. delega-
tion): “In the world in which
we live it is a practical impossi-
bility to be effectively anti-
Gommunist and at the same time
to be anti-United Nations.”
David. Lawrence (editor of
“U.S. News and World Report,”
back from Britain ): “When I
visited the House of Commons
one day they had just concluded
a trade agreement with Russia
for a few million dollars —British
herring for Russian salmon and
crab-meat —and the loud cheers
that greeted this would make you
think that they had gotten a big
loan from America or some-
thing.”
John Foster Dulles (freely
tipped as next U.S. Secretary of
State, no matter who wins the
Presidential event): “T h e
best informed Japanese are
convinced with us that the
alien doctrine of Communism
cannot permanently conquer the
Chinese spirit or liquidate the
innate individualism of the
Chinese race. The Chinese
nation will not permanently
suffer the imposition of a
tyranny which places them in the
service of alien masters. There
will be an end to a tyranny
which the Chinese will come
more and more to hate. We
should assume the imperman-
ence, not the permanence, of the
present Moscow-oriented rule of
China.”


before dinner . •.
VI
t
m
rtj
*?o
Y&RV col?,
Famous
since
1816
CIN3
Diyorce Notices-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO HARRY HILTON JOHANSfW late of
Norahead Road Buff Point via Wyong m
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN IVY JOHAN-
SON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
580 of 1952 on the ground that you have
during three years and upwards been an
habitual drunkard and have habitually left
her without the means of support and is
asking for the exercise of the Court s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) ot tne
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 10th October 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from D/ H. DWYER & CO.,
Solicitors, of 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HILTON CUTHBERT ROACH late of.
,7 Bancroft Avenue Roseville N.S.W.—
TAKE NOTICE that ISABEL MARIE
ROACH has filed a Petition for Diyorce
No. 2927 of 1952 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fifteenth day of
October 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MATTHEW
McFADDEN & CO., Solicitors, of 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WHITPORD FRANKLYN ADAMS
late of Gunnedah. —TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL JOSEPHINE ADAMS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1424 of 1952 on
the ground of your desertion during three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th day of No-
vember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from E. M. JURD,
Solicitor, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LOUIS WILLIAM GERREY late of
Orange N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA VERA CAMERON GERREY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1814
of 1952 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 14th day of
November 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WALTER DICKSON & CO., Solicitors, 39
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
r'>.
»
m
m
&
/
V
I
f * « B ||
I | fl |? Ir
a
M
Si
«
U
l
Oi¥S
IP*®
f*
OTIS
by
V
.
KEEP THE
HOSPITAL I i
m
■
L—.. I
m
Like any new building the modern hospital is a
functional structure that is designed to meet to-day’s
need for a complete efficient medical service. One of
the most important factors that'promote the effective
use of essential medical facilities is the lift service,
and it is significant that in almost every post-war
hospital the lifts have been by Otis. In Melbourne’s
Alfred Hospital there are a total of eight Otis Lifts
located in the various wings of the hospital.
ALFRED HOSPITAL MELBOURNE
• Architects: A. & K. Henderson & Partners
• Builders: J. R. & E. Secull Ply, Ltd,
Photograph by courtesy "The Argus," Melbourne
I {
w
wj
Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE« ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
PERTH • HOBART
NEWCASTLE
SUNDRY SHOWS
Sydney Art Shows.
There are a handful of good
solid paintings in the current
exhibition of the Society of
Artists at the Education Depart-
ment Galleries, Sydney—strong,
cold landscapes by Lloyd Rees ;
Arthur Murch’s “Morning Tea,”
delicate and full of life and
light; T. J. Santry’s “Lower
Fort Street,” very like a Lloyd
Rees, though neither as strong
nor as cold; Roland Wakelin’s
warm and sunny “Afternoon at
Epping” ; two dark Orbans, de-
riving their strength only from
their darkness ; Cav. A. Dattilo
Rubbo’s “A Homestead” ; John
Eldershaw’s mellow “Stone
Walls”; and Arthur Nichol’s
“The Hobby Horse,” more a
decoration than a picture.
There is also a pretty substan-
tial representation of familiar
styles with nothing very fresh to
say. Among them: John Pass-
more, still apparently searching
for the key to clarify his style ;
Charles Meere’s “Breton
Street” ; two very barren Drys-
dales; the unreal, enamelled
brilliance of Elaine Haxton;
Jean Bellette’s classical essays ;
George Duncan’s autumn
colors; a scratchy “Dressing
Room Study” by Francis Lym-
burner, and waxen, lifeless
flowerpieces by Adrian Feint and
Paul Jones.
There is also a very long tail
to the exhibition provided mostly
by artists who, apparently, are
either in the confusion of search
and experiment or who are
attempting to conceal their
mediocrity by stunting in one
form or another. Whichever it
is, only they can say—the one
thing most of them appear to
have in common is bad painting,
deliberate or otherwise.
There is no such uncertainty
about the exhibition of James
Gleeson at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney. Gleeson leaves
no doubt as to whether or not
he can paint. Obviously he can,
and, therefore, presents himself
honestly for examination. His
exhibition has all the usual sur-
realist emphasis on disintegra-
tion, chaos and horror, all of it
brilliantly colored and, often,
brilliantly painted. One might
ask, though, why the sub-
conscious mind must always be
represented by disorder and
horror? Surely there must be
quite a few subconscious minds
occupied with more pleasant,
orderly things.
David Jones’s three galleries
are occupied by four artists from
as far apart as Tasmania and
Korea. In the Walk Gallery
there is a small collection of
sketches from Korea by Robert
Ellis. They look like hurried
impressions, hurriedly executed,
and tell little of Korea or the
artist. A very slight “Korean
Woman” has the suggestion of
life about it, and “After War”
has a note of atmosphere.
The Main Gallery is shared
by Walter Orthman’s Queens-
land paintings and Tasman Fehl-
berg’s, reports on Tasmania.
There is a brilliant and sterile
clarity about most of Orthman’s
paintings, but he gets some heat
into “Black Mountain, North
Queensland,” and in “Back-
water, Mareeba,” “Mulgrave
River, Gordonvale,” and “Aero-
glen, Cairns,” the hint of im-
pression softens the hard facts
of photographic reports.
Fehlberg’s Tasmania is a cold,
uncertain place, but there is an
icy strength about his “Mount
Wellington” ; an effective con-
trast of the hardness of rock and
softness of snow in “First Snow
on the Track,” and a soft
atmospheric touch about
“Hobart Waterfront” and
“From St. David’s Park.”
Lawrence Alcock, who occu-
pies the Small Gallery, seems to
be chasing the swift, lyrical im-
pression. Judged by “Flower-
piece,” “Landscape” and “In the
Gardens” he will get what he is
after when his method becomes
a little finer and his brushwork
a little less coarse.
George Bell Group.
The depressing dullness of
most “modern” art-shows infects
the current exhibition of the
George Bell Group at Tye’s
Gallery, Melbourne, including
George Bell’s own still-life, par-
ticularly the one with the duck's
head sticking out of a bowl of
flowers. Of course it isn’t meant
to be a duck’s head —it is meant
to be a lily, but it looks no more
like a flower than the same
artist’s “Seaside” looks like sun-
light.
Most “moderns” would in-
dignantly deny that they were
trying to paint what they see,
but there is no doubt Bell is try-
ing to paint sunlight. He doesn't
get it, any more than Alan
Warren gets sea, sand and water
into his “Fishermen.” The same
artist’s “North of the Yarra” is
fashionable artistic jabber, as is
Alan Somner’s “River Ferry,
Florence.” Constance Stokes
may be a disciple of Dobell, and
she does get some ornateness
into the texture of her women.
Geoff Jones gets some warmth
into a street of houses, and Sali
Herman some life into his slum
dwellings. But the eye stops at
the surface of Russell Drysdale’s
large desert canvas —it is more
of a documentary than a picture.
Goossens and Maynor.
Eugene Goossens and the
Sydney Orchestra opened their
special concert at Sydney Town
Hall with a suite from the
ballet “Pulcinella” —allegedly a
Stravinsky arrangement of airs
by the 18th-century Italian
Pergolesi. The old master would
be astonished to know what the
new master has done to his
music, the ballet being virtually
80 per cent. Stravinsky and
.20 per cent. Pergolesi. The
80 per cent, is the hardest part
to listen to.
Stravinsky was followed by
Richard Strauss’s “Macbeth,”
the first, and worst, of the long
line of symphonic poems with
which—with the exception of
“Till Eulenspiegel”—Strauss was
to bore the world. One spark-
ling work was Berlioz’s “Royal
Hunt and Storm” —the more
one hears of Berlioz the greater
becomes the conviction that in
the orchestral field he has no
peer among his compatriots.
Beethoven’s Fourth Symphony,
sunny and lyrical, found the
orchestra in its most felicitous
vein.
Dorothy Maynor was the
soloist, and her first number—
“Aise,” from Ravel’s “Schehera-
zade” was an unfortunate
choice, being one of the most
painful examples of Ravel’s
writing for the human voice. “11
est Doux, II est Bon” from
Massenet’s “Herodiade” made
amends, and Miss Maynor un-
leashed for its virile interpreta-
tion a ringing tone and, on
occasion, a half-note of melting
quality.
"Black Chiffon."
Fine acting, particularly by
Doris Fitton, makes an interest-
ing if not altogether convincing
business of Lesley Storm’s “Black
Chiffon,” at Melbourne Princess.
Miss Fitton puts a tremendous
amount of feeling into the part
of the woman who, with no
apparent reason, steals a black
chiffon nightdress from a shop
counter and gets ♦three months
for shoplifting on the eve of her,
son’s wedding ; and it’s by no
means the fault of the actress
that the story doesn’t quite come
off.
It all seems to be something
concocted rather than something
observed —as . though the
authoress were trying to make
the facts fit her theory rather
than the theory fit the facts. It
is hardly conceivable, for
instance, that the son —who,
according to the psychoanalyst
who brings to light the woman's
unconscious motives, is
“emotionally locked” to his
mother —would carry on with
his nuptials while she is standing
trial for an act that might land
her in prison.
Borovanskys.
The Borovansky Ballet closed
its Melbourne account at His
Majesty’s with “Giselle” and
“La Boutique Fantasque.” They
were danced by Kathleen Gor-
ham, Miro Zloch, Paul Knatt,
Bruce Morrow, Peggy Sager and
others in a way that added to
the favorable impression created
by “Scheherazade” and “The
Eternal Lovers” of the previ-
ous programme. Borovansky
doesn’t seem to have succumbed
to a modern tendency, much in
evidence in other ballet organisa-
tions, of making the males look
like females and the females
look like nothing on God’s
earth. The Borovansky men
look and behave like men and
the women look and behave like
women, so that it was possible
to distinguish between the sexes
in the general j melee of
“Scheherazade” without having
to consult the programme.


AUSTRALIAN
FOR 57
YEARS
BtpeiiTi
LIFE ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895 )
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
BWBO6I
TODAYS PROTECTION -TOMORROWS SECURITY
w
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ŵ
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and ou-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories, Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Hanking Co. of Sydney
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. 6 Reserves.
iqlq" IlHno y P - Cl = 355^2 6 4,419,165
1944" 37q’r9q It •” ” 355 ’ 426 *5,000 4,422,837
IQit" ” ” 355 >426 25,000 4,422,234
1946” f tHll H ” ” 355 > 426 25,000 4,426,585
1947” rqHqo ” ” 355 > 426 25,000 4,433,914
Iqls li ” ” 35r >,426 25,000 4,446,781
194 q” I* ” ” S 67 ’ 237 25,000 4,457,279
1950 * ill’ll I f ” ” 379 ’ 121 25,000 4,464,955
19o° 426 042 8, 379,121 25.000 4,487,376
Tax refund, £273,706 .. . 4 761 OS2
1952” o P- c -= 379,121 25,000 41808^660
1902.. 443.843 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,382
Recent economic and other developments
have expressed themselves in an exten-
sive reshaping of the banking structure,
which was well equipped to meet the
position that arose, and so avert a finan-
cial crisis. The restrictive effects of a
substantial drop in deposits have been
largely offset by the expansive influence
04 an equally substantial growth in
advances, and consequent reduction in
the degree of bank liquidity.
~ A ™ ong other things, this means that
the banks have less room for manoeuvre
in meeting any further untoward economic
development, and that the overall credit
situation is likely to become tighter before
it gets easier. The pleasing feature is
the still strong and thoroughly sound
position of the trading banks, which are
thus in a position to nurse traders and
others, for a limited period, at any rate,
and so provide them with an opportunity
to liquidate excessive stocks, tidy up their
finances, readjust the wage-cost-price
structure, and improve productivity and
efficiency in order to meet changed and
more competitive conditions, which are
now world-wide. The level of employ-
ment and our standard of living will
largely depend upon the speed with
which the adjustments are made. They
will call for some sacrifice and for all-
round co-operative effort and more and
harder work from everybody. There is
no easy way out of our difficulties.
The change'was heralded by the fall in
wool prices, followed by a spate of
imports, far in excess of our ability to
pay for out of current export earnings,
and consequent heavy drain on London
funds. At the same time business had
to be financed at a higher level of costs,
and primary producers had to lean more
heavily on their bankers to meet seasonal
requirements. Hence the drop in bank
deposits, growth of advances and imposi-
tion of import restrictions. Since a large
part of the trading banks’ liquidity
(ability to make advances) was frozen on
“special account” with the central bank,
the latter institution (the executive in-
strument of Government policy in the
banking and credit field) had to allow
these accounts to be rapidly reduced —
the alternative would have been disloca-
tion of the whole business structure. In
the aggregate these “special” deposits fell
from £572.6 million in June, 1951* to £305
million in June, 1952, and to £191.7
million on August 20.
The drop in the C.B.S.’s deposits, etc.
—the etcetera is an unspecified provision
for contingencies—was £19,065,937 and
the growth in advances £20,404,598:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £4,739,013 £4,739,013 £4.739,013
Notes . . . . 13,517 13,513 13,513
Deposits, etc.*. .155,384,758 192,283,031 173,217,094
Due other banks 2,189,114 2,984,200 1,189,945
Final div. . . 189,560 189,560 189,560
Liquids ..114,319,400 141,667,063 102,759,226
Advances . . 48,173,616 55,867,745 76,272,343
Premises, etc. .. 1,186,736 1,203,112 1,227,522
Other assets . . 3,323,586 6,280,058 3,938,416
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The drain on the co’s resources was met
by reductions in the amount on “special”
deposit with the C.B. (£34,600,000, down
£22,900,000) and in holdings of Govern-
ment securities (£25,463,897, down
£15,848,317) and Treasury bills
(£10,000,000, down £7,000,000). There has
been a similar trend in the figures since
the close of accounts.
The bigger business has been accom-
panied by bigger risks, of course; a
feature which the directors, being prudent
men, are not likely to have overlooked.
After meeting increased operating costs
and setting aside whatever was considered
necessary for contingencies, declared net
earni»gs were £7856 lighter at £443,843.
That was equal to 9.3 p.c, on capital
alone, or a moderate 4.6 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). The 8 p.c. div. was repeated and
the usual £25,000 was written off the
book-value of premises, which are worth
a lot more than the figure at which they
appear.
Since the close of accounts the rates of
interest charged for and paid on advances
and deposits have been slightly increased ;
a niggardly acknowledgment that ultra-
cheap money is on the way out. The
doubt is whether the net gain, after allow-
ing for contingencies, will much more
than offset the continued growth in wage
and other costs, which is the major
problem of the wdiole economy at the
moment. The private trading banks are
still faced with unfair competition from
the trading departments of the Common-
wealth Bank, and, in the background,
there is the 1945 Banking Act, which pro-
vides all the harness for controlling their
major activities and the level of their
earnings. To what extent, if any, the
Government’s proposed amendments to
this Act will assist earning-power of the
private banks remains to be seen.
At £2O Bs. (£24 3s. a year ago) the
co.’s £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. each--
the other £l2 10s. is a reserve liability
callable only if needed in the event of
liquidation— return 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is £25 ss. 9d.
per share.
Queensland Brewery (Brisbane)
, Dividends— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5} p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846, 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944.. 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
1945. .121,063 10,958 73,820 36,785 232,438
1946.. 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
1947. .120,812 10,958 73,320 36,534 800,562
1948. 10,958 73,320 38,926 339,488
1949. 10,958 73,320 39,383 378,871
1950.. 93,025 10,958 73,320 9,347 388,218
1951. .128,257 10,958 78,320 43,979 432,197
1952. .127,730 10,958 76,295 40,477 472,674
Over the last couple of years fundamental
changes have occurred in the brewing
trade, where selling-prices are fixed by
official edict. For the preceding decade
expanding turnover more than took care
of the buoyancy in the cost of production
and distribution. During the 1951
term, however, costs won the race,
and, for the first time in a quarter
of a century, there was a small
lift in the brewer’s proportion of the
selling-price of beer. But it was not
enough. To ease the continued upward
pressure of production costs, Queens-
land brewers were granted a further small
increase in selling-price as from August
4 last. 'This should assist in maintaining
the co.’s profits for the current term, pro-
vided there is no further untoward in-
crease in cost, the board says. The
Treasury, not the brewer, got all the
benefit from last year’s lift of 2s. 7d. a
gallon, making the total excise 7s. 2d. a
gallon.
The proviso is important because the
self-propelling basic wage, which in
Queensland rose by 41s. to £lO 7s. per
week for the year to June 30 last, was
pushed up a further 6s. to £lO 13s, per
week for the September quarter of 1952,
and is likely to rise further before it turns
in the other direction. Also there is no
sign of any early relief from the high
prices now paid for sugar, hops, barley,
malt and other brewing ingredients, or in
the cost of bottles, transport and sundry
overhead. Moreover, the output of beer
—for Australia the increase was 6.9 p.c.
for the 12 months to June 30 last as
against 10.9 p.c. for the previous year—
now appears to have reached its peak,
which means there will be no immediate
compensating gain on that account.
However, the trade has a reputation for
holding well, even in changing economic
climates, and the co.’s profits are known
to be conservatively stated. The sugges-
tion is not that the 7 p.c. div. is in danger
—it has been an annual event since 1932,
except in 1942 and 1943, when 6 p.c, was
paid—but that there is no immediate pros-
pect of a lift in the rate. Shareholders,
however, might be asked for more later
on to help finance further renovation
and improvement of hotel properties, etc.
Half-way through the last term 80,000
new £1 ords. were issued at par, and
£149,158 net was added to the book-value
of fixed assets, including hotels. The
difference was provided mainly out of the
year’s surplus earnings and provisions:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,381,666
Creditors .. 426,035 474,294 589,725 760,038
Final div... 42,139 42,139 42,139 45,114
Fixed assets 1,713,366 1,728,172 1,822,502 1,971,660
Stocks . . 230,463 287,439 318,176 432,475
Book debts 143,094 128,918 157,729 198,568
Investments 6,788 6,788 12,321 6,788
To meet the year’s additions of £114,299
to stocks and £40,839 to book-debts the
amount coming to outsiders was increased
by £170,313.
After setting aside £46,198 (up £6206)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, the board
put net earnings at £127,730 (down £527).
That covered the pref. div. and 10.7 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 11.2,
7.9, 10.7, 10.7 and 10.5 p.c. back to 1947.
The ords, at 325. (40s. 3d. a year back)
return 4.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div, basis. The
prefs. at 245. yield 4.6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £9 Is. prefs, and 28s, 4d. ords.
Com’wealth Wool & Produce (Syd.)
Added
T° Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. I —I—Dividends 1 —Dividends serves, serves.
1942.. 12,751 2} p.c. = 7,500 5,251 104,353
1943.. 12,710 2} „ ~ 7,500 5,210 109,563
1944.. 17,290 4 „ „ 12.000 5,290 114,853
1945.. 12,183 3 „ „ 9,000 3,183 118,036
1946.. 9,092 3 „ „ 9,000 92 118,128
1947.. 8,015 3 „ „ 9,000 117,143
1948.. 17,148 4 „ „ 12,000 5,148 122,290
June,
1949.. 24,148 6} „ „ 18,750 5,398 127,689
Sale property, £130,000 .. ~ 257,689
Share premiums, £5OOO .. .. 262,689
1950.. 33,577 7 p.c. = 28,000 5,577 268,266
1951.. 52,302 9 „ „ 36,000 16,302 284,568
1952.. 30,199 6 „ „ 24.000 6,199 290,767
Only twice (1921 and 1930) in the last
half-century have shareholders failed
to receive a div. ; but the rate has always
been very modest. Even during the last
four years, when the trade enjoyed the
greatest boom in its history, distributions
averaged only 7 p.c,, highest 9 p.c., lowest
6 p.c. For the 18 years before that the
average was a mere 3.6 p.c„ sweetened,
where shareholders were also clients, by
rebates on carded commission-rates until
1941 ; since then no rebates have appeared
in the published accounts.
The co.’s activities spread over the
west and sou’-west of N. S. Wales, and
include wool-broking, pastoral-finance,
stock-and-station and other agency busi-
ness and merchandising, and there are
some pastoral interests, chiefly in connec-
tion with stud-stock, too. The co. also
holds a substantial wad of shares in
Nemco (New England, North and North-
West Producers Co.), the pioneer New-
castle wool-brokers. In 1949 the then
16-year-old Victorian section of the busi-
ness was sold to Elder Smith and Co. at
a “very satisfactory price.” Reserves
benefited by £130,000 from the deal, and
the financial position was strengthened.
At the same time there was a marriage
of interests between the two cos., 100,000
f.-p. £1 shares in the Commonwealth co.
being exchanged for 87,000 £1 shares paid
to 12s. each m Elder Smith and Co.,
which also appointed a director to the
Commonwealth co.’s board. For the
year to June 30 last Elder Smith paid
10 p.c. (£5220 on the 87,000 shares
involved), as against 15 p.c. for the
previous year.
Since 1949 seasonal conditions have
been fair to good, and profits have fol-
lowed prices in the wool and livestock
markets, while merchandising and agency
activities have helped the figures along,
too. Volume and value of the N. S. Wales'
clip over the last two seasons compare
as follows:
Average
Sold, Bales. Total Value. Per Bale.
1950- .. 1,265,038 £228,204,490 £lBO 7 10
1951- . . 1,120,912 105,260,546 93 18 1
Last season the drop in volume was
11.3 p.c. and in value 53.4 p.c.
Last term the co. handled 69,145 bales,
or 6144 fewer than it put under the
hammer in the previous year. The number
of livestock handled and merchandise
turnover are not disclosed. The slip in
gross earnings (£293,340) was £160,420.
Owing mainly to wage-lifts, the reduction
in exes. (£263,141) was only £138,317.
Thus the net result was £22,103 lighter
at £30,199, equal to 7.5 p.c. on capital as
against 13.1, 8.4, 8, 5.7 and 2.6 p.c. back
to 1947. Three points were chipped off
the div., reducing it to 6 p.c., and there is
no certainty that the lower rate will be
maintained.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital . . £300,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sndy. creditors* 535,094 566,826 1 . .
Overdraft, etc. 71,494 147,559 ) ‘' 7 *676 614,030
Final divs. .. 6,750 28,000 36,000 24,000
Freehold, etc. 498,115 356,058 402,029 420,516
Stocks .. 56,452 33,523 81,196 82,114
Advances, etc. 442,998 623,975 565,630 434,721
Govt, securities,
etc. . . 8,883. 308,977 363,861 305,953
Shares subsid. 40,083 87,617 85,527 85,499
* Includes provision for taxation.
The contraction of £130,909 in advances
and of £163,640 in the creditor item, etc.,
are interrelated and mainly reflect trans-
actions at a lower level of prices. Further
improvements to the wool-store added
£18,487 to freeholds, etc.
As for the current term, a slightly
bigger clip is anticipated, and prices are
expected to average out not much, if any,
lower than last season’s levels, though it
is too early yet to make anything other
than a rough guess. Wage and other
costs, however, are still on the up-grade.
At 20s. 6d. (355. 9d. a year ago) the co.’s
scrip returns 5.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 345. 6d.,
mostly in freeholds. ,
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney)
! Dividends Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1946 . . 15,343 6 12} 10,999 56,559
1947 . . 17,125 6 15 12,898 60,786
1948 . . 28,427 6 15 15,339 73,874
Premium on shares, £31,333.. 105,207
1949 .. 34,524 6 15 18,223 121,508
Premium on shares, £6266 .. 127,774
1950 . . 44,602 6 15 23,829 148,547
Revaluation assets, £66,071 .. 214,618
Reserves capitalised, £101,192.. 113,426
1951 .. 63,787 6 15 36,146 141,067
1952 .. .70,658 6 12} 39,227 172,498
This old-established builders’ - hard-
ware business supplies the trade with
practically everything except timber,
bricks and roofing-tiles. Shareholders
have never failed to receive a div. since
1935, when branches were opened at
Hurstville and Parramatta (N.S.W.), and
the public put up £25,000 of 6 p.c. pref.
capital. The ord. rate climbed from
6 p.c. in 1935 to 8 p.c, three years later,
remained steady until 1945, rose to
p.c. in 1946, and to 15 p.c. in the
following year, remained steady until
1951, and dropped to 12| p.c. again last
term.
The business, whose growth was
sluggish for many years, expanded rapidly
during the post-war boom, when the
building trade was hungry for supplies.
Since the close of accounts in 1947, those
on the ord. register put up £124,633 of
fresh cash-paid capital, which brought
With it £37,599 of share premiums, and
(in March, 1951) they were handed


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is desired regarding the
descendants of ALEXANDER RUSSELL,
son of MRS. LILLIAS RUSSELL, who was
born in Scotland and subsequently migrated
to Australia. — WILFRED ALLSOP &
SONS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 39
Martin Place, Sydney.
GEOFFREY LEE, aged 18, travelling on
a blue bicycle, last heard of at Tweed
Heads in February, or anyone knowing
his present address, please write his
parents at 31 West Melbourne Road, Gee-
long, Victoria.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy aTH
osuixtvan . /
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Missing Beneficiaries.
ANYONE knowing the present whereabouts
of EMILY ATKINS, nee Harris, widow
of WILLIAM HENRY ATKINS, who died
at Isisford Hospital, Aramac, Queensland,
on 14th August, 1911, or any of her rela-
tives or descendants, kindly communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbana
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Kobln M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
STOP AT THIS SIGN FOR ...
//
SC3L
iio
ATLANTIC
Swing over to the
Atlantic Solo Stations
for a completely New
Deal in automotive
service. Safeguard
your motor against
wear. Cut your costs
with the regular
planned check-ups
that spot troubles
before they begin. It all
adds up to miles more
Happy Motoring!
START NOW!
Drive in at the
Atlantic Oval
Sign for the new
all - round Stop-
wear Service.
slfc
ss
ATLANTIC
-fLAS-
Nu
i wwmsm
umm
YOUR ATLANTIC
RETAILER CAN
BE TRUSTED FOR
• Quick and courteous
attention.
• Thorough, efficient
service.
• Dependable quality
products.
• Planned maintenance
and complete car-
care.
Dependable quality of Atlantic petroleum products,
derived from crudes won by Atlantic field-search and drill*
ing teams, and brought to you by Atlantic's own tanker-fleet,
has the backing of ninety years of refining experienced
£101,192 of bonus scrip, one for
two. Of the gift £64,715 came
from an assets-revaluation re-
serve and £36,476 from share-
premium account. It all lifted
paid capital to £326,812 in
25,000 6 p.c. prefs. and 301,812
ords.
There was a “satisfactory” in-
crease in turnover last term;
but the outlook changed to-
ward the close of accounts. The
profit figure was £6871 stronger
than the previous year’s at a
record £70,658, which covered
the pref. div, and 22.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 20.4,
28.9, 27.9, 29.1 and 20.5 p.c.
back to 1947. So the p.c.
div. was a comfortable matter,
leaving £31,431 (44.5 p.c.) of the
year’s profit to plough back into
the business, lifting reserves to
£172,498.
There is nothing uncomfort-
able about the finances:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 225,000 326,812 326,812
Creditors \ 177 361 300,433 1
Tax provis’n j ’ \ 97,044
Final divs. . . 14,298 23,859 23,386
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 109,143 179,711 180,755
Stocks . . 266,445 324,049 394,948
Debtors . . 185,186 282,116 234,942
Cash and in-
vestments . . 4,533 5,796 3,841
The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£318,555) was £30,186. But the
growth of £70,899 in stocks
(they appear at valuation) and
contraction of £47,174 in book-
debts reflect the falling-off in
trade that occurred toward the
close of accounts.
Owing mainly to high costs
and tighter credit conditions,
there has been a sharp decline
in home- and other building
during the last few months, with
a consequent shrinkage in de-
mand for builders’ hardware.
Although there is still a large
potential demand for houses,
etc., there are no indications at
the moment of an early revival
of building activity, and costs
continue to climb. So, despite
the comfortable margin between
earnings and distributions of
recent years, the 15 p.c. div.
cannot be looked upon as
secure.
After sales at 465. buyers re-
cently offered 445. for the ords.
At the middle price (445. 6d.)
the return is 6.7 p.c. on a 15
p.c. div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. should
the rate drop to, p.c. Net
tangible cover is 31s. sd. The
prefs., covered by £l9 19s. sd.
in net tangibles, seldom appear
on ’Change.
Morning Star (Vic.)
Rising costs and a drop in
the average yield from mill-feed
owing to inclusion of lower-
grade development ore have
brought a recession in both net
earnings and divs. at Morning
Star, Woods Point (Vic.);
Ore Recovered Divs.*
Treated, Gold,, Grade, Profit. (2/9)
Tons. Oz. Dwt. £ £
’50.. 19,919 15,492 15.5 97,754 55,000
(1/9)
’51.. 15,902 11,543 14.5 76,023 35,000
(1/-)
’52.. 18,600 9,679 10.4 34,654 20,000
* Figures in parentheses are payments per
4s. share.
Of the ore treated last term
14,690 tons, averaging 12.3dwt.,
came from the slopes and 2910
tons, averaging s.4dwt, from
development. The recovery was
88 p.c. of head-value. Costs rose
from 100.25, per ton in 1950 to
117.15. in 1951 and to 123.75.
in 1952. The 1952 profit bene-
fited by £4220 (£1 an ounce) in
respect of gold sold on the “free”
market during the last five
months of the term.
To help finance electrification
of the mine and provide more
deep-winding and headframe
equipment 100,000 new 4s. shares
were issued at a premium of 6s.
each in September, 1951, making
paid capital £lOO,OOO in f.-p. 4s.
shares. When power becomes
available toward the end of 1953
costs are expected to benefit by
about 255. per ton.
Ore reserves at March 31
last were put at 51,000 tons,
averaging 12.5dwt., and de-
velopment since has dis-
closed a further 15,500 tons of
“higher - than - average” grade.
The main shaft was deepened a
further 70ft. to 131 ft. below No.
17 level, which is 1890 ft. below
the surface, the aim being de-
velopment of the downward
continuation of the Sterling
Floor. The board expects to
resume payment of dividends
“earlier than was anticipated” ;
last two payments were each 6d.
a share in May and July, 1951.
On the Loch Fyne leases the
drill disclosed no reef of any
importance, and the option over
this show has been abandoned.
Testing of the All Nations,
Working Miners, Shamrock and
Sir John Franklin leases has not
yet commenced.
When the books closed cash,
bullion and Government securi-
ties totalled £75,522 (up £34,518),
book-debts and ore stocks, etc.,
£10,900 and stores £35,729.
There was only £11,928 coming
to outsiders.
The scrip, which reached a
peak of 245. 6d. in 1951, is now
priced at 14s. 6d.
Tungsten Consolidated, NX.,
which is working a scheelite
deposit at Frogmore (N.S.W.),
has exercised its option over the
Rye Park tungsten mine, some
17 miles away, and has formed
a new co.. Rye Park Scheelite,
NX., to take over and work the
show, which, it is claimed, con-
tains the largest known scheelite
deposits on the Australian main-
land. An issue of 5,000,000 2s.
shares (£500,000) is to be made
about the end of this month,
when the prospectus containing
the offer and details concerning
the deposits is to be put out. Up
to date there has been much
market ado about Tungsten
Consolidated shares but no divi-
dends to shareholders.


Engagement.
HILITk iT HO LT-H AMILT 0 N FAIRLEY—The en-
gagement is announced of Daphne, daughter of the
late Mr. G. N. Hillier-Holt and of Mrs. Hillier-Holt, of
Hope Court, Orowhorough, Sussex, to Gordon, younger
son of Sir Neil and Lady Hamilton Fairley, of 81
Duke Street, London, W., and The Old Croft, Home-
wood, England.
Divorce Notices,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce. , TnTrnv
TO ALLEN WRIGHT late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that MABEL DOROTHY WRIGHT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 335 of 1952 on the ground of your
desertion during three years and upwards
just cause or excuse If you wish to def Mid y
may enter an appearance in the Divorce I
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 14th day
of November 1952 and obtain a copy of the P etl tion
without charge from E. M. JURD. Solicitor 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGH AJN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO MALCOLM JAMES ROBERTS late of Burra-
iuck and of 127 Temora Street Cootamundra.
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS ISOBEL ROBERT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3234 of 19H
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wsh to
defend you may enter an appearance m the Dh orct
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney y
29th October 1952 and obtain a copy of the PeWio
without oharsre from MESSRS.
MATTHEWS, LANE & GLASGOW, Solicitors, Ocean
House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney, or from MESSRS-
CATER & BLUMER, Solicitors, Kooyoo Street,
Griffith.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. _____
XN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JOHN TOMKINS late of Raymond Tet
race. —TAKE NOTICE that MYRA LILY TOMJUiN=
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 878 of 19a-
on the ground of desertion without jusf- 0
excuse for three years and upwards If you inten
to defend this suit you may enter ari appearance at
fhe Divorce Registry Supreme Court House Kin.-
Street Sydney by the 17th day of November HD-
, obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
om G M STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.-J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Royal Empire Society Ball is
renowned for its pageantry, and this year
it touched a new record high. The Town
Hall was draped with magnificent flags
of all the countries of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations. The pageant,
led by the bands of the Eastern Com-
mand and the Air Force, featured four
groups representing the queens of
England from the time of Elizabeth I
(Miss A. Lovett), each followed by the
fighting men who made the period
famous. Miss V. Webb was Queen Anne,
Elaine Cook Mary 11. Queen Victoria
was strikingly portrayed by Mrs. Allan
Williams, who had made special research
into the costumes of the period and had
had her costume and cap made for the
occasion. She was attended by Mrs.
C. R. McKerihan and Mrs. Norman
Jenkyn, both looking very pretty with
their Victorian ringlets and crinolines.
Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth 11, was
represented by a throne on which was
placed a sceptre and crown as “God Save
the Queen” was sung by the 1000 people
present in the hall and gallery. Organised
by Col. J. J. O’Sullivan, the pageant pro-
ceeded with split-second Army accuracy,
starting right on the dot of 9.30 and
finishing right on 10 o’clock. Lady
Anderson and Mr. W. J. Bradley, presi-
dent of the society, received the official
guests, who included the Lieutenant-
Governor, the Hon, K. W. Street, Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Harrison (Mrs. Harrison
wearing a magnificent gown of white
crepe heavily beaded in silver). Admiral
Showers and Mrs. Showers, General F. H.
Berryman and Mrs. Berryman, Air-Vice-
Marshal J. P. J. McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley, Mrs. J. W. M. Eaton, Sir
James and Lady Bissett, Mr. and Mrs.
C. M. Croft, Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn,
Mr. and Mrs. Merceica, Mr. and Mrs.
F. Daniells, Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Hal-
loran and Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Rigby.
Miniature birthday-cakes, about
Sin. across, decorated the tables, while
balloons, streamers and blow-out caps
contributed towards the “birthday'
atmosphere, of the First Birthday Ball,
held by the Headquarters’ Younger Set
of the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children. The president of the ball-
committee, Beverley Grant, wearing
organdie in junior navy and white, re-
ceived the guests, who included Mr. and
Mrs. G. B.Kater and Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Coles. Among those who arranged
parties for the dance, which was held at
Valentine’s, were Josie Fourro and
Patricia Casper. The proceeds of the
party will be donated to the Society for
Crippled Children.
The displays of watches and jewellery
at the Retail Jewellers’ Exhibition in the
basement of the Town Hall drew vast
crowds during the week, and the exhibi-
tion, especially of watches, was particu-
larly well set out. It was a little disap-
pointing, however, not to see more variety
in the settings of jewellery, more intricacy
and delicacy in the design of necklaces,
lapel pins and even rings. Perhaps it is
that such art and craftsmanship as modern
workers possess is going these days into
the' designing of artificial jewellery, for
which there is so great a demand. A
diamond-ring, however, is something that
the average girl hopes to get at some time
of her life, and really there is very little
variety to be found. Some rings are
larger, brighter and clearer than others,
but in setting and design a £25 ring is
much the same as a £250 ring.
The International Exhibition being held
at the Y.W.C.A. represents months of
organisation, and gives a striking presen-
tation of the crafts and customs of 15
different nationalities. The doll-dressing
competition drew about 400 entries, which
were on display, and which will be later
sold for Y.W.C.A. There were some
beautifully-dressed dolls in the Interna-
tional section, the prize being won by
Mrs. J. Kracmar, who worked for nearly
a month on the embroidered clothes of
her Slovakian doll. Floodlights played on
the “Y” building on the first night, when
the Director of Education spoke the open-
ing words. The evening shows to be seen
tonight, tomorrow and Friday night will
represent respectively Southern Europe,
Australia and the Baltic Nations.
Special note for students of art: there
is an original Rodin on exhibition in
Sydney at the moment. A bronze bust,
it is to be seen in the French exhibit at
the Y.W.C.A. international show. There
also are original paintings by Renoir and
Carriere.
Wendy Sollipg, the young Australian
sculptor working in London, has sent to
David Jones’ for exhibition a selection
of her “figures in bent wire,” which is
most curious and interesting. The
medium seems to be just plain fencing-
wire, but the effect, as of line drawings
translated to the third dimension, com-
bines abstract force with (thank good-
ness) charm and recognisability. The
subjects mostly have an Australian touch
—stockmen, woodchoppers, polo players,
dogs and horses —but there is also a
crucifix which, seen with its shadow, is
strikingly dynamic. The exhibition will
open next Monday. It is well worth
seeing. In fact, it shouldn’t be missed.
American visitor Mrs. Ronald Hudson,
shown in our picture, who has come with
her husband to live in Sydney for about
12 months, says that living conditions
here are in some ways easier than in the
States. Shopping, for instance, she finds
much simpler with its calmer atmosphere
and helpful assistants. Yes, that is what
Mrs. Hudson says. The tempo of life
she thinks is much less strained altogether,
and she even finds it easier to “get
around” here than in New York. The
Hudsons intend, to go to the Gulf of
Carpentaria in a few months’ time for
some crocodile-shooting and perhaps for
a trip to the inland of the N.T. Both
Mr. and Mrs. Hudson miss the skeet-
shooting (clay pigeons) which was amply
provided for in Phoenix, Arizona, where
they come from, and in Dallas, Texas.
Photo by Hugh Spencer. _
The annual dance given by the senior
cadets of St. Aloysius College to say
“thank-you” to those officers who have
helped them during the twelve months
was held this year at the White City Ball-
room, when there were about 200 present
and the guests included Brigadier Denzil
Macarthur-Onslow with Mrs. Macarthur-
Onslow, and Colonel J. J. O’Sullivan
with Mrs. O’Sullivan. A large portrait
of Queen Elizabeth 11, draped with a
gold-fringed Union Jack, held central
position in the hall, whilst over the door-
way hung the blue-and-gold flag of the
unit. Welcoming the guests were the
Senior Cadet, Bill McNally, with his
mother, Mrs. W. McNally, Captain L.
Skewes, accompanied by his sister, Miss
E. Skewes, Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Burgess,
whose son Kevin and daughter Patty were
among the dancers, and Rev. Father
Hehir, rector of the college.
One of the most persistent trends in
the new season’s fashions is the vogue
for sleevelessness, not only in sports
dresses, but in afternoon and town clothes,
too. It is called “Shoulder Show” and
is allied often with a high halter neck-
line and collar or with prim tailored
blouses. Recalling one aspect of the
fashions of the 1920’5, it is a boon to the
amateur dressmaker, pressed as she is for
time and none too skilful generally.
The smoking-jacket, at one time an
indispensable garment for the heroes of
novels, looks as though it might come
back into our lives again. A very attrac-
tive example was shown at the Men’s
Apparel Convention held at the Troca-
dero during the week. It was like a
short dressing-gown made in deep-blue
street velvet with a maroon tuxedo collar
—very attractive and quite useful. The
convention was shown new season’s
men’s wear by 40 manufacturers at a two-
day session with special parades for the
public at night. It had none of the
flutter of parades of women’s wear, but
with its calm competence indicates a
growing interest in fashion for men. It
shouldn’t be long before this shows itself
in more dashing and daring innovations
in men’s clothes —and a good thing, too.
From Melbourne
The fire-ravaged Wilson Hall at the
University being still out of commission,
the conferring of honorary degrees took
place at the Union theatre. Two dis-
tinguished men received Doctorates of
Laws in Honoris Causa: The hon. Pete
Jarman, the U.S. Ambassador, and Sir
John Cockcroft, the famous British scien-
tist. Sir Charles Lowe, Chancellor of the
University, conferred the degrees. Mrs.
Jarman was present accompanied by the
U.S. Consul-General, Henry Stebbins,
and Mrs. Stebbins. Other Americans
present were Colonel R. Ramey, Military
Attache; Captain R. Wayne Denbo,
Naval Attache, and Mrs. Denbo;
Colonel J. Sullivan, Army Air Force
Attache, and Mrs. Sullivan; and Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Rabling. Mrs. Nor-
man Barton was there to see her husband
receive his Bachelor of Architecture and
Mrs. Sydney Bowen brought her son
Geoff and small daughter Susan to see
their father receive his Bachelor of
Education degree.
The late-afternoon party in the club
rooms of the English-Speaking Union was
a bright and sparkling affair, but tinged
with a slight undercurrent of sadness, for
it was to bid goodbye to Colonel Rufus
Ramey and his wife, who will leave
shortly for America, he having
relinquished his post as U.S. Military
Attache in this city. Hostesses on this
occasion were Mesdames Henry Stebbins
and Gerald Bacon. Mrs. Stebbins wore
a lovely cocktail frock of black moire-
taffeta and a small white-satin hat. Mrs.
Bacon’s jacket-suit was of cinnamon-
brown tie-silk, and her accessories were
black. Mrs. Ramey wore with her jacket-
suit of black faille a small white melusine
hat finished with veiling. Sir Charles
Lowe, vice-president of the E.-S.U., exer-
cised his gift for saying the right thing
when he farewelled the Rameys.
Lady Lowe, who accompanied her hus-
band, wore a citron-yellow felt cloche
which matched the yellow check in her
brown coat. Mrs. J. W. Middleton, who
was with Colonel Middleton, was in
black frock, silver-fox furs and a small
black velvet calot on which white
guipure lace was featured. Mrs. Dan
Reddan allied an orchid-pink crepe bal-
lerina skirt and a matching pink lace
bodice. Mrs. T. J. K. Whittam’s black
wool jersey jacket-suit was contrasted by
an orchid-pink grosgrain bonnet edged
with matching toned flowers. Mrs.
Graham Egerton’s choice was a black
frock with a black velvet bonnet.
Pictured here is Mrs. John W. Middle-
ton, whose husband, Colonel Middleton,
has just been appointed U.S. Military
Attache in place of Colonel Rufus
Ramey. Mrs. Middleton was born in
Savannah, Georgia, and speaks with a
real southern accent. Her husband is
not a southerner, for he was born in
Connecticut, and their 14-year-old twin
sons, John and Bill, in Ohio. Colonel
Middleton has.just completed two years’
duty in Washington ; his previous post
was in New Delhi. Mrs. Middleton likes
home life, and has brought out her own
china, glassware and floor-rugs. She also
likes arranging flowers and cooking
southern recipes, especially a shrimp
creole which she serves with rice. She
is very interested in the work of Red
Cross, and during the war drove for that
organisation in Georgia. Mrs. Middle-
ton is petite and attractive, with mid-
brown hair and large brown eyes.
Daffodils decorated the dining-room
and lounge of the Emerald Country Club
when Mrs. E. A. Doyle, president of the
associates of the Emerald Golf Club,
assisted by the captain of associates,
Mrs. Norman Nelson, and the secretary,
Mrs! Cedric Tuxen, welcomed to
luncheon women golfefs who had come
from New Zealand and other States for
the Australian Championship and Tas-
man Cup matches. Betty Kernot, Bet-
tine Burgess and Berta Cheney were Vic-
torians who showed visitors around the
lovely course, and others noted were
Mrs. George Leonard, who, with her hus-
band, provided transport for several visi-
tors, the president of the Australian Golf
Union, Gertrude McLeod, of Queens-
land, Mardi Mair, of Sydney, and Mrs.
A. J. Baird, manager of the W.A. team.
Myra Roper’s production of Shak-
speare’s “King John” at the Union
Theatre by the Tin Alley Players was
excellently contrived and played. Timothy
Kirwan-Taylor, aide-de-camp to the
Governor, portrayed the Dauphin
and had trained other members
of the cast in fencing for the perform-
ance. The Governor and Lady Brooks
were received by the Chancellor, Sir
Charles Lowe, and Lady Lowe, the Vice-
Chancellor, Professor Paton, and Mrs.
Paton, and Elden de Steiger.
At the cocktail-party given to mark
the opening of the seventh world congress
of the International Junior Chamber of
Commerce, international president Philip
Pugsley, of Montreal, Canada, presented
gilt and enamel maple-leaf badges to
guests. But Mrs. Pugsley and several
other members of the congress wore
enamel replicas of the Union Jack, larger
than the maple-leaf, and presented by the
English delegate Donald Aylett, of Not-
tingham. Mrs. Pugsley’s junior-blue
jacket-suit was worn with a tiny match-
ing hat which had lace for its crown.
Mrs. Eric Isaachsen, whose husband is
president of the National Junior Chamber
of Commerce of Australia, wore a beech-
brown suit with a beige platter hat. Mrs.
John Williams, who came from Adelaide
with her husband, wore a full-skirted
black coat trimmed with Persian-lamb.
Over 300 ex-servicemen patients from
repatriation hospitals and Red Cross
homes were guests at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Allan Chandler, of Boronia.
This was the sixth successive year in
which Mr. and Mrs. Chandler have
opened their home and grounds to the
ex-servicemen, and this time Lady Brooks,
accompanied by Anne Spraggett, was
guest-of-honor. Lady Brooks was
received by Mrs. Chandler, who is
superintendent of the Boronia Red Cross,
and members of the local Red Cross com-
panies assisted host and hostess to enter-
tain. As they wandered through the
lovely grounds the guests were permitted
to gather as many daffodils as they could
carry. These were taken back to hospitals
and homes to make the wards glow with
golden beauty. Afternoon-tea was served
in three large reception-rooms and, for
those who preferred it there, in the sun-
shine of verandas and lawns.
Glittering orders and decorations were
worn by men at the annual R.S.L. Balk
which was attended by the Governor and
Lady Brooks. Flanked by the Union Jack
and the Australian flag, the official
enclosure was a miniature replica of a
drawing-room and the soft pink coverings
on chairs and couch were a fitting back-
ground to the lovely gowns worn by
guests in the official party. Clusters of
balloons were festooned around the
pillars of the Royale ballroom, and tiny
posies of flowers were on each table.
Lady Brooks wore a full-skirted gown of
sun-gold Chantilly lace and a mink cape
stole Mrs. S. F. Rowell, who accom-
panied Lieut-General S. F. Rowell, was
in white Chantilly lace mounted on white
chiffon. With Sir Donald Hardman, chief
of the R.A.A.F., was his daughter Sally,
who danced in a strapless bouffant gown
of black tulle.


A light and
_
mellow Port
ẁ
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Romping home in a field of one for
the Lud Mayorship of Melbourne, W. J.
Brens will give dignity and tonnage to
the office. It was not a dream of mayoral
bunny-skins that originally drove him to
the city but drought on his father’s farm
at Terang, plus the limitations on educa-
tion in the country schools of his
generation. Enrolled at the Melbourne
Tech., then known as the Workingmen’s
College, Brens soon realised that it was
the specialised trades that had a future ;
so he decided to make wheels, and soon
after leaving his academy founded the
Austral Wheelworks, which started off
with a modest production of six
wooden artillery motor-wheels a week
—it now runs into tens of thousands of
all sorts. His speciality as a City Father
is horticulture, and as chairman of the
Parks and Gardens Committee he is re-
sponsible for much of the development of
the city’s parklands and for the grateful
shade that falls on Collins-street in
summer. Broad of frame and broad in
his outlook on such burning questions as
liquor-hours and Sunday sport, he wants
the city to go at least temporarily gay
for the Olympics.
M. H. E. Mackay goes on to the board
of the Adelaide Steamship Co. in place
of the late Sir James Gosse. Till 1949,
when he retired, Mackay was Adelaide
manager of the ’Wales.
LT.-GENERAL S. F. ROWELL, caught
by Coventry before leaving as Aus-
tralia’s representative at the A.N.Z.U.S.
military-committee meeting at Pearl
Harbor this month.
There is nothing slim about Field-Marshal
Sir William Joseph Slim, either physically or
militarily. Though much has been made of his
starting in the ranks, he was not long therein,
being commissioned early in the Kaiser’s war
in Montgomery’s old regiment, the Royal
Warwickshire. On Gallipoli Lieutenant Slim
led a battered battalion to the top of Sari Bair
Ridge, received a bad wound, and was dis-
charged as permanently unfit. Next year the
cripple was back in the Army, won M-C. in the
capture of Baghdad, and another wound. Re-
cuperating in India, he stayed on in the Gurkha
Rifles, and in his 20 years there achieved some-
thing rare among British officers. Many officers
are admirable with their own men —others are
excellent with Indian troops. Slim was first-
class with both. When Hitler started, Slim led
a brigade in Eritrea, collected another wound,
recovered, squashed the Raschid Ali rising in
Irak, and, in 1942, was in Burma. .Here the
14th Army was his creation, as the Eighth was
Montgomery’s. At Alexander in Burma Slim
conducted the “textbook” retreat which has been
compared with that of Mons. Suddenly he
halted, turned his troops about, and stabbed
back with brilliant tactical success. At war’s
end Slim was C.-in-C. in s.-e. Asia; in 1946
commandant of the Imperial Defence College;
and in 1947, back in civvies, vice-chairman of
the executive of the newly-nationalised British
railways. He was recalled to matters military
in 1948, to take over C.I.G.S. from Mont-
gomery. Now 61, with an oaken frame and a
mouth like a trap, the new G.-G. can be
expected to discharge well his complementary
responsibility —C.-in-C. of Australia’s armed
forces.
Steering a different course from his
Collins-street medico-father’s, ex-Navy-
man Kenneth McMeekin was admitted to
the Victorian Bar in Melbourne the other
day. Going into the War II Navy from
Melbourne Church of England Grammar,
McMeekin got more than his cut of salt-
water when his ship, corvette Geelong,
was sunk in collision north of New
Guinea in 1944.
Blew in to shake the collective fist of
The Bulletin, behind a grin as wide as
the Canterbury Plains and a laugh ranging
over about eight octaves, George Mc-
Chesney, the Kiwi who was selected, in
Paris in 1919, to be painted by the famed
portraitist Eugene Burnand as the typical
Enzed soldier. The portrait is now hang-
ing in the Louvre, Hailing from Otago
in the South Island, a Rugby Union
devotee, the cheerful visitor prognosti-
cated that, though the Australian touring
side had won their first six games in the
Fernland, his team. Southland, would
show ’em a thing or two. The next day,
it did, to the tune of 24 points to nine.
It’s to be hoped there was no delicate
crockery in the vicinity of McChesney’s
laugh-box when he heard the news.
Rabbi Dr. Isaak Rapaport, the new
Chief Minister of the Melbourne Hebrew
Congregation, is a small, quiet man who
has travelled a great deal since he left
his native Poland for England to receive
a Ph.D. at the University of London.
Most of his travelling has been among
ruins. His special interest in archaeology
took him to Greece, Palestine and Egypt,
and he got his degree for a thesis on the
ancient ruins of Assyria. He was a
chaplain in Italy and Austria in the late
war.
“Gulliver”; “Smilo’s” par (B.
20/8/’52) on the closing-down of the
Albury “Banner” left me feeling that
something had gone out of life. I’ll bet
a lot of other Riverina-born will feel
the same. The arrival of the tightly-
rolled weighty cylinder was the highlight
of mail-day in station homesteads and
cockies’ homes alike. The ads for
property- and stock-sales gave almost as
much news as the editorial pages, and
they consisted largely of long letters
from correspondents all over Riverina
and north-east Victoria. These letters
strictly obeyed the basic rule of country-
journalism —they were packed with
names of people ; what they did, what
they wore, where they went for holi-
days, all interesting in a district where
“You know him —he married your uncle’s
second wife’s cousin from Urana and
moved to Gooramadda,” was the usual
sort of identification. Even the horses,
dogs, calves and pigs were bound to-
gether by the “Banner,” thousands of
them having been named by “Uncle
Jeff,” whose identity “Smilo” has at last
discovered to me. Kids all over the dis-
trict wrote to “Uncle Jeff,” and most of
the letters finished: “We have a new
calf. Will you please give us a name
for it?” From what well of nomencla-
ture he dipped them I’ll never know, but
it must have been bottomless,
A good deal of attention was given at
the Medical Congress in Melbourne to
that dread scourge, polio. Sir Macfarlane
Burnet, of the Walter and Eliza Hall, a
world authority on the subject, in giving
the latest findings predicted that in 20
years’ time polio-prevention might
achieve the same success as diphtheria-
immunisation. Dr. R. V. Soutcott, of
Adelaide, said there seemed to be a link
between polio and whooping-cough inocu-
lation. Also that the disease seemed to be
widening its scope to include people over
' 50; that second attacks, once unknown,
were now not uncommon ; and that once
polio rarely spread through a family, but
: now it does. A Gold Medal Prize, the
. first of its kind, was awarded to Dr. B. P.
McCloskey for his work on the relation
; between prophylactic inoculation and the
[ onset of polio. He is a young member of
the Victorian Health Department.
Returning to Perth after several years
in the U.S., Professor A. L. Blakers will
fill the Chair of Mathematics in
Westralia’s University. Born in that State,
he graduated B.Sc. with Ist-Class Honors
at its university, then went to Princeton
(U.S.A.) under a Hackett studentship.
Academic work was broken by three
years’ war service with the Royal
Canadian Air Force. Back at Princeton
after that, he gathered the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy, and remained
on the teaching staff till appointed
lecturer at the University of Michigan.
Since 1940 he had been in charge of the
Lehigh University, Pennsylvania.
The grandfather of Arthur Campbell
Rymill was a director of the Bank of
Adelaide back in 1878 ; A.C.’s father was
also that between 1916 and 1934; the
other day A.C. himself was appointed
chairman of directors of the same bank.
Lord Mayor of Adelaide as well (the
city’s youngest), appointed to the City
Council at 26 (the council’s youngest),
Rymill belongs to the. well-known South
Australian sporting family, and in 1933
won the Australian speedboat champion-
ship. Before joining the War II A.I.F.
he represented his State at polo. He’s a
lawyer by trade.
After less than six months on the
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, Alan
Russell Taylor shifts up to the High
Court. A graduate of Sydney University,
born in Newcastle, he’s had 26 years of
barristering, mainly in common and con-
stitutional law, and appeared in most of
the big Constitutional cases of recent
years, as well as going to the Privy
Council several times. President of the
N.S.W. Bar Association in 1948-49, he’s
51. Out of court he’s usually to be
found summing-up a Royal Sydney golf-
card.
“Macnell”: Captain James Cairns
Morrow, D. 5.0., D.S.C., R.A.N.
(“Copper” to all hands), has been in
command of cruiser Australia for just
12 months—now he goes to Flinders,
Commodore Superintendent of Training.
Though his last two ships have been
cruisers (he took Shropshire to England
with the Victory contingent), Morrow is
essentially a destroyerman, and had
Voyager, valiant member of the Scrap-
iron Flotilla, in the Mediterranean. Here
he depth-charged the life out of an
Italian submarine and won his D.S.O.
He shifted to Arunta, the first Tribal-
class destroyer built in Australia, com-
missioned her in 1942 and took her
knots and six 4.7-inchers north. Not long
afterwards the Malaita collected a Jap
submarine’s torpedo off Moresby;
Morrow, handy near by, got contact,
threw everything but the galley-sink and
COMMODORE OF TRAINING.
collected both submersible and D.S.C.
His next adventure was a particularly
neat job of work, creeping at night into
a beach on Jap-held Timor and evacuat-
ing Australian commandos. Forty-seven,
33 years in the service, Morrow is charac-
terised by the easy power-of-command
of the destroyerman, as well as by a grin
never far below surface on his copper-
thatched dial.
At the age of 14 Gerald Vincent
Moriarty saw his father, who was
stationmaster at Ascot, in Brisbane, a
few seconds after he had been killed by
falling between the station and a train.
Two months later young Moriarty joined
his father’s service. The other day he
was appointed Queensland Railways Com-
missioner. In 44 years’ service the new
COMMISSIONER OF TRAINS.
chief has been sidetracked only twice
first against the Kaiser, artillery-captain
and M.C.-winner at Polygon Wood; and
against Hitler, brigadier in command of
the 7th Division Artillery. Earlier
general-manager at Townsville, then g.-m.
in Brisbane, at 58 Moriarty will have the
job of putting into practice the northern
State’s plans for new diesel engines and
air-conditioned trains and making a better
fist of the bulk-handling of sugar and
wheat. He takes over from T. E.
Maloney.
New commander of the Common-
wealth Division in Korea, Major-General
Michael Alston-Roberts-West commanded
three different brigades in War 11, among
them one Indian, and came out with
D.S.O. and Bar. After the war com-
mandant of the British School of Infantry,
recently G.O.C. British troops in Austria,
he’s 47 and the son of a* naval captain.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 69, Bill Lang, possibly
Australia’s most successful heavyweight. He
gained world notice by giving Jack Johnson a
great argument in Melbourne in 1907, though
he was knocked-out in the ninth. Two years
after that fight Lang accounted for Bill Squires
in round 20, thus winning the Australian heavy-
weight championship; he lost it to Dave Smith
in 1913. After his match with the American
Tom McMahon the following year Lang
became a publican, and was that to the end.
In Sydney, at 56, C. J. Burton, who rose
from an apprenticeship in the old Sydney
Harbor Trust in 1911 to a commissionership on
the present Maritime Services Board in 1945.
An Old Digger and M.M.-winner in France,
he was custodian of the Cenotaph in Martin-
place.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 74, Alexander Wel-
lington Croskery, president of the Federation
of Labor and prominent for half a century in
the industrial movement. Born in Wales,
Croskery shifted to N.Z. in 1880, and went
on the land for a time before changing to
drapery in Wellington. For many years a mem-
ber of the national executive of the Labor
party, he did much towards settling the water-
front dispute last year.
At 62, in Sydney, Robert Joseph Taylor, for
many years an honorary at Sydney’s St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. Known affectionately as
Bobbie to St. Vincent’s students, a legion of
appreciative patients and ex-Diggers, Taylor
met his Digger patients during four years with
the A.A.M.C. in War I, first with the Ist Field
Ambulance and afterwards as m.o. of the
4th Battalion. He practised in Macquane-
street.
At 66, in Sydney, Ernest Christian Sommerlad,
who started as a Methodist missionary in Fiji,
resigned through ill-health, and became the
big name in N.S.W. country journalism. Going
to Glen Innes after War I to run the
“Examiner,” in the following 10 years he built
up several district papers thereabouts into
Northern Newspapers Pty., Ltd. Appointment
as g.-m. of Country Press, Ltd., later chair-
man, made him the leader of the State’s pro-
vincial Press. M.L.C. for 20 years, one of
the Country party’s founders, he gained C.B.E.
for characteristically competent work as chair-
man of the publicity committee for the 1939
sesquicentenary celebrations.


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
forget...
f
\
as
fr,
u
“PHENOVIS"
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND UNITED >^7
EHB.BX.BO
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
. -*•
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ẃ
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and three
baths a day. Economical fuel consumption is
guaranteed and the hot water service is run
from the one small single fire. Life with Aga
is so easy!
THE
AGA
I COOKER I
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
r Sole Australian Agents for the AGA
COOKER and the BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _
VICTORIA _
OUEENSLAND „
SOUTH AUSTRALIA « -
WEST AUSTRALIA _
TASMANIA
_ _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
_ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
_____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
_a7" G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Our Beef in U.S.A.
“Oxo”: Suggestions that an
American market for Australian
beef was created by the U.S.
ban on Canadian beef because
of hoof-and-mouth disease are
discounted by P. A. Elliot,
Moolboolaman (Q.), a pro-
ducers’ representative on the
Australian Meat Board.
Elliot says the claim that
N.Z. beef diverted from Britain
to the U.S.A. would sell at the
Chicago price of 6s. per lb. was
absurd. It was possible that
prime cornfed steer-beef might
be making that price at Chicago,
although beef prices in the
U.S.A. had declined steeply, but
it was fantastic to suggest that
N.Z. pasture-fed frozen beef
would sell at anything like that
price. Elliot made these further
points:
There were rumors that price
negotiations for the N.Z. pro-
duct had not proceeded at all
well, and there was a doubt
whether the U.S. market was
able or willing to absorb the
quantity suggested. So far as
Australian quarter-beef was con-
cerned the U.S. regulations per-
mitted the entry of hinds only,
and the regulations required the
hinds to be quartered differently
from those sent to the U.K.
So long as the U.S. market
was short-supplied the U.S, pro-
ducers tolerated token ship-
ments of Australian beef, but
once there was a decline in
prices there it was probable that
the door would be slammed
without warning. Costs of trans-
port and marketing in the
U.S.A. were extremely heavy,
and it was feared that some of
the later shipments by the Aus-
tralian Meat Board would result
in a loss.
Frozen beef was a product
unknown to, and undesired by,
the American housewife, who
also was against beef not carry-
ing white fat.
Elliot has no great hopes for
Australian meats in a market so
temperamental and uncertain.
He believes far greater oppor-
tunities are to be found in the
Pacific and nearer home.
Merino Studs.
“R. Ney”: Two of the oldest
Merino studs, Barunah Plains
and Eurambeen, established 112
and 113 years ago respectively,
are now in the Australian Stud
Merino Flock Register. The
studs are among Victorian-
owned flocks submitted for
registration since Victorian
Merino - breeders decided in
1951 to join the 31-years-old
register.
Barunah Plains is at Hessey,
the estate of the late J. Russell,
and Eurambeen is at Beaufort,
the estate of the late Theodore
Beggs. Two other long-estab-
lished Victorian studs accepted
for registration are Mt. Hesse,
at Winchelsea, established in
1862, estate of the late J. L.
Kininmonth, and Worriwyrite,
at Terang, founded in 1857,
estate of the late J. R. Morri-
son. Victorian breeders’ deci-
sion to join the register fol-
lowed the formation in July
last year of the Victorian Stud
Merino Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion. Only State in the Com-
monwealth not yet affiliated is
Tasmania, but it is expected to
join. The flock register is now
the most complete record in
Australia of the history and de-
velopment of the Merino studs.
It contains reference to nearly
1800 studs, more than 1100 of
them active.
Winter Pasture.
“Nitro”; Scarcely any nitro-
genous fertiliser is used on pas-
tures in Australia. The cheapest
way to give grasses the nitro-
gen they need for more abund-
ant growth is to grow clovers
with them, but despite the high
cost of nitrogen fertiliser its use
is found to be profitable in most
other countries.
In New Zealand short-rota-
tion rye-grass is one of the best
grasses to respond in late
winter to an application of
nitrogen fertiliser made about six
weeks previously. In U.S.A.
oats for winter grazing on the
dairy-farm are generally heavily
fertilised with nitrogen for a
greatly increased winter produc-
tion.
The outlook of many coastal
dairy farmers in Australia is that
you are in the pay of the ferti-
liser merchants if you dare
mention fertiliser to them.
New Super. Form.
“C.A.A.”: To make the
limited quantities of sulphuric
acid go further, fertiliser com-
panies in South Australia will
make super, this season with a
lowered water-soluble phosphate
content. The new product will
have 36 p.c. W.S.P. as against
45 p.c. in the old.
S.A. Department of Agricul-
ture says the overall effect of
the new super, will be about the
same. However, on lower-rain-
fall areas such as the Mallee
lands the 45 p.c. super, will have
a slight advantage. The depart-
ment points out that where sub-
stantial reserves of residual
phosphorus are present in the
soil the quantity of super, need
not exceed the standard dressing.
On virgin land the quantity will
need to be increased by 15 to
20 p.c.
Aerial Spraying.
“Outback”: Aerial - spraying
of brigalow and other unwanted
trees on Cypress Downs, Yuleba
(Q.), in April, 1951, looks like
giving a 90 to 95 per cent, effec-
tive kill, and the experiment has
aroused considerable interest.
L. McLennan, owner of
Cypress Downs, states that an
impression was formed earlier
this year that the treatment was
giving an indifferent kill, as on
two occasions a quantity of
brigalow which appeared to be
dead reshot. However, on both
occasions the leaves did not
make anything like normal
growth, and it now appeared that
the treatment had given an effec-
tive kill.
McLennan considers that, if
the cost of the hormone can be
brought into relation with
present-day cattle-values, this
method offered the easiest way
of dealing with brigalow. The
hormones used 2,4-D and
2,4,5-T —showed no effect on
wilga, but had a noticeable effect
on belar, though prospects of a
sure kill on belar were still
doubtful.
Further spraying is to be
undertaken when the Govern-
ment Botanist (Mr. Everisl)
returns from America, where he
is investigating aerial-spraying of
timber, after attending an inter-
national conference.
W. A. Gunn, who recently
visited America, said that the
King Ranch (Texas) had just
finished aerial-spraying of 55,000
acres of mesquite, and, although
the work was still in the experi-
mental stage, from what he could
see substantial results were likely.
McLennan states that the
most remarkable thing about his
experiments was the growth of
grass in the sprayed country as
soon as the rain came, and Gunn
says the same thing occurred in
America.
Lavish Land.
“Shadow-chaser": In two
boom seasons the value of the
Australian woolclip exceeded the
value of all gold produced in
Australia for the century ending
1951. The actual figures are:
Gold for the century, £834.7
million; wool, £940.2 million for
the seasons 1949-50 and 1950-51.
Add to that the value of mutton,
lamb and skins sold during those
two hectic years, and to that the
value of wheat, beef, butter and
other land-produce exported;
“You blokes seen a forest anywhere round ’ere?”
then remember that our favor-
able trade-balance has slipped by
oyer £5OO million, and you get
some idea of our squandering in
those same boom years. Plainly,
to live as we have been living
we need more land-produce.
How? Well, it is estimated
that if rabbits were eliminated
another 30 million sheep could
safely be carried, adding another
£5O or £6O million to the national,
income. Unfortunately it is too
late now to rid this continent of
its many imported curses, but
judicious netting of production-
land and better attention to
fencing, water-provision and
improvement of pasture, and
abstention from criminal over-
stocking, would increase wool
production perhaps 50 per cent.
There is plenty of room for
increased production of wheat,
meat and other land products,
but it needs better farming,
better use of water and soil to do
it. This land of ours has always
been too good to us, but the long
years of abuse and haphazard
farming are ending. Yet, as a
nation, we are still dependent on
our soil, and the moral is plain;
If we don’t work it properly
some other race will.
Dog Ticks.
“Farmer Bill”: September
brings dog-ticks in the coastal
areas of N.S.W. Humid periods
following rain are the most
dangerous. The pest is worse in
bandicoot-infested districts, as
this marsupial is one of the main
hosts of the tick.
Applications of an insecticide
twice weekly, or sliding a cloth
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
On September 1 an interesting position had arisen in the
weather sequence under my theory. Rain was due and so
were good supporting sunspots, which, however, were not
quite at their active position, and the rain must therefore
wait until they were. Further, the spots were in two groups,
of which the one furthest from the position was by far the
finer and likely to dominate the position completely. In that
case the rains would be delayed till about today (September
10), but should be proportionately important and wide-
spread. In the other case there should have been early
September rains, with the heavier to follow.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
ẅ
hygeia dissolvenator
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
Water supply necessary
you can instal it!
The simple Instruction card supplied
**>akes it possible for any handyman
instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
Sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: r. p. mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
iSfEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Baffles Place.
HEDGE CUTTERS
Rotary Electric (32, 110 or 230
volts). Efficient, Quick, Saver.
Distributed by
HEDGE CUTTERS
PTY. ETD.
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE,
Tel. Nos.: MU 1807 & 2271.
A
Rf
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
BOONOEE
POLLED 600N0EE
WfINGJNELLfI ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
F. S. FALKINES & SONS PTV. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N.S.W.
.
:
mil
111
■
:
a
.... that's what Mr. Fred Hall, a
Certified Diesel Engineer and Heavy
Equipment Specialist, of Brisbane,
Queensland, said after observing a
gruelling demonstration of the Ansaldo
TCA 70 under the roughest conditions
in a Queensland quarry.
fs/// s g : :
f / I
/I I !
i
a
AHfALDO
TRACTORS
Here are some further extracts from Mr. Hall’s
report. .. more proof of Ansaldo superiority. “The
ALFA-ROMEO ENGINE was capable of
driving the tractor under the heaviest going . . .
transmission design is the best I’ve ever seen ... chassis and
hull (including underbody) in heavy steel plate gives the
tractor enormous strength and protection from obstacles . . . manoeuvrability
and tractive power was extraordinary for a 60-h.p. machine. I can honestly say I
have yet to see a tractor with as many good features.” See Ansaldo for yourself,
write or call your local distributor now.
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia:
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY. LTD.
61-66 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, N.S.W. MA 9141.
Distributors:
DOMINION MOTORS,
52 William Street, Sydney. MA 9017.
BROWN & BUREAU LTD.,
Graham Street, Port Melbourne. MX 2171.
CLYDE MOTORS,
165 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane.
POWER PLANT LTD.,
100 Currie Street, Adelaide. BA 2111.
HUDSON TAYLOR & CO.,
606 Murray Street, Perth, B 7908.
B 4237.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY TO
YOUR LOCAL DISTRIBUTOR.
Please forward, without obligation, full details of Ansaldo
Diesel Tractors. lam interested in ( ) AFB ( ) TCA7O.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 10.9.’52
dry-damp with kerosene over the
top of the fur daily, are big helps
m warding-off the ticks, but will
not kill them once their pincers
are embedded in the skin. Best
safeguard of all is to search the
nog daily. Move the fingers
slowly over the skin, working
against the fur. Few ticks escape
if this is done each day.
Ticks will attach themselves to
any part, but around the head
and inside the ears are the most-
favored spots.
To remove the tick, smear the
area with kerosene and cut the
tick off at skin-level; the head
drops out later. Ticks removed
with tweezers inject a final dose
of poison before loosing their
hold on the dog.
Ticks swollen in shape and
turning blue-grey in color are
dangerous females that have
been attached for two or three
days. Signs that their poison is
having effect are stertorous
coughing or breathing, restless-
ness or dragging of the hind-
legs. Total paralysis may follow.
Dogs badly attacked need
warm shelter inside a room or
shed, a warm rug beneath and
over them and protection from
draughts.
Injections of strychnine are
useless, but tick-serum is now
annually saving hundreds of
dogs. Where serum and
veterinary help are unobtainable,
dissolve a small teaspoon of bi-
carbonate of soda in a large cup
of boiling water, and, when it is
lukewarm, drain one teaspoon
slowly into the side of the dog’s
mouth. This treatment should
cause vomiting of quantities of
yellow mucus containing big
percentages of poison, and
should be discontinued when the
yellow disappears from the
mucus. If, at the start, the
mucus is very thick and yellow,
repeat the dose every two hours
and decrease to three, then four
hours as the mucus clears.
Each dose must be warm.
When the dog is badly
paralysed, give the minimum of
liquid and drop it in slowly at
the side of the mouth; large
amounts may be coughed on to
the lung and cause pneumonia.
Sick dogs should not be forced
to eat or exercise.
Given night-and-day nursing
most dogs have a chance of pull-
ing through. A rest should
follow. Dogs worked too
quickly after tick-poisoning will
develop heart-trouble. No dog
is wholly immune to ticks. Ill-
health, increasing age or an
unusually bad form of the pest
often means the death-blow.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Feeding calves with
mother’s milk for the first three
days will reduce scours. As over-
feeding is a contributing factor
don’t give more than six pints
during the first week and seven
pints in the second week, rising
to eight in the third week, A
good idea is to dilute the milk-
ration with a third of its volume
of water.
“Big Billy”: All deciduous
fruit-trees and all berry fruits
except strawberries should have
a spray of Bordeaux (6ioz. of
bluestone and soz. of hydrated
lime in 4gal. of water) as buds
begin to move in spring. The
spray will control a number of
the fungus diseases. Apply
another but weaker spray of
Bordeaux (4oz. of bluestone,
soz. of lime in 4gal. of water) to
stone fruit-trees 10 to 14 days
after thejftrst one, and to berry
fruits early in September.
“Billjim”; Mark for culling
those ewes which have large,
small or badly-placed teats or
defective udders.
“Spes”: For best results do
not keep sows over five years,
A boar is in his prime at two
years, and can serve 25 sows per
annum. Replace him when he is
six years old. Profit, from either
sex, dwindles from then on.
“D.J.H.”; If your cows chew
bones they want lime or, prefer-
ably, a balanced mineral lick.
If they develop a taste for stones,
wood or rubbish it’s a shortage
of phosphorus. Lack of phos-
phorus means general unthrifti-
ness, lameness, lower milk yield
and fewer calves.
“Moo”; The new-born calf
should always remain with its
mother for the first four or five
days as the colostrum provides
essential vitamins, minerals and
antibodies which protect the calf
agginst various infections.
Strong calves may be weaned
after a week, but weaker calves
should remain on the mother up
to a fortnight
: Turkey poults are
f nc J. are P artiaJ! y
b md ‘ W* l6ll startlng them on
the read Y- mixed mash and
granules—a more convenient
method than harrl t, n u»u •„
Crinkle the fond' ° tPT
5 r a 7 th fln f ,y '
chopped greenfeed for a few
days to induce them to start eat-
in S- Those which refuse to eat
and drmk ca n be taught by dip-
ping their beaks in the mash and
water.


MERCANTILE - MUTUAL
INSURANCE. CO.. LTD. : . -
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS. '
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, • SYDNEY •
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman), F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
■ 0. C.‘ GA LE; * ■ 'STRU-AN ROBERTSON. ' 5 NORMAN FRAZER. '
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, .General Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Wk&*t tfott tocwt ft/ fyooih auHj
jHofee AiMtks nud&M to
Vv o 3?
w.W O~ Sr
'V. *
Ms
wm
[
Crus a
w
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader lias been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit —a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader —the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CI-113
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Even if you’re a grandmother, or
if you’ve had three husbands, you
must appear pristine and wondering.
-—Advice in women’s paper.
The old dial must not indicate
the passing of time.
“Have you planted the onions, dear? I think I've
cooked the bulbs!”
“The wedgetailed eagle, which
prefers to stick to one locality, can
lift a greater weight with its talons
than any other Australian bird.”
—“W.orhhs News.'
Not as much as a travelling
crane, surely!
•p
“Girl about 1 wanted grocery
trade, perm, position, male wages, no
heavy work.” — Suburban paper.
Naturally.
“Give your face the flattery it
deserves.” — Beauty note.
Soft soap will work wonders
for it.
-J- »1* T
“Police learned she may recover
unconsciousness today.”
— N.S.W. country paper.
At the moment she’s too wide
awake to be questioned.
Psychological Moment.
“You can goad the devoted lover
too far, and, by losing him, realise
you love him.” — Women’s paper.
“ ’Tis better to have loved and
lost
Than never to have loved at
all” —
Perhaps? But, sweet, that boy
you tossed
Away is now beyond recall.
What’s wrong with emulating
Ma?
She’d too much tact and sense
to trim
Or taunt your still-unhooked
Papa —
She waited till she’d married
him !
PERCIVAL.
Playful.
“Not long ago an Australian
woman guest at the famous Waldorf-
Astoria disturbed the management by
keeping a male rabbit in her room.
The rabbit browsed on luxurious
carpets until the management ordered .
him to be confined to the bath pend-
ing diplomatic settlement of the
problem.” — “World’s News.”
Whenever / stay at the
Waldorf-Astoria I’m invariably
accompanied by my two “ pets,
Willie the wombat and Tim the
taipan, who always cause endless
fun with their many little tricks
and games.
I remember, during a cham-
pagne-and-slipper party I was
giving to the Zagrebravian
Ambassador, Willie, after brows-
ing a while, playfully burrowed
through the luxurious carpet into
the cellar, and caused much
amusement by coming back
pushing a couple of cases of
liqueur bombo. Meanwhile Tim
had escaped from his lead-lined
and heavily-sealed chaffbag, and
playfully bit the Ambassador on
his drinking elbow. There were
roars of laughter as the manage-
ment confined the two pets to the
bath, and more when Doctor
Emmanby, the eminent surgeon,
who had partaken rather freely,
applied a tourniquet and severed
the Ambassador’s head with a
cheese-knife.
JONAS DILL.
A Memory Aid.
It was at Charlie’s party that
I was introduced to the fellow,
and immediately I had a feel-
ing that his face was vaguely
familiar. Charlie had mentioned
his name, but you know how
these introductions are. Within
a minute, however, I had it
tracked down to Dinwoody, or
Winstanley, or > something like
that, but it didn’t ring a bell.
He, in his turn,.l fancy, looked
at me rather hard, but said
nothing. ! ,
Some time later, in the flux
of party movement, we came to-
gether. Again we exchanged
glances. I became certain then
I had either met or had seen
him somewhere before, so 1
broached the subject. ,
“Your face seems familiar,” I
opened.
“Well,” he said, .“yours stirs
' a recollection, too. I wonder
where we met. Have you ever
. been a visitor to Rose Park
Bowling Club, Mr. Kershaw?”
“Capstans is the name,” I re-
plied. “No, Mr. Dinwoody. I
play golf.”
“Dunbody is the name,” he
said. “Well, it can’t be that. You
don’t happen to live in the East-
banks district, do you? 1
thought it might have been in
the shopping-centre I may have
seen you.”
“No, Mr. Dedbody,” I said.
“/ live in the northern ’ suburbs.
I wonder where w q have met,
then?”
“I used to be in the Taxation
Department some years ago,
Mr. Crawfish,” he said. “You
didn’t work there, by any
chance?”
“No. Now let me see,” I
said, warming to the chase.
“Would it have been at one of
the poultry-shows? I exhibit a
few birds occasionally with a
fowl-fancier friend of mine, Ben
Wilcox. Would you know
him?”
“I’m not a regular at poultry-
shows. What did you say your
friend’s name was —Hitchcock?”
“No, Wilcox.”
“No, can’t say I know him.
Well, we seem to have run into
a dead-end, I’m afraid, Mr.
Backstairs.. Yet I could have
sworn I’ve met you before.”
“Wait a minute,” I said.
“Were you ever a member of
Curlroy Surf Club, Mr. Dim-
boodle?”
“Never,” he replied. “What
about Forbes? I was there some
years ago when Charlie was
there. Were you ever out on
the Lachlan, Mr. Plowshares?”
“Afraid not, Mr. Dudwindy.
Well, it looks as if we’ve been
mistaken.”
Someone joined us then and
broke it up. It still puzzled me,
however, and by the covert
glances I caught him bending on
me from time to time I could tell
that the same thing was exer-
cising his mind, too.
It was not until some time
later that circumstances threw
us together again. He laughed.
“I can see you’re still trying to
nut out where it was we’ve met,
he said. “Have you ever been to
one of the Highland Society
meetings?”
“No, Mr. Boncuddy,” I re-
plied. “But you’re narrowing it
down. You don’t, by chance,
go to the symphony concerts, do
you?”
“Wouldn’t be seen dead at
’em,” he said. “What about the
Bushwalkers’ Club—ever belong
to it?”
“No, Mr. Bundindy. Well,
I’m afraid we’ll have to give it
up,” I said.
He pulled out his wallet then,
took from it a card and handed
it over. “Dunbody is the name,
Mr. Carspares,” he said. “Drop
in some time and I may”
That’s where we met!” I
exclaimed. “Surely you remem-
ber me now. I had nearly a year
there! ”
He looked at me hard for
almost, a minute, then light
dawned. “You used to sit along-
side the chap you used to come
with —Geeves, wasn’t that his
name?”
“No, Reeves,” I said. “Jim
Reeves.”
“Oh, yes, a tall, red-headed
chap, wasn’t he?”
“No, a medium-sized cove
with a little moustache. Always
smoking a pipe.”
“Oh, I thought it was you
who were the pipe-smoker. Yes,
I recall him now, and you.
Well, well, Mr. Burshaw, fancy
meeting again. Anyway, I’m
glad we cleared it up. I hate to
be frustrated in a thing like
that. Your memory did the
trick.”
“Yes,” I said modestly. “A
face never tricks me.”
As we were going home the
wife said “What were you and
that chap talking so long and
animatedly about?”
“Who, that Budmondy
chap?” I said. “Oh, just chat-
ting over where we’d met
before. You remember when I
took that course with the Cere-
bellum Memory Training Col-
lege? Well, he was one of the
teachers.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Maims
Who is Mr, Casey trying to convince
when he says that Manus has been
“restored”?
Consider the facts. Where the U.S. in
October, 1944, had one of the world’s
greatest naval bases, Australia now has a
base that can’t even boast of one naval
vessel capable of catching a fast-moving
native craft. Where the U.S. had efficient
radar and radio-detection units, Australia
now has a system of bush-telegraph coast-
watchers.
Where the U.S. had moorings for 600
ships (which was the number in the
harbor in 1944), Australia now has one
or two mooring-buoys. Where the U.S.
had a multiplicity of excellent airstrips,
Australia now has one cracked bitumen
track. Where the U.S. had new bull-
dozers, tractors, jeeps, cranes and heavy
earth-moving equipment, Australia now
has old jungle jobs—salvage dragged
from the jungle.
The Americans built Manus in one
year. Under our.present system of pick-
ing left-overs from Americans and
Chinese we couldn’t “restore” it in 20.
Giris (Manus Island).
“Overhead”
The cost of administration to a handful
of Australians in 1950-51 was
£101,740,914. The Public Service Board
report states that salaries, wages and
overtime paid to Federal public servants
for the year ended June 30, 1951,
amounted to £99,023,006. Expense
allowances for public servants are not
shown, but in 1939 they amounted to
£697,914.
Other administration costs were
£2,000,000 for the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment and a subsidy of £200,000 for trans-
port and accommodation services at Can-
berra in 1950-51.
Official statistics state that 685,000
persons in Australia are on the public-
service payrolls—approximately one-third
of our working population. A lot of them,
of course, produce goods and essential
services, but surely 30 per cent, could be
put out to food- and industrial-produc-
tion. — Smeaton (Vic.).
Railway Service
Years ago our railways complained
that they could not pay while horses
were allowed to compete. Now they say
it will be necessary to rub out motor-
lorries and their “unfair” competition.
Private-transport men have no backing
by the State and can only carry on by
giving their customers the service they
want. In Orange (N.S.W.), for example,
the road-hauliers call right at the farm
and, in one handling, lift the goods
straight on to the transport and, in one
trip, right to market without breakages
or theft.
Now consider the railways. In a little
over one season the cost of railing a single
case of fruit has increased from 2s, to
6s. 3d. a bushel. From this area the
consignor has to bypass two railway
sidings and travel right into Orange—-up
to eight miles extra —because the rail-
ways won’t accept any responsibility for
loss or theft, or responsibility in any form
for goods consigned from either an un-
attended railway siding or one controlled
by a woman.
If it’s after 4.30 p.m. when the con-
signor arrives at the station he finds the
entrance-gates locked, so he pulls up out-
side in the street and unloads on to
barrows on the footpath without an ounce
of aid from railway staff. Then he pushes
and shoves his load to the parcels-office
doors, writes out his own way-bills in
triplicate, asks the parcels-office clerk
how many stamps are needed, glues them
on to the cases in his own time and hopes
that his goods will eventually be put on to
the right train and arrive in good order.
—L.S.L. (N.S.W.).
The P.M.G.
The P.M.G.’s department is overstaffed
and the volume of work no longer justi-
fies the grading and subsequent staffing
of post-offices. Some I have worked ih
S'D 3IACX
a k
“Hasn't Washed behind his ears-he can't possibly go to Korea."
handle only half the telegrams disposed
of a y ear or 18 months ago.
One obvious luxury service is that of
providing letter deliveries in little hamlets
where formerly all mail was called for.
In some, only one delivery per day is
operating and an extra man is employed
for the job.
The department’s main expenditure is
on installation of rural automatic ex-
changes, more city exchanges and miles of
telephone-lines which are a dead loss
from a business viewpoint. Country
people demand services which can only
be financed out of general revenue. Line
staffs and telephone technicians are too
numerous, anyway, for the work per-
formed.
Private telephone, telegraph and rail-
roads in the U.S.A. never provide outback
facilities unless immediately remunerative,
Australians will soon have to receive
fewer services from the P.M.G. —at
present they are clearly beyond our
ability to pay. We have been living be-
yond our means for quite a while, and
the plight of the P.M.G. is merely a more
obvious symptom of general extravagance.
—J.M.G. (S.A.).
The Freelance
There is a reason for the fact that
payment to freelance writers hasn’t in-
creased in proportion to the basic wage
(B. 13/8/’52).
Some dailies, such as the “Sydney
Morning Herald,” make a few columns
in their Saturday and/or Sunday editions
available to outside contributors and pay
particularly well, but the chances aren’t
many and competition is correspondingly
acute. Weeklies, necessarily restricted in
circulation and overburdened with spiral-
ling taxes, paper and publishing costs,
salaries, etc., are obliged to sell more
space to advertisers than hitherto, thus
further cutting the opportunities for free-
lances both in range and reward.
Except in London, Manchester and
several American cities where rates per
line have generally been high, freelancing
has never been anything but a part-time
nanpr nr mnosTinp nmnriptnrc awn’t nhil
paper or magazine proprietors aren t phil-
anthropists, and editors of journals open
to outsiders who let theif staffs relax
while freelances reap the harvest are soon
looking for a job themselves. In other
words, space at the disposal of casual con-
tributors each week or month is a speci-
fically calculated area, and the cost of
filling it must hot encroach too deeply
on profits. That’s business.
Specialisation remains the key to
success in freelance-writing. It is the
specialist, the dependable cove who knows
a lot about something or does something
else particularly well and exploits it, who
regularly gets a slice of the editorial
cake.
Still, the complaint that freelance-
writers in Australia are relatively poorly
paid could be substantiated, though a
lonely cry here and there in the wilderness
won’t do it. Freelances must unite as
associations or guilds—not as self-esteem-
ing societies such as most coteries of
writers or artists in this country are now,
but as energetic fulcrums for the advance-
ment of their own material welfare. —
P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Perplexed Electors
Within 12 months Australian voters
face a Senate election of unusual import-
ance, for it will decide whether the
Liberals can continue to govern, at least
for the remainder of their term. The
alternatives are a Lower House hamstrung
by a hostile Senate, or another double-
dissolution.
Voters who are perplexed fall into three
categories: those who eschew party
politics, voting as their consciences or
commonsense direct; Liberal supporters
whose faith in their own party has been
shaken by our present economic mix-up ;
and thoughtful Labor voters who cannot
discern any policy in their leaders’ rant-
ings.
There is, therefore, a substantial body
of electors whose present state of mind
is “a murrain on both your parties!”
What they want, and want badly, is a
new non-partisan party, tagged neither
“Liberal” nor “Labor,” and composed of
the best and most honest moderates from
both sides.
Is it beyond our political ingenuity to
give them what they want? —Hist
(N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Loans
The Commonwealth Government is to
be commended for abolishing the
onerous land tax; its next move should
be to place Commonwealth loans on a
basis consistent with the promise to ensure
that they could be readily liquidated.
Even though some of these loans may
be purchased at a discount of 10 per cent,
there are few buyers; the Government
is apparently unable to buy at these
bargain prices in spite of the fact that
holders of the bonds represent many
thousands of voters.
It would be a simple matter to make all
loans under 3f per cent, tax-free and
thus bring them more in line with the
value of the commodity which we call
money.
At present quite a proportion of loan
interest is never shown in tax returns ; it
never will be while the Commonwealth
Bank continues the practice of cashing the
coupons over the counter. — Drummer
(Vic.).
“H.J.D.” (B. 20/8/’52) misses the vital
point—that tremendous sums invested in
Commonwealth loans were placed there
on the assurance of accredited loan
authorities, under advices from Treasury
officials, that par value or nearly so
could be obtained at call.
What is the Federal Treasurer’s posi-
tion now in respect of forthcoming con-
version loans? Unless he raises the new
rate to about 4\ per cent, it will be
better for the reinvestor to cash in and
then buy existing bonds at a 10 per cent,
to 12 per cent, discount on the Exchange.
The securities under consideration have
long been regarded in the business world
as gilt-edged, and, as such, face-value, less
commission charges, should be maintained
at all times in the interests of the credit
of Australia. Under present circum-
stances is it any wonder the loan pro-
grammes cannot be filled? —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 190
Across.
I—Although confirmed in kingship,
urge Edward VII to boast about
his succeeding? (7)
s—Lady5—Lady accompanies pop into this
dubious establishment. (7)
9 —Expanding corporations exert
pressure on this State one with
a canonised orchestra. (9)
10 — Exhibit amusement about a
natural pattern in wood. (5)
11 — The fellow and I go to the room
holding fifty for a family keep-
sake. (8)
12 — Act between States in the Battle
of Koniggratz. (6)
14 —Girl and boy in temper. (6)
16 —“Nutcracker” describes one set
of furniture in a litter. (5)
19 — What promotes insensitiveness in
there? (5)
20 — Inspire affection in the final
listener. (6)
23 Look, a fine leg is made active
by it. (6)
24 — Drug to staff an accurate
description of quacking Donald.
(8)
27 — Burros. (5)
28 — The descendants of queens may
live here with the darling hair-
dresser. (9)
30— Sampling, thanks to the bite.
(7)
31— An uncommonly extended mark
of respect drawn by liars. (4, 3)
Down.
1 — Intimidate a high - jumping
hurdler who amused a little dog.
(3) .
2 Duckwings included m the
views. (8)
3 Pertaining to birth around Pieter-
maritzburg. (5)
4 Continue tediously for a lady-
killer who is not likely to
obey the “No Smoking” sign. (6)
5 Turf over a drink. (4)
6 East initials of a great run-getter
like a weight town in Warwick-
shire. (9)
7 Grandfatherly legside in a Sydney
surf resort mentioned by Miss
Gardner and Mr. Chaney. (6)
8 — Grade ermine holding the force
across the Channel. (11)
11 —Orientating a caption on Lynne’s
condition. (7, 4)
13 —Cadet reporter. (3)
15—Insect eyes around the price of a
St. Lawrence island. (9)
17— Hunting equipment clear of all
charges. (3)
18 — Tom to duck a medical graduate,
and he is to see a grave sacri-
fice. (8)
21 — Beasts of burden carry a large
number in large quantities. (6)
22 — Weed is not enough for Linda.
(6) . ,
25 Dean to act with Oriental money.
(5)
26 — Exhaust sound century with a
bear embrace. (4)
29 —Defer the front of the ship. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 189


if"
B-SSSJ 1 .11
l !*ro in, ®J.* n
<i EC gu aa nn ii ** H
ff ii cn ou cm nn' h n n
«i n n
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
w. p. McGrath
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
•
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O'Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
•
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society limited
incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1951 s
A NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 10,193 |
Policies assuring £10,249,851.
I
ASSETS INCREASED BY £1,901,184 after providing £23,872
for Depreciation, and now total £21,895,978.
,1'" .’!
f
q Policies in Force exceed 116,000, assuring
over £64,000,000
q Premium Income amounted to £2,316,669
q Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1951,
totalled £813,437, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£13,750,000
q Special Additional Reserxes amount to
£740,000
q Bonuses Increased
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
