

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3768
Wednesday, April 30, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
'T'OWERING above Bloomsbury, in the
heart of London, is the Senate House
of London University, one of the many
fine modern buildings in the metropolis.
Designed by the architect Charles
Holden, the foundation stone was laid by
King George V in 1933, and the edifice-
as it now stands comprises only one-third
of the University buildings which are
under construction. When completed they
will cover an area of more than ten acres
and will be the most impressive University
buildings in Europe,
The tower is 210 feet high and is
London’s only skyscraper. It was built
without the usual steel frame, and into
the face of each stone Vertical lines were
cut so that rain would wash away the
grime that blackens so many of London’s
buildings. Within this glittering tower is
housed the Library of the University,
comprising some 200,000 volumes, and it
is the centrepiece of the Senate House
which is the administrative headquarters
of the University. Its cost amounted to
£850,000, of which £400,000 was. con-
tributed by the Rockefeller Foundation.
Like its outward appearance, the interior
is simple, dignified and harmonious ; the
wails, floors and pillars are of polished
marble and the Senate Room, finest of
all, is panelled half-way in walnut and
the rest of the walls hung with tapestry.
The University, with its twenty-four
Colleges, exerts a wide influence over the
life of the capital, for it meets the needs
not only of resident students but also of
external students who study at home and
attend evening classes after their normal
day’s work. Integral parts of London
University, which received its charter in
1836, are University College, King’s Col-
lege and King’s College for Women.
During the Second World War the
Senate House of the University, shown
in the accompanying picture, was used by
the Ministry of Information, and from it
the official news was sent to all the
peoples of the free world. Enemy
bombers did their utmost to destroy this
source of damaging propaganda, and the
buildings of the University were hit four
times, but the work of the Ministry was
never seriously interrupted.
LONDON'S ONLY SKYSCRAPER, ITS UNIVERSITY SENATE HOUSE
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4*


df
m, I
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
/vTTm rrn nn mrn tut A r T mm mmm, m _ _ _
\- CUT HEBE AND MAIL ■—— —-j
I To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and |
! without obligation, your illustrated Hand- j
I Writing Prospectus.
My Name >
J Address J
A (5.8.552) ...Age I
The Red Page
MUSIC IN AUSTRALIA.
Dr. Arundel Orchard, former head of
the N. S. Wales Conservatorium of
Music, has devoted his retirement to a
history of Music in Australia —More than
150 Years of Development (Georgian
House).
The necessity under which all pioneer
historians labor, of mentioning every
name, has reduced him to the shorthand
of criticism ; this man is a “welcome
addition,” that man had “energy and
ability,” these performances “gained
cordial approval,” those performers “gave
yeoman service” ; and all of his people,
except towards the end of the book, show
a regrettable tendency to “pass away.”
Again, the book’s nearness in time to
the main body of its people precludes
any suggestion of the scandals of love and
intrigue in which they moved ; and when
Sir Robert Garran says in his foreword
that “Dr. Orchard recaptures for us those
glorious Bohemian days,” he is probably
relying on his own wonderful memory.
For which reasons, the first four
chapters, which make a history of music
in Australia up to 1850, are more enter-
taining ; after them, the work is com-
partmented under such headings as
“Visiting Musicians,” “Resident
Musicians,” “Composers,” “Organs and
Organists,” “Choral and Orchestral,”
“Benefactors,” “Schools of Music —
Examinations —Broadcasting,” “Musical
Associations,” etc.
Dr. Orchard finds his first record of
music in Australia in a letter from
Camden by Mrs. Macarthur concerning
Mr. Worgan, surgeon to H.M.S. Sirius,
who landed a piano in 1790, and later
left it with her, and began to teach her
how to play “God Save the King” and
Foot’s “Minuet.” The first printed refer-
ence to music in Australian papers was in
the “Hobart Courier” of 1821, about the
Choir Master at St. David’s Church con-
ducting (there was then no organ) wind-
instruments combined with wind and
’cello.
In 1822, the first of the musical Deane
family, John Philip Deane, arrived in
Hobart, and in 1825 or 1826 was
appointed organist to St. David’s. In
1826 a series of amateur concerts was
begun at the Freemason’s tavern in
Sydney, and in 1829 the Band of the 57th,
under Sippe, gave its first public concert
—Sydney’s first public concert may thus
have been a military band concert. In
1832, the saloon of the Royal Hotel,
George-street, Sydney, was fitted as play-
house and concert-hall to seat 450, and
for a while was rivalled by the Pulteney
Hotel, built in 1833 for Colonel
Dumaresq’s valet, Thomas Petty, on
Dalgety’s present site—Petty later mov-
ing to the famous old pub on Church
Hill, which is now a Red Cross fort.
The year 1834 was a big year for
Firsts. An early Sydney Philharmonic
Society was formed in that year ; Mrs.
Bird advertised Sydney’s first lessons in
singing, pianoforte and harmony ; at a
benefit performance at the Theatre Royal
to the scene-painter, Mr. Wistanley, the
first opera to be produced in Australia,
“Clari,” by Sir Henry Bishop (the opera
with “Home Sweet Home” in it), was
given; and this was the debut of Agnes
Wistanley (or Winstanley—Dr. Orchard
has it both ways), bo r n in Kent-street in
1818, the “first Australian to win success
abroad”—in London, New York and
Europe in music, as a Shakspearian
actress in London with Charles Kean,
and later as a novelist. Again in 1834
Sydney papers announced the first pub-
lication of an aboriginal song:
A song of the women of the Menero
tribe, near the Australian Alps; arranged,
with the assistance of several musical gentle-
men, for voice and pianoforte by Dr. J.
Lhotsky, Colonist, N. S. Wales.
Dr. Orchard gives the words and tune
in the appendix.
William Vincent Wallace, who was to
write “Maritana,” arrived in Hobart
from Ireland in 1835, aged 29, and there
gave a concert with the visiting singer,
Mrs. Chester, after which she gave a
concert with Wallace. By the middle of
January, 1836, Wallace was advertised
as teacher of violin and pianoforte in
Sydney; and on February 12 he gave a
concert, playing his own “Fantasia di
Bravura,” dedicated to Paganini, whose
death had been noticed in the Press. The
Fantasia “introduced ‘Home Sweet
Home.’ ” By March 30, Mr. and Mrs.
Wallace advertised an “Academy for the
instruction of young ladies in vocal and
instrumental music”—Australia’s first
Conservatorium; it was imitated on
April 16 by J. P. Deane, recently come
from Hobart to Sydney with his daughter,
with an offer of cut prices ; for whereas
the Wallace fees ranged from three to six
guineas a quarter, or, for attending a
pupil’s residence, 7s. 6d. pianoforte,
10s. 6d. violin (per lesson), Deane offered
a flat £2 12s. 6d. a quarter, or ss. for
visits to the residence (per lesson).
rv /'wx, a vt. r , • a .
of
ot d es of concerts, etc., corrects the im-
pression that Wallace went sheep-farming
on his arrival m Australia tired of it, and
U ™ e i^, mU £ lC r^f d Seem l
sheep' fa S is to “MaSa "'i
S”~ P terming. As to Mantana, it
would seem more probable that he com-
posed the music after he was given the
Ibretto m London in 845 than that he
wrote it in Rowe-street (Brougham Place),
Sydney, -or The Bush Inn, New Norfolk,
Tasmania, before he left Australia in
838 - ~ beving contracted says the
Gazette in one of the book stew touches
roonp 3 ” d r(’ a mounlm g ° ncai y
£ 2o°o. Dr Orchard sums-up that prob-
ably most of Mantana was written m
London, but that some of the music may
have come from musical sketch-books
kept in Aus ralia.
But the book makes it clear that the
importance of Wallace to Australia was
not so much that he may or may not
have composed “Mantana” here, as that
he filled his two years’ stay with such an
energy of instruction and concert-giving,
On his departure, the Deanes—father,
daughter and two sons—who had col-
laborated with him, carried on in a
thinner musical atmosphere until the
arrival, in 1841, of Isaac Nathan, a
London composer of light operas, who
was soon conducting oratorio selections
in St. Mary’s Cathedral in aid of the new
organ, arranging aboriginal melodies, and
advertising a singing-class. In 1845, on
a rumor of the death of Leichhardt,
Nathan composed a lament; but, the
explorer returning unexpectedly, he com-
posed a sdng of welcome.
By now, Sydney’s music was better
organised. The earliest complete per-
formance of “The Messiah” was given in
1842 ; the first Italian opera given in Aus-
tralia was Rossini’s “Barber of Seville”
in 1843, followed by many others around
this time. Nathan conducted the first
performance of his own opera, “Don
John of Austria,” in 1847, preceding the
first Australian performance of
“Maritana,” whether or not written in
Australia, by two years. The Maritana
of that first performance was Mrs.
Geurin, Nellie Stewart’s mother.
When, after 1850, the history breaks
into compartments in chronological
order, it becomes little more than a roll-
call of names, works and dates ; but, sup-
plemented by a sixteen-page index, it
makes an invaluable reference work for
such as want to know who played what
first, or the history of the formation of
Conservatoria in Australia, or what
celebrity visited Australia when, or when
Gilbert and Sullivan was first played here
(“Pinafore,” 1879, produced by J. C.
Williamson, starring Maggie Moore).
But that the work is hard to read
connectedly does not make it unreadable ;
for instance, in the chapter on organs,
Dr. Orchard really pulls out the vox
Humana (the first organ was installed in
St. David’s, Hobart, 1825), and the loving
and technical descriptions of Australia’s
principal organs should satisfy the most
exacting inquirer; or there are such
mines of unusual information as the note
on the Dutch violinist, Paling, who
arrived in 1855, gave concerts, taught,
and then set up shop in Wynyard-square,
moved to 335 George-street, managed
concerts, and in 1883 opened new con-
cert rooms on land which cost £9OO a
foot; had his land reclaimed for Martin
Place, and opened the present Paling
buildings, at 338 George-street in 1891.
Dr. Orchard ..conducted a Sydney
orchestra in the years before the State
Conservatorium was formed and
Verbrugghen came out to direct it; the
burden of his song is to be found on the
last page:
Yet to hear it said, as it often is, that
the efforts of Verbrugghen and later
musicians have led Australia “out of the
dark ages” is sheer nonsense.
A musical generation which did not
know Verbrugghen might opine that it
was broadcasting that really set music
on its feet in this country. Yet
while we contrast the huge orchestras
and audiences of today with the pinching
and scraping of pre-broadcasting days,
and contrast a nation where every home
can be flooded at will with symphonies,
concertos and virtuoso performances any
day in the week with the pre-broadcasting
homes restricted to scratchy recordings of
Harry Lauder, Luigini’s “Ballet Egyptian”
or home-made music, we should admit
that there may be a great deal in Dr.
Orchard’s point of view.
Broadcasting has created new audiences
and better audiences; it is doubtful
whether, per head of population, it has
created more musicians; whether, for
instance, that long-suffering instrument,
the piano, is taking as big a bashing, per
head of population, as it did before
broadcasting. The dark days of
“Excelsior,” the violin fantasia on Scot-
tish airs, etc., were also the days when
an average housewife could run you off a
Strauss waltz at sight, or some Chopin or
a Beethoven Sonata. Nowadays she is
seldom more than a good listener.
Maybe that’s something to be thankful
for ; at any rate, Dr. Orchard has amply
shown that there was a great deal of real
music in Australia, even before the turn
of the century, and that the development
has not been sudden, but continuous.
R. McC.
THE TIGER.
The tiger paces up and down
Behind the black bars of the page,
He pads on silent angry feet,
His heart is smouldering with rage.
Captive within the lines of type
He seeks-, and yet can never find
The world where he was free to range
He is the poet’s furious mind.
His are the unblinking eyes that stare
Into the gold heart of the sun,
He rakes the sky of stars and hunts
The darkness down, and is not done.
His was the world to roam, who now
Is captive to the black-barred page.
Reader, unlock the lines and face
The splendid danger of his rage!
N.S.W
ROSEMARY DOBSON
The Aborigines Today.
From Black to White in South Aus-
tralia, by Ronald and Catherine Berndt
(Cheshire), is a sober and scholarly
attempt by two well-known anthropolo-
gists to state precisely the position of the
aborigines today: specifically in South
Australia, but with Commonwealth-wide
implications. For anyone who has been
misled by the glamor surrounding such
exceptional individuals as Namatjira and
Harold Blair it is grim and salutary
reading.
After a couple of essential but rather
dull introductory chapters, relating history
with which everyone is familiar, in general
if not in particular—how the coming of
white settlement inevitably drove the
abo: nes from their hunting-grounds—
the authors deal first, in a critical spirit,
with Ooldea Mission:
The policy of the United Aborigines’ Mis-
sion is to destroy, without compromise, all
but a few superficial elements of the
indigenous culture.... By their training and
schooling at Ooldea they [the children]
receive just sufficient knowledge of white
society to fit them for elementary laboring,
carpentering and pastoral work, and to
unsettle them by growing dissatisfaction
with their home environment, without
achieving any real understanding of white
ways and thought In respect of medical
attention, elementary education, and opposi-
tion to liquor-drinking and prostitution the
mission has done valuable work. But it has
failed to bridge the difference between the
two cultures, and to remedy the frustration
and disillusionment that in many cases have
followed their contact. Unlike a number
of other missions in Australia the United
Aborigines’ Mission advocates a complete
break with tradition, and discourages its
missionaries from receiving any degree of
anthropological trailing before they set out
upon their work.
Then there is a survey of the aborigines
at Oodnadatta, whom the authors divide
into three groups on the basis of their
social intercourse with the white towns-
people : the “camp aborigines” living
near the town, sometimes working for
the whites but remaining an outcast
community, “looked down upon by the
white townsfolk”; a small group of
aborigines and part-aborigines, some
intermarried with whites and some with
Afghans, who have detached themselves
from the “camp aborigines,” have their
homes in the town, but “are not socially
accepted by the townspeople”; and a
“third and smallest group,” aborigines
and part-aborigines, who, being married
or related to citizens of standing, “are
reluctantly accepted by the white towns-
people.” The picture of the environment
of the “camp aborigines”—and you do
not have to go nearly as far as Oodna-
datta to match it —is appalling:
Circular or semicircular, rarely oblong,
the huts are roughly built of scraps of old
iron and tin. Some have roofs; others are
open to the sky, with bagging or old clothes
as protection from wind and rain. Clothes
are pushed into corners and about the walls
to keep out draughts, and plates and cook-
ing utensils jumbled near them. There is
no provision for storing food, although
some families use wooden boxes and chests.
Others keep dishes of food and cooked
meat on the low tin roofs for several hours
at a time, to the delight of the camp dogs
and the numerous half-wild cats. Dogs
roam everywhere about the huts... .at night
they crowd into the huts for warmth
The camp has no latrines, and from some
sites the nearest water is a mile or so away.
Women carry it home in tins and buckets.
There is a glimpse of “bush” aborigines
who have been arrested “or are being
brought to trial as witnesses,” travelling
to Oodnadatta by the police truck, “often
chained by the neck to prevent their
escaping”—a practice which “has now
been officially prohibited over much of
Australia but is still retained in some out-
back areas.”
After that there is Ernabella Mission,
which the authors contrast favorably with
Ooldea;
Apart from the aborigines’ routine work
about the station, like gardening, domestic
duties, well-sinking, gathering and chopping
wood, the mission is making some effort
to prepare them for economic independence
in a more static life, or for eventual employ-
ment on the cattle stations. They attend to
the mission horses and goats, and to the
3000-or-so sheep running on the property.
One flock of 300 sheep is under the almost
constant supervision of an aboriginal
shepherd and his wife. All the shearing,
wool-classing and shed work is done by
natives under white supervision. Ernabella
may be described, perhaps, as a “con-
sciously liberal” institution... .It does not
try to stamp out indiscriminately all
elements of aboriginal culture. Its staff
does not employ the same coercion to
abolish all native songs and ceremonies;
but on the other hand this mission in prac-
tice discourages anthropological research.
The concluding chapters deal with con-
ditions in, more closely settled areas of
the Lower Murray, chiefly at Point
McLeay, and with the aborigines who
have made their homes in Adelaide: a
story showing the slow process of assimi-
lation at work, with aborigines and part-
aborigines contriving to find a footing
among the whites, but with much about
drink and prostitution to check the
optimist and with the not-very-cheering
conclusion that it is with the people of the
slums that the Adelaide aborigines, “as
they intermarry and their offspring be-
come progressively lighter... .will finally
become identified.”
Down on the River.
There have been better trout-books
than Harold P. Down’s Out Fishing
(distributed for the author by F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Melbourne). It
consists mostly of little anecdotes from
the Victorian streams, the sort of material
that could often be compressed into a
paragraph and is here beaten out rather
thin-to make a book. But it is enough
for those who love the waters that, “then
to my delight a little blue wren came and
sat on my rod about half-way between
the butt and the tip”: Mr. Down has
been in the right sort of country and has
an eye for nature as well as for a fish.
One of his exploits was to catch a baby
platypus in his hand, lifting it from the
water where it was “swimming in and
out around my legs, snuffling at my
trousers”—-the reviewer had always
assumed that if you attempted to handle
a platypus (not that there are many in
the Tank Stream these days, but you do
see them out fishing) you would promptly
be punctured by the poisonous spur on
the hind leg; but this encounter seems
to have been perfectly amiable on both
sides. Mr. Down also saw on one
occasion two one-legged magpies, appar-
ently a married couple, both of which he
presumes had been caught in irabbit-
traps.
His fishing anecdotes deal with a
tremendous day on the Jamieson, going
in to a remote spot by packhorse and
catching 17 fish in a day, the 13 which he
brought home averaging 2\ pounds; and
a fearful day on Devil’s Creek when the
river was overgrown and snaggy and
infested with snakes, the weather roasting
hot and the only trout to be had were
caught by a local who fished with grass-
hoppers.
Once he found a “private stream, alive
with trout and unknown to other anglers,
once he and his party lost their rods m
very long grass ; once he found a trout
who lived in a hollow log (thus do even
the fish, like snakes, rabbits, lizards,
hatters and pacifists, adapt themselves to
Australian conditions); and once,
course, he lost a 12-pounder . . . and a
these stories will no doubt be read with
proper reverence by fellow-anglers.


Ilflla
sdf
sd
All shoes are stocked in black calf and tan willow in full and half sizes.
-m\ -W&^
<*} / y
r/ .i' W/
C&l- 'I
sz>
,^v-
i * ,* fl
WM
<±} '.m
£■*>
■m.
t=i Ktffe*
ssr
m>
<v\\
igi
w
o
./~ t*
rl
' -
i ( -~'
.-A
rfr*
MMf
yz
' y
m /
s ■ Mza
4
'>JS
£
3?.,
||W^
06^2
ass
/ia
.
m
,
cS -
B
*r >
v— 4 ~x c/C y, ,'~o 'W^
\\ i
,' :
■
■
I n|
■ll
■
.
■ ■
:
■•■ :
I
B
B|
Hi
r
x
¥
ifi r '
■
'd-
rw
mmm
n
■ i ■MBI
Iwi m
,fe
fA
::
I .
Bi
V
:
H
7*^
za.
M
-M
ar
fr
GTi
■A&y
ei
S't
m
H
>' •'•?’•
sSH
U-
/V
•4
rkz
r. »
3>‘
3^
=?r
V,
SMART LOOKS .. ALL DAY COMFORT
Marshall custom built shoes from 676
.. in this finer men’s footwear, handsomely crafted in six styles from choice leather to give superlative style and comfort. The richness
of quality in every detail goes a long way with value-wise men. Left. The “Balfour, wide-fitting. Price 67/6.
Middle. The “English,” medium swing toe in “D & E” fittings. Price 67/6. Right. The Byron with long
extended last square toe. Priced at 67/6.
Below. The “King EE,” a sturdily-built shoe in good quality leather
and with medium fitting and square toe. Price 67/6.
m
m m :
V/Sv
m
is
*
m
m
tm I
■
H
-
■
A
*‘v
gP
f/ -:r\>
\ s i y rv’
: '
p
|v:
m
mm
i
1
m
SIPS
I
; >v> , v
, - ", / V* . V>~J-
■ .jm
i/I ( . I *
F fjf \\
i (4:
4
Left. The “Leighton,” a finishing touch to your
dress. A very light-built shoe in black glace
kid. Priced at 77/6.
Comfortable, sturdy Golf shoes. Well wearing
golf shoes in light brown only. In Derby style
with non-slip rubber heels. Priced at 67/6.
WE ALSO HAVE STOCKS OF
FAMOUS MARSHALL SHOES
Imported Calf, priced at 99/6.
Imported Zebu Brogues, 112/-.
Marshall Custom-built Shoes from
67/6.
MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET—PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT), MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


the beautiful New
I
f*
itsfi
Sh l A^ULA.
G *Mr,
±£as
t/Rf.
of ComfortjCapacity,
and Dependability!
Quick to freeze on even the hottest days
First to give nearly six cubic feet of well-
planned, usable storage space ... the biggest
in the field! Best to keep your budget
balanced. . . . Jcemaster gives dependable,
trouble-free service at the very minimum
running cost! Choose Icemaster ...
it’s refrigeration at its finest!
n.
& For just a trickle of
kerosene, Icemaster’s new,
improved burner gives con-
stant, economical refrigera-
tion, come storm or heat-
wave! Its consumption is
actually lower than that of
less reliable, less powerful
refrigerators!
ALU
N.S.W.
VIC.:
QLD.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.;
DISTRIBUTORS:
Sydney—Peerless Refrigeration Aust.
Pty, Ltd.
Melbourne—Kelvinator Australia Ltd.
Brisbane—Willers & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Cairns—E. Markham.
Adelaide—Radio Electric Wholesalers
Ltd.
Broken Hill—Barrier Electrical Ap-
pliances Ltd.
Perth—Western Appliances Ltd.
Max Geeves Pty. Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
APPLIANCES LIMITED. FINSBURY. SOUTH AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
y 0 l 73— No. 3768
Wednesday , April 30, 1952
' ~
V-W I t\^ur^2s
fs
%
ATOMIC SCUTTLE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
„ Directors:
«• K. Prior p, H. Prior
David Adams K. J, Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Victoriaa? 2521 : ’Phone. 8U5971.
victoria. Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Ade , la i de
4- . * 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
badland: Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite
G P. 0.). Wellington.
WILDCAT PLANNERS AT
PLAY.
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics
of the Department of Commerce, one of
the dozens of committees which form the
real Government of Australia, has
presented Minister John McEwen with a
Five Year Plan,” bodies of this sort
always seeming to think in Leninist terms.
Mr. McEwen has in turn presented the
plan to a meeting of the Australian Agri-
cultural Council, on which all the States
are represented, and no doubt it will also
be a subject of debate in its various
phases for the Standing Committee on
Agriculture, the Dairy Produce Board, the
Meat Board, the Potato Advisory Com-
mittee, the Wool Board, the Hide and
Leather Board and the Wheat Board,
apart from the boards and advisers too
numerous to mention employed by each
of the States at the expense of the Aus-
tralian taxpayers, and the hordes of
secretaries and committees employed by
rural and other industry.
The plan is dressed in all the usual
jargon of five-year plans—“targets,”
“incentives,” “concessions,” “subsidies,”
‘depressed levels” and what-not. It is
also seasoned with optimism in large
quantities, tied up in rainbows and deco-
rated with large numbers of noughts in
million quantities in the same way in
which birthday-cakes are decorated with
hundreds and thousands.
The “target” which the starry-eyed
dreamers of Mr. McEwen’s department
hope to attain is the addition of £100,000,000
a year to Australia’s export-income on the
basis of present prices. They propose
modestly to increase wheat output by
40 per cent., oats and barley by 50 per
cent., lamb by 40 per cent., beef by 17
per cent., milk by 12 per cent., tobacco
by 230 per cent, and linseed by 600
per cent. To do this it is hoped to
expand wheat-acreage from last year’s
10,000,000 acres to 14,000,000 acres,
which is only 1,000,000 acres more than
normal pre-war acreage. Oats and
barley call for another 1,500,000 acres,
cotton for 60,000 acres against the 7000
acres planted last year, linseed for 200,000
acres against 30,000 acres last year, meat
for an increase of about 25 per cent, over
the average post-war figure of 1,000,000
tons, while it is aimed to increase sugar-
acreage from 400,000 to 530,000.
All this is expected to result from “in-
centives,” not from normal demand and
normal expansion of industry. Mr. Mc-
Ewen feels that the concessions in taxa-
tion and otherwise to producers, par-
ticularly depreciation allowances, are “of
very great importance” to this “pro-
gramme of agricultural expansion,” but
he also realises that they must be matched
by “an adequate supply of materials and
equipment.” He, however, sees a ray of
light; since the visit of the representatives
of the International Bank “we have now
reached a point of discussion for a dollar
loan.”
“Agricultural development” (Mr. Mc-
Ewen says) “needs heavy equipment” and
therefore “should a loan eventuate it will
play a part in our production-drive, just
as the first loan already has.” And apart
from this the Commonwealth is willing to
“confer with the States and to see how
far it can contribute to supplement and
assist the States’ extension of services and
policy necessary to establish new farms.”
But he points out that “production is the
responsibility of the States, which can do
much on their own initiative to improve
supplies of materials and equipment
needed by farmers,” a matter on which
some of the States are loath to concur
unless well bribed to do so.
Mr. McEwen is “disappointed” at the
limited ambitions of his advisers. He
feels that “those concerned with estab-
lishing a safer balance in the Australian
economy will feel upset that we are not
stipulating higher targets.” At the same
time he consoles himself that the pro-
posed targets “do not represent desires”
but the view of experts in his depart-
ment as to the highest target that can
be achieved “having regard to the physical
limitations of production. We are
starting behind scratch,’ but he is con-
tUat “if we attend seriously to the
proposals now under way or in sight for
expanding closer-settlement, increasing
fertiliser and equipment supplies, and ex-
panding farm-advisory services, we will
gather the necessary momentum.”
The State representatives present, while
allowing that they might accept the plan
“in principle,” said its success will
depend on their getting enough
loan-money for essential food-production
works, such as roads and rural houses.
In other words they are prepared to help
carry the scheme out provided they do
not suffer any hardship, are not asked to
economise by turning a few thousands of
those inducted into the public services by
various Socialist Governments out of
their soft jobs to do productive work, and
that the Commonwealth pays the piper.
They no doubt welcome the scheme
doubly because it provided them with a
pretext for hefty demands from the Loan
Council this week.
Mr. McEwen is an earnest and sincere
planner, whatever the merits of his plans.
It would, however, be hard enough —
—with the Cahill and Gair Governments,
not to mention the piebald Victorian
Government, round his neck —to develop
“momentum” in production from a stand-
ing start. Where the sole objective of
the Government of the largest producing
State is vote-buying and the provision of
soft jobs for political bosses, production
is a secondary consideration —except, of
course, for “The Party.” But the Com-
monwealth is faced with the fact that the
programme does not get off from a stand-
ing start. The whole wagon of primary
production has been steadily rolling back-
wards downhill with the enthusiastic help
of Premiers like McGirr, whose en-
thusiasm for a growing industrialisation
has been generated by knowledge that
Labor votes grow more thickly in fac-
tories than on farms.
Those engaged in factories in Aus-
tralia have increased in numbers from
540,000 in 1938-39 to 890,000, while those
engaged on farms have sunk in the same
period from 520,000 to 450,000, despite
the fact that the population has increased
by a million, that farm working-hours
have been shortened by a cable-length,
and much more labor is called for to
produce a 1938-39 result. There is
a consequent steady slide in the outputs
of wheat, meat, dairy products and every-
thing else which makes our overseas in-
come, with the result that this year we
have crashed towards bankruptcy by
£562,000,000, which is our estimated over-
seas trade-deficit for 1951-52, the head-
long rush over the precipice having been
checked only by the sudden use of a huge
stock of import bans which jarred business
to its core while saving its life.
Australia was not developed by little
committees of graduates sitting in soft
chairs in Government departments decid-
ing “the highest targets we can expect
having regard to our physical limits of
production.” Neither did its development
emanate from the vast, squandering
luxury-programmes of public works, or
from the huge ballooning of city pro-
duction, or huge programmes of expensive
roadbuilding mostly for the benefit of
pleasure-car users and the heavy-duty
trucks which have had to go into com-
mission to serve city industries because
the bankrupt railroads of the Welfare
States have fallen down on the heavy-
transport job.
No economist-made palliatives can
produce permanent progress and
“momentum” in production. The real
bases of production are its natural main
ingredients, hard work, a desire and an
incentive to save, a goal of prosperity.
And these essentials of production
cannot exist at a satisfactory level while
the whole economy is politicalised and
squeezed to the pips, not with a view to
natural expansion, but with a view to
maintaining artificial living-standards,
masking the workings of the natural laws
of supply and demand and breeding votes
for rival groups of politicians. Rural
industries in recent years have been
starved for ploughs, harvesters, galvan-
ised-iron and other building materials,
wire and vital fertilisers and equally
vital labor in order that maximum leisure
shall be provided for the “worker,” un-
productive jobs for a vast civil service
and human effort cut down artificially
so that there may be “full employment.”
which, in many cases, means full pay
almost without work.
The needs of the various kinds of doles,
concessions and subsidies, disguised or
otherwise, to maintain loafing industries
and special groups of voters and
civil services have become so great that,
by means of the taxation necessary to
meet them, and the concomitant controls
needed to manage them. Socialism has
almost been achieved by a side-wind and
conscription of wealth and capital is close
to becoming reality.
And, as ever, wherever the individual
ceases to be the real owner of what he
produces and can deal with it only at the
will of Socialistic boards and Welfare-
State panjandrums the basic incentive of
ownership ceases to appeal and both out-
put and solid wealth shrink.
"Labor" Panic and Plums.
With N.S.W. State elections normally
some 12 months off, signs of panic in
the spiritual home of “Labor” politics
are increasing.
Mr. McGirr’s ill-health deteriorated at
the prospect of a renewed fight for office
(held already by only the narrowest pos-
sible majority) and a fight which would
have to be sustained against schism in
“the movement” and a Ministerial record
of impotent drift into bankruptcy. His
unskilled performance at the Maritime
Services Board will be watched with
special interest since that State business
undertaking is the only one which con-
trived during his Premiership to avoid an
annual loss.
The real dictator of his late Govern-
ment, as also of the former Chifley-Evatt
Ministry at Canberra, now follows him
into the changing-room where the motley
of “Labor” politics is thrown off for the
respectable dress of another high-salaried
job “outside politics” —the chairmanship
of the Milk Board. It was odds-on that
Mr. Jacky Ferguson, whose mere list of
“positions held” fills several inches of
space in the Press columns, was not going
to see Mr. McGirr escape from the leak-
ing ship without providing also for him-
self.
If Mr. McGirr was to have first choice
while the going was good, Mr. Ferguson
would have mads but poor use of his
political throne —before which the puppet-
Premier had gone down on his knees
more than once —if he had not insisted
on second choice. He was in Adelaide
when he got news of “the confidence
reposed in me by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment,” attending a conference of his
A.R.U. Federal Council, which incident-
ally resolved to defy the A.C.T.U. and
invite expulsion by continuing affiliation
with the Communist World T.U. Federa-
tion.
The “Labor” party is in a condition
of mutiny, anyway, as Mr. Ferguson’s
own union’s defiance of the A.C.T.U.
bears witness. On top of the intensifying
fight within “the movement” between the
Communist union-bosses and the A.L.P.
industrial groups, the particular feud be-
tween the Federal A.L.P. and the
A.C.T.U. goes back to the former’s bid
to displace the A.C.T.U. as “advisory”
body to the late Chifley Government and
to the Chifley-Evatt leadership of the
party in Opposition. The Ferguson
executive’s assertion of authority led to
the severe discomfiture of the political
party when, having first directed the
“Labor” Opposition to resist to a division
the passage of the Menzies anti-Com-
munist Bill, it then somersaulted, on the
vote of Westralian delegates, and ordered
the Chifley caucus not to pursue its pro-
tests in debate to a division.
But this was not the worst blow the
Federal “Labor” party suffered under the
“advice” of Mr. Ferguson’s executive.
The story of the “Labor”-party
manoeuvres as the Menzies Government,
by obstruction in the Senate, was driven
in 1951 to seek a double-dissolution has
not yet seen the light; but that the party’s
leaders in that emergency were confident
that Governor-General McKell would
refuse the Prime Minister’s request was
clear as daylight. The late Mr. Chifley’s
anguished cry in the lobbies —“Bert, he
has let us down!” was heard by ears
for which it was not intended, though the
Parliamentary Press-hands in their dis-
cretion ignored it.
That the A.L.P. executive played no
part in establishing the confidence thus
rudely discomfited is surely not to be
credited after the vigor with which it has
been throwing its weight about. Herein
Mr. Ferguson may have erred along with
others; but more recently he blotted
the party’s copybook all by himself when,
in the midst of Dr. Evatt’s abusive cam-
paign against the Menzies Government’s
anti-inflation measures, he delivered an
address to the local Fabian Society in
which he declared he “was afraid that, if
a ‘Labor’ Government were in power, it
would have to do the things the Menzies
Government is doing.”
Unlike Mr. McGirr, Dr. Evatt does not
feel obliged to forget his wounds. He
was present as guest-of-honor at the late
A.W.U. conference when secretary
Dougherty told both president Monk of
the A.C.T.U. and A.L.P. president Fer-
guson that they ought to get out for the
good of “the movement.” He was guest-
of-honor at the recent Victorian A.L.P.
Easter conference when Mr. Kennelly
lost his M.L.C. endorsement. Doubt-
less he agrees with Mr. Dougherty’s com-
ment on the Ferguson appointment:
“Mr. Ferguson always did show a flair
for reading the writing on the wall.” But
the standing feud over the Communists in
“Labor’s” stronghold-State and the reper-
cussions from the replacement on the
local A.L.P. executive of Mr. Ferguson’s
personality by that of Mr. Dougherty
must make the coming months anxious
for the Federal “Labor” leader as well as
for the rump of the McGirr Ministry.
For the effects have yet to be felt of
the explosion from the bomb cast into
the Sydney executive by Mr. Dougherty
late last month. It landed in the form
of his motion that the executive should
instruct the McGirr caucus to carry out
the objective placed No. 1 in the State
party-platform—abolition of the Legisla-
tive Council, The explosion revealed not
only that some dozen or so members of
the State A.L.P. executive, drawing £5OO
a year as members of the Leg. Council,
resented being told to cut their Parlia-
mentary throats for the sake of- a mere
party pledge, but also that some dozen
or so executive members, headed by Mr.
Ferguson, were holding executive office
illegally by reason of a party rule which
allows no more than two State members
of Parliament to be eligible for executive
office.
The executive responded with the usual
abuse of “a disruptionist” and “anti-
Labor opportunist” ; but “the writing,” as
Mr. Dougherty puts it, “was on the wall,”
and Mr. Ferguson went into conference
with Premier McGirr. Thereafter Mr.
McGirr resigned and escaped to a £3OOO
job, and now Mr. Ferguson is “honored”
(as he says) with one at £2250.
There are at least three other posts
vacant, carrying salaries higher than
either of these. It is hardly surprising
that Ministers’ names have been men-
tioned as candidates. If the writing on
the wall is plain to a McGirr it cannot be
inscrutable to others.
Eisenhower: Harriman.
General Eisenhower has now won by a
handsome majority the Republican
primaries in the three great eastern
States —New Jersey, Pennsylvania and
New York. It is significant of the
popularity of the “I-like-Ike” campaign
that his rival, Senator Taft, who started
out with control of the Republican party-
machine, regards Eisenhower as his
enemy rather than the Democrat.
Taft was certain to poll heavily in the
Middle West, despite the effect of third
Republican candidate Harold Stassen’s
expressed preference for Eisenhower.
The Eisenhower candidature has
already produced important changes in
the Presidential field. It appeared to
decide Mr. Truman not to run again. It
convinced the Democrat Governor
Stevenson of Illinois, the most favored
of the canvassed successors for Truman,
that his own best chance was to keep out
and run for a renewed term as Governor
in his own State. And as well it
brought out for the Democrats a can-
didate likely to be some sort of a match
for Eisenhower (or Taft), W. Averell
Harriman, America’s most experienced
post-war diplomatist, and prominent
among war-time advisers of President
Roosevelt.
Few people in America or outside it pre-
tend to feel easy about the consequences
to American post-war policy in Europe,
or in East Asia, of a Republican victory
carrying Senator Taft into the White
House. Yet the trend of recent Congres-
sional elections has steadily pointed to-
wards a Republican President this year.
General Eisenhower as Republican
candidate removes their apprehensions at
once, and Walter Lippmann declares cur-
rently that the American electors, no less
than America’s friends abroad, greet
Eisenhower as the man who can lift the
election and the office above narrow
party issues and save the country from
disunity.
The candidature of Mr. Harriman is
calculated to do a similar service on the
Democrat side. A contest narrowed
down finally to one between Eisenhower
and Harriman would assure the United
States and the whole world —including
the enemies of the Western democracy—
that the broad policy of international aid,
of standing by post-war commitments
and post-war programmes, and
of full participation with the other
Atlantic Pact Powers in the defence of
the West against Communist aggression,
are safe then whichever party wins.
No greater service than this could be
rendered by America to her Western
Allies and to the cause of peace. The
latter six months of this year has long
been pronounced a period of heightened
tension with Soviet Russia: the worst
possible time for a Presidential election
in the United States which might throw
up an Administration pledged to a relapse
into isolationism.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Italian Fascist" Labor.
At first glimpse the reader is inclined to
look cynically on a journal called
“Voice,” just published, which describes
itself as an “independent” monthly, and
flies at its masthead the quotation from
Euripides; “A slave is a man who has
lost his liberty of thought or opinion.”
The contributors’ list set out on the
first page includes Dr. H. V. Evatt, the
Hon. C. E. Martin, Attorney-General of
N. S. Wales; also E. J. Ward, Leslie
Haylen, Kim Beazley, Clyde Cameron,
Allan Fraser, Frank Crean and P. J.
Clarey (all “Labor” M.Ps. of the “in-
tellectual” Left), Vance Palmer, Professor
Julius Stone, J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C.,
president of the Federal and N.S.W.
A.L.Ps., and Professor Oliphant.
The staggering thing is that on perusal
the paper is independent—completely
independent of the official “Labor” party,
at any rate, Leftist while attacking the
Communist party in spots, at variance
and out of step with “Labor” organisa-
tions.
The articles in the paper seem to be
an advertisement that a very large sec-
tion of the “Labor” party associated with
its Federal Parliamentary and A.L.P.
leaders are in rebellion against the Right
and also against the A.L.P. industrial
groups and the A.C.T.U.
Mr. Ferguson, president of the “Labor”
party (though he won’t be for long), com-
plains of the tendency in unionism to
“determine issues according to whether
they are Left or Right instead of whether
they are right or wrong,” and says that
the A.C.T.U. is “on a very shaky founda-
tion of active Communist-controlled
industrial unions in key industries.” A
new Federation of Unions exists (he
writes), and actually operates in defiance
of the A.C.T.U “the powerful metal-
trades group of unions, and the miners,
seamen, waterside workers, railwaymen —
all key unions, subject to Communist-
party domination.” And he says that if
this combination should care to break with
the A.C.T.U. two national bodies would
emerge—the Communist - dominated
unions, “a potent force,” and the
A.C.T.U., “pitifully impotent.”
But he does not say that the Australian
“Labor” party is in the same position as
the A.C.T.U., or that it is beholden for
its continued existence to the great key
unions which are subject to Communist
domination and which, if they formed
their own political body, would also
create a situation in which the A.L.P.
would be “pitifully impotent” at the
present stage. What is more, Mr, Fer-
guson shows little sympathy for the
A.C.T.U. It seems evident that in going
to the Milk Board he is leaving the sink-
ing ship as he left the Communist party.
Even more significant, however, is an-
other article, by Dr. John Burton, for
Dr. Burton is one of Dr. Evatt’s closest
political friends, his right-hand adviser
on Foreign Affairs when he was pitch-
forked into the Secretaryship of the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department by him, and
when he secured the endorsement for
the Lowe seat after he had dramatically
deserted his post of High Commissioner
to Ceylon.
Yet Dr. Burton writes that Australian
“Labor” is “without clear practical poli-
cies or direction.” He says that “in the
crisis we face there is little to distinguish
the political Labor party from the con-
servative parties,” and that “in fact the
elements of totalitarianism, intolerance,
bigotry and desires to place restraints
upon free expression and upon unionism,
have crept into the party” ; that it “has
been a happy hunting-ground for indi-
vidual self-seekers... .an easy target for
those who seek to destroy it.” He says
that the party sacrificed principle and
supported the Communist bill.
He declares that “Labor” is at present
“without policies on basic issues, because
it is completely confused in respect of its
one-time Socialist objective in trying to
dodge a charge of Communism it has
run away from Socialism.” And, more-
over, it “has given its support to eco-
nomic organisations resembling the
corporate State —that is, producer-con-
trolled marketing organisations, or cor-
porations as distinct from co-operatives
—and has thus embraced Italian Fas-
cism.”
He says further that, “in its readiness
to show itself anti-Communist, the Labor
party has let down the trade-unions.
Labor has sponsored legislation which is
a direct attack on freedom of association,
and has acquiesced in legislation which
will break up the unions into shop com-
mittees .... political Labor is aiding and
abetting the Government in destroying
unionism... .The A.L.P. must grow
closer to the unions—for unless it repre-
sents the unions it has no political stand-
ing.”
It is about the frankest piece of writing
seen for years from an endorsed “Labor”
candidate and a right-hand man of the
Federal leader of the party. Are Dr.
Evatt, Mr. Ferguson and their friends
contemplating rebellion against the
machine and the formation of a new
Socialist party free of “Italian Fascism”
and “elements of totalitarianism, bigotry
and the desire to place restraints upon
free expression and upon unionism” —
such as Mr. Arthur Calwell, the Vic-
torian A.L.P. and the industrial groups
engaged in cleaning Communism out of
the unions? If they are it is no wonder
that Mr. Ferguson, firing only one hurried
shot, dived into the nearest hollow log.
Passports to Peking.
Nowhere in the world could have been
seen a more strangely assorted group of
passengers than those aboard an aircraft
which left Sydney for Hong Kong on
April 22 —three days before Anzac Day.
And nowhere else in the world would
the particular assortment have gone on its
way with Government sanction —in this
case Menzies-Government sanction.
Most important passengers aboard were
Australian fighting men going to Korea
to reinforce their mates already there.
They would have no illusions as to why
they were going and what they could pos-
sibly run into when they got there.
With the fighting men (for part of the
trip) went a group of civilian passengers
—five “delegates” to the May Day cele-
brations in Peking, capital of Communist
China, all of them Communists or
“fellow-travellers.”
As a reporter who spotted them put it,
“Comrades” T. Wright (Sheet Metal
Workers), Pat Clancy (8.W.1.U.), W.
Gardner (Miners’ Federation), John
Bietz (W h a r f i e s) and W. Bird
(Seamen) “expect to be away a
month” attending the Peking cele-
brations. They would be welcomed
by “Comrade” Ernie Thornton, former
boss of the exploded Ironworkers’
Red racket, these days a Communist big-
shot in China, in the Communist outfit
on whose invitation and at whose expense
the “delegation” travelled.
Thus, incredible as it may seem, on
the one aircraft went Australian volun-
teers to fight the Australian enemy in
Korea —and that collection!
The Diggers aboard expressed some of
their thoughts when the plane touched-
down at Hong Kong. “It stinks,” one of
them was reported to comment. Another
reduced Digger terseness to one word,
“Disgusting! ”
Apart from the fighting men and their
friends and relatives, Australians in
general have reason to be bitter when
they see the very Canberra Government
which stigmatised Communists as traitors,
and sought to have them outlawed, issuing
passports with such shocking carelessness.
Peace with Japan.
On April 28 a new era began in world
affairs with the return of Japan to inde-
pendent status.
The change to “peace” in the Pacific
does not promise to be very peaceful.
Most Western nations have accepted it
with optimism. The only jarring note in
the general move to establish friendly
relations with Japan by the Western
Powers, indeed, was a speech by Mr,
Percy Spender emphasising the fact that
Japanese militarism is not dead and that
Australia had agreed to Japan’s partial
rearmament under duress.
So, for that matter, have a lot of other
Powers, but they feel that it is not a
tactful moment to talk about it when
Japan is contributing so much industrially
to the defence of Korea and when the
boom of heavy Russian guns, practising
within range of northern Japanese
islands, can be heard almost every night.
The atmosphere of the meeting at which
the Allied Council was wound up in
Tokyo on April 23 and the need which
General Ridgway felt to make a state-
ment next day on Japanese defence seem
to show clearly what we are up against.
At the final meeting of the council
General Kislenko, the Russian delegate,
flatly refused to acknowledge the validity
of the declarations terminating a state of
war with Japan. He said that the dissolu-
tion of the council was an “illegal act”
and that the Cairo and Potsdam agree-
ments had been violated. He railed at
the Allied Governments and declared that
the occupation of Japan, with the exclu-
sion of Russia from participation, was
being continued by a side-wind,
i After Monday the Russian occupation
mission was the only one which had not
ceased to exist, and Russia will technically
be the only country at war with Japan.
Whether the Japanese will tolerate the
continued presence of a Russian mission
which does not acknowledge Japan’s
sovereign status remains to be seen. But
it is likely that whatever the Japanese
Government does will be done in concert
with the United States and the British
Commonwealth.
General Ridgway, on the eve of closing
S.C.A.P. headquarters, showed himself
fully aware of the dangers arising from
a huge massing of Russian troops in posi-
tions from which they could make a
major attack on Japan on a few hours’
notice. He also referred publicly for the
first time to the fear which has been rife
among observers in Japan for months
that the Korean front is merely a shield
behind which are being massed Com-
munist forces that could be instantly used
to threaten Japan and other countries
after an armistice.
But U.S, and British Commonwealth
forces remain in Japan, and the Japanese
have General Ridgway’s word that the
United States will defend them against
any attack. That is likely to reassure the
Japanese in their present helpless condi-
tion, but it is scarcely likely to deter the
Russians if they mean business. They
must know already that any direct attack
on Japan will at once produce world war.
Inflation Socialism's Ally.
To Mr. Cahill, who succeeds the worst
Premier N.S.W, has ever suffered, falls
the legacy of the Ministry’s commit-
ment to an extravagant public-works
programme, without the materials which
one colleague has declared do not exist
or the loan-money to pay for them which
his predecessor simply frightened—so far
"as there was any—out of the market.
All the McGirr diatribes against the
Commonwealth Government for not find-
ing him enough money are now exposed
as nothing but a plea for issue of millions
of Treasury bills and increased inflation.
Not combating of inflation and high
prices, but the deliberate boosting of
them, is the policy which “Labor,”
through the N.S.W. Government, is now
advocating. There can be no other in-
terpretation of Mr, Cahill’s statement that
at the Loan Council this week he will
press for £lOO million in the next financial
year for N.S.W. works (carried out on
“Government stroke”), when there can
hardly be as much in the potential loan-
pool for all Australia.
Inflation not only feathers some fine
political nests. It is also the essential
method of operation for the establish-
ment of “Socialisation in our time.”
Nothing will so quickly reduce everybody
to a dead level of misery by killing all
savings, all incentive to hard work and
investment by the individual, and estab-
lishing dependence for employment upon
Government jobs. Employment generally
is already threatened by the soaring of
wages to unpayable heights; demands
by the States for money which is not
there in order to compete for materials
already seriously deficient will boost
prices again at the very moment when
some union leaders are already agreeing
with the Prime Minister that the price-
spiral at last shows signs of flattening out.
Success Stories Up-to-Date.
There has been so much about Welling-
ton and Washington in the school-books
that it is time children had some about
our own Australian talent to guide
their infant footsteps towards opulence
and comfort in their old age. The latest
sample Mr. Robert Heffron, Deputy-
Premier in the Sydney Government and
himself a member of the Communist-
party Old Brigade, might well write from
personal knowledge:
John A. Ferguson.
First came to notice as Communist-party
candidate for Wagga at State elections, 1930,
a year after he had joined the Railway Traffic
Department, but name withdrawn before
nomination day. He became an active member
of the A.R.U. (N.S.W. branch), a Communist-
controlled union affiliated with the Red Inter-
national of Labor Unions (secretary, Solomon
Losovsky, later Foreign Office Commissar,
U.S.S.R.; address, Moscow) in 1934. He had
been a member of the Australian executive
of the Red International, 1931, the year when
that body announced that it proposed to turn
“every factory, workshop, mine and ship into
a fortress of revolution” and if the police inter-
fered with their activities to “meet force with
force.”
In 1934, when Losovsky issued orders to the
Australian branch to destroy arbitration, the
policy of the Labor party, a motion for its
abandonment was moved in the A.C.T.U.
special conference by W. Orr, of the central
committee of the Communist party, and
seconded by Comrade Ferguson. He was
appointed an organiser of the A.R.U. that year.
In the first year of the war, when Hitler
and Stalin were in alliance, the N. S. Wales
A.R.U., of which the secretary was Dr. Lloyd
Ross, a member of the central committee of
the Communist party, followed Communist-
party lines. In a railway strike promoted by it
and aimed directly at Broken Hill, a vital centre
of war-production, Comrade Ferguson was
Comrade Ross’s offsider.
When, late in 1940, however, Comrade Ross
decided to abandon Communism and fly to the
Labor party, which he did quoting by way ot
justification Lenin’s dictum that a missionary
should always go where there were most con-
verts to be made, Comrade Ferguson followed
him. Labor shortly rewarded Comrade Ross
for his previous lifelong devotion to Com-
munism by appointing him to a key-positjon in
the Department of Post-War Construction.
Comrade Ferguson succeeded him in the State
secretaryship of the A.R.U. in 1943, and was
swiftly promoted to high office in the Labor
party —member of State executive; then, as the
war ended, State president of the A.L.P., in
which office he suggested that it would be a
good thing if the Communist party disbanded
and joined the Labor party en masse. McKell
“Labor” made him a Fellow of the University
Senate in 1945, a member of the Legislative
Council the same year and of the post-war
Transport Committee —a most improper appoint-
ment in view of his position as a union advo-
cate —after he had issued an A.R.U. pamphlet
advocating the continuance of war-time controls
in peace-time.
In 1948, at the Triennial Federal Conference
of the Labor party, after which he became
Federal president, a resolution was passed
declaring that “between the Communist party
and the Labor party there is such basic hostility
and differences that no Communist auxiliary or
subsidiary can be associated with the Labor
party in any activity and no Labor-party branch
or member can co-operate with the Communist
party.”
In an article in the current issue of the
“Voice” (April, 1952), a curious monthly
journal, Mr. Ferguson wrote that the “railway-
men’s” union is a “key union, subject to Com-
munist domination.” Then he left for
Adelaide to sit as senior Federal vice-president
of the railway union under the presidency of
Comrade J. J. Brown, member of the central
committee of the Communist party. This might
have seemed to anybody else but Mr. Ferguson
and the Cahill Government a somewhat invidious
position for the Federal and State president of
the A.L.P., which has declared by resolutions
that the objective of the Communists (and of
course the leadership of unions which they
dominate) is to “destroy the existing democratic
institutions and the personal liberty of the Aus-
tralian people” and establish “a totalitarian form
of government.” But while Mr. Ferguson was
at this conference of a body which he says is
currently “subject to Communist domination”
Mr. Cahill’s Government appointed him chair-
man of the Milk Board .a tat £2250 a--year.
Comrade Ferguson’s promotion is not
the only one of the kind—Comrade
Denford, who retires from the position
of consumers’ representative on the same
board, had a record of Communist-party
and I.W.W. activity over a whole genera-
tion, for which the McKell-McGirr era of
“Labor” rewarded him with a trusteeship
of the A.L.P. and a four-figure job on
the Milk Board to enable him to live up
to his exalted party status.
Schools might as well be presented with
slogan cards reading: “Join the Com-
munist party and become rich Labor
bosses.”
Off on a Honeymoon.
While McGirr, Ferguson and Co, are
busy chiselling themselves into well-paid
jobs the Hon. Joshua George Arthur,
N.S.W. Minister for Mines, will be on
a honeymoon tour of India, the U.K.,
Europe and the U.S.A.
He told reporters he will marry to-
morrow and leave by ’plane on Friday
and will be away about three months.
He also told them he would “bear the
expenses of the tour,” and coyly added
that the Cahill Government would “com-
pensate” him for any “Governmental
work” he did.
Mr. Arthur seems to have plenty lined
up. He will inspect “major opencuts and
stowage” in Calcutta mines, confer with
the National Coal Board in London, spend
a fortnight in Germany inspecting mine
mechanisation and “advanced coalmining
developments,” then spend a month in
U.S.A. “studying opencut mining and
pillar extraction.”
Apart from the question of what pro-
portion of the three months all this will
account for it will be interesting to see
how much it will cost the people for
“compensation for expenses connected
with any Governmental work” during the
period.
The snag is that the real payers of the
“compensation” will have to wait for
years before they learn how much they
were actually called on to pay.
Our Anzac Foundation.
“Ek Dum” turns back the pages;
Anzac Day—April 25—has a much longer-
standing association with the history ot aus
tralia than the landing: on Gallipoli.
It is in fact the real foundation-day of tne
country, for it was on April 25, 1787, that the
Royal Instructions of Captain Phillip for tn©
expedition to Botany Bay were signed and
his Commission as Captain-General and Gov-
ernor-in-Chief of the new territory of the
eastern half of Australia and the adjacent
islands, including New Zealand, delivered to
him —the signatories of the instructions in-
cluded William Pitt the Younger, and King
George 111 refers to himself throughout it as
“Wee.”
It was, technically, a naval and military ex-
pedition. The Governor was dowered with all
the authority of a commander-in-chief. He
had the right to fortify, the right to take and
destroy the King’s enemies, and the right to
declare martial law in case of emergency.
His courts were military, and to guard his
roughly 600 male and 180 female convicts he
had 180 Marines and a civil staff of only 15.
And, though the normal picture of the foun-
dation of the Sydney Settlement is one of
{Continued on next page.)


ds
fsd
Travel in State —Interstate ...
Morning, noon and night A.N.A. luxury air liners are
criss-crossing the Continent between their 62 ports o r call which
network our States. A.N.A. air travellers can leave at any
time of the day which suits them best.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
tea -
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY. LTD.
Branches and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
dullness and misery, it is actually to the mili-
tary and naval members of the expedition
that we owe our first real history.
It was they who established the first courts,
the proclamations and letters-patent being
read by David Collins, the Judge Advocate,
an old soldier of many wars and battles, in-
cluding Bunker Hill. It was they who did
the first exploring far into the Blue Mountains
and down the Nepean and up to the Hawkes-
bury. It was they who imposed the discipline
necessary to keep the ragged place going as it
became hungrier.
Nearly 18 months elapsed between the first
landing and the arrival of the first store-ships
with food and clothing from England to save
the gaunt skeletons who had become too weak
to work more than two or three hours a day,
and whose very guards went on duty bare-
footed.
There is an impression that there was little
need for a guard save to discipline the con-
victs in those early first years. The fact is
that, though Phillip had been told to “pro-
tect,” “conciliate the affections of” the
natives and “enjoin all Our subjects to live
in amity and kindness with them,” and though
he faithfully carried these orders out, it was
long before it was safe for any stray hunter
to go far from the settlement. If he did,
Pemulway and his companions were likely to
get him, as they did one of the Governor's
staff and 17 others inside a couple of years,
and then it would be necessary to send out a
detachment to the wild Botany Bay peninsula
—fruitless, of course—commanded by Captain
Watkin Tench.
On the earliest of such jaunts Tench pro-
duced the first description of an offensive mili-
tary expedition in the country. It sounds like
a vignette from the story of the Kokoda Trail,
and reminds one also that the first descriptive
writing (indeed, the first printed narratives of
any sort) about the foundation of the country
came from soldiers and sailors —Phillip him-
self, Collins, White, Hunter, and also Tench,
who would have earned a good living as a
descriptive writer on a modern newspaper.
His annals are classics —that describing the
approach of the relief ships in 1790 is without
parallel in vividness in the early writing of
this or perhaps any colonisation in the world.
Not only was Australia truly a military
settlement as the result of the Royal Orders
of “Anzac Day,” 1787, but the country began
to give birth to future soldiers almost the
moment the First Fleet landed, despite the
fact that the Governor did not take advantage
of the breeding facilities which his instruc-
tions permitted him to acquire through sub-
sidiary expeditions after arrival—3oo ladies
from Tahiti and the Moluccas —for the home-
comfort of the troops.
Only 23 years after the foundation of the
colony, and about the time the first survivors
of the first-born were reaching military age,
the first Australian native volunteered for ser-
vice—Thomas Stubbs, who joined the ranks of
the King’s Own Scottish Borderers and was
away from home at the wars for a matter of 15
years. The first Australian to be commis-
"'aned, young D’Arcy Wentworth, entered the
73rd Regiment (Second Battalion of the Black
Watch) in 1813. At that time the recruit-
ing officer, Captain Coane, was rolling young
Australians in, noting the fine physique of the
Currency Fads and astonished at the fact that
nothing would persuade them to touch a drop
of spirits. Some of those who joined were
sent away and fought at Waterloo, the first
Australian-born who can be traced into major
battle.
Thus the Anzacs of 1915 were celebrating
an Australian fighting centenary. Since then
Australians have taken part in every major
war of the British Empire and Commonwealth,
so that the spirit of Anzac goes right down into
the seed of our history to the Anzac Founda-
tion Day.
POLITICA L POINTS
A question asked at Anzac Day re-
unions in Sydney was “Has the R.S.L.
forgotten the Ex-servicemen’s Preference
Act?” If the league has made any pro-
test to the N. S. Wales Government
against the Maritime Services Board and
Milk Board appointments then no men-
tion of it has appeared in the Press.
Surely there are some eligible Diggers
who know as much about milk as Fer-
guson and some R.A.N. or merchant-
navy veterans who can equal McGrrrr’s
knowledge of ships?
Defending or excusing the appointment
of Jacky Ferguson as Milk Board chair-
man, N. S. Wales Premier Cahill said:
“Our first consideration always has been
who is the available man most fitted for
appointment.” It is interesting to apply
this test to the appointment of McGrrrrr
as chairman of the Maritime Services
Board. According to the ex-Premier’s
own statement this is what occurred on
the day of his resignation;
At 10 a.m. on April 1 McGrrrrr informed
Cahill of his intention to resign. At 11 a.m.
Cahill informed Cabinet. Cabinet there-
upon “decided to appoint” McGrrrrr chair-
man of the Maritime Services Board.
If the statements of the two Premiers are
both valid, then Cabinet is to be con-
gratulated on the speed with which it
finds its “available man most fitted.”
Ferguson’s appointment wasn’t quite
such a sudden affair, though this appa-
rently was not so much a matter of the
selected candidate’s fitness for the appoint-
ment as of the fitness of the appointment
for the candidate. Ferguson had obvi-
ously been selected as “most fitted” for
the job ; the only question was which
job? For weeks the dogs had been
barking “Meat Board, Milk Board,
Hospital Board.” The last-mentioned
possie carried a mere £l5OO a year,
so it hardly fitted. As between Meat
and Milk there wasn’t much to
choose; Ferguson had had consider-
able experience of eating meat and in
his early years had imbibed a fair gallon-
age of milk, so it was really a toss-up
which he got —or which got him. Milk
won ; well at least it got Ferguson.
Half-Premier McDonald having said
that Victoria would not pass legislation
for a State Lottery while he was in
office. Other - Half Premier Cain
announced that he will bring down a
Lottery Bill when Victorian Parliament
meets in July, and that it will be sup-
ported by all “Labor” members. He has
the hide to call it “a private member’s
bill.”
When the N.S.W. Liberals held a
regional conference at Hornsby they
declared the Egg Board should be
abolished. Whereupon H. Batt (Lisarow),
“If the board is abolished the poultry
farmers will lose their sheet-anchor. It
is the only thing that guarantees them a
price.” T. O. Edwards (Blacktown): “We
don’t want to be sheet-anchored. We
want to sell eggs. We should follow the
path of free enterprise and get away from
controls and stabilisation.”
Randwick, the Sydney municipality
which has joyfully announced that it will
proceed to build a community hotel and
centre (pub, hall, council offices, library
and so forth) at a cost of £250,000, adjoins
Waverley. The two areas cover the most
thickly-populated eastern suburban
district of Sydney (embracing five State
and two Federal electorates and part of
two more Federal ones), and while a
community pub will doubtless be enjoyed
by many and quickly pay for itself, a
more pressing need is for a large public
fruit- and vegetable-market to serve both
municipalities.
That legendary figure, “an Army
spokesman,” administered a mild rebuke
to Adelaide University students who, in
their undergraduate newspaper, criticised
the National Service training system on
the grounds of inefficiency, claiming that
student trainees who had recently been
in camp “could have mastered all the
course had to offer” in half the time
scheduled. He replied that the course
was designed for the average 18-year-
old, and that a special course for trainees
“of higher than normal academic standard
was neither possible nor desirable.” Of
complaints that contaminated food had
been served he said that, if this were so,
no trainee had reported the fact, and
that “whether the food was good or bad
the average weight increase was over
four pounds a man.”
Retention by “Labor” of the Gawler
seat in the S.A. Assembly with an
increased majority—lo4o at the by-
election, compared with 493 two years
ago—has raised the party’s hopes for
next year’s general election. Still, they’ll
need something more than hopes to oust
the Playfords ; at present “Labor” holds
only 12 seats in a House of 39.
The new boss of Queensland police.
Labor Minister Jones, has announced that
after July 1 they’ll work a 40-hour week.
This is to reduce the overtime bill. Pos-
sible report of Constable Buzfuz: I chased
the suspected person into a side-street
and saw him climb a fence and run into
the rear of the building. As it was then
precisely 9.30 a.m., my knock-off time,
I desisted from the chase, returned to
the station, and signed off.
Among the signs that election shadows
are beginning to fall on the Ministry from
which McGrrrrr decamped is to be noted
that Chief Secretary Gus Kelly is to visit
all States to investigate the business of
trotting. He will also, he says, inquire
into whether Evatt minor’s previous
permit to Bankstown and Penrith for
additional “experimental” trot-meetings
will infringe “safeguards to racegoers’
interests.”
Where it is possible to look back on
the visions of officials about “targets”
and “potentialities” in Australia they
provide a good laugh. There are
hundreds of them, beginning with that
of the experts who convinced a House
of Commons Select Committee in 1812
that beyond the confines between Jervis
Bay and Port Stephens (N.S.W.) and in-
land 60 miles from the coast “the colony
will not be capable of extension” and
“appeared nowhere practicable for agri-
cultural purposes, and in many places
the diameter of the habitable country is
less.” Later an official —a surveyor-
general, no less —declared the rich district
of the Lachlan “uninhabitable and useless
for all purposes of agriculture and
grazing.”
At the Board Chairmen’s Club or
wherever it is that board chairmen for-
gather to discuss the mysteries of their
craft it is not unlikely that Board Chair-
man McGrrrrr (Maritime Services) will
occasionally break a crust with Board
Chairman Ferguson (Milk), what time
they recall old cronies of the days before
they got themselves their chairs. It is
just possible they might discover, in one
of the quieter corners of the club,
McGrrrrr’s former deputy, Jack
Baddeley ; he’s not a chairman, of course,
but as Director of State Coalmines he
might qualify for associate membership.
If they locate him, it’s their duty to tell
the public, as his fans have had no news
of him since his appointment two or three
years ago, and are apprehensive lest he
may have fallen asleep and been
entombed in one of his own mines.
N.S.W. Country Women’s Association
heartily condemned all commodity-
control boards at its annual conference
in Sydney and carried a resolution for
their abolition, with special reference to
the Egg Board. So far as can be dis-
covered, all hands bar the boards
themselves and sundry politicians want
them abolished, but short of a general
revolt of housewives there seems no way
to get rid of them.
The Royal Commission on the Liquor
Trade in N. S. Wales flows frothily on.
The most touching story heard at last
week’s sitting was told by a tender-
hearted publican whose barman had asked
him for a small quantity of beer —20
dozen bottles —for “a pal of his who was
having a pre-wedding party.” As the
barman “was a good worker and he did
not want to offend him” he let him have
it, at the fixed price, and also lent him
his car to take it away in. Later he
found the beer had been delivered to a
nightclub, but the barman explained that
he had dropped it there for his pal to
pick up. Asked by the judge whether
the barman had resented it when he
sacked him, the publican replied that he
had not sacked him —“I didn’t see any-
thing wrong with him obliging a pal.”
Told that a member of the Crown
Solicitor’s staff had testified to seeing him
. deliver the beer at the nightclub himself,
the publican denied that he had been
near the place. He admitted that the stoty
he had told Tooth’s representative had
differed somewhat from the version given
the court. Wallace, Q.C., thereupon
suggested that this was because the repre-
sentative “would not even begin to accept
a story of selling 20 dozen beer to an
employee in innocent circumstances.”
Justice Maxwell commented “He is not
alone.”
According to J. M, Hewitt, Stevedoring
Industry Board chairman, Melbourne
wharfies earned an average of £l6 2s. 9d.
a 35-hour week in the last quarter of
1951. In other ports the figures were:
Fremantle, £l6 Bs. 7d.; Brisbane £l4 3s.
4d.; Sydney £l5 12s. lOd. A 35-hour
week in ports congested with cargo and
ships makes all plans for increasing Aus-
tralian production look ridiculous.
Asked by the Australian Wheat Board
to help it shift “three years’ accumula-
tion” of grain from Eyre’s Peninsula
storages to ports, a road-transport associa-
tion invited the South Australian Minister
for Works to do something about the
roads, adding that from January to
April this year road-lorries had shifted
over 500,000 bags of wheat, barley and
oats to Port Lincoln, Port Augusta and
Cowell. The reply was that no further
money would be spent on roads, as the
S.A. Government intended building-up
the rail system. It will of course go on
collecting registration fees, transport
taxes and other revenue from motor
owners, though it was Premier Playford
himself who a year or so back spoke of
spending such revenue on roads instead
of using it to bolster-up rail finances.
At Swan Hill, on the Murray, Victorian
Half-Premier McDonald denied that
“Labor” leader Cain is his boss, though
McDonald leads the minority C.P. and
is kept in office by “Labor” support.
Mac challenged the L.-C.L. to move a
no-confidence motion, and then produced
this gem: “At the last State election Mr.
Cain said he would not attempt to govern
unless ‘Labor’ had an outright majority.”
Mr. McDonald, apparently, is not so
finicky.
Queensland police, who were talking
wildly about striking a week or so ago,
decided to take a secret ballot, involving
a period of about two months. Already
the subsequent cooling-off has resulted in
many districts reporting either doubt
about the strike or downright opposition
to it. No wonder Communist bosses of
trade-unions hate the secret ballot.
Voters in a municipal election in
Birmingham (Eng.) were set a problem
when the rival candidates in one ward
both had the same name, William Henry
Smith. In theory one Bill Smith should
be as good as another, but as one bloke
was a Conservative and one a Socialist
their supporters didn’t quite see it in that
light. The law forbids any mention of
parties on the ballot-paper, or any other
mark other than the names of the candi-
dates. Officials said they intended to
regard the William Henry Smith first
appearing on the card as being the W.H.S.
living in the street the initial letter of
which came first in the alphabet. The
problem of the parties was to get this
information into the heads of the voters.
Whichever way it goes it’s odds-on that
William Henry Smith will win.


men's wear
men's wear
r
[ WONPSR.
WOULP
YOU
MINP
TfO / (N<3-
THIS ON FOR. ME. ASOOT
my hosbanp's size.' 5 '
TRY-ON.


IS YOUR WILL
UP-TO-DATE?
It may need revision
If you have not revised your Will
to meet to-day’s conditions, the conse-
quences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility
to that someone is too important to jus-
tify delaying until some to-morrow that
may never come.
Why not have a confidential chat with
one of our Senior Officers on the subject
of the appointment of the Company as
your Executor and Trustee alone or
jointly with a relative or friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient manage-
ment thereafter. The final step of
instructing your Solici-
tor redraw your Will
should then be a simple
matter.
If you would have
particulars of the ser-
vices offered by the
Company, write (or
ring 80377) and make
an appointment.
df
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
K. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LTSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOBDEBN; JOHN W. DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. Q. ABMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Offices at WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTB and ORANGE
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices!
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Morals, Mores and
Unmentionables
“Falsies’' are not new. They
were once worn by men under
stockings for shapely calves.
In May Reader’s Digest Dr.
C. Willett Cunnington, authority
on the history of underclothes,
tells how women down the ages
have employed undergarments
to accentuate —even to create —
those physical features which
characterize their sex. Even
Victorian “prudes” had flexible
celluloid “bust improvers”. This
era was also marked by the
“divorce corset”, a triangular
piece of padded steel designed
to separate the breasts.
Get your Reader’s Digest to-
day — in the new natural-color
photographic cover; 32 articles
of lasting interest. One shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOI* 4
OSUIJJVAtf
. a. photo A ,
tPS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The “WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
PRICE 2 1-
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Britain’s Finances
From London: The
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. R. A. Butler, is not a man
of strong political personality.
His natural shyness and lack of
emotional appeal are hardly
characteristics that would seem
to qualify him to lead the nation
out of a grave financial crisis.
Yet, when the comment on his
Budget has been sifted and
assimilated, the favorable re-
actions suggest that he has won
not only a political victory but
also a psychological one.
In its immediate effect at
home, the Budget makes two
psychological points: —
(1) The Conservative party,
haying accepted the responsi-
bility of maintaining the Wel-
fare State, is determined to get
down to foundations and re-
buttress the structure, and
(2) Recognising that the State
rises or falls according to what
is put into it by the efforts of
its citizens, the emphasis is
switched from passive depend-
ence to contributory incentive.
The wasteful and inequitable
food-subsidies which were in-
troduced during the war as a
rough - and - ready means of
stabilising prices rose from
£91 million in 1941 to over £400
million in 1951, and, meanwhile,
have fortuitously come to be re-
garded as an essential con-
comitant of the Welfare State.
Mr. Butler (with great political
courage, considering the back-
ground party issues) has reduced
them by £160 million and re-
turned nearly one-half in
additional social benefits for the
needy. He has also softened the
penal rates of income-tax,
remedying the three inherent de-
fects : too-low starting point.
excessively high rates and too-
steep graduation.
His object in cutting the sub-
sidies is to bring a sense of real-
ism home to the people, and in
modifying the income-tax is to
make extra work worth while.
The main increases in indirect
taxes are comparatively small
sums of £66 million and
£9,500,000 from motor-spirit
and post-office services re-
spectively—small because the
income-tax concessions will cost
£228 million in a full year.
The principal check on infla-
tion depends upon an increase in
the bank rate from 2\ p.c. to
4 p.c. The one concession to
Left-wing prejudice was an
excess-profits levy on industry.
This has attracted much
criticism, mainly on the grounds
that if incentives are to be given
to employees they must be given
to managements as well; that
people are asked to work harder
while those who provide the
work have their hands tied.
The questions now being
asked, after the emotional sur-
prise and encouragement have
subsided, are: Will these
measures be enough to check in-
flation? Are the premises on
which the Chancellor bases his
incentive motive sound when the
bank rate and tighter credit re-
striction may squeeze out small
firms? Will the trade recession
and the insistent wage-claims
unbalance the forecasts? On this
point Mr. Butler has been
criticised for leaving the level
of home consumption un-
touched, but it is not unlikely
that he had in mind the Austra-
lian import cuts and their effect
on the textile and motor-vehicle
industries.
Although the unreactionary
nature of the Budget took the
Opposition so much by surprise
that Mr. Attlee could not find
words to pass on it, there is a
concerted movement from the
Left to use it as a scarifying
tactic threatening unemploy-
ment, working-class living stand-
ards and a return to the “bad old
days.” In the mines these same
methods are being used by Com-
munists to prevent Saturday
working, but there are no signs
yet of serious industrial unrest.
An important characteristic of
you ever get that funny feeling you've been in the
same place before?”
the Budget is its flexibility, if
only because of the still greater
flexibility behind it.
The Securities Market
There were signs that the
slump in the bond and equity
markets had been arrested just
before the Easter recess. But
the rally was short-lived. Fol-
lowing failure of the 15th
Security Loan, and a further rise
in the basic wage, the drift con-
tinued until just before the
Anzac weekend, when there
were again signs that the ebb-
tide might turn.
All that can be said definitely
at the moment is that until the
end of the financial year at
June 30 next a lot of money will
be siphoned from the private
sector of the economy into the
Treasury, and for this and other
reasons the market is likely to
remain weak and sensitive.
Meanwhile it will anxiously
await the outcome of the Loan
Council meeting, which will fix
the public-borrowing programme
for 1952-53. After that, interest
will centre largely on the forth-
coming Federal Budget, particu-
larly in connection with what
happens concerning further anti-
inflationary measures, if any,
what future policy in relation to
credit and capital-issues control
will be, at what level expendi-
ture on defence, immigration,
social-services and other Gov-
ernment activities is likely to run,
and whether taxation (direct and
indirect) is likely to be held at
current rates, or increased or
decreased.
On April 24 the bond market
closed distinctly firmer with
yields at approximately 4 \ p.c.,
or i p.c. higher than the 1939
level. The long-term paper in
the recent 15th Security Loan
sold at 325. 6d. below par. The
1965 3 i per cents, sold at £BB
17s. 6d., giving a redemption
yield of £4 6s. Bd. p.c. If the
Government comes onto the
market again before June 30,
its success, or otherwise, will
depend upon whether it asks for
too much and offers too little —
it seems doubtful whether any
yield short of 4 p.c. will meet
with a prompt and full response.
Appearances are that a 4 p.c.
return would again attract the
support of life-offices and other
big institutional investors.
In the equity market prices
have fluctuated widely, the recent
rally leaving most sound indus-
trials at about the same level as
at the beginning of the month,
with yields ranging between 4
p.c. and 5i p.c., according to
standing and prospects. On the
more speculative securities yields
ranged from 8 p,c. to 10 p.c. and
over on the basis of last de-
clared' dividend rates.
Omati
“Lemon”: Whether the slight
drop in Oil Search shares is due
to the general easing of values
on the Stock Exchange, or
whether it is the reaction to
Island Exploration’s announce-
ment that “ ‘fishing’ operations at
Omati have been temporarily
suspended to allow of the instal-
lation of a heavier drilling outfit
and testing of the strata already
penetrated” remains to be seen.
If the latter, it is entirely
unjustified.
The rig used up to the present
at the Omati location is a
National “50” (B. 6/12/’5O), and
to reach 8962 ft. with such a
comparatively light outfit is—
under Papuan or other condi-
tions —a feat of which both
manufacturer and operators may
well be proud. The fact, publicly
announced for the first time,
that this top 9000 ft. contains
strata considered worthy of test-
ing for oil production—and that
at the expense of bringing
heavier equipment into this very
rugged terrain —should be very
encouraging, particularly when,
as in this case, the co. is not
seeking further capital from the
public or a subsidy from the
Government.
In addition, the installation of
the heavier rig, to allow of the
recovery or side-tracking of the
“fish”—wvhich, here, is a length
of stuck drill pipe—suggests that
the information already collected
has indicated reasonable pros-
pects of finding oil both above
and below the 9000 ft. already
reached.
Westralian Drilling
“Petro”: It was announced at
the beginning of April that
equipment for the drilling of
the first test-well by West Aus-
tralian Petroleum Pty., Ltd.,
would be shipped from U.S.A.
in May and was expected to be
on site—inshore from Exmouth
Gulf, about 650 miles north of
Perth—in July. The equipment
is stated to be capable of reach-
ing a depth of 15,000 ft.
The co.’s field-party has now
returned from Exmouth Gulf,
and the exact location of the
well, and the route and methods
of transporting heavy equip-
ment, will be determined as
soon as the field data have been
studied and collated.
After a series Oj. over-
enthusiastic opinions as to the
oil prospects of the structure,
emanating from both Govern-
mental and private sources, it is
encouraging to learn that the
field-party deprecates “undue
optimism on the assumption that
oil will be found” since it is
“not consistent with the com-
pletely unexplored nature of this
vast area.”
This sane statement indicates
that the co. (80 p.c. of whose
shares are held by the Caltex
group and 20 p.c. by Ampol) is
prepared to meet the difficulties
and disappointments which are
inherent in most exploratory
drilling for petroleum.


avvar
ME
m
50 Cola
and
Prize Me&aU
50 Goto
and
Priit Meflals
r=s. t(k. 8Y APPOINTMENT
MIJUIU
. “White Label v
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. .
John Dewar & Sons
DISTILLE R S
<C'CXs». pe scotland
c . net CONTENTS IP/NT. 6FL OZS. nTIW ID
WHOIIY DISTILLED.MATURED AND BLENDED «• BB“ omS
It is not necessary to explain that
Dewar’s “White Label” Scotch
Whisky is no longer in full supply.
You, of course, appreciate why.
However, although you may not
at present obtain the quantity you
desire, you can be assured that you
will at all times enjoy the same
famous quality, for;
“DEWAR’S NEVER
VARIES”
DEWARS
White Label
SCOTCH WHISKY
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
“ . . . under the most adverse conditions
where other vehicles could not pass . . ”
HOLDEN GOT THROUGH
m
m
'
This letter tells of the
working journey of a
Holden Coupe Utility
over 1,400 miles of rough
roads and tracks in the
North West of New
South Wales. It shows
the Holden Utility as a
hard-working “go-
anywhere” utility.
HOLDEN
Australia's
Own Utility
mf
/ “Dear Sir,
I bkS S, COTC "‘ J ,he *SSonTih° ,kc rehi *
O'vinVro i s C °,"T y i i tT‘ b r^ b
the ,ts _ tightness pj us as f °und that
used has 12 - im ’ and the v <fh<Vi Ih u - ojJ I
metpr L . ,uu o uides teektp r ;„ Ve nicle beino-
meter at stage.” g Stenn g on the speedo /
I
Sales Manager.
• there ore two /Ur Chief Roc//os specially designed for Holden . . .
a long range S-valve set and an exceptionally powerful 6-valve model.
• Convenient Hire Purchase terms are available through G.M.A.C. . . .
General Motors own finance company, 4i47
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The future of the 8.8. C.,
whose charter expires in June,
is being widely debated.
Monopoly or free enterprise?
By far the strongest opposi-
tion to the present system comes,
not from the considerable body
of listeners that regularly tunes
in to the eager blandishments of
Radio Luxembourg, but from a
number of Conservative back-
benchers. Some attack the
8.8. C. because they believe any
monopoly is bad and therefore
must be broken up ; and some,
it is being said, because they are
influenced by indirect pressure
from powerful advertising and
radio interests.
The chief forum for this
debate has been the “Times”
correspondence columns, where
argument has been conducted
mainly by the Peerage, with a
liberal cross-section of the more
intellectual public figures, broad-
casters and listeners. Experi-
ences of all-out advertising, as
in the United States, and of the
two systems working side-by-
side, as in Australia and Canada,
have been graphically retailed.
One correspondent, a distin-
guished lady economist who,
before marrying aa Australian,
had served as a governor of the
8.8. C., even postulated that a
modification of Gresham’s Law
applied to broadcasting, bad
entertainment driving out the
good.
T.V. Costly
It now seems certain that the
Government, which has
authority over the 8.8. C. but no
detailed control of it, will renew
the present charter without
important changes. But the
corporation’s problems, mainly
financial, will remain.
Television is an expensive
luxury, and makes heavy
demands upon the revenue from
“sound” broadcasting. So also
does the State, for the Labor
Government appropriated 15
p.c. (£2,000,000) of the annual
licence-fees —a measure that the
Conservatives have not seen fit
to reform.
Meanwhile, the 8.8. C. must
be chuckling quietly to itself.
Properly recognising its function
as servant of the public, it gave
way to the Aintree authorities
when they insisted on conduct-
ing their own commentary of the
Grand National, thus retaining
the copyright for themselves.
The result was such an
amateurish blunder that it only
served to inform a huge audi-
ence how expertly the 8.8. C.
professionals carry out their
jobs.
Tory Reverse
The blame lies on the militant
Left, say the cynics, for putting
“rage” into universal suffrage.
With the spreading of the vote,
the growth of industrial pockets
in residential areas and the
purposeful exploitation of poli-
tical smokescreens by doctri-
naires, this “rage” technique has
been more and more in evidence
in recent years. The frightful
“warmongering” campaign of
the last general election was the
most blatant example, serving to
hide from the people their
economic plight, to obscure the
ineptitude and disunity of the
retiring Government and to
blacken the Opposition.
Mr. Churchill’s Government
has suffered a nasty body-blow
from the results of the County
Council elections, which will
surely mean both a pause for
breath and a change of tactics.
While the swing was compara-
tively slight in the provinces, in
London it was decidedly not.
The L.C.C. is now made up of
92 Labor councillors and 37
Conservatives. (The previous
composition was: Labor 65,
Conservative 63 and Liberal
one.)
Protest Votes
It is true that the Tories expect
to be unpopular because of
their rigorous spring-cleaning,
that some of their election
promises were rash, that they
are no more responsible for
rising prices than they are for
the mess they are trying to clear
up, and that local elections have
little bearing upon national
politics. It is also true that the
blow will not deter them from
their established policy, although
the Opposition, having new
momentum, will pursue its
filibustering tactics in the House
with greater zest.
What stands out is not so
much the true local and political
issues as the relationship between
increasingly hard times and the
power of the vote. London is
still recoiling from substantial
increases in transport fares,
which have yet to spread to the
rest of the country. These
increases were not imposed by
the Conservatives (nor, for that
matter, by Labor), but they have
hurt so much that electors, pro-
voked by irresponsible chatter,
have used their votes in protest.
(The “Times,” editorially, goes
so far as to suggest the possibility
of “a permanent shift in political
power—the result of the granting
of universal suffrage.”) Cer-
tainly, emotion seems to be a
greater force than balanced
judgment, and electors tend sub-
stantially to vote against, rather
than for, a party.
One of the two great parties
too plainly has learned how to
influence this trend to its own
narrow advantage. Messrs.
Churchill and Co. will, indeed,
need to know where their duty
lies, for their only reward may
well be the knowledge of a job
well done; and, paradoxically,
their success may prove to be
measurable only by the degree
of vilification to which they are
subjected.
Arts and Tarts
The name of Alec Clunes is
not widely known among play-
goers outside London, yet no
man in our time has made such
a rich, steady and tireless contri-
bution to the English theatre as
he. As actor, his list of parts
reads like a history of the stage ;
and as manager-producer he has
accounted for nearly 150 plays
since he took over the Arts
Theatre in 1942.
This small “members only”
playhouse has given Shaw
seasons (including “Man and
Superman” in its entirety),
familiar and forgotten revivals
and several first plays that were
later to reach world-wide audi-
ences. To quote one instance
only, Christopher Fry was for
long “West End” only at the
Arts Theatre, and Clunes himself
created the part of Thomas
Mendip in “The Lady’s Not For
Burning.”
The Arts Theatre has now be-
come public by presenting a
series of out-of-the-ordinary
plays at the Winter Garden
Theatre. Fry’s “The Firstborn”
—an Old Testament verse-epic
with Clunes as Moses—has given
place to a piece in violent
contrast, both in mood and
subject-matter. A Restoration
comedy of no manners, “The
Constant Couple,” has not been
publicly performed in London
since 1805. This first play of
21-year-old George Farquhar
has been a great money-spinner
in other days, lining the pockets
of Wilks, Garrick and Peg
Woffington (who, surprisingly,
played the principal part of the
rake-hell libertine, Sir Harry
Wildair); Sheridan also found it
a fruitful source when manager
of Drury Lane.
Whether or not certain revivals
have genuine claim to “culture”
is a matter of some controversy
(especially among writers who
fail to convince the Lord
Chamberlain’s office and among
managers who enjoy no remis-
sion of entertainment tax). “The
Couple” is a heavy-handed and
immature play, a stumbling
farrago of nugatory wenching
and overworked situations of
compromise and mistaken
identity. And the dialogue posi-
tively thuds against the ear-
drums, although to some extent
the spirited closing scenes redeem
the earlier boredom.
The company do their best to
provide style where farce was
intended, and excel in the
recurrent asides whose technical
crudity somehow gives spice to
the play. Alec Clunes’s Wildair
is a charming rake whom no
innocent need fear. Maxine
Audley makes a realistic Lure-
well, all meretricious smile and
calculation, and even extracts
poignancy out of one scene.
Richard Wordsworth, as the
egregious merchant. Smuggler,
gives a fruity, teeth-sucking per-
formance that is high comedy;
and he is ably supported by Ivan
Staff as the jumped-up coxcomb,
Clincher.
One is forced to wonder
whether “culture” will pay
similar attention to “A Streetcar
Named Desire” in a.d. 2200.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Loulalo”: For many years Ah Sing
had his flourishing market-garden on
the rich flats at one side of the lane
leading down to our old swimming-hole,
and presently the land on the other side
of the lane was similarly laid out by his
younger countryman, Wong Bok. Years
passed and both Celestials flourished.
Then scandal came to the town —a nudist
club was rumored to exist and tales flew
round of midnight picnics at the end of
“Here comes the enemy! Remember what Sir Francis Drake said—
finish the game first.”
the lane. Wong Bok arrived at the police-
station to enter a protest. He didn’t care
who swam in the hole, nor when, nor
how much or how little they had on.
That was not his business. What he
complained of was the staging of mock
battles in which his tomatoes were used
for ammunition. Promising to inquire
into things the police visited old Ah Sing,
But Ah Sing couldn’t help them. He
protested that he was a hard-working
Chinaman who “work hard in the day,
sleep hard in the night.” Further, he
added, Wong was a fool and asking for
trouble. “Plant tomato near fence, near
river, velly silly,” said he. “I plant
pumpkin and Turk’s cap there. Velly
heavy, velly safe.” The police eventually
tracked down some of the suspects and
confronted them with Wong, but Wong
shook his head sadly. “Can’t tell. Evelly-
one look diffelent with clothes on,” was
the comment. The nudist club no longer
exists, but Chinese memories are long.
Even today pitijfipkins occupy the land
near the lane adjoining the swimming-
hole.
* * * *
“Eclair”: When “Jasby” (B. 9/4/’52)
was last in Broken Hill he must have
looked over all of the 39 hotels in the
city, as he apparently finished with his
direction out of focus. He could have
chosen practically any of the main streets,
but not Sulphide-street—it’s publess.
* * * *
“K.”; The old chap died up-country
in the fullness of his years, and directed
that his remains should be cremated and
his ashes sent home to England and cast
from Clifton bridge, Bristol, into the
river. Christmas was coming up, and
his next-of-kin were sending a food-
parcel to relatives in Bristol, so riiey
enclosed in it the ashes in a treacle-tin,
carelessly unlabelled, sent an air-mail
letter giving details. But the letter went
astray, and all that reached Bristol was
the parcel, nicely timed for Christmas.
The recipients proceeded to make a pud-
ding of some of the contents, including
the stuff in the treacle-tin. When served
up, however, the pud. was pronounced
objectionable eating and was put aside.
Shortly afterwards an air-mail letter
arrived from Australia asking for
particulars of the ash-casting ceremony.
The nature of the contents in the treacle-
tin being thus revealed, all that was left
to throw over the bridge was the main
part of the pudding. The departed one’s
family approached the vicar, told him
the sad story, and asked him to officiate
briefly as regards the ashes in it, indis-
tinguishable though these now were from
the rest of the duff. The vicar seemed ready
to allow auld acquaintance to outweigh
his own reluctance, but said he must first
consult the bishop. Gaiters promptly
said he’d give no consent to any
such business as praying for a
pudding. Cast on their own re-
sources the relatives assembled on the
bridge, cast the pudding over the rail,
counted the seconds to the splash, and
then said the Lord’s Prayer. The story
comes from the senders of treacle-tin.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Found myself at Sydney’s
Royal Show on the closing night. A
bullock had been harried by a horseman
in what is called a “camp draft,” and,
after the judge was satisfied, the beast was
driven towards its mates, held in a circular
yard. Dazed and weary, it failed to spot
the yard and wandered away, whereupon
a couple of horsemen chased it. The
bullock very naturally assumed that the
stunt was on again, galloped off, found
itself near the ring fence and, seeing a
small open gate, very naturally trotted
through it and into the R.A.S. president s
room. There was nobody there, so it
allowed itself to be driven out again. Next
morning one paper accused the bullock
of running “amuck,” another of “scatter-
ing tables and chairs.” All the beast
was really doing was seeking the presi-
dent in order to lodge a complaint against
the treatment it was getting.
* * * ♦
“Harold Hardupp”: Never keen on
fishing excursions myself, I suggested to
an acquaintance who goes out periodically
on all-night trips that a few samples of
his prowess would not go amiss. “Fish! ”
‘No. ladies, we only supply the boat."
he snorted. “I never catch any. I’ve got
a liver and I find that the regular shaking-
up once a month does it good. I don’t
go out to fish! Igo out to be seasick.”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Anzac Day reunions prompt
me to ask the question “Why all this
alarm about basic-wage increases?”
We’ve still a long way to go before wages
get as high as the rates ruling in 1939.
I know the official statistics don’t support
me, but I have other evidence. My old
Sixth Divvy unit was, I suppose, typical
of the 2nd A.I.F. Our mob included
boundary-riders, taxi-drivers, bank clerks,
shipping clerks and bookies’ clerks, bar-
men, navvies, civil servants, horse-trainers,
wharfies, signwriters, sheepbarbers and
most of the occupations listed in the em-
ployment and unemployment returns. On
their own evidence there wasn’t a man
among the lot who didn’t knock out his
regular £l4 a week. No one ever
admitted to less than that, and, strangely
enough, no one ever claimed more.
Fourteen quid a week was definitely the
standard wage of the 2nd A.I.F. before
enlistment. As to the yarn about the
troops being economic conscripts, well,
every man I met not only had a good
job—with, of course, the 14 quid—but his
employer pleaded with him not to leave
it. I gather that if the employing class
had had its way there wouldn’t have
been any army at all. Take my own
experience. I had a first-rate job. I
wasn’t an “original,” but when I did
decide to join up, the boss went down on
his knees and with tears in his eyes im-
plored me not to go. I was getting good
pay, too —14 quid a week.
* * * &
“E. & 0.E.”: Farmers at West Ridgley
(Tas.) have lately demonstrated that the
old pioneer spirit is not yet dead. When
the Government removed a bridge over
the Guide River and announced that it
could not be replaced for at least three
months, something had to be done, as
the producers were cut off from their
port, Burnie, and forced to contemplate
sending their potatoes by a roundabout
route, wasting both time and money.
Two farmers met and discussed the
building of a temporary bridge by their
own efforts. That was on Wednesday.
On Thursday the news about a working-
bee was sent round the district. On Fri-
day the bridge was built.
$ * * sic
“Akarana”; Public-house slates (B.
2/4/’52)? I recall a Bulletin cartoon
(probably Hop’s) of over 40 years ago
' depicting a bush pub on fire with the
brigade playing a stream of water on the
building. A drunk lurches up to the fire-
man holding the nozzle and implores him
to “play it on the slate.” A few years
after the Bulletin cartoon a somewhat
similar drawing, with the same caption,
was published in London “Punch.”
* * * 5|C
“Hamfat” : Whatever Laurence Olivier
may do about singing the songs of high-
wayman Macheath himself, it has been
an age-old habit to engage noted vocalists
to double vocally offstage when the script
requires an actor or actress to sing. At
the Opera House in Auckland when we
finished off a lengthy season with “East
Lynne,” we engaged a young Maori
songstress to do the real singing of “When
Other Lips” for our Barbara, who was a
fine actress but no singer. Unfortunately,
a cat upset all the plans. The com-
placency of a cat when it strays onto the
stage always starts an audience laughing ;
and as this one intruded on the scene,
strolled leisurely across the stage and
finally decided to take possession of
Archibald Carlyle’s knee the house passed
from tittering to loud laughter. Laughter
seized the actors too, including Barbara;
but the young Maori girl in the wings
went on singing earnestly—and beauti-
fully—whilst the actress who was sup-
pOSed to be giving the song was doubled
up with mirth at the piano. *
* * * *
“Piketrailer” (Hong Kong): Heated
ment in the House of Commons over
h make smali ch (or
National Health Service reminded me of
an anecdote told by Major-General J, F.
Ftiller in his Memons of an Uncon-
ventional Soldier, about the military
complications of obtaining what is now
a. recognised piece of National Health
equipment. In the Battle of Cambrai,
on November 20, 1917, the Masnieres
Bridge broke as the first tank rumbled
on to it and the tank crashed into the
canal. Fortunately, the crew were not
injured, but as he heaved himself up
through the manhole the tank commander,
who was completely bald, i ost h is wig.
He grabbed at itj but it floated out of
reac h—legend tells of a German sniper
sbooting at it as it g ii ded gent i y along
with the current After tbe battle the
commander put in a d aim for compensa-
ti asserting that his lost wig was as
much an article of clothing as a cap or
a coat The stir this caused in sta ff
c i rc f e s can be imagined. Regulations
were burr iedly consulted and all the
autborit ies quoted and misquoted. An
interminable correspondence arose out
the bridge breaking, not because its
collapse prolonged the war, but because
no one coald dQC \ d * whether a wig was
or was^ n °t an article of clothing,
* * ...
Vingter : Bo s reference to civi -
typists ability to study heir
reflections as a result of the window-
Winds being hung on the weather side o
tbe Sj ass . (B- 9/4/ 52) takes me back
tbe . fleeting phase when I occupie .
P9 slp on not high enough up the Red ape
hierarchy to be protected with a pn
secretary but lofty enough to aye
office to myself and a typist outside my
d °or- The watchdog function was carried
out b y this lass, whose expertness m
never lowing a second caller to inter-
rupt an interview won my admiration
since, as far as I could see, she had no
means of knowing when I had ejected my
first caller through another door beyond
her vision range, I learned her secret one
day when, having unknown to her slipped
out for a quickie, I returned in the wake
of a suppliant for my elevated ear. l
saw the lass shoot a glance at the fanlig
over the closed door and then confidently
announce that I was out. The canpll §
fanlight made a perfect periscope, wmc
caused me uneasy recollection of me
many times on which I had changed my
strides in the office before going out to
the links for mid-week golf,
CUTTING THE CARPET.
“London’s ‘Financial Times’ complains that Aus-
tralia s import cuts have deprived the British carpet
industry of 80 per cent, of its largest export market.’’
The nations warred; our carpets wore;
And when the bombs were heard no more
My little wife began to harp at
The need for having a new carpet,
But soon sustained a change of feeling;
Carpets had risen to the ceiling!
It’s well, if you[ve the cash to burn
To walk the skies like old Traherne,
Or else in summer to confess a
Taste for the sky’s beach, like Ken Slessor,
Or Marvel’s queer down-under crews
Who shod their heads in their canoes;
Moreover, carpets hung up high
Are likelier to catch the eye,
And so much easier to keep clean.
But cash —you know just what I mean.
So we awaited, like Haroun,
Our magic carpet’s coming-down
(Was it Haroun? I haven’t time
To look it up—it makes a rhyme),
And slowly news came trickling through
Of Julia’s twenty-guinea blue,
And Alice got a ten-quid Wilton
With only one small corner spilt-on,
And people selling homes and clothing
Said “Carpets, dear? They go for nothing.
My sister auctioned her Axminster
For three-pound-ten—it nearly finished her! ”
Then, hearing these delightful things,
The vulture-Swiiliams spread their wings
Tb prey on carpets (like a fakir) —
Wiltons at tWo-and-six an acre,
Perhaps bid up to twenty on
A well-conditioned Aub’usson
Or, with a charitable exertion,
Pay twenty-five for a big Persian . . .
Alas! The auctioneer was hoarse,
The housewives bold, the dealers coarse,
And rising on this pyramid
The carpets went up quid by quid
Beyond us to the stratosphere;
A woman said, “Oh, dear, dear, dear!
The market’s crazy once again . . .
To think that such illiterate men
Should see the point of the embargo
Bob Menzies put on carpet-cargo!”
Ah, Mr. Menzies, be a sport—
Pay the British what we’ve bought!
Honor our country’s obligations
According to the law of nations,
And, incidentally, kill the boom
Until we fix our living-room!
After that we shall not care
What you ban, or what forswear,
But if you will not hear our cry
We’ve only one thing left —to dye!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM


“W.M.H.”: You can’t beat Aussie Rules
barrackers for loyalty. One of them,
telling me of a match in which his team
had been beaten, reported that they had
had most of the play and were unlucky
to lose. Pressed for the scores he dis-
closed that they went down by a mere
eight goals.
* * * *
“Teepee”: That N.S. trainee (B.
5/3/’52) who put his boots on the wrong
feet made me think of the time when,
with my corporal’s stripes pinned on but
a few minutes earlier, I found myself
appointed, in the scarcity of sergeants, as
commander of the guard, which was to
be inspected by the G.O.C. visiting our
unit lines on Hill 69, Palestine. Recover-
ing from my initial panic, I was again
demoralised when the G.O.C. asked me
if I had inspected the men’s feet. Though
unaware that this was part of the duties
of the guard commander, I replied
“Yessir!” and regretted my foolhardiness
a moment later when the General drew
attention to a soldier whose upper boot
“Perhaps this'll teach you to pay more attention to my conducting.”
was on the point of divorcement from its
sole. Weakly, but truthfully, I explained
that, having come out of the Grecian
and Cretan shows a. few days before, we
had neither spare boots nor regimental
boot-repairer. The G.O.C. passed on,
only to pause in dumb amazement at the
stance of Darky, of whom he inquired
“Are you quite comfortable in those
boots?” Darky assured the G.O.C. that,
without a moment’s misgiving, he would
be prepared to commence a route march
to Berlin. The General moved on, but
throughout the remaining inspection he
shot back furtive glances in an attempt
to solve the mystery of Darky’s stance.
What I said to Darky afterwards was
nobody’s business except his and mine.
Not that it was much good talking to a
drongo whose relief-period spinebashing
had been interrupted by the yell of
“Turn out the guard!” and who, in his
haste to don his illegally-doffed boots, ha r d
managed to put them on the wrong feet
—an effort made possible only by their
dilapidated condition.
* * * *
“Clooter”; Long convinced that most
of the world’s troubles—from the purely
domestic to rows between nations —are
caused by people who won’t mind their
own business, I’ve tried as well as I can
to mind mine and flatter myself that
by so doing I’ve evaded a lot of bother
and sometimes actually prevented
trouble. Still, I doubt if I would be pre-
pared to go as far in this matter as an
American college student. Aware that a
friend had suicidal tendencies he went
with him in a cart into the Arizona desert,
got out and waited on a convenient rock
until his friend had gassed himself to
death with carbon monoxide, then drove
the body to the dead man’s home. I was
going to say that this was possibly a super-
lative example of minding your own
business, but it seems that after getting
the remains home the student called
the police. He was perhaps being a trifle
officious in doing that.
•p * * *
“Caston”: I once had the privilege of
a drinking acquaintanceship with a, cat’s-
meat man (B. 2/4/’52), and in an expan-
sive moment induced by several pints
of “old and mild” he confided some
secrets of his trade. For anything between
three and four shillings he was able to
purchase sufficient “lean chunks” of low-
grade cowmeat to produce 500 or more
“skewers.” These were short sticks split
from fruit- or butter-cases cadged or
bought for a few pence. The meat was
plunged into boiling water to which had
been added salt and half an ounce of
low-grade tea, raced for two hours and
thrown into cold water, drained and cut
up when cold. My friend went out six
days a week, with never less than 500
skewers, and never failed to sell out. At
a “brown” a stick he “didn’t do so
badly.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Getting a haircut now is a poor
pastime compared with what it was before
they mechanised it. Then, one could
settle down into that delightfully soporific
state induced by the slow action of the
hand-clippers, followed by the leisurely
snipping of refractory side-tufts and some
topknot-truncating —all to the drooling
about fights, races, etc., to which you were
never expected to supply a response more
fatiguing than an occasional sleepy “Um.”
It was all rounded off by a dab at ears
and back of neck of warm lather —where
one now gets a slap of plain cold water;
and one struggled back to full con-
sciousness only at the soothing “Next,
please,” Now what? Almost before
you’ve got yourself settled the electric -
clippers have sped over your skull and
your sparse hairs have been trimmed —
“medium” trimmed, so you’ll be back in
a week ; the whole operation is done so
swiftly the barber hasn’t even time to
discuss Dave Sands’s chances for a world
title or Deadlegs’ hope on Saturday—
it’s this compulsory damming-up of words
inside barbers that give ’em that per-
petually frustrated and lugubrious look,
At least that’s how it was till they put
haircuts up to the same price I used
to pay for a forequarter of lamb,
since when they feel impelled to
spin out time to a decent three minutes
to justify the imposition. So Snips starts
exploring my lugs, and does a desultory
bit of ringbarking of the thick hirsute
scrub he sees sprouting out of them, and
falls sturdy hairs sticking up on the outer
perimeter. And how can one relax when
this hazardous operation is proceeding?
Sadly reflecting that if I were in the
public service I could go back to the
“I wish you'd get back to sane art-I've HAD Washing-up
office and have the nap of which I have
been deprived, I sling the unimaginative
Snips his 3s. 3d. and depart.
s * * *
“Springvale”: Inspired by my spouse’s
confidence in my horticultural abilities
I took up spade and fork in the back-
yard and sailed in—for half an hour.
During that time I discovered three things
about gardening. Firstly, it is ers so
hands; secondly, new ground is best
broken up with a rotary-hoe, thir ly, i
makes you thirstyl sailed out again.
Just like all men said my good lady.
Yre afraid of a bit of hard yakka. Then
she asked me to switch off the washing-
machine, ditto the dish-washer, and make
a “cuppa. Thats why I saw red when
an American visitor gave it as his con-
sidered opinion that Australian women
were treated like slaves.
* * * *
‘B.J.L. : The tale about the miners
sacrificing their fingers (B. 26/3/ 52)
recalls two such incidents to my memory.
One concerned a country lad who got
into deep water escorting an expensive
lass. Solvency was to be restored at the
cost of a finger. The digit came off
easily, but not so his account of the
event. Officials became suspicious and
an investigation revealed a blood-stained
axe lying at the woodheap, and, still on
the chopping-block, the missing finger.
The second episode was that of a genuine
sufferer who refused to accept the ruling
amount, £65, for a finger. The amount
for one joint was £25, and as he had lost
three he wanted £75. Headlined Proving
Euclid Wrong ’ and Is the Part Greater
Than the Whole, the case went to the
Supreme Court, but, in the tantalising
way newspapers have, it was not followed
up and I never knew the outcome.
“Pat”: At Sydney Show a woman
nephews, one is a godchild and the
other is a neighbor. But I don’t mind.
It’s all part of their education and I
like to do my bit towards broadening
their minds. Seeing the grand parade,
for instance. Ido think every Australian
child should view that, the wealth of
their nation.” The grand parade began,
formed and dispersed. The two women
gabbled on. The five kids didn’t notice
the nation’s wealth at all. Their five
heads were bent over comics and sample-
b
K ’ * * * *
“Phoongyee” (South Africa): Not
only in England have Australian wrong-
doers had their nationality blazoned forth
to give the impression that Aussies are
a lawless crowd. In Johannesburg in
the years after the Boer War there were
many Australian ex-soldiers who had
taken their discharge in South Africa and
had gravitated to the Rand. When a
slump occurred in 1904 many turned to
crime, sandbagging being a favorite
offence. The manner in which such men
were invariably described in the papers
—John Smith, an Australian —was notice-
able. Wrongdoers of English or Dutch
origin were merely mentioned by name.
Still, there were a lot of Australian “hard-
doers,” and at length the authorities
repatriated to Australia many known
criminals and others who wanted to get
back. One newspaper printed: “In future
the Australian mail, on arrival, will be
taken direct to the Fort [Jo’burg jail] and
there sorted. Any Australian not at
present in the Fort can obtain his mail on
presenting his ticket-of-leave.” Today
the Aussie is well liked and respected,
thanks no doubt to the experience South
African troops had of him in North
Africa. Then again, cricket, football and
tennis teams which have toured the
Union have possibly helped to show
South Africans that Australians are not
all criminals.
* # ♦
“N.C.”: Sydney Grammar School,
which was incorporated by an Act of the
N. S. Wales Legislative Council before
the establishment of self-government, will
celebrate its centenary towards the end
of 1954. The Trustees of the School have
begun the preparation of a history to
mark the occasion, and as the school took
the place of the Sydney College, founded
in 1825, it has been decided to include an
account of that institution in the volume.
It is thought that the families of former
masters and boys may still have in their
possession letters, documents or pictures
which would be valuable in the writing of
this history, and the trustees would be
grateful for the loan of any documents,
pictures or early numbers of the school
magazine, the “Sydneian.” They should
be addressed to the Secretary to the
Trustees, Sydney Grammar School,
College-street, Sydney. All communica-
tions will be acknowledged and docu-
ments will be returned as soon as they
have been dealt with.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I knew one Irishman
who said “Be jabers” (B. 2/4/’52). After
he’d had enough of chasing the weight
around the Westralian goldfields he
bought the block next to our place at
Balcatta and spent his evenings yarning
with my dad. They had both struck Cue
soon after it was found, and‘they carried
poignant memories of it. “Remember
that water?” Dad asked him. “Be jabers,
Arthur, and I do that,” Paddy assured
us. “It’d burrn the whustle off y’.” He
had another saying, which he directed
towards his other neighbors: “The currse
o’ Crummel on ’em.” I asked him once
what the curse of Cromwell was. “He
ate himself!” he told me seriously. 1
must have looked blank, for he added,
“The worrms ate him.”
**o * *
“Stableford”: If “Bo” (B. 23/4/’52)
wants to discover the vanished smoke-
concert let him join a golf-club. There,
on “locker day” or president-and-captain
day and on one or two other “days” of
the club calendar, he will find the old
smoke-concert atmosphere, even to the
inconvenient waitress who has to be
hurried out, tittering, when the first yarn
begins. The songs are much the same,
so is the general noise and heartiness,
and though most clubs today have ampli-
fiers for the performers they aren’t in the
race when the thing really gets going. A
radio-station spotted the possibilities, and
now there’s an additional “day,” when
a bunch of radio-singers and comedians
put on “the nineteenth hole.” Of course,
it advertises somebody’s goods, but that
doesn’t matter, since the performance is
limited to a mere 30 minutes and the
wassail flows the heavier for the delay.
Take up golf, “Bo.” You’ll get your
smoke-concerts and therein find a refuge
from wives and kids.
A MATTER OF TECHNIQUE.
“The pawnshop is the place to observe human
nature. They come in, from the shamefaced to the
hardened, the latter mostly men, and the things they
pawn are often their wives’ personal belongings.
—From a radio talk.
Watch the tyro raise the “ready”
To invest upon a neddy!
He’ll approach the “Moscow shop
In a slow and cautious manner,
Like a Governmental planner,
Or a driver seeing a cop.
He’ll unleash a brace of glances
Right and left—he’ll take no chances
That his pestilential plight
May be noted by some cobber —
That he’s “hocking” half his clobber.
Then he slips in out of sight.
His stare at Ike’s a fixture,
And his general air a mixture
Of defiance, guilt and guile;
Yet some fear may ,be detected
As his dress-suit’s being inspected
For moth-holes, cut and style.
But all his high hopes crumble,
And his ticker does a tumble —
Which is matter for no mirth—
As the three-ball artist offers
Grudgingly from bulging coffers
A tenth of what it’s worth.
Now observe the hardhead pawner.
No apologetic fawner
He, aware of something base.
With old Ike he’s rather pally,
And so often does he dally
There, you’d think he owned the place.
And he should, with what he’s weighed in
For the interest overladen,
And yet, he’ll never moan
At getting moderate payment,
So long as all the raiment
He hocks is not his own.
He will handsomely forgive her
If his missus has to shiver
When he’s popped her only coat.
But to find she’s so suspicious
That she hides her ring—that vicious
Act will surely get his goat.
In extremity he’ll venture
To relieve her of her denture,
And soon Uncle’s that becomes.
But he’s fair in this connection,
For he raises no objection
To her chewing on her gums.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


&
a mum
And that is
Woods 9 Croat Peppermint Care.
who gives bite for bite,
A dog who seldom barks at night.
Who comes when called and goes
when told,
Is more than worth his weight in
gold.
The remedy for coughs and chills.
That every expectation fills,
Must be efficient, fresh and pure.
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
sd
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12i% Sales Tax
and sons
°TY. LTD.
4? HUNTES STREET ‘-’YPNEY
Snipmdtes
by A. WILKINSON
LOOKING back, it’s hard
to know who had the best
of the exchanges. She
caused me more trouble
than any female before or
since.
It was a South Wales morning,
winter wet and miserable with
an intensity to be found only in
that part of the world. I was
joining my first ship as third-
mate. The long overnight trip
from the North of England had
done little to tarnish the bright-
ness of my brand-new ticket.
The Elmhill was loading coal;
although work had finished for
the weekend a black scum
covered everything in sight. The
rain, laden with coal-dust, driven
by the insistent wind, was met
at every corner in head-on
encounter.
There’s no easy way of joining
a collier. A passenger-ship is all
very nice—along the pier and up
the gangway. For some real
fun, try lugging a couple of suit-
cases, under trucks, around
trucks, over trucks, the goal a
distant funnel dimly seen amidst
a maze of masts, derricks and
coal cranes.
I climbed the almost vertical
ladder; up with one case, down
again for the other ; conscious
of a deep longing for some dry
gear, a cup of tea and a
cigarette ; leaning at last in grimy
achievement against the bulwark
rail.
Now, I’m no great lover of
dogs. By that I mean that I can
take them or leave them ; no
hard feelings either way. So
that the grimy, sodden Irish-
terrier bitch that sounded my
welcome was just another dog as
far as I was concerned. The
ensuing commotion as she
endeavored to tear me apart,
apparently under the impression
that I was trying to steal my own
suitcase, brought a large indi-
vidual out on to the lower-
bridge deck.
“Come here, Bron!”
I was left in peace.
WELL, who are you?”
VV “I’m the new third-
mate . . . sir.”
That “sir” somewhat reluct-
antly. One could be talking to
the second-mate or a cook or
something like that. It was
bull’s-eye first shot this time.
“I’m Captain Jameson,” he
said. “It’s about time you
turned up.”
He needn’t have told me his
name. I knew that, together
with his reputation. They’re put
together from B.A. to ’Frisco,
all the way round, and at many
places in between.
“They didn’t tell me to travel
until last night,” I began by way
of explanation.
“You’ve been a long time get-
ting here,” he interrupted.
“Another one with a brand-new
ticket?”
I pleaded guilty to that and,
somewhat deflated, bent to pick
up my suitcases. That moment
saw the commencement of
hostilities. Bron swept in to the
attack again. I had to make
some sort of a defence. As she
wore no collar my boot was the
logical answer. She fled growling
to the lee-side of the Old Man.
Jameson stood speechless. With
a supreme effort he gesticulated
wildly heavenward. From this
wordless miming I deduced my
eternal damnation.
MY cabin was easy to find.
Fd been a cadet in Elm-
hill’s sister-ship. In this cold
refuge I pondered the strange
ways of fate, and how so much
fate could happen in so short a
time. I was still alive anyhow,
although the first-mate, attracted
by the racket, hastened to assure
me that it would have been a far,
far better thing to have died
there and then, than to have
raised a foot in my own defence.
“That dog’s the first lady on
this ship,” he confided over a
blessed cup of tea in his cabin.
“She rules pretty well every-
thing. The Old Man has his
likes and dislikes ; so has Bron ;
and they pretty well coincide.”
It’s hard to believe that a dog
could run a ship, or loom large
enough to disrupt the lives of
forty-odd men. That dog did,
and the stories of Jameson and
Bron are as fantastic and varied
as the Red Sea mirage.
“Who’s in favor at the
moment?” 1 asked.
He knew I meant in favor with
the dog. “The second-mate gets
on with her all right, so does the
chief-steward. She seldom goes
midships, so the engineers
hardly count.”
“What about you?”
He uncrossed his legs. There
was a small, ragged tear in his
uniform trousers and a mark on
his leg where the skin had barely
been broken.
It certainly looked a lovely
set-up. The Old Man, the
second-mate and the dog on one
side; the chief- and third-mates
on the other. There was more
to it than a simple division of
personalities. Williams, the
chief-mate, something of an
“X”-chaser, wrote extra-master
after his name ; there aren’t too
many “extra” tickets around,
just as there aren’t too many
men who understand the dif-
ferential calculus. Jameson had
an ordinary master’s ticket; that
his second-in-command was
more highly qualified apparently
stuck in his gizzard. Silly
really; the “X”-chasers are
seldom good practical seamen.
Jameson, with all his faults,
knew the sea and his ship as well
as anyone I’ve ever met.
CAME dinner-time, and the
mess-room the usual
rendezvous for the usual badly-
cooked meat and soggy
vegetables. Captain Jameson, I
learnt, would honor us with his
presence. That was a bit odd.
Usually the Old Man dines in
solitary state or, if he wants
company, he would ask the
chief-engineer. Jameson always
ate in the mess-room.
Bron answered the dinner-
bell, bounding in along the settee
cushions, leaving a trail of wet
coal-dust behind her. Seating
herself in a well-accustomed spot
she growled her disapproval at
Williams and me.
There was little conversation.
The Old Man, giving his version
of my arrival on board, com-
pletely ignoring my presence,
and complaining bitterly about
the poor class of junior officer
that he always had thrust upon
him.
The second-mate appeared at
breakfast the following morn-
ing. A replica of the Old Man
in temperament, he even looked
like him. He was the natty type,
a great man for shore-going
preparations, much given to
after-shave talc and sweet-
smelling unguents ; in short, a
lady-killer. His bitter pill was
that, although he was some ten
years older than I, he still had
the same grade of certificate,
only his greater practical experi-
ence giving him any edge at all.
Finally we were loaded, the
crew signed on and ready for
sea. There had been many
minor troubles. Captain
Jameson found endless cause
for complaint. The wheel-
house was dirty—hadn’t we a
decent ensign?—endless pin-
pricks. The dog became more
and more a source of annoy-
ance. She was always there.
She had only to whimper, for
another burst of abuse to come
my way. She would get ashore
and I would be sent to look for
her. Well Jameson knew that
she would never come back to
the ship with me ; it gave him
a sadistic delight to meet me on
the deck, with the dog already
back on board, after a fruitless
search in the rain and filth.
Destination Alexandria,
Captain Jameson soon
proving his mettle. He would
stand on the lower bridge when
any traffic was around, bounding
on to the top bridge to inquire:
Where I had ever learnt the
Rule of the Road? Was I color-
blind? Why did I let the
quartermaster wander all over
the ocean? Once clear of the
land and coastal navigation 1
became aware of some methods
of navigation that 1 hadn’t been
taught at the navigation school.
We all took sights. For longi-
tude they had to be the Marc
St. Hilaire method, nothing else
would do. Four hours or so
later, at noon, we all appeared on
the bridge for meridian altitude
sights for latitude.
For all the use three of us
were we might as well have
stayed in our cabins. There
was only one “fix” that
was really in the running—that
was the position that Captain
Jameson arrived at. The second-
mate’s sight was considered only
as a remote possibility, Williams
and I were never asked for our
position. As the human element
can enter so largely into the
taking of sights, it is the custom
to compare positions obtained,
select a reasonable mean, and
say “She’s round about here.”
Ocean navigation is not an exact
science. But to Captain
Jameson she was there, right
where he put his pencil-mark on
the chart. Now, that was all very
bad for my ego ; ego being very
taken by an occasional glimpse
of the new third-mate’s epau-
lettes on my shoulders.
j T was my eight-to-twelve watch
I passing down the African
coast just above Cape Blanco.
In the bright moonlight I
thought I could see the low
coastal sandhills. According to
the chart we should have been
about twenty miles off and well
out of sight of such a low coast-
line, 1 hesitated to call the Old
Man, realising well enough what
he would have to say. Finally
I was certain that it must be
land, and, picking up the tele-
phone, called his cabin. I was
given quite a resume of my
obvious incompetence. Hadn’t
I even bothered to look at the
chart, from which even a half-
wit should be able to gather that
it was impossible that anyone
could see land at that distance?
And more in the same strain.
At two o’clock the following
morning the second-mate passed
Cape Blanco light some twelve
miles closer than had been
planned; so I had seen land
after all. In some strange
fashion that was laid at my
doorstep. It was really the fault
of “Sparks,” who had given us
the time-signal for rating the
chronometers on the fifty-ninth
minute instead of on the hour.
From Alexandria we went
through the Canal to Durban,
from Durban to Montreal; my
feud with the dog continuing;
life becoming more and more
impossible. We had no refriger-
ating plant, the fresh meat being
carried in an ice-box. The ice-
box held about fourteen days’
supply. At the end of that
fourteen days the fresh meat
became very tender. It simply
fell apart.
It was over the meat that the
dog earned the final bitter
enmity of the crew. They had
complained of the meat being no
longer fit to eat, asking to be
put on to salt tack for a couple
of days. Goodness knows they
had ample cause ; Jameson him-
self had rejected it, which was
proof enough of its quality.
Being the man he was, he
couldn’t see his crew forcing him
into a position from which he
would have to concede a point
in their direction.
We were sitting on the
bunker-hatch after dinner when
the sailors and firemen came aft
each carrying their uneaten
dinners, still undisturbed in the
kids. Their spokesman spoke
his piece to Jameson. As I
watched I could see that they
might just as well have spoken
to the wind. Oh, he heard them
out all right, because, with a
dramatic gesture, he took up a
piece of the disputed meat and
flung it on the deck to the dog.
“There,” he said, as she
eagerly gobbled it up. “It must
be fresh. The dog’s eating it.”
IT was eighteen months before
I got anywhere near making
the score a little less onesided.
In that time we had done many
hundreds of miles, not one of
them helping, to make the situa-
tion more possible.
Jameson liked his drop of
grog. There’s nothing much
wrong with that, except that he
was a solitary drinker. Secluded
in his cabin he concocted misery
for my benefit. He kept his own
private stock. When that was
finished he would make away
with the odd bottle or so of
brandy kept in the medicine-
chest. When the last drop was
gone life became even less bear-
able for Williams and me. His
particular brand of torment as
far as I was concerned was a
humiliating - question game.
There are things about a ship
that no sane man would carry
around in his head. If it were
to become necessary that he
should know them, then he
would simply go and have a
look-see. Jameson would come
on to the bridge each night,
stand for a moment or two, look
around and finally ask:
"How many steps up the
lower bridge ladder?” or
“How many steps up to the
crow’s-nest?” or
“How many rivets along the
for’ard beam on the chart-
room deck-head?”
Well he knew that his ques-
tions were unimportant and quite
illogical; but there was his
chance to exercise his sarcastic
venom for what he called lack
of interest in the ship. The dog
would sit there and enjoy it all.
BRON had led an extremely
sheltered life. She had not
known any other dog than
herself. When we arrived in
Port Lincoln ready to load for
London, it was apparent that
Bron was in what may be de-
scribed as an interesting state.
So much so that Captain
Jameson, mellowed by strong
waters, confided his intention to
have her mated. After lunch,
he repaired ashore, returning a
couple of hours later, dragging
a most reluctant black spaniel,
in which he was assisted by a
companion only slightly less
inebriated than himself.
But Bron would have no part
of the black spaniel, successfully
eluding his every advance. The
Old Man took the spaniel
ashore again, obviously most
disappointed with his matching
failure.
But there was no failure
about the fox-terrier that
Williams and I borrowed from
one of the ketches that was load-
ing into our offside. He stood
for absolutely no nonsense.
WE felt that we had evened
our score against Jameson
and his dog at one fell swoop. I
think we were wrong about the
dog, but right about the Old
Man. But that came later on.
Getting little exercise and all
the table scraps Bron was very
fat and inclined to lie around.
After we had sailed for home,
Williams and I watched her with
interested speculation. We could
see little if any change in her
figure, and concluded that some-
how or other things had gone
wrong. We felt a little bitter
against the foxy, but there was
nothing we could do. The pig
we had bought in Port Lincoln
to supplement our rations
jumped over the side after having
been chased around the deck by
the dog. As we saw our pork
disappearing astern life resumed
its melancholy.
I was leaning over the bridge-
rail one night some weeks later,
thinking of things far removed
from ships and shipping, when I
was jarred into reality by foot-
steps pounding up the ladders.
The Old Man fairly flung him-
self up the last couple of steps,
threw an arm round my
astounded shoulder and, almost
in tears, begged me with stale-
whisky breath to “Come
quickly! The saloon is full of
dogs! ”
SHE had done us proud.
There were eight of them,
scattered around. In the pro-
fusion of achievement, Bron
seemed as bemused as her
master.
He never quite forgave her.
She had betrayed him. We
would find him watching her
speculatively, as would a dis-
honored parent. He was
saddened. And in his sorrow
was peace.


POWER
FOR INDUSTRY
■ I
m
IM
r
r
m
■ ■ ■
Hi
»
h
INTERNATIONAL
POWER UNITS FOR
• PUMPING
• LIGHTING
• SHAFTING
• WINCHING
• CRUSHING
• POWER
Low initial cost ★ Low installation cost
Low operating cost
I.S.A.S. can supply for IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY, International Power Units
for line shafting drive, and with direct
coupled generators for installation of the
induction generation system. Let I.S.A.S.
experienced engineers explain the induc-
tion system and advise on the most suit-
able equipment for your plant.
ACT NOW!
Write for details
Here are just a few of the emergency power
installations made by f.S.AS.:—
# Sfafe E,ecf rici*ty Commission
® Brown-Gouge Ltd.
® Evans Motor Spring Works
• Sidney Cooke Ltd.
@ British United Shoe
Awst. Pty, Ltd.
Machinery Co. 0 f
® Francis Longmore & Co. Ltd.
• Gaston Bros. Pty, Ltd,
• Cyclone Co. of Australia Ltd.
• Rocfa Pipes Ltd.
• Yakka Overalls Pty. Ltd.
n
mn
S 2
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVONEV MELBOURNE HDBRRT RDELQIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


ABORIGINALITIES
“Rooster”: A curious reference to
pelicans occurs in Captain Flinders’s
narrative of his explorations in “Terra
Australis.” He discovered them on “an
uninhabited island, situated upon an un-
known coast near the antipodes.” Flocks
of them were sitting on the beaches of
the lagoon, and it appeared that the islets
were their breeding-places ; not only so,
but the number of bones and skeletons
scattered on the beaches suggested that
the islets had for ages been also the
closing scene of the birds’ existence.
“Nothing,” quotes the journal, “can be
more consonant to the feelings, if pelicans
have any, than quietly to resign their
breath whilst surrounded by their own
progeny, and in the same spot where they
first drew it.” Could it be that, some-
where off our tropical coastline, there is
still a pelican island? If so, it has had
remarkably little publicity.
* * *
“M’Qou”: The visiting agent had barely
started his car when he saw one of the
farm cats bringing home a full-grown
rabbit. He at once stopped the car,
chased the cat, took possession of the
rabbit, and, having thus secured possession
of the next day’s dinner, drove blithely
away.
• -e * ♦
“H.C.8.”: Sydneysiders all talk as if
their ’Arbor Bridge was a marvellous
engineering feat, but, cripes, there was
nothing to it! The water was there,
stationary ; it was just a matter of sling-
ing the bridge across and that was that.
Now, if those engineers had been deal-
ing with Crooked River, at the northern
end of Seven Mile Beach (N.S.W.), they
would have been up against something.
Actually, the inlet is not a river but a
lagoon similar to scores of others along
the coast; however, because its entrance
to the sea prevented people from reach-
ing the beach unless they waded, the
Civic Fathers had a pedestrian bridge
built. Mighty rains came ; the stream grew
wider, its fast-flowing channel shifted,
detoured around the last span of the
structure, and left it as a jetty. The
local powers moved again: three or four
more spans were added. With mocking
humor the waters promptly proceeded to
“Ease up a bit , Tom —Were charging him by time , not mileage”
draw within themselves until a long bridge
was left spanning 50yds. of dry sand
and 7ft. of shallow water. The rains
came again. Last Good Friday the
aldermen could congratulate themselves
on having provided a bridge across a
wide, swiftly-running torrent. More
rains. Easter Monday saw an anaemic
toddle in the damp bed beneath the
bridge; but the rest of the lagoon was
trying to pour itself into the sea through
the wide channel it had swept across the
beach about 30 yards south of the wooden
structure. See what I mean about that
’Arbor Bridge? Suppose, just when they
were putting in the last rivet the water
had suddenly buzzed off and turned up
behind somewhere else!
* * * *
“Opal”: The sergeant had made a
clean catch; it was in the middle of the
close season and old Bill ran slap into
him when he was carrying four ducks
and his gun. The Beak’s frown was a
portent. His staccato order for Bill to
begin expounding *on his reason for shoot-
ing the protected fowl brought a pained
expression to the old boy’s mug. “Strike
me!” he said. “If you were attacked
wouldn’t you shoot ’em in self-defence?”
* ■ ♦ * %
“Sackville”: My future employer had
apparently mixed up the dates ; he hadn’t
kept the arrangement to meet me at the
station. The place, they told me,
was about five miles out of town;
however, I was lucky—Old Ab would
be going that way as soon as the publican
could get him out. The vehicle turned
out to be a rickety spring-cart with the
off sideboard missing, a shaft repaired
with wire and two badly-dished wheels.
But at least it matched the droop-lipped
old moke attached thereto. Old Ab might
have weighed eight stone, counting
whiskers, dirt and grog. By the side of
his conveyance he turned to fling a last
challenge at the bulky Bung, then
demanded to be told Whatinell I wanted.
I told him. Strangely, my request was
received with hic-ing hospitality. After
the struggle to get him aboard, he settled
down to a good, long skite. The things
that skinny little runt had done! Fight-
ing, riding, shearing, woodcutting—he’d
been a champion at them all. He was
starting on wrestling when a wheel
dropped into a deep rut. A crowbar on
the floor of the cart rolled, pivoted and
speared through the spokes of the off
wheel. One end wa£ jerked down, the
other swung up, struck the seat violently
and leveled it forward and off. I
smacked my nose on the moke’s boney
rump. The champ went flying out into
the darkness. By the time I’d per-
suaded the neddy he was too old to bolt,
and returned. Old Ab was missing. I
steered towards a distant light. The old
codger was already on the veranda —and
with an attentive audience; “Givin’ him
a lift, I was, and all of a sudden he
belted me under the ear, slung me out
o’ the cart and pinched me turnout!”
* * * *
“Arom”: The river was running a
banker, and we were surprised to see a
sheepdog swimming about 50yds. out.
He was not in trouble and doing well
until some nitwit whistled. The dog
pricked his ears, backpedalled, turned and
began to battle back to the jetty. He
struggled a while and then turned down-
stream again. Once more came the idiotic
summons from the whistler, and once
again the dog did his best to obey. While
this was going on a second dog was
running up and down the river-bank,
barking, trying to attract the attention
of the swimmer. Then he excitedly dived
in and swam out a few yards, found that
the stream was too strong and returned
to land. He stood a few moments, clearly
working things out; then he galloped
upstream to the jetty, plunged in, and
headed straight to where his cobber
was nearly cutting his own throat with
his fore-paws in a last desperate endeavor
to obey that whistle—or break his heart.
Judging his approach like a seasoned
stockhorse to a refractory steer, the
second dog gently shouldered his mate
and turned him downstream, gradually
steering his patient towards the bank.
The half-wit tried another whistle, but
the rescuer knew a trick worth two of
that. He drowned it by barking furiously
in his mate’s ear. It might have been
“Now are you satisfied? I told you it Was only
a dandelion .”
sheer exuberance, but it looked more like
quick thinking. A minute later they
were both having a quick shake-dry.
* * * *
“Lesuch”: Apropos Unk White’s
drawing of the cove down the well with
lifesavers to the rescue (B. 19/3/’52), it’s
marvellous what you can find at the
bottom when you fall down one. In Tully
(N.Q.) Muttonchops, our Cossack land-
lord, lost the bucket, and I was the only
one allowed to retrieve it because the
wife couldn’t relish the water after any-
one but her husband had been dunked
in it. So Muttonchops held the windlass-
handle with his 18 stone while I swung
myself on the hook. The cable ran out
with no resistance from the staples in
the rotten windlass, precipitating me 30ft.
as I hit the sides on the way down.
Treading water after surfacing I looked
up to see the ring of heads peering down
from the small circle of daylight. Find-
ing I could just touch bottom with one
big toe, I shouted that I was all right
and deafened myself with my own voice.
After retrieving the bucket I spent half
an hour diving for saucepans, billycans,
frying-pans, cups and enamel mugs, a
knife and fork, a hammer, a trolley-wheel,
a pair of old boots and an axe-head.
Then the cable was made fast and I
was retrieved.
* # * *
“W. Court”: Tell “Loulalo” (B.
19/3/’52) that the fish he took from his
well are called “mud cods” here in N.Q.
They swim in tea-tree swamps, holes
and soaks —always in the murkiest of
water. Like the crayfish, which is also
fond of swamp country, they bob up
overnight after the first summer storm
has refilled holes that had been bone-
dry for months. They grow up to about
6in.
sf: * *
“Aestur”: “Shadow-chaser’s” good
advice on how to fell a tree against its
natural lean (B. 2/4/’52) reminds me of
the time Sam and I did it. Sam, I’m
happy to remember, was on the dangerous
s id e —he was the fastest runner. We
used the same drill as “Shadow-chaser”
up to “Now, drop the saw . . .” Then
Sam, instead of tapping in the wedges,
heard a creak, looked up, lost his head
(almost literally) and ran. He’d cut his
scarf too deep. It was lucky he was a
fast runner, for he ran the same way as
the tree fell. The top leaves brushed his
hair.
* Sp ♦
“Fumi”: After Mat's encounter with
that temperance advocate at Mildura (B.
2/4/’52) I’d like to test his reaction to
another piece of blue-ribbon advocacy
which he must have seen
scores of times but never
assimilated. With some
trepidation I have watched
him winding his way from
the Riverina towards the
Victorian border; once he
was at Nu.murkah and I
thought of sending a wire to
his mate to head Mat away
from Shepparton. Fortu-
nately they swung over to-
wards Echuca. All over
Victoria and in many parts
of N.S.W. and S.A. are
Furphy watercarts with
cast-iron ends. On one end
is an inscription in short-
hand which, translated, is a
solemn warning that “Water
is a gift of God, but beer is
a concoction of the Devil.”
I’ll lay the odds that a
similar inscription is on
every Furphy ; in 25 years
of rolling around Mat’s terri-
tory the only one I saw
without it was one I spotted
on Mount Dandenong, but
it was of very ancient line-
age. However, if Mat finds
himself in Shepparton,
where “Furphies” are made,
I feel sure he will adopt a
tolerant attitude to any
hieroglyphical advice. I saw
my first “don’t drink beer”
furphy at a rabbiter’s camp
on a cold winter’s night, but
as the nearest pub was 40
miles away at Boorooban
on the Deniliquin road it
didn’t matter much anyway.
I had just driven up from
Melbourne ; had I any news-
papers? “There’s today’s
‘Age’ and ‘Argus,’ and a
Bulletin, but it’s nearly a
month old,” I said. A voice
piped out from the blankets,
“Sling it over, mate, the
Bully’s never old. 1 * And
that’s no furphy.
* * ♦
“E.”: We were giving the
builder a hand to bang
down a floor, on condition
he came out and helped load a couple
of wool-trucks. Spread across the floor,
we belted mightily at nails that moved a
small fraction with every hit. Then
Nailer grabbed his hammer. Bang, bapg,
bang and the head of the nail was buried
in the boards, “Come on, you weak-
lings,” he roared, working quickly along
his row, with a consistent three hits to
a nail. “Y’ got broken wrists or some-
thin’?” Savagely Woolly bashed a nail
double and offered to pull Nailer on at
any man-sized job, while I bent nails and
said nothing. After a bit we got round
to the loading. “Roll that ’n’ out,
Nailer.” The builder struggled with the
overweight bale, lifted it half-way and
dropped it back on his foot. Woolly
grinned wide and hard, gripped his hook
into the bale and rolled it out. By the
time the fourth tier was on the second
truck we were all feeling the strain but
Woolly. Then the trucks turned in the
opposite direction, leaving us a three-mile
walk home. I set the pace and held it.
Woolly was the first to drop back. Then
the puffing builder reckoned he had to
wait to see somebody about something
and flopped beside the track, leaving m°
to finish what, to anyone used to it, was
no more than an easy, swinging walk.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Perpendicular pre-
dicaments, is it (B. 2/4/’52)? It had been
a poor crop at Mukinbudin, and the
stubble fire wouldn’t run, so the boss put
old Bess in the cart and dragged a set
of harrows, with a burning bag in them,
behind. He was
standing up in
the cart, imme-
diately behind
the front-board,
when the har-
rows caught in
a stump and
jerked Bess to a
full stop. The boss was stouter than
you’d have expected a depression farmer
to Le, so when he dived head-first over
the board he stuck, with his head just
behind Bess’s heels. The mare froze, but
the old bloke’s temperature rose as the
fire burnt closer. After we’d released
him, unharmed, he said it was damned
funny what some blokes would laugh at.
THE LAUGHING GHOST.
I saw a black ghost dancing
On the road to Singleton,
Naked in his blackness
With not a singlet on.
The ghost, the poor ghost, was laughing,
And his laughter rose over the plain,
And the stars extinguished their glitter,
And the moon turned white at his pain.
Then, from the far hilltops and mountains,
An echo came rolling back,
As from ten thousand laughing
Ghosts, as naked and black.
Next morning the slothful Hunter
*"'rom Singleton down to the coast
yroke its banks, and the cockies were cursing.
And I thought of the laughing ghost.
VICTORIA.
DAVID MARTIN.


“They reckon you're declared black."
“Icinit”: Cats may claim nine lives,
but consider the record of this cheerful,
yallery-brown pup. Hanged himself
by his chain when scrambling over
a netting fence. Rescued (at the
cost of torn pants) from an Alsatian four
times his size with whom he had started
an argument about a bone. Snapped at
the tyre of a passing car before he had
mastered the technique, and sustained a
crick in the neck that kept him lopsided
for a week. Saved by a timely emetic
after gorging on bran grasshopper-bait,
and finally, deciding that the world was
a bit hostile, made a lair for himself in
a silted-up culvert, and was half-
drowned in the first thunderstorm. But
give him a chance ; he’s only six months
old.
* H= * *
“Eurimburra”: Joe was content to
milk Mona, his big-uddered A. 1.5., once
a day, locking the calf up at night. Mrs.
Joe, on the lookout for more butter,
insisted that the calf be weaned, so the
animal was shut
in a separate
paddock. As it
either broke-out
or suckled its
mother through
the fence more
often than not,
Mrs. Joe, not to
be beaten, an-
nounced that she’d fix it. Next day Joe,
returning from town, found his missus
admiring her handiwork, and was aghast
at what he saw. Mrs. Joe had equipped
Mona with a brassiere fashioned from a
turned - down - and-hemmed sugar - bag.
This was held in place by two pairs of
discarded nylons tied in neat bows on
the animal’s back, just forrard of the hip-
bones. Two more, fastened to the other
pairs, went round under the tail as a
britchen, to stop the contraption from
slipping forward. “Take it off,” howled
Joe. “If Mona gets near Taylor’s I’ll be
the laughing-stock of the country.” How-
ever, the proud Mrs. Joe was adamant,
so Joe followed the mystified beasts
around till dark, steering them away from
the neighbor’s. Up at dawn, Joe, to his
joy, saw the calf get his budding horns
caught in the stockings and rip off the
lot. Salvaging the milk by waddying the
calf, he dutifully reported the mishap.
Mrs. Joe thought that, with improve-
ments, it would be worth another go, and
doggedly went in search of the bra. She
didn’t find it. Joe had wrapped it round
a handy brick and heaved the lot into
the dam.
* * # *
“M.S.”: Why all the fuss and wonder
because a ewe has triplets (B. 2/4/’52)?
The occurrence is not so rare, and within
the boss’s small flock I’ve seen it happen
at least half a dozen times; the season
before last there were two sets, whilst a
neighbor claims a count of four from a
solitary ewe in a home paddock. Triplets
are usually small, weedy little blighters,
and for my part I’d as soon have one
decent lamb and be done with it. Some
seasons favor twins and triplets, and
crossbred sheep are more liable to throw
double than are Merinos. A couple of
years back this East Gippsland district
reaped a heavy harvest of twins and
triplets. It was carrying crossbreds at the
time, and it meant extra nourishment
for the ewes, hours of drafting into
small paddocks, overcrowding of top-
dressed pastures and sometimes a most
inglorious mix-up.
H= * * H=
“Sack”: Interesting to learn that a
kangaroo doesn’t use its back legs when
swimming (B. 9/4/’52). The only
creature I have observed which gets its
swimming motive-power from the for’ard
end only is the small brown penguin.
Unlike other water-birds, the quaint little
bloke stretches himself out in a horizontal
position on the water, which brings his
wings—or flippers—below the Plimsoll-
line. They do all the propelling, the legs
merely trailing behind without motion.
It seems like a waste of potential power,
and perhaps the dormant tootsies can
be called upon to do a bit when extra
speed is required urgently, but, judging
by the pace he can get up with his normal
action, the need for auxiliaries may never
occur. Incidentally, size for size, the
green frog must be one of the most speedy
swimmers afloat. He swims in the hori-
zontal position, also, but his action is
a complete reversal —the back legs do all
the work; the front ones hang limp.
# * * ♦
“Herbert Dawson”; Surely “Ceg” can
find an easier reason for Strawberry’s
christening than that clover idea (B.
19/3/’52). Has he never heard of, or
seen, a “strawberry roan” cow? The
lady of that coloring bails up to the
familiar request “Get in there, y’ straw-
berry blankard! ” just as her “bally” mate
is addressed as Bally when requested
to keep her adjectival tail still. The
brindle cow has always been Brindle,
and if, when told to milk Dingo next,
you ask Dave which is Dingo, you are
scornfully informed, “The yaller blank,
of course. Are you blind?” Dave,
though he is the very salt of the land,
is not long on imagination when it comes
to nomenclature, and apart from spas-
modic sentimental periods which produce
Rose, Millie and the like he takes
the easier way, which the cow’s appear-
ance suggests: Cockhorn, Poley, etc.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; “Edx’s” eucalyptus-
oil might have been more curative if it
had been extracted from the bush instead
of from the book (B. 2/4/’52). There
isn’t a really comprehensive tome on the
subject, and it isn’t, as “Edx” claims,
merely a matter of confused classification.
The point I’m hammering is that not
nearly all the species of eucalypts have
been discovered. An English botanist
who for years made a living—and a repu-
tation —exploring rare eucalypt seeds was
making new finds right up to the time
of his retirement a few years ago. He
reckons he could go on finding new
types, if not indefinitely, at least for a
long time. The eucalypt is remarkably
adaptable. It grows in a wide variety of
soils and climates, and there’s a lot of
Australia that’s never been thoroughly
or scientifically explored. Lord knows
what new finds await the botanist, in-
cluding any number of species of
eucalypts that only a botanist would
detect.
H : * * *
“Solitude”: I was dozing by the fire
when SeVentyfiver’s voice reached me.
“Blasted rat,” he growled, “In behind
the bags there. I’ll pull ’em out, Sol;
you get hold o’ that stray cat. Eh?
Can’t catch the blighter. Well, have a go.
But hurry.” I stumbled on outside. “Cat,
cat.” A furry shape scampered across
the yard and jumped on to the hitching
stump, “Cat, cat, come on; nice cat.”
I was halfway to the stump when the
animal dashed for the yellow-box beside
the hut, and, peering through the faint
moonlight, I spotted it crouched far out
on a leafy branch. Followed some coax-
ing, a bribe, some vituperation, a whole-
hearted threat, then I started up the tree.
Ten minutes later, with dial scratched and
pants torn, I clutched the swaying limb
and heard my quarry land on the hut
roof. I skidded down the tree, piled a
couple of boxes at the corner and was
feeling for a grip under the eaves when a
testy voice came from inside. “Gripes,
Sol, ain’t y’ cornin’ t’ hold the cat,”
growled Seventyfiver, “ ’stead o’ chasin’
round half the night after that flamin’
possum?”
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d cut out the
grape-snatching at Mildura and all hands
celebrated at a sort of farewell party. In
our crib next morning Mat and I were
pretty bleary-eyed and the worse for
wear. The big, fellow got out first and
went blundering about the place making
a bit of breakfast. When I saw the billy
of tea smoking I dragged myself out of
the bunk and sat heavily at the table. He
put the billy on the floor and got out
the pannikins and other gear, then sat
himself. “How you feel?” I groaned.
“Rotten.” “Me, too. Strike me, what
a night!” “You look like somethin’ the
cat dragged in,” Mat said. “So would
you, if y’r head was achin’, y’r belly on
fire an’ y’r right foot in pain.” He con-
templated me and dropped his head on
his hands. From his misery came, “There’s
some aspirin f’r y’r head an’ bakin’-
soda’ll ease y’r Kate Kelly. As for y’r
right foot, it’ll probably get better if y’r
take it out o’ the flamin’ tea!”
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: The lighthouse sec-
tion of the Marine Branch is going to
erect a high-powered, medium-frequency
marine radio-beacon and a high-frequency
direction-finding station on Troughton
Island, roughly midway between Derby
and Wyndham. The beacon will give
ships automatic bearings up to a range
of about 300 miles in good weather and
the direction-finding station will give
bearings on request. Power will be sup-
plied by a generator operated by a 150
h.p. motor, and there’ll be an airstrip
and a couple of tropical-type houses for
the attendants. Troughton isn’t a big
place, but it’s a handy size as islands go
up there —about three-quarters of a mile
long and half a mile wide, 15ft. high and
flatfish. Mostly ironstone, but where
there’s soil there’s grass. Soon there’ll
“I had the front sight moved over , so I can aim it better.”
be trees, and it shouldn’t be a bad spot
to camp on. The station will shorten
the nor’-west run quite a bit—ships will
be able to stand closer in and thread a
way through where now it’s too risky.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: That Westralian who dug
over the sites of demolished termites’
mounds (B. 9/4/’5l) must have had tired
muscles. The basements of such
structures are made of a substance almost
as tough as concrete, the solidity deriving
from the cement which goes into their
construction. This is mainly composed
of the mortal remains of myriads of
termites, whose corpses are carried to the
unoccupied basement to allow decay and
chemical action to fuse the mass to the
required hardness. In process of time
the basement mausoleum becomes jam-
packed, necessitating a mass evacuation
of the population, which takes with it
enough of the most-recently-interred
relatives to provide a solid foundation
for the new citadel.
* * * ♦
“Ghook”: I was breaking up a load of
firewood. The fowls had heard that
sound before, and gathered for the feast.
The rooster acted as Master of Cere-
monies, diving in to make his kill and
show his hens just how such things should
be done. In one split-open slab he
pounced on a lOin. yellow centipede,
which, awakened so rudely, was indig-
nant. As the rooster fastened on to him
he reciprocated. I’d often wondered if
the wattles of a bird were tender. I
realised then they were—so did that
rooster. He shouted blue murder; the
’pede hung on and said nothing. The
rooster rolled over and rubbed his head
on the ground ; the ’pede kept his grip.
I was speculating on which would win
when a hen, apparently thinking it was
a show humiliating to the entire Orping-
ton family, strolled up and pecked.
* * * ♦
“Casca”; In the pre-Ward days in
New Guinea a small schooner was loading
copra from plantations around the
southern tip of New Ireland, and at the
last place the skipper agreed to take on
a Chinese bookkeeper as passenger for
Rabaul. Rounding the point the schooner
set course up St, George’s Channel for
Cape Gazelle, When well out in the
channel the north-west monsoon blew up
with such force that the schooner could
not make any headway, so the skipper
changed course to run across to the lee
of New Britain. It was a rough passage,
and had the engine failed the case would
have been desperate. Uneasily the
skipper muttered “Shouldn’t have taken
a Chink on board —they always bring
bad luck.” Whether or not he agreed,
the Chink had found the only lifebelt
on the boat and put it on. So
much for faith in material things.
Had he gone overboard he may have
reached land, but he would have been
mighty, hungry before getting there. In
that wind and current it probably would
have been somewhere around Pitcairn
Island.
“Vet,”: Listing to the new hand the
difficulties that he would encounter, and
suggesting he might find the work hard,
brought a laugh and the assurance that
it couldn’t be harder than he had been
doing in the city. I am, he is now con-
vinced, a real slavedfiver; but he’s still
full of enthusiasm. He’ll stop work for an
hour any time to explain to anybody
what he has done, is going to do, and why
he likes outback living. He’ll spend half
an hour admiring the sunset, sit down
to empty dirt from his boots, stroll to the
creek for yet another drink of water, play
with the dog, stride off to inspect a sick
jackass, examine his nag’s front feet with
an air of ponderous importance, and
knock off to lament a button off his pants,
He drives a crowbar hard for fully two
minutes, and leans on it for ten to tell
the world he really never knew what work
was before. Any suggestion that he
wasn’t pulling his weight would astound
and offend him, while I’m flat-out trying
to keep up with my own work, and doing
half his.
CLAY.
Clay, clay, clay,
Blue and yellow and grey.
Orange and white and red,
Heavy as lead,
Holding the cart and the dray;
On the hoof and the wheel,
The sole and the heel,
Clay, clay, clay.
Where pools once lay,
To grip and to bog,
To cling and to clog,
Slide and slip,
Slither and dip,
Potholes in places
Up to axles or traces —
What adjectives, eh?
Clay, clay, clay.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMANY HAS THEM GUESSING.
No other single topic has had
anything like the mauling in
overseas comment as the worry-
ing problem of Germany, com-
plicated as it is by such things as
France’s unstable Governments
and fears, and the fact that Frau
Fritz is being ardently wooed by
Russia on the one hand and the
West on the other, and so is in a
position to bargain.
There are sundry other com-
plicating factors, too, as the fol-
lowing culling of comment from
British, U.S. and other sources
will show:
London “Daily Telegraph”
writer: “The European Army
has been from the start a
military artifice designed to cir-
cumvent a political obstacle —
mistrust of Germany.”
“New York Times's” chief
European correspondent: “The
German people, apathetic and
surly, neither wish to arm nor
to finance such a privilege. The
majority of Frenchmen still
detest the Germans and mistrust
them —above all with guns in
their hands.”
“Die Welt” (Germany ): There
is a “laughable dread that the
Federal [West German] Republic
will break out of the European
front and go over to the Rus-
sians—in fact commit national
suicide.”
London “Daily Express” •
“The Wehrmacht is to get into
uniform again. True, a different
sort of uniform. A European
Army tunic. But the men who
wear the European jackboot will
still be the same Germans who
marched for Hitler. Twelve
divisions of them.”
London correspondent, “New
York Times” : “No one doubts
that the West needs Germany,
although the degree of the need
has been greatly exaggerated by
those who think solely in terms
of army divisions. But the Ger-
mans no longer need the West
as much as they did and in the
future they will need it still
less.”
New York “Herald Tribune”
writer : “The Germans, even the
Western Germans, are more
numerous than the French. Pre-
sumably, if they were rearmed
and convinced that they were
serving Germany, they would
produce a better army than the
French. Nevertheless, from the
point of view of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
and of the American capacity to
make good the N.A.T.O.
guarantee, the collaboration of
the French is incomparably of
greater military importance than
that of the Germans.”
The same: “Without the col-
laboration of France, it is im-
possible for the Germans to
collaborate at all with the West.
The German army, if and when
it comes into being, will be a
dependent and parasitical force.
Unless it has the full support of
France, not much American sup-
port could reach it —which goes
to show how fantastic is the
notion held by some that it
would be possible to substitute
Germany for France as a main-
stay of the alliance.”
Washington correspondent,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” ■' “If
France and Germany prove that
nothing has changed between
them and that all movement to-
wards higher forms of unity
eventually founder on traditional
animosities, they will weaken the
ability of the U.S. Administra-
tion to face its critics, and play
into the hands of the old-
fashioned American isolationists
who have argued that the Euro-
Eare a bunch of degenerate
ners with whom the United
should not get involved
Moreover, quite apart from the
Democrats, General Eisenhower,
one of the two leading con-
tenders for the Republican Presi-
dential nomination, has staked
his reputation upon the feasi-
bility of the European Army and
a United Europe. If the in-
strument breaks in his hand, his
position will be seriously weak-
ened and that of Senator Taft,
who has little use for N.A.T.O.
or an American alliance with
Europe, will be correspondingly
strengthened.”
Bonn correspondent, London
“Observer” : “The basic fact is
probably that most Germans feel
no adequate positive motive for
sharing the burden —no loyalty
strong enough to call forth
sacrifice. Willingness to assume
the burden of self-defence is one
of the attributes of a function-
ing national community. The
state of mind of most Germans
is not what you would expect
in such a community. For too
long they have been used to
being governed and protected
by others, occupied and divided.
The problem today is whether it
is really possible to make Ger-
many a military ally of the
LEARN THE ( W. EUROPEAN )
.. square oahce
IM Ttw WOT -SO - EASY LESSONS
—London “News Chronicle.’’
THE CALLER: “Pull up your pants and tighten your braces,
You all join hands, and you’re off to the races.”
West before she has once again
become a nation.”
Bonn correspondent, “New
York Times” • “Various public
rmininn nnlk fin Germanvl
show that the two nrincinal
motivations to the oooosffion fbv
Germans] .o reagent J I
fear that rearmament means war
and concern lest the rearmament
of West Germany end all hope
of reunification with East
Germany.”
London “Sunday Times”
writer : “None of us can like re-
arming Germany. The process
is so much easier to start than
stop. But what is now the
alternative? Had France adopted
a two-years’ service when we
[Britain] did, she would today
have had, despite Indo-China,
a powerful army. The weakness
of her successive Governments
has left her without one. The
United States in Korea and
Great Britain in Malaya and
Egypt have each to divert large
forces. Thus German participa-
tion m Germany’s defence has
become indispensable, and the
urgency extreme. Can we at this
late hour afford to boggle over
N.A.T.O. membership [for Ger-
many]? Can we now hope to
gain anythmg by delaying a con-
cession which must eventually
have to be made for Germany?”
London “Time and Tide” : “A
Franco-German agreement over
the European Army must neces-
sarily be a manage de convert
ance. Such marriages sometimes
work out well But they are in-
evitably preceded by much hard
bargaining by both parties.”
"Manchester Guardi a n” •'
“Early in the European Army
negotiations a German official
was reported as saying: ‘You
must choose between trusting
Germany and doing without
German contingents.’ He put
in one phrase the Western
Powers’ dilemma. Most of their
troubles have come from the
fact that they wanted to recruit
German soldiers but were not
ready to trust Germany... .And
in the end the Western Ministers
will have to face the dilemma;
To trust or not to trust?”
The same: “On admission to
the North Atlantic Treaty Ger-
many is asking no more than
equality with other nations con-
tributing to General Eisen-
hower’s forces. Can it be
thought seriously that she would
put her soldiers under the
supreme command and yet ex-
pect no say in its affairs?”
The same : “The non-German
members [of N.A.T.O.], instead
of seeking mechanical means
of binding Germany down,
ought to be looking for
ways of making sure that
Western Germany will not
want to misuse her new strength.
The German attitude of mind
is a far more effective key to
safety than any device of inter-
national vetoes or military in-
spections. But to take Germany
on trust does require a revolu-
tion in her neighbors’ thinking
—and in her own.”
“News Chronicle” . “The im-
mediate objective is to bring a
European Army into being with
a German contingent. There are
gr a ve risks, but we cannot hang
back now be c a u se of those risks,
The whole P ro i ect rests on con '
fidence in German y- 11 ma y be
«“* aga ‘" *
The same . « No goo d will
come out of ramming through a
European Army into which Ger-
many feels she has been drafted
or France teds that she has been
pushed against her better
judgment The ghosts of ancient
enmities have got to be hud and
a real £ apP^ oche - m h n ro^fide V nii
«the sS rf
success »
'
“ Nj ew York Times” “Perhaps
t^e t^me c i ose if it i s no t here
already when the Washington
Administration will have to re-
exam i ne the whole problem of
American policy toward Ger-
m It was never intended
that Germany should be en-
couraged to become again the
dominant nation of Western
Europe . j t was also surely never
intende d to give the impression
our c j l f e f and mos t trusted
ad on t^e Continent will be
Germany and not France. There
be gome military m j n d s who
think in such terms but m iHtary
logic d oes not always make
political sense.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” writer:
“Post-war Germany has raised in
the heart of the Western system
substantially the issue which
Hitler raised when he first
claimed Gleichberechtigung
[equality of status] as a pre-
liminary to his withdrawal from
the Western Concert then exist-
ing. There is no reason, of
course, to suspect that Dr.
Adenauer’s Government means
to hold aloof from the oppor-
tunity of increasingly intimate
contact with, and access to, the
innermost secrets and compacts
of the West. But there is a
shocking similarity of method.”
Sefton Delmer, in London
“Daily Express” : “The fighting
value of a German Army re-
cruited in the moral climate of
Germany as it is today will be
much lower than that of Ger-
man armies in the two world
wars. It may well prove to be a
liability rather than an asset,”
The same '■ “The average West
German fears and hates the
Russians. But he derides and
despises our political switch to
remilitarisation from the ‘re-
education’ law, which made
criminals and outlaws of all
German professional officers and
n.c.os. The German dread is
that in the event of war West
Germany will become the battle-
field, a new Korea to be
Morgenthaued into non-exist-
ence as armies of liberators from
East and West successively roll
over it.” [The American
Morgenthau advocated, after
the war, turning Germany into
a potato-field.]
The same : “You may be sure
that if ever it should suit their
book —or the men in power
should think it does—the Ger-
mans will sell out the West with-
out a qualm. By 1960 (assum-
ing that no war breaks out in
the meantime) rearmed Germany
will have become a new anxiety
for the West - And—just to keep
us aII feelm § cheerful—let me
“ y
London “Times” : “It is true
that one of the original motives
behind the European Army was
to find some way in which Ger-
many could con , y ribut e to the de-
f ence D f Europe without joining
the Atlantic Pact, and there is
stm widespread fear that Ger-
many’s ambitions to recover her
** “rritory may pervert its
defensive purpose. On the other
hand, it can be argued that if it
' s some safeguard to tie-up Ger-
many in the European defence
community, it will be a stronger
safeguard to ‘tie her up’ in the
Atlantic community as well.
West German membership of
the Atlantic Pact may make the
reunion of Germany difficult—
but not more difficult than it is
already.”
London “Daily Telegraph” •
“From the German point of view
rearmament is only permissible
if it is accompanied by the
virtual restoration of
sovereignty; from the French,
and to a less extent the British,
point of view it is only permis-
sible if it involves the re-creation
neither of a German General
Staff nor of a German arma-
ment industry; from the
American point of view it is per-
missible, indeed necessary, on
any terms, since without Ger-
man forces there is as yet no
possibility of defending Western
Europe up to the Elbe.”
The same: “Plans to rearm
German manpower must both
on practical and political
grounds involve within a short
time the re-creation of the Ger-
man armaments industry. Are
we so sure that we are ready yet
to trust our late enemies with
power which would soon enable
them to dominate non-Soviet
Europe? Could we be certain
that West Germany, once armed,
would not crash through the
Iron Curtain to recover her lost
provinces? Could we feel safe,
alternatively, against a possible
deal with Russia, by which Ger-
many is handed the provinces in
return for giving Soviet expan-
sion an open road elsewhere?”
“New York Times” (editorial
comment ): “There are certain
fundamentals in the policies of
the Western community that
need to be recalled. It is France
who is our historic ally. It is
France whose civilisation and
democracy, whose people and
whose position in Europe make
her vital to us, morally and
practically. It was Germany
against whom we had to fight
for survival in two World Wars ;
it was the Nazi Germans who
perpetrated deeds as cruel and
vicious as any in recorded his-
tory. It is German militarism,
German nationalism, German
irredentism, German super-
efficiency that must be feared in
the years to come —not France,
not anything French.”
London “News Chronicle” •
“In fairness to France it must be
admitted that she has every right
to suspect German designs. In
fairness to Germany she can
hardly be expected to make an
equal defence contribution and
yet rank as a second-class nation.
You cannot put a rifle in the
hands of Fritz and then put a
leash round his neck.”
“New York Times’s” chief
correspondent in Europe : “The
vast industrial and military
power of Germany make of that
country, according to the Soviets,
the key permitting the control of
all Europe. Moscow realises
that the natural orientation of
the Germans is toward the West.
Therefore by all possible means,
including perhaps the offer of
‘spectacular concessions,’ the
Kremlin will seek to prevent the
process of integration which has
now advanced so far.”
“New York Times” editorial
comment : “The problem of
Germany throughout the
twentieth century has resembled
the classical marital dilemma:
Europe cannot live with her and
cannot live without her. Ger-
man unification in 1870 started
Europe on the road to two
World Wars ; her disunity today
could conceivably lead to an-
other one.
“There are more Germans on
the Continent than any race ex-
cept Russians. They are a highly
intelligent, industrious, dis-
ciplined and brave people—great
scientists, great industrialists,
great soldiers—and they occupy
the very heart of Europe. "Hiey
cannot be held down, but neither
can they be left unrestrained.
We need their military help to
form a proper defence of the
West, but we must not allow
them to become too strong.
European economy cannot re-
cover until the Ruhr is a thriv-
ing part of its economic struc-
ture, but German industry
showed how dangerous this
could be to democracy and
European peace. Germany s
internal affairs must be left to
her, but Nazism and militarism
are reviving perils.
“So the conflicts and dilemmas
multiply themselves and so
statesmen get headaches and
ulcers, and the plain man lQ
France, Belgium, Holland Den-
mark, thinks in dread and hate
of the heavy tramping boots oi
another Wehrmacht driven by
another Filhrer*”


For Sale.
FODDER TREES BOOKLET, Is. 9d.
(Stamps). Obtainable H. A. OORBET,
44 Angelo St., South Perth. “A valuable
booklet just published in Western Aus-
tralia.” —Pastoral Review (Jan).
Missing Friend.
WILL THOM THOMAS, son of THOMAS
and HARRIETT THOMAS, formerly of
Middlesbrough, England, last heard of
in Australia at Rosewood, Queensland, or
anyone with information as to his where-
abouts, communicate with THYNNB &
MACARTNEY, National Mutual Building,
293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH STANLEY REYNOLDS for-
merly of 14 Telopea Street Punchbowl. —
TAKE NOTICE that GRACE ADELINE
REYNOLDS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 911 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Bth day of July
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. HUNT &
HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MBS
Circular Chartt for oil types
of Recording Instruments
•or any class o» Machinery
or Equlpmtm
METER CHARTS a SpoeioHy
S«w»ct to*<»ot««4 Cm tw D»hib
JACMdW O’SIIIU VAN^.U
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
A
Banish Seifconsciousness
FOREVER!
mm
Mr. Bernard L. Calrrms, Practising Psy-
chologist, of England, U.S.A., and New
Zealand, mentioned prominently in
Authors’ “Who’s Who,” and at present
in Australia.
Find out NOW about the remarkable Life-
Stream System of Self-adjustment now
introduced into Australia by Mr. Bernard
L. Calmus, famous British Practising
Psychologist.
Fears, morbidity, inferiority complexes and
phobias make life a misery. Apply Life-
Stream Psychology Principles, and you
can change your personality—be calm,
serene, alert — make life mean something !
Simple, produced in Home Study form,
apply these principles in absolute privacy.
All that others will know is that you are
expressing a New Confidence and Person-
ality.
Life-Stream’s outstanding successes in
other countries are due directly to Mr.
Calmus’ personal guidance. For four
months he will personally answer and solve
all your individual problems as only a
successful practising Psychologist can.
For YOU —a new, rich, full, confident,
serene and happy life can begin now —
by sending for Mr. Calmus’ free book.
“Wonders CAN Happen” describes in de-
tail the simple, easily and effectively
applied Life-Stream System.
Take your future happiness into your own
hands —fill in the coupon and get this re-
vealing book.*
* Personal Psychological Consultations in
our Melbourne department strictly by
appointment.
Life-Stream Psychology Foundation, Mail
Consulting Department, Mt. Evelyn, Vic.
Please send me free, under plain wrapper
and without any obligation, your reveal-
ing book “Wonders CAN Happen.” I en-
close fid. in stamps for packing and
postage.
Name
Address
Bui. 1
Their Families
can be proud!
m
Proud of their
Service to
Australia , . .
The family with a man
in the Services can be
justly proud. Fathers,
mothers, wives, sweet-
hearts, brothers, sisters —
all know that their man
in the Navy, Army or
Air Force is serving Aus-
tralia in the finest way
. . . strengthening our
defences at a time when
defence is of critical
importance.
Proud of their
place of honour
in the Community .. •
The men who join the Ser-
vices merit the honour and
appreciation of every Aus-
tralian. They are the main
safeguard of our freedom
and security. The families
of Servicemen can be proud
of the men who have put
their skill and energy into
the nation’s service.
m
11311'
m
Proud to be
Dependants
of a Serviceman!
When a man joins the
Navy, Army or Air Force,
he helps his family in
two ways —by fitting him-
self for their defence if
need be, and by under-
taking a career which
provides excellent pay,
conditions, leave and al-
lowances with oppor-
tunities for advancement,
permanent employment
and pension or gratuity
on early retirement.
More than a job, it's an honourable career
in the Services!
If you want more out of your job than just work and pay,
find out how a career in the Services will satisfy. Whether
you are shilled, semi-skilled or unskilled, there’s an opening
for you in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force. Find out
all about it—to-day.
—— Enquire at the following without obligation;— ■ ■
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide; Richards Building.
99 Currie St. In Perth; 31 King St. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting.
PF23.112
SUNDRY SHOWS
Seven Aborigines.
The watercolors of the seven
aborigines from the Finke River
Mission at Anthony Hordern’s,
Sydney, are chiefly interesting as
curiosities. Their intrinsic
artistic value is slight, but like
the stone-axes, flint-knives and
bark-drawings of an earlier age
they are pleasing because
aborigines did them.
There is even a lady artist
among them this time, Cordula
Ebatarinja, the wife of another
exhibitor, Walter Ebatarinja,
and the mother of seven
children. She paints not much
better and not much worse than
others of the group.
The exception to the general
slightness of talent is Albert
Namatjira ; but Albert, though
his eight watercolors have all
sold, for a total of 415 guineas,
is not very well represented this
time. His lovely jewelled blue
hillsides are missing; his ghost-
gums, with the wrinkled white
bark very nicely done, are
painted so large that his weak-
ness in handling the subtleties
of foliage becomes too
apparent. Only in “Ghost Gum,
Macdonnell Range” is there a
touch of soft blue distance, a
feeling of light and atmosphere,
to show his superior talent and
finer sensitivity.
But though the general level
of talent is elementary, it is by
no means without a spark of
genuine artistic charm. There is
a mild barbaric richness in the
hot earth-colors of even the
most limited of these sketches ;
and there are some pleasing
variations on the formula when
aboriginal motifs manifest them-
selves in the treatment of land-
scape, as in Otto Pareroultja’s
whirligig trees, Edwin
Pareroultja’s wavy bands of red
and blue in “Color Pattern” and
Richard Moketarinja’s curious
dots of trees on bands of pale-
green or creamy-yellow grass.
The best of the group —since
Albert Namatjira is not in good
form —is Ewald Namatjira, his
son, whose brownish-red rocks
contrasted with the white gums
make a very rich effect; the
better at a little distance. He is
the only artist to take an interest
in the changes of the weather and
to vary from the simple blue
wash of sky used in practically
every other painting in the
exhibition ; but he needs to learn
a great deal about painting
clouds before he can put his con-
ceptions effectively on paper.
All except six pictures in the
show had sold by the time The
Bulletin inspected it, and the
Aranda Art Council, which
manages the group, might do
well to put some of the money
into establishing some sort of
art-library and gallery at the
Mission. Both to develop
artistically if possible and to
avoid cheapening the interest of
their painting's as curiosities by
too much repetition, the painters
need more tuition and to see
some other styles of water-
color.
"Cradle of Thunder."
This, at Melbourne Princess,
isn’t half a bad play—in fact, it
is quite a good one, and there
was no need for the daily critics
to be quite so sniffish and
patronising about it, or to ex-
press pious hopes that young
Australian playwright Ray
Lawler would do better next
time. Where could they point
to a more successful attempt by
any modern playwright to re-
create a period in history and at
the same time work out a human
problem?
Mr. Lawler’s manner may be
a bit Byronic, but his matter is
living. He makes you feel the
situation of the Englishman, a
sort of Richard Mahony, who
has bought the Mistral Inn,
Williamstown, Port of Mel-
bourne, and tries to play the
gentleman in his elegant parlor
with his wife, who is not really
his wife but a ticket-of-leave
convict who has been trans-
ported for the murder of her
husband and who is trying to
play the lady, while the tap-
room outside resounds with the
laughter and yells of drunken
convicts, ex-convicts, whores
and sailors ; the sea booms on
the foreshore and off-shore the
cat-o’-nine-tails is busy on the
convict hulks Success, Deborah,
Lysander, President and Sacra-
mento.
Poor Mr. Wreckyn came out
to Australia because he had
heard it was a land of vast dis-
tances, peace and isolation, but
here he is, tied to a wife, or de-
facto wife, who loves him and
who is loved in her turn by
Captain Fennessy, who comes
ashore daily from the hellship
he is in charge of to push his suit
in the tavern parlor.
So Mr. Wreckyn, who is a
typical neurotic, wants to return
to the peace and quiet of
England, but is terrified of the
sea and fears he can never re-
cross the ocean. His fear of a
fear takes the form of buying
valor badges from drunken
sailor-heroes, and he has a fine
collection of them. He buys one
from Whiskey Johnny, a tall,
curly-haired Byronic type of
hero who does everything to
excess, including women, the
bottle and sea adventure. He
completely dominates the psyche
of the neurotic Mr. Wreckyn,
and, in order to prepare him for
escaping back to England, leaves
the taproom for the drawing-
room every evening and takes
his publican on an imagined voy-
age. They have almost come in
sight of the white cliffs of Dover
when Whiskey Johnny’s body is
washed up on Breakwater Pier
with a bullet in it. Mrs. Wreckyn
has seen what he is up to and,
terrified that she will be deserted,
has committed a second murder.
The convict hulk reserved for
women receives another lodger.
Although a trifle too heavily
dramatic, Moira Farrow was
good as Lacey Wreckyn, and
George Fairfax gave a feeling
portrait of the half-mad Mr.
Wreckyn. Ray Lawler was
excellent as a sailor-servant, and
the Williamstown watersiders of
1853 were well represented by
Shirely Young, Agnes Fulton
and Reg Dell. The official
brutality of the epoch was repre-
sented by Edward Morcom as
the captain, a silly, simple,
sentimental “sooner” in a red
coat.
John Brownlee.
The Australian baritone’s work
on the concert platform gets
off, as it were, to a rocket-
propelled start by virtue of a
most engaging personality, and
it is maintained by a voice of
fine quality that has consistent
resonance through a gamut that
stretches further north than
south, and a head - register
capable of meeting the most
exacting demands.
The only flaw —a temporary
one, perhaps—was a slight burr-
ing of the lower chest notes
when taken on the half-voice.
His instrument is geared to
sol i d 1 y-based interpretative
artistry.
His iieder left little to be de-
sired, and with a Schubert group
he relied on restraint. But in
the declamatory passages of
Schumann’s “Wanderlied” he
drew on a ringing quality which
enhanced the song’s outlines.
There were interesting songs by
Purcell and Mehul, French airs
by Duparc, Koechlin and
Debussy—delivered with a keen
appreciation of Gallic subtlety,
especially as to Duparc—and a
group of Old American songs
based on the folk motif, in
which Brownlee gave free rein
to a robust humor; of these
“The Dodger,” a song about
political campaigning, was given
with full-blooded zest, and “I
Bought Me a Cat” was a capti-
vating piece of vocal clowning.
Raymond Lambert’s accom-
panying was high art, and his
solos by Brahms, Saint-Saens
and Albeniz were played with
crispness and, at times, a measure
of fire.
New Conductor.
Juan Jose Castro, the Argen-
tinian maestro and Melbourne’s
new semi-permanent conductor,
made his debut at the Town
Hall in the first of the 1952 sub-
scription concerts. Unlike his
predecessor Galliera, he looked
grim, though there was nothing
grim about his conducting. Con-
ducting without score, he put an
enormous amount of effort into
the Schumann pianoforte
concerto, working his fingers,
his hands, his body and his
muscles all ways at once. He
seemed to know exactly where
the sounds were to come from,
unlike one well-known con-
ductor who, inadvertently turn-
ing two pages instead of one,
gave a firm direction to the
drums and brasses on the right
and got a tiny “tweet-tweet”
from the strings on the left.
Walter Gieseking at the piano
was also putting forth a
tremendous amount of effort
and seemed just as concentrated
and as anxious in his old age to
play just a little better some
little run of notes he had played
a million times before.
The critic who didn’t remain
humble in face of this display of
enormous focus on the part of
these two men would be an ass,
and if he started to differentiate
between this and that perform-
ance he would be pretentious.
The only thing that could be
observed about it was that the
orchestra did not look as up-
lifted and inspired as they
looked' when they played for
Galliera, but if they weren’t it
wasn’t apparent in their music.
The conductor had it on his
own in the second part of the
programme and led his
musicians through the glittering
Interlude and Dance from “La
Vida Breve” of Falla and the
“Siegfried Idyll” which Wagner
wrote to celebrate the birthday
of Frau Wagner. There was
some sensitive playing in the “La
Mer” of Debussy.
"She Stoops to
Conquer."
Of Oliver Goldsmith’s comedy
—about the two young bloods
who mistake a country house for
an inn, their host for the inn-
keeper and his daughter for the
barmaid —it may be said that it
reads better than it acts, or at
any rate than it is acted by the
National Theatre Festival
Drama co. at Melbourne
Princess. Producer Reg Gillam
apparently decided that Dr.
Goldsmith isn’t as funny as he
should be and tried to make him
more so.
The mysterious callisthenics
with which Zoe Caldwell equips
Kate Hardcastle may have been
18th-century manners, but they
give the impression that the lady
has mistaken a straight play for
a ballet. Owen Evans is in-
explicable as the reactionary
Tony Lumpkin, and the alcoholic
party at the Three Pigeons is
as jolly as a Temperance League
committee-meeting.
Exceptions may be made in
the case of Allan Matheson, who
gave a dignified and coherent
interpretation of Mr. Hardcastle,
and of June Brown, who was
suitably silly as his missus.


&
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.W.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffet;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R ; Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing the Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 73 years’ specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
TR4.3S
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£,£>£>£> £>
To staff fund, £25,773 . r ..
'46.. 4,960,951 1,996,067 530,448 5,959 ( n 090 240
Add exchange premium on net over- f ’ ’
sea assets, £687,536 .. ..1
To staff fund, £43,555 .. •• 1 9 ora oss
'47 5,662.219 1,983,579 654,572 16,425 )
’48.. 6,348,235 2,220,456 764,279 7,594 „ 091 097
To staff fund. £34.679 .. _ | 3,321,227
'49.. 7,049,512 2,225,973 819,308 8,276 | „ qfi9 oqi
To staff fund, £32,964 .. .. S 0,y ’
'50.. 7,906,996 2,447,608 946,756 14,773 1 . 46 o 044
To staff fund. £34,015 . . . . } ’ ’
'51.. 9,249,309 2,864,334 1,265,126 14,615 ) 5 064 677
To staff fund, £40,557 . . • • ) ’
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits.
f After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £13,839 .. ..1
To general branch, £30,000 .. |
1946.. 2,424,619 716,359 541,534 2,738 j-1,530,512
Add exchange premium on net over- (
sea assets, £410,363 .. .. J
To staff fund, £22,270 .. „ 7
1947.. 2,669,908 808,350 622,52912,043 ] 4,204,71b
1948.. 2,910,499 931,097 674,311 5,958 \ - 9S9 ....
To staff fund, £16,989 .. .. J
1949.. 8,119,500 1,026,795 712,765 7,215 7 , o nn
To staff fund, £15,425 .. _ J l,357,300
1950.. 3,404,981 1,066,977 770,608 8,315 1 . fi ,o
To staff fund, £15,468 . . . . S *>543, 013
1951.. 3,826,246 1,118,103 904,597 8,768 7 , 777 ,*0
To staff fund. £17,320 .. ..J 1
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits.
t After deducting taxes.
Latest figures of the M.L.C. provide
fresh evidence of the co.’s continued
progress. It writes ordinary, industrial
and accident business in Australia, New
Zealand, Canada and the U.K. and is
one of the front-rankers among Aus-
tralia’s big life-offices. Careful under-
writing, sound investment and a prudent
reserve policy are the solid foundations
on which the business rests.
In the two life departments combined
the amount of new business put on the
books last term was a record (£47,576,359),
an increase of £11,034,345, or 30.2 p.c.
—ordinary £37,666,371 (up £10,113,511)
and industrial £9,909,988 (up £920,834).
Among the many factors responsible for
buoyancy are the popularity of life
assurance as a means of industrial super-
annuation, the quick growth of popula-
tion, home-purchase coupled with assur-
ance, and, above all, the security aspect
of the contract. A full measure of capital
protection is provided long before it is
ever paid advantage for which
there is no substitute —and the capital
sum assured keeps on increasing, despite
what happens in the sharemarket.
For years we have been assured by
pundits of the new economics that the
problems of production and distribution
could be solved and the value of money
manipulated to suit our ends. The new-
fangled technique was used to buy time,
and the time has been paid for by drain-
ing industry of its working capital as
well as policyholders of part of the value
of their savings, This time is now run-
ning out, and at long last a determined
effort is to be made by the Government
to get back to a basis of honest money.
The going is likely to be hard, but the
result should be worth while, because it
would restore the value of savings, thus
giving fresh emphasis to the will to save,
as well as to some of the old virtues of
thrift, restraint, toil and resourcefulness.
After deducting taxes (£31,737), the
year’s income from all sources was
£1,760,464 stronger at £13,295,804, of
which £10,694,385 (up £1,516,588) was
premiums and £2,601,419 (up £243,876)
interest, rents, etc. Claims and exes., which
together took £6,126,810, were well within
what the actuary had budgeted for.
though exes, continued to climb, as they
inevitably must in any enterprise where
they consist mainly of salaries. In the
O.D. they took 17.04 p.c, (up 1.85 p.c.)
of net premiums and in the I.D a 28.55 p.c.
(up 1.27 p.c.).
Of the £7,168,994 of income that re-
mained, £6,842,135 was added to the life
funds. £23,743 was used to further write
down the book-value of assets, £58,783
was sent to the staff fund, £40,166 to
reserves in the general (shareholders’)
section, and £204,167 (20.4 p.c.) was paid
to shareholders in divs. in respect of
1950.
The assurance funds total £75,673,417,
and have the visible support and assist-
ance of £1,191,000 of other reserves,
which also belong to policyholders. The
assurance funds alone substantially exceed
the reserves required for security and
bonus maintenance, calculated on a
stringent 2\ p.c. basis in the O.D. and
mostly on a 2 p.c. basis in the I.D. The
amount of the excess, or surplus, available
for distribution in the two departments
was as follows;
Surplus.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £ £
Ordinary . . 1,163,267 1,207,347 1,445,985 1,644,117
Industrial.. 178,757 188,810 224,748 252,560
Total .. 1,342,024 1,395,657 1,670,733 1,896,677
The satisfactory scale of bonuses paid to
policyholders, which was slightly increased
in 1950, was maintained last term.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on assurance funds was £3 11s. 3d. p.c.
(down 3s. Id. p.c.) O.D. and £3 13s.
(down Is. lOd. p.c.) I.D. The slip was
due to conversion of maturing securities
at lower current rates. The margin be-
tween the rates actually earned and those
assumed in calculating policy liabilities
is more than usually considered adequate
for maintenance of existing bonus-rates.
The recent strengthening of interest-
rates in the market, together with move-
ments in the investment portfolio, suggests
that the co.’s net effective rate can be
expected presently to turn in the other
direction:
1950. p.c. 1951. p.c.
Govt, securitiesf £49,803,593 66.8 £48,071,178 59.0
Mortgages, etc... 15,025,059 20.2 21,316,930 26.2
Loans on policies 1,825,066 2.5 1,952,825 2.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 924,119 1.2 1,019,782 1.2
Property.. .. 862,246 1.2 941,164 1.1
Debentures, etc. 1,545,887 2.1 2,983,694 3.7
Shares .. .. 4,510,335 6.0 5,193,884 6.4
£74,496,305 £81,479,457
Liabilities* .. 1,503,383 1,444,756
Net assets ..£72,992,922 £80,034,701
t Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
More attention is now being given to
mortgages (up £6,291,871), which are
largely to co-operative building societies
with Government guarantee, and indus-
trial debentures (up £1,437,807) and shares
(up £683,549). There was a drop of
£1,732,415 in the holding of Government
securities. Too much attention need not
be paid to the drop in market-value of
Government and other securities, because
the co. is a long-term investor, and there-
fore in a position to nurse its portfolio.
Moreover, the drop is covered by inner
and/or disclosed reserves.
York Motors (Hold’g), Ltd. (Syd.)
and Subsidiary.
f Dividends—To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1944.. 33,245 10.5 32,760 485 137,158
Added intangibles, £495 .. .. 137,653
From inner reserves, £10,006 .. 127,647
1945.. 52,620 9.9 31,158 21,462 106,185
1946.. 54,264 lO 31,200 23,064 83,121
Added intangibles, etc., £2350 .. 85,471
1947.. 205,601 l5 46,800 158,801 73,330
Reserves.
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 23,330
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 24,230
Share premiums, £BB,OOO .. .. 112,230
1948.. 290,059 l5 52,300 237,759 349,989
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 299,989
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 300,889
1949.. 376,996 2O 80,000 296,996 597,885
To stock reserve, £IOO,OOO .. .. 497,885
Reduction intangibles, £ 1020 .. 498,905
Reserves capitalised, £BO,OOO .. 418,905
1950.. 995,569 25 149,000 846,569 1,265,474
Added intangibles, £1430 .. ..1,264,044
1951.. 929,256 3O 204,000 725,256 1,989,800
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
The motor trade, whose prosperity
has rivalled that of the woolgrowers.
was still in clover last year, when the
fatness of its profits was reduced only
slightly by a heavier load of costs.
Though the weight of this load promises
to become heavier still, it might be
some time yet before the big distributors
in the trade feel the full effects of the
drop in export income, due to the fall in
wool prices, tighter credit conditions, cut
in imports, and the slackening tempo of
trade in some other sections of the
economy.
Public interest in this business is
through the holding co., which owns all
the capital in the operating subsidiary,
York Motors Pty., Ltd., and little else.
The subsidiary holds franchises in N. S.
Wales for Morris and Chrysler cars and
trucks, and for Rolls-Royce, Bentley,
Singer, Studebaker and Willys cars, as
well as for Fargo trucks and Ansaldo
tractors. In Queensland its agencies
include Austin, Rolls-Royce, Bentley,
Willys and Reo vehicles, and Oliver
tractors and Britstand and other heavy
earthmoving equipment.
The British agencies, which cover two
makes that are among the best-sellers in
the market, are the moneyspinners. Over
67 p.c. of the new cars registered in N. S.
Wales during 1950-51 (46,689, up 5527)
came from the U.K. When the Canadian
market was virtually closed to British
car manufacturers about a year ago there
was a flurry to find alternate outlets. To
help overcome the difficulty of getting
cars to Australia —the industry’s largest
single market —Britain’s “Big-Six” be-
tween them chartered a fleet of vessels
at a cost of nearly £5 million, and engines
and chassis continued to arrive faster
than they could be assembled and bodies
built for them.
Servicing and sales of parts also made
a handsome contribution to earnings,
which were further helped by increased
selling-prices and sales of tractors and
earthmoving equipment. Turnover
(amount not stated) increased, but at a
much slower rate than for the previous
year, when the figure exceeded £164
million. Gross earnings (up £358,886)
rose by 16.8 p.c. as against 91.2 p.c. in
1950:
Gross Trading Tax Net
Profit. Exes. Provision. Profit.
1949 .. £1,210,141 £550,980 £282,165 £376,996
1950 .. 2,314,938 748,428 570,941 995,569
1951 .. 2,673,824 980,569 763,999 929,256
Exes, (up £232,141) gobbled 36.6 p.c. of
gross compared with 32.3 p.c. in 1950,
which suggests that a firm hold was kept
upon controllable outgoings. It was extra
Government bleeding (up £193,058) that
pulled net earnings down by £66,313.
Still, the £929,256 of profit was a juicy
136.7 p.c. on capital as against 146.4,
94.2, 83.2, 65.9 and 17.4 p.c. back to
1946, After sending £20,000 to the staff
fund and lifting the div. from 25 p.c. to
30 p.c., £705,256 (75.9 p.c.) of the year’s
profit was ploughed back into the busi-
ness, lifting reserves to £1,969,300, which
is nearly three times greater than paid
capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £400,000 £680,000 £680.000
Creditors, etc.t 1,547.615 1,581,218 2,762,699
Tax provision.. 326,626 620,372 763,842
Freeholds .. 110,757 144,183 320,648
Plant .. .. 57.313 81,443 111,089
Stocks .. .. 1,260,877* 2,127,982* 2,575,845*
Debtors .. .. 722.885 963,818 1.061,445
Investments .. 48,131 63,499 70,209
Cash .. .. 572,163 761,801 1,056,605
* After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
f Includes unspecified amount of specific reserves.
To meet net additions of £447,863 to
stocks, £97,627 to book-debts and
£206,111 to fixed assets, £1,181,481 was
added to the amount coming to creditors,
etc,, which includes an unspecified amount
of specific reserves. The growth of fixed
assets was due partly to purchase of addi-
tional freeholds in Sydney and Brisbane.
And the co. has a big building pro-
gramme ahead in Sydney, where new
assembly works, truck showrooms and
service-station are to be erected on a
five-acre block at Waterloo.
As for the outlook, sales of cars, trucks
and other equipment are beginning to
slacken, while costs continue to cAII ?V '
The strong stock position means thatme
40 p.c. cut in imports of unassembled
chassis will not be felt for some time.
Meanwhile, demand might readjust use
to the reduced level of supply, the cm
in import of parts is likely to be let
most. However, finances are comtor -
able, stocks are shown less a reserve
£200,000 against price fluctuations, and
net earnings will have to fall heavily
before the 30 p.c. div. is endangered.
The market, nervous and weak at the
moment, takes the long view and prices
the f.-p. £1 shares (they reached a peak
of 765. 6d. in 1951) at 50s. 6d., giving an
immediate return of 11.9 p.c. on a 30 p.c.
div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distii-
bution. Net tangible cover is 775. llu.
McDonnell & East, Ltd. (Bris.)
, Dividends *
p ref . To Re- Rfr-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord.» serves, serves.
1942.. 11,275 720 5ip.c.=10,232 323 |3,986
1943.. 17,056 720 5£ „ ~10,231 6,105 30,091
1944.. 25,914 720 6 „ ~11,161 14.633
1945.. 26,748 720 6 „ ~11,161 14-867
1946.. 31,332 720 7 „ ~13,021 17-591
1947.. 37,043 720 7 „ ~13,022 23,301 99,883
From policies a/c, £3200 .. ••
1948.. 46,817 720 8 p.c. =14,882 31,215 134,-98
Reserves disappear, £7379 .. •• 4 "”.9l
1949.. 32,696 720 8 p.c. =14,882 17,094 141-918
Reserves disappear, £13,598 .. • • 130,410
1950.. 34,099 720 8 p.c. =14,882 18,497 148,912
Reserves disappear, £10,524 .. •• 133-368
1951.. 50,815 720 10 p.c. =18,603 31,492 169,879
Revaluation assets, £53,348 .. •• 223,-2'
Reserves disappear, £13,085 .. .• 210,14 l
1952.. 28,449 720 8 p.c. =15,846 11,883 222,02 a
* Includes special payments to directors.
The contraction (£22,366) in last
term’s profit of this Brisbane draper,
whose store is in George-street, just off
the main shopping centre, was more pro-
nounced than might have been expected.
It was due to a combination of sharply-
risingl costs, especially wages, the slim-
ming of officially-controlled gross margins,
and the tapering of turnover, particu-
larly during the last part of the term,
owing to growing buyer-resistance to high
and rising prices. Over the full period
turnover (amount not disclosed) increased,
but not at the same rate as for the pre-
vious year, and the growth was due more
to rising prices than to expansion in unit
sales.
The following comparison of p. and 1.
figures shows what happened, and pin-
points the danger-spot:
Year. Gross
Jan. 31. Earnings. Exes. Profit.
1950 .. .. £191,615 £157,516 £34,099
1951 .. . . 239,900 189,085 50,815
1952 .. .. 267,174 238,725 28,449
Last term the increase in gross earnings
was £27,275, or 11.3 p.c., while the
growth in exes, was £49,640, or 26.2 p.c.
Corresponding proportions for the pre-
vious year were 25.2 p.c. and 20 p.c.
respectively. The provision for taxation,
which is included in exes., was £25,000
last term as against £29,000 for the pre-
vious one. The £28,449 of profit, lowest
for the last seven years, covered the small
pref. div. (£720) and 15.3 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 29.1, 19.4, 18.6,
26.8, 21.1 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1946. On
ord. capital as it now stands the avail-
able profit was 9.7 p.c., and on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the £28,449 was a moderate 5.5 p.c.
The cautious board kept the div, at 8 p.c.
—in the previous term a 2 p.c. jubilee
bonus was added —making average distri-
bution over the last dozen years 7 p.c.,
compared with an average of 4.3 p.c. for
the half-dozen preceding years.
During the year reserves were strength-
ened by £53,348 on account of a revalu-
ation of fixed assets, and there was an
unexplained reduction, interlined in the
introductory table, of £13,085 (£10,524
in the previous term) in the reserve for
contingencies (now £44,817).
Another feature of the accounts was
the year’s net addition of £170,477 to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Aus-
tralian and Overseas Patents and Trade
Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 72.
Notice is hereby given that the
Directors have declared an Interim
Dividend in respect of the year ending
June 30, 1952, of Sixpence per share
sterling, less United Kingdom Income
Tax at Nine Shillings and Sixpence
(9/6) in the £, the net amount of
dividend being Three Decimal Point
One Five Pence (3.15 d.) per share
sterling.
The Transfer Books will be dosed
from May 2 to 5, 1952, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of exchange ruling on May 2,
1952.
For Lake View and Star, Limited.
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
Fimiston,
April 15, 1952.
This word is your
LEGAU GUARANTEE
of truly Old Whisky
Sr*
SC
( >il)
%
zs;
■'"•s
By Commonwealth Law, when a Whisky is bottled
under Australian Customs and Excise Department
supervision, it must not be labelled “OLD” unless
it has been matured for at least five years.
Look for the word “OLD”
Some brands of whisky are aged less than half as
long as Corio Special. But without age, a whisky
cannot be mellow. Only Corio Special possesses
all the Special virtues that careful blending of
aged whiskies can bring.
Corio Special
Australia’s old whisky
C4O/16
For Sale.
SOUTHERN CROSS GOLD MINE, Cler-
mont, Q. Equipped Diesel Compressor,
small winder, 5-head stamps, etc., per-
manent water. 1000 tons averaged over
2oz. over plates. Last crushing 48 tons
yielded 164 fine oz. sands, etc. Still on
good stone. About 800 tons sands avail-
able cyaniding will pay big proportion
price asked. Selling on account ill-health.
Govt, geological reports, etc., available
from J. W. BARTLETT, Central Avenue,
St. Lucia, Brisbane, Queensland.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle. Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Svj>T;
m*
mmm.*
s%Tifc
'dL'l'rf.t? ■’AiSSv^'
»* v* <*:
*"A/...\ /.,;
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Paris, 27th August, 1783
Australasian Subscription Rates
TT^&ulleim.
12 months . . . . ..£ll6 0
6 months . . . . . . 18 6
3 months . . . . . . 9 6
Post-free whether ordered direct from Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, or through any newsagent.
f n 4 CJ ONSIEUR mont-
kD/I/I GOLFIER’S first
' 1/ hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
and flails until it was quite
\ deflated. The tattered re-
\ mains were tied to a horse’s
\ tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how far
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.”
df
i NOIIVIAV
Mj
JHF>
SERVICE
—4
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
stocks, largest and most valuable
of the assets:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 181.027 181.027 294,904
Morteaffes . • 1,653 903 903
Overdraft .. 117.690 143,370 217,731
Sundry creditors 83,501 38,200 41,575
Tax provision.. 62,572 72,294 79,062
Final divs. .. 8,161 11,882 9,125
Freehold, plant,
etc .. 103,229 131,014 221,611
Stocks .. 360.282 382,448 552,925
Book debts .. 56,887 80,872 88,342
Cash, etc. .. 33,018 23,223 2,446
Of the growth of £90,597 in
fixed assets, £53,348 was on
account of the revaluation
already mentioned. The balance
was spent on brightening and
improving the store. To meet
the outlay the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £74,361 net
and 179,000 new £1 ords. were
issued at par shortly before the
close of accounts. Issued capital
is now £295,027, of which there
was only £123 to come when the
books closed.
The size of the inventory will
soften the impact of import cuts
on the volume of goods avail-
able for some months to come.
But trading promises to get in-
creasingly difficult as the year
advances. The recent lift in the
basic wage will be felt more in
costs than in purchasing-power,
shoppers are likely to become
more discriminating and price-
conscious, and, in the struggle
for liquidity, competition can be
expected to get much keener.
The nervous sharemarket,
which lacks buying support, and
is likely to for the next couple
of months, heavily discounts the
co.’s prospects by pricing the
f.-p. £1 ords. at par as against
30s. a year ago. Net tangible
cover is 355. 4d. The well-
protected prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
Latest accounts were circu-
lated in Australia within four
months of the books being ruled
off at Dec. 31 last; an example
that some other Malayan tin-
dredgers, who hang up release
of their figures for as much as
nine months, or more, might
well follow.
The co., which is an
amalgamation of the old Larut,
Tupai, Kota and Settlement
Dredge cos., has been tin-
winning in the famed Taiping
Valley (Malaya) for the last 26
years, excepting the period of
the Jap occupation. Since it
got its Nos. 4 and 5 dredges
operating again in 1947, profits
have stepped along like a
thoroughbred, thanks to the
steep rise in the price of the
metal. Here are combined
dredge performances, etc., for
the five years to end 1951;
Recovered,
Year, Treated, t. 0., Costs,* Profit,
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. c.y. £
1947.. 2302 897.17 6.92 and. 15,071
1948 . . 4255 841.43 6.86 and. 92,460
1949.. 4553 1000.48 7.66 and. 107,986
1950 .. 3873 854.11 8.42 and. 145,222
1951 .. 4062 881.84 10.42 and. 225,472
* Operating.
Average grade of ground
handled last term was 0.491 b.
t. 0., same as previous year. In-
cluding ore from amang (26.92
tons), the year’s total recovery
was 908.76 tons t. 0., which
assayed 74,3 p.c. metallic tin.
The average price received for
ore sold was equivalent to £lOsl
per ton of metal as against
£701,7 for the previous year.
So, despite an increase of 2d.
per c.y. in operating costs, and
after paying export duty
amounting to £110,558 (=£163.7
per ton metal) and setting aside
£115,000 for taxation, the profit
figure shot up by £80,250, reach-
ing £225,472, equal to 3s. 9d.
per ss. share, or 75 p.c. on the
£300,000 of paid capital. Two
divs. totalling 4s. per share
(2s. previous term) were sent out,
less Malayan income tax, now
30 p.c., which reduced the net
rate to 56 p.c.
Finances are snug. When the
books closed stores, etc., figured
at £106,398, and current assets
at £522,851, of which £500,417
was cash. Including the final div.
(£105,000), current liabilities
amounted to £120,044. During
the year the co.’s war-damage
claims, etc., were assessed at
£98,040, of which £58,782 was
received. This, together with
£25,668 from kitty (total
£84,451), was used to reduce the
rehabilitation loan to £29,412,
thus avoiding the creation of a
debenture and additional interest
payments. Since the close of
accounts a second interim pay-
ment of £14,706 has been re-
ceived, leaving £24,552 still to
come. A further sum of £1097
was also received during the
year through an associated co.
for plant removed to Siam dur-
ing the occupation.
There is a long working life
ahead of the two dredges at
Taiping. Since the books were
ruled off the Bangtoe area, in
which Larut holds a one-third
interest, has been sold to
Kamunting Tin Dredging for
£BO,OOO cash. This area con-
tains some 57,000,000 of 0.561 b.
ground, which Kamunting will
treat with two dredges from its
now-worked-out Pangnga area.
Estimated cost of transferring the
two machines is £472,000. One
new dredge of similar capacity
to those at Pangnga would cost
about £750,000.
The London average spot
price of metallic tin was
£S 1079.75 per ton for 1951. On
April 22 the figure was £5962.5,
and seems likely to fluctuate
within the £S9OO-£SIOOO bracket
during the remainder of the
year. The market prices the
scrip at 19s. 6d. as against
13s. 6d. at end 1950.
The cost of coping with Com-
munist terrorism in Malaya has
reduced Brisbane-controlled
Raub Australian Gold Mining
Cos., Ltd. (paid capital £200,000),
to a state where it might be
“forced to cease operations,” the
secretary says. The mine and
plant (20-head of stamps and a
new ball mill) are at Pahang, one
of the worst terrorist areas in
the country. For the year to
March 31, 1951, co.’s expendi-
ture on security against the
terrorists was no less than
£18,078, Since the murder of the
former High Commissioner for
Malaya (Sir Henry Gurney) in
October last, there has been a
serious loss of labor at the
mines, no relief from expendi-
ture on security measures, and
wage and material costs have
continued to rise. Both the mine
and plant were in a derelict con-
dition when recovered after the
Jap occupation, and a Govern-
ment-g uaranteed loan of
£400,925 has been raised and
spent on rehabilitation. Re-
ported discovery of scheelite in
the mine recently sent the f.-p.
ss. shares to 11s. in the market.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The 800 dancers who sped the hours
with flying feet at the Abbotsleigh Old
Girls’ Reunion dance seemed particularly
youthful and glamorously dressed.
Twenty-two “new old-girls” were
presented by the principal, Miss G.
Gordon Everitt, to Mrs. George Scam-
mell, who deputised for the president of
the 0.G.U., Lady Mackay, who is in
England. The president of the ball com-
mittee, Margaret Gustafson, danced in
billows of pale-blue net and entertained
in her party Shirley and Alan Skyring,
Frances Griffin and Dick Keatinge, Zoe
West and Jim Court, Elizabeth Wallace
squired by Neville Yeomans, auburn-
haired Sheila Myles looking beauteous in
black and accompanied by Keith Wish,
Bridget Green wearing a striking white
dress folded in a one-shoulder drape, and
Michael Bell. The proceeds of the ball
will be devoted to Legacy.
This Letter thought she had spots
before the eyes when she saw the little
red stickers going up on the paintings by
the Aranda Group at Anthony Hordern’s
Gallery. Even before Professor Mac-
donald Holmes officially opened the ex-
hibition nearly half of the watercolors
had been sold. The Aranda Group is
composed of seven aboriginal artists (in-
cluding the master, Albert Namatjira),
who live in Central Australia. The paint-
ings are competent technically but imita-
tive and lacking in individuality. They
prove firstly that aboriginals have skill
and ability to respond to education, and
secondly that they have not yet had
enough experience and education. Still,
their paintings sold like wildfire.
Professor Macdonald Holmes, who has
spent about three years all told in Central
Australia, says that it has a spiritual
quality of eternal youthfulness, a vitality
of nothingness, as it were. “If the
aboriginals can capture this,” says the
professor, who has been in Australia for
23 years but comes from Glasgow, “their
work is something Australia canna do
wi’out.”
So many people go abroad and get
so little from it in experience, knowledge
or pleasure, that it is heartwarming to
listen to someone like Miss Beulah
Bolton, who recently returned from a
trip to England as delegate with Miss
Faithful! Anderson to the Victoria
League’s Jubilee Conference. At an in-
formal party given for her by the League
during the week Miss Bolton told of the
many delightful experiences she had,
which included seeing the Royal Family
several limes, viewing the Guards Cere-
mony and the Trooping of the Color,
and walking in the procession to Shak-
speare’s grave when everyone brought
offerings of flowers, mostly primroses and
daffodils.
Miss Bolton said that Queen Mary looks
so much like Queen Mary it is almost in-
credible, and that her age is betrayed
only in her rather slow walk. The Queen-
Mother looks, she says, much more
radiantly lovely than any of her pictures
could show, and our present Queen has
the same radiance. The two things that
impressed Miss Bolton most were the
beauty of the country and the kindness
and hospitality of the people.
The sun shone obligingly for the wed-
ding of Nonna McGirr and Peter Willis
during the week, although it had been in
retirement the day before and disappeared
again the next day. Nonna is the ninth
child and the youngest daughter of the
late Gregory McGirr and of Mrs. Rachel
McGirr of Sunray, North Sydney,
where the wedding reception for 150
guests was held. Peter is the son of the
late Mr. C. G. Willis of Tamworth and
of Mrs. Willis of Terrigal. The bride’s
dress was cut on classical lines with a
stand-up petal collar and was made of
heavy cream silk embossed with a silver
leaf. Bridesmaids Trixie McGirr, Mar-
garet O’Donohue and Suzanne McGrath
wore embossed organdie in robin’s-egg
blue, with wide, tailored felt hats to
match, and were escorted by Brian
Cohen, Peter Stewart and Cholmondeley
Darvall. Among the guests were Mr.
Justice Maxwell, Colonel Saalfeld, Mr.
and Mrs. Keith Taubman, Dr. and Mrs.
T. Bateman, Dr. and Mrs. J. Fitzpatrick,
Mr. and Mrs. Bing Molyneaux and Mr.
and Mrs. Alex McGregor of Rose Bay.
The Country Women’s Association
mustered-up about 2500 delegates and
observers for its conference in Sydney
last week, which was opened at the Town
Hall by the Governor and concluded with
an inspection of the University. In
between, some very interesting subjects
were thrashed out and some eloquent
sjpeecnes neard. in discussing the resolu-
tion to recommend the abolition of Egg,
Fruit and Vegetable Boards, for instance,
the delegate from Port Macquarie said
that these boards were nothing but “sine-
cures for derelict politicians and their
satellites,” which raised a laugh and a
round of applause. This resolution, by
the way, although it was passed, met
with some strong opposition, mostly from
professional poultryfarmers, who evi-
dently prefer the security of payment that
the board gives rather than the uncer-
tainty of the open market.
Barbara Showers, in the picture, is
the daughter of Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
H. A. Showers, and is well known in the
younger circles of Sydney society. Her
engagement to Graham Crouch, who is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Crouch,
of Bellevue Hill, was recently announced.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
After attending the annual ball of the
Scots College one wondered how the Scots
ever got a reputation for dourness, since
in capacity for having a good time they
seem to bear away the palm. There were
about 1300 present, so that the College
War Memorial Chapel Fund should
benefit by over £6OO, thanks to the
enthusiasm of the ex-students and the
work of the committee, which included
the E. A. Burburys, the A. F. Bathgates,
the E. R, Reddels, Dr. and Mrs. G. F.
Elliott, the N. J. Kellaways, the N. S.
Mainwarings, the J. B. Maltmans and the
E. J. Quicks, whose party included Major
and Mrs. Donald Coburn. Guests were
received by the principal of the college,
Mr. A. K. Anderson, and Mrs. Anderson
(who looked very sweet in silver brocade),
and by Mr. Alan Ritchie, president of the
0.8. U., and Mrs. Ritchie. Among those
who danced to the skirl of the bagpipes
were the R. W. Mortons, whose two sons
Barry and John were present, the Alan
Swans and Lois Turner with her fiance,
John Barraclough.
The quality of the autumn tints on the
Blue Mountains has caused some con-
troversy this year, the first reports giving
out that bushfires, etc,, had spoiled their
beauty, so that the Garden Club decided
not to arrange a tour. An indignant
denial, however, from an autumn-tint
owner has caused the G.C. to organise an
inspection of gardens at Leura on May 4
(meeting-place, 12 noon at Gordon Falls).
At the reception given by the Opera
Club Committee to the artists appearing
in the opera season which begins tonight
the guests-of-honor were introduced by
Joseph Post from the stage, so that no
one could say they didn’t see the various
celebrities, as so often happens at
receptions. The party was held in the
auditorium of Fort Street School, which
commands a most heavenly view of Dar-
ling Harbor. Under the evening sky the
lighted ships made one of the most charac-
teristic and beautiful sights of Sydney at
night, so that all the artists at the party
were in a mellow mood, and displayed
that friendliness which Mr. Post said was
a feature of their association.
Next Monday sees the opening of the
First Junior Farmers’ Homemakers’
School, which is designed to give the
girl members of the Junior Farmers a
chance to study home improvement,
designing, personal appearance (including
make-up, skin care, deportment and
choosing of clothes) and personal rela-
tions. Entertainments arranged for the
evenings will include a dance and a man-
nequin parade. The school is to be held
at the Yanco Experiment Farm, and will
be attended by up to 30 selected girls,
ranging in age from 16 to 25 years. It
is in the nature of an experiment, its
underlying purpose being to help stem
the drift to the cities.
“Major Barbara” is the play at the
Shavian Playhouse at present. It is a
difficult piece to do because the last act
loses all trace of dramatic action and
becomes simply an exposition of ideas.
They are very interesting ideas, however,
and the actors’ excellent diction put them
across very well. Many who saw the
play last week must have been reminded
of the film some years ago, which had a
cast of top-liners Robert Morley, Wendy
Hellier, Sibyl Thorndyke, Robert Newton
and Emlyn Williams. It was inevitable
that the players were compared with
these, which set them a very high stan-
dard, and on the whole they were not
completely overwhelmed by it.
From Melbourne
“Cradle of Thunder,” the prize-win-
ning Australian play by Ray Lawler, won
a fine ovation when it had its premiere at
the Princess Theatre. It was staged as
part of the National Theatre Arts
Festival and was the third and last play
listed for the drama session. Pauline
Bindley, who had been of great assistance
to young singers appearing in the recent
National Theatre operas, sat with
Gertrude Johnson, who registered her
gratification at the success. Her bouffant
black tu 2 gown was massed with sequins
and worn with a flowing black cape.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll topped a filmy black
chiffon skirt with a fine black lace even-
ing blouse. Mrs. Simon Warrender’s trim
black dinner-suit had diamond clips on
the lapel. Mrs. A. T. Smithers was in
grey satin, Mrs. Rupert Downes in
midnight-blue crepe. Strelsa Heckleman
covered her black frock with a gold-
studded stole. Marie Cumisky’s choice
was gold-toned satin.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, of Toorak, is
well-known for her welfare work, which
includes the Royal Melbourne Hospital
Almoners’ Fund, the Prince Henry
Hospital (of which her husband is presi-
dent of the Hospital committee) and the
Spastic Children’s Appeal, which Sir
Edmund Herring will formally open early
in May. At this the public will be asked
to sign the Book Of A Thousand Friends
(at the same time making a suitable
donation), and when the necessary
number of signatures has been secured to
justify the book’s title, these will be
mounted on the pages of an exquisite.
hand - made volu m e, appropriately
decorated and beautifully printed. The
book will be made by students of the
Melbourne School of Printing and
Graphic Arts. The copy carrying
original signatures will be presented to
the Governor and Lady Brooks, in
acknowledgment of their untiring ser-
vice to Victoria’s many worthy charitable
appeals. A Dickinson-Monteath photo.
Juan Jose Castro was at the rostrum
and Walter Gieseking at the keyboard
for the first of the Symphony Orchestra’s
Subscription Concerts. Mrs. Gieseking
sat with her pretty daughter, whose fair
hair was almost matched by her ocelot
coat. Mrs. Frank Tait covered her black
frock with a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
Arnold Richardson, also in black, added
Persian-lamb. Mrs. Castro’s gown was
of pale-green crepe, sequin-studded. A
watermelon-pink coat which featured the
new pushed-up sleeves and huge gauntlet
cuffs was worn by Mrs. Peter Kiernan.
Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald wore silver-fox furs
over her black frock. Joan Rocke’s
forest-green jacket-suit was worn with a
dyed-ermine tippet.
At the party given by Mrs. Gerald
Bacon at her Caulfield home to Mrs.
Frank Gillespie, wife of the retiring U.S.
Air Force Attache, a chiffon cake made
by Mrs. Gerald Bacon’s daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Charles Bacon, stole the honors.
Chiffon cake is new to Australians, and
among its ingredients is oil; in fact, the
cake is new to Americans, for it is only
four years old. The guest-of-honor wore
a suit of junior-blue. Of ice-blue angora,
Mrs Bacon’s frock had the rolled collar
outlined with crystal-bead motifs. Also
at the party was Mrs. John Sullivan,
whose husband, Col. Sullivan, will take
over Col. Gillespie’s job, and Mrs. David
Cheadle, who will give a small buffet-
dinner for the Gillespies before they
leave; her mole-and-white tweed suit
was worn with a white felt cloche.
All the fanfare which accompanies a
Hollywood premiere will be used to
make the debut of the first Australian
full-length technicolor film, “Kangaroo,”
at the Regent a memorable occasion.
There will be a formally dressed audience,
there will be flowers and colored lights
in the foyer, and as Court mourning will
end four days before the premiere on
June 4, the Governor and Lady Brooks
will be present. Premieres will be held
simultaneously in Sydney, Adelaide, Can-
berra and Port Augusta, where most of
the film was made. Proceeds of the first
night will go to Red Cross in all cities,
a generous gesture of 20th Century-
Fox, which made the film, and Hoyt’s,
which will make the theatres available.
A large committee met at Cranlana,
Toorak, the home of Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer, to discuss plans for the premiere.
Mrs. Baillieu Myer is chairman of the
committee, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson vice-
chairman and Mrs. Norman Shepherd
treasurer, with Marion McPherson and
Heather Menzies joint-secretaries. Lady
McConnan and her daughter Bunty, Lady
Burston, Mrs. Gordon Darling, Mrs.
Henry E. Stebbins, Lady Snow and Mrs.
Kenneth are just a few of those working
to make the premiere a success. Preferen-
tial booking of lounge seats at two
guineas d.c. and centre stalls at one
guinea may be made from now till May
15. Applications for seats, accompanied
by cheques, may be sent to Mrs. Norman
Shepherd, 56 Marne-street, South Yarra;
Miss Marion McPherson, 216 Domain-
road, South Yarra, or to Mr. L. Stebbings,
Victorian Division of Red Cross, 122
Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Albury was in festive mood for its
Gold Cup race-meeting, and, though
rain marred the dressing, the flowers
blooming about the course and the many
gay umbrellas unfurled lent colorful
splashes. Among Melbourne visitors
were Mrs. Fred Hammond, in navy suit
and topcoat Contrasted and a yellow felt
cloche ; Mrs. George Weir, whose scarlet
tent-coat was worn with an ocelot cap
and a matching muff; and Mrs. J. J.
Hogan, who added to her grey bird’s-eye
tweed tailored coat a small royal-blue felt
hat. Mrs. W. F. Arnold, of Albury, wore
a cinnamon-brown Bedford-cord suit and
small black velvet hat. Her daughter,
Mrs. Frank McGrath, teamed a jacket-
suit of elephant’s-breath wool and a small
black velvet cap finished with black
ospreys.
Mrs. Colin Chisholm, of Khankoban,
was outstanding in a watermelon-pink
tent-coat and a black crepe frock which
featured rows of pleating set diagonally
across the skirt; her small hat was of
black velvet. Mrs. Max Houston, of
Burrowye, was attractive in a grey bird’s-
eye tweed suit and grey hat. Mrs.
Digby Thackeray’s suit was in mustard-
and-bfack tonings. Mrs. G. Wearing
Smith wore with her grey suit a sage-
green felt cloche. An ensemble of pale-
blue tweed and matching hat was the
choice of Mrs. Keith Howe. Mrs. Bill
Doyle, of Jindera, wore a navy outfit.
Mrs. Eric Bowler (Holbrook) was in
fclack-and-grey suit and small winter-white
hat. A small white hat also set off Mrs.
Alec Bowen’s light-grey flannel suit.
Also from Holbrook came Mrs. John
Griffith, the red feather in whose navy
beret matched the blouse worn with her
navy suit. Nonie McCarthy was smart
in a light-grey flannel suit and winter-
white bowler hat; her accessories were
London-tan.
Gayest spot in Albury after the Cup
meeting was the Gala Cabaret, where the
committee of the Albury Pre-School
Kindergarten staged a dance to raise
funds. Opened in 1945, the kindergarten
is supported entirely by the efforts of
of the ladies’ committee, with voluntary
contributions from parents. Sixty-five
children in the morning and another
sixty-five in the afternoon are in the care
of a directress and two assistants. Tom
Miller is president of the committee,
Dr. D. H. Mitchell vice-president and
J. Kennedy treasurer. Mrs. Norman
Padman, who is hon. secretary, received
the guests in white broderie Anglaise
mounted on primrose taffeta. Mrs. R.
White, who helps with the secretarial
work, was smart in black-and-white-
spotted tie-silk. Mrs. Mitchell s gown
was of black Chantilly lace. Mrs. Stuart
Brett wore crimson velvet with a cape or
matching ostrich feathers. Silver-threaded
tulle was the choice of Audrey Aitermeir.
Mrs. Kevin Spalding’s frock of black-
and-purpie-striped faille was threaded
with gold. Patricia Young wore a grace-
ful white satin gown and short jacket.


t «
«
Sure Starts
mm.
♦
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX1.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
When Joe Herman, an ex-R.A.A.F
type known mainly for a grin never far
below surface, now of Queensland Air-
lines, touched-down the other day at
Blackall (C.Q.), he’d logged a million
peace-time miles —though pretty good,
not unique. But Herman owns to another
effort which is surely in the marvel class.
A tried hand of 30-odd bombing-raids
over Germany (including Essen’s first
daylight pasting), on his next trip his
plane was shot to pieces, two miles up.
Herman was pitched out into a black night,
minus parachute. For 60 seconds he’ll
not forget while he lives he plummeted
down; then, in that acreage of black
emptiness, he struck something. There
was more than muscle-strength in the
grip with which he grabbed the obstruc-
tion —it turned out to be another crew-
member, happily complete with parachute.
Apart from broken limbs on both sides,
they landed safely in Germany. After six
hungry days they were captured. Herman
joined his present concern the year after
repatriation.
In Australia to confer with the sundry
trade-unions, Sir Vincent Tewson is
general-secretary of the British Trade
Union Congress and president of the
International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions, founded to counter the Red
unions; the F.T.U. outfit has 57 member-
TEWSON OF THE B.T.U.C.
nations and some 70 million members.
A Labor knight, 54, Sir Vincent is a
forthright speaker; at a civic welcome at
Melbourne Town Hall he got in a sug-
gestion that no man should become a
State or Federal politician unless he had
first served an apprenticeship in local-
government. Hailing from the wool-
city, Bradford, he has been with the
T.U.C. in a secretarial capacity for the
past 27 years. An M.C. of War I.
Resumed his old job of Westralian
Director of Agriculture, after four years
as chairman of the State’s Land Settle-
ment Board, George Kingston Baron
Hay, whose second name derives from
Kingston, Jamaica, where he was born
in 1895. Coming to Westralia in 1913,
he sailed three years later with the 51st
Battalion, A.1.F., returning with a
lieutenant’s pips and a Military Cross.
Graduating B.Sc., qualified at the Wes-
tralian University, he joined the depart-
ment he now directs in 1922, rose to the
position of under-secretary, but was
seconded to the Land Settlement Board
in 1948, when the State Government
tackled the job of placing returned
servicemen on farms. A trim welter-
weight, he represented Westralia at
hockey in 1929, is chief instructor of surf
lifesaving in the West and a past president
of the Cottesloe Surf Lifesaving Club.
Alexander Mackie Younger, the old-
time Melbourne builder who lately passed
on, was not impressed by the feats
of modern prefabricators. Forty years
ago he built the solid Baptist Church in
Fairfield ; he transported his staff to the
site in the morning, and the first service
was held in the completed fane that
evening. One of the first builders of big
flats, he built Ardoch on the Dandenong-
road. Most of St. Kilda-road once be-
longed to him, and the houses and flats
he built along it bore the names of his
Riverina stations. In between building
Melbourne suburbs he hunted elephants
in Africa and tigers in Sumatra.
“0.F,”: Charles Hazlitt Upham (B.
23/4/’52) is not the first man to earn a
Bar to the Victoria Cross. There were
two others —Captain Arthur Martin-Leake
and Captain Noel Godfrey Chavasse, both
of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
Martin-Leake earned his first gong in
1902 in South Africa when, with 40-odd
Boers potting at him from not more than
100yds., he went out to tend a wounded
soldier, then did the same for a wounded
officer and was himself wounded three
times. He was awarded the Bar in 1914-18
for going out under heavy fire to bring
in wounded men from close by the enemy
trenches. According to the latest Who’s
Who he still survives, one-time Adminis-
trative Medical Officer of the Bengal-
Nagpur Railway, now 78 and with
Lt.-Col. before his name and F.R.C.S.
and L.R.C.P. after it. Chavasse received
his first award for bravery during an
attack in 1916 when he tended the
wounded all day under heavy fire, was
wounded himself the next day but went
on that night to bring up volunteers to
rescue three more wounded lying outside
the enemy’s lines. He earned the Bar in
1917—badly wounded while carrying a
wounded soldier, he still carried out
“repeated and successful” searches for
other wounded men and eventually died
of wounds himself. I presume he be-
longed to the distinguished British family
which included the late Bishop of Liver-
pool, the Reverend Francis James
Chavasse and his son, the present Bishop
of Rochester, the Right Reverend Chris-
topher Maude Chavasse, who also saw
action in 1914-18, was wounded and
awarded the M.C. and Croix de Guerre.
“King’s Pawn”; Queensland-bom Dr.
J. J. O’Keefe, who has died in Sydney
at 80, was known in parts of the world
where the name of Menzies would mean
nothing—he was recognised as one of
the world’s greatest chess problemists,
and his “mate-in-two-moves” masterpieces
were reproduced wherever chess is played.
The puzzle and surprise of the problem
is to many chessites the very essence of
the art of chess. O’Keefe had made the
name of Australia known in chess circles
abroad long before its players were seri-
ously considered in international matches.
Closing his brief-case, at 77, Arthur
Sidney Hardwick has been prominent in
the legal and musical life of Perth for
over half a century. A West of England
man, he learned about crotchets and
quavers while a choir-boy of Salisbury
Cathedral, and annexed a law degree at
Cambridge before landing in Perth in
1890. After putting in a few years as
associate to Mr. Justice Hensman, he
was admitted as a practitioner of the
Supreme Court of Westralia in 1899.
When courts were not sitting, he turned
his attention to choirs and orchestras,
building up a reputation as a conductor
and helping greatly to improve musical
standards in Perth.
In 1942 the Australian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy medal for the
outstanding contribution to metallurgical
science went to Dr. George Kenneth
Williams, then acting general super-
intendent of Broken Hill Associated
Smelters. The other day he struck rich
ore again—award of the Gold Medal of
the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
of Great Britain, the highest metallurgical
honor in the Empire, and one held by
only two other Australians: Sir Herbert
Gepp and the late Gilbert Rigg. Lead
metallurgy the world over uses the
method of continuous refining developed
by Williams over long years in the
Broken Hill laboratories ; it led to the
complete redesigning of the plant at Port
Pirie. The medallist saw his first sunrise
at Tarnagulla (Vic.), learnt his pothooks
at Wesley, Melbourne, and went through
the city’s university like a comet, gather-
ing letters after his name as mercury
gathers gold. Now consultant to the
Imperial Smelting Corporation in
England, 56, he entered the great works
at Pirie in 1920.
Promoted Air-Vice-Marshal, medico
Edward Daley succeeded Sir Victor
Hurley as the R.A.A.F.’s Director-General
of Medical Services at the end of War 11.
With degrees gained at Melbourne and
Liverpool (Eng.) Universities, he’s been
in the service since 1928, learnt to operate
above-ground as well (pilot’s wings in
1930), and in War 11, deputy-D.G.M.S.,
got in service in the Desert, France and
the s.-w. Pacific. He was an honorary
physician to George VI.
Captain J. E. Walker, who would have
been the Gothic’s pilot if that ship had
brought its Royal freight to Melbourne,
doesn’t intend to carry the proverbial oar
inland when he retires from the job of
Melbourne’s senior sea-pilot next year.
He is building in his backyard at
Williamstown a 46-foot ketch-rigged
cruiser for a voyage to the South Seas.
He’s after three men who are good sailors
and congenial company for his crew.
Before the war an apprehensive
youngster stepped up to the mike during
a radio-contest in Christchurch, New
Zealand, sang his song, and stepped back
with the prize. Prior drew him as he
stepped back from another mike —this
time on the stage of Sydney’s huge
Empire Theatre, his prize the enthusi-
astic acclaim of the Kiwis’ first-night
audience. A first-class him-personator
who gives impressions of well-knowns
like Crosby, Jerry Colonna, Spike Jones
and Pete Smith, Red Moore joined the
N.Z. Army in 1941, and, in the Desert
two years later, the Kiwis. He was play-
ing in Melbourne on the Fernland
funsters’ record run of 1948 when Chico
Marx, then on tour, saw him and took
him back to the U.S., there to play
through 28 of the 48 States. While in
♦the U.S. Moore met most of the
MOORE OF THE KIWIS.
celebrities he now mimics. Though
he tops the Kiwi bill for excel-
lence, Moore puts caricaturing of the
black-and-white sort before the other —in
New York he managed to get in 12-
months’ study at the School of Cartoon-
ists. Prior presents him in his act of the
French professor lecturing a children’s
radio-audience on the story of Cinderella
—in which the accent is on girls, in the
audience as well as in the script.
Seen as Gordon sees him, Walter
Savage has been elevated to a knightship
Ist Class of the Royal Order of St. Olov
—an honor stemming from his competent
handling of the Norwegian Consulate in
Brisbane for the past 20 years. Hailing
from Beenleigh, south of Brisbane (where
the rum hails from and where'his father
built the first house), Savage took on
accountancy, and was one of the
foundation councillors named to
administer the Royal Charter granted to
SAVAGE, NORWEGIAN CONSUL.
the Australasian Corporation of Public
Accountants by George Vin 1928. In
War II a member of the Army Account-
ancy Advisory Panel, he is directorially
connected with half-a-dozen Qeensland
companies, their interests ranging from
rubber-plantations to shipping-news-
papers. A staunch member of Rotary, he
was a nifty rower in his day, pulling in
an eight that went to Tasmania for the
King’s Cup.
Neil MacLeod, Moderator of the Kirk
in Westralia two years ago, is to leave
St. Andrew’s, Perth, for St. Andrew’s,
Hamilton (Vic.). Born at Stornoway, in
the Isle of Lewis, he brought an Edin-
burgh M.A. with him to Australia, to
which he added a Sydney B.D. His Aus-
tralian ministry commenced on the Man-
ning River (N.S.W.), but since 1946 his
musical Scots accent has resounded from
the pulpit of Perth’s St. Andrew’s. In
Hitler’s disturbance he wore a padre’s
khaki with the A.I.F. in the islands.
Charles (“Jerry”) McLelland, Q.C., the
new judge in equity on the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench, graduated B.A. at
Sydney with first-class honors in psycho-
logy at the age of 21, and three years later
in law also, again with first-class honors.
He practised at the Bar for 18 years
before he took silk in 1950. At the time
of his appointment to the Bench, at 47,
he was one of Sydney’s leading equity
counsel. He wears one glass eye, result
of an accidental injury in boyhood.
Into the Silence:
At 80, in Melbourne, Lt.-Colonel F. D.
Rossiter, Old Digger and first O.C. <jf the
Victorian Signal Corps. After a brilliant career
at Melbourne University he graduated M.A. in
1901 (Cobden Scholar), and Shakspearian Scholar
in 1894, the then blue-riband scholarship of
the Varsity. A lover of law and languages,
he was assistant to Commonwealth Statistician
Sir George Knib'bs, and for years an office-
holder of the Australian Historical and Shak-
spearian societies. Also widely-known at the
Melbourne and Carlton cricket-clubs, of which
he was one of the oldest members.
In Adelaide, at 83, Alfred Charles Richardson,
after close on 60 years’ public service to his
considerable credit —most of the time being
spent helping unemployed to change their con-
dition. Entering the Public Works office when
Premier Playford’s grandfather was its Minis-
terial head, Richardson opened the Government
Labor Bureau 14 years later, had over 30 years
there, and later became chairman of the
Unemployment Relief Council.
In South Africa, J. M. Beaufort, Dean of
Grahamstown, who arrived in New Zealand,
after filling several C. of E. parish jobs in
England, to become vicar of Hauraki Plains
a quarter of a century ago. Later chaplain to
H.M.N.Z. training-ship Philomel and head-
master at Remuera and Cambridge schools, he
returned to England, and in 1945 was appointed
Dean of Grahamstown. He served with the
R.A.F. in the Kaiser’s war, and again as
chaplain in England and Africa in Hitler’s.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
I
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DIBBOLYEHATOR
OWes you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
sd
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
p ’ -DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvcnator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Keo, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
T*r»WW* , *«*l*
PCS -
NOIJLOI 3 A 3
Id
(font 6
o
too
else for"'
f °M saying runs: “He who holds
/ a penny close to his eyes cannot
* see the £ beyond .”
Many engines on the market today are built down
to a price”. They run themselves to pieces in a few
years and their short life is marked by frequent
replacements often hard to get.
When you buy an Engine remember that price, in
itself, is not important. What DOES matter is what
you get for what you pay.
The quality of Ronaldson-Tippett Engines is an
engineering tradition. Backed by a solid, here-to-
stay organisation, first-class service facilities guaran-
tee “top” performance year in, year out, over a life-
time of use.
Don’t hold the penny too close to your eyes.
Buy proved quality —buy Ronaldson-Tippett I
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat. Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke SI. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors : Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney. Qld- Dis-
tributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Ify. Ltd.,
Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ROHIALDSOIII TIPPETT
Iffrttm ENGINES.
Mating Sheep.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY THE SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS.
and making it hard for them to
suck the ewe. It spreads to the
udder of the ewe in some cases.
Treatment may be applied where
it is possible to handle the sheep,
and the simplest form is to rub
off as many of the scabs as
possible and dip the lamb’s
mouth and affected parts in a
solution of 11b. of bluestone to
two gallons of water.
Sheep affected with scabby-
mouth have been the cause of
considerable trouble at shearing-
time. In Queensland and
N.S.W. shearers have not only
refused to shear affected sheep,
but, on occasions, have refused
to shear any sheep belonging to
a large mob in which a small
proportion had scabby-mouth.
Rather than prejudice the
shearers, draft off affected sheep
and keep them out of the
shearing-shed to be shorn when
the rest of the sheep have been
done.
Job Wanted.
It comes from England:
I am a young woman who wants a
farming job in Australia. lam single
and was 10 years in the Women s
Land Army and two years more on
farm work. Am used to cattle and
horses, can milk, etc. No experience
with sheep, but could learn. My
application for an assisted passage is
lodged with Australia House, and 1
enclose two references as to health,
character and ability.
References read and the lady’s
address is available from The
Bulletin.
Decreased Bore Flow.
“B.”: A. Robards, of Never-
tire (N.S.W.), is convinced that
in most cases decreased bore-
flow is not due to falling
artesian supplies but to corrosion
of the pipes. Mineral content of
the water can be so high that
the metal of the pipes is eaten
through in two years or less.
Water then leaks out and sand
seeps in; so the flow is reduced.
In other cases, collapse of pipes
weakened by corrosion is
“Shadow-chaser”: There is
far more in choosing a ram than
is dreamt of by most sheepmen.
If wool is the aim, select good
Merino ewes; strong wools for
ordinary pastures, but if country
is suitable fine-woolled types
should not be lightly discarded.
The ram should have a big
frame, free of body wrinkles,
with strong legs and sound feet.
Every inch of this frame —back,
neck, head, sides and belly—
should be well covered with a
dense, vigorous growth of
lustrous wool. It is important
that the belly should be well
covered, fore and aft, as any
weakness there will be accentu-
ated in his progeny.
A defect introduced by one
faulty sire in one season may
take years to eliminate. If
circumstances compel the use of
a faulty sire, draft off 50 or so
ewes showing strength where the
ram is defective and join him
with them. Fix a standard, and
cull remorselessly.
If the aim is fat lambs or
mutton, follow the same tech-
nique in selection, only concern
yourself now with mutton and
carcass instead of wool.
Watch Scabby-mouth.
“Jack’s S.”; About this time
of year some sheep get scabby-
mouth. Lambs are much more
susceptible than grown sheep.
The disease is caused by a germ
picked up from the pastures,
which can only cause scabby-
mouth by getting into the tissues
through a wound or abrasion in
the skin of the lips. Once
established scabby-mouth is
highly infectious among sheep.
Spread of the disease may be
checked by taking affected
animals out and keeping them
apart until they recover.
As a rule scabby-mouth clears
up on individual sheep in two
to three weeks. It causes loss
of condition, however, by pre-
venting the lambs from grazing
brought about by earth pressure
and flow stops altogether,
Ro bards maintains that this
explains why plenty of water
comes from anew bore put
down close to an old one.
Which suggests that a trial with
corrosion-proof bore-pipe might
settle the question of artesian
water-supplies.
Cropping Clover Land.
“Mr.”; Experiments at
Rutherglen Farm (Vic.) indicate
that it isn’t necessary to fallow
clover-land before sowing a
cereal crop in Victorian districts
“ This'll give Menzie s' five-year plan a decent kick-off .”
where the annual rainfall is
more than 20in. At Rutherglen
wheat was grown on fallowed
and unfallowed clover-land with
practically no difference in yield.
Loss of grazing while the land
is idle is a bad factor when the
land is fallowed. Fallowing pre-
vents the clover from seeding,
and, in the following autumn,
young plants germinating from
old seed are destroyed by
cultivation. At Rutherglen it
was clear that cropping direct
from clover-land allows the
pasture to be used right to
the time it is broken up, and
also gives a better chance of re-
establishment after the cereal is
taken off.
Planting Fruit-trees.
“Springvale”: Having dug a
roomy hole, trim the roots, drop
a little soil in, and shape to a
loose mound. Set the roots on
this and press home, avoiding
air-spaces directly below the
main stem.
Cover the lower roots firmly,
leaving the upper ones free,
using a light ram to firm the
soil. Then shake the tree slightly
up and down to sift the soil in
between the roots. As each
successive layer of roots is
covered keep the soil well
rammed. Leave a mound on
the surface rather than a depres-
sion. The finished tree should
be set as firmly as a gate-post.
Examination of the stem of a
tree will show the depth at
which it was planted in the
nursery; this mark should be
the guide for permanent setting.
Knowing Your Onions.
“Rooster”: Raise your own
onion seedlings from seed, and
when it comes to planting out
choose only the strongest ones.
Early varieties like Flat White,
White Queen, Silverskin and
Early Globes can be sown up to
late autumn in cool districts.
Sow in a bed raised 6in. above
ground level, or in a seed-box of
that depth filled with light soil,
first lightly dusting the surface
with superphosphate and raking
it in. Sow in drills 3in. apart as
thinly as possible, covering the
seed with £in. of soil and then
mulching with a thin layer of
rotted manure or compost.
Onion seedlings suffer if
allowed to become dry. Late
bursts of hot weather will ruin
them unless they’re frequently
watered. Overwatering is the
main cause of mildew and
other rots. Thinning out to at
least an inch apart should start
as early as possible so that the
plants develop sturdy stems and
plenty of root.
Plant out the seedlings when
they’re in the two- or three-
leafed stage, about 6in. to Sin.
high.
Wintering Bees.
“Bumble”: Advantage should
be taken in late autumn to get
the colonies in strong condition
for the period of semi-dormancy
during the cold months. The
bees winter best crowded in a
single storey, well-supplied with
honey, being thus able to main-
tain an even temperature inside
and not being forced to eat
much of their stores to generate
heat.
The importance of pollen in
the combs is rarely, if ever,
mentioned, but the writer, work-
ing an apiary in a cold Victorian
district, finds a good supply of
stored pollen of decided value
in early spring. Brood-rearing
begins earlier and the stocks in-
crease rapidly to take full ad-
vantage of early wattles and
pea-flowered scrub. Delay
through pollen scarcity in the
hives may mean a diminished
number of field bees for the first
month of activity.
The last extracting completed
early enough to allow the bees
to stock-up the brood-chamber
with stores, the supers of combs
should be stored away from
wax-moths. Fumigation will be
necessary if they become in-
fested with the grubs. If feed-
ing the bees is necessary, give
them sugar syrup in feeders in-
side the hives as fast as they can
take it, while there is yet time
for them to ripen it before the
cold weather sets in.
Show Cattle.
“My”: Feeding and training
of cattle for spring agricultural
shows could well begin now.
Show stock ought to get a basic
ration of ground oats, bran,
good oaten-chaff and a little
linseed-meal in four feeds a day
—at 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. and
4 p.m. and 7 p.m. Some exercise
on green pasture is necessary
and is best given in the middle
of the day. Add salt and ground
limestone to all feeds.
Regular grooming develops a
smooth, glossy coat and a soft
supple skin, and regular wash-
ing removes stains from white-
haired cattle. A show :9j ,beast
needs to be taught td walk
briskly when being led; to hold
its head up, and to place its feet
down deliberately. As show-
time nears the beast will benefit
if paraded before visitors and
handled freely.
Smaller matters needing
attention are trimming the
hooves, clipping the head and
udder, and massaging evenly to
distribute lumps of fat. A day
or two before the show scrape
the horns with a piece of glass
and smooth off with emery-
paper or whiting-paste, then rub
over with a little olive-oil. A
clean, attractive halter for show
day is an asset.
Household Poultry.
“A-Jay”: Unless the house-
holder keeps a breeding-pen a
cockerel should never be run
with the laying birds. The worst
feature is that the eggs are
fertilised. This may not matter
in cold weather, especially with
light breeds, but during summer
the warmth may start germina-
tion of fertile eggs ; this is likely


“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
fa get
&
\
fVSA
*gSy
/,//'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /fcN
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
PHE.BX.BO
Because of the
careful blending
of choice Virginia
Tobaccos in
Capstan.
I
own blend it is a
pleasure to smoke
Capstan
cigarettes
6***S
es
Time for a
c APSTA N
THEY’RE BLENDED BETTER
925 D-4.52
✓
ll' rO “Zj>o^
a
cos#
rtf/* 7 '
eff> cie * C .
/
e Xnf!^ P
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD LIMITED
Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD.
Queensland:
FLINDERS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
South Australia:
KINGSWAY LIMITED
Western Australia:
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NT8.24.52
These facts have been proved bf
NUFFIELD Universal owners throughout
the Commonwealth.
The NUFFIELD Universal is supremely
efficient with all types of trailed and
hydraulically operated implements. Its
remarkable economy keeps fuel bills
low. Its drawbar h.p. excels in its
field In fact, they've proved that
it has everything, does everything
better, quicker and cheaper!
it You get the same versatility and
efficiency, even greater economy with
the Nuffield Universal Diesel.
WWW?
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE. GENUINE SPARE
PARTS AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
KCFFIEID
DEALER
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA! PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
to occur with heavy breeds prone
to broodiness.
When a germinated egg is
taken into the house, cold condi-
tions overnight will kill the life-
germ and a rotten egg will be
the result. Eggs keep better
when infertile, and for that
reason alone no male bird should
be run with laying hens.
Hereford-breed Types.
“Archaps”: The manager of
W.H.R. Hereford ranch
(U.S.A.), Robert W. Lazear,
after visiting Herefordshire
(Eng.), said that United States
breeders place more stress on
heads than do the English, In
the breed journal Lazear writes
that the American Hereford,
generally speaking, had de-
veloped a shorter, broader head
than the English Hereford, with
a broader muzzle and possibly a
bit of difference in the eye set-
ting, bringing about an appear-
ance of more alertness, which
supposedly reflected more breed
character.
In England, they found, some
breeders felt that the longer
head was to some extent
associated with milking qualities,
the belief being that the cow
with the longer head had a
tendency to be a better milker
and consequently raise a better
calf. When it came to “cover-
ing” on top it would be safe to
say that the English Herefords
were superior to the American—
the great uniform width on top
from end to end was most strik-
ing—but generally speaking this
superb top covering did not carry
down over the ribs as in Ameri-
can Herefords. Still, the choicest
and highest-priced cuts were
found over the topline,
American breeders, said
Lazear, might have remodelled
slightly the Hereford as de-
veloped in its homeland, to meet
the varying demands of the U.S.
market, but this only emphasised
the marvellous adaptability of
the breed. Herefordshire had
done a great job in giving
the world the most versatile and
efficient manufacturer of the
most delectable food.
Pasture Improvement.
“Hortus”: In the good-rain-
fall district of Bungendore
(N.S.W.) pasture - improvement
doubled wool production on one
property. About 1800 acres of
a total 2727 acres have been
improved, and on one 500-acre
paddock 1500 sheep are grazing
now.
Perennial-rye was included at
first in the grass mixture, but has
now been dropped because of its
tendency to stifle other growth.
The mixture now includes 31b.
of Phalaris tuberosa and 31b. of
Mt. Barker strain of sub. clover.
Before sowing, the paddock is
harrowed and 1121 b, of super, to
the acre is spread at the same
time.
The Dry Cow.
“Myrr”: A dry cow should
be given at least six weeks before
her next lactation and fed reason-
ably well —not turned into a
back paddock and forgotten. If
well fed during this period she
will build up her reserves in
readiness for the strain of heavy
milk-production after calving.
When dry she may not require
the high-quality feed given a cow
in milk, but a reasonable ration
will enable her to put on con-
dition that will later be “milked
off” to give increased produc-
tion.
The drying-off need not be
gradual; with a cow approaching
the end of her period it’s quite
safe simply to stop milking her.
Any milk in the udder will be
reabsorbed into the bloodstream.
Hints for the Farm.
“Baggy Bill”: A tip worth
knowing is that chisels, screw-
drivers, bits and other sharp
tools can be kept bright and
clean simply by filling a jar with
rice and burying the steel part
of the tool in it.
“Myrrhee”: When, ringworm
shows up on an animal, clip the
hair closely around the part and
soften the scales with olive-oil.
Wash with soapy water, dry the
part and apply 2\ per cent,
tincture of iodine twice a day
until the bare patches are covered
with healthy hair. During treat-
ment isolate the sufferers and,
when cured, thoroughly disinfect
the premises in which they were
confined, particularly the wood-
work. A limewash with half a
pint of carbolic acid to the
gallon, applied hot, is the stuff.
“A-Jay”; Feed calves on their
mothers’ milk for the first three
days. Not more than six pints
daily should be fed for the first
week, seven pints during the
second week and eight pints
during the third week. Scours
can be reduced by diluting the
milk-ration with a quarter of
its volume of water.
“Sarina”: Worms cause loss
of condition in horses and are
usually the cause of horses rub-
bing their sterns against build-
ings, and for forms of itch that
won’t respond to external treat-
ment. Carbon bisulphide, given
in a gelatine capsule on an
empty stomach, will stop worms
and bots; about four doses
being required. Allow from one
to teaspoonfuls of c.b.,
depending on size of horse, at
intervals of two hours. Give
horses in wormy areas—low-
lying or damp country—plenty
of rock-salt.
“Taswegian”: “Hortus” on
planting onions (B. 2/4/’52)
advises poking holes in the
firmed drills with a finger. The
bloke with a few thousand
plants to put out would have a
very sore finger by the time he’d
finished. Use a stick.
“Rooster”; Fruit-trees should
be planted well apart. Wide
planting encourages spreading
growth, more rapid development
and better yields. Half-
standard or standard apples
need 30ft, to 40ft. between
trees; pears 20ft, to 30ft.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
A new sunspot group has appeared suddenly near the
sun’s equator and has already made strong developments
in size and in the complexity of its arrangement. In that
position it should have caused rain about April 27, although
so far no exact period of incidence between the position of
the spots and the rain can be determined, except that it is
always near the time when the rotation of the sun carries
the spots from view. As the group is close to the sun’s
equator it may mean further relief for North Queensland.
Both the Bruckner cycles show this rain as having fallen
36 and 71 years ago. Recent weather has shown the com-
bined effect of these two cycles, and the violent storms
during Easter were the result of a sudden very great increase
in the then controlling sunspot. These two things, the cycles
and the sunspot control, will constitute the new meteorology
which, when in use, will be of inestimable value to Australia.


RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
2X2
American discovery approved by Doctors
TRADE MARK
• Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
11!
fiS*-
11
rtisw
SCI* 1 ’ I ',
urit* 5
b ao°
LM m
.V 2
K»t«
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
,2/iai.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
HOLCIM
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcln
will be sent on request to Dolein (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
sV \
m
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND CARL MORRIS late ot
Goulbum. —TAKE NOTICE that TERESA
CATHERINE MORRIS has filed Petition
No. 4726 of 1951 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse It
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of July 19o-
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. O. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS BRUCE HOWDEN address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HILDA MARGARET HOWDEN has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion If
you wish to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Thirty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED this
7th day of April, 1952. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. KOTT & WALLACE, 62 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Give Devil Dandruff
the'bnish-off
m ys-,
gji£m€
M::*SSSS&S£
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing - •
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
0 Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandrufl
o Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It's handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
lhi/wi
Sold at all
Qiysmists & Stow
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wins Man
T * t
“Many women feel, at some time
in their lives, that they are becoming
sunk in a chasm of domesticity.”
—Feminist article.
Quite a number, however,
learn to bridge it.
4* 4* 4*
“The wedding-ring was made from
the bride’s grandmothers.”
—Suburban paper.
There’s gold in them thar old
ducks!
4* -I* 4*
“Only two pints separated the first
eight sides.” — Sporting report.
That’s one of those differences
they could easily sink.
4* 4* 4* .
“When quite in the dark as to the
type of party, under-dress rather than
over-dress.” — Etiquette hint.
Thus revealing more of your
real self.
4* 4* 4*
“Christianity in some forms has
reduced religion to little more than a
moral cosmetic.” — Melbourne preacher
Rev. A. Crichton Barr.
And some parishioners are
fond of putting it on.
4* 4* 4 1
“Different husbands have different
ways of showing their bad temper.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail .”
That’s when wives go off Pop.
“American wives expect the sort of
perfection from their husbands that
English wives expect only from their
butlers.”
—Author Somerset Maugham.
Any husband will serve who
only stands and waits.
“A gadget to keep lingerie shoulder-
straps in place has been developed.”
— Women’s paper.
This should suit women suffer-
ing a hangover.
Winter Sport.
Behold! Our knightly heroes
play again!
Observe their flashing thighs,
their haloed heads !
These are the purest, gentlest
gentlemen
Who ever tore a rival team to
shreds.
Gross, grim and grinning loom
the opposition;
What foul conspiracy inspires
their mirth ?
What plotted butchery ? What
human fission ?
What lust to give the crowd
its money’s-worth ?
Like a white cat from some grey,
ghastly alley
The sinful umpire slinks,
discreet and wise,
Prepared to add new crimes to
his long tally
Before a hundred thousand
burning eyes.
The whistle squeals, the mud
begins to fly —
Ring out, wild yells, unto a
football sky!
NEIL MILLAR.
Quite Convincing.
“N.S.W. Premier Cahill has been
concerned about reports that upkeep
of the Ministerial car-fleet is too
costly because of mechanical defects.
A number of Ministers will receive
new cars shortly.” —Sydney “Sun.”
“The public, Mr. Cahill, is
concerned at the provision of
new Ministerial cars at a time
when the call is for economy so
champions compelled to send
their children to college
every morning in a car the
bumper-bars of which have lost
their pristine glitter, or in which
the ash-trays and cigar-lighters
are showing signs of bad wear.
“As I said, such considera-
tions have not been allowed to
sway my judgment. The basic
reason we are buying the new
fleet of lubro-drive, super de-
luxe Straight Twelve Mercedes
Royces is economy. Why, only
last week, the car of one of my
senior Ministers —an ancient
1950 Chrysiac—had to have new
oil seals. I was positively stag-
gered when I saw the bill —three
pounds seventeen! And the
week before two new wind-
screen-wiper blades —four and
ninepence! A month before
that bang went seven shillings
for a window-winding handle.
Obviously the only way to stop
this stream of repair costs from
developing into a torrent was to
sell the old cars —that’s if we
as to keep the State’s finances
from sliding more into the red
than they already are. Many
consider it is flagrant extrava-
gance. Have you an answer to
that?”
“I certainly have. Remember,
the question of the dignity of
Ministers had nothing whatso-
ever to do with the decision to
replace the entire fleet with the
newest models, strong as that
consideration must be. The
public must surely appreciate
that no self-respecting repre-
sentative in Parliament of the
humble wage-plug would feel
happy being driven around in
an ancient ‘bomb’ fully eighteen
months old. The horny-handed
toilers themselves must also be
devastated at the thought of any
of their three-thousand-a-year
“ It' s only been doing it since We passed those damn crows back there.”
don’t have to give them away—
and get brand-new ones, on
which no repairs whatsoever
should be necessary for at least
six weeks,”
“That would allow you, Mr.
Cahill, to save by retrenching
those mechanics who will thus
have nothing to do,”
“Are you joking? That would
be to further the obvious
Menzies-aim of creating a pool
of unemployed to batter down
the workers. But we will be
saving by eliminating the
necessity—as we contemplated—
of putting on extra staff to fill in
the various forms used by
mechanics at the Government
garage. Now the mechanics
themselves will have approxi-
mately thirty hours a week to do
it, having less manual work; as
it is the time will barely be
adequate.
“Another thing. From the
new Ministerial limousines,
which will cost a trifling £2750
each, plus the reactionary
Federal Government’s scandal-
ous sales-tax, we will be getting
fourteen miles to the gallon. The
old cars could do no more than
thirteen. The short-sighted
public doesn’t stop to consider
that on an essential Ministerial
trip, say from Sydney to War-
wick Farm, the taxpayer will be
saved at least fivepence in petrol,
to say nothing of another tup-
pence for oil. Multiply that by
the sixteen cars and the saving
effected will demonstrate that we
have been guided by the
soundest business principles.”
“It is understood, Mr. Cahill,
that the new limousines will
have inbuilt cocktail-bars,
miniature automatic shoe-shine
machines and fluorescent light-
ing. Could these be regarded as
economies?”
“Definitely! It needs but a
moment’s reflection to see how
big economies will stem from
these innovations. A Minister
and a departmental official may
be travelling, say, from his office
to Harold Park for an important
conference, or to Rushcutter
Bay to see about something. It
may be hot and they may be
thirsty. Think of the saving on
brakes and tyres and gears by
not having to pull in at a hotel!
The shoe-shine machines are a
mere eighty-eight pounds each.
Time is money, as everyone
knows, and this time-saver must
therefore save money. As for the
fluorescent lighting, it is well
known that it is the cheapest
form of artificial lighting, and
the occasion may arise—in fact,
it’s almost sure to arise —when a
Minister may have to work at
night in his car when there are
blackouts simultaneously at
Parliament House and his resi-
dence. It is brilliant forward
planning such as this which has
made the ‘Labor’ Government
which I have the honor to lead
so enormously popular with the
toiling masses —nobody else
counts with us.”
“And the air-conditioning—
could the installation of that be
termed an economical measure.”
“That is the most economical
feature of all. Think of the
awful consequences if a brilliant
administrator like Clive Evatt
were to be put out of action by
contracting a cold through rid-
ing in one of the draughty 1950
models while rushing to or from
a row at the R.S.P.C.A. The
country would suffer irreparable
loss —in fact, the whole business
of government would grind
slowly to a stop!”
“But there is strong criticism,
Mr. Cahill, at the provision of
television-sets in the new
limousines, in view of the fact
that there is no possibility of
television being introduced into
Australia before the cars are
worn out.”
The Premier looked surprised.
“Why, that actually is the most
economical feature of all,” he
said. “The sets will need no
maintenance, repairs, no replace-
ment of parts, and the battery,
being relieved of the extra strain,
will have a longer life. It is a
pity the public isn’t gifted with
the same logic as the men who
guide the destiny of their great
State!”
BO.
Perspective.
Once, when quite young, prone
on my back I lay,
Head cushioned in my hands,
And watched the summer night’s
immense array
Of stars. Stars numerous as
the sands.
Then, letting childish fancy
torture me —
Provoked by fear and doubt—
I wondered what the conse-
quence would be
If—presto! —all the stars went
out.
Fast grew a most horrific picture
then.
My mind’s-eye pictured void
Darker than fork-tailed demons’
blackest den.
I saw the universe destroyed.
Ah, well, the weary years push
on. Should such
Occur today I vow
I’d scarcely think it summed to
very much —
We’re used to blackouts now!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Socialisation by Stealth
By the introduction of the County of
Cumberland Master Plan into the N. S.
Wales Local Government Act as a
schedule to that Act and the passage of
the Local Government (Land Acquisi-
tion) Amendment Act, 1951, the N. S.
Wales Government has dealt two very
severe blows at the security of private-
property owners in N. S. Wales.
The Cumberland County Council’s
scheme has a most detrimental effect
upon a vast area of land in the Sydney
suburban area, and people of all classes
and conditions are finding that they are
entirely in the hands of the Government
(through the council, of course) as to the
use they may make of their land. The
only privilege left them is that of paying
rates. Their standing as freeholders of
real property has in effect gone.
The other measure put through the
House whilst the Opposition was asleep—
the Land Acquisition Act —-simply
enables local councils to resume any land
for any purpose. Under its provisions
councils may resume or acquire land
owned by their ratepayers, not only to
carry out public works, but also for the
purpose of speculation, resale or disposal,
irrespective of the relationship between
the public works and the land as a whole.
Thus a council may acquire a promis-
ing subdivision and dispose of it with a
view to financing a works programme out
of the profits. Or a ratepayer who
criticises his local aldermen might (the
law certainly allows it) find his property
under a confiscation-order.
The argument against that is, of course,
that no council would use its powers in
such a manner, which is no argument at
all in view of the fact that the Act confers
such powers upon a local authority, and
no man is able to say that the day will
not come when these powers may be
used to their fullest extent by aldermen
intent upon breaking up private owner-
ship at the behest of the Government.
Few Acts on the statute book are so
potentially dangerous as this particular
Act. It is no mere cynicism that sees a
parallel between the powers conferred by
it and the machinery essential to the suc-
cessful onward march of Socialism. —
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Fires
For years I’ve been mystified, by the
fact that, in a country liable to be swept
by forest fires as bad as any on earth,
people will let inflammable trees grow
right up to buildings and even plant pine-
trees or hedges of inflammable cypress
right alongside them. I’ve seen two fine
station homesteads go up in smoke
because pine-trees had been planted
around them. When a grass-fire
came along the pines took fire, then the
dry needles in the roof-gutters, and in a
matter of a minute both roofs were blaz-
ing. Half an hour later nothing was left
of either home save blackened stone-
walls.
What makes the whole thing so incom-
prehensible is the fact that there are so
many good hedge plants and ornamental-
trees of which the foliage won’t burn
green because, unlike gurn : trees anc
pines, the leaves do not contain th
essential oils and resins which vaporis
in the heat and cause the trees literally t
explode into a sheet of flame when a fir
hits them. Once it attains a decent size
the Californian redwood is a fireproo
tree; so are poplars, ash-trees, evergree
oaks and many others. Where the rainfa
is over 25in. a year, ground fires can b
checked by a wide strip of kikuyu-gras
which can be kept as short as a lawn b
grazing a few sheep on it.
Plans for rebuilding the burnt-ou
workshop at Mt. Stromlo should includ
the provision of a wide belt of non
inflammable trees all around the builc
ings, with a similar strip of kikuyu-gras
between them and the native scrub. I
that is done another fire in the scru
will be no more than a nuisance.—
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
The Farmers
All this wailing about farmers lettin
the country down sounds suspiciously
like political duck-shoving to diver
attention from the crass stupidities o]
those who are doing the wailing.
Of course we want the farmer to grow
more food —the world and Australia
needs it all. But the farmer is here anc
now growing more food than ever before
The Commonwealth Government’s own
“Quarterly Review of Agricultural Eco
nornics” tells that story beyond doubt.
The loudest abuse is aimed at the
wheatgrower. Yet for five years before
the war Australian wheatmen fed this
country and averaged an annual expor
of 107 million bushels. In 1950 they
still provided our bread and exporter
115 million bushels. In 1951 they raised
the wheat export to just under 129 million
bushels.
Egypt is reputed to be the area where
wheat was first grown by man. The
Nile Valley was formerly the granary oi
the Roman Empire and more recently it
has helped to feed the U.K. But accord-
ing to the “Wheat Board Gazette” 20
million bushels of Australian wheat went
to Egypt alone in 1951. Nearly 15 mil-
lion bushels of that was in the form of
grain, the balance in flour equivalent.
If .there is less wheat this year it will
be entirely due to the long-winded
Kathleen Mavourneen system of paying
the grower, but it’s a pretty good bet that
the total will be more this year than in
pre-war years anyway.
Then there’s dairying. It’s hard to get
butter in the city except by bribery and
corruption. Before the war Australia’s
cows gave an annual yield of 196,000
tons of butter. They only did 165,000
tons last year. But—and the same thing
is happening all along the ( line —the
continent’s dairy cows produced many
millions more gallons of milk in 1951 than
they did in any one of the five years
before the war. A steadily-decreasing
percentage of our milk production is
going into butter, while an ever-increas-
ing proportion is being diverted to cheese,
“condensary products” and “other pur-
poses.”
There was less mutton and lamb pro-
duced in 1951 than in 1939. Farmers
kept the sheep to grow more wool. We
can’t have it both ways. They produced
316.000 tons of sheep-meat in 1939 and
only 277,000 tons in 1951. But they
made up the meat deficit of 39,000 tons
and added another 82,000 tons in the beef
section. The figures then are 1939,
531.000 tons; 1951, 652,000 tons.
There’s the same story in the other
branches of farming. In 1939 the Aus-
tralian potato crop yielded 338,000 tons ;
in 1950, the last figures available, there
were 471,000 tons. If anyone says they
can’t get oranges and mandarines today,
here’s the official tally: 1939, 4,569,000
bushels; 1951, 5,850,000 bushels.
Banana-production has gone up con-
siderably, and the production of pine-
apples has doubled.
What’s it all add up to? Even a poli-
tician should be able to answer that one.
The farmer is doing better than he used
to, even though his returns are delayed
and picked over by a dozen different
boards. The farmer is doing his job as
he always has—and a bit more.
The politician is the man who should
have the stones, not the tax-free bonuses.
“Of course this WOULD happen on our anniversary
night!”
thrown at him. He has brought from
Europe, not producers, but mighty hearty
consumers by the million. That’s the
plain story behind all the primary pro-
duction figures. There’s no agricultural
collapse. It’s a clear case of lopsided,
misplaced migration with the newcomers
eating us out of house and food. —
F. B. (N.S.W.).
Savings-banks Deposits
Some very interesting figures are dis-
closed in the returns for the year ended
December 31, 1951. The total for the
whole of Australia has reached over £863
million, spread over 6,344,000 accounts.
Taking the Australian population at
8.3 million, the average balance per head
of population in the different States
ranges from about £79 in W.A. to £139
in S.A. The average for Australia as a
whole was £lO2.
When there is talk of ability to stand
a “recession” the point is often made that
there is a vast reserve of spending-power
banked up in the form of savings deposits.
The figures quoted, however, show that
this reserve, so far as purchasing-power
is concerned, is by no means so vast as
would appear, having regard to the
very depreciated purchasing-power of
the £A. N. S. Wales and Victoria,
for instance, have respectively £BB and
£127 per head of population, which is not
much when eggs cost nearly 6d. each and
butter works out at about the same price
per smear.
One employer of labor (about 80 men)
told me that few of his men could stand
up to more than a very few weeks of
unemployment. I was inclined to doubt
him, but the figures of the savings banks
seem to confirm his observation that most
spend all they get.
The total rise in deposits for 1951 was
£93 million, which works out at only
about £ll a head of population, and it
must be remembered
that these savings-
bank accounts are by
no means entirely
“workers’ ” balances.
The banks are used
by all sorts of people
for all sorts of pur-
poses other than
purely thrift accounts.
—Ceg (Vic.).
Opossum Bay
According to Mel-
bourne “Post,” three
Australian writers
have gone to a wild
and dangerous part
of Tassie’s shoreline.
A spot over the Der-
went —about six miles
from the Hobart pub.
Here they intend to
ignore their natural
enemies, the Sydney
editors, and flood the
markets of both the
U.S.A. and the United
Kingdom. This, in
turn, will send the
editors wet-eyed and
repentant down to
Opossum Bay.
The call has gone
out, and Opossum
Bay, before the skir-
mish is over, will no
doubt become a
second Eureka. In-
quiries for typewriter-
space have been pour-
ing in from the perse-
cuted mainland. One
crusader offered five
languages and will-
ingness to boil the
collective billy in
exchange for a pen and lying-down space.
The Opossum Bay standard will
be hauled down only when the
enemy, admitting his parsimony and lack
of literary judgment, sets to making out
the right kind of figures in his cheque-
book.
These boys have a case. Those who
take the slightest interest in Australian
writing know our freelances are a sitting-
shot for magazine proprietors. Not so
much the editors —they conform, or get
out. It is equally true that work worth
six-months’ salary to its creator is just
over the page from Australian stuff of
equal merit, but bought for a couple of
quid.
Where these literary lads go wrong is
in believing these magazine-moguls can
be shamed into paying higher rates. A
thousand Aussie writers can go bush
and the ash won’t fall from the fat man’s
cigar. But let a startled editor receive in
the post one morning 100 irate notes:
“Where is the Australian story in this
issue? No local yarn, no subscription,”
and see how long their preference for
syndicated stuff would hold.—S. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 171
Across.
I—Miss1 —Miss Rogers has a sleep for food.
(10)
s—Steal a little cradle game of cards.
(4)
9 —Karenina catalogues of historians.
(9)
11 — Behold! The resting-place has
appendages like the ears. (5)
12— Yard and a quarter. (3)
13 — Eyes about Ronald and a century
is satirical. (6)
14— One of the Hebrides is the
French. (4)
16 —Rash roofing beaches available
from tonsorial artists. (8)
18 —Marsh cry of a glutton who has
finished his portion of donkey?
(6)
20—N.Z. bird. (3)
22—Communist horse backing a bird
taken by the inquisitive. (6)
24—Newspapers go to you about
force. (8)
28—Help some punting activity. (4)
30— Indian popping is encouraged by
him. (6)
31— Ego concerning fury. (3)
33 European river, thanks to Bluett,
put a label on you and me. (5)
34 Study nothing in Ireland. (9)
35 — Darn a small admixture, but also
hurry the punctuation. (4)
36—Yedyed, the color is made cer-
tain. (6-4)
Down.
1— Beards the places for driving off
in Portuguese India? (7)
2 Figure that no duck accompanies
the king of beasts. (9)
3 South-east’s needing a tenant in
a group of six. (8)
4 Attack to sicken a donkey for a
start. (6)
6 About a conveyance message in
the pictures. (5)
7 Pesters burrowing animals. (7)
8— Light cart catch for a baseballer
insect. (3)
10 —Prone to demonstrate Mun-
chausen’s art. (5)
15 —Missouri Rene? (2)
17 —Take a late meal. (3)
19—Are ypu one by one in diverting
fashion? (9)
21— A big swell of the pressing busi-
ness in a South Australian centre.
(4-4)
22 Count Edward in Europe de-
scribes a piece of material that is
encouraged to grow on to
another. (7)
23 — The Spanish railway that runs
overhead in New York. (2)
25—-The water that soaks through to
consult “buttons.” (7)
26 — Always Neddy is turned inside
out. (7)
27 — Australian river is to prohibit
communication between pigeons.
(6)
29—Borders. (5)
32 —Viper mentions a matter of
course. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 170


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
fs
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
m
%■ s.- 1 .* 4 A.', i
wm
m
tr- r |>
MMfci
hwm
4*\£* !
iir‘;
§m
lii
!#Si
KSSSi
&■?<
tm
% • /
J. ~!o .';i
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
20th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAF^k.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E. 1.
New Caledonia:
AGENCE ALMA, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
TITCOMB & LEE. SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 GoulbumStreet, Sydney, ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
