

ROYAL PURPL
ARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
Hiif
niddas jo
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
B.
BRISBANE
S E P P E L T
FREMANTLE AND
& SONS
BROKEN HILL
L T
ALSO
D.
AT
88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
The Bulletin
*‘The Bulletin/’ Vol. 73 —No. 3758
Wednesday, February 20, 1952
sZCFEB jk . Q,
\ Pnce 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FROM CULZEAN'S ANCIENT WINDOWS EISENHOWER SURVEYS A NEW EUROPE
ON a steep promontory of the Ayrshire coast, near May bole, stands Culzean
Castle, which has become famous as the Scottish home of General
Eisenhower, the Supreme Commander of Allied Forces thi 3 Seco
World War. The upper floor of the Castle was converted by Ac Nationa
Trust of Scotland into a modern flat and made available for the use °f General
Eisenhower. This gesture was in recognition, on behalf of the people or
Scotland, for the services rendered to Scotland by the American General.
The Castle, which belongs to the Marquess of Ailsa, Chief of the Kennedy
familv was built in 1777, and stands upon the site of an ancient manor nouse
known' 7s ‘‘The Cove.” This was the home of Sir Thomas Kennedy who was
killed in St Leonard’s Wood, near Ayr, in 1602, by the Mures of Auchendrane,
in revenge for the death of the Laird of Bargany, head of another branch of
this famous family.
the*footVthe cliffs uporfwhkh* tfie Castfe*stands are caves which served as
hands 0 f the Kennedys th Q e f family' is
became earls of Cassius, ine influence or y 1
recorded in the following rhyme;
.. » Twixt Wigtown and the town of Ayr
No man may think for to bide there
Unless he court St. Kennedie.


Ttory Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-—CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please .send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
Old Colonial Architecture in New South Wales
bv Hardy Wilson. Containing 50 Colour
plates Limited Edition, signed by artist
1924. Excellent condition. Price 30 gns.
Norman Lindsay’s Watercolours 18>P^ es ;
Limited and signed edition. 1939. Mint cou
dition. 10 gns.
Race Horses in Australia, by Martin Stain-
forth. 24 Colour plates, and numerous black
and-white drawings. Perfect copy. 7gn •
Box 4583, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
BLIGH RECONSIDERED.
After an interval of twenty years since
its first publication Angus and Robertson
have issued anew in a very impressive and
fully - illustrated edition Dr. George
Mackaness’s The Life of Vice-Admiral
William Bligh, Despite the fact that a
great deal of material bearing on the
period has come to light since the book
was written. Dr. Mackaness has allowed
the text to stand in the main and has
made only trivial revisions.
Bligh is not a character of great
importance either to British naval or
Australian history. His story till the
time he came here as Governor in
August, 1806, attracted attention rather
through its failures than through its
successes. And his achievements appear
in the tale of his life somewhat magnified
and sometimes distorted as is natural
when the text is prepared (as it almost
invariably was) by defending counsel.
The book is divided into two parts —
about 350 pages dealing with the period
before 1805 ; a little fewer than 200 pages
with the events arising out of Bligh’s 17
months’ rule in New South Wales. He
was born in September, 1754, apparently
at Plymouth, though of Cornish
parentage, and was noted in the
Admiralty books as a servant to the
captain of H.M.S. Monmouth, at seven
years and nine months old. There was
nothing unusual in this—he was merely
being inducted into the Navy under the
old patronage system which allowed
captains until 1794 to nominate
youngsters for entry into the service at
almost any age from birth upwards.
It is unlikely that Bligh went to sea till
at least the same joining-age as Nelson,
which was 11 years old. He next is
recorded as an A.B. on H.M.S. Hunter,
a ten-gun sloop in 1770. He appears to
have begun some sort of scientific educa-
tion in navigation and cartography, trans-
ferred to the Crescent as a midshipman
and spent three years in her. At 22 he
had passed for lieutenant, and joined
Cook’s Resolution with the warrant rank
of master during the voyage which ended
fatally for Cook in the Sandwich Islands
in 1779. Bligh was involved in some of
the incidents connected with his death.
Cook’s logs mention him as being sent
occasionally to explore and chart harbors
and look for water and landing-places—-
the routine duty of a sailing-master,
Bligh became involved, before he
reached England, in differences with
Lieutenant King, who brought the expedi-
tion home, battled publicly with him and
with others for the credit of much of the
work done by the expedition. His
annotations are sometimes marked by a
grumpy scorn of Cook himself. Phrases
like “absolute falsity,” “a most infamous
lie,” “pretty old woman story” and so
bn decorate his characterisation of the
official narratives of various persons,
along with some insinuations of cowardice
against one or two people—all this
despite the fact that he himself shared in
the royalties on Cook’s Third Voyage, in
which the criticised statements appeared.
This set the pattern for the aftermaths of
most of his adventures.
He married, had some short spells in
the mercantile marine while waiting for
a naval appointment, saw service with
Sir Hyde Parker in the Dogger Bank
convoy action, was sixth-lieutenant in a
ship of the line in the expedition to
Gibraltar in 1783, and then, through the
patronage of Sir Joseph Banks, who
loved him for his science, set out in
command of the 210-ton Bounty for
Tahiti intent on bringing home the bless-
ing of breadfruit for the West Indies.
The mutiny and his voyage by open boat
to the East Indies are part of naval
history. He quarrelled not only with the
mutineers but with some loyalists.
“Villains • . . insolent!”
Bligh was tried by court-martial in the
absence of the mutineers and honorably
acquitted of having lost the Bounty to
them. “Some of the mutineers were
brought home and tried, several acquitted,
and three of them executed. One, the
young Peter Heywood, to whose inquir-
ing widowed mother, ignorant of the
mutiny, Bligh had written brutally on his
return to England, “His baseness is
beyond all description,” was pardoned,
had a brilliant career in the Navy and
died when about to become a rear-
admiral. Another rose to be a post-
captain and three others died with officer
rank, though, according to Bligh, they
were all good-for-nothings.
Public opinion did not accept Bligh’s
absence from the trial with equanimity.
He was away in the South Seas again,
this time on a successful attempt to secure
breadfruit for the West Indies, to
make his much-praised passage of Torres
Strait after some minor explorations of
Tasmania and Fiji, and to produce in
Flinders, one of his midshipmen, a con-
viction that “I should indeed desire not
to be placed under his immediate orders
since the credit, if any [which] should
be due to my labors would be in danger
of being monopolised.”
After all his effort the West Indians
were ungrateful—they did not take kindly
to the flavor of the breadfruit and
preferred their own plantain.
Next we find him in his first important
command, a 64-gun ship of the line.
Director, and involved in the mutiny of
the Nore. Dr. Mackaness makes some
point of the fact that he was not among
the earliest captains turned out by their
crews, but his ship was the last in which
the mutineers surrendered—they, accord-
ing to Evan Nepean, being “completely
under the influence of terror.” Bligh
afterwards interceded for some of his
crew.
He took part in the Director in the
battle of Camperdown, and Dr.
Mackaness is at some pains to construct
a defence of him against “certain
anonymous critics” who later reflected
adversely on his conduct during that
engagement. There was, however, no
complaint about him at Copenhagen
where Nelson sent for him, and thanked
him for his conduct in Glatton and trans-
ferred him to the Monarch, whose
captain was killed in the action. Dr.
Mackaness apparently did not know that
Nelson also entrusted him with a gift of
porcelain to take to Lady Hamilton along
with a letter in which he described him
as “one of my seconds on the second . . .
a steady seaman and a good brave man.”
The Royal Society elected him a fellow
(thanks largely to the faithful Banks),
but his next appearance in the light of
day was at a court-martial for his rough
treatment of a lieutenant in the Warrior
which he commanded. Dr. Mackaness
deduces that this wretch must have been
a “troublesome, pigheaded type of man
and being compelled to perform his
regular duty by his commander, who
harbored a shrewd suspicion.... that if
not actually malingering he was at any
rate making the most of a minor injury,
he had ill-advisedly determined in retalia-
tion for his own court-martial to subject
his prosecutor to a similar indignity.”
But the fact remains that the officer was
acquitted at his own court-martial, that
at Bligh’s court-martial all his officers
except his first-lieutenant “turned out
to be the worst of serpents” who
exhibited him in a very unfavorable
light. It was sworn by the surgeons
that the offending officer was more fit
for hospital than for duty, with an injured
leg on which he could scarcely walk.
Bligh was accused of shouting the words
“thief,” “liar,” scoundrel,” “impostor,”
“rascal” at various officers, of describ-
ing his sailing-master loudly as “a
dastardly old man and an old Jesuit”
within the hearing of the crew. The court
found the charges in part proved, and
adjudged Bligh to be reprimanded and
admonished, to be in future more correct
in his language.
Bligh wrote hastily to his patron, Sir
Joseph Banks, explaining himself and
averring that his own “moral character
was as good as any man’s,” and defying
the world to “produce one act of male-
volence or injustice” against him. Sir
Joseph, that simple, pottering old scientist,
at once decided that he must be the very
man to govern Botany Bay, with double
the salary of his predecessors—a man
who “has integrity unimpeached, a mind
capable of providing its own resources
in difficulties without leaning on others
for advice, firm in discipline, civil in
deportment and not subject to whimper
and whine when severity of discipline is
wanted ...”
If ever there was a job in securing an
appointment it seems to have been this
one, but Bligh needed it, since the future
of a fifty-year-old naval captain who had
been reprimanded for violence of
language, and for unjust treatment of an
officer, was not overpromising in the
Royal Navy after Trafalgar, when the
service w'as being cut to the bone. The
choice resolved its promise from the
beginning in a rousing quarrel with
Captain Short, the commander of the
convoy to Sydney which cost that unfor-
tunate man his health, his means and the
life of his wife and one child. When
this wretched victim of Bligh’s choler
was sent home for court-martial on
charges by two of hi'S juniors the court
took the unusual course of communicat-
ing with the Admiralty to say that the
charges had been instigated by Bligh, and
that Short had been very harshly treated.
It suggested that suitable and lucrative
employment be found for him. But as
usual Dr. Mackaness in the face of this
is on Bligh’s side, and feels that his victim
must have been “a difficult and
cantankerous officer.”
The story of Bligh’s short reign in New
South Wales has been torn to shreds by
historians and pseudo-historians. Dr.
Mackaness in treating it at length puts
the case separately for both sides, but it
must be said that parts of his argument
are not built with a very deep knowledge
of contemporary conditions and back-
ground. He accepts, for instance, the
time-worn fallacy that because the New
South Wales Corps was raised on the
bounty system it must have been a pariah
regiment;
Raised in such a manner, with large sums
paid for commissions, it is no wonder that
the men composing the new regiment were
not exactly in the same class as those of
the Guards or the Blues. They went out
to Botany Bay definitely to provide for, if
not to enrich themselves....
Actually the regiment was raised in
exactly the same way as any crack regi-
ment of the day and on the basis of
normal inducements.
Dr. Mackaness accepts and quotes
Davoren’s malicious and inaccurate esti-
mation of individual officers, but it is
difficult to see what he finds wrong
in some of the charges which he appears
to regard as bringing infamy upon Bligh’s
enemies. There is surely little to be con-
demned in the fact that a man is a cook's
son especially if he rises to be a lieutenant-
general. And there seems to be nothing
infamous about being the son of a
tobacconist, even if one’s father-in-law
is hanged for forgery, or in being an usher
at a country school. If it were true,
too, which it is not on existing evidence,
it might have been marked down to the
credit of John Macarthur that he began
life as a staymaker’s apprentice, and at
forty was the dominating figure in an
overseas colony. But Dr. Mackaness
appears to agree otherwise.
A corps of officers which included
Macarthur ; William Cox, builder of the
Blue Mountains road and a great farmer ;
Foveaux, a future lieutenant-general;
William Lawson, of the first expedition
across the Blue Mountains; Rowley, the
preserver of Spanish Merino sheep blood
after it first arrived ; Barallier, explorer
and builder of the Nelson monument in
Trafalgar-square; Kemp, the introducer
of Southdown sheep ; Bell, of Belmont;
Minchin, of Minchinbury; Laycock, the
ancestor of the head of the commandos
in World War II in succession to Lord
Louis Mountbatten —such a corps seems
to have some claims to fame that are not
rooted altogether in a rum-bottle,
ineptitude and dishonor.
Of the only two whom he
approves, however, one was the
“noble” Captain Piper whom Dr.
Mackaness quotes Holt as singling
out as one of two men “of honor and
resolution, officers and gentlemen who
served the poor and oppressed, by which
they kept themselves poor.” The evidence
of Captain Piper’s poverty for many
years was to be seen in his huge and
ornate mansion at Point Piper, and his
reference as an officer and a gentleman
lies in the fact that the accounts of his
office some years later were found
to have a hole in them £26,000 wide.
But both he and his fellow-owner of the
halo were experts at being on both sides
of the fence at once.
It is no more fair to judge the Rum
Corps wholly on the evidence produced
by Dr. Mackaness and most historians
than it is to condemn them as outcasts
of the British Army because “their
morals, too, were loose and concubinage
was the rule.” Bligh, familiar with
fo’c’sle habits in the Royal Navy, could
scarcely have been shocked at that, more
particularly in view of his friendship
towards Nelson ; also seeing that when he
left England the whole country was
whispering accurately that promotion in
the Army was best to be obtained by pay-
ing Mrs. Clark to pin one’s name to the
bed-curtains of his Royal Highness the
Commander-in-Chief, the Duke of
York. The trading activities of officers,
much as they seem strange to modern
eyes and much as they were reprehended
by the heads of the Army, who were not
themselves above trading, were not
unknown in other corps.
Dr. Mackaness seems to be wrong in
directly attributing Bligh’s downfall to
the actual fact that he attempted to crus
the spirit monopoly. It was not the act
of crushing it, but the fact that he was
the wrong man to crush it with the wrong
background and record and the wrong
method of approach.
The basic weapon of a reformer is the
respect which those whom he essays to
reform have for him. The colony could
have had little for Bligh—raging through
its dilapidated avenues, “God-damning”
everybody from the Secretary of State
downwards, envisioning feathers pushed
into strange parts of sergeant’s anatomies,
antagonising even those people who
would normally have been his friends,
and abusing villainy while taking the
legal advice of one of the worst and
meanest felons in the colony, the despic-
able forger and embezzler, Crossley. A
Macquarie might handle the liquor-trade
and dishonest monopoly with clean
hands, but respect could scarcely be com-
manded generally by a Governor who
postponed his entry into office after
arrival for fourteen days so that his pre-
decessor might make him large grants of
choice land, he himself then entering
office and reciprocating.
Nevertheless, all this is a matter of
point of view and background knowledge,
and Dr. Mackaness has put together the
most detailed, connected account of the
Bligh period of our history yet written,
though he sometimes seems not impartial
in estimating events affecting a Governor
whom Dr, Arnold describes as “so
boisterous and ostentatious a little old
man as Commodore Bligh,” one who
“overpowered and affrighted every person
who had dealings with him,” and whom
Macquarie declared to be “a most dis-
agreeable person to have dealings, or
public business to transact with; having
no regard for his promises, however
sacred.... a very improper person to be
employed in any situation of trust or
command... .very generally detested by
high, low, rich and poor.” It was
obviously Bligh’s manners and ethics
rather than his acts which defeated him.
The book is a monumental effort in
the collation of material. Of the accuracy
of its detail prior to the Australian period
the reviewer does not profess enough
knowledge to Judge apart from the
evidence produced by Dr. Mackaness
himself. But in the Australian section of
the history there are, apart from some
incorrect painting of background and
atmosphere, a few errors. For instance,
the portrait of Robert Campbell facing
page 448 is not a portrait of either of the
two Robert Campbells concerned in the
Bligh rebellion, but of a Robert Camp
bell who was four years old at that time,
and who became Colonial Treasurer in
the second New South Wales Ministry
under responsible government in 1856
his signature is attached to the portrait
and identifies the likeness beyond doubt.
Also, commenting on the fact that
Maccmarie had been ordered to reinstate
Bligh for one day before assuming office.
Dr. Mackaness writes :
It was probably a great relief to many
folk in N. S. Wales that Bligh was not
present when Macquarie arrived and that
the ceremony of reinstatement was not per-
formed. One wonders what Bligh would
have done if he had been allowed one day’s
dictatorship.
The answer is: Nothing. The Colonial
Office actually provided for that in a
letter to Bligh which Dr. Mackaness does
not seem to have seen: “Lord Castle-
reagh, however, desires it to be under-
stood by you that when liberated from
arrest, you are not to proceed to the
general exercise of the functions of
Governor.”
There is an extensive bibliography at
the end of the book and an excellent
index.
M. H. ELLIS.
Japs Out of Prison .
Seaforth Mackenzie’s novel Dead Men
Rising (published by Cape in London and
Harper Bros, in New York) deals with a
mass outbreak of Japanese from a p.-0.-v>
camp near a town he calls Shotley, sorn-
where in Australia during World War U-
To get the full dramatic value from the
incident Mackenzie would have had to
set it amongst the Japanese themselves,
for it is in their compound, which the
novel hardly enters, that tension and sus-
pense are most urgently to be found.
While the Australian soldiers on guard,
as they are here described, drifted along


Tie Most Distinguished
V
U
knie in Travel Goods
V.
mm
mmm
m i
I
mr> ~ ~
Mm
wnm
1 ■•-V;. V
‘ ■’-' ■•■'
m
HH
«
: :.-
; . ; 'Cv,’. I.
Hi ■
k->V ;;:
11
i ■
he
• B
■
■ !
’~{ ■■
111
IMBR
:■•■ v's
w
Hiil
■
-
i I Hi
m
■
,
«««■> ,», '*' WmM
> J «JV ' , X-s'i,
\. : ■
■ ■■<
mm
■
mm
iM
■
■
lirawSs
X'B:;
: '^i.
■".'■'.■■ HK&>
::
, i
i ■
mm .
H
m .
■
V;; :■ :’■ - ■■.,; .-
i H
■ a m
mmm
at wmimmmmm.
. ' </■
cm
■
■.
i
»if /* | M
I
»a
s» sH
IK s‘ •
'I Z
:
.-. ■ VJ” V
■,. -V
5 i
mi
.<:
Stamms
SOM
SM
nei
i
SBR
1
■■•>•■: ....
r ■ --
■
■
*
V:.-.,
iili
.
m
;
I
U /*,5 > >
SlftißliV:
HMnl
....
mm
.;•; ■
:S;
mm
*
BP*'-!
■ i ■
:■•■■■ rs
«f;i
n»
HREXI
' ffl
> ■'
'!■ Hlh
m
I j
m
m
7"
'blT' .
- - •••■:■ ■■■:
£5/15/9
;r .. . uir lug^mge
of perfection
Light, strong, distinctive ANTLER luggage is
famous as a plane traveller.
Perfectly practical and smart as well,
. ANTLER is a travel “must.” /
Top left. BLOUSE CASE in lightweight
leatherette. Soft top. Fitted with strong
steel frame and English locks. Lined in
mioixe silk, pockets in body and lid.
Blue, Brown, Burgundy, Black, London
Tan. 20in., £6/9/6; 22in., £6/18/-;
Large size 24in., is priced at £7/6/9.
Lower right. CRUISER CASE. A deeper
case. In the same lightweight, strong
quality but fitted with a tray inside.
Available in one size only, large 24in.
This case is attractively lined throughout
and available in several smart colours.
Price is £lO/12/3.
Top centre. GENT’S CASE. A strong
and smart case for the man who travels.
Tt is fitted with a shoe pocket, two
pouched pockets in lid and a waterproof
pocket for shaving equipment. In three
sizes; 20in., priced at £B/18/-; 22in.,
priced at £9/7/9; and 24in., at £9/17/6.
HAT CASE. Designed in the popular
horse shoe shape. Fitted with a special
handle for easy carrying on the arm.
The colours are Nigger Brown or Rich
Burgundy. Pouched pockets in lid and
body. Size 16in. Priced at £5/15/9.
Top right. BLOUSE CASE. Beautifully
lined and attractive in appearance—this
lightweight blouse case. The top is soft
and inside lid is a zip, waterproof pocket.
We have this blouse case in the three
sizes: 20in., 22in., and 24in. Prices are
£B/18/-, £9/7/9, and £9/17/6.
Lower left. HAT CASE. A matching
case to blouse case, top left. Made with a
square base, tapering top. Lined through-
out with waterproof pocket in lid. The
colours are Black, Brown and Burgundy.
In one size only, 18in. and priced at
£B/7/-. Perfect for weekend case.
bg
ssssa
TRAVEL GOODS DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. POST TO BOX 27I2C, G.P.O., SYDNEY — TELEPHONE


THE PATTERN OF PROGRESS
0 101
M3iS3AdVH
TVNOIIVNd3XNt
mm
: .
.
SB
is
>•>■■ ■ ■.
cw' ■' .4
:
» !: ■*
VS V? «S
*p;
■I
Si
■
>-m
M a
a 1
■ :
Xb
■
m
IKK
• *
Throughout Australia today vast
plans for the development of our
natural resources are taking
shape.
Mighty machines, crawler trac-
tors, scrapers, excavators, rock
crushing plant and all the para-
phernalia of modern construction
allied to International Power and
ranged against the forces of
nature to keep faith with the
steady development begun by
our forebears 150 years ago.
We of ISAS are justly proud of
our association with this massive
array of equipment which, during
this year of Jubilee, is contribut-
ing to this pattern of progress.
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIAL POWER
/
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
0
mn
S 3
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVONEV MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3758
Wednesday, February 1952
JUST SITTIN’.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
„ Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane,
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
REVENUE AND REALITY.
Viewing the latest Commonwealth
revenue figures, the daily Press and the
pressure-groups which have come to
exert a strong influence on Australian
economic policy are filled with hope that
happy days may be here again. It seems,
on seven months’ figures, that defence
spending will be about £5O million less
than estimates “unless defence expendi-
ture rises steeply.” Total expenditure
from revenue is at a rate £l5O million
below Budget estimates for the year.
There was no congratulation on
the fact that the Government has
apparently made a real attempt at
economy, and that its treatment of
inflation is beginning to work. It is still
a painful treatment for luxury traders,
for those who have been stockpiling at
boom prices with full confidence that the
Dream Years could go on for ever, and
for labor which was able to choose
when, where and how long it would work
and for how much.
The obsession of most critics or corn-
menders of the seven-months figures was
that the Government should now “do
something” for the population which it is
trying to imbue with a sense of reality.
There are some quarters in which it is
hoped that with an election due in 1953
it may be possible to frighten Mr. Fadden
and his colleagues into abandoning anti-
inflation measures and reduce the
Ministry to a compliant mood by the
time the 1952-53 Budget is framed. There
are business elements quite prepared to
sell out to “Labor.” A year ago they
were clamoring for value to be put back
into the pound regardless of incidental
hardship.
The greater likelihood is that by
September this year, after the effects of
the new British Budget and the N.A.T.O.
and Pacific Defence Pact plans have
begun to operate, the country may have
to face even greater burdens and restric-
tions on its liberty to fling money around.
High costs of production and low rates
of output in Australia are now obvious
to all industry. Overseas markets for our
exports have sobered up, and the lower
world prices no longer harmonise with
our bloated and languid economy.
It must make Australians abroad in
Britain, in Germany, in France, in Japan,
in Hong Kong and even in the Philippines
blush to contrast the results of the last
five boom years in Australia with the
same period of lesser boom elsewhere.
Every one of the countries abovenamed
began the post-war period drained of
resources, with cities wrecked, with five
years’ lag in civilian progress to make
up. Most of them have been conquered
countries which had to be put on a
hospital diet in the first post-war years.
Yet whatever resources any of them
have had, and whatever augmented
income has been at their disposal in the
past half-decade, they have made the
best and most economical use of it. They
show increased annual staple production
and big expansion of real assets. Their
increased population is in itself an overall
asset despite the difficulty of feeding it.
But in Australia, the bounty of the
years has gone very largely in a huge
jag ; into excessive consumer spending and
Socialist enterprise the product of which
in the main has been fresh accretions of
potential bankruptcy. More and more
the position has developed that labor
costs have risen towards the point at
which no industry will be able to com-
pete in the world’s markets. A great
post-war opportunity has been thrown
away. Emphasis has been on consumer
spending in Australia, in contrast with
the* real and permanent assets created in
more prudent countries. Our strength
has been largely dissipated by the balloon-
ing cost of labor due to go-slow, strikes,
added holidays and leisure and the regu-
lation of production by Governments
and/or by unions, chiefly those
Communist-controlled whose leaders’
programme is born of eagerness to see
freedom of enterprise fail, and the British
capitalist system collapse into the arms
of their Kremlin bosses.
In present circumstances even the
added -population produced by immigra-
tion and the growing birthrate is not the
asset it should be because n represents
so many more mouths to feed out of an
income which is not growing, and out of
a food-supply which is dwindling to
danger-point.
Anyone who believes that there is real
relief ahead for the taxpayer, either
through boom overseas markets and
export prices or through reduction of
defence expenditure, may just as well
curb his optimism. Only through greater
production of basic essentials will any
relief be gained. Earning-power over-
seas will henceforth, be on the basis of
value for money, and concessions and
supplies will be on a quid pro quo basis.
In the building of security against the
danger of World War 111 there is none
of the haphazardness and scramble of
bargaining which characterised World
War 11. World supplies are being
organised on an economic basis in which
the words “something for nothing” have
no place. Australian representatives on
the International Materials Supply Com-
mission are already learning painfully
that it is no charitable organisation, and
that for what Australia gets she must
return an adequate contribution to com-
mon security in strategic materials. There
will be no second war-time honeymoon
as there has been in the years 1939-51,
with the Communist union-leaders dic-
tating the output and the price of labor
and the levels of essential production,
and with plenty of inflated money to be
flung around on motor-cars for pleasure
and a civil service and public enterprise
constructed like a huge, unproductive
Socialist toy.
The expansive tendencies of the defence
effort are already making themselves felt,
though the Government, whose defence
plan is well managed at the present
stage, is making the expansion gradual.
Partly this gradualness is involuntary.
Some of the lag in defence expenditure
is due to the fact that labor is still so
relatively unproductive that it is impos-
sible to get completed work scheduled for
this year. Industry connected with air
defence and aircraft development, for
instance, could probably absorb several
thousand more men. And defence feels
the lag in the production of coal, power,
timber and metals and the constant sabo-
tage of shipping. Government measures
to cure this position will have to continue.
At the same time visible progress and
the pushing-on of defence programmes
show the way the wind blows. New
destroyers are coming off the slipways.
A new battalion goes to Korea. New
aircraft are being bought for the
R.A.A.F., and new factory projects to
build modern fighters in Australia are in
hand. The Army plans have expanded a
little more to embrace over 100,000 men,
the largest peace-time force on a long-
term training basis ever organised in the
Commonwealth. The R.A.N. is to be
augmented over 20 per cent.
Meanwhile our real resources in terms
of saleable materials are depleted to
danger-point, and in some staple lines to
disaster-point. Australia faces a future
of compulsory sacrifice and induced hard
work because of our folly in the so-
called “Golden Age” period.
Even on the doorstep of a period of
asspred peace it would be alarming to
read such figures as those of butter pro-
duction, so typical of many important
rural export industries —our 120,000-ton
export of 1939 fell to 80,000 tons in
1950 and 53,000 tons in 1951. Wheat-
acreage in N. S. Wales this year is
estimated by the Wheatgrowers’ Union
secretary at 50 p.c. of that of 1947-48. In
the present international situation it is
startling, and the Government will be
wise in continuing to take every step to
bring the country to its senses and to
provide adequate reserves in the form of
surpluses to meet future economic and
defence emergencies.
What Age Is This?
One of the minor confusions of this
confusing age is that there is no real
unanimity as to what age it is we live in.
Blithely and carelessly we give it a name,
but we are not careful that it is always
the same name. “This is the Age of
Speed,” we tell ourselves, and there is no
disputing that we move about a little
more rapidly than in the horse-and-buggy
days. On land we have reached speeds
which are impracticable because we can’t
find roads long enough and straight
enough to justify them. Our speed-
boats can’t go much faster without flying,
and our aircraft have already pierced the
so-called sonic barrier once thought
impenetrable.
Yes, we move all right. And, appro-
priating to our collective credit the kudos
rightly belonging to a handful of our
fellows, we throw a rather superior back-
ward glance at our forebears, dozing back
in the dead centuries that knew not the
internal-combustion engine and the jet-
plane. In defence of the slow-coaches
of other days it should be pointed out
that the earth revolved on its axis then
at precisely the same speed as it does
now, that its rate of progress around the
sun has not appreciably changed, and that
nothing this age and all that have gone
before it have done seems to have affected
even in a tiny degree the pace at which
the solar system whirls us along through
space towards wherever it is we are
going—and that these celestial speeds
make our own attempts to hurry look
rather puny.
Still, we can’t stop to ponder on such
things; we haven’t time. For it is a
strange anomaly about this Age of
Speed that, although we are able to get
to places more quickly than human beings
ever did before, we haven’t time to do
things when we get there —or even when
we get back.
It might be thought that by annihilating
Space we would save Time, but it hasn’t
worked out that way; somehow or other
Time falls off en route. Everyone knows
we haven’t time to read nowadays. It
can’t merely be that there is a multi-
plicity of books, because, after all, there
is also a multiplicity of readers—or
possible readers. A century ago not
many of us could read, but those of us
who could did. In the Age of Speed we
all know how to read, but we haven’t the
time. Therefore we demand “digests,”
headlines, picture-stories, comic-strips,
outlines of this and that, predigested
novels. We also haven’t time to think ;
we prefer to have news-commentators to
do our thinking for us or, failing that,
headline-writers to tell us in large type
what we should think. For good measure
we like “how-to-vote” cards to tell us
which candidates of which party we wish
to govern us, and Gallup polls to tell us
what the majority of us think the rest of
us should be thinking.
The Age of Speed is also the Age of
Youth, possibly because the young can
run faster than the old. We know it is
the Age of Youth because we have so
often been told so, and we have so often
described it that way ourselves. Were it
not for that we would be justified in
doubting the aptness of the title, since by
all the evidence this age is less entitled
to it than most if not all of its prede-
cessors.
True, at the present time the adolescent
and the young adult find it easier to
secure what the statisticians call gainful
employment than at most periods of
history, but that scarcely fulfils the
promise of the phrase. This is the Age
of Youth, yet never has the average age
of the population been so high, and, it is
to be feared, never has the upper bracket
been so bursting with robust health.
Accurate statistics as to the age-groups
of those holding responsible positions in
the various fields of the arts, sciences,
professions, commerce and industry are
not available, but outside the sporting
world there is no sign of any eagerness
on the part of the oldsters to move over
to make room for up-and-coming Youth.
On the contrary, there seems to be an
increasing reluctance to down tools for
good at 65, and men who have been com-
pulsorily retired at that age have little
difficulty in finding re-employment.
Back in the days before the Age of
Youth, in what might be termed the era
of Old-fogeyism, William Pitt became
Prime Minister of Great Britain at the
age of 24. He died, burnt out, at 46
an age which all Australian Prime
Ministers except two had passed long
before they gained that office. Napoleon
was 27 when he conquered Italy, 35 when
he became Emperor. Like Pitt’s, his
career ended at 46, when he was defeated
at Waterloo by Wellington, also in his
46th year. With Pitt contrast Churchill,
still holding firmly to the reins at 77, and
against Napoleon, bogyman of the early
1800’s, match Stalin, still a fairly sub-
stantial bogyman #t rising 72.
It may be that these two are
anachronisms of the Age of Youth, who
by somehow taking advantage of the
Age of Speed have managed to make
Time stand still while they attended to
affairs of State. If that is so it follows
that Pitt, Napoleon and others young in
years who made places in history for
themselves in competition with the old
fogies of the coach-and-horses era were
really old men who were bom grown-up.
This, perhaps, provides the clue to
most of the confusion of this muddled
age in which speed gains us no time and
age refuses to make way for youth.
Obviously too many of our elderly, aged
and ageing were born too late, and are
thus forced to linger on a stage which
rightly belongs to Youth, and too many
of our young were bom too soon to
fulfil their proper destiny. Fortunately
the remedy is at hand —in the Atomic
Age which is being grafted on the Age
of Speed and the Age of Youth —and
we may confidently expect that if our
scientists are given their heads it will not
be long before the marvels of nuclear
fission resolve the problems of Youth and
Age alike.
The Game and the Ball.
Through the obliging co-operation of
the news-editors of the A.B.C. Mr.
Macmahon (“Unpleasant Evening”) Ball
continues to propagate among the listen-
ing public his recipe for ending the
jungle war in Malaya—namely, that the
British Government should give the
country away: clear out and let the
strongest take over. This is what Mr.
Ball calls “satisfying national aspirations,”
and what the Communists in Moscow
would rejoice to accept as their own
victory.
Mr. Ball is all three of the monkey-
triplets who will hear no evil, speak no
evil and see no evil against Moscow’s
collaborators anywhere in South-East
Asia. He was Dr. Evatt’s No. 1 touring
diplomatic agent in those regions during
the reign of the Australian Socialist Gov-
ernment, and his expressed conviction
on the famous mission during which he
participated in “a most unpleasant even-
ing” with the British High Commissioner
at Kuala Lumpur was that White Aus-
tralia is an ideal that he was ready to
give away also, and that before long Aus-
tralian public opinion would agree on
that point with his own.
Before that, pretty soon after VJ Day,
he appeared in Tokyo as Dr. Evatt’s
representative and prize pupil. If his
instructions were not to put a spoke in
General MacArthur’s wheel whenever
possible, the formulator in Canberra of
Our Foreign Policy did nothing to
restrain him from acting as though Mr.
Ball’s brief was in just that line. Came
the famous day when Dr. Evatt, with the
usual fanfare of publicity, went himself
to Tokyo to lay down the law to the
American C.-in-C. —went, saw and was
conquered; and Mr. Ball, never more
surprised in his life at the reprimand he
got on the spot, fell down, fell clean
through his External Affairs Department
job, and reverted for some 18 months to
the wilderness of Melbourne University.
After Indonesia, Burma, Malaya and
Indo-China had all begun smouldering
in the heat of the Moscow-fanned agita-
tion to drive the last European out of
Asia, Mr. Ball became somehow
reconciled with Dr. Evatt, and was sent
on a special “goodwill” mission around
those parts, the climax of which was the
“most unpleasant evening” in Malaya.
Back now in his Melbourne University
chair to express his own foreign policy,
Mr. Ball is evidently regarded by the
A.B.C. as an authority on Asian senti-
ment on a plane approached by
none save perhaps Dr. Peter Russo.
Even Dr. Russo leaves the Malayan
field to Mr. Ball. Mr. Ball regards
with Olympian disdain the policy of
the new Colonial Secretary in London
as lately announced, but last week, pick-
ing up the statement in Kuala Lumpur
by the new British High Commissioner,
General Sir Gerald Templer, who is to
interpret that policy, Mr. Ball broadcast
an expression of gratification that his
own views were now winning ground.
The justification for this was a remark
by General Templer that “I could win
this war in three months if I could get
two-thirds of the people on my side.”
Mr. Ball promptly told him how to do
it: Give the Malayan population—
Malays, Chinese and Indians —self-gov-
ernment right away. The Malays are out-
numbered ; the Chinese may or may not
hail the Communist guerrillas as libera-
tors ; but peace, Mr. Ball is convinced,
will be the outcome. The British Govern-
ment has clearly stated that it means to
restore peace first and start on self-
government after that.
Colonial Secretary Lyttelton’s policy
for restoring peace is to reinforce the
High Commissioner’s powers by uniting
civil and military authority under his
direction, to reorganise the local police
(notoriously defective), and to tighten up
the military campaign by making the
Government forces live in the jungle,
and by making full use of local Chinese
co-operation. These measures agree
generally with proposals published
recently in the London Press by Colonel
Spencer Chapman, whose book The
Jungle Is Neutral related the story
of his three years of guerrilla-warfare in
the Malayan jungle behind the Japanese
lines during the late war.
If Mr. Ball thinks the Churchill Gov-
ernment has sent General Templer out
to Malaya to give it away he is under
serious delusion. That is no great
novelty; what is important is that the
Australian public should be warned
against sharing Mr. Ball’s delusions.


PLAIN ENGLISH
This Never-Never Land.
It will serve Australians right if they
lose the Olympic Games fixture for 1956.
They will lose, of course, a lot more
besides the honor of being host to the
world’s athletes. The International
Olympic Games Committee will probably
reckon it has had a lucky escape.
During over 2 \ years since Mel-
bourne agitated successfully for the
privilege of receiving the Torch with the
1956 games, the local so-called “organis-
ing” committee has been unable to
arrange a site for the chief events. It
was held from the outset that Melbourne
Cricket Ground was the only adequate
location; now, after a period about as
long and just about as futile as a Parlia-
mentary lifetime, the cricket and football
authorities have turned down their
thumbs. The Games can’t have the site.
The indecision would probably have
lasted interminably but for an 1.0. C.
ultimatum.
Not without warrant did C. J.
Dennis fix as the refrain for his
“Austra laise” —and that is get-
ting on for half a century ago—
the exhortation to his fellow-countrymen
to “Get a move on; have
some sense!” Of this “land of
lots of time,” where every call for action,
administrative or political, is gummed-up
by opposition always cynical, largely
personal and frequently in uproar, a
native historian, W. K. Hancock, has re-
corded that “exasperation is the dominant
note of Australian public life.” Don’t
we all know it! “Go slow” hangs over
this continent like a miasma under the
national habit of analysing all enterprise
in terms of party politics.
The Commonwealth Government —
and other Governments before this one —
have been looking for many years at the
necessity, called “urgent” nearly 10 years
ago, to extract by mechanical equipment
many millions of tons of handy pillar-coal
from the mines. The country has for
the same period been starving for coal;
the costs of everything we eat, wear and
use have been increased absurdly because
of the lack of coal.
The Menzies Government has had for
some weeks now the Basten report on
deficiencies and indiscipline on the
wharves in Australian ports, particularly
in the biggest of them. This report was
greeted by the Prime Minister as of first-
class importance, to be taken up im-
mediately. But now the Press reports “no
immediate action will be taken ; the Gov-
ernment will first confer with all
interested parties.” On this picture of
waterfront stagnation, also. Governments
have for a decade or more been looking
with the placidity of recumbent milch-
cows. The Stevedoring Industry Board
declared nearly 12 months ago that New-
castle, Australia’s only coal-shipping
port—for which improvement “plans”
have existed for a generation or more —-
“is a prime example of archaic methods
of loading,” and that the cranes still in
use there would have been a laughing-
stock in overseas ports 30 years ago. This
observation was not new; it merely
manifested departmental rumination on
things.
It is the same story with the paralysing
“control” of shipping. Boards and com-
mittees operate regulations which were de-
vised allegedly to speed up maritime
transport, but cling like barnacles about
vessels condemned to idle in port by
official confusion, union loafing and
Communist boycott. More than two
years ago the Minister for Shipping, on
taking office, set off with departmental
bands playing on a tour by plane of all
ports, seemingly determined to get re-
sults. He got Press space last week for
a statement that his Government is re-
viewing the Navigation Act, since it
“believes that maritime unions have
used loopholes to stage unjustified
stoppages of coastal shipping.” All this
conveys is that he is too tired to express
himself in anything but jargon.
As for action, the Aorangi was
laid up by boycott in Sydney for a month
last year until the Minister finally moved
to put a naval crew on board, when her
withheld crew hastily tumbled back to
their jobs.
These are illustration of the game in
which our local Olympians are thoroughly
versed. Dr. Evatt, whose Government
did nothing during the preceding four
years, is working up as a “fighting”
point against his successor that Mr.
Menzies has done nothing for the past
two, quite ignoring the inference that
the offence charged is that of being an
f.a.q. performer in Australian public life.
Is It Constitutional?
The Commonwealth Constitution obvi-
ously does not intend that members of
Parliament shall receive a salary but
merely an out-of-pocket allowance. It
did provide for salaries of Ministers, and
protected them against the provisions of
the Constitution Act which relate to
holders of offices of profit under the
Crown, but:
44.—Any person who (tv) holds any
office of profit under the Crown, or any
pension payable during the pleasure of the
Crown out of any of the revenues of the
Commonwealth... .shall be incapable of
being chosen or of sitting as a Senator or a
Member of the House of Representatives.
The section sets out those exempted
from the law in this matter, but M.Ps.
and Senators are not among them.
The committee on Parliamentary
salaries knows the effect of the holding
of an office of profit under the Crown.
It says that doubts have been raised as
to whether a Parliamentary under-
secretary comes within the category of
Ministers and is therefore protected
under Section 44. This is standing in the
way of the unfortunate under-secretaries
receiving another £5OO a year. The
Speaker refuses to recognise their
Ministerial status, and the House
apparently supports him.
At the same time, though the commit-
tee is obviously certain that an office of
profit under the Crown disqualifies a
member, and that a “salary” paid to an
under-secretary might disqualify him, it
seems to have no qualms about salaries
to members, which would make them
equally liable to disqualification.
Indeed, the committee and those who
appointed it obviously distinguish be-
tween “salaries” and “allowances” paid
to members and place them in different
categories. The very title of the com-
mittee is ‘‘Committee of Inquiry Into
the Salaries and Allowances of Members
of the National Parliament.” The report
itself says: “We have found it conveni-
ent in the course of this report to use the
terms ‘salaries’ and ‘allowances’ indis-
criminately.” It discusses the purpose
for which the money is to be spent, and
makes it clear that it is intended for the
purpose for which a salary is paid—i.e.,
the support of the receiver on a whole-
time basis in return for services rendered.
It refers to “the test which should be
applied in fixing salaries of members
other than the Prime Minister, etc.” And
in making its recommendations it
separates the allowance, which it as often
as not calls, and always intends to be, a
salary from the tax-free expense allow-
ance which it was obviously the intention
of the Constitution that members should
receive—Federal income tax was not then
even thought of.
That this allowance differs as between
electorates adds another element of doubt
to the whole matter, which has been
pointed out by a Sydney Q.C. who ques-
tions the power of the Parliament to
differentiate and give one member more
than another.
The whole matter provides grounds on
which legislation passed by a salaried
Parliament might be upset. If members
cannot accept salaries —whatever they are
called —the only way to change the posi-
tion is to have a referendum. And the
betting on the result of that would be
interesting.
Lilies and Refrigerators.
Things are coming to a pretty pass in
China. In the days of the sages and
philosophers, when living was regarded
rather in the light of a sordid and un-
avoidable fact justified only by the
opportunity it gave for the contemplation
of higher things, the wise men of the
Far East produced a series of aphorisms
to light those of less knowledge and
faith along the road to a better life.
One of the best-known of these pre-
cepts is “If you have two loaves of bread,
sell one and buy a lily.” While this may
not seem a very good recipe for a long
and happy life, it has at least helped to
build up in European minds a concept
of the Chinese as a race which places
beauty and culture above the coarser
pleasures of the flesh.
That outlook is no longer encouraged
in the once-Flowery Kingdom. Instead,
under the regime of Mao Tze-tung, the
buying of a lily is regarded as no less
“wasteful and ridiculous excess” than
attempts to paint it were by Shakspeare
in sonneteering mood. And that, irre-
spective of whether the purchase price is
obtained by the selling of a loaf of bread
or by the picking of a mandarin’s
pocket.
This sad fact was revealed in a speech
made in Peking by Shih Liang, Minister
for Justice in the Chinese Communist
Government. Shih Liang was addressing
her staff —the Minister is a lady—on the
subject of waste and confessed that she
herself had been a sinner, but had re-
pented. Her offence was twofold: she
had had a refrigerator installed in her
house and she had been in the habit of
having flowers on her office desk. She
had paid for both items out of her own
pocket, but that was no justification for
such “regrettable lapses, typical of the
values of an outdated capitalist society.”
So there it is—no lilies and no re-
frigerators! The Analects of Confucius
and Lao-tze’s Book of the Way are silent
on the subject of refrigerators, but it
seems as though when summer comes
again to Peking citizens who cling to the
old-fashioned idea that the proper place
for their head is on top of their shoulders
would be wise to learn a new precept:
“If you have two lilies, sell both and
buy an ice-block.”
McGirr's Land Grab.
Merriginnie, in the Wakool (N-S.W.), is
one of those properties grabbed by the
McGirr Government at a price far below
its present value. Mrs. K. Faulks stated
a case for the dispossessed owners in B.
7/11/’5l. Later Mr. Renshaw, N. S.
Wales Minister for Lands, contradicted
some of what Mrs. Faulks claimed. Mrs,
Faulks again:
I repeat most emphatically the land through-
out the Wakool (N.S.W.) irrigation area never
doubled, let alone trebled, itself in value because
of irrigation. Land increased in value to the
extent it has for entirely different reasons, and
irrespective of whether it is in an irrigation area
or not. The facts of the resumption of Merri-
ginnie are as follows, and are the truth.
The place came up for distribution amongst
the beneficiaries in June, 1945. We were offered
between £6 and £7 then by buyers who didn’t
know of the proclamation. [The Government
paid £4 12s, an acre to the Merriginnie bene-
ficianes.]
However, we had one buyer (the N.S.W.
Government), and had to await his convenience.
We waited four years. Our prospects of buying
elsewhere at the price we ultimately were com-
pelled to accept faded. In this final result we
paid double the amount we are to receive for
our share of Merriginnie for the property we
bought. It is in the same district and in a
dry area through which water can never be
brought.
Further, although we were compelled to sell
at 1942 value, and threatened with the loss of
the 15 per cent, if we held out, there was no
such compulsion on the McGirr Government,
which has since sold an area of Merriginnie
at a very nice profit. If this area was of no use
in the Government’s settlement scheme, why
couldn’t we have had the benefit of selling on
the open market?
We received notice to be out of Merriginnie
by January 4, 1950. My husband bought a
small property, paid a deposit, held a clearing-
sale of all stock and plant on Merriginnie and
got out.
Mr. Renshaw says our legal representatives
did not have some title deeds ready by January
4, 1950, and didn’t reply to the Crown Solicitor’s
request for these for 15 months. This is
ridiculous.
The beneficiaries received a document from
the Crown Solicitor to sign on June 1, 1951,
but because the amount to be given was not
the fair and just price promised by the McGirr
Government when the bill to legalise land-
resumption was brought down, and because
there was no mention of any compensation for
the loss of our lamb and wool cheques in 1950,
they wouldn’t sign. Ultimately the document
was signed by the beneficiaries on September
22, 1951.
In reply to Mr. Renshaw’s claim that we
asked £5 10s. an acre for Merriginnie: This,
according to a sworn valuer, included the in-
creased value brought by the water to a property
on which, 28 years previously, probate had been
paid to the value of £4 ss. an acre!
In actual fact a phenomenal rise in land
values all over the State had already com-
menced, and in June, 1949, we could have got
£lO an acre for Merriginnie in the open market.
Today it would bring much more, and, as I said
before, even in 1945 we could have got between
£6 and £7.
I would mention three families owned Merri-
ginnie. There are 12 adult children in the three
families, every male of whom is or has been a
serviceman. Can anybody, therefore, explain
why Merriginnie was ever proclaimed?
From William Yeo, N. S. Wales
president of the Returned Sailors, Soldiers
and Airmen’s League of Australia:
The statement in your article “McGirr’s
Land Scandal” (B. 13/2/’52) that represent-
atives of the R.S.L. were present at a public
meeting called by Mr, Rivers Johnson is incor-
rect. The R.S.L. was not officially represented,
and if any of our members were present they
were there purely in a private capacity and were
not vested with any authority to speak for, or in
any way represent, the league.
As to the matter of compensation being paid
by the Government for land, for War Service
Land Settlement purposes, our policy, so far as
purchase of promotion blocks is concerned, is
set out in a resolution adopted at our annual
State congress in 1951, which incorporates a re-
quest that farms for promotion settlement be
purchased at a price commensurate with ruling
market values.
In the case of land acquired for purposes of
ballot, State branch has decided that the matter
of price is one for the Government, and that
the league’s activities should be directed to-
wards expediting acquisition of land and having
all qualified ex-servicemen settled as quickly as
possible.
Light in Queensland.
Though nobody seems to know whether
they’ve been afflicted by the drought, the
State Prices Commissioner or a myxoma-
tosis mosquito, an outbreak of madness
among controllers in Queensland must be
worrying bureaucrats everywhere.
The Queenslanders have not only
decided to remove price-control from
eggs; they’ve actually lifted the limit on
fowls. Any Queenslander can now run
250 (yes, 250) chooks if he or she wishes
without having to send the eggs to the
Egg Board. The previous limit was 50.
About the first thing that happened was
that eggs promptly rose to sd. each. This
dreadful effect will be duly noted in
N.S.W., where you can’t keep more than
“thirty-nine adult, domesticated female
fowls” without permission of the Egg
Board and can’t sell them at under the
price fixed by the price-control boys, and
eggs are s|d. each.
Both decisions are to be regarded as
“experiments” aimed at increasing pro-
duction of eggs. If this is true it can
mean only that the Queensland Govern-
ment, hitherto notorious for slapping
controls on everything, believes that
there’s something in the contention—
widely held outside control circles —that
controls restrict production.
If that sort of thing penetrates into
Governments in this country, practising
and would-be bureaucrats won’t be able
to sleep at night.
Youth Plans—Fake and Real.
Judging by the ecstatic stories appearing
in the Communist “Tribune,” young
people all over Australia are counting
the days to the opening of the “Youth
Carnival,” scheduled for March 16. Non-
readers of the “Tribune” may be excused
for not noticing this enthusiasm and for
doubting that paper’s prophecy that the
show will be “the mightiest blow for
peace and friendship ever struck in Aus-
tralia.”
The truth is that the Reds, here and
in other countries, long ago set out to
capture the minds and hearts of youth.
The Berlin Youth Congress was a recent
example, and the Sydney carnival is
another, though some of the names linked
with it belong to people who had already
said good-bye to the first flush of youth
by the time Queen Victoria was gathered
to her ancestors. Most of the youngsters
who do participate in the Sydney carnival
will already be converts to the perverted
creed of Communism, but there will be
some —as there were among the Berlin
contingent—who will go along just for
the ride. These are the ones at whom
the whole stunt is aimed —earnest, im-
pressionable young people with an urge
to go places and do things; just where
and what, they’re not sure.
It is an oft-expressed criticism of
democracy that not enough is being done
for such youngsters ; that the Reds offer
attractive baits and that no attempt is
made to counteract them. The criticism
ignores the many organisations which
cater for adolescents of both sexes, work-
ing in an unobtrusive way, without
flourish of trumpets, but the point is that
adolescents today are inclined to look
for the flourish and the spot of glamor.
In Adelaide and Melbourne an attempt
is being made to remedy this, and, strange
to say, the initiative is coming from the
“capitalist Press.” Adelaide “Advertiser”
and Melbourne “Sun-Pictorial” are the
prime movers in a project which will give
nearly 100 boys a trip to England and
an extensive tour of the United Kingdom.
The two papers organised the scheme and
suggested that each municipality should
guarantee the expenses of one lad from
its own territory. Thirty-five councils in
South Australia and 62 in Victoria took
up the idea; judging committees were
appointed in each area to select five or
six boys from whom the district repre-
sentative would be chosen, and the final
selection was made by a panel of judges
who visited each town in turn.
As a result, 97 boys of ages between
14 and 16 will leave for England early in
April. There are no strings to the trip,
and the boys will not spend their time
mouthing synthetic slogans about peace
and friendship. They will visit beauty-
spots and places of historic interest, and
will see the inside of factories, schools
and homes of Britain, and the itinerary
will be flexible enough to cater for indi-
vidual tastes. Altogether, this seems to
be a Youth Travel Scheme that deserves
success and one which is worthy of
extension.
An "Incentive" System.
Mr. Graham, N. S. Wales Minister for
Agriculture, has come out with a 10-
point plan for increasing food-produc-
tion which shows how little sense of
reality these “Labor” dreamers have.
Point One is that “primary producers
should be relieved entirely of the taxa-
tion they would earn by substantially
increasing production of basic foodstuffs
over and above their average for three
{Continued on next page.)


CHJWEN
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A'
A
4189
r CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY |
years”—or that the first ss. a bushel on
Australian Wheat Board wheat (and
something on dairy products) be treated
as tax-free. Naturally the Commonwealth
would bear this, not N. S. Wales, which
would howl for just as big a slice of taxes
as formerly. Anyway, there has been no
income tax on primary production in
the Northern Territory for years. But the
cattle population is lower now than it
was in 1938.
Next, Australians being unwilling to
work on farms any more when they can
work in refugee factories and milk-bars
and dress-shops, Mr. Graham wants to
appoint a “practical primary producer to
assist in selecting suitable migrants.” No
doubt somebody like Mr. J. M. Baddeley
or Mr. Graham. But where would he go?
In every country which is a likely field
farm-workers are short.
Mr. Graham’s idea sounds just as
well on paper as the plan for “greater
allocation of steel for spare-parts, new
machinery, fencing material.” The fact
that the real bottleneck in the output of
farm machinery and supplies is caused
by loafing, go-slow and strikes organised
by Mr. Graham’s bosses and supporters
and tolerated and encouraged by him and
his colleagues makes no difference to
him.
About the primest item is the scheme
to grant concessions to rural workers—
who can command almost any wages
and conditions —“who are prepared to
live and work on the land in rural areas.”
This in a country which depends on its
primary products for its very existence!
At this fate Mr, Graham will presently
be offering dirt money to ploughmen and
danger money to drovers.
“Labor” has gone so far with its system
of bribes, subsidies, bonuses, rewards
and concessions that it seems only a short
step to the point where it will offer
bonuses to the whole population for put-
ting up with the hardship of living in
Australia at all.
POLITICAL POINTS
Rumored that members of the Com-
monwealth Parliament have gratefully
christened the Nicholas committee on
salaries the St. Nicholas committee —no
doubt on the resolution of the M.P. for
the Northern Territory, who is given a
tax-free allowance of £9OO to look after
the affairs of 6000 taxpayers, seconded
and supported by those city and suburban
members who are recommended for a
£5O air-travel allowance within their own
electorates!
The evidence of Ministers and members
as to their expenditures was submitted
confidentially to the committee. Why?
All ordinary workers who apply to
tribunals for rises are forced to give their
evidence in the open and subject to
searching cross-examination. A strong
protest may be expected from the leaders
of the Australian political trade-union
movement, Messrs. Evatt, Calwell and
Ward —perhaps!
Spasmodic howls are still coming
from McGrrrrr Corner to the effect that
the N. S. Wales Government would be
building more houses than anyone can
imagine if only the Federal Government
hadn’t chopped down its loan allocation
for housing. When anyone points out
that the cut in loan money was made by
majority decision of the Loan Council,
and that it is entirely the business of the
State Government to decide to what pur-
poses it devotes its share, the howls be-
come louder and more anguished.
Senator Spooner’s latest comment on the
noise is that the McGrrrrr has sufficient
money at his disposal to do all that can
be done with available materials, and
that he should rearrange his works pro-
gramme if he really feels he can find the
materials and labor for more housing,
McGrrrrr is drawing in breath for a
special outsize howl.
It’s a strange country. The great city
of Sydney is having its milk-supply
rationed because there isn’t enough to go
round. There is no rationing of beer;
breweries announce record production.
Milk is short because cow-feed is short;
cows like barley, but so do beer-makers.
South African policy in regard to the
link with Britain seems to bristle with
contradictions. It is the avowed aim of
the Government party to achieve a re-
public, yet in a message to Australia
broadcast in an A.B.C. feature at the
New Year Prime Minister Malan spoke
quite feelingly of the Commonwealth ties
which linked Australia and South Africa.
Then there was his offer to place his
house in Natal at the disposal of King
George on the latter’s proposed tour of
convalescence and South Africa’s
proclamation of the accession of Queen
Elizabeth —the second Dominion (after
Canada) to do so, and a few hours ahead
of Britain. Yet on top of all this the
Cape Town paper which is usually re-
garded as the mouthpiece of Dr. Malan’s
party has issued a stern warning that the
accession of the new Queen will make no
difference to the Nationalist party’s
objective of a South African Republic.
Perhaps it all sounds different in
Afrikaans.
Subject to certain ifs and buts the
A.C.T.U. has decided to suspend five
Red unions—Miners, Watersiders, Build-
ing Workers, Seamen and the A.R.U. —
because of their continued affiliation with
the Communist W.F.T.U. They have
been given three months in which to
break with the W.F.T.U., and the three
months won’t start until this decision has
been ratified by a majority of the State
Trades and Labor Councils.
In Queensland the Gair Government
has decided to increase the number of
fowls a person may keep without having
to send eggs to the Egg Board. Present
maximum is 50; it will be raised to 250.
The change is of academic interest only to
owners of backyard chookeries within the
jurisdiction of the Brisbane City Council;
their limit, subject to various restrictions,
is 40.
Victorian L.C.P. numerically
strongest party in Victoria but kept out
of office by a Country-party-“ Labor”
alliance—proposes to redistribute seats to
make a House of Assembly of 66 instead
of 65, on the basis of two seats for every
Federal electorate in the State. It’s an
alternative to the plan over which Holl-
way lost his leadership of the L.C.P.,
which provided for 36 city and 30
country seats. Just now there are 32 city
and 33 country seats, and a McDonald-
Cain “agreement” proposes to make four
more city and divide Bendigo and
Geelong into two more electorates, mak-
ing it 36 city and 35 country. For their
part Victorians ask only one thing—a
chance to vote out the McDonald Gov-
ernment, which represents a party of 13
in a House of 65.
It’s a hoary old gag that the street the
mayor lives in is always the best-paved
in his municipality, but here’s a new
angle on the distribution of patronage.
At a meeting of the Marrickville Council
(Sydney), Alderman Kenderick accused
the McGrrrrr Government of paying
more attention to requests from Liberal
strongholds than from “Labor”
electorates. He was referring to the
Transport Department’s failure to
speed up the installation of traffic-lights
in his ward. Another alderman said
Kenderick was being unfair to the Gov-
ernment, as recommendations were a
matter for the police, but Kenderick
stuck to his guns with “I still claim that
because this intersection is in the heart
of a Labor electorate it is being neglected
in order to popularise the Government
in a Liberal area.” If Kenderick’s right
the only logical course for practical
citizens is to vote for the side they don’t
want in order to get the things they do.
Last December Melbourne “Argus”
published an article which said that
wheatgrowers in the Millewa (Vic.) were
making £3OOO to £4OOO a year from
wheat and sheep. Last week the Sydney
“Women’s Weekly” published a similar
article making the same claim. The
Millewa is the north-east Victorian
Mallee, with a rainfall of about 12in. a
year, and an average yield per acre
which is among the lowest of the whole
Australian wheatbelt. If wheatgrowers
there are making £3OOO to £4OOO a year,
what does all the screaming about
bankrupt wheatgrowers mean?
There seems to be something singularly
appropriate in the report that when the
French Reds called a general strike last
week the only response came from the
Paris dustmen,
According to Melbourne reports the
switchboard at the Victorian railways
headquarters nearly blew all its switches
when the lasses operating it staged a go-
slow strike. They took their time over
answering calls, all lines became engaged
and “most callers soon got tired of the
long delays and complained to the ex-
change.” What is puzzling most people
who read the story is how the callers
came to notice anything unusual.
Riposte by Monk (A.C.T.U.) in the
verbal duel with Dougherty (A.W.U.);
“The A.W.U. could quickly end the Com-
munist control of the Brisbane Trades
and Labor Council by again affiliating
with it,”
Chief Judge Kelly’s conference of
employers and unions on the 40-hour
week and his 13 other points ended with
both parties rejecting his plan as a basis
for negotiations. Most people, including
perhaps the Chief Judge himself, were
not surprised. However, the conference
appointed a sub-committee to draw up a
working programme of its own for
tabling at resumed talks next week.
McGrrrrr sees a proposal to import
butter from New Zealand to his State
as “a subtle attempt to increase the price
to consumers.” Somebody ought to ask
McGrrrrr why his State is the only one
so short of butter that it has to get it
from N.Z. subtly or otherwise,
A review of the Navigation Act is
contemplated by the Government be-
cause of a suspicion that loopholes in it
have been used as excuses for unjustified
hold-ups of coastal shipping—there have
been 285 in the past 18 months. In
stating this Senator McLeay, Minister
for Shipping, said that there were more
ships on the Australian coast than there
were 10 years ago, yet they handled less
cargo. The Navigation Act isn’t the only
thing that needs reviewing.
Spotlight of the N. S. Wales royal com-
mission on liquor has shifted from pubs
to clubs, but the emphasis is still on
bottled beer. Nightclubs, one gathers,
get their beer from licensed dealers or
from blokes known as George, Tony or
Peter, who don’t like cheques. The clubs
pay, according to their managers, about
2s. 4d. a bottle for beer ; they sell it at
from 4s. to 6s. Suppliers questioned by
the commission seem to have rather
poor memories for the names of their
clients, and one was discharged as a
witness after Dovey, Q.C., had remarked
that the commission would “not get any
truth from him except by accident.”
According to a vice-squad inspector the
nightclubs are very well conducted and
their patrons include very respectable
people—“the best citizens of the State.”
So George, Tony and Peter appear to
have dedicated their lives to a good
cause.
“No cricket-ball or football has ever
come within 50yds. of Dr. Evatt without
bouncing in salute,” asserts “S. M.
Herald.” The sacrifice he has repeatedly
made in the race of life by dropping
his barrow to return these salutes is one
of the spectacles of our political history.
In Queensland an 18-year-old youth
admitted to the “illegal use” of four cars
and five motor-cycles in the past nine
months and pleaded guilty to two addi-
tional charges of theft. He had previous
convictions on similar charges. Punish-
ment for the lot? Six months. It is time
“illegal use” was wiped out of the law
and plain theft, with substantially-
increased penalties, substituted.
One of the survivors of the Attlee
Socialists’ grand food plans—the Queens-
land-British Food Corporation’s costly
sorghum-growing stunt at Peak Downs —-
is still in the doldrums. Almost
all it has done is show what
the African peanut-scheme showed
—that Socialists can’t make their theories
work, Cost of the African scheme was
assessed at £36 million; nobody has yet
succeeded in getting the cost of the
Queensland scheme.
A London accountant named Spicer
has produced figures to show that for a
couple with any sort of an income each
it is cheaper to live in a state of sin than
get married, because Britain taxes the
joint incomes of husband and wife.
Spicer holds that marriage is “a luxury
which only the poor can enjoy.” It’s
been that way here for a long time.
Tasmanian “Labor” Premier Cosgrove
has more than once shown that he is
not to be intimidated by militant union-
bosses any more than by Federal
“Labor” dictation. Latest to try it on
unsuccessfully are the executive of the
A.R.U., who, when the general-manager
of the Tasmanian railways refused the
union’s demand for a big increase in
“margins,” demanded that the Govern-
ment should, within seven days, meet the
union representatives and repudiate the
g.m.’s attitude. Cosgrove, in effect, told
’em to jump in Lake St. Clair—or what-
ever pool is customarily used in the Speck
on such occasions.
Anybody optimistic enough to believe
that we’ll ever get rid of these controllers
without tying them in a bag and dump-
ing them far out at sea should consider
the fact that Victoria now has a Prices
Decontrol Commissioner.
Victorian apiarists were alarmed
recently to discover many bees apparently
overcome with a desire to loaf and lie
about in the shade and sleep. Agriculture
Department bee experts were called, but
could discover no signs of disease. The
mystery was explained when one bee was
heard to buzz to another, “Why work?
Honey’s under price-control again.”
In his latest statement the chairman of
the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission says
that not only is America winning the
atomic arms race with Russia, but that
her stockpile of atomic weapons may
soon be big enough to end the threat of
a Third World War. That is the real
reason why the stooges of Moscow keep
intoning “Ban the Atom Bomb.”


|(rst (hencllij (ift to tocOa
toitii tts 1 start -cats
lie detours - ’
Lis traffic —Jams —-— 1
ant/ its (natality to set you dousn.
anyitfrtere riear your ojytce
tS one of tKe. -feu; arguments
retr vkl the. public
system .
THE LOST HALF-HOUR.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Craiser”: There is now only a
melancholy interest in the verse the Poet
Laureate, John Masefield, composed to
mark the departure on their East
African and Australian visit of Princess
Elizabeth and the Duke:
What can we wish you that you have not
won
Already, in devotion everywhere?
Our southern-dwelling kindred, in their
might
Know well the arts that give a guest
delight.
May all the weathers of your way be fair,
And safe returning crown your journey
done.
That is the difficulty with a poet-laureate’s
job. He has to be as topical as the daily
paper. Some of the laureates were good
poets to begin with —Spenser, Ben
Jonson, Wordsworth, Tennyson and
Masefield —and some of them were duds,
like Shadwell, Nahum Tate and
Laurence Eusden, who wouldn’t be re-
membered if they hadn’t been laureates.
After their appointment nearly all the
laureates were bad poets. Masefield,
before he was appointed p.L, never wrote
anything as banal as the verses he com-
posed on the Shrine of Remembrance
“Scram! She's mine!"
when he was the guest of the Melbourne
Centenary committee; Bridges was
always pretty dull, but he reached rock-
bottom during his laureateship, which
lasted from 1913 to 1930. Tennyson had
the longest run in the royal office—42
years—and Nicholas Rowe the shortest
—from 1715 to 1718. The latest effort of
Masefield suffered some curious vicissi-
tudes in the pages of one Australian daily,
which printed the verse in its first edition
on its front page, with the last line run-
ning something like “I wonder what
they’re wearing in Nairobi and Ceylon,”
which made me think that Masefield had
been dipping into his tierce of canary.
In the next edition the poem appeared on
an inside page, but without the last line.
Then I knew there had been some jiggery-
pokery in the composing-room.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Wonder what Archibald
would say if he could see the liberties
the trustees of the National Art Gallery
of New South Wales are taking with the
Queen’s English. Or is it that lam at
fault? Perhaps, if my schoolteacher had
been less conscientious in his narrow-
mindedness, or somewhat weaker in the
right arm, I never would have developed
the lowbrow habit of giving capital
letters to proper nouns and shoving in a
spot of punctuation here and there. Then
I might have been able to write even such
a literary gem as appears on the catalogue
at the current exhibition: “archibald
Wynne and sulman competitions for 1951
national art gallery of new south wales
Saturday january 26th 1952 to Sunday
february 24th catalogue price sixpence.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: All my life I’ve been
subconsciously searching for a genuine
Irishman who exclaims “Begorra” or
“Bejabers.” Several times I’ve thought I
had located him, but always on
cross-examination he has admitted that
the expressions didn’t come naturally.
All the evidence points to the
conclusion that the ejaculations are
merely stage props to enable playwrights
and authors to produce a prefabricated
Irishman. I’d
just written off
“00, la la” as
being a similar
phony method
of conjuring up
a native of
France when I
encountered my
first Frenchman
recently. H e
could speak
first - class
English and
current Australian —but when a passing
damsel rolled an approving eye at him
the handsome young fellow smiled back
and exclaimed —yes, “00, la la!”
‘‘What does that really mean?” I asked
immediately. “By all I can remember
of French it just means ‘Oh, the the’ or
‘Oh, there there.’ ” His grin grew wider.
“It means,” he explained with a. master-
piece of translation, “whacko the
diddle-oh! ”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb, which prides
itself on its respectability, has been
gravely disturbed lately by a tangle in a
ground-floor flat. A'young couple with
an infant took up residence there a
couple of years ago. Then wife and
child disappeared. Another young woman
apparently filled the vacuum for several
months Then the young man dis-
appeared. The second lady stayed on for
some weeks, vanished one night, and
next morning the missing wife and infant
reappeared. A little later another young
woman, also with a child, joined her.
Next appeared a man who was under-
stood to be husband to the second young
woman—until the first’s turned up and
the two fought all over the backyard.
After the fight harmony seemed to be
restored, and the two couples and their
apparent offspring settled down. A
month ago a young woman arrived from
England ; there were screams, thuds and
sobs. Within 24 hours a new man in
a big car arrived, put all three ladies and
the two children in it, and drove off. In
the last three weeks the two deprived
young men have arrived home every
night by taxi, both sozzled, both
“An ice-cream if you hit the one on the left.”
obviously on most affectionate terms and
both hilariously happy. Our suburb
would give quids to know the story.
* * * *
“Bibber”; Seeing drunks home is
always a thankless task, so Ted was feel-
ing rather apprehensive when, having
picked up George, decidedly under the
weather, he arrived at the address the
stricken one had given him before
passing out. Leaving his passenger
huddled in the car, Ted rang the door-
bell and was soon confronted by a rather
austere-looking spouse. “Mrs. Blank,” he
commenced, “I’ve got your husband in
my care, and I’m afraid he’s a bit —well,
you know —but I can assure you that I am
in no way responsible for his condition.”
The lady rasped out: “Young man, I’d
have you know my husband’s been in
bed for the last hour,” and slammed the
door in his face. Rousing George, he
asked “Are you sure you live here?”
“ ’Course I do,” mumbled George. “Lived
here for the las’ twenty years.” “Well,
your wife says you’ve been in bed for
hours.” George pondered this bit of
information, then shot up in his seat.
“ ’Struth! I’d clean forgotten. We
moved from here this morning.” After
rummaging through various pockets he
produced a crumpled scrap of paper. Ted
took him to the new address, propped
him up on the doorstep, rang the bell
and ducked.
* * * *
“Hampton”: What became of the
lenkins family, of Berkeley, Lake
Illawarra (N.S.W.), with whom Rachel
Henning was so friendly when she lived
at Springfield, near Unanderra?
Although my daughter-in-law comes from
those parts, she cannot recall any living
member of the family. She remembers
visiting a small overrun burial-ground
in which were rail-enclosed graves all
bearing the name lenkins. She also
recalls that until its demolition, a decade
or so ago, there stood in the vicinity a
large deserted and dilapidated house,
which the members of her family called
“The Ghost House.” Was this the house
with the fine library in which Rachel
spent mam r Peasant hours?
♦ * * *-
“Cunedda”: That stretch of lightly-
timbered paddock between Canterbury
House and Canterbury racecourse
(Sydney) that was known as “Goodlet’s
Bush” (B. 30/1/’52) was, if memory
serves, for a time a privately owned golf-
course, which anyone could use on pay-
ing a fee, I remember being taken there
as a small boy, and later, with other lads,
I often rambled through it. Some of the
boys used to catch leeches in a water-
course that traversed the “bush” near
the racecourse fence —it was probably
part of Cook’s River. A Major Fanning
lived at Canterbury House before
Colonel Goodlet —the Hedgelands were
evidently only temporary tenants. To-
day, I understand, the site of the house is
occupied by the Ashbury Ursuline Con-
vent.
♦ * * *
“Eve”: The queer part of it was 1 was
obviously expected to believe it. Ordered
ham-and-eggs at the beach cafe; the
menu said ss. 6d., so, working it out in a
swift mental spasm, I thought: “That
means two eggs a bob, salad a bob, tea
another bob, bread-and-scrape three-
pence, ham two-and-three! ” While the
order was being cooked I tried to imagine
the ham ; for two-and-three, at present
prices, it should be a very thin slice, but
pleasant in quality. Well, out came the
works; squeezed between the two sickly-
yellow eggs and the coarse lettuce-leaf,
which resembled a patch of linoleum and
couldn’t be eaten, was a 4in. hunk of
something so red it was almost black.
Careful investigation revealed long hairs
Q n a strong rind attached to this solid
lump of greasy, tough meat. Cautious
chewing proved it to be a reincarnation
0 f Lot’s wife in her later stages. Along
beamed the boss for his dough. He said
“She good, no?” “Well,” I said, paying
UP; “the bacon—er, I mean the ham—is a
httle bit coarse, isn’t it?” Back came
his answer, swift and serious: “Oh, yes,
j t j s t h e bushfires. Madam. The poor
p i gs are half-tanned before they’re even
killed.”
* * * *
“Charbro”: Dick Turpin’s family (B.
23/l/’52)? Some years ago a retired
schoolmaster whom I met in Epping
Forest told me that in a school on the
border of the forest there are always a
f ew young Turpins, descendants of the
hne to which the highwayman belonged,
Regardless of what the boys are
christened, they always get the nickname
Dick.
* * * *
“A.R.M.”: Another angle on the
“Send-it-down-Huie” legend (B. 6/2/’52).
ancient Britons prayed to Hu for
ra j n an( j other blessings. The names Hugh,
jiughson, Huston and so on are derived
f rom it. Right on into the Christian era
Welsh people prayed to Hu for rain.
“Pontius Penwiper”: Writing the story
of an old-time murder for a paper that
deals in such bloodstains, I was rennndd
of a case in which the on S mal confession
<?£ n™ rd “ was made to a wealthy young
£»P by a saril that he had
whtV°sle£ the goly business being
done with a nulla-nulla kept m the_hoo»
as a cunos, . Tta fop.-Ued upon^
asked what he said when about the
murder. I told him, he said, that
killing a visitor like that was hardly the
conduct of a gentleman.
* , . ...
Yair : Sharing ray park-bench today
were a woman with a kid, and an
elderly man with a cynical outlook. The
woman told a long and rather harrowing
tale of how she had got an insect out ot
the youngsters ear First she had tried
banging the ear; then, when a neighbor
intervened, flashing a strong light out-
side the hearing-organ. This didn’t induce
the insect to budge, so they warmed
httle ohve-0.l and poured it into he ear
. e wo ? —y floored out^mata
for twenty-five years.” Screwing his head
io y thick cottonwoo!
earplugs. “But don’t they prevent you
Bhearing 8 hearing properly?” I asked.
f tCertainly no f m P snappe d. “I have
a hole specially bored down the centre
of each plug . . ” What I’m wondering
now is how he s going to react if an
insect finds the hole.
LE CHAPEAU DE MON
TETE-A-TETE.
“ ‘An Englishman,’ says Aage Thaarup, the Royal
milliner visiting Australia, ‘should not be allowed
to choose his wife’s hats. A Frenchman —yes. An
Australian ? 1 don’t know yet.’ ”
Si j’etais frangais, I could go
And buy my wife un beau chapeau,
And she would say
“Ah, que e’est gai I
Mon man, mon mari, I looove you so!”
A French wife’s “Je f'aime I” “Je t’adore !’’■
Mean, she loves her husband more
Than fears her hats
Appraised by cats
As debris d’une affaire du caeur.
The English or Australian crone
Dresses for such another one;
She may be man’s
When she is sans,
But avec, she’s pour femmes alone.
Thus women put the lid on love
For every English-speaking cove;
He cannot buy
To please his eye,
And earns the right to disapprove.
Helas, femme anglaise, votre charme
Par homme est damne, et par dame;
Whatever you wear,
Women don’t care—
They join with men to wish you harm.
The Frenchman, on the other hand,
Is likely to misunderstand:
“En Angleterre
La femme, mon cher,
Paie toujours! Ah, quel pays! C’est grand!’’
Well, French and English make a mess
(Observe!) translating languages;
Mats, parlant des ladies
Et leurs cadies,
II ne fait rien if we guess.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Bepetiteur-extraordinaire des legons
frangaises d Swilliam 2-ieme.


“Clooter”: I yield to nobody in affec-
tion and loyalty to Queen Elizabeth 11,
and, to some degree at least, I hope her
accession will initiate the new age of
chivalry which so many writers forecast.
But, fellers, let us not lose sight of one
aspect of this newly-begun Elizabethan
age. ’Twas revealed to me by the missus
the other night. She sat surrounded by
newspapers and magazines of all kinds,
all displaying pictures of our new queen
and all running articles on her beauty,
charm and strength of character.
“Ah-ha,” muttered the missus, in the
tone of the female who thinks she has
discovered something but isn’t quite sure.
I waited. Then —“Well,” she exclaimed,
and this time her voice had the
triumphant note of conviction. I moved
out of arm’s length, for a heavy paper-
weight was too adjacent to her, and I
didn’t know what she’d found. “Ah,” she
murmured, thoroughly enjoying herself
now. “These men fill their papers with
pictures and articles about the dear
queen. Little do they know! Little do
they know!” X took a breath of relief
and asked “Know what?” She looked
at me like an entomologist examining a
repulsive grub. “It’s a woman’s world
now,” she exulted. “The Queen reigns
alone and she is boss. It’s a woman’s
world again, after fifty years,” As I said,
fellers, let us be careful.
* * * *
“Becks”: Several columnists have
pointed out that anyone over the age of
51 can now claim to have lived in the
reigns of six British sovereigns; it is
necessary to go back more than 200 years
to find a similar situation. When
George II ascended the throne in 1727
loyal subjects who had passed the half-
century mark could say “He’s the sixth
monarch in our lifetime” (the seventh if
they chose to separate Williamanmary).
Any of their ancestors who happened to
be statistically-minded and were fiftyish
when Henry VIII succeeded in 1509 could
have impressed their children with a
similar bright comment. To beat the
record it is necessary to go back to the
days before the Conquest, when kings
seldom lived as long as their subjects.
The middle-aged Englishman who bowed
the knee to William the Conqueror in
1066 was paying allegiance to the eighth
occupant of the throne in 50 years—four
of them Saxon, three Danish and one
Norman.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: An acquaintance of mine
is just waiting for an inevitable day.
Demobbed after World War I he became
a commercial-traveller, grew with the
firm through the flourishing ’twenties,
scratched and scraped with it through the
tough early ’thirties, and is still on the
payroll. But the late ’forties brought a
new manager and a new order of things.
He was summoned to the office and
advised on modern business technique:
“The position as regards commercial-
travellers has changed completely. Your
job is not to sell our stuff —I could pick
up the phone and sell our entire stock
without moving from this office. A
traveller’s job is to hold the customers,
keep the firm’s name before them, prevent
rival firms from getting in under our
neck, but sell them only enough to keep
them quiet. Our other travellers are
already doing it; you’ll have to learn to
do the same.” He learnt, but he never
liked it. Now things are changing. The
boss steadily grows more worried. Soon
he’ll have to call the travellers together
for a pep-talk. “Then,” says my
acquaintance, “I won’t say anything, but
it’ll be the most triumphant silence he’s
ever heard.”
* * * *
“K.”; I see that a committee of the
U.S. Senate has been made indignant by
the discovery that the Army in Korea has
been using sentence to a term of front-
line duty as a form of field-punishment.
Where have these Senators been during
the past 37 years? Or has the American
Army only just awakened to this simple
method of correction for minor military
“crimes”? I remember seeing the
American Army in the St. Mihiel
salient in early 1918 when the accepted
form of punishment in many cases was
an order to some errant doughboy to
“write a letter of explanation to his
officer.” I mentioned this with enthusi-
asm to our regimental s.m. when our
party got back to Flanders. I can still
see that usually unimpressionable pro-
duct of the “bullring” school reacting to
the extent of a faint change of color about
the temples. I should like to have heard
him had some offending gunner-batman,
having abused his privileged domicile
in the rear areas and been ordered to
rejoin his battery in action, protested
(along with the U.S. Senator) that “to
equate the defence of one’s country with
punishment for some minor offence multi-
plies the horrors of war.” That would
have multiplied them all right.
* * * *
“Uco”: May I reopen, for a brief
moment, the discussion on the use of the
third-person “sir” among schoolboys?
I merely wish to record having seen
written proof that the custom has spread
to my suburb. Well, if not written, at
least printed; anyway, it was in plain
white-and-black, chalked in capitals on
the footpath to challenge the eye and
raise the ire of any teacher who passed
that way. Just three words: SIR IS
MAD.
* * * *
“Moreton”; Salvage operations on the
sunken “Cumberland” recall incidents
which followed the loss of that vessel,
and also remind us of the fragile
character of national alliances. After-
noon studies were over at the Jervis Bay
Naval College and games were in full
swing when news was received from
Navy office that the Cumberland had
been damaged by an internal explosion
and had been beached near Gabo Island.
The commanding officer was instructed
to send the tender H.M.A.S. Franklin
to standby the Cumberland, and officers
and men were soon hurrying away from
the football-grounds to dress and get the
little vessel away. Two Japanese
cruisers, Hirado and Chikuma, exercising
in the bay, had also heard the “buzz”
“Your pyjamas ’ll be dry tomorrow, dear ."
and cleared the Heads before the naval
yacht was ready to sail. When the
Franklin rounded Gabo Island next day
it was seen that Cumberland was aground
in shallow water, only masts and funnels
being visible, and the Japanese cruisers,
anchored near by, were already giving
valuable assistance ; divers were down.
0D1T33 V I (J
“I get a pain like that, too. Right here."
and brown-skinned sailors were ferrying
boat-loads of salvaged gear to the shore.
H.M.A.S. Encounter arrived shortly
after the Franklin, which returned to
Jervis Bay, leaving an anchor to be re-
trieved by the cruiser. How fortunate
were our ships and those of our then
ally was realised later when it was
known that the Cumberland s damage
was due to a mine, and several other
mines were found in the waters traversed
so blithely by the warships. A query!
Why was the cargo not salvaged from
the Cumberland when she was aground
and before the attempt to tow her to
Sydney was undertaken, an attempt
which failed when she sank in the open
sea?
* * * *
“Wimmera Boy”: My pet aversion
among bank customers (B. 12/12/’5l) is
not the woman who saves trey-bits, but
the nuisance who throws all his small
change into an old paper-bag which has
contained anything from salt to icing-
sugar. Then he arrives at the busiest
time of the day, and says with a smirk
“Here’s a little job for you.” After sort-
ing out treys, zacks, two-up tools and
their half-brothers, plus a fair issue of
universal provider’s best-selling grocery-
line, one looks forward to the “idiot”
with her clean bottle of trey-bits.
* * *
“W.M.H.”: After adorning the
window of a city hardware store for
several months, a “Boy Wanted” card
eventually attracted an inquirer. He
was a long-haired, gum-chewing bodgie,
and as he leaned on the counter he cross-
examined the manager as if he was doing
him an enormous favor. “What’s the job
worth?” was his first demand. “Eight
pounds a week to start with,” he was
manager replied kind of U
but . . . Betore ne couiu p
his reply the bodgie cut in, “Nothing
doing! Y’ don’t expect a bloke to walk
his legs off, do you?” —and off he went
as if he had been insulted. The manager
gladly let him go without explaining that
they didn’t provide a bike because they
had a utility for doing the messages and
deliveries.
* * * *
“Ceg”: As far as tucker is concerned
passengers by steamer on the Australian
coast are exceedingly well catered for.
Going north to Cairns once I was seated
at breakfast next to a young miss from
a city office. The steward presented for
her consideration a menu about the size
of two pages of
the morning
paper. She
languidly cast her
eye over it and
inquired whether
some dish or
other was not
available. I forget
what it was, but
she was darned
clever to pick a
dish that wasn’t
on the menu.
Ultimately she
settled for something else. A hard-
bitten old traveller sitting on my left
muttered “At home she’d have a boiled
egg at the kitchen-table.”
* * * *
“Doric”: I also remember a Dorothy
Dix on the Australian stage (B. 6/2/’52),
but she was a dramatic actress. She
played the heroine in a version of “The
Silver King,” the part of William
Denver being taken by William Des-
mond, later an idol of silent films. In
my youth I thought “The Silver King
the most beautiful play ever written ; not
so long ago I saw a revival of it again
and came away wondering how ever I sat
out such tripe.
* * * *
A recent claim of the Newn-
hams that, with 600 members, they con-
stitute the biggest family in Victoria has
raised the ire of the McConchies, who
although they can only point to 400
members, have taken only 80 years to
achieve this total from the original
couple—it took the Newnham tribe 103
years to grow tO' its present dimenS:Oßs.
Moreover, boast the McConchies, they’re
all teetotallers, the first having founded
the Good Templars.
« * * *
“Wheels”; Is it professional etiquette
which demands the horse of a bottle-oh,
or the gent, who hawks clothes-props,
should be of a certain standard, the
harness of cart in a like condition.
Several of those knights of the suburbs
split the air with their calls in this area,
and with one solitary exception their
horses are bags of bones, misery on four
legs heads low and lips pendulous; their
carts, sulkies, gigs or whatever they once
were are held together by faith and bits
of string, with wheels that wobble and
shafts which are crudely spliced; the
harness is old, patched badly, and, nine
times out of ten, the collar on the horse
is so big and out of size that it flaps
against the nag’s chest. I’d hesitate to
give the prize of decrepitude to either
profession, but, if anything, the clothes-
props bloke has it by a whisker.
NOTHING SURER.
“I am sure the shades of the over-protected and
often browbeaten girls of the stuffy mid-Victorian
era would approve of the untrammelled freedom of
the modern girl, who has learned so well how to
stand on her own two feet,”— Women’s paper.
When good Victoria sat upon the throne
Daughters were burdened with a chaperone,
They weren’t allowed to go out on their own —
Papa forbade it.
Of saintly virtue he, so cold and stern,
Their virtue was his chief—nay, sole —concern.
Even a crust themselves they couldn’t earn,
Although they’d “had” it.
Few ever, so it seemed, thought to rebel,
They might as well have been inside a cell,
She’d have been rated overripe for hell,
Shorn of all graces.
Who, putting a cherry tint upon her lips,
Making unauthorised acquaintanceships,
Or taking surreptitious pleasure-trips.
Kicked o’er the traces.
Girls only spoke when they were spoken to.
(Well, give the mid-Victorian dad his due,
That made some sense. Their future husbands
knew
That no earbashing
They’d get.) Their books were censored high
and low.
Boccaccio they scarcely got to know.
Why, even if caught perusing tales by Poe
They’d cop a thrashing.
Life was, for girls, so terribly strait-laced,
Even as was the funny hourglass waist.
It was, as well as being so snailish-paced,
Complete negation.
They’d little hope of ever gaining fame,
Except vicariously through a husband’s name.
And then —oh joy of joys!—at last there came
Emancipation!
What now? Girls do exactly as they like.
Across the continent they’ll hitch a hike,
Do sixty clinging to a motor-bike,
So in the ascendant
Is freedom’s star. From man’s tyrannic rule
They’ve broken, Graduates of life’s tough
school,
They’re self-reliant, confident and cool,
So independent.
They’ve learned, in victory and in defeat —
The lessons have been kind of bitter-sweet —
To boldly stand upon their own two feet,
And—well, the fact is
With peak-hour traffic at its hectic height,
All chivalry shattered in the nightly fight
For seats, the girls of ’fifty-two get quite
A lot of practice.
N.S-W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The Bunyip”: For how many, J
wonder, have the bushfires stirred fading
memories? When our valley was
threatened there was the immediate
urgent call, yet in the bustle you still had
time to note mild surprise at some of
the arrivals and at certain absences.
Awaiting and during transport a strong
tide of humor overflowed any talk of
possible danger, with the dag of the unit
soon establishing himself in the accus-
tomed way ; and when the scene of action
was reached further revelations took
place. A couple of big-noises in the town
were making a few token swipes at wisps
of marginal smoke, but the work of 10
men was being done by a quiet bank-
clerk new to the district —he was the only
bloke who never took his water-tank
from his back, and his lurid remarks on
drones were outshone only by the fire
itself. Two local lads who are some-
times sniggered at because they spend
their spare-time training with a good
militia regiment were treasures. Both
sergeants now, they demonstrated that
they had acquired two valuable qualities:
how to sum up a situation quickly and
how to give an order. With the aid of a
changing wind and willing hands and a
slice of luck we were able to hold an ugly
fire at a road, and as the night cooled a
truckload or so at a time could go back
for hot tea and something to eat. Sitting
there in the yellow glow the memories
surged back stronger than ever; some-
thing about the effect of that color did it
—yes! atebrin yellow! And that stirred
the old feeling you had throughout the
greater conflagration; that it was a
tragic and wasteful business, yet, while
feeling deeply for those whom it had
stricken, if the damned thing had to
happen it was great to have gone through
it with the blokes you had known, and
because of them you wouldn’t have
missed it for anything.
“Sebak”; For the fourth time since
morning the fire-bell’s quick-beat clang
summoned the local fire-brigade. But
this was not merely another minor scrub
fire; as I joined the neighbors already
running towards the flare I could see the
big shed going up like a huge box of
celluloid —with a weatherboard cottage
dangerously close, A stranger trotted
alongside me until we were within 50
yards of the conflagration ; then, “This is
close enough for me,” he said, and
stopped. I looked at him with amazed
contempt and ran on. Six or seven men
had already gathered. An excited voice
demanded: “Are the people still in that
house?” “No,” came the answer.
“They’ve been out all day.” A cool,
authoritative voice took over: “We can’t
save the shed without water, and the
house might catch before the brigade
gets here. Best get the furniture out.”
The glass panel in the front door was
promptly broken and the latch turned.
Entering the house was like going into a
furnace; the back wall was too hot to
touch and the air felt as though it must
explode. But willing hands rushed the
furniture out. A miracle—and the fire-
brigade—had saved the house when the
owners arrived. Together they sur-
veyed the damage. Said the man bitterly:
“Pity they didn’t save a man’s shed in-
stead of bashin’ hell out of .the front
door.” His wife promptly flattened him:
“What’ve you got to sing about —look
how they’ve knocked my dining-room
suite about!” Stamping home in disgust
I thought of the fellow who had been
“close enough.” Truly, experience
teaches.
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”; Schultzy, at the ripe age
of 141, was caught smoking behind the
milking-shed by his old man and got the
father of a belting. At four the next
morning Schultzy arose, ostensibly to
bring up the cows, but instead tied a roll
of blankets on his bike and headed north.
Three days later his mother got a brief
note from him, and thereafter, at odd
intervals, word of his progress reached
the farm. Schultzy roamed three States,
sometimes in the money, sometimes
broke. For nearly 10 years he knocked
around, doing everything from clay-
bogging to billiard-marking, acquired a
missus and two kids. When he heard
about the second kid Schultzy’s father
wrote, asked him to come home and work
"Missed it! Now We'll have to take the plane!"
the farm on shares. Schultzy and his
family duly arrived. His mother made a
great fuss over her daughter-m-law and
grandchildren; his father took Schultzy
into town, where a lawyer drew up their
sharefarming agreement, and everything
was signed, sealed and delivered. As they
walked out of the lawyer’s office
Schultzy said “Well, Dad, looks like
we’re startin’ where we left off ten years
ago.’’ The old man didn’t smile. AJI he
“Like me to cut a firebreak, sir ?”
said was “Me an’ your mother had a talk
last night. We reckon you can smoke
now if you want to,”
* *■ ♦
“V.”: I’ve listened to some first-class
fishermen in my time, but none can
match Jagger for keenness. He was
alongside me at the bar when the talk
turned troutward. “Biggest rainbow I
ever caught came out of Hailey’s
Morass,” the secretary of the anglers’
club related. “Won the yearly prize with
him. Just the same, I’ve taken dozens of
big fish from Trib River this season.”
“Yair; got a four-pounder there myself
last Saturday,” Charlie chipped in.
“Used a spinner.” Listening, Jagger
nodded enthusiastically. “That’s right,”
he agreed. “Can’t beat a spinner, eh?”
“They’re biting pretty well on Wombat
Creek just now,” the sec. continued. “Got
ten good’uns there in no time yesterday.
Good stream, the Wombat.” “Aw, the
Trib’s not bad either,” Jagger said
eagerly. “I’ve spent every Sat’d’y for the
last two munce on the Trib. Eh? No, I
didn’t catch any. An’ yest’d’y I went to
the Morass, Good fishin’ there, too,
though I never got any meself.” “Don’t
you ever get any?” I ventured. Jagger
bridled for a moment, then eyed me with
an injured expression. “Aw, cripes, I
got a couple o’ beaut nibbles in the Trib
last season,” he defended. “An’ what’s
more, I’m goin’ t’ try this ’ere Wombat
Creek nex’ week, an’ I’m sure t’ get some
more there.”
• * • »
“Gravelsnatcher”: A London banker
recently took a look over Australia and
spoke hopefully of what can be accom-
plished by a young and virile country.
But he has me tricked with one remark —
he thinks we have a hard climate. I’ve
never looked at it that way, although,
come to think of it, that way a hard
summer up at Mukinbudin in ’3l. I was
splitting fencingiposts—white-gum at that
—and for 14 days running it was between
110 degrees and 118 degrees, (Splitting
fencing-posts isn’t normally a summer
job, but those days you took a job when
it offered.) Then, again, it was hot
in Meekatharra the year I worked with
a plate-laying gang up there —we wrapped
bagging around the hot rails to handle
them. I’ve struck some cold patches, too,
between the Murchison and the Leeuwin
—I don’t think the Syrian winter of ’4l
had much on them, except for the snow.
Yet I’ve always regarded our climate
south of the tropic as mild, and I’U take
some convincing that it isn’t. The only
time I ever found it hard was when a
mate with whom I was chopping-down
suggested we should emulate some near-
by Italians and lay-up for a few hours at
midday. We tried it for a week, and how
those siesta hours dragged! Then, when
it was time to start again, we’d doze off,
and the effort to arouse ourselves was
equal to about a quarter of an acre’s
chopping-down. We felt the heat then
all right. That’s how we found out that
you can work through a heatwave far
better than you can sleep through it.
* ♦ # ♦
“Eurimburra”: Like his celebrated
namesake, Kelly apparently has more
value dead than alive ; but P P Boards
on a sprat-a-knob are not worried about
the competition from Chinese market-
gardeners paying half a dollar apiece for
as many as they can get. According to
George, who supplies me with vegetables
I try to grow but can’t, the black bandit
is plucked and roughly minced to enable
him to be got into a bottle, then covered
with brandy—2in. of spirit above the
remains assures the correct amount. The
bottle is then tightly corked and left for
six months. When opened the aroma
should be—here English failed George,
and he closed his eyes like a scorched
blonde, filled his lungs with air and let
it g 0 j n an ecstatic “Ah!” that rattled
the windscreen of his old jalopy.
One to two ounces is a, “cu ft*
for dizziness to which market-gardeners
are prone as a resu i t D f the
excessive bending they’re compelled to
do. It is also used to relieve asthma.
Checking up, I found several variations
of the recipe, the most common being to
bake the fowl blackfellow-fashion, in
mud for preference, so as to retain
fl avor and juices. Some first remove the
brain, which is said to be poisonous,
From then on the procedure is the same,
though gin may be used. George, how-
ever, was scornful of this. “Too blanky
weak,” he said.
* * * •
“Edx”: The day before old Syd
decided to pack up and try elsewhere, a
3-ton truck pulled down the gully on the
other side and four young fellows got
out. They spent the afternoon unpacking
a tremendous amount of gear and pitch-
ing tents, after which two of them strode
across the gully with sample-bags and
napping-hammers, and in the gathering
gloom began to knock bits off the iron-
stone blow beyond the bank. Syd retired
to his roll wondering when they’d be
over. Next morning they all approached
together. “Howdy, stranger?” said the
leader cheerfully. Syd’s pipe sagged to-
warc j s his chest, but, recovering quickly,
he rcturned a courteous “Good-day.”
“Much gold in these here parts, old-
timer?.. one asked Syd slared at then
curiously, saw that their faces registered
g enuine inquiry, and told them he didn’t
t hink so. After more questioning, and
marvelling at t he simple nature
Q j- hj s belongings, they explained that
months of study of
geological maps had convilKed them that
tb at particular district harbored a vast
lod e of fabulous value. All they had to
do now was to flnd and claim it .
In the afternoon Syd was almost
d to move out the hungriest
J he>d b for yea rs
h heard shoms of excitemen t. One
f h oun ters came rin , ing over
“Ve’ve found it!” The old man
; alke B d over t 0 , he excit ed group
athered about a tub of water with a
dish - took P roflered dish > shook
. hed d bMes out
P’ skiu r e-formed the
j g Mck ta / of Uow metal-
f g d students y crowded roU nd,
breathless s d scrutinised the metallic
d jt ,/ d He had never seen any .
~ before in a djsh He handed
. back w ithout a word, and his gaze fell
on their dolly-pot. A bibble of questions
y s p d didn . ( answer . He was
examining th ’ e home-made dolly-pot,
consisted of a short piece of iron
th disk t one e ” d and was
t p h f nkjng of the clumsy way in which it
bad been put together, with a ponderous
ragged fillet of brazing-metal in the angle
around the bottom or it.
BANKSIA.
[An extract from a longer poem by a
Wr *»f r w^ose “Tbe Old Ladies at Newing-
ton" won first prize in the Jubilee long-
poem competition.]
The banksia is not a soft and silken tree
With cool clean limb's and flowing tresses
Or bark like pale-tissued skin.
Some trees are reared to towering majesty
And some like arrogant princelings, to win
The praise of painted mistresses
fn cool and elegant gardens. But the banksia
can stand
Alone, in a desert land of withered grass
With nothin? to countermand
The silence beneath the parching skies, save the
whirr of wings when galahs pass.
The banksia is a gaunt tree;
Even in youth premature
Wrinkles haunt its aspect—not with the mystery
Of age, but a rough unromantic nature.
It has few affinities (born and bred
To difficult conditions) with the aristocracy
Of the forest giants, nor with the spindly
thickets.
It has little time for adornment.
Its leaves are rarely treasured when they are
spent
Like the thoughts of great men since dead!
They are hard and brittle and wound unprotected
feet.
They scatter the ground, not sighing
Of autumn in gently memorable songs,
But breaking with indictments at their own dying
Unnoticed by the winged sunset throngs.
There are no soft-petalled flowers with sweet
Perfume falsifying the harsh promise of the
earth.
At least, it is not a mockery with pretensions
beyond its worth!
What attraction is there in the banksia? It
stands
Without motion against the sunset sky,
Its leaves like heavy hands
Unstirred by the wind, or making reply
Not with a patient whispering,
®ut rather with rough-tongued words.
Yet, it is a forthright, honest tree. Birds on the
wing
Might pass it by
Seeking gentler shepherds,
But —it is a dependable tree
Like a well-loved friend whose company cheers
The heart. And rooms are merry and lusty,
Its warm-hearted logs enclosed
In the »rms of the fire.
It isn’t to be supposed
That men would find it suitable for veneers!
Its beauty is not for casual eyes to admire.
Tnm hedges and smooth lawns may gladden
the sight;
And pot-plants and hot-house orchids! Flowers
That bud and fall almost overnight!
But these are only passing friends to man.
And I welcome the enduring banksia. You can
Sense its silhouette long after the sun lowers
And the whirring birds are still.
When a single star seems to fill with the light
of its cones;
And you could even imagine the king of the
forest forsaking his mountain thrones
For this lowly hill.
W.A.
PETER BLADEN.


“Solitude”: We were smoking on the
step when Seventyfiver nonchalantly
remarked that he might have some spare
cash before long. “In one o’ them there
big cup sweeps,” he explained. “Ten of
us. Worth fifty thousand, or somethin’,
I ain’t sure ; but we chucked in, an’ Bung
sent f’r the ticket, an’ he said a coupler
days back we’ve drawed a horse.
Fav’rite, X think ’e said.” “What! The
favorite! Cripes! Fifty thousand! You
ought to wire the nag’s owner and offer
ten thousand or something, if he wins.”
“Aw, don’t be mad, Sol,” he scoffed,
“Where the blazes’d I get ten thousand?”
“Out of the winnings, of course,” I
howled. “Go on. It might make all the
difference.” “An’ if ’e loses?” “Then
you won’t have to pay.” The old coot
loosed a snort. “Huh! I was with the
boss the other day when he took his bus
t’ see if the garage could take a knock
out of it,” he drawled. “Bloke worked on
it a coupler hours, then give it back. The
knock was there bad as ever, but the
boss had t’ pay jus’ the same. I went t’
the vet. t’ see if he could gimme somethin’
t’ cure that sick cow, an’ the nex’ day it
died, but I still ’ad t’ pay the vet. Asked
the store bloke if he’d sell me some boots
that’d last, an’ they busted t’ bits the first
week, but I ’ad t’ pay. No, Sol,” he
announced decidedly, “the way they do
things nowadays y’ don’t catch me
offerin’ t’ pay nothin’ t’ nobody, if or
no T ”
* * * *
“Burra”: Undoubtedly the most
harried outcast in feathers is the goshav k.
Even his own relatives won’t have him
around. A pair of black-shouldered kites
put one into a big pine near the house
and hovered angrily overhead. Soon the
few birds within cooee seemed to know
what was on and arrived on the scene.
Completely ignoring the menace of the
fluttering kites, something that surprised
me, two plovers wheeled and screeched
round the tree, but it remained for a pair
of maggies to do the commando’s job.
In they went from two sides at once and
out came the goshawk. Quick as they
were, the kites weren’t nearly quick
enough to hit the goshawk as he planed
gracefully into an African boxthorn,
which promptly erupted a cloud of
chattering spags. Again the kites hovered
and the plovers circled, but the magpies
flew off in disgust. Those mugs could
do their own dirty work. No self-
respecting maggie would go in there.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Thirsty Bert was one of
those incurable nips. Two days after pay-
day he was always broke. True, he paid
back his debts, but before Triday came
around again his cycle had revolved and
the various sources been tapped in their
customary order. Lenders almost became
convinced that he lent them cash on
Saturdays and they paid him back during
the following week. It was Big Paddy
who decided to straighten things up.
“Now look, Bert,” he said with typical
involution. “You’ve nipped a quid off
me every Wednesday for three months.
I’ve had it. A man might as well not
have the quid if you’ve got it all the
time.” “Well, it’s like this, Paddy,” Bert
explained very seriously. “I’m always
just a quid behind. I get my wages, pay
me debts and —bang, there goes me quid!
It’s payin’ that one quid back that beats
me every time.” Paddy considered the
point very carefully. “I sort of see what
you mean,” he conceded ; then: “Tell
you what I’ll do —I’ll give y’ a quid.
That’ll bring you up level, won’t it?” The
thirsty one heartily agreed that it would
adjust the whole financial position.
Paddy was shifted to another job. Three
months later he returned, Bert promptly
tried to borrow ten-bob. “Y’ bludger!”
roared the big bloke. “Didn’t you
reckon that quid I gave you would
square y’ up?” “Yes,” admitted Bert
sadly. “But I tell you where I made the
miscalculation: I first borrowed the quid
back in ’3B, and —well, you know your-
self a pound then was equal to thirty-bob
today.”
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Something like 40 years ago
my father showed me the tops of apple-
trees appearing above the floodwaters of
the Swan River at Guildford (W.A.). The
river was well above its normal banks,
and long wide stretches of rich flats were
10 to 15ft. under water. The apple-trees,
all that remained of a fine orchard, were
dead, but they were still big trees. They’d
been planted and had grown when those
flats were cultivable summer and winter.
They remained like that for many years
after Stirling’s settlement, until extensive
clearing along the upper reaches increased
the run-off and sent down more water
than the river could carry. No doubt
there had been floods, but they were com-
paratively mild. The added volume of
fresh water must have had other less
noticeable effects. Salt-water life would
have been destroyed or driven out to sea,
while other forms of life may have been
encouraged. Last year the river didn’t
flood. There were light rains, and the
wall of Mundaring Weir was raised, so
that water which would normally have
entered the estuary went to fill the dam.
The salinity increased, and already one
stranger has been seen in the river—a big
brown salt-water jellyfish. All the clear-
ing likely to affect the river has been
done, so the maximum run-off may
already have been reached. On the other
hand, water-consumption is increasing
rapidly, bigger and better dams will be
built, and eventually the river’s flow will
probably become less than it was before
the advent of the white man. The brown
jellyfish has been described as a complete
stranger to the river. I’d like to bet he
wasn’t 100 years ago ; and I may yet see
those rich river-flats at Guildford
brought under cultivation again.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In the days when there
was competition for every job, Mat heard
of a carrier who wanted a driver and
made for the spot. There were 23 men
and four boys as well as himself after
that job, and the carrier lined them all up
in the yard and spoke to them. “The man
who gets this job,” he said, “must be a
good worker, abstemious, punctual, good
to the horses and, above all, truthful,
More than anything else I insist upon
truth. I’ve no time for a man who can’t
tell the truth. Truth is the best of all
things. All right, come into the office
one by one.” He withdrew, and the appli-
cants began filing in. Of those waiting
several dropped out for various reasons,
and Mat found himself about 15th in line,
When he got in the carrier asked him
sundry questions; and then “What about
references? Have you any?” Mat looked
at him. “No,” be said. “I got too much
respect for the truth t’ bother with refer-
ences.” “What do you mean by that?”
“Well” Mat said slowly, “I’ve worked
with blokes an’ seen the references they
got an’ the bosses never put in the things
fhey tell ’em while they’re workin’ or
what thev call ’em when they give ’em
third'chap who came in,”
said the carrier “is a nephew of the
wife's I got to give him the job. I
had to ’nut on the rest o£ the show to
co«r up I can" give you the job. but
"Set places for another three for lunch, will you, dear?”
here’s a quid. Hang around for a day
or two till I find an excuse to sack him.”
♦ * * *
“Carver”: While admitting that
“Sam’s” anhydrous goats (B. 19/12/’5l)
came from a mountain environment, I
can’t see that this would produce an aver-
sion to water. In fact, I had always
visualised Alpine pastures as complete
with babbling streams in the best lyric
tradition. Where goats have gone wild
in arid mountains like S.A.’s Flinders
Ranges, they water at fairly regular inter-
vals. In fact, one can find wild goats in
that mad tangle of vertical rock and scrub
pine by considering the water they’re
likely to be favoring: rock-holes after a
rain storm, springs up to 10 miles away
in a dry time. Occasionally, in cold
weather, one will have trouble with a
milker that has to be dosed with sulpha
drugs. When such an animal will not
drink sufficient water for safety while
under treatment, remember that goats like
a good drink after milking, and they have
a preference for warm fluids (which
seems to prove that they’ve forgotten
their ancestral habitat). If “Sam” will
give his pet nanny a gallon or so of warm
water in which a handful of brown sugar
or some molasses has been dissolved
he’ll find her fluid intake is satisfactory.
If he then keeps her on dry feed, away
from water, for two or three hours shell
be eager enough for a long swig of plain
water And if her old man assaults the
neighbors’ noses “Sam” need only take
a bit of daily exercise on the end of the
dandy brush. He needn’t even be
frightened of washing William warm
soapy water, plus a little Dettol or Solyp-
tol, will make the bearded bloke possibly
less glamorous to his harem but cer-
tainly more socially acceptable in human
circles.
« * * ♦
“Bo”: The short, severe storm had
blown over a tree that had stood on
vacant land on the other side of the road ,
it fell flush across the narrow, little-
frequented road slightly on the township
side of Bill’s gate. Knowing his shire
council, he was aware it would be several
days before they would get on the job of
removing the obstruction. His neighbor
came along as Bill was putting a tape-
measure across the beam of his old car
standing in his driveway. “Just seein’
how wide she is,” he explained. “I’ll
allow six inches clearance each side an’
put the crosscut through that there trunk
in two places so I can roll the centre
away an’ get the bus through. I gotta go
into town.” ‘Til give y’ a hand,” said
his neighbor. “But”—pointing—“if you
put the cut further along there y’ could
clear the whole roadway,” Bill frowned.
“Think I’m lookin’ f’r work?” he
growled. “Makin’ cuts fourteen foot
apart when I can make ’em seven foot
apart?”
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: Recovery of a hump-
back whale off the Westralian coast
within a few miles of where it was
marked (B. 9/1/52) may not be the
coincidence it first appears to• be.
warm waters in this area are winter
breeding-grounds where return
each year, and it has been established
that they can retrace their course as
accurately as well-navigated ships or
radar-equipped planes. Experiments on
a scientific expedition proved the uncanny
ability of whales to rendezvous in mid-
ocean. Two whales, a mother and its
calf, would be separated and driven in
different directions ; then, as if by some
prearranged plan, the mother would stop
swimming until the calf found its way
back. This experiment was conducted
often enough to dispel any idea that it
was coincidence.
* * * ♦
“Emel”: A world record that, so far
as I know, still stands was set up on
January 6, 1938, on Eagle Bros.’ farm,
St. Helen’s Plains, near Horsham (Vic.).
That day, at 4.45 a.m., a 14ft. Sunshine
auto-header was driven into a 76-acre
crop, and by 8.45 that evening that
one machine had harvested the whole
paddock for 3300 bushels, an average of
43.4 bushels per acre.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The roan cow with young
calf at heel came wandering up the road
just at dusk. Either they had got out
of their paddock or somebody had
decided to take advantage of the fodder
going to waste in the “long paddock.”
Alongside a post-and-rail fence the old
girl began to feed ; the youngster slipped
under the bottom rail and began frolick-
ing towards an older calf. Presently Mum
looked up and softly mooed a recall.
Junior didn’t heed. Ma’s moo became
an order. The young-’un continued on his
way and joined the other juvenile. A
louder moo had a touch of anxiety in it.
Junior, silhouetted on the crest of the
high ground, looked back, but made no
attempt to return. The mother, obviously
upset, walked a few paces one way, then
the other, three or four times. Suddenly
she turned and paced some distance down
the road. Perhaps it was the bovine
equivalent of the human mother s Oh,
well, tat-a, then, I’ll go without you.”
Or she may have been looking for a gate.
Either way she was unsuccessful; she
could not get in and the calf would not
come out. She bellowed to him. He took
one last look, then disappeared over the
rise. Distraction overtook the mother.
Her head tossing wildly, she crossed the
road without reason, climbed the high
bank on the opposite side, then immedi-
ately plunged down to return. One thing
saved her life—the approaching truck-
driver knew the vagaries of bovines. Now
almost demented, she wandered down the
road and disappeared in the darkness, but
for hours I could hear her bellowings.
Perhaps the runaway returned when he
got hungry—or somebody might have
decided that there is a Santa Claus; one
who delivers unbranded calves. But the
joke is: child psychologists burble on as
if juvenile delinquency is confined to the
human species.
BULLOCKIES—1890.
[From “My People,” awarded second prize
in the Jubilee long-poem competition.]
Noisy flock of galahs flying high on the wind,
screeching wheels singing the tortured song,
dusty wagons pulling out of Bourke.
All day long cartwheels in the sky,
giant circles, dry, grey, splashed
with diy red mud from the road to Goolagong.
Red and soft grey over the crop, wheeling
out of a vanished turn on the aerial road,
wheels forever complaining, but rolling onward.
Turn sharp the wheels off this stretch of road
dusty with sheep, and rest in the sun, weary
wheels,
for the creaking ropes’ tightening and the foot-
hills pull.
Not till the night may you rest. Fevered wheels,
sunshine or rain, onwards must roll the song,
and the song will sound best in the dust and
burning sun.
Rolling wheels, short hard rest through the star-
light,
so rest you hard till the dawn brings back your
sun
to listen aloft to your red-grev tortured song.
N.s.w.
R. McDONNELL.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
Before you go abroad
take this wise
precaution • • .
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.,
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
u.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries, +
, Dividends %
_ _ Pref. Ord. To Ee-
une. Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves.*
1944.. 472,128 80,000 262,500 179,628
~ U intangibles, £l2l ~ 1,965,628
!»45.. 470,466 30,000 262,500 177,966 2,143,589
intangibles reduced, £75 .. ~ 2,143 664
P rovisil >n. etc., £799,519.. 2,943,183
1947“ 262 ’ 500 158,235 3,101,418
1947, ‘ft 403 ’, 85 ? s 9> ooo 262,500 111,159 3,212,677
lo plant & invest, reserve, £50,000 1,262,577
additions res., £48,734 1,311,311
25 ’ 000 111,429 3,422,740
Ariri reserves, £11,104 .. 3,433,844
intangibles, £30,125 .. 3 403 719
1949 siirnf,° ( .’ 00< i 25,0 , 00 2 18,750 106,250 3:509:969
Surplus sale assets, £40,241 ~ ~ 8,550,210
Wet reduction reserves, £48,957 .. 3,501,253
Intangibles reduced, £15,631 ~ .. 3 516 884
12J p.c. 12£ p.c. ’ *
828 » 1 25 188,587 3,705,471
Revaluation freeholds, £5.371,484 .. 9.076,955
Reserves capitalised. £2,925,000 .. 6,151,955
Add reduction intangibles, etc., £13.998 6,165,953
Dess reserve adjustment. £1333 .. 6,164,620
* AfV • 2 . 8 '. 125 ' .837,500 101.485 6,266.105
After deducting intangibles, etc. (now £1,052,353).
t Excluding outside interests in subsidiaries.
Highlight of the latest accounts was
the doubling of paid capital by the issue
of £2,925,000 of bonus-scrip in £1 “Z”
shares. Thus capital now stands at
£5,850,000 in 300,000 7 p.c, prefs. (they
advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond that rate), 2,625,000 ords.
and 2,925,000 non-voting “Z” shares.
The gift was the second thing of its kind
£975,000 of reserves was capitalised in
1934—since the co. merged the interests
of half a dozen then-sick Melbourne
breweries in 1907, paying £BOO,OOO (in
scrip) for goodwill. For over a decade
after the merger it was busy consolidating
its position, financial and otherwise.
Then it launched out on policy of expan-
sion, swallowing one after another of its
Victorian competitors—Geelong Brewery,
Melbourne Co-operative, Fitzgeralds at
Castlemaine and Cohn’s at Bendigo—
together with the hotel interests involved,
which were not extensive. The co. now
owns only 121 out of the 1665 hotels in
Victoria, but enjoys a lion’s share of
the brewing trade in the State; and,
before the war, it had built up strong
connections in Tasmania, North Queens-
land and the N.S.W. Riverina.
Last term’s gift was made from a
reserve of £5,371,484 created by writing
up the book-value of freeholds, which
now stand “at a figure approaching their
present-day value,” the chairman says.
He added that this was done “only to
show in the accounts a more accurate
reflection of shareholders” funds and
assets.” It will not affect actual earning-
power one way or the other, but will give
both net earnings and divs. a more
moderate appearance in relation to
capital. Last term the amount distributed
in dividends was the same as in 1950,
but the rate dropped from 121 p.c.
to 61 p.c.
Whether the gift-giving has been over-
done only time will tell. Bull points in
the outlook for breweries are the rapid
expansion of Australian industry and
quick growth of population, which con-
tinues to be hastened by immigration.
Still, beer consumption (now over 20
gallons per head of population as against
15.3 gallons 1947-48 and 12.1 gallons
1938-39), which is the main factor in the
level of brewery turnover, will finally be
determined by a triangular contest be-
tween surplus spending-power, level of
employment and growth of population.
Meanwhile, rising wage, raw-material
and all other costs are increasing their
pressure against a ceiling of fixed selling-
prices. This ceiling has been lifted since
the close of accounts, but the gains have
been “almost completely absorbed by
subsequent increases in costs, and a
further application to the Prices Com-
missioner will soon be essential.”
Last term turnover increased, but the
profit, most of which was earned during
the first half of the period, was £87,102
lighter at £467,110, which was also
£61,782 below the 1939 figure. It was
7.9 p.c. on capital as it now stands, and
was written after allowing £313,394 (up
£90,567) for depreciation and something
for taxation and other contingencies.
Continued growth of the undertaking
shows up in balance-sheet figures:
0.U.8. and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £5,850,000
Outside interests* 15,121 15,969 18,733
Creditorst.. .. 692,0&6 922,541 1,139,57 6
Suspense account.. 14,004 8,221 16,646
Final dividend .. 121,875 219,376 182,812
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 3,245,397 8,618,225 9,370,873
Plant .. .. 827,927 960,526 1,182,324
Stocks, etc. .. 772,662 746,062 915,968
Book debts .. 1,425,619 1,437,839 1,513,082
Cash, etc 1,006,400 1,033,925 491,624
* Includes proportion reserves, f Includes tax reserves.
Of the year’s increase of £5,752,648 in
freeholds, etc., £5,371,484 was on account
of the writing-up already mentioned. To
meet the difference, add £221,798 to plant,
£169,906 to stocks and £75,243 to book
debts, the co. drew upon cash, etc., for
£542,301 and the amount coming to
creditors, etc., was increased by £217,035.
To complete the programme of
modernisation and extension, share-
holders might be asked for more later on.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but mostly by the following
holding cos., which also doubled their
paid capitals (three for one in the case of
Melbourne Co-op.) by bonus issues fol-
lowing the gift from the parent:
Holding*
Paid. in Div.f Market
Company. Capital. C.U.B. p.c. yield.!
£ p.c. p.a. p.c.
Melb. Co-op. (10/-) 1,727,923 33.8 6* 3.9
Carlton (20/-) .. 1,633,984 31.8 8 3.8
Oastlemaine (15/-) 450,000 6.0 4J 3.9
Foster (20/-) .. 230,400 4.3 5| 3.9
Shamrock (20/-) ~ 282,690 4.3
Other interests .. 19.8
Figures in parenthesis are face-value of shares.
* Proportion of 0.U.8. capital held, f Based on last
declared interim div. 1 At current market price of
shares.
In addition to divs. from C.U.B. some
of the cos. gather rents, etc., from pro-
perty and other investments of their
own. The rate of dividends shown is
based on interim declarations, and is
therefore subject to adjustment on pay-
ment of final divs.
Tecnico, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends N
Ist 2nd Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
Share premiums, £13,760 .. .. 35,178
1948.. 26,015 7} 5 7i 17,813 43,880
Share premiums, £21,125 .. .. 64,505
1949.. 35,535 7$ 5 74 25,188 74,852
Profit sale of plant, £5565 .. .. 80,417
Share-issue exes., £1125 .. .. 79,292
1950.. 43,020 7i 5 7i 32,186 90,126
Share-issue exes., £5906 .. .. 84,220
1951.. 60,823 7i 5 8 44,375 100,668
This group—parent and three sub-
sidiaries —has made giant strides over
the last half-dozen years. The parent
specialises in production of motorised
household appliances, including vacuum-
cleaners, floor-polishers, lawnmowers,
sewing-machine motors and other
electrical equipment. The eldest
offshoot, Tecnico Electronics Pty. (paid
capital £20,000), became a wholly-owned
subsidiary in 1944. It is now engaged
primarily in manufacture of radio re-
ceivers, some of the components for
which are produced by the parent. In
Oct., 1949, United Capacitor Co. Pty.
(paid capital now £lso*ooo, of which
Tecnico owns three-fifths) was formed in
association with two strong English con-
cerns to take over the parent’s condenser-
manufacturing activities and the Aus-
tralian agency for current-saving power-
factor equipment of the English
associates.
Shortly after the close of last accounts
the parent passed its important aircraft
department to Bendix-Tecnico Pty.,
formed in association with the big Bendix
Aviation Corp. (U.S.), and in which
Tecnico holds a controlling interest. In
this field the chairman claims there is
considerable scope for worth-while de-
velopment in both importation and local
manufacture. The new co. will make
and/or distribute aviation and industrial
ignition units, aviation starters,
generators, radio-communication, radar
and navigation instruments. It also plans
to manufacture the Stromberg carburettor
and another automotive unit.
War contracts set the co. on its feet,
and the post-war boom, an expanding
economy and enterprising management
did the rest. On the technical side the
undertaking is both efficient and well-
equipped, the emphasis being on mass
production along flow lines and use of
automatic plant, thus keeping labor costs
at a minimum. Since June, 1945, share-
holders have put up no less than £715,000
of fresh capital, which brought with it
£34,885 net of share premiums, which
were added to reserves. The last £315,000
was gathered at par from those on the
ord. register in Feb., 1951. It lifted paid
capital to £815,000 in 40,000 first 7± p.c.
and 145(000 second 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and
630,000 ords.
Turnover, which increased steadily
until 1948, has expanded rapidly since.
Last term there was a considerable in-
crease in both production and sales in all
sections of the business. After setting
aside £57,331 (up £18,956) for deprecia-
tion and £51,000 (up £25,875) for the tax-
gatherer, the parent’s profit increased by
£17,803, reaching £60,823. The prefs.
called for £10,250, and the balance was
equal to 11.8 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 10.9, 11.4, 11.6 and 12.4 p.c.
back to 1947. The div., steady at 1\ p.c.
for nine years to 1950, was lifted gently
to 8 p.c. The £16,448 of the year’s profit
ploughed back into the business raised
tangible reserves to £100,668 ; they were
£10,060 in 1945.
The subsidiaries trade at a profit, too —
the two-year-old Capacitor co. netted
£14,045 (up £12,287) and the Electronic
co. £5842 (up £2081).
The year’s £135,000 of fresh capital,
together with surplus earnings, etc., was
used to reduce the outside debt (down
£82,089) and finance further all-round
expansion;
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Preference.. £40,000 £140,000 £185,000 £185,000
Ordinary .. 210,000 315,000 315,000 630,000
Overdraft . . 222,563 210,306 289,205 218,109
Creditors . . 67,444 112.690 187,925 176,932
Tax provision 34,571 24,212 53,284 6'5,458
Final divs. .. 9,375 15,813 16,374 27,438
Freeholds .. 55,371 62,391 66,206 69,940
Plant . . 121,832 172,123 222,232 228,447
Shares .. 21,916 21,916 66,916 111,916
Sroeks . . 316,108 479,345 504,705 650,091
Debtors . . 112,106 166,098 276,855 343,211
Intangibles . . 5,500 5,500 5,500 5,500
Fixed assets increased by £9949, stocks
by £145,386 and book debts by £66,356.
The £45,000 added to shareholdings was
in respect of the Capacitor co. The more-
or-less liquid surplus was £505,373 (up
£270,601).
How the current term will turn out is
difficult to say at the moment. The Gov-
ernment’s policy of mopping up surplus
spending-power through increased sales-
and income-taxes, combined with the
steep rise in the cost of food, clothing
and transport, is likely to slow down the
tempo of sales on domestic appliances
and radio-receivers. Prospects for the
Capacitor co. and the newly-formed
Bendix-Tecnico business look more
encouraging.
At 235. 9d. (335, 6d. six months ago)
the f.-p. pound ords. return 6.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The first prefs. at
295. and the seconds at 19s. yield 5.2 p.c.
and 5.3 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £22 17s. lOd. firsts, £6 os. lOd.
seconds and 235. 2d. ords.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends
_ Pref. To Re-
uly. Profit. 7 Ordinary. serves.serves.*
19^-- + 7 «’ 717 10 ’ 500 8 P- c -= 2 5 As 34,294 120 6SO
To staff pension fund, £6OOO . 114 R2O
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO "
19 t 7 -\ 7 %’ 677 10 ’ 500 8 P-c-= 25,923 43,254 147:874
To staff pension fund, £6OOO .. 141 874
From tax reserves, £15,000 .. "uA !
1948.. 84,061 10,500 9 p.c.= 29,164'
Written off fixtures, £lO,OOO .
To staff fund, £BOOO
. . -100,8/4
183,271
26,397 183,271
From inner reserves, £30,000
.. 213,271
1949.. 75,928 10,500 9 p;c.=29,164 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. f
31,264 244,535
1950.. 71,922 10,500 9 p.c.=30,964 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. f
25,458 269,993
1951.. 80,677 10,500 11ip.c.=39,565 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j
25.612 295,605
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (£60,741).
This old-established Melbourne retailer
—the business was founded by Mars
Buckley and Crumpton John Nunn in
1851 —is now in a stronger position than
it has been at any time in the last 20
years. Last term the gains from bigger
turnover outstripped the growth in costs.
The £80,667 (up £8755) of profit was
written after allowing £9834 (up £110)
for depreciation and a generous £90,000
(up £36,000) for taxation. It covered the
pref. div. and 20.4 p.c. on the £344,041
of ord. capital, compared with 17.8, 20.1,
22.7, 21.3 and 18.5 p.c. back to 1946. A
centenary bonus of 2 i p.c. was added to
the 9 p.c. div., making Hi p.c. for the
year, the highest rate paid since 1929.
After sending £5OOO to the staff fund,
£25,612 was added to reserves, lifting
them £295,605 higher than the goodwill
item (£60,741), not treated as an asset
herein.
But conditions in the trade have
changed considerably since the close of
last accounts. Business has become
“spotty” and less profitable, and might get
more so before if becomes better. For the
six months to end January the co. reports
lower net earnings (amount not stated)
from a “very large increase in sales.”
The usual moderate 2i p.c. interim div.
was paid. At the moment it is doubtful
whether 9 p.c. for the full year is in
danger, though a marked contraction in
net earnings can be expected. The pref.
div. and 9 p.c. to the ords. would call for
£41,464, or 5.2 p.c. on shareholders’
tangible funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), whereas last term profit was 10.2
p.c. on these funds, and not since 1943
has less than £45,127 of profit been
earned. Moreover, there has been no
revaluation of assets or issue of bonus
scrip.
Trouble in the trade began about six
months ago, when the public overbought
firstly in anticipation of Budget increases
in sales- and income-taxes, and secondly
in expectation of cotton goods becom-
ing scarcer and dearer. Then restriction
of bank credit, reduction of the currency
of outward drafts from 90 days to 60
days and rising costs and prices created
a tight position in respect of working
capital. Also, the shipping position eased,
and goods from overseas suddenly came
forward in greater volume, thus aggra-
vating the position. At the same time
consumer-resistance stiffened, and rises
in wage-rates and income tax increased
operating and all other exes.
Among other things, it all resulted in
sales of some lines at cut prices in order
to meet bank and trade obligations and
to adjust stocks to altering market con-
ditions. Wholesalers appear to have been
hit harder than retailers, and textile and
clothing manufacturers have had to re-
duce output and shorten staff because
retail orders are not forthcoming. Now,
cancellation of the Royal visit, following
the death of the King, has left many re-
tail and other traders with larger stocks
of fashion and other high-priced goods
than they would normally hold at the
moment. It may be some time before the
position straightens itself out. And when
it does the public will have less loose
cash in their pockets. Meanwhile, the
difficulties of retailers on a falling market
are complicated by present price-control
legislation, which prevents the trader
from averaging selling-prices of stocks


Public Notice.
I. HELEN ISABEL SEAGLOVE, of
Stateless nationality, born at Shanghai,
China, resident three years in Australia,
now residing at 20 Denning Street, Peter-
sham, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Rlter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
FOR SALE
K. L. Concentrator No. 1 size for recovery of Alluvial Gold,
Tin, Wolfram, etc. Capacity approx. 20 cub. yds. daily; driven
by 2 h.p. petrol engine. Machine is in original crate and never
been used.
Price, £75 F. 0.8. Melbourne.
FRANK COOPER & CO., 422 Collins St,, Melbourne
IP
A
loaE
lPuh
WIN®
ff'fl
■
t XX&
mmm
m
Aj*»
/vu*& j
m
WHEN IT’S CARRIED
ON SAFE, LONG-WEARING
Olumpit
THO lAN
TRUCK AND BUS TYRES
0T.47
dsf
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
v,m
PH
:
iNr -asst:
;.:•...
MjP'Z M
m
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
Q Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
O Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2\x —Eye relief 3±in.
to Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams
“Esdailson
Sydney.
BW 8631.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD,|
Oiling the wheels
of business
Anyone who is concerned about
financial trends, or has plans for
developing his affairs, is invited to
talk his problem over with any
manager of this bank’s hundreds
of branches.
He will be met with understand-
ing and goodwill; maybe, a solution
of his problem will grow out of
the talk.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
s^s'V'
BLANCHARD’S CROSS-CHANNEL BALLOON 1785. Construction :
Spherical Taffeta balloon with suspended boat-shaped car.
Dimensions ; Gas bag diameter 27 ft. Capacity : 9,400 cu.
ft. Power Plant : Pair of silk-covered oars and hand operated
fan thrust zero under all circumstances. Controls : None.
Service : Intended for use on Dover-Calais run but taken
out of service after one proving flight.
TODAY: great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
SERVICE
AVIATION
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All States.
Telegraphic Address “ Airbeepee ” Melbourne.
bought at various price levels.
A new conception of price-
control is needed to meet new
conditions. The time has arrived
when, after providing some
“long-stop” safeguards, margin-
controls should be eliminated
and prices allowed to find their
own level through pressure of
supply and demand in a freely
competitive market.
Subject to the position in
respect of stocks (up £130,803
last term), which appear at or
under cost and are reported well
bought, the co.’s finances are
comfortable:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Ord. capital £324,041 £344.041 £344,041
Pref. capital 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgage . . —• 35,000 35,000
Sundry credi-
tors', etc. 188,377 210,618 818,273
Staff fund .. 51,240 57,292 63,997
Tax provis’n 68,220 61,561 97,771
Freehold, etc. 518,270 563,617 563,277
Plant, etc... 51,141 52,475 51,177
Stock . . 388,768 393,649 524,452
Book debts,
etc. .. 46.261 51,818 66,785
Cash, etc. . . 43.036 89,309 129,961
Goodwill . . 60,741 60,741 60,741
The holding of cash, etc., was
strengthened by £40,652, and the
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£206,157)
was £35,852.
At Bs. 9d. (14s. 9d. six months
ago) the f.-p. ss. ords. return
5.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The 7 p.c. £1 prefs. at 295. 6d.
yield 4.9 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £5 ss. 3d. prefs.
and 9s. 4d. ords.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
The co. (paid capital £950,371
in 4s. 3d. shares) has been a dis-
appointment to shareholders. It
operates on the Edie Creek field,
New Guinea, where its three
main interests now comprise
mining and milling at Golden
Ridges, logging and sawmilling,
and the Koranga Alluvial joint
operation.
A profit of £43,969, equal to
2.36 d. per share (4.6 p.c.)
showed up for the year to Sept.
30 last, as against a profit of
£4903 and a loss of £33,610 for
the two preceding years. No
div. was paid, money being
wanted for completion of plant
and development, etc. Revenue
(£115,421) increased by £19,146,
mainly on account of saw-
milling, etc., and exes. (£71,452)
were reduced by £19,920, due
mainly to leasing of the food
farm, which had been run at a
loss, and to a reduction in the
native labor force following the
closing-down of some marginal-
grade alluvials. Sales of bullion
(£85,572, up £4776) came entirely
from alluvial operations. The
Golden Ridges mill, where lode
ore is treated, didn’t come into
operation until around the close
of accounts.
At Koranga 848,271 c.y. were
treated for 60960 z. fine gold and
a profit of £25,941, of which
this co.’s share was £22,671.
Estimated ore reserves are
5,213,875 c.y., averaging a wink
over 2gr., which is worth Is. 4d.
with gold at £l5 9s, lOd. a fine
ounce.
During the year the co. milled
2,434,934 super, feet of pine,
most of which was used in pro-
duction of precut native houses,
sold to the Administration, and
the balance exported to Aus-
tralia. Previously regarded as a
sideline, timber is now looked
upon as “indispensable to the
co.’s welfare.”
During the running-in period,
the amalgamation section of the
Ridges mill treated 6625 tons
ore for 9130 z. gold and
7300 z. silver, representing little
more than 25 p.c. of the total
gold content of the ore. Re-
coveries are now reported in the
neighborhood of 50 p.c., whereas
laboratory tests suggested a
probable 75 p.c. The tailings
are, of course, being impounded
for treatment by cyanidation.
Meanwhile, income is reduced
by the disappointing recovery m
the amalgamation section. Little
work has yet been done on the
cyaniding section, owing to the
co.’s depleted cash position, fol-
lowing expenditure on the crush-
ing and amalgamating plant.
Here ore reserves are put at
153,931 tons averaging 0.460 z.
gold and some silver, equal to
about 4j years’ work for the
mill, now reported to be
operatng at a profit.
The outlook for shareholders
“furnishes grounds for controlled
optimism and expectations for
an outcome as good as, if not
better than, revealed last term,”
the chairman says.
When the books closed
current assets totalled £189,342,
of which stores represented
£84,577. There was £54,128
coming to sundry creditors, etc.
Plant, buildings, etc., figures at
£426,631 (up £103,828), and the
mine at £653,421 (unchanged).
The scrip, which rose to 2s. 9d.
in 1951, recently sold at Is. 9d.
Raub Aust. G.M. Co.
This Brisbane-controlled co.
has a paid capital of £200,000 in
f.-p. ss. shares. The mine and
plant, at Pahang (Malaya), were
both in a derelict condition when
recovered after the Jap occupa-
tion, and a Government-
guaranteed loan of £400,925 has
been raised and spent on re-
habilitation, etc.
The scrip, which sold around
4s about three months ago, has
since shot up to 9s. 6d. on
’Change. Responsible for the
sharp rise were the reported
discovery of scheelite in the
mine—value and extent of the
deposit yet to be tested —bigger
crushings and recovery of gold,
and sale of up to half the out-
put at a premium on the open
market. Though it is too early
yet to say what, if any, value can
be attached to the reported find
of scheelite, the other two
factors augur well for marked
improvement in the current
year’s earnings.
Profit for the year to March
31, 1951, was £4606 (1.25 d. per
share) as against a profit of £3B
and a loss of £14,369 for the
two preceding years. Through-
put and recovery figures com-
pare :
Ore Head Re- Fine
Milled, Value, covered. Gold,
March, Tons. Dwt. Dwt. Oz.
1949.. 25,380 7.5 6.75 8,595.8
1950.. 31,798 8.2 7.16 11,384.1
1951.. 52,382 7.2 6.33 16,581.5
After deducting royalties, etc.,
average realised value per ton
of ore was £4 17s. 3d., and all-in
costs £4 16s. 9d. (down 2s. 7d.)
per ton. The year’s expenditure
on security against Communist
terrorists was £18,078.
Ore reserves in the four
operating sections were figured
at 44,150 tons (down 5473 tons),
averaging over sydwt., with a
further 12,150 tons of prospec-
tive ore. A lot more payable
stuff is known to exist in the
three inoperative sections. When
these can be opened up through-
put and earnings should further
benefit. Geologist K. J. Finu-
cane, who inspected the mine
during the year, says “aggregate
ore prospects are appreciable,
and generally indicate a long
operative life.”
At March 31, 1951, there was
£97,245 in Government securi-
ties, cash and book debts to
meet £71,628 of current liabili-
ties, including £23,628 of un-
claimed divs, on the Singapore
register. Early payment of the
co.’s war-damage claims (amount
not stated) is expected, which
will offset, or largely offset, the
rehabilitation loan.


Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not
revised your Will to
meet to-day’s condi-
tions, the conse-
quences may be seri-
ous for someone
who depends on you.
Your responsibility
to that someone is
too important to
justify delaying until
some to-morrow that
may never come.
&
Iff
l mW\m
ni
Why not have a confidential talk
with one of our Senior Officers on the
subject of the appointment of the Com-
pany as your Executor and Trustee-
alone or Jointly with a relative or
friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step
of having your Solicitor redraw your
Will, should then be a simple matter*
K you would have particulars of the
services offered by the Company write
(or, ring B 0377) and make an
appointment.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND ]
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, IOENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAQE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT JFAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH & ORANGE.
| ”I*ll never forget the joy on Grandpa’s |
I face when he actually heard
I the birds singing in his garden again."
“The birds were singing in
the tree and Grandfather
heard them clearly even
though they were behind
his back. Grandpa doesn’t
‘see’ his sounds any more.”
The wonderful “Acousti-
con” Hearing Aid comes
almost as a miracle to people
resigned to living in an
echo world where sounds are
only a memory. It actually
restores hearing for almost
every degree of deafness. If
there’s someone in your
family who is hard-of-hear-
ing, why not write for an
“Acousticon” booklet which
tells them all about this
modern wonder.
Then, should they wish,
they can try the “Acousti-
con” for themselves in
ANGUS & COOTE’S con-
sulting rooms, in absolute
privacy. Or we will send a
consultant to your home.
It’s just as natural as fit-
ting glasses to correct faulty
eyesight.
The famous
'ACOUSTICON" HEARING AID
Write to-day lor the booklet that tells you
all about this modern wonder.
Obtainable only from
Mgus & Coote
ioOGeorae St., SYDNEY: 62 Scott St.. NEWCASTLE;
203 Collins St.. MELBOURNE; 626 Sturt St.. BALLARAT-
-175 North Terrace, ADELAIDE; 134 Elizabeth St., BRISBANE;
76 Harrington St., HOBART;
41 Brisbane St.. LAUNCESTON; 254 Murray St.. PERTH.
Business. Rollery. etc.
Industry and the Revenue
Many more companies last
week reported lowered or with-
held interim dividends. Some
blamed rising costs (and con-
sequently lowered profits), not-
withstanding increased turnover.
Others were just cautious, with-
holding a distribution until the
shape of things to come became
clearer. Some retained all profits
in the business for the time
being because of the difficulty
of raising money from outside
and because of the size of their
stocks,
A few concerns made it appear
quite clear, on the other hand,
that they were satisfied with the
year to date. Among these were
John Mcllwraith Industries and
Bitumen and Oil Refineries.
Each declared an interim of
6i p.c. (121 p.c, p.a.), suggesting
a distribution for the full year
at a rate at least equal to last
year’s. The Mcllwraith concern
is a manufacturer of brassware
and plumbers’ supplies, with
bath-manufacturing subsidiaries.
Retail concerns generally
report trade at a lower level, and
G. J. Coles has reduced the rate
of its interim distribution, not
because of a decline in sales but
because of reduced profit-
margins, which are said to be
the result of “changing circum-
stances.” Wholesalers are feeling
the pinch as well, and the manu-
facturer, especially where he is
in the textile trade, has been
sharply hit. Imports which have
been flooding into the country
at an unprecedented rate have
brought an accumulation of
stocks to nearly all merchants
which has induced them to
short-buy on the local market.
Nearly everyone, including
housewives, have overbought on
the clothing side. But unless
overseas competition gets an
exceptionally sharp edge on it
the position, so far as the Aus-
tralian manufacturer is con-
cerned, should straighten itself
out before very long. Clothes
wear out —especially children’s
clothes —and the recent rate of
excessive importing is not likely
to continue. Wherever possible
importers are cancelling overseas
orders. As stocks are worked
down the rate of public demand
will establish the rate of manu-
facture. But at present there is
a big cushion of imported and
local stocks between consumer-
buying and Australian manu-
facturing. Until these stocks are
worked down to a figure that
can be handled comfortably by
the finance available to the
wholesale and retail trade
manufacturers are bound to find
the going difficult.
Hosiery-manufacturers report
severe competition from British
nylon stockings. They claim
that there is some dumping at
cut prices because of certain
conditions prevailing in the
British trade. German hardware
is also now beginning to trickle
through at prices considerably
below those hitherto prevailing
in Australia. But so far there
is no general price-cutting from
any quarter.
Australians will certainly have
to produce more each working
week if they are to remain in
their jobs, however. In some
industries the position has been
farcical for some time. Before
squeals from trade-union bodies
about unfair competition are
listened to the darg and job-
control will have to go. Protec-
tion of any kind cannot be
granted to a trade-union policy
of industrial degeneration.
Imports from overseas will
tend to grow less because of the
drop in our income from wool.
The cheque for the seven months
to January 31 was 47 p.c. lower
than for the corresponding
period of the previous year (it
dropped by £163 million to £lB4
million). But with a smaller
national income the popular
trend will be to buy in the
“Now, boys, run along home. I've got Work to do.”
cheapest market, wherever it
may be.
Overseas funds continue to
shrink, after a temporary
steadying. In the fortnight to
February 6 the drop was £l9
million, reducing the total to
£356 million. In June this year the
Commonwealth Bank’s holding
of “gold and balances abroad”
had been up to £720 million.
It is generally expected that
this drain on overseas funds will
slow down before long. It is
very difficult for money to leave
the country without central-bank
permission, and the chances of it
getting outside the sterling area,
except for essential imports and
Government-loan servicing, is
remote.
The Federal Government’s
defence expenditure during the
seven months to January 31 has
been below estimates £74.5
million for the period, compared
with an estimate «f £181.7
million for the full year. All
outgo at £465.6 million for the
seven months compares with an
estimate for the year of £941.6
million. Revenue for seven
months (£427.6 million) is also
below the average anticipated by
estimates for the 12 months
(£1056 million), but a large
income-tax collection usually
comes in in the second half of
the financial year (so far only
£146 million out of an expected
£554 million has been collected).
If defence spending for the
full year is lower than estimates
it may mean a larger revenue
surplus than that budgeted for.
But in view of the prevailing
inflationary conditions little
taxation relief can be expected.
Though manpower is becoming
more readily available for
essential city industries there is
still a shortage in the rural food-
producing areas. Coal and steel
are still in short supply, and
transport industries remain
undermanned.
New Zealand Cops It
Earlier jubilation in New Zea-
land over import decontrol, the
post-strike spending spree and
stocking-up in factories, ware-
houses and retail-stores has
given way since to a fit of de-
pression, which has deepened
since the opening of the new
year. Maoriland traders, inves-
tors and private individuals who
seemed to be comfortably shel-
tered and fairly immune from
economic shocks and setbacks
for some months after Australia
ran into trouble began to have
doubts during November, and
by Christmas were waking up to
realise that they were in for
their share of hard times.
It’s a long time since Maori-
land business- or corner-shop
men were so hard-pushed for
cash as in the past couple of
months. With a lot more funds
tied up in stocks than ever be-
fore, and with the banks de-
manding that overdrafts be cut
down, the most overextended
have been openly shouting “we
want cash,” and have been slash-
ing prices to get it. Cash is the
one substitute for dried-up credit
that can keep trade and business
moving, but most of it is
hoarded in savings, which
Maorilanders haven’t been ready
to unlock freely. Buyers have
lost most of their eagerness
since goods in plenty were
paraded before their eyes, so
trade has slowed down when
business hoped and expected it
would be booming.
Manufacturers haven’t escaped.
After battling for years against
shortages, they now have more
materials than they can do with,
and the problem for 1952 will be
to liquidate these as quickly and
profitably as they can. At the
best, most of them won’t make
much more than decent wages,
and some will be dipping into
reserves—if they have any left
since tight credit-control put the
squeeze on. In town and country
they’re up against sales bottle-
necks, through abundant or
sup erabundant
stocks, and
there’s not much
prospect that
they’ll be able to
relax until well
on in the year.
Record
income - tax
demands £76
million, against
£s9£ million in
1951—had to be
met in Feb-
ruary, when
credit was
tightest, shares
and stocks were
wobbly and
prosperity
seemed very
fragile. As the
Treasury makes
no allowance for
trade hardships,
misfortune or
overs tretched
bank - accounts,
there hasn’t been
much chance of
summer revival.
Those most
exposed have been the inexperi-
enced, the adventurous and
speculators, who have been
taught a stern lesson.
Under pressure from impatient
creditors, the banks and Trea-
sury their lot has been anything
but a happy one, and there’s no
doubt that when they, and busi-
ness concerns generally, get out
of this jam they’ll be more canny
in their buying. New Zealand’s
overseas funds should be rea-
sonably safe from another big
import raid for at least a year or
two.


LEURA
VACANT POSSESSION
"Meridong"
Gladstone Road
This offering presents an excellent opportunity to secure
a most comfortable Mountain Bungalow Home, possessing
every modern convenience, at a reasonable figure.
Located in a FIRST CLASS RESIDENTIAL AREA in CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO LEURA GOLF LINKS, this property is only
available because of the owner’s early departure from New South
Wales.
Soundly constructed of weatherboard on brick foundations, the
residence and attractive grounds are in first-class order. Fly screens
and mosquito-proof doors and windows are fitted throughout.
Amenities and services include Gas Hot Water Service,
Central Heating, Refrigeration, Telephone, Sewerage,
Electricity, Gas and Town Water. Garage adjoining is
available on lease expiring 1970 at 2/6 per week.
ACCOMMODATION: Spacious return verandah with one section
glass enclosed as sunroom, entrance porch, entrance vestibule,
attractive lounge/dining room, four bedrooms, neat bathroom,
spacious modern kitchen, pantry.
Downstairs: Laundry, shower room, tool room, man’s room, etc.
Attractive Fixed Floor Coverings, Blinds, Refrigerator and
Garden Tools will be offered to the successful purchaser
at valuation.
LAND: 94ft. x 188 ft. TITLE: Torrens.
INSPECTIONS BY APPOINTMENT THROUGH CONJUNCTION
AGENT ONLY.
Auctioneers in Conjunction:
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED,
98 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Tel. BW 8401 (10 lines).
H. S. RELTON, ESQ.
The Mall,
LEURA.
Tel. Leura J 1211.
Auction Sale Date: Tuesday, 11th March, 1952
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrlo
Stock ami Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
QJ7
Fastest to
rW
|==
AND MANILA
Specify Q ANT AS Air
Cargo service for your
merchandise—-send your
mails by air.
Travel on business be-
comes a pleasure and
there’s time to see more
of the beauty of Japan
when you fly by fast
QANTAS service. Japan
is only 2 days from
Sydney! You reach Manila,
en route, in less than 24
hours. Regular weekly ser-
vices by modern Skymaster.
Traditionally good QANTAS
Steward Service, quick frozen
foods served hot in the air.
Consult your Travel Agent.
FLY
mm
There's a World of Difference
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (Inc. in Queensland)
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
■■y
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
THE WAR OF THE ANTS
By "EK DUM"
ONE thing the Korean
adventure is doing is to
give an ihkling as to
what future war is going
to be like.
However much Americans
and other newcomers to world
war may have persuaded them-
selves that they could change
the factors in war by making the
next outburst a contest of
machines and science versus
men, in the ultimate it is clear
the decision will again lie be-
tween men and men. The basic
rules have not altered. Given
limited manpower and much
superior equipment on one side
in the definitive stage and
overwhelming manpower on the
other the manpower will win.
Enough men in the mass with
no inhibitions about dying
form a better and more effec-
tive machine for war than
anything constructible by
science. Men, in any case, are
the objective against which each
enemy operates.
The United Nations allies,
which means very largely at this
stage the American Army
(though perhaps the crucial
sector of the Korean front is
held by the British Common-
wealth Division, whose units
have played a part altogether
out of proportion to their
strength relative to the rest in
the Korean battles), have for
some months had everything
which should be necessary,
according to the accepted
theories of 1945, to make for
swift and decisive victory.
In Korea the battle has
been recently between a very
pampered army on the U.N.O.
side, one superbly equipped with
unlimited resources and with a
public opinion of its own which
makes itself very much felt even
in action, and a dumb and driven
Asiatic army of coolies, very
much larger in numbers but
without much mechanical trans-
port, with no public opinion, no
rights and until recently no
semblance of equality in arma-
ment. This position should in
theory long ago have been de-
cisive in our favor.
Chinese Advantages
From the first, however, the
Chinese and the North Koreans
had advantages which had not
been reckoned on by the
theoristic Western planners of
1945 planners who lived
mainly at the atmospheric level
at which atom-bombs are
released. Korea was in the
Orientals’ own continent, and
they were used to living in its
conditions, in its hills, its bitter
Manchurian winds, its dust and
its heat and its thaws, flies, bugs
and other natural curiosities.
Secondly, they could walk while
Americans had almost forgotten
how. Thirdly, they were used
to carrying loads not while walk-
ing but while trotting. To stick
601 b. on an American and
ask him to trot up a large hill
with it (unless he belongs to the
Marines) even now is almost
cruelty. But to ask a North
Korean who is used to slinging
a hundredweight down the road
on his curious A-frame or a
Chinese to do the same thing is
quite another matter. They climb
like a Swiss chamois. All ground
seems to be level to them. They
jogtrot with all they need for
battle, and will cover 25-30
miles nearly noiselessly in a night
over hill and dale. A U.S.
convoy, of course, will do more,
but it won’t do it over scrubby
hills. It is tied to roads.
The Chinese and North
Koreans can dig; so can
machines, but they cannot dig
where and how an Asiatic can
dig. Digging is his life. Tens
of thousands of Chinese and
Koreans spend hours a day doing
it normally if they don’t spend
hours a day jogtrotting with a
load or following some other
hobby which fits them peculiarly
for campaigning.
When he occupies a position
on a knife-edge hill-crest he
burrows in with incredible speed
like a ground spider making
himself a deep, narrow, under-
cut, overhanging channel giving
maximum cover. Then he
camouflages it as closely as
possible with mats and spare
vegetation. The higher the
hill the better he seems to
like it. Also the harder
the better, because if it is really
hard he can honeycomb it from
the side opposite to his enemy
and push a few guns through
tunnels into which they can be
pulled back in case of retalia-
tion.
Having occupied his position,
he makes up a nice little heap of
grenades in his trench and waits
for the fun to begin.
The Ancient Ways
All sorts of genius have gone
into making the atom-bomb,
radar and other revolutionary
machinery for war, but nobody
so far seems to have invented
anything to prevent large
numbers of Chinese from pussy-
footing at night through the
ground-scrub on to hill-crests.
And all modern devices for
moving them off hill-crests when
they are established are feeble
compared with the old-
fashioned ones. Good artillery
is useful and the enemy is
frightened of it. Napalm is
deadly—if you can drop it into
a trench, which it is exceedingly
difficult to do. There is only
one machine which will get him
out once he is there, and
even Caesar knew about that.
Recipe:
One good company of tough
troops armed with rifles with
bayonets and other elementary
impedimenta. They climb slowly
and laboriously up the hill,
irrespective of losses. When they
reach the point where their
frontal artillery support has to
lift to let them through, they spit
on their hands afresh, walk or
crawl straight into the grenade
barrage which the trench-moles
let loose at them and capture the
trenches in hand-to-hand struggle,
being careful not to rush cheering
to the crest afterwards, because
if they do the m.gs. which the
cunning heathen has placed on
nether spurs and slopes in
anticipation will flatten them.
This ancient recipe for combat,
when multiplied to cover about
10,000 Korean hills, provides the
overall recipe for winning the
Korean war. Some people, and
particularly our own Royals, the
Scotties and the Turks, are
noted for their skill and cool
daring at it; but some other
people are not, and approach
the problem with a bewildered
and rather injured air, having
been taught by their daily Press
and U.S. equivalents of Dr.
Evatt during the years 1945-49
that all future wars would be
push-button wars in which clean
gentlemen would sit in Wash-
ington and Canberra and blow
the barbarians to blithering
blazes—or defeat them by blow-
ing up their supply bases, which
is difficult in war in a large
continent.
It would be amusing if it
were not so grim to hear the
illusionists of one of the world’s
most modern armies, who,
when the writer was in Tokyo
three years ago, were all on the
side of science, discussing
solemnly the technique of box
defence, an adaptation of the
theory of the ancient solid
British square to the needs of
modern mobile war. There are
few of them who have not
realised by this time that the
deciding machine is man, and
that man becomes the more
dangerous (if there are enough
of him) in direct ratio to his
indifference to his own
destruction.
Man the Invested Capital
The American soldier, and in
fact most soldiers except the
good old Turk and the South
Korean on the Allied side, have
a most unaccountable objection
to dying. But the Chinaman and
North Korean haven’t. There
are no regulations whatever
about how they expire—under
an insupportable load, under fire
(their own or U.N.O.’s), from
fatigue or any other way, so long
as their death does something
towards immolating the blood-
thirsty Wall-street aggressors. At
the same time it must not be
thought that the enemy is just
careless and prodigal in flinging
away life. Indeed, his accurate
view of manpower is that it is
the capital with which war is
fought, and he has that idea in
his head all the time.
Sometimes the manifestations
of it are mystifying to the simple
European with his traditional
(Continued on page 32.)


d6#e4 seat suffer/w&kf
S/iT&yfitisr/
Yon can relax and enjoy your outings when you
know your family, your car and you are safe.
Safety depends on more than careful, considerate
driving— it depends on car condition —on tyres.
The best tyres are the safest —that means Goodyear
Tyres. For 36 years it has been true that more
people, the world over, ride on Goodyear Tv~3s than
on any other make. This is a remarkable tribute
to their long wear, comfort and safety. See your
Goodyear Dealer and remember, it is worth
waiting for Goodyear Tyres.
ENJOY SAFI HOLIDAY MOTORING ON
GOODYEAR
TYRES
and for greater safety
This simple routine will add safety as
well as longer mileage to your tyres;
• Check pressures regularly.
• Change tyre position every 2,000 or
3,000 miles to equalize wear.
• Inspect tyres regularly—have small
cuts repaired early.
• Check wheel alignment and balance.
• Drive moderately—speed kills tyres.
The DOG LADY
by E.O.SCHLUNKE
ON a cold, windy morning
after rising late. Masters
builds himself the right
kind of fire in his den,
a fire that will burn all day. A
huge backlog right across the
fireplace, front logs to kindle
and support. A pipe, a good
book, cooking-smells from the
kitchen, a day with nothing to
do. The farm running itself.
Sturdy fences keeping his stock
in and the rabbits out; grass
growing of its own accord,
sheep eating it and turning it
into wool; wool bringing in a
generously sufficient income.
The way life should be.
But then, just as he is sink-
ing down in his deep old leather
armchair, the sound of his dogs
barking. Somebody coming, and
someone most unusual and dis-
turbing if the noise his dogs are
making is any clue. A glance
out of his window to see an in-
credible sight. A mass, a wave
of dark and sinister creatures
rushing towards his house.
Alarm runs tinglingly through
all his nervous-system, com-
manding him to spring for his
gun to defend his flocks. On
him has fallen the terrible fate
which hitherto he has only read
about in the papers;
Dogs Amuck —
Shock Flocks.
But surely never before so
many, so large, so gaunt, hairy
and wolflike. He jumps up. He
shouts:
“My gun! My cartridges!”
But his wife shouts back:
“Don’t shoot. There’s some-
one with them.”
Bustles on to the veranda un-
armed and in slippers to de-
mand what’s the meaning of
this; his wife staring over his
shoulder. The hounds advance,
singularly silent and purpose-
ful, at least fifty of them. None
of that usual fussing and cavor-
ting round Masters’s dogs.
Noses to ground, they scour the
farmyard. Dogs of many sizes
and breeds and every mixture,
but all shabby, gaunt and
hungry. Like the lean kine of
Pharaoh’s dream, they devour all
that is on the earth ; old thrice-
chewed discarded bones, shanks
cut from sheepskins, blood-
stained paper that came round
the butcher’s meat, ancient
scraps of dried offal where
ration sheep have been killed,
desiccated carcasses of dead hens
thrown beyond the rubbish-
heap, Masters’s dogs stare at
them, too astonished at their
undogly behavior to continue
barking at them.
Now Masters can see plainly
the someone who is with them.
It looks like a slim graceful
youth strolling along after them
with easy, swinging strides;
somehow odd and incongruous
among the raffish dogs. Some-
thing that puzzles him until he
hears his wife say sniffingly:
“It’s a woman!”
It is a woman all right.
Dressed in jodhpurs and neat
wind - cheater jacket. Quite
young, really, and attractive in
an open-air, out-of-doorsy
manner. When she speaks it is,
surprisingly, in the elegant voice
of the fashionable finishing-
school, with all vowels given
their due accord and no con-
cession anywhere to the easy-
going ways of the country.
Hearing her you would think
she had gone riding to hounds
with a high-toned English hunt-
club, and had had the mis-
fortune, temporarily, to lose her
horse. She is quick to reassure
the Masterses, who can hear
their hens shrieking and the
house cow bellowing in fear.
“It’s quite all right. Charlie
has them in check.”
ONLY then do they become
aware of a second figure
among the dogs. A “dog-boy”
of the old school, with no chin,
long pointed nose and exposed
fang-like teeth, hardly dis-
tinguishable from the rest of the
pack. At first glance he appears
to be wearing a scarlet skirt,
but as he gets nearer they see
that he has strung a score of
skinned rabbits on a belt that
encircles his hips. His trousers
are stiff with blood and his
boots caked with gore. He is
rushing hither and thither after
various bunches of dogs, shout-
ing, staccato, a peculiar foreign
language:
“Bodger, Dodo, Rooty, Mac-
tavish, Hugo, hi attaboy. Ruby
down there!”
His words have a moderate,
ephemeral effect on the dogs.
Such of them as were alarming
the livestock desist and move
through the rubbish-tip to con-
sume feathers and lick out empty
jam-tins. Mrs. Masters makes a
hostile sound and bustles back
to the kitchen. The lady smiles
at Masters; a smile in which
world y-wise confidence is
blended jvith feminine in-
security.
“I imagine that you’re
wondering what all this is
about. Allow me to explain.
We are Rabbit Exterminators.
We undertake to free your
property entirely of rabbits at a
mutually agreeable price per
acre.”
Masters suddenly under-
stands ; great is his relief. Yet
he feels a little pang of regret
at having to disappoint the nice
lady.
“I’m afraid there’ll be no
business for you here. I haven’t
got any rabbits on my place.”
The lady cocks her head at
him most knowingly.
“It’s astonishing how rabbits
suddenly appear where they’ve
never been before,” she says,
not contradicting him in the
least. “One day you have no
rabbits; and the next day
they’re there. I suppose it’s
several days since you walked
through your paddock towards
the road where we came from.
You saw none. Yet today when
we came through with the
dogs”—
She breaks off and turns to
Charlie, who is approaching at
the opportune moment,
astonishingly indifferent to his
nauseatingly bloody kilt.
“Just how many rabbits,” she
asks him in her most Oxford-
like tones, “did we catch on Mr.
Masters’ property?”
Charlie smiles like an agree-
able dog asked to perform his
tricks, and falls eagerly to
counting the carcasses slung
round his belt, But finding
them difficult to separate, he
gets a better idea, plunges his
hand into his opened shirt and
pulls out the skins which have
been nestling cosily round his
ribs.
“Twentyfive,” he says, quite
surprising Masters that he can
count, and so quickly.
The lady turns to Masters
sympathetically, shaking her
head at the vile fifth-column
tactics of rabbits.
“There could be several
thousand on your place.”
HER arithmetic is too slick
for Masters to follow. Yet
he is seized with remorse;
thinking how, while he sat at
his day-long fires, the rabbits
were pushing their quivering
noses against his wire-netted
boundaries, searching out the
weak places, biting, scratching
and tearing their way through,
then multiplying.
“Five families they have in a
season,” Charlie says, his nose
twitching knowingly as if he’s
poked it down hundreds of
burrows to find out, “and by
the time they’re having the third
lot, the first young’uns are start-
ing to have families of their
own.”
It hardly sounds credible to
Masters, yet how can he dis-
agree with a man so intimate
with rabbits ; whose hands even
are covered with their fur,
gummed on with dried blood?
Masters goes inside to put on
his boots so that he can have
a look with them over his
property. The dogs are mar-
shalled by Charlie and off they
go willingly enough, all but a
couple of greyhounds, too sore-
footed from overwork to jump
a high fence, and too dim-
witted to scramble through like
the smaller dogs.
The brains of the pack seem
to be located in the two
smallest dogs, a fox-terrier and a
floppy - eared cocker - spaniel.
The big dolts watch them snif-
fing enthusiastically, knowing
they will find the rabbits, then
they all give chase in a not
particularly vigorous, paid-by-
the-day manner ; catching them
when they do it, because the
rabbits are confused by their
number rather than mastered
by their speed or skill. Some of
the rabbits get down burrows,
and others find shelter in hol-
low logs. The lady shakes her
head over these,
“Of course, we can’t
guarantee a hundred-per-cent,
extermination under these con-
ditions.”
Masters feels humiliated. All
those burrows suddenly appear-
ing where none were before.
Even the hollow logs seem to
have multiplied themselves. He
knows that the burrows could
be dug out and the logs chopped
up. But what endless work ;
and who would he get to do it
in these days of push-button
jobs? The lady swings along,
frowning and calculating,
“Sometimes we undertake to
fumigate the burrows with
cyanide, but that would cost
you an extra five shillings per
acre.”
Panic for Masters. Five
hundred pounds as well as
whatever they charge for the
dogging. And still hordes of
rabbits escaping into logs.
When they have made a
circuit of the place the lady rests
her foot on the boundary-fence
and adopts a competent
business attitude. Charlie’s shirt
is now so tightly stuffed with
skins that it is threatening to
pull out from under his belt.
Paired carcasses are draped over
his shoulders and round his
neck. They must weigh at least
a hundredweight, but that faith-
ful fellow is unconcerned.
“Not enough,” he says. “The
smallest dogs eat a rabbit a day,
and the biggest need two or
three.”
The lady is not concerned
about the commissariat. Grand
strategy and tactics are her de-
partment. She speaks gravely to
Masters:
“You have a lot of rabbits
here, Mr. Masters. I should
hate to think of what would
happen to you if the rabbit-
inspector came.”
She gives that a moment to
sink in.
“Yes, yes,” Masters admits,
repentant, “I can see that.
Don’t understand it at all. Must
have got in from the neighbors.
They never do anything.”
The lady nods under-
standingly. Practically all the
rabbits she has ever extermin-
ated have come from the
neighbors.
“We could go over just with
the dogs for half-a-crown an
acre,” she says, a bit dubiously,
“if you would be satisfied with
that.”
“If I was,” Masters rumin-
ates, “would the rabbit in-
spector be?”
THE lady wisely refrains
from attempting to answer
for a creature so capricious and
inexplicable as a rabbit in-
spector.
“You’ll still have a lot of
rabbits,” she says.
Then she puts on a bright
look, as if now is the moment.
“I’ll tell you what! At several
other places where we had
similar conditions the land-
owners got a contractor with a
tractor and ripper to tear out the
burrows, and a power-saw to
cut up the logs. A first-class
man called Maloney; honest,
capable and a very decent
character. Doing it by machine
like that is quick and efficient.
Then I can guarantee that the
rabbit inspector won’t trouble
you.”
There is no suggestion of pres-
sure in her manner; just a man-
to-man statement. More cor-
rectly, a woman-to-man; with
a genuine understanding of the
difficulties involved. Masters is,
in fact, bracing himself with
considerable agony to face the
threatening turmoil of activity
and expense.
“Thirty shillings an hour for
the tractor and ripper and a
pound for the power-saw,” she
says, raising her eyebrows to
show that she understands that
this is real money. Then she
smiles reassuringly and gets a
most enthusiastic look on her
face,
“But you ought to see the
efficiency! Rip through and
back with the tractor a few
times and a big warren is
finished in a couple of minutes
that would have taken three or
four men a whole day to dig out.
And the mobile power-saw!
Screech! Screech! Screech!
and the biggest log lies in sec-
tions, no more to shelter a
single rabbit and all ready for
you to cart home for firewood.”
There is such animation in her
face; such charm of voice and
gesture that Masters’s face fights
up in response, though the only
thing that has actually appealed
to him is the secondary by-pro-
duct of ample firewood. He
knows that to engage that
mechanised horde as well as the
dogs would sever him eternally
from the best part of a thousand
pounds ; and though he’s sure it
would save income tax, he
knows easier ways of doing that,
“Some landowners are too
careless to make, a thorough
clean-up,” the dog lady says.
(Continued on page 20.)


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000, Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
TOLD BY BELL’S
V
Poor
sinner
In the south tower of St. Mary Mag-
dalene in the Prussian city of Breslau,
there’s a bell known as the ‘Poor Sinner’,
Five centuries ago, a famous founder was
engaged to make the bell. When the
mould was made and the metal was nearly ready for tapping,
he was called away for a moment, leaving a young apprentice
in charge with strict instructions not to touch. But the inquisi-
tive boy fingered the catch and released the stream of molten
metal. Terrified, he shouted for his master, who, thinking his
work was ruined, struck the lad so hard that he died of the
blow. In spite of this tragic incident, the bell was found to be
perfect and it tolled first at the death of its founder who was
convicted of murder —poor sinnerl
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature Scotch
Whisky—ring for Bell’s, the good old whisky!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled and blended by Arthur beix & sons ltd.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
ta
A DAY WITH GLORY
IT is a blue-and-white day.
The Marine corporal of the
gangway had shaken me
with: “Five-fifteen, sir.”
“What’s the weather?”
“Fine and clear.”
On the flight-deck it is, with
the sun shining clear through
toe straight-cut gap edged by
Point Perpendicular, and adding
a faint gleam ©f gold to the
red, green and white of Jervis
Bay settlement. Voices are
crisply testing in the early air,
metallic voices testing com-
munications, natural voices of
engineers working on the cata-
pult port side forrard. A klaxon
blares peremptorily across the
empty flight-deck; red and
green lights flash from the after
end of the Island, or bridge.
Great radar grids on her tripod-
mast turn slowly, some elevat-
ing as well, with a high-powered,
electronic whirring. Carrier
Glory has a big day ahead, and
much preparation is required
before her brood begin their
antics.
Astern, the leanness of
destroyer Anzac waits, an
essential midget, a faint haze of
brown at her funnel-lip. There
comes a short “whoof” as she
tests sirens.
A pipe shrills through the
ship.
“Special sea-dutymen close
up.”
These are the specially-trained
crew required to handle her
14,000 tons in confined waters
—helmsman, engine-telegraph-
men, cable-party, leadsmen and
so on.
Down the flight-deck from aft
a wind-browned six-f ooter
comes striding, dressed in white
shorts and shirt, four bars of
gold glittering on his shoulders,
his cap under his arm. This
means that Captain Colquhoun
does not require the usual
courtesy of standing to attention
as he passes. I follow the
captain up to the compass-
platform, from whose instru-
ment-packed compactness voice-
pipes and telephone-wires run
like nerves to pretty well every
part of the ship.
He greets his navigator
pleasantly, and stands in re-
spected isolation against the
forrard window, waiting for the
result of the organisation which
had swung into action half an
hour before. Soon it comes.
The telephone-number to the
cable-party, a brisk lad with a
large gold earring in his port
ear, speaks suddenly;
“Cable up and down, sir.”
The navigator catches the
captain’s nod,
“Weigh.”
The captain speaks over his
shoulder,
“Obey telegraphs.”
From now on the engine-
room knows that telegraph-tests
are over —every order passed is
to be executed.
“Slow ahead starb’d. Starb’d
20.”
Over goes the rudder, and the
great ship’s flat nose begins to
slide slowly across the white
strand of beach ahead. Round
Glory lumbers, while Anzac
astern spins on two-bob and
waits, held in leash. She has
more horses in her boilers than
the giant she is shepherding. A
flurry at Anzac’s tail, and she
is after us. Her job as “crash”
destroyer is to hang off one
quarter, and dash up and fish
out any pilot unfortunate
enough to land in. In Korea, a
helicopter performs a similar
service, more economically and
more efficiently.
With Point Perpendicular
abeam, its lighthouse standing
like a bleached bone on its lip,
and planes coming up the after-
lift, let us have a look at the
ship, at the complex equipment
Whose sole purpose is directed
towards the efficient direction
and handling of 35 aircraft.
In the operations-room (to
flying what the bridge is to
ship-handling), the only light
comes from a half-dozen
greenly-glowing radar-screens,
their traces swinging round the
dials like miniature searchlights.
Those traces represent radar-
aerials, and everything they lay
their electronic fingers on is
echoingly revealed on the green
scopes as softly-glowing splotches
of light. It is like looking down
on Jervis Bay from an aircraft.
A small oval of light well clear
of the land-echoes tells these
men in their lightless room that
out there a ship is steaming right
to left, at a mathematicaUy-
exact range.
Six pilots are in the briefing-
room, sitting over ailed on worn
upholstery, listening to the in-
structions of the Sea Fury com-
mander, Lt.-Cdr. Bill Bailey.
The pilots are fresh-faced
youths of about 20. Bailey has
made more deck-landings than
any other man in any other
navy ; before he joined Glory
he was test-pilot at a naval re-
search-station in England.
From this stuffy, blackboard-
fined room stepped the pilots
who made Glory’s sortie-records
of bombing and rocketing over
Korea.
The magazines, some 15ft.
below waterline, are chock-a-
block with rockets, bombs and
20mm. cannon-shell. A Sea
Fury can mount a launch of
601 b. rockets, equal to a light-
cruiser’s full broadside. There
are contact-fused rockets, for
bursting almost on impact;
armor-piercing stuff to get inside
tanks and ships before explod-
ing ; and, for submarines,
solid-shot rockets which pierce
the pressure-hull and career in a
viciously wrecking circle round
the crammed compartment in-
side. Bombs are mainly 250 and
500-pounders, ideal for Com-
munist trains, tunnels and
bridges.
On the flight-deck a group of
six Furies, manned by the pilots
we left in the briefing-room,
stand ranged near the stem.
Over a platform halfway up the
Island leans an officer with a
brown, nutcracker face, watch-
ing. This is Lt.-Cdr. “Boots”
Bartlett, lieutenant-commander-
flying, alias “Flyco,” respon-
sible, to Commander (Air), for
the flying operationss. I
climb up beside him.
The wireless-aerials, strung
between two steel uprights,
lower smoothly till they project
horizontally from the port side
amidships, clear. Flyco takes a
final look round the cleared
flight-deck, and speaks quietly
into a microphone. His magni-
fied voice crackles across the
deck,
“Stand clear of propellers.”
A moment; then: “Start up! ”
The klaxon blares, and in
instant answer the leading Fury
emits a sharp crack as her
starting-charge explodes. Little
spurts of smoke run down her
exhausts, the propeller turns,
slowly, then spins in a shining
arc as the first spluttering of the
motor grows into a steady snarl
of sound. They’re all firing now,
a rhythmic beat drumming
down the deck. The planes rev-
up, testing, jumping like de-
mented hornets. Chock-men,
flat on their bellies, bury their
heads in their shoulders and grip
the chocks. A roving seagull
flies innocently across the stern
and has his speed boosted sud-
denly and surprisingly to 30
knots as he meets the slipstream.
He is halfway to Anzac astern
before he regains control and
clears off in dignified swoops.
Now the directors, leading-
seamen conspicuous in bright
yellow vests, have the planes.
The one nearest the leading
Fury gestures sideways; the
chocks are pulled clear. No
word is spoken ; here mime is
everything, with the pilot unable
to see ahead because of his
cocked-up nose. The director
flips his outstretched hands to-
wards his shoulders. The lead-
ing Fury opens her iron throat
and moves smoothly forward in
a disciplined bellow of sound,
ailerons and rudder quivering.
In a beautifully definite gesture
which Borovansky might envy,
left arm out-thrust towards the
next director in line, right arm
snapped across the breast,
fingers stiff, the first director
passes his charge on. The pro-
cedure is repeated. On© notices
that the next director, a youth
confidently handling some
£12,000-worth of fighter aircraft,
has a comic-book stuffed in his
hip-pocket.
Almost to the catapult, head-
ing up for the yellow guiding-
lines, and a tail-wheel man runs
forward and snaps his long-
handled trolley on to the tail-
wheel. Quick, definite gestures
from the last director, and the
plane’s tail is swung port or
starb’d. Over the catapult-
bogie ; the director holds up both
hands, fingers clenched; the
pilot brakes, and the Fury is in
position.
Behind her the next in line is
moving up, and behind her
the next, lowering wings as
they come. It is a symphony of
sound and discipline, with not a
word uttered, and the mighty
orchestra held in disciplined
leash.
Ahead and to the right of the
bogied Fury stands the flight-
deck officer, feet braced, trousers
flapping in the 35-knot wind.
He watches, steadily, Flyco on
the Island. A flutter of flags
hauls up Glory’s mast in long
swoops, is repeated in Anzac.
They stand out stiff as boards in
the wind, then haul down.
Executive! Round comes the
great bow, her milky wash beat-
ing along Anzac’s grey side as
she, too, turns to find the wind
and take her crash position off
the starb’d quarter.
The captain is not satisfied.
The whipping ensign above his
head still trails its red, white
and blue slightly to starb’d.
Backwards and forwards drives
the huge, square nose, seeking
the wind. She finds it, dead
ahead. Waiting, the flight-deck
officer sees Flyco remove the red
(not-yet) flag from its socket and
replace it with a green (affirma-
tive) square of bunting. He
glances at the catapult crew,
noticing there also the green
flag. He raises his own, and
slowly waves it round his head.
The muted throb of the waiting
planes is drowned in a sudden,
fierce roar. The green flag
waves faster; the held-fast
Fury strains and quivers
under the whirling thrust
of its blades. The pilot raises his
right hand, thumb up. A quick
look ahead at the dipping bow,
another check of the catapult’s
green flag, then the flight-deck
officer whips his arm to the deck.
Head braced back, the pilot
waits, his machine a vibrating
scream of power. A lever on
the catapult platform is thrust
forward. The next second the
Fury is transformed from a
deck-bound thing of aluminium
into a rushing, soaring grace of
motion. By the time the bogie-
slings drop clear, a few feet
along the deck, she is doing
nearly 70 knots, soaring sky-
wards off the bow, first grey
against the blue sea, then etched
sharply against the bluer sky.
The directors move up the
next one.
No time is wasted upstairs.
The Furies form up and orbit in
a tight circle round the ship.
Then, at about 300 ft. they fly up
the starb’d side, while the bridge
checks that all arrester-wire
hooks are down.
These arrester-wires are the
secret of the breathtaking hap-
penings of the next few minutes.
Made of immensely strong
flexible steel-wire rope (with a
breaking strain round 30 tons),
they reach across the after-half
of the flight-deck—lo of them.
Both ends of each wire run over
a drum, and are connected to a
mechanism something like the
recoil-system of a big naval gun.
As the weight comes on, a piston
is forced up a port of decreas-
ing cubic capacity, forcing liquid
through holes at the end. Thus
cushioned, the wires exercise a
nicely - calculated strain and
bring each plane to a (more-or-
less) smooth stop.
Flat on the deck during take-
off, the 10 wires are now lifted
about nine inches off the deck.
But there is something else. If
a plane comes in too high, or
too fast, and its hook fails to
catch one of the wires, it will,
obviously, end up in a violent
crash among the planes parked
at the bow which have landed
before it —there being no time
to strike down each aircraft as
it lands. So two steel-wire
barriers, something like a Super-
man’s tennis-net, are stretched
across the deck forrard of the
last arrester-wire. These snap
into position with a metallic
clang as powerful tripods,
attached to either end, close their
steel legs and heave upright.
A multiple roar to starb’d and
the Furies whistle past, hooks
streaming below their tails. Ten
seconds flying-time past the
bridge and the leader banks left,
to circle and sweep down the
port side. Ten seconds after that
the next peels off similarly, so
that they are well spaced.
The batsman is closed-up now,
on a flimsy projection backed by
black sightboards a few feet
forrard of the rounded-down
stern. Below him the waves
whip past in quick retreat; be-
tween him and them waits a
steel-wire net, with a mattress
handily and suggestively lashed
thereon.
Heading into-wind, the ship
has the swell on her beam. You
feel each roll in your bones as
you wait for the first Fury to
line-up astern. A landing on one
wheel, with the following smack-
down as the plane tilts one way
and the deck lifts the other to
meet it, is not recommended for
either undercarriages or nerves.
He’s turning now. The bats-
man raises his arms horizontally,
in each a vividly yellow bat, as
though he is about to start an
imaginary and highly-exciting
game of ping-pong.
Wheels down, flaps down, the
Fury turns for the stern, seem-
ing, from our position ahead of
him, to hang on his screw. But
he is travelling at about 90
knots. Breathless, you watch.
So do Flyco, spare pilots on the
pom-pom platform, faces of the
flight-deck crew along the
sponsons edging the deck, and
the fire-fighters, clumsy in fear-
nought suits, leatheir seaboots
and red tin-helmets. Somewhere
handy, the surgeon also watches.
He’s right astern now; the
batsman lowers one hand, and
the corresponding wing of the
Fury lifts. Too high, too high,
your judgment shouts. But the
{Continued on page 33.)
By "M acnell"


SHARE
in their fine traditions
SHARE
their rich rewards
Fine traditions and the national importance of
his job are the things that bring to a man that
deep sense of pride that only a Serviceman knows.
These are the things that you can share—by
serving Australia in the Defence Forces.
You can share also the generous benefits with
which Australia rewards her Servicemen. You
can, for example, make an entirely new career in
an occupation suited to your talents and interests
(there are over 100 different specialist occupa-
tions within the Services). You can gain a secure
future (continuity of engagement is assured,
with a pension or gratuity paid on retirement).
You can share in the great opportunities for
advancement that an expanding Navy, Army and
Air Force are constantly creating. And when
you consider the special liberal system of pay
and allowances you’ll see that a service career
compares more than favourably with most other
occupations. Make a point of getting the full
story—it’s worth knowing.
•AN IMPORTANT FACT ABOUT SERVICE PAY.
There is one basic fact that makes a substantial
increase in a Serviceman’s income. The value of
the “ extras” over and above cash pay. As an
example, an 18-year-old Serviceman who has
completed his basic recruit training (usually S
to 6 months) earns over £9/10/- a week and in
addition he is provided with food, clothing,
accommodation and medical and dental atten-
tion. Married men receive special extra
allowances.
JOIN
THE NAVY
THE ARMY or
THE AIR FORCE
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Car. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building.
00 Currie St. In Perth; 84 King St. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office* Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
PF14.112.12
Cronulla’s Leading Guest House
THE WESTELLA
New dining-room, excellent cuisine.
Licensed to serve drinks with meals.
Full board. Hot water all rooms.
First-class Accommodation for 80 Guests.
HONEYMOON’S.
Book Now for Easter, LB 5922.
Under Entirely New Management.
“Many men should wear
the Linia Belt ”
r
w i
writes an eminent I
r
Physician
*M have established after a
number of X-ray examinations,
a considerable improvement
with those of my patients who
had adopted this belt. It
supports the abdominal organs,
reinforces the muscular wall
and creates a corrective
massage. It affords a sensation
of immediate ease and vigour"
Write today for free illustrated
booklet A. 21 at the address below.
mmm
mw
PI ;V
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by ( /, of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C.l. Tel.: FA 8357
Open Saturday mornings
Branches throughout the British Isles and the Continent
“but I don’t think you would be
like that.”
Masters looks at her quickly.
It sounds so much like sales-
man’s blarney. But her eyes re-
main steady on his face and
without that brash look sales-
men have. Undoubtedly she has
formed a high opinion of him.
“Well,” he says, lowering his
eyes to the ground to lessen her
leverage, “I’d like to have a talk
with that man. Where could I
get in touch with him?”
Careful not to commit him-
self yet.
“If you really want him,” she
says, getting brisker, “I can
make the arrangements for
you.”
K 4 ASTERS has been awake
1v I since the first light of day,
tense in his bed, his mind swirl-
ing with rabbit-exterminating
plans and mental arithmetic in-
volving pounds, shillings and
pence. At seven o’clock, an
hour and a half earlier than he
used to rise, he can no longer
recumber. He gets himself a
one-course breakfast nearly as
quickly as it states on the packet.
He jumps into his car and drives
out to the encampment. It’s not
so bad to be busy again ; some-
thing invigorating and rejuvenat-
ing about it. Driving around in
his shiny, silent sedan from unit
to unit, receiving the respect due
to the boss. Making the plans ;
giving the instructions.
He is too early again. No
sign of activity from the dog
lady’s caravan. Maloney, the
ripping - and - sawing man, is
warming-up his engines; shat-
tering the sweet morning’s
silence and profaning it with
petit)! fumes. Maloney’s ugly,
pleasant Irish face softened with
solicitude as he ministers to his
monsters. Forcing the grease
into bearings with strong, de-
voted hands, serving hungry
fuel-tanks, placating them with
soft touches of his cleaning rag.
He smiles at Masters because he
thinks he is admiring the
machines, too. The youth he em-
ploys is sharpening the wicked,
hooked teeth of a circular-saw
that belongs to the smaller
machine. Maloney affects to
despise the power-saw, lavishing
inost of his affection on the mas-
sive tractor, but Masters suspects
that he is quite justifiably afraid
of it.
“Good afternoon,” Maloney
says in a jocular voice to indi-
cate that he has been waiting
half a day for everyone else to
be ready. He is one of the prac-
tically extinct type who are
proud of the amount of work
they do in a day, and this is the
way he reminds Masters of his
daily obligation to compliment
him on it. That done. Masters
begins his instructions.
“We’ll start on the east side
of this paddock today and work
across to the west.”
Maloney stares at him,
puzzled, beginning to look as if
he’s going to be difficult.
“I thought we were going to
start on the west side and work
towards the east.”
“Who told you that?” de-
mands Masters.
“She said so.”
The way he says it, as if there
was only one woman in the
world, makes Masters look at
him; particularly since he
knows that he isn’t referring to
his wife, who shares the Ameri-
can Army tent with him.
Masters can also see that what
the dog lady has said has fixed
his mind so firmly on west to
east that only something as phe-
nomenal as a rearrangement of
the sun’s rising and setting places
will change it. Masters is irri-
tated by this abasement before
someone who isn’t the boss. He
mutters some face-saving remark
about going to see about that,
but he can’t very well push in
where the woman is probably
still in bed. Both men are now
looking across at the caravan.
A look of tremendous admira-
tion comes into Maloney’s face.
“By gee, she’s a marvellous
woman! The way she runs
things! Wouldn’t think a re-
fined lady like her would stand
this rough life; but nothing
ever upsets her”
A T that moment the door of
the caravan opens. An ele-
gant arm is waved in their
direction.
“Come and have a cup of
coffee, Mr. Masters.”
That charming cultured voice
offering respectful hospitality to
the owner. Masters walks
across, feeling Maloney’s eyes so
intently on his back that he has
to turn and look at him.
Maloney promptly turns away,
but not before Masters has
caught a look of intense envy on
his face. It looks as if Maloney
must be very fond of coffee or
something.
On his way he passes scores
of tethered dogs which do not
trouble to bark at him; looking
more like working bullocks
making the most of their last
bit of rest than the lively ani-
mals he is used too. Charlie
comes out of the tent rigged
against the sheltered side of the
caravan, which he apparently
shares with about twelve of the
smaller dogs, probably using
them for blankets. He smells
at the air to see what sort of
day it is going to be.
It is the first time Masters
has been in the caravan, and he
is vastly curious. Everything is
there for comfort, even a re-
frigerator. Cupboarded, con-
venient, even elegant, like a well-
to-do tourist’s. Remnants of a
single breakfast on a table (ob-
viously Charlie feeds himself
with the dogs), coffee steaming
in two delicate china cups. She
entertains him in the confined
quarters as if she were a May-
fair hostess.
She is extremely pleasant to
Masters; as if she knew that he
needed conciliating. She defers
to his opinions; most contrite
about the east-west conflict. She
rushes to the door when
Maloney’s tractor goes roaring
past trying to stop it. But the
youth driving it cannot hear her
above the racket. All the dogs
are streaming after the tractor
that makes their work so much
easier, and they won’t hear her,
or Charlie, either. Then Maloney
goes puttering past with his
power-saw, and he will neither
look nor hear.
The lady turns to Masters
with a pretty defeated gesture.
“Shall I run after them and
bring them all the way back?”
“No, no,” Masters commands.
“What does it matter, east or
west, as long as you do a good
job?”
THEY stay at the door staring
fascinated together at the
power-saw. It is a two-wheeled
vehicle on which a small but
powerful engine is mounted con-
trolled by a pair of handles
sticking out the back and having
a neck about five feet long stick-
ing out in front on the end of
which a three-foot circular-saw
is spinning. Altogether it is the
most efficient mobile timber-cut-
ting instrument ever invented,
and the most dangerous. It
would have been the answer to
Boadicea’s dream of a super war-
chariot to slice up the Romans.
Even used peacefully it ampu-
tates hands, legs and arms with
astonishing frequency, as well
as filling an unjustifiably large
proportion of graves in bush
cemeteries. Masters feels like
taking his hat off every time he
sees it.
“Only one thing I can’t under-
stand,” the young lady says,
losing for the moment that suave
control of herself, “is why he
doesn’t use it on his wife.”
Masters has had reasons be-
fore for thinking that Mrs.
Maloney and the dog lady are
not fond of each other. The first
time he saw Mrs. Maloney.
She was left alone with the
truck when her husband and the
youth had gone ahead with
ripper and saw. Looking lonely
and disconsolate; so Masters
feels he ought to stop and talk
to her. If it was surprising to
see a woman as attractive as the
dog lady on such a job it is
twice as surprising to see a
woman as unbecoming as Mrs.
Maloney anywhere. Her shape
like one of those old-fashioned
soda-siphons ; a small bulb on
top, a bigger one under it and a
still bigger one at the bottom.
Lean sandy hair, red freckles,
gash of a mouth in a squashed-
pumpkin face, no neck. The
kind of bride a caveman might
have accepted reluctantly in
exchange for a fairly old piece
of meat, but which should have
long ago been bred out of the
race by natural selection.
Masters had to force himself to
stay and talk to her; tried to
make her smile by expressing a
great admiration for the toy
poodle she was nursing. But she
didn’t smile. She clutched the
ugly little bundle of hair against
her Niagara of a bosom and
spoke most venomously;
“It’s the only one I’ve got left.
Her dorgs killed the other one.
She made them do it.”
Looking at Masters pug-
naciously and defying him to
contradict her.
“I know she did it. And I
know she wants to kill this one,
too.” Hugging it to herself,
there, perched up in the closed
cab of the truck and watching
through the windshield as if de-
fending a besieged castle.
“Tore it to pieces and ate it
up”—getting twice as angry—
“and all she said was ‘They
thought it was a rabbit.’ Didn’t
try to stop them at all, although
Charlie always stop them before
they tear rabbits up.”
It looked so much like an ob-
session that he could see it
would be useless to say any-
thing.
“Never leave him alone. Al-
ways sending for him to come
and work where she is”—with a
slightly more malevolent look on
her face to give Masters the clue
that the subject had changed
from her poodle to her husband
—“why can’t she go her way
and let us go our way?”
NEXT morning Masters goes
out later; letting them start
on their own. Maloney is on the
tractor operating on a rabbit-
burrow. The ripper plunges
three feet into the earth, tearing
the warren apart and dragging
out the rabbits it doesn’t
smother. Charlie is there with
the dogs to catch any that come
out alive, and Mrs. Maloney is
there to claim any dead ones
not too badly mangled to skin.
She picks over the carcasses with
the utmost haste, then runs back
to sit on a kerosene-case.
Masters wonders why she shows
so much concern about the case
until he hears a small whimper-
ing noise come from under it.
The poodle! And all the savage
dogs around!
Maloney stops and gets off
the tractor, handing it to the


Public Notice.
I, LADISLAV SVIR, of Czech nationality,
born at Kvasiny, Czechoslovakia, resident
2£ years in Australia, now residing at
Gladesville Hotel, Gladesville, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices}
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
EYE LOTION
Thr Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co- Pty-Ud- King Street. Sydney.
E-L-A-S-T-l-C
PROTECTION
FOR ALL
MINOR
INJURIES
For minor accidents, there is
no dressing quite so com-
fortable as this British-made
plaster which is adhesive and
firm, but elastic and flexible. Flesh-coloured and
inconspicuous, Elastoplast is wound on a convenient
metal spool. 1" x 1 yd. long (stretching to l|/2 yds.).
FROM ALL CHEMISTS A
Llastopmst
E-L-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available.
ANOTHER^"PRODUCT OF T. J, SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., HULL, ENGLAND
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
TILLEY
m
k
m
mm
wmF
Ww
555
i|i^
m
M
m
WM
m
MiflP
TILLEY STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 24«
Q\jCw
?W~>
\W&
M-f'
xWPtf
oW
V&*°
rs
n
t
w
Manufacturer’s Representatives :—
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
MANUFACTURED SOLELY BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
of
HENDON. ENGLAND
STORM LANTERN
“THE GUARDSMAN"
TheTILLEY “Guardsman” Storm Lantern
is built to withstand the roughest treat-
ment in all weathers and is completely
stormproof and utterly reliable in all
conditions and climates. It is economical
In use, burning only Is pints of Kerosene
to give 300 candle power light for 12
hours. The best Kerosene all-purpose
pressure lamp which can be bought today.
youth with a lordly gesture as if
conferring a dukedom. He goes
across to the power-saw and
tinkers with it. After an unrea-
sonable amount of preparation
and hesitation he starts it and
drives it over to a hollow log.
Although he steers it carefully
to avoid obstacles, the saw seems
to reach out in the most sinister
manner to shatter saplings,
thistles and bits of sticks.
Masters watches him cut the
log into blocks; then his atten-
tion is brought back to the trac-
tor. The dog lady has arrived!
He could have known it by
watching Mrs. Maloney. She is
now sitting so tightly on her box
that hell and high water wouldn’t
move her. Good skinnable and
even cookable rabbits are being
dropped a few yards from her,
but she won’t move or take her
eyes off the destroyer.
But suddenly there is pande-
monium, and a terrible scream.
Hardly time to see how it hap-
pened. A rabbit rooted out of
the burrow rushing past Mrs.
Maloney and the whole pack
after it. One moment Mrs.
Maloney is breast-high in a roll-
ing breaker of dogs, the next she
disappears. She reappears on
hands and knees among the
second wave of smaller and
slower dogs, scrambling franti-
cally to reach the overturned
box, and screeching her head off.
MEN jump from the machines.
Everyone rushes to help.
Charlie yelling at the dogs, but
his voice drowned by Mrs,
Maloney’s screams. It might be
the screams, or everyone running
in such excitement, whatever it
is, when the poodle appears. All
the hounds forget the rabbit and
chase it with unprecedented fury
and vigor. By several incompre-
hensible miracles it twice
emerges from under heaps or
greyhounds, foxhounds and
mongrels. Twice Mrs. Maloney
nearly falls protectingly over it;
but its luck cannot last. The
third time the hounds pile onto
it it disappears for ever. Only a
few whisps of yellow fluff float
through the air to show the vio-
lence of its disintegration.
Mrs, Maloney gives one great
howl of grief, then clenches her
fists and glares round for re-
venge. She seeks a weapon ade-
quate to her fury and sees the
power-saw spinning maliciously
where her husband left it. She
pounces on it, and before any-
body can imagine what she in-
tends, she has wheeled it into
the mass of hounds still crowd-
ing round where the poodle
passed hence. Chunks of dog
fly everywhere. Twice Mrs.
Maloney charges through them,
dismembering them from stem
to stern; then they have the
sense to scatter.
Mrs. Maloney turns thirstily
for more prey. She gives a yell
and plunges forward; straight
for the dog lady. For a moment
the dog lady stands, staring in
disdain at the appalling sight that
is Mrs. Maloney. All her
barriers down and plastered with
dogs’ flesh, blood and hair. But
it is beyond human strength to
outstare an onrushing power-
saw. She flees at right-angles to
where all the men come rushing
to her aid, and rushes straight
into the protectingly outflung
arms of Maloney.
When Mrs. Maloney turns for
the next charge she sees her hus-
band stem and powerful. Shield-
ing the dog lady with his body.
It makes her head go down and
her toes dig into the earth to
force her war chariot faster than
the engine can propel it.
Maloney shouts at his wife;
more vehement and more pro-
fane as she gets nearer. He
flings out an arm, an accusing
and defying finger pointed at
her breast; but still she comes
on. Maloney’s face is white with
rage as he springs aside at the
last possible moment, pulling the
dog lady to safety with him.
With a quick, flanking run he
reaches his wife before she can
turn the machine; he lands a
bullock-killing blow on her
temple. Mrs. Maloney sits down
abruptly and puts a hand to her
head.
BETWEEN fury and excite-
ment Maloney can hardly
speak, but his distorted face and
working mouth show that terrific
thought-processes are taking
place in his head.
“She tried to kill us,” he
shouts to all, calling on them as
witnesses. “She tried to kill us.
She could be hanged for that.”
He turns to Masters, knowing
that a man of his standing would
be a J.P. and undoubtedly
weighty with knowledge of the
law.
“She could be hanged for
that,” he insists, looking to him
imploringly to confirm it.
Masters feels intolerably em-
barrassed, flung in among these
terrible passions.
“Well,” he says, “I don’t
know. Nobody’s been killed.”
He sees Mrs. Maloney’s face,
utterly spent, woebegone and
hopeless,
“She’s just lost control of her-
self for a few moments. I don’t
think we need to let this go any
further. She won’t do it again.
We’ll just carry on and get rid
of all the rabbits on the place.”
He looks round to see how
the others are responding; con-
scious that he is trying to handle
a crisis that might be beyond his
capacity. All are looking at
him with the most complete dis-
agreement, except Charlie, who
has turned his attention to the
dead and wounded dogs.
The dog lady steps forward
very determined.
“I shall not ‘just carry on,’
Mr. Masters. I’m going to leave
immediately.
Maloney opens and shuts his
mouth twice, trying to work out
how this is going to affect him.
Then he makes his decision. He
declares boldly:
“I’m going with you. I’ve
finished with her”
He walks up to the dog lady,
gazing at her with his great
admiration as well as humble
affection.
The dog lady stares at him.
She looks around at all the
shock-affected faces, at the bleed-
ing dogs that are whimpering
round Charlie, and at Mrs.
Maloney. Her features twist in
violent distaste. She looks at
Maloney quite pitilessly.
“Mr. Maloney,” she says, with
all her vowels and consonants
precisely in place, “you appear
completely to misunderstand the
situation.”
SHE sets off with her jaunty
stride towards her caravan ;
Charlie picks up such of the
dogs as he thinks he can salvage
and trots after her. When he
catches up she looks at his
bleeding burden and stops. She
turns around and addresses
Maloney again.
“Don’t forget,” she said, “I
expect you to pay for the dogs
your wife has murdered.”
A GOOD WORD FROM
THE PREACHER.
Throw the words about more.
Pick them up and bang them,
Marble them along the floor.
See who’s first to ring them.
Hold the thought in a tight hand,
Iron the words to fit it,
Make it jump or make it stand
But don’t let it fidget.
Write for sadness, write for fun
But don’t write for wallow.
Pretend the world’s a currant bun
You’re not afraid to swallow.
Write as if you liked to write,
That’s the way the world was
written:
Rhythm of stars and rhyme of
light
Is work of poet, not a cretin.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Thought during the week has been
dominated by mourning for King
George VI, with that tragic picture of the
three veiled queens in the foreground of
nearly everyone’s consciousness. The two-
minutes silence on Friday immobilised
crowds and traffic in quite a dramatic
way, not marred even by the fact that
it took almost half a minute for the
silence to settle completely. It was as
as though the moment of prayer
swept over the crowd, enveloping and
quietening the stragglers and the thought-
less. It was noted that about 80 per cent,
of the men wore black ties, though there
were few black dresses among the
women, many of whom, however, wore
black-and-purple ribbon pinned to their
coats or frocks.
It is good to hear that some gesture
of sympathy is being made by Sydneyites
to the people in those parts of Fiji
devastated by hurricane. This is the
“Night in Fiji,” which is to be held at
Cooinoo, Turramurra, on Saturday,
March 1, at 8 o’clock. There is to be
dancing by members of the Polynesian
Association, and a studio exhibition of
paintings and handicrafts of the South
Seas. Admission is by red hibiscus (only
you can’t bring your own —they must be
purchased at the gate), and it is hoped
that there will be a kava bar. Kava is
said to leave the most delicious taste in
the mouth of any liquor, but even its
most loyal adherents admit that it takes
some fortitude to swallow it. If there
is indeed a kava bar at Cooinoo on the
night of March 1, it surely will be the
first ever to be seen in Sydney.
Aage Thaarup, the Queen’s milliner,
arrived in Sydney last week to herald
and compere a showing of his model hats
in this city. Danish by birth but 20 years
resident in London (“I went there for the
exhibition and the people were so nice
I had to stay”), he speaks without an
accent —except an English one —and is
one of those lively-eyed, quick-talking,
witty, genial men that London itself
seems to produce and send out here on
visits from time to time. He wore a
black-and-white-chickenfoot-check suit, a
white shirt and an excited-looking black
bow-tie designed (and tied) by himself.
Most people pronounce his name Aga
Tar-up, but the informed call it Auga
Tawrup. He seems to have nothing in
common with that Anatole of Paris
created by Danny Kaye, for, far from
“hating women,” he seems to like every-
body, and to be quite the most naturally
agreeable visitor we’ve had for some
time.
Most interesting engagement of the
week is that of Diana Maple-Brown, of
Goulburn, to John Boyd, son of the
J. H. T. Boyds, of Canowindra. John is
a member of the Young Polo Club’s
team, so that polo should be a constant
topic of conversation, as Diana’s father
is an inter-State player, her brother Jim
also. The engagement was announced
at a party given at Diana’s home by her
parents, the A. R. Maple-Browns, of
Springfield, Goulburn.
The population at the Chinese Bazaar
held at the Trocadero was what might
be called “shifting,” but those who kept
account of the comings and goings
reckoned it up to 1700 throughout the
evening. The Consul-General for China,
Mr. Martin Wang, and Mrs. Wang paid
it a visit before they left for Canberra,
and among the dancers and money-
spenders were Captain Sheng of the Hai
Huang (National Chinese Merchant
Navy) and many of the personnel of his
ship. The bazaar was organised by the
Young Chinese Relief Movenment in aid
of the Dragon Ball, which is scheduled
for June and promises to be as much
fun as ever.
Organised to “foster the social and
sporting activities of members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange,” the Stock
Exchange Recreation Club is being
guided this year by Frank Tilley as
patron, John Tonkin as president.
B. B. O’Conor and Alastair Macdonald as
secretaries will doubtless do the most
work, for secretaries almost invariably
do, and the money will be looked after
by Leonard Plasto. Committee-members
are (in alphabetical order obviously):
John Anschau, Peter Davis, H. H. Dean,
Sydney Evans, Sydney Green, Lionel
McFadyen, Charles Ord and lan Walton.
Everywhere one hears that the day (or
night) of the short evening-dress is here.
A report from the New York Dress
Institute previews says “The short even-
ing-dress is the season’s favorite. Only
the most formal ball gowns are shown
with full-length skirts, the majority of
after-dark styles ranging in length from
calf to ankle.” French fashion-designers
have also shown many short-skirted
evening-dresses, and from England
Barbara Goalen brings with her short
evening-dresses only.
Barbara Goalen’s 21 in. waist and her
assertion that she eats and drinks every-
thing she feels inclined to caused some
incredulous comments during the week,
the cats maintaining that reducing-
medicine could be the only explanation
of such willowiness coupled with
freedom to eat carbohydrates in quantity.
Mrs. Goalen’s sft. 7in. and her 2\ shoe,
however, indicate a natural slenderness
which is really Heaven-sent.
At present visiting Australia are the
Earl and Countess of Lovelace. The
countess was formerly Baroness von
Blixen of Sweden, where she still owns an
8000-acre property. The earl and countess,
who have been married 12 months and
have a baby son Peter, live on a large
estate in the north of Scotland, where
they breed sheep, and the purpose of
their visit is to study sheepgrowing in
Australia. Their visit is to last only one
month, as the countess is anxious to
return to her eight-weeks-old son and the
two sons and two daughters who are
children of her former marriage. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
A few friends of the late Miss Kae
McDowell, who died last Christmas Day,
met recently and, presided over by Lady
Parker, decided to appeal for funds to
create a memorial in recognition of the
work done by her as founder and presi-
dent of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
National Defence League. Miss Mc-
Dowell will be remembered affectionately
by over 10,000 members of that organisa-
tion, who, inspired by her example, did
such a sterling job during World War 11.
All money received will be devoted to
the purchase of equipment for the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children.
The fund will remain open until March
8, and all donations should be sent to the
hon. treasurer, Mrs. D. R. Fairfax Ross,
127 Raglan-street, Mosman.
News comes from London that
Patricia Bartlett, young Longueville
soprano, who has been studying there for
the past three years, has been engaged by
the Glyndebourne Opera Company for
their production of Verdi’s “Macbeth,” in
which she will play the part of Lady
Macbeth’s maid. Remembered in Sydney
as a mezzo-soprano, Patricia has been
studying with Elizabeth Forini, and her
voice has now developed a soprano range
of purity and power. Glyndebourne per-
formances are usually televised and
broadcast over the 8.8. C., so Patricia
may have the experience of facing the
television cameras.
If some fashion-designer would like to
do something really useful he or she
should introduce a fashion for school-
girls to wear satchels on their backs. In
the junior school many of them do, of
course, but the mothers who try to perse-
vere as their daughters get older meet
with too many complaints, such as
“You’re making me look a guy,” or “I’m
the only one that has to wear a school-
bag on my back,” etc. The result is,
according to a well-known physical-
culture expert, that about 75 p.c. of
Sydney schoolgirls have a curvature of
the spine. Some of them look definitely
lop-sided, while round shoulders and
humped backs are a constant source of
remonstrance from teachers and parents.
The schoolbag on the back, if it could be
made attractive enough, would surely do
a great deal towards modifying these
troubles.
From Melbourne
At the distant boom of a gun and the
mournful tolling of the tenor bell of St.
Paul’s Cathedral the busy world was
hushed as reverent crowds in the streets
of this city stood in tribute to their late
beloved King. The brief silence over 4 the
simple but eloquent service began in the
Cathedral. Three thousand voices sent
the lovely hymn “Abide With Me,” the
King’s favorite, soaring up into the
vaulted roof. In the congregation were
girls who had come from offices and
beauty-salons, some still wearing their
uniforms, and with scarves tied over
their heads. Of all the splendid tributes
paid to the late monarch one simple
sentence will be his abiding epitaph: “He
has now gone to join the shining com-
pany of those who put service before
self.”
The National Theatre’s Arts Festival
opened at the Princess Theatre with a
very robust performance of “Lohengrin.”
Because of Court mourning the Gov-
ernor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks were not present, but Sir Robert
Knox, president of the National Theatre
Movement, and Lady Knox, the latter
wearing a lovely gown of black slipper
satin with a deep neckline and trained
skirt, received the Premier and Mrs. Mc-
Donald. Mrs. McDonald’s gown of
mist-blue crepe had leaves of the
material set in front of the bodice and
edged with crystal beads. Mrs. Simon
Warrender wore sea-green satin. Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh’s short black crepe frock
was printed with clusters of white flowers.
A long-sleeved high-necked black velvet
gown was the choice of Mrs. Garnet
Carroll, Gertrude Johnson’s black lace
gown glittered with silver sequins, Mrs.
L. Gough’s grey chiffon strapless gown
had a wide band of royal purple banding
the top of the bodice and falling at the
hack into sash ends. Dr. Margaret Troup
wore hyacinth-blue crepe. Linda Parker’s
short frock was of Roman-striped satin.
Gold-wheat ears were embroidered on
the bodice of the black gown worn by
Mrs. Isobel Green. Lady Blarney’s short
evening frock was of sage-green faille.
Lady Latham, who was with Sir John in
the official party, wore black crepe
ornamented with leaves of diamente on
the bodice.
Of great interest in theatrical circles
is the engagement of Joyce, only daughter
of Mrs. M. Patton, of Heidelberg, and
the late Mr. Patton, to Milton, eldest
son of Mrs. E. Mitchell, of Pascoe Vale
South, and the late Mr. Mitchell. Joyce
has a very interesting job as personal
representative for the Garnet Carroll
Theatrical Enterprises, and is at present
in Ballarat, where she is managing the
Aladdin pantomime company, Milton is
business manager for the National
Theatre. Wedding is planned for the
middle of the year.
On Saturday brilliant 19-year-old
pianist Rosemary Bassant sailed for
London in the Himalaya. Since she left
the University Conservatorium last year
Rosemary has raised almost £lOOO for
charity, the bulk of it coming from a
concert she gave at the Town Hall last
year for the Homewood Scholarship
Fund. Early in her career the young
musician won the scholarship, and the
concert was her way of repaying the
benefits she had received from it. She
also raised £250 from a recital she gave
at the home of Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer, and which was donated to the
rebuilding fund of Clyde, Rosemary’s
old school, and the Isabel Henderson
Free Kindergarten. Last week Rosemary
made her final appearance in Sydney as
guest artist with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Bernard Heinze. She
returned to spend the last few days at
home with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
George Bassant, of Menzies Hotel. In
Paris she will study with Lazare Levy,
and will live at the same pension as
young Melbourne pianist Amanda
Cantor, who is studying singing.
Recently Sydney milliner Anne Col-
lins brought her lovely collection of
autumn hats to this city and showed them
at the Rene Henri Salon in the Man-
chester Unity Building. Bonnets, berets,
caps and calots set the theme of the col-
lection, and colors included Royal
purple—appropriate for this period of
mourning—winter violet, mauve, grey,
black and white. Among other colors
were gold, copper, peacock-blue and
Siam-blue—the latter a new variation
of the former popular kingfisher-blue.
Soft pliable velvets, velveteens and long-
haired velors, hatter’s plush and duvetyn
taupe are the materials this milliner used
to make these hats, which are simple in
line and have finishing touches of
elegance. Anne included attractive ver-
sions of the still-popular cloche and
casual felts. Highlights of the collec-
tion were the Vernier creations. Both
the Duchess of Kent and Lady Olivier
ordered copies of the Jacques Path
model, which was included. It is a shal-
low, folded bonnet of off-white silky
velor finished with a smart black gros-
grain bow at the back. The duchess
ordered one in green and one in beige,
while Lady Olivier’s is in grey taupe.
Newest line from Paris is the “bonnet
back,” noted in several models. It fits
well on to the back of the head, while
the crown has a flat, almost square piece
inset at the back. In several adapta-
tions Dior’s cap is a novel style. Made
in black velvet, it is much like a fisher-
man’s cap, worn on the back of the head
and finished with pom-poms of black
feathers instead of the usual tassel.
Greatly admired was the black velor
bonnet with its Mary Queen of Scots
influence, its jewelled ornament and
finished with attractive veiling. A
Vernier creation, the Duchess of Kent
chose it, and she adorns it with one of
her own jewels. In this collection the
matron has been well served. For her
there are moulded berets, caps and head-
hugging brimless cloches. A small velor
wing edged with pearls finished a cap of
navy velor. Grey velor fashioned a
smart cloche, and its turned-back front
was lined with soft forest-green velvet.
A bow made of narrow grey rouleaux
added height at one side of the cloche.
Other worthy models were a Vernier of
pure white feathers with a side-droop-
ing sweep of feather-wings; the new
“shell” hat, made of tiny curled ostrich-
feathers in forget-me-not blue with tiny
forget-me-nots scattered over the crown;
and a party-hat fashioned of white
hatter’s-plush with a wide band across
the front embroidered with opalescent
sequins and finished with a plume of
white “numidi” feathers. These latter
are just imitation ospreys, and are
having a great vogue in Paris.
Sultry, humid weather gave women at
Moonee Valley a chance to wear
attractive summer frocks. White linens
and shantungs were worn with wide-
brimmed hats; pastel shades were noted
in silks, shantung or linen. Mrs. Laurie
Skues’s yellow silk was etched in a black
design and was cut on tailored lines;
her black-straw hat had a wide brim.
Judith Silk’s corn-gold shantung frock
was matched with a short black-lined
jacket; her pill-box hat was of black
velvet. Mrs. H. Silk’s black shantung
frock had a deep fichu collar of white
organza edged with Swiss embroidery;
her wide platter-hat was covered in leaves
of eyelet embroidery in clear white.
Mrs, P. L, Lennon’s white chiffon jacket-
suit had a finely-pleated skirt, the deep
yoke of the jacket being heavy white
lace ; her wide-brimmed black straw hat
was covered with fine lace. Mrs. Peter
Kiernan’s white linen tailored frock had
cap sleeves edged with embroidery to
match the pockets on the skirt. Her
mother, Mrs. A. G. Silk, wore white
silk printed in turquoise-blue flowers and
black leaves.
The four English mannequins were
guests -of - honor at the “London
Comes to Claridge’s” night, given by
Walter Ebstein. Mrs. Ebstein wore a
gown of white and silver brocade. Jill
Daveron was in grey - and - mauve
chiffon, Mrs. Stella Lane in black velvet.
Of navy-and-white-spotted tie-silk was
the simple frock chosen by Mrs. Stanley
Leighton, an English visitor. Gloria
Ladd’s bouffant frock was of white tulle.
Mrs. Erl Grey’s white chiffon frock
featured a lace peplum, Mrs. Sam
Pierce wore dove-grey chiffon, Joan
Lowther a black velvet bodice and a
wide skirt of old-gold satin. Black
Chantilly lace fashioned the dinner-gown
worn by Mrs. Norman Lynch; Mrs.
Philip Dare’s was of black Duchesse
satin. A black lace short-sleeved bodice
and a black satin skirt were worn by
Mrs. George Mendes.


“Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped"
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX4.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
The coastal cliffs near Sydney are
“igh, rugged and mostly sheer. When
some unfortunate ends up at the bottom
of them you can bet your braces that
the man who dangles dizzily on a steel-
wire rope in a bosun’s chair to rescue
them is, nine cases out of 10, Special
Sergeant Harold Frank Ware, of the
N.S.W. police rescue-squad. Ware trained
his team on the rearing ramparts of the
Blue Mountains. The other day he
received the B.E.M. for his fine rescue-
work. It must be one of the last awards
King George VI made—two days before
his death.
Although the face depicted here may
approach the popular conception of what
a “Beak” should look like, there are few
beakish qualities in the nature of
Horace Francis Markell, just retired
from 18 years of District Court judging
in Sydney, taking with him a reputation
for fairness and warm-hearted humanity.
Witness to the soundness of his judgment
of human nature is the fact that
90 per cent, of offenders to whom he gave
bonds have never returned to the courts.
H. F. MARKELL , judge retired.
Bom in Sydney’s Neutral Bay of
a Canadian father and a Boston
(U.S.) mother, Judge Markell crossed to
the U.S. in 1949 to see how American
parole-boards—St. Quentin’s particularly
—conducted their business. What he
learnt went, on return, into the forma-
tion of the first Prison Parole Board in
N.S.W., with the judge as chairman, a
post he’ll continue to administer. He
has chaired several royal commissions,
among them the inquiry on s,-p. betting
in 1936 and the recent Gosford
(N.S.W.) greyhound-racing investigation.
Future investigations will be directed to
orchid-growing on his half-acre up
Sydney’s north-shore line and how Barrier
Reef denizens take bribes in the form of
fish-bait. Lusby’s liable.
Former member of inter-State crews,
R. S. Jeffreys has stowed his oars after
holding office for six years as president
of the Westralian Rowing Association.
Committeeman since 1928 and former
president of Fremantle club, he was a
foundation-member of the Australian
Rowing Council, and Australian repre-
sentative at the international rowing con-
ference at Amsterdam in 1949. His
successor, J. A. Child, is also a veteran
rower who joined the Swan River Rowing
Club in 1908, Besides pulling with
several inter-Stjite crews, Child was
secretary of the association for 21 years,
and manager of King’s Cup crews from
Westralia in 1948, 1949 and 1950. When
not looking after the physical develop-
ment of his rowers he pulls his weight in
the Westralian Department of Industrial
Development.
Captain Galfrey George Gatacre’s first
command was a destroyer—Arunta,
towards the end of the Japanese war. His
next is also a destroyer (or, rather, young
cruiser) —our new Anzac, whose bridge
Gatacre takes on returning from a 15-
months course at the Imperial Defence
College, where he was lectured by
instructors Eisenhower and Montgomery.
Navigation is the new owner’s speciality,
which he practised in Renown and
Nelson in 1940. He was responsible for
battleship Rodney’s getting there when,
at sea off the west coast of Scotland, a
signal came ordering her to rendezvous
with the C.-in-C. Home Fleet, flying his
flag in King George V. The two heavies
met, and, soon after dawn one gale-
driven day in the Atlantic, met the object
of these dispositions Bismarck.
Navigator Gatacre received D.S.C. for
his share of the historical result, and in
1943 added a Bar to it for the com-
petent job he made of Staff-Officer,
Operation, with the combined U.S.-
R.A.N. Task Force in the s.-w. Pacific,
Straight-lipped, solid-jawed, quickly de-
cisive and widely-liked, Gatacre has his
son at Flinders, at about the same stage
as he was himself 20 years of sea-time
ago.
Due in Australia shortly from London,
Arthur Clarke, who knows as much about
recorded music as any man. He’s done
recordings of Melba, Peter Dawson,
John Brownlee and Marjorie Lawrence
amongst a host of others, and has
been with H.M.V. since 1907. His Aus-
tralian job to immortalise in wax the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
Eugene Goossens, playing Beethoven’s
Second Symphony, Mendelssohn’s Third,
“Schwanda the Bagpipe Player” and
“Danse Macabre,” as well as English
folksongs.
Sir William Angiiss, Melbourne’s
master-butcher, who celebrated his 87th
birthday the other day by turning up at
his office at his usual 8.30 in the morn-
ing, politically has called it a day. He’s
had a fair innings—elected M.L.C. for
Southern Provinces in 1912, he has sat
in the plush House continuously for 40
years.
Retiring under the absurd 65-year-old
provision. Dr. George Edward Cole,
D. 5.0., jovial chief-officer of the Vic-
torian Health Commission, whose
sojourn in the department (he joined it
in 1925) synchronised with a remarkable
achievement in the realm of child health.
In 1925 the State’s infant mortality was
57 per 1000; today it is 20.9 per 1000,
claimed to be the world’s lowest. Born
in England and educated at Melbourne
University, Dr. Cole was m.o. at Geelong
Hospital before practising for five years
with the A.I.F. in Egypt, Gallipoli and
France, after which he joined the Health
Commission. His big aim was to see
every shire in Victoria with its own home-
help service for nursing mothers.
There will be a one-man marathon of
music at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne
lasting from February 26 to March 27,
when the 125th anniversary of Beethoven’s
death will be commemorated by the play-
ing of the complete 32 pianoforte sonatas
—the player, Gerhard Willner. He first
played to Australian audiences in Cairo,
where he was war-time musical director
of the “Music for All” scheme founded
for the troops. Going to Egypt from
Berlin via Vienna (which he left when
Hitler broke in), he was the favored
non-paying pupil of Schnabel, who, when
he heard him play, advised him to give
up zoology for the piano. After the war
Willner and his wife, a singer, went to
New Zealand, where they were given
British nationality in the short time of
20 months for their services to N.Z.
soldiers. Since then they have lived in
Australia, The 32 sonatas have never
been played in Melbourne before as a
series, and the undertaking places any
artist who does it in a special class.
W, Stanbury, of Cornwall (Eng.), who
holds an international reputation as an
authority on both beef-cattle and sheep,
will judge Devon beef-cattle at Sydney
Royal. Vice-president of the Beef Cattle
Breeders’ Association of England, and
first member of the association to judge
fat stock at an overseas show, Stanbury
is a successful breeder and exhibitor of
Devon stock, as .well as being an
authority on long-wool sheep and a
grader of livestock for the British
Ministry of Food, Next year he’ll judge
sheep at England’s Royal.
“Macnell”: Captain Stanley Herbert
Spurgeon, R.A.N., has had some experi-
ence of naval ambassadoring, having
been attache in Washington between
1944-48. The only Australian repre-
sentative at the Bikini blasting, he now
goes to New Zealand as Australia’s de-
fence representative. In service blue since
1916, he’s managed to get in a little sea-
time as well. An anti-submarine expert, he
had British destroyer Echo at the open-
fire, in her helped to occupy Iceland, and
to lay the vast North Sea mine barrage—
and she was the last ship to leave Narvik
after its evacuation in June, 1940, The
first Australian to win a decoration in
War II (D.S.O. for what Echo did to a
U-boat in December, 1939), Spurgeon
was in at the abortive attack on Dakar,
and was in again not long afterwards,
when a German armed-merchant-cruiser
sent down the merchantman in which he
was taking passage to Capetown. In a
holed 25ft. boat Spurgeon, with 67 others,
spent six highly uncomfortable days
adrift, before being picked up by a
Spanish ship, taken to the Canary
Isands and there interned for four
months. Next ship was Stuart, whose
tired and valiant old length he had at the
recapture of Goodenough Island, in the
Pacific show. His father was a com-
mander, his brother the well-known
Captain Arthur Henry Spurgeon, who
died in 1942. And his son is a serving
officer in the R.A.N.
“Sid”; The popularity of Westralia’s
new Governor, Sir Charles Gairdner, is
assured in Albany, on the State’s south
coast. There to meet the district’s sports-
men at a Race-Club-convened meeting,
Sir Charles was presented with a hand-
some polished jamwood walking-stick.
Leaning on the gift, the Governor began
with: “This is a stout, firm stick” —at
which moment the handle snapped. Con-
vulsed in a handy chair, the Crown’s
representative led the roar which fol-
lowed the moment of apprehensive
silence.
A Coventry impression of Adelaide artist
IVOR HELE, winner of this year’s
Archibald Prize.
“Uramao”; Revisiting his native
strand after 19 years, Geoffrey S. Cox,
former New Zealand Rhodes Scholar,
now political correspondent of the
London “News-Chronicle.” Author of a
section of the N.Z. war history dealing
with the desert campaign, he’ll confer
with the chief historian, Sir Howard
Kippenberger, as well as collect material
for newspaper- and broadcast-work.
The target for Theodore Cleveland
Roughley’s trident is that body of un-
thinking fishermen who won’t heave back
their undersized catches. Fish under the
minimum size allowable by law have not
had time to spa wn—the result of ignoring
the law is pate ntly obvious in N.S.W.-
flsh . shops . Listed iu Who’s Who as a
j Rough i ey is also a B.Sc.,
, T j ■. .i,, Tsl S W
has been President of the N.S*.
DEFENDER OF THE FISHES.
Microscopical Society, lecturer in the
U.S. for D. 0.1. after War 11, and a first-
grader in cricket and baseball. He has
published five books on matters pisca-
torial —his latest was Red Paged last week
—and knows his subject from sharks to
sardines. In addition there is his
book on the aeronautical work of
Lawrence Hargrave. While at Sydney’s
Technological Museum Roughley was
struck by the paucity of printed
material connected with Hargrave’s
original models in the museum.
He swotted up aerodynamics,
toiled through the pioneer’s papers
and wrote the volume which is now a
text-book at Sydney University’s Aero-
nautical School. Another little-known
facet of his activities was his member-
ship of the three-man board which im-
mobilised some 17,500 of N. S. Wales’s
small boats in case the Japs landed.
Roughley was ready to burn the lot. A
fish-specialist from the bulk point of view,
the State Superintendent of Fisheries was
recently on holidays in the Blue Moun-
tains — not fishing.
Into the Silence:
At Mornington (Vic.), at 49, Arthur Nevil
Whiting, a widely-known dog fancier who had
judged at royal shows in every State. He wrote
as well a column called “Weekly Woofs” for
the Melbourne “Australasian Post,” and served
through the Greece campaign. His brother,
also a Middle East Digger, is Bulletin black-
and-white man Ray Whiting.
In Sydney, at 74, the Rev. Wallace Deane,
Methodist minister for 45 years, missionary in
Fiji and one-time principal of the Burwood
(Sydney) Methodist Ladies’ College. Educated
at Sydney and London Universities, he wrote
half-a-dozen books, mainly on religious subjects.
In a quarry accident, C, J. Scott, well-known
Victorian mining-engineer and, for the past two
years, manager of Associated Quarries at Lily-
dale, near Melba’s house. With the King
Island scheelite mine throughout War I, he later
pegged-out the mine’s present area. He
managed the opencut for the King Island
Scheelite (1947), Ltd., which company is now
one of the world’s leading producers of vital
tungsten ore.
In Hobart, at 82, Edward Tannock McPhee,
Commonwealth statistician until 1936. He
began figuring under R. M. Johnston, who in
his spare time from statistics compiled the well-
known Geology of Tasmania.
At 49, in Sydney, Arthur John Moverley,
Q.C., and barrister since 1928. For some years
associate for the late Justice Long Innes, he
practised mainly in the Equity and Bankruptcy
Courts, becoming one of the leaders of the Bar
in the latter sphere.


Australia's finest
Brandy for nearly
i century...
DISTRIBUTORS t
TOOTH & CO.
MT.fe.ia
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
gg
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
ELU an l,
w3lA tf|3 * „
ffTt
wmm
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibro’sitis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again able
to work—thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is eas, to take In tablet
farm.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR lt/»
DOLCIN
Informative literature on g<gj
will be sent on request »
(Australia) Pty. Lid., Box
G.P.0., Sydney.
REMARKABLE!
It’s remarkable that a city like
Sydney, with its population of
over one and a half million, can
barely support three full-sized
legit, theatres —two of them
given over to vaudeville more
often than not. And, under
those circumstances, it’s even
more remarkable that anyone
should want to put on plays.
Think of it!
First you want a play, and,
of course, preferably an Aus-
tralian play, but such is the state
of the theatre that would-be
Australian playwrights generally
have to think of finding some
means of earning a living be-
fore they can think of writing
plays. Then you want actors.
If you’re lucky you might catch
a few with the fires of enthusi-
asm still in them and before
they are forced, by the necessity
of earning a crust, to give up
the stage for radio ; before they
pack up and go overseas to
more promising pastures ; or be-
fore they throw in the towel and
turn to less hazardous occupa-
tions.
Then you want a theatre, and
that’s a rub that even Hamlet
never dreamed of in all his
philosophy—one of the best
theatres has just gone back to
talkies after trying to make a
show with legit. Possibly there
are still, within a reasonable
distance of Sydney, a few old
barns, back-rooms or halls
which, with a prodigious
amount of labor and enthusiasm,
might be converted to the pur-
poses of the stage, but any book-
maker would probably offer a
thousand to one against the
chances of getting one, and not
even bother to look at the
results.
Finally, you want an audi-
ence, and that, with the prob-
lems of transport, publicity and
a dozen and one other complica-
tions, is also as chancy as pick-
ing ’em at Randwick.
So, as noted in the foregoing,
it is remarkable that anyone
should even want to put on
plays. Yet they do—several of
them in several places in and
around Sydney—and, what is
even more remarkable, they go
on doing it, and, more remark-
able still, doing it very well
more often than otherwise.
As a current example of how
well they can do it there is
nothing better than the Inde-
pendent Theatre’s production of
“Ardele,” by Jean Anouilh, the
contemporary French play-
wright who, along with Chris-
topher Fry, has been enjoying
considerable success in London
and who, but for the valiant
efforts of the “little theatres,”
would probably never be seen
in Sydney.
“Ardele,” in its way, is a bril-
liant piece. It does not fit com-
fortably into the easy classifica-
tions of tragedy, comedy or
even plain drama. It is, in
essence, a discussion of love;
witty, cynical, sometimes despair-
ing and always entertaining;
and it is delivered with a bril-
liant and certain knowledge of
the stage and its effects.
Its setting is the French
country home of an ageing
general; the time is 1912; and
the action is precipitated when
the general calls the family to-
gether to deal with a family
crisis. The general’s wife has
“gone mad for the love of him,”
has been bedridden for 10 years,
and every 15 minutes or so calls
him, insistently and madden-
ingly, “Leon! Leon!” He
consoles himself with chamber-
maids and dreams of the Arabs
he routed in other years.
The general’s sister is a
countess with a husband and
lover, the three of them going
about together in polite and
ridiculous observance of proprie-
ties, a situation which has
delighted playwrights from
Sheridan to Coward. She is
scornful of her lover and jealous
of her husband’s mistress ; she
wants her husband back as she
first knew him, but that relation-
ship has been destroyed by both
of them ; she is, as her husband
tells her, in love with love, and
the more desperately she seeks
it the more unattainable it
becomes.
The general’s daughter-in-law
is married to his elder son, who
is away in Indo-China, and, it
seems, having a whale of a time
with the ladies in those parts,
but she is in love with his second
son, who is summoned to the
house to help deal with the crisis
which threatens the family. The
pair of them moon about the
house making sentimental pro-
testations of their love until, in
a fit of revulsion, she tells him
that, although she has always
loved him, she has given herself
humbly, wholeheartedly and
completely to his brother, and
will do the same again.
The crisis which brings them
all together is provided by
Ardele, the general’s older sister,
who is a hunchback and who
has fallen in love with another
hunchback, the tutor of the
general’s youngest son. Their
relationship, open and lyrical,
scandalises the rest of the
family, who see in it nothing but
a grotesque, dirty affair which
will do nothing but provoke a
storm of gossip and scandal and
ruin the family’s reputation. The
tutor is dismissed and takes up
residence in a near-by hotel,
Ardele is locked in her room
and the general, the countess,
her husband, her lover and the
rest discuss the affair in horri-
fied undertones and around
interruptions from episodes and
aspects of their own lives.
It is an indication of
Anouilh’s stature and confidence
that he can take such a grotesque
them© and call, with certainty,
on wit, satire, compassion and
straightforward dramatic power
to turn it into a play that is by
turns brilliantly amusing and
extraordinarily powerful.
Ardele is never seen, and the
tutor crosses the stage only once
in half-light, yet their presence
electrifies the whole play, and,
in the compassion with which
Anouilh handles their problem,
throws up the savage, satirical
handling of the other characters.
Doris Fitton’s direction of the
Independent production is like
the play—sure of itself, its
characters and the values it is
presenting—and most of the
players are equally confident
and aware of what they are
about in handling characters
which, for the play’s satirical
purposes, are set several points
above ordinary human qualities.
Marcel Wattel’s general (an
admirable blend of blast and
weariness); Laurel Mather’s
countess (beauty a little faded
and slightly desperate); and
Russell Jarrett’s count (polished,
philosophical and tiredly cyni-
cal) are the outstanding per-
formances, although Thora
Small’s brief appearance at the
finish as the general’s wife when
she berates them all for behaving
“like cats all around me” is the
most powerful scene in the play.
Running it a close second is
Patricia Hill’s moment when she
disillusions her young lover.
Harold Hinton, as the countess’s
lover, and Michael Hourihan, as
the disillusioned younger
brother, were both a little
wooden when this commentator
saw the show, defects which
hindered them rather than
affected the general perform-
ance. Joan Landor as the
chambermaid had little to do
except entice the general into
darkened rooms, but she did that
with surpassing excellence and
credibility.
O. F.
Chamber of Horrors.
The inclusion of Mozart
among Hindemith, Shosta-
kovich, Bartok and Kabalevsky
in the first concert of the Con-
temporary Music Festival run
by the A.B.C. in Sydney seemed
as incongruous as would Pro-
fessor Einstein seen with
bodgies in a fun-parlor—though
perhaps Bernard Heinze decided
it would be kind to supply a
small but richly-verdant oasis at
the end of a journey through a
wide atonal desert.
The piece de resistance was
Bartok’s “Concerto for
Orchestra,” an amorphous work
of inordinate length. For a few
measures in the second move-
ment there was a fitful glimpse
of rhythmic cohesion ; but it was
quickly smothered with a frenzy
of brass.
Igor Hmelnitsky’s dynamic
pianism and John Robertson’s
genius with the trumpet seemed
wasted on Shostakovich’s “Con-
certo for Piano and Trumpet.”
A small work for 10 instruments
by Ibert and Kabalevsky’s
“Colas Breugnon” were easier to
listen to than the bigger works.
Hindemith’s “Funeral March”
proved to be a debilitated
threnody, lugubrious and devoid
of nobility.
The Mozart, the delightful
serenade “Fine Kleine Nacht-
musik,” was played with less lilt
and sparkle than the orchestra
has played it elsewhere —per-
haps the preceding orgies had
unsettled it.
The second night had as its
“big” work the Khatchaturian
Piano Concerto, and that was
piling Ossa upon Pelion with a
vengeance. Nowhere in the
whole range of concerti is there
a work worse than this one —
formless, meaningless and hope-
less —though the Shostakovich
runs it a close second. Rose-
mary Bassant was the soloist,
crisp-fingered and alert.
Schonberg’s “Transfigured
Night” was also given an airing.
This was written before the
Austrian went baldheaded for
the 12-tone scale and its chords
and the complete atonality which
it bred. ■ Strongly influenced
by Wagner, and especially
“Tristan,” this music is luscious,
sensuous and painted in rich
colors, and it falls easily on the
ear. The orchestra played it
well, as it did Bach’s Third
Brandenburg Concerto, a
heavenly piece of polyphonic
sanity after what had gone
before.
“Mike and Stefani.”
Given a private screening at
Melbourne Technical College,
“Mike and Stefani,” adjudged
the outstanding film among those
entered for the Commonwealth
film competition, justifies the
judges. Documentaries are,
generally speaking, boring, but
this one wasn’t.
The story, written by R.
Maslyn Williams, of Melbourne,
gives the history of a young
Polish couple, decent-enough
people, one a qualified engineer
and the other a housewife, who
shortly after they meet one an-
other, are caught up in the
European whirlpool, torn out of
their peaceful hometown and
thrown into a refugee camp after
the conquest of their country by
the Nazis.
Then the alleged peace comes
and 1.R.0. takes them over.
That organisation shelters them
like a mother, but they are still
prisoners of circumstance and
have to stay in the camp, see
their children grow up there and
be educated, but with no
apparent hope of individual free-
dom this side of eternity.
Eventually they come before
the Australian consul, are
screened and questioned and
passed through the official sieve
and given a passport to this new
land of liberty, which they clutch
at as a drowning man clutches at
a straw. The last scene shows
them full of hope on the boat
that is taking them to the
country of their adoption.
There is no sentimentality
about the picture, no mouthing
of political slogans and no drum-
banging, for which the author
deserves thanks. Neither are
there any actors, although the
characters are numbered by
thousands and seen tramping in
helpless streams across the face
of Europe in all directions and
in all weathers, huddled in trucks
and on railway sidings and as
impotent in the hands of their
helpers as their captors, standing
in the snow and selling their
sheepskin coats to buy food-
seven millions of them, the
greatest mass migration in
history.
Mr. Williams’s photographer
was another Australian, A. G.
Pearse, and he could not have
done a better job, though a hand
camera was his sole equipment.
Art Competitions.
The Dunlop £lOOO art com-
petition closes on April 30, and
an exhibition of the prize-
winning and selected entries will
open at Tye’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, on May 12. There are
two sections —oil and water—
and “the only stipulations from
the artist’s viewpoint are that
the paintings must be suitable
for reproduction in the propor-
tion of 10 deep to 14 wide, and
that pure portraiture is the only
school of painting not eligible.”
The judges are Will Ashton,
Daryl Lindsay and R. Malcolm
Warner.
The Blake prize for religious
painting (200 guineas first, 50
guineas second and 25 guineas
third) closes on March 1, and
the exhibition of entries will
open at Mark Foy’s Gallery,
Sydney, on March 12. The Vic-
torian National Gallery has
bought last year’s prizewinner—
Justin O’Brien’s “The Virgin
Enthroned.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.—
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
No. 4 of 1952.
BETWEEN WILFRED BATEMAN Peti-
tioner and GLADYS ELIZABETH BATE-
MAN formerly Gladys Elizabeth Graham
Respondent and PHILLIP NORMAN
BRADLEY or PHILLIP NEILS BRADLEY
alias SORENSON Co-respondent.
TO Phillip Norman Bradley or Phillip
Neils Bradley alias Sorenson late of the
Canberra Railway Station Canberra. —
TAKE NOTICE that the said Wilfred
Bateman has commenced a suit against
you and the said Gladys Elizabeth
Bateman in this honourable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of his marriage
with the said Gladys Elizabeth Bateman
on the grounds of your adultery with the
said Gladys Elizabeth Bateman AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at
the office of the Registrar of this honour-
able Court at Canberra on or before the
fourteenth day of March 1952 and in the
event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time
the petitioner may proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge. Dated
this twelfth day of February, 1952.
O. W. DAVIES and R. G. BAILEY,
Solicitors for the petitioner, Melbourne
Buildings, London Circuit, City, Canberra.
—(l.s.) B. MARTIN, Registrar.
ft.
B
9-
i
ileage
increase tyre
Tyre tread wear varies according to type of vehicle and
operating conditions. On most trucks and buses for instance,
the wear would be on tyres carrying the load, l.e. the rear
tyres. On cars with modern suspension and braking systems
the wear is on front tyres. Also there Is a difference In
wear between near-side tyres and off-side tyres/TMITIb
why wheels should be changed around every 2,000 to
3,000 miles, so that wear can be evenly spread over each)
tyre —including the spare wheel. This will cut down
unequal tread wear —lncrease over-all tyre mileage.
■ ‘
a>
re
for
mV
an
e co^°
tyre
DUNLOP 1
CAR & TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBM AUSTRALIA UMTItO om. to Mb)
“Follow/ this
chart, do not re-
move tqre from
w/heel. change
at regular in-
tervals of 2-3
thousand miles."
TODAY YOU’LL USE
DUNLOP PRODUCT’
Hele, Dobell and
Dargie.
Reviewing the Archibald-prize
entries The Bulletin critic (B.
30/1/’52) remarked of Ivor
Hele; “What he lacks above all
is polish.,..a feeling for the
dignity of his art, an awareness
of life beyond the studio: some-
thing that both Dargie and
Dobell, his most important
rivals in contemporary Aus-
tralian portraiture, could teach
him.”
How could the Dobell of the
two Jones portraits teach Hele
how to acquire those two in-
gredients? I emphatically prefer
the workmanlike witnesses to
Hele’s graphic forthrightness,
even if they may be called rough
and raw, to the in-two-minds
handling of the “polished” can-
vases of post-studio Dobell.
It is strange to read of these
portraits of Dobell’s as being
thought to be decorative. They
are not, and they look, too, as if,
in the doing of them, the painter
was unconcerned with the very
problems of modelling and flesh-
tones which great men have
always held to be compatible
with an eye-comforting pattern,
for convenience called decora-
tive. They had no illusions about
“impish vitality” lighting amor-
phous bodies. They well know
that “impish vitality” has
mighty little validity as a per-
sonal statement and that it has
nothing to do with depth of
characterisation, but much to
do with shallow surface guess-
ings, which in fact purport to
give the due to a sitter’s real,
mental and moral nature.
Dobell could never paint any-
thing to equal in characterisa-
tion Hele’s two portraits of
Laurie Thomas and E. W. Hay-
ward. To get such notice-
demanding effects he would have
to inject into any work he did
some of that synthetic, impish
vitality which gets the votes of
newcomers, but which never
fools the old hands.
Hele is not “as yet only feel-
ing his way to portraiture.” He
is already a fine portraitist and
has been for some time. The
Bulletin itself said he should
have won the competition last
year.
Hele is the best draughtsman
qua draughtsman in Australia.
As yet he is more linear than
painterly, but he is more and
more constructing by planes and
soon will be handling with un-
challengeable authority those
problems of modelling and flesh-
tones which only the greatest
artists have been able to solve.
He has no bag of tricks
snitched from Europe and
brought to this country to
astonish the natives. After
undeserved recognition the con-
temporary caper has had a
xmdign smack in the eye and
will have to change its turn-
think up a new one. The audi-
ence, or rather, oculence which
was once amused by it is show-
ing increasing boredom. Dargie
is chiefly to be thanked for that
debunking. He has stuck to his
beliefs and his steadfastness has
made the distorters look foolish.
All they needed was enough
time for repetition to discredit
an alien and decadent stunt
posturing as art.
J. S. MACDONALD.
Although the show with which
the Stanley Coe Gallery has
opened its 1952 season is called
Paintings by Artists Living in
Melbourne, there is no indica-
tion in their pictures of where
any of the artists live, except,
perhaps, in the case of Arnold
Shore and William Frater. If
the rest are living anywhere at
all artistically it is in the
fashions current in Paris 20 or
30 years ago. A work of art
should be unconditioned, but
there is nothing unconditioned
or individual in Leonard
French’s “Celtic Dream” and
“Bargeman.” In his large pic-
ture of a bargeman, whose
anatomy has been broken up
into triangles, squares, rhom-
boids and other geometrical
figures, he isn’t dealing with his
own experience but with
Picasso’s, or Chagal’s, or one of
those chaps. "
■* * * *
A joint show shared by a liv-
ing member of the craft and a
dead one is unusual, but that is
the case with the current exhibi-
tion at Melbourne Athenaeum of
the work of C. Salis Lloyd and
the late Alfred Coleman. An-
other unusual feature is that the
pictures of the artists are alter-
nated, but their styles are so
similar that it could easily be
taken for a one-man show by
either Salis Lloyd or Alfred
Coleman. Both belong to the
traditional school of Australian
landscape-painting, and in both
it is brought to the same level
of achievement. Alfred Coleman
shows most sensitiveness to
moods of nature in “Autumn,
Castlemaine” and “Yackan-
dandah” and Mr, Lloyd in his
“Summer, Yea,” and “Frosty
Morn, Jamieson.”
“Jagoi.”
The aptly-named Miss Louise
Lightfoot, the Australian ballet-
producer and choreographer
who has made India her home
and periodically picks up native
dancers there and takes them
on world tours, has brought her
latest acquisition to the National
Theatre, Melbourne, in the
comely shape of Rajkumar
Priyagopal Singh, Manipur’s
greatest dancer, and his master
drummer Lakshman Singh.
Miss Lightfoot has previously
brought Shivaram, the Kathakali
dancer who was remarkable
enough, but Priyagopal, whose
father was a celebrated dancer,
musician and Sanskrit scholar
and a friend of Rabindranath
Tagore, is even more so. His
Jagoi dances, on the night the
present commentator saw them,
justified the adjective “amaz-
ing.”
Following on the opening
number Khamba, which con-
cerned a Manipuri hero who
lived 500 years and was an in-
carnation of Shiva, Miss Light-
foot set out to explain the
dancer’s language while Priya-
gopal demonstrated. She, so
to speak, took his sentences to
pieces, analysed them and parsed
the nouns, adectives, verbs and
adverbs, while Gopal rippled his
sympathetic nervous system and
the muscles of his fingers, arms,
knees and stomach in panto-
mimic illustration until the
thing became so incredibly com-
plicated that it was easy to be-
lieve that a Manipuri dancer
must start at the age of five to
learn a language that has been
developed over possibly
thousands of years.
Nothing he did was more ex-
pressive or more amusing than
his illustration of “beautiful
young lady.” Then he went off
and returned as the mind of
youth awakening to the spring,
with the pools of water shim-
mering in the grass, the lotus-
bud trembling on its stem, the
lovely maidens weaving gar-
lands, etc. Everything was
merged into a continuous
rhythmic movement which was
as incomprehensible to a person
ignorant of the language as it
was alluring to the senses. It
was like listening to a symphony
after hearing one of Professor
Heinze’s explanations,
The performance on a drum
and later on 10 drums of
Lakshman belonged to the same
order. Indian drummers are also
dancers, and one of the most
impressive numbers was Laksh-
man’s interpretation of the
emotions of a yogi who awakes
from a dream of God and tries
to make the god’s name on some
little drums and dances madly
with joy when he thinks he’s got
it.


ygfjx
m
m
Expert Management (it
YOUR AFFAIRS
If impending absence abroad, ill health or pressure of other business
necessitates that you “hand over the reins,” you can place the management
of your affairs with complete confidence in the hands of the Permanent
Trustee Company.
Over sixty years’ experience enables this company to control your affairs
expertly and to conserve your interests, whatever they are and wherever
they may be.
For full details, call in and interview one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for our free booklet —“ Trust
Estates and Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8.E..M.8.Ch.M..F.R.A.C.5.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews,
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart,.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OP N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DIRGE BRITANNIA.
“The decline of British power
is one of the major developments
of the twentieth century.”
“New York Times” makes
that comment as merely stating
a commonplace. And its
London correspondent caps it
with a report that “one of Mr.
Churchill’s ablest advisers” had
suggested (presumably to the old
warhorse himself!):
“The time has come to devise
a plan for a partnership between
America and the Commonwealth
which will form some such
structure of power and stability
as the Empire once represented.”
What Churchill said isn’t
recorded, though it should have
been worth hearing. At any
rate some hope centres on him
to at least stop the rot in Empire
affairs. Thus, London “Daily
Mail”:
“The Conservatives have
always been the Imperial party,
and they now have the chance
to prove it by their deeds. With-
out a prosperous and productive
Commonwealth and Empire the
pride and power of Britain can
never be restored—and neither
can her independence.”
WHITTLED AWAY
There’s a fair parcel of re-
storing to be done, too, going by
the plaintive chorus of Jere-
miahs. And the quite staggering
thing about these is the number
of them there are in Britain
itself continuously harping on
this theme of decline.
The subject was dealt with
here in an earlier article, but
that needs supplementing, be-
cause through all the past year it
was an unusual “Uncabled Addi-
tions” air-mail which didn’t in-
clude a specimen or two of this
doleful Dirge Britannia.
As a recent British specimen,
London “Time and Tide” edi-
torial comment (also counting
on Churchill):
“Mr. Churchill has had an
opportunity which for a states-
man is almost unique; it has
been a second chance and it is
charged with irony and pity and
pride. For it has been a chance
to undo wrong.... which years
ago he strove to avert. The
power, wealth and prestige of
Britain and the Commonwealth
have to a fearful extent been
whittled away. On occasions,
during several of the post-war
international crises, economic or
political, Britain’s role has
seemed to be that of the queru-
lous, impoverished and ailing
client or elderly aunt who, once
rich and powerful, has fallen on
hard times.”
“U.S. SATELLITE”
As yet another example from
Britain, a recent London “Fort-
nightly” article headed “Eng-
land as an Ex-World Power.”
The writer is a foreigner—J. H.
Huizinga, a Belgian corres-
pondent in London —but it all
helps to swell this sad, and
strange, chorus in England.
Huizinga’s theme is that
“what can hardly be denied .
is that this country is indeed no
longer capable of independent
action in the field of foreign
policy.” Quoting another writer
as referring to Britain as
“America’s satellite par excel-
lence,” he instances Persia:
“When it came to the point
where the object of policy could
only be achieved by falling back
on the ultimate sanction of
force, Britain could not decide
independently whether the game
was worth the candle that might
only too easily have set the
whole world aflame but had to
abide by the judgment of
Washington.
“That is to say, while she is
still strong enough to defend
her remaining positions of power
by force, she is no longer strong
enough to take the attitude of
‘damn the consequences.’ Wher-
ever in our highly combustible
world the sanction of force
threatens to upset the inter-
national balance of power and
hence to result in world war or
even in a loss of territory in the
cold war, Britain must obtain
the consent of America, which
alone is strong enough to win
such a war for her, before she
can safely resort to this ultima
ratio of all foreign policy.”
And (though without fully
affirming it) he sets down the
question; “Has not the Persian
episode proved that the inde-
pendence of action to which
sovereign Britain so stubbornly
clings is purely illusory?”
LOST GLORY
American efforts of the kind
are perhaps to be expected (and
not taken too seriously), such as
these by New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondents:
the progressive decay of
the British technique of exercis-
ing power.”
“The erosion of British power
[i.e., in the Middle East, etc.] is
accompanied by a universal and
totally irrational hatred of the
British.”
Or the “Christian Science
Monitor” verdict: “Britain
possesses today the superstruc-
ture of a great empire without
the economic base to support it.”
Even dismissing these respon-
sible American papers, a startling
lot of examples come from the
British themselves. Here is
London “Observer” (being, it
would probably retort, no more
than realistic) :
“An island State of 50,000,000
people like Britain will never
again be a Great Power in its
own right. Nor can we ever
hope to maintain our Common-
wealth and Empire by our-
selves alone. Already the de-
fence of Canada, Australia and
New Zealand is in practice an
American, not a British,
responsibility.”
WRETCHED RETREAT
In “Time and Tide” (as
another recent example) John
Connell, a top London journalist
and author, regards Com-
munism, which bulks so large
nowadays, as a trivial and super-
ficial phenomenon alongside this
“much graver, much more earth-
shaking” happening:
“The British people created a
world-wide system which was
more civilised, more enlightened,
more tolerant, better and more
hopeful than that of any other
preceding world Empire. The
British people for the past six
years have, actively as well as
passively, promoted the destruc-
tion of this system; and this
immediately after a war in
which, by a prodigious expendi-
ture of effort, they had reasserted
their rights and responsibilities.
Why—and how?”
He himself puts it down to a
number of causes —a spirit of
“appeasement,” which he
trenchantly attacks, and which
went hand-in-glove with a cruel
desertion of real friends; the
—“New York Herald Tribune.”
WHEN IT RAINS....
Socialist sentimentality of the
Attlee following; above all,
perhaps, the general failure of
Britain’s middle-class, which did
have a code of responsibility.
The sum of it, he holds, has
been a wretched spectacle of
ruin, massacre, retreat and
betrayal—not made any more
attractive by being adorned
with a spurious parade of “pro-
gressive” doctrine.
He recalls that, when these
things were happening, in
the years immediately after the
war, it was impossible to con-
vince any supporter of the
British Labor Government that
they were evil and cowardly acts
for which one day retribution
would be exacted. Mr, Attlee
has for years been called a great
statesman for his part in the
abandonment of authority in
India.
“For each successive with-
drawal from Imperial responsi-
bility, each successive abandon-
ment of achievement and deser-
tion of duty, there has been a
host of glib, plausible, super-
ficial reasons. There is a tech-
nical military phrase about an
enemy being ‘defeated in detail.’
The appeasers have let the British
Empire be defeated in detail. In
the end it has been a mass
retreat; and even now we are, I
fear, unlikely to have seen the
last of it.”
CHURCHILL’S AIM
If Mr. Churchill can (as
counted on) indeed do some-
thing to reverse the process, or
even stay the drift, he will
surely, with the rest of his
record, deserve to rank as the
greatest of all Prime Ministers.
And no less than that service is
seen by New York “Herald
Tribune” as his mission now.
Achieving accord with America
on Europe and elsewhere was
well enough;
“But,” it concludes, “Mr.
Churchill almost certainly has
larger aims than these. Perhaps
they could be described as
nothing short of re-establishing
Great Britain, despite her pre-
sent impoverishment, as one of
the major Powers of the world.”
“Spirit of Old Japan.”
“Japan may be willing for a
time to let itself be driven. But
when Japan, through its
American alliance, has recovered
strength, it will have a will of
its own.”
And then, in the long view
taken by London “Twentieth
Century’s” Far East cor-
respondent, world history will
again be deeply influenced by
the decisions of Japanese states-
men and the compulsions under
which they act.
There are, as he sees it,
specific dangers springing from
the fact that “the spirit of old
Japan” is not dead:
“Many of the ‘old Japanese’
have put on masks and speak
the new political idiom. But
their hearts have not changed.
They believe that their chance
will come again. They.. ..are
extreme fanatics, and believe in
Japan’s mission to rule the
world. They can hardly
reconcile themselves to Japan
being a client State of America.
Hiroshima is not forgotten.”
Then there are the Com-
munists, for “there is no telling
when Communism may suddenly
appeal to large sections of the
people” with the slogan that
only through Communism and a
Russian alliance can Japan
secure its national interests.
A peculiarity of Japan noted
by the correspondent is that it
could go Communist with rela-
tively little change in its social
structure: “The pre - war
Japanese State was run by the
bureaucrats, technicians and
army officers. All these classes
could find much the same
employment under Communism.
There is no large middle-class
requiring to be eliminated. The
factory workers are used to
being disciplined in the national
interest.”
The greatest danger to the new
Japanese State, he believes, lies
in a union of these two forces,
Communism and “the spirit of
old Japan,”
New Middle-class.
Over the past dozen or so
years the class-war in Britain,
waged with a vengeance, has
levelled down the old middle-
class and raised a successor in its
place—though with a difference.
It amounts to a bloodless, but
none the less a deadly, revolu-
tion, its most significant feature
the raising of the weekly earn-
ings of all workers to a present
156 per cent, above the figure
for just before the late war.
“Manchester Guardian”
(noted for its very liberal
outlook) makes the striking
comment that the change
“seems to be producing a society
more and more lopsided.”
The better-off miners, dockers
and engineering workers, it has
pointed out, have been promoted
into what used to be called the
middle-class, but as a social
group they have not been ex-
pected to take on what are com-
monly accepted as middle-class
financial obligations:
“If they live in council houses
they may enjoy a subsidised rent
in addition to a middle-class
income. They can work in old
clothes and overalls which (even
today) would cost a ‘white-
collared’ worker his job. The
‘old’ middle-class has seen itself
financially overtaken by new-
comers who do not bear its
burdens.”
Those burdens included the
tidy one of Britain’s status as a
world Power.
Soviet Anti-Semitism.
“Anti-Jewish acts in the
U.5.5.R.,” reports Morroe
Berger in New York “Herald
Tribune,” “have become so
widespread and so pervasive that
only a few abject Soviet propa-
gandists are still able to point
with pride to Communism's
‘solution of the Jewish prob-
lem.’ ”
Not only is the treatment of
them such that “they might ulti-
mately disappear as a separate
national group,” but meanwhile
—everywhere behind the Iron


Established 188 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Snipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
aACKSOINfZng
OSUUJVAiy „ /
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
"Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
(AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS t I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Cover joints in
WALLBOARDS
Quickly, Attractively,
Effectively, Economically
Use "Anaglypta" Joint cover
strip, 2" wide, for all internal
wall and ceiling joints. Simply
paste over joint, using ordinary
flour paste, and when dry,
paint right over the strip the
same colour as the wall. The
qentral corrugations allow for
expansion and contraction.
ďf
FIXING DETAIL
"ANAGLYPTA"
JOINT COVER STRIP
Available In 100 lin. ft. rolls from Hardware Merchants,
Wallpaper Distributors, or from Wunderlich Limited
(Sole Australian Suppliers), Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
' JYund&tkcfL t JimitedL
SYDNEY :: MELBOURNE :: ADELAIDE :: BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE (N.S.W.) :: HOBART :: LAUNCESTON
mm
...academ
md
Mddmfa
The “PERFECT POLICY" of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
A USTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITU'
HgHTEh AMBBUfrK SIRE £ IS .sYt> M C t.
FRENCH
Corn Cure
I Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’
Born 1820—
tflll going %frong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IMB.fa
Wm in a bap wav, judy! canyouJWsally says bap
TELL ME WHY SALLY GA YE ME ||P’ BREATH IS REALLY
AWAV - JS\\ seR/ousANPA PERSON Mk
m ' I Jk, OUGHT T 0 s££Hts
right
............ ...... ... ........... .... ■•• —• • AWAY!
J.“COLGATE DENTAL CREAMCLEANS
%YOUR BREATH WHILE IT CLEANS A
%YOUR TEETH AND THE COLGATEJ
WWAY OF BRUSHING TEETH
\R!6HT AFTER EATING STOPS
TOOTH
DECAY
&
BEST.
r JIM LOVES SALLY ANPSALLY
LOVES JIM COLGATE'S HAS <
CERTAINLY PONE WONDERS
FOR HIM ,
tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating With
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and two years’
research showed the
Colgate way stopped
more decay for more
people than ever before
reported in dentifrice
history! No other
dentifrice offers such
proof—the most con-
clusive proof ever re-
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
✓ TO CLEAN VOUR BREATH
✓ WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH
V' AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
ported for a dentifrice buy the big family economy sizb
of any type.
Australia's largest, America's largest, the world's largest selling dental cream
Curtain—they are a people im-
prisoned. They can’t get out.
“It is ” observes a T ondon
“Times” correspondent, “one of
the ironies of the tragic world
situation that the Jewish people,
having after 2000 years of dis-
persion achieved a place of re-
union in the State of Israel, now
find that for hundreds of
thousands of their brethren the
Iron Curtain irrevocably blocks
the road to the promised land;
and that whereas in the past
racial hatred and persecution
drove them from Russia and
Eastern Europe, today the rigid
requirements of a social order
ostensibly dedicated to the
brotherhood of man keep them
imprisoned within these same
regions.”
Jewish authorities estimate
that there are about 2,100,000
Jews in Russia. In the Soviet-
controlled countries the largest
Jewish population exists in
Rumania, where there are more
than 250,000. Hungary still has
about 150,000 Jews. Excluding
tens of thousands who pass
themselves as gentiles, only some
50.000 remain in Poland, after
a post - war emigration of
200,000. There are some 15,000
Jews in Czechoslovakia and
10.000 in Bulgaria.
The Kremlin leaders, com-
ments a “Washington Star”
writer, are using the Jews as
scapegoats “to appease the dis-
content of the population” just
as the Tsarist rulers used to do.
The bulk of “diversionists”
being hounded by the Soviet
secret police, he reports, are
Jews;
“The truth is that Stalin is,
and always has been, strongly
anti-Semitic. What is happen-
ing in the U.S.S.R. and the other
countries under its control is
nothing but a more ferocious
repetition of the pogroms which
occurred under the Tsars every
time things went badly for the
Russian rulers, and they needed
scapegoats to appease the dis-
content of the population.”
Atom What's What.
Overall summary of the atom-
bomb set-up now, from a survey
by the “Christian Science
Monitor’s” chief Washington
correspondent, Roscoe Drum-
mond :
(1) Russian progress in the de-
sign and variety of atomic
weapons still lags well behind
what is being done in the U.S.
(2) In volume and in quality
the U.S, is maintaining, prob-
ably increasing, its lead over
Soviet production, and this lead
remains as the greatest single
military deterrent to Soviet
aggression.
(3) The U.S. has now
developed atomic weapons
which can be used for tactical
as well as strategic purposes.
Strategic bombing means attack-
ing enemy industrial or military
installations some distance
behind the line of combat. The
tactical use of atomic weapons
means their employment against
fr o n t-line targets, including
troops, tanks, or guns. This de-
velopment is of the largest
military significance, because in
the defence of Western Europe
it means that the Western Com-
mander before many months
can have in his hands a weapon
capable of cutting Russia’s great
superiority in land forces.
(4) It needs to be appreciated
that tactical atomic weapons
are not yet available for use in
Korea and are not likely to be
for another six months. Also,
talk about any immediate sub-
stantial savings in conventional
weapons from substituting
atomic weapons is premature.
These savings, however, are
foreseeable.
Dragnet Digest.
Value in Talk. —At least the
Russians find it so, as London
“Observer” editorially notes;
“It is a fundamental difference
between the Western and the
Russian approach to interna-
tional affairs and diplomacy that
we regard negotiations which
are not meant to lead to agree-
ment as a waste of time ; the
Russians regard the time as well
spent if it serves to exhaust and
irritate their opposite-numbers
in debate, to give publicity to
their propaganda, and to distract
attention from Russian actions
elsewhere. They are con-
sequently often willing, and
indeed eager, to negotiate with-
out being in the least willing to
come to any agreement.”
U.S. Economic Setback. —
Edinburgh “Scotsman” has
noted economic forecasts in the
U.S. as revealing “profound
uncertainty,” with a consider-
able sector of the business com-
munity “deeply impressed by
statistical and visual evidence
of heavy stocks and slack turn-
over,” and a “good deal of con-
sumer resistance”: “Therefore,
many business quarters, far from
accepting predictions of infla-
tionary pressure, are concerned
at the possibility of a serious
economic setback.”
Plenty in Persia. —In Tehran,
reports a Londqn “Daily Tele-
graph” correspondent, there is
abundance on the luxury side
for the few who can afford it;
“Shops are stocked with the
latest and best of everything that
Europe and America have to
offer —radio, cosmetics, toilet
preparations, patent foods, elec-
trical household appliances of
every kind, expensive fountain-
pens by the thousand and
exquisite Swiss gold watches by
the hundred. It is possible to
walk block after block in the
main shopping centres without
seeing a single article made in
Persia. One street nearly half
a mile long is lined with shops
full of the finest ‘export only'
British suitings.”
Britain’s Wool Exports. —A
Yorkshire correspondent of the
“Times Review of Industry”
reports Britain’s wool textile
industry as facing up to what’s
ahead this year “in a mood of
restrained optimism”: “Its com-
petitive efficiency was never
greater, for its exports of manu-
factured goods exceed the com-
bined wool exports of all other
countries. Late in 1951 it ranked
as the fourth-largest exporting
trade in the United Kingdom,
and, in the all-important dollar
markets, it is the nation’s lead-
ing exporter of manufactured
goods.”


This word is your
LEGAL GUARANTEE
of truly Old Whisky
jiffs
*
m
<>ih
%
By Commonwealth Law, when a Whisky is bottled
under Australian Customs and Excise Department
supervision, it must not be labelled “OLD” unless
it has been matured for at least five years.
Look for the word “OLD”
Some brands of whisky are aged less than half as
long as Corio Special. But without age, a whisky
cannot be mellow. Only Corio Special possesses
all the Special virtues that careful blending of
aged whiskies can bring.
Corio Special
Australia’s old whisky
C4O/16
GET THERE SOONER*STAY THERE LONGER
England
C2>
£9
U.S.A.
C3*
Far East
Middle East
India
South America
1000 Speedbird Routes
around the World
Only 8.0.A.C. offers you the
choice of 1000 routes around the
world—to 165 cities or towns in
51 different countries. You can
book all-the-way to wherever
you wish and your fare includes
transport, hotels, and meals at
all scheduled ports of call.
Stop-over wherever you like, as
often as you like, at no extra fare.
Your 8.0.A.C. appointed agent
will help you plan your trip in
advance —at no charge.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
MALAYA* HONG KONG *JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT
BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO
U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL
& SOUTH AMERICA*BERMUDA
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., {8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darmn
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAY*
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAY*
- *»•/*»
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Some politicians can be induced
to take a firm stand, but most of
them find it safer to be a moving
target.” —“Saturday Evening Post.”
But they all seem to be happy
when they are on the receiving
end.
■s* 4* 4*
“The present state of affairs in
Australia gives food for thought, but
what we need most of all is thought
for food.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
It’s time we learnt from our
crop of errors.
“Wiry does a woman come out in
a slack-suit that looks awfully like
a man’s on a hot day?”
—Sydney “Sun;”
With the result that she pants
for breath.
+ 4* ❖
“Preachers at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.,
Rev. roaches, Carpet Beetle Borers,
White Ants, Rats, etc.”
—Country paper.
The text was the plagues of
Job.
Some Prefer Beer.
Behold her desultory in the
field ;
Behold her busy in the
dancing-whirl ;
Behold her wrapped in cloth or
skins, or peeled;
Behold her, anyhow, for she’s
a Girl.
She is the marvel of this Age
of Wonder;
Her legs sell everything from
pork to pearl ;
On her behalf a thousand
presses thunder
Apotheosis of the golden Girl.
In lands where party bans all
competition
The party advertising rag
unfurls
The portrait of some homely
politician —
O give me Liberty and Truth !
—and girls.
For girl-companions are (/ here
confess)
Adorable —in groups of one or
less.
NEIL MILLAR.
Framed.
Perhaps my taste is antiquated,
But all these queer surrealists.
With tortured line and mazy
twists,
Are, I imagine, overrated.
And this I hold, although there’s
plenty
Of argument in their defence
Brought forward to confound
the dense
By some among our cognoscenti.
But though these artists make
me bilious.
All violence I have eschewed
So far, and in my attitude
Remain unmoved and super-
cilious.
Yet some old-timers bluntly
slang them.
And, going past my wildest
dreams.
Buy up these painters, so it
seems,
And then, no doubt, proceed to
hang them.
BERT.
Fiery.
“The Communist regime in Vienna
has ordered all dogs to be shaved.”
VIENNA, Wednesday.—Last
night Viennese dogs held a
meeting to discuss the new
shaving order, the huge canine
crowd following a bloodhound
to the rendezvous.
The president of the Dogs’
Union, Mr. Sooner, said that if
action was not taken worse
might follow, such as the order
of the bath, which had been a
bone of contention for some
time.
The motion was seconded by
Mr. Poodle, and the meeting
broke up in barks, growls, sniffs
and protests when the secretary,
an aged mastiff, declared that
barbers’-poles should be boy-
cotted.
JONAS DILL.
“They won't rub THAT off! "
Quiz for Concert- and
Theatregoers.
1. —The head - cold you
acquired has gone down to your
chest, leaving you subject to
uncontrollable paroxysms of
bronchial coughing. You have
the option of (a) staying in bed ;
( b ) going to the fight at the
Stadium; (c) attending the con-
cert given by a soprano whose
programme is devoted to the
more delicate examples of
Schubert lieder, for the inter-
pretation of which she is famous.
Explain why you would select
the lastnamed to attend.
2. —Your middle-aged wife,
who is an enthusiastic balleto-
mane, has dragged you along to
a performance. By a terrific
effort of will you have managed
to stay half-awake through what
seems to you a lot of meaning-
less gyrations performed by a
crowd of girls in white and one
pansy-looking fellow dressed in
tights and a ridiculously short
jacket. During the next ballet
the strain proves too much, and
you are awakened by the woman
on the other side of you sharply
pushing your head off her
shoulder. Shortly afterwards
you hear a bored masculine
voice from the other side of the
woman saying “Why the hell
can’t they talk, so that a man
could get an idea of what it’s
all about?” followed by a
fiercely recriminatory whisper
from the woman next to you.
Detail the steps you would take
during the interval to seek out
and make acquaintance with
your kindred spirit and fellow-
martyr.
3. —During the interval of a
recital given by a Central Euro-
pean celebrity you go out into
the foyer, where for a time you
wander dodging the flailing arms
of the packed concourse of
olive-skinned conversationalists.
Suddenly your philological tour
of Central Europe and the Bal-
kans is interrupted by the sound
of an unmistakably Australian
voice. Would you consider your-
self justified in becoming ex-
citedly nostalgic at this strange
manifestation of your own
tongue being spoken in such a
gathering?
4. —The two women sitting
immediately in front of you at
the orchestral concert start talk-
ing while the orchestra is tuning-
up, continuing incessantly
through an overture and a tone-
poem. By the time the scherzo
of a Beethoven symphony is
reached they have to raise their
voices to get above the exuber-
ant music, which, reaching a
climax fortissimo, stops suddenly
and, to the ladies, quite unex-
pectedly, for into the silence
comes a loud voice saying “How
many yards do you think I’d
need to make it with a bolero?”
Would you deem it fitting to
wait until the rondo was being
played before leaning over and
saying “At a rough guess,
madam, seven and a quarter
yards”?
5. —Attending a recital by a
local artist (you already had
your seats booked and you came
by car) you approach the pro-
gramme-seller. As she holds it out
you dredge through your pockets
and pull out and proffer the
only coin you find there, a
shilling—apparently you had
left your money in your other
suit. You discover then that the
recitalist, with colossal effrontery,
has set the price of his pro-
grammes at two-bob, thereby
giving himself a chance partly
to offset a probable box-office
loss. Would you mutter some-
thing about not bothering and
move on, or would you boldly
ask for half a programme?
6. —Of a contemporary
orchestral work, heard here for
the first time, a critic writes:
“The esoteric nature of its
evocativeness and its personal-
ised ‘color counterpoint’ must be
construed in the light of the
eclecticism of its thematic syn-
thesis, and having regard to the
uninhibited tonalities employed.
There is inherent in its cyclic
form and almost maternal
mysticism, moreover, a sub-
limated symbolism which renders
its texture at once inspissated
and polychromatic, the episodic
statements neither conflicting
with the neo-classicism which is
its basis nor upholding the pro-
grammatic nature of the general
scheme.” What would your
guess be: that the reviewer liked
it or didn’t?
7.—You have been dragooned
into attending a concert given by
a coloratura, a type of voice you
detest. This particular one is
notorious for cackling like a hen
on the top notes. Which remedy
do you favor: developing a
mysterious engine-failure on the
way in or stuffing wadding in
your ears?
Bo.
Links with the Past.
“Any comment he had made con-
cerned the general right of fast
bowlers to employ the shirt-pitched
ball.”—"-S’. M. Herald.”
The public, reading this report.
Might be forgiven for a doubt
Concerning what it’s all about;
But men who are au fait with
sport
Will surely hit upon the thought
That here’s a means, if not to
rout
A team, to get tail-enders out
For modest scores, or next to
naught.
But let no critic now opine
That we’ll return to body line
{lf shirt-length balls come whiz-
zing by)
To spoil the ancient game of
cricket;
It’s certain balls will rarely fly
When bowled upon a shirt-front
wicket.
D. H. E.


THEN
WR* STRAW**Jr X
AffO ****** J\.
• TOUGH
FOR ANY WIRE .. . %J*
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR *X *
THE HIP POCKET ... JW \ \
HIPPO —the mighty midget that &&&
will break 8-g. fencing wire,
ctrnins inrlpfinitelv without hitine.
strains indefinitely without biting.
Weighs only 21bs., folds to fit in
hip pocket. Mighty leverage,
simple to use, nothing to wear out.
MANNING & OSBORNE
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
55
L
Plus
Postage
It PAYS to use
FORDSON MAJOR
cordsON MAJOR is easily the
SALES LEADER IN AUSTRALIA
(Over the past six years Fordson con-
— almost 50% of all tractor sales)
:
m
ONLY FORDSON PROVIDES -- a range of
tractors for all purposes with either Kerosene or Diesel
power and choice of gear ratios. But Fordson Major’s
master stroke is a practical combination of adaptable,
versatile POWER with down-to-earth ECONOMY. When
you look into this combination you realise how even a
small farmer can turn his capital investment to profit
making. Fordson Major is everyman’s tractor ... on
all farms it can do most jobs ... on most farms it can
do all jobs . . . and all economically !
3S
za
LOW CAPITAL INVESTMENT
-PRACTICAL FOR PROFITS.
Again it is stressed that FORDSON MAJOR
costs less to buy. What’s more, it is positively
the lowest priced tractor per h.p. rating. Low
capital investment such a boon to small
farmers particularly is a prime factor in its
capacity as a profit earner from the start.
FORDSON SERVICE EVERYWHERE.
Fordson Major is backed by a comprehensive after-sales
service and wide-spread dealer facilities
that are nation-wide.
m
*****
FM76-HP
Compare these prices with those of any other tractor
£641
Kerosene Model with
Steel Wheels
£844
Kerosene Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
£1312
Diesel Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
Enquire from your local Fordson dealer.
FORD MOTOR COM PANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Descriptive matter dealing with the
old Sydney steam-trams. —5272.
Words of poem beginning “I have
loved you too sadly for tears and too
merrily for laughter.”—s26s.
Exchange, Singer electric cabinet-
machine, usable also as treadle, good
order, for refrigerator.—s 267.
Exchange, sewing-machine, New
Home drophead, perfect, for wireless.
—5268.
Young married business couple,
Sydney, seek double-room with cook-
ing conveniences.—5270,
Middle-aged business couple, Syd-
ney, want small furnished flat or
cottage, or double room with cooking
and washing conveniences.—s27l.
To buy, copy of N-S.W. Farmers’
Handbook. —s 269.
To buy copies of books by David
L0w.—5259.
Printed details with diagram of a
Bell fireplace.—s26o.
To buy books by Helen Waddell,
other than Peter Abelard and Stories
from Holy Writ. —5261.
Words of Australian poem begin-
ning:—
I was your fond betrothed,
I was your lover.
—5262.
To buy copy of Songs of the Song-
men by Harney and Elkin. —5264.
Young Queensland woman, con-
templating tour Great Britain and
Europe this year, seeks female com-
panion same age, of respectable
family, fond of hiking and travel.—
5263.
To buy copy of Henry Lawson by
His Mates. —5258.
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details of actor Harry
Russell, who acted under the name
Guyton Heath with the George
Rignold Company and married into
the Rignold family.—s 266.
Information Sought.
Where and when was Peter Jackson
born, and did his parents bring him
to Australia at an early age? Did
Jackson ever fight for the world’s
heavyweight championship, and what
titles did he win ?
Peter Jackson was bom at St.
Croix, West Indies, on July 3, 1861.
His parents were never in Australia,
and he came to this country, when
well in his teens, as a member of the
crew of a sailing-ship. Soon after
his arrival Jackson was taken up by
the Waterhouse family at Milson’s
Point, who started him on his athletic
career, first as a sculler, then as a
boxer. When John L. Sullivan was
champion of America he drew the
color line, and refused to fight Jack-
son. James J. Corbett (who was really
the first world’s heavyweight champion
under Marquess of Queensberry rules)
and Jackson fought a 61-round draw at
San Francisco on May 21, 1891, but
they never met after Corbett became
recognised as world’s heavyweight
champion.
* * * *
List of the English Poets Laureate ?
According to records there was a
Versificator Regis during the reign of
Henry HI, but the first known Poet
Laureate was Chaucer. Since him
there have been John Kay, Andrew
Bernard, John Skelton, Spenser, Ben
Jonson, Sir William Davenant,
Dryden, Thos. Shadwell, Nahum Tate,
Nicholas Rowe, Laurence Eusden,
Colly Cibber, William Whitehead,
Thos. Warton, Henry Pye, Southey,
Wordsworth, Tennyson, Austin,
Bridges and Masefield.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a tree called
Indian almond, which grows in the
tropical areas of Australia?
A large deciduous tree, growing to
a height of 80ft., with branches
spreading in horizontal whorls. It
yields a dark-colored substance known
in the West Indies as Indian almond-
gum. The bark and leaves are astrin-
gent, and contain tannin. In the
Indies the leaves are mixed with iron
salts to form a black pigment with
which the natives color their teeth.
The seeds are like almonds in shape
and whiteness, and are palatable and
nutritious. The kernels yield a valu-
able oil, similar to almond-oil, but a
little more deeply colored. The tree
is ornamental, with a brown, waved,
heavy, coarse-grained timber. It
grows near the coast, and its fruits
are specially adapted for dispersal by
ocean currents, owing to the layer of
fibre between seed and outer coat.
♦ * * *
What is the spectral tarsier? How
does it get its name?
A native of the East Indies, the
tarsius (or spectral tarsier) is related
to the anthropoids. It is smaller than
a squirrel, with brown fur, large eyes
and ears, and a long, thin rat-like
tail tufted at the end. It has disk-like
adhesive surfaces on the fingers to
assist it in climbing in the tree-tops.
It feeds chiefly on insects and lizards,
and sleeps during the day, being active
at night. They usually live in pairs,
and are not very numerous. The
name “tarsier” refers to the elonga-
tion of two of the bones of the tarsus
(or ankle), and “spectral” to the huge
goggle-like eyes which are a distinc-
tive feature of the animal.
Brief Answers.
8.L.: Write C. Price Conigrave,
general secretary, Royal Australian
Historical Society, History House, 8
Young-street, Sydney A.J.J.: One
Thousand and More Place Names in
New South Wales by A. E. Martin,
published by N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
corner Market- and Castlereagh-
streets, Sydney H.C.: Write G. W.
Nowland, Casino (N.S.W.) 8.J.:
Full particulars from the secretary,
the Royal Aero Club of New South
Wales, Bankstown (N.5.W.)... .8.G.:
See article “In the World’s Classics”
printed on “The Red Page” of The
Bulletin of October 31, 1951
H.L.T.: The standard price of gold
began to rise from its fixed price-level
in January, 1931 L.McK.: The
Fleet Street Annual for 1952, obtain-
able from Fleet Publications, 9 Palace-
gate, London, W.B C.A.M.: An
Outline of Australian Literature by
H. M. Green and Australian Litera-
ture from its Beginnings to 1935 by E.
Morris Miller E.J.F.: The pro-
posal to publish that particular poet’s
writings fell through L.T.P.: The
Bulletin Story Book was first pub-
lished in 1901. Copies turn up now
and then in the second-hand book-
shops at a few shillings each
M.H.McF.: Write Department of
External Affairs, Canberra, A.C.T.
H.A.R.B.: Write secretary, Sane
Democracy League, 12 Spring-street,
Sydney....J.W.: The S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize is no longer awarded.
. ...L.P.: “Joseph Furphy: Biblio-
graphy” by Walter W. Stone, re-
printed from “Southerly,” can be
obtained from the author at 64
Young-street, Neutral Bay (N.S.W.).
C. McL.: Write to the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney, for
leaflet No. 16, “Spiders Harmful to
Man,” by A. Musgrave R.N.A.:
Write British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion, Broadcasting House, London,
W.l R.L.C.: The present Sydney
(Central) Railway Station was
officially opened on Saturday, August
4, 1906 G.J.: James Bridie’s
“Daphne Laureola” was first pre-
sented in Wyndham’s Theatre,
London, on March 23, 1949, by Sir
Laurence Olivier K.N.A.: T. S.
Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral”
was written for production at the
Canterbury Festival, England, June
1935 F.G.: Jack Dempsey and
Gene Tunney each made more money
from the ring than any other boxers.
When Tunney received 990,455
dollars for his 10-round championship
with Dempsey at Chicago on
September 2, 1927, his ring
earnings from contests ran into bigger
figures than any other fighter’s, but
Dempsey made more money on the
whole because of his exhibitions.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
M.C.S.: It has a thin charm, but
only in the direst need should you
try to rhyme “surf” with “mirth.”
Jack O’Lantern: Quenched....
R.D.M.: There’s probably a pleasant
landscape in that poem, without need
for the literary theme... .M.E.McL.:
Some good lines in it, amongst others
that are labored S.H.: Bodgies at
the moment aren’t considered funny.
T.J.: Verse technique too thin.
But if you’re interested in people you
might be able to write short stories.
S.A.L.: At least we must have
your opening couplet: —
In Himalayan habitat
A bominable snowman sat.
R.R.H.A.: They have the virtue
of their sincerity, but placing them is
likely to be a tough proposition
A.F.V.: Though it does make a
useful rhyme for “selves,” you’re not
really likely to get the ypung lady to
believe there are elves in that cave
under the willows P.S.: Some
feeling in “Spinifex.” Read some of
this century’s poetry... .J. 8.: There’s
hope for you if you are young.
Otherwise you’d better wait for your
next incarnation... .H.H.A.; “Some-
times 1 think my effort reads all right,
and then again sometimes 1 have
grave doubts.” No doubt Keats felt
the same about the “Ode to a
Nightingale”; but your effort, alas,
is only all right in spots Anono-
mouse: The cat got it P.C.: “Aus-
tralia” has several quite good lines,
which is more than can be said of
most patriotic poems.. . .M.C.: Not
enough cement in “Sands of Sorrow”
A.B.S.: Too much pastry round
“Mrs. Lovett’s Pies” R.F.:
“Dough Dream” suffers from the un-
real complexity of its title C.1.D.:
Lottery stories have just about that
much chance... .E.M.: Most stories
about painting fail because they insist
on putting a literary significance into
the picture A.M.: The surprise
ending was like learning that there
would be no dinner tonight W.R.:
Afraid that droving story is a little
out of date... .D.M.: You have
added three old stories together—
the repulsive fat woman, the lost ring,
and the snake, without making a new
one W.D.: Thinner than the abos.
H.H.B.: Those old divining-rods,
those illegal possum-skinners..,.
E.T.: You have managed to ex-
tract all the surprise from the story
of the valuable painting discovered in
the old farm-house, and to leave the
bare walls of a dilapidated and evacu-
ated anecdote .... C.M.: Reading
stories we see so many old prospec-
tors die lonely deaths we’ve become
hardened to it R.S.: “Curried
Chook” not our dish
Afraid not J. 8.: Ingenious, but
too tall for us P.H.: Try a
women’s paper G.1.L.: Songster
doesn’t quite come alive L.H.:
The situations*you invent! You should
be in the Government Labor Bureau.
. ...J.E.G.: “What’s In a Name?”
Well, now, if yours were Conan
Doyie J.P.: Believe “Cabin 97”
strayed into us by mistake.


INTERNATIONAL HAR VESTER BUILD ER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
Hn
1
%S, r uj*
Ss^.
9/A
A
m
"IW
Sf!
rs
*
Sfe
2S??V
Mar
is:
Power that speeds development
Australia’s continued progress and
security depend upon the speedy
completion of vital industrial and
developmental projects. More land
for food production . . . water for
irrigation of land now desert . . .
electricity for power-starved industry
and the further electrification of
rural areas . . . these are essentials
to security.
Every development programme starts
as a land-clearing or earth-moving
project; that is why International
crawler tractors, power units and
matched industrial equipment are
always first on the job doing the
rough, tough, preliminary work on
every conceivable type of project.
Whether it is an excavation for a
single dwelling, the construction of
a major dam or the clearing and
reclaiming of thousands of acres,
International Industrial Power is
ready to handle essential work any-
where.
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
I.S.A.S. Distributors in all Capital Cities.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
KM
1338-24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerator*
International Industrial Power
" Phenovis” Worm Remedy
•55=
X
r
/
.../'//waft
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND HEW ZEALAND LIMITED
■ PHE.7.X.18-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Myxomatosis Spreads.
“C.S.”: The situation is de-
veloping so rapidly that a local
report is apt to be out of date
within a week. There are sub-
stantial areas from which no
reports have been received, and
in some of them (e.g., coastal
N.S.W.) it is likely that myxoma-
tosis has started to move.
Apparently no developments
have yet occurred in West Aus-
tralia, apart from an encourag-
ing though restricted spread in
the Geraldton area. Drought
conditions have up till now kept
the disease extremely quiet in
northern N.S.W. and Queens-
land.
In Victoria there is widespread
activity, and most districts are
reporting substantial areas in
which 90 per cent, or better kills
of rabbits have been obtained.
The disease is now killing well
in many districts that were
hardly, if at all, affected last
summer. Thus a widespread
outbreak has occurred embrac-
ing Bacchus Marsh and extend-
ing eastward. Myxomatosis is
reported to be working well in
the Mallee.
Last season, in south-east
South Australia, there were a
few localised useful kills around
the Murray Lakes and along the
Murray River frontage. Now a
belt of country about 150 miles
long and 10 to 20 or more miles
wide, stretching from the eastern
edge of the Adelaide hills down
the coast to about El Cantara is
benefiting by extensive kills of
up to 90 per cent, or more. The
disease is spreading steadily
south-east along the coastal belt
towards Victoria. Inland of this
continuously affected belt are
substantial areas in which useful
kills have been achieved or are
building up.
In southern N.S.W. the disease
appears to be active along every
waterway of the Murray system ;
and it is in this region that some
of the most marked and spec-
tacular extensions of the disease
beyond the limits reached last
season have occurred. Thus last
summer the performance of
myxomatosis downstream from
Swan Hill was very patchy, and
such good kills as occurred
were confined to the actual
frontage country. The situation
now is that large properties,
extending many miles back from
the rivers, have been virtually
cleared of rabbits, and the
disease is still spreading.
Small Cattle.
“E. & 0.E.”: Small breeds of
cattle are attracting attention in
England. One breeder of Dex-
ters claims to be able to keep
five Dexter cows on what would
be necessary to feed three
Jerseys.
Dexters are long-lived, very
hardy, and flourish on poor land.
So omnivorous is their grazing
that they will thrive on grass
usually considered fit only for
sheep. They will even graze
down such rough foods as
thistles and nettles.
Dexters came originally from
Ireland —a mountain breed de-
veloped by small holders. They
are the smallest cattle bred in
Britain, the shortness of the legs
between knee and fetlock being
particularly noticeable. The
cows average 6501 b. in weight.
The milk yield is good, though
they are essentially dual-purpose
cattle, developing quickly and
breeding regularly. The steers
provide good beef in small joints,
now preferred by butchers in this
small-family era.
A small, hardy, quick-matur-
ing breed of good milkers (the
“ Korea, eh? Did you get anywhere near Arminteers?”
mi] k being considered particu-
larl Y sutiable for children) may
J? ave possibilities for mixed
arms Australia.
Crows and Wedgies.
“Lex”: During our recent
oat harvest we had to leave 40
bags of oats, stitched, in a pad-
dock for two days. Noticed the
crows very active around the
bags, but pressure of harvest in
another paddock prevented pre-
ventive measures. When we
picked up the oats 18 of the 40
bags were so badly holed in
three to six places that it was
impossible to lift them. Old-
timers in this north-western
N.S.W. district spoke of similar
experiences this season.
Stock - inspectors throughout
the north-west have, with the
co-operation of farmers, been
spreading the myxomatosis virus
among rabbits. Because of
drought conditions the spread of
the disease has been from slow
to nil. In areas where there has
been a reasonable spread, crows
are killing-off the sickly infected
rabbits, thus shortening their
effectiveness as “carriers.”
There is some merit in the
move to protect the wedge-tailed
eagle. I’ve made a pretty close
study of these birds during the
past 12 months, and am firmly
convinced that the wedgie is not
a menace to lambs. I saw a
wedgie with a lamb, but I’d seen
that lamb killed by crows a day
earlier. From my study I’d say
the wedgie is an important
destroyer of carrion and rodents,
and its destruction could
boomerang on landmen.
Santa Gertrudis Cattle.
“Oxo”: Proposed introduc-
tion into Queensland of the
American hybrid, Santa Ger-
trudis, prompted the Shorthorn
Society of Australia to issue the
warning that, at a time when the
beef industry is on verge of vast
expansion, introduction of an
extreme outcross breed is not
only unnecessary but would
result in serious consequences
by lowering the standards of
Australian herds and the quality
of beef.
Claims made for the hybrids
called for an impartial opinion
before they were accepted in
Australia, While cattle-breeders
had long recognised the greater
beef weight in the first-cross
progeny, they had also noted the
futility of carrying on the breed-
mg by mating the crossbred
progeny with each other, and it
was not difficult to visualise the
conglomeration of types of
mongrel cattle which matings of
crossbred progeny would
eventually produce.
The society admits that the
pure Brahman has immunity to
fly and tick, and that it* has size
and hardiness in its favor, but
all these diminish with cross-
breeding.
On the contra side, there was
a conformation which was lack-
ing in beef where the best cuts
should be, and a beef quality
that was markedly inferior to
that of British breeds. The in-
herent wildness of the breed was
not conducive to quick fatten-
ing on large areas or mustering
in the wide unfenced areas of
the Gulf and Northern Territory.
Though the Santa Gertrudis
had a few desirable qualities
from the “up - north” angle,
it was claimed that British
breeds had been environmentally
endowed with these same
requisites, as the Shorthorn had
been adapting itself to the
Northern Territory and the Gulf
country for more years than the
whole history of the Santa
Gertrudis. The herds of the
north still called for a general
rise in standard, said the
society, but it was an urgent call
for high-class sires in greater
numbers —a call for purebreds of
British breeds produced in Aus-
tralia and typed for Australian
conditions.
Pneumonia in Pigs.
“Will C.”: An outbreak indi-
cates neglect in the piggery.
Cold draughts, damp quarters,
worm-infestation and bad feed-
ing all reduce the resistance of
pigs to the disease. The virus
rarely troubles comfortable and
well-fed stock, though it will be
found wherever pigs are kept.
Once the coughing, snuffling
and high-fever symptoms start
very little can be done for the
victims. Only immediate isola-
tion of sick pigs and removal of
their healthy fellows to different
quarters will stop a general out-
break. The virus contaminates
the ground and grows more
deadly after it has caused
pneumonia.
South Aust. Pastures.
“Mouton”: The improve-
ments that have been made in
the last 10 years are really re-
markable, especially in the better-
rainfall districts like the south-
east and the Adelaide Hills;
although it is not by any means
confined to these districts.
The work has not always been
done in the most economical
way, though agricultural experts
have stressed the importance of
economical management after
pastures have been established.
Proper preparation of the soil
at first can often save the
expense of having, after the first
few years, to plough and pre-
pare the land and sow a second
time. This is important, because
small pasture-seed is very expen-
sive, Strawberry-clover seed was
bringing up to £2 per lb. last


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*Dlc- €a£ ■ (M.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O, Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOKE
VANG KNELL A ESTATE
This is the blood
that will make
YOUR FLOCK FAMOUS
*
for full particulars write
F. S. FAIiKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N.S.W.
AIDING AUSTRALIA'S ADVANCE
No. 1 of a Series.
W
m
s*m
**»*
A million miles
of
linen thread
More than 1,000,000 miles of
linen thread . . . most of it used
in Army boots, clothing, web
equipment, tents and parachutes
vital to Australia’s defence!
This is but a portion of the
productive capacity of Messrs.
Frank & Bryce Bentley Pty.
Ltd., whose large factory at
Marrickville, N.S.W., is kept in
constant operation, despite
power restrictions, by Mirrlees
Diesel engines installed by
BOEAUST.
The illustration shows two Mirflees TLB 6 Diesel engines direct
coupled to Alternators giving a total output 430 kW at 600 r.p.m.
in the power-house of Frank & Bryce Bentley Pty. Ltd.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St.. Sydney. 368 Collins St., Melbourne. Distributors in all State*.
('national]
Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group—now producing
the largest number of industrial diesel engines in the world.
season, therefore a second sow-
ing means unnecessary expense.
The land should be properly
graded before sowing, as this
enables the landholder to cut
meadow - hay and conserve
fodder for the lean periods ; an
important factor in pasture-
management, as it enables one
to carry more stock and so keep
up with milk and meat supplies.
Care must be taken to select
the correct varieties of pastures
sown. The aim should be to get
an early annual grass to provide
early feed for the stock, at least
two varieties of perennials, such
as rye-grass or phalaris, and two
leguminous ones, such as straw-
berry-clover and black medic.
These appear to be the best in
good-rainfall areas. Where the
rainfall is not too good substi-
tute annuals such as sub-clover
and annual rye-grass. There are
other clovers and grasses, and
farmers have their likes and dis-
likes, but the main object should
be to develop a pasture that will
improve production by enabling
one to carry more stock on a
given area.
Safflower.
“Agric”: Dr. B. Horowitz,
of the C.5.1.R.0., forecasts that
safflower—the ancient oil crop
of Egypt and India—will be as
familiar to Australian farmers
within a few years as linseed is
today.
In the U.S.A. it spread from
10,000 acres in 1947 to 250,000
acres in 1950, and good judges
believe there will be a similar
swing in Australia. Yields at the
Waite Institute have ranged up
to 26251 b. of seed, containing
8741 b. of oil, per acre. Yields
of 600-7001 b, of seed per acre
have been obtained in South
Australia under a 16in. rainfall
and up to 12001 b. per acre in a
20in. rainfall.
The safflower seed yields a
high proportion of valuable
semi-drying oil with industrial
uses ranging from the making of
soaps, paints and plastics to
foodstuffs for humans, and the
plant flourishes under a far
wider range of climatic condi-
tions than linseed—from irri-
gated areas, through mixed-
farming higher-rainfall districts
to semi-arid areas. Australian
scientists have now adapted
varieties to Australian condi-
tions, and the crop can be
harvested with orthodox wheat-
harvesting machines.
Pit Silage.
“Hortus” : P. Wilkinson
(Springfield, N.S.W.) created an
asset valued at £5OOO by a small
outlay of £4OO, spent on excavat-
ing and filling a pit-silo with 800
tons of pea-vine residue. The
pit measured 125 ft. by 25ft. by
10yft. deep. Tumut-area pea-
acreage could easily supply
many tons of this silage, so
valuable as feed for dairy cows
and other livestock. Fed with
grain and pasture-hay, it is a
cheap well-balanced ration for
both supplementary and drought
feeding.
A pit-silo must be in non-
porous soil, above flood-level
and handy to milking and feed-
ing yards. Some prefer 100-ton
pits. Such a pit would measure
roughly 60ft. by 21ft. by 9ft.,
and would feed about 1000
sheep for two months.
It’s a good thing to make pits
in pairs, as one may be settling
whilst the other is being filled.
When a pit has been filled up to
ground-level or slightly above it
allow to settle for about two
days. Then build up again to
about 4ft. above the surface and
allow to settle again. A well-
filled pit, a few weeks after
filling, will show just as a small
mound.
After final settling of silage
material in pit, scoop earth
straight on to top of green-
stuff. About 9in. of a foot deep
is all that is necessary.
The grassfires this season have
wiped out pastures, haystacks
and grain in sheds. Fodder
stored in pits is impervious to
fire.
Flying Sheep.
“R.N.”: A “pilot” load of 150
Corriedale ewes and rams will
be flown from Griffith (N.S.W.)
to Lydda (Palestine) on March
1, as a gift to the Israeli Gov-
ernment by Dr. S. Goldberg, the
breeder.
The sheep will be used as
foundation stock for a Govern-
ment flock in Palestine.
Hormone Weed-killers.
“Inver J.”: They’re a valu-
able adjunct to cultivation, but
as crops show different degrees
of tolerance to hormones, a
knowledge of these tolerances is
most necessary before hormones
are used.
Most cereals and grasses are
resistant, while linseed, potatoes
and peas are moderately re-
sistant. Linseed should not be
treated until the crop is over
3in. high. Most potato varieties
show damage, but recover later.
Peas should be treated when
past the four-node stage, and
then only with a light applica-
tion. Susceptible crops are
turnips, rape and pumpkins.
Hormone weedicides should not
be applied to them.
The killers used are M.C.P.A.
and 2,4-D types. The M-C.P.A.
types and salts of 2,4-D are
more selective than the amines
and esters of 2,4-D, and hence
do less damage to crops. How-
ever, they control fewer weed
species. The amine salt of
2,4-D is widely used for the
resistant crops. An oil-based
ester of 2,4-D should never be
used, as the crop-damage which
follows will be severe in most
cases.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Green-manure
crops in orchards should be
sown in autumn. The best are
vigorous-growing legumes such
as tick-beans or lupins. Sow
with 2cwt. of super, per acre.
In acid soils add two tons of
ground limestone per acre. Sow
after the first substantial rains.
Where a cereal such as oats is
used with tares lewt. of sulphate
of ammonia, plus the super., will
be necessary.
“Sari”: Every young horse
should be trained to allow its
feet to be lifted for examination.
Endless trouble in shoeing will be
avoided. Little can be done for
any foot trouble when the nag
gets nasty if the affected limb is
even touched.
“Mrs. A.”: Now is the time to
plant geraniums. Select strong
woody cuttings from a healthy
plant, allow them to lie for a day
or so, then plant. Apply water
daily and soon the plants will
strike. The ivy geranium—a non-
climber, with deep rose-pink
flowers—blooms for nine months
out of 12 and is very hardy.
“W.C.Q.”: To beat red-spider
on strawberry and similar crops
dust the plants with fine sulphur
and hydrated lime in equal parts.
Lime-sulphur is the best specific
for tomato-mite, a parasite that
destroys tomato plants at the
flowering stage. Often wilt is
suspected when the real trouble
is mite.
“Wilco”: When the kerosene-
lamp wick has grown too short
to reach the oil sew a length of
felt from an old hat on to its
lower end. An entire wick of
felt is not recommended, be-
cause it is apt to jamb and ruin
the wick mechanism.
“C.A.A.”; Regular attention
to tomatoes will Improve the
crop. Remove all surplus growth
and see that the plants are tied
up, but not too lightly. Tying
every lOin. will protect plants
against high winds. Hoe regu-
larly. Don’t force with manures,
but regular applications of liquid
manure after watering helps.
“Metax”: A Tasmanian
cannery is not among those pray-
ing for every bunny in the State
to be bitten by myxomatosis
mosquitoes. Last year the firm
canned around a million rabbits,
and this season a similar figure
is expected. New plant has been
installed to treat the skins.
Myxomatosis has reached Tas-
mania in spite of a Government
decreeifffcMit The MnWI
coast), many cases have fob
lowed and offlcal tests confirm
the advent.


ALL OVER THE WORLD
Good mornings begin with
Gillette
Though the Eskimo lives in the cold
all his days,
For Blue Gillette shaving there’s
warmth in his praise.
He knows when he’s using the sharpest
edge made.
Gillette is the name for both razor
and blade.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
jfyeSk&ai
5-BLADE PACKETS, S/S
10-BLADE PACKETS. 4/6
20-BLADE DISPENSER. 9/-
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
2/162
Elements of an Industry ...
X
Wa
'4-x,
In daily speech the word “element” is too often used wrongly or
carelessly. “The elements” suggest “the weather,” and “elementary”
something easy or simple. To men of science, however, an element
describes any substance that cannot be split up into a simpler one by
ordinary chemical methods. A dictionary definition is that an
element is “the simplest constituent known of all compound sub-
stances.” This recognition is based on a theory first propounded by
Robert Boyle, a British chemist, in 1661, In all nature there are
only ninety-three of these “Elements.” From these are built up
every single thing we eat or use or see. The function of the chemical
industry is to discover how to separate elements which in nature
exist in a combined form, to find out how they can be made to
combine into substances useful to man, and then to evolve methods
of making them do so “to order” on a commercial scale.
The degree of success which this great industry has attained may be
judged from the fact that Imperial Chemical Industries alone uses
50 or so of the elements known to science to make no fewer than
12,000 different products.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /j£j\
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD. {aSjJ
Lit. 8.14
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
—nn
«■;
I
*
233 »
iHil
m
mmv.:
'it I [ini) ■■®'*
' • * ‘ i >'
S 3 S
...il
•:« a m »*•"
W
I nm
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONEY RATES;
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Doable Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLEr
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
respect for terrain and his con-
ventions about holding the fort
and the disgrace of retreat.
Comrade Ah Saam Kwun has
no nasty pride in battle and no
delusions about the value of
ground. As the Chinese will
trot 30 miles in a night to buy
a fight, so they will also, it
seems, with equal willingness,
trot 30 miles to get out of one
in the interest of matiriel. The
fact that they have taken a hill
does not mean to them that for
the honor of China and the glory
of the flag of Mao they must
hold on to it at any cost. They
did not come to the hill merely
to take a hummock. There were
plenty more like it behind
them if they had wanted hills.
What they came for was
to surprise and embarrass the
Americans as they sat round
their well-warmed crap-game
drinking beer with turkey sand-
wiches and reminiscing about
Mamie and Dinah.
Having accomplished that
objective, and having left a lot
of dead and wounded Americans
behind, plus probably four times
as many of their own dead, who
can be well spared since (like the
hills) there are plenty more at
home, they often ask themselves
whether it is worth while stay-
ing there to be shelled. And
like sensible men they turn
round and go home. The
U.N.O. allies know all too well
the feeling of the morning-after
when one has been pounding a
position to pieces believing it to
be full of shivering Chinks only
to find with a red and smoky
dawn that there isn’t a Chink
within miles.
Another advantage of the
enemy is that the ant-like quality
qf the Asiatic makes him a
natural swarmer. There is some-
thing agglutinative about his
make-up which seems to give
him a group-will and a group>-
intelligence which responds
tenaciously to outside stimulus,
but not to the dictates of his
own individual reason or to a
sense of danger.
In labor as in battle, the
Chinese has an extraordinary
adaptability as a swarm. His
building of air-strips is a case
in point. At Saam-Shun, in
MIG Alley, he laid down,
within 30 days, a paved runway
for aircraft nearly 6000yds.
long. He did this without bull-
dozers or other earth-moving
equipment. The strip was
equipped with bays, all neces-
sary bunkers and trench de-
fences. It apparently was built
as the pyramids were built.
The cement and standings
were carried by hordes of human
ants, aided by a limited number
of trucks and small carts. Then
gangs of about 20 men —hun-
dreds of gangs—were set out
each night along the line of
construction, each charged with
the job of laying a square yard
or so of cement. And each
morning the U.S. Air Force
gasped as it viewed the utterly
staggering cumulative result.
When the U.S. Air Force, to
signalise its disapproval, roamed
up and down over the runway
and made neat holes for its
whole length with 1001 b. bombs,
the heathen Chinese scarcely
paused to heave a sigh. He
started the same night with in-
credible industry to fill them up
again, and he does it as often
as the Americans like to play.
Comparative Standards
Lastly, among the Chinese
Army’s advantages it must be
recorded that fighting is its first
consideration, and overrides all
others. In the U.S. and other
European Armies an increasing
amount of effort and manpower
is being diverted to comforts and
amenities and mechanised aids.
This luxury and superfluous
equipment which the Chinese
have no use for eat up
thousands of vehicles and air-
craft loads and calls for untold
labor on the Allied side. The
Chinese need literally millions of
tons less food and amenities than
a U.S. Army would need for a
year’s campaigning.
The 37 or so men who are
used merely to prepare food in
an American rifle company of
round 156 have other uses on
the Chinese side. The question
whether two-wheel-drive vehicles
are of any use on Korean roads,
too, does not arise very much
with the Chinese soldiery, be-
cause in moments of emergency
they can be their own vehicles,
and they all have the only drive
known to nature which can beat
any mud.
It is doubtful whether the
Chinese division slice for a fight-
ing division of 10,000 is even
double the fighting number;
while the division slice of a
division of round 15,000-16,000
U.S. fighting-men is in the
region of 45,000 —and growing
every time anybody thinks of
something fresh to make war
safer and more popular.
The result can be readily
judged from the statistics of
World War 11. The mobilisa-
tion of 7,700,000 men for the
U.S. Army at the peak even in
those parsimonious times did
not make it possible to keep
95 divisions, some much
under 15,000 in strength,
going in the field. The
relation of actual fighting com-
batants to the rest of modern
armies can be seen from the
fact that while the infantry com-
prised only 20.5 per cent, of total
U.S. strength overseas it suffered
70 per cent, of the total
casualties.
Even though the Chinese
Army is becoming modernised
in Korea it is becoming modern-
ised with a strong difference. Its
modernisation is strictly utili-
tarian. It strives after none of
the democratic appeasement of
the soldier and tender care of
the moral, political and
stomachic comfort which Com-
munist propaganda has been
largely responsible for teaching
an absorbent Western Press and
political world that the demo-
crat warrior is entitled to.
It still applies its discipline
with a strong hand, and there is
none of the silly tenderness of
outlook which balks at calling
soldiers “privates” or “men” lest
they should feel that they were
not as good as their officers.
They are just plain gun-fodder.
And with all their artillery
divisions and their fine new ack-
ack defence the Chinese and
Russians do not combine effici-
ency with elaboration. Where a
gun needs to be a precision
instrument, as with fast-firing
m.gs. and, say, the 57 mm. anti-
tank gun, or the MIG then it
is made to precision standards.
But simplicity is generally their
guide. So long as a thing works
and will kill a man they are for
it. If it is so crude and unsafe
that it occasionally blows back
and kills one of their own they
do not care. Their burp-gun is
about as crude as possible, but
it costs next to nothing to pro-
duce in time and money, and it
kills very effectively. Their
rifles are roughly made, but they
shoot. In transport they don’t
give a tinker’s curse if the
cardan-shaft flaps about like a
tin-fish or the differential sounds
like a concrete-mixer. So long
as the thing goes and makes the
wheels turn it can sound like a
galvanised-iron tank with a band
in it for all they care, an attitude
which saves them a lot of
trouble in cold-weather lubrica-
tion problems which beset the
meticulous U.N.O. allies with
their sewing-machine standards.
Pattern for New Wars
All this gives a glimpse of the
Chinese and Russian capacity for
war. It is crude, raw and primi-
tive, teeming as to numbers, but
effective whenever it has the
reach to strike.
If it comes to world conflict
with these Powers it will be
marked by features absent from
what is normally known as civi-
lised war. There will be a great
deal of mechanised and air
movement of a kind and for
purposes hitherto only known in
isolated instances among enemies
of the English-speaking democ-
racies. And these operations
will produce nasty surprises at
the receiving end. It will be a
war in which the object will be
to sacrifice boldly huge quanti-
ties of Russian and satellite gun-
fodder with the objective of
making the civilised enemy sacri-
fice smaller, but in view of his
lighter potential, men sufficient
to procure their defeat. The
far-flung guerrilla will be in
evidence.
Any European nation might
hesitate to drop a brigade of
parachutists to destroy a well-
defended Newcastle if it knew
for a certainty that none of them
had a chance of coming back
and only some chance of getting
there. But this won’t worry an
Asiatic enemy. His war will be a
new kind of war by the
standards of World War II —the
war of the swarming ants.
And as Korea has been a
pilot-plant to show the Western
nations the nature of Asiatic
Communist war, so it has also
been a pilot-plant to prove how
costly this type of war can be
when waged against primitive
people who have no care what-
ever for human life.
In the Pacific war, in which
the Americans insist that they
did 90 per cent, of the fighting
(though there is some difference
of opinion about that), there
were three American armies en-
gaged, with 25 American army
divisions, apart from Marines
and the U.S. Navy. In three
years and nine months, accord-
ing to the U.S. Chief-of-Staffs
report, “the price of victory in
the Pacific was 170,596, includ-
ing 41,322 dead,” these losses
being inflicted by an enemy who,
according to U.S. official figures,
suffered 1,500,464 casualties,
including 1,219,000 battle dead,
of which 1,000,000 were killed
in American fighting zones.
In the Korean war until
recently the Americans never
had more than six U.N.O. divi-
sions ; for the earliest three or
four months only two or three
divisions. To these were added
less than a dozen South Korean
divisions. But the total American
casualties in 19 months have
been over 100,000. Australia
has yet to realise the signi-
ficance of that lesson to a
country which is still thinking of
defence in terms of tens of
thousands of men.


4% 3&AIIBRITISH
•tes
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING i
c
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
“World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
CINZANO
d
fd
fd
Sweet)
or
Dry
■7°%>
Armchair Motor
Pullman Tours
of Europe
See Europe the easy way—in
superlative comfort. Choose one of
the LUXURY LAND CRUISES
which guarantee leisurely, trouble-
free travel, an 4 visit the historic
and beautiful places you have read
about.
The ITALIAN LAKES, SPAIN,
SOME, The DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL,
RHINE, SCANDINAVIA, YUGO-
SLAVIA (7 Countries Land
Cruise) and SWITZERLAND.
You are advised to make your reser-
vations before arriving in the V.K.
Cablegrams: Imbelgrip, London
LUXURY LAND CRUISES
LTD.,
Princes House, 39 Jermyn Street,
London, S.W.I, England.
Phone: REGent 4580 & 5341.
ku? mom
SANDERS
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed In the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.
and tmr-
Ui«r informAtloa
*p«« applicants
Public Notices.
I, SZYMON MAHLER, known as SIMON
DAVID MAHLER, of Polish nationality,
bom at Brzyscie, Poland, resident 5 years
in Australia, now residing at 18 Imperial
Avenue, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, FRANOISZKA MAHLER, known as
FRANCES MAHLER, of Polish nation-
ality, bom at Zglobien, Poland, resident
5 years in Australia, now residing at 18
Imperial Avenue, Bondi, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation undet the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — lif Divorce.
TO PATRICK JAMES NEWMAN Respon-
dent late of 32 Emmanuel Street Mile
End Portsmouth Hampshire England.—
A Petition for Divorce has been filed
against you Upon an application by
letter to the District Registrar
Southampton District Registry Castle
Square Southampton a copy of the Peti-
tion will be sent If within one month
hereafter no application has been made
nor appearance entered the Court may
hear the Petition and pronounce judg-
ment. —H. H. PAYNE, District Registrar.
Missing Friend.
WOULD JESSIE F. GOER, otherwise
known as JESSIE F. DOILE, formerly of
Wellington, New Zealand, married woman,
or anyone knowing her whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the under-
signed reference. Estate of the Late
Frederick Evans, deceased.—DUGDALE,
SIMMONS & STEVENS, of 486 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
Don Y
IN YOUR OWN HOME ALL THIS SUMMER
INSULATE
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOL
Enjoy year-round comfort. In sum-
mer rooms stay up to 15° cooler
than hot outdoors ... in winter—
warmer and draught free!
Send to your local Bradford Howe Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and how
you ‘ should insulate your home with B.I. Home Insulation.
N.S.W.: Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
8.1.3 T
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q'land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace,
Adelaide
WEST. AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
10 Elizabeth Street, Fremantle
MORE HORSEPOWER
for Faster Cutting
OMOBILCOO
w
You will cut more timber and cut it
faster with MOBILCO-Be-Bo light-
weight one man Chain Saw
This little machine of 38ibs. weight is ideal for hilly country or in thick
scrub. It starts in a flash and the new specially designed chain gives top
performance on Australian hardwood. Mobilco-Be-Bo is a one man
Chain Saw that will fell and cross-cut trees of up to 3 feet 3 inches in
diameter. Its sturdy construction an v d reliable day after day perform-
ance is all that could be desired for the man who wants to fell timber,
and fell it quickly.
SEE the advantages of Mobilco-Be-Bo
5 b.h.p. engine for faster cutting • Light weight—only 38lbs. wherever
you can walk you can carry your Mobilco-Be-Bo • Idler Sprocket to
sr
carry chain round end of blade—reduces wear on
guides, enables the end of the chain to be buried
deep into a log without loss of performance •
Porous Bronze Air Filter—easily replaceable, ab-
solutely dust-proof • Removable Cylinder Head
and Cylinder Sleeve, for quick and easy maintenance
and renewal • Only the Saw blade turns from felling
to cross-cutting position. Engine does not have
to be turned but remains in its normal running
position • Rewind Starter quick acting,
automatic return —no winding ropes round pulleys
• Swedish steel chain for high performance and long
life • Finger-tip chain oiler and trigger grip throttle
for quick easy operation • Engine and gear box are
enclosed In one rugged lightweight casting for greater
strength with less weight • Deeply serrated forward
edge grips Into bark of tree, taking most of the weight
off the operator’s arms while cutting
Your Mobi/co-Be-Bo comes to you in specially fitted
timber carrying case in which the machine can be
stored “blade on” when not In use. Demand is
naturally heavy so write TODAY for further details.
LOW DEPOSIT - EASY TERMS
All Mobile© machines and attachments may be
purchased on the easiest of terms. A moderate
deposit is payable and small monthly payments
complete the purchase. Buy your Mobjlco now,
and meet the monthly payments out of increased
earnings.
f
MC2324
Write now to
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria
Central 4799, Central 1027. Telegrams, Mobilco, Melbourne.
Sydney Factory Representative:
B. H. Sivertsen, 47 South Parade, Campsie. ’Phone, L.F 4209. After hours, XY 1783.
Inflation Concerns
Everyone
Do you carry life insurance?
Own Government bonds? A
savings bank account? Share
in social security benefits?
In February Reader’s Digest,
Samuel B. Pettengill, former
U.S. Congressman, tells how
inflation is robbing the average
person of his savings—why in-
flation hurts every taxpayer
and wage-earner and shows
seven ways it can be fought.
The position in U.S. has many
parallels in Australia. Here
is an expert’s view of where
these dangerous trends are
leading the world today.
Get your February Reader’s
Digest today with the new
natural color photographic
cover. One shilling and six-
pence—at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
batsman has him, the experi-
ence of scores of landings con-
centrated in the definite move-
ments of his bats. The Fury is
right above the stern. The whole
ship waits. The batsman cuts
his hands sharply to his knees
in front of him. Cut engine!
The roar dies instantly. The
plane drops, lifts its nose, flicks
its tail down. Misses the first
wire, over the second, catches
the third. In a flash the taut
wire lengthens as it is hauled out.
The plane sways, leaps, thumps
on the deck, pitches forward —
and the next second is still.
From 90 knots to a standstill in
160 ft.
At once two men run out,
kneel against the slipstream,
grapple to disengage the hook.
Watching, your attention is
caught by another black shape
lining-up astern. Hurry! A
clang, and the barriers drop to
the deck. The other Fury is
round now, coming in. The
batsman has him. The direc-
tors haye the landed plane ; call
him on. He revs-up, runs ahead
clear of the arrester-wire, which
hurtles back into position. The
oncoming Fury looms up, a giant
dragon-fly. The other taxies
forward towards the bow —and
snags its improperly-housed hook
on the last arrester-wire. It
drags to a stop, God! It can’t
possibly be freed in time. You
want to shout, but are restrained
by the uselessness of it in the
drumming roar of engines, and
by the nonchalance of those
around you. Then, when it
seems the other Fury must
touch-down and smash into the
hooked plane, a Verey light soars
up from beside the batsman. He
crosses his arms in a wave-off,
the landing Fury opens his
throttle, roars safely over the
bridge, and you let go of the
lookout’s seat you’ve been
throttling.
Afterwards you find that there
are several men with the bats-
man. One of them, constantly
looking forward past the bats-
man’s back, warns him of any
hitch. The batsman waves-off
at once, and questions after-
wards. Also watching, of course,
was Flyco, who knows a wrinkle
or two —his recent job was test-
ing the jet Attacker aircraft
which will form carrier Eagle’s
brood when she goes into
service. He pressed the button
which fired the Verey pistol by
remote-control.
There is no hitch next time.
The next Fury comes in, cuts,
swoops, catches and jerks to a
stop. The breathless sequence
goes on, and though the actual
time taken to take-off, land,
refuel and take-off again in
action is secret you can take it
that it’s very fast indeed.
After lunch the routine starts
again. This time it will be free
take-offs, an “ordinary” run
right down the flight-deck. The
catapult is used mainly when a
full range of aircraft is waiting
on deck, leaving insufficient
length to get airborne.
This time each of two Fire-
flies (the bombers of Korea) is
to take-off and land, be imme-
diately run back aft, and take-
off again, while the next is lining-
up to land. It will be apparent
that there will be no loitering.
They roar down the deck and
lift gracefully off the bow;
circle and land without
incident. It goes on, four land-
ings for each. Repetition dulls
interest; the miracle does not
seem so difficult, nor dangerous,
after all. Till, on its last run, a
Firefly comes in. He is too
high. Directly below us waits
the first barrier. The bat-winged
shape hurtles along, over half
the wires, fails to catch. He’s
headed in a roaring rush for
the steel net. At the last moment
his hook clutches the tenth wire.
It runs out, heaves to a stop.
The plane’s nose jerks down,
still, a scant few feet from the
waiting steel. His wheels had
come close to polishing the
plate marking the spot where the
Japanese South-Eastern Army
was surrendered to General
Sturdee. Next time he catches
the first wire.
It’s all over —till the next
practice on the way up to
Korea. Thought of Korea
prompts another thought; these
boys (literally) have an intent
interest in perfecting their fly-
ing. On the speed of their take-
offs and landing may depend the
lives of scores of U.N. infantry-
men, waiting for their close
support with rockets and bombs.
Another thought—not only have
these fresh-faced pilots to brave
what Communists can throw at
them in the way of ground-fire,
but always, in the back of their
minds, dwells the thought of that
landing, that split-second gamble
with luck and skill. They would,
of course, such is their calibre,
laugh in your face if you men-
tioned either thought.
We leave in the motorboat at
midnight, back to shore at
Jervis Bay. As the bulging stern
recedes, the motorboat curtsey-
ing in a bit of a lop, you sight
half a dozen Furies snugged
down on top. You remember a
respectful remark passed by a
deck-officer at dinner;
“Only birds and bloody fools
fly, and only suckers go to sea.
When they do both”
When they do both, they get
an extra 12-bob a day.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Element of Risk
It has become commonplace to read
of some section of industry
claiming a “fixed price”—a standardised
return and the removal of fluctuation in
profits. In fact that isn’t regarded as at
all strange, but in reality that
attitude is the great-grandfather of all
plans and planned economy from which
we are now suffering.
A man is faced with two alternatives
in life: to work for himself or for some-
one else. In the past, general conditions
of hired labor were not good and it was
a matter for congratulation in any man
who was able to organise his own
business or enterprise. On every count,
pretty well, he was better off, barring
only the incidence of risk.
Changing labor conditions have
brought about a complete revolution in
the social structure. The self-employer
has for years past found himself be-
wildered by the relative circumstances of
himself and his employees. The
“wage-slave” of the past now sweeps up
to work in a £lOOO sedan, has a nice
home, knocks off sharp after 40 hours,
or gets paid stiff rates extra, has all sorts
of protection against sickness, accident,
disability, etc., and has paid holidays, and
there is superannuation to look after his
distant future.
All that and no worry; no responsi-
bility and almost no risk, the only con-
cession made being his implied agreement
to take orders, and often that isn’t
observed to the letter by any means.
Small wonder then that the “master”
is puzzled when he reviews his own
circumstances. His own unremitting and
successful effort is the only factor which
produces his wages. He must not only
insure his employees against injury, but
if he wishes to safeguard himself there
is no-one else to do it for him. Any
holidays come smartly off his profits.
Superannuation can be bought, again
out of profits. Hours are meaningless—•
the job must be done.
The only concession, again, is the fact
that he doesn’t have to take anyone’s
orders. He can knock off when it suits
him, and come to work when it suits
him. How does that pan out in practice?
He is first on the job and last off, and is
the only unpaid overtime worker.
When the unpleasant fact has finally
been rammed home to the employer that,
on top of all that, he still can’t be certain
of not going broke, the inevitable result
has been a tremendous pressure by all
kinds of industry and production for the
same measure of protection enjoyed by
the wage-earner. Thus we are smothered
in subsidies, torn with tariffs, and be-
fuddled with “floor” and “ceiling”
prices.
Grimly, the fact remains that it won’t
work. You can’t have it both ways. If
you want to work for yourself you must
accept the risks. No planned economy
known to science can adjust natural
forces, as we are finding out to our
sorrow.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Not Such a Bad Programme
“Sarpedon” (B. 26/12/ ’5l) generalises
too much —the state of affairs of which
he complains by no means applies to all
schools or to all Intermediate candidates.
In several schools, when the Inter-
mediate is over, pupils enter upon fourth-
year work, that year’s fourth year auto-
matically becoming fifth year with the
departure of the Leaving Certificate
candidates to that examination. Even
where third-year pupils do not “finish,
their school year,” they have, by more
intensive study than previously, covered
the year’s work and presumably reached
the standard required by the Intermediate
Examination.
Last year the N. S. Wales Education
Department, for the first time, officially
permitted pupils to leave school after the
Intermediate to go straight into jobs.
That concession was granted because of
the shortage of workers in general and
the need for additional employees by
many firms and stores towards Christmas.
Even with that concession, however, the
majority of scholars remained at school
till the end of the school year. School
spirit alone is sufficient to keep them
there, and they do not care to miss the
interesting activities that can be fitted
into the post-examination period of the
school year—visits to factories, to the
Observatory and other places of interest,
additional reading in the school or public
libraries, sporting events, rehearsals for
the breaking-up and assisting in checking
over and “tidying” school collections and
museums.
At the end of the school year in-
vitations pour in from various bodies and
organisations requiring workers, and
groups of pupils have therefore the
opportunity of visiting institutions such
as hospitals, kindergartens or nursery-
schools. Such visits are valuable not only
educationally, but as demonstrations of
the actual work required of those who
contemplate entering upon such pro-
fessions. Too much time cannot be spent
in showing a young person just what it
will mean to take up such and such a
course.
“Sarpedon” thinks that “long holidays
are not good for girls and boys at the
‘restless age.’ ” Neither are long hours of
study. And what of the long summer
holidays of English schools or the long
University summer vacation?
If parents complain that holidays are
too long it is not because they fear loss
of time for education, but because they
cannot cope with the youngsters at home
for an extended period.
The absenteeism to which “S.” refers
“Always dress suitably for these water-on-the-knee operations."
is not a feature of the end of the year
only and is due to many causes arising
from our present-day way of living. It
can largely be checked by school
authority working in conjunction with
the homes. — School Principal (N.S.W.).
Fires
The bushfire which destroyed £lOO,OOO-
- of property at Mt. Stromlo,
near Canberra (A.C.T.), should make
taxpayers think. We know that for
months past the danger of fire has been
imminent; we know valuable property
is stored in the Observatory; we know
all the best brains in the Commonwealth
are at Canberra (under pressure those
people will admit it themselves); we also
know that any 10-year-old kid on any
station in Western Queensland would see
that dry grass was destroyed near an
inflammable property when fires
threatened.
Apart from brains, they had labor to
burn at Canberra. We read of the
desperate efforts made by men and
women to save the building. It all seems
so futile. The fact boils down to one
point: why wasn’t the property made
safe months ago? The money is nothing
' —politicians waste more than that every
day. It is the lack of efficiency which
counts.
If that Observatory was run by private
enterprise, imbued with the profit motive,
some heads would fall for that neglect.—
Vulcan (Q.).
Natives
Native missions aren’t popular any-
where in Australia, and you’ll hear it
argued, by those most affected by their
work, that they’re spoiling the natives and
making them lazy and useless to their
white “owners.” The same charges are
now being laid against a white man,
one Mr. McLeod, who has organised the
natives into a co-operative mining
venture,
I’m not holding a brief for either the
missionaries or for Mr. McLeod. But a
remarkable change has occurred in the
status of the Nor’-Westralian native over
the last few years. Previously a native
“belonged” to the station where he was
born. Hojvever competent a stockman
he was, he couldn’t leave that station to
seek employment elsewhere. No other
station would employ him. So many a
native was forced to work under almost
intolerable conditions.
Whatever the cause —and both the
missionaries and McLeod may have con-
tributed —that “ownership” no longer
applies. At “Pinki” —holiday - time —
stockmen from neighboring stations
come into the missions and state that
they are not going back to their station,
that they can get work at one of the
others.
The result is better conditions and
better pay. In some cases these benefits
are wasted. In others they may not be,
and it is those cases which the State as
a whole should be prepared to help.
Meanwhile the natives’ response to the
co-operative plan is at least healthy. The
W.A. Government says it will investigate
it, and Mr. McLeod says he’ll welcome
an investigation. Last year he predicted
that by Christmas he’d haye £48,000 in
the bank for the natives, and he’s recently
taken over another mining lease.
The station-owners’ attitude has gener-
ally been that the natives aren’t worth
saving. The missions and Mr. McLeod
seem to think they are. It remains to
be seen which view is right, but at last
a round seems to be going to the
natives. — Kelms (W.A.).
Australian Literature Slipping?
Looking over the list of books by Aus-
tralians which were published—mostly in
small editions —last year, one is forced
to observe the scarcity of novels and the
almost total absence of verse or poetry.
Usually poetry and fiction are regarded
as the high-water marks in literature. On
the other hand we have plenty of travel
and other descriptive work, such as tales
of the rivers and the tracks, and about
aborigines. All are welcome, but by no
freak of imagination can they be termed
new or original. They have all been done
before.
For example, while modern books on
the abo. are commendable, we must not
forget that about 70 years ago Ernest
Favenc wrote about the best books on
primitive abos ever published. Yet today
who ever hears of him apart from
students in the libraries? Favenc also
wrote stories of our explorers for the
schools.
On descriptive travel work long ago
E. J. Brady wrote a wonderful story of
a voyage in a boat down the Darling
and Murray —River Rovers he called it.
Wouldn’t it make good reading today?
But even before Brady, Price Waning
wrote, among other brilliant short-stories,
fine short-stories of the great rivers. He
was, in fact, the first writer to discover
them. Later Charlie Bean’s Dreadnought
of the Darling provided fine enter-
tainment. It, too, has passed away
into the ghostly place where dead
Australian books go, and from which
no one ever seems to want to
bring them back again. Even Henry
Lawson is thus neglected. Of 15 books of
short-stories which he published not one
is to be had in its original form —only
mingled in a huge omnibus. What if
that had happened to Mark Twain or
Bret Harte?
Judging by the entries in competitions,
plenty of novels are being written. Prob-
ably some are a bit rough, but if there
were a good market —as there seems to
be for every kind of overseas book,
some of which are pretty horrible—then
the Australian novelist would prosper.
Travel books are good enough, but a
fact some writers overlook is that a travel
book should be absolutely correct in the
information which it gives. That is not
always the case. One writer, some time
ago, stated that the boundary between
N. S. Wales and Victoria on the Murray
River was fixed by Sir Henry Parkes to
be right down the middle of the river.
Actually the boundary was fixed on the
southern or left-hand bank of the river
long before Sir Henry Parkes came into
office.
Plenty of similar errors occur in other
travel and descriptive books published as
accurate.
On the other hand, in a novel, as in
poetry, the imagination of the writer
carries the stories over any such short-
comings unless they are too glaring.
Much can be done in novel form to
cover the story of our nation. One or two
writers are doing this, but how soon their
efforts pass into oblivion! Who would
have thought that Louis Stone’s studies
of Sydney life in the ’nineties, Jonah and
Betty Wayside, would now be forgotten.
The bitterest thing about it all, however,
is that our novels or other books are
not on sale in Great Britain, save in a
few secluded spots. That, too, when
millions of British books are printed in
Australia—where we cannot get paper—
every year.
The novel and poetry are the hallmark
of a literature, and from all appearances
our literature is slipping badly. Scarcely
even a ballad comes forth today. Maybe
the blast that shivered the ballad out of
existence years ago did its job too well.—
Will Lawson (N.S.W.).
Work Harder
Pleas from our Prime Ministers for
harder work fall on deaf ears. In his
Budget speech of November, 1946, Mr.
Chifley said “We shall be wise, I believe,
to pursue a steady course, taking
advantage of favorable conditions as they
occur, striving for greater output in all
industries.”
Bringing down his Budget the follow-
ing year he laid particular stress on the
dollar shortage and added, “This means,
among other things, unremitting efforts
for greater production.” Broadcasting
from London in July, 1948, he pleaded
that “Hard work is not only a national
duty, but the stern responsibility of every
Australian if we are to survive.”
After returning home he went to
Cessnock (N.S.W.) in September where
he told the miners that he was ashamed
to find Sydney suffering deprivations as
bad as those of conquered Berlin. He
also told them that “Every member of
the community who fails at this stage
to do his job only cheats his fellow-
workers. Vote for whom you like, but for
God’s sake do your best for your
country.”
No visible gains came from the
“Labor” Prime Minister’s exhortations.
Neither will any come from those of Mr.
Menzies. So long as we pay workers on
a time instead of a production basis then
the root cause of go-slowism will be with
us.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Shaw
To those who knew him well, Shaw
may indeed have been “above cruelty
and unkindness” (B. 9/l/’52); he may
have been the “good, kind, gentle
creature” that Ellen Terry considered
him. But to those who know him by his
words alone he seemed capable of con-
siderable cruelty and unkindness. Much
of it was possibly unintentional, the
result of a ready wit combined with
unrelenting honesty and a love for the
limelight, but it was definitely there.
In the early days of his career he was
noted as the wittiest, most irreverent,
most self-admittedly partial critic in
London. Practically every actor, singer
and producer clamored for his blood.
He loved to rail at things that other
people respected or held sacred. Socially
he was guilty of a thousand and one
witheringly smart remarks. The number
of people who writhed with embarrass-
ment at his hands was enormous. There
was plenty of unkindness there.
Perhaps it all boils down to the fact
that his wit was his greatest gift and his
greatest temptation; his strength and his
weakness. He could never resist a sally,
regardless of who was hurt by it. It
has been said that without his wit he
would have gone to the scaffold as the
greatest revolutionary figure of modern
times.
As it was, he was an outstanding and
almost legendary personality, and the
unkindness of his words may perhaps be
forgiven by those who never forget to
look for the twinkle in the Shavian eye.
—Mac (N.S.W.),


SINCLAIR LEWIS
World So Wide
'There is wit and fun in this last offering from a master
of satire. It is kindlier than Lewis at his prime. But
definitely salty-—and, of course, superbly written.”
—The Star .
At all Booksellers HEINEMANN
FISH AND FISHERIES OF AUSTRALIA
by T. C. Roughley
Invaluable to the angler, scientist and professional fisherman. Tells all
about Australian fish, where and how to catch them, deals with big-game
angling, underwater spear-gun fishing, and every aspect of the Australian
fishing industry. Sixty colour, twenty-one black-and-white plates.
Price 50/- (post 1/3).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Now Ready
Brown and Company, the Tour in Australia
By J. H. Fingleton
Author of “Cricket Crises” “Brightly Fades the Don”
From all booksellers 16/- net
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
OUTSTANDING NEW BOOKS
THE SOUTH PACIFIC (Tales of), by James Michener.
Author of “The Fires of Spring” and “Return to Paradise. From this book
is taken the plot of the record breaking new musical comedy shortly to be
staged in Australia. 15/- (Post, Bd.)
SLAVES OF THE SON OF HEAVEN, by Roy Whitecross.
A soul-stirring account of the heroic martyrdom of the Bth Australian
Division through Burma to Japan. 16/- (Post, 6d.)
Procurable at all Booksellers or
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Phone 8L3611.
in camp routine and in small personal
likes or dislikes, with little real fear of
an outbreak, the Japs were doing every-
thing to make a novel of the most excit-
ing kind: plotting the outbreak, testing
the vigilance of the guards and allaying
their suspicions, stealing kitchen knives
and baseball bats, sharpening their knives
on the bathroom floors, delaying their
plan for a while when a new batch of
prisoners arrived from the battlefields,
and at last breaking out in a nightmare
of ferocity and desperation, to be shot
down on the wire or along the roads of
the camp, or to be rounded up in the
countryside next day, or, in many cases,
to indulge in their useful pastime of
hara kiri . . . the whole thing, seen from
within the Japanese compound, builds up
into a terrific drama of suspense, iron
discipline, desperate adventure and
tragedy.
It would, of course, be an extra-
ordinarily difficult task to attempt the
novel from that standpoint, which would
involve presenting and dramatising the
Japs as individual characters, probing
deep into the crevasses of the Oriental
mentality. Yet, on the evidence of the
novel when he does deal directly with
the Japs, such a task would not have
been beyond Mackenzie’s powers.
The first glimpse of the. Japanese comes
when the Italian prisoners see their allies
march into the camp, staring at the
“squat, ape-like and apparently sub-
normal men” with “a sort of proprietary
contempt mixed with awed disgust and
childish curiosity.” Then, quite unfor-
gettably, there is a half-witted lap who
climbs the wire of the compound to offer
a bag of buns to the Australian com-
manding officer whom he loves “as a
father”—the half-wit has been encouraged
by the other prisoners to accustom the
guards to see Japs fooling about near
the wire.
Then there is a Lieutenant Yoshiro,
excellently portrayed, who smacks the
face of an Australian officer in the hope
that he will be immediately executed for
it —disappointed of his martyrdom he
then tries to hang himself. Further light
on the Japanese mentality is thrown
throughout the novel by a Sino-Russian
interpreter, another admirably - drawn
character, who keeps insisting that an
outbreak is certain ; and after the out-
break there is a paragraph which sums
up, pictorially, everything that needs be
said about the difference between Eastern
and Western psychology:
Two headless bodies were found on tile
outer edges of the permanent way, where a
morning train had served as holy execu-
tioner; and of the Japanese retaken who
were ordered to wrap and sew the bodies
of the dead in burgundy blankets, one,
fitting head to neck, exclaimed to the staring
guards with a laugh of amused pride,
“Mai brother.” ,
But in spite of these brilliant glimpses
of the Japanese and the brief excursions
into their compound or into their minds,
the greater part of the novel is concerned
with the Australian garrison battalion —
privates, n.c.os. and officers — and we
must be content with what we have ; a
novel rather uncertain in focus and lax
in tension, held together by a slight love-
story in a lyrical vein, by the petty
manoeuvres for power and place among
the n.c.os., and by the touches of sus-
pense brought in by the warnings of the
interpreter.
The novel as a whole is slighter than
Mackenzie’s previous novels ( The Young
Desire It and Chosen People ) but remains
a fascinating piece of reading; partly
because of the unusual interest of its
theme but also because of the clear, firm
and sensitive drawing of the characters.
and because remains the
fine prose stylist he has always been,
probably the finest now writing in Aus-
tralia. He is, of course, when not writing
novels under the name of Seaforth Mac-
kenzie, the poet Kenneth Mackenzie.
A Novel of Sydney.
A novel of Sydney in the period from
the beginning of the century to 1936, Dal
Stivens’s Jimmy Brockett (Britannicus
Liber, Ltd., London) is an attempt to
portray a tycoon of the sporting and
financial worlds who promotes boxing
and wrestling matches, becomes one of
the first exhibitors of motion-pictures,
establishes a newspaper, buys and black-
mails his way into a Labor Ministry and
is driven out again by the man he has
blackmailed, and continues to make
a fortune out of a hundred different
enterprises until, tormented by his long-
ing for a son, burdened by his enormous
carcass and continually menaced by
heart-disease, he dies like some lonely
wild bull in his mansion at Elizabeth
Bay.
Apart from its merely scandalous or
sociological appeal, the book has
considerable merits in its own rights
as a work of fiction. Though the
focus is rather narrow —no character
except Brockett really amounts to any-
thing—and though there are too many
occasions when Brockett meets the very
person needed to carry on the story by
the simple device of opening his door and
walking out to the street, the novel is a
big development in the art of a writer
who has previously been known mostly
for the shortest of short-stories.
As a whole it holds together; it moves
clearly and logically through a crowded
field ; it gives a surprisingly convincing
picture of financial manipulations—at
least to a reviewer who knows nothing
about finance; there are a number of
love-affairs, vividly presented, some effec-
tive moments of domestic pathos when
Brockett loses his son, some particularly
forceful blackmailing scenes ; and Overall
it makes a very interesting tour backstage
in sport, commerce and politics.
On the other hand, by telling it in the
first-person with Brockett as narrator,
Mr. Stivens has robbed himself of the
opportunity to do what he has always
been able to do best —to convey
atmosphere, to describe in light and color
the scenes which Brockett sees in black-
and-white or doesn’t see at all —and the
method sets up quite insoluble problems
at the end when Brockett has to describe
himself, in the avarice of age, picking up
stray pins and nails ... he only just
avoids having to describe his own death
and must be presumed to have written
his autobiography on his deathbed.
Either because of this use of the first-
person, or because of some fundamental
lack of sympathy in the author, Brockett
never fully comes to life as the robust
and gargantuan character he is meant to
be, but moves through the book like his
own skeleton, or his shadow, and the
very coarse metaphors in which he
expresses himself (a mechanical trick of
style) never light up with the gusto of
Fielding or Rabelais but remain coarse
and cold, like the writing of Graham
Greene in Brighton Rock.
Reviewed Briefly,
Buddhism : Edward Conze (Bruno
Cassirer, Oxford). Arthur Waley says in
his preface “There is not at present in
English or any other language so com-
prehensive and at the same time so easy
and readable an account of Buddhism as
is to be found in Dr. Conze’s book” ;
and this reviewer, having suffered much
under books explaining Buddhism which
were themselves unintelligible, is delighted
to agree with him. Dr. Conze has pre-
viously published The Scientific Method
of Thinking, and here you have clear and
orderly thought in a clear prose style,
giving a complete and compact account
of Buddhism’s history and meaning.
* * * *
White Witchdoctor: Louise A.
Stinetorf (Shakspeare Head). Autobio-
graphy by an African Daisy Bates—the
author spent 25 years in the Congo as a
medical missionary and became known
to the natives as Mama or, alternatively,
“The Little Sister of the Hippopotami.”
A good rich stew of cannibals, pythons,
black magic, monkeys, spiders and every-
thing else that goes to make life interest-
ing in the Congo.
* * * *
Hobson’s Choice: George Axelrod
(Paul Elek). An excellent funny book
about a young American author who
hotted-up a novel so that it would be
banned in Boston, and found himself
facing a jail term. While the case was
under appeal, he and his wife took a job
as cook and chauffeur with the hare-
brained family of a big-time public-
relations expert, the lady of the house
being the Dorothy Dix of an American
women’s journal who kept her daughter
under constant surveillance so that she
could report to the American public her
reactions to life and love. The son of the
family wanted to become a photographer
of pin-up girls, and to keep him out of
mischief a first-class model had been
engaged, and was to be found posing
nude for him at any time of the day in
any room of the house. After they had
been there long enough to give complete
satisfaction, the novelist-husband as cook
and his wife as chauffeur, the novelist
discovered that his employer was the head
of the women’s committee which is
hoping to get him a heavy sentence for
having written his novel.
* * * *
Blind Victory: J. Lonsdale Bryans
(Skeffington). Described by Liddell Haft
as “a work of much historical signifi-
cance,” this is the war-time autobiography
of the man who was “Mr. X” in the
Hassell Diaries ; an Englishman who with
the cognisance of the Foreign Office
tried to bring the war to an end by con-
spiracy with the leaders of the German
anti-Hitler underground, chiefly Bardii
von Hassell, who was executed by
Himmler in 1944.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No.161
Across.
I—Stylish1—Stylish and elegant knowledge of
a bird. (7)
s—Peaceful lot of water. (7)
8 — Only half score with an effort
for the source of the landlord’s
income. (8)
9 Duck hubbub for a god. (4)
11 — Sudden charge in a swamp grass.
(6)
12 — Remote scrap of litter. (6)
16— I mention the initials of America’s
Nobel Prize playwright. (3)
17 — No delivery is made of this life-
less landlord law that has fallen
into disuse. (4, 6)
19— Bankrupt the upland pastures for
attacks of nervous debility. (10)
20 — Meadow. (3)
22 — Corrects when a printer’s measure
finishes. (6)
23 — The heart is in a steamer in the
twenties. (6)
26 —A way out was formerly Clara
Bow’s attribute. (4)
28 —Bound a Frenchman, although
game. (8)
29 High Australian daily mentions
an ancient tax. (7)
30 — Firm German under a table tor
service against a token used m
table games. (7)
Down.
1 — Upsets a matter of importance
■when fitting cricketers’ heads. (8)
2 Bury Randwick in commerce. (11)
3 Biblical book. (5)
4 Novel character of a children’s
nurse. (4)
5 Strike up the equality. (3)
6 Filled the bill from a bird’s point
of view. (3)
7 Oriental city container on the
heavyweight part of Switzerland.
TO—Free King at the small islands. (6)
13— Capone imitates the Stoke Poges
herd for permits. (6)
14 — West cad takes the same direc-
tion to the correct tradesman and
gives a marching order to Eng-
land’s slow bowler. (11)
15— Frank half of a French dance
performed last. (6)
17 — Recompense upset an artist in
many an item of furniture. (6)
18 — Festival has no failure with eight
balls. (8)
21 —Pressing Chaldee? (6)
24 One hundred and four mixed a
Greek island. (5)
25 — Heroic poem. (4)
27 Reduce state of a Chicagoan
affliction. (3)
28— Timber journal. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 160.


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
CggH BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
rvTi
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
20th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radsola for
22 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY,
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
AGENCE ALMA, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
TITCOMB & LEE, SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phones MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; 86565, 84448
