

ROYAL
A PRODUCT OF THE
ŵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4,
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol, 73—No. 3763
Wednesday, March 26, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
EXETER'S ANCIENT GUILDHALL
IS BRITAIN’S OLDEST
"CXETER, the ancient county town of
leafy Devon, situated on the Exe, has
been inhabited for as long as recorded
time, and consequently its history began
earlier than that of any other city in
Britain. It has withstood more sieges
than any place in. England and therefore
it has a stirring and warlike past.
The ancient Britons built its first
defences, and, although they were
conquered by the Romans, the Saxons
and the Danes, they lived there until they
were banished to Cornwall in the tenth
century. The citizens of Exeter took part
in every civil war and in every rebellion,
but wars, troubles and plagues did not
prevent Exeter from growing rich, and
this heritage from the past can still be
seen in many of its streets. One of the
most interesting of these ancient build-
ings is the Guildhall, shown in the
accompanying illustration. The earliest
reference to it dates from 1160, and it
can claim to be the oldest municipal
building in the kingdom. It was rebuilt
in 1330, and again in 1466, while the
elaborately designed fayade which over-
hangs the pavement was completed in
1593. The Hall, which is open to visitors,
has a timbered fifteenth-century roof and
panelled walls decorated with the
armorial bearings of the City Guilds,
Mayors, Recorders and benefactors, and
it contains the city regalia.
By 1537 Exeter had received many
powers and many privileges, the greatest
of which was granted by Henry VIII by
which it became ‘ The City and County
of the City of Exeter,” and was able to
appoint a sheriff of its own.
When Spain sent the Great Armada
against Britain, such men as Drake and
Raleigh, Frobisher, Hawkins and Sir
Richard Grenville met in Exeter to plan
its defeat. The city provided and
maimed three ships for the fight, and
after the great victory, Queen Elizabeth
gave the town its motto “Semper Fidelis.”


Ml
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAllr - ———■
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age
The Red Page
MUNNINGS RIDES UN.
r-, x 1 . . r ,
Those who think of Sir Alfred
Munnings chiefly as an artist, or as the
sometime president of the Royal
Academy, or as the champion of tradi-
tional painting against the frivolities of
surprised when
p ? I he econd urst (Musseum
Piess) if they have not read the first
volume of his autobiography-for the
b °c° k AifT V aboUt h l ° rses ’ c
Sir Alfred s favorite reading is Surtees,
and he has also been known to read
aloud Masefield’s Reynard the Fox. One
finds a great deal about his love for claret
and pork sandwiches, innumerable race-
meetings, steeplechases and foxhunts ;
some remarks on “bag foxes” even more
severe than his criticisms of Picasso ; a
thousand-and-one horsey anecdotes from
which, because it shows a pleasing link
between art and horses, one selects for
quotation the following.
wifh 1W S?„ b S h
arm—as I so often carry it for a short
distance—l was passing from the studio
meadow to another, where preparations
were going on for a day’s painting. Rose,
the brown mare, and a filly friend, both
silly, skittish and young, stood watching
as I bore my awkward burden along. Rose
must have said to her friend, “There’s his
nibs going to work; let’s give him a
shock!” Just as I neared the gate, Rose
made a dart at me, giving the underside
of the large wooden paint-box a smart tap
with her heels, sending paints, tubes, palette,
brushes and bottles flying all over the grass
“Curse all damned horses to hell!
Come and help me pick up these b
things!” I cried to my helpers in the field.
Tho Mm? of min tin rr thon Uooc
me .Muse or painting, then, does
Occasionally tiptoe wanly among Sir
Alfred’s hordes of horses ; and it is pleas-
ing to an Australian reviewer to discover
that Sir Alfred has some kind words to
say about painters from this country,
Unlike Mr. Hesketh Hubbard in his
recent 100 Years of British Painting he is
not likely to confuse Sir Lionel Lindsay’s
drawings with Norman Lindsay’s, for Sir
Alfred travelled in Spain with Lionel, who
introduced him to the Velazquez 'and
Goya masterpieces in the Prado. Quinn
is another Australian who gets a favor-
able mention, while George Lambert
appears magnificently as “George the
genius.”
Sir Alfred, too, is prepared to admit
that his painting in the N. S. Wales
Gallery is one of the best he ever
painted; an honor he awards to quite a
number of his works as the book pro-
grosses. He says of this picture, “Though
it .was painted at Ringland long ago it
shall nevertheless hold an accusing finger
at my commissions done for sordid
gam” . . . and it may well do so, for the
group of horses at ease under sunlit
foliage looks infinitely fresher than most
of the academic portraits of notabilities
on notable steeds which Munnings had
to paint by the hundred when the doom
of the fashionable portrait-painter fell
upon him.
There are a number of other equally
delightful paintings reproduced in black-
and-white in the volume, including some
fine watercolors, quite enough to suggest
to the most ardent revolutionary that even
the president of the Royal Academy may
—on vacation, as it were—be an artist of
very high quality ... as the more
academic portraits prove, of course, that
Munnings was always a polished crafts-
man. One of the loveliest reproductions
is of some mythological “Sun-
worshippers” leaping about in clouds and
rays of light—very much like a Norman
Lindsay watercolor—but when Munnings
thought of sending this to the academy a
friend said to him, simply, “You
couldn t! ; and that was the end of that,
Munnings says he hopes to paint such
pictures, with “naked Amazons on horse-
back,” in his next incarnation.
The artistic items among the horse-
flesh include some additional mild stric-
tures on Picasso, Klee, Matisse and
Cezanne ; balanced by a fine apprecia-
tion of Sargent. There are also many
notabilities—from Churchill td Steve
Donoghue—and then horses, horses,
horses. The total impression is of a
robust, forthright and extremely likeable
character out of the 18th century ; which,
after all, a time when artists were
artists and men were men, and a man
didn’t stop being a man because he had a
talent for art.
Peking Calling .
Peking is one of those cities, like Paris,
Vienna, Venice, Rome, invested with
romance as their own climate. It is, also,
like these others, an ancient home of
empire. The Chinese held it to be the
centre of the world and the earthly seat
of the Son of Heaven. Rome and Con-
stantinople have not been mightier mag-
nets for a succession of conquerors, nor
have they in their seasons of triumph
looked down with more majesty upon the
barbarian world without. As a seat of
learning there is none in Asia to compare
with it.
Towards the end of the 13th century,
when London was still a small town,
Marco Polo thus described Peking under
the Mings, mature and. magnificent;
It has a compass of 24 miles, for each
side of it has a length of sjx miles and it is
four-square. And it is walled around with
walls of earth which have a thickness of
full 10 paces at bottom and a height of
more than 10 paces There are 12 gates,
and over each gate there is a great and
handsome palace In those palaces are
kept the arms of the city garrison.
The streets are so straight and wide that
you can see right along them from end to
end and from one gate to another. Up
and down the city there are beautiful
palaces and many great and fine hostelries
and fine houses in great numbers. All the
plots of ground on which the houses are
built are four-square and laid out with
straight lines; all the plots being occupied
by great and spacious palaces with courts
and gardens of proportionate size Each
square plot is encompassed by handsome
streets for traffic.
Dr. Derk Bodde, of Philadelphia, has
just published his Peking Diary (Cape),
being the personal record of the “year
of the revolution,” 1948-49, when the
Communists took over from the Chinese
Nationalists. He and his wife had lived
there for six happy years in 1931-37 ;
they could speak and read Chinese com-
petently; and he opens with expression
of the rhapsody with which he accepted
an offer from the Fulbright Foundation
in Washington to go back there to trans-
late a history of Chinese philosophy by
a Chinese professor in one of Peking’s
universities: “The project was arduous,
and its completion within the year
allotted required intense concentration.
Often it provided a curious backdrop to
the drama of inflation, siege, Communist
occupation.”
During critical periods the city lacked
electricity and running water, and had
but little food: “In the evenings while
our family of three sat huddled around a
primitive oil-lamp, with shell explosions
and machine-guns rattling our windows,
I was struggling to render into under-
standable English the terms for the eight
forms of consciousness discussed in a par-
ticularly abstruse seventh-century school
of Chinese Buddhism.”
Even during civil war such occupation
was protection for the foreign scholar
among the Peking people, though the
dangers of the siege are not made by Dr.
Bodde’s pages to seem very impressive.
On arrival there, before the Communist
armies came, he made straight as a
homing - pigeon for the “Language
School” (the American College for
Chinese Studies), found a private house
to rent and a school for little Theo to
attend in the hutung (or small street)
called “The Garden of Fragrant Excel-
lence,” rushed out to the Temple of
Heaven to make sure it still existed, and
found it much knocked about and fouled
from its inhabiting by refugees, and for
some pages of diary indulges his affec-
tionate memories of the Peking as he
knew it, now much dipalidated. His
detestation of the Nationalist Govern-
ment of Chiang Kai-shek for having
tolerated this neglect (though the
Japanese seem to have had Peking for
most of the interval) never quite leaves
him impartial in discussing the Com-
munist revolution.
Before this year was out the Com-
munists had cleaned up much of the mess,
especially the filth in the Temple of
Heaven. What Dr, Bodde laments is not
so much the decay of Peking—it has been
decaying for a long time—as the vanish-
ing of freedom of movement in the
environs and of the highly entertaining
international society which he and Peking
knew in the days before the late Japanese
war began. Vagaries of the local
currencies under soaring inflation and
of the city water-supply under siege were
to him minor concerns compared with
what had happened to the famous uni-
versities —the Peita (Peking National),
Yenching and Tsinghua—lying outside
towards the cherry glens of the lovely
western hills.
Peking presents itself like one of those
carved caskets of Chinese craftsmanship,
a box within a box within a box, the
intricacy of detail persisting as the series
deepens and defying the eye to follow
the mystery of its construction. The core
of Peking is the Emperor’s Forbidden
City, in the last generation, however,
open to the sightseer and forbidding only
. in its intense silence. Its own pink walls
enclose it. Beyond and around it lies
the Imperial City, again within its own
walls, full of equally deserted palaces,
courtyards and halls of audience, though
the renowned lakes of the Winter Palace
are thronged with skaters in the winter.
The Tartar City, pulsing with life,
embraces this again, and its walls of
masonry, which are the Peking wails
proper, enclose also the Legation Quarter
—until (he late war a town in itself,
guarded by the soldiers of half a dozen
treaty Powers and jealously segregated
from the tumult of the native traffic. To
the south the dominating Chien Men gate
—restricted in height to under 100 ft, so
that the good spirits, flying at that level,
might not be impeded—opens into yet
another quarter, the swarming Chinese
city where the tourists go for jade and
brocades and silks, and where the blue-
tiled Temple of Heaven stands in its park
of great trees at a farther southern
corner.
Many of the walled-in private resi-
dences, like the palaces of the mandarins,
are with their gardens in boxes, too. As
a specimen of what foreigners could once
enjoy in Peking, this is Dr. Bodde’s
description of one private house he
occupied:
As I write petals flutter down into our
courtyard from the pear-tree that raises
itself above our neighbor’s wa11... .This.'
house is nearer than our old one to the
centre of the city; only a stone’s throw
from the Tung An market on Morrison-
street and within a few minutes’ walk of
the Forbidden City. The house preserves
more than anything we have seen the
charm of old-time Peking, Unlike niost
houses, its entrance is from the north, not
the south. From there one passes down a
long garden-walk running north to south,
which gives access to various courts and
buildings on the right. One successively
passes the kitchen and servants’ quarters,
an arbor-covered courtyard with a fine
wistaria; a building containing a large
guest-hall and the dining-room; then
another courtyard entered from the walk
by a moon-gate; then another building
containing a bedroom and a bathroom. All
these buildings are connected by an
enclosed corridor running parallel to the
garden-walk on the opposite side of the
compound.
Finally, at the extreme south, one reaches
the most beautiful spot of all; a third
larger courtyard where we spend most of
our time A “rock mountain” stands in
one corner, wtih water trickling through
its stones into an artificial pool below,
while adjoining it grows a small bamboo
thicket. From behind the red-painted wall
which hounds the garden’s southern
extremity rises the pear-tree I have
described. On the west side of the court
stands a detached building containing
Theo’s bedroom and my study; on the
opposite side there is another building
housing a storeroom and the landlord’s
office, which, however, he almost never
uses.
Rooms are lavishly furnished down to
the last cup and saucer, including even an
electric refrigerator—all belonging to an
American “taipan” now no longer in
Peking. For this magnificence we pay 40
U.S. dollars a month, and it is a com-
mentary on present conditions that few
foreigners and fewer Chinese now remain
who can afford to pay such a sum. A
year ago the house was rented for 150
U.S. dollars a month by the North China
E.C.A. director. In order to occupy it we
have been obliged to augment our staff of
cook, boy and amah by taking on an old
gateman-gardener who comes with the
house.
To this reviewer in 1934, under privi-
lege in the train of the Australian Diplo-
matic Mission to the Far East, the hospi-
tality of one or two of these fascinating
domiciles was opened for some fleeting
hours. At that time they still represented
the hold of cultured custom in Peking
amid the political insecurity which has
lasted throughout the half-century since
the extinction of the Manchu dynasty.
For the European community up to the
beginning of the Japanese war (which
sent Dr. Bodde home in 1937) this
atmosphere of insecurity invested Peking
with much of its romantic excitement.
It was an air that recalled those vul-
tures of Seton Merriman’s political
romances, though not quite the same
birds. Latter-day diplomatists mostly
moved elsewhere, for Nanking, not
Peking, was the central seat of govern-
ment, and the manoeuvres of warlords in
the northern provinces were distracted by
the growing revival beyond the Great
Wall of antagonism between Russia and
Japan. The vultures of that time, death-
watchers of the status quo and other
frailties of power-politics, were the
special correspondents of the world’s
newspapers.
There was a bunch of them at the
house of the widow of an American
ambassador —they had had it converted
from an old Buddhist temple—whither
an Australian of local standing took us
on the afternoon of our arrival. Among
this company was one who had “blown
in from Siberia, having dallied there in
passage from London, ready to drip with
gossip from the Mongolian caravan-
routes, but restraining himself valiantly
for his, paper’s sake. Another was a fur-
buyer come from behind Lake Baikal,
who had, during the First World War,
been an officer in the Royal Navy; two
journalists, an American and an Italian,
were endeavoring to milk news of the
steppes from him.
There was an elderly charming lady
from Chicago, wife of a rich newspaper
proprietor, who averred that she had
lived all her life in that city and had
“never yet seen anybody carrying a gun
there.” She did not carry one herself,
though she and a sparkling niece with
her had just travelled overland from
Canton without escort. Navigated by
our friendly pilot in and out of these
knots of conversation, we suddenly halted
at a doorway into another room at the
spectacle in profile of a figure of noble
contours leaning in talk against a
mantelpiece indubitably “making a leg,”
and looking like a cross between George
IV and Oscar Wilde. “That, if you don’t
know,” said Timperley, “is Osbert Sit-
well ; he says he has come to Peking to
finish a book on Brighton. Let’s go and
male him change his pose.” But with
the interruption the gentleman was not
amused; we were redeemed by the
“Times” man with a summons to dinner
at his own little park-house, and quickly
it was soft dusk in the street, with a
disant bugle-call from the British Lega-
tion sounding the retreat.
But all this is away off from Dr.
Bodde’s diary of the tribulations of the
Communist siege of 1949, when most of
the rifle-fire in the city was done by
Nationalist troops into the air in affecta-
tion of resolution to fight to the last. Dr.
Bodde records the organisation of an
auxiliary civil-defence force, in which
women as well as men (those who could
not purchase release) were called up for
training, included in the lists being “245
actresses, 343 nuns, 193 usheresses and
1233 prostitutes,” all gainfully employed
persons being graciously permitted to
undergo training between six and seven
a.m. daily “in the hope that it will least
interfere with their work.”
Since the besiegers held the country-
side whence Peking’s food comes there
were serious shortages in the city until
the defending commander at length
recognised there had been enough of this
suffering among the poorer inhabitants
to turn them, as it did, into regarding the
Communists as saviors; whereon the
victorious Mao’s terms were accepted and
Peking prepared to let the war go past it
into central China, much like one of those
dust-storms which seasonably visit the
city from the Gobi Desert, rivalling those
of Broken Hill.
The end of the siege was marked by a
mass-meeting of some 200,000 outside
the main gate of the Forbidden City, the
platform over the gate draped with red
flags and a huge portrait of Mao, the
welkin ringing with incitations to read
Mao’s book on the new order and enter
into everlasting peace, and for comic
relief the figure of Chiang Kai-shek dis-
played as a huge turtle (supreme form or
insult in China, the turtle being supposed
to reproduce itself unnaturally), and
astride it a representation of “a big-nosed
foreigner in a stovepipe hat, obviously
Uncle Sam.”
The siege taught Dr. Bodde, he says,
how it feels to be rich, which “never have
I been or expected to be,” and it came
on him as a revelation.
It depends, I have come to realise, less
upon what one has oneself than upon tn
ratio between what one has and what tn
other fellow lacks... .It is obvious that we,
with our solid roof over our heads (un-
shared by soldiers or refugees owing to our
status as foreigners), our warm stove ana
clothing, and our simple but adequate
meals, are far richer in besieged Belong
than we have ever been before. Bernap
the most tangible symbol of this f? e “ n |
of wealth is the oil-lamp beside which t
write these words (our much-vaunted elec-
tricity having failed again). We are one o
the few families in Peking who can enj >
such a luxury. It consumes alarming quan-
tities of kerosene (wisely purchased a
weeks ago in a 10-gallon tin). After
we huddle around it to read.
He was rich, too, in possessing some bags
of flour and rice and jars of cookmg-oi,
bought against emergency and for the
preferred means in such times of paying
the servants. But it was on his conscience
that this siege had, with the absence o
rationing orders, brought him to great
wealth and the exclusive freedom that
wealth brings. “The moral,” he con-
cludes, “is obvious”:
In societies in which the material goods
of life are produced in sufficient abundance
for all, freedom from centralised conn ois
may well be synonymous with individual
freedom. But in other less fortunate
o Continued on inside back cover.)


■
f«w
wwwaese*
Handsome Brogues
by Julius
<e
■■«
--• ■
rmt
I o:
I
V : •
: ■:■ 1 :■■■
i*
■
■ . SB
777
%
y
■
Jhbp
1
: * ?
V
ll ,
S
I
■
4 -:
a
A A
V:.
m
m
m
«
l^iSf^^Sr 4 )
■ -.# 7>
IS
Ml
■
I
«
Mi
ft*!**!
7 f . s S'-' S . ►
*»
■)
■A:-. A',.,,.
1
SB
■
i
m *
MM
mm
m
H HH
1
Hi
i»
i
w
m
i
:
■
i
1
1
m
p«
1
1
77.77
HBH
1
f' •'•-■
? ’, : ;:77- ;
■
i 7
7
m
r ? -‘i :?£ * |
tsssil
1
79/-
li
****
khe : •
(t .jpg||
I :;jsgi t «
Klintiill
... . ;rr«r4l j
SbK • ■ > •. • ; •• r ■> a ■:
,
•■ % ' A; > * * * S>.< t A ■■■l ■■
mm*. 3
gfe&t i JJ $* $
§gMf f<l>l IJ .* ; *-s? ,
,J| 7S y>--
J||J|;;r-
Btfpßfftf fill i f JJJJff
" f
* 3
m »»*
I
7rM7 >1
| 11 i $4l
Ems *| *|} I fen* Ss 11 i I
fer=:';Hi i Jill a ?::::• 'S:2des** <i
-:JA,
■ w '~: kj;::s liis > |:::::
111| 11
3 * v - <-.•«•«
|. "l 11
fl
?AT
H
m
u
m>
:S\
■:
11
m
#
am-
<^v.:
%•
HHI
V7®
sM
S:
m
': ■: ■
■ sk
7
7.-.7
BSSi
m
"S' I
■
A
,
Hi
SH
'A"-
mm
Wsm
70/3
70/3
68
m
4VS
Available in 60 Measured Fittings 1
Top. “Julius Marlow” new Bold Brogue.
Smart wall toes, extra stout soles, wide welts
and sewn heel seats. Available in Rich Tan
or Black Box Calf, 79/-. Also in imported
Scotch Zebru. Multiple sizes 5 to 12, £5/1/6.
Below Left. “Julius Marlow” Oxford. Med-
ium, round, or square toes. With flexible
leather soles and non-jarring heel cushions.
Available in Tan or Black Box Calf. These
shoes come in multiple sizes 5 to 12. 70/3.
Below Centre. Here’s a smart shoe! The
“Julius Marlow” Semi-Brogue with flexible
soles. Available in Rich Tan or Black Box
Calf. A shoe built to last. Available in mul-
tiple sizes 5 to 12. This shoe is priced at 70/3.
Below Right. “Julius Marlow” Moccasin Derby. Wall toes, flexible soles,
non-jarring heel cushions. Available in Rich Tan or Black Calf. Multiple
sizes 5 to 12. With leather soles and heels, priced at 70/3, or Tan Calf
with non-slip rubber soles and heels, priced at 68/-.
A TRUTH FN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
MEN’S SHOE DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX
2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)


ẁ
TOP \H
ẃ
ẅ
am on To
*<f
a
m
r*:*^uuu
Iv.vN
v«S
\\\s
VAN
.v.W
.\\\
;X
%
/i
.w
a
Veen'®^H
Has e
H
•>*
nough
top
we «Wf
»•
PowerloUurasjian^^
on y weather.
ius to i
A
Enjoy all the real benefits
of Modern Refrigeration!
Icemasler . • • the greatest in capacity—the latest in efficiency and
durable beauty . . . the one Kerosene Refrigerator that is built to with-
stand any Australian conditions! With Icemaster comes a new era of
comfort for the country homestead, trouble-free performance with
economical operating costs! For just a trickle of kerosene
Icemaster 9 s new, improved burner maintains a full volume of
refrigeration , even during heat-waves!
Its kerosene consumption is actually
lower than that of less reliable ,
less powerful refrigerators!
• DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W. • BENNETT & WOOD PTY, LTD,, cnr. Pitt and
Bathurst Sts., Sydney. BROKEN HILL: BARRIER ELEC-
TRICAL APPLIANCES LTD., 253-255 Argent St. VIC. •
KELVIN ATOR AUSTRALIA LIMITED, Williamstown Rd., Port
Melbourne. O'LD. • WILLERS & CO. PTY. LTD., 36 Eagle
St.. Brisbane. CAIRNS: E. MARKHAM. 31c Shield St..
Cairns. S.A. • RADIO ELECTRICAL WHOLESALERS LTD.,
James Place, Adelaide. BROKEN HILL; BARRIER ELEC-
TRICAL APPLIANCES LTD., 253-255 Argent St. W.A. •
WESTERN APPLIANCES LTD., c/o Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth. TAS. • MAX GEEVES PTY. LTD., Murray St.,
Hobart, and Brisbane St., Launceston.
e#
11l
w


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—N0.3763
Wednesday, March 26, 1952
EMBARRASSING.
“The ‘Sydney Morning Herald’ has shown intense opposition to the Federal Government’s economic policy-


'bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for tho While Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
, jr ,. _ -
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney,
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CRITICS AND THE JAMPOT.
Features of Australian democracy
which have often been commented on by
overseas visitors are its reluctance to take
medicine and its tendency to stream after
any political confidence-man who is pre-
pared to promise it the Golden Age.
While there is boom and somebody to
promise that it will last for ever the
unthinking or workshy among the
community are ready to run along with
any Government. But so soon as
times threaten to become hard cohesion
breaks down. The air is rent with the
shrieks of pressure-groups. The voice
of every agitator or theorist in the
country finds a vent through newspapers
without sense or public spirit. It is every
man for himself and the devil take the
hindmost.
The unfortunate Federal Government
at the present time is experiencing this
sort of reaction. 16 is not generated through
the spontaneous alarm of the ordinary
individual Australian. The trouble
usually starts with organised self-interest
as represented by the horde of general-
secretaries and officers of producers’ and
other associations. These have learned
from experience the potency of panic as
a device to build up their own self-
importance and influence. With them
work the gentlemen who feel that the
possession of a degree in economics or a
professorship at a university is tanta-
mount to a licence to dictate a system of
government and fiscal management.
These elements, of course, all have a
right to be heard. In fact it might often
be a good thing if they were heard more
frequently as situations develop. But the
strange thing about their operations is
that they never appear until the crisis is
manifest and measures have been taken
to meet it. Yet then it is that newspapers
treat them as oracles, and devote more
space to their criticisms than they do to
the explanations of those who are charged
with the responsibility of acting in the
country’s interests.
The present overseas trade position has
been developing for months. There is no
doubt about its seriousness. A man would
have to be dull indeed if he did not
understand that the continuance of
unrestricted overseas spending under the
present conditions of falling prices and
growing external competition must end —
and swiftly—in national bankruptcy,
especially at a time when taxpayers are
faced with the need to spend lavishly on
defence.
Australia’s trade deficit for the first
eight months of this financial year was
£315,400,000. With wool prices, our
main source of overseas income, down
almost 50 per cent, against last season and
production for export in other avenues
dwindling under the impact of the general
loaf and go-slow and half-paralysed
transport systems, this country has spent
£755,698,000 on imports in eight months,
an amount £13,800,000 greater than
expenditure for the whole of last year,
when wool prices were at their giddy
highest.
At the present rate of spending the
trade deficit for the whole year would
amount, according to Mr. S. R. Carver,
the acting Commonwealth Statistician, to
£565,000,000. In other words, the Com-
monwealth would have spent abroad —
including invisible imports in the reckon-
ing—£7o for every Australian more than
he or she earned abroad, babies in arms
included.
An especially noticeable feature of
the criticism of the Federal Government
on which the pressure tactics of a dozen
organisations are based has been its mis-
informed nature. One might, for
instance, expect such bodies as the
Liberal-party Rural Conference, which
supposedly makes Liberal-party rural
policy, to know that the home-consump-
tion price of wheat is primarily a State
and not a Federal matter, and that the
Commonwealth can do no more than
put into operation the States’ recommen-
dations. It has no real power of initiative
in the matter, though the wheatfarmers
threaten till Doomsday.
The common factor in all criticism is
that not one of the critics has any
immediate solution to offer capable of at
once stopping the drift toward Australian
insolvency in international trade other
than that which the Government has
applied. Among practical men it is
recognised that there is no other. Though
the United Kingdom stands to lose most
by Australia’s new policy of import
restriction its Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Mr, Butler, admits that the
import cut was “absolutely necessary to
enable Australia to live within her
means,” while Mr. Oliver Lyttelton, one
of the best commercial brains in the
British Cabinet, described the Common-
wealth’s position as “deteriorating at an
alarming rate,” and said that the only
alternative to cutting her sterling imports
would have been a loan from Britain —a
kind of borrowing against which the
“Labor” party, in particular, has always
professed to set its face.
The Australian people will not, of
course, be brought to the end of their
troubles by the cut in imports alone.
That measure is to be supplemented with
drastic Government economy right down
to the bottom of the services. In simple
words, it is proposed to recognise that the
jag is over and that we must begin to live
within our means. At the same time what
the Government does will be only half
the battle.
The ability to restore the power to
spend is not mainly in the hands of any
Government. As Mr. Cosgrove, the
Tasmanian “Labor” Premier, remarked
last week:
The economic plight of the nation can
be rectified only by the individual efforts
of its vast army of workers.
He instanced as measures which would
help to restore the economy to soundness
more efficient business methods, the return
of profits to industry to expand produc-
tion, and the realisation that “if every
man and woman in industry gave a
genuine 40 hours of work each week the
Australian industrial system would be
ideal.” All this is linked up with the
problem stated by Mr. Sparks, president
of the Australian Exporters’ Association,
who sought to bring it home that even
the present disastrous situation will
deteriorate if the producer does not
abandon his policy of fitting his habits
and working-time into the highest-priced
economy he can achieve at pistol-point,
and “realise that we have to produce at
a price and quality that can beat the rest
of the world.”
A great section of Australia at the
moment too much resembles an overfed
infant howling because the jampot has
been wrenched from its sticky fingers.
Pointers to Action.
Wrangling over the evils of import-
restriction is quite valueless as a means
of getting ourselves out of our trouble,
and that goes for all the sterling-area
countries, including their chief banker, the
United Kingdom. In Australia warnings
of the crisis were issued from authorita-
tive quarters two years ago, and were
anticipated in the late Chifley Govern-
ment’s White Paper on “full employment”
long before that.
The Prime Minister could, and should,
make this quite clear, and then leave it
and get to action. It is entirely vain for
Ministers to go on sparring with irrespon-
sible critics who either don’t know the
facts and are barking up the wrong tree
or do know them and are simply playing
“narks.” A legitimate objective of
criticism, of course, is to extort a full
survey of the situation from the Prime
Minister. One thing sure is that delay in
physical action to terminate the import-
restriction period will only aggravate the
problem they are designed to arrest.
Mr. Menzies’s Socialist critics can be
confronted with their own record. Mr.
Chifley in 1946-47 was contemplating
exactly the same restrictions the Menzies
Government has taken now and was
saved only by “the fact that we have had
a good season.” Earlier he had invited
his economic advisers to examine the
possible effect upon the “Welfare-State”
economy of a fall in value of export
prices, which would have produced pre-
cisely the same results as excessive im-
ports have produced today upon the
nation’s balance of payments. Their con-
clusions, published in the White Paper
on “full employment,” were that a situa-
tion of this kind might have to be met
by a straightout quantitative restriction
of imports. The Chifley Government’s
policy of artificially inflating internal pur-
chasing-power, in face of the certainty
that export prices must with increased
export-production ultimately decline, was
as negative all-round as a Government
policy could possibly be. “Labor” did
nothing to increase man-hour production,
to boost exports, or even to boost output
for home consumption. “Organising
scarcity” and rationing what industry
consented to produce under controls were
the targets that satisfied the Chifley
Government’s functioning.
As for the present “Labor” protests
that the Australian Government’s import-
cuts are recklessly injurious to Britain,
to the British Minister’s replies can be
added a quotation from the British dele-
gate before the Economic Commission
for Europe earlier this month (as reported
in London “Times”) explaining Britain s
own measures as devised in the Com-
monwealth Finance Ministers confer-
ence. He said, speaking of the temporary
measures:
As the centre of the Commonwealth and
banker for the sterling area, Britain has
a great responsibility. Half the world s
trade is conducted in sterling. Accord-
ingly the defence of sterling is a major
objective of British policy. The only
measure which can help towards
this objective is the reduction of imports.
The Government much dislike having to
take this measure and they are conscious
of the effect it is having upon the economy
of their European neighbors.
The Government are tackling with vigor
the difficult economic situation confront-
ing the country and are confident that
they will overcome it.
These words are almost identical with
those used by Mr. Menzies in reference
to his Government’s action and its effect
on British exports. The protests from
British textile and other exporters and
from Australian “Labor” in exploitation
of such outcries were to be expected.
The line which “Labor” leaders
might take with real service
to the country is to admit the
dire necessity of the moment —they pro-
pound no alternative for short-term appli-
cation —and concentrate on demanding
“vigorous tackling” by the Government
of positive measures to expand exports
with the utmost effect and a minimum
of delay.
There is no time to be wasted if the
Government means to proceed, as the
Prime Minister has said, to increase sow-
ings for the next wheat harvest. Mr.
Menzies regards this as the only visible
means, given some luck in the season, of
earning more dollars this year from agri-
cultural production. He has so far said
not one word in comment upon the reve-
lations by one of his Ministers (Mr.
Townley from Tasmania) of the out-
rageous waste in his State alone of nearly
800 tons a year of prime beef which is
fed to racing greyhounds. That figure,
multiplied by about 30 for all Australia,
would make a respectable addition to
immediate exports of prime beef. If it
is necessary to reduce dollar imports to
bedrock and cut some British imports by
80 per cent., it is surely imperative to
avoid this waste of potential exports
available now. If the Commonwealth
Government lacks powers to enforce this
saving, or to combat the blackmarketing
which would inevitably spring up in con-
sequence, the Government has a financial
lever with which to persuade the State
Governments to co-operate.
There are so far no restrictions pro-
posed upon the general public, as in
Britain, to reduce its own lavish con-
sumption (at inflated prices) of meat and
fats. After all, “vigorous tackling” of the
problem must be held to involve some
action along these lines, or any other
possible lines, to increase exports without
loss of time.
Mr. Menzies and Dr. Evatt do not
really differ in their primary ostensible
purpose. On the face of their public
statements they are intensely concerned
with the effect of trading restrictions
(including Australia’s) on the mainten-
ance of Britain as the banker and main-
stay of the sterling area. “The most vital
of all our problems,” said a leading
British publicist six months before the
general realisation of this emergency, “is
the position of the banker at the centre.
The sterling area was built on the basis
of a strong and solvent Britain, on a
currency whose stability, world-wide
acceptability and convertibility were
taken for granted.” What happens to us
if that central force and reputation falls
no man can predict. „ , ,
Why then cannot the “Labor leader
find one word to say in reproof of the
A.C.T.U.’s endorsement of a nation-wide
wharf-stoppage in protest against the
Arbitration Court’s recent ordering the
wharfies in Sydney and Townsville back
to work from a previous irresponsible
strike? It is in the Australian ports that
prompt and decisive action by the
Government must be expected. Our
problem is the correction of our balance
of payments. The recent excess of im-
ports which has been running down our
London balances includes indebtedness
for shipping and freight charges, which
was estimated for 1950-51 to amount to
over 12 per cent, of the aggregate bill
for imports. This evil weight against our
import trade—and it has grown worse
since—no Government import-licensing
can correct. Says Professor Copland
currently:— , , IA
We spend as much on oversea freight
as we do on new houses. It is a very
considerable part of the adverse balance
of payments which won’t be corrected by
merely shutting out imports.
There is no lack of awareness about the
causes of this trouble. Eighteen months
have passed since the Minister for Labor
and National Service declared that unless
there was a quicker turn-round of ships
in our ports calamity would smite us.
Sydney and Newcastle, especially, are
dreadful examples of loafing, confusion
from multiplication of “authorities,”
obsolescent cargo-handling and Com-
munist sabotage of industrial discipline in
the maritime unions. Sydney’s port-
authority has worken out an index which
shows that it requires 269 hours today
to turn round the same ship which was
serviced in 1938-39 in 100 hours. Many
weeks ago Shipping Minister McLeay
published this record of “Communist-
organised delays in Australian ports
during the year 1950-51”:
Delayed
Delayed by by Crew
Delay. Disputes. Shortages.
Up to 10 days .. 32 ships 57 ships
11-20 days .. ..15 ships 3 ships
21-30 days .. ..11 ships 1 ship
31-40 days ~ ..5 ships 1 ship
41-50 days .. ..3 ships 3 ships
51-60 days .. ..2 ships 1 ship
Over 60 days .. .. 3 ships 2 ships
During recent months there has been
a spate of statistics in the Press illustrat-
ing how the Australian coast has become,
in shipmasters’ eyes, the worst in the
world. From Sydney, where (Stevedoring
Board report) “9,000,000 hours of work-
ing time was paid for during the year
and not worked,” where “non-productive
time on the wharves is 1 hour in 4 of
paid hours,” to Caims, where the union
bosses say unashamedly that the seasonal
sugar-handling has got to provide the
wharfies with a full year’s work, the story
of waste and bungling and indifference
is one to make sheer hypocrisy of com-
plaints about trading restrictions. Freight
charges go up 10 per cent, almost as
regularly as the basic-wage rises ; and this
country could not play the fool more
certainly with its overseas trading prob-
lem if it simply jettisoned (say) 10 or 12
per cent, of its purchased imports out-
side Sydney heads.
In other words, the Menzies Govern-
ment can remove the restrictions on that
percentage of imports if it cleans up the
ports. The urgency is as great as that
for more wheat-planting. How much
time does the Government want for the
job?
Cahill in Newcastle.
“Abdul Assiz” : As a result of the pub-
lication of the Hasten report (B. 27/2/’52)
the N.S.W. Minister for Public Works
visited Newcastle towards the end of
February. He held meetings one day
with that port ? s waterfront unions and
with its Chamber of Commerce the next.
Few Newcastrians will agree with the
astonishing claim, made by the Minister
at their Trades Hall, that the port had
been restored to its proper condition
before the big floods of the past few
years. Since those floods, he explained,
shortage of materials bad been the limit-
ing factor and not lack of finance,
although the latter might cause difficulty
in the future.
That very probable situation, however,
did not deter the Minister from making
numerous and specific promises. Four
and a half million was to be spent on a
revived Wileman scheme for deepening
the north and south arms of the river to
15ft.-20ft. at low-tide. The silt recovered,
instead of being wasted by dumping out
to sea, was to be used in the reclamation
of 6500 acres of land for occupation by
major industries requiring road, rail and
sea-transport facilities.
These millions would be in addition to
the cost of dredging Newcastle Harbor
proper. The installation of wharf-cranes
would be considered when the shipping
companies could undertake to use them,
and work on the Merewether-street
wharf is to be expedited.
Mr. Cahill accepted responsibility tor
restoring trafficability to the Hunter River
upstream as far as the gas-coal loading-
points at Hexham. The stream, in mis
reach, has been allowed to silt up to ott.
and, for any useful purpose, will have
to be deepened to a minimum ot 12tt. at
low-tide. , „ . . .
In the harbor proper the Basin is to
be dredged immediately from 21tt.-/z. t.
to 26ft.-28ft.; the B.H.P. channel and
basin are to be dredged to 26ft., so that
steamers of this draught and less can
swing freely instead of being used, as at
present, as bulldozers assisted by tugs ,
dredging is to be concentrated on the
North Harbor channel to allow steamers
of 26ft. 3in. draught (e.g., Iron Yampi;
to continue using it. . . .
If the funds allocated fell short ot
requirements for these numerous an
expensive projects, the Minister advise
the unions “to make all the noise the.
could about it.” This advice was coidly


received, as the audience had been mak-
ing loud noises for over a decade and
had received nothing but promises. The
secretary of the Newcastle waterside
union voiced the feelings of Newcastrians
of every political color when he said
“Nothing has been done, and that is no
credit to the Public Works Department.
If something is not done soon the port
will fold up.”
With reference to single-authority
control, which has been recommended by
every independent expert who has visited
the port, Mr, Cahill said that the aboli-
tion of inter-departmental control gave
rise to many difficult problems without
corresponding economies. The Railways
Department handled the transport of
coal because it was a specialist job ; the
Department of Agriculture controlled
the wheat silos because they were the
body best fitted to do so. This brought
a reply from the unions that the high cost
of handling wheat, owing to the tups,
pilots and time needed in shifting ships
from one wharf, where bulk wheat was
loaded, to another for topping-up with
bagged wheat, was one of the many
reasons why ships were by-passing New-
castle, thus causing congestion in Sydney.
He might have added that a logical
extension of the policy of “specialist”
control would be to allow the butcher,
the baker and the candlestick-maker,
who also are specialists, each to handle
his own wares at the wharves.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Gulliver and the Top-hats.
It is a singular commentary on the
methods introduced into the Australian
“Labor” party by J. A. Ferguson and
R. A. King, other ex-Communists and
Leftists, that the A.L.P. Executive appears
not to be an executive at all and that
nobody seems to care. The rules and
constitution of the N. S. Wales branch
of the party state expressly that “two State
Parliamentary members and one Federal
member” may be elected to the branch
executive, but that beyond that
[Rule 2 (d)] “members of Parliament
shall not be eligible” to hold any of the
main offices from the presidency down-
wards or to nominate for election to the
executive.
This rule is not only being broken, but
it is clear that those who are breaking it
know it quite well. In the official list of
members in the front of the “Rules and
Constitution” of the branch the names of
the three members elected by caucuses
are given the official Parliamentary letters
after their names. But Messrs. J. A.
Ferguson (president), Wright (general-
secretary), R. A. King (trustee) and
several others coyly refrain from men-
tioning that they are honorables or
M.L.Cs.
It is quite plain that if the words of
the rules mean anything the leading
officers and members of the executive-
including the president and general-
secretary and two out of three on the
credentials committee which decides
whether members are eligible for their
offices—are not officers or executive
members at all because they are expressly
disqualified as members of Parliament
from holding office.
Mr. Dougherty, a recent accession to
the executive and general-secretary of
the A.W.U., a union of constitutional
methods, brought matters to a head when
he moved last week that the executive
instruct the A.L.P. caucus to implement
Clause 1 of the party platform:
1. Abolition of the Legislative Council.
There was stunned silence among the
40 members of the executive, and
especially among the near-dozen headed
by Mr. Ferguson who are drawing £5OO
a year and perquisites as M.L.Cs., some
thus saving the executive from having to
find them full normal salaries in their
party offices. No one could be found to
second the horrible proposition, which
would have dragged Messrs, Ferguson,
King, Wright, Dickson and others off
their spoils. And Ferguson and
his supporters immediately called upon
their training and vocabulary learnt in
their more colorful youth to deal with
the situation.
They issued a statement dubbing Mr.
Dougherty a “disruptionist,” and
repudiated and severely censured him for
his opportunist and anti-“ Labor” attitude
“in allying himself with Mr, J. Geraghty,
the expelled Labor member for North
Sydney,” the Gulliver who is the author
of the shaky immortality of the Struld-
brugs of the McGirr Ministry.
These, when this was written, were
trembling in their lairs pending the
“talks” which are taking place between
Mr. Ferguson and others and the Gov-
ernment this week to determine the fate
of the Council.
There j» no betting on its abolition
despite the fact that all the talkers are
solemnly pledged in writing, as a neces-
sary prerequisite to holding A.L.P. office,
to take every step to implement the
platform. But everybody is wondering
how Gulliver Geraghty will end the poli-
tical story which he is constructing
whether he will make the voices of the
reasoning Houyhnhnms triumph over
those of the Yahoos ; whether the Struld-
brugs will continue their uneasy immor-
tality. If Dean Swift were still alive there
would be no doubt about the issue,
but unfortunately he has been dead
208 years, and his modern parodist of
North Sydney is not so allergic to poli-
tical trickery as he was.
McGirr's Vanished Funds.
The great McGirr wail because the Loan
Council will not give him all the money
he wants to spend in N.S.W. is becoming
stamped as sheer party propaganda
against the Menzies Government. When
the outbursts of individual McGirr
Ministers filled the front pages of the
Sydney morning Press, the smacking of
satisfied lips was audible a mile away
from Macquarie-street.
But what do these howls betoken/
There is not the money they want avail-
able from the public—as taxpayers or as
loan investors. That was made clear at
the Loan Council meetings before the
Commonwealth Budget was brought
down, and the inflated estimates for State
works were reduced 25 per cent, by a
majority vote of four States to two. There
are not the materials available for the
works, by admission of the same con-
ference of Government leaders, and as a
member of the McGirr Ministry has
said in the plainest language, without
contradiction from his colleagues. The
“S. M. Herald” lavishly displayed the
McGirr propaganda last week; but
earlier, when the warnings of shortage in
cloth available for the cutting of these
coats was laid out for all to examine, the
“Herald’s” economic editor said the
decisions of what he called “reality at
the council meeting:
The argument at the Loan Council has
clearls' been related not so much to money-
supply as to the availability of resources.
For eight months the “Gimme”
McGirr Government has known that it
will be obliged to organise its works
programme to fit the resources for works
available. The prospective limit of those
resources was defined in the middle of
last year. The McGirrs knew the maxi-
mum amount they would have to spend,
and their job was to allocate available
funds and materials frugally and wisely.
The present outbursts concerning “repu-
diated” building contracts for schools,
hospitals and harbor works are witness
primarily of their inability to organise
their own works programme.
Out of £225 million agreed on for
loan expenditure on works by the seven
Governments, N.S.W. was allotted £64
million and Victoria £56 million —be-
tween them well over half the aggregate,
with N.S.W. getting the biggest slice of
all. This was 60 per cent, more for
N.S.W. than in the previous year. The only
Government whose loan-allotment was
lower than that for 1950-51 was the Com-
monwealth Government.
As for capacity to spend more money
on works when the materials for works
are just not in existence —the result
largely of organised loafing in N.S.W.
services and restricted output in N.S.W.
coalmines —this is what the McGirr
Minister for Health (Mr. Kelly, since
removed to another portfolio) told the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
at its annual meeting at the end of 1949:
We will not be able to build hospitals
for years because of the shortage of
materials. The shortage can be overcome
only by people employed in industrial
fields working harder than they are today.
A complete change in the mental outlook
of Australians Is needed.
You cannot build hospitals without steel,
and there is no steel. Hospital buildings
should have priority over housing....!
challenge anyone to tell me how to build
more hospitals.
There has been no improvement in steel
supplies since.
All present wailing from the same
quarter is worthless until the McGirrs
tell the public exactly how they have
spent and are continuing to spend the
£64 million of loan-money they got. The
public won’t find out from the McGirr
system of accounting, which has been
slated by the State Auditor-General for
years past.
More Heads Fall.
Now it came to pass that in the city of
Sydney, which is in the east by the sea-
shore, there dwelt a worthy woman,
Norma. And in the days of her youth
she espoused a parson named Coughlan.
Whereupon, being come to mature
years and full of faith in the married
state and the continuance thereof, did
they construct a Marriage Guidance
Council and drew unto themselves all
manner of people seeking knowledge and
the wherefore of how not to muck things
up, even unto the disposal of the mothers-
in-law.
And the council prospered and was
favored and many came, bearing secrets
and tribulations, and were unscrambled
and sent away rejoicing. And some there
were beyond unscrambling and went
away with many lamentations.
Yea, verily, and the wife of the parson
pondered these things and arose and
spake, saying, “The days of the head of
the house are gone, and each house hath
now two heads and thus the round table
is popular among the furniture-makers.”
And some of the people murmured,
saying, “Yea, always it hath been said
that two heads are better than one.” And
even the players of swi-games applauded,
except those who backed tails.
So it is that wisdom cometh to the
experienced and those things are revealed
which are otherwise hidden. For to
many of the women of the tribe this was
kept hidden since the days of Lilith, the
mother of Eve, for there is not among
wise women one who would expose her
cards, even though she held a busted
flush, and what she knoweth she knoweth
and hath secret mirth in her bosom when
her spouse issueth orders and throweth
his weight about.
And to a man cometh wisdom in these
things after the marriage, and few hus-
bands there be who ever kept for more
than a twelvemonth the illusion that he
was boss in his house. And if he did it
was because he was being kidded along,
and when he cometh awake —oh, boy!
But the writers of the public tablets
are by nature men naive and credulous
beyond all human understanding and they
supposed the words of the parson’s wife
to be something new, whereas the truth
of them is hoary, and they hurried to the
printing-tables and made it news. And
the words of Norma went far and wide.
Rus In Urbe.
Bringelly, in N. S. Wales, was one of
those areas on the edge of the Cow-
pastures granted to chosen citizens very
early in Australia’s history. Seventy
years or so ago it was partly subdivided
into small farms, and it had the distinc-
tion of being the headquarters of the
Nepean Shire. Then it became practically
lost to sight except to city firms interested
in the products of dairying and poultry-
farming.
Since World War II Nepean Shire has
been absorbed into the municipality of
Liverpool part of a State-wide
move by the McGirr Government
aiming at the implementation of
socialisation through local-government.
And ever since then the ratepayers of
Bringelly have had to make a declaration
every two or three years to the effect
that their farm is, in fact, rural land,
used for “grazing, dairying, pig-farming,
poultry-farming, viticulture, orcharding,
beekeeping, horticulture, vegetable-grow-
ing, or the growing of crops of any
kind.” If the declaration is not made
they are in danger of being rated at the
town rate.
Derwent-road, Bringelly, is about 14
miles from the town of Liverpool. It is
a dirt road when it is not mud two or
three feet deep. It has its “stony cross-
ings” in lieu of bridges. During a recent
wet winter a ratepayer poured 20 tons
of blue-metal screenings into one bog-
hole at his own expense, and it —the
blue-metal —has completely disappeared.
There are, of course, no footpaths; box-
scrub and blackthorn encroach on the
wheeltracks in the middle of the road.
Yet the ratepayers of Derwent-road are
required to swear that this is “urban
farmlands” in order to get out of being
taxed at town rates. Perhaps the district
is so far from Liverpool Council Cham-
bers that no Bumble has ever ventured
that distance into the bush to see for
himself what the land is like. Or perhaps
he would be afraid to drive across the
bridges along the main road, the decking
of which is so loose as to have recently
thrown a car sideways into the handrails
at Pyke’s Creek.
For many years the property down
Derwent-road has been valued at about
£6 10s. an acre. Recently an estate came
up for probate, and the Valuer-General’s
figure leapt, in this one case, to £l5 an
acre, unimproved. This year Liverpool
Council has rated the holding at the new
valuation, though other property on the
same road is still valued —and rated
at £6 10s.
Rated at the “reduced urban farm
rate” of 7\ d. in the £ (against 12|d. for
the full town rate), the new rating works
out at 9s. 4|d. an acre on the
unimproved capital value, according to
the V.-G.’s latest figure. At the previous
valuation but at this year’s rate it was
4s. an acre.
Maybe next year all property in the
area will be valued at £l5 an acre, and
a glaring inequity thenceforward wiped
out. But if farmland that is inaccessible
in wet weather is to be rated at nearly
10s. an acre then it can scarcely continue
to be used for pastoral or agricultural
purposes. There is no water-supply in
the district to warrant intensive cultiva-
tion. And a sheep to the acre, or a cow
to every five acres, would hardly pay
the rates.
"Trustee" Territories.
The meeting of the United Nations
Trustee Council which examined the
affairs of New Guinea has had little
attention in Australia, but it was the same
old farce which has been re-enacted ever
since the foundation of the original
League of Nations and the beginning of
the New Guinea mandate.
The position, however, is worse from
Australia’s viewpoint than in the League
days because the U.S.S.R. is now allowed
a finger in the pie, and because
a “Labor” Government linked New
Guinea to Papua, which is straight-
out Australian territory, under the
same Administration, thus laying Aus-
tralia’s methods of managing its own
affairs incidentally open to the scrutiny
and criticism of a bunch of chattering in-
ternational delegates, most of whom have
never been in the territory and some of
whom are doubtless only vaguely aware
where New Guinea is.
It is indicative of the manner in which
Australians are losing their sense of
humor and personal pride in their country
that there was no nationwide burst of
laughter at the news that our trustee-
Government of these territories should be
called on to justify itself to representatives
of the Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Chiang Kai-shek’s exiled Government
and Soviet Russia. A committee consist-
ing of delegates from France, the Soviet
Union, Belgium and El Salvador has
been delegated to draft comments and
recommendations, and it can easily b«
conceived what sort of recommendations
they will be.
One of the most serious factors in the
business is that these territories, which
the Russian delegate insists are the home
of “criminal conditions” of living for the
poor natives —the most pampered and
spoilt in the world —are part of Aus-
tralia’s vital defence-screen, and that it
is envisaged under the trustee plan that
they will be given absolute right of self-
determination as soon as possible. This
does not mean self-government within
the framework of the Australian Com-
monwealth.
The vital point is, Papua and New
Guinea being so closely linked and being
Subject to progressive integration, the
effect on Papua if Russia and some other
countries in time insist on New Guinea
independence is obvious.
It is time Australian policy on the
islands of our defence-screen were looked
at closely. They should be declared to
be irrevocably part of the Common-
wealth and as such beyond interference
by our enemies.
It is monstrous that at this juncture,
with Russia supplying most of the arms
and leadership of the Chinese Army which
is killing Australians in Korea, Moscow
should have any say in the conduct and
policy of islands in which our main de-
fence area lies, islands bought with the
blood of young Australians in two wars.
Tim-ber-r-r!
One day during the Christmas vacation
the headmistress of the infants’ school in
a Sydney suburb happened to be passing
the scene of her term-time labors when
she heard the sound of chopping coming
from the schoolyard, and looked in just
in time to see a leafy old tree which had
given summer shade to three generations
of youngsters come toppling to the
ground.
It was too late for her to strike an
attitude and declaim “Oh, woodman,
spare that tree!” Its shattered branches
already littered the playground, mingled
with those of another whose fall had pre-
ceded it. The small army of men who
had wrought the destruction was on its
way to the next victim when a very angry
schoolmistress bore down upon them and
demanded to know on whose authority
the deed had been committed. The axe-
men replied that they had been sent out
by the department. The lady thereupon
said that she had made no request to the
department for the destruction of the
trees, and she felt certain that the head-
master of the main school would not
have asked for their removal, since they
provided the only shady spots in the
{Continued on next page.)


4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATIOH FOR QUALITY
;•>, : s
desert of asphalt that comprised the
children’s playing area. The men
were politely regretful, but the
department had sent them and orders
were orders. “Orders or not,” said the
wrathful teacher, “if you touch one more
tree I’ll fetch the police and have you
put out.” Deadlock continued for a
while, then the workmen took up their
axes and departed, leaving the teacher
in possession of the field and the rest of
the trees still standing.
That school was fortunate —much more
so than one in another suburb at which
a nature-loving headmaster had estab-
lished over the years a plantation of
native shrubs which was probably unique
of its kind in the State. He was no longer
in charge of the school when the blow
fell, but a couple of years ago the staff
and children returned after the Christmas
break to find nothing but a patch of bare
earth where the shrubbery had been.
“Some men from the department” had
been at work. On that occasion some
explanation was offered ; the men had
misunderstood their instructions or
exceeded their authority. But that didn’t
restore the shrubs —and it didn’t convince
one tree-lover in the district, an old-
timer not unversed in the ways of Gov-
ernment departments. His theory--he
admits it is no more than a theory—
seems to cover the two cases.
The way he explains it is like this.
Years and years ago there was probably
a tree in a suburban schoolyard that
was old and rotten and thus a menace to
the safety of the kids. The headmaster
asked for it to be removed and out came
the workmen to do the job. While they
were chopping the youngsters crowded
round, a limb fell or an axe-head flew
off the handle and one of the kiddies was
hurt. Result: hospital and hell-to-pay.
Further result: a department order that
in future any trees requiring felling
would be dealt with only during holiday
periods when there were no children
around to be hurt. As the years rolled
on, he argues, Red-tape would interpret
this as meaning that some trees must be
chopped down during every Christmas
vacation, and accordingly on certain
days in December and January a team
of men, armed with axes, would sally
forth to do the felling. If any schools
had nominated their trees for slaughter,
all well and good ; if not, then the axe-
men would just have to find a convenient
school equipped with trees and get on
with the job.
The old-timer emphasises that this is
only a theory, but he is prepared to wager
his pension that it isn’t far wrong.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Labor” is cock-a-hoop over the
reduction of the C.P. majority in Lyne,
as indicated at Saturday’s by-election, but
they would be unwise to build too great
hopes upon it. Doc. Evatt and his
cohorts descended upon the electorate in
the biggest massed swoop since the time
of the Assyrians, and if their concentrated
verbal onslaught had not brought some
results it would have been clear proof
that the gift of speech was given to man
in vain.
Evatt rightly ascribes the swing to
resentment at the Government’s restric-
tions on credit and imports, but that is
no reason for “Labor’s” pluming itself.
The Government embarked on that policy
in the full knowledge that it would be
unpopular, but in the belief that it was
necessary in the wider interests of the
country.
On Monday it looked as though the
“Labor” candidate, E. J. Hayes, would
probably poll about 2000 more votes
than he did last year. As between the
two Country-party men Lyne was still
either man’s seat, P. E. Lucock holding
a lead of less than 450 over D. J.
Lancaster.
When the Chifley Government’s Bank
Grab was rejected by the High Court as
unconstitutional there were wild men in
the ranks of “Labor” who urged that the
party should sack the High Court —varia-
tions on the theme were that it should
be stacked or packed. In South Africa
Prime Minister Malan, faced with a simi-
lar setback, isn’t considering sacking or
stacking his Supreme Court, but he is
going to take away its power to pass
judgment on his Acts. At least, he is
going to try.
Cause of the clash is Malan’s colored-
voter policy. Under the Union Constitu-
tion natives of the Cape Province enjoy
voting privileges not accorded colored
people in the former Boer territories, and,
although the Constitution can be amended
by Act of Parliament, to alter this par-
ticular provision requires a two-thirds
majority of both Houses. Last year Malan
brought down a bill greatly restricting the
rights of colored voters. It was passed,
but not by the necessary two-thirds
majority. The court, on the appeal of
four colored voters, has now declared the
bill illegal, and Malan has replied by
announcing his intention of clipping the
court’s wings.
More than the rights of colored voters
now hangs in the balance. The two-
thirds rule also applies to the clause in
the Constitution which gives the English
language an equal footing with Afrikaans,
and extreme Nationalists would like to
see that altered, too. Fears of this
nature, objections to Malan’s segrega-
tion policy in connection with colored
people and dissatisfaction with his hand-
ling of defence account for the growth
of “Sailor” Malan’s Torch Commando
movement, which at the weekend was
planning big demonstrations and calling
upon the Prime Minister to resign.
The current economic upset with regard
to credit and imports is simply a reminder
that, in spite of all the blather about
Australia becoming a great manufacturing
nation and the rest of it, the country is
still dependent on wool. For over 50
years the rise and fall in wool prices has
dictated our financial welfare, and that’s
what’s happening now.
Billy Sheahan smears the Crown, the
Lord Mayor of Brisbane and himself in
one spit:
The Lord Mayor of Brisbane has recently
been knighted, and I suppose that he had
to do something to prove that he had
earned the honor. He had to be anti-Labor
and dirty to the Labor Government. One
can get a knighthood if one is dirty to the
Labor party, particularly if arrangements
are made between midnight and 3 a.m.
Now what could he mean?
Prime Minister Menzies promised the
Lord Mayors of the six capitals he would
put their case on non-rateable Common-
wealth property to the Cabinet, with a
hint that he might persuade it to grant
councils “municipal payments” to make
up in part for the rates they won’t get —
he has already promised to pay an
amount equivalent to rates where Com-
monwealth property is used for com-
mercial purposes. Armed with this pre-
cedent, local-government can now open
up on the State Governments, which don’t
pay rates on schools, police-stations and
other State property.
Jessie Street has one gift radio actors
must envy her —she always seems to be
able to find a new sponsor when the old
one fails. The ousting of the Reds from
the Ironworkers’ Association lost her
the privilege of attending U.N.O. meet-
ings as European representative (or what-
ever they called her) of the union’s paper.
Now she’s in Geneva at a meeting of the
U.N. Status of Women Commission as an
observer for the Six-point Group, re-
ported to be a British feminist organisa-
tion. Naturally, it’s also reported to be
non-political.
Last Thursday the American Senate
passed the bill to ratify the Japanese
treaty and the defence pacts with Japan,
Australia, New Zealand and the Philip-
pines. The treaty had already been rati-
fied by Australia, Britain, Ceylon, Japan
and New Zealand. It will come into force
as soon as one more country ratifies it.
Victorian Agent-General Lienhop in
London: “Overseas industrialists must,
for the time being, regard Australia as
a bad investment.” March issue of “The
Ambassador,” a British export magazine
for textiles and fashions: “Apart from
Canada there is hardly any region that
could be considered a better investment
risk than Australia.” Lienhop appears
to be playing Little Sir Echo to Premier
McDonald.
N. S. Wales Ministers were to have
discussed Geraghty’s Legislative Council
motion with Ferguson, boss of the A.L.P.
executive, one night last week, but at the
last minute it was found that Ferguson
“could not attend.” However, he was on
the spot all right on Friday night, when,
at a meeting of the executive, A.W.U.
secretary Dougherty proposed a motion
to direct “Labor” Parliamentarians to
support a move for abolition of the
Council. There was no seconder, so the
motion lapsed, whereupon Ferguson read
a statement indicting Dougherty as a dis-
puptionist and severely censuring him for
“his opportunistic and anti-Labor atti-
tudes.” The statement was adopted with
only two dissentients, so apparently the
, executive saw nothing amusing in Jacky s
tying the opportunist label on Dougherty,
while advancing reasons why the party
should ignore one of the main points of
its platform.
Musical compliments in the Queens-
land Assembly;
Mr. Aikens (Mundingburra): I rise to a
point of order. I have let the boy soprano
from Fortitude Valley go far enough....
Mr. Brosnan (Fortitude Valley): The
gasso-profundo from the Ross River Delta
does not confuse me with his technicalities.
Three leading counsel headed by Mr,
Berwick, Q.C., have endorsed the
opinion expressed in The Bulletin that
the appointment of Parliamentary
under-secretaries in the Federal Parlia-
ment would be unconstitutional on the
ground that they would be holders of
offices of profit under the Crown. The
Government might now ask the same
counsel to examine the constitutionality
of payments of salaries to members apart
from allowances provided for under
Section 48 of the Constitution.
Paul McGuire told the Royal Empire
Society in Melbourne that Australians
were a “have” country in a hemisphere
of “have-nots.” Basically he’s right, but
in recent years our tendency has been
to develop into a nation of “gimmes.”
One of the provisions of a bill intro-
duced into the N. S. Wales Parliament
by Clive Evatt to amend the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals Act concerns the
conditions under which hares intended
for use in “live coursing” may be kept in
captivity. When the bill was being dis-
cussed several members suggested that it
would be much more humane and in
keeping with current feeling if live-hare
coursing were abolished altogether, and
Clive was challenged to withdraw the bill
for the purpose of amending it to that
end. Although he referred to the measure
as “this purely non-party bill” and
admitted that he regarded live-hare cours-
ing as cruel, Evatt minor did not accept
the challenge. When “sport” comes into
conflict with principle in “Labor” politics,
principle isn’t in the race.
Another plan, this time a seven-pointer,
has been produced to “boost food-pro-
duction in Australia.” It looks remark-
ably like all the other plans and comes
from the Food Trades Federation, what-
ever that is. If only we could grow
wheat, milk, butter and meat as easily as
we grow plans!
Communist organiser Southwell, of the
A.E.U., is apparently running that union’s
overtime-ban —boilermakers and iron-
workers co-operating—at the Victorian
Electricity Commission’s works in Mel-
bourne, also at Yallourn, where the
power-supply is generated ; and the metal-
trades union in the S.A. Electricity Trust’s
powerhouse at Osborne is asking for a
ban on overtime there by the Adelaide
Trades Hall. What ought to be brought
home to these unions is that, under the
40-hour-week award, reasonable overtime
at employers’ request is mandatory, and
“no organisation shall in any way be
concerned in any ban.... upon the work-
ing of overtime in accordance with
[award] provisions.”
If the executives of the A.E.U. and the
metal-trades union are bucking against
the 40-hour award, the court ought to be
informed formally without delay.
Ooldea mission has banned native
witch-doctors from its environs. Rightly,
too. Let the more intelligent whites have
their astrology, their patent cure-alls, their
racing-tipsters, lucky charms and poli-
ticians. We owe it to the aboriginal to
protect him from such things.
Despite Trygve Lie’s declaration that
there is not a grain of truth in the story
that American forces in Korea are using
germ-warfare and his offer to the Chinese
Communists of an investigation by the
international Red Cross, Moscow and
Peking are still repeating the slander. Aus-
tralian Communists, ever ready to repeat
as truth any lie that comes out of Mos-
cow, are making the most of this one.
Thus their official organ in a somewhat
mixed metaphor:
Aggressive United States imperialism,
hurtling headlong to its doom, stands like
a rat at bay, spewing forth all its con-
centrated evil in one last desperate effort
to hold back the march of history. To this
end North Korea and parts of Peoples
China have been sprayed with bacteria-
laden fleas, flies, ants, mosquitoes, spiders
and other insects.
It makes one wonder whether Australia
is altogether guiltless in this matter. Was
Red-ant Ernie Thornton properly exam-
ined for psittacosis, housemaid’s knee and
writer’s cramp before he left for Peking?
B.H.P.’s decision to set up a steel-
milling plant near Fremantle with an out-
put of 50,000 tons a year is the second
piece of good news Westralians have had
this year; the other bit was Anglo-
Iranian’s announcement of plans for an
oil-refinery at Kwinana, only a few miles
away. The new plant will use lOin. billets
from Newcastle and iron ores from
B.H.P. leases in the Nor’-west. They’re
saying in Perth that the balance of the
continent is at last to be righted.
In Victoria the egg war still rages.
Defeat of the old Egg Board and setting-
up of a new one failed to bring peace
between egg-growers and board. Now the
egg-men are seeking a High Court injunc-
tion to stop the board doing something
or other.


/\ GIRL WHOSE PHOTOGRAPH
is frequently TAKEN!
IS APT TO FEEL — —
POSITIVELY *
SEPUCEP AMP 6ETKAVEP
IP IT NEVER. MAKES
THE SOCIAL COLUMNS %
AN AWFUL LET-DOWN.


Society
“Teeperce”: At the scores of weddings
I’ve attended I have never heard without
inner quaking the celebrant’s injunction
to the congregation to then and there
voice any impediment they know to the
marriage or remain forever silent. I’ve
known a few instances when dramatic
intervention would not have been a com-
plete surprise to those in the know, but
the moment has passed without the
dreaded denouement. On the other hand,
in a Victorian country town during the
war there were many occasions when
drama momentarily followed the usually
formal injunction. The town housed a
convalescent depot from which many of
the staff'and patients entered double har-
ness with local lasses. At the nuptials it
was customary for the groom’s mates to
sit in strategically deployed groups, and at
“I slap my signature on them and they sell like hot cakes."
the padre’s “Speak now” they would rise
as one man, maintain a few suspenseful
moments of breathtaking silence and
then sit down again in hesitant
unison. The bride and bridegroom
were seldom really embarrassed by the
manoeuvre, but the expectant looks on
the faces of some of the civvy congrega-
tion were a joy to behold.
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: Took a Canadian
friend into the bar of a Sydney pub for
a noonday drink and, when he recovered
from the initial impact of the shove-push-
and-bellow atmosphere, he explained that
in his neck of the woods in Canada beer
is drunk in what are known as beer-
parlors. The thing about these, it appears,
is that they provide ample seating accom-
modation and customers are expected to
sit; in fact, if you can’t find a seat you
don’t get a drink. I mentioned the idea
hopefully to the local Bung, but, un-
fortunately, his mind runs in a groove
scoured out by coin of the realm; “Be
a good place to sell shooting-sticks,” he
said.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Despite biased and ill-
informed criticism of their methods it
has always been a source of comfort
to me that the police almost invariably
get their man. An incident in Melbourne
fills me, therefore, with the deepest
satisfaction. Seventeen years ago a war-
rant was issued for the arrest of a man
on a charge of obtaining money with
intent to defraud. Weeks ran into months,
months into years, and doubtless with
the passage of time those interested
thought the matter had been dropped.
But that presupposes ignorance of police
efficiency. At 3 o’clock the other morning
they swooped, gathered the man and ran
him in. It turned out later that he was
well known, had been living in the same
place for years, conducted a business,
had a telephone-number and was listed
as an elector and taxpayer under his
correct name. It also turned out that all
trace of the informant had been lost, and
when the arrested man came to court the
police perforce asked that the charge be
withdrawn. The accused insisted on the
case being heard, and was, of course,
discharged. He will remain free until the
informant turns up to press the charge.
What it proves is that once the police get
a warrant, sooner or later they execute it.
» * $ *
“Eve”: On the window it said “Big
steaks, 24 hours a day.” Being in a
steak-mood I mooched in and confidently
ordered one. “No steak,” said the waiter,
flicking the air idly with the end of a
tea-towel. I pointed out that the window-
sign said steaks were on 24 hours a day.
“Yes,” said he. “But you’re unlucky.
We’ve been open just a bit longer than
that, and you’ve just struck the 25th
hour!”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Chinese market-
gardeners (B. 5/3/’52) are still a feature
of life in inland towns, though they have
forsaken the horse-drawn cart, not for
the motor-truck, but for the older two-
baskets-and-pole traditional to their race.
The omission of Wong Kee from last
year’s Jubilee pageants was an oversight,
since his supplying of countless out-
back families with their greens was an
important part in our pioneering annals.
He also provided a perennial source of
adventure for generations of juveniles
who raided his grape-vines and
watermelon-patches. I still carry scars as
a souvenir of the time my unprotected
rear received a blast of saltpetre from
the old muzzle-loader which he kept for
the repelling of mother-naked marauders,
wbo came straight from the swimming-
bole to harry his gardens. I also re-
member the occasion when Wong Kee,
f rom bis place of concealment, saw the
posteriors of what he thought were two
juvenile despoilers and let go with both
barrels. When newly-armed school-
mistresses go to a Chinese market-garden
to buy fruit they should not (1) climb
through fences, (2) wear shorts.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: While waiting to be
served I glanced idly towards the cashier.
In her glass case the girl was scrutinising
the number of every note sent up to her.
Quid notes she compared with a paper
stuck on the window at her left, 10s.
“flags” took her eyes to a scrap on the
right. Interested, I asked the counter-
jumper: “Crook notes about again?”
“You forgot to polish my shoes today , dear.”
“No,” he explained. “It’s a radio stunt;
anyone who finds the note with a certain
number on it gets the jackpot; it’s up to
about sixty fiddlies, I think.” Not since
I was a romantic youth had I seen
numbers of notes taken in a shop. I
found myself recalling; A sweet-faced,
demure little thing used to serve in a shop
where I bought my daily lunch. One
day I heard the manageress request her:
“Miss Angeleyes, would you help Miss
So-and-so at the back for a few minutes?”
When the girl was out of sight the older
woman opened the till and jotted down
the numbers of some pound notes inside.
I was back at work before the significance
of that action dawned. I fumed. The
suspicious-minded old coot! Angeleyes
was gone next day—and a dazed youth
learnt one of the first lessons of life.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: “East Lynne” wasn’t
always a theatrical lifesaver (B. 12/3 /’52).
It suffered its last revival in Melbourne
at the hands of Muriel Starr when she
was fighting a losing battle at the Palace,
Bourke-street, now the St. James. At the
dress-rehearsal I saw Muriel playing the
part of the heroine with tragic solemnity,
while her staff were all burlesquing theirs.
I proffered the suggestion that the staff
had something and if everybody played
the ancient bromide in the same spirit it
would bring the house down. Miss Starr
indignantly rejected the proposal. Open-
ing night was a complete flop and the
piece fell back into its coffin after a few
days. I think I was right, though. Not
so long after that “The Lights of London
and other melodramas were revived in
London and New York and played in the
way Miss Starr’s staff tried to play “East
Lynne.” They were popular successess.
“Pat”; Alfred Dampier’s presentation
of “Robbery Under Arms” may have
been a “theatrical lifesaver,” but I con-
sider it more notable for the fact that the
proceeds derived from its performance to
capacity houses five nights a week were
devoted to staging Shakspearian plays
every Friday night. In his book Lost
Years, E. H. Collis recalls the portrayal
by Dampier of Shylock, in which “he
never appeared to better advantage.
“Irving”: The anxiety of the Austra-
lian and Swiss parents to make sure that
they got the right offspring (B. 27/2/’52)
contrasts strongly with the attitude of
some of the Torres Straits islanders,
among whom it is customary to present
offspring to close friends, the gift having,
under the native social code, all the force
of legal adoption, though the parents and
foster-parents may be next-door
neighbors.
* * * *
“Yasume”: Whistling is an accom-
plishment every small boy acquires at an
early age, but apparently not all races
have the knack of it. In the A.1.F., touch-
ing half a score of countries of in the
main dusky-hued people I found
that few of them could whistle. The
Aussies’ ability in the art intrigued
them greatly—especially the kids. In
February, 1942, shipped from Suez, we
were dumped in Java, and quickly ba-
came part of the Imperial Japanese Army
(labor battalion). Our first camp was at
a livestock market, in a wog town on
the road from Batavia to Bandoeng,
There it was usual for the local popu-
lation to visit us on their side of the wire.
mainly to sell food concoctions, which
later started many dysentery troubles. But
the kids came to be entertained. They
sat in the dust or mud, pursed their lips,
waved arms, and rolled their eyes to
convey that all they wanted was that we
should whistle. We did so. Former
members of our battalion band gave them
light opera, while we ordinary blokes put
over everything down to “She’ll be com-
ing round the mountain.” Eventually we
became bored and stopped to think how
silly we must have looked. Have you ever
wondered how a cageful of canaries must
feel? We know.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The Geographical
Society of New Zealand got a shock when
it heard that a lake at 2000 ft. altitude
had been discovered at Preservation Inlet
—a plane party doing survey work in the
locality made the discovery. All M.L.
had been surveyed and mapped-out years
ago, and it seems puzzling that the lake
had been overlooked. It was also dis-
covered that the bush in the locality is
teeming with native game.
* * *
“Bo”: The building, a bank, lacks the
usual cantilever awning over the foot-
path ; there is a straight, unbroken facade
from footpath-level to roof. Not until
you are passing it can you notice the
small, roughly-printed notice stuck on the
wall: “Painters
working on top."
Shrewd inter-
preters of human
nature, those
painters. If th £
notice were not
there you’d walk
straight past, per-
haps later won-
dering how the
paint- splashes
came to be on the top of your hat. But
they are perfectly aware that on seeing the
notice you must switch your face-position
from the vertical to the horizontal to get
a screw at them on their platform a terri-
fying distance up. Perhaps they run a
sweep on the day’s tally of filled eyes.
“F.J.”: Who told “Sackville” that bit
about “the Celestial’s inability to keep up
with modern trends”? In a quiet lane in
an outer Sydney suburb I was puzzled oy
the stuttering exhaust of a motor, clos
by, but out of sight. The noise rose to a
peak and dwindled with intriguing regu-
larity. I peeped through a tangle o
blackberry-vines and saw a large cnm
garden sunk below the surrounding lev
and an elderly “Celestial” clad in all tw
age-old habiliments of China exc P
for the pigtail —skilfully piloting th
latest type of petrol-driven hoe 1 ,
combination of the centunes-old sartorial
set-up with the modern mechanical tr
of today was somewhat incongruou
also a little ominous.
A BARNYARD LAY.
“An R.A.A.F. helicopter which flew over poultry-
farms near Canley Vale had the hens running around
in circles, and lowered egg-production by 15 per
cent.’’
“Perhaps,” said Mrs. Plymouth Rock,
“I’m hard and unforgiving,
But while our husband does the block
We’re scratching for a living.”
Wives gathered near the farmyard fence,
Abusive but discreet:
It’s easier than many hens
Admit, to make hens meet.
Said one, “A little of his time
Is all I ask or beg,
But when I try to talk to him
He says, ‘Oh, lay an egg!’”
Another said, “Sex-on-the-brain’s
His trouble —Breed! Breed! Breed!
What do we get for all our pains?
Only chickenfeed! ”
More sorrows might have been uncovered,
But a great whirring stopped her
When, flailing overhead, there hovered
An Air Force helicopter.
It turned her thoughts to Higher Things:
“Oh my, girls! What a rooster!
It proves a fowl can fly no-wings—
We may, too, if we choose ter!”
Poetic fowls said, “This was fated;
A soul-change has occurred —
Errol Flynn’s has transmigrated
Out of wolf to bird!”
The fowlyard was in passion’s thrall,
The hens laid-off and workless;
The helicopter had them all
Running round in circles.
What might have happened, who can say?
There’s room for apprehensions—
The Air Force is so full today
Of curious inventions —
But off the helicopter flew,
Leaving behind a ruction—
Fifteen eggs per cent, too few
In the yard’s production.
The rooster views with consternation
His Bettys, Joans and Mabels;
For if roosters fail at Multiplication,
They’re only good for Tables.
N.S.W
SWILLIAM.


“Bagot”: Over 40,000 beer-bottles,
chipped and unfit for refilling, were used
by a Newdegate (W.A.) farmer to solve
the building-material problem. The walls
of his new house are constructed of dead-
marines placed necks inwards between
layers of csynent. A firebrick fireplace
has been installed to prevent heat crack-
ing the empties, and when the walls have
been plastered and a tile-roof fitted, the
owner claims he will have a home unique
in Australia.
* * * *
“C.S.”: An attempt by 20 horses to
break a 37-year-old record will be made
at Sydney Show next month. The record
is a 33ft. jump over a water obstacle,
made by Thumbs Up in 1915, There’s a
bonus of £5 in addition to the £5O first
prize for the horse that does it —and a
ducking for the horses and riders that
miss.
* * * *
“Hist”: From the back page of my
pocket ready-reckoner comes a whiff of
the past. Headed “Servants’ Wages,” it
gives the relative rates, monthly, weekly
“I don't suppose you have a vacancy for a drummer?"
and daily, over a range from £1 to £lOO
per annum. I suppose a modern edition
would consider from £2OO to £BOO more
practical and might well add “First secure
your servant.” Yet I can recall my
parents anxiously discussing the wisdom
of offering'as much as £lB a year to a
“maid”—to “live in,” of course, in the
maid’s room at the top of the house (i.e.,
the attic); her work to begin by lighting
the fires in the morning, and to finish
after washing-up the dinner-dishes,
dinner being at 8 p.m. Her time off was
one evening a week, every second Sunday,
and one weekday a month. Nor were we
blood-sucking capitalists; merely an
average middle-class family, occupying
one of London’s thousands of small brick
suburban houses —two stories and attic.
* * * *
“Mons”: “Hamfafs” statement (B.
12/3/”52) that Wilson Barrett was the
first to bring “The Silver King” to Aus-
tralia is a long way out. “The King” had
been produced at the old Royal many
years back, with I think Titheradge as
Denver; it was also put on at Her
Majesty’s by George Rignold, with Miss
Watson, and Edward Sass as the Spider.
“The Sign of the Cross” was first pre-
sented by Julius Knight in the late
’nineties.
* * * *
“M. 8.”: Mention of the cats’-meat
deliveries (B. 13/2/’52) sent me to turn
up an old diary, written when I was in
Paris in 1913. May I quote a passage?
The Parisian door-to-door vendors each
have their own little special calls and tunes;
the baker, with his basket of bread-sticks,
little horseshoe Vienna-bread or poppy-
seed rolls; the flower-sellers; the chair-
mender, who plays a haunting little air on
a tin whistle; the cats’-meat man, who sells
bits of meat on wooden skewers, calling
out “Meenie, meenie” (French cats are
affectionately termed “Minette”), and all
the pusses of the neighborhood come rush-
ing to him, rubbing ecstatically against his
legs.
sk tk * *
“K.S. ’: Another sly-grog story. The
new sergeant met the local hard-case
coming out of a dark lane with a sus-
picious-looking parcel under his arm.
What passed between them no one
knows, but next the sarge strolled casually
up the lane, placed three florins on a
post and completed his circuit of the
block, expecting, so the story goes, to find
that by some mysterious means a brace
of bottles had replaced the coins. They
hadn’t! And what’s more, whoever
removed the six-bob hasn’t replaced it
yet.
$ * * *
“Metax”: An official-looking notice
told me that “....placing bottles in the
garbage-tins is not desirable.” So I
proceeded to offer our collector my
humble apologies for the few empties in
my can. “Oh, you can give us as many as
you like,” I was informed, “we get up to
tuppence each for them. That notice was
only because the council begrudges us
the few extra bob.”
* * * *
“Emjai”: Melbourne’s old cable-trams,
butts for the jokes or superior smiles of
the present generation, were just the thing
half a century ago, and they had some
advantages over city transport of today.
Passengers on the “dummy” had plenty
of fresh air, and always received the
solicitous warning of the gripman to
“hang on around the curves.” We could
swing on and off at will. It was “sissy”
to hail a car to stop, and the flash way
to alight was back to front, with a lean
at correct angle which momentum
brought to the perpendicular without a
step. Speed? There was little on the
city roads in those days that could leave
them over a distance. Along St. Kilda-
road we did 10 miles per hour to the
powerhouse by the Domain, and then
whizzed up to 12 m.p.h. to the beach.
Frequently we ran neck-and-neck with
Thompson’s steam-car, and bet pennies
on the result. If we were with Thompson
at the powerhouse we’d be home and
dried at the junction, though perhaps,
like the farmyard hen, he didn’t always
run his darnedest. But the motor-cars won
in the end, and the old powerhouse,
which gave us our boost, is now the head-
quarters of a motor-company.
“Two bob in th ’ guts! Two bob to see her go !”
“K”: Victorian health authorities
heard the shocking story the otner day,
in an application from the Cinematograph
Operators’ Association, that the two years'
training period of assistant operators in
picture theatres was being interrupted by
the military call-up. The C.O.A. repre-
sented that this national calamity must
be cured, even at the cost of amending
legislation, and that the statutory age-
limitation for trainees —i.e., C.O.A.
trainees —could be reduced from 17 years
to 16 in order that the really vital train-
ing for the youngsters concerned should
not be prejudiced. So urgent was this
crisis regarded that it is understood from
the published reports of the proceedings
that the required lowering of the age-limit
is to be permitted forthwith.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: In an old trunk I discovered
a book which had given me hours of
entertainment when I was a youngster—
Plutarch’s Lives. 1 hunted through it
for the yarns which had intrigued me
40 years ago, and found a few of them.
One was the story of how a Thracian
captain, after Thebes had been taken,
entered the house of a woman named
Timoclea, ravished the lady, and then
asked her if she had any gold or silver
hidden. She led him to the well in the
garden and told him that she had dropped
all her valuables into it. He bent over
to look into it, and Timoclea shoved
him in head first, then finished the job
by dropping rocks on his head. The
Thracians hauled her before Alexander,
who showed himself a good sport by
letting her go free. But alas! I fear
that reading the work right through again
will be beyond me. It is printed in type
so small that even with the aid of
reading-glasses I can manage only a page
or two before my eyes pack up. This
makes me wonder how our grandparents
ever managed to read the books printed
in that eye-ruining fine print. Also, in
those days of hand-set type, how on
earth did the compositors handle such
tiny letters?
* * * *
“Macnell”: Recently accepted into
service, British carrier Eagle has revolu-
tionary deck-lighting equipment for
night-flying which will make old hands of
the Fleet Air Arm smile. I remember how,
when the Eastern Battle Fleet was
working-up its carriers for their bang at
Sabang, the American flat-top
Saratoga would have none of night-
flying ; the R. Enners were landing-on
guided by a small blue light on the stern
of their floating ’dromes. But Eagle is
capable of landing her jets at night with
as much safety (as much as there is in
carrier-operations), as the old Seafires and
Corsairs had in daylight. Blackouts won’t
worry her —the ship is served by some
400 miles of electric-cable and over 1000
motors, and can produce more than 8000
kw. She’s the first craft in the R.N. to
have av automatic telephone-exchange —
500 lines. But a hit there won’t affect
her efficiency; all vital action-
communications are sound-powered—
operated by the vibration of the speaker’s
voice.
* * * *
“Alsace”: Among other things that
have gone with the wind and the
customer-is-always-nght era is that little
white plate with the black letters which
read “Tradesmen’s Entrance.” A
thorough search in a hardware-shop
revealed all the others —“Private,”
“Ladies,” “Gentlemen,” “Office,”
“Beware of the Dog”—but never a
“Tradesmen’s Entrance” did I see. They
aren’t needed any more because the only
one who uses the side-gat© these days is
the lord and master, who knows darn
well if he wears the carpets out coming
in the front way he’ll have to foot the
bill for new ones. Delivery-men, elec-
trician, plumber, baker and milkman all
ring the front-door bell and have me
wearing a path in answer to their
summons. So much has this become a
habit that I was amazed today to find
that the baker had left the bread on the
table in the back sunroom while I was
saturated in my midday serial. But not
for long. When I went out to clear the
letter-box I remembered. The previous
day we had painted our front path from
gate to steps. Tomorrow the bread will
be on the front-door step again.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: The National Service
trainee who marched in two right boots
(B. 5/3/’52) has my sympathy. When I
was eight years old Mum took us
raspberry-snatching—she reckoned the
change of air would do us good. My job
was to act nursemaid to my two-year-old
sister, so that Mum and the older ones
would be free from interruption while
they gathered the raspberries (and the
shekels). One day at weigh-up Mum dis-
covered that I’d put Bubs’s shoes on the
wrong feet. My punishment fitted the
crime, if not my feet —I had to wear my
shoes wrong way round. I’ve never for-
gotten it; even today to see a bloke walk-
ing with his feet making an unusually
wide angle gives me a pain in the legs.
* * * *
“Georgian”: Deaths of reigning
monaichs have not always attracted the
attention in our Press that was devoted
to the death of our late King. On
October 23, 1837, the “Cornwall
Chronicle,” a newspaper printed in
early Launceston (Tas.), first announced
to Vandiemonians the death of William
IV and the accession of Queen Victoria
thus:
The King of England, William IV, died
on June 20—the Princess Victoria was pro-
claimed Queen of England on the same day.
We have not space for particulars.
Further down the column, amongst re-
ports of local trivialities, the editor was
constrained to say that the death of the
King of England “renders a second
edition unavoidable.” I am still wonder-
ing if his determination not to scrap the
type set up when the news came was fhe
result of a lack of initiative, or whether
his public was as indifferent to the deaths
of monarchs “of England” as his regret
at having to publish a second edition in-
dicates.
PROP AND COP.
“Gent., middle-aged, sober, easygoing, good solo-
whist player, would meet m.-a. lady, same nature
and tastes, view mat.” —Agony Ad.
She who’d consider being an aspirant
To wifehood, to be sharer of his joys.
May rest assured he’s no domestic tyrant,
No crank whom every little fault annoys.
He’d never bellow at the fancy prices
That she might pay for hats, nor shake a fist
Whene’er his toast was cut in too-thick slices.
He’s dumped—if ever he’d had—all other vices
But solo whist.
He might at handy jobs be quite a master,
At gardening enjoy the wizard touch.
Of miasmology have knowledge vaster
Than anyone; and speak Chinese and Dutch.
Of his accomplishments he is maintaining
A modest silence, gladdening to note;
But, still, he simply couldn’t be refraining
From hinting that at solo whist campaigning
He’s no one’s goat.
Who hold a line with baited hook a-dangling
Over pellucid streams may make the claim,
With justice, that the noble sport of angling
Is a philosophy as well as game.
They wait, serene, unruffled, rather mystic,
Contemplative, torpid even, perhaps.
But can they be as calmly fatalistic
As equable and non-antagonislic
As solo chaps?
What wife-elect but would with profit reason
That she could do immeasurably worse?
What if his hobby—in and out of season —
Was reading out aloud some modern verse?
Bowling or golf, the trots, or even polo
Could take a spouse’s time away from her.
But no! Not only will he not get molo,
He’ll stick around the house and play his solo.
How could he err?
Never would she be plagued with doubts, and
wonder
If he were gallivanting round at night.
They’d play their hand together, not asunder.
There’s nought in that to conjure up a fight —
Except, perhaps, if, on “abundance” calling,
Or kidded into going “open misere,”
She demonstrated judgment quite appalling,
At her, desjfite his boast, he might start bawling,
Or give a glare.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Opal”; Jonesy died suddenly and his
widow and family had to spend the next
few days in town, some 20 miles away, in
order to attend to necessary arrange-
ments. A couple of days later Jonesy’s
widow rang Ted Williams and asked him
to collect her late husband’s dog and
feed him till he returned. Ted walked
over and whistled up the dog, which
started to follow; but
it had gone only a short
way when a piercing
whistle sounded from
the deserted house and
the dog obediently re-
turned. Ted, covered with gooseflesh,
approached the house cautiously to
investigate. As he set foot on the
veranda-steps, the late Jonesy’s voice
told him to “Sid-down!” then a volley of
oaths and maniacal laughter rent the air.
Ted hit the dust towards home, leaving
the dog behind. As he sat at home
recovering, Mrs. Jones rang again. She’d
forgotten to ask him to also collect her
king parrot hanging in a cage on the
veranda, and another ghost-story was
exploded.
* * * ♦
“Jade” ; Though never able to achieve
such discipline with my own, I have seen
Muscovies brought to a stage where they
would go through a patch of
greens concentrating only on the
slugs and snails. Impossible, you
say? The shrewd owner, before putting
them in his vegetable-patch to do the job,
filled them right to the plimsoll with
other greenstuff. They used the gastero-
pods as nuts to top off the feast.
* * * *
“Chakola”: In the wilds of the Gulf
country, when gathering data for my
book Aboriginal Legends, I spent days
with various abo. tribes. The lubras did
all the cooking in native ovens made in
the ground—holes approximately 3ft.
deep and generally circular in shape of
roughly 4ft. diameter; the walls lined
with lumps of clay about Sin. in diameter.
When they’re ready to do cooking
a fire is built in the hole and kept burn-
ing until the clay lumps are steaming
hot. Then the lubras quickly remove the
fire with sticks kept for this purpose, and
at once cover all the clay lumps with wet
grass and leaves. Next the animal is
placed in the hole, covered also with
wet grasses, and finally a layer of earth is
put over the lot to prevent steam from
escaping. The oven is left undisturbed
for several hours, according to the size
of the food being prepared. The food
was perfectly cooked and I found it
delectable. The meat of the kangaroo
and goanna were luscious; fresh-water
crocodile is like chicken. In some cases,
when only small game is cooked, the
clay lumps are removed from the hole
and placed on top of the food wrapped
in wet grass, then covered with hot ashes
“Another Housing Commission blunder, I suppose.”
and earth. This method produces
cooking perfection also.
* * * ♦
“Edx”: Dazzler had been out from
England at least six months, and after
five of them spent bogging and trucking
underground at Kalgoorlie, considered
himself a resourceful and experienced
miner. Trucking one day from a chute
down in the depths the ore jammed
in the chute and try as he would to budge
the key-piece he couldn’t get it to run.
He belted with a hammer and pried with
a bar with no success, and finally went
away in search of dynamite. Filling in
his plod at the end of the shift he wrote:
“Trucking on thirty-level—eight hours.
Ore jammed in chute, tried barring,
unable to shift ore. Inserted half-plug
of fracture, still unable to shift ore.
Inserted full-plug of fracture, ore in
abundance, unable to locate truck.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
heading north-east from Melbourne and
drifted into Nagambie shortly after dark.
He got a handout or two, went down to
the river, boiled the billy, dined and re-
laxed. His intention to camp there was
quickly dispelled when about 40 million
mosquitoes discovered him, so he picked
up his knot and set forth in the night in
search of high ground. After a time he
found it, got through a fence, felt around
in the dark under a thick bush and there
settled down. Came the dawn and the
first thing Mat sighted was a winged
figure outlined against the sky. He sat
up abruptly, to discover himself in a
corner of a cemetery and an official of
some sort eyeing him severely. Mat got
up and eyed the official back. “Strike me
fat,” he said, “if it wasn’t for the look
on y’r dial, mate, I’d ’a’ took you for St.
Peter.”
* ♦ * *
“Swelpme”; About seven years ago I
was fishing off the breakwater at Wol-
longong (N.S.W.) when —for a second,
anyway—l really thought I was seeing
things. From nowhere at all a little
brownish penguin had appeared and was
swimming, diving, darting this way and
that—no doubt after small fish —and
giving the most fascinating display of
aquabatics I’ve ever enjoyed. Spoke a
veteran as he rebaited a hook: “He
won’t last long. Tomorrow or the next
day you’ll find him dead on the beach —
the oil in the water sticks to their feathers
and they drown.” My holiday was at an
end so I wasn’t able to check on the state-
ment, but, though I’ve visited the South
Coast fairly frequently since then, I had
never seen another penguin until
recently. On the rocks near Gerringong
I found the remains of one of the quaint
little creatures. It had been dead too
long for the cause of death to be
apparent, but the rocks bore deposits of a
substance like sticky tar. Still, there are
loose ends to the theory: Why did
the birds come visiting—and alone at
that —to places where their feathers
could be contaminated? If anybody is
thinking of giving me that old one about
taking refuge because they are sick.
don’t! I have never seen a creature so
full of the joy of life as that penguin at
Wollongong.
*
Sackville : Touching on abo. nomen-
clature, somebody once claimed that
Parramatta means, literally, place
where eels sit down.” Correct transla-
tion or not, there is no doubt that Binghi
used the name to imply an abundance of
eels ; and it was no misnomer there. Simi-
larly, Cabramatta is the aborigines’ way
of saying in one word what it takes us
five to cover: “Place of the cobra-grub.”
And that, too, is a fitting designation. In
the tidal, semi-saltwater of Cabramatta
Creek (and also its sister-tributaries of
the George’s River, Prospect and
Orphan-School Creeks) the cobra-grub
abounds—as owners of rowing-boats and
unsheathed launches can testify. A small,
whitish water-grub, the destroyer riddles
wood with holes about |in. in diameter.
It seems to prefer to work just beneath
the surface —the bottom log in a landing
is invariably eaten away within a few
years, though the ones covered only at
high-tide generally escape attention. In
my dog-paddling days I learnt better
than to cling to waterlogged timber that
showed cobra borings—the itch that fol-
lowed was too regular to be dismissed as
mere coincidence. But we whitefellows
are perverse creatures: we accept the
native pronunciation to describe the
grub, yet make the “o” an “a” when talk-
ing of Cabramatta town or creek.
* * * «
“Bass”: Dead salmon were recently
washed ashore at Albany (W.A.), and a
few days later thousands of smelt
appeared on the beaches at Busselton.
Over 200 miles of coastline and the
Leeuwin separate the two places, so it
seems improbable that the two incidents
were related. Still, they may have been.
Around the turn of the century a similar
event, but on a much larger scale,
occurred on the coast north of Fremantle.
A severe electrical storm followed a
heatwave, and a high-tide deposited
thousands of fish along the beaches. They
stretched for miles, and they varied from
the well-known surface varieties like rock-
cod and whiting to rare, deep-water speci-
mens, indicating some widespread or
deep-seated catastrophe. For days the
stench made North Beach uninhabitable.
No definite explanation was ever
advanced, but it was generally attributed
to a submarine disturbance accompany-
ing the electrical storm. Another explana-
tion of the Albany and Busselton inci-
dents is that the fish were killed by an
excess of salinity in some bar-bound
estuaries and swept out to sea after a
heavy rain. Many sou’-Westralian rivers
and estuaries have bars across the mouth ;
and when, after a long drought, the
feeders cease to flow, the water in the
estuaries becomes extremely salty. I’ve
seen salt-rocks form in the water at the
Bremmer Bay estuary, and dead fish float-
ing there. A heavy rain following a
sustained drought would cause the estuary
to overflow the bar and the fish would be
washed out to sea, to be carried back
,by the tide and deposited on adjacent
beaches.
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: The black-should-
ered kite (B. 27/2/’52) had long been ex-
tremely rare in W.A., but some 15 to 20
years ago it began to multiply, and a few
years back it looked like becoming
common. Now it’s becoming rare again,
though still plentiful enough for speci-
mens to have been shot at four widely
separated spots within a week. It de-
serves a better fate, because it never
attacks poultry and it destroys mice and
rats. It should be protected.
* * * *
“Wiremu”: In 1893, when I was a
youth on Kekerangu Station, Marl-
borough (M.L.), the term “Send her
down, Hughie!” was in common
use when dry weather broke. I have
always had the idea that it was
derived from the Maori “ua,” ram. Maori
has given us many slang words, such as
“cootie,” from kutu, a louse. “Toerag,”
meaning a low or dissolute person, comes
from “taureka,” a slave. “Pie on,” in
use some years ago as denoting excel-
lence, or 0.K., is from “e pai ana,” mean-
ing very good. Although the Maori flp
nounces all his vowels he often clips
the last one short, hence the pakeha
mutilations.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: Redolent of the sale-
yard and cows, he slumped into the seat
opposite me and in due course the Greek
waiter arrived, gave the marble-top a
perfunctory wipe and looked at the new-
comer inquiringly. “WOtyer got?”
demanded the customer. “Steak and egg,
chop and egg” “Double steak, well
done,” cut in the customer, and away
went the Greek to reappear with the
usual gear. Later came the steak,
garnished with tomato and chips, and the
hungry gent, grabbed his tools and got to
work. Sawing savagely he hacked off a
hunk and pushed it doubtfully into his
mouth. The remainder on his plate
showed a vivid crimson interior with a
horribly black hide. He chewed for a
space, turned over the meat on the plate,
then, as the waiter came past, this time
laden with a tray of cups and plates, my
fellow-diner shot out a hairy paw and
grabbed the startled slavey by the slack
of his strides, nearly wrecking the trayful,
“Here, take it away and bring me some
eggs,” he snarled. “I seen a bullick hurt
worse than this and git over it!”
THE UMBRELLA MULGA.
Finished at last with the muster
You may call the day a day;
Why not through that mulga cluster
And home by the shortest way?
You’re a bushman now; be bolder,
And ride with the sun as mate,
If you keep him right on your shoulder
He’ll carry you home dead straight.
In the shade it is cooler and moister,
The stems stand leafless and bare
As if in some noble cloister
They waited in silent prayer.
But green in an arch high over
The twining tops are as one,
Like a strong arm shielding a lover
They shield from your sight the sun.
But you wander on in the coolness,
Your horse steps soft on the sand
Till lost within beauty’s fullness
You lose the he of the land.
Your nag holds the left in favor
As though he had home in sight,
So you trust him; and then you waver.
And pull him round to the right.
And above you the dim lights hover,
And beside you the grim stems stand;
Then with downward glance you discover
A second track in the sand.
“Now I’m right,” you say, “for some other
Has ridden this way like me.”
And, looking again, “There’s another,
For now there are tracks of three!”
Then the green leaves over you reel,
And the red sand under you swings
As those trebled tracks reveal
You’ve been riding around in rings!
And the sweat breaks out on your tfrow
And your heart beats rub-a-dub.
For the truth has dawned on you now—
You are lost in the mulga scrub!
Having held your fears in check
And cursed yourself as you should,
You drop your reins on his neck
And he carries you out of the wood.
You lounge in your saddle again,
You look no more at his hoofs,
You are out on the frontage plain
And in sight of the station roofs.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Wytiitt
it
CTCIE TYRES AW TUBES
ws&a//a' s
m
OCT2.UJ
m
i*
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE * RUBBER CO. HO.
fy ' ' - - s r?
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£
JACKS OX 4
OSUUJVAX
. pncuu A ,
*R»*5
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC UCAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BUTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Productivity;
—the quality or power of
producing in abundance.
The man with this quality
or power who produces in
abundance and profit-
ably— something that the
people need can always
command a banker’s
goodwill.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABUISHED 1834
with which it amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
“Old-timer”: We found old Bill in a
shack on the Murray, below Mallee Cliffs.
“Built her meself,” he said. “Had enough
dough saved f’r a bit o’ iron an’ cut the
timber on the flats back there. Yair, I’m ;
retired. No more punchin’ sheep. The
boss can blanky well do it himself.” He’d
been 43 years on the station, and had
always boasted that he would die in
harness, so we became curious about the
retirement. “Well,” Bill said thought-
fully, “it was the changes. Y’ see, a
man used t’ work the job t’ suit him-
self ; he might loaf a bit one day an’ put
in a Sundee t’ make up f’r it. When the
boss come t’ the out-station he’d see
everythin’ goin’ well and be content.
Then he got the ’phone on t’ the hut an’
took t’ pullin’ a man out be ringin’ him
up at daylight or in the middle of the
night. Well, I put up with that, I put
up with it when he bought one o’ them
utility trucks an’ started racin’ out in a
cloud o’ dust. Gripes, y’ never knew
when he’d come streakin’ across the plain.
It was a bit upsettin’, but I put up with
it. The finish come three weeks ago.
I’m dodgin’ along that back bound’ry
behind Taylor’s Tank —y’ know that
stretch of open plain—an’ blow me tight
I hear a roar, an’ next thing one o’ them
little airyplanes lands longside me. Yair,
it’s the boss. He’s took t’ flyin’, an’ that
settled me. I don’t want no boss droppin’
out o’ the sky on me. Besides, how’d I
know he wouldn’t be sittin’ up there some-
where watchin’ everythin’ I do. So I
reckon it’s about time for old Bill t’
retire.”
* * ♦ ♦
“J. 8.”: “Yair,” said Joe, staring out
at the rain, “black soil’s boggy all right.
I remember one time a chap I was with
lost a whole team of bullocks out on the
Ward Plain. They just sank down out
of sight, wagon and all.” Then, noticing
the expression of his audience, “All right,
look at this!” He pulled off his boot,
revealing an ancient scar on the ball of
his foot. “There y’ are. That’s where
I staked meself when I trod on one of
the horns.”
* •-!: * *
“Salmon Gums”: Earth tremors which
have rocked some of the taller Perth
buildings seem to have been centred
around Bolgart, about 60 miles north-east
of Perth. The shocks were accompanied
by what residents described as an
“ominous rumble,” and a lot of the
buildings in the town have cracked walls
and ceilings. If the residents were scared
they could be excused—there’s nothing
more frightening than the realisation that
what you’ve always regarded as solid
earth is capable of quivering like a jelly.
Early in War II a ’quake was centred off
Geraldton, and 300 miles further south,
in Perth, the steel framework of a new
building swayed like a sapling. Actually,
the big State shouldn’t be in any danger.
Geologists generally accept the theory
that the earth’s crust is composed of
“ Anyhow , I've got their number .”
blocks floating on a more-or-less fluid bed
of magma, and that occasionally these
blocks readjust themselves. At the
moment this continent is considered to
be twisting slightly, the north-west corner
undergoing a slight depressing, or sink-
ing, action. The Bolgart tremors were
probably caused by old man Australia
settling down more comfortably in bed.
* * * *
“Soe”: Woolly hair, curly mane and
tail, delivered in a float and left tied up
and saddled, bought by father for the little
girl to learn to ride; one of those
knowing little ponies, it watches mother
and child approaching. “Pat it first, dear ;
make friends with it.” Mother has been
told you must be masterful with animals.
“Pat it, dear,” she says again,
“so that it won’t be afraid of
you. Now untie it, and I’ll help
you get on,” The pony sees ahead of it
endless tedious joggings up and down the
backyard. It lifts one back foot, balances
it thoughtfully, then makes a harmless
pass that could be easily excused as bot-
fly-chasing. Mother screams, seizes the
child and runs. As she tries to calm the
girl, she sees a rough-looking character
leaning on the fence. “We’ll have to get
rid of it,” she tells him ; “it’s dangerous.”
The character grins. “No fear, lady, you
can easily cure them of kicking.” He
prods, slaps and teases the pony, pulls
its tail and outrages its dignity in many
ways before he can provoke it into lilt-
ing a back leg at him. Quick as light-
ning he grabs the leg and pulls the pony
backwards and sideways, whirls it rounJ
in an ungainly three-legged dance, poking
and hitting it to incite it into attempting
another kick. When at last he lets the
leg go the pony is thoroughly chastened.
The character demonstrates that now any
liberty can be safely taken with it, then
turns to the lady with hearty confidence.
“Ponies is just like women, lady, they’ll
put it over if you let ’em.”
* * * *
“B. Jerker”; Years ago Billy lost his
horses coming down the Ranken, Barkly
Tableland. We found him when he was
on his last legs and beginning to tear off
his clothes, and we took him to where the
Ranken makes again, at the Bucket Hole,
but, because it’s as easy to kill a man with
too much water as it is to let him die of
thirst, we gave him a half-pint only. He
raved for more. There were some pie-
melons there. We sliced them, squeezed
them, and let him have the juice. As
that wasn’t fast enough, we let him chew
what he wished, swallowing the slime and
spitting out the mush. We eased him on
to the water that way, though it was a
full 24 hours before we let him have a
drink. By that time the edge had gone
off his thirst, his mouth was gummed
with slime, his throat clogged with clotted
juice. Now you know why Billy hates pie-
melons,
* * * *
“Shadow'-chaser”: The heat of the
ground, plus the hot sun, so accelerated
evaporation after the short, sharp shower
that the piece of dung smoked as though
on fire. It was then that the giant beetle
—fully Sin. long—emerged from it with
an egg no larger than a pill clasped closely
to her thorax. Satisfied that no one of
any importance was looking she corn-
menced rolling the “pill,” which rapidly
grew in size as the damp litter adhered
to it, despite the insect’s using all her
weight to pack the substance as tightly
as possible. She kept on rolling, and
the pill grew until it was the size of a
large marble. When she could no longer
roll it comfortably she buried it about 2in.
deep on the sunny side of the steaming
dunghill and went her way, leaving no
address, token or guide for the young
beetle which would one day emerge from
the convenient incubator its mother had
selected.
* * * *
“Reefton”: When the new tractor
arrived old Victor was very suspicious.
It was vain to point out the advantages.
“Don’t sell your old one yet,” he warned.
“You wait till you see whether this one’s
all it’s cracked up to be.” He drove the
old one, quite happy with its tedious
blow-lamp-starting, the comic pop-pop-
ping of its single-cylinder and its stately
draught-horse gait. And when the big
rains came and lasted far into the normal
sowing-season, and most others were
caught, half-finished, the old “one-lunger”
I did enough to convince Victor that it
had earned an honored place for ever on
the farm. The wife was nearly as diffi-
cult about it. “I always felt that every-
thing was going well when I could hear
it pop-popping about the paddocks,” she
said. But of course you can’t be swayed by
either sentiment or the chance of a freak
season, which mightn’t come again for 50
years. New tractors were coming freely
on to the market, and we could see the
value of the old one dropping daily. At
last old Victor was convinced that he had
to take it to the machinery auction. We
thought we’d be lucky if we got much
over £3OO for it. “Couldn’t have sent a
better salesman in with it,” we said.
“Victor will be standing beside it, telling
everyone that it’s twice as good as those
complicated, new-fangled £l2OO jobs.”
Victor was to come home on the school
bus, but he didn’t arrive. As it got later
we became worried about him, but it
wasn’t until well after dark that we heard
the unmistakable, familiar pop-popping.
“I suppose nobody wanted the poor old
thing,” said the wife. Victor came in
looking as if he had passed through a
great emotional crisis. “The blasted
fools!” he said. “They don’t know a
good tractor when they see one. They
wouldn’t offer more than £6OO, so I
decided that the best thing to do was to
bring it home again.”
* * * ♦
“Blime”: The horseman rode down to
the stream edge, and, without leaving the
saddle, threw a line in. Presently he
grassed a fish. “Well, that’s a new way
of catching fish,” I said. He glanced
languidly at the flapping catch. “Aw, I
dunno,” he drawled, “if I c’d only train
a dog to retrieve the things and pass ’em
up it mightn’t be so bad.”
MOSTLY.
She came to him often,
But mostly of an evening in the summer,
Wrapped in the warm, still air
And with a strange, disturbing fragrance
To tell her presence. Usually a light
Would shine, one only strong shaft
Deflected from the broad diffusion
Of the salmon smudges in the sky,
To cast a glint of tan across her brow
Or focus rose along her throat.
And such a glow would tint his love.
Playtime, he said afterwards, is such a gay time,
And twelve months is a playtime,
Especially in a new place under a warm sun.
And new-place love is a holiday-love
And a summer evening but a grain of sand.
And for a long time he often thought of this.
Of sun-love, of brown beach, the lit-up sky at
dusk,
But mostly when he saw the purple ring of
winter hills.
And once he wondered if the sun
Would strike a grain of Sydney sand
Among the purple hills of Launceston.
KOREA.
ROBERT CAMPBELL.


The WIED AT COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries,
, Dividends
Year, Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves.f
’46.. 413.302 50,000 5 p.c.= 272,662 381,676
Unexplained additions, £77,083'
Res. of new subsids., £4,363 331,726
Added to intangibles, £170,396
’47.. 463.024 50,000 5 p.c. = 274,675 470,075
Reserve adjustment, £9374 net .. 479,449
Added intangibles, £15,176 .. 464,273
From subsidiaries, £lO,OOO . . 474,273
Non-trading profits, £10.821 .. 485,094
’48.. 523,690 50,000 5 p.c. = 290,300 668,484
Added intangibles, £22,835 .. 645,649
Non-trading profits, £12,648 . . 658,297
Unexplained reduc’n res., £44,718.. 613,579
’49.. 568,693 50,000 5 p.c. = 352,800 779,472
From subsidiaries, £3390 . . . . 782,862
Deferred tax reserve, £132,615 .. 650,247
Added intangibles, £Bll2 .. .. 642,135
Net reduction reserve, £49,147.. 592,988
’50.. 882,633 50,000 5J p.c. = 439,642 985,979
Share premiums, £125,813 .. 1,111,792
Profit realisations, etc., £8440 . . 1,120.232
Add reduc’n intangibles, £117,970. . 1,238,202
To deferred tax res., £215,595 .. 1,022,607
To staff fund, £30,000 . . . . 992.607
Deb. exes., etc., w/off, £84,801 .. 907,806
Less unexp’d reductions, £188,670.. 719,136
51. .1,460,709 50,000 7 p.c. = 584,497 1,545,348
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles (now £750,210).
With its team of chemists, metallurgists,
engineers and others, this lusty 24-
year-old technically-efficient and rapidly-
expanding manufacturer of heavy
chemicals, explosives, etc., is a vital con-
tributor to Australia’s industrial, agricul-
tural and pastoral development. From
the start the board has followed a
cautious financial policy, keeping the div.
moderate and making generous allow-
ances for depreciation, taxation and other
contingencies, thus strengthening the prop
for capital, internally and externally.
With a growing population, and with
the emphasis in public policy on expan-
sion of meat-and-food production, the
outlook for the organisation is one of
continued growth, and the co.’s research
and development department has many
new projects in view. So, to help finance
further expansion of and additions to
fixed assets and provide more working
capital, the board proposes to raise “a
substantial amount by issuing more shares
or debentures, or both.” Details of these
proposals are to be announced after they
have been screened by the Capital Issues
Board. Although there are indications
that the recent extraordinarily high level
of industrial development is about to
give place to a period of readjustment
yielding less spectacular results, there are
sound reasons for believing that the co.
should continue to earn satisfactory
profits.
The public first gained an equity
interest in the business in Oct., 1950,
when 1,006,505 new £1 ords, were offered,
and heavily oversubscribed, at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each. At the same time
£3,000,000 of 4 p.c. 15-20-year deben-
tures were also taken by the public. At
June 30 last the share premiums
(£125,813), half the share capital
(£503,252)' and three-quarters of the
debenture money (£2,250,000) had been
gathered, leaving £1,253,252 still to come
on the two issues.
And allottees on the ord. register have
good reason to feel pleased with their
purchases. The div. has been raised from
p.c. to 7 p.c., and could have been
lifted a little further with comfort. The
market for the contribs. —on which
another ss. a share has been got in since
the close of accounts —reached a peak
of 445. 3d. in June, 1951. The figure
stood at 325. last week, giving an
immediate return of 3.3 p.c., or 3.8 p.c.
when fully paid, on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. The 7,993,495 old f.-p. £1
ords., which are not listed on ’Change,
are held approximately 64 p.c. by the big
parent 1.C.1. co. (London), and most of
the balance by 8.H.P., A.C.L, Electrolytic
Zinc, the large mining cos. at the Barrier
and Commonwealth Fertilisers, all large
consumers of the co.’s products. At 235.
the 5 p.c. £1 prefs. (£1,000,000 put up by
the Australian public in 1938) yield 4.3
p.c. Including uncalled capital, net
tangible cover is £ll 10s. lid. prefs. and
235. sd. ords.
There was marked improvement in the
year’s output, sales and net earnings. New
employees (5711 names were on the pay-
roll at end 1951) were recruited to man
new plants, and the range of products
was widened. Turnover shot up by
£5,300,000 (32.7 p.c.), reaching a record
£21,500,000. After eliminating outside
shareholders’ interests and allowing for
depreciation (£543,341, up £96,930) and
taxation (£1,044,882, up £443,635), com-
bined net earnings of parent and sub-
sidiaries was £1,460,709 (up £578,076).
That covered the pref. requirements and
16.9 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
10.4, 7.3, 8.1 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1947.
Of the £826,212 that remained after pay-
ing the 7 p.c. div., £215,595 was ear-
marked for deferred taxation, £30,000
was sent to the staff fund and £84,801
was used to rub out the cost of the
share and debenture issues. Allowing for
various other adjustments, interlined in
the table, reserves benefited by £559,369
net, making the total £1,545,348 in excess
of intangibles (£750,210) and excluding
the deferred tax lay-by (£463,500).
The next table shows how the new
debenture and share capital, share
premiums and surplus earnings, together
with an extra £1,929,934 from sundry
creditors, was used:
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £8,993,495 £8,993,495 £9.496,747
Debentures .. 2,250,4)00
Outside interests* 694,113 833,344 1,100,220
Sundry cred’t’s, etc. 2,507,288 4,233,626 6,163,560
Taxation, etc. . . 710,477 1,259,831 1,998,123
Final div. . . 361,133 447,975 386,702
Freeholds, plant, etc. 4,332,433 5,675,323 7,519,239
Stocks . . . . 6,515,873 6,893,945 9,842,878
Debtors .. . . 2,129,223 2,948,217 4,253,368
Investments . . 1,093,513 1,208,198 1,206,718
Cash . . .. 28,944 28,567 118,497
Intangibles . . 860,068 868,180 750,210
* Including proportion reserves.
The creditors item includes £1,883,881
coming to the London parent co. and
£2,159,775 to the co.’s bankers. Free-
holds and plant increased by £1,843,916,
stocks by £2,948,933 and book debts by
£1,305,151. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £4,623,076, down £514,419.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 5.4 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.*
£■ £■ & £ £ £
1942.. 81,592 1627 3255 19,084 7,626 43,072
1943.. 23,970 1627 3255 19,084 4 43,077
24 p.c. •
1944.. 11,697 1627 3255 9,542 40,350
1945.. 18,567 1627 3255 9,542 4,143 44,493
1946.. 36,464 1627 3255 19,084 12,498 56,991
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1947.. 44,073 1800 3255 22,901 16,117 73,108
1948.. 52,330 1800 3255 22,901 24,374 97,482
7 p.c. 71 p.c. 7-J p.c.
1949.. 59,733 2100 3938 28,627 25,068122,550
1950.. 59,924 2100 3938 28,627 25,261 147,810
Inner reserves disclosed, £69,000t-. 216,810
1951 . 91,518 2100 3938 28,626 56,854 273,564
After deducting goodwill, £67,660. f From stock
reserve, £51,500, and contingencies reserve, £17,500.
The profit claimed was £76,518 (up
£16,594). The £91,518 shown in the table
includes £lO,OOO sent to the stock reserve
(now £61,500) and £5OOO to the contin-
gencies reserve (now £22,500). Previously
these two reserves were hidden in the
stocks and sundry creditors, etc., items in
the published accounts, and profits were
understated by the annual additions there-
to, which were in the nature of appropria-
tions, not actual charges against net
earnings.
The £91,518 covered full contract rate
for the two lots of prefs—3o,ooo 7 p.c.
firsts and 52,500 8 p.c. seconds, both sub-
ject to the outmoded N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act of 1931—and 22.4
p.c. on the £381,687 of ord. capital as
against 14, 14, 12, 9.9 and 7.9 p.c. back to
1946. The first get their full contract
rate and the seconds and ords. 1\ p.c.,
making average distribution to the ords.
over the last five years 6.9 p.c. compared
with 4 p.c. for the five years before that.
The £56,854 (62.1 p.c.) of the year’s net
earnings ploughed back into the business
lifted reserves £273,564 in excess of the
goodwill item (£67,660). Obviously the
policy has been to keep the div. moderate
and strengthen the support for capital,
visible and otherwise. In this and other
respects the co. is now in a stronger
position than ever before to withstand a
jolt.
Still, the price of the f.-p. £1 ords.
fell from a peak of 345. in 1951 to 21s.
last week. At the lower figure the return
is 7.1 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The
first and second prefs. at 255. and 245. 9d.
yield 5.6 p.c, and 6 p.c. respectively at
last term’s rates of distribution. Net tan-
gible cover is firsts £2l 15s. lid., seconds
£ll 17s. Bd. and ords. 295, lid.
What are the co.’s prospects of being
able to earn sufficient to maintain last
term s rates of distribution? It occupies
a prominent position in the high- and
medium-grade furniture, furnishing-
drapery, china, glassware and kitchen-
ware trades, etc.; and there has been a
setback in the physical volume of sales
and some paring of profit-margins, especi-
ally in furniture and furnishing draperies,
since the close of accounts. The severity
of consumer-resistance has been due
partly to the effects of credit restrictions
on home-building and the furnishing, etc.,
that goes with it, and partly to a general
expectation that prices were due to fall.
However, the new import cuts have
brightened the outlook so far as prices
for existing stocks of furnishing fabrics,
carpets, china and glassware are con-
cerned. Any easing of credit restriction
on account of home-building will further
strengthen the position, and there is a
steady new and replacement demand
from commercial sources. In the short-
run, however, there appears little prospect
of the lull in the trade pulling down raw-
material and operating costs to any
marked extent. Still, there was a wide
margin between last term’s earnings and
distributions, and the management has
brightened the store and the layout of its
wares.
Owing to tighter credit, the financing
of stocks and debtors’ balances falls
mainly on profits at the moment. The
position as balance-sheet figures show it
is as follows:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Creditors, etc. 231,442* 108,585* 179,995* 202,568
Tax provision 93,273
Final divs. .. 15,973 22,681 20,772 20,772
Freeholds, etc. 332,852 332,852 332,852 332,852
Plant .. 3,445 6,445 11,290 19,245
Stocks . . 390,329 299,130 367,142 554,167
Debtors ~ 76,156 78,266 100,130 148,577
Cash . . . . 6,300 1,300 1,350 1,350
Intangibles .. 67,660 67,660 67,660 67,660
* Includes unspecified provision for taxation and
other contingencies.
Of the growth of £187,025 in stocks
£51,500 was on account of disclosure of
inner reserves. Book debts increased by
£48,447 and plant by £7955. The actual
increase in the creditor item is not ascer-
tainable from the published figures, but
might have been around the £90,000-
mark. The improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£385,754) was
£117,898, of which £69,000 was due to
disclosure of inner reserves.
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 12i p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1945 . . 172,073 7500 14,000 133,680 610,180
Added share premium res., £7500.. 617,680
1946 . . 188,830 7500 14,000 133,855 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000.. 686,155
16 p.c.t
1947 .. 270,282 7500 14,000 178,640 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,330 733,917
15 p.c.
1948 .. 305,923 7500 14,000 209,343 808,997
Share premiums, £307,037 .. .. 1,116,034
1949 .. 339,310 7500 14,000 223,300 1,210,544
Share premiums, £428 .. . . 1,210,972
1950 . . 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. . . 1,665,132
1951 . . 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 .. 1,081,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 .. 1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952 . . 516,533 7500 14,000 411,298 1,213,645
* After deducting goodwill ( £165,227) and excluding
depreciation reserve (now £505,590) and deferred
maintenance reserve (£7500). t Includes 2 p.c.
victory bonus.
Now that we appear to be entering a
period of readjustment in which the
growth of merchandising activities and
the earnings of those engaged in them
promise to be less spectacular than
during the recent inflationary boom years;
how are the big variety-chain-store
organisations likely to fare? In the past
they have come through severe changes
in economic conditions with flying colors.
In less buoyant times many who pre-
viously passed by turn into the chain-
shops. And, since most of the goods
handled are bought on the local market,
the impact of the recent heavy cuts in
imports on turnover is not likely to be
severe. However, credit-restriction and
the tightness of capital-issues control mean
that the cost of financing further expan-
sion will fall heavily upon profits for the
time being.
The Woolworths group, with head-
quarters at Sydney, consists of parent and
eight subsidiaries, which together operate
a chain of some 150 stores well-scattered
throughout Australia and New Zealand
—Macduffs. Ltd., a rival chain in the
Dominion, was welded into the organisa-
tion about two years ago by an exchange
of shares. Since the public became
interested in 1928 the story has been one
of rapid expansion, slowed down firstly
by slump in the early 1930’s and then
by war, which restricted supplies of mer-
chandise, etc. Still, over the last 24 years
the ords. have never failed to receive a
div., highest being 30 p.c. in 1930 and
lowest 11 p.c. in 1943. Moreover, during
the decade to the close of accounts
in 1939 paid capital shot up from
£63,264 to £1,388,999—£944,712 of the
increase was bonus scrip and the other
£381,023 brought with it £199,977 of
share premiums. The figure remained
steady until 1945, since when the total on
the ord. register has increased by
£2,313,486, the share-premium account by
£697,793, and £685,656 of bonus-scrip has
been scattered. The bonus-issue, one for
three, came out of the share-premium
reserve in Jan., 1951, when a one-for-
three cash issue at par (£684,860) was also
made Thus paid capital now stands at
£3,702,485 in 75,000 £1 first 10 p.c. and
200,000 £1 second 7 p.c. prefs. and
13,709,939 ords. of ss. each.
After allowing £78,015 (down £10,106)
for depreciation and paying the previous
year’s tax bill (£93,753, down £62,019),
but making no specific provision for the
next one when it arrives, last term s net
earnings increased by £156,651, reaching
£516,533. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained addition of £98,488
to the insurance reserve, and the sub-
sidiaries didn’t send along every pound
they earned, either. The £516,533 covered
the pref. divs. (£21,520) and 14.4 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 18, 19.6, 22.4, 20.3
and 22,3 p.c. back to 1947. Though the
div. dropped from 15 p.c. to 12 p.c. the
lower rate was equal to 15 p.c. on ord.
capital less the last parcel of bonus-scrip.
For similar reasons the slip in earning
power suggested by the percentage figures
is more apparent than real. On share-
holders’ net tangible funds last term’s
profit was equal to 10.5 p.c., compared
with 8.8 p.c. in the previous year.
Continued growth of the undertaking
is further reflected in the financial set-up;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. 1,810,186 1,810,186 2,331,969 3,702,485
Creditors, etc. 369,791 547,141 619,949 738,271
Final divs. .. 164,269 164,269 216,447 250.670
Overdraft .. 69,403 722,147
Freeholds .. 44,506 44,987 44,993 10,092
Leaseholds .. 78,355 93,401 92,477 127,167
Plant . . 391,656 411,797 530,190 677,456
Shares other
cos. .. 1,546,662 1,556,662 2,413,704 2,538,767
Stocks . . 1,371,238 1,061,611 1,190,573 2.178,906
Debtors* .. 643,225 1,106,149 778,460 1,636,638
Cash . . 16,583 19,553 390,785 19,283
Goodwill . . 165,227 165,227 165,227 165,227
* Includes advances to subsidiaries—£s62,s39, 1949 ;
£1,078,124, 1950; £721,340, 1951 ; £1,498,991,
1952.
The year’s cash-paid capital, together with
£722,147 from the bank, an extra £118,322
from sundry creditors, and surplus earn-
ings, etc., went mainly into stocks (up
£988,333) and book debts (up £858,182).
The lastmentioned item consists mainly
of advances to subsidiaries (£1,498,991,
up £777,651). Plant increased by
£147,266 and shares in subsidiaries by
£125,063.
In the wholesale recession of prices in
the sharemarket, which is partly explained
by the rise in the long-term rate of
interest on gilt-edged securities, the co.’s
f.-p. ss. ords. have come down from
255. 6d. to 17s, 9d. since June, 1951. The
immediate return at the lower figure is
3.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div, basis. At 375.
and 265. the first and second prefs. each
yield 5.4 p.c. Excluding the depreciation
reserve, net tangible cover is £65 10s. lOd.
firsts, £24 4s. Id. seconds and 6s. 9d.
ords.
Capel Court Investment Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec. 81, Profit. serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1942 .. 3,038 2i 3,000 38 2,136
Net loss on sales, £63 .. .. 2,073
1943 . . 3,728 2J 3,300 428 2.501
Net loss on sales, £ll7 .. .. 2,384
1944 . . 4,294 3 3,600 694 3,078
1945 .. 4,300 Si 3,900 100 3,478
Net loss on sales, £174 .. .. 3,304
1946 .. 5,632 3J 4,719 913 4,217
Net profit on sales, £l2l .. .. 4,338
1947 .. 8,922 4i 6,038 2,884 7.222
Net profit on sales, £312 .. .. 7,534
1948 .. 12,707 5 9,000 3,707 11.241
Net profit on sales, £741 .. .. 11,982
1949 .. 17,011 5 12,250 4,761 16,743
Net profit on sales, £6l .. .. 16,804
1950 . . 25,764 5i 16,275 9,489 26,293
Net loss on sale, £l4 .. .. .. 26,279
1951 .. 33,103 5} 19,800 13,303 39,582
Shares in cos. operating in the invest-
ment field are essentially a holding
proposition, which means that long-term,
rather than short-term, economic and
financial trends are the underlying factors
on which the value, or prospective value,
of the scrip as an investment should be
assessed.
Owing to the radical changes that
have come over both the domestic and
international scenes during the last twelve
months investors now look for yields
considerably in excess of those current a
year ago ; and there is always a time-
lag between changes in the trend of
industrial profits and dividends and the
corresponding changes in investment-co.
earnings. Still, whatever may be thought
of the immediate outlook, the long-term
prospect for Australia appears to be one
of continued development, and the oppor-
tunities that go with it, though the pro-
cess of readjustment may be a protracted
one. The major consideration, therefore,
is that the co.’s investment policy should
be soundly based, and that the securities
held should offer reasonable opportuni-
ties for reaping whatever capital and
income gains may occur over a period
of years.
The 399 securities in this co.’s portfolio
at Dec. 31 last cost £495,021, of which
0.4 p.c. was represented by Government
bonds and debentures, 8,6 p.c, by prefer-
ence shares and 91 p.c. by ord. shares. The
latter comprise a reasonably well-balanced
cross-section of trade and industry as
a whole. Dividends, an annual event
from the start, averaged 2.8 p.c. for the
eight years to 1944 and 4.6 p.c. for the
seven years to the end of 1951. Over
this lastmentioned period the rate climbed
by fractional steps from 3} p.c. to 5i p-C-»
£240,000 of fresh capital was gathered,
making the total on the share register
£360,000, and £36,504 was added to
reserves, lifting them to £39,582.
Last term’s £33,103 (up £7339) of profit
was equal to 9.2 p.c. on capital as against
8.3, 6.9, 6.9 and 6.6 p.c. for the four
preceding years, and the div. was gently


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
fitter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Hoad,
Cam peril own, Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin 31. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
ENGLISH ELECTRIC'
* MODEL
SHELF AREA • 14.6 sq. ft.
ins
V
REfR/GERATOR
GROSS CAPACITY • 8.19 cu. ft.
m
ssm
ir/r/rrr
-
WMMmm
mm
mm
m*
* <tMU E* tra Cos , */, /
Cautious buyers settle for ‘‘ENGLISH ELEC-
TRIC” RITEMP for very practical reasons ...
% A WISE INVESTMENT because of superb British
engineering and flawless design, it assures a life-
time of continuous service with a new degree of
economy.
w
© INCOMPARABLE FEATURES in-
cluding every utilitarian facility
practical housewives have ever
asked for. Study the details at your
leisure. Send for the folder.
m FREE AND POST FREE coloured
folder, giving all the convincing
facts, including entirely fresh ideas.
To THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
51 PITT STREET. SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BU 2088
Please send me, without obligation, the "ENGLISH
ELECTRIC" RITEMP Model 76A Folder.
Name
Address
B-IS6S
jacked-up from p.c. to 5-} p.c.
The improvement in net earnings
was due partly to the general
rise in dividend rates, partly to
the taking-up of new share-issues
on favorable terms and partly to
participation in bonus-scrip
issues. There was also a good
deal of switching of securities,
which resulted in a net capital
loss of only £l4, despite the
general recession of prices in the
market. And that was after pay-
ing £3273 in brokerage, mostly
to J. B. Were and Son.
The amount of outside money
in the business is moderate:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £300,000 £360,000 £360,000
Overdraft . . 55,434 69,838 72,316
Creditors, etc. 4,482 18,730 3,176
fax provision 2,816 4,943 5,446
Final div. .. 12,250 16,275 19,500
Investments—
Government
securities 48,679 685 227
Debentures,
etc. . . 16,208 30,059 20,526
Co. shares 324,157 464,407 474,268
Debtors .. 606 785 4,488
Cash, etc. .. 2,075 143 811
Over the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the aggregate
market-value of the portfolio
fell from £670,249 to £614,528,
a slip of 9.8 p.c., whereas
Sydney Stock Exchange index
for a parcel of 34 ord. shares
fell by 17 p.c. over the same
period. At Dec. 31 last the
market-value exceeded cost of
securities by £119,507. The
market-value has dropped since,
owing to the continued fall in
share prices. Too much import-
ance, however, need not be
attached to this aspect of the
position, for reasons already
stated.
Seasonal, economic, psycho-
logical and other factors
suggest a hesitant and uncertain
sharemarket, with a possible
further drift in prices, over the
next few months. The co.’s
earnings for 1952 aren’t likely
to match those of 1951, but pros-
pects of the 5i p.c, div. being
maintained are encouraging at
the moment. At ss. lOd. (Bs. 3d.
in June last) the f.-p. ss, shares
return 4.6 p.c. on the basis of
last term’s distribution.
From a man on the spot:
Falcon Gold’s new scheelite
leases at Mosquito Creek are
about 75 miles s.-e. of Tennant
Creek. The reefs on this field
run mainly east and west, others
north and south, and all thus far
disclosed are scheelite-bearing,
with wolframite. The main reef
being worked by Falcon —it took
over the Edna May, a gold
proposition developed by A 1
McDonald —is east and west,
and has been opened up for
about 1000 ft., with the deepest
shaft at 85ft. still showing good
values, average width 14in.
There is a series of other reefs
averaging 6in. in width. A test
parcel of 150 tons has given an
average return of £l6O per ton.
The co. has just installed a new
scheelite-crushing plant, which
came into full operation at the
beginning of this month, and
there is 800 tons of pay-ore at
grass awaiting treatment. Two
new bores provide an adequate
supply of water for drinking and
other purposes. In the near
future a lot more is likely to be
heard of this field, which is
approximately 10 miles long by
five miles wide. The whole area
has not yet been prospected.
* * * *
Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen
Willis (Vic.), has decided to put
up the shutters —losses have
exhausted the working capital,
and efforts to find a buyer for
the property have not been suc-
cessful. Since formation in 1931
the co. paid divs. totalling
£34,475, the last being 6d. a
share in November, 1945. Rising
costs and small throughput,
owing to shortage of labor, were
the chief troubles. Ore reserves
are estimated at about 60,000
tons, including 36,000 tons prob-
able. The shoots are said to be
continuous along the strike for
some 20,000 ft., but are irregular
in size and distribution. The
market prices the pound shares
paid to 14s. lOd. at Is. 3d.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
SSS:|S
HMFOLDS
•/*
POWER PLANT FOR
SALE.
Will suit Factory, Garage, Hotel
or Station. Nunn petrol motor
generator unit, self contained,
weather proof, 2 wheel trailer
type. 25 KVA, 3 phase, 415 volt
(240 v. each phase), 50 cycle.
V 8 Ford engine. Automatic volt-
age control, self starting. A re-
liable and recently reconditioned
plant now superseded at News-
luxe Newsreel Theatre, 236 Pitt
Street, Sydney, by larger plant.
£5 75 at Sydney (under half
new price). Inspection invited.
MA 1890.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALAN JOHN ANDERSON formerly of
Brisbane.—TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA
JUNE GLEESON falsely called ANDER-
SON has filed a Petition for nullity No.
1819 of 1951 on the ground that at the
time of the ceremony of her marriage to
yourself you were then still the husband
of AGNES AMILDA ANDERSON If you
wish to defend you may enter an Appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 30th day of May
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. P. DIGRAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES HENRY McNEIL formerly
of Leichhardt. —TAKE NOTICE that
ROMA ELLEN McNEIL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 215 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend the Suit you may enter an
Appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the
4th of June 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from W. F.
HOLMES, Solicitor. 39 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Restrictions and Red-tape
The Federal Ministry should
realise that mere necessity for
drastic credit and import restric-
tions will not of itself cause
the objectives sought by those
restrictions to be achieved.
The civil service has a huge
responsibility thrust upon it,
and it is each Minister’s job to
see that his department carries
out its duty to ensure that what
the restrictions achieve is not a
fall in the output of all industry,
but a big increase in the produc-
tion of essential industry.
Federal Budget and banking
policy reaches into every town
and farmlet of the Common-
wealth. In its present severe
form it requires an efficient and
doctrine - free civil service.
Ministers may find it necessary
to stand up to civil-service
inertia, red-tape and “planted”
Socialism; and public opinion
will not spare them if they don’t
stand up to it. It may be neces-
sary for Mr. Menzies, too, as
Prime Minister, to provoke
something resembling open poli-
tical warfare against Mr.
McGirr, Socialist Premier of
N. S. Wales, who has been
conducting a cold war against
the Liberal Government ever
since it took office. The McGirr
Government is a greater obstruc-
tion to the national-recovery
plans of the Commonwealth than
the Lang Ministry ever was.
New South Wales is the coal
and steel State, and more than
anything else in this country
we require a large increase in
those things. The Mother State
is also a large producer of food
in normal times ; its efforts in
this direction are failing, and
again a major proportion of the
blame can be laid at the feet
of the McGirr Administration,
though general economic condi-
tions, including the magnet of
woolgrowing and beef-cattle-
raising, have had their influence.
Australia must produce more
coal, steel and food, among
many other necessities of life. If
it does not do so within the next
year or so then the Federal
Government’s present economic
policy will have to be pro-
nounced a failure. And, at the
same time, it will need to
increase its rate of cargo turn-
round and the flow of rail and
shipping traffic.
The outline of the Menzies-
Fadden economic policy is
sound. But the detail of
its administration is dele-
gated to thousands of civil
servants and central - bank
employees, and they need to be
kept under the Ministerial whip
all the time to ensure that the
whole economic - readjustment
movement is not sidetracked into
a political bog. And, with
regard to the restriction of
imports, forced upon us by fall-
ing export income and the
decline in London funds,
Customs Minister O’Sullivan
will have a great many
things to think about apart from
the sugar agreement if the
balance of trade is to be regained
without considerable disruption
to the national effort.
The Federal Ministry will
have to realise that little can be
achieved by the mere turning-
on and -off of economic taps.
Administration is all-important.
There is a really tough job ahead
of the Government if the plan it
has approved is to be carried out
successfully, and every Minister
will have the satisfaction of
knowing that he has earned his
increased Ministerial salary if
it is successful.
Uncertainty
Considerable confusion reigns
in business circles. The import-
cuts have been of such an
omnibus and arbitrary character
that there is bound to be a sub-
sequent revision of many of
them—quota-years in many
cases are unfair, if not com-
pletely ludicrous. But the
Customs Department usually
takes its time over these things.
“Why , Cassidy, the whole bank Was beginning to think
you'd absconded!”
and until each case is con-
sidered on its merits there is
bound to be uncertainty and
hesitancy in many different types
of business.
It is not completely logical to
say that the drying-up of our
London funds would have
worked its own cure so far as
excessive imports are concerned.
An open go in the dollar market
would exhaust sterling-area
funds within a matter of weeks.
And so it is with Australia’s
sterling funds. Overseas manu-
facturers would need only to cut
the price of their products to a
level keenly competitive with
Australian production in order
to induce heavy buying by
Australia, This could perhaps
be controlled in each case by
imposing an adequate import
duty. That may still be con-
sidered to be the way out. But
post-war commitments under
international trade-agreements
will have to be considered.
The resurgence of Japan and
Germany in the manufacturing
fields has already made trading
difficult for parts of the sterling
area in free open-market com-
petition. The great problem is
still one of increasing produc-
tivity and reducing costs in
British Commonwealth
countries. The danger with
blanket import-controls is that
wage-earners may again exploit
the economics of scarcity and
reduce their output, with the
result that the other leg of the
Government’s programme
restriction of credit in order to
counter inflation will be
frustrated.
But the fact remains that the
economics of scarcity do still
prevail as a general thing. That
is one of the aspects that stand
out clear and sharp in the chill-
ing economic atmosphere. There
is plenty of work for industry to
do, and there will continue to
be plenty of work for basic
industries for many years. There
is almost no unemployment still,
even though the turnover of
staff from unessential industry
to basic industries has been
going on at a comparatively slow
pace. Some industries —such as
textiles and electrical goods—
have been hit worse than others.
But all these displaced employees
can still find work if they seek
it, though perhaps the basic wage
is not quite the fiction that it
was once thought to be.
At the same time a healthier,
more liberal attitude is develop-
ing among some previously
Communist - dominated trade-
unions. The Ironworkers’ has
thrown off Red control, and
others are attempting to do the
same thing. Some members of
the A.C.T.U. are beginning to
acknowledge the importance of
greater productivity by wage-
earners. Nothing is more
essential than the general
acceptance that Australia will
remain in economic disruption
until all the people are prepared
to do a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay.
The Stock Exchanges were
weaker again last week. The
main danger continues to be the
increase in production costs.
And the main market factor is
still the uncertainty of the whole
economic situation. There
should be no thought of depres-
sion with so much work ahead
of Australia, But the readjust-
ment we are going through is
difficult and confusing, and it
may be some months yet before
the benefits of the economic
policy start to show themselves.
Thar She Blows!
“Petro”: The “blowing” of
the Warooby bore on March
17, eight miles east of Roma,
Queensland, should cause little
surprise, although it has received
considerable Press and radio
publicity, and has been described
as “throwing a column of water
and gas 120 ft. into the air with
a roar heard three miles away.”
This exhibition was, most
probably, the result of the
seismic charges exploded by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
during its geophysical survey of
the area. The shocks thus
caused would be sufficient to
weaken the seal at the bottom of
the bore and to enable it to be
by-passed by the gas which had
been accumulating below it over
19 years.
The Warooby well was sunk
in 1933 by Oil Search, Ltd.,
which chose the location after
drilling several shallow struc-
tural test-bores in the neighbor-
hood. This was the first scien-
tifically-determined oilwell site
in the Roma area, but, as else-
where in the region, results were
disappointing.
The drill reached bedrock at
about 2750 ft. below sea-level
after passing through 3794 ft. of
nearly flat sedimentary beds.
Gas was noted just below
3600 ft., and came in under con-
siderable pressure as the hole
was deepened. The reason for
the immediate abandonment of
the site was that the large volume
of water encountered with the
gas precluded any prospect of
economic Utilisation. In addi-
tion, the limited extent of the
gas-reservoir and the sporadic
nature of the gas-production
were proved, shortly afterwards,
by the well burning itself out.
It was then sealed off by pour-
ing a quantity of concrete,
estimated at nine tons, into the
hole.
Although the roar of the gas
was physically audible for only
three miles, its repercussions
have extended far beyond that
distance, as was the case of the
hissing gas at Oroi, in Papua,
three years ago. In each case
the price paid for shares in
small local oil cos. jumped
excitedly—for a while.
The current Commonwealth
loan, which seems to be the only
Federal undertaking that N. S.
Wales Premier McGirr wishes
any success, is for £75 million
—£44.4 million conversion of
2 p.c. bonds and £30.6 million
cash. Investors have the option
of 3| p.c. 10-13-year securities
or 2-per-cents, with a three-year
currency.
♦ * * ♦
The £2| million put up jointly
by the Commonwealth and Tas-
manian Governments has not
been sufficient to complete the
aluminium-producing works at
Bell Bay, and the Commonwealth
is contributing another £4£
million. Production, hoped to
be started early in 1954, may
now be 15,000 tons a year instead
of 10,000 tons.
* * * *
Sugar has gone up by a
pound (to Bd. retail) this week.
It is now double what it was
prior to the war. Most things
have increased more in the time.
The rise is regarded as an
interim increase pending a public
inquiry into the economics of
the industry.
* * * *
The fully-paid ss, shares in
John McGrath Industries at
ss. 9d. or the rights at 4|d. look
attractive. Last div. was equal
to 10.1 p.c. p.a. on present paid
capital, and more recently the
board spoke of an 8 p.c. distri-
bution on £2,000,000, which is
what the share-register total will
be when all the new money is in.
At ss. 9d. the yield would be
nearly 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. basis.
Besides its motor-distributing
interests it has subsidiaiy earth-
moving implement activities and
a big engineering and forging
offshoot.
» * * *
Following last year’s lift from
8 p.c. to 12 p.c. in the ord. div.,
Robert Reid’s directors are not
declaring an interim this year.
Trading conditions are reported
difficult. Sargood Gardiner has
declared an interim of 2 p.c.
tax - free, against 2\ p.c.
tax-free last year, when the
total distribution was p.c.
Sargood owns to net tangibles
of 375. sd. per ord. share,
priced at 18s. 6d. in the
market; Robert Reid’s net
tangibles are computed at
435. Id., and its ords. are selling
at 245. Over the short term
all softgoods retailers have prob-
ably been helped by import re-
strictions, but the long-term
view is not so clear.


MARINE, FIRE. ACCIDENT.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
AND ALL FORMS OF
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL
INSURANCE IN ASSOCIATION WITH
OF LONDON
WA
'WMmm
Edward Lumley & Sons are insurance
brokers, and as such are primarily con-
cerned with the interests of their clients
rather than with those of any particular
insurance organisation. Free to place busi-
ness with the leading underwriting com-
panies throughout the world, including
Lloyd’s of London, Lumley’s secure keen-
est rates and at the same time obtain the
soundest protection.
The scope of Edward Lumley & Sons’ ser-
vice embraces all forms of insurance except
Life, and expert supervision over every
policy is exercised throughout the period
of cover. It costs nothing to consult a
Lumley expert and his advice will more
than likely prove of real value. A ’phone
call will bring an experienced executive
immediately.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: B 0538
287 Collins Street. Melbourne
'Phones: Cen. 6191, Cen. 1415
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
\i. C. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Mannifi-i
From a banker’s diary
No. 1
Monday: Mr. mmmm, exporter, called
to enquire about markets over-
seas for some local products.
111
~
The case of the enterprising exporter
Helping Australians to sell their products
abroad is part of our daily work at the “Wales”.
So I arranged for the exporter to see one of our
Commercial Relations Officers who put him in
touch with foreign buyers through banks in
other countries which act as our agents.
Result a sale which pleased buyer and seller,
and which ensured continued work for Aus-
tralian producers and their employees.
f -
You, too, should consult and
use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCOKPOBATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
7*202?
Housing the largest Sheet Steel Mill
south of the equator
r>
In this building, at the C.R.M.
Division of Lysaght’s, Port
Kembla, the largest Cold
Reduction Mill in this
Hemisphere is operating.
When sufficient supplies of
suitable raw material are
available, this giant mill will
roll 80,000 tons of urgently*
needed sheet steel a year.
A turning point of sheet steel output in Australia
has thus been reached. It is an achievement of major
national significance. It will help smooth out the
difficulties of manufacturing hundreds of items
dependent on quality sheet steel. It is a step forward
in tightening Australia’s defence potential at a time
when security is the watchword.
m
5 a ' c **
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited—General Sales Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street. South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE; Corner of Short
and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John Lysaght's
Bristol Works Limited.
CKSA-51
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Shipping and Gas
Socialists or Nationalists, free
enterprise for some branches of
industry in New Zealand is more
a shadow than a reality, as the
experience of shipping and gas
cos. shows. For many years
these have been Cinderella
industries, and prosperity seems
almost equally elusive for them
whatever Government controls
policy
The Railways Department,
which now has a strong and
growing hold on road transport,
has been long regarded as the
big, bad wolf that would gobble
up shipping services ; and the
State Hydroelectricity Depart-
ment, with the electric-power
boards as its henchmen, has
been gaining a growing strangle-
hold over hard-pressed gas cos.
As the Railways Department
and distributors of electricity
are tax-free they’ve got a big
handicap over competitors, quite
apart from other advantages and
privileges which they take as
their right under the wing of the
State. It’s an unequal struggle
which can have only one logical
end—complete monopoly for
public trading concerns—unless
Maorilanders can find some
solution which will allow com-
petitors to live happily together,
without the danger of the
stronger continually trying to cut
the weaker ones’ throats.
Where the railways touch
coastal ports once served by
prosperous shipping cos., cut-
freight wars have been gradually
killing seaborne trade and turn-
ing the traffic over the railways,
so much so that New Zealand,
with one of the longest coast-
lines in the world in relation to
its area, now runs the risk of
almost ceasing to be a maritime
nation.
Wherever the interests of the
railways and shippers come into
conflict the dice is always loaded
against the shippers because the
railways can pass on any loss to
taxpayers, who have to foot the
kill. So much of this has hap-
pened in the course of the years
that it has ceased to excite
interest, and Maorilanders seem
content to let the drift go on
until there may be little more
than yachting, pleasure-cruising
an d their little Navy to preserve
their maritime skill,
Gas cos. are able to put up a
better fight, although a most
unequal one, but veteran chair-
rnan Victor John Lamer, head-
serang of the Auckland Gas Co.,
leading champion and spokes-
man for enterprises in his group,
18 worried over the outlook after
the most disastrous year yet.
Lately he charged the Govern-
ment with encouraging the
power boards to retail electricity
on “unethical” and “extremely
questionable” business lines by
selling units when in competi-
tion with gas at less than half
their cost, and when not in corn-
petition at up to five times their
cost. But for these tactics,
coupled with Government pro-
hibition of gas in all houses built
by the State, he claimed, Maori-
land’s gas industry would have
expanded automatically and
would not be in the anaemic con-
dition to which it has been
reduced today,
While New Zealand has
electricity-rationing and new
demands are springing up all the
time, on the farms, in factories
and in homes, and there are big
orders ahead to supply Maori-
land’s timber pulp-and-paper
industry, gas cos. are operating
below capacity. Electricity is
oversold and gas undersold, and
will be for years yet.
Lamer has been demanding a
royal commission for years past,
“to study and hear evidence on
the whole problem of electricity
and gas development, and then
outline a sound policy to be fol-
lowed, the commission to have
strong overseas representation
and be entirely free from depart-
mental and political influence.”
But the Government won’t
listen. The most it has been
willing to do has been to give
gas operators a subsidy of 2s.
for every 1000 cubic feet of gas
sold—a total of £600,000 yearly
—for this year and next, and no
one knows what will happen
after that. Meanwhile, State
enterprise will continue to be a
mixture of business and robbery.
Auckland’s Harbor Bridge
To prime the pump for Auck-
land’s long-talked-of cantilever
harbor bridge, which will cost,
with approaches, more than
£NZS| million—perhaps a good
deal more—and will rank as
Maoriland’s most ambitious
engineering project yet, the
Harbor Bridge Authority sprang
a surprise late in February by
raising a preliminary loan of
£lOO,OOO at 3i p.c., which ceased
to be a borrowing-rate in New
Zealand months ago. But
the Government will stand
ready to shoulder any loss on
the bridge—which isn’t likely—
and this should give the scrip a
gilt-edged look.
Maorilanders are waiting to
hear from London in July how
close the contract-price will be
to last May’s estimate of
£3,165,000 for the bridge (with-
out approaches). From the
starting-signal the time-limit to
finish the job will be 45 months,
with £lOOO a week as the penalty
for failure and an equal sum as
a gratuity if the bridge is ready
sooner.
It won’t be one of the
engineering wonders of the
world, like the Sydney bridg'e;
but the London designers and
engineers, Freeman, Fox and
Partners, say it is “the logical
solution to the problem of bridg-
ing the harbor within the limits
of the governing conditions, calls
for a minimum capital outlay,
and has a good and well-
proportioned appearance.”
In length 3520 ft., it will
measure the distance across
Auckland’s Waitemata Harbor
at the narrowest part, from Point
Erin to Stokes Point (Northcote),
well out of the way of most
shipping. The width of nearly
70ft. will be enough for five
traffic-lanes of lift, each and
two 6ft. footpaths.
To give clearance for ships,
the 800 ft.-long navigational span
will be 142 ft. above high-spring-
tide mark and 154 ft, above
lowest-tide level, and the top of
the arch will be 180 ft. above the
sparkling Waitemata, into which
the six well-spaced ferro-concrete
supporting piers will be sunk to
a depth of up to 101 ft., the last
6ft. in the rock of the harbor-
bed.
Although Auckland is out-
side the Shaky Isles’ main earth-
quake zone and rarely feels a
tremor, the bridge will have a
strength to take ’quake stresses
up to eight points on the Rossi-
Forel scale, with a steel-flexibility
to resist a static force equal to
one-tenth of total weight, in any
direction. Besides being the
realisation of Aucklanders’ half-
a-century dream, it will rank as
the biggest thing of its kind
planned in the world of late
years.
Twelve toll-booths, each to
serve 350 vehicles an hour —a
total of 4200 —will look after
income, on the well-approved
principle that “the user pays” ;
but no one knows what the toll
charges will be until the cost is
added up. There shouldn’t be
much congestion for a while,
with Greater Auckland s popula-
tion not likely to be more than
380,000 when the bridge is
opened b3t * e J| al £
m'Uion-mark: w ‘“ .J* “
1996, if growth continues at the
same rate as in the past half-
cen u y.


NOTHING TOIT
by OLIVER
FILTER
THE one in the middle —The
Horse, they call him —is the
one who’s going to cut off
his finger.
There are three of them,
loose-limbed miners, walking
along the powdery road that
leads through the dust-laden
scrub from the town up to the
mine. Their walk is easy and
slow, but not tired—rather like
a lean pushed into mobility.
Each is carrying a carbide-lamp,
a thermos-flask and a small crib-
bag made from the black water-
proof cloth that lines gelignite-
cases.
The Horse’s finger is under
consideration. He has already
said “I think I might do me
finger tonight.”
Big Finn takes him up with
friendly sarcasm. The Finn is
six-feet-three and wide enough
to go with it. The Almighty
laid him out with a set-square,
cut him on right-angles from his
nose, chin and shoulders down
and topped him off with a
straggle of fair hair. “Ya,” he
says. “You bin sayin’ dat for
mont’s now.”
The Horse grins with a touch
of defence. He’s young and big,
with sleepy eyes, and full of soft
and powerful muscles. “I’ve
just been making up my mind.
Gotta think about it, don’t I?”
“You bin sayin’ dat for mont’s,
too. Better you don’ think.”
YORKIE speaks without look-
ing round. He’s small and
dark like a little black bird ; a
nose like a beak and hair as
sleek and as black as crow’s-
feathers. “Yair, y’ don’t want to
think about it. Make it quick
and sudden, like little Pat
Pertaters up at Meeka. I was
workin’ beside ’im one day an’
’e suddenly up an’ sticks ’is finger
cross the edge of a truck and
belts it with a steel; then ’e
looks at it an says “Jaze; one
joint! That’ll on’y take me to
Perth an’ I want to go to
Sydney. So ’e ups his finger on
the truck and knocks the next
joint off.”
“What’d he get for it?”
“Hundred-and-thirty quid for
two joints. It’s ninety for the
top one ; hundred-and-thirty for
two, and a hundred-and-fifty for
the three of ’em.”
“But you neffer vant to take
t’ree joints,” The Finn counsels.
“You chop him just t’rough t’
middle of t’ second one. It’s best
for t’ doc. t’at way. He cuts t’
fiddle bit off bone out and dere’s
two fiddle flaps to sew offer,”
He holds up the back of his hand
with the top joints of the fingers
folded over. “Den afterwards
it looks better. If you fold your
’and like dat you can’t even see
it’s off.”
“You can keep your truck,”
says The Horse. “I want some-
thing sharper than that.”
“How d’ you reckon?” asks
Yorkie.
“Dunno yet.”
“Remember the Yank? He
took his off with an axe when
he was cutting wedges. Neat
and quick.”
“No, I don’t like axes either.
A man might miss.”
“Well, don’t be like that damn-
fool Centre Cut. Stuck his
finger in the works of a tip-
truck over at the mill and gave
the truck a heave. Over she
goes, but the handle hits him on
the wrist first and knocks his
arm out of the road. When he
looks at it he’s still got his finger
and his bloody arm’s broken.”
“It ain’t the knocking-off that
worries me, I’m wondering what
the insurance blokes want to
know when you see ’em. I don’t
want to do me finger and then
do me dough.”
“Gawd, they won’t worry y’.
There was two young blokes
from the university came up to
the Creek to earn some dough
during their holidays. They
didn’t earn enough so they both
reckon they’ll do in a finger.
They’re working together at the
foot of a winze on the five-
hundred-foot and when the
kibble comes down they both
grab it together and stick their
little fingers under the sharp
edge on the bottom of it.
Chunk! Just like that. They
both took the top joint off.”
“Dat vas silly,” says The Finn.
“Neffer chop off your fiddle
fingers or your thumbs. You
want your t’umbs to hold wit’,
and f fiddle ones giffs you a
grip. You can’t pull a rope
proper if you ain’t got no fiddle
fingers.”
“What I’m sayin’,” says
Yorkie, “is that these two young
blokes both chopped ’em off to-
gether and picked up their in-
surance together. Everyone knew
they done it, but no one asked
any questions. The only bloke
I ever heard of getting caught
was a Dago sleeper-cutter down
the sou.-west. Took his boot off
an’ chopped off a toe and then
forgot to chop ’is boot.”
AS they near the change-room
and catch up with more of
the afternoon shift, the subject
is dropped. The room is full of
steam from the hot showers and
naked and half-naked men dress-
ing or undressing; talking and
shouting and indulging in brisk
horseplay.
Their working - clothes are
draped on rough hangers pulled
up to the roof by a rope and
pulley. They unhitch the ropes,
lower their clothes and change
into dungarees, flannel shirts,
waterproof capes and helmets.
Their boots are dry and hard,
so they soak them under the hot
shower for a minute or two to
soften them before pulling them
on. While they are pulling at
their laces The Horse says
“Well, it’s on tonight, anyway.
I’ve made up me mind.”
“How you goin’ to do it?”
asks Yorkie again.
“I’ll tell y’ when we get
below.”
They leave the change-room,
fill their lamps with fresh carbide
at the shift boss’s office and walk
over to the shaft-mouth to listen
or add to the conversation while
waiting for the cage. When their
turn comes they step into it and
fall away into the darkness, past
the fights of the one-, two- and
three-hundred-foot levels, and
come to an easy stop at the
four-hundred.
On the plat the yellow fight
from one electric-lamp is strug-
gling to show through the steam
and dust. Several men are
already there lighting lamps and
collecting gear. The Big Finn
goes over to pick out some
drills, inspects the ends of them
and mutters about “No more
blutty blacksmiths any more.”
The drills go into a truck and
The Horse hooks his lamp on to
the front of it and pushes it
away up into the darkness of the
drive. The Finn and Yorkie
follow with another truck trying
to match their steps to the
sleepers under the rails to avoid
the wet, slippery ground.
They turn off at the second
crosscut and follow up No. 2
North drive. The previous shift
has just fired out and the acrid
smell of gelignite becomes
sharper and the smoke thickens.
They stop a few hundred feet
back from the face and wait for
the smoke to clear.
As The Finn and Yorkie
catch up with him The Horse
says to Big Finn “I’ve been
thinking. What about you tak-
ing a quick crack at it with an
axe?” He holds up his finger.
“Not on your blutty fife,” says
Big Finn. “I might gif you a
hand, but you do your own
chopping.”
And Yorkie adds quickly,
“Yair, I might do me own, but
not another bloke’s.”
“I didn’t think you would,”
says The Horse. “Well, d’ y’
reckon if I stuck me finger on
the rail and ran a truck of ore
over it?”
“Might; might do,” says The
Finn. “Truck weighs ’bout a
ton.”
“Well, I was thinking. There’s
a bit of a grade up near the
face. If one of you’ll give the
truck a shove to start it, I’ll
wait down the fine a bit,”
“When d’ you reckon?”
Yorkie asks.
“Wait till the shift-boss comes
round. Then Til know how he’s
going and time it between
rounds”
“I t’ink she’s clear enough to
go up now,” says The Finn.
6 * ’ J
T TP at the face the ore is
U tumbled back for fifteen or
twenty feet from the last firing,
The Finn is the machineman
and, while Yorkie holds two
lamps, he takes a long bar and
probes at the back for any loose
ground. When he is satisfied,
they hang their lamps on the
walls and look over the job.
“I reckon we clear out just
here so I can get t’ bar up,” says
The Finn. He and Yorkie take
shovels and fill the first truck
for The Horse to take back to
the shaft. They fill the other
while he is gone. He comes
back out of the darkness with
another empty, bumps it past the
full one and goes off with an-
other load. They are good
workers and soon have enough
space cleared. They lug the
bar up to the face, The Finn
selects the place for it and they
stand it up, jamming it between
the back and floor with wooden
blocks and wedges and then
screwing it up tight. The arm
is bolted firm on the bar,
“About t’ere,” as The Finn
asks, and then the cradle and
the machine are clamped across
the arm, aimed at the spot for
the first hole and tightened.
The Horse and Yorkie bring
up the air- and water-hoses and
The Finn screws them on and
tests them. He fits a one-foot
steel into the machine and
stands back to survey it while
Yorkie and The Horse squat on
their heels and smoke. “Goot,”
says The Finn, fills his pipe,
fights it and turns it upside down
to protect the tobacco from the
water. Then he turns on the air
and water and the drill clatters
into the face, its rattling roar
shutting out any more conversa-
tion.
Yorkie fills another truck and
The Horse hooks his lamp on it
and trundles it away down the
drive. As the sound of the
machine dies away he stops the
truck, goes around to the front
of it and bends down to look
at the steel wheel and steel rail,
He feels them with his finger,
then picks up a small stick and
puts it in front of the wheel and
edges the truck forward. The
stick snaps, he stops the truck
and picks up the two pie
looks at them * Some f h
thoughts are wordless, some are
spoken,
“A man’d be a bloody fool,”
he says. Then he thinks hes
been at Sloan s Find for six
years, and then he thinks again
about the coast and the fish and
the tidy little fishing-boat that 11
cost about a hundred pounds.
“A man could save it ,” he tells
himself. Then he remembers
that that’s the reason he came to
Sloan’s six years ago and that
he hasn’t saved a cracker since.
So he grins and says “A man’s
a bloody fool,” and gets the
truck moving again.
\ A /HEN he comes back to the
V» face with another empty
The Finn is cursing.
“Blutty rubbly quartz,” he
says. “She jams all t’ time.” He
winds the machine back, grips
the drill with a midwife, and they
are straining and twisting at it
when the shift-boss comes up.
“How’s it going, Finn?” he
asks.
“I quit. I snatch me time,”
says the Finn, and the shift boss
laughs.
“Okay,” he says. “Tell me if
there’s anything else.” He helps
them free the drill, and stops
for a smoke before walking
briskly down the drive. He likes
the three of them because they’re
good workers, and says nothing,
whether they’re working or spell-
ing ; they like him because of
that.
The Finn changes the three-
foot for a four-foot steel, and
just before he turns on the air
The Horse says “I’ll take this
one down. Then I’m goin’ to
do it when I come back.”
The Finn says, “Ah,” and
chews his pipe and Yorkie leans
on his shovel and asks “The
truck?”
“Yair.” As he pushes the
truck away he knows that Yorkie
and the Finn have gone into con-
sultation. All the way down to
the plat he keeps thinking of
other men he knows who are
short of fingers. All over in a
jiff. Doesn’t hurt at all. Numb.
Aches for a couple of days and
then she’s jake. Money for jam.
When he gets back to the face
Yorkie and The Finn are still
talking. He makes a smoke and
his hands are wet with sweat.
He’s trembling inside, but
doesn’t show it, and he feels a
kind of awkward embarrassment
as though he’s suddenly pushed
to the front of the stage.
He says “Well, this is it.” He
asks Yorkie. “You give the
truck a shove when I yell.”
“You better come down in case
I need a hand,” he tells The
Finn.
“Ya,” says the Finn. “But
clean your nail first. I knew a
bloke once had a dirty nail just
before he chopped it off. Ten,
after his finger’s gone, he keeps
feelin’ dirt under t’ nail dat isn’t
t’ere. Said it nearly drofe ’im
mad for mont’s.”
The Horse cleans under his
nail with a knife and then he and
The Finn walk down the drive
about 50 feet. The Horse kneels
awkwardly beside the line, keep-
ing his body well back against
the wall and stretching his arm
so that he can curl the index-
finger of his left hand over the
rail.
The Big Finn stands watching,
blowing short puffs of smoke.
His face is covered with mud
and grease blown back from his
machine; his eyes are hard
glittering blue.
The Horse calls to Yorkie:
“Let ’er go.”
DOWN out of the light at the
face the truck comes rumb-
ling and rocking as it gathers
speed. The Horse flinches as it
goes past.
“Ah,” says The Finn almost
accusingly. “You pullt away.
“I slipped a bit. I wasnt
ready,” said The Horse, hardly
hearing himself or The Finn.
The trembling in him has grown
to a pounding. He goes alter
the truck and takes it back to
Yorkie. His legs are shaking.
“Have another go” he says.
“Jeeze,” says Yorkie.
The Horse goes back to where
The Finn stands like a great dark
statue. He kneels down again
and sings out to Yorkie. Again
the truck comes rumbling down
into the shadows.
He feels the sear of pain as it
sways past and grabs his lert
hand in his right without look-
ing at it.
{Continued on page 32.)
VLAMINGH AND ROTTNEST ISLAND (1696).
Christmas—always, forever, a Morning and a Coming.
Dawn is that village of the north
Casting goldenly its snow for my home-thought;
Or dawn is groggy Batavia’s transforming,
Perhaps the rumor, venture of an actual light
Within morbidly loitering haze of our setting-forth.
Christmas—three of us—token of far places,
The sea-grain’s fruitless fastening
On cringing timber, sun like a biting stylus
With its intense passport motion at our faces . . .
Magi of a kind? for the Company’s divine remoteness
Launched us, their yellow bunting above us listening.
Christmas—dawn—it is not the Ridderschap van Holland
(Errant star of our probe) suddenly in water
Shepherded by coarse cloud with the eastern smile.
Two leagues of gull and glitter sing us this island
As a small craft; now every fulfilling mile
Beckons spray-canvas from the silver navigator.
Christmas to midday—closer—we have a black swan’s
Long gradient, traced from hollow myth to promontory;
Trees, their green second word uttered in the leaf,
Releasing some subtle omen of a man s
Hand with penmanship of smoke; and lastly a reef
Logging fallen kings for us, wreckage—but never our
quarry.
N.s.w.
FRANCIS WEBB.


ẅ
Learn fo
DRAW and PAINT
for pleasure and profit
UNIQUE
POSTAL
COURSES
You’ve often wanted to draw and paint. Why not
start now? P.A.S. Postal Courses enable pupils, wherever
they may live, to enjoy a first class Training in Art.
Some of the best known Artists of our time lea
draw and paint by these very methods. Learnir
way is a grand hobby, not at all difficult and wi
possibilities. It doesn’t matter where you live or
stage of proficiency you may have reached, even
have never drawn before, Press Art School teachir
develop your wish to draw and paint into real a
ability. Send for
THE PRESS ART SCHOOL LIMITED /
(Dept. 5.8.1), Tudor Hall, Forest Hill,
London, S.E. 23, England.
It gives fullest details of Courses for Be-
ginners or Advanced Students on Water
Colour, Illustration, Caricature, Commer-
cial work, etc.
FREE lIXUSTRATED PROSPECTUS
"POSITIONS
VACANT"
in Australia’s
Fighting Forces
Are you interested in a career with wide opportunities and
in financial security, combined with possibilities of travel?
Then the job you want is in Australia’s Permanent Forces.
Enjoy the honour of serving your country and carrying on
its glorious Service traditions, with every material advantage
a man could reasonably want. Briefly , here are the factsl
TRAINING AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN THE
SERVICES: In each of Australia’s three great Services,
the Navy, the Army and the Air Force, there are over 100
different occupations from which to choose. In each, expert
specialist instruction and training are available. Trained men
will find openings for regular advancement; untrained men
will find a congenial career, and chances to develop skills
that may lead to higher rank and pay.
FINANCIAL ADVANTAGES OF SERVICE LIFE: Service
life assures financial security. In addition to liberal weekly
pay, the Serviceman enjoys free food, accommodation, medi-
cal and dental care, and a complete clothing issue. Special
extra allowances for married men. The Serviceman is
entitled to at least three weeks’ annual leave, with con-
cessions in fares and travelling time. Pension or gratuity
on retirement.
NAVY, the ARMY or the AIR FORCE
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Onr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King St. In Hobart; Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting
THE TRIUMPH OF
LITTLE MISS NAUSEA
ONE of the first sights to
meet the eye of the visit-
ing tourist to Japan is
Little Miss Nausea, the
pride and comfort of her nation,
the secret-weapon of concilia-
tion which Japan has used to
attract her conquerors, and an
important factor in Japanese
national economy.
The traveller will as likely as
not encounter her in the
leading night-club to which his
cicerone introduces him on the
first evening of his visit to the
Japanese capital—that city which
in the last generation has lost its
old-time Japanese nature and
turned from a huge agglomera-
tion of big villages interspersed
with noblemen’s houses and
overlooked by comical fire-
watchtowers into a modern,
transplanted American com-
mercial metropolis.
The Night Spot will almost
inevitably, in anno Domini
1952, be the new Show Boat, and
the impact of it on the stranger
will at once bring the sensation
of becoming merry with H. G.
Wells in the middle of a lighted
Christmas-tree.
Fun in the Show Boat
The Show Boat is an improb-
able resort. At first glimpse,
especially by one who saw the
Ginza two or three years ago,
dark, discouraged and ruined,
with the odor of napalm still
about it, one is apt to exclaim
that there is no such animal.
Yet there it is in all its New
Year finery, such a night-club as
was never conceived outside the
realms of Barnum.
It is built internally of
polished aluminium. Each of its
stairs is inset with red, white and
blue of the most garish
brilliance. The interior looks to
you like a 10-story aeroplane.
Its spacious lounges have a plush
finish which suggest an Ameri-
canised Oriental luxury. Up a
large pole in the centre of the
floor slowly moves from story to
story a possessed orchestra with
flying hair playing “Doing
What Comes Naturally.”
At the head of the dazzling
staircase to meet you, dressed
in a trim grey costume, which
you suspect of having once been a
U.S. Navy uniform suit-length,
is a lithe young hostess with the
manners of Mayfair and the
come-hither of a 10-ton magnet.
She is obviously gyroscopically
steered, because she pilots you
between the obstacles of the
lounge— two gentlemen without
joints dancing with each other
a la Fred Astaire and partner
in the middle of the floor and
a crowded mass of tables which
by some magic are cheek-by-
jowl and yet seem to be
separated each into its own bit
of isolated privacy.
You come to rest at one of
these. And suddenly, you don’t
know quite how, you are
possessed of a string of tickets
artistically printed which you
have bought to save yourself the
exertion of frequently reaching
into your pocket. The table is
full of beer. The air is full of a
pleasant odor, the ceilings rock
to the combined tintinabulations
of the “Miners’ Song,” a
popular Japanese action ditty
sung with verve at the next
table, “Mammy” as shouted by
the jointless terpsichoreans—
amateurs, but not clumsy or
vulgar—and of the orchestra.
A soft and dimpled hand then
grasps yours and you look round
into the smiling face of little
Miss Nausea.
Enter Delilah
She looks about 16, and is
probably 25. She has a child’s
complexion, a silvery laugh.
And the charm of innocence
fairly radiates from her as she
hands you her little blue card
with her name on it, and, with
an expert grace, gets down to
the business of the evening,
though it takes you some time
to deduce exactly what the busi-
ness of the evening is.
Even though you are decrepit
and your family have been
Quakers on both sides right back
to the age of William Penn you
feel age fall from you and your
heart warms when little Miss
Nausea takes you in hand.
You are not even jealous that
every other member of the party,
ancient fellows who a few
moments before were concerned
about the effect of Tokyo
By " EK DUM"
weather on their rheumatism
and of Clause 47b of the Peace
Treaty on world affairs, seem
to have sloughed off dull care
and 40 years of their age in a
moment.
They' (and you) are purring
with contentment as their hands
are patted, and they acquire
through the medium of a sort
of universal language informa-
tion about the ages, family
history and environment of their
delightful little companions.
How carefree they all are, and
how communicative and how
obliging, and yet how dignified
and proper. It would not irk
Miss Nausea in the least were she
to learn that her godmother,
acquired for her by some British
officer with a humorous twist of
mind, is the favorite goat at the
Children’s Zoo at Regent’s Park
in London. She would call her-
self Miss Jezebel if she thought
it would please the customers.
All her sisters in the great Hot
Springs Turkish baths, which a
millionaire blackmarketeer has
raised as a monument to his
years of suffering under the iron
hand of the conquering occupa-
tion, are called Miss Turko.
What else would you call a Jap-
anese lady who valets G.ls. at
about a pound a time as they
enjoy Turkish baths accom-
panied by milk, champagne or
hot-mud sluices? It seems as
logical as possible thinking about
it in the Show Boat, even when
you begin to orient yourself a
bit to the surroundings, and have
begun to wonder what the
gentleman in a tail-coat and
horn-rimmed spectacles at the
next table is going to do if an
exhilarated dancer, who is
almost shaving edges off you at
every swoop, doesn’t stop wav-
ing to his girl.
Presently your eyes, at last
used to the dazzle of the scene,
are attracted to something. There
appears to have been an accident
to the bottles on your table
and to the seemingly illimitable
string of tickets which are so
easy to hand out for more beer.
The bottles in what seems to
have been a miraculously short
period are completely empty.
The tickets have evaporated.
The tailored hostess has turned
up, apparently out of the earth,
with a fresh supply of both ; and
whether this is due to split-
second timing of operations on
her part or organisation you are
not sure. All you know is that
Miss Nausea is still delightfully
twittering in your ear, and that
money seems a sordid thing to
which no gentleman should give
a second thought.
Your admiration for her sit-
ting there in her butterfly
kimono and her obi, worn in
the prim position in which every
maiden should wear it, has gone
up, for you have learnt in the
brief space you have known her
to admire her for more than her
charm.
The athletic and unobtrusive
celerity with which she is
capable of pouring beer into the
glass of a foreign devil with one
hand while playing pat-hand
with the other would leave the
strong-arm barmaids of Sydney’s
wharfies’ pubs in the milk-bar
class as dispensers. And the
atmosphere which she imparts
to the process of tippling strips it
of all its sordidness, and removes
it a thousand miles from the pig-
troughs in which the average
Australian who likes his beer is
compelled to wallow,
A Hint to Breweries
No brewery or licensed
victualler would be against
Japanese large-scale immigration
if all the immigrants were Miss
Nauseas. Combined with Jap-
anese beer, which is light and
tasty, producing exhilaration
rather than intoxication when
taken even to the limit of prac-
ticable quantity (except in the
Japanese themselves, who be-
come incapacitated on water
containing as much as three
drops of fermented barley). Miss
Nausea would be a great success
in Australia if she were served
up as in the Show Boat, one
dainty barmaid to each drinker.
She would put up consumption
by billions of gallons.
The Show Boat, raised out of
the dark ruins of the Ginza,
employs no less than 600 of these
hostesses. And let nobody query
their innocence or their utter
propriety.
They are not allowed to take
tips. They behave with the
strictest decorum, if with
childishly innocent forwardness.
They have only one object in
life in their employment, and are
judged for the Show Boat’s Miss
Champion competition only by
one criterion; How much beer
to the hour can they pour with-
out stampeding the purchaser?
he t it be said of the
Show Boat that it leaves
none of the lingering sense
of having done something rash
which must affect most of the
diners at the night-clubs of the
Ikey Fizzlebaums of Sydney
when they realise that their
pockets are empty in return for
blackmarket liquor with a kick
like a mule and a flash floor-
show. Its atmosphere is hilarious
but impeccable. It closes sharp
at 11 o’clock.
Japanese Discipline
Now make no mistake about
the place of the Japanese woman
in the life of the post-war era. It
is the same as it always has been.
Japan is the one completely-
organised country in the world
because it has had most of 2500
years of unbroken isolation in
which to do its organising—also
plenty of incentive to organise
and a real long-term policy.
Its leaders have had 2500 years
of schooling in the art of train-
ing humans, and all Japanese
are trained to a specific purpose.
They have to be, for with their
country’s limited resources it
has been possible only for Japan
to continue to feed and clothe
herself by means of the tightest
economy and the firmest
discipline. The Japanese popu-
lation is very much like a vast
army, living according to the
Queen’s Regulations, the initia-
tive provided by the grave elder-
statesmen and the princes of the
Zaibutsu —the National Civilian
General Staff —on top. The per-
sonal initiative of individuals
declines grade by grade down the
forces till it reaches the level of
the rank-and-file, the P. 8.1. so
to speak, of the people who
have no initiative at all, and
seem to be able to think towards
action only in very limited
channels in which they have
been commanded to act.
When presented with some-
thing which does not come into
the ordinary routine of life they
are bewildered. Stop a Japanese
in the street and ask him a
{Continued on page 33.)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE ”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
rm
Ifil
Will
111
iiiii
in
in
.
Exclusive Continental Dress-
maker
Streetwear, Cocktail - frocks and
Evening-gowns made from your own
material.
SUZANNE WALSH,
251 Oxford Street, Bondi Junction.
Phone: FW 1475 (business hours).
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ẃ
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion ol their cost. The
■’National'' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
BERTH .. . .Docket Book Co. (Aust)
... BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
r The NEO-BAKREEK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2q), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ẅ
CINZANO
Sweet
or
C Dry
World
Destruction
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End.
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
Holidays
by
JUDITH
WRIGHT
TOBY ran down the steep,
guttered road from the
shop, half-blind with tears.
He was crying so much
that he caught his foot in a root
that ran out into the road from
Ferguson’s fig-tree and barked
a knee and his chin on the hot
gravel. As it was impossible to
cry louder than he had been, he
now fell quite silent and, limp-
ing home, only sobbed. But the
tears fell in a flood.
Eleanor and John were pulling
pickets off the cottage fence,
behind the coral-tree, when he
came through the back gate.
They wanted a secret entrance
to foil the plots of Savage’s Gang,
who had waited for them yester-
day evening in the dark and
caught them coming home from
Long Beach, pelting them dis-
agreeably with pieces of dead
crab. Eleanor was just going to
ask Toby whether he had eaten
all his chocolate-frog already
when she noticed that his heart
was broken; and as always at
the sight of his dreadful babyish
tears her blood sprang up in
rage against the world. “What’s
happened, Toby? What is it?”
“They took it,” Toby at last
managed to articulate.
“They took your frog? Who
did?” But Eleanor knew
already, and meeting John’s eye
she took out her handkerchief
and tried to repair Toby’s face,
which as John said was all
slobbered-up. “You should have
hit them,” John told Toby, quite
meaninglessly, since Toby at
five was scarcely to be con-
sidered a match for Savage’s
Gang, whose four members were
all over the age of nine. What
John meant, however, as
Eleanor understood, was really
that John himself at «dght was
not a match for them either, and
felt himself and Toby inferior
beings.
“And there ought to have been
\ penny change,” John con-
:inued. “Have you got that?”
“They took it,” v>ept Toby.
“Then they’re thieves,”
Eleanor said. To take chocolate-
frogs was one thing ; pennies, as
they had all been taught,, were
quite another. “Savages and
thieves. Now,” she went on,
casting about for some way to
change Toby’s expression, which,
like the look of a rabbit she
had once wickedly released from
a trap, made her feel quite
powerless with misery, “come
inside and I’ll give you a wash.
And a lump of sugar. Auntie’s
asleep in the front garden,”
“Don’t want any sugar.”
Toby, rejecting all kindnesses,
staggered alone to the steps and
crawled up them on all fours, to
emphasise his feelings. Un-
washed, he vanished under his
bed, where he would lie, Eleanor
expected, till lunch-time.
SHE left him in silence and
went back to where John,
moodily, was pushing a loose
nail backwards and forwards
through the fence.
“It was Pat Malone and
Jimmy Woodser,” he said. “I
just saw them going up to
Murphy’s tossing the penny.”
“They’re going fishing this
afternoon out to the Cape,”
Eleanor said. “John, did you
bring your catapult?”
He looked at her doubtfully.
That catapult. He was not sup-
posed to have it at all; a
specially strong and valuable
one, it had inflicted fatal damage
on the red rooster just before
they had left home, signalising
John’s final recovery from
measles. But he ha'd secretly
stolen it back from the cupboard
drawer . . . “Yes,” he said at
last, deciding that for once
Eleanor was to be trusted.
“But if they come after me I
can’t run as fast as them; and
I don’t want to lose it.”
“They won’t come after you if
they don’t know who you are,”
Eleanor said. “We’ll ambush
them on the road to the Cape.
In the marsh. We can duck
down in the bushes and they'll
never find us.”
John’s attitude to the enter-
prise altered. This was certainly
an idea. The Cape road ran out
through a matted wilderness of
heath and banksia scrub, thorny
and thick-growing. No one went
that way except occasional
fishermen, and there were no
tracks through the dense waist-
high stuff. One could certainly
lose oneself in it very effectively,
even from hardened locals like
Pat Malone and Jimmy Woodser
(whose names, incidentally, were
gang-conferred and not given by
baptism). But he looked at
Eleanor with distaste still.
“You’re a girl,” he accused.
“You’ll do something silly.”
“You will, more likely,”
Eleanor said. “Now go and
look for sharp stones. I’d better
wait about till Auntie wakes up.”
IT was exasperatingly difficult
* to induce Toby to go with
Auntie to visit the Misses Angus
instead of coming out to the
Cape road, especially since no
one must have even a hint that
they were going that way, and
it was consequently impossible
to tell Toby why he was being
jettisoned. Even Auntie, usually
anxious to “keep poor little
Toby near her,” mildly begged
Eleanor to take him, since his
rage at the thought of an after-
noon with the Anguses was so
evident. The Anguses, health
faddists, never ate cake or
biscuit; their parsley-sandwiched
tea-table was shunned by every-
one beneath the age of dieting.
But the surreptitious promise of
another chocolate-frog in the
morning finally sent him sulking
off.
To deceive possible spies,
Eleanor and John left the
cottage by the secret gap in the
fence, which gave on to a sandy
gully down which one could
reach the beach. Crossing it
with every precaution, they
struck inland into the fringe of
the wildflower scrub. “Damn,”
said John; “we shouldn’t be
wearing shorts.” The hard,
sharp little leaves and branches
stung bitterly; a series of hot
scents went up from the crushed
plants as they fought their way
through.
Half a mile out they found
themselves at the edge of the
white sand-strip that was the
Cape road. No one was in sight,
but John, prowling on hands
and scratched knees, announced
the tracks of bare feet. “This
is Pat,” he explained oracularly,
“because his are the biggest.
This little one is Jimmy ; and
this one must be Wood-and-
Water Joey. And this one” —
his voice shook a little —“must
be Speed Savage. I didn’t think
he’d be going.”
“Get him,” Eleanor suggested.
“If he gets one good crack the
rest will all run.”
“H’m.” John examined his
catapult and looked into his bag
of stones. “I think it might have
perished a bit,” he warned
Eleanor, “in all this time. It
might break or something.” He
by no means had Eleanor’s
faith in his aim and presence of
mind.
The sun balanced on three
rays above a cloud ; flights of
green-leek parrakeets screamed
overhead on the way to the box-
scrub at the Cape.
“Suppose you hide here,”
Eleanor suggested. “I’ll go
futher up, so that when the stone
hits them and they start to go
after you, I can throw another
from behind. That’ll confuse
them. Then both of us dodge
back alone as quick as we can,
and try to keep the bushes from
moving as we go.”
HIDDEN a few yards from
the quiet road, Eleanor
waited. Nothing happened at all.
She watched the light gradually
yellow on the bulk of the hills
at the Cape, and the mote-filled
rays begin to strike horizontally
across the marsh. Mouse-like
birds, sharp-beaked, hopped in
the dwarf banksias; a honey-
eater clung to the tall flower-
stem of a grass-tree; a sharp-
leaved shrub bowered near her
with a vivid scent of honey. At
last voices began, coming nearer
down the road. She risked one
glance from behind a tuft and
dropped down again. It was the
Gang, all four of them.
How was John feeling, she
wondered? It suddenly occurred
to her with force that she had
led him into frightful danger.
Suppose he did not get away?
She began to picture the scene,
imagining every kind of
catastrophe. She gripped the
two stones in her pocket with
a kind of anguish. “This one is
for Toby,” she said to herself
with a vague recollection of old
tales of battle, “and this one is
for John.”
The voices drew nearer,
engaged in the embroidery of
some boastful yarn, passed,
went on. Eleanor knelt grip-
ping her stones. A long time
seemed to pass, so long that at
last she stood up. There was a
far-off shout and she dropped
down so quickly that a heath-
branch scratched her. Desper-
ately she crawled forward
parallel to the road, knowing the
bushes must be swaying above
her, and finding a small clear
track to the road hurried crouch-
ing along it and peered through
the banksia. Silence had
succeeded the shout; on the
road, as far as she could see,
nothing was visible.
She waited there until her
knees began to cramp, then
boldly stood up again. The
marsh stretched away in all
directions, dark and quiet in the
yellow light; the road was quite
empty. The battle, if there had
been any, seemed to have left
the neighborhood ; but she did
not dare call out to John, in
case the Savage Gang were wait-
ing somewhere near for a betray-
ing movement. She dropped
down prudently, and began to
worm her way rapidly back
through the scrub by a new route
close to the mangroves. She
thought anxiously of John ; had
he been overpowered and left
dead somewhere, never to be
found in the marsh scrub? The
afternoon seemed painfully
inconclusive; her wish for
revenge had somehow dis-
appeared.
It was in an open sandy patch
near the mangroves that she
found the Christmas - bells.
Thousands of them, it seemed,
had just burst out into bloom,
red and yellow like wax flowers,
like something in a shop made
specially for Christmas. And
this was all the more poignant
since nowhere else, she knew,
had they come into flower yet —
not in the big patch where every-
body picked, nor even in the
special early patch under Mac-
donald’s. Forgetting everything,
she picked and picked.
IT was almost dark when she
reached home, and Auntie was
inclined to wail and reproach,
but the Christmas bells explained
everything. John was lying on
his bed reading, while Toby
industriously tried to roller-skate
with his feet in two trucks of
his train.
“Come outside.” She dragged
John fiercely off his bed. “What
happened? Did nothing
happen?”
“I got old Wood-and-Water,”
John boasted. “Right in the
backside. Didn’t you hear him
shout?”
“Oh, good man! But what
happened then? 1 couldn’t see
a thing anywhere.”
“I don’t, know,” John said.
He seemed as doubtful as she
was. “I just made for home.”
“They must have hidden, or
gone back through the scrub.”
She was disappointed that there
had been no battle. All that
bloody scene she had imagined—
it had evaporated completely.
Even if Wood-and-Water had
been hurt, he did not know it
was revenge. All the emotion
of that painful journey through
the scratchy scrub had cleared
off like smoke, leaving her flat
and useless. Perhaps the stone
had not even hit Wood-and-
Water. She began to doubt it
—that shout had not sounded
like a shout of pain ; and now
John’s voice rang false in her
ears. “You didn’t really hit
him, did you?”
“Well!” he shouted. But
John was an honest lieutenant.
“I didn’t think the stone had got
that far,” he confessed.
“He thought it was a wallaby
in the bushes,” she mocked.
“They all chased off into the
scrub thinking they were after
a wallaby.”
“Perhaps.” But John had
been pushed too far. He grew
haughty. “A lot of use you
were anyway. Now let me finish
that chapter, can’t you? It’s
nearly tea-time.”
Toby skated out on to the
veranda. He had tied the trucks
to his feet with Eleanor’s best
hair-ribbons.
“You beastly little boy!” she
cried, and with an accuracy that
surprised her, she knocked him
down the steps.
TOBY in bed, tea over, the
crickets shouting up the full
moon outside the window, she
picked her Christmas bells out
of the tub and began to arrange
them in a series of cracked vases
left behind by the cottage’s
former occupants. Tomorrow
she would take them round to
everyone —to Mrs. Hatrick, to
Joan and Betty at the shop.
“How clever you were to find
them,” she said to herself. “Oh,
yes, I thought there might be
some way out there, so I went
exploring ...”


T HE
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
JTH
a \y ““
Parasol Bar ad e
5Y 1,800. CHILDREN!.
Trottuhs,.
A SEAT OF TROUBLE.
Rescue demonstration!
ST helicopter.
WOOD CHOPPING*
The Rainbow dance
By 2.000. Performers,
a WHS AT FIELD,
IN WHICH
2,000 children!
take Part.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COUeToF^EWSO 1 ' 1 >■
WALES—IN Divorce. lirstv ille
TO SYDNEY KOBERT JONES late
New South Wales. —TAKE NOT ])ivorce No.
MAY JONES has filed a Petition for D
4063 of 1951 on the grounds of habitual
ness and cruelty during thiee y during
and repeated assaults and cruel beatings a
one year previous to 21st September
wish to defend you may entei an PP t
the Divorce Registry Supreme CouO Kng n
Sydney by the 3rd day of June 1952 J r b
a copy of the Petition free of charge p arra -
TEMPLEMAN, Solicitor, 180 Church S r ,
matta—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The reception-rooms at the Town Hall
were the setting for a party given by the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster, to
welcome Mrs. W. Comeadow, whose
husband was recently elected to the City
Council. Mrs. Inkster wore a white-
beaded navy frock and matching jacket
and a coolie hat of navy straw. Of dove-
grey crepe were Mrs. Comeadow’s frock
and hat. Guests also took the opportunity
of farewelling Mrs. Gordon Coulter, who
with her husband leaves shortly by air
for Great Britain and the U.S. Those of
the party included Mrs. Fred Hardy and
her daughter Margot, Mrs. Bernard
Evans, Mesdames H. Tatnall, R. Burns
Campbell, R, Solly, J. W. Ferguson,
H. G. Cantwell and W. Brens.
A lot of high-geared enthusiasm by a
committee presided over by Mrs. Tom
Carlyon resulted in the Delphic almost
bursting at the seams with the 240 guests
who turned up for the dinner-dance held
for the Opportunity Clubs. A number of
this city’s most attractive young matrons
paraded in luxurious furs provided by
Bill Napier, and Lynette Grey was the
lucky winner of a white velvet stole bor-
dered with white Arctic fox. Mrs. Car-
lyon’s white satin gown was decked on
the strapless bodice with garnet-red
rhinestones. Moonstones outlined the
narrow shoulder-straps and bodice of the
white tulle gown worn by Mrs. Graham
Nathan. A grey-and-white coin-spotted
silk gown was Mrs. Bruce Rose’s choice.
Mrs. E. Robertson wore white satin with
an unusual scarf effect of cinnamon-
brown chiffon. Lady Clapp, who com-
pered the fur parade, wore grey-blue satin,
the shawl collar finished with a bunch
of lilac. A scarlet lace stole covered
Mrs. Leo Curtis’s black velvet gown.
Mrs. Iris Clarke, organiser of the Oppor-
tunity Clubs, wore white satin with an
overskirt of white lace outlined in silver.
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas wore black tulle
over satin. Mrs. Harry Scott’s sheath
frock had rows of colored sequins, Mrs.
Geoffrey Smith was in white satin. Busy
workers behind the scenes were Mrs.
Lionel Grimwade in a pretty royal-blue
lace frock, Mrs. Joyce Whitehead and
Mrs. Duncan McLaren.
Notable in the collection of Norman
Hartnell models shown at Scott’s Hotel
were the clever groupings of fan pleats,
knife pleats and box pleats, in some cases
stitched down and inverted pleats, most
effective in slenderly-cut and buttoned-
through frocks. The button motif gained
interest in being grouped in twos, threes
and fours. Gem of the collection was a
charcoal shantung glace, which is a shan-
tung with a flecked surface and gleaming
finish.
A dramatic soprano, Erica Burkewitch,
who before coming to this country three
years ago appeared as guest artist with
symphony orchestras conducted by Otto
Klemperer and William Furtwangler, is
to give a recital, in conjunction with
pianist Raymond Lambert, at the
Assembly Hall on March 31. Born in
Riga, Latvia, she was leading soprano
with the National Opera in that city, and
has sung in Rome, Lausanne, Milan and
other large European cities. Erica Burke-
witch sings folk-songs in 17 languages.
Two years ago she married W. D.
Connochie, an Australian of Scots
parentage.
W. C. L. Townsend, chairman of the
Exhibition Trust, formally opened its
new Royal ballroom. Originally planned
to be the setting for several functions
during the Royal tour, the ballroom actu-
ally comprises there units. The large ball-
room will hold 1800 dancers; it is
180 ft. long by 80ft. wide. The smaller
ballroom, designed for more private
functions, will accommodate 200 dancers,
and there is a foyer or lounge just inside
the glassed-in entrance. The main color
motif is rose-pink, and dotted about the
lounge are couches in rose-pink and white
Regency-striped satin. The ceilings have
a “quilted” effect; in the main ballroom
the rose ceiling is studded with silver,
whilst the wall above the orchestra-dais
and above the entrance is white, rose-
studded. Misty-grey pillars support the
ceiling, and entrance to the main ball-
room is through drapings of rose-pink
brocade, which may be looped back when
the ballroom is in use. Lighting is in-
direct and comes through clear glass-
shades. Ceilings of the small ballroom
and foyer are pale-grey, studded with
white. First function to be held in the
Royal ballroom is the White Ensign Ball
next Friday.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, due to sail in
Orion for an overseas trip, was guest-of-
honor at a buffet-luncheon given in the
Toorak home of Mrs. Norman Spry,
who received the guests in a frock of
white self-embroidered organza. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell wore with her black
shantung jacket-suit a small black cloche,
softly veiled. Her sister, Mrs. Juddie
James, who is travelling with her, was in
pale-beige linen topped with a lemon-
toned beret. Mrs. Robert Wallace
Mitchell wore gay florals with a
wide - brimmed black hat. Mrs. Mal-
colm Wallace Mitchell’s choice was
pale-blue linen and a white hat. Assist-
ing the hostess was Mrs. Eric Cottrell,
Mrs. McGregor Dawson and Mrs.
Royden Honeyman—the latter’s draped
silk frock was worn with a citron-yellow
felt boater and sequin-spangled veil.
This week’s picture is of Jane, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Chirn-
side, of Moorallah, Carranballac. Jane,
who was head prefect at Clyde last year
—her final year —is shown in the gown
she wore at her coming-out party at 9
Darling-street.
There were over 200 guests at the
party. The bouffant skirt of Jane’s frock
was fashioned of layers of palest-blue-
and-white tulle, and the strapless bodice
was massed with white lilac. Two blue-
birds, set on sprigs of white lilac, deco-
rated the skirt. A slim-skirted, autumn-
leaf-brown satin gown, slightly trained,
was worn by her mother ; the strapless
bodice was cuffed with pale-cream lace,
over which was worn a matching tulle
stole. Jane’s sister, Mrs. Bryan Austin,
wore parchment-toned satin with touches
of bead embroidery on the bodice. Mrs.
lan Morrison’s moire taffetas were navy ;
the underskirt of navy-and-cyclamen tulle
matched the tulle stole. Pat Crespin
danced in white self-striped satin. Betty
Leslie chose pastel-blue tulle, Bardi Grim-
wade dove-grey satin with bead scrolls on
the strapless bodice. Patricia Gibson’s
full white organdie gown was patterned
with black flowers, Sonia Cole’s parma-
violet organdie with large violet petal
motifs. Ruth Austin wore pale-pink tulle,
Robin Bayley dove-grey satin. Mrs. Rod
Andrew teamed deep-cream lace and
chiffon in her attractive frock. Madame
Reshid Bey wore a petunia-shot taffeta
stole with her gown of navy net.
A very happy man was Commodore
H. J. Buchanan, R.A.N., when he saw
one of his dreams come true with the
opening of the White Ensign Club, which
is for naval ratings when on leave in this
city. Prime Minister Menzies, perform-
ing the opening ceremony, was in fine
fettle, and received a silver salver to
mark the occasion. This he handed to
Mrs. Menzies, saying, “She deserves it
more than I do.” Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins was among the speakers with
praise for Ken Luke and his committee of
businessmen, who were responsible for
raising the money for the club, which
has cost almost £30,000. When it is com-
pletely furnished 300 men will be housed
and fed ; among the club’s many attrac-
tions is a full-length billiard-table. Mrs.
Isobel Green, the P.M.’s sister, was
responsible for suggesting the site: the
north-eastern annexe of the Exhibition.
A women’s group will be responsible for
raising money, staffing the club with
voluntary helpers and arranging hos-
pitality for ratings from other States.
Wearing smartly-tailored pale-blue over-
all dresses, a group of former Navy House
workers served afternoon-tea when the
opening ceremonies had concluded. Mrs.
Menzies received a posy of red roses
which contrasted with her grey suit and
matching hat. Lady Collins, also in grey,
was presented with a posy of yellow
roses. Mrs. Ken Luke’s deep mustard-
yellow tweed suit was worn with black
hat and accessories. Mrs. Isobel Green’s
frock, coat and hat were in Parma-violet
tonings.
From Sydney
Cupid seems to have been shooting
jvith a sure aim of late in the vicinity
of the Headquarters Younger Set of the
Society for Crippled Children, for both
the president, Margaret Salenger, and the
vice-president, Pat Casper, have announced
their engagements. Margaret, youngest
daughter of the Ernest Salengers, of
Killara, is plighted to Dr. Robert Gill, of
that same district. Pat, a Mosmanite
(daughter of the R. K. Caspers), is
engaged to Ronald Jarman, also of that
Harbor-girt and rocky suburb.
Both Margaret and Pat brought parties
to the dance which their Younger Set
arranged for Sunday night at the Fig Tree
Inn, when some very nice little bits of
summer-evening informal dressing were
seen. Beverley Grant’s primrose
marquisette ballerina with the outsize
black polka-dots was noteworthy, also the
pink embroidered organdie allied with
white organdie of Marcia Gibson’s dress.
Twins Mary and Catherine Vidor wore
grey satin-striped brocade and navy faille
respectively, each with a devastating
neckline. Helen Hayes wore tie-silk,
Margaret Gibson sea-island cotton in
yellow and grey, and Jill Moller flame
georgette embroidered with gold circles.
In Beverley’s party also were George
Vidor, Neville Yeoman, Keith Harrison,
Jim Skelton, Peter Hinkler, Bede Morris
and Dr. Ted Lyons.
Appeals-organiser Hazel Morris enter-
tained Keith Sullivan, June Fawcett,
George O’Keefe and Bob Wooton ; Ailsa
Cook, in tie-silk, rich not gaudy, brought
the Bruce Trenerrys, Mr. and Mrs.
Max Smyth, Jenny Williams and
Alan Mitchell. For floor-show there was
a hula dance (both fast and slow), and
Donald Novis singing Irish songs with
such vigor that even the ranks of Tuscany
could scarce forbear to cheer.
Wife of the governor of the 29th
Rotary District, Mrs. A. L. Rigby, is the
subject of our picture this week. The
29th Rotary District, which includes 33
Rotary Clubs and has 300 members, will
hold its Annual Ball at the Trocadero on
May 16, with proceeds in aid of the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children.
The debs are to be presented to the Lud
Mayor, and the list is still open. Any
member of Rotary can nominate a deb.
All she has to do is send in her name and
the name of the Rotarian sponsoring her.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Any flower-show at this time of the
year naturally resolves itself into a dahlia-
show, as was seen in the Royal Horti-
cultural Society exhibits at the Town Hall
during the week. The brilliant mass of
gladioli couldn’t produce blooms such as
one would see in November. The
zinnias, though vibrant, were lacking in
variety of color. The roses and carna-
tions, though exquisite, were naturally few
in number. The gerberas seemed
particularly good, and there was an
interesting double-pink gerbera called
Beverley. But the dahlias carried the
day. There is no flower that can cause
such astonishment as a dahlia, and none,
perhaps, that lends itself more to display.
The perfect shape of H. Schubert’s large
decorative “Miss Tooronga,” the intense
bluish-pink of Rickard and Johnson’s
“Woodbridge” and their lovely “Water-
lily” dahlia were quite breathtaking, also
the hybrid cactus by Mrs. B. Adams and
the red informal “Pop Harris” shown by
G. Hooper. ~ .
“Twelfth Night” opened at the Met.
on one of those horrid humid nights that
Sydney’s late summer deals out like a
backward kick. However, the charm of
the presentation made up for discomfort,
with the changing of scenes a new depar-
ture in ingenuity. The sequence of scenes
is different from orthodox textbooks, and
one imagines that the fact that the play
does not start with “If music be the food
of love, play on,” but with What
country, friends, is this?” will surprise
audiences of schoolchildren, throw them
off their balance and keep them quiet
for a while at least.
Twenty-two made their bow to the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress at the
Loreto ex-students’ dance last week, in-
cluding three —Janet Ritchie, Gabrielle
Felton and Anne Louise Loneragon
(Mudgee)—who are ex-students of the
convent themselves and the daughters of
ex-students. Janet’s mother, Mrs. Leigh
Ritchie, presented the debs, among
whom were Jill and Dora McCosker, of
Inverell, Marie de Baun, Diane Comins
and Elizabeth Armstrong. Entertained in
the official party by the president. Dr.
Tess Carmichael, were Dr. and Mrs.
Coombs, Mr. Justice and Mrs. de Baun,
Mr. Justice and Mrs. Clancy, Dr. and
Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mrs. J. Burrow, Miss
Meg Hickey, Miss Eileen Crewes and
Miss Margaret Galbraith.
Miss Beulah Bolton, who has been
identified for so many years with work
of the Bush Book Club, has resigned
her position as secretary, and at a recent
committee-meeting was elected a life-
member in recognition of her devoted
service. She is succeeded as secretary
by Mrs. K. M. Raymond.
A large crowd attended the opening
of the architecture exhibition at Farmer’s
Gallery during the week, for everyone
is interested in houses even if in-
terest can go no further than gazing at
pictures of them (like a penniless child
gazing at sweets in a shop window).
Nearly all the new designs call for vast
areas of glass, which look just wonder-
ful, but the mind staggers at the thought
of the costly curtains and Venetians they
demand. Also, though this Letter admires
the open-airiness of contemporary archi-
tectural design, it is a little chilling to
think that never again are human beings
to be allowed to be “cosy,” nor even to
be permitted the illusion of it.
There were many architects at the
exhibition (naturally!); the Baldwin-
sons, the Bunnings, the Harold Smiths,
Professor and Mrs. E. Towndrow, Adrian
Ashton, Geoffrey Loveridge, Nigel Ash-
ton, John Nisbet, J. D. Storrey, “Coco”
Cousins and D. C. Maclurcan. The Gov-
ernor (in his capacity as successor to
Macquarie, no doubt) opened the exhibi-
tion and gave as usual an interesting and
knowledgeable speech.
Fashions seem to be changing regard-
ing dance etiquette. It used to be the
thing for a man to give his partner the
first dance, the supper dance and the last
dance. If he could he was then sup-
posed to dance with all the other girls in
the party in turn. Today, however, it is
the common thing for partners to dance
together all night. Some of the more
adventurous souls branch out and have a
couple of turns with other people in the
party, but only towards the end of the
night. The habit doesn’t make for
sociability at all, and accounts for a lot
of the boredom which one sees so fre-
quently at balls and parties.
Interesting to note that more than half
the exhibitors in the horse section of the
Royal Agricultural Show this year are
women, and that two women, Sister E.
Fitzgerald and Miss Pat Noonan, ot
Kingswood, near Penrith, will exhibit
more horses than any other owner. With
their horses (12 hunters and one hack!
they have made 101 entries. Ruth Emery,
of Nowra, with six horses and 60 entries, is
putting in the next-biggest horse-team.
One of the newest theories regarding
infant care is that the newly-born babe
must be given time to adjust himself to
this brave new world, and so, immediately
after he sees the light of day, he is
wrapped up (not washed), placed in a
room of the correct temperature for 36
hours and left alone. He is then
brought into the mother’s room, fen
beside her bed, and thereafter she does
everything for him, bathing, feeding,
dressing. This is being done m an
English hospital and with good results,
it is reported. The only snag is tha
mother misses those few precious days
of rest in hospital before she returns
her household and her other children.
When V.As. visit Sydney they have a
busy time, judging by the dmemry ‘
two New Zealand Aids, Miss Sym
Miss Samson. Their stay will spread
from March 24 to April 7, then
study tour will take in the conferen
the Red Cross Branches which begins *
April 2 and closes on the 4th.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Bishop Theodor Arvidson of Sweden,
now visiting Melbourne, is unique among
present-day bishops inasmuch as there
are parts of his immense diocese which
he is not allowed to enter —the forbidden
bits are in Soviet Russia. In this respect he
has something in common with some of
the missionaries the mediaeval Popes sent.
to Cathay and gave spiritual jurisdiction
over areas that no Europeans had ever
entered. The bishop is a Methodist and
his vineyard comprises Scandinavia and
a large slice of Northern Europe. He
has relations in Melbourne—Arvidsons
who came to Australia from Sweden over
60 years ago.
An Australian university has done
something unique—it has become the
home of the first Chinese-born British
peeress. The peeress with Celestial
affiliations is Lady Lindsay, whose
Chinese name is Hsiao-li or Passing Light,
and whose husband, the Hon. Michael
Lindsay, senior research fellow in
economics at the National University,
Canberra, has become the second Baron
Lindsay of Birker through the death of
his 72-year-old father. The late Lord
Lindsay was principal of the University
College of North Staffordshire and was
Master of Balliol, Oxford, for 25 years.
Off to study new methods of teaching
teachers to teach, Tom Sten, Superin-
tendent of the Westralian Teachers’
Training College, will look over similar
establishments in England, Scotland and,
possibly, Western Europe. A hefty,
scholarly six-footer, he interrupted his
own training to go away with the 44th
Battalion, A.1.F., to help teach the Kaiser
a thing or two. With Wilhelm caned,
and with a commission won in the field,
Sten went back to the classroom and
took his M.A. degree at the Westralian
University, eventually becoming head of
the Training College and chairman of
the State’s Repatriation Education Board,
which was responsible for inducting so
many Diggers into the teaching game.
Since 1950 he has been State president of
the R.S.L.
As a class bankers probably get around
more than most people, and H. Watson,
Queensland inspector of the A. and N.Z.
Bank, has probably seen as much of Aus-
tralia as most of his tribe. He moved
into the present job from a similar post
in the Union Bank when that institution
joined forces with the Bank of Austra-
lasia two and a half years ago. Starting
FINANCE.
with the Union in Melbourne in
1909, he served it in four States, manag-
ing branches at Coonabarabran, Parkes,
Narrandera (N.S.W.), Bairnsdale and
Warracknabeal (Vic.) and Haymarket
(Sydney). In Westralia Watson managed
the Perth branch and was W.A. inspector
before going to Queensland. A Gallipoli
and Palestine veteran, he has also fought
his way out of every bunker on Royal
Queensland Golf Course.
“Cauboy”: A quality that distinguishes
John Brownlee from the other Aus-
tralians singing at the Princess, Mel-
bourne, is his perfect enunciation. I
personally didn’t know that the operas
were being sung in English until I read
the announcement on the programme,
but when Brownlee is singing you can
hear each word. Of course, I don’t say
that this is an advantage. “Lohengrin”
was all right, because Wagner’s thought
lofty as his music, but the thought
in “Lucia di Lammermoor” is so ex-
quisitely banal that it would be far better
left in Italian, so that you wouldn’t know
what anyone was talking about and could
think that it was something terribly im-
portant.
“1.M.” on a man of the river:
The death at Murray Bridge (S.A.) of one
of the last of the old-time river skippers,
Richard Murray Randell, has ended a 99-year
alliance between the Randell family and the
Murray. Skipper Randell’s father, “W.R.,”
built and skippered the first steamer ever to dip
her paddles in Murray water—in 1853 —and in
1881 18-year-old Murray followed his father to
the river, getting his skipper’s ticket five years
later when he took over his best-remembered
command, the speedy Tyro, whose races with
the Ellen were famous from Goolwa to Albury.
Randell kept Tyro on the mail-and-passenger-
run between Mannum and Murray Bridge until
1923, with only two breaks —once when he
handed over the command to his son, who died
a few months later, and once, in 1897, when
he was laid up for nine months through the
boiler of the Tyro exploding and leaving him
scarred and minus part of one of his ears.
When trade fell off in the ’thirties Skipper
Murray Randell tied the Murfundi up to Murray
Bridge wharf and lived on her, growing every-
thing from wallflowers to pumpkins on her
after-deck. When she sank under him a couple
of years ago Peter Arnold, son of his old
friend Capt. J. G. Arnold, helped him recover
the deckhouses and set them up ashore, where
Randell lived in them until his death. He died
without achieving the two ambitions of his
later life: seeing a Government inquiry into
the possibility of reviving the river trade and
seeing the centenary of his father’s pioneering
voyage on the Murray properly celebrated.
Back in 1917 Neven Read joined the
Navy from the family property near
Cobar (N.S.W.). Now commander, with
all the years since then at sea, he drops
anchor for the last time on the family
acres in Victoria. The new farmhand is
used to reaping—though his war-time
harvest differed somewhat from what
he’ll garner now. In command of half
a dozen minesweepers through the
Pacific war, in 1945 he took the bridge
of corvette Ballarat, senior-officer of the
21st .Minesweeping Flotilla, his job to
sweep a bulb-free path before the huge
British Fleet Train. On August 15, 1945,
the war ended for the British Pacific Fleet
—for all of it, that is, except the 21st
Flotilla. Mines are respecters of neither
persons nor dates, and on that otherwise
relaxing date Read really got down to
work. Slowly and with respectful care
he led his fleet of little ships, trailing their
Oropesa floats and deep-biting kites, over
the gardens the Japs had sown off Hong
Kong, Swatow and Amoy. What he
reaped brought him a special commenda-
tion from Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser. At
time of going ashore Read was boss of
H.M.A.S. Leeuwin, Westralia’s naval
depot.
An unusual record is in the offing for
Captain Marius Toftdahl, Norwegian
skipper of the 8000-tonner Lionel now
berthed in Melbourne. He and his ship
have to travel another 32,000 miles to
bring up their million miles, and there is
no record of a ship and her skipper ever
having sailed so far together. Since
Toftdahl took command in 1925 he has
sailed through two cyclones, gunfire from
German pocket-battleships and has nosed
into pretty well every port in the world.
Pastor Douglas Ralph Nichols, of the
Churches of Christ Aborigines’ Mission,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, is a cultured man,
and probably knows his Shakspeare,
though he may not have owed any con-
scious debt to Shylock when, in an address
to children at St. Mary’s Church of
England, and to illustrate his contention
that there w*as no essential difference be-
tween black and white children, he said :
“You pinch me and I jump: I pinch
you and you jump.” The kids howled
with appreciation. Nichols was born and
educated at Cummerangunja (N.S.W.),
and was once one of the best-known abo.
athletes. He won the Nyall Gift, the
Warracknabeal Gift and ran fourth in
the Melbourne Thousand all in the same
year, and was a footballer of repute
playing for Fitzroy and Northcote and in
inter-State matches. He married Gladys
Bux, of Bombay, and now works amongst
the big Bijighi community that has
clustered around Fitzroy. It was he who
made the authorities self-conscious of
having completely forgotten the aboriginal
proprietors of Australia in the Jubilee
celebrations. The sequel was that a
Queensland team played “Momba” at
the Princess Theatre. The Bulletin critic
described it as the best and most original
contribution.
Having become of national import-
ance, the Crocodile Shooters’ Club of
Melbourne has renamed itself the Aus-
tralian Crocodile and Big Game Hunters’
Club; the membership, originally a
dozen, has risen to 200 under the presi-
dency of M. Rene Henri, himself an
ardent hunter. Any alarm that may be
aroused up north by this information will
be allayed when the crocs leam that the
president is so concerned about the
present rate of killing that he is seeking
protection for his favorite quarry, lest
the saurians become extinct like their
prehistoric fellows. Henri want; the
authorities to declare certain areas cf the
N.T. as sanctuaries, to ordain that no
crocs outside them longer than 10ft. be
taken, and to limit “bags,” as with ducks.
The spectacle of a club-member throw-
ing back a saurian after he has carefully
measured it and found it to be only
9ft. 1 l|in. will no doubt be duly recorded
in technicolor on the cameras all members
seem to carry.
The look on the face of Stanley
Richard Preston (here Coventrated) could
be called satisfied; it could stem from
reading of the stoush his fellow-gasmen
in Sydney are having with Mr. McGirr.
FUEL.
Anyway, Preston is satisfied with his own
concern, the South Australian Gas Co.,
of which he’s been g.m. since 1949. Aged
56, a Sydneysider educated at Sydney
High, he was serving his apprenticeship
at the N.S.W. Government dockyard
when Wilhelm gave him three years of
sapping with the Light Horse in Palestine
and Syria. With Wilhelm undermined,
Preston returned to Sydney, graduated
B.E. with first-class honors, and started
gas-making with the North Shore Co.,
assistant-engineer of its Neutral Bay
works. On the side he continued his
studies, to become, in 1926, the first
graduate from Sydney University to
obtain his degree in mechanical-
engineering. Thirty then, the next year
he was made works-superintendent of his
present company. For years he has been
concerned with gathering other fuel —as
chairman of the Legacy Funds Appeal in
his State.
Trekking overland from Fremantle to
Sydney are two adventurous new arrivals,
L. Loebl, a 26-year-old Austrian engineer,
and his wife. They are tackling the trip
in a 1930 London taxi which they bought
about 18 months ago for £4O. They have
already driven it 10,000 miles, through
12 countries from London to Calcutta,
whence it was shipped to Fremantle.
For the information of Old Diggers who have
written to Mcßeath on seeing the mention of
his “Back to Yarrawonga” song (B. 19/3/’52) —
it was first made popular in France by the
Anzac Coves Concert Party, who later featured
it on tour through Britain, and, later, Aus-
tralasia. Mcßeath himself was the first cove
to sing it in London. Loma and Toots Pounds,
a pair of Australian girls whoso act was head-
ing London vaudeville bills at the time, heard
him put it over at a charity show during his
Blighty leave; they dragged him along to the
London Palladium, where the theatrical pro-
fession was giving Billy Hughes a “command
performance.” From his box Billy, no doubt
because of Mcßeath’s appearing in Digger
uniform, put on a splendid applause act. He
could not have heard much of the song, because
later, backstage, he told the singer how much
he enjoyed his song about going back to
Sydney! After that performance London pub-
lishers came clamoring. A strange coincidence
happened on the first of the several trips to
England made on the resultant royalties. In
Australia Mcßeath had met Ella Shields, who
had promised, one day, to sing his song in
London. Mcßeath had forgotten the incident
by the time his first royalty cheque came along.
Flush, he hopped on a ship for England. From
the top of a bus in Piccadilly the day he landed
he spotted the “Welcome home to London of
Ella Shields” on a Palladium hoarding. He
jumped off, got a ticket for the gods, hopped
up the mile or so of stairs, and, halfway
through the show, entered on a strange silence.
Ella, in top-hat and tails, was making a speech
far below. “Ladies and gentlemen, when I
was in Australia I made a promise to a young
Digger that on my first return to London I
would sing his Australian song, T’m Going
Back, Back, Back to Yarrawonga.’ ” She held
the boomerang Mcßeath had given her on her
departure. The orchestra struck up; the story
later appeared in the London papers.
“P.0.M.C.”: Only a sporting chance,
perhaps, but John Locke, of Mt. Gambier,
(S.A.), may not be the last remaining
personal link with Adam Lindsay
Gordon (B. 27/2/’52) —a Warrnambool
(Vic.) district farmer named McLaren,
still hale and hearty some years back,
claimed youthful associations with the
poet. McLaren’s eldest son (christened
Lindsay Gordon for the poet) was
aboard the trooper Ballarat when that
ship stopped a tin-fish in the Channel in
the Kaiser’s war (all hands saved), while
his second son, Robert, enlisted in 1918
with a group of mates, including myself ;
still together, we sailed in the Barambah,
a decrepit tub which made Blighty only
after vicissitudes which rippled the Aus-
tralian Press at the time. Novelist Vance
Palmer also swung his hammock in this
coffin-ship (we consigned 44 to the deep),
and he edited the “Barambah Battler,”
roneod copies of which I reluctantly sold
during the Hungry Thirties, to a Sydney
K.C., a keen collector of active-service
journals.
An assisted migrant on a £lO ticket
who’s a count and incredibly aristocratic
isn’t unusual. As a rule he’s a Czech,
Pole, Lett, Esthonian or Balt. The latest
one, passing through Melbourne en route
to the Speck to work on a sheep-station,
is different in being English—Count
Henry Noel Bentinck, a mediatised Count
of the Holy Roman Empire and a kins-
man of the Duke of Portland. The title
was created by Charles VI of Austria in
1732 and its use was confirmed by Royal
licence. Bentinck is 33, was educated at
Harrow, was in the Coldstream Guards,
twice wounded in the late war, and was
until recently a 8.8. C. talks-prbducer.
He will work on the property of
Commander W. J.' Melrose.
“Bohemian”: The 90th birthday of
Mrs. Catherine Hyland, of Auckland, re-
calls one of the most mysterious disap-
pearances in the records of New Zealand.
When a girl she was living with her
father, Charles Lange, in Nelson. With a
number of other men with horses Lange
went to do a horse-deal in Blenheim.
Neither horses nor men were ever seen
again. Residents and police scoured the
country, but no trace of the missing party
could be found. The weather conditions
were favorable, and there were no flooded
rivers on the route to interfere with the
travellers. And there were no hostile
Maoris. A London detective was so im-
pressed by the occurrence that he wrote
and asked for all particulars—a descrip-
tion of the country, weather conditions,
the time it took to do the journey and so
on. Particulars were sent to him. After
making a lengthy analysis of the case, he
admitted he could suggest no solution —
and in all the years that have followed
the mystery has remained unsolved.
Into the Silence:
Killed during manoeuvres near Liverpool
(N.S.W.), Thomas Henry Hosier (Harry) Saun-
ders was the youngest squadron-leader and C.O.
in the R.A.A.F. He was 29 when appointed
C.O. of No. 22 (City of Sydney) Squadron
about eight months ago. Educated at Hale
School, Perth, he joined the R.A.A.F. in 1942,
won his wings and saw active service in the
islands. His elder brother, Flight-Lieutenant
John Saunders, who had the honor of being the
first to bring down a German plane in the
Middle East, was killed in 1941.
In North Fremantle, at 66, Leslie Richard
Charlton, retired schoolteacher and Mayor of
North Fremantle since 1950. Born in N-S.W., he
crossed to the West early, and spent most of
the next 50 years with the Westralian Education
Department. His only change of occupation
earned him a lieutenant’s stars, while serving
in the 51st Battalion, A.1.F., against the Kaiser.
A zealous president of the Fremantle R.S.L.
Club.
In Adelaide, at 67, W. K. Bakewell, head ol
the firm of solicitors whose roots, planted b>
his grandfather, go back 100 years through
three generations. Admitted to practice in 1911,
W.K. was directorially connected with several
Adelaide companies and was an avid polo-
player. He captained the Adelaide Polo Club
for some 10 years. His only son, an A.I.F.
captain, was killed at Alamein.
At 75, in Sydney, Henry Eli White, who
came from an engineering-contract for a
Christchurch (N.Z.) hydroelectric project to
establish a high reputation as an architect in
Australia’s eastern capitals. Five well-known
Sydney theatres, as well as others in Brisbane
and Melbourne, wear his architectural imprint,
and he was architect and consulting-engineer
for Bunnerong powerhouse. '
In Melbourne, at 72, W, V. Ray, who shifted
from Manchester (Eng.) to S. Australia as a
four-year-old, got his LL.B. degree from
Adelaide University and was admitted to the
Bar in 1908. For 10 years from 1930 he was
widely known as the magistrate in charge of
the Wallaroo (S.A.) district, and, later, at the
Adelaide Local Court.
In Perth, ending a lifetime of social-welfare
work, Mrs. Ethel Rose Joyner. A member
of the Paterson family, who pioneered Pinjarra
(W.A.), she commenced a host of welfare
activities for the young and the aged with the
foundation, in 1924, of the Little Children
League, in memory of a daughter who died in
early childhood. Among the youth-organisa-
tions which she helped found were the Children’s
Protection Society, the Girl Guides’ Association
and the Fairbridge Farm Schools committee.
One-time State president of the Women’s Ser-
vice Guild, she was also a senior vice-president
of the Bush Nursing Association.


‘‘Our ESSE is the joy of our lives,” writes an
ESSE user. Certainly the Esse has every
cooking facility you could wish for—a big,
fast-boiling hotplate, generous simmering
area, and in every model there are at least
two ovens. All are hot and ready for use
twenty-four hours a day. Yet fuel cost is
extremely low. Savings in fuel bills soon pay
for the cooker and permanently reduce cooking
costs. No wonder the demand for ESSE Cookers
is world-wide.
I Wm
IlnKlli
\
-■ .. ■■
m
U
m
>-
■W/
ia
/
w
y
liii
Illustrating the “ESSE”
Premier No. 71 with auxil-
iary oven giving a cooking
capacity for up to 30 persons.
A full range of “ESSE”
Ovens of various capacities
is available.
' > £kntl*
-
w
SUNDRY SHOWS
Heysen in Sydney.
Hans Heysen is probably best
known to the public by paint-
ings in the style of “Woodside
Pastoral” at his current show at
David Jones’s, Sydney. There
are cows in it, there is a hay-
stack, there is the afternoon light
glowing through the foliage of
gum-trees, and in the distance
the ranges lie warm and asleep
in the sun.
It is a watercolor that has
many times been reproduced ; or
at any rate one very like it has;
the N. S. Wales National Gallery
sells a print of a similar paint-
ing, with willows instead of
gums. So you think, maybe, here
is Heysen again ; admirable, of
course, but familiar. And you
may think, too, that gum-trees,
cows, haystacks and afternoon
light are suspicious phenomena
to encounter in a painting, being
the conventional symbols of
rustic poetry, the sort of things
that in the hands of the second-
rate daubers of the popular art-
shops become harrowingly
sentimental.
Then you look at “Woodside
Pastoral” again and suddenly,
because here it has been done
by a master of watercolor and
an artist with a profoundly
sensitive and personal response
to nature, the picture becomes
superb. The light floods
magnificently through the trees ;
the whole painting glows with
heat and rejoices with the rich-
ness of the earth ; it becomes the
very embodiment of the poetry
of afternoon in the country;
peace and warmth and fertility.
So then you may reflect that,
after all, it takes a certain bold-
ness and sturdiness of mind to
tackle the obviously romantic
aspects of nature instead of run-
ning into a corner to try some
wild experiment so as to be sure
of being “different” ; and that
this painting is indeed different
from either facile romanticism or
facile experiment because of its
technical mastery and because it
is a perfect expression of the
artist’s inner vision as well as
of the countryside it depicts.
The lavishness and warmth of
this picture, which you get again
in “Woodside Country,” are
probably the strongest character-
istics of Heysen’s art. But many
other aspects reveal themselves
in the exhibition. The large
pencil-drawings show his staunch
qualities as a draftsman. “Spring
Skies, Balhannah” and “The
Green Valley” as well as “Wood-
side Country” show the force
and freshness of his skies, always
alive with light and astonishingly
crisp with movement.
The jagged masses of “In the
Brachina Gorge,” the red earth
of “Foothills of the Arkabas”
with the hot color caught up
again in the pinks of the sky, the
massive rock and blazing light
of “Guardian of the Brachina
Gorge” and the broad and lovely
simplicity of “Sunrise, Aroona
Valley” with its one red triangle
of mountain rearing against the
soft undulations of the ranges,
remind us that Heysen was the
first to discover the delight of
painting The Centre with its
clarity of atmosphere and sharp-
ness of outline, and that nobody
has ever painted it so well.
Above all the exhibition as a
whole displays Heysen as a
harmonist in color. “Frosty
Morning, Oakbank” in its cool
and subtle purples, “The Green
Valley” rolling in emerald to the
mauve of the distance, and “The
Drinking Pool, Ambleside” with
its colonnade of gum-tree boles
in green and silver —these three
large watercolors are of quite
exceptional beauty.
Heysen is, of course, one of
the great figures in Australian
art; there is no reason why we
should value his work less than
that of Cotman or Peter de Wint,
the masters of English water-
color in its best period. It is a
privilege to see his exhibition in
New South Wales.
It consists partly of recent
work for sale, partly of water-
colors from his earlier periods
loaned from various collections,
covering a total of 50 years.
While a much larger exhibition
would be needed to show his full
range and variety, we have here
a rich and invigorating summary
of his achievement: a repre-
sentative of Australian art in its
most robust and truly national
expression, still painting with
undiminished vitality and con-
tinually exploring the resources
of his medium and the Austra-
lian earth he loves so deeply for
new expressions of his vision.
Jean Bellette offers the
public a variety of subjects and
a variety of treatments in her
exhibition of 28 drawings at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
There are her figure-drawings,
soft and natural enough except
that it is difficult to determine
from them whether a certain
stiffness of pose springs from
the original models or from Miss
Bellette’s report of them; there
are still-lifes, mainly dark and
warm, but on the nervous
edge of falling into geometric
patterns ; and there is an assort-
ment of landscapes, some unsuc-
cessful, but several of them quite
sensitive and expressive. These
fall into two categories, the
first depending mainly on a
fine and delicately imaginative
line and showing to best effect
in “Lagoon, Bundeena,” “Old
Workings, Hill End,” and, par-
ticularly and excellently, in
“Rough Country.” In another
mood t the artist turns, with a
little less certainty, to heavy
applications of color for her
effects. She brings it off
nicely in “Behind the Town,” a
dark and dramatic scene which
seems to have existed more in
her mind than in front of her
eyes, but in which there is at
least an effective compromise or
meeting between herself and
nature. “Marshall’s Paddock,”
with its deceptively haphazard
line and sunny warmth, seems
to have been another pleasant
meeting-place,
* * * *
Lawrence Hope’s exhibition of
paintings at the Johnstone Gal-
lery, Brisbane, deals mainly with
the challenge of color and light
presented by Queensland’s far
north. For several months Hope
worked with a survey unit in
the jungle country around
Cairns and Cooktown, and the
resulting paintings are the most
interesting in his show. “Babinda
Jungle,” for example, catches
the maze of color and insistent
crowding of natural rhythms
that characterise the jungles of
the north. The same apprecia-
tion of rhythms and bold use of
color give the set of Townsville
scenes an authentic tropical
atmosphere.-
V. V.
Blake Prize.
As Catholic artists who
exhibited in the Blake Prize, we
object to the assertion (B.
19/3/’52) that our work is
“clowning.” We say it is sincere,
and we believe the same of the
other exhibitors.
The Bulletin’s critic may
yearn for paintings in another
style—that is his own business —
but as a critic he should be able
to judge the artistic merits of
any style that appears before the
public instead of dismissing a
whole exhibition as “artistic
clowning.”
The same bias is evident when
he claims that the Blake compe-
tition is not making “any head-
way towards its defined object
of encouraging religious paint-
ing.” That is obviously foolish,
because the exhibition is now
showing at Mark Foy’s, and there
are “55 exhibited entries.” Each
of these, whether the critic likes
it or not, has made an attempt
to state the eternal truths of
Christian doctrine in the styles
of today.
One may be fortunate enough
to “derive more of that spirit [of
reverence] from a square inch
of Gruner than from the whole
exhibition.... at Mark Foy’s.”
Gruner’s achievements in his
own sphere are not to be
doubted, but as his aims were
never those of the exhibitors in
the Blake Prize, the comparison
is absurd.
It is a pity that your critic has
not taken this exhibition seri-
ously. We would have welcomed
a constructive and well-informed
criticism —we object to a flippant
accusation of “artistic clown-
ing.”—Justin O’Brien, Peter
Dodd, John Ogburn.
Gieseking's Beethoven.
Gieseking’s third Sydney
concert included four sonatas of
the composer’s early and middle
periods, and while there is little
in them of the profundity and
heartsearchings which mark
those of the last period, they yet
run a sufficient emotional gamut
to challenge any virtuoso’s inter-
pretative powers. The pianist
played them in chronological
order, starting with the
“Pathetique,” and at once estab-
lished himself as a strong ex-
ponent of the master of Bonn
who refuses to make any conces-
sions to sentimentality.
His building-up of climaxes
was noteworthy, his left-hand
work in this phase being a reve-
lation ; his phrasing was fault-
less, and obviously he has a par-
ticular fondness for rhythms—
his syncopated chords in the
allegretto of the “Moonlight,”
and in the opening movement of
the “Appassionata” were almost
startlingly modern. Whilst in
the rondo and presto work he
adopts a terrific hunched con-
centration, he can pass immedi-
ately into complete relaxation
for a slow movement. This
ability to relax at will, casting
off the acute tension of half a
minute before, is one of his
great assets.
Those who consider Bach too
“mathematical” should have had


“15th Security Loan
Extremely Important
to Primary Producers
—says Mr. W. A. Gunn, President of the
Graziers* Federal Council of Australia.
"The success of the £75,000,000
15th Security Loan,” said Mr. W. A.
Gunn, "is extremely important to
the primary producers of Australia
because of its influence on public
works programmes of the Common-
wealth and States.
"We primary producers are specially
concerned because it is vital to us
that our national programme relating
to Railways, Irrigation and Water
Conservation, etc., shall not be
prejudiced, and the same considera-
tion applies to Commonwealth
defence projects.
"A subscription to the 15th
Security Loan,” Mr. Gunn
continued, "will not only give
you a unique combination
of certainty and high return,
it will also help Australia
to greater financial stability
and safeguard the future
worth of your money.”
■
TODAY'S BEST INVESTMENT. Combining absolute security with assured
regularity of interest payments and an Income Tax rebate of 2/- in the £
on interest received, the 15th Security Loan is certainly the best place for
your savings. The 10-13 Year Securities bear interest at the rate of 3|% per
annum, the 3-Year Securities at 2% per annum. Repayment in full at
maturity of your Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Help
speed Australia’s progress, help secure your own future by investing to the
limit of your savings at once. See any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker immediately.
Invest in Australia . . . Invest in the
15" SECURITY LOAN
LOAN PACTS: (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of maturing Commonwealth Securities,
and help to pay for public works and services of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Bonds or
Inscribed Stock may be purchased for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. (3) 10-13 Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest
at 3}% per annum. 3-Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 2% per annum.
(4) Minimum subscription for 10-13 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds or £lOO of Inscribed Stock
Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe £lO or more. For 3-Year Securities the
minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or Inscribed Stock. (5) Interest will be paid every six
months. (6) Repayment in full at maturity of face value of Securities is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth Government.
CONVERT YOUR MATURING SECURITIES: If you hold 2% Commonwealth Securities maturing
on April 15, 1952, you may convert your holdings into the 15th Security Loan.
SL2O.M-4.32
their ideas scattered by Giese-
king’s playing of the Partita in
B Flat, which opened the fourth
programme. Here was crystalline
lucidity, displaying Bach as he
really was —warmly human and
melodically rich, with rhythms
which could be the work of the
20th instead of the early 18th
century. Quite captivating was
Debussy’s “Children’s Corner”
suite, substantially displacing the
customary misty impressionism.
Bethoven’s Sonata Op. 109, short
and sturdily built like the com-
poser himself, was delivered with
almost piano-buckling venom.
Schubert’s A Flat Impromptu
was fragile loveliness given with
caressing touch.
"The Bloke."
C. J. Dennis’s classic “The
Sentimental Bloke,” music by
John Tallis, choreography by
Laurel Martyn, decor by Charles
Bush, and costumes after the
original illustrations by Hal
Gye, came blushing forth on to
the stage at the Melbourne Ballet
Guild’s studio theatre and
proved good-oh, bonzer —in fact,
apples.
Whether it was art is another
matter. It was funny, and
Geoffrey Ingram as the Bloke,
Harry Leitch as Ginger Mick,
Kit Carson as the Stror ’At
Coot, Tamara des Fontaines as
Doreen and sundry assorted
coves and sweet skirts lurched
and twitched their trousers or
tights, ’eaded browns and laid
out stoush much better than they
do Dying Swans and crook stuff
of that sort. They obviously
understood it, and it is not diffi-
cult to understand. There is
nothing very profound about
“Me ’eart, wiv woe carst down,
wus raised to ’Eaven be a
woman’s smile,” or “O, Strike !
It was divine the way she raised
’er shinin’ eyes to mine.”
“ ’Twas at a beano where I
lobs along” was done in the
right spirit by decorist Charles
Bush and choreographist Laurel
Martyn, even to the pictures on
the walls and the derelict
pianner. The music by John
Tallis was neat but undistin-
guished. It was rather surpris-
ing to find that he didn’t take
more advantage of some of the
lugubrious ditties which were
current in Collingwood and
Fitzroy in the Bloke’s time.
Giraudoux’s “The Mad
Woman of Chaillot,” Sydney
and Melbourne performances of
which have already been
reviewed on this page, has also
been well staged by Brisbane’s
Twelfth Night Theatre. Daphne
Roemermann was superb in the
title role, and in her scene with
the other two mad women (who,
apart from providing humor,
had no real significance in the
plot) she snapped back her off-
the-beam answers as though they
were inevitable in terms of her
own crazy logic. Gladys Parkin-
son, crazy and petulant, and
Peter Munro, a symbol of her
unfulfilled romance, lent admir-
able support. To a well-lit street-
scene, crying out for life, the
assorted waifs, beggars, profes-
sors, bankers and courtesans
brought nothing. Apart from
two fine little studies by Jack
Hollingworth and Elwin Flint,
the group seemed afraid of its
only mission, which was to
create the right atmosphere. The
boldness and manageability of
the design for the Mad Woman’s
cellar were a credit to young
Queensland artist Don Cowan.
* * * *
Norma Bull, the Victorian
artist whose pictures of blitzed
London attracted topical atten-
tion in that city, has fol-
lowed Wirth’s on tour and
sketched the elephants and the
Flying Beehees and the trapeze
artists in flight under the big top,
so she is not daunted by diffi-
cult subject-matter. Her work,
though vigorous in places, never
rises above the illustrative level,
luminosity being the quality
most conspicuously absent from
her circus pictures. She gets
nearer to it in a few of her land-
scapes. “Warrigal” is a good
sketch of an abo. girl roughrider.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Vic- €ai ■ (h.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
di YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUULK
J
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
0 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
0 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
0 Very long eye relief.
Q Easily mounted.
Specifications:
lion 2|x —Eye relief .3Jm.
to s|in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,'
Sydney.
BW 8631.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANK REPORTS ON MALAYA.
British Minister, Oliver
Lyttleton, on Malaya • “You
cannot expect to overcome the
emergency without the help of
the civilian population. You
cannot get the help of the
civilian population without
beginning to win the war —the
emergency.”
High Commissioner in Malaya,
General Sir Gerald Templer :
“I could win this war in three
months if I could get two-thirds
of the people on my side.”
The question, then, would
seem to be: Why isn’t that vital
co-operation forthcoming?
Some very frank reports and
comments in the British Press
may indicate the answer. Lord
Milverton has had a shot at put-
ting it in a sentence: “The cry-
ing need of Malaya is not self-
government tomorrow, but gov-
ernment now.”
Chinese Conspiracy
Letter from a rubber-planter
in Malaya, quoted by Lord Den-
man in London “Times”: “The
question of security continues to
dominate all walks of life in
Malaya. The rubber-planter
lives in a wired-in compound
and drives about the estate in an
armoured car. There are some
estates where managers have
been unable or have not dared
to go into the fields to inspect
the work in progress. I have
heard of one manager who has
only left his office three times
during the year.”
Also the finding of a London
“Daily Telegraph” correspon-
dent after studying the position
in Malaya at first hand:
“Security is so poor that Gov-
ernment officials and planters
dare not speak over the tele-
phone about their proposed
movements. Experience has
shown that when they do the re-
sult is only too likely to be an
ambush.”
Again: “As matters now
stand, any important policy
decision requires the assent of
11 State and Settlement Govern-
ments and of the Federal and
British Governments —13 in all
—which, as Euclid says, is
absurd.”
Further sample comments by
the same correspondent:
“Nothing indeed could be
more ludicrous than the efforts
of Communists, fellow-travellers
and miscellaneous sentimentalists
in this country [i.e., Britain ; it
goes for Australia also] to pre-
sent the Malayan terrorist move-
ment as a ‘national uprising.’ It
is from first to last a Chinese
conspiracy, far more alien in
character and ruthless in purpose
than British colonial administra-
tion ever was.
“By the same token, almost
equally ludicrous are the efforts
of the authorities to write down
this conspiracy by calling it an
‘emergency’ and its adherents
‘bandits.’
“The first term suggests a
temporary disturbance rather
than a revolt in rapid process of
turning into a civil war. The
other, with its Robin Hood con-
notation, was chosen to get over
the difficulty of calling the
terrorists Chinese Communists
—which they are —when their
opposite numbers in China had
been recognised by Britain and
publicly praised and approved
by Mr. Nehru, an eminent figure
in the Commonwealth in which,
it was hoped, Malaya would elect
to stay.”
Make-belief Fallacies
Also in London “Telegraph,”
Sir George Maxwell, former
Chief Secretary to the Govern-
ment in Malaya, has had some
even harder things to say on
Malayan “make-belief.”
“The two real things in
Malaya,” he lays down, “are a
stranglehold of a Communist
organisation and a guerrilla war
waged by an open enemy and
camouflaged by a deluded and
deluding Malayan Government
by the fatuous word ‘banditry.’ ”
Nearly all the rest, he insists,
is “make-belief,” one example
being “that Mr. Malcolm Mac-
Donald is in any way suitable
for his appointment. The harm
he has done is incalculable. His
bleating broadcasts have always
been to the effect that things are
going well and that there is no
reason to be frightened. He
aimed at strengthening morale
but succeeded in creating des-
pondency. Malaya needs a
leader. Mr. MacDonald has no
personality and none of the
qualifications of leadership.”
Another “make-belief” is
“that the rulers of the nine
States are constitutional
monarchs. They are constitu-
tional autocrats. In sublime
ignorance Mr. MacDonald
and the late Sir Edward
Gent made them so when
they presided over the
meetings of a few Malays and
a few Europeans (without any
Chinese or Indians), and drew up
the State Constitutions.”
Extravagant, Inefficient
Further hard-hitting comment
by the same authority;
“It can be safely said that
Malaya is the most extravagant
and inefficient administration in
the world. It was only the
Korean war that saved the
Federation from a financial dis-
aster. Stockpiling of rubber and
tin created a boom, as sensa r
tional as it was false. Wages and
prices soared to fantastic heights,
and the working classes were
wrapped in luxury. A slump
follows a boom, as the night
follows the day, and the inevit-
able slump will bring widespread
poverty.
“The Communist Central
Executive Committee is crafty.
At times it attacks through the
guerrillas, and at other times
through trade-unions and strike
agitators. Beyond all doubt, all
its preparations are ready for a
swift blow at the right time. If
there were a general strike
throughout the Federation, the
present administration would be
as powerless to meet it as an
ŵ
SOME PROGRESS WAS MADE — THE BEARDS GREW ANOTHER TWO INCHES.
tion Malaya at first prospered
amazingly. However (they point
out), the protecting Power could
not protect the country against
the Japanese. The warm wel-
come to the delivering troops
was dissipated by the British
Military Authority, of which the
morals were so bad that it was
called the Black Market Associa-
tion.
After the war (they further
state) the Colonial Office sent
one of its members as High
Commissioner, Sir Edward Gent.
He brought in a vast apparatus
of new departments —social wel-
fare, economic advisers, import
and export, war damage, cur-
rency controllers and others —to
such an extent that under-
secretaries were multiplied by 10.
Since then (they add) things
have gone from bad to worse.
The “emergency” started in
June, 1948. This brought a flood
of experts from “home.” The
first G.O.C. promised to end the
war by Christmas. General
Briggs had a plan which cost
millions, but has not ended the
war. Colonel Gray, the Com-
missioner of Police, was full of
the offensive spirit and for long
denied his men armor for their
cars or barbed-wire for their
stations. Sir William Jenkin, the
Criminal Intelligence Chief,
came ; he resigned and has left.
The two ablest Malayan police-
officers, Dailey and O’Connell,
resigned, as their advice was
never taken and they were never
allowed a free hand. Other
policemen who did well before
the war were deliberately side-
tracked and the promotion they
felt to be their due was given to
Palestinians.
In addition, economic advisers
have been thrust on Malaya. The
head of the Agricultural Depart-
ment is from Africa. The head
of the Medical Department —and
Malaya is immensely proud of
its medical services—is to come
from Africa, also, and law-
officers, too, come in from else-
where.
Even Sir Henry Gurney (they
finally point out) came from
Palestine and brought in more
Palestinians who know none of
the languages or customs or pre-
judices of the country and give
much offence. The pre-war
administration and its survivors
are given to understand that they
are fossils, out of date, and un-
welcome : “It is scarcely surpris-
ing that they are mentally as well
as operationally depressed—and
that morale throughout Malaya
is as low as it is.”
Wings to Come.
Something of the shape of
wings to come, as assessed by
the editor of Jane’s All the
World’s Aircraft, Leona rd
Bridgman, referring to American
developments:
“Much that is in the develop-
ment stage today is shrouded in
secrecy, but brief announce-
ments which have been made in
the United States are already
signposting the way ahead into
the next decade.
“The first order for an aircraft
to be powered by a nuclear
power-plant already under
development has been ordered
by the U.S. Air Force.
“The first guide d-missile
squadron to be equipped with
jet-powered pilotless and expend-
able bomb-carriers is being
formed by the U.S. Air Force.
“The first experimental con-
tracts for convertaplanes, which
combine the vertical lift and
hover of a helicopter with the
high-speed level flight of a
normal airplane, have been
placed under a joint U.S. Air
Force-Army development pro-
gramme.”
Com's Korean Build-up.
A Washington correspondent
of London “Times” speaks of
the increase in the Communist
air strength in Korea as “dis-
turbing,” which is putting it
extremely mildly.
The entire air record is
extraordinary, in a war which is
altogether decidedly so.
I n June, 1950, the Times
man points out, the Communists
had only a few transport air-
craft; by June, 1951, they had
about 1000 aircraft, of which
half were jets ; now they have
1700, of which 900 are jets,
Most of the jets, the cor-
respondent adds, are MIG 15s
and are being used almost en-
tirely in a defensive role, as
interceptors. It is the use of
U.N. aircraft for close support
and for interdiction over the
enemy lines that is responsible
for the heavier losses, rather
than any superiority of the
MIGs. Indeed, although the
MIG, being lighter than the
American Sabre, with an engine
of about the same power,
operates better at high altitude
—though not at low altitude
the result of the contest between
the two is regarded as satis-
factory;
“In actual fights between
MIGs and F-86s, 166 MIGs
have been destroyed and only
23 F-86s. This ratio, of more
than seven to one, is not so
much an indication of the
relative value of the aircraft as
of the pilots.
“In all combats the United
Nations has lost 40, compared
with the enemy’s losses of 279.
But the United Nations has lost
65 aircraft engaged in close sup-
port, and 296 engaged in inter-
diction over the enemy lines.
The enemy lost no aircraft on
such missions, which makes the
total United Nations losses
greater than the Communist
losses.
“The reason for this can be
understood by studying the
number of sorties flown by each
side ; the United Nations has


DON’T BE AS
COLD os a FROG
IN YOUR OWN HOME THIS WINTER
/
f/A
y:
/
/
/
/
INSULATE
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOL
No need to shiver this winter—
insulate with 8.1. Slagwool . . .
keeps your home cosy, warm
and draught-free! Saves fuel,
too!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling yon why and how
you should insulate your home with 8.1. Home Insulation.
w
N.S.W.: Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST,; Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace,
Adelaide
WEST AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
10 Elizabeth Street, Fremantle
8.1.41
/
v-
-1/^
J
: i
K
7 ,v,
£
r
y
*u
-
Kjfrp'ftvF
KB. 96.18
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
flown 22,000 combat sorties and
the Communists 18,500; the
United Nations has flown 51,000
close-support sorties, but the
Communists have flown none
and they have flown only 75
interdiction sorties, compared
with 124,000 by the United
Nations.”
U.S.-Britain-china
“The United States, apparently,
considers Communist China
nothing but a satellite, an appen-
dage of Soviet power. In this
frame of mind the Administra-
tion carries Chiang Kai-shek on
its back as an old man of the
sea ; it insists on keeping For-
mosa out of Communist control;
it has no relations whatever with
a Chinese Communist Govern-
ment whose conduct Mr.
Acheson described not long ago
as worse than barbarian.”
Disagreeing with Uncle Sam’s
stand, “Washington Post” sides
with J. Bull;
“The British, on the other
hand, quite rightly threw Chiang
overboard before the Korean
war, and they maintain the
shadow of diplomatic relations
with Communist China even
though their own troops are
fighting Communist Chinese in
Korea.”
The “Post” debunks the
American notion that a with-
drawal of British recognition
from Peking would advance the
common cause:
“Granted that the British have
got precious little so far out of
their diplomatic and consular
relations with the Communists.
At least they have a peephole
into the Chinese mainland as the
United States has not. Their
diplomatic relationship may yet
become valuable with an armis-
tice in Korea and a chance for
a new start in dealing with China.
The British relationship with
Peking can be as useful to the
United States as the American
relations with Vichy France
were useful to Mr. Churchill and
his Government in war-time.”
A special point favoring J.
Bull’s stand has been made by
Far East expert O. M. Green, in
an Edinburgh “Scotsman”
article;
“All authorities agree that it
is only by recognising a par-
ticular Government that any
claim can be made upon it that
it should abide by international
law. So long as it is not recog-
nised (more so if recognition
has been given and withdrawn)
it is outside the pale, beyond
touch by any principles of inter-
national law.”
Too-free Medicine.
Despite yelps from the Labor
side, which had itself come to
the point of asking half-fees for
dentures and spectacles, Britain’s
current “austerity programme”
includes further cuts in the cost
of the free-health services.
The British now have to pay a
small amount on prescriptions
and a small sum annually for
dental treatment, as well as part
of the cost of wigs and the like.
Finding this “eminently
moderate,” New York “Herald
Tribune” comments:
“In time, indeed, we may
hear that the British have come
round full circle to the sensible
conclusion that charges for
health services are in no way an
infringement on liberty or a
denial of the rights to which the
citizen of a well-ordered State
is entitled.
“Protection from the
catastrophic effects of serious ill-
ness ; spreading of the financial
burden through the principle of
insurance ; help in the construc-
tion of hospitals and the train-
ing of doctors —these will
undoubtedly remain to prove
that health is a national problem.
But the extraordinary excesses
of the early days of the pro-
gramme, with the granting of
free services and benefits on an
unrestricted scale, may well be
trimmed and largely elimin-
ated .....
“When it inaugurated
Socialised medicine, Britain
jumped with both feet into the
centre of a quagmire. It is now
engaged not in muddling
through but in muddling out,
and the steps imposed by the
austerity programme are un-
doubtedly not the last that will
be taken in this good direction.”
N o "Liberation" War.
A London conference of exiles
from Eastern Europe being
apparently under the notion that
the West must wage war to
liberate their countries, on the
idea that the world can’t go on
“half slave half free,” the
“Economist” undertook a little
blunt disillusioning.
History, it pointed out, has
shown that it is perfectly possible
for Europe to exist for long
periods “half slave half free.”
“The fact has to be faced that
the Governments and peoples of
Western Europe are not now
willing—nor are they likely to
become willing—to go to war in
order to liberate Eastern Europe.
Nor is it likely that the majority
of East Europeans themselves
would welcome a war of libera-
tion over their lands.
“It is doubtful whether ‘real
peace’ with the Soviet Union
can be secured in the predictable
future on any terms acceptable
to the West; but it is dishonest
to suggest that the West would
make the liberation of all
Eastern Europe a condition of
‘peaceful co-existence’ with the
Soviet Union. Until the Com-
munist regimes begin to collapse
through their own internal con-
tradictions and under the attrac-
tion of Western strength and
prosperity, the only way to
liberate Eastern Europe will be
by war. These are brutal and
unpalatable facts, but it can do
no good to ignore them.
“The most that the East
European can immediately hope
for is that his spiritual and
cultural links with the free world
should be maintained, and that
he should understand how its
power to discredit and defy
Communist policy is growing.”
Various Voices.
Admiral Alan G. Kirk, late
U.S. Ambassador to Moscow:
“If the Stalinist regime is our
enemy, the peoples enslaved by
him in the Soviet Union are our
friends.”
Eisenhower: “Another war
would be an unthinkable
calamity; the loss of liberty
would be a greater one.”
M. Fame, ex-Premier of
France: “It is not plausible that
we should go to defend the Ger-
mans in their own country if
they would have no part in the
action.”
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury, Dr. Fisher: “The cost of
printing is mounting out of all
knowledge, and very soon we
shall become an illiterate people
—not because we cannot read
intelligently but because there
will no longer be any money left
to print anything for people to
read. This mounting cost is
really threatening the cultural
life of the country, and this
applies equally in fields over-
sea.”
First Lord of the Admiralty,
J. P. L. Thomas: “Every naval
officer now recognises that
aviation provides the main
striking-power of the fleet ; it
employs nearly one-quarter of
the total manpower of the Navy.
It is important for officers and
men to be as air-minded as they
are sea-minded.”
Admiral Libby > when the
North Korean rep. at the truce
talks shouted loudly in accusing
the United Nations of blackmail,
brutality, etc. : “I have noted
that the more uncertain you are
of your position the louder you
scream at me. I must request
that you moderate your voice if
possible.”
Dr. Edvard Kardelj, Yugo-
slavia’s Foreign Minister: “The
war in Korea has clearly shown
there are not many possibilities
today to wage separate, isolated,
aggressive adventures. Perhaps
this will dissuade the forces of
aggression from undertaking
new risky adventures of that
sort.”
U.S. Ambassador to Greece,
on Greece’s contribution to
N.A.T.0.: “The greatest asset of
Greece is the fact that she could
put 10 divisions in the field, not
next year but tomorrow if
necessary.”
Nehru •’ “The fact of the
matter is that every country in-
volved in it [the Korea war] is
tired of that war and rightly so.
They want peace. They do not
talk of ‘other methods’ because
there is no solution that way.”
Paul G. Hoffman (described
by “New York Times” as “one
of the wisest and most dynamic
of Americans), insisting that
what Americans call “foreign
aid” they should speak of as
“world investment”: “I am pro-
foundly convinced that there are
occasions in which the interests
of the American people are best
served by investing some of our
dollars abroad. Such investments
should be made not in terms of
charity but because they will
promote our prosperity by pro-
moting world prosperity ; or be-
cause they will increase our
security by increasing world
security; or because a few dol-
lars spent wisely now will save
us many dollars in the future.
This is not philanthropy ; it is
hard-headed free enterprise.”
Prof. Carlo Schmid (quoted by
London “News Chronicle"):
“As a German I know that there
are quite good reasons for a cer-
tain distrust of us. We are told
we must learn to forget, but it is
not perhaps a good thing to for-
get too soon. As I once said to
a Frenchman: ‘You French will
never be able to forget until you
are certain that we Germans
have not forgotten.’ ”
Sir Hartley Shawcross, QC.,
M.P.: “Sooner or later a large
measure of integration will have
to exist between the different
countries of the world. That is
inevitable. What is still uncer-
tain is whether it be forced upon
us after great catastrophe and
travail by a new Caesarism,
sweeping across the world on a
wave of totalitarian domination,
or whether we shall achieve it
by a free recognition that each
country has something to give
and something it needs, and that
we can best help each other and
serve ourselves by being
partners.”
British Works Minister Eccles :
“When the late King died I had
four days in which to prepare
Westminster Hall for the lying-
in-state. It seemed impossible
to be ready on time, but quietly
and efficiently my Ministry’s
craftsmen set about their jobs.
There is no heating in West-
minister Hall. It froze every
night. Yet the women went on
sewing the carpets, half-sitting,
half-lying on the bitter stones.
One night they worked 16 hours
at a stretch. The carpenters and
electricians did the same. Not
a grumble about the hours; not
a whisper of extra pay. And
why? Because their hearts were
in their work.”
Home Secretary Sir David
Maxwell Fyfe, speaking for the
British Government: “O u r
country, we think, comes before
our comfort, and patriotism be-
fore popularity We dislike
our present austerities. It is not
our conception of society. But
we believe that the ‘Opportunity
State,’ in which the creative
element in our people is given
the chance to harness scientific
advance to popular needs, is not
far off once we have completed
our first-aid job.”


as!
m m
m
mm
i
m
•«s
■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Keep 2 types of
Elastoplast
dressings handy
:
Where injury is
exposed to water,
grease or oil
use WATERPROOF
FUSTIC SKIN
For elastic com-fa. J
fort under other Lt,. ,
conditions
FABRIC
You’re prepared for all minor emergencies when
you keep Elastoplast handy! Waterproof is very
thin but strong, and its smooth non-catch surface
is as washable as skin. Fabric Elastoplast gives
elastic comfort, too, and both dressings are flesh-
coloured and inconspicuous, with a medicated pa
to assist healing.
/ variety of sizes
in the Red Tin at
your chemist.
(Waterproof tins
have a white band.)
v'nNM
g KSM
-3.L21
9 K.V.A. Ideal set for lighting
buildings, shops, warehouses or
supplying power to small factories.
240 Volt, single phase £5OO
240-415 volt (4 wire), 3
phase, 50 cycle £6OO
Plus Sales Tax.
HARDMAN AND HALL
SOLVE YOUR BLACKOUT PROBLEMS
New English Generating Sets. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
VICKERS FORD, 22 K.V.A. £B5O
FETTER, DIESEL, 10 K.V.A. £BB5
J.A.P. U H.P. 4-stroke
engines £34/19/6
WICO MAGNETOS, single,
twin and 4-cylinder, with
impulse starter from • . £lO/6/8
Manufacturers of
SIMPLEX MARINE ENGINES
2.75 K.V.A. A most conservatively
rated set of rugged construction
suitable for lighting and other
single or three phase loads.
240 Volt, single phase, £275 plus tax
415 Volt, 3 phase £275 plus tax
110 Volt, 3 phase .... £240 plus tax
Missenden Road,
Newtown
SMOKE-OH!
“Honesty and integrity are no
longer considered essential in the
Australian business world.” — Brisbane
Methodist Rev. T. N. Deller.
To the contrary: the first
question in business is— “ What
shall it profit a man ?”
4* 4* 4*
“Something was unfolding of which
he had dreamed since boyhood. India,
the land of fabulous history, of the
Taj Mahal, of mystics, of elephants,
ot lions.” — Short story.
The end of the scene was a
roaring farce.
“Women look smart in dog-collars.”
—Fashion note.
Especially the sorts that want
muslin.
4* 4* 4*
“Ray Robinson, world middle-
weight champion, weighed in at 1.31
for his 15-round title fight with Carl
Olsen. Olsen weighed 11.51.”
—Sydney “Sun."
Another “Sugar” shortage!
4* 4* 4*
“Bookmakers have always been
an integral part of the British
character.” — Brisbane Anglican Arch-
deacon Birch.
They are always accepted as a
matter of course.
4* 4* 4*
“It might pay the Commonwealth
Government to build a modem fleet
of fishing-factory ships.”
—Melbourne “Argus"
It’s doubtful, though, if it
would show a net profit.
Fatal Defect.
You’re prettier than paint. Your
smile
And courtesies are charming.
Your prepossessing ways and
style
Are certainly disarming.
Your girlish airs and graces
grow
On me; my heart you’ve
fluttered.
But even so, you witch, you
know
Which side your bread is
buttered.
I love to see you, dear, each
noon,
In spite of what I’m spending ;
But soon, I fear, with costs to
prune,
Our meetings I’ll be ending.
You’re sweet, but rather “near” ;
I mean.
Although you charge a shilling
For fresh - cut sandwiches,
between
The bread there’s not much
filling.
P.O.M.C.
The Opus-shooters.
“A Danish Foreign Office spokes-
man, commenting on the Danish
people’s resentment over a Hollywood
film allegedly depicting the life of
Hans Christian Andersen, teller of
the immortal fairytales, said; The
only true thing about the production
is Andersen’s name.’ ”
Seidlitz Q. Bortzfinkel, presi-
dent of Hashtup Productions,
Inc., had gathered in his quarter-
acre office his ace producer, his
ace director, his ace gag-man
and his ace yes-man. King men
weren’t good enough for Seidlitz
—he had to have the top of the
deck. He tossed the wreck of
another two-dollar cigar to join
the heap of other chewed-ups in
the w.p.b. and selected another
to masticate.
“Waal, boys,” he said. “The
stoodio’s sure bein’ gettin’
burned-up about that fillum we
just released on this yere feller
Hans Andersen. Kain’t under-
stand it. Elstree cleans-up in a
big way with another Dane, that
guy Hamlet, and what English
stoodios can do Hahlywood can
always do better. Our fillum is
the collossalest, stupendousest,
magnificentest epic ever
attempted. I’ll be hornswoggled
if I know how we run into this
tornado. How come? Why did
we pick on this Andersen bird as
a subject, anyhow?”
“Waal,” said the ace script-
writer, “Butch, our ace gag-man,
gaht a hunch we oughter use
“The Great Dane” for a fillum
title said *it was a sure-fire
cinch for a laht o’ foist-class
slap-up non-corny gags. Hamlet
had already been used, and this
Andersen guy was the only other
Dane we’d heard of, so we
figured he’d be a swell subject.
You remember. Butch sub-titled
it ‘The Fabulous Fabulist.’ ”
Seidlitz Q. frowned. “Huh —
very smart,” he said, with heavy
sarcasm. “How many more
times have I gahter tell you
bozos to keep a guy’s pahlitics
out of the script? Most likely
this Andersen guy was an
anarchist or somethin’, an’ you
know how them Danes lap up
this loyalty-to-royalty stuff. That
was sure a bad break.”
“I don’t think it was that so
much,” put in the ace director.
“They’re mad at us for dressing
Hans up in the clothes of a
Hungarian peasant of the 14th
century and shooting wolves in
front of the cathedral. They also
point out that Hans didn’t write
his fairy-tales with a ball-point
pen while sitting at a Queen
Ann desk in a Cinquecento
drawing-room of a palace.”
“But why shouldn’t a Danish
poet go around dressed like a
Hungarian peasant if he wants
to?” defended the ace producer.
“Denmark’s a free country, ain’t
it? And they shoot wolves in
Russia, so they could in
Denmark —it’s not so far away.”
“This guy Andersen was the
son of a poor shoemaker,” said
the Big Shot. “We had a shot
of him as a young man diving
into a tiled swimmimg-pool in
his old man’s backyard. How
come?”
“Well,” put in the ace script-
writer, “Butch wanted to work
in a gag for the comic about
Hans bein’ seen goin’ into a low
dive, so we had him hittin’ his
bean on the bottom of the pool.
When they pull him out he’s
dazed, and gets around lookin’
queer and everyone thinks he’s
nuts. He sorter sees things, an’
that’s how he come to write
those fairy-tales.”
“But doggone it!” exploded
Seidlitz Q. “You kain’t have a
tiled swimmin’-pool in the
grounds of a guy who only earns
a few dimes a day cobblin’.”
The ace producer bent on his
chief an injured look. “We
kain’t bust Hahlywood’s most
cherished tradition, chief. You
know everyone in Amurrica has
a tiled swimmin’-pool in his
grounds—every fillum we’ve pro-
dooced has had one. Why
shouldn’t the Danes have one?”
“Yep, that’s sure right. But
what about the sequence where
Hans is shown on the beach at
Waikiki neckin’ with a dame in
a grass skirt and hibiscuses in
her perm, and the corps de bally
doin’ that hip-jostlin’ routine in
the technicolored moonlight
among the palms accompanied
by a full symphony orchestra?
The Danes reckon this hero o’
theirs never got out of Yurrup.”
“Waal, you see,” explained
the ace director, “Butch wanted
to woik in a gag about Hans
across the sea. You know, good-
will stuff —it always has gone
over big before. We made the
hula goils the Babes in the Wood
—an’ y’ gahta admit, chief, they
were as shapely a bunch o’ babes
as the stoodio’s ever had under
the Kleigs.”
“Yeah yeah, that’s right.
And you kain’t sell a fillum these
days without hips, and plenty
of ’em. But was there any need
to put young Hans on a bike to
go and see the King? The bike
wasn’t invented a hundred-and-
thirty years ago.”
“But who’d know that, chief?
Audiences are dumb, an’ we re
doin’ our best to make ’em
dumber. Besides, they expect to
see anyone in Copenhagen riding
a bike; everyone does, there.”
“Yeah —mebbe you’re right.
But the Danes point out that
when Andersen visited England
in 1847 he wasn't farewelled at
Buckingham Palace by Sir
Francis Bacon and his Cabinet.
Anyway, the Cabinet don’t live
there. They say it was Charles
Dickens who saw him ofE and
then it was from Margate.”
“But, chief,” protested the ace
producer. “You kain’t show an
English scene without bringing
Buckingham Palace into it. The
fans wouldn’t stand it.”
“Sure, sure. But the Danes
are bellyachin’ most about the
ro-mance of his life we made
him have with his bewchus
young cousin. They reckon he
didn’t have a girl cousin.”
The ace producer looked
angry. “But every famous man
must have a ro-mance with his
cousin. It’s a Hahlywood tradi-
tion, and we don’t bust it for
any Dane.”
Seidlitz Q. hurled his mangled
cigar from him. “Yep, you’re
right. Anyway, it’s a bio-
graphical. And who the hell
expects any Hahlywood stoodio
to stick to facts makin’ one of
them. Forget it, boys! ”
BO.
Venus on Parade.
“Venus de Milo’s curves may have
been the envy of all ancient Greece,
but today they wouldn’t fetch a
whistle in the chorus of any stage-
show.” —Sydney “Sun.”
I fear it’s true no modern boy
Who sits among the hoi poVoi
Where chorus-girls display
their art
Would be enthralled if Venus
came
And vied with experts at the
game
Of being sexy, gay and Smart.
Not that he follow's fashion’s
pranks
Or up-to-date artistic cranks
In thinking plumpness has no
part
In model-types, who should
instead
Look lanky, lean and underfed
Like patients on a diet chart.
But who would woo, however
fair,
A marble lass, when well aware
He couldn’t win her cold, cold
heart ?
D.H.E.


Divorce Notices.
TO HERBERT CECIL FREDERIC
NAUGHTON formerly of 47 Mater Street
Collingwood in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife CATHERINE VIOLET
NAUGHTON has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne on or before the 17th
day of April 1952 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs. If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 28th day of
April 1952.— MORGAN FYFFE & MUL-
KEARNS, of 108 Queen Street, Melbourne,
in the said State, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BEDE GEE late of Warren.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET GILLIAM GEE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4089
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 26th day of May 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD FREDERICK JAKEMAN
late of 191 Denison Street Bondi Junc-
tion. —TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET MAY
JAKEMAN has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 4533 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 12th day of May
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from H. WILSHIRE
WEBB, Solicitor Member, 4 Castlereagh
street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEV
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD NORMAN YATES late o
Enfield.—TAKE NOTICE that MARI
ELLEN YATES has filed a Petition fo
Divorce No. 389 of 1952 on the groum
of desertion without just cause or excus
for three years and upwards If you wisl
to defend you may enter an appearanc
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court Kihj
Street Sydney by the 19th day of Ma-
-1952 and obtain a copy of the Petitioi
Without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 81
Place, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN
Bagiatrar.
REGD.
TABLE LAMPS
If you want the best Kerosene pressure
lighting you must have TILLEY!
TILLEY Table Lamps, “The Queen”
(illustrated) height 211" and “The
Princess” height I6|", give you perfect
300 candle power lighting for 12 hours
using only l£ pints of Kerosene.
TILLEY Lamps are trouble free,
require fewer spares and less
maintenance, and are the finest lamps
you can buy today.
n
n
K* 4
t
1
U
*0
O
ca')
no**"
eco
so
C&
Made only by
THE TILLED' LAMP COMPANY LTD.
OF
HENDON. ENGLAND
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer's Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
I
your?
for
see
to
S AV^ S
SO\V-
SAV^ S
Qy\V^ S
t\N^
You are cordially invited to visit
the
Display
STAND 77 SEE ROAD
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
SYDNEY.
Don't miss the model electric kitchen, powered by
Shearer-Wolseiey Lighting Plant.
MITCHELL SHEARER FARM MACHINERY PTY. LTD. are the
sole N.S.W. representatives for Mitchell Farm Machinery, John
Shearer Seeding and Tillage Machinery, Allis-Chalmers Tractors
and Machinery, British Wolseley Engines, Shearer-Wolseiey
Lighting Plants.
MITCHELL li« FARM MACHINERY PTY. UP.
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST.
(Postal Address, HOMEBUSH). Telephone: UF1284.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy lOin. camp-oven in good
condition. —5283.
Bulletin staff man, Sydney, wants
furnished flat or cottage, North Shore
or waterside suburb. —5284.
To buy copies of The Aesthetic
Adventure and The Pre-Raphaelite
Brotherhood by William Gaunt. —
5285.
Words of Australian poem in which
occurs the refrain, “Dunn, Gilbert
and Ben Hall.’—5282.
Whereabouts of Alfred Edward
McCarthy, aged 56, who left England
about 27 years ago. (Reply direct to
Mrs. Annie Eastern Holmes, Causey
Crossing, Marley Hill, Newcastle-on-
Tyne, England.)
To buy The Pioneers, Working
Bullocks and Coonardoo by Katharine
Susannah Prichard, The Getting of
Wisdom by Henry Handel Richard-
son, Seven Poor Men of Sydney, The
Man Who Loved Children, For Love
Alone and Letty Fox: Her Luck by
Christina Stead.—5279.
To buy The Wells of Beersheba
by Frank Dalby Davison, Sheba Lane
by Henrietta Drake-Brockman, No
Escape and Dark Windows by Velia
Ercole, Men Against the Earth by
John K, Ewers, The Pea Pickers by
Eve Langley, The Passage by Vance
Palmer and Landtakers and Inheritors
by Brian Penton. —5280.
To buy copies of Earth’s Quality
by Winifred Birkett, Ten Creeks Run
and Back to Bool Bool by “Brent of
Bin Bin,” The Singing Gold and
Earth Battle by Dorothy Cottrell, and
Prelude to Christopher, Return to
Coolami, Sun Across the Sky and
Waterway by Eleanor Dark.—5281.
Information Sought.
Was Colin Bell ever heavyweight
boxing champion of Australia, and did
he fight Bombardier Billy Wells in
London ? Where and when was Bell
born, and where is he now ?
When Albert Lloyd went to London
in 1921, Colin Bell was recognised as
heavyweight champion of Australia
until Jim Rowland Dwyer defeated
him in 1923. Bell was beaten by
Bombardier Billy Wells in London.
He also fought Joe Jeanette in Lon-
don, and Sam Langford in Boston.
Bell was born in Narrabri, N.S.W.,
on October 6, 1883. He died in Syd-
ney of a heart complaint on February
3, 1947.
* * * *
Particulars of Browse Island ? Has
it deposits of iron-ore or phosphates ?
Browse Island, which was in the
news last September when the chance
landing of an Australian barge out
from Broome discovered Indonesian
fishermen there, is a small, almost
barren dot of land, about 200 miles
north of Derby (W.A.) and less than
100 miles from the coast of Australia.
It is of coral formation, covered with
white sand and surrounded by a coral
reef. Dangerous tidal rips and shoals
make it almost impossible for any
but the smallest ships to land —there
is thus no regular ship calling. The
island is uninhabited. A white steel-
framework tower 24ft. high shows a
light at an elevation of 38ft. Browse
is included in the territories of W.A.
since letters-patent were issued in
1890 declaring the boundaries of the
State. As far as is known the island
has no iron-ore or phosphate deposits.
Brief Answers.
J.R.P.: We know of no organisation
providing such a service. There are
several good reference-books dealing
with antonyms and synpnyms which
should meet your difficulty N.G.;
Translation of the Latin phrase is “O
that God would give me back the
years gone by” J.R.R.: The Duke
of Edinburgh was baptised into the
Greek Orthodox Church, which is in
full communion with the Church of
England. While in the R.N. he
attended C. of E. services. For his
wedding with Princess Elizabeth there
was only one ceremony, the Anglican.
P.G.: Write Miss Betty Cook,
hon. sec. Federal Arts Sub-committee,
Commonwealth of Australia Jubilee,
264 Pitt-street, Sydney C.McK.:
The pamphlet to which you refer was
called the “Dunce’s Cap,” and was
written by Rex Ingamells. It is
obtainable from J. R. Stevens, T 7
Knox-place, Melbourne, C.l 8.5.:
Write Department of Agriculture,
Sydney P.A.C.: Long Range
Weather Forecasting by G. W. Now-
land, obtainable from the author at
95 Barker-street, Casino (N-S.W.)
A.8.M.: Write Public Trustee, Public
Trust Office, 19 O’Connell-street,
Sydney P.R.: Jack Carroll and
Ron Richards fought at Sydney
Stadium on July 23, 1934. Carroll
won in round 13, when Richards, who
had weakened himself making weight,
was so hopelessly beaten that the
referee called a halt... .M.C.: Ernest
O’Ferrall’s “The Lobster and the
Lioness” has been reprinted in many
anthologies, the most recent being
Australian Short Stories selected by
Walter Murdoch and Henrietta Drake-
Brockman and published by the Ox-
ford University Press G.M.: The
words are from Rupert Brooke’s “The
Soldier”... .L.P.: Write Professional
Golfers’ Association of Australia
(N.S.W. section), Suite 226, Shell
House, Carrington-street, Sydney
J. Write Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney, for a copy of
New South Wales Aboriginal Place
Names and Euphonious Words, and
Their Meanings, compiled by Frederick
D. McCarthy S.M.G.: Jindyworo-
bak Anthology, 1951, edited by Gloria
Rawlinson and W. Hart-Smith, pub-
lished by Jindyworobak Publications,
c/o Georgian House Pty. Ltd., 431
Bourke-street, Melbourne P.T.G.:
Write Mrs, Phyllis Aylward, honorary
secretary, Fellowship of Australian
Writers, Box 3448, G.P.0., Sydney
K. : No provision in Constitu-
tion for a referendum in such circum-
stances L.C.: Write C. Price Coni-
grave, general secretary, Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, 8 Young-
street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
L. 0.: The number of additional
characters added by fiction-writers to
the scene of the first Christmas must
add up to another lost tribe
R.T.8.: Utterly incomprehensible
C.8.H.: So light and airy we couldn’t
see it K.T.: We know how you
feel, but he’s just another dead dog
to us R.A.P.: You have unduly
tortured your poor little idea
R.J.F.: Your “Reverie” too long-
drawn-out. .. .W.K.P.: The only liar
of use to fiction is the brilliant liar;
yours is just a plodding and unin-
spired trifler W.W.: “The Sen-
tence” told us nothing L.H.:
You’re always imagining things
G.M.W.: Not badly done, but some-
how we can’t accept stories about
farmers putting eagles’ eyes out with
pokers or kicking their protesting
wives: if goodwill does not triumph
in art, where shall we look for it?
J.P.: Mustn’t over-sentimentalise
New Australians... .M. 8.: Much too
brutal M.N.; Trouble about that
kind of humor —it’s got to be so good.
L.C.: Waffor the travelogues?
M.S.: It might make a terrifically
successful second-rate play... .M.S.:
No ghosts by request M.C.:
Harrowing—that’s what it was.
Harrowing M. 8.: Not much in
your “Letters” E.V.W.: Never
explain 3 mermaid D.A.H.8.:
Afraid that’s a weary old routine
R.W.: None any good to us
W. 8.: Too long; moreover, when
you see something in a paper you
particularly like, and very well done,
it’s time to offer something different.
R.: Afraid that New Year’s Eve,
even at The Cross, has resumed her
figleaf A. 8.: To send us an
historically-accurate story, excepting
only that one of the main characters
could not have been on the scene at
the time, is much like sending us a
box of chocolates except that it is
full of boiled lollies —we were more
than disappointed: it was a good
story A.S.S.: You tried to make
something out of nothing, but left it
much as you found it J.P.: Well,
the bushranger’s happy family was a
new one on us; but feel you know
a lot more about the shot from the
bush than appears—the traps had no
motive for shooting that harmless
plunderer; but who wanted a pathetic
ending to his story ?,


sr »»•
iw, _
«K.
f4s7*£fl riENQWff
toilf*
Mobilco
#
ONE MAN POST HOLE DIGGER
With this machine, one man sinks fifty post holes an hour. Avail-
able with 10 in. or 12 in. Auger to dig and dear holes to 2 ft. 8 in.
deep. Moves on pneumatic tyred ball-bearing wheels. Light and
well-balanced —one man easily wheels it about and works it
even in hilly country. Reliable 7 b.h.p. Petrol engine Powers
tough steel Auger. Digs difficult ground with no effort because
weight of engine and chassis are used tp drive it into the ground
Tows to the job behind car, truck or tracto.r. Like all Mobilco
products, the One Man Post Hole Digger is precision engineered
to higher standards than
similar machinery. It is (Q
a firm favourite with
Fencing Contractors be-
cause with a Mobilco,
they do much more per
working day.
One machine k does many jobs .
Bore fence posts at the same time. Add the
Mobilco-Electro Power Generator and Mobilco-Sher
Power Drill. Fast, vibrationless drill drives f in. bit through hardwood posts
in a flash. Generator 32 volt, 500 watt, can also be used to drive one man
shearing plant and for field or shed lighting. Centrifugal pump can be attached
direct to Post Hole Digger, handles 300 gallons a minute at a 50 ft. head.
Write now for details or ring
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
Head Office: 410 Whitehorse Rd., Mitcham, Victoria. WUIOBI.
City Office: 252 Swanston St., Melbourne. Cent. 4799.
Sydney Branch: 47 South Parade, Campsie. LF4209.
IT"
in
=r
LCO
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or'lOOV. D.C.
model for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type, fine spotting type and angle
type for ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pumping can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies PO
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. E {< ‘
PERTH. W.A.
I. w. EUR N S HAW PTY.ITD.
9 189-195 Pacific Highway. North Sydney -'Phone
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DO N'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS"
Rations for Cows.
“Jersey Jim”: Because protein
is usually the most expensive
part of bought dairy rations,
experiments were begun in the
United States to determine
whether cows can get along and
produce efficiently on less
protein than is usually recom-
mended. The results to date,
published by the New South
Wales Department of Agri-
culture, are as follows:
Rations were devised to pro-
vide a low, medium and high
amount of protein, respectively,
for three groups of cows (a
Holstein and three Jerseys in
each group).
The roughage consisted of
lucerne hay, timothy (something
like paspalum) hay, and corn
silage. The lucerne was fed at
the rate of 31b. to 41b. per
10001b. of body weight, the
timothy at 101b. to 121b. and the
corn silage at 151b.
grain mixtures were
made up of corn-meal, ground
wheat, soybean oil-meal, and
beet pulp so they would contain
7.5, 11.5 and 15.5 per cent, of
digestible protein respectively.
These were fed with the rough-
age during lactation.
During lactation the low-
protein ration provided 0.51b. of
digestible protein for mainten-
ance plus 1.25-times the protein
in the milk ; the medium-protein
ration, which follows usual
recommendations, provided
0.651b. of digestible protein plus
1.5-times the protein in the milk ;
and the high-protein ration,
which dairymen frequently feed,
provided 0.71b. of digestible
protein plus 1.8-times the protein
in the milk.
Milked twice a day for
approximately 305 days, the
cows averaged 2451 b. of fat on
the low-protein ration, 335 on the
medium-protein ration, and 326
on the high-protein ration
(mature equivalent basis).
The cows on the low-protein
ration in this first lactation re-
mained in good flesh and pro-
duced as well as those that re-
ceived more protein.
Although the protein content
of the blood plasma followed
definitely the level of protein
feeding, there was no difference
in the protein content of the
milk produced on the different
levels of protein.
If the cows continue to pro-
duce as well in subsequent
lactations as they did in the first,
it will indicate that there is
no need for farmers who have
ordinary home-grown grains and
good legume hay to purchase
protein concentrates.
Green-manure.
“Pippin”: Allan H. Skepper,
a N.S.W. Agricultural Extension
Officer of Leeton, says the most
suitable and economical cover-
crop for the average orchard is
burr medic, which is usually
associated with varying amounts
of other growth.
It should be established early
in the season, and is most suited
to locations where advantage
could be gained by delaying
cultivation as much as possible.
It is not so suitable for light,
sandy soils or when the crop
could not get an early start.
Burr medic is self-seeding.
Mature burr - laden plants
scattered about the orchard will
soon build up a good stand
unless cape-weed is thick.
Skepper’s advice is to force the
cape-weed to grow by irrigation
and then disc it.
Vetches, a leguminous cover-
crop, does well in most orchard
soils, particularly if sown reason-
ably early in autumn and tumed-
in late in spring. It is good for
orchards on sandy soil. Sowing-
rate is 201 b. to the acre.
Field-peas are good for many
situations, with the added virtue
of a short-growing season.
Sowing-rate is a bushel to the
acre.
Cereals such as oats and barley
are mainly valuable because of
their root systems, which open
up soils and provide a good bulk
of organic matter. They are,
however, low in nitrogen, and
it is necessary to guard against
nitrogen competition with the
trees. Skepper says the greatest
danger is after the crop has been
turned-in.
Cereal cover-crops are best
grown in combination with
either field-peas or vetches, and
care is needed to . avoid sowing
too thickly, otherwise the legume
crop will be crowded out.
Sowing-rate is \ bushel to
| bushel to the acre.
Infertility in Stock.
“Agric”: S. L. Hignett, of the
Wellcome Veterinary Research
Station, England, contends that
heredity and nutrition have an
important bearing on infertility
in dairy cattle. Hereditary
factors affecting cows did not
often give rise to a herd-breeding
problem, but they could lead to
the presence of shy breeders.
On the other hand, a hereditary
factor leading to impaired
fertility in the bull could cause
a serious breeding problem.
Dealing with nutritional dis-
turbances in cattle, Hignett said
a vitamin-A deficiency did not
constitute a herd problem; it
occurred notably in housed
animals, and in drought. Phos-
phorous shortage was not gener-
ally encountered, although he
thought dairy cows should be
given much more phosphorous
than they now generally
received.
Copper deficiency was common,
and resulted in impaired fertility.
lodine deficiency often arose
through an abnormally-high
"Just enough to fiĺ the tanks."
protein intake interfering with
the iodine intake, and could exist
in cattle relying on home-grown
feed. The better the protein
content of the feed the more
chance there was that iodine de-
ficiency existed, with resultant
infertility. Deficiency of a par-
ticular nutritional factor could
occur owing to interference with
the utilisation of an element, even
when an animal was receiving
what seemed to be an adequate
amount of that element.
Wheat-rust.
“Puck”: Last season was
relatively dry in the N.S.W.
wheat-belt, otherwise production
may have been much reduced by
rust. Because of the develop-
ment of new forms of the fungus
in recent years the resistance of
several wheat varieties specially
bred for immunity has broken
down. A bad epidemic would
probably see these, as well as all
previously susceptible varieties,
suffer heavy loss.
The only wheats now regarded
as quite resistant to present
known forms of stem-rust are
Lawrence (a Queensland variety),
Celebration (bred in N.S.W.),
Warigo (produced in S.A.) and
Festival (N.S.W.).
Lawrence and Celebration are
late maturers, suitable only for
early sowing in the wetter parts
of the wheat-belt, and are not
likely to have an extensive range.
Large areas of Warigo will be
sown in the north-west this
season, despite the flour being
1 not of good baking quality. Its
extended area will pull down the
general quality of wheat in the
region, where most N.S.W. pre-
mium wheat is usually grown.
There is distinct anti-rust
promise in the new variety.
Festival, the limited seed-sup-
plies of which are to be used
only for seed increase. If it can
get through another couple of
years, large quantities of its seed
will be available and large areas
will probably be sown, especially
in the rust-susceptible north-
west. Festival is an early
maturer of inherently high bak-
ing quality, and is highly re-
sistant to flag-smut and some
forms of leaf-rust as well as
stem-rust.
It gets its high stem-rust re-
sistance from a Kenya intro-
duction, its high grain quality
from Pusa 111 (sister to Pusa 4),
and its appearance, field
characters and yielding ability
from Baringa—one of the best
yielding wheats for somewhat
adverse conditions ever grown in
N.S.W.
When You’re Stung.
“Drone B”: It is possible,
though hardly probable, that a
seasoned bee-keeper could be
stung to death —if he got enough
stings. Considerably fewer
would do in a person not used
to the poison.
It is possible to gain immunity
to the after-affects of stings
(though not to the actual pain
itself). This is a normal process
of immunisation by repealed
small but increasing doses of the
active venom, which stimulates
the production of antibodies to
itself within the bloodstream.
The concentration of antibodies
builds up to such an extent that
eventually a large dose of venom
can be taken without after-effect.
This principle has been acted
on in the U.S.A., where
bee-venom therapy is sometimes
used for rheumatoid disorders.


ŵ
ẃ
WHICH
/s
Buying ?
JUST as there’s more
than meets the eye in
buying “the ring”, so in
choosing an Engine, it’s
the inbuilt quality,
backed by a maker of
established reputation
that counts !
When you invest in an Australian-made Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine, you are assured of a lifetime of satis-
factory service, and the certainty of supply of maker’s
spare parts . . . 65,000 Ronaldson-Tippett users have
proved this over the past fifty years !
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
N.S.W. Distributors: Bonaldson
Bros, and Tippett Ltd.. Frazer
House. 42 Bridge St.. Sydney.
QTand Distributors: Bonaldson
Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd..
Scottish Union House, 127
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The Ronaldson-Tippett range of
Engines covers every conceiv-
able need. Write for free illus-
trated leaflets depicting all types
n
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
ENGINES hr lifetime use.
RAINBOW
COSTS LESS TODAY
DID IN
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
THAN OTHER MAKES
1946
THESE FIGURES
ARE BASED ON
A SPRAY LINE
WHICH COVERS
V/x ACRES WITH
1 INCH OF RAIN
IN ONE HOUR
1946
OJHER
GALVANISED SPRAY LINE
i I I
1952
GALVANISED SPRAY LINE
I I I I 1 I
1952
1
(ALUMINIUM SPRAY LINE
I I. I I I .1 I
£3OO
£4OO
MAKES
RAINBOW
SYSTEM
l
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
w
Throw a fine
spray over an
area 48 ft. square,
or a heavy spray
up to 72 ft.
square.
flexible couplings give
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25°
ẅ
Worked on a ball
and socket prin-
ciple, this coup-
ling provides a
positive, water-
tight joint in any
direction better
than 25°.
COMBINED
HYDRANT
OUTLET AND
Costs the same as
ordinary outlet,
but does the work
of hydrant too.
Simple to operate.
STURDY ANGLE
IRON STANDS
Two welded
stands support
each 24 ft. sec-
tion. Absence of
crossbars stops
interference to
vegetation.
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATIOI
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 3425
BRANCH OFFICES:
GRIFFITH: 127 Banna Av. ORANGE: 84 Byng St. MUSWELLBROOK: 5 Bridge St.
GUNDAGAi: 230 Sheridan St.
VICTORIA: 64 King St., Melb. Mr. C. Beaumont. MILDURA: 29 Deakin Av.
Mr. C. Beaumont.
DISTRIBUTORS:
STH. AUST.: Mr. R. Curry. 24 Light Sq.. Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Waugh & Josephson Ltd., 102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
WEST. AUST.: Mr. F. C. Korwill, 68 Hobbs Av.. Nedlands, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND AGENT:
Freshfields Ltd., 118 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Many sensitive patients have
been successfully immunised
before full treatment. Other
hypersensitive patients have per-
sistently reacted adversely, even
to such small doses of venom as
the equivalent of a quarter of
one sting. Such people should
never have anything to do with
bees. It is to them mainly that
fatalities could occur.
An immunised person receiv-
ing a few stings after a fairly
long stingless period will suffer
a small after-effect, but will then
almost immediately regain
practically the full original im-
munity.
It has been found that the
venom produces a histamine re-
action in the body, hence the
severe swelling. Anti-histamine
drugs have been tried in the U.S.
with promising results. I saw
one case. A child of 10 years,
allergic to bee-stings, was stung
by about 12 bees. This quantity
of venom would normally have
had drastic results. Several
doses of the drug benadryl were
administered at intervals, the
child being put to bed immedi-
ately. The next day practically
no effects were observable.
This, however, is an isolated
case ; it would not be advisable
to use the drugs without a
doctor’s advice.
Foul-brood.
“Stinger”: Neglect, partly due
to lack of manpower, has largely
been responsible for the spread
of American foul-brood disease
among bees.
Total destruction of affected
hives by burning them com-
pletely, still officially recom-
mended, may be safe and sure,
but is unnecessary, wasteful and
hard on the bee-keeper who has
already been hit by loss of pro-
duction.
One of the sulpha drugs is now
used successfully in U.S.A. The
antibiotics, penicillin, aureo-
mycin, etc., have so far not
been found to be as effective as
sulphathiazole.
Crossbreds for Laying.
“K.T.”: The most popular
cross for laying purposes is the
Austra-White (Australorp female
x W, Leghorn male). They are
sold in large numbers as
day-olds.
It is claimed that the first cross
gives the resultant progeny extra
vigor, which enables them to lay
well. The additional body-
weight makes the males good
for table poultry, and, though
they are not as heavy as the
Australorp, they are considered
to be more profitable for the
table than the real “heavies.”
Other good crosses are R.I.R.
female x W. Leghorn male, and
New Hampshire female x W.
Leghorn male.
It is not enough just to mate
any hens with the male to
produce crossbreds. The same
strict selection should be
practised as when mating
purebreds.
Some breeders produce cross-
breds by using heavy males and
light females. I’ve found these to
be very good—especially for
small holders. They are hardy,
lay well, and, though a bit sizy,
weigh less than the heavies from
which they are produced and
therefore make excellent
broodies for the show-fancier.
They are even better than the
opposite cross for table. This
cross would not be so popular
with purely egg-farmers because
broodiness may be too trouble-
some.
Dehorning Calves.
“My”: Dehorn in the first
week of the calf’s life. Clip the
hair from the horn-bud and
smear vaseline on the surround-
ing skin to prevent injury from
the caustic. Lightly rub the
bud with fine sandpaper until the
surface becomes moist, but not
bleeding. Then rub in the
caustic, taking care that the
whole surface is treated. Repeat
two or three times at intervals of
a few minutes until blood
appears in the centre of the bud.
Stop at that. Keep the calf out
of rain for a day or two or the
caustic may wash down the face
and injure the skin. If burning
does occur, wash with a weak
solution of vinegar and water.
A Pig-fattener.
“Wilco”: By adding minute
amounts of the drug terramycin
to their feed, a Pennsylvania
(U.S.A.) farmer had pigs 2001 b.
in weight after 105 days. An-
other group of pigs which got
no terramycin took 155 days to
make the same weight. The
farmer saved money on feed
with the first batch, and their
carcases fetched top prices. At
nine weeks old, the pigs in both
groups were of an average
weight of 34ylb.
A poultry-breeder in New
Jersey got pullets to 51b. average
at 18 weeks by giving the birds
aureomycin-fortified feed. Other
birds on the same tucker with-
out aureomycin took five months
to make 51b.
Experiments at the lowa State
University showed that minute
amounts of these drugs with
their feed were most beneficial
to farrowing sows and their
litters. Their use meant an in-
crease of from 71b. to 111 b. in
weight of each young pig at
weaning- time.
Hope they don’t start giving
the stuff to dingoes and rabbits.
Danger from Beans.
“W.C.Q.”: Stockmen along
the N.Q. coast have long sus-
pected the rattlepod bean of
being poisonous to horses, and
vets have now proved that, when
eaten freely, it causes oesoph-
ageal disease.
This is an ulcerated condition
of the gullet, accompanied by
great difficulty in swallowing.
The victims generally starve to
death. No cure is known, and
the only way of saving horses
is to keep them away from
rattlepods. The commonest
member of the rattlepod
(crotalaria) family is a tall plant
very similar to a lupin in foliage
and flower. The flowers are yel-
low.
The plant has great powers of
recovery when cut with a
slasher ; found mostly on poor
ground, it is regarded as a good
green-manuring plant by cane-
growers, who, however, usually
wash their hands well after
touching it.
Since this rattlepod is habitu-
ally a weed of cultivated land,
its presence on grazing country
is always a warning that the
natural grasses are being
flogged-out.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: A quick cure
for mange on pigs, dogs or cats:
Wash well, then apply a mix-
ture of one-part sulphur, one-
part kerosene and two-parts
lard or dripping. The animals
will rub this off if possible, but
keep the patch covered, as much
as you can, for about two days.
“Magne”: Shell-grit is best
for giving fowls the lime
and grit they need. In its
absence ground limestone is a
good substitute, but it must not
be of the dolomite kind, which,
because it contains too much
magnesia, produces a too-severe
laxative action, with a con-
sequent reduction in egg-produc-
tion.
“Myrr”: If you want to breed
good fowls concentrate first on
getting a first-quality rooster.
He should be robust and well-
matured, with a deep, wedge-
shaped breast, straight breast-
bone, ample abdominal capacity,
broad back, hard feathers,
large, prominent eyes and a
straight, well - formed comb.
Don’t over- or undermate; 12
hens to one rooster is about
right, and pen them away from
the main flock. Distractions can
result in fewer eggs and a
greater proportion of infertile
ones.
“Mel Bergen”: Best of all
shade-trees (B. 27/2/’52) for a
warm, dry district is the wilga.
A beautiful dense evergreen, it
grows to a large size. There are
plenty in my (Wyalong, N.S.W.)
district with a spread of 30ft. to
40ft. and no drought seems to
affect them. The sheep trim
them up level 3ft. from the
ground. Being fair fodder, the
wilgas get lopped in dry times
and afterwards grow into fine
trees. Lopping will kill an odd
kurrajong, but not the hardy
wilga.


WHERE MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
two of Jen
Post-War Design
M
■
■
■
Jii
,r
m
mam
bhh m
m S
- ■■
IpliMi*
H
m m
\ :
i n
r --.
i I mm ■
m
:
m
f t'v:'
:
This Otis escalator installation at Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
tomers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
transport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . . distribute a greater flow of customers
quickly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . . and permit maximum sales to be
realised. Otis will be glad to survey your
store and report on the facts discovered.
SYDNEYi
Anthony Hordern
& Sons Ltd 10
Otis Escalators Installed at
Anthony Hordern & Sons Etd., Sydney
David Jones Ltd 6
Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
MELBOURNE i Myer Emporium Ltd. . 12
Manton & Sons Ltd. .. 4
ADELAIDE! Myer Emporium
(S.A.J Ltd 4
BRISBANE! McWhirters Ltd. ..... 6
perth> Boons Ltd 6
MW
m
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES; UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
Divorce Notice.
TO BARTHOLOMEW roEDERK®
DALY address unknown.— TAKE NOTIC^
that your wife LOKNA MARGARET
DALY has commenced proceedings aga
you in the Supreme Court of Webern
Australia for Divorce on the ,
five years’' separation If you desl J,® 40 r
fend such proceedings you must file y
defence in the Central Office of tW
Supreme Court at Perth within Thirt
clear days from the date of thl ® P
tion In default of your so dmng
case may proceed and the Couj* ? nst
nounce judgment and this nth
you in your absence. DATED tm
day of March 1952.—G. J. BOYLetWi
Registrar.
“Comes off?” shouts The
Finn as Yorkie runs down.
The Horse looks at his finger.
It is muddy and misshapen and
blood oozes through the mud.
But it is all there.
“No goot,” says The Finn.
“Gets no money for dat. Half
pay on compo. T’at’s all.”
“Give it away” says Yorkie.
“Y’ better go up and see the
quack.”
The Horse doesn’t hear them.
The lights around him are red
and his insides are bunched up
in his chest. The finger is burn-
ing and he’s on the edge of
panic. He can’t speak. He picks
up a round-mouth shovel, puts
his foot in the handle so that the
blade is upright. Then he grabs
a short length of three-by-two
timber. He puts his finger across
the blade of the shovel and
swings the three-by-two with the
blind fury of a man killing a
snake.
Suddenly all the pain and
panic are gone and he stands for
a couple of seconds looking
dumbly at the stump of his
finger and the fine stream of
blood pumping evenly from it.
“Gott,” says the Finn. “Like
a blutty chook’s neck.”
< * L_l OLD it up and stop the
I I blood,” says Yorkie. “I’ll
get the shift-boss. Give him a
smoke, Finn.”
Yorkie runs down the drive
while The Finn makes a
cigarette. “How you feel?” he
asks The Horse as he sticks the
smoke in his mouth
“All right,” says The Horse,
surprised at himself.
“No pain?”
“No, nothing. Dead numb.”
“Neffer saw it done like t’at,”
says The Finn.
“It’s done, anyway,” says The
Horse.
He draws deeply on his
cigarette and spits it out just as
Yorkie comes back with the
shift-boss.
“Good God; not you, too,
Horse?” he says. “How’d you
do it?”
“Truck,” says The Horse.
“Bloody thing jammed and I
tried to pull a stone from under
the wheel.”
“Well, come on,” says the
shift-boss. “Up the shaft quick.”
Just before they go he turns and
says, “You’d better clean up that
shovel, Finn.”
IT is dark on the surface ; dark
I and cool and clean. The truck
bounces down the hill from the
mine and across to the hospital
on the outskirts of the town. The
shift-boss drives without speak-
ing and The Horse has nothing
to say. .
The doctor, quiet and efficient,
takes The Horse into the surgery
and leans him back on the table.
Two twists of a thin rubber
tube and the bleeding stops
altogether.
“How did you do it?”
“Got a truck over it.”
Injections around the base of
the finger.
“Very clean cut for a truck.”
“Yair.”
Swabs; two neat cuts down
each side so the stump of bone
is showing clear to the joint;
snip with silver secateurs and the
bone is gone. Stitches, splints
and bandages.
“There,” says the doctor.
“How d’ you feel?”
“Good as gold,” says The
Horse. “You did a nice job.”
The doctor shows a ghost of
a smile. “I’ve had a lot of
practice.” Then he grins straight
as though easing a worry off his
mind. “When the mine over at
Elephant Creek closed down
they gave everyone a fortnight’s
notice. I sewed up seven stumps
in that fortnight.”
The Horse grins back. “Well,
what do I do now? Go home?”
“You’d better stay here to-
night and tomorrow. That’s
going to throb a bit when the
anaesthetic wears off.”
A nurse takes The Horse to a
bed on the veranda of the
hospital; shows him the bath-
room and brings pyjamas. He
baths and sleeps like a log until
sunrise.
AFTER breakfast Yorkie and
The Big Finn appear, both
smiling wide and walking
awkwardly and noisily on tiptoe.
“Ah,” says The Finn. “How
you doing? Pretty good, eh?
Good bed. Sheets.”
The Horse shows them the
mass of bandages.
“Hurtin’ much?” asks Yorkie.
“No. You wouldn’t know it.”
“So you get your boat now, ’
says The Finn. “If you sta\
away from s.p. and pubs.”
“My oath,” says The Horse.
“Best I effer saw,” says the
Finn. “Blutty shuffel an’ t’ree-
by-two. An’ clean like a vistle.
He laughs with enthusiasm
rather than mirth. “Damn’ if 1
don’t half a go myself sometime.
Next week mebbe.” n
“There’s nothing to it,” says
The Horse.
THE HABIT OF
COMMAND
by A.F. PRIOR
IT was a gala night at the
Borden House home, an
asylum for wealthy mental
cases. Once a year a dance
was held.
The wide gymnasium was gaily
illuminated by strings of
Chinese lanterns. The band,
raised on the dais usually
occupied by a burly instructor,
was playing a waltz, five violins
moved in effortless concord to
the guiding dictates of the con-
ductor, the dancers swirled
around the floor in a fluid and
colorful patchwork, and the
happy talk and laughter pro-
claimed the dance a success.
To the nurses, warders and
inmates alike it was a welcome
release, a splendid break in the
nervous, drab hysteria of their
existence. A pretty young nurse,
her eyes radiant with happiness
and excitement, danced in the
arms of a young doctor who
realised—though, be it said, not
for the first time—that her lips
were warm, red and inviting. As
he held her he felt the weights
and cramps on his mind ease and
slide away, and the dull routine
of his duty, a grey ghostly
existence, for a while not of the
slightest importance.
A bevy of old ladies and
gentlemen with quaint but
harmless obsessions formed a
beaming, nodding ring, framed,
somewhat incongruously, by the
wall-bars. Many of the women
were heavily beringed, and one
or two of them even had tiaras.
The attendants moved with silent
efficiency, their broad shoulders
immaculately clad in white linen,
their muscular forearms dis-
creetly draped with napkins.
THE broadest smile that night
probably belonged to the
superintendent. upon whose
shoulders lay the responsibility
for the welfare of his irrespon-
sible charges. The dance had
never gone so well ...
The waltz came to an end,
and a well-bred ripple of
applause fluttered through the
hall. The bandleader bowed and
smiled benignly. He remembered
many occasions when he had far
less reason to be pleased with
his audience. He decided to
make this “do” a regular date.
But if the visitor had gone
upstairs, and, passing through
pleasant rooms occupied by
the “safe” cases, had opened an
oaken, anonymous door, he
would have found things very
different. Here was concen-
trated the worst element of the
home. Here, on two sides of a
long corridor, lay men and
women in perpetual agony, per-
petual fear, sobbing in the trans-
ports of a life-long grief, twitch-
ing in repetitive uselessness,
giggling at the enormous folly of
it all, or howling with brazen
fury at the great wrong. Here
the very walls were mad, and
nightmares were true, here ruled
chaos while logic cringed ; here
the very first premises were
abolished and substituted by
swollen scraps of pornography.
Here was hell and heaven etched
in pure emotion, its wonted base
of reason discarded.
A warder rose from the little
office at the end of the passage
and walked quietly down the
row, peeping in at each once-
human. He did this every few
minutes. The while, unbe-
known to him, a sly pair of
eyes were furtively watch-
ing, and a crazy-cunning brain
schemed what use to make of
his unlatched door—jammed
open by a many-folded wedge
of paper. Never before had it
worked, perhaps never again . . .
Abruptly, the warder left by
the oaken door. He might as
well see the dance; no one
would notice him ; besides, the
inmates were all right. The
doors could only be opened from
the outside . . .
No sooner had he shut the
door than another opened, and
the madman rushed out in a
tearing hurry. Must let ’em out
—let ’em out —poor, poor dumb
mouths —it had to come —why
not admit it —he’d beat Them
this time —he’d beat Them. The
shambling figure scuttled
frenziedly from door to door,
flinging them open in wild
triumph. The oaken door was
hurled aside and the terrible
throng surged down the stairs,
through the lobby, and, by a
baseless whimsy, into tbe hall.
There they stopped, confused
by the glare and bustle. But in
a moment they would recover
and scatter in crazy panic,
spreading terror and havoc in
their path.
A TALL figure stepped before
them. He bore an air of
authority, a countenance which
was lined with care, and dark,
sad eyes. He spoke angrily, and
his deep voice was one that men
obeyed.
“You ruffians!” he roared.
“What do you mean by this
intrusion? Return to your
kennels, you scum, before I get
really angry!”
The throng cringed, weakly
terrified by his tone, though not
understanding his words. He
spoke again, crisply.
“Attendants, apprehend these
men.”
The wardens rushed to do his
bidding, and the crisis was past.
THE superintendent, almost
incoherent with gratitude,
rushed to shake the man’s hand.
“I can never be sufficiently
grateful to you, sir. Such
wonderful self-possession and
such truly amazing authority. I
have never seen anything like
it.”
The man turned to him, and
his strong features relaxed in a
grave smile.
“Yes,” he replied, “I suppose
I have a certain natural
authority. You see, I am Julius
Caesar.”
TRIG POINT.
Touch the cold friendship of a cairn of stones
And feeling is a sense of land and air,
And the deep distance of defiant space
Spanning the rock-held ridge with clear intent
Of calling homage from the sand-washed soil;
Touch the blind stones that mark a pause by man
And feeling is a bond in thought and place
Between the high land, the river down below
And tangled trees hard thrust against the sky.
As if the very strictures of the earth
Had set them reaching for the freer air;
And friendship lies within the cairn of stones,
The warmth of sunlight and the sound of wind
And the cold touch that grows in space and time.
N.S.W.
BERNARD PEACH.


WITH
ACa
$
V.
&
—dU»
Perfect Meals . . .
and Piping-Hot Water
including 3 Baths a day!
It’s a wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily; and so coolly, too, thanks to Aga’s insulation.
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guaran-
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot water service, with three
hot baths a day, from the same small single fire!
iiilgß
THE
AGA
10
YEARS
GUARANTEE
COOKER
LEVIN
The British-built Aga
is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
& CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the AGA COOKER and
BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST TO-DAY for Free Leaflet
J LEVIN & CO. LTD., 45 KINS STREET, SVDNEY.
Please send me full particulars of the Aga Cooker.
w
You can now wear the world-famous Riglflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises'the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
ntPh
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable (traps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at wilt.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT .
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet "The Rigiflex Method”
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
m
■sm
m
i
YOUR CAREER
IF YOU CAN DRAW—
then, irrespective of age, sex or circumstances, you may
start NOW to prepare yourself at home and in your
spare time for a high salaried position in Commercial
Art. You may even, if you choose, open a studio of
your own. Train under our celebrated Directors of
Studies. Fifty of Australia’s foremost artists have con-
tributed to this course.
A.T.I. DISTINCTIONS
In the £2OOO Contest recently conducted by the Australian
Writers and Artists’ Federation, 81 of the 90 Cash Prizes for
Art were awarded to Students of the Art Training Institute.
Free Copy of Prize List on application to A.T.I.
YOUR ART ABILITY
TESTED FREE
THINK!
Your Talent Tested at our Expense
IF you enjoy sketching—lF you itch to hold a pencil—write
today for our grandly illustrated book, ART ABILITY TESTS,
and put your talent to the test. In it you will find special Test
Drawings for YOU to copy and submit for free criticism by
our expert Commercial Artists. No cost, no obligation. You
will find the Tests simple and interesting, the criticism honest,
helpful, heartening.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
SO Hotham Street, Melboure, C. 2.
Please send me your illustrated 32-page booklet
ART ABILITY TESTS, without cost or obligation.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS
Bui. 3/52
question and he is as likely as
not to take on a hunted look
and rush towards the nearest
police-post. And at the police-
post, if the question has a ring
which seems outside the scope of
the kempei, the policeman
rushes to the telephone. And
everybody then rushes round in
circles debating where the
equivalent of Anthony Hordern’s
store might be and why the
inquirer wants to go there and
what is behind it all, while loom-
ing up on the other side of the
street plain to the eye is Anthony
Hordern’s (or Fukuyama’s)
store, its name above it in
colored lights 10ft. high.
Don’t think from this that the
Japanese are merely mad or
featherbrained. In bulk they
present a picture of the mass-
mind acting with an automaton-
like accord which must make
Comrade Stalin shed tears of
envy, well knowing that it will
take him about 60 generations
to bring his own people to the
same stage of controllability
and reflex-action in response to
the higher will of their hidden
rulers.
The Women’s Army
In the training and condition-
ing which has brought all this
about the weaker sex has not
been forgotten, with the result
that the normal Australian or
British soldier or tourist who
remarks “The women are a dif-
ferent race from the men” is
not far wrong.
They are a different race be-
cause they have a different pur-
pose. True, they share the work
of the fields with the men. They
have developed understandings
like young oak-trees and muscles
like steel-rope, but they have
been primarily considered by
their trainers as the part of the
human race which provides for
its continuance, and mankind
with his comfort and the share
of color and brightness which
distracts his mind from the
harsher aspects of existence. In
Japan women are much
more a part of the corporative
life of the community than
in advanced Western countries.
They penetrate into places where
they would never penetrate in the
West.
Who would look for women
at a Chamber of Commerce
dinner in wild Australia? But
in Japan they would be there as
a matter of course, patting hands
and pouring light refreshment
and generally making them-
selves useful in the most unex-
pected places, with the same
businesslike earnestness that
they would be found, when age
and work have put them out of
commission as exponents of the
lighter arts, tossing railway
sleepers or engaged in other light
labor, such as coal-heaving or
quarrying.
All through Japanese life they
are identified with daintiness and
beauty. Their domestic services
are given with such polished
skill and naturalness that it
takes the astonished Aus-
tralian warrior some time to
become used to the spectacle of
his newly-acquired and flower-
like house-girl with the silvery
laugh and the bubbling spirits
throwing round trunks wjth one
hand and generally doing the
work of two strong men with ail
the air of enjoying a delightful
game.
The Real Madame Butterfly
It did not take the Japanese
long to discover the effects of
their ladies’ innocent playfulness
on the raw, red conqueror, and to
change the first crude approach
towards beguiling the conqueror
to an approach based on
a correct belief that the foreigner
associated Japan with all sorts
of naughtiness. Actually, by
Oriental standards Japanese
womanhood in general is about
the most moral in the world,
bound by strict codes of be-
havior, liable to the same penal-
ties in their spheres for unortho-
doxy as apply in any other
country. They have much the
same feminine feelings as
Westerners, the same sentimen-
talism which has brought about
tens of thousands of tragedies
during the Occupation-
tragedies in which the cynicism
is usually more manifested on
the Occidental than on the
Oriental side. No trooper’s
farewell from a Japanese port is
complete without its cluster of
weeping girls farewelling the
heedless American soldiery,
which has little intention of
carrying out its promise to
return.
These scenes have not been
lost on the Nipponese gentle-
men who control their country’s
economy and destiny. The sight
of British and Australian fami-
lies sobbing on departure in
unison with their sorrowing
housegirls is as significant to
them as the fact that no
Anglo-Saxon ever seems to weep
in unison with a sorrowing male
Japanese. They have also noted
the effect on old gentlemen
buyers from the barbarian outer
world of having their hands
patted. They have, in fact, learnt
the cash value of innocent pul-
chritude and are for ever busy
devising ways of applying peach-
painted cheeks and rainbow
kimonos to Japan’s commercial
problems.
Waiting for the Tourists
Already the square miles of
new stores, inns, hotels, toy-
shops, night-clubs and other
places, rising magically out
of the ruins of bombed
Japan, are crowded with dimpled
wonders in brilliant butterfly
hues, every one of them a
natural saleswoman of the first
water, and all groomed to serve
the huge Occidental tourist
traffic due with the completion
of the peace treaties.
Miss Nausea has become in-
deed not only a “different race”
from Japanese man, but a dif-
ferent one from the Japanese
woman of a generation ago who
blackened her teeth when she
married and suckled her young
till they were five years old be-
cause in Japan there were no
cows or goats to provide nour-
ishment for the infant. She has
gone into trade with a vengeance
and become a mass-machine for
removing dollars from the
foreigner with all the skill and
aptitude born of the 2500 years
of training in charm, during
which her race has made a per-
fect job of conditioning her 10
the task of being attractive and
beguiling.
That her methods are innocent
and severely moral in the con-
ventional sense, that she is
always ladylike and shows a
pretty dignity and is never ob-
vious in the commission of her
task, is all the greater tribute to
her skill and usefulness to her
country.
Delilah beside her was an
amateur. Especially at pouring
beer and disposing of Hiroshima
lacquer. And, her talents stand-
ing revealed, this is her
triumphant hour.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
Party Government
Two sentences from Herbert Holman’s
“London Airmail” (B. 12/3/’52) bear
thinking on: “At Westminster there is
no sign of essential agreement” ; and “A
model solution to these internecine
troubles would have been to have met the
Opposition and agreed upon the issues of
mutual importance.” Another still more
model solution, and a more permanent
one, would be to recast the party system
so that the leaders of the Opposition
actually share in the act of government
by sitting in the Cabinet as vocal, but
non-voting, members.
Obviously both at Westminster and
Canberra the emphasis is increasingly on
“party to the detriment of government” ;
in France the same trend is providing a
ludicrous if not tragic spectacle. The
party system has been evolved as a
practical means of exercising the govern-
mental power in accordance with the
democratic will of the people, and can
only function successfully so long as all
parties accept the majority’s unquestioned
right to rule.
When the people have indicated by a
majority vote their desire to be governed
according to certain publicly declared
policies, it becomes the duty of all parties
to permit those policies to be pursued
without malicious hindrance. Naturally
an opposition opposes, criticises, objects ;
that is its function —to voice for con-
sideration the contrary view. But its pur-
poses in exercising that function should
be (and must be if the party system is to
survive) in the interest of the nation as a
whole, not of itself as a party.
Equally true that the loyalty of a
member of the party in power must be
primarily to the nation and only second-
darily to his party ; otherwise one safe-
guard against misgovernment, or mis-
taken government, is lost (the other is the
comparatively brief period for which any
Parliament is elected). The member who,
seeing his party going off the rails, fails to
cast his vote against it is a traitor to his
country.
The crises-time through which we are
passing is also a testing time for the party
system. And how is it shaping? Are all
the parties in Australia, for instance, co-
operating in meeting our difficulties? Is
the Opposition genuinely, if critically,
trying to assist the Government, in power
by the will of the people? Or are both
sides, possibly to different degrees, intent
on making party profit out of every
move? Are our parties, in fact, anything
more than general staffs, planning and
waging class-warfare? A very dangerous
thing, class warfare ; it could kill demo-
cratic party government, and raise a
dictatorship in its stead. — Hirt (N.S.W.).
Wolfram
With wolfram and its sister ores bring-
ing £ll3 a cwt. many old miners, and
not a few new ones, are turning hope-
fully to the mineral fields of Cape York
and the Peninsula. Quite a number are
finding the precious black mineral, but
finders of a paying lode quickly stop
production when income has reached
£5OOO for the year. Provisions of the
Mining Act call for residence and a cer-
tain amount of development work on all
leases, and following the initial burst
(often only a couple of months’ work)
the rest of the year until June 30 is
mainly filled in by the minimum resi-
dence on the claim and a certain amount
of “developmental” work connected with
anything but the mine.
The ore is there, the country needs it,
but with the present system of taxation
it just doesn’t pay the owner of a profit-
able lease to take it out.
A complete mine, with all equipment,
has been offering in the Herberton
(N.Q.) district for £15,000 for many
months now, and there have been no
takers. Not because the mine isn’t worth
it, or because the ore isn’t there. That
particular proposition could produce
£lOO,OOO in the next twelve months. It’s
rich, and strictly a two-man show, but
to find two men with £15,000 who are
willing to wait three years to get their
capital back by working the mine for a
month a year and then filling “residence”
qualifications by camping in the barren
locality of their meal-ticket is a more-
than-man-sized job.
The country needs wolfram —and many
other valuable minerals. That need is
urgent. By placing wolfram and its allied
minerals on the same basis as gold and
giving enterprising men an open go to
enrich themselves and help the defence
of the country the Commonwealth would
go a long way towards solving one of the
most contentious problems in the North.
—Video (Q.).
A.B.C. Talks”
It is difficult to argue with M. F. Dixon
about A.B.C. talks (B. 211 1T52), since
he worked in the commission, but I do
think he has a jaundiced view of the
talks department.
He complains that the department is
dominated by university men, and that
most of the talks come from uni. men.
Certainly many talks are dry as dust, but
this is not the wish of the talks depart-
ment. I have been selling scripts for
talks to them for several years, and I’ve
always found them thirsty for material
with plenty of human interest. In fact
the most frivolous talks were selected for
publication in the “A.B.C. Weekly.”
Dixon mentions that the first A.B.C.
head in 1930 was a sporting-commentator.
Is he sighing for the good old days? It
seems to me that whereas the A.B.C. has
progressed to more varied subjects, the
commercial stations are still in the 19305.
Listen to almost any commercial station
on a Friday evening and you will hear
the ultimate in their talks —a string of
racing tipsters urging the merits of the
hones they fancy. Listener-research
"They'd make beaut beer-mugs only for the hole in 'me."
figures would show that they enjoy great
popularity—much greater than “Guest of
Honor” enjoys. But would Dixon argue
that they deserved it? — Minto (S.A.).
Federal Land-tax
Federal land-tax assessments now
being issued show very large increases in
departmental valuation of taxable land.
These valuations are, of course, based on
values disclosed by sales of comparable
lands at or near the end of the tax-year,
in this case June 30, 1951. It cannot be
denied that volume of money paid by
buyers for parcels of land has shown very
substantial increase during the past two
years, and it is interesting to give some
thought to the principal causes of this in-
flationary movement, particularly where
the causes are a consequence of Govern-
ment policy.
Of the many factors contributing to in-
flation of land-values none is more direct
in effect than arbitrary scaling-down
and pegging of interest rates. Up to
about 1939 it was usual for an investor
in real-property to obtain a return of at
least 5 per cent, per annum. If, for in-
stance, an investor laid out £IO,OOO in a
property, he would obtain on a 5 per cent,
basis a return of £SOO a year. To obtain
the same annual income when interest
had been arbitrarily fixed by Govern-
ments at a much lower rate —usually
about 3i per cent. —the holder of such
a property would have to sell for £14,268
if he wanted the equivalent income from
Government bonds. This represents an
increase or inflation of over 42 per cent.
Increased land-tax now being levied is
to a large extent the result of this type
of inflation, especially in the case of city
properties. Another instance of the tax-
gatherer cashing-in on inflated values is a
static amount of exemption without re-
gard to altered purchasing-power of
money. Volume of money necessary to
buy any given property today is more
than double what it was in 1939, but
notwithstanding this the exemption of
£SOOO remains unaltered.
When land-tax was introduced by the
Federal Government its purpose was
claimed to be the breaking-up of large
estates and consequent promotion of
closer settlement. The absurdity of that
excuse for what was the equivalent of
a tax on capital was soon demonstrated
by the fact that by far the largest revenue
from land-tax was, and continues to be,
collected from owners of city properties.
The impost on city properties is, of course,
passed on in rents to tenants, who again
pass it on in prices, customers pay for
goods and services, and away goes an
inflationary blaze lit by a Government
torch—W. E. A. (Q.).
Go Slow on the Farm
During the years since the war it has
been customary for farmers’ conferences
to assail the “go-slow” tactics of certain
trade-unions, more particularly the coal-
miners and the wharflaborers. At fre-
quent city conferences the papers have
reported homespun orators from farm
and station whose views on strikes and
go-slow in industry approximated those
of the Kremlin on Churchill and Truman.
And with these views the majority of
people agreed, and sympathised with
country people whenever there were no
trains to transport wheat and wool, or
whenever waterside strikes left wool-
bales piled on wharves and in ware-
houses.
It was all the more disconcerting, there-
fore, for city-dwellers to discover from
the debates at the recent N. S. Wales
Graziers’ Association’s conference in
Sydney that wheatgrowers have decided
to adopt the very “go-slow” tactics they
condemned so vehemently.
And not only wheatgrowers, but wool
ŵ
man who runs sheep, which most wheat-
growers do. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Goats
The current food-shortage brings up
the possibilities of goats in Australia. In
the 1902 drought I was minding sheep
in the Pilliga Scrub country. We had
with the sheep a few head of goats, and
found that the goats could live and re-
main fat where sheep and cattle died. The
goat-meat was a super-mutton and the
milk a godsend.
The goats, which cost us 2s. a head,
increased to double their number in a
matter of months. Skins of those
slaughtered brought up to 3s. each.
In Australia we have millions of acres
of scrub- and heath-land that will run
neither sheep nor cattle, but is good graz-
ing for goats. There is the possibility of
a mohair industry. Though some hold
that the Angora goat would not be
as hardy as the common kind that live
round the rubbish-tips, by careful
crossing a hardy Angora strain could be
developed. The whole subject has never
been taken seriously, but perhaps it is
time we reconsidered some of our ideas. —
G. A. B. (N.S.WI).
Margin for Skill
It was remarked (B. 12/3/’52) that to
increase margins for skill in conformity
with the rise in the “C” Series Index (i.e.,
with the rise in the basic wage) “would
mean allowing for cost-of-living rises
twice in all wages paid.” Far from that
being the case. Commissioner Galvin’s
decision is against all logic. Indeed, he
attempts to justify the decision only on
grounds of expediency.
In effect, he stated that, because of the
inflated basic wage, industry could not
afford to pay increased margins for skill.
The basic wage is increased because the
cost-of-living has risen; in other words,
because the value of money has declined.
Is not this decline in the value of money
an equally-good reason for increasing
margins? If not, the unskilled worker is
compensated for the fall in the value of
money, but his skilled fellow-worker is
not.
Say, for example, the basic wage is £4
a week. A receives this, but B, a skilled
tradesman, receives £6, being the basic
wage of £4 plus a margin of £2. His
margin for skill is thus 50 per cent. The
basic wage is increased to £lO, but the
margin remains static. A then gets £lO
and B £l2; i.e., his margin has been
whittled down to 20 per cent. If B was
worth £6 when the living-wage was £4,
then logically he is worth £ls when the
living-wage is £lO, and it will cost him
that to live at his former standard.
This raising of the base rate and keep-
ing margins static brings about a level-
ling process not unlike that aimed at by
the Communists. No wonder employers
are finding it hard to get apprentices when
the added reward for skill is being con-
stantly whittled away. Dominie
(N.S.W.).
The Worker and the Boss
I’m reasonably happy in my job, and
I get a fair salary, but I’d give a fort-
night’s notice tomorrow to become one
of “R.H.G.’s” wage-slaves who own a
£IOOO sedan and a nice home (B.
20/2/’52). Not that I hanker after a car,
but I could make good use of the £IOOO,
And I would like a nice home of my
own. So would thousands of others. So,
too, would they like to belong to a
superannuation fund, and to know that
they wouldn’t lose heavily if they were
sick
As lately as 1948 I worked in a job
where there was no award rate, 52 hours
a week to work and no overtime pay, and
no paid holidays —I worked Christmas
Day, Boxing Day and New Year s Day
for no extra, ,
“R.H.G.” is talking nonsense when he
says that the employee has no
no responsibility, and almost no risk.
Any man worth his salt—and I’ve worked
with many such —worries about his j
and accepts responsibility for it.
It is more nonsense to
that the only factor producing the
employer’s money is his own ume
ting and successful efforts. a \ e Pp '
bloke for whom we picked grapes at Ren-
mark. He was certainly a bard_ v >
but his employees, pickmg, carting, P*
ping, racking, shaking, spreadmg and box
ing, were a large factor m the makm e
his cheque for the season. . .
Does “R.H.G.” sermasly contend
no man gets rich through th
his workers? I’m gptjuw f n Tn
lumping-together of all g
workers as lazy no-hopers. N
have some like that but I’veworked wi|
many who take a lively interest m then
jobs and who aren’t a j rald , ork ge t
of sweat. How else does the work 8"
done?— Taswegian (Tas.).


OUTSTANDING
NEW
NOVEL!
Come Again
by SARAH CAMPION
Australia is again the background of the latest
novel by the author of Dr. Golightly, Mo
Burdekm, etc. An absorbing story, distinguished
by authentic characterisation, outback atmos-
phere, humour, and pathos. Bright, interesting
reading.
At all Booksellers. PETER DAVIES, X>TD.
Booksellers are now registering orders for
The Struggle For Europe
By CHESTER WILMOT
the book that explains why we are where we are today.
AUSTRALIAN EDITION READY SHORTLY
COLLINS
DY MOCK'S
FOR ALL UNIVERSITY TEXTS
Arts • Dentistry • Agriculture • Veterinary • Engineering • Medicine
• Science • Economics • and all Faculties.
Place Your Order Now.
Also wide range of Persona! and Commercial Stationery, Fountain Pens,
Instruments, Exercise Books, Spring-back Folders, etc.
University Catalogue Available On Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street , Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
MAIN FLEET
TO SINGAPORE,
by Captain Russell Grenfell, R.N.
World War II naval battles graphic-
ally described. Illustrated.
22/6 (post lid.)
FIFTY YEARS
OF SONG,
by Peter Dawson.
A famous Australian’s career told
with quiet charm. Illustrated.
18/9 (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l,
societies freedom from want is a primary
need, and such controls are accepted, indeed
welcomed, by most people as absolute
essentials.
Dr. Bodde has no doubt that the
Chinese Communist doctrine is Marxism,
not mere land-reform, and that it has
won acceptance so far for its intimation
of freedom. He quotes the reaction from
Chinese scholars of his immediate
acquaintance:
These men, having been nurtured for a
lifetime on the old Confucian concept of a
static, individual and idealistic morality, are
now suddenly confronted with the new and
dynamic concept that an interplay exists
between the thinking of the individual and
his social environment. This concept, so
ignored ifi traditional Chinese philosophy,
comes to these old-time scholars with the
blinding impact of a sort of “instantaneous
enlightenment,” to quote a Buddhist
expression. They have never known the
Western tradition of empirical inquiry and
scientific analysis. They accepted a form
of society which has somehow gone wrong.
Marxism tells them in simple terms why it
went wrong and promises them a short-cut
to its betterment.
The result (he says) is a new feeling of
mental freedom ...... but a “freedom”
strikingly unlike its classical counterpart
in the West,
F.M.C.
Seneca to Shakspeare.
The title of Professor J. A. K.
Thomson’s Cl as si ca I Influences on
English Poetry (All; a and Unwin) states
precisely what his book is about; and
very clearly he draws for the general
reader the line that joins Homer to
Milton and the few other English poets
who have tried to tell great stories.
Next comes a chapter on didactic
poetry, in which we are shown the debt
of Marlowe, Shakspcare and Dryden to
Ovid, of Dunbar to Pmdentius, of
Shakspeare’s “Phoenix and Turtle” to
Herodotus and Lactantius, etc.
In the essay c a tragedy we see how
much “Hamlet’s” ghost owes to Seneca’s
“Thyestes,” and in that on comedy, to
what degree “The Comedy of Errors”
and “The Taming of the Shrew” were
derived from Plautus and Terence.
The essay on Satire gives a very fine
view of what satire meant to the
ancients ; for instance:
Juvenal does not, like Dryden and Pope,
attack individuals. Even when he seems to
do so, it is not the individual he is attack-
ing so much as the human type of which
that individual is a representative.
And throughout this essay, as through
all of them, Professor Thomson manages
to convey not merely the facts about his
authors but their feeling.
The Fiurn's Finish .
Mika Waltari’s sequel to Michael the
Finn, The Sultan’s Renegade (Dymock’s),
has not the many-sided riotousness of the
first book’s religious tortures, peasants’
revolt, Lutheran reformation, and sack
of Rome; it is full of movement, but
the hero, leaving Europe by ship, is
captured by Turkish pirates, sold as slave
to a merchant of Algiers, so the scene,
with only one exception, is set in Algiers
and Constantinople: and Mohammedan
life, love, battle and intrigue have some-
thing of the recurring sameness of their
arabesques.
Michael turns Mohammedan to save
his life, and marries a beautiful girl
captured and made slave with him ; she
has eyes of different colors. In Algiers,
too, Michael’s brother Andy becomes
head wrestler to the effeminate Sultan,
and despoiler of his harem; they see the
conquest of Algiers by the Turks under
Khaireddin, and the overthrow of the
Spanish Governors; and are sent by
Mustafa ben-Nakir, a mystic and agent
of Imbrahim, Grand Vizier to the Sultan
of Constantinople, to the Turkish capital.
In Constantinople, Michael is. brought
into the Sultan’s harem to rescue a young
prince’s monkey; he sees the boy’s
mother, and only by getting himself
passed as a doctor of medicine does he
save himself from death at the hands of
the harem eunuchs. He goes on tour with
the huge army with which Sultan
Suleiman hopes to conquer Vienna; the
attack is a failure, and he returns to find
his wife in the possession of a handsome
Italian.
The wife and the Italian begin an
intrigue with the Sultana from which
proceed the disgrace and death of the
Grand Vizier, and the cruel murder of
his agent, the mystic. Michael dares the
Sultan’s vengeance in standing-by at the
funeral of his friend the Vizier, and, sure
enough, the Sultan’s agents visit his house
with the gift of the black suicide-kaftan.
But here we are surprised at the last
moment; courage triumphs, wickedness
is punished, and virtue is rewarded.
If the story is not as strong as that of
Michael the Finn, it is as richly
caparisoned, and full of incident all the
way.
Reviewed Briefly.
In his Debussy (Dent) Edward Lock-
speiser admits to having recast his original
opinion of his subject as an operatic com-
poser, now seeing in that aspect of his
work a genius; yet of the six operas
Debussy attempted, five didn’t
materialise; the other, “Pelleas and
Melisande,” took 10 years to write, and in
the whole realm of music drama has no
rival for sheer boredom—it is rarely pro-
duced outside France. In his critical
survey of the rest of Debussy’s works,
however, Lockspeiser adopts a more
sober tone. He sees the composer for
what he was: a sensitive creator in choral
harmonies, the archpriest of impres-
sionistic music, and an innovator who
was to influence profoundly the music of
the first half of the 20th century. But
the most attractive chapters are the
biographical ones, with a penetrating
analysis of Debussy’s many-sided
character gaining point from the repro-
duction of much of Debussy’s personal
correspondence, some of which is pub-
lished for the first time.
* * * #
The Life of Baron von Hilgel: Michael
de la Bedoyere (Dent). The author is
editor of “The Catholic Herald”; and
the Baron (1852-1925), a Londoner of
Viennese and Scottish ancestry, was
author of The Mystical Element in
Religion, one of the most highly-regarded
religious studies of recent times. The
main theme of this present biography is
the Baron’s part in the “Modernist” con-
troversy, a grave internal struggle in the
Roman Catholic church at the turn of
the century, which centred round the
journal “Rinnovamento,” and led to the
excommunication of the Abbe Loisy, and
to the suspension of Fr. George Tyrrell
and denial to him of the Sacraments.
* * sr *
“F.S.”: In Paintings from America
(Penguins) John Walker, who is chief
curator of the National Gallery of Art,
Washington, endeavors to show that in
the 200 years of its history the U.S. has
produced a national art —“Pictures from
America, as I hope this book will demon-
strate, have a native, un-European
flavor.” He is contradicted not only by
his own 48 reproductions, but by Whistler,
whose pictures are among the best in the
collection. Whistler is quoted as saying:
“There is no such thing as English Art —
you might as well talk of English
Mathematics.” Most of the 48 pictures
reproduced are reflections of current
fashions, mainly European fashions,
which disposes of Mr, Walker’s idea of
American isolation, A few are reflec-
tions of nature, and some have that
quality which is common to all great art,
and which might best be described as
observation Most of these are by
expatriates hke Copley Whistler, .Sargent
and Mary Cassatt. Gilbert Stuart was
one of the best of the early painters, and
he acquired his skill in the studio or
Benjamin West, another expatriate who
hyed in England and was influenced by
Sir Joshua Reynolds. He made his great
hit at the Royal Academy with his
portrait on ice. When his sitter came for
his first sitting it was bitterly cold and the
artist suggested it was a better day for
skating than posing and they went to St.
James’s Park. As a result of his uncon-
ventional composition he had his full
share of the best business in London. ’
* * * *
No Hiding Place: Percy Hoskins
(“Daily Express,” London). A
fascinating book on the methods
of Scotland Yard, with lavish
illustrations of the scientific work that
goes on beyond the scenes. In the last
seven years in England the Yard has
solved 163 of the 196 murders committed
and nearly all the convicted murderers
have been hanged. The author is chief
crime reporter for the “Daily Express.”
* * * *
Bernard Spilsbury, His Life and Cases:
Douglas a Browne and E . y. T ullet
(Harrap). In forensic medicine Sir
Bernard Spilsbury stands alone, and the
story of his
career is of extraordinary
interest, whether to the lawyer, the doctor
or the general reader. Though of course
j t abounds j n drama, with an average of
a bout three murders to a page, there is
no cheap sensationalism about this book ;
j t j s a distinguished biography as well as,
very likely the most absorbing crime-
book of the century
**' * *
Two recent additions to Harrap’s
finely-produced “Costume of the Western
World” series are The Great Age of
Holland by Frithjof van Thienen and
The Last Valois by Andre Blum. Though
primarily concerned with costume both
volumes, like others in the series, may
also be appreciated as handsome and
unusual art-books. Both are fully illus-
trated in color and black-and-white.
"THE BULLETIN" CROSSWORD No. 166
Across.
I—Miser mongrel on the mire with
George by direction. (10)
s—Lies in one of the Hebrides. (4)
9—Frank overtrains without precipi-
tation. (5)
10 — Sarah to behold Texas and
Nevada and such places among
the most sickly yellow. (9)
11— Peppered thoroughfare over the
editor. (6)
12— Part of Ireland to go wrong in
Kentucky. (5)
14— Backing her fish about cads and
cobbles some more. (7)
15— Circuit follows pampered pets. (71
18 — Many a Russian ends up like this
sporting equipment. (3)
19— Asiatic river and you with small
islands in the Netherlands East
Indies. (7)
20— Tea must disorganise this operatic
Bohemian. (7)
21 The gift of Morpheus backing
evidence of orange-eating. (5>
23—From your reference to soapi-
ness. (6)
25 The check to signify movement in
that direction. (9)
26 Skin blemishes backing primitive
beddmg or a holy personage
without clothes. (5)
27 Says changes are evident in this
N.S.W. town. (4)
28 — Novelist is intrepid about court
coppers. (10)
Down.
1 — A century and a half on some
cookery town in Australia. (9)
2 Regrets thoroughfares are sure to
change. (4)
3 Seen Truth? (anagram). (9)
4 Greased duck and I were in the
van. (5)
6 Beef over the Scottish river
character in David Cdpperfietd.
(10)
7 Whatever is entered in French
football score. (5)
8— This interior decorator is firm all
right. (4)
10 —Moslem sect in Algeria. (7)
13 —Part of a church over the east
steamer describing a hand With-
out a blemish. (10)
15 — I’m a father after 50 and before
nothing in an African river. (7)
16 — Past those changes with speed,
(4, 5)
17 — Direction let statutes rise and
imitated the Stoke Poges herd
when eaten by a bird editor. (9)
21 — Greek letter with your epigram-
matic. (5)
22 ‘Study cookery, (4)
23 — Huck duck or a fish propeller has
no relative of Sibelius’s country-
men. (5)
24 Jason’s treasure ship. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 165


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, JN.b.W,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pace Ss a PAID APVMITIgaMBW
I’regarea monthly hy MOFFA T-VTRTTTE tlMim
Maxell
A monthly feature for an those Interested In Agriculture
1952
BIG DEVELOPMENTS IN HORMONES
Can Help Farmers in Many Ways.
• „ i
Plant Hormones . , . used widely as weedicides . . . have been developed into really big aids to
agriculture in the last couple of years. Originally used to stimulate the development of roots on
cuttings, hormones are now doing many jobs, from stopping premature fruit drop to retarding
the seeding of potatoes.
Hormones, or to be more explicit, Plant Growth Regulators, actually control the rate of growth
of plants. A plant develops by the division and multiplication of cells. The rate of ceil increase
depends directly on the hormone content of the plant.
Some time ago scientists isolated the hormones,
and duplicated them artificially. The artificial
ones worked just as well as those made by the
plant. The scientists found that by adding the
right hormone to a section of the plant they
could regulate the development of that section.
ECONOMIC USES OF HORMONES
Hormones have five main economic uses.
(1) As weedkillers
(2) As fruit-drop preventatives
(3) As fruit-set inducers
(4) As root inducers
(5) To prolong dormancy
In addition certain types have been used as
stimulating dusts for seeds, and as crop
thinners.
AS WEEDKILLERS
The major economic use for hormones is weed-
killing. Hormones are selective weedicides,
affecting broad-leaved plants more than they
do grasses and cereals. In hormone weed-
killers the active ingredient is in a highly con-
centrated form. This overstimulates growth,
causing twisting and curling of stems, roots
and leaves.
Overseas experience indicates that best results
are obtained with hormone weedicides if a
high-pressure, low-volume spray is used. 1 his
gives proper penetration of the plant without
wasting hormones.
The most widely used weedkillers are
Methoxane and 2,4-D.
AS FRUIT-DROP PREVENTATIVES
In some varieties of fruit some of the crop may
drop before it reaches maturity. It is dropped
because a layer of corky cells, called the abscis-
sion layer, forms across the fruit stalk,
cutting off the sap supply. Spraying with hor-
mones before the drop is expected prevents the
formation of this layer, and the fruit remains
on the tree. 7
Alpha naphthalene acetic acid has proved suc-
cessful on pears and apples. For citrus spraying
a dilution of 2,4-D prevents the dropping of
mature fruit, and has been especially useful for
Washington navel oranges and grapefruit. It
has also been effective on Winesap apples but
not on other varieties. Before this, or any other
hormone treatment, is tried, full details should
be found out from your nearest Agricultural
Department.
AS FRUIT-SET INDUCERS
Certain hormones when sprayed onto flowers
can induce fruit-set without the need for effec-
tive pollination. This has been done extensively
in the U.S. and Britain, where cold and rainy
climates cause poor pollination, and conse-
quently poor fruit-set. In Australia, where this
trouble is seldom encountered, a use may be
found for the treatment when cluster-type
tomatoes are grown in glasshouses. They react
well to hormone treatment. Overseas experi-
ments also indicate that good results may be
obtained with strawberries, beans and cane
fruits.
The chemical that has proved most effective
as a fruit-set inducer is beta naphthoxy acetic
acid. Beans are the only crop this is not used
on; 2,4-D, parachiorophenoxy acetic acid or
alpha orthochlorophenoxy-propionic acid can
be used instead.
AS ROOT INDUCERS
The earliest commercial application of hor-
mones was to promote the rooting of cuttings.
The hormones can be applied as a solution, a
talc, or a lanoline paste, according to the pre-
paration used. The chemicals which have been
found most useful for root promotion are indole
acetic acid, naphthalene acetic acid, indole
butyric acid, and other derivatives of these.
A number of commercial preparations are on
the Australian market.
Other preparations are also being marketed for
application to growing plants to stimulate root
growth. Some species are greatly benefited,
but for most growing plants no extra stimulant
of this type is required.
FOR PROLONGING DORMANCY
Distributors of potatoes appreciate the fact that
hormones can hold up the shooting of potatoes.
The fumes of methyl ester of alpha naphthalene
acetic acid have been used successfully for de-
laying the development of shoots, making it
possible for the potatoes to be stored for
longer periods.
Although hormones have a long way to go be-
fore their full value has been assessed they
have already established themselves as a neces-
sity to the Australian Farmer. Full information
on their use can be obtained from the Agri-
culture Departments in all States.
(For the material in this article we wish to
thank the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture.)
BOOM SPRAYING
35ts long with 24 low-volume jets this spray boom can cover over 130 acres a day.
A Moƒfat-Birue Boom Spray tolded ready for
transport. On the back of the truch is the Roller
Spray plant, mounted on a drum.
NEW BOOM-SPRAY
FOR APPLYING
HORMONE WEEDICIDES
Covers Big Areas
Quickly
A new boom spray, with which you can cover
over 130 acres a day, is being developed by
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. This spray is designed for
covering large cereal crops with selective hor-
mone weedicides. ’ / ;
Consisting of the Moffat-Virtue Roller Spray
Plant, with special boom attachment, it can be
mounted on a truck or tractor very easily.
The boom itself has a span of 35 feet, with 24
special low-volume nozzles evenly spaced
along it. It can be transported in a folded
position, and is designed to give way to obstruc-
tions and automatically return to the lateral
position.
The Roller Spray Plant is particularly suitable
for use with hormones. It has a specially
designed pump, which can deliver a pressure
of up to 2501b5. per square inch . . . ideal for
penetrating the entire plant with weedicide.
The Plant is also equipped with hoses for
spotting, or for reaching inaccessible corners in
the paddock.
At a speed of four miles an hour this unit
can cover over 130 acres of crop during an
8-hour working day.
OTHER USES FOR ROLLER SPRAY
The Roller Spray Plant has been accepted
throughout Australia as the most suitable small,
all-purpose spray unit on the market.
Originally designed as an orchard and vege-
table spray, it is used extensively in Queens-
land for spraying cattle against tick and
buffalo fly.
Graziers also use it to jet sheep, spray sheep
against fly strike, and whitewash buildings.
During the recent bushfires Roller Spray
proved to be an excellent little firefighter.
The Roller Spray is a light, compact little
plant that can be easily carried about from
place to place by two men. It is adaptable to
fit on any type of drum or vat.
Full particulars of the Roller Spray, and the
Boom Spray equipment can be obtained from
any one of the Distributors listed at the bottom
of this page.
