

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3751
Wednesday, January 2, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper, / O
Seppelts
THE BUILDERS OF HADDON HALL MADE POETRY FROM STONE
HADDON HALL, one of the finest medieval homes in England, was the
scene of the romantic elopement of Dorothy Vernon with Sir John
Manners in the sixteenth century. The story of this runaway marriage had all
the elements of romance —high-spirited daughter, stern parents and devoted
lover —a story which has inspired many pens down the centuries. The door by
which she escaped and the famous flight of steps down which she stole to
meet John Manners, waiting in the garden, are still pointed out to visitors
from many lands who visit Haddon Hall.
This great baronial mansion, beautifully situated above the River Wye,
near Bakewell, in the Peak District, was originally the seat of the Avenel
family, from whom it passed by marriage to the Vernons about the middle ot
the twelfth century. Some four hundred years later it passed to the Manners
family by the marriage of Dorothy Vernon to Sir John Their
tombs, together with four of their children, are to be seen in Bakewell Churcn,
not far away. The eldest son of the marriage, Sir George Manners, married
Grace Pierrepoint, who founded the famous Lady Manners School in 1636.
Haddon Hall was at its most magnificent during the ownership of Sir
George Vernon (1508-1567). whose hospitality and style of living earned for
him the title of “King of the Peak. -1 Great banquets were held annually, for
which some five hundred sheep and forty cattle were needed to feed the many
guests. Behind the high table, which stands on a dais, hangs a fine tapestry,
said to have been given to a member of the Vernpn family by Henry VIII.
One of the most outstanding of the many palatial rooms at Haddon Hall
is the Long Gallery, which is 110 feet long by 17 feet wide, and is reached by
massive steps which were cut from the root of a single oak-tree growh in the
park. The floor-boards for the whole of the gallery were cut from the tree itself
The beauty of its richly carved panelling, with its surmounting frieze of alternat
ing crests, is unrivalled by any other of the many stately homes of England.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOy S E OF SEPPELT
, B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


[Learn
'Sram
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
‘HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
The Red Page
NEW DYMPHNA CUSACK.
The latest report the Red Page had on
the sales of Dymphna Cusack’s and
Florence James’s Come in Spinner was
36,000 ; and reviews of that novel printed
on the jacket of Dymphna Cusack’s new
Say No to Death (Heinemann) show how
well it was received abroad:
To lose oneself in Come in Spinner is
indeed a stirring and memorable experience
(wrote Michael Sadleir in the “Sunday
Times”]. Here is something of the clatter
and jostle of Manhattan Transfer, some-
thing of the rackets and undercover misery
of Alexanderplaiz, something of the suave
and raffish luxury of Grand Hotel and —
something plus.
A crowded and tempestuous story of
immediate post-war Sydney [said the
“Observer”] splaying out from the beauty-
parlor of a big hotel with lots of morality,
lots of voice [sic] and quite astonishingly
readable.
will obviously be a best-seller and a film,
and deserves its success. I cannot think
offhand of any ingredient it lacks [R. G. G.
Price in “Punch”}.
One cannot recall any similar chorus
of praise in Australia. The novel was
favorably reviewed on the Red Page, with
the reservation that it wasn’t a great work
of art; it was attacked on moral grounds,
in one of the most interesting somersaults
ever seen in Sydney journalism, by the
“Daily Telegraph,” after it had been
awarded first prize in the “Telegraph’s”
solitary novel-competition ; and for the
rest, though there were reviews here and
there, and plenty of sales, the furore, if
any, escaped this reviewer’s notice.
From which you could draw conclu-
sions both favorable and unfavorable
to Australian criticism: on the one hand,
apart from our explosions of journalistic
morality, we neglect or undervalue our
writers too much ; on the other hand we
are, wisely if somewhat severely, not in
such a hurry as the average English
reviewer to find a literary masterpiece in
every popular novel.
Regarded with a cold Australian eye,
Say No to Death seems as near to a really
good thing, and as remote, as did Come
in Spinner.
Near because it is crisp in style, very
attractive in some of its Sydney and
country landscapes (the troopship from
Japan entering the Harbor; the train
from the West travelling through the
night to Central); because it is clear in
its portraiture, especially of the women,
and not only the brassy and sophisticated
types Dymphna Cusack has previously
described so successfully, but in more
sympathetic pictures of elderly, suffering
women, with some background of cul-
ture ; and because it moves swiftly and
expertly as a piece of story-telling.
Remote because Dymphna Cusack has
not yet quite escaped from the vulgarities
of humor and sentiment she employed in
some of her plays with a Little Theatre
audience in mind (there is a dreadful girl
with a lisp, like the comic charlady in
Come in Spinner, and a bit of common-
place , good cheer when patients and
nurses in a tuberculosis sanatorium win
the lottery); because a rather erratic
social indignation in which the
administration of a private sanatorium
is apparently blamed for the high
wages that have to be paid to
special nurses —is used as a substitute
for depth of characterisation; and
because the novel is built on the boy-
meets-girl formula, focusing on an
average young couple who, though like-
able enough and. involved in circum-
stances that could be moving, are not in
themselves very interesting.
The result is a novel which is not quite
fair all round —we don’t really see deeply
into all the supposedly negligent or indif-
ferent doctors whom the young man,
rather improbably, is continually roaring
at; a novel which, because everything is
to some extent conditioned by the central
characters, is written for rather than
about average young people; a novel,
finally, which fails through lack of
broader and more penetrating sensitivity
to be tragic enough for its theme of
tuberculosis.
But if you look at Say No to Death
with the more generous eye of the
reviewer of popular novels, asking for
polished craftsmanship rather than final
excellence, there is no reason why you
should not apply to it every word of
praise which the English reviewers have
given to Come in Spinner.
There is the young soldier coming home
from service with the Occupation forces
in Japan ; there is the girl waiting for
him on the wharf ; there is the frank and
lyrical affair between them, their holiday
in a shack up Woy Woy way, deepening
into enduring love on the soldier’s part
when they discover that the girl has tuber-
culosis. Then, with emotional develop-
ments when the soldier is tempted into
an affair with a woman married to a
blackmarketeer and when the girl’s sister
is also discovered to be infected with
tuberculosis, there is the story of the girl’s
fight through New South Wales hospitals
and sanatoriums, with incidental portraits
of the other patients and the nurses, until
eventually she is released to die in the
holiday shack while the sister recovers.
It is all extremely well told; it is
humane; it uncovers what for most
people is an unknown world, and one
that from the social viewpoint ought to
be known, and depicts it, on the whole,
both temperately and convincingly ; and,
though death, medical details and the
progress of disease are frankly discussed,
the story is so carefully balanced with
relief that it remains, as the “Observer”
man said of Come in Spinner, quite
astonishingly readable.
MADONNA LILY.
I’m shrewd, she said, and know the moon
Is wreckage tossed upon the wind;
Yet I would leap did I not keep
My joy close-fisted in my mind.
Close-fisted as a lily flower
Whose knuckles whiten round her dream
Lest seeing bring more ecstasy
Than could subsist on one thin stem.
Tonight when birds sing in the tree
And all the smoking swamps are loud,
The lily shall unfold and see
A full moon step out of the cloud.
So Botticelli’s messenger
Carries a lily-spray to plead,
Against a virgin’s innocence,
Nature’s coarse and holy need.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
"The Witch's Thorn."
Ruth Park’s new novel, The Witch’s
Thorn (A. and R.), is a more elegantly
tailored story than The Harp in the South,
which had everything, including the
kitchen sink. . This new story refrains
from putting in an incident or a situation
just because there is a place to put it and
it is the usual thing to put in such a
book ; and restricts itself to the vicissi-
tudes of a little illegitimate girl in a little
New Zealand village.
Abandoned by her abandoned mother
on the death of her grandmother, little
Bethell is reluctantly taken on by her
aunt. When her aunt’s' unpleasant son
blames Bethell for his discovered attempt
to seduce her, she is taken over by the
innkeeper’s beautiful daughter. When
her mother comes back to the village to
die, Bethell’s father, in maudlin and
quarrelsome grief, says Bethell had told
him that the innkeeper was his own
daughter’s lover: there is just enough
truth in this for the innkeeper to kick
Bethell out and sell up his pub ; where-
upon Bethell goes to live with her other
auntie, Grace, a bad woman with a large
and very happy family.
But she has not been there long before
Auntie Grace marries Bethell’s father’s
brother, a war veteran who suffers trau-
matic neurosis; and an increase of his
delusions and fits renders Auntie Grace
helpless when Bethell’s father decides to
take Bethell to his own shanty, to live
with his legally married wife and her large
family, which he is increasing as rapidly
as possible with the declared intention
of killing his wife in childbirth.
The wife’s certainty that Bethell is the
daughter of the woman her husband
really loved does not increase her kind-
ness to the girl; and from here on Bethell
really begins to take a beating, which
rises to a fury when her father, stirred
by questions from the parish priest, bashes
her up, leaves her for dead, and runs off
to throw himself into a boiling geyser.
Thereafter, Bethell is carried to the home
of some Maoris, being beloved of the son
of the house ; and we leave her hoping
that she may be happy ever after.
If The Harp in the South could be
compared with Louis Stone’s Jonah, The
Witch’s Thorn may be compared with
William Faulkner’s" Light in August;
and as the first lacked the fine-edged
balance and exquisite artistry of its proto-
type, the second lacks the terrific force,
the blinding lightning, of Faulkner’s
masterpiece.
But the little girl’s wanderings do
illuminate a cross-section of the village,
and set it in motion, even if the cross-
section cuts mostly through drains, and
if the action is seldom charming or
virtuous. And certainly the big scenes
are well-handled; one remembers Gow
possessing his wife on the roadside on
her return from hospital, and the old inn-
keeper persuading his daughter to stroke
his forehead, and being denounced by
his other daughter; and the death of
Queenie, Bethell’s mother, of consump-
tion ; and young Jellicoe Minogue bearing
false witness against his little cousin ...
Not a little ray of sunshine is Miss
Park ; but she is of our times, when the
dreary, depressed outlook of a Graham
Greene can be hailed as great novel-
writing, and such writers can take the
place of those who “saw life steadily
and saw it whole.”
Lyrebirds of Sherbrooke.
The great moment in the life of the
lyrebird is, of course, when he sings and
displays on his mound ; and in Dr. L. H.
Smith’s The Lyrebirds of Sherbrooke
(Georgian House) there is a very pleas-
ing description of the bird rushing to
his work, with a determination that can
be compared only to that of a poet, sud-
denly taken by the Muse, heading for
his typewriter: a similarity which has
appropriately been pointed out in verse
by Miss Nan McDonald.
During the breeding period, from May to
September, the male lyrebird may display
several times in the day. There is usually
a period of preparation before the actual
display. The bird may be seen to be rest-
less, being unable to concentrate upon his
feeding, pausing frequently and singing.
When the intensity of his song suddenly
increases, it becomes clear that a display is
imminent. Immediately the bird begins a
run—not just a trot, but a special kind of
run —which is a clear indication that he is
making for a mound. There is in his eye,
indeed in his whole bearing, a look of
determination —nothing short of direct inter-
vention can stop him.
His long, powerful legs carry him swiftly
to the mound. Here he pauses for a short
spell to inspect the stage. He scratches up
the rich chocolate soil. Perhaps he gives a
burst of melody... .Suddenly there arises a
whirring, snapping sound —it is the prelude
to the display. In another instant the bird’s
long tail is thrown forward over his head,
concealing his body beneath a canopy of
shimmering silver filaments. The sight is
breath-taking; the transformation from the
plain, brownish-black bird to this spectacle
of swaying thread-like plumage is almost
incredible. You see no body; you merely
hear a voice, clothed, as it were, in a silver
raiment.
The present reviewer has read a good
deal about lyrebirds, even seen them in
National Park, near Cronulla in New
South Wales, in Kuringai-Chase and
down the deep gullies of the Blue
Mountains; but had not realised until
reading Dr. Smith how extremely human
thd bird can be. The male, for instance,
continuing his resemblance to the artist,
does not work: it is enough that he
sings: and even if his wife (as Dr.
Smith informs us) can also sing, some-
times very finely, still “the male lyre-
bird takes no part in the building of the
nest, the brooding of the egg, or the rear-
ing of the young one. Those duties he
leaves entirely to the mate.”
The female, one learns, sings in the
bath ; or at any rate just after it when
she preens herself, singing, for half an
hour (the male, so far as Dr, Smith has
observed, does not bathe). The young
males, lacking wives or girl-friends to
admire them, sing duets. And nothing,
if one may go into these domestic details,
is more extraordinary and in its way
more human than the care the mother
lavishes on her chick:
When she is ready to feed the chick the
female approaches the . nest and, after
making a soft clucking noise to warn the
youngster of her presence, springs on to the
platform at the entrance to the nest. The
chick opens its mouth wide, whereupon the
female thrusts in her beak and regurgitates.
When the chick has been fed the mother
pauses for a short period on the platform
and makes soft clucking noises which the
chick appears to understand quite well. As
the chick has to live in the nest for six
weeks, it can be readily appreciated that
nest hygiene is very important in the
domestic life of the lyrebird. If Nature
calls, as it does on an average about once
every hour, or after every second feed, the
chick, encouraged by the soft noises from
his mother, turns around and delivers a
dropping directly into her beak. The drop-
ping is contained in a tough gelatinous
bag, which facilitates transportation. If the
nest is near a stream the female, sometimes
running and sometimes gliding, carries the
dropping to it and, wading out into the
water, very deliberately submerges it before
departing. If there is no stream handy she
digs a hole and buries the dropping in the
ground. Thus is the scent destroyed and
the danger from the birds’ natural enemies
minimised.
It will be seen that, from the
elemental simplicity of the chick to the
triumph of the adult bird in song and
display, Dr. Smith has covered the
habits of the lyrebirds pretty thoroughly ;
and indeed his short monograph is an
admirable little* nature-book —compact
and orderly in arrangement; fresh, alive
and always interesting because it is con-
fined to what Dr. Smith has observed
with his own eyes ; and full of the heat
of summer in the bush, the mists of
winter, and the scent of the mountain -
ash.
Dr. Smith, besides being an M.Sc. and
a D. Phil. (Oxon.), is an expert photo-
grapher, and, by standing still and play-
ing on the birds’ curiosity, often man-
aged to get his lyrebirds within three
feet of the camera; with the result that
the book has a lot of exceptionally fine
photographs, among which one would
like specially to mention a landscape of
tall timber in fog (Sherbrooke Fores* is
in Victoria, near Melbourne),. a male
lyrebird in the full glory of display, and
a female lyrebird flying down from one
of the high nests they sometimes build,
her wings outstretched against a sky
dappled with leaves.
THE ANCESTORS.
That stream ran through the sunny grass
so clear—
more polished than dew is, all one lilt of
light;
we found our way up to the source, where
stand
the fern-trees locked in endless age
under the smothering vine and the trees'
night.
Their slow roots spread in mud and stone,
and in each notched trunk shaggy as an
ape
crouches the ancestor, the dark bent foetus,
unopened eyes, face fixed in unexperienced
sorrow,
and body contorted in the fern-tree’s
shape.
That sad, pre-history, unexpectant face—
I hear the answering sound of my blood;
I know
these primitive fathers waiting for rebirth,
these children not yet born; the womb
holds so
the moss-grown patience of the skull,
the old ape-knowledge of the embryo.
Their silent sleep is gathered round the
spring
that feeds the living thousand-lighted
stream
up which we toiled into this timeless dream.
N.S.W.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
The Gaskin Phenomena.
The Gaskin sisters might furnish
students of Kant with an exercise: how
much of what we know are we born with,
and how much comes from experience?
Catherine and Moira were brought to
Australia as children, and are now writing
industriously in a London flat. Catherine’s
first novel was published when she was
still 16 ; Moira’s first (she is four years
older than Catherine) has just appeared:
Heaven Knows Where (Collins).
A doctor’s beautiful wife falls in love
with a 8.8. C. official. She tells the
doctor she is off for a fortnight with the
official, after which she will decide what
she will do. The doctor does not take a
pistol and go out after the 8.8. C. official.
This is a sophisticated novel.
He decides to wait and see, in the flat
and in the arras of a woman-doctor, an
old flame. Moreover, he must attend to
the mental and physical troubles of a
widow whose child has been killed by a
motor-car driven by her lover. The
doctor’s wife returns, andj intrigued by
her husband’s desertion, decides to resume
him and dismiss the 8.8. C. official. The
worried widow returns to her lethal lover.
He needs care. He is dying of cancer.
But she finds that all he wants is to use
her as a model for his new novel. So
she leaves him. She does not even tell
him that it is he, and hot her dead
husband, who was the father of the child
he killed.
Well, if we had not been told that a
very young woman had written this book,
we should have agreed that it was an
excellent popular novel; and perhaps the
question it raises is not so much for the
disciples of Kant as for those of Freud ;
they might well conclude that these two
Gaskin children are much closer to the
mental age of the popular novelist now
than Ethel M. Deli or Marie Corelli were
at the height of their careers.
The Player’s Library; Supplement 1 :
published hy Faber for the British Drama
League. This" contains a list of the
books added to the Library up to the
beginning of 1951.


Fence your property
with only one
This modern way of fencing—The Everyday Electric
Fencer way —brings widespread benefit through
its great savings in the cost of fencing.
The Everyday Electric Fencer is SAFE and harmless
because it operates on the SAFE low voltage of
a 6-volt storage battery, electrifying up to
25 MILES OF FENCE.
wire
■
liiiifi
#-* k
wi
' ■■fillip:
■ !■■■■
a
1
,«„»»«
Everyday Electric Fences are easily erected, easily moved and make fencing
for feeding off areas no job at all. Simplifying crop and pasture rotation
. . . fencing off lucerne, maize or other feed . . . segregating sick and
infected crop . . . providing temporary pastures, likewise bull or call
pens, pig runs, etc., anywhere on the farm.
Wiring. Barbed wire is recommended, but plain wire will do. New
wire is not necessary provided the old wire you use is not badly rotted
or rusted. This is important because the whole success of electric fencing
depends on the electrical continuity of the wire.
Made in Australia for Australian soil and climate conditions. All
fences are thoroughly tested and adjusted for maximum performance and
include a built-in neon test light.
One man can fence 10 acres in half a day with the Everyday . . <
light stakes cut from the bush replace heavy posts ... no post holes to
dig ... no holes to bore in posts . . . run ONE wire instead of
five . . . use harness clips or spring hooks instead
of gates. Priced at only
£«/10/-
L*-
r IT\
P
z
mm
/ , £
A AJkffl
m
mm
m
r
,y'
T/
'.vsa
M
.s s m
mmm **
a®*
illwlll
Save energy . . . \ermorel Knapsack Sprayer
gallon brass alloy tank, 2ft. in. delivery hose. 22in. Spray Lance.
Angle bend for potatoes, ground crops. Weight 141bs. £22/5/-.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Hi
■ 5 S SS £
m
mm
: w
m
v
' V: ' .
mn
m
W
3
© Easily erected
• Costs so little
• Charges 25 miles of fence
A
L
1. Drive in stakes 30 feet apart.
3. Run a single wire from stake
to stake.
2. Nail on the insulator.
m
&
L * ?
csr»
C-'
4. Connect fencer to wire and six-
volt battery to fencer.
•} _ ....
m
I
mm
Solve your brick and building problems
44 Truline 99 Brickmaking Machine
To make 1,000 “New Method” Bricks 9in. x 4|in. x 3in.,
all you require is 10 bags of cement and 2J yards
sand or similar material. Three men operating the
machine will produce approx. 250 bricks per hour.
Price, £B4/3/6. Plus tax where applicable.
Simac Semi Rotary Pumps Iran (brass valves)
Above pumps available in all brass if required.
mßmsSsmmsm
I
d
ď
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT —FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE; M 2401. POST TO BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT EXTRA


Anglo-lranian Oil Company group, I OCA
and Associated Companies.
1949
Crude otl production.
Tons
41,720.000
Tons
33,937,000
produced in the Middle East (Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Qatar) and the United Kingdom.
Refinery throughput.
Sales of refined products
and crude oil.
Tons
38,500,000
(approx.)
Tons
30,500,000
(oppwr.)
The sales organisation Includes major
marketing or supply interests In the United
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Africa, Near
and Middle East, India, Pakistan, Ceylon,
Australia and New Zealand ; also interna-
tional ships-bunkering and aviation services.
Ocean-going tanker
tonnage owned.
I Deadweight tons
at and 1950
1.717,000
Deadweight tons
at and 1949
1,530,000
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company
First Full Statement on Situation in Iran
Categorical Denial of False Accusations
Sir William Fraser on Current Developments
The 42nd Annual General Meeting
of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company,
Ltd., was held on December 20th
at the Chartered Insurance Institute,
20, Aldermanbury, London, E.C.
The following is an extract from the
statement to stockholders by the
chairman, Sir William Fraser, C.8.E.,
which has been circulated with the
report and accounts for the year
ended December 31st, 1950:
The group trading profit is
£81,300,622, which is the highest ever
achieved. This compares with last
year’s profit of £38,666,485 and is
after provision of £34,195,372 for
depreciation on fixed assets, oil ex-
ploration interests and survey repairs.
The corresponding provision in 1949
was £24,353,920.
The gross profit of £115,495,994
before making the above provision,
compared with £63,020,405 last year,
results from all of the widespread
activities in which the company is
interested.
The large increase in gross profit
compared with 1949 is mainly attribu-
table to the following factors:
Firstly, sales of crude oil and pro-
ducts have increased by approximately
26 per cent., whilst production costs
have remained substantially unchanged.
Secondly, sale prices have increased
by about 20 per cent, for the follow-
ing reasons:
(A) The average for the year 1950
of United States Gulf prices, the basis
of most price structures, showed an
increase over the corresponding
average prices for 1949.
(B) The devaluation of sterling
affected prices for less than four
months in 1949, but applied to the
whole of 1950.
(C) The rise in freight rates in 1950
favourably influenced the return to the
group on oils carried in our own
tankers.
INTERESTS GRAVELY
AFFECTED
Since my last statement to stock-
holders on the 20th June, 1950, there
have been a number of events in Iran
that have gravely injured the com-
pany’s interests in that country. The
company hitherto has preserved silence
in order not to embitter any further
its relations with the Imperial Iranian
Government and thereby render the
chances of effecting a satisfactory
settlement of the questions at issue
more remote. These developments have
been fully reported in the Press, but
stockholders will wish to be informed
authoritatively of what has occurred.
The company’s status and rights in
Iran have been seriously affected, first
by the law promulgated in Iran on Ist
May, 1951, setting out the manner in
which effect is to be given to the prin-
ciple, approved during the previous
March, of the nationalisation of the
oil industry throughout the country;
and, secondly, by the steps subse-
quently taken by the Imperial Iranian
Government purporting to implement
this law.
In my last statement to you, a brief
account was given of the supplemental
agreement to the company’s 1933 con-
vention, which had been signed with
the Iranian Government on the 17th
July, 1949, and which was then await-
ing ratification by the Iranian Majlis.
At the time, the terms were the most
advantageous offered to any country
then producing oil in the Middle East.
In January, 1951, it was reported in
the Press that the Arabian American
Oil Company had made an agreement
on the 31st December, 1950, with the
Saudi Arabian Government for an
equal sharing of the profits from its
oil operations in Saudi Arabia, after
deduction of United States income
tax. The company thereupon informed
the Iranian Prime Minister of its
willingness to consider a new agree-
ment on similar lines, During the
negotiations for the 1949 supplemental
agreement the straight 50/50 profit-
sharing scheme came up for discus-
sion, but after lengthy examination it
was discarded in favour of increased
payments under the existing methods
of the 1933 convention.
There was no question of the
A.1.0.C. being behind hand or less
generous in its revised payments than
other companies operating in the
Middle East; the record shows the
reverse to be true.
At the same time as the company
proposed discussions for an equal
sharing of profits, it arranged to assist
the Iranian Government in its finan-
cial difficulties by making an imme-
diate advance, against future conces-
sional payments, of £5,000,000, and to
advance a further £2,000,000 per
month on the same basis for the rest
of 1951.
OIL INDUSTRY
NATIONALISED
Despite the company’s endeavours
to persuade the Prime Minister to
make known in Iran both the com-
pany’s offer to reopen negotiations for
a 50/50 profit-sharing scheme and its
action in undertaking to make ad-
vances, General Razmara refused to
do so and maintained the closest
secrecy regarding both matters. The
result was that the Iranian public were
not informed of them until some time
after Dr. Mossadeq had, on the 19th
February, put a formal proposal to
the Oil Committee for the nationalisa-
tion of the Iranian oil industry. A
Bill nationalising the oil industry
became law on Ist May, by which
time Dr. Mossadeq had become Prime
Minister.
Besides breaking the solemn under-
takings embodied in the 1933 conven-
tion, the Iranian Government went so
far as to deny that this company even
existed, referring consistently to it as
“the former company.” A violent
campaign of unfounded vilification
was directed against it, ancient griev-
ances and charges being revived and
new ones invented.
On the 30th May, the Iranian Gov-
ernment, in a note to the company,
expressed a desire to use the com-
pany’s knowledge and experience in
making its arrangements for the imple-
mentation of the Nationalisation Act.
Accordingly, a delegation consisting
of four directors with members of the
company’s staff led by the deputy
chairman, Mr, B. R. Jackson, reached
Teheran on the 11th and 12th June.
During the meetings that ensued
with an Iranian Government delega-
tion the company, as an earnest of its
desire to reach as soon as possible a
workable agreement, offered to place
£10,000,000 at the Government’s dis-
posal immediately, and thereafter
£3,000,000 per month from July on-
wards until agreement was reached.
The company, while fully reserving its
rights, also informed the Government
that it was willing to come to an
arrangement that would maintain the
efficiency of the industry and be
consistent with the principle of
nationalisation.
The Iranian Government delegates
rejected these proposals out of hand
after no more than half an hour’s con-
sideration. In so doing they made it
clear that they considered the discus-
sions closed.
LORD PRIVY SEAL’S
PROPOSALS WITHDRAWN
It was at this stage that the Iranian
Government accepted President Tru-
man’s suggestion that Mr. Averell
Harriman should visit Teheran for
discussions on the oil dispute. Mr.
Harriman arrived on 15th July, and
after lengthy examination with the
Iranian Government of a formula,
consistent with the recognition of the
principle of nationalisation as ap-
proved in the single article law of
20th March, on which negotiations
with His Majesty’s Government could
take place, a British Government
mission led by the Rt. Hon. Richard
Stokes, the Lord Privy Seal, arrived
in Teheran on 4th August.
Owing to the persistent endeavours
of the Iranian Government to confine
the discussions to a narrower field,
and in particular to a failure to reach
agreement on arrangements for effi-
cient management of the operations
in Iran, the Lord Privy Seal’s pro-
posals were withdrawn and the talks
were suspended.
UNFOUNDED ALLEGATIONS
I cannot conclude this account
without making a clear statement on
behalf of the company with regard
to the accusations that have been
made by the Iranian Government to
the effect that the company has been
guilty of falsification of its accounts,
that it has used political interference
in order to further its interests in
Iran, that it has encouraged adminis-
trative corruption in Iranian Govern-
ment departments and that it has
undermined the independence of the
Iranian nation. It is a matter of
regret to the company that the
Iranian Government should, by such
a distortion of facts, present the
company in a completely false light
to the world.
Not one shred of valid evidence
has been, or can be, produced by the
Iranian Government in support of
these accusations, and the company
categorically denies that there is any
truth in them whatsoever.
CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS
Because of the situation in Iran,
described earlier in this statement,
there have been important develop-
ments during the current year in the
company’s widespread interests and
operations outside that country. An
erroneous impression exists in some
circles, owing perhaps to the com-
pany’s name, that its assets and
activities outside Iran are not very
substantial. As stockholders are
aware, they included at the end of
1950 large crude-oil resources and
refining capacity in various countries,
the whole of our world-wide transpor-
tation, distribution and marketing
organisations, research stations and
administrative services.
Although this report would nor-
mally be devoted to the company’s
activities in 1950, I feel that stock-
holders will be interested in a brief
account of the main developments
which have occurred this year in our
operations outside Iran, over and
above their normal planned progress,
in consequence of the interruption of
supplies of crude-oil and products
from Iran since July last.
We now have at our disposal crude-
oil production at the rate of about
20.000. tons per annum from our
interests in Kuwait, Iraq, Qatar and
the United Kingdom, which is almost
double what we obtained from these
sources during 1950 and also, inci-
dentally, almost double our total pro-
duction from all sources, including
Iran, before the war. This tonnage
is capable of a further very sub-
stantial increase in the future. Our
supplies are principally derived from
our 50 per cent, interest in the
Kuwait Oil Co., whose production
rate has been very rapidly expanded
since June, and is now approaching
40.000. tons per annum.
As regards refining capacity, inten-
sive and successful efforts have been
made to increase throughputs at our
various establishments outside Iran.
Throughput at Llandarcy, for
instance, is now at the rate of
4.000. tons per annum, and at
Grangemouth 2,250,000 tons per
annum. Our total refining through-
put outside Iran is now at the rate
of over 14,000,000 tons per annum
(and we have processing agreements
with other companies for a further
5.000. tons per annum), compar-
ing with 8,000,000 tons at the end of
1950. Additions now in hand, includ-
ing the Kent refinery, should increase
this total to over 20,000,000 tons by
the end of 1952. Urgent considera-
tion is being given to the building of
further new refineries.
Our shipping organisation, compris-
ing the British Tanker Company’s
fleet with a very large chartered ton-
nage, totalling in all more than 300
ocean-going tankers, remains fully
and actively employed on the com-
pany’s trade. Within one month of
tankers ceasing to call at Abadan and
Mashur at the end of June, over 90
per cent, of the fleet were in trade
again, a considerable achievement.
TRIBUTE TO CUSTOMERS AND
OIL INDUSTRY CO-OPERATION
On the marketing side, despite the
fullest use of our own resources of
crude-oil and refining capacity, there
has inevitably remained a substantial
gap between available supplies and
our current market requirements. To
close this gap we have resorted to
purchases from other sources, and
arrangements for crude-oil to be pro-
cessed for us by other refiners. The
understanding and helpful attitude of
our customers, which we gratefully
acknowledge, has been of much assist-
ance to us.
It is a remarkable tribute to the
resourcefulness and flexibility of the
world oil industry that the supply
problems caused by the cessation of
shipments from Iran have been so
successfully faced. Industry commit-
tees, formed under Government
aegis, have been working on these
problems both in America and in
this country, and I wish to pay tribute
to the great efforts which have been
made by other oil companies on both
sides of the Atlantic to meet the
emergency.
The major part of the purchased
oil required has been obtained from
American sources, and this I would
particularly wish to acknowledge.
I do not usually venture to make
any prophecy in my statement as to
the company’s prospects, but in the
present exceptional circumstances I
feel that stockholders are entitled to
any assurance that can be given them
in respect, at least, of the year now
closing.
During the first six months of this
year our sales had increased and
prices were satisfactory, but during
the latter half of the year our trading
results have, of course, been seriously
affected by the cessation of Iranian
supplies, which completely cut off our
income from that source. Moreover,
we have had to face exceptional out-
lays as the result of our policy of
paying our Iranian employees,
whether doing productive work or
not, up to the date when British
staff were compelled to leave. Other
heavy outlays included the expendi-
ture involved in re-routing our tanker
fleet and in having to purchase from
other suppliers in order to meet our
commitments to our customers.
However, after reviewing all the
circumstances, I feel 1 can say that,
unless there is some wholly unfore-
seen happening in the remaining few
weeks of this year, the company will
be in a position to pay the same rate
of dividend on the Ordinary Stock
for 1951 as has been paid for some
years past. —Advt.


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3751
Wednesday, January 2, 1952
6S
oV
V
HARO
RE-BIRTH OF A SALESMAN.
“Better first of all blow the dust off these, lad', and then got out on the road.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
GP.O.), Wellington.
THE KOREAN MESS.
The spectacle of a police-constable trying
to make terms with a delinquent success-
fully resisting arrest is inevitably painful
and more than a little scandalous. That
is the situation with the armistice negotia-
tions in Korea. Even if the parties thereto
can trump up something which can be
labelled “peace,” it is obvious that the
Soviet-trained and Soviet-armed Chinese
Reds are to be conceded a sort of North
Korean Sudetenland, and that the
country is to be partitioned in a maimer
that makes hay of the “United” Nations’
cause of establishing the integrity of the
(planned) independent Korean republic.
The only development lacking for a
register of complete failure would be a
decision thereafter to admit Red China
into the fifth permanent seat on the
U.N. “Security” Council, and for U.N.O.
to hand over to the Reds: (1) Formosa
for a Russian base to match the American
one in Okinawa ; and (2) Chiang Kai-shek
for punishment in Peking as “a war-
criminal.”
After that the Government of any
democratic State, large or small, which
affects to believe that, in return for an
annual premium paid to U.N.0., it is
receiving an insurance policy against
war, or anything at all except a right to
play the Lake Success poker-machine for
the chance of jobs in the best-paid
bureaucratic outfit in the world, deserves
all that comes to it. The incantations
of Mr. Trygve Lie and his supporting
caste notwithstanding, it has become
pathetically obvious that the spokesmen
for the defiant Moscow-Peking bloc in
the Korean “peace”-talks refuse even to
recognise that it is U.N.O. delegates they
have been dealing with. In the intermin-
able word-chopping on the 38th Parallel
the Chinese Communists do not regard
their opposite-numbers as anything but
representatives of the United States. As
they see things—and who will undertake
to argue them out of it? —the United
States has sided with their enemy,
Chiang Kai-shek, from 1945 onward m
the Chinese civil war ; Chiang Kai-shek s
defeated generals have successively
yielded to the Reds and handed over their
American arms and equipment; and
now this same United States behaves as
though it had won the war in Korea and
can insist on terms for a settlement.
At least the conduct of the Korean
war by the United States on behalf of
U.N.O, is doing no good to American
prestige, and reaction to that in the year
of an American Presidential election is
likely to be extremely disturbing in
American domestic politics. It is one
thing for U.S.A. to have taken the former
place of Britain as world-policeman, but
to acquit itself with any success in those
duties under governing direction from
some spineless committee at U.N.O. is
humanly impossible. Preservation of
world-peace is not worth a cracker on
that basis. Harold Nicolson, pleading in
London “Spectator” for return to the old
methods of balance-of-power diplomacy,
speaks from experience:
It is not only that it is impossible for
two sides to negotiate in a series ot set
speeches; it is not only that once negotia-
tion is conducted in public... .the essen-
tial give-and-take of negotiation is ex-
cluded... .and no man is at his best
as a negotiator when surrounded by micro-
phones and faced by a battery of televi son
cameras; it is above all that the new
diplomacy does not accord the time re-
quired for difficult negotiations....
I believe that in spite of many setbacks
and returns to barbarism the tide of
human enlightenment advances from cen-
tury to century, and that a thousand
years from now the rulers of the world
will in fact be able to gather together on
the Flushing Meadows and make judicious
and effective decisions. Such a condition
has not in this year 1951 been even approxi-
mately attained; and those who seek to
found our foreign policy solely upon U.N.O.
are either ignorant or stupid or subject to
hallucinations such as should unfit them
for any responsible post.
The American difficulties in East Asia,
brought to full light by the Korean
trouble, are traceable to a fundamentally
wrong conception in the State Depart-
ment and the White House, dating from
at least two decades ago, about the status
of Manchuria. Washington has supposed
Manchuria to be a province belonging
to China, controllable by China. The
Great Wall, which at its seaward ex-
tremity separates the two, has been a
tangible warning against such assumption
since about 200 b.c., and in fact China
has for centuries been governed by con-
querors who came always from Man-
churia. If either has controlled the other,
Manchuria has controlled China. In
modern times Manchuria was ruled by a
local warlord on sufferance by either
Russia or Japan, each of which has
regarded possession of Manchuria by the
other as an intolerable threat to China
and its own interests. If, at the end of
the First World War, President Wilson
had directed American policy on a con-
viction that Alsace-Lorraine belonged to
the Duchy of Luxembourg, he could
hardly have done greater violence to the
actualities of international politics.
Mr. Sumner Welles, Under-Secretary of
State during the years of World War 11,
is the latest of the political figures
who were around President Roosevelt
to publish a form of memoirs
—he calls it Seven Major Decisions,
and a defence of Roosevelt’s policy.
The disagreements of the past decade
among those concerned in Wash-
ington’s foreign policy, among them and
American service chiefs, and among
service chiefs themselves, have lately been
well ventilated ; Welles’s main interests are
his antagonism (it was mutual) to his chief,
Cordell Hull, his devotion to the U.N.O.
idea, and his refusal to admit that Roose-
velt was ever —well, hardly ever —wrong.
He believes U.S. policy should continue
to be “founded on the United Nations/’
whose performances he passes in singular
silence.
Roosevelt’s obsession about the stand-
ing of Chiang Kai-shek’s China was proof
against all remonstrance —the uneasy
dissent of Churchill, the not-altogether-
disguised chicanery of the Kremlin heads
the Westerners met in conference, or the
pungent vituperations against “the
Peanut” of poor old “Vinegar Joe”
Stilwell, Roosevelt’s war-time representa-
tive at Chungking, who knew his onions
from experience on the spot. Roosevelt
wanted Britain to give Hong Kong to
Chiang and the French to give up Indo-
China, he having been assured by Chiang
that China did not want it; and he was
willing to believe that Stalin was
sincere when he said he had no intention
whatever of resisting “return” of Man-
churia to China or of helping the Chinese
Communists to fight the legitimate
Chinese Government. Sumner Welles is
not ready to go quite so far in accepting
Stalin’s words on these last points at
face-value; but he believes that if
America had insisted on a territorial
understanding with Russia about post-war
boundaries before Stalingrad, the Soviet
would probably have kept any agreement,
even one assuring independence for the
Baltic States.
Even after the Red armies stood in
possession on the Oder and the shores
of the China Sea, Welles still thinks Presi-
dent Truman could have secured at Pots-
dam the sort of binding agreement fox
sweet reasonableness with Stalin which
he is sure Roosevelt, if he had lived,
could have made, and that the Korean
dispute could have been prevented. He
does not say how. When War Secretary
Stimson opined that to try to construct
U.N.O. before the Allies and Russia had
“ironed out the realities” facing peace-
makers in the post-war world was invit-
ing trouble, Welles said, and still says,
that Stimson was wrong and Roosevelt,
on the other tack, was right.
In particular instance, the Roosevelt
efforts to agree with China and Russia
that both should get back in Man-
churia what Japan had seized, the one
its “territory” and the other its railway
and port concessions, illustrate the
fundamental illusion in Washington
that China, thus “restored,” would
be a barrier to Russia in Asia.
Sumner Welles is not as frank as
Stettmius (another of the State Depart-
ment’s brains-trust) in admitting that the
“private” agreement at Yalta for Russia
after V.E. day to move troops secretly
to Manchuria against the Japanese was,
by agreement, kept secret from China.
With the Soviet again in charge all along
the Manchurian railways, and in Dairen
and Port Arthur, what would there be
left for China to “control”?
It would be hard to credit that men
of affairs could pursue so fantastic a
policy if some of them did not thus pro-
claim it with pride. As for Korea,
separated by a considerable chunk of
Soviet-occupied Manchuria from China,
this is what Sumner Welles solemnly
writes in the year 1951:
Korea is of basic significance to China.
The control of Korea by any Power that
may menace the independence of China
is a vital danger to the Chinese people.
The United States should have foreseen
Laffer Roosevelt’s death, of course] that
agreement upon a trusteeship for Korea
in which China would participate was of
the utmost urgency if China were to be
saved from Communist domination.
Little wonder that Korea is now a
hopeless mess, and that when General
Mac Arthur went back to America in his
bowler-hat he carried a hatchet with him.
Stripping the Farms.
Mr. Harold Holt, Minister for Immi-
gration, told the Press just before Christ-
mas that more migrants would have to
go into primary industries. Sound as
far as it goes; but if this country is
to survive it is of greater importance
that more Australians both remain in,
and turn to, primary industries as a
normal means of livelihood.
At present, following the reactions of
luxury and time-payment industries to the
maligned Fadden Budget, there is talk of
an “unemployed pool” in the Big Cities,
and even of depression and want. There
is a certain amount of transitory unem-
ployment ; but there is no overall unem-
ployment surplus, and almost any of the
displaced could find a job in the country
in some of the rural industries.
The truth, however, is that most people
who are directly affected by Government
restrictions do not want merely a job to
give them a livelihood and opportunity.
They have been taught over nine years
of “Labor” government and Abe Saffron
economy that they can expect more than
that. The real specification of a job
which most unemployed young people
want at the present time would be
honestly described as follows —and who
can blame the aspirants, in view of the
kind of competition which has gone on
in industry, the kind of incentives which
have been offered by hothouse post-war
firms, the kind of doctrine which has been
preached by Communist leaders and their
“sedulous apes” the “Labor” poli-
ticians? :
Wanted, job in city, five days a week,
tree morning and afternoon tea, nurse on
premises, no overtime whatever, work to
be at slowest tempo possible without pro-
moting actual sleep, three weeks’ holiday
in year. Must be near residence, beach,
picture-shows, lottery office, must require
no skill. Wages anything that can be
blackmailed out of employer according to
the tightness of the labor situation in his
industry. Any other conditions employee
cares to impose.
This is a very common type of require-
ment. The idea of domestic service, of
work in the country among bushland
and animals and away from bright
lights, dress-shops, fun-parlors and the
Bikini beach-girls has in some States
become very remote.
When World War I ended there was
a strong and sturdy young generation at
work on the land. Usually the workers
had some proprietary interest (or expec-
tation of it) in the farms on which they
worked. They were the sons and
daughters of farmers or graziers expect-
ing to inherit or to marry somebody who
would inherit. But despite the fact that
life has been softened by the advent of
electricity and machinery in most of the
rural districts, and farm returns built up
substantially through the rise in world
prices, the farming areas of Australia
are gradually becoming deserted. The
farmer himself is bowed down by the
shortage of materials, the load of taxa-
tion, the load of old-men-of-the-sea in
the form of oppressive boards, the
destruction of his ownership of his own
produce, which has now passed de facto
into the hands of the bureaucrats, with-
out whose permission he cannot sell one
of his own potatoes or eggs.
The seasonal worker has left the less-
profitable fields for the millionaire realms
of shearing and sheep-station work
realms in which it now takes three men
to do what one man used to do 30 years
ago, and in which the rewards are com-
parable with those of a reasonably pros-
perous doctor or lawyer (who has spent
a thousand pounds or so in qualifying for
his profession) without a tenth of the
work and responsibility which pro-
fessional status carries.
Mr. Holt’s figures are alarming. The
very essence of a nation’s sturdiness
springs from its soil. The core of every
nation is its smaller landed proprietors
and regular farm-workers, who provide
the fund from which the physical strength
and general virility of the race is almost
invariably built up. Yet, according to
Mr. Holt’s statistics, only 500,000 of the
total work-force of the Commonwealth
are in rural industries, and Mr. Holt says
that this is 42,000 less than the rural
army that existed when the population of
Australia was 1,500,000 fewer than it is
today. TI7 , _
The figures from the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment Statistical Register, which are
complete only till the rot had really begun
to set in in the last term of the Chifley
Government, show even more clearly
what is happening. In 1946, despite an
increase of 300,000 in the population in
the interval, there were fewer holdings
of one acre and upwards ini the Mother
State than there were m 1933—and n
must be remembered that “Labor” Gov-
ernments which had been uninterruptedly
in power in both Federal and State
spheres since early in the war were
“closer-settlement” Governments.
In the period, holdings engaged in
dairying declined from 15,177 to 12,157,
and all mixed properties, except those in
which the stress was on grazing, declined.
Cultivated holdings in 1933 numbered
52,630 ; but in 1946 —despite subdivisions
—they aggregated only 49,743. Persons
employed on rural holdings in N. S.
Wales in 1939, when the population was
2,766,000, totalled 133,400. Persons simi-
larly employed in 1949, when the popu-
lation was 300,000 greater, totalled only
122,000-odd.
A dissection of the figures gives
extra significance to statistics. The
number of owners, lessees, tenants and
sharefarmers in the period grew from
70.000 to 90,000; the number of females
engaged was more than doubled, but
the number of male relatives employed
was more than halved, and the numbers
of all employees, including managers and
relatives working for wages, fell from
41.000 to 34,000, the gap being made up
somehow with vagrant temporary
seasonal labor. The burden of this upon
rural industry is evident from the wage
statistics.
Only because of soaring prices over-
seas and the chance offered by a little
woolgrowing on the side has the farming
industry survived at all in some districts.
It is not only rural immigrants which
are needed. The suction of the great
cities is becoming so great that they are
dragging the very lifeblood out of most
rural towns. Many small cities and large
towns are as a whole little better than
branch concerns of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.
It is time that somebody in authority
took stock of the position. The period
may come before long when Budgets will
have to be framed to give specific en-
couragement to a shift of population back
to the land. But the best method lies
in a sober change of public outlook, a
change of the direction of teaching in
schools and in the Press with a view to
killing the idea that the ultimate goal
in the pursuit of happiness is to be able
to live in a city flat, next-door to a
picture-show and handy to s.-p., lottery
office, permanent-waves, “the dogs” and
the beach.
A Better War Story.
With due apologies, Milton might be
twisted to the rough paraphrase that war
hath its victories no less renown’d than
peace —victories, that is, of a peaceful
sort.
When the rather tough “soft under-
belly” of Europe was being cut at, it
was given out, and universally believed,
even in high places, that Goring’s crew,
under Hermann’s own specific directions,
had got off with the priceless cultural
treasures of Monte Cassino.
Though it was the Allies who, with
war’s justification, destroyed the thousand-
years ancient abbey there, anathema was
hurled with most vehemence at Hermann
and his horde. The priceless art and
other treasures had gone without a trace:
they were not smashed-up in the bom-
bardment: they must have been looted.
Now it turns out that so, in a way,
they were —and by a German at that; a
battalion commander of Goring’s own
Panzer Division. But the story has a
twist to it. The “looting” was done with
the connivance of the abbot.
The Panzer battalion commander,
Lieut.-Col. Julius Schlegel, was told by
General Conrad that a permanent
line of resistance was to be established
right through the little town of Cassino.
Schlegel thought long of the art and
“Europe’s most precious cultural herit-
age.” After much worrying over it, he
went to the abbey. He could not tell
the abbot the little scheme the general
had cooked up: that his precious abbey
was to be, for certain, Target No. 1.
With such enforced reticence on the
soldier’s part, and very natural extreme
suspicion on the part of the abbot, it
must have been a singular interview.
Eventually the abbot agreed, while still
strongly suspecting looting, that a couple
of items of the treasure should be handed
over, to be sent, as the soldier under-
took, to safe keeping.
In due course word came back from
the quarter the abbot most respected
that the items had arrived and were safe,
and the “looting” began in earnest.
Paintings of Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael,
Titian, Tintoretto; precious vases of
Pompeii; the armor of Emperor Charles
V ; things cultural and religious beyond
pr i’ ce _aH of it was saved, by a German.
It is now all getting back to Monte
Cassino—and perhaps it’s hard to say
whether the world is better for that fact
than for the story about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Jubilee.
With this week Australia’s Jubilee year
is over and the home-run for its century
of history begins. The Commonwealth
was born in a period of war, with its
troops serving overseas and with a great
drought in the offing. It celebrated its
fiftieth year again with forces in battle
areas abroad and with the prospect of
another world war.
The past year has been a bumper, even
a riotous year, with signs of sobering-up
towards the end of it. The carnival spirit
has not been a monopoly of the organisers
of celebration, who under Lieutenant-
General Berryman have done a big job
which has brought the consciousness of
what they were doing into the remotest
corners of the continent.
The results of the first fifty years of
our history as a Commonwealth have
been, on the whole, impressive. Australia
has become at least well known through-
out the globe, and has assumed the status
of a nation. Its population has more than
doubled. Invention has not yet destroyed
its fine-wool monopoly, which is still the
core of its material well-being. But its
morale is perhaps not so sound as in
1901, its patriotism not so warm, its
statesmanship more than a little tarnished,
and its people divided by an ugly class-
war and white-anted with dangerous
foreign agents masquerading as Aus-
tralians who hope in our next fifty years
to destroy our independence, to wreck
our Constitution and to enslave us as part
of the Soviet Union’s world bloc. The
White Australia policy, the pillar of all
our policies, is in danger through careless
thinking and associations and arrange-
ments which are bound to make it before
long a subject for discussion with South-
eastern Asian countries.
The next fifty years promise to be
decisive for the future fate of the Com-
monwealth. In it will be decided whether
we shall go down before the competition
of nations which are united in purpose,
which will have none of the class-war
and which are prepared to work an hour
or two more in the day and a day or two
more in the week to keep production at
an economic level.
But no country starts the race for the
year 2001 with a healthier people, more
latent resources and a greater distance
from military danger. What we achieve
is entirely up to ourselves.
Churchill to Move.
American papers are less than fair to
Britain —and to Mr. Churchill —in off-
hand criticism of British reluctance to
join a European federation and in chid-
ing Churchill for backing down from
the “brave words” he used in formerly
advocating unity of Europe.
Among the differences in time, situa-
tion and political climate, then and now,
are these:
Most of the overrun West European
States had so lost confidence in them-
selves that their will to live was doubt-
ful. When in the crisis of 1940 Churchill
offered to the French union with Britain
if the French Government would refuse
to surrender to Hitler, the French
Premier refused and his Ministry simply
disintegrated.
When Churchill made his Fulton
speech there was no Marshall Aid plan
and no American policy to rearm the
West European States for joint defence
under the Atlantic Pact. The American
leadership, backed by huge votes of
dollar aid, acted so effectively in stimu-
lating individual national effort that
latterly the American head of the E.C.A.
organisation in Europe had to make a
condition of further dollar aid that the
beneficiary States should work out a plan
for permanent economic co-operation
among themselves.
Britain had not then been weakened
politically and financially by five years
of Socialist government from which she
now feels herself under challenge to prove
that she can recover, not as U.K. alone,
but also as senior partner in the British
Commonwealth. There is no encourage-
ment for the effort to which the new
Churchill Government is committed in
the proposal that British Commonwealth
ties should be weakened by giving first
priority to establishing the United King-
dom, not the Commonwealth, in a new
federation of purely European States.
Whether it would be wise or foolish
for Britain to enter into such a European
federation, no student of her history can
be surprised that however she might look
at it from a position of national strength
she would certainly not make such a
decision from national weakness.
Lastly, and by no means least
important, there is a growing conviction
that American diplomacy is, from inex-
perience, fumbling badly in the operation
of American world leadership. Not even
Americans themselves are confident that
a change of administration after this
year’s Presidential elections in the United
States would not produce radical altera-
tions in American policy. Mr. Churchill
and his Ministers are undoubtedly coming
to believe that Washington will have to
listen to advice from ripe British experi-
ence in the handling of the eventual com-
position with a Russian bloc —a long-
term policy—if peace counsels are toi
prevail.
Mr. Churchill’s first duty—and on his
representation of it he was elected to
office by his people—is to bring about,
if possible, the conditions for a thorough-
going and studied sounding of the diffi-
culties with Russia. As a preliminary
he goes this month to a personal confer-
ence, equally well-prepared, with the U.S.
President in Washington.
Mr. Churchill will no more today than
yesterday “preside over the dismember-
ment of the British Empire,” nor will he
abandon his sheet-anchor for security of
the English-speaking world —that Anglo-
American co-operation from which
sprang the Atlantic Treaty embracing
Western European States also. U.N.O.
can fold up and expire, and the European
Western Union fade away, before either
of these bedrock foundations of British
policy shall be placed in jeopardy.
The essence of leadership is, after all,
example. Britain saved Europe and
civilisation by her example in days when
the United States was an infant com-
munity. Mr. Churchill has summoned
his country to prepare for another effort
of that sort; he has told the British
people that they have got to take their
coats off to this problem of post-war
recovery and get into the job as they have
never done yet. A stern business, but
imperative, and not one which can be
made easier by distracting the British
public’s concentration or dissipating its
energies on somebody else’s predilection
for a merger of Britain’s problems in
Europe’s.
The Davis Cup.
Australia has every reason to be
pleased with the results of this year’s
challenge round of the Davis Cup. Not
only did it hold the cup against the best
opposition that the United States could
offer, but it held it on the outstanding
merit of its players, notably Sedgman
and McGregor.
Maybe without Sedgman we couldn’t
have held the cup. But with any Davis
Cup team limited to a maximum of four
players there is almost bound to be a key
man who is all-important to the success of
the team. And that has often been so in
teams from other countries.
The playing of the challenge round
was well staged. The sporting spirit was
widely evident, and a good time was had
by all. The year-end holidays were
noticeably the happier for it.
Held to Ransom.
“Aerial Banditry” was the term used by
one American paper to describe incidents
of the type involving the crew of the
U.S. transport plane forced down in
Hungary. About 18 months ago an
unarmed American Navy plane was shot
down in the Baltic by Russian fighters.
Moscow’s story was that the plane had
crossed the Soviet frontier and had fired
on Soviet planes sent up to bring it down.
When Soviet pilots returned the fire, said
the Russian report, it turned out to sea
and disappeared.
Medals were swiftly pinned on the
tunics of the Soviet airmen, and Moscow
turned a deaf ear to American protests
that the missing plane was unarmed, that
it was not, as the Russians claimed, a
829 and that its route could not possibly
have brought it anywhere near the spot
where the Russians claimed to have seen
it. More recently a plane flying under
U.N. orders met with a similar fate off
the coast of Siberia. Moscow’s story
was almost identical with its earlier one,
and again the heroic Soviet pilots were
decorated.
The current case differs from the other
two in that the American fliers survived
the forcing-down of their aircraft. Their
plane, with a crew of four, was on a
routine flight from Berlin to Belgrade
on November 19 when it radioed that it
was running short of fuel and had lost
its way. No more was heard for a fort-
night, when the Soviet news-agency
belatedly announced that it had been
forced down by Russian fighters while
flying over Hungary with “criminal
intentions.”
Specifically they claimed the intentions
included dropping spies and saboteurs.
They did not claim that any spies or
saboteurs had actually been apprehended,
but as evidence of evil intent on the part
of the airmen they mentioned that
blankets, parachutes and a spare radio-
set had been found in the plane, also
some maps of eastern Europe. That
these might be considered normal equip-
ment for an aircraft flying across central
Europe in winter was not accepted by the
Russians or their Hungarian stooges, and
it was announced that the airmen would
be “tried” by a military court. No
member of the American Legation in
Budapest was allowed to see the men,
and, despite four protests to the
Hungarian Government and a Washing-
ton request to Moscow to intervene—
foredoomed to failure, as it was really
asking the Kremlin to reverse its own
decision they were “tried” with
suspicious haste, found guilty and
sentenced to fines totalling 120,000
dollars, in default three months’ imprison-
ment. On Friday the airmen were
released after the U.S. Government had
paid what Secretary of State Dean
Acheson described as “the so-called
fines.”
“Banditry” is a fitting word for this
sort of thing, the fines being nothing
more than a demand for ransom.
From that point of view the Communist
countries have put the clock back to the
days when the rulers of the Barbary
States levied tribute on unfortunate sea-
farers who fell into their hands. But
there is more to the trials than the
“fines.” Ransom was not the primary
reason for putting the four airmen
in the dock. At the time the plane
was reported missing Vishinsky savagely
attacked America at U.N.O. on the
grounds that its Mutual Security Act
was designed to finance subversive activity
behind the Iron Curtain. The fortuitous
arrival of the lost transport plane was an
unexpected opportunity to provide
“proof” of America’s evil intent, either
for the benefit of doubters in the satellite
countries or to provide a paper case to
support further vilification in the diplo-
matic field.
As a protest America has closed the
Hungarian consulates in New York and
Cleveland and placed a ban on American
travel in Hungary. This may cause some
slight inconvenience to Hungary, but it
won’t worry Moscow.
Prawns and Security.
As the year closed word seeped out of
Canberra that when the Federal
Treasurer meets the other Empire
Treasurers in London shortly he will be
asked to invite Australia to cut down its
spending outside the sterling group.
There are to be three requests;
A renewed dollar-saving campaign, with
reimposition of dollar controls relaxed in
the past year or so.
A heavy cut in imports from sundry
countries, notably Japan and Western
Europe, which aren’t on dollar currency
nor in the sterling pool.
A concentration of export and import
trade as far as possible with Britain and
the sterling group.
Cutting down foreign spending was on
the way, anyhow. Australia’s overseas
credits aren’t what they were, and export
income has fallen so steeply in the
past year as to weaken them still more.
In plain words, the easy-money picnic is
over just as much in our international
trade as it is in local business. The fact
that cooked prawns were marked Bs. a
pound in Sydney one day last week and
were 4s. 6d. a pound 48 hours later may
be an early pointer to what is going to
happen.
It might be hard to change suddenly
the habit of a nation which has been on
a spending-spree for five years—when the
Commonwealth Government set out to do
it by Budgetary means screams of anguish
rose from quarters which ought to have
known better—but circumstances will
change it, anyhow. And if the stream of
foreign goods, many of them of little real
benefit to the country, dies down to a
trickle we won’t lose much.
It is true enough that Britain will be
asking the Dominion Treasurers for their
countries’ co-operation in an effort to
sustain Britain’s trade. Manufacturing
recovery in Western Europe and Japan,
added to the competition from the dollar
area, is a threat Britain can’t ignore. Nor
can Australia. A Czecho watch or a
Japanese bale of cloth might be cheaper
than the British equivalents, but a
financially stable Britain is worth the
extra money to Australia.
In a world divided into two political
camps, one of them displaying every
symptom of aggression short of actual
open warfare and the other hurriedly
preparing to meet the imminent threat,
the old axiom that “trade is the lifeblood
of nations” is truer than ever it was. It
is certainly the lifeblood of the demo-
cratic nations in the sterling group. Since
the dollar nations are fairly well able to
look after themselves at the moment.
Australians have no squeal coming if
they’re called upon to consider what
Britain asks.
Short Stones.
There really doesn’t seem much practical
value in the two proposals submitted to
the Commonwealth Literary Fund by
the judges in the Jubilee short-story
competition after they had awarded first-
prize to Vance Palmer and second to
D’Arcy Niland: that the fund should
start a magazine to publish “non-com-
mercial” short-stories, and that the 25 best
stories from the competition should be
published in book form.
Unless the “non-commercial” stories
are to be experiments of the Ern Malley
variety, which can safely be left to look
after themselves, there are already at
least three places where they can be
published. The Bulletin, to begin with,
nas never asked for anything but the best
in Australian writing and has, in fact,
printed many stories by Vance Palmer
and by two of the judges—Katharine
Susannah Prichard and Henrietta Drake-
Brockman —none of which writers, pre-
sumably, would consider themselves
“commercial.” Then there are
“Southerly” and “Meanjin Papers.”
A new magazine could hardly hope to
turn itself into another Bulletin, with
70 years of tradition behind it, 70 years
of publishing the best in Australian verse
and prose from McCrae and Lawson to
Fitz Gerald and Brian James. At best it
would be another “Southerly” or “Mean-
jin,” and these little magazines are
already being kept alive by subsidies from
the Commonwealth Fund. Another of
the same kind couldn’t do much to solve
the commercial problems of “non-
commercial” writers, and no doubt that’s
really what is worrying them.
As for publishing the 25 best stories
in book form, that has apparently already
been decided upon; but if only for the
reason that the best writers don’t usually
bother to enter for competitions it’s ex-
tremely unlikely that 25 are worth pre-
serving in a book. If the fund has any
money to spare for short-stories it would
be much wiser to spend it on Coast to
Coast, which Angus and Robertson have
been forced to reduce to a biennial, or
on printing writers such as E. O. Schlunke
and James Hackston, who have written
fine stories for years but have never pub-
lished a book.
And it would be better still if, except
in the most urgent and important cases,
writers stopped running to the Common-
wealth Fund at all. Even if it is wisely
used it will lead a very precarious life
in lean times, and if it is misused it is
certain to get the axe.
The writers’ real task is not to set up
a hole-and-corner culture of little maga-
zines and Government-backed books, but
to capture the Australian public at large:
and for the short-story writers, since the
popular Press ignores them and the pub-
lishers can’t sell expensive editions, there
might be quite a simple solution in print-
ing paperbacks for the bookstalls. Thou-
sands of people who buy a Penguin or
an English story-magazine for the train
would probably just as soon read an
Australian writer if the books were avail-
able in the right place and at the right
price.
"Gimme" McGirr's Housing.
Glamor-boy Evatt of the “Gimme”
McGirr Cabinet put up a Christmas wail
about how the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s credit restrictions for checking
inflation had (he said) reduced to hope-
lessness the prospects of co-operative
house-building in N.S.W.
Builders, he said, were closing down,
hard-working brickies and carpenters
were reduced to unemployment after all
the sweat they had lost in serving the
community in recent years, and —kernel
of the complaint—the State Government
was being denied money to rescue them
from “a national tragedy.”
Navy Minister McMahon, acting as
Federal Orderly-Minister for the holidays,
uttered a rebuke which might have been
sterner perhaps but for staleness of the
protest and the ruling spirit of Christ-
mas. A month earlier in the House of
Reps. N.S.W. “Labor” members had
trotted out Clive Evatt’s dreary nonsense
during the debate on war-service homes
finance, and there it was completely
answered by N.S.W. Liberal member
Wheeler, who, quoting statistics and
citing the “Gimme” McGirr Govern-
ment’s housing record, showed that:
During its two years of office, 1950-51,
the Menzies Government had provided for
ex-servicemen’s housing, under State
schemes, nearly £41,000,000 —half as much
as the total expenditure under that head
since 1919, a record which left the late
(Continued on next page.)


:
.
: : v
r ::
For your throat’s sake
CRAVE N A
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
• f
r
il^TTfs
4201
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
“Labor” Government’s performance in the
shade.
The N.S.W. Government could complete
more houses if it didn’t start too many at
once, which lie for too long unfinished,
earning nothing for the money.
The N.S.W. Government had wasted
money by purchasing land it could not
hope to build on for many years to come,
and had further tied up Commonwealth-
provided funds by refusing to sell houses to
tenants and thus recover money for re-
investment in home-building. The latter
procedure would also have the merit of
combating inflation, but apparently
McGirr and his Ministers, no less than
Mr. Dedman of the Chifley outfit, don’t
believe in “making little capitalists.”
The McGirr Government has also spent
money that might have gone into housing
on socialising production of building
materials, especially State bricks and tiles,
which are sold by the State Brickworks
“at its own price to various Government
departments.” The cost of a new “extru-
sion” process in manufacture there was
estimated at £lOO,OOO and reached £660,000
—a process rejected by private enterprise
as unpractical. A lot of housing money
the McGirrs miss has gone into that, too.
There has never been any answer to
these charges of the McGirrs’ waste of
housing money. As for Glamor-boy
Evatt, he notoriously is interested not in
houses but in foundation-stone laying—
or in putting his name over the air as
the star item in bushfire warnings.
POLITICAL POINTS
Politicians who commit their New Year
resolutions to paper would be well
advised not to follow the example of one
Federal “Labor” man, representing a
Sydney electorate, who did so a few
Christmases ago. He wrote his resolves
—a formidable list —on the back of his
own how-to-vote leaflets and initialled
them. It is to he hoped he made a better
fist of keeping the resolutions than he
did of retaining the document recording
them—it was picked up in the street a few
weeks ago by a small boy living in the
good-resolutioner’s electorate.
In the title fight for control of the
Ironworkers’ Association industrial-
grouper Laurence Short won the final
round for 1951. When the discredited
Red usurpers intimated that they intended
to continue control of the union through
the national council. Short applied to
the Arbitration Court for an injunction
restraining them from acting. An order
was granted reaffirming Short in the posi-
tion of national secretary and forbidding
McKay, McHenry and McPhillips from
carrying out the duties of president,
senior vice-president and assistant-
secretary respectively. Short then visited
the Commonwealth Bank with his
solicitor, and asked the bank to refuse
to accept cheques signed by the men
the court had removed from office. The
bank agreed to his request.
Final move for the year was to inform
the three Macs of the decision, and to
inform them that they would be called
upon to “account strictly for the money
and property of the union which have
passed through your hands or have been
within your control.” Away in Peking
“Balance - sheet” Thornton doubtless
wondered by his ears were burning.
The depression seems to be here.
“S. M. Herald,” noting that Australia
has now lost two Test matches out of the
past 29, declares: “The position regard-
ing an opening partner for Morris has
become desperate.”
Christmas was spoiled for many of
the N. S. Wales “Labor” team in the
Reps and Senate by the inconsiderate act
of their party bosses in postponing until
February the closing date for nomina-
tions for the honor of carrying “Labor’s”
banner at the next Federal election. Some
of the sick and the halt were expected to
make this their last term, anyway, but
several who are sound in wind and limb
now look like joining them in outer
darkness.
One of the sound in wind, if not in
limb, is Dan Curtin (Watson, N.S.W.),
who, judging by his frequent use of it,
regards as the quintessence of wit the
interjection he hurls at Government
members: “You won’t be here after the
next election.” When he used it on
Wheeler, Liberal member for Mitchell
(N.S.W.), he received in reply: “If the
honorable member for Watson visits my
electorate during the next general election
campaign, I shall be assured of an even
greater majority than I had last time.”
Still, you couldn’t knock Dan down with
a basket of prawns ; not long afterwards
he was interrupting Hamilton with the
same remark. One explanation of
Curtin’s apparent obsession about the
next election could be a gnawing doubt
as to his own chances of preselection.
Taxes and levies on more than a
hundred items were abolished as a Christ-
mas present to the people. Of Australia?
No, Nicaragua—one of those backward
countries.
Easily the hottest seat in an Iron-
Curtain Cabinet is the vice-Premiership;
no one seems able to sit in it for long.
A month ago Czech vice-Premier Slansky
became the fourth holder of his office to
be purged in Prague since 1947. Albania
has a shiftier record still —five vice-
Premiers “removed” in three years.
Bulgaria has hanged two yice-Premiers
and, in Warsaw, Poland’s most recent
2 i/c is in jail being readied up for trial.
When Queensland Parliament meets
again in March, what Acting-Premier
Gair calls “electoral reforms” will be
introduced—to correct “weaknesses” dis-
closed by the Bulimba inquiry. B. J.
Maguire, then Principal Electoral Officer
and central figure in the inquiry, has be-
come Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
a new position. Rumbles were heard
about this, but they subsided. What
Queensland really needs is an “electoral
reform” to give the majority parties a
chance to govern.
Delegates at a Methodist summer
school in Melbourne described the White
Australia policy as un-Christian. It
probably is, but the choice is between
continuing that policy or condemning our
descendants to become a white minority
in an un-Christian Australia.
Nowadays one of the difficulties
associated with the development of a new
industry is the finding of homes for those
who are to engage in it. Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., which is
building a £4-million paper-mill near
Brisbane, is solving the problem by build-
ing homes at the same time —eventually
there will be 250 of them. The Queens-
land Government has granted the com-
pany exemption from the eviction clauses
of the Landlord and Tenant Act, taking
the sensible view that the houses should
be available for bona fide employees,
not for birds of passage.
Voting in India’s first general election
began over two months ago and will not
be completed for another six weeks.
First to vote of the 175 million enrolled
were the people of the highlands up
near the Tibetan border; the last will be
the inhabitants of the United Provinces.
To simplify matters for those voters who
cannot read —and they run into tens of
millions —symbols have been adopted to
identify the various parties. Nehru’s
Congress party is represented by two
yoked oxen, the Socialists by a spreading
tree and the Communists by a sickle and
ears of corn.
Jessie Street, after a spot of mild
scuffling, was admitted to U.N. Assembly
meetings in Paris as correspondent of the
“Labor News,” which innocent
bystanders could be forgiven for think-
ing an organ of the A.L.P. In theory it
is the journal of the Ironworkers’
Association ; in practice a propaganda-
sheet for the Communists. Ironworkers’
secretary Laurence Short has announced
his intention of making it into a genuine
union paper, in which case it will no
longer need the services of Jessie or
anyone else at U.N.O.
President of Mackay (N.Q.), trotting-
club seriously told the royal commission
on s.-p. betting that racehorses, both
gallopers and trotters, could be used to
evacuate women and children in the event
of invasion From a walk-up or flying
start?
There’s to be “a big Youth Carnival
for Peace and Friendship” in Sydney in
March, On the surface that sounds like
a very worthy movement deserving the
support of all young Australians, but un-
fortunately, like so many other things
today, it is not quite what it seems. The
stunt is being staged by the Reds and
boosted by Pink and pallid fellow-
traveller organisations, with a few sucked-
in mugs who have been persuaded to lend
their names and their legs. The type of
“peace” advocated by the sponsors can
be gained by conceding every Russian
demand; their method of spreading the
“friendship” idea is to miss no oppor-
tunity of vilifying America.
A batch of delegates who attended the
so-called World Youth Festival in East
Berlin returned by way of Russia, Siberia
and China, joining an Australia-bound
steamer at Hong Kong. Sydney “Tribune”
had them “bubbling over with enthu-
siasm” for peace and mightily impressed
with what they saw in “the Soviet Union
and China” and the fact that “the people
are taking the cause of peace into their
own hands.” Even to the extent, pre-
sumably, of sending a “People’s volunteer
army” to kill Australians in Korea?
In his loan-allocation whinge McGrrrrr
complained that, in addition to other cuts
he would have to make in his housing
programme, an order for British prefabs
would have to be cancelled. Playford’s
Housing Trust doesn’t seem to have been
affected that way; it is expecting a ship-
ment of prefabs in March. The Trust
has a thousand on order and they’ll be
landed at the rate of 40 a month.
The Commonwealth Statistician has
found that from July to October
last Australian production of milk
was down 16 million gallons com-
pared with the same period in
1950. He notes, further, that although
output of processed milk-stuffs was not
affected by the fall in milk yield, butter
output was down by 7622 tons. The
Commonwealth Statistician didn’t say so,
but the period reviewed was that in which
McGrrrrr and Gair took “control” of
butter prices in their States, and many
of their factories stopped making it.
From Research Service:
One of the great deterrents to improve-
ments in the productive performance of our
primary industries is that many people of
influence in public affairs, and many farmers
themselves, are unconvinced of the essential
long-term strength of the world market for
foodstuffs. Their outlook is conditioned by
the circumstances of the early ’thirties, when
persistent surpluses of agricultural produce
on world markets severely depressed the
prices of Australia’s food exports.
And one of the “great deterrents” to
people reading the rest of the report is
the use of such pompously precious
jargon.
There’s a drought-relief scheme in
Queensland, but according to dairy-
industry “spokesmen” it doesn’t work.
Before a farmer can get the relief he
has to be certified by his bank as having
no financial resources. The banks are
reluctant to issue the certificates, which
suggests that the dairymen aren’t as
broke as they claim to be. Maybe it’s
the same old story; issue a dole and
there’ll always be applicants, dinkum and
otherwise, with the dinkums suffering
because of the otherwisers.
The Persian Government, in recalling
three Ambassadors and a couple of dozen
lesser diplomats, said it was doing so
on the score of economy. Let’s see —
what was the cost of our diplomatic
corps last year?
Nearly everybody will have to pay £2
for a wireless listener’s licence from
January I—and1 —and there’s no rebate for
having to listen to Parliamentary broad-
casts.
One of the reasons for the change in
leadership of the Victorian L.-C.P. was
former leader Hollway’s attempt to break
the McDonald-Cain alliance by offering
“Labor” a redistribution plan on the basis
of splitting each Federal electorate into
two Assembly seats. The executive of
the L.-C.P. has now asked the Parlia-
mentary party to draw up a new plan.
How these things reach out. Up to
1949 the main power-line from Burrinjuck
(N.S.W.) hydroelectric plant served only
country towns and farms. Then it was
coupled to the Sydney supply, and when
the blackout habit developed the country
experienced blackouts for the first time.
One little sequel: A sheepman who ran his
shearing - machines from Burrinjuck
power was having the ewes shingled when
a blackout came on and the greasies had
to lose time. On their behalf the A.W.U.
sued the sheepman for compensation, but
the magistrate held that the loss was no
fault of his and it cost the A.W.U.
£l5 15s. in costs to find out.
On a population basis Australia is the
fourth-largest consumer of oil, according
to figures from an oil authority in
Britain. We use 133 gallons per head
every year, a consumption that is
exceeded only by U.S.A., 540; Canada,
285; and Sweden, 135. New Zealand
gets through 123 gallons a head and
Britain 78. The comparatively low
figure for Britain shows that oil-consump-
tion alone is no index of the degree of
industrialisation. U.S., Canada and Aus-
tralia are countries of vast distances, and
this is a factor in their high rating,
Sweden’s lack of coal resources accounts
in part for hers.
The New Year will see a big effort
made to get more recruits for the three
Services. The R.A.A.F. is to be stepped
up from 15,000 to 19,000 men, and cor
responding increases in the strength of
Navy and Army will mean that Director-
General of Rercuiting, “Red Robbie,”
wifi be asked to find 37,000 men.
Exposure of suffering now afflicting
every Australian home, from the lips of
Socialist Senator Aylett, debating the
sales-tax provisions of the Budget just
before Parliament adjourned:
The Government claims that only luxury
goods are subject to sales tax. Is preserved
ginger a luxury? It is a food used in every
kitchen.
For those who believe in happy
auguries, here’s one for 1952. Winner of
the last race at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day was the 50-to-one outsider High
Production.


V^/^7
It
BEAC-H RcJ.
WAS
A REAUU/
i 0 5
WONPSRFUU
'bus
\STOPj
HOUPAY
sr?
BACK TO EARTH.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
m
m
\
KNFOLDS
0
' 8S
m
m
> ,«&
mm m
V
■
PSU/53
ď
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Ha» all the finest features
c( high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost The
"Notional" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plane.
Music, etc.
Built entirety in Austral** by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE ~ Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
NOW IS THE CRITICAL HOUR.
With considerable courage the
Menzies Government has set
out to burst the inflation bubble.
It is doing unpopular, necessary
things on a national scale. It
now needs to match its courage
with administrative skill, for the
best of plans can go astray if
not painstakingly worked on.
The Government has deemed
it necessary to discourage exces-
sive spending on consumer
goods, even to the extent of
restricting credit available for
homebuilding, which for six
years has had top priority. Even
during the war the shape of the
economy was such as to build up
a huge excess of consumer
spending-power, and after the
war overfull employment and
soaring wage-rates (by contrast
with comparatively static invest-
ment incomes) caused a constant
consumer-gnawing at that part
of the national income which
should have been reserved for
maintenance and extension of
the nation’s working assets,
including roads, railway rolling-
stock, opencut coalmines and
electric-power stations.
Apart from our inadequate
working assets, overloaded by
growth in population and
increased consumption per head,
there has been a fall in the out-
put of some consumption com-
modities, mostly food. Many
dairyfarms are no longer being
worked to capacity, and wheat
output is not expanding. In the
present state of world affairs it
is essential that Australia
should play its full part as a pro-
ducer of food ; even in the event
of war it will be necessary for
Australia to produce more, not
less, food. From every point of
view it is desirable that more
Australian wage-earners should
work on the farms; and the
restriction of time - payment
facilities to buyers as well as
bank credit to manufacturers
should divert many hands from
unessential city industries to the
more vital ones.
It has been conceded on the
highest authority that the 40-
hour week is not being worked
industriously and conscien-
tiously. That has been a major
factor in our production failure
and in the present extreme
necessity to strengthen our
working assets and restore our
primary industries. The fact
that in several concerns where
there have been dismissals of a
substantial fraction of the staff
following credit-tightening there
has been no fall in total out-
turn shows that a higher man-
hour output can easily be
achieved in most manufacturing
enterprises and surplus labor can
be diverted to vital primary
industries.
Significant of the economic
state of the nation (and prob-
ably of the world) at the
moment is the fact that food is
still scarce and becoming dearer,
even though the clothing and
motor-car trades (among others)
report slackness and a tendency
for prices to fall.
The battle which the Federal
Government must win in order
to achieve its objectives under
present plans is that against
Communist control or influence
in the coal, steel, transport and
power - generating industries.
Output or rate of service in all
those industries must be
increased by a large amount,
and it is clear, from pre-war
experience, that men employed
in such industries are quite
capable of doing a better job
without hardship to themselves.
But at present they are intimi-
dated by Communism and “mili-
tantism.” The secret ballot in
trade-union elections may help
a great deal in restoring
commonsense and vigor to vital
industries.
Australia desperately needs
higher output per man and re-
it is to do that job properly.
Our future hangs on the result.
Share Prospects in 1952
The sharemarkets closed for
1951 on a slightly firmer level
than had been the case for a
week or so previously, but there
was still much sorting-out to do
among the newer listings. Little
rhyme or reason was discernible
for the low prices accepted for
employment of much of its
labor force in the more essential
industries. That is one of the
reasons for credit-restriction and
higher taxes on luxury goods.
Further, we are faced with a
fall in our external income (as a
result of the drop in wool and
other prices), and consequently,
a lowering of our capacity to
buy overseas. Therefore we
must dismount from the sheep's
back (where so many of us have
been riding for years past) and
scratch for ourselves to make
substitute goods for those which
wool and other exports will no
longer buy us. (In the first six
months of 1951-52 alone our
London funds fell by £278
million.)
It is no use squealing against
the general policy of the Menzies
Government. Inflation and
loafing-on-the-job have had too
long a run already. When, in
1949, the present Prime Minister
spoke of putting value back into
the pound no one with under-
standing of the problems
involved thought for a moment
that it could be done in any
way other than by inducing a
greater output from each wage-
earner and diverting manpower
from less-essential to more-
essential industries.
But any plan of such scope
and influence must, to begin
with, be sweeping in its nature,
and for that reason its effects
must be considered and causes
reconsidered at short periods.
The civil servant who does not
play his part conscientiously in
administering the plan should be
found a place quickly among the
“diverted” manpower, where he
can learn something about
essential production. And in
order to spot weaknesses in the
administration of the scheme
Ministers, high civil servants
and co-opted heads of private
enterprises will need to work
very hard on the job ahead of
them.
The Government has a major
task in front of it, and nation-
wide co-operation is essential if
some old-established but newly-
listed concerns by comparison
with the prices given for scrip in
better-known concerns of the
same type.
The fact is that there are
nearly 700 industrial and finance
concerns listed on Sydney
’Change compared with fewer
than 400 at the end of World
War 11. And whilst most of the
new issues were eagerly accepted
and rushed to a premium during
the post-war years in which
inflation got into its stride and
money was easy, now that
stocks are being valued with
more regard to their dividend-
paying capacity the newer list-
ings are an unknown quantity to
many investors. This is particu-
larly so to those who missed out
on the new issues themselves,
and, with their money lying idle,
have been awaiting an oppor-
tunity like the present to invest
it on a more favorable capital-
and-income basis.
Some industries at present are
undergoing a rather disconcert-
ing readjustment. The woollen-
textile trade has had tbs mis-
fortune to encounter a very
steep rise in raw-material prices
followed by a sharp fall at
almost the same time as credit
facilities contracted and buyer-
resistance became a real factor
in the clothing trade. The
motor-car industry has also
suffered a sharp reverse as
regards sales of both new and
old cars. The building trade has
slackened, but builders them-
selves may be compensated by
an easier market for labor and
materials. Builders’ hardware is
still moving off the shelves well,
but some timber-merchants are
overstocked and underfinanced.
Looking over the whole scene,
it will be found that those people
who have been in the habit of
paying cash for what they buy
are still waiting a chance to get
what they want in a reasonable
time and at a more reasonable
price.
There is, in Australia, also a
very large amount of construc-
tional work to be done. We are
years in arrears with our public
works and city-buildings pro-
gramme, and a lot of housing
still needs to be erected. Though
wool prices have fallen and our
export income has shrunk —and
these things may bring some dis-
concerting reactions —there is no
reason to fear a depression in
Australia provided we are
willing to do the work that needs
doing and are alive to the
necessity to get costs down.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Vrusw i
m
Suck, ‘
N 5
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
—*
In father’s footsteps
Many families have banked with us for generations,
and it’s always a special pleasure to us when one
of our customers brings a son or daughter along
to open his or her first account.
In some things, what was good enough for your
grandparents is not good enough for you. But we
at the “Wales” keep up-to-date and we think that
you, like your grandparents, will be happy to have
us look after your financial interests.
Y>sYftk *
For the best in banking service,
consult and use
J*
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIIRAKIVIMA II C T D A I ■ A
(INCORPORATED IN NRW SOUTH WALES WITH LIXITHD LIABILITY)
A5128D
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
i
c I
(ft
SC
More View*
from Motoring
đ
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyre*.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. ..
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad" Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
V-
X
d
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia:
MB. B. G. JONES,
*B-49 Hardware St., Melb.. C.L.
G.P.O. Box M.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The trouble-scarred year of
1951 is slipping away with few
regrets at its passing. Such
broad impressions of the earlier
part of the year as float on the
surface of memory are scarcely
likely to lull Britons into a
nostalgic reverie. The conse-
quences of inflation have been
markedly insistent, with no clear
promise of ending. At West-
minster there were no encourag-
ing signs. Government seemed
as shiftless as it was unsteady,
with the Labor Cabinet
apparently determined to disre-
gard every consideration except
the thought of relinquishing
office.
Already weakened in prestige
by the result of the 1950 eiect-
tion, the Attlee Government had
suffered further losses in the
retirement, through illness, of
Sir Stafford Cripps and the death
of Mr. Bevin. Thus Mr. Attlee
was left comparatively lonely in
international repute as well as
in counsel. His lieutenant, Mr.
Morrison, had yet to prove his
worth outside Home Affairs.
That stipulation, it is generally
admitted, still holds good. To
some extent the gap left by Sir
Stafford Cripps’s retirement was
filled by his successor, Mr. Gait-
skell, w'ho has every potential
as a future Labor leader except
the background of cloth cap and
boots.
But his coming to the fore so
soon had severe repercussions.
That restless champion of the
underprivileged, Mr. Aneurin
Bevan, found his political out-
look studded over with red
lights and resigned, taking others
with him. The rift that had long
been known to exist was demon-
strated with appropriate osten-
tation. And so to Mr. Attlee’s
belated decision to go to the
country on October 25.
The election campaign, with
its desperate scarifying tactics
(for which Messrs. Attlee and
Morrison —the latter especially
—are not free from blame), can
be seen only as a dark shadow
over a virile democracy. Self-
preservation may be the prime
instinct of man, and of the
Labor party, but a sharp cleav-
age, wrought by incipient fear,
is near enough to betrayal of
the British people. The more
so since it was enhanced by the
withdrawal from Abadan, the
consequent intransigence of
Egypt and the vaguely-compre-
hended economic crisis at home.
After October
How do we stand now, at the
turn of a dismal-enough year,
with Mr. Churchill in command,
although not very much more
securely than Mr. Attlee? The
signs are encouraging. Confi-
dent glimmers of hope peep
steadfastly through a scene
which, if still perplexing and
confused, at least gives promise
of ultimate cohesion. How the
pattern will take shape and
what methods will be used are
still obscure. (The main criti-
cism of the past weeks is that
the Conservatives are slavishly
hugging the policy of their pre-
decessors. No startling impetus
has yet been noticed in industrial
circles, and that Tory strong-
hold, the City, is even down-
right gloomy.)
But we have seen another Mr.
Churchill, distinct from both the
pugnacious war-leader and the
chuckling, overgrown boy of the
Opposition front bench. He is
benign, paternal, conciliatory
and benevolent. The present
Opposition have been taken by
surprise, and wonder how long
it will last. Certainly he has
won the first round. Except for
controversial matters, such as
housing, food, the delayed iron-
and-steel unscrambling and the
function of the three noble
“overlords,” the House of Com-
mons seems astonishingly mature
and well settled after its short
session. No words need be
wasted on Mr. Eden’s stature as
Foreign Secretary, but other
Ministers, several of whom are
untried, have come well out of
their trial runs, giving the im-
pression that they are on top of
their jobs.
While deeds alone must count
in the end, it is clearly not the
intention either of Mr. Churchill
or of Mr. Eden to rush their
fences. It is also plain that
narrow considerations of elec-
tioneering are not to be allowed
to thwart the wider issues.
Although Mr. Churchill may
relinquish the Ministry of De-
fence, the reason seems to be
pressure of work rather than his
77 years. The Christmas recess
will certainly be no rest for him ;
he is to visit Paris, Washington
and Ottawa, returning here in
time for the conference of Com-
monwealth Finance Ministers in
mid-January.
Doom and Dotage
With the Paris school virtually
monopolising the play of ideas
and Broadway holding a rich
corner in musicals, the absence
of competitive British authors
leaves an embarrassing vacuum
in the English theatre. Our
white hope, Peter Ustinov, has
a versatility of talent that invites
comparison with the young
Coward. He is author, producer,
actor, comedian, film director
and, if need be, composer. But
he also tantalisingly fails to- live
up to the expectations of his
well-wishers. Prodigious in
ideas and prolific in output, play
follows play with seemingly
effortless regularity.
The case in point, “The
Moment of Truth” (Adelphi
Theatre), has brought a near-
unanimous round of censure to
author Ustinov. “Take pains to
write one good play,” it cau-
tions, “before you proceed to
the next. Words and ideas are
not enough. They must be dis-
ciplined and shaped.” Ideas
teem out of this play like rockets
at a fireworks display; and too
often they just as swiftly fizzle
out. There are two themes, one
from contemporary history and
one from Shakspeare. The fall
of France gives one. A wily,
cynical, unpopular and hard-
headed Prime Minister brings
out of retirement an almost
legendary marshal to soften the
disaster of capitulation and give
it the flavor of respectability.
But with this difference—the
marshal is no quixotic Old
Schooler but a mewling dotard
who blubbers and gibbers, has
hallucinations of the past and
plays with toy soldiers. After
the liberation and the execution
of the Prime Minister, the mar-
shal is removed to an island
fortress where, physically re-
juvenated, he energetically plays
at being a campaigning general.
The visit of his daughter and
a Press photographer introduce
the second theme, because, it
seems, the daughter’s name is
Cordelia and the Press photo-
grapher was once a circus
clown, which is near enough to
court jester. In the early scenes
the actors, led by Charles
Goldner, have too much to make
out of too little on far too large
a stage. For the most part they
do it very well, although handi-
capped by much quasi-meta-
physical outpouring in a same-
ness of literary style.
“The Moment of Truth”
occurs when Cordelia falls dead
in her father’s arms, and he,
stricken by sanity, realises his
life has been misspent in devo-
tion to soldiery instead of to
domesticity. So this witness
learned afterwards. He, in his
innocence, thought she had
swooned at the pitiful extent of
the marshal’s madness,
Eric Portman, as the marshal,
adds another distinguished
character study to the three that
have so enhanced his reputation
since he rebelled against being
type-cast in films. In his stiff-
backed senility he contrives also
to retain a parade-ground voice
and a commanding eye.


Society
“Fairf”: There was a strained tense-
ness between the other occupants of the
double seat —I could sense it the moment
1 got in the train. All the way to the
next station the elderly drunk sat glower-
ing in brooding silence. As he jerked up
to stagger out he turned a fighting eye
on the two schoolboys. “You’ll see,” he
snarled in the manner of a man having
the last word in a bitter argument. “I
tell y’, them West Indians ’ll win this
Test.” He was gone before the boys
could reply. A long, thoughtful silence,
then the younger boy spoke—slowly, with
the careful consideration of one who
“ Ah! One of the Oxfordshire Boongs , of course.”
realises for the first time that some awful,
unbelievable catastrophe could happen
here: “Do you really think we are in
trouble?” The 11-year-old sage addressed
did not reply immediately. He was obvi-
ously weighing up the desperate situation
very profoundly. Could be ” was his
verdic? in very serious tones. General
atmosphere of intense anxiety. Presently
the sage, visibly affected, extracted a
cigarette from a packet, lit it, and with
the air of a man under great mental
stress, blew smoke at the Non-Smoker
sticker on the window. It’s good to see
the young really taking an interest in
the things that matter.
* * ♦ *
“Soc.”: Actual count, scattered around
in St. Leonard’s Park, North Sydney,
about 5.30 o’clock on Christmas morn-
ing : Two half-loaves of bread and seven
salted herrings—whether a gesture or a
loss deponent knoweth not.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”; But the word
“woman” does get a look-in sometimes
(“Sebak,” B. 12/12/’5l). A friend and
I were playing chess in his home, the
family, with the exception of a school-
boy doing his home-work, being absent,
when there was a ring of the doorbell.
The boy, sent to investigate, brought back
the report: “The lady who does the wash-
ing wants to see the woman of the
house.”
* * * *
“Becks”: When a boy from one of our
Great Public Schools arrived home for
Christmas with his hair looking as if it
had been cut with a blunt lawnmower
and finished off with pinking-scissors, his
mother first suspected that he had been
the victim of some end-of-term horseplay.
The lad seemed surprised that his hairdo
should excite comment, said he’d been
wearing it like that all the term and
that most of the other boys had similar
cuts. “I never saw anything worse in
my life,” said his mother. “What sort
of a barber have you got up there?”
“Oh, we don’t go to the barber now,”
replied the boy. “One of the masters
cuts it for us at two-bob a time.”
* * ♦ *
“Pat”: Female logic? The morning
after the ball, which had been, appar-
ently, a gay and successful event, Bloggs
was perplexed to find his wife in an
unusually weepy state. “What’s the
trouble, dear? he asked. “Didn’t you
enjoy the party?” “It was quite a good
show,” she conceded on a sob. Bloggs
warmed to his work. “You looked very
nice. I liked that new frock. Very
smart. Very sophisticated. It suits you,”
“What’s the good of telling me that,
now?” wifie burst out. “Why couldn’t
you say so last night? Then I might
have enjoyed myself.”
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: The woman who entered
one of Sydney’s largest emporiums was
dressed like a wealthy, elderly duchess.
Her voice, as she replied to a floorwalker’s
query, dripped with “toniness.” Some
time later 1 was standing at the music
counter when, with
studied impressive
bearing, the lady
approached. I
debated with myself
as to her choice of
composers: Beet-
hoven? Bach?
Liszt? She addressed
the assistant: “Have
you any boogai-
woogai?” I’ve never
been so staggered
since the time I saw
Hector St. Clair
finish off a typical
red-nosed comedian
act by diving his
hand down his baggy
pants to produce a
violin and play,
beautifully, “In a
Monastery Garden.”
He $
“P.B.P.S”: While
I waited with other
unfortunates in Mac-
leay-street for an
improbable taxi on
Sydney’s busless day
a private car stopped
and the driver asked
if anyone wanted a
lift. I accepted ; no
one else did. On the
way to Martin-place
my host pulled up
three times, and each
time his offer was
refused. No one
said “thank you,” and only one bothered
to shake an indifferent head. The other
two—women—stared stolidly before
them at the now-drizzling rain, as though
they had been offered a disgraceful and
unprofitable p rOFOsit ion. The driver told
* u c •i • u , ,
™ * Picking me up he had
a , 0I ? 8 succession of impolite refusals,
What s the reason. A general decline in
courtesy? Or simply a reluctance to
believe anyone can be offering something
for nothing? Or a sombre gratification
in being miserable? It could, of course,
be a sturdy sense of independence —but
I don’t think so.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Laborer”: The strangest
haul in any Sydney two-up school (B.
12/12/’5l) was two young parsons. With
one exception the papers soft-pedalled
the church association; but that journal
lived up to its reputation. The young
men’s excuse was accepted by the Bench,
which merely cautioned them ; they were
studying the ways of the people amongst
whom they had to do their shepherding
“I Want to go home again.”
in order to know best how to help them,
they explained. But a regular told me
that one of the pair, in a run of “mug’s
luck,” had had a big win, and the two
had been pretty frequent attendants ever
since.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Christmas always
brings some surprises ; one of this year’s
was a Christmas-card from a finance com-
pany. Years ago I borrowed 15 quid
(reduced to £l4 by a collection of a quid
in advance for interest payments), and
before I was out of the entanglement it
had cost me £27 ; so it must have been
satisfactory to the lenders in spite of their
periodical agonised wails about overdue
instalments. Still, that does not seem to
justify an outburst 12 years later with
highly decorative Christmas greetings,
including a verse which declares that
“Kind memories will never die.” Has the
finance company, short of business, de-
cided to remind all its old clients of. its
continued existence? Or did the manager,
in one of those moods a Christmas bender
may produce, decide to show, by scatter-
ing a largesse of greeting-cards to every-
body whose address he could trace, that
he and his company were not such bad
fellows after all?
♦ * * *
“Laetitia”: Ealing Studios, London, in
engaging extras for “Csesar and Cleo-
patra,” were,not as fastidious as Mervyn
Leroy, producer of “Quo Vadis” (B.
12/12/’5l). The Shaw play was shot at
a time at which thousands of R.A.A.F.
types had been given unlimited leave and
encouraged to enter British industry pend-
ing a decision as to when they would be
shipped to the Pacific theatre. The first
batches plumped unhesitatingly for the
breweries, but later drafts were snapped
up as Roman soldiers by the Ealing people
at £2 a day, knobbly knees and all, for
a job which frequently involved no more
than snoozing all day in the sun waiting
for calls that never came. Those who
saw the film should have detected a
familiarly casual gait in some of the
legionaries whose first reaction on seeing
themselves on the screen was “Cripes!
Do I mooch along like that?”
* * ♦ *
“F.S.”: It is a pity someone doesn’t
supplement the Archibald Prize with an
award for the most lucid judgment of
the year made by any critic. For this
year I would nominate the utterance of
a Melbourne “Herald” critic concerning
a recent show of pictures: “A spirit of
mysticism resides in a sombre pigmenta-
tion which is yet as lyrical as a Celtic
ballad.”
* * * *
“X.M.N.”: A new ensign is to replace
the old “red duster” on troopships and
similar vessels under the control of the
British Ministry of Transport. Flown—
or should I say “worn”? for the first
time by the Empire Fowey, trooping to
the Far East, the new flag is the familiar
blue ensign defaced with the Ministry s
badge of an anchor and wheel sur-
mounted by a crown. As the wheel, is
not a ship’s wheel, but that of a vehicle.
presumably, representing the Ministry’s
land-transport interests, the new ensign
is giving rise to much speculation. Will
it also be flown by land-going craft of
the M.0.T., fluttering from the tailboard
of a lorry and from the guard’s-van of
the Flying Scotsman, and will such craft
dip to one another when passing?
« * * *
“Sevener”: Our office golf-club has
been intrigued lately by the sudden change
in Mac’s game. Hitherto a straight hitter,
Mac seems to have developed a peculiar
attitude to patches of heavy rough. Be
the rough on his right he invariably slices
into it, be it on his left he develops an
outrageous hook. It is alleged that this
lapse in his game coincides with the fact
that golf balls are now ss. each and
likely to be dearer, the canard being that
Mac deliberately seeks the rough in order
to seek lost balls. If that’s true, a similar
change—though for the better—should
affect Morrie. Well-lined with shekels,
Morrie was given to heaving his club
into the nearest scrub or water after
duffing a shot and promptly buying a new
one. But with woods at a fiver and irons
not much less, he can’t keep that up.
* * * *
“J.A.P.”: “Mickerman” (B. 3/10/’5l)
wants to know the origin of the words
“Now, then.” In earlier days the ex-
pression “know, then” was quite common
—it occurs frequently in English transla-
tions of The Decameron —and 1 suggest
the words “Now, then” are just a senseless
corruption,
4
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Radio licences rise £l.this year. Over the
holidays visitors crowded Canberra, anxious to see
the scenes of the A.B.C. Parliamentary broadcasts.’'
“And here we have the Speaker’s chair!”
The tourists clustered round to see.
“I thought the Speaker might be there,”
One said. “But tell him, lad, from me,
We listened on the radio
Last year to all they said and did.
Till now, it’s been ,a good, cheap show —
But licences are up a quid.
“I wouldn’t say they haven’t done
The best they could on half the money,
But now their funds are doubled, son.
They’d better make it really funny:
Let members who apologise
To dodge the fights the Rules forbid
Settle their scores with custard pies
Now licences are up a quid.
“They need a wurlitzer to drown
Their mumbles, murmurs, coughs and shuffles,
And Bentley or some other clown
To compere and describe their scuffles.
A member should be made intone
His discourse like a cantor-Yid,
Raising his voice and pay as one
Now licences are up a quid.
“Your Canberra stage-monopolists—
Variety is what they’ve lacked,
Yet Melbourne, so the Press insists,
Has got a good Schoolmaster Act:
We’d forfeit Calwell’s Precious Bane,
Or Eddie Ward, the Dead End Kid,
To hear McDonald get the Cain,
Now licences are up a quid.
“In Sydney there’s the pantomime
That Mother Goose McGirr produced—
Her ugly ducklings by this time
Are waddling gaily home to roost . . .
So tell the Speaker we’ll expect
Vaudeville more elect amid
The lecturing of the elect,
Now licences are up a quid.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
“A.H.C.” : When Rod Quinn died he was airily
described in one or two Sydney dailies as “the
last of the bush-balladists,” and when his
gravestone was dedicated recently, followed by
the presenting of a .bust to the Mitchell Library,
callow reporters repeated the quaint description.
This caused me to delve into my scrapbook to
locate “Poet Pioneers,” a delectable set of
Bulletin verses by Louis Esson based on a
statement by London “Times” in reviewing
verses by Quinn and Hugh McCrae that the
Australian poet was “a bronzed and youthful
patriarch still blazing his path through the
bush and pitching his camp afresh night by
night”
They live a life that’s bold and free.
Their beards are three feet long;
And as they skin the wallaby
They make red-blooded song.
Expanding into detail, Esson related some of
the everyday achievements of these patriarchal
poets of the Never-Never: —
The dust-clouds whirl, the stockwhips whiz.
And when wild steers rush in
The Man from Snowy River is
A simple dud to Quinn.
The dazzled cockles watch and pray
When reckless Roderic ploughs;
Grim bushmen shudder when McCrae
Is up, and after cows.
In face of all that it is somewhat depressing
to have to suggest that the only ploughing Rod
ever did was in the sands of Bondi Beach.
He was, it is true, a rural dweller at one time
(as Hugh McCrae mainly is now), but he never
found there the inspiration that he gained from
the sea, and his only response to what Lawson
termed “the Spirit of the Bush” was an
occasional echo of the song of an unseen bird.
Twice, a score and more years ago, I escorted
Rod on bush excursions—once into the heath-
lands north of Manly and afterwards to Jenolan
Caves —and each time he became a trifle
bewildered while trying to ascertain what was
going on in the world of little lives. Later a
couple .of artists, who apparently shared the
view of the “Times” regarding Rod’s “bush-
manship,” whisked him off to National Park,
and there plied him with questions regarding
the local fauna and flora. An account of the
excursion that Rod sent to me in Melbourne
was highly diverting. His long-suit seems to
have been to label every small bird a jacky-
winter and anything larger a currawong; and
when one of the dazzled artists inquired where
he got his knowledge he blithely put the blame
on to me. “So,” Rod concluded, “with much
to say of birds and you, the hours passed, till
the shadows crept up the hillside and the kooka-
burras warned us it was time to be on our
way to Sydney.”


“Clooter”: Maybe I’m one of those
simple-minded blokes who looks on
cricket as a game, and when one side
beats another, whether it be Red Creek
downing Black Walla or West Indies beat-
ing Australia, it always seems to me that
the winners won because they were the
better team on the day. However, since
ail the Australian Press pundits are con-
vinced that Australia lost to the West
Indies at Adelaide because the Board of
Control wouldn’t drink with somebody
named Barnes or because a Mr. Oxlade
had dyspepsia or something, I suppose I
must give away my old-fashioned notions.
It was disturbing, too, to learn from the
same Press on Boxing Day that Australian
cricket had received a “blow,” and the
“authorities” would have to do some
“deep thinking” and “readjust their out-
look” if the “game is to be saved.” The
fourth Test against the W.I. is now wel
under way, and somehow I’m glad I’m
not there, though I’ve had an ear stuck
close to the wireless. So far there has
been no report of Miller stabbing himself
with a stump or Hassett bashing himself
to death with a ball, and since every
photograph I’ve seen of the members of
both sides shows them to be in an extra-
ordinary state of happiness, I can only
conclude that either they have the same
■old-fashioned ideas about it as myself or
are desperately putting on brave faces in
the imminence of doom.
* * * *
“Findy”: The lieutenant who managed
to get his convoy bushed on Ward’s
’drome, Moresby (B. 26/12/’5l), must
have been a close relation to the one who
so often contrived to take the wrong
track when leading our guns into action
against the ant-heaps in the Battle of the
Atherton Tablelands in 1944. So adept
was he at taking the wrong turn-off that
Big Steve, one of our signallers with a
rare gift for the descriptive phrase, said
on such an occasion when we were
following our leader over one of the
bumpiest tracks between Cape York and
Wilson’s Promontory, “Give Snooks a
map and a truck and he’ll guarantee to
lose you anywhere.”
* * * *
“Hamer”; Time has played havoc with
Q.C.E. hotels that once dotted the land-
scape in country towns, especially in New
Zealand. The letters stood for “Quiet,
Comfort and Ease,” but usually the words
were as delusive as the poetic quality in
the name of “The Little House Under
the Hill,” which was a drinking-shanty
in Sydney's ’Loo. An advance-agent for
a theatrical show once put me up at the
Q.C.E. in a N.Z. mining seaport; it was
quiet enough by day, but it woke up at
night and became really lively after
closing-time, when beer splashed the
place from bar to attic, and the pub
seemed to be full of wandering (and
sozzled) Hebes bringing round the liquid
and amorous suggestions—and brawls.
After that I bucked against any sugges-
tion that any Q.C.E. would do me as an
abiding-place. My feeling is that a
“Commercial” or a “Royal” is usually a
safe bet; but the traveller who samples
one of the curiously-named places never
knows what he is striking.
* * * *
“Vingter”: Service photographers (B.
12/12/’5l) turned out some of their
most ingenious work quite unofficially in
the form of composite pictures. Draw-
ings or newspaper pictures were cut out,
and by a little rearrangement and a paste-
up and grafting process startling effects
were obtained. The rephotographed
result showed the subjects in poses which
would have produced much litigation if
published in any journal. Hollywooden
pin-up lasses wearing smart hats and
naught else and top-ranking brasshats
similarly clad —or unclad —were particu-
lar favorites. In one unit the practice
came to a sharp stop when the C.O. came
upon a picture of a society lass holding
not the bundle of blooms suggested by
her ensemble but a corpulent and mother-
naked infant indulging rather pre-
cociously in a pipe of such distinctive
design that, even had the pictured fea-
tures been less lifelike, it would have
identified the infant smoker as the Old
Man himself,
♦ * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Practical jokers and
trick gadgets (B, 4/12/’51)? Among a
group of clerks in a Government office
was one to whom the job of inscribing
leases was a labor of love, and whose
every product was a calligraphic gem.
Returning one day from lunch he found
an overturned ink-bottle and a glistening
“I read a book once called ‘Peter Pan'—is that one of yours ?”
black expanse in the centre of a work of
art which had absorbed his entire
morning. In his anguish he rose and
smote a fellow-clerk who was grinning
widely at his discomfiture. The assault,
entirely unexpected from such a mild-
mannered one, led to an inquiry by a
red-tape pundit. The beginner of the
stoush pleaded provocation, but the
smitten one countered with the explana-
tion that his placing of the dummy ink-
splurge was purely in the way of a joke.
which was evidently taken in bad part
by the bashful one. The smiter won the
day with his explanation that his punch-
ing of the proboscis of the practical-joker
was also by way of a joke, taken literally
excellently but figuratively badly by the
recipient.
* He * *
“X.S.”: The Victorian authorities have
issued the usual warnings against the
careless lighting of fires in the open
now that the worst bushfire threat in the
State’s history is approaching; but how
would they deal with this one? A grass-
fire that could easily have become a
bushfire broke out a few miles outside
the township. The brigade was on the
spot in no time, and its efforts to subdue
the blaze were augmented by a quiet old
chap who lived on his own in a humpy
at the bottom of a waterless gully.
Another fire broke out a few days later
almost in the same spot, and again the
old man assisted. When a third one
happened the gentle old bloke was sus-
pected. In court he confessed he was the
miscreant. Reason, he was lonely, and
wanted company.
* * * *
“Outback”: Professor W. T. Astbury,
F.R.S., told a meeting of the Wool
Education Society in London that life
was a manifestation of the long-chain
molecules which make up the body’s
tissues. To him as a scientist the fascina-
tion of wool was that, historically, its
molecule was the first to be studied
thoroughly, and the results obtained pro-
vided the clue to present understanding
of our own body-tissues. Thus, from
their knowledge of wool, textile research-
workers had been able to suggest to
cancer investigators substances which
promised to be effective in treating some
forms of rat-cancer. Similarly, know-
ledge of wool-fibre structure was helping
to show what went wrong with our joints
when we suffered from rheumatoid
arthritis. The professor added that, as
the inventor of one of the regenerated
protein fibres, he could say with authority
that no other fibre reproduced the “won-
derful coiled-up molecules” which con-
ferred on wool its unequalled elasticity
and made it the ideal fibre for clothing
purposes.
* * * *
“Lupin”: American parents are not
alone in giving their offspring startling
names (B. 28 /11 / ’5l). In Geraldton
(W.A.) there is a lad who answers to the
name Tinny. General belief was that
this was the usual type of schoolboy nick-
name, but in actual fact he was christened
Tinribs. It is only on State occasions
that he receives the dignity of his full
title,
* * * *
“Melbn”; Blackest tragedy of the year
occurred in Melbourne at Christmas. A
citizen taking home a pig he had
bought at the markets for Christmas
dinner stepped into a pub to have a
breather and the pig walked out into the
street while he was lowering his second.
Two and a half miles from the scene of
the disaster the two were later seen run-
ning hard, the pig as fresh as a daisy and
its owner obviously tiring. It almost
makes an allegory of the rise-in-prices
spiral.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; A Melbourne paper
sees a bright ray of hope for a back-to-
the-land movement in the fact that farm-
yard sets were keenly sought by young-
sters for Christmas presents. Made in
Britain, the animals, ploughs and trac-
tors are amazingly realistic, and you can
even select a Romney Marsh ram or a
Frisian bull if you have the connoisseur-
ship, I would like to think that this
augured a furious rush from the city to
the Mallee, but I have my doubts. A
friend of mine who had been assiduously
teaching her small son the Christian doc-
trine of love your neighbor, do good to
them that hurt you, turn the other cheek,
took him into a store and asked what
he’d like for Christmas. He chose a
Churchill tank, a Bren-gun carrier, a
supersonic jet-bomber and a battle-
cruiser.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: Reports of a Peeping Tom
round the nurses’ quarters of the Austin
Hospital in Melbourne recall a similar
happening at Brisbane General Hospital.
Unknown to each other a plainclothes
constable and a sergeant who had doffed
his uniform for the occasion and was
wearing civvies lay in nocturnal wait for
the prowler. As has happened so often
in fiction the independently working
sleuths arrested each other. A few nights
later a solitary limb of the law, creeping
on his belly with the object of pouncing
on a lurking male figure, was pounced on
by a bevy of Amazonian Florence
Nightingales, who had organised a
vigilance committee and sallied forth
with umbrellas. Possibly the police were
discouraged by these harrowing experi-
ences or Tom was frightened away by
the thought of what might have hap-
pened to him. At any rate he was never
apprehended.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: “Great events of
history are immortalised by the poets”
came to my mind on reading “Irving’s”
par. (B. 14/11/’5l) about Edward Vll’s
appendicitis trouble. “Red Harry, the
lemon-seller” was the bard who did the
job about that in the unforgettable lines
(at least I have not forgotten them):
The King of England, stricken low
With ’pendicitis—grave disease;
But now our hearts have found release....
Red Harry, who used to put his verses
into booklets which he sold from door
to door with his lemons, did much better
out of his outpourings than most poets.
He had a habit of decorating his pages
with little daggers indicating the footnote
“Poet’s Licence” ; he did not regard a
dagger as necessary in this case.
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”; Moving from Brisbane
to a Melbourne middle-class suburb I
was struck by the rows of rubbish-tins
which twice weekly lined the otherwise
neat footpaths. I soon learned that the
grandee driver of the municipal garbage-
cart ignores in lordly fashion any tin not
placed with mathematical exactness on
the very edge of the kerb. Twice weekly
I leave the tin just inside the front-gate
so that the missus can drop last-minute
discards into it just before the cart calls.
Feminine-like, she often forgets this part
of the arrangement, so the tin is left
brimful and undisturbed. Happening to
be home just before Christmas, I heard
a click of the garden-gate and turned
in time to see the Due de Garbo in the
act of picking up with his own hands the
usually ignored receptacle. Suddenly
realisation came. This is the stage at
which the cleansing coterie levies festive
tribute. The bottle which I rather
cravenly left on top of the debris in the
can this week was not so much a goodwill
gesture as an insurance against my being
omitted altogether from the list in the
New Year.
TO 1952.
It doesn't seem so very long ago
Your predecessor, that magnifico,
Bounded on to the dais of our world,
Taking the plaudits while the pibrochs skirled.
A very devil of a fellow, he,
Who’d win himself a niche in history.
Give him a box of eggs, a hefty stick,
And he’d play merry hell, and pretty quick.
Everyone hoped that he would be benignant,
Secretly fearing he might prove malignant.
Like all his predecessors, he seemed blind
To all the hopes and fears that rack mankind.
Despite (perhaps because of) him, alarms,
Minor excursions and some major harms
Our planet has been plagued with. He’d protest
That fewer had been cursed than had been blest;
Which, looked at in a true unbiased light,
You’ll probably agree is pretty right.
At any rate, he came with quite a mission,
And much more promise than a politician.
How did he fare, this mate you have displaced?
Would the consensus be he was disgraced?
Like Nineteen Fifty that had gone before
He was (with man as bull) the picador
Who took a pride in potent pricks inflicted
Until, long-overdue, he was evicted;
When, weary and wan, dragging his aching feet,
Shorn of all vestige of his great conceit,
Battered and bent, trailing his blunted lance
He limped, where once he’d do a carefree dance.
The pibrochs skirl again. You’re welcomed in,
Young Nineteen Fifty-two. Through thick and
thin
You’re with us till December Thirty-one.
We hope you haven’t got us. in the gun.
Surprises for us you will have in store.
We’ll listen, too, while you conduct the score
The gods have written. May it prove to be
Of notable, attractive harmony.
If not much emphasis upon the drums
And cymbals, you’ll have earned encomiums.
Quite flattering, you’d reckon, was the sight
Of greeting that they gave you yesternight.
Forget it! Why, for long the newest year’s
Been greeted with innumerable beers,
With revelry and dancing. They’ll revile
You later on, that’s positive. Meanwhile
You’re here, for good or ill. So make the most
Of it, while still you are the current toast.
Later your brow with anxious thoughts will
pucker.
And so we greet you thus: “Come on in,
sucker!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
Parramatta,
February 17, 1875.
My Dearest Etta,
It seems to be some time since
I have written to you, but I have
had a very busy summer, and
not much leisure for anything.
I am staying now at
Parramatta with Annie. I came
here about ten days ago, and
intend going on to Linton on
Friday for a week and then
home. I do not like being away
from home very long. It is so
lonely for Mr. Taylor without
me, and now that we have two
men, besides the girl in the
kitchen, we do not like both to
leave the farm at once, so that a
visit to Sydney is not half the
pleasure it used to be, when we
could go together.
I did not expect to like the
Parramatta house very much,
after Milleewah, but, although
the rooms are not so large, it is
a much more cheerful place,
and, I should think, healthier,
not being so buried in trees.
The house stands by itself on a
hill, with a grove of trees behind
it, and in front a wide prospect;
and in clear weather you can
see the lighthouse on Sydney
Heads.
It is quite out of the town,
not even in sight of it,
Parramatta lying low behind a
hill. They have a nice little
garden and a buggy and a dog-
cart in which Mr. Hedgeland
goes on his surveying expedi-
tions and two horses. Also two
maid-servants and a man, and
everything very comfortable.
I have not had very nice
weather since I came. It has
been either intensely hot or
rainy, so that we have not been
out very often. We walked one
evening to the “Domain,” a very
pretty sort of park on the banks
of the river, where I saw the
finest oaks I ever beheld out of
England, and where there are
some deer and some emus, which
it is Teddy’s great delight to
feed with acorns.
We also made expeditions
into Sydney and paid a visit to
Farmer’s, where I fitted-out
myself with some new garments,
which I badly wanted, not having
been in Sydney for a year
before. The said Farmer’s is a
most convenient place. It is an
immense establishment divided
into departments for everything ;
you can choose a dress, have the
material sent to the dressmaking
department, where it is made for
you in the best fashion ; go to
another for a mantle, another
for a bonnet, another for under-
clothes ; another large room is
for carpets and upholstery, and
all the very best that can be had
in Sydney. It is a wonderful
save of time and trouble.
I have only seen Biddulph for
about half an hour at his office,
during the before-mentioned
expedition to Sydney. He was
looking well and said that Emily
has quite recovered again. I
shall be able to tell you more
about them in my next letter
after I have paid my visit to
Linton. They have Upcott and
Amy Sloman staying with them
now. Emily very kindly asked
them down for a change after
the measles. When they are con-
sidered quite purified they are
to come on here, but Annie is
afraid of Teddy taking the
complaint, as he has never had
it. It has been very fatal in
Sydney this summer. So many
children have died from it, or
rather from the after-effect.
Since I have been here I have
been reading Mama’s letters,
those which Aunt Henrietta sent
to Annie. I was very much
interested in them; they so
brought back old times. We all
say, however, that we remember
our dear mother as a much more
cheerful person than anyone
would think her to be from read-
ing those letters, but perhaps we
were too young to know all her
troubles and anxieties about us.
What a comfort it would have
been to her if she could have
foreseen how happily we are all
provided for now!
I have not told you anything
about my own home. I am
quite ashamed to think how
long ago it was that I last wrote
to you. I am afraid it was just
after Biddulph and Emily’s last
visit, and soon after they were
gone our troubles began.
The servant I had had for two
years took it into her head to
be married. She behaved very
well, and gave me a month’s
notice, and Bella engaged a
servant for me at Shoalhaven,
so I thought I was all right, but
this last girl failed me at the
last minute (I think .her mother
was ill), and it was then too
near Christmas to get anyone
else, for servants here never will
take a place at Christmas, and
often leave their situations for
a few weeks at that season,
knowing that they can easily get
another whenever they Tike.
The result was that for six
weeks I had no servant at all—
a boy whom we employed on the
farm helped a little at the rough
work, such as washing-up and
sweeping the kitchen, but most
of the work fell on me, and very
glad I was when, the Christmas
“We paid a visit to Farmer’s.”
gaieties being over, I contrived
to get a domestic again. These
sort of interregnums are
frequently happening in the best-
regulated families, especially in
the country. I like the girl I
have now very much; if she
will stay as long as last —nearly
two years—l shall be very
fortunate.
We keep two farming men
now; one has been with us for
five years, and the either we
engaged in place of the boy
above-mentioned, as a great deal
too much hard work fell on Mr.
Taylor when there was only one
man on the place.
We have just got through a
serious drought; beyond a few
showers we had no rain for five
months, and we are more than
satisfied with the way our farm
stood the trial. We had always
abundance of water in the creek
and plenty of grass, though it
was dry. The cattle and horses
also kept as fat as possible on
the dry grass. The drought also
raised hay to a great price; and
hay is our staple product.
People used to come almost
praying Mr. Taylor for a bale
of lucerne hay. Now, lam
thankful to say, the weather has
changed, and we have had
abundant rains. The whole
country is green, like spring, and
when I get home I expect there
will be a fine show of autumn
flowers in the garden.
I have a great horror of
droughts. They cause such suf-
fering among cattle ; though our
animals looked so well, the
cattle were dying on some of
the overstocked farms, even in
Illawarra, and it was worse in
Queensland, where in many
places there was a dearth of
water as well as grass.
Ever your affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Springfield ,
April 4, 1 877.
My Dearest Etta,
Thank you very much for
your Christmas letter and tor
the very pretty Christmas-card
that accompanied it.
It is very difficult to write you
anything that will interest you
from Wollongong, Though it
is a pleasant, peaceful life we
lead here, there is nothing to
write about. None of the adven-
ture and newness of station-life,
and at the same time you know
none of our acquaintances or
surroundings, so that you cannot
be interested in them as I am in
any news about Bristol.
There is only one family down
here that we are at all intimate
with, and they are the Jenkinses,
of Berkely. Mrs. Jenkins died
about a year ago, but old Mr.
Jenkins and the sons and
daughters are great allies of Mr.
Taylor’s and mine. We exchange
visits about once a week, and
sometimes go for rides and
excursions on the lake with
them. X do not know if I ever
told you about Lake Illawarra.
It is about four miles from us
and is a beautiful sheet of water,
about the size of Windermere.
There are two wooded islands
upon it, and the banks are very
pretty, though rather flat on one
side, Mr. Jenkins has a boat
upon it. We went for a picnic
with them a week or two ago,
dined on one of the islands
under the shade of an enormqus
fig-tree, and spent most of the
day rowing about and fishing,
I caught several fish myself, and,
among others a large eel, which
rather alarmed us by wriggling
all over the boat and refusing to
be quiet.
Another day we made a party
and ascended Mt. Keira. We
rode up as high as the horses
could go, and then tied them to
trees and climbed the rest of the
way. There is a magnificent
view from the top. Our farm
lies in a sort of horseshoe be-
tween Mt. Keira and Mt.
Kembla. I have often wished to
get up Mt. Kembla. Mr. Taylor
went up last summer with a
party of gentlemen, but he said
it was an awful climb. The last
part up a nearly sheer precipice
and that ladies could never get
up.
I should like you to see
Illawarra now. After a very dry
summer we have had some
heavy rain, and the effect was
like magic. The whole country
is the most lovely green, and
flowers have come out every-
where. I think the autumn is
the pleasantest season in this
country. The spring is very
beautiful, but is often too dry.
The less said about Australian
summers the better, and, though
there are some lovely days in the
winter, when there is still
weather, we get too many cold
westerly winds for it to be a
very pleasant season.
Annie Hedgeland has had
quite a large party staying with
her this Easter —Biddulph and
his wife, with the nurse and
baby, and Aunt Emily and
Fanny Tucker. I am now trying
to persuade Annie to come down
here for a fortnight before
winter. I am sure the change
would do her good.
We miss dear old Biddulph’s
visits very much, but now that
Captain Tucker is in England*
he cannot leave home for long
enough to come here. Of course
the whole of the business
devolves upon him, and from
Parramatta he can go by train
to Sydney every day,
I suppose he has told you that
they have taken Canterbury
House again and go there this
month. They are going to let
Linton. They think that both
Biddulph and Emily will be
better for the change inland
away from the sea air, and Bid-
dulph has always had a hanker-
ing after Canterbury. He lived
there with Annie and Mr.
Hedgeland before he married.
It is a very pretty place. I
think they sent you some photo-
graphs of it.
_ Next week the Sydney Exhibi-
tion f opens, but neither of us
cares to go and see it. When it
is an annual thing, as it is here,
there is a great sameness in it.
The best part is the show of •
cattle, dogs and horses. The
Jenkinses exhibited Hereford
cattle, and got the second-prize
last year for an enormous bull.
How I wish we could have an
hour’s talk instead of letter-
writing. How much more we
should know of each other’s
ways and habits and belongings!
I have just been reading
Grantley Berkeley’s Life and
Recollections, and a most amus-
ing book it is. Did you ever
read it? There are many
mentions of places we know;
Berkely Castle, of course, and
Dursley.
The Jenkinses came from
Gloucester originally, and Mr.
Jenkins’s father named his house
and estate after Berkely. All
the present family are Aus-
tralians. Old Mr. Jenkins is a
great reader and has a fine
library, as he gets all the new
travels, etc., and lends us any
books we like, a great advantage
in a country where “Mudie” is
not. Have you seen Tennyson’s
“Harold”? The reviews do
not seem to admire it. I read
his “Queen Mary” last year
and thought it great rubbish.
Mr, Taylor is gone into town
this morning, and I am writing
before dinner. The windows
and doors all open to the
brilliant sunshine and slight
breeze. Kembla, the black New-
{Continued on page 25.)
♦ Biddulph had become manager of
Tucker and Company,
t The Sydney Show.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEL, HENNING, the writer ol
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
in 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
in 1863, returning to Sydney in
1865, and married Deighton Taylor
in 1866.
HENRIETTA (“ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1837, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulpb,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1862. Married George Hedge-
land in 1866.
AMY HENNING, born 1832, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1835,
married Thomas Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
BIDDULPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1833. Visited
his married cousin Lindon Bid-
duiph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appiu. Later he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 235, an
acre, and built a house there in
1835. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO in November,
1838. In 1863 ho moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 25 square miles,-
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties. Biddulph married
Emily Tucker on Nov. 26, 1873, and
later became manager of Tucker
and Company in Sydney.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
LINDON BIDDULPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDULPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Sboalhaven district of
N. s. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WILLIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


FRENCH
(CORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
/Ivailahle at
(Anthony Horderns’]
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Trailing
Yes!
n
I'll bev> e ' e Z
*
He Wanted
Elephants
JIM KEANE was a hard
man and a fiend as a
foreman. His men had to
work at top pressure all
the time. And this being in
the days of depression, jobs
were scarce. In another way,
too, Jim had them at his mercy.
The job was away out from any
town. They were building a big
dam across a dry river. When
rains came it would hold huge
stores of water. But now the
river was a trickle, which was
pumped into half a dozen square
ships’ tanks to be used on the
job mainly for concrete-mixing.
Keane never let up on his
men; kept them at top; and
when a man began to slow
down from sheer weariness he
told him to go and get his time.
Then he signalled one of the
out-of-works who were always
hanging round, and that man
would tear into it, eager to win
a few shillings. Those were
terrible times. Yet Keane was
never satisfied.
“Y’re too darned slow,” he
would chide. “If only I could
get elephants—they’d show you
dingoes how to shift things.”
“Why don’t y’ get a big mixer
for concrete?” a bold fellow
piped up. Maybe he was fed
up and would like to take a few
pounds coming to him and clear
out. “If you want to speed her
up get machinery.”
Jim Keane scowled at the
man, a big fellow, able to do a
lot of hard work, one whom he
was loth to fire. “Another crack
out of you, Ferguson, and you’ll
get your time.”
Ferguson laughed.
“Well, y’re always moanin’,
wantin’ elephants, why not get
machinery?”
“That’ll do. Hop out of it.
Here!” The foreman called a
ragged man. “Take his place.
And work, d’y’ hear me?”
“I hear y’, boss,” the man
said, throwing off his coat, grab-
bing the pick and tearing into
the job, which was to make deep
trenches into which concrete
would be poured to be the base
of the dam.
Ferguson put on his coat, got
his money and said insolently,
“If I see a circus I’ll send it
along. Then you’ll get elephants.
Maybe a big ape, too, that can
be foreman. The job needs
one,”
Keane’s face went black and
he looked ferocious, for he had
heard a snigger among the bent
heads. But Ferguson was too
big for him to tackle, so he con-
tented himself with saying “And
if I can stop you getting a job
anywhere I’ll stop you.”
“That’s nothing to what I
country towns. The man in
charge stopped Ferguson and
gave him a drink.
“You know this country?”
the circus man asked.
“Too right I do. Bin workin’
on the big dam they’re building
across the river lower down.” .
“A dam? Must be water
there, then.”
“Plenty,” Ferguson said. “All
in tanks waitin’ for you. Gov’-
mint tanks they are,” he added,
which was true enough, since
the Government was building
the dam. As the circus started
again Ferguson said “Any
chance of a ride? I was makin’
for Come-Along, but it’s a long
way, and maybe I could get a
job at the dam.”
“Weren’t you working there
before?”
“Yes, but the boss fired me
for cheekin’ him when he said
we was too weak. What he
wanted was elephants, he said.
I’d just like to see his face when
the elephants arrive.”
The circus man laughed and
spoke to some of the hands.
There would be plenty of water
at the dam. Elephants needed
water. Maybe they might get a
wash. Jim Keane would have
had a fit.
ON the day the circus came in
sight of the dam the boss
had left instructions with Billy
to keep the cement-mixers going.
The engineer was due that day.
Keane was a fair distance away
looking over the dam-site about
half a mile from the workers
when the circus hove in sight.
Now if there was one thing
that Jim Keane was crazy about
it was a circus. From boyhood
he had been like that. Once he
had been a circus hand, but not
for long. Even that had not
cooled his enthusiasm. So when
he saw the circus on the road
afar off he decided that in the
weekend he would go into
Moorabil and see it. He might
even let some of his men go,
too. The circus passed by far
from him and he dismissed it
from his mind.
But the circus had not gone
really. Ferguson was taking it
to the dam by a back route, one
from which such a cavalcade
would not be expected. And the
circus camped about a mile from
the dam. The first thing Billy
saw of it was a man leading two
ponies and carrying a bucket.
Ferguson had instructed him.
“Good day,” the man said. “Any
chance of a drop o’ water for
lions loose,” Billy said. They
didn’t do that; but over the rise
arrived another circus hand with
a string of stiff-legged old ring
horses, with half a dozen
monkeys and seven performing
dogs stringing along. The ducks
had gone back. Billy didn’t
know what to do.
“It’s all right by me,” he told
the man, “but the boss’ll go mad.
Good job you didn’t bring the
clown. He hates fun.”
“The clown don’t drink
water,” said the circus hand.
HORSES, monkeys and dogs
went away, and Billy
breathed again; then over the
rise came a wagon drawn by
two mules. The driver got down,
took qut some buckets and said
“We’ll have to have water for
the lions and tigers, son. Can’t
y’ hear ’em roarin’ for it?
Can’t bring ’em here, so we’ll
have to take it to them.”
And he and another man be-
gan ladling water from a ship’s
tank into the one in the wagon.
Billy might have let them get
away with that had he not seen,
rising from the floor of the
wagon, where he had travelled
out of sight, none other than
Ferguson, the man the boss had
sacked. At sight of him Billy
yelled “I’m going to tell the
boss y’re takin’ all the water!”
He threw down his spade and
tore away in the direction Jim
Keane had gone an hour ago.
Keane was on his way back, and
met Bill, all breathless and
shouting “Ferguson brought a
circus, and they’ve drunk all the
water. I tell y’, every tank’s
dry J ”
Keane grabbed Billy’s arm
and shook him.
“Shut up your yelling,” he
said. “Tell me what’s wrong.”
So Billy told him all about it,
and as he spoke a grin came on
the boss’s face.
“Glad they didn’t bring the
lions,” he said. “They would
have been awkward. But what’s
that you said about Ferguson?”
“He’s there in the wagon, I
tell you. He must’ve told ’em
there was water here.”
That made the boss swear,
and he started at a run back to
camp.
WHAT they saw there startled
even Billy. He had thought
the affair had reached its peak
when he left. But he was
wrong. For standing by a water-
tank was a huge elephant
leisurely sucking up water in
its trunk and hosing itself down,
while its short tail wagged in
sheer enjoyment. Water, water
everywhere, and that was not
all, for another elephant had
chosen Billy’s cement heap,
which had become a huge mass
of sludgy concrete, and was
having a mud-bath in it, wallow-
ing and grunting happily.
The boss sat down and
laughed till tears ran down his
face. “Gee!” he said. “Did y’
ever see the like?”
And then Ferguson must take
a hand, to rile the boss, as Billy
thought.
“Well, boss, y’ wanted ele-
phunts. Now y’ve got ’em.
What d’y’ think of ’em?”
“Wonderful,” Jim Keane said.
“Wish’t I could get a hundred of
’em. Anyway, what’re y’
standing around for? Get y’r
coat off and into it—and no
more lip, d’y’ see?”
“You mean I’m back on the
job?”
“What else? Get to it, darn
you. But where did you find
the circus?”
“On the road. Told ’em where
they’d fin'd water —told ’em y’
wanted some elephunts.”
“No more lip, I said,” Keane
snapped. He never showed feel-
ing, and he liked Ferguson. But
it took a circus to show his
human streak.
“What do you want me to
do, boss?” said Ferguson.
“Shovel up that cement the
elephants mixed,” Keane said.
“My word, that’s real concrete.
No doubt about that being well
mixed. Give me elephants!”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”: Running into a little matter
that needed a legal hand, I travelled to
the district centre and sought Inky’s
office. He understood exactly, would
take the matter up and let me know the
result. Weeks passed into months, and
still no word came from the learned one.
Again I sought his office. Ah, yes, he
remembered the matter quite well. He
had written away about it, hadn’t he?
Yes, yes,
that was
c o r r ect;
and he had
received a
reply, Er—
where was
it now he’d
put that
reply? He
dived into
a cabinet in
the corner,
tossed
papers about, and came back to pull
everything from a wall of pigeonholes
into an inglorious mess on his desk. Yes,
the reply had stated that —er, well, if
I’d just wait a minute I could read it for
myself. He turned his attentions to a
safe, then began tumbling over some
untidy piles of paper in the corner.
“Such a trouble finding things lately,” he
“ Tch! Must've been another blackout last night ”.
murmured apologetically. “Since the
burglars were in nothing seems to be in
its place.” I registered surprise. “What,
didn’t you know about it?” he ran on.
“Quite a stir it made. They forced the
back-door. Didn’t get away with any-
thing of value, but they scattered papers
everywhere. Very awkward for me;
very awkward indeed.” “Wonder I
didn’t hear,” I ventured. “When was it?”
“When? Er —let me see now. About
’thirty-eight, I think it was,” he answered
solemnly. “Or maybe it was ’thirty-nine.
Yes, that’s right, I’d say it must be twelve
years ago this spring it happened.”
“Macquarie”: The whisper spread the
way local rumors do: “Old Moonshine
Ryan has started again.” A few old-
timers in the district nodded their heads
knowingly and opined that it was quite
likely; they remembered when he had
run the still 30 years ago—or was it 40?
Some remembered when the troopers
caught him redhanded ; and others hotly
refuted that he had ever been caught
—he had just packed up when the district
began to get too populated. If Old
Moonshine heard the rumors he made no
attempt to discourage them, but neither
would he make even the most veiled
admission. It wasn’t until Big Norm, the
carrier, found the old chap’s dog in a
bad way from a strychnine bait, and
successfully administered first-aid, that
gratitude overcame prudence. “Take
this,” Moonshine whispered, pressing a
bottle into the big bloke’s hand. “That’s
real rum —not the chemical muck you
buy today. That’s made from the old-
fashioned formula ; it’s the stuff that won
Trafalgar! There’s plenty more where
that came from, but let’s have the bottle
back, will y’?” A week later Norm
returned the dead-marine. “What d’ y’
think of it, eh? The stuff that won
Trafalgar, eh?” chuckled the old cove.
“Yair, I can quite believe it did,” the
carrier agreed. “But one thing’s got me
puzzled—how did Nelson get the
Froggies to drink it?”
“V.”: For months Dan had been
promising himself a day off. He’d go
shooting, that’s what he’d do. Out into
the bush somewhere. A reminder that
he could do all the shooting he wanted
in the rabbit-infested horse-paddock
brought a snorting protest, “That’s
work,” he growled at old Charlie. “An'
I tell y’ I’m taking a spell off it. Y’ can
drive me up Lonesome Gully far as the
truck’ll go, an’ I’ll walk over the range
from there. Should get a good day’s
sport on the Wild Dog fall.” A couple
more months went by, then Dan decided
his day off had arrived. Leaving Charlie
sprawled in the truck with a book, he
shouldered his rifle and started climbing.
About six miles on the storm caught him,
and after the worst of it abated a gusty
drizzle set in, accompanied by a wind
that cut freezingly through everything. In
the truck Charlie ate his lunch, slept a
while, and woke just before dark, to spot
Dan arriving back. His dripping clothes
clung like a rubber glove, and he shivered
so hard he could hardly hold the rifle.
“Why didn’t y’ come back hours ago?”
Charlie asked, eyeing him distastefully
through an opened crack of window.
“C-come back!” came through chatter-
ing teeth. “L-like Hell I’d come back!
I t-tell y’, Chari, wh-when I g-go out
f’r a d-day’s fun I insist on havin’ me
day’s fun, an’ that’s that!”
♦ * * »
“Shadow-chaser”: Phil’s farm had no
amenities. He milked the cow where he
met her, fed and harnessed the horse
under the tree which “housed” the jinker ;
the few fowls that scratched afar by day
roosted under the same tree by night. A
huge sow, with a snout designed to pull
any rat out of any hole, was grazing near
the humpy with its numerous offspring.
I had just dismounted and greeted Phil
when a hen’s loud cackling a furlong or
so down the hill proclaimed that the egg-
shortage had just been reduced by one.
Phil was first off the mark, but the sow
had a 20yd. lead on him and was already
making good use of it. The numerous
suckers were bunched hopelessly behind
the two leaders. Nearing the nest Phil
was coming fast, gaining on the big pig
at every stride. Five yards to go and
Phil and the sow were neck and neck,
but it was clear the pig was beaten. Then
just as Phil took the lead his desperate
opponent, with a deft twist of her long
snout, tripped him neatly, and snatched
victory and the egg.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’ve given up trying to keep
track of who is working for whom at the
“Christmas is over, Lavender !”
local garage, but I recall it was Bob first
took over the old blacksmith’s-shop,
bunged out the broken buggy-wheels and
painted the word “garage” over the door.
He’d just crossed to the shade of the
pepper-tree to admire the effect when
business began rolling in. It rolled
urgently and continuously, and Bob, busy
opening bonnets and tapping nuts in the
approved manner, found himself so
pushed for time that some of his pros-
pective victims were escaping unstung. So
he imported a city cove with hair like a
sea-beach. The hair grew flatly becalmed
after six months or so, but the coot had
already been locally christened, and the
name stuck. Dropping in with a job one
day, I asked Bob if he’d fix it by the fol-
lowing morning. “Dunno,” he grunted.
He looked up and jerked a thumb in
Curly’s direction. “Better ask the boss.”
“Boss! But aren’t you the boss?” “No.
He took over a couple o’ weeks back,”
Bob informed me. Then, at my look of
surprise: “Gripes, d’ y’ know what wages
is nowadays?” he challenged. “You got
no idea what it costs t’ keep a bloke on
the job out here. The place couldn’t pay
’im hardly. Gripes, I had to do some-
thing, so I sold him the business.” “Bit
tough on you.” “Not a bit ’f it,” he
grinned. “Don't y’ see, I’m workin’ f’r
him now an’ getting the money. At this
rate I’ll be able to store up enough
workin’ capital to open a rival joint an’
put the cow out o’ business.”
Hs * *
“H.C.8.”: With more invective than
rhetoric, the debate raged ; its subject, as
near as could be defined: “Which makes
a good working-dog: heredity or train-
ing?” Lank was positive that it was “in
the breed,” and pointed to the undeni-
able fact that a cattle-dog would “heel”
a city garbageman even if it had never
seen cattle being worked. Stumpy
claimed that training was all-important.
“Follerin’ out your argument,” he
countered hotly, “there wouldn’t be no
such thing as a crook dorg? But I’ve
seen well-bred mongs that couldn’t yard
a bunny in a hollow log.” “Yair!”
Lanky tore back at him. “And I’m
tellin’ you X knew a red kelpie that had
never seen a sheep, but he’d work a mob
o’ chooks like a champion. His boss won
quids—bettin’ visitors that if they put a
Leghorn in with the Orpingtons old Red
would cut out the white without bein’
told to.” “Huh, he must’ve trained the
hound to do it. That’s provin’ my argu-
ment. You can” “He never trained
the dorg to do nothin’!” Lank howled.
“It was in him. Same with gun-dogs.
You’ll see one that never saw a gun”
It was then Old Mac broke out of his
gloom to butt in: “Seein’ youse blokes
know so much about tykes, explain this:
Why did my mong spill a bloke off a
bike this mornin’—he never used to take
any notice of ’em before?” Lank got in
first: “He’s a cattle-dog and it’s in ’em to
heel; it had to come out.” Stump busted
in with his contention: ‘ It’s lack of
trainin’. If you’d trained him properly
it wouldn’t’ve happened,” Mac flew at
“Y’re a pair of boneheads to-
gether! ” he stormed. “Because the
mong’s half-cattle, did that make him
start with a copper? And if he’d been
trained, would that’ve made him under-
stand that I hadn’t got him licensed?”
* * * *
“Sackville”: If I’d seen the chap com-
ing I would have speared my primitive
fishing-pole into the lagoon and pretended
I was merely paddling or something,
But I didn’t notice him until he was
standing alongside. There is something
mighty embarrassing about being caught
like an overgrown Huck Finn with a
twisty swamp-oak sapling for a rod and a
ragged scrap of cork as a float. “And
would you mind telling me exactly what
it is you are doing?” asked the stranger
politely. I looked at him sideways; but
if he was having a sling-off he had a
good poker-face, “Well,” I explained,
glad of the chance to vindicate my adult-
hood. “I lost my oyster-bottle and was
catching some live bait.” Puzzled interest
showed on the learned-looking face.
“Oyster-bottle? I’m afraid I’ll have to
ask you to explain.” I began to feel a
lot more comfortable; the fellow was a
proper newchum. “Well, you put a crust
of bread in an oyster-bottle and leave it
in the shallows. The young mullet rush
in for their cut and finish up with the
bottle j'ammed nearly as full as a Sydney
tram,” “How intere'. 'g. But you lost
the bottle?” “Yes, the tide must’ve
rolled it into deep water. So I had to rig
up this crude outfit.” A self-congratu-
latory smile lit the stranger’s face, “I.
knew it!” he exclaimed. “See a fellow
with elaborate, expensive gear and you
can bet he’s a novice. A chap like your-
self doesn’t need to go in for showman-
ship ; he will improvise” And so
on. It was all very flattering, but not
wholly correct. I’d seen blokes catching
bait in oyster-bottles, it’s true; but until
he came along I was enjoying the most
exciting fishing of my life —with tiddlers,
a flyhook, a pole and a piece of cork,
* * ♦ ♦
“Edx”: Why (even in America) would
a man want to tie a cowbell to a sapling
(B. 19/12/’51)? No, it is conceivable
that what happened was that as a plant-
ling the young tree was growing like some
of Rachel’s grass, when a cow, with bell
attached, nibbling at the top, got carried
up, probably astride a branch, so that,
with the stem ramming itself down her
throat, she couldn’t fall off, and died
up there. When at last Daisy withered
away the loop around her neck would
naturally drop over the tree. Down
among the karri in W.A., where the
axe- and adzemen are as much a marvel
as the trees they match themselves
against, and where Gippsland (Vic.) is
regarded as a seedling nursery, that cow-
bell clapping away in the rarefied
atmosphere near the top of a tree would
never haven been heard from the ground.
Incidentally, although we hear a lot
about the prowess of the axemen from
the big-timber States, not much is heard
about the work of the sou’-west adze-
men. You can always tell a sleeper that’s
been adzed by a good man ; the first sight
of one makes you wonder why they go
to the trouble of machining a piece of
timber that’s going to spend its life in
the ground anyway. Never any trouble
in the sou’-west to do up the expensive
dining-room table. Just call in a man to
go over it with the adze, and no further
treatment is necessary beyond a few rubs
with furniture-polish'and a cloth to give
to the flawless surface a dazzling reful-
gence matched only by that on the seat
of a wharflaborer’s trousers.
THE SWIMMING-POOL.
The river doubled through fem-tree dells
With a muffled booming of white foam-bells
Slapping the banks, shaking the bushes.
Harrying flocks of fettered rushes,
Quarrelling ever with stones and pebbles,
Scolding the rocks in stuttering trebles;
Then leaping as though to end it all
Over an jrised waterfall.
But the sort of stream that I had in mind
Was not of that kind;
No fugitive river
Flying downhill,
But making its way at its own sweet will
Through paddocks where yellow summer blazed,
Where brown sheep wandered and cattle grazed.
The wild duck fed there, cricket and frog;
The dear blue crane from a sunken log
Patiently fished the livelong day;
Family swallows came there to play,
Reeds at the band would backward toss;
Times, the trail of a platypus,
Beaded and ending under a root.
Even the small shy bandicoot
Would grub for roots of the yams that grew
On the banks, till a sentry cockatoo,
Self-appointed, importunate,
Policing the paddocks early and late
Shrieked as he sped from a ring-barked gum:
“Christmas holidays—here they come!”
For under the redgums, cool and dim,
Was the pool where the youngsters used to swim.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZUEL.


“Hist”: They were new to the bush,
and the prospect of milk from their own
cow thrilled them. They were even
patient through a powdered-milk inter-
lude of three weeks, enforced by Lily’s
delay in calving (the man had said ‘any
time now’ when they bought her). It
was young Jack, poking about the scrub
with his pea-rifle, who came hot-foot with
the news that Lily had calved, but the
calf lay drowned in the river. They
trooped down to peer sadly at the little
body caught on a snag in midstream.
Such a shame, and Lily’s attitude disap-
pointed them. Instead of bellowing
mournfully over her loss, she was placidly
chewing her cud under a river-gum 50
yards away. Lily was brought home and
bailed - up for
post-natal care.
But, despite the
bulging udder,
she refused to
“let it down,”
despite attempts
by various
members of the
family at
intervals
throughout the
day. By night-
fall Jack was talking of milk-fever and
pumping air into the udder, which was
really all he knew about it. In despera-
tion Mum suggested hot foments; they
could do no harm, anyway. Immense
quantities of water were boiled, and the
whole family lent a hand at poulticing
Lily’s udder with steaming towels—all
to no end. At 11 p.m. they turned her
out into the little paddock, and straggled,
hurricane-lamps swinging disconsolately,
home to bed. Early next morning Lily
was found, contentedly licking her newly-
born heifer-caif. The calf in the river?
Only the river knew what it came from.
* * 5)! *
“Old-timer”: Ran into old Mick
Fegan the other day. “I bin toilin’ for a
wheat cocky out o’ Gunmngbland,” he
said, shoving a fiver across the bar.
“Good pay?” “Not bad.” He picked
up his change. “It was dead funny, y’
know,” he went on. “I no sooner hit
Bogan Gate than a cocky was on me
hammer, offerin’ me pretty well anythin’
I wanted t’ see him through the harvest.
While he’s at me another comes up l , hears
what’s goin’ on, an’ starts t’ bid against
the first one. They’re up around the
tenner-an’-tucker mark an’ still goin’, an’
I get a bit dry, so I pop inter the bar o’ the
pub an’ calls for a schooner. When the
publican puts it down an’ looks at me I
says The boss’ll pay; he’s just outside.’
"Gosh! I've been measuring from the perspective drawing!”
‘Who’s the boss?’ he demands. ‘Well,’ I
says, T dunno yet. There’s a argument
about it outside.’ The publican goes out,
listens, and comes back in. ‘They’re up
to eleven-ten an’ tucker,’ he says, ‘but
don’t you listen. Y’ can have twelve an’
keep an’ free beer here, workin’ as a
useful.’ Just then the two cockies come
in, and the one I first met says ‘Well,
soon’s we have a drink well make f’r
home. I got y’ f’r twelve-five.’ I look
at the publican an* he says ‘Twelve an’
beer’s better’n twelve-five an’ tucker.’
‘No, it ain’t,’ I says. ‘Every time the
beer’s off I’ll be doin’ dough.’ So I
went on the wheat. It just shows how
the back-country’s changed since we was
young blokes, don’t it?”
* * * ♦
“Rus”: The Queensland town of Kil-
kivan, which recently celebrated its cen-
tenary, might never have been in exist-
ence under that name had it not been
for a damper. After a spell on Ben
Boyd’s Monaro whaling station Dan Mac-
Taggart, an enterprising Scots migrant,
shipped a cargo of sheep and shepherds
to Maryborough and from there struck
overland through the Wide Bay watershed
till he came to what looked like gooc
sheep country. He named his property
after the hamlet of Kilkivan in his native
Ayrshire, but the blacks who speared all
his shepherds and most of his sheep made
it appear that its existence would be
short. Deciding to abandon the project,
Mac I aggart locked himself in his loop-
holed hut with his surviving horse over-
night and prepared a damper for the long
ride back to Maryborough next morning.
During the night the horse ate the damper,
thereby delaying the early start while a
replacement was made. Before the sod
had cooled a rescue party, headed by Ned
Hawkins, of distant Boonara, arrived,
MacTaggart remained to establish firmly
the historic property which gave the now-
thriving town its name. His rescuer, Ned
Hawkins, left shortly afterwards for the
Californian gold rush of ’49 and was
drowned there, Ned’s successor on Boon-
ara was the partnership of D. M. and
G. H. Tones, whose great-grandchildren
hold the homestead block today after an
unbroken century of family ownership.
* * * *
I noticed the thick trail of
small black ants moving steadily along
about 50 yards from tfre house. I fol-
lowed the procession: it wound its way
over rocks, through long grass, over a
couple of logs and across a stretch of
newly-dug garden to the foundation-piers
of the house, which were about 3ft. high.
Climbing one of the piers, it crossed an
Bft. veranda to the fibro wall, up which
it marched in a direct line to a nail-hole
at least 9ft. from the floor, down the
inside wall of a bedroom, across
a carpet to the dressing-table, which it
ascended and disappeared into one of
the drawers. They had discovered a few
chocolates which the lady of the house
had put away and forgotten.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”; Perhaps it’s a common
occurrence in the city—l wouldn’t know
—but a small crowd had gathered at the
mouth of a narrow Sydney lane, and I am
as big a stickybeak as the next bloke.
At first glance there seemed to be nothing
more exciting than a big truck backing
out of a wide doorway ; then ! saw that
the vehicle was not really backing out —
it was merely trying to! Even / could
see that the driver was an expert; still,
although he inched forward, then back,
hauling the wheel around mightily the
moment he had steering-way, the position
did not improve. A leather-aproned 14-
stoner pushed through the throng,
exchanged a few sentences of truck-
driver jargon, then appointed himself
traffic-cop, culminating with a forefinger
gyrating vigorously to the final instruc-
tions: “Swing her on the other lock,
now, and y’re right.” The orders were
obeyed, but the truck remained a
prisoner, Scratchings of a balding thatch,
then: “But how did you get in there?”
With commendable good-temper came the
reply: “Just drove in. I tell you, it’s
possible to drive in where you can’t back
out! ” Time passed ; the adviser drifted
away. A young semi-bodgie butted ip:
“Back across here and swing on the other
lock and y’ll be jake.” The driver
sighed. “Look, mate,” he said with
restraint, “I’d take advice off a kid with
a billycart; but don’t tell me to do what
I’ve already done four times.” In the
vain hope of seeing the end of the story
I waited so long that I almost missed my
train. Perhaps the truck is still there. I
don’t know. All I know is that I’ll always
iNO Tf\LK>M6
|H* EXERCISE
br yftWD —-
6>iD BIAC<
r
“Bert’s bin trainin’ f’r this getaway for five years."
back into awkward places. Unless —
perhaps the truck-driver’s contention
applies in reverse; It’s possible to back
in where you can’t drive out!
* * * *
“The Missus”; Burdekin plums (B.
5/12/’51)? One tree I recall near Low-
mead (Q.) must have been 50 or 60 feet
high, and the branch-span about the same.
The plums were as tough as old leather,
and abominably sour, but the trick was
to bury them for a week or so in a patch
of dry, sandy soil. Evidently it was a
form of cooking by solar rays; anyway,
they became tender and passably sweet
after the treatment. My mentor was a
native lass of fine bushcraft; perhaps the
burying idea is of abo. origin.
* sis * #
Will Lawson: In the film of the Kon-
Tiki expedition there is a fine picture of
a huge whale-shark, which followed the
raft, without showing the evil temper it
possesses. This beast is covered with
yellow spots. A century ago there was
one of them on the \vhaling-grounds
around Tasmania. But everyone believed
it t® be a very ferocious lone bull-whale.
Whalers called it the Spotted Bull, as
distinct from Solander Bill, the Black
Bull, Torpedo Tom and New Zealand
Bill—all famous whales which had
a long list of bad
deeds to their dis-
credit, Black Bull sank
a ship, the Surprise.
The Spotted Bull was
credited with having
swallowed two men;
this is quite possible
with a sperm-whale,
which has a huge mouth
with 20ft. jaws and a
big throat, and rows of
big ivory teeth. It lives
mainly on squids torn
from the seabed at
about 200 fathoms, the
bulls being able to stay
down for 40 minutes —
they feed the cows and
calves waiting on top.
The mate of the
Aladdin, George
Attwell, was almost
swallowed once. He got into a
whale’s mouth, but a splinter of the
smashed boat stuck into the jaws, so that
they could not be closed, and his mates
got him out. Later he got Solander Bill,
the whale concerned. The Surprise was
one of three whale-ships which were sunk
by whales. The first was the Essex, a
Nantucket ship, in 1820. The next was
Ann Alexander, another Yankee ship.
The weight of the whale that sank her
was estimated to be 300 tons. It went
clean through the pine planks into the
ship, and the crew had no time to save
anything. Later they were picked up by
a sister-ship. May Alexander. Three
years later the Rebecca got a bull-whale
which had two harpoons in his body
branded Ann Alexa. No Hobart shif
was ever sunk by a whale; they were
built of bluegum and were too tough.
Incidentally, the first bluegum ship to
visit England was examined by Lloyds
very critically, but the surveyors gave her
Extra AI at Lloyds. In those days there
were over 600 ships hunting whales
around Tasmania.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “A man gets a bit sick
o’ cold mutton,” Mat said, that Sunday
morning. “Look, you clean the camp
up a bit an’ get a fire goin’ while I slip
down t’ the swamp an’ knock over a
coupler ducks.” He shoved some shells
in his pocket, picked up the s.-b. gun and
headed off. After a while I heard a
shot down in the swamp, then another.
Silence followed, and I concluded he’d
got his two or had missed and was hunt-
ing again. Then came another shot, a
long interval, then another. Still Mat
didn’t appear. I was getting anxious
when a shot sounded very far off. It
was nearly noon when I heard another,
just as far away. My imagination got to
work, and I concluded he was hurt and
signalling for help, so headed for the
swamp. Met him coming back. He was
all right, but looked disgusted. “Were
they your shots?” I asked. “I heard six.”
“Yair,” he grunted, “How did y’ get
on?” “Only missed one duck,” he said.
I looked for the other five. “Same damn’
duck,” he added morosely and stalked
back to a cold-mutton dinner.
* * ■* *
“M.S.”: It had been raining relentlessly
for days, and when it eased to mere
showers we shouldered shovels to dig out
a quiet gully where the rabbits were
breeding. Breasting a ridge, I was in
time to see Hal pause, sool the dogs to
catch an old doe, then stoop to bang
something on the ground. It proved to
be a wet, bedraggled kitten, less than a
week old. “She was taking it some-
where,” Hal remarked. “Dropped it
when the dogs spotted her.” Many of
the burrows we dug were swamped with
water, and several times we came on in-
undated nests that were empty. In drier
burrows not far away we found litters
of wet kittens grouped together without
nests or covering—though in one instance
a few scattered bits of fur had been
freshly contributed. All of which is fresh
evidence in support of the claim that, in
times of trouble such as flood, rabbits
will transfer their offspring to safety, just
as do cats, dogs, foxes and dingoes. More
interesting to me on this occasion, how-
ever, was the way my old burrow-dog
could shove his nose against a pool of
water and tell there was a rabbit inside;
for each time he said yes, the burrow
rose steeply towards the far end, and
sure enough there was the rabbit, still
alive.
OCEAN BEACH.
By storm’s bill-hook and rakjng ocean swell
Pale urchins and dark weeds were harvested,
And tossed among the wrack with broken shell
Such amaranthine relics of the dead
As fans and eyes and butting horns of pearl.
Somehow that Grecian woman got confused
With ciphers cut to geometric whorl
Hiat creatures in the skyless depths have used.
Phis purple cone might be her hieroglyph
Translated for the lips of my far land,
And washed through space, blown through
Time’s divide:
A casing for the sigh on that famed cliff
When she pursuing lifted up her hand
And threw her violets on the green salt tide.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHURCHILL'S U.S. VISIT.
“It is,” comments London
“Times,” “not the least of Mr.
Churchill’s troubles that too
much is expected of him too
soon.”
Certainly a very great deal is
expected of his U.S. visit, on
which, “Manchester Guardian”
has said, Europe (and America)
take it that he (has gone as
Europe’s spokesman alsov, not
merely as the spokesman of
Britain.
For, London “Economist”
chimes in, “He can express most
British, and some European, mis-
givings in a manner that Con-
gress will respect; and he can
examine critically some aspects
of American foreign policy—for
instance, the growing influence
of the fighting men —without
risk that his motives will be mis-
understood.”
The “Economist” hailed the
Churchill-Truman meeting as
“crucial,” not only because the
whole strategy of the free
world’s resistance to Communist
imperialism needs review, but
also because the.men who con-
duct Soviet policy clearly believe
that the Atlantic partnership can
be split by economic strain, by
disagreements over policy, and
by the tensions that naturally
arise between “a Power that is
young and restless and a Power
that is mature and sedate.”
PARTNER TROUBLE
That Russian view, said the
“Economist,” is not completely
wrong:—
“As the balance of strength
between the United States and
this country [Britain] has
changed to the British disadvan-
tage, so American policy has
become less restrained, less
comradely in matters of vital
interest to the whole Common-
wealth.
“Both [British] Foreign Office
and [U.S.] State Department
have been guilty of grave failures
to consult in advance of emer-
gencies like those that occurred
on the Yalu River, in Persia, in
the raw-material markets of the
world. The dominating factor in
future defence planning —the
atomic weapon in all its forms —
has been treated as an American
monopoly, despite the scientific
achievement and strategic bases
that Britain contributes. In
legislation the interests of
America’s most powerful ally
have too often been subordinated
to the prejudices of a Congress
that still does not understand
that in vast areas of Southern
Asia and the Middle East the
British Commonwealth stood
alone until quite lately, as the
free world’s champion.”
MEETING JOE
Mr, Churchill’s pre-visit
speeches, in which he touched
on such controversial subjects as
the U.S. air bases in Britain,
were coldly assessed by Ameri-
can correspondents as shrewdly
calculated to establish “bargain-
ing points” on which he could
make concessions while making
requests.
On the Churchill suggestion of
a meeting with Stalin, most com-
ment has been icy. The Wash-
ington correspondent of London
“Daily Mail” pointed out that
Mr. Truman was “firmly opposed
to the idea” either of himself
going to see Stalin or Mr.
Churchill going. And “It should
be stressed that this represents
not only the personal opinion of
Mr, Truman; it also reflects the
considered views of top Ameri-
can policy-makers.
“The essential fact is—and
British Embassy officials here [in
Washington] are fully aware of
it —that the U.S. Government is
frightened of what a Churchill-
Stalin meeting might produce.
They fear that, if it resulted in
apparent Russian concessions, it
would bring about a dangerous
let - down in the Western
rearmament drive before Russia’s
sincerity had been fully estab-
lished.
“And they fear that, if Mr.
Churchill drew a blank in Mos-
cow, it would militate against a
more gradual settlement of East-
West differences and would
strengthen the hand of the pre-
ventive-war advocates in this
country [U.S.A.].”
SUIT STALIN
On the same issue, Robert
Waithman reported from Wash-
ington in London “Spectator”
that, while the U.S. State De-
partment had been well aware
of the widespread approval Mr.
Churchill was evoking by advo-
cating a meeting of the Western
fCOMOAf/C
wm
ď
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch.”
1952 FIRST-FOOTER.
heads of State and Stalin, it felt
next to no sympathy either for
Mr. Churchill’s proposal or for
those who accepted it as a
potential solution to anything:
“The State Department’s prin-
cipal argument against another
Big Four meeting.... .rests upon
the premise that the Kremlin not
only does not want but cannot
afford any substantial lessening
of East-West tension which
would remove or undermine the
justification for the machinery of
suppression by which the masters
of the Kremlin alone are able to
maintain themselves in power.
“If that is true, a meeting with
Stalin would have to be used by
the Kremlin not to relieve but
to consolidate the tension: that
is, it would have to fail, thereby
leaving intact the concept of
Russia as in a state of siege. And
if it failed the effect upon the
spirit' of the Western Allies
might be thoroughly bad.”
WORTH WHILE
Typical of the not-unfriendly
part of the American Press,
David Lawrence commented in
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Prime Minister Churchill
more than any other man in
British public life may know the
psychology of the American
people, but unless he is posted
on the latest trends of opinion
in the United States his forth-
coming visit to President Tru-
man may be the worst disap-
pointment of his career.”
On a more hopeful note,
Lawrence added:
“If the people here [in the
U.S.] can be persuaded that a
stable economy can be achieved
in Britain and that extreme
Socialism and the chaos of a
disequilibrium can be avoided
through American economic aid,
the chances are that the Prime
Minister will go back home with
something worth while.”
Probably the most general
British and indeed world view is
that Winston Churchill would
not have gone if he hadn’t been
pretty sure of that.
Atomic Jitters.
“As history since Hiroshima
has proved, an atomic explosion
sets off chain reactions in the
political sphere quite as grave
and much less calculable than
those in the realm of physics.”
Dr. Johnson might have con-
gratulated the New York
“Herald Tribune” on translat-
ing “jitters” into so many
words.
Nor has it needed actual
atomic explosions to set off such
“chain reactions.” Any explo-
sion of atomic hot-air by any
jingoistic U.S. politician seems
to start people trembling every-
where. Hence a dosage of com-
monsense from “Manchester
Guardian’s” very able New
York correspondent, Alistair
Cooke, should already have
done some good.
If, declares Cooke, the ques-
tion of using atomic weapons
came up in the U.S. Congress
it would be overwhelmingly
defeated.
But, he adds, even that assur-
ance is irrelevant. Military
strategy and tactics have nothing
to do with Congress. They
would be decided by the Presi-
dent, as Commander-in-Chief of
the armed forces, only on the
recommendation of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and the National
Security Council.
Moreover, on such a contro-
versial issue nothing would be
decided without the consent of
the United Nations allies who
meet every week in the U.S.
State Department.
As for its being decided by
the allegedly “trigger-happy”
American defence chiefs, these
are in point of fact “some very
unpanicky and prudent men:
General Omar Bradley, General
Hoyt Vandenberg, Secretary
Lovett, Secretary of Air Fin-
letter.”
The true position, as summed-
up by Cooke, is that the assur-
ance which Mr. Truman gave
Mr. Attlee, that no atomic
weapon would be used without
the consultation and consent of
all the major allies, still stands.
The Peasants' Fight.
An Edinburgh “Scotsman”
correspondent on “the spirit of
revolt which breeds over the
Soviet countryside”:
“It takes desperate men to
fight against the M.V.D., and in
the end those who give expres-
sion to their desperation are
ruthlessly crushed. But the
spirit of revolt is ever present.
Stalin and his colleagues know
it, and must take it always into
all their calculations.”
The cold struggle between the
peasantry and the Government,
says “New York Times,” is going
on in all the countries which
have copied the Soviet technique
of dealing with the farmers. In
Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary and
their fellow-satellites the Press
and radio have been full of de-
nunciations of “kulak sabotage,”
of “criminal activities on the
farm” and similar phenomena.
Stalin, in the same sort of
struggle in Russia, duly won,
but only at great cost: “The
satellite regimes are seeking
to win the battle without
suffering the losses sustained by
Stalin two decades ago. That
they have not yet won is one
of the key facts in any under-
standing of Eastern Europe
today.”
Various Voices.
Ruth Fischer, sister of Com-
munists Gerhart Eisler and Hans
Eisler, explains brotherly love:
“In our family politics come
first. Hence there’s no family
relation between me and my
brothers because of different
political views. In fact, if I go
to East Germany I will be be-
headed, and my brothers will be
only too pleased to accelerate
the process.”
Irish Minister of Finance
MacEntee: “Like the British,
we Irish have a stake in the
Commonwealth which we shall
not readily abandon for a place,
perhaps a lightly regarded and
completely impotent place, in a
rigid European federation.”
France’s Indo-China leader,
General de Lattre de Tassigny,
referring to the fact that he had
sought that appointment: “You
know me as a volunteer for great
difficulties and risks, but I am
not a volunteer for hopeless
enterprises.” i
Dr. Gilbert Murray, OM.,
president of the United Nations
Association ; “The great task is
to uphold the standard of
Christian civilisation that came
down from Greece, Palestine
and Rome, and which is largely
centred round the New Testa-
ment. We have to support and
keep alive a Christian civilisa-
tion which is threatened not
only in a material sense; we
have to hold up the ‘red cross to
a wounded world.’ ”
L. S. Amery, president of the
Empire Industries Association
and British Empire League:
“In giving effect to its declared
policy on Imperial preference,
the Conservative Government
will not be reversing the policy
of their predecessors, but only
translating into a positive policy
of active development the con-
clusions to which experience had
already driven a Socialist Gov-
ernment.”
Tito: “There is danger of
war in the present feverish re-
armament if it is lost from view,
even for a moment, that rearma-
ment must not exceed the limits
of arming for the preservation
of peace and the halting of a
possible aggressor.”
Jdp Prime Minister Yoshida,
addressing Nippon’s leading em-
ployers’ organisation: “Eighty
million people are crowded in
four small islands. Most of the
industrial plant has been ruined.
Conditions are quite different in
a country such as Britain, where
the population is only fifty mil-
lion, and where war damage to
industry has been far less exten-
sive. Japan has lost her colonies,
whereas Britain still has vast
overseas possessions.”
De Gaulle, on the “Pleven
plan” for a European army:
“The Pleven plan either signifies
the end of the French Army or
else is a hoax. It would mean
the resurrection of the German
Army without any guarantee for
France, and would deal a fatal
blow to the French Army. We
should be the only ones to sur-
render our army. And to whom?
To Europe? • But there is no
such thing. Then to General
Eisenhower? But for centuries
our strength and prestige are
one with the French Army. We
cannot, we must not, lose our
own army.”
Persian religious leader, Aya-
tullah Kashani: “We will pre-
vent any foreigners, not only
British, profiting from our oil,
nor are we prepared to receive
British technicians again in
Iran.”
German Chancellor Adenauer,
in London : “During the years of
idleness imposed on me by the
rulers of the Third Reich I often
asked myself how it was that the
[British] Commonwealth had
weathered so many storms so
unflinchingly. The reason is, it
seems to me, that the Common-
wealth is not founded upon
might but upon the ethical
values of the Anglo-Saxon rule
of law and upon shared convic-
tions regarding the basic values
of personal, social and political
life; but, above all, this sur-
vival is due to the fact that
Anglo-Saxons are endowed with
a spiritual background which is
peculiar to themselves ; a sense
of proportion and a dislike of
merely speculative theories.”
Lord Woolton, in the House
of Lords: “We are now living
in this country on a diet which,
while it is sufficient for our
sustenance, is almost devoid of
joy.”
Former British Defence
Minister Shinwell, in the House
of Commons: “We [Britain] are
the only nation in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
that has lived up to its promises.
This country is accepting
tremendous burdens in the de-
fence programme, but I am not
afraid of accepting them, nor of
asking the people to accept
them, if other countries are
prepared to play their part.”
Sir John Cockcroft, head of
Britain’s atomic ~ energy re-
search : “Nuclear physics is to-
day moving into a very exciting
new phase in which we are
attempting to discover the nature
of the forces between the
so-called elementary particles
of matter, the forces between the
nucleons, protons and neutrons
of which the atomic nuclei are
made up. We can be confident
that we have at least a decade
of work in front of us as the
frontiers of our knowledge of
the physical world are still
further advanced.”
British Trades Union Congress
assistant - secretary Victor
Feather: “It is clear there will
be [in Britain] steeply rising
prices for the next 12 months
at least, and at the same time
there will be less overtime earn-
ings in some industries, and
short-time working in others.
The West Riding woollen mills
are already feeling the cold
draught. Big sections of the
tailoring trade are working short
time. People have been stood
off in hotels and part-time
workers are going out of employ-
ment in distribution and
cinemas.”
Eisenhower: “In direct com-
parison with the dictatorship
that has announced its implac-
able hostility to our way of life,
there is only one thing in which
we are inferior. This is the unity,
in his case, achieved by a pistol
in the back. And that unity has
this one defect. In time of crisis
—when the fear of the machine-
gun behind the line; loses its rela-
tive importance because of the
danger in front —that kind of
unity begins to fall apart. What
we must do is to produce
throughout our countries the cer-
tainty, the knowledge, that we
can voluntarily build a unity that
will win and secure the peace.”


Evenly Dishes
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb, turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
ESSE
Grills are extra-rapid ... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler ... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
With AG A you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
by
the
COOKER
ter ’ ■^ g-
%
-■ *
L.
- : : ; : ::-
< BIU CA,S ~
"'Ort QI S n I
Uf,
e-tirffi «
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING 'AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET ADELAIDE Cnr
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A G WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
Ai/teo
125 Humorous Sketches
by “The Bulletin's”
Ted Scorfield.
Anom%
M/xed
CwLL
m
a
$
đ
¥.
h: MaUetCn
Now on sale at the offices of The
Bulletin—2s2 George St., Sydney;
Newspaper House, Collins St.,
Melbourne; 239 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 33 Barrack St., Perth,
Price, 3/6.
Or by post from Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney. Postage, 2£d. in
Australasia; 6d. overseas.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO ALAN WILLIAM McPARLANE for-
merly of Ipswich in the State of Queens-
land but whose present whereabouts are
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that an action
has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
by Writ of Summons No. 488 of 1951 by
LORNA IVY McPARLANE your wife for
the dissolution of her marriage with you
By her petition filed herein she alleges
that in or about the month of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-six you
deserted her without cause and you have
continuously deserted your wife without
cause for three years and upwards and it
has been ordered that service of the said
Writ and Petition on you be effected
by sending by prepaid A.R. Registered
Post an office copy of the Petition herein,
a copy of the Writ and an office copy of
such order to you care of MR. HARRY
McPARLANE Drem Street Toogoolawah
in the State of Queensland and by the
publication of this Notice in one edition
of the “Sydney Bulletin” a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales If you desire to defend this
Action you must within sixty days from
the doing of the last of such acta enter
an appearance at the Registry of the said
Court and in default of your so dbing the
Plaintiff may by leave proceed in the
Action and Judgment may be given
against you in your absence. Dated this
Twentieth day of December, 1951.—P. J,
RUSSELL, Second Deputy Registrar.
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
*****
carefree
travel..
Commonwealth Bank Travellers’ Cheques
provide complete safety for your funds, while
the knowledge that your money is safe adds to
the joys of travel and leaves you free to concen-
trate on business or pleasure.
Commonwealth Bank Travellers’ Cheques
are issued in £5 denomination and may be
cashed free of inland exchange at any Branch
of any Bank in Australia, and are readily
accepted by principal tourist bureaux, transport
offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature are
necessary on all cheques before they may be
cashed, they are safer than money. For carefree
travel use Commonwealth Bank Travellers’
Cheques, obtainable at any Branch.
OTHER HELPFUL COMMONWEALTH BANK
SERVICES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNTS,
LETTERS OF CREDIT, OVERDRAFTS, INTEREST.
BEARING DEPOSITS, HOUSING LOANS,
FINANCE FOR PRIMARY PRODUCTION, EXPORT
AND IMPORT CREDITS, SAFE CUSTODY.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
•THE BANK YOU OWN»
Serving the People in all the States
•* ••
SUNDRY SHOWS
An Australian
One-acter.
John Gunn’s play at Sydney
Shavian Playhouse, “The Raging
of the Sea,” is a too-long one-
acter. It demonstrates the
doubts and conflicts felt by a
man who is intent on following
his vocation at the expense of
his career (navy), prospects (big
business) and girl (big busi-
ness s daughter). The author
has evolved a dream technique
that permits his characters to
comment on the situation from
their hearts.
The play fails because its con-
flict is expressed in dialogue
that springs, not from authenti-
cally constructed character but
from the author’s attitudes.
When Shaw runs a discussion
even the Devil can argue like
Sophocles. In this play the argu-
ment is weighted to approve of
the idealist. The businessman,
for example, is shown as a
cowardly fool. It’s true (unfor-
tunately) that many business-
men are, but by portraying him
this way the author has made
the materialistic philosophy of
success unworthy of considera-
tion by either the idealist or
(more important) the audience.
It is a tribute to the author’s
skill as a producer and to the
effect of his dialogue that the
audience was held throughout
the play. It was, though, a mis-
take to follow his play with
O’Neill’s “He.” In it the same
struggle Mr. Gunn has argued
about is depicted through action
and the clash of character when
the captain of the Atlantic
Queen tortures his crew and
drives his wife mad as he pur-
sues his spiritual need to find
more whales—or more of what-
ever the whales of the play
represent. The excitement of
these goings-on (and they are
crude and melodramatic) tends
to drive out the impressions
made by the subtler thought of
Mr. Gunn’s play—which is, in-
cidentally, too crowded with
ideas for the one-act form.
But these are world standards.
Revised in the light of these per-
formances (the dream of all
playwrights), “The Raging of the
Sea” will be a worthy and
thought-provoking addition to
our National Theatre’s repertoire
of worthy and thought-provok-
ing plays.
R.M.
Panto., Etc.
The A.B.C.’s mauling of
Father Christmas did not deter
the entrepreneurs of public
entertainment from making the
finest effort in the realm of
panto that Melbourne has seen
for a long time. The Princess
put on “Aladdin and His Won-
derful Lamp,” with that im-
perishable principal boy, Jennie
Howard, as Aladdin, and
Wirth’s had “Mother Goose”
laying eggs just over Princes
Bridge, the eggs being 100 per-
formers, animal and human.
The Borovansky Ballet at His
Majesty’s staged “The Sleeping
Princess,” danced to Tschai-
kowsky’s glorious music, thus
raising panto into the exalted
realm of art, while the John
Alden Company at the Comedy
did the same thing by present-
ing “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Judging by the gales of
laughter that filled the audi-
torium, Mr. Alden struck the
right note with this fairy fantasy
which Shakspeare placed in
Athens and then peopled with
characters from his own country-
side of Stratford. Mr. Alden
drew the bulk of the laughter
with his Bottom—as a Mel-
bourne archbishop once said of
a performance at a school
break-up, “I have never seen a
better Bottom.” Nor has a
better Helena been seen than
Huia Munro’s.
There was only a small
Christmas turnover in Sydney,
most of the theatres being well
set with their current shows —
“Brigadoon” at the Royal,
Chez Paree” at the Empire,
“Ice Follie” at the Tiv., and
“The Moon Is Blue” at the
Palace. The Empire and the
Palace also turned on pantos—
“Old Mother Hubbard” and
“Dick Whittington” respectively,
while the Tiv. offered youngsters
of all ages a modified matinee
version of its dazzling ice
show.
"The Messiah."
As a boy Handel had to
practise music clandestinely be-
cause of his parents’ objec-
tions, but it would be no use a
modern parent using their
methods in the hope of turning
his child into a Handel. The
child would first have to have the
obsession of Handel, who com-
posed that vast compendium of
music, “The Messiah,” in the
amazingly short space of 23
days.
When the Hallelujah chorus
was first performed at Covent
Garden George 111 spon-
taneously stood up when it was
ended and the audience all fol-
lowed his example. Audiences
have done it ever since. One
could easily imagine the audi-
ence which rolled up to Mel-
bourne Town Hall for the 99th
serving by the Philharmonics of
the great classic doing the same
thing after the singing of
“Behold the Lamb of God” and
half a dozen other items, the
singing and the playing were so
splendid.
The society has never made a
better showing, and the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra
under Bernard Heinze’s baton
wasn’t far behind them. Only
the soloists, Joan Jones, Linda
Parker, Ronald Dowd and
Robert Payne, did not seem to
attain to the same heights. They
seemed to know their parts
better than they felt them.
The National Anthem.
“G.”: Brevity is seldom witty
to the musical soul, so with the
National Military Band down
the drain and the Musica Viva
tottering on the brink, is it too
late to arrest the shortening of
both the National Anthem and
“Advance Australia Fair”?
At the opening of the inter-
zone final of the Davis Cup, after
an excellent broadcast picture of
the gathering and set-up, swish
came the first three lines of
“God Save,” presto and
staccato! The truly loyal met
themselves sitting down again
in their haste to be upstanding.
Then, in sheer delight, came
America’s mediocre tune, but
with a majestic prayerfulness in
a setting Handelian. Thirdly,
and again an invocation, came
the Swedish Anthem, gloriously
recorded, the repeat being sung
with earnest, robust and soulful
appeal.
For the Royal tour, at least,
could we not have the full first
verse of the National Anthem
sung and played as it used to be,
and is intended to be, played,
and “Advance Australia Fair,”
every line, with a verve that will
demonstrate that at least we are
not taking two steps to the rear?
To rehabilitate ourselves, why
not use the Elgar setting of the
National Anthem in schools, for
broadcasting and for any
occasion where gatherings wish
to express loyalty?
Old Masters to Order.
“F.S.”: The unmasking in
Geneva of an international
gang which allegedly made more
than £lOO,OOO by selling fake
paintings with the forged names
of Corot, Renoir, Cezanne and
others on them recalls a Mel-
bourne artist who was once
offered a handsome salary to
copy Old Masters in the Louvre.
The method was quite simple.
Mediocre paintings of the
period can be bought for a few
cjuid. Everything in the picture
is scraped off except one or two
unimportant details and the bare
parts covered with faces or
figures painted in the manner of
the great artist selected.
The result is then shown to the
dealers, who always demand the
customary tests of chemical
analysis of pigment, x-ray, etc.
A piece of paint is scraped off,
naturally enough not off the face
or figure but off some unim-
portant detail. This passes the
tests with flying colors, and the
picture gets the antique dealer’s
trademark.


The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G. Mutual Life
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
*47 5,500,353 785,646 1,752,683 2,962,024 32,479,569
Written off premises, £24,149 .. 32,455,420
’4B 6,089,559 849,171 1,906,248 3,334,140 35,789,560
Written off premises, £19,466 1 Q , R aa
To staff fund, £2450 .. ..( 35,767,644
’49 6.735,786 937,020 2,196,073 3,602,693 39,370,337
To staff fund, £2450 39,367,887
Written off premises, £15,877 .. 39,352,010
’5O 7,438,692 1,037,227 2,208,436 4,193,029 43,545,039
To staff fund, £2450 43,542,589
Written off premises, £18,378 .. ..43,524,211
’5l 8.345,295 1,284,629 2,472,364 4,588,302 48,112,513
To staff fund, £7560 48,104,953
Written off premises, £18,443 .. ..48,086,510
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’47 4,200,881 1,109,800 1,966,818 1,124,263 21,655,628
Written off premises, £17,488 .. 21,638,140
*4B 4,363,554 1,137,928 2,021,432 1,204,194 22,842,834
Written off premises, £12,977 1 09 son 00-r
To staff fund, £2450 .. .. J 22,826,907
’49 4,506,077 1,189,512 2,087.110 1,229,455 24,056,362
To staff fund, £2450 24,053,912
Written off premises, £10,151 .. 24,043,761
’5O 4,664,271 1,263,651 2,260,648 1,139,972 25,183,733
To staff fund, £2450 25,181,283
Written off premises, £11,264 ..25,170,019
’5l 4,818,292 1,412,044 2,425,171 981,077 26,151,096
To staff fund, £4320 26,146,776
Written off premises, £10,831 .. 26,135,945
The big life offices had another record
year in 1951. The attractiveness of
their policies lies, among other things,
in the security aspect of the contract.
Although the increase in their capital
value (sum assured plus regular annual
bonus additions) is unable to match
today’s decline in the purchasing-power
of money (a concomitant of inflation),
the capital sum payable does keep on
increasing, even when the price of Stock
Exchange securities fall. And, more
important, life assurance provides a full
measure of capital protection for the
assured and his dependants long before
it is ever paid for; an advantage for
which there is no substitute. For these
and a lot of other reasons a life policy
with a sound, regular bonus-paying office
should be the sheet-anchor of every-
man’s investment portfolio.
By careful underwriting, sound invest-
ment and a prudent reserve policy the
75-year-old T. and G. continues to build
on strong foundations. It writes ordi-
nary, industrial and accident business
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
and it has put on as much weight over
the last decade as it did during the pre-
ceding 65 years:
1950. 1951.
Assurances in force* .. £100,972,377 £234,603,085
Annual income . . . . 6,795,205 13,503,836
Total assets . . . . 37,037,812 78,110,999
* Excludes accident department.
Among the factors responsible for the
remarkable advance of the figures are
the post-war popularity of group insur-
ance in establishing staff superannuation
schemes, an expanding economy, infla-
tion, assurance associated with home-
building and growth of population.
Last term the co. put a record
£33,885,683 (up £2,373,747) of new busi-
ness on the books —£25,726,817 (up
£2,533,654) ordinary and £8,158,866
(down £159,907) industrial. The average
amount per ordinary policy was £573 as
against £514 in 1950 and £438 in 1948.
In common with other big offices the
co. shortened sail in the industrial field,
where collection of premiums is a weekly
door-to-door affair, which has become
very expensive with recurrent and steep
rises in wage-rates. To keep costs down,
and so protect the interests of policy-
holders, the number of agents operating
in this field has been reduced, with an
inevitable contraction in the amount of
new business written.
The year’s total income in the three
departments combined was £1,097,297
stronger at £13,503,836, of which
£10,886,830 (up £918,866) was premiums
and £2,617,00d (up £178,431) interest,
rents, etc. Claims (£5,025,226) and exes.,
etc. (£2,876,392) totalled £7,901,618, leav-
ing as surplus of income over outgo, etc.,
of £5,602,218. Of this amount £5,530,944
was added to the assurance and accident
funds (£74,470,368), £30,000 was sent to
the investment reserve (£1,055,685),
£29,274 was written off for depreciation
of buildings and £12,000 was transferred
to the staff retirement fund. In addition
there were contingency reserves of
£394,237, making total funds £75,920,290
(up £5,561,884). The lot belongs to
policyholders, there being no share-
holders.
Still, like other life offices, the co. is
feeling the effects of rising wage and other
costs and low interest-rates. Total exes,
(excluding taxes) made off with 13.5 p.e.
of total income in the ordinary and
26.9 p.c. of total income in the industrial
section, an increase of 1.3 p.c, and 1.8 p.c.
respectively. The rate of interest earned
on the mean assurance funds of the life
department was £3 14s. 3d, p.c. (down
Bd. p.c.). The small drop in the rate was
due to maturity of local-government loans
carrying a higher rate of interest than
was obtainable on reinvestment. The
return from investments has not yet felt
the benefit of the recent rise in rates in
the gilt-edged market. The actuary calcu-
lates policy liabilities in the O.D. on a
2} p.c. basis, except for a small amount
of pure endowments, etc., and in the I.D.
on a mixed 2 p.c. and p.c. basis.
The amounts available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over liabilities
under policies) in the two life depart-
ments compare as follows:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Net surplus—
Ordinary £830,518 £850,299 £970,182 £977,022
Industrial 366,630 396,404 425,865 455,292
Total £1,197,148 £1,246,703 £1,395,997 £1,432,314
Of the year’s surplus all but £28,774 in
the O.D. and £23,483 in the I.D. was dis-
tributed as reversionary bonuses among
policyholders. The rates were on a
slightly reduced but satisfactory scale on
ordinary contracts. In the I.D. they were
maintained at the previous year’s level.
Of the £6,246,417 by which total assets
increased, £3,010,026 was invested in
loans, largely mortgages in connection
with home purchases by policyholders:
Public 1950. p.c. 1951. p.c.
securities .. £56,058,097 78.0 £58,294,466 74.6
Loans .. . . 11,087,191 15.4 14,097,217 18.0
Freeholds . . 3,580.276 5.0 3,712,384 4.8
Cash, book debts,
etc 1,139,018 1.6 2,006,932 2.6
Public securities increased by £2,236,369.
No credit is taken in the books for
overdue interest, agents’ balances, plant
or other non-interest-bearing items.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,534
1946.. 87,076 9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
1947.. 86,591 9 „ „ 76,566 10,025 476,954
Profit, sale of assets, £2300 .. 479,254
1948.. 96,898 9 p.e. = 78,045 18,853 498,107
1949.. 98,069 9 „ „ 78,648 19,421 517,528
1950.. 100,508 10 „ „ 87,387 18,121 530,649
Shareholdings written up, £375,000 905,649
Reserves capitalised, £374,517 .. 531,132
1951.. 107.218 9 p.c. = 93,338 13,880 545,012
It was in 1920 that Peters American
Delicacy Co. was formed to take over
and expand along American lines F. A. B.
Peters’s ice-cream business in Sydney.
Paid capital advanced by par issues from
£112,500 in 1922 to £425,825 six years
later. In 1932 Is. a share (£28,389) was
returned in cash. Those on the register
have never failed to receive a div., the
average for the 18 years to 1939 being
11.3 p.c., and for the 12 years since
approximately 9 p.c. Meanwhile, interest
spread to other States, where associated
ice-cream cos. were formed.
In 1940 the parent transformed itself
into a holding co., passing the Sydney
ice-cream business to a subsidiary,
Peters Ice Cream Pty., Ltd. Out of the
profit on the deal it made a one-for-one
bonus-share issue (£397,446), lifting paid
capital to £834,306. About the same time
a new offshoot, Peters Creamery Pty., was
set up at Taree (N.S.W.), and has grown
into a very important section of the
undertaking. It recently set up an
offshoot of its own, Peters Creameries
(Grafton) Pty., the aim being to con-
solidate the group’s area of supply from
the Manning to the Richmond Rivers, as
well as to place development of the ice-
cream business and export of the co.’s
butter and milk products on stronger
foundations.
Other post-war extensions include
purchase of a controlling interest in the
old-established dairy-produce business of
Foley Bros. —which owns butter factories
in the Richmond River district —and
establishment of three new subsidiaries,
namely, Peters Refrigeration Pty. (which
makes and services refrigeration units for
Ice Cream Co.’s distributors). Dry Ice
Pty. and Peters Ice Cream (S.A.) Pty., not
yet functioning.
In February last the parent changed its
name to the more appropriate title of
Peters Consolidated Milk Industries, Ltd.
At the same time £374,517 of bonus scrip
was scattered, shareholdings in the Ice
Cream and Creamery cos. being written
up by £175,000 and £200,000 respectively
for the purpose. The gift was followed
by a cash issue of 219,419 new £1 ords. at
par, making issued capital at June 30
£1,467,810 (£771,963 of it bonus scrip),
of which £21,114 was still to come in:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. .. £873,874 £878,874 £1,466,967
Creditors* .. .. 9,090 7,359 6,228
Final div 89,824 48,063 54,014
Shares other cos., etc. 121,328 107,516 107,516
Shares in subsidiaries 1,257,065 1,267,065 1,794,565
Debtors .. .. 300 300
Cash, etc 61,123 95,064 160,140
* Includes provision for taxation.
Of the £207,093 of fresh cash-paid capital
gathered during the year, £162,500 was
used to pay 10s. each on 325,000 new £1
shares in the Taree co. (issued capital
£500,000), which needed money to help
its new Grafton offshoot pay for plant,
etc. The ice-cream co. (paid capital
£1,000,000), which has been the backbone
of the business, continues to strengthen
its hold upon the trade in both the metro-
politan and country areas. And there
are four good profit-earning and
financially well-ribbed associates
Peters (Vic.), Peters (W.A.), Peters Arctic
(Q.) and Peters Arctic (N.Q.).
Last term the parent showed £6710
more profit at £107,218, equal to 10.3 p.c.
on average capital as against 11.5, 11.2
and 11 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The div. was lowered from 10 p.c. to
9 p.c., but the bonus-scrip made 9 p.c.
worth 12.8 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the gift.
Combined net earning of parent and
subsidiaries (disclosed for the first time)
was £94,651, of which £93,338 was passed
to the parent. That was after deducting
£1614 belonging to outside shareholders,
allowing for a loss of £17,903 incurred
by the new Grafton co. and another small
offshoot, and setting aside £207,216 for
depreciation and £74,913 for taxation.
Prospects of a better showing at next
balance are encouraging, despite the con-
tinued rise in costs. In the combined
balance-sheet, premises and plant total
£2,201,469, and stocks, book debts and
investments £1,495,979. The bank and
sundry creditors figured for £944,441.
At 395. 6d. (51s. five months ago) the
parent’s f.-p. pound ords. return 4.5 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis. At June 30 net
tangible cover (combined figures) was
345. 7d. per pound of paid capital.
Burlington Mills (Australasia), Ltd.
r~ Dividends
Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 .. 13,757 5 5,421 12,813
1946 .. 38,688 7* 23,516 27,985
Share-issue expenses, £4167 .. 23,818
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . 18,818
1947 . . 101,751 8 31,500 89,069
Share-issue expenses, £21,186 .. 67,883
Goodwill purchased, £6OOO . . . . 61,883
1948 . . 98,314 8 53,361 106,836
1949 . . 92,012 4j 8 84,693 114,155
Loss.
1950 . . 6,162 45 Nil 23,750 84.243
Profit.
1951 ~ 142,510 4f 8 79,875 146,878
How this young and lusty pioneer of
Australia’s infant rayon-weaving industry
fell into the ditch; in 1950 and then
climbed out of it last term is the story
firstly of the sudden development of
overseas competition on a price basis, and
secondly of what the Government did to
help the industry meet the threat.
It is only seven years ago since the co.,
in which the Burlington Mills people of
U.S. are interested, took over a small
proprietary concern and began large-scale
production of rayon-fabrics, previously
imported. It kicked off in a hungry and
sheltered market with £350,000 of ord.
capital, which was doubled by a par issue
in 1946, and £500,000 of cheap (4| p.c.)
pref. money was gathered two years
later, thus lifting paid capital to £1,202,755
—the £2755 is employees’ shares. The
ords. got a maiden 5 p.c. in 1945, fol-
lowed by 74 p.c., three lots of 8 p.c., nil,
and then 8 p.c. again last term.
Overseas manufacturers, who were sell-
ing rayon-yarn at higher prices in their
export than in their home market, en-
joyed a comparative cost advantage in
production of rayon textiles. At the same
time withdrawal of the Government sub-
sidy on locally-consumed yarns (all im-
ported) was withdrawn, and wage-rates
continued to spiral, thus further bump-
ing up both cost and selling-price of Aus-
tralian-made rayon fabrics. And to hold
its market the co. had to sell some lines
below cost of production ; hence the loss
of £6162 in 1950. The outlook changed
at the time the books were ruled off in
that year, when the duty on imported
rayon materials was hoisted to Is. 6d. a
square yard, an increase of Is. 44d. An-
other threat was the possible appreciation
of the £A in terms of sterling ; it has been
resolved for the time being, at any rate,
by the Government taking no action in
the matter.
Last term restricted public-power
supply, and its effects upon production
and costs, were partly offset by installa-
tion of the co.’s own generating equip-
ment. On the other hand, yarns from
soft-currency areas cost up to 30 p.c.
more than dollar yarns, supplies of which
were limited by currency difficulties, and
there were steep rises in the wage and tax
bills. Still, more better-grade yarn came
forward, mill efficiency improved, and
bigger output and sales at rising prices
sent turnover (amount not stated) up by
nearly 100 p.c. So, after allowing
£93,233 (up £18,560) for depreciation and
£121,000 (nil in previous term) for taxa-
tion, the board was able to show a profit
of £142,510, as against the loss already
mentioned in 1950.
The £142,510 covered the pref. div.
(£23,750) and 16.8 p.c. on ord. capital,
so the 8 p.c. div. was a comfortable
matter. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s profit
was 10.5 p.c., which means, among other
things, that the prefs, are earning a lot
more than their keep.
The financial position improved, the
more-or-less liquid surplus being £62,914
stronger at £304,987;
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Ordinary .. .. £700,605 £700,855 £702,755
Preference .. .. 600,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. .. 844,971 897,771 723,034
Creditors . . . . 56,760 89,038 141,578
Tax provision .. .. 10,395 5,198 126,470
Staff fund .. .. 5.000 5,000 5,000
Pinal divs 67,923 11,875 68,000
Leasehold, etc 71,215 75,025 83,908
826,375 868,414 824,470
FJant construction . . 41,608 11,550' 6,787
Parts and stores .. 77,353 88,086 129,481
stocks 1,101,022 933,924 944,772
t Jebt0 J rs 141,787 276,603 393,665
Investments .. .. 40.001 40.001 30,001
y ash 426 427 631
Intangible assets . . 10,000 10,000
The year’s surplus earnings and pro-
visions, together with an extra £52,540
from sundry creditors, enabled £174,737
to be clipped off the overdraft, £117,062
to be added to book debts and £10,848
to stocks (physical volume decreased).
Sales for the first three months of the
current term were at about the same level
as for the corresponding period of the
previous year. So long as the tariff can
keep overseas competitors at bay, local
rayon-fabric producers are assured of a
market. Rising wage and other costs and
growing buyer resistance to lifts in selling-
prices promise to be a heavy handicap
to further increase in the earning-power
of capital.
The co.’s f.-p. pound ords., which
fetched 38s. early in 1951, recently sold at
255., giving a return of 6.4 p.c, on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 18s. 3d.
yield 5.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£2 13s. lid. prefs. and 245. 2d. ords,
Gordon Edgell & Sons (N.S.W.)
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 6i p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1943.. 6,130 2469 8J p.c. = 4,626 43,521
1944.. 13,731 3900 9 „ „ 5,400 4,431 47,952
1945.. 11,495 3900 8 „ ~ 12,800 42,747
Reduction reserves, £3OO .. .. 42,447
1946.. 27,428 3900 8 p.c. = 12,800 10,728 53,175
Share premiums, £55,200 .. .. 108,875
1947.. 29,855 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 5,795 114,170
1948.. 36,342 3900 8.1 „ „ 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale assets, £3688 .. ~ 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,751
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
Share premiums, £20,900 .. .. 171,643
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
1951.. 70,411 3900 8 „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Most of the asparagus, tomatoes, peas,
cauliflowers, beans, etc., processed at the
co.’s canning- and preserving-factories
at Bathurst and Cowra come from its
own farms on the near-by river-flats of
the Macquarie and Lachlan. Ever since
the public became interested about 11
years ago the story has been one of
steady, balanced and profitable expan-
sion, and demand continues to run ahead
of output. The co.’s products have always
enjoyed a high reputation in both local
and overseas markets, and the general
outlook on the food front favors main-
tenance of a satisfactory demand, subject,
of course, to consumer resistance to rising
prices, which are being pushed up by
recurrent wage-lifts.
During the past five years £lBO,OOO of
fresh ord. capital was got in to help
finance additions to plant and properties
and to carry more stocks and book debts.
The last £BB,OOO of it, plus £20,900 net
of share premiums, was gathered early
in the 1950 term. But it was not enough.
So a further 136,000 new £1 ords. were
offered to those on the register at Nov. 28
last, two for five, at 255. each. That will
lift paid capital to £536,000 in 60,000
64 p.c. prefs. and 476,000 ords., and
reserves will benefit by £34,000 of share
premiums. The pref. div. and 8 p.c. to
the ords. will then call for £41,980, or
£28,431 less profit than was earned last
term. Although the premium makes an
8 p.c, div. worth only 6.4 p.c. on the
new scrip, the issue was in the nature of
a bonus to shareholders because of the
premium the old shares commanded in
the market, which has been a nervous
and receding one of recent months.
The price of the f.-p. ords. eased from
495. in June to 465. cum. rights in
November. After exercising the rights
and allowing for brokerage, the net price
at 465. was 40s. 3d. At Dec. 21 the figure
had dropped to 355. ex rights. The
return at 355. is a satisfactory 4.5 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
275. yield 4.4 p.c. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is £l3 13s. lid.
prefs. and 31s. lid. ords.
Despite flood and rain damage to
crops, which retarded output of peas and
asparagus, sales notched a new record
last term. However, heavier operating
costs and higher allowances for deprecia-
tion (£59,220, up £13,801) and taxation
(£72,300, up £20,800) gobbled practically
all the gain, leaving the net result only
£BO4 better at £70,411. That was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 19.5 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 19.3, 16.7, 12.8


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in New
South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1949
has been applied, in respect of which
premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commissioneis
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such in-
surance companies during the year 1951.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1952, subject to a penalty not exceeding
£1 per day for every day of default.
Note : Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 31st December,
1951; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies; less any
part of such premiums actually paid by
way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said
Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 81st January,
1952, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HE HAS
w
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
' The NBO-BAEEEKK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
For Sale.
WANTING to sell good copper claim, the
shaft being 26ft. deep. Copper can be
seen right from the surface down, the last
ten feet of the seam being one foot wide
and still improving. Assay shows 25 p.c.
copper, and carries gold and silver. Sell-
ing on account of not having the right
machinery.—Apply “Copper,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Make Your Own Leather
Strong, Pliable, Durable
Also Tan Fur Skins and Tan
and Dye Woolskins
Send six stamps for samples and
particulars
BENJAMIN A. PHELPS,
Fetone, N.Z.
ď
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
O
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7. G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Customers buy more when congestion is
reduced and shopping made pleasant
m
mm
.
m
m
-
y ■
H
P
ifi
.
THIS IS A FACT IN
EVERY MODERN STORE
WHERE
Otis
Escalators
HAVE BEEN INSTALLED
TWO OF JVilr POST-WAR DESIGN OTIS
ESCALATORS INSTALLED AT
DAVID JONES LTD SYDNEY
Extensive surveys of traffic conditions made in modern stores
equipped with escalators and lifts prove there were far more
shoppers on the floors served by escalators than other floors.
Why? Because the escalator offers immediate, easy, convenient
travel and is preferred by shoppers.
The Otis escalator installation at David Jones Ltd. Market Street
Store, Sydney, draws customers to other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more. Escalators move people quickly,
comfortably . . . reduce traffic congestion . . . make shopping
pleasant . . . increase sales. Let Otis survey your store —the facts
will interest you.
m
ELEVAtOR v COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
New Post-War Designs
OTIS ESCALATOR
INSTALLATIONS
Brisbane: McWhirters Ltd 6
„ T. C. Beirne 6
„ Finney Isles & Co 6
Melbourne: Myer Emporium Ltd. .. 12
ceelong: Myer Emporium Ltd. ~ 1
Sydney: Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 4
„ David Jones Ltd 4
„ Farmer & Co. Ltd. ... 4
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd 8
Perth: Boans Ltd 4
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
and 10.3 p.c. back to 1947. The
div. was kept at a moderate 8
p.c., and the £39,311 that re-
mained lifted reserves to
£249,461.
All-round growth is the
feature of balance-sheet figures:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital ~ 312,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft .. 111,518 36,783 101,067
Creditors . . 49,471 100,109 133,451
Tax reserve .. 61,316 57,078 78,952
Final divs. . . 13,920 18,700 18,700
Freeholds, etc. 144,797 193,594 225,425
Plant . . .. 97,013 103,838 130,865
Plantations .. 7,731 6,439 5,169
Stocks .. . . 393,392 468,854 514,046
Book debts . . 55,735 49,576 105,403
Cash, etc. .. 650 619 723
Purchase of a property in
Clarence-street, Sydney, for
£38,000 as a new sales head-
quarters sent freeholds up by
£31,831 net. It was mainly
additional tractors and other
agricultural machinery that
added £27,027 to plant. Stocks
increased by £45,192 and book
debts by £55,827. The co. went
to its bankers for an extra
£64,284 and to sundry creditors
for a further £33,342. Despite
the expenditure on fixed assets,
the drop in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£288,002) was
only £18,377.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
Because of the high rate of
Australian income tax, this hold-
ing co., through which the pub-
lic is interested in Emperor Gold
Mining Co., Ltd., Tavua field
(Fiji), hasn’t paid a dividend
since 1941. It has, however,
returned £858,100 of capital (9s.
per 10s. share) since the end of
1943, making total payments to
shareholders in dividends and
return of capital £1,428,500, or
14s. lid. per share. The last 3s.
was returned in November,
1950, reducing paid capital to
£95,700 in Is. shares. Since
further reductions of capital are
impracticable, the board pro-
poses to invest such surplus
funds as become available from
time to time. At June 30 last
assets were 200,000 2s. 6d. shares
in the operating co. in at
£517,946, Commonwealth bonds
£279,725, and cash, etc., £18,079.
Current outside liabilities totalled
£16,573, and there was an inter-
company debt of £269,145.
For the year to June 30, 1951,
the operating co. treated more
high-grade ore with a consequent
better output of gold and silver:
, Gold N
Treated Head Re- Silver
Ore, Value, covered, Eecov’d,
Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine O.
1947. .138,760 8.73 56,632 18,679
1948. .148,370 7.76 55,417 19,200
1949. .139,588 8.89 59,241 17,004
1950. .133,089 8.73 52,928 14,186
1951. .153,847 8.32 58,887 20,020
But the gain from the extra
metal won, and more besides,
was gobbled by the rise in
costs, including development
(£101,843, up £55,619). Operat-
ing costs were 3s. 7.7 d. heavier
at 565. 5.3 d. per ton. Net profit
was £138,393 (down £5387),
equal to £155,691 Australian
currency, or 1.65. per Is. share.
At June 27, 1951, ore reserves
were conservatively put at
930,000 tons positive, averaging
7.9dwt., and 150,000 tons prob-
able, averaging 7.2dwt. There is
thus about seven years’ work
ahead of the mill at last term’s
rate of extraction, with the possi-
bility of more pay ore being
developed at depth and in the
upper levels.
Although costs are still rising,
the newly-acquired right to sell
gold for industrial purposes in
the world’s free markets augurs
well for an improvement in net
earnings at next balance. It is
too early yet to assess the extra
revenue likely to accrue from
this source, but it might be from
2i to three dollars an ounce on
gold sold in this way, the chair-
man says. What effect the
increased supply of gold to the
free markets will ultimately have
upon the price of the yellow
metal remains to be seen. Much
will depend upon international
developments and upon the
stability of various national
currencies.
After sales at 10s. 9d. a month
or so ago, buyers offered Bs.
and sellers asked 9d. for the Is.
shares just before the Christmas
vocation.
Harrietville (Tronoh), Ltd.,
whose big bucket-dredge is
digging auriferous wash in the
Ovens Valley (Vic.), handled
more ground for less gold last
term, and ran deeper into the
red. Here are operating results,
etc.: —
Year Treated, Smelted
to ’OOO. Gold, Revenue. Profit.
June, C.y. Oz. £ £
1948.. 2285.6 7296.5 76,535 415
1949.. 1711.4 9856.6 106,960 13,298
Loss.
1950.. 2496.5 5926.4 83,791 14,044
1951.. 2544.0 3340.6 51,752 32,545
Of the yardage handled last term
54.5 p.c. (1,388,700 c .y.) was
barren tailings. This unprofit-
able work is nearing completion,
and a better showing is expected
during the current term. The
1,155,383 c.y. of virgin ground
treated yielded 3340.60 z. fine
gold, or 1.39 gr. per c.y. Boring
has proved some 5,500,000 c.y.
of payable dirt down lead from
the present dredging face, with
major values (unstated) at
depths of 70ft. to 110 ft. The
trouble is that the dredge set in
at the wrong end of the
property, and tailings have had
to be redredged to get back into
virgin ground. At June 30,
1951, current assets amounted to
£56,853. There was £10,387
coming to sundry creditors, and
£262,500 had been advanced on
loan by the co.’s London associ-
ate on which no interest has
been charged so far.
* * * *
The lead bonus payable to
employees of the big mining cos.
at the Barrier (N.S.W.) was £lB
a week during November, 1951.
The last cost-of-living rise lifted
the basic-wage in this area to
£ll 2s. 6d. a week. So, with the
lead bonus, plus 3s. war-loading,
the lowest wage on the mines is
now £29 ss. a week. World prices
for lead are dominated mainly
by conditions in the U.S., which
has been a net importer of lead
since the 1930’5, and now con-
sumes more than half the world’s
output of primary lead. The
London monthly average price
of the metal rose steadily from
£SI37 10s. in January, 1951, to
£SIBI 10s. for August, and then
dropped back to £SI76 10s., and
remained steady for the last
quarter of the year. The statisti-
cal position of the metal and
immediate outlook in the U.S.
augur well for maintenance of a
high price-level.
* * % *
Although the Coolgardie field
(W.A.) has been well raked over
for the last half-century, it still
holds rich pockets for those
lucky enough to find them. Dur-
ing the last few months two
prospectors, Maurice Brown and
Bill Hart, crushed three small
parcels of hand-picked specimen
ore for a return of about
£29,000, The stuff came from a
shallow shaft in a camel-pad-
dock about 4} miles east of
Coolgardie. There has been a
rush to peg the surrounding
area, of course, but no other
worth-while find has been re-
ported. From 1892 to 1946 the
field produced 1,113,0140 z. fine
gold from 2,069,459 tons ore, and
26,5620 z. of fine alluvial gold.
Among the famous producers in
the early days were Bayley’s
Reward, the Londonderry and
Wealth of Nations, but neither
these nor other finds lived to any
great depth.
20-page condensation from
best-seller
"The Sea Around Us"
The fantastic story of the sea
—of how life emerged from it —
of the mysteries beneath it
—of the winds cradled upon it —
of its currents that distribute
heat and cold how it affects
mankind.
January Reader’s Digest
brings you a 20-page condensa-
tion from what a leading critic
describes as “a stimulating,
fascinating, almost terrifying
book —a classic of vision and
science that holds the reader
enthralled.”
This is just one of 31 stimu-
lating articles in January
Reader’s Digest. Read and
enjoy it today. One shilling and
sixpence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.


Public Notices.
I, INGBBORG BURTON-BRADLEY, of Stateless
(former German) nationality, born at Wuppertal,
Germany, resident one year in Australia, now residing
at C/o'Brisbane Mental Hospital, Goodna, Queens-
land, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, ANDREW GEORGE SOMOGYI, known as ANDREW
GEORGE SINCLAIR, of Hungary, born at Budapest,
Hungary, resident three years in Australia, now resid-
ing at *45 Barker Road, Strathfleld, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
I, AGNES ESTHER SOMOGYI, known as AGNES
ESTHER SINCLAIR, of Hungary, born at Budapest,
Hungary, resident three years in Australia, now re-
siding at 45 Barker Road, Strathfleld, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Children were well in evidence at the
opening of the Borovansky company’s
presentation—the first in Australia —of
the ballet “The Sleeping Princess” to the
music of Tschaikowsky ; natural enough,
for it is founded on the famous fairy
story. Peggy Sager was the Princess and
Dorothy Stevenson the Lilac Fairy. In the
audience were Mrs. Jim Campbell, with
daughters Virginia and Susan, Mrs. Frank
Nicholls with tiny daughter Diane,
Captain and Mrs. McNichol with their
sons Guy and Anthony and Carolyn Best,
Mrs. Rupert Downes in black velvet,
Mrs. Frank Tait, her velvets leaf-green,
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Joyce (celebrating a
wedding anniversary), Mrs. Alfred
Fowler in white satin, Mrs. Penn-Tonkins,
whose dove-grey satins were covered with
a froth of grey tulle, Mrs. Harry Scott,
who wore Parma-violet crepe, Elizabeth
Cresswell, in silver-starred pink tulle, and
Cecil Tait, her brown organza finely
pleated.
Lady Disney’s Christmas this year was
very quiet and was spent at home ; she
was unable to accept or arrange any
social functions or to send out greetings
to her many friends. The serious condi-
tion of Sir James Disney’s health has
caused his family and friends great
concern, but Lady Disney says her
husband is now showing a slight
improvement.
There were more pretty organdie and
Swiss voile frocks than silks and satins at
the gala opening at the Comedy of “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” for the
audience included many young people
celebrating the beginning of school holi-
days. With Lady Collins was her school-
girl daughter Gillian, Sir Keith and Lady
Murdoch were accompanied by their two
youngest daughters, Anne and Elizabeth,
and the John Cassons were with their
three children. Sir John and Lady
Latham were members of a party which
included Sir John and Lady Medley and
Sir Russell and Lady Grimwade. Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Holt, Mrs. Massey
Burnside and Mrs. F. H. Wright and her
daughter, Mrs. Ron Marriott, were also
among those who enjoyed the John Alden
production.
As president of the Queen Victoria
Hospital auxiliaries Mrs. Arthur Wenzel
was presented with a cheque for £2500,
which will be used for the work of the
hospital. This was the result of a com-
bined effort by the 30 auxiliaries who
work for the Q.V.H. Mrs. W. Podmore,
who is treasurer for the auxiliaries, made
the presentation in the presence of more
than 200 representatives of the hospital
auxiliaries, who were entertained at
afternoon tea by Mrs. Wenzel.
Early next month Jennifer Haggard
will marry Lieut.-Commander Dacre
Smyth, She was guest-of-honor at a
luncheon-party at Menzies’ hostessed
by Jill Foster, who wore a brown-and-
blue-check lightweight woollen suit with
a blue feathered cap. Guests included
Jennifer’s sister, Mrs. J. Deasey, Wendy
Faulkner, Sue Elder, Jocelyn Noall, Anne
Spraggett and June Crowther.
Dr. and Mrs. Graham Godfrey gave a
dance at their Brighton home to celebrate
the engagement of Joan, their only
daughter, to Johnnie Walker. Joan, who
is wearing a diamond solitaire, wore a
strapless frock of pale-blue organdie
appliqued with white lace. Among those
who extended good wishes were the lan
Millers, Mr. and Mrs. lan Bayles (who
lately acquired twin daughters), Colonel
and Mrs. Frank Gillespie, Mr. and Mrs.
Bruce Rose, Libby Hope and her fiance,
Bruce Maley, recently-engaged Josie
McNichol and Bruce Selleck, Yvonne
Haddon Smith, Judy Westacott and
Hilary Owbridge and her fiance Eric
Barrow.
When Helen Jean, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Thomson, of Cam-
berwell, was married to Geoffrey Cun-
ningham, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. J. C. Thomson, of Upper Sturt (S.A.),
at St. John’s, Camberwell, she wore white
broderie Anglaise over satin. Her finger-
tip tulle veil was held by a tiny Juliet cap
of matching material and she carried a
bouquet of Christmas lilies. The brides-
maid, Janet Thomas, wore her white
broderie Anglaise over primrose satin,
and she carried gold and tawny roses
John Thomas (no relation to the brides-
maid) was best man. Rev. T. W. Thomas,
who officiated, was also not related to
either of his namesakes. To complete the
series of coincidences, the wedding was
held on St. Thomas’s Day.
Reception was held at Glendower,
Queen’s-road, at which 70 guests
assembled. The bride’s mother wore a
lovely gown of mist-blue crepe
embroidered with gold beads and pearls
and a wide-brimmed white straw hat
Mrs. Thomson, the mother of the
’groom, wore a beaded navy ensemble.
Next Saturday the newlyweds leave
in the Oronsay for overseas. They
intend staying abroad for two years, for
the ’groom, who recently took his
engineering degree at Adelaide Uni-
versity, will do post-graduate work.
This Athol Shmith photo, is of Mrs.
John Quere, wife of Commander Quere,
formerly of the Royal Dutch Navy, and
now doing law at the Uni. Mrs, Quere
has two children by a former marriage:
Patricia Gibson, who is doing an Arts
course, and Antony, still a student at
Geelong Grammar. Love of acting and
the theatre began with her schooldays,
and when Mrs. Quere went abroad to a
finishing school she not only acted in
school plays but produced them. Back
home again, she joined the Gregan
McMahon company and has been with
the Tin Alley Players. Recently she
appeared in “Larger Than Life,” a Little
Theatre production. Mrs. Quere is also
a member of the Derby Eve Ball com-
mittee which raises funds for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children Society.
There was a picnic atmosphere at
Caulfield for the V.A.T.C. Boxing Day
meeting. In bright sunshine, families had
picnic-lunches on the lawns, and linens
and bright cottons mingled with flowered
silks. There were many large hats worn,
and the coolie and pancake styles so
popular early in the season were replaced
by hats of the cartwheel type. Lady
Hyde, who recently returned from a holi-
day abroad, was in the members’ stand
with a portable wireless and between
races listened to the Davis Cup matches.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, gave a luncheon-party
prior to the first race ; her silk frock was
printed with black - and - sage - green
patterns, and her wide, natural-straw hat
was swathed with veiling. Among her
guests were Lady Robinson, whose grey-
and-white-spotted silk frock had a back
floating panel, Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins,
her frock in black and white pattern,
Mrs. R. W, Denbo, in natural shantung
suit and small brown hat, Mrs. J. K.
Clark, wearing a black faille suit and
small black cap, Mrs. R. D. Macklin,
who wore Parma violet shantung with a
large white straw hat, Mrs. George
Uhrich, in emerald-and-black-patterned
silk, Mrs. Frank Gillespie, who chose
beige linen with a small brown hat, Mrs.
R. S. Ramey in navy ensemble, and her
daughter Miriam, who wore a natural
linen suit and small brown cloche.
Other racegoers were Mrs. P. J.
Lennon, whose black faille jacket-suit was
worn with a white crinoline straw hat;
Mrs. J. W. Ferguson, wearing a gaily-
patterned silk frock and deep beige straw
hat; Lady Olivia Taylour, who wore a
cool primrose silk frock and a tulle-
covered black hat; Mrs. Alfred Fowler,
her navy linens carrying white
embroidery.
! Joan and Betty Raynor, directors of
the Australian Children’s Theatre, sent
with their greetings the news that 1951
was the A.C.T.’s busiest year. They had
overflowing audiences all through their
jtour of Victoria and N.S.W., bringing
the number of children who have visited
jthe travelling theatre to 150,000. Now
these sisters gleefully announce that they
are bringing out the Hogarth Puppets
from England. This puppet group con-
sists of Jan Bussell, his wife Ann
Hogarth, who is a descendant of the
famous painter, and their daughter Sally.
From Sydney
Taking it for all in all, 1951 wasnt
such a bad old year. Every entertainment
that came up had the special title
“jubilee,” and committees therefore put
forth special efforts. The Budget no
doubt strengthened our fortitude, the
blackouts increased our ingenuity, the
shortages of butter and potatoes slimmed
our figures, the scarcity of onions in-
creased our social acceptability, the price
of food taught us to budget our expendi-
ture, the increases in fares made us walk
a section or so and so improved our
health. From this it may be gathered
that the Letter’s New Year resolution has
been to look on the bright side ofthings
One thing is certain: 1951 went out in
a blaze of glory seldom equalled by other
expiring years when it brought Australia
those three wonderful days of successful
play in the Davis Cup as its parting gift.
Sydney women always look their best
during summer —from a sartorial point of
view, that is, and especially so during the
hot, dry days that bring out the crisp
cottons, the brown shoulders and the cool
sandal-type shoes. When an event such
as the Davis Cup makes this type of
dressing de rigueur, the Sydney crowd
makes something really worth looking
at. On the opening day Annette Dunlop’s
billowing cotton skirt was quite delightful,
and Jann Crossing’s wide hat and simply-
styled dress most fetching. The Governor
and Elizabeth Northcott, Sir Norman and
Lady Brookes and the Gerald Pattersons
were guests of the Bryan Fullers at
luncheon before the first day of play, and
the Menzieses came en famille to see the
contest.
Our picture shows Morna White, of
Belltrees, Scone, who recently returned
from a trip abroad and whose engage-
ment has just been announced to David,
youngest son of Brigadier T. A. J.
Playfair, of Narrabeen. Photograph by
Hugh Spencer.
Advice on New Year resolutions is
usually futile, but it is well to remember
that resolving to give up smoking and
also to get slim is waste of time. The
two things seem to be incompatible.
However, there are a couple of resolu-
tions that this Letter wishes to suggest
and would be happy to see put into prac-
tice.
Suitable New Year resolution for
hostesses: To give some thought to the
arranging of buffet meals. One of the
great faults of entertainment in Sydney
(and elsewhere, no doubt) is the unseemly
rush towards the food that is made as
soon as the buffet is served. The really
hungry station themselves at the table
and do not budge, so that nobody else
has a chance in their corner. The genteel
(but hungry) stand with their backs half-
turned to the table and surreptitiously
snatch a sandwich from time to time. The
refined keep away altogether, and don’t
get anything to eat, but the rest scramble
and shoulder one another in such a
panicky way that one would think it was
the last meal on earth.
Suitable resolution for country host-
esses : To see to it that the party doesn’t
develop into a fantastic Quaker meeting,
with the men all on one side and the
women on the other. This will be hard
to accomplish without the help of the
hostess’* husband, and will be impossible
(it is feared) if there is a keg of beer
anywhere around. However, it should be
attempted, for this is a custom that is
sapping the vitality of party-making in
the country towns.
Needless to say, the chief event to look
forward to in 1952 is the Royal visit,
and the long, white kid gloves are being
carefully preserved or renewed in prepara-
tion, During the Canadian visit of
Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of
Edinburgh there was a lot of talk about
overformality of gatherings, and a truly
pitiful pleading on the part of the Press
for simpler gatherings. However desir-
able this might be, it’s hard to imagine
how it can be achieved, as the boundary
between informality and familiarity is
very vague, and it would be only too easy
to overstep the mark. Most Australians
are on pins and needles about doing the
right thing when they have to entertain
any important person, the Governor, the
Governor-General, an archbishop or a
chief justice. How much more so will
such V.I.Ps. as the Princess and the Duke
set them on tenterhooks! No matter how
charming and gracious the Royal couple
are, informality would have to be
handled very delicately indeed in their
entertainment —so delicately, in fact, that
it would become formality.
Everyone talks coyly about leap
year and how February 29 gives the
girls a chance, but nobody offers any
suggestions on how to propose. The
bended knee, though rather out of date
for the men, would look rather graceful
if well prepared and if a suitable (full-
circle) skirt were worn. The sudden
flashing of the diamond ring—so effi-
cacious in normal years—may prove a
little more expensive than the leap-year
proposer had intended and might give
the proposee wrong ideas, just as a dis-
quisition on one’s financial position might
also do. The casual method (“What say
you and I get hitched, huh?’’) might
reasonably be taken for a joke in leap
year, and the formal “I have spoken to
your father” savor of conspiracy. Per-
haps the best thing, girls, is to take the
matter for granted and to come straight
out with some sentence beginning “When
we’re married. ... ” This method has
about a 40-60 chance in suitable circum-
stances and in ordinary years. In leap
year it might even become a 50-50 one.
Promised for the month of February
is a return visit of the Borovansky ballet,
with Tschaikowsky’s “Sleeping Princess”
as the initial programme. Because of the
magnitude of the ballet, settings and cos-
tumes, only about six companies have
presented this ballet anywhere in the
world. More than 300 costumes have
been prepared, together with several
gigantic scenes and transformations, all
to William Constable’s designs. Hundreds
of different property items have been
made, including a royal coach, a royal
cradle, a boat (on wheels), beds, thrones
and wands.
From Miss Essie Perry comes the news
that Antonia Dolores, the soprano well
known in Australian musical circles from
the early part of the century, has died
recently in England at the age of 88. The
latter years of her life were spent at More
Hall, Gloucestershire, a beautiful 15th-
century mansion conducted as a religious
guesthouse by an order of French nuns,
and it was there that she died, Antonia
Dolores made many trips to Australia,
the last being in the ’twenties. Miss
Perry’s mother, the late Annie Perry,
soprano, of Sydney, was a lifelong friend
of Antonia, whose accompanist, J.
Edward Sykes, was also well known to
music-lovers during the first quarter of
this century.
Also well-known in Sydney and Bris-
bane was Ethel Primrose, who died
recently in India at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. A. H. Hurne, of Malabar
Hill, Bombay. Mrs. Primrose was the
daughter of the late James Mills, of the
Darling Downs and Goondiwindi station,
Queensland. Associated early in the
century with the Brisbane staff of The
Bulletin and the Brisbane “Courier” as
a social writer, Mrs. Primrose continued
her journalistic work in London, where
she did freelance writing and contributed
to the British-Australian Magazine.
The third summer school of the
Musical Association of N.S.W. i s
scheduled to take place at Sydney Uni-
versity from January 21 to 26, when most
of the lecturers will be new to the school,
which should lend interest and variety
to the work. However, Frank Hutchens,
Lindley Evans and George Faunce All-
man will also be among the speakers.
Others are Doreen Jacobs, A. E. Smith,
Gordon Short, Kathleen Dempsey,
Charles Bull, Adam Kriegel, Jiri Tanci-
budek, Elsa Haas, Gladstone Bell and
Ruth Ladd.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Newly-appointed to the directorate of
Vacuum Oil, M. T. Cowles and H. B.
Berwick. Not long ago given the general-
managership of the co. in N.S.W., Cowles
knows a bit more than mere marketing—
research chemist and science graduate of
Melbourne University, he had the size-
able job, in War 11, of keeping Allied
forces in the s.-w. Pacific lubricated, got
some 18 million gallons of fuel ashore
at Milne Bay, and later supplied the
astronomical gallonage of liquid energy
used in the landings from Hollandia to
Borneo. He joined the A.I.F. engineers
as a sapper and ended the war lieut.-
colonel. Usually to be found on the
hopeful end of a trout-fishing rod.
Fellow-director Berwick is a lubrication
specialist, also a degree man from Mel-
bourne University, with just under 30
years in with Vacuum. Now industrial
lubrication manager for Australia, he’s
an Old Digger with M.C. and a
“mention.” Lubricating Legacy’s running
is his spare-time interest.
A young Sydney engineer, Malcolm
Lovely, may save Victoria many more
thousands —he has already saved it some
£40,000. Station-engineer of the Gov-
ernment’s hydraulic research-station at
Werribee (Vic.), which has been operat-
ing only a few weeks, at a small cost
Lovely has built sets of models of various
big water projects, including the spillway
of the £12,000,000 Eildon weir scheme,
and spends his time watching the be-
havior of relatively minute streams of
water which have been weighed to the
last drop. One of his discoveries has
been that the top of the Eildon spillway
is too low for safety in the worst floods—
it will be heightened. Another was that
the great concrete retaining-wall could
be safely cut back 84ft. He is a graduate
of Sydney University of only four years’
standing.
This year’s Victorian Rhodes Scholar,
James Augustine Gobbo, is the son of
an Italian migrant who came to Mel-
bourne in 1927 and opened a day-and-
night cafe at the markets. Regarded as
Melbourne University’s most brilliant
scholar for some time, Gobbo is the first
Rhodes to emerge from Newman College.
History is his academic interest; he won
the Gyles Turner prize for Australasian
history in his second year, and in his
first the Boothby prize for British history
and first-class honors in ancient history.
Rowing and football balance the output.
Catalogued his last plant, Adelaide’s
veteran botanist, John McConnell Black.
A Scot (from Wigtown), educated there,
in England and in Germany, he came to
S. Australia in 1877, to be in turn farmer,
journalist and botany-lecturer at Adelaide
University—and to build up a world-wide
reputation in his field. Author of the
standard Flora of South Australia (which
he was revising at the end), he was en-
titled to wear on his watchchain a mint
of medals, among them the coveted Sir
Joseph Verco and Ferdinand von Mueller
medals. He was on the staff of
“Hansard,” and later the Adelaide
“Advertiser,” round the turn of the
century, and reported, for “Hansard,” the
first meeting of the State Parliament in
the present Assembly building in 1889. In
England, in 1930, representing several
Australian botanical societies at the
International Botanical Congress, he had
the special honor of being made an
associate of the Linnean Society of
London, of which there are only 25
associates in the world. He was 96.
“Macdee”: John Galway Foster, K.C.,
new Parliamentary Under-Secretary of
State assisting Lord Ismay in the Com-
monwealth Relations Office, has both
family and professional ties with the
Dominions. His mother was a Canadian ;
his father, the late Brigadier-General
Hubert Foster, came to Australia early
in the century and Sydney University
appointed him to the Chair of Director of
Military Science; later he became
Director of Military Arts at Duntroon.
The son (now 47), educated at Eton and
Oxford, was called to the Bar, worked
for some years in chambers with Sir
Donald Somervell, and has considerable
standing in International Law; he has
lectured at the Hague. With Sir Walter
Monckton he toured India, studying the
question of Federation. In 1935 he
represented the Australian Government
before the Select-Committee of both
Houses of the Mother Parliament which
considered the petition of Western Aus-
raha for secession. Joining the Army in
ar 11, he became a legal “Brig.,” and
ta ™-, Berlin was reac hed had prepared
me Military Government regulations to
u > US w German y after the surrender.
M.P. for Northwich.
W. G. Davies, Lloyds’ surveyor in
Fremantle since 1931, and a consulting-
engineer when not poking over ships, has
been made a member of the Institute of
Naval Architects of Great Britain.
Believed to be the only holder of this
honor in Westralia, Davies, in addition
to his routine work, has had some non-
routine experience as well. An engineer
at sea in the Kaiser’s war, he was aboard
the Atua, plying from Auckland to Fiji
and Sydney, when Spanish ’flu struck the
ship in 1918. On that macabre trip 16
of the crew and one passenger died, and
Davies with five others brought the
vessel to port. The following year he was
wrecked off the coast of Tasmania, and
had to tramp 80 miles over a nightmare of
mountainous country to the nearest town,
making the trek in six days. In Hitler’s
disturbance Davies surveyed some 2200
ships. Among these was the Panamanian,
the ship which caught fire in Fremantle
Harbor and caused extensive damage to
the port.
New chairman of the board of Aus-
tralian Provincial Assurance in Sydney,
Leslie James Thompson is directorially
connected with a dozen or so companies,
and is still senior partner of the account-
ancy firm he established in 1917. He
took over the helm of the A.P.A. from
the late Edmund Paul.
The estate of Colonel Daniel Evans (B.
12/12/’5l), one of the largest left by a
Queenslander, reached close to £190,000.
Half of it will go to charities and bur-
saries. One bursary, a memorial to the
old foreman under whom Evans learnt
his engineering pothooks in Bundaberg
(Q.), will keep an engineering-apprentice
in that district; another goes to a young
employee of Evans, Deakin. Five State
charitable bodies also benefit, as will the
engineering faculty of Queensland Uni-
versity, in which Evans had always taken
a close interest.
The Bulletin talked to Dr. Robert
Murphy and came away with the im-
pression of a dynamo ; solidly built and
immensely alive, set exactly in the right
place and generating enthusiasm. Just-
retired principal of Sydney’s Technical
College, Murphy hails from Newark, New
Jersey, got his Doctorate of Engineering
from that famed institution of scientific
teaching, Darmstadt, in Germany (the
first American to get it there), and came
to Sydney in 1914 to create an applied-
science department and introduce the first
courses of industrial and chemical
engineering in Australia. Under his
driving competence Sydney Tech, ex-
panded greatly, and has now become the
only technical college outside England
whose evening diploma courses in
chemistry are recognised for admission
to the Royal Institute of Chemistry. A
still-bouncy 64, with an explosive laugh
and unimpaired zest for the job he’s
handing over, Murphy laid the founda-
tion for his energy at America’s Columbia
University, where he stroked the ’Varsity
eight, captained its ice-hockey, and vice-
captained its football teams, and, in 1910,
was selected to row in the All-American
MURPHY OF THE TECH.
eight. With the accent barely notice-
able, he claims to be fair-dinkum Aussie.
He’s entitled to —son Bob flew in Lan-
casters from England in Hitler’s show,
and won D.F.C.; his daughter was on
the staff of Army intelligence in New
Guinea, and won the unusual distinction,
for a woman, of a “mention.” Murphy
hands the palm to State Education
Minister Heffron for generosity and
interest in the Technical College, claiming
he’s done more than any other Minister
to build it up to its present status. Picture
by Prior.
Crotchets and quavers vie with salt in
the blood of Bandy McLean, whose ram-
rod figure has been striding with discip-
lined tread along the streets of Melbourne
in front of his R.A.N. band on naval
occasions since 1950, when he was loaned
to the Australian service from the R.N.
His brother, K. A. McLean, is director
of the Royal Marine School of Music,
and Bandy himself joined the R.M. Band
Service in 1925. Naval bandsmen, of
course, man their ship’s gunnery-control
nerve-centre, the transmitting-station, and
this one was awarded the D.S.M. in 1943.
He was bandmaster under Sir Dallas
Brooks when Victoria’s Governor was
at Deal (Eng.) in the late 1930’5. Sir
McLEAN OF THE MARINES.
Dallas was one-time Commandant-
General, Royal Marines —the smartness
of his bandmaster needs no comment.
Executive secretary of the American
Shorthorn Breeders’ Association, Clinton
K. Tomson, will judge Shorthorns and
Poll Shorthorns at the next Royal Easter
in Sydney. The first American to judge
these breeds at an Australian Royal Show,
Tomson was born on a Shorthorn ranch
at Wakarusa, in Kansas, where his family
has for several generations been
prominent Shorthorn breeders. He has
an outstanding record as judge of the
breed in the U.S. and in foreign countries,
having judged twice at the Palermo stock-
show in Buenos Aires, and once at the
Canadian Royal Exposition at Toronto.
In the U.S. Tomson is acknowledged an
organising genius—b e s i d e s directing
the field and office activities of
the American Shorthorn Breeders’ Asso-
ciation from Chicago, he supervises (and
frequently personally manages) Short-
horn breed sales throughout the States.
Recently he organised the First Range-
Bull Project vShow and Sale at Nebraska,
when 102 Shorthorn and Poll Shorthorn
bulls, nominated by 46 breeders, were
developed under identical range condi-
tions for four months, to demonstrate to
beef-breeders the adaptability of the
Shorthorn in putting on beef of top-
quality under hardest commercial grazing
conditions.
Collapsed and died on a Melbourne
golf-course, Philip Hudson, who with
another War I Digger, J. H. Wardrop,
won a world-wide competition for the
design of the Melbourne Shrine of
Remembrance. The committee of judges
had reached a stalemate when General
Monash, as chairman, cast his vote in
the couple’s favor. They got their
inspiration from the magnificent sepulchre
Queen Artemisia of Caria raised to her
husband Mausolus at Halicarnassus.
Hudson also designed Geelong College
and the Union Building at Melbourne
University.
“W.”: Two young Diggers, Bruce and
Ross Usher, are making a nice commer-
cial thing out of what is usually looked on
as a hobby—model-making. Bruce was
in a camouflage unit, brother Ross a
radio-mechanic, and, in New Guinea,
electrician attached to the Medical Corps.
With the surrender Bruce took on com-
mercial art, and Ross went back to radio-
fixing in his dentist-father’s laboratory in
the garden of their Crow’s Nest (Sydney)
home. A plane-modelling job for T.A.A.
cropped up, and, with Bruce’s knowledge
of contours and modelling from his
camouflage days and Ross’s handiness,
they thought they would have a chance;
applied, were commissioned, and found
they’d discovered their metier. Since then
their workshop has turned out official
pint-size (comparatively) Warragamba
and Hume dams; tactical models for the
instruction of paratroopers and assault
groups at the Land-Air Warfare school
at Williamtown ; models of all kinds of
aircraft, military and commercial, a com-
plete range of historical types for A.N.A.,
and a technically perfect miniature of
H.M.A. Carrier Sydney, with planes
ranged on her flight-deck. The dioramas
used in the historical and industrial ex-
hibitions seen weekly by hundreds of
visitors to Sydney harbor-bridge pylon
lookout originated in the Crow’s Nest
backyard. With sales-managers begin-
ning to wake up to the value of models
in selling and demonstration, both Ushers
believe they have ushered themselves on
to a solid thing.
“Cauboy”: Juan Jose Castro, the
Argentinian conductor (B. 19/12/’5l), is
also a composer. Most visiting
conductors (Beecham, I think, excepted)
have had a piece or two of their
own up their sleeve and have been
easily wooed into giving them an airing,
but they generally turned out to be
reminiscent of the works of others. The
new man appears to be different. Last
year he won the Verdi prize for an inter-
national opera-competition with “Proser-
pina and the Stranger,” which will have
its world premiere at Milan under his
baton. As the judges were Honegger
and Stravinsky, two composers, there
might be something original about it.
Castro could cut a few concerts and
give it to the National Theatre Opera
for production.
Retiring, Air-Marshal George Jones,
C. 8., C.8.E., D.F.C., Chief-of-the-Air
Staff at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne,
since 1942. As active, at 55, as he was
when a motor-engineer at Rushworth
(Vic.), he was soldier before airman,
having had four years in the A.I.F, in
War I, serving on Gallipoli; in France
he captained No. 4 Squadron of the
A. His tally of German planes was
seven. He is expected to turn up in a
high position in an Australian aircraft
firm.
Passed on in Melbourne, Percival Serle,
honorary bibliographer to the city’s public
library and, after Johns (the founder of
Who’s Who), the most indefatigable
cataloguer, in Australia. For 20 years a
life-assurance man, later chief clerk of
Melbourne University, Serle retired in
1920 to devote himself to literary
research, which he followed while curator
of the Melbourne Art Museum. Among
his publications were A Bibliography of
Australasian Verse, An Australasian An-
thology and Poems by Furnley Maurice.
Then he turned to his great work, the
Dictionary of Australian Biography.
During the 10 years he took to compile
the biographies of eminent Australians,
dead and living, from Ned Kelly to the
latest Prime Minister, he climbed miles
of ladders, perused hundreds of volumes
and wrote thousands of letters. In 1949
the book, with its 1030 biographies, was
published, and gained the medal of the
Australian Literature Society. His last
work, a Primer of Collecting, came out a
fortnight before his death, at 80.
Vance Palmer, who shared first-prize
in the Jubilee radio-serial contest, scored
another by winning the £2OO Jubilee
short-story competition. He has pub-
lished upwards of 20 volumes of poems,
plays, novels and short-stories; his
“The Passage,” a story of the Reef, ran
as a serial in The Bulletin. Born
Queensland, freelance London and Old
Digger.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 67, William R. Caithness, who
had been with British General Electric for close
on half a century. Born at Arbroath, Scotland,
he was educated at Mill Hill —a school which
afterwards became noted throughout the world
for the achievements of its youngsters in radio
experiments, Sent to Australia by a Kent firm,
Caithness had considerable experience on
Westralian goldfields before joining, in 1918,
B. as chief-engineer. He was joint
managing-director at the end.
At Stanthorpe (Q.), at 70, James Gladstone
Milne, who looked after the Queensland interests
of Mercantile Mutual Insurance for many years
till his retirement in 1948. Other interests took
in deputy-chairmanship of the Fire Brigade
Board and State-secretaryship of the Walker
and Eliza Hall Trust.
In Melbourne, William James Byrne, one of
the city’s oldest practising lawyers, as well as
a leading light in its commercial life. Prominent
in Freemasonry, he held executive positions in
many companies, including the chairmanship of
C. and the Commercial Bank.
At 61, in Hobart, Archibald Laurence Weston,
an authority on the early history of the Apple
Island and on its vanished abos. The Oxford
University Press commissioned him to write a
junior history of Australia. A work on Van
Diemen’s Land was left unfinished.
In Perth (W.A.), at 68, Wentworth John
Winterbottom, leading Westralian racing- and
businessman. Born in S. Australia, he spent
most of his business life in Westralia, where,
in 1916, he founded a firm of motor-car dis-
tributors. As a member of the W.A. Turf
Club he achieved a reputation as an adminis-
trator, first as a committeeman, later as chair-
man of the club. As chairman he negotiated
the purchase of four racecourses, two of which,
Helena Vale and Belmont Park, are still owned
by the W.A.T.C. An owner of thoroughbreds,
he won three Perth Cup races and one King’s
Cup. In War II he was appointed chairman
of the State business administration committee,
a body formed to check on defence projects and
their operational costs.


LYSAGHT
PROOF
Ipuimur
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
:
m
■
m
m
Wm.
Mm
mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall PL Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTI NG , ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Sheep-dog Training.
“Jubilee”: There are points
in “Ngaduri’s” article (B.
21 /11 / ’5l) with which I cannot
agree. Pampering a pup with
pieces of meat to induce com-
pliance is like trying to make a
good farmer out of a man who
looks at the profit motive only.
Provided that the pup is bred
right and treated right his sense
of obligation to his boss and,
later, his natural instinct to work
sheep will be all the incentive
necessary.
The string on the collar, yes,
but he cannot learn too young
who is boss, and in his first
resistance —to the string—he has
to learn that lesson, and a pat
is sufficient reward. If he is a
sulky sort he is not worth the
trouble.
To teach a pup to sit or lie
down is of secondary import-
ance, for when a trained dog is
handling sheep his legs are an
example of perfectly - poised
tension ready to synchronise his
moves to the sheep’s or almost
anticipate them. The split-
fraction of time used in chang-
ing posture may cause failure.
There is nothing more annoying
than to see a dog approaching
sheep in a succession of “claps,”
as sitting or lying down is called.
His approach should be on his
feet, with everything in swiftly
available reserve. Instead of
being told to “sit” he should be
told or (preferably) whistled to
“stand.”
Good judges prefer a dog to
be ordered as little as possible
to stand. If the dog is the right
stuff he will bring his sheep in
their time, or nearly so, for that
is the way to make a sheep tract-
able, and orders to stop should
be as few as possible. Another
point in favor of the “stand”
as opposed to the “sit” is the
fact that usually the bigger the
dog the more command over his
sheep. Why reduce his size by
sitting him down? Sitting comes
in when “tailing” a feeding
flock, but is unimportant as the
dog is doing his “stand easy,”
and it can be left to him to
choose his posture.
Lemons in Victoria.
“Mr.”: One reason why
lemons do so well in southern
Victoria is the absence of severe
frosts which, inland, burn off
the profitable summer crop. The
heavy September - October
blossoming produces the winter
crop; the January-February
blossoming the summer crop.
This is lighter than the main
crop, but, with reduced labor
and packing costs, is worth as
much if not more.
When selecting a site for
lemons avoid frost pockets,
choosing high land with a
northerly aspect. Plant the
young trees any time June to
September, but preferably in
September, as frost risk to the
tender leaf-growth is less then.
Main variety grown in the
south is Doncaster Improved
Lisbon ; it has fewer thorns than
the original Lisbon and does
well in the climate.
The variety doesn’t require the
same amount of pruning as a
deciduous fruit-tree ; neverthe-
less it shouldn’t be allowed to
grow uncontrolled. Its tendency
to rapidly-developing, upright
shoots in the centre of the tree
can be detrimental to the more
fruitful horizontal laterals.
Remove these shoots entirely at
point of origin, and in mature
trees thin out interior growth
to let the sun through. This will
result in a renewal of bearing
shoots on long-dormant wood.
A liberal annual application of
poultry or stable manure is
needed, together with a spring
dressing of up to 41b. of sulphate
of ammonia per tree.
Pigs on Whey.
“Moyhu”: To do well on it
they have to drink large quanti-
ties, best given in four or five
rather than the normal two or
three daily feeds. In Victorian
Department of Agriculture tests
the following feeding-times were
the best: 5.30 a.m., 8.30 a.m.,
noon, 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m.
In addition to whey, pigs need
some solid food. A suckling
sow requires at least 21b. of pol-
lard or ground grain and ilb. of
meatmeal per day ; weaners and
growing pigs, lib. of a mixture
of 10 parts of pollard or ground
grain and one part of meatmeal;
baconers, for topping off, 21b.
or 31b. of pollard or ground
grain each per day.
The concentrates are best
given in two feeds ; half at 8.30
a.m. and the other half at 3.30
p.m. Whey is deficient in iron,
and pigs need access to grazing
or soil for their iron supplies ;
also a change from whey to a
hard diet can be disastrous, as
pigs, used to coping with large
quantities of liquid food, can’t
readily digest solid concentrates
if they’re not given time to
adjust themselves to the change.
Grow Shallots?
“Allium”: A single bulb
sown at the end of winter or in
early spring will multiply to
about a dozen in a few months.
Reserve sufficient for replanting
in early autumn and another
bunch will be ready by late
spring in the Sydney climate.
If desired the original planting
can be left in a permanent place
if the clump is given sufficient
space and is well fertilised.
Under these conditions it may
be picked from as required all
the year round, leaving enough
to carry through the winter.
Shallots can serve most of the
purposes of onions in soups and
in salads, being very like an
onion in flavor. Nobody should
pay 3s. a pound for imported
Japanese or Egyptian onions
when shallots are so easily
grown. Moreover, there is very
grave doubt about the hygiene
of these foreign onion-growers.
For those who like young
onions chives may be grown in
the same way as indicated for
shallots.
Cornering.
“Dral”: Equivalent samples
of road dust collected on a
corner and on a straight length
of road showed that eight times
as much rubber per yard of road
was present in the dust from the
corner.
The reason can be simply
explained. If we swing a weight
on a piece of string it will
stretch the string tight. If the
weight is big enough or we
swing it round fast enough the
weight would fly off out of con-
trol. When the car turns or
swings similar forces operate,
but there is no string to keep
the car under control; the only
thing that does so is the grip of
the tyres.
Imagine the rubbing or fric-
tion in a ton or so of machinery
cornering at speeds in excess of
20 or 30 miles an hour and you
will understand why gentle
cornering means good tyre
economy.
Fresh Manure.
“Fam”: Practically all advice
on the use of animal manure
slavishly warns against using it
“ It'll have to be a mighty good excuse this time for
getting off the nest.”
while fresh, advising that it rot
down well before using.
Animal manure is of most
value for its easily-decomposed
organic matter and for its
readily available nitrogen. But
both are destroyed or reduced
when manure is allowed to rot
down.
Chief reason against fresh use
is that it is injurious (especially
to young plants), because it is
too rich. The exact reason is
that in its fresh state —that is,
before it has lost much of its
ammonia through bad handling
—animal manure is a very
badly-balanced plant-food con-
taining a high proportion of
readily - available nitrogen in
relation to phosphates and
potash.
Application of a large
quantity is therefore equivalent
to applying a large quantity of
sulphate of ammonia with little
other essential plant-food. This
would have the immediate effect
of producing, even without the
additional heat of fresh manure,
a soft, sappy, delicate growth
susceptible to heat and prone to
disease.
Nobody would be silly
enough to apply a very large
quantity of sulphate of
ammonia, even to leafy vege-
tables, in one gulp. It is best
applied in frequent small doses.
Fresh animal manure can be
used in the same way as sul-
phate of ammonia, in small and
frequent applications for leafy
vegetables.
Spread it on the surface and
water its soluble ammonia into
the soil, but don’t allow it to
touch the plants or it will burn
them just as sulphate of
ammonia does.
For plants other than leafy
vegetables a more balanced
plant-food is required, and if
you add phosphates and potash,
which have a hardening effect on
plant growth, to fresh animal
manure, just as these other plant-
foods are added to sulphate of
ammonia for those vegetables,
the fresh manure can be used
with impunity in larger applica-
tions.
The Late-calver.
“Ohinemuri”: The problem
of the late-calver is not the least
of the dairyfarmer’s many head-
aches, especially as unless she
can be brought back to average
calving-time she gets later every
season. An almost certain way
of overcoming this is to give her
a couple of irrigations and keep
her away from the bull for her
first two heats after calving.
This is not possible where the
bull runs with the herd, but is a
simple matter where he is kept in
a well-fenced paddock and used
only when required, which is
sound practice.
A good plan is to keep at the
shed a list of cows with dates of
service. This is not only a guide
to calving-dates, but also lets the
farmers know which cows keep
returning to the bull.
Aluminium Roofing.
“Billjim”: To get the best
from it great care must be used
in erection. Avoid all contact
with other metals. Nail the
sheets with aluminium (duralu-
min) nails or hot-dip galvanised
nails. All brackets, spouting,
etc., must be of aluminium.
Drill nail-holes in the sheets to
avoid denting the surface.
Slope is important to remove
moisture and reduce corrosion.
Allow at least 3in. per foot.
Ventilation of the underspace is
important, and if prolonged wet
conditions are likely, without
good ventilation, give the under-
sides a coat of zinc-chromate
primer. Don’t allow the sheets
to touch wet cement or plaster.
Jointing is best done by rivet-
ing, welding or flame-brazing.
Scrub off flux residues with hot
water.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Plant potatoes now
for autumn harvesting. Green
selected sets by exposure to
light, which will stimulate the
crown buds and obviate over-
long dormancy in the soil. Plant
as soon as the buds show signs
of swelling. Summer crops do
best in warmer districts if
planted in partial shade. Plant
a little deeper than normal in
sandy soils. A good surface
mulch is a big help. See that
the soil is kept moist, but not
too wet, and dust occasionally
with insecticide.
“C.A.A.”: Control ants with
a teaspoonful of 5 p.c. D.D.T.
dust applied to each hole. If
the nests cannot be traced apply
a spray of 5 p.c. D.D.T. in kero-
sene to all surfaces over which
the ants are moving, avoiding
places where foodstuffs are
kept.
“Hortus”: Now is the time
to spray citrus-trees for white-
wax scale. Good timing is
essential. Catch the young scales
when they are still out on the
leaves. Look for them along the
main leaf-veins on the upper sur-
faces. They have moved out
from under the old scales and
will remain feeding on leaves for
about five weeks. Then they go
back to permanent residence on
stems and cover themselves with
the white-wax covering.
“Country Girl”; A few ducks
allowed to wander around the
garden from time to time will
keep down snails, slugs, slaters,
etc. Ducks, unlike hens, forage
without scratching, and do not
destroy plants. Ducks will eat
their fill of grass or milk-
thistles, and their eggs are excel-
lent for cooking ; one duck-egg
being equal to two hen-eggs.
“W. Court”: After severe
bushfires strange herbs, some
poisonous to stock, may appear
with the rains. The seeds of
some weed pests don’t germinate
until they’ve been through a fire.
The young shoots of scorched-
off zamia palms or lantana
bushes after a rain are bad for
stock.
“Billjim”: Each of the three
beetroot varieties, globe, turnip-
rooted and long red, has its own
particular value, the first two
being preferred for table use.
The long varieties give higher
yields and stand better in dry
conditions. If this crop follows
a leaf-crop in the usual rotation
it will require only a base dress-
ing of blood-and-bone mixed
with twice its weight of super, at
the rate of ilb. per square yard
or about 4oz. to 6ft. of row.
Ground should be deeply culti-
vated for all three varieties. Sow
iin. deep in rows 12in. to 15in.
apart and finally thin out to
Sin. to sin. apart.


Missing Friend.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM CLANCY formerly
of 15 Rood nig 1 Street North Brighton in
the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARJORIE JOYCE CLANCY
has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards and on the
ground of a repeated act of adultery
Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme Court
at Melbourne on or before the 12th day
of February 1952 and file your answer
herein on or before the 22nd day of
February 1952 the case may proceed in
your absence. —RAYMOND HUDSON
DUNN, of 421 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
in the State of Victoria, acts for the
Petitioner.
Forthcoming Tour of
H.R.H. Princess Elizabeth and Duke of Edinburgh
BURKE'S
PEERAGE, BARONETAGE, KNIGHTAGE
This world renowned reference volume is
definitely important on such an historical
occasion. Contents include: “Complete Key
and Guide to Precedence,” “Orders, Decorations
and Medals” etc., etc.
Enquiries: Local Booksellers
HICKS, SMITH & SONS PTY, LTD., 321 Pitt St., Sydney
đ
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
d
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or 100 V. D.C.
model for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type, fine spotting type and angle
type for ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pumping can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd
PERTH. W.A.
J. W. EARNSHAW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, Worth Sydney —'Phone X 83930
SUPER NU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes, Super
NU-METAL will recondition your motor while you drive. Permanently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest engines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users since
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube tor each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners, Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs tor 1 Cyl., 10/6; 4 Cyls., 30/-;
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-.
NU-METAL No. 2 for Bearings, Noisy Gearboxes and Diffs. Price 29/6.
Call, write or ’phone. Mail orders please add 1/6 N.S.W. and
2/- Interstate for packing: and postage. Sorry, no C.O.D.’s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque. M. 0., P.N., for '~~T
Or send mo an illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-METAL
NAME (Block Letters) _
ADDRESS _ B. 2/l/’52
BRISTOL TE/mmG CO.
Ist FLOOR, BRISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone MA 7250 (Near Market Street)
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
d
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 125% Sales Tax
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Str.ap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
ď
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 KUN7I3 STREET SYDNEY.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
/ ?JiV. : i IS\
Tt il illif 1
liit'iiiii sii ®»nii :
Bif s» wvxv
a
y w
WiS»*«^W*TvSCi^ —
■
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 11/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 23/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
'• METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
The Electricity Trust of South Australia
has established a steam power station at the
Leigh Creek Coal Field. The load demand
includes electric excavators. Two turbo-
alternators are installed, served by two
Babcock boiler units each delivering 25,000
lbs. of steam per hour at 200 p.s.i. and
630°F. These units are equipped with
Babcock-Detroit RotoGrates. This spreader
type stoker has a forward travelling grate,
providing continuous ash removal. The
units burn successfully Leigh Creek coal
(minus 1") having a calorific value of
5,500, 6,500 8.T.U./lb. with from 28/36%
moisture and 7/17% ash.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENT'S PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Stales
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
foundland, lying panting on the
door-mat, and my little terrier,
Jip, stretched just outside the
window. The lawn is so green
after the rain and the flower-
beds brilliant with autumn
flowers. A sort of autumn haze
over Mt. Keira and the wooded
hill in front of it, standing out
bright in the sunshine. I am
writing at the desk Mr. Boyce
gave me, and which is still in
excellent preservation, and using
the ink out of Mama’s silver ink-
stand. The table is round and
the cloth is green and old (we
have a better one for after-
noons), and I am arrayed in a
blue hair-striped print dress
with white “facings,” also the
worse for wear.
I had got this far when Mary
Ann came in to lay the cloth, so
I had dinner, fondly imagining
that Mr. Taylor was also dining
with a friend in Wollongong,
and went out to water the plants
in the veranda, when I heard the
whistle by which he always
announces his return as he goes
along the road above the house,
and presently he came in very
hungry, and Mary Ann has just
been frying chops for him.
He brought me your letter of
February 15, and I have been
reading it while he has been eat-
ing the said chops, and am
much interested in all its news.
The mission week must have
been very interesting, and I hope
productive of good. We had a
mission here some time ago and
enjoyed the mission services
greatly. It was more to us than
it would be to Clifton people,
for we have such a wretched
clergyman here ; half the parish
dislike him and the other half
laugh at him.
I know that lovely early spring
weather in England. How
pleasant the few fine days are,
but, if I remember right, they
are rather treacherous, and frost
and snow sometimes come after,
but your present winter is what
I should like if I were in
England. Here it is never very
cold, and we have always
flowers. Last June (our mid-
winter month) all the roses were
in full bloom, summer roses and
all. They had been checked by
the drought and came out late.
I cannot half-answer your
long interesting letter, as this
must be posted today to catch the
mail. The post is half a mile
from us, and Mr. Taylor is wait-
ing to send one of the boys with
it. If you have your likeness
taken again for Annie, I hope
you will have it done without
your bonnet this time. The one
you sent me was very good, but
it gives you a better idea of a
person to see the hair also.
Kind love to Mr. Boyce, and
with much to yourself and Mr.
Taylor’s kind regards,
I remain, my dearest Etta,
ever your affectionate sister.
RACHEL TAYLOR.
{To be continued next week.)
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To correspond and exchange stamps
with medium collectors, Australia,
N.Z. and Pacific Islands. (Reply
direct to C. G. Kelkar, Divisional
Statistical Officer, State Transport,
Sholapur, India.)
Words of “The Wild Colonial Boy.’’
—5256.
Words of poem “Marsupial Bill.”
—5255.
To buy copy of Mo Burdekin,
Bonanza and Pommy Cow by Sarah
Campion, I Camp Here by Roland,
Dream Life and Real Life and From
Man to Man by Olive Schreiner. —
5254.
To buy Little Journeys by Elbert
Hubbard—5257.
Information Sought.
Simple precautions which will add
little to the cost of a house but will
provide a measure of protection in
areas where there is a distinct bushfire
hazard ?
(1) In timber houses the walls below
floor-level should be close-boarded,
ventilation being provided by woven-
wire vents. (2) All vents should be
of the woven-wire type or else covered
by a fine mesh. (3) Large ventilators
in gable ends should be eliminated,
and replaced by a number of scattered
small ventilators with fine-mesh open-
ings. (4) Eaves should preferably be
completely boxed, but if left open
should be covered by fine-mesh wire-
netting. (5) Badly-fitting tiles are a
source of danger. (6) The space
under the corrugations of corrugated
roofing should be closed at the eaves,
ridges, hips and valleys. (7) Fly-wire
window-screens and doors are bene-
ficial. (8) Trees and shrubs should
be kept clear of the walls. (9) Stacks
of fuel should be well clear of the
walls or stored in properly-constructed
sheds.
* * * *
If a boxer is knocked-out a few
seconds before the final round ends,
so that he could not be counted out,
is it possible for him to win the con-
test ?
Yes. If a boxer earns a decisive
lead on points, and is knocked un-
conscious a few seconds before the
final bell, he could still be correctly
declared the winner. If his margin
was extremely slight and such a thing
occurred, he would be entitled to at
least a draw. Such endings have
happened to contests in almost every
country where boxing prevails.
Brief Answers.
A.P.: The contract is so vague as
to be unenforceable. Consider deposit
is recoverable S.L.M.: Write Com-
monwealth Government Printer, Can-
berra, for copy of Annual Catalogue
of Australian Publications, No. 14,
1949, published by the Commonwealth
National Library P.M.: See “The
Saga of a Larrikin” by Walter W.
Stone in “Biblionews” for December,
1951, obtainable from Walter W.
Stone, 12 Parnell-street, Strathfield
(N.S.W.)... .R.H.: An article on
Harry Morant (“The Breaker”) ap-
peared on “The Red Page” of The
Bulletin of March 12, 1947....
J.S.; Jack Haines had his first Sydney
fight at Leichhardt Stadium, when he
scored a third-round knockout over
Mickey Walters early in 1928. This
was the only contest Haines had in
Leichhardt Stadium. Haines was born
at Hay, N.S.W., on June 25, 1907.
He won the middleweight champion-
ship from Ted Monson in 1929, and
lost it to Ambrose Palmer in 1930.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.N.: There’s feeling in “Da Capo,”
but the general effect is too thin and
too personal... .J. 8.8.: “Morning-
ton” the nearest E.S.L.: But
doesn’t your own bright parody
prove that you really understood the
poem, and perhaps even liked its
technique? J.D.8.M.: Pleasant
atmosphere in “Avoca,” sometimes
too conventionally expressed and
sometimes too awkwardly W. R.:
Even the proximity of New Year
can’t quite persuade us to let that
Scot come staggering in J.M.8.:
“Fine-weather Friend” is rather a
dry little poem V.N.R.: Not
quite; but that’s a lovely couplet
opening the last stanza of “Spell-
breaker” A.A.W.: Simplify
D.C.W.: Doesn’t really get anywhere,
though there’s some nice stuff about
the engine “biding its stealthy time to
go wrong later”... .E.N.; You’re
taking the job too lightly K.E.H.:
Promise in both... .T.M.: Tennis
ditty bounces... .E.N.: “In the Con-
cert Hall” nearly did it J. 5.8.:
Just jingles F.H.F.: Your letter
melted us; but not quite enough to
make us accept the poem A.F.V.:
Your little boat carries a pretty light
freight P.E.H.: Perhaps you had
better leave Persia to Omar Khayyam.
Noiro : It’s a bushfire all right, but
not the brightest flame of poetry....
W.J.D.: if that’s what little ladies in
blue do to you, you’d better find one
in pink.


mmnMMW
Dewar's
■fcaevrei? varies
For over one hundred years
~ . the same distinctive
character, mellow flavour,
and rich, heart-warming
qualities . . .
DEWAR'S
AWARDS®
B
MED*
d
50 Uols
and
Prize Mcbote
50 Go|&
and
Prize Meftals
m
. “White Label
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. .
John Dewar & Sons 1>
DISTILLER S
Hou»f, Hoymarket. S.WI. PE SCOTLAND
NET CONTENTS I pint. 6FL OZS. nM iO
'WMNTEEO WHOLLY DISTILLED. MATURED AND BLENDED
»Ott LID ... .uni TM
Missing Friends.
WOULD ELIZABETH ESTHER NEW-
HAM (nee Dawbin), or anyone knowing
her present whereabouts, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE,
Marton, New Zealand?
ESTATE of JOHN CARROLL deceased.—
WILL PRISCILLA CARROLL and VERA,
RITA and HILMA CARROLL, widow and
daughters of the above deceased, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
\
r 4/
r
«$ ' v
OUR CHILDS
FUTURE 1$
ASSURER...
with
THE EQUITABLE
We invest the child endowment payments
in our child’s future. No worries whether
we will be able to send him on to Uni-
versity or give him a start in his pro-
fession or trade.
You are invited to make an appointment
with “The Equitable” to discuss the
matter of assurance. Your action now can
mean so much for your child later on-
call, write or phone to-day.
SB
7
19
BRANDAUERS
PENS
k
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
US 5932
Under Entirely New Management.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS UN
OSinjLTVOW v /
ptc cm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“For sale, almost new child’s car,
fit four-year-old, £4.”
—Suburban paper.
A secondhand baby model.
A Farmer Dreams of Home.
I’m looking at the streets, and
yet I’m seeing
The corn, the fruit of all my
plodding toil.
The corn is rooted in my very
being;
It grips me tight, close to my
native soil.
When I left home the corn wot
soft and low;
It must be high and sturdy,
now, and strong,
Deep-rooted, tightly sheathed. I
only know
Vm dreaming I’m back home
where I belong.
I dream I stroke the cow upon
the horn
That’s nearly killed me more
than once. I swear
And laugh together. By the
bursting corn
My dogs are barking, telling
me they’re there.
I must go back to let my sole go
free :
My corn is ripe: my feet are
killing me.
NEIL MILLAR.
Old Bore’s Almanack for
1952.
Jan.: Premier Moussadek of Persia
will set a new world’s record by
howling non-stop for 2hr. 39min.
15 sec. A nightclub will be discovered
which actually gives lettuce with the
salad instead of shredded cabbage.
Overcome by the publicity following
its killing-Father-Christmas broadcast,
the A.B.C. will set up a special
Debunking Department at an esti-
mated annual cost of £60,000. Twelve
armed terrorists will set upon an
unarmed Englishman in Suez, and the
Cairo paper “El Mizri” will hail this
“great feat of arms.” Stalin will
offer to conclude a non-aggression pact
with Turkey, and all Turkish reservists
will immediately be called to the
colors.
Feb.; The Chinese “volunteer”
army in Korea will celebrate the 250th
deadlock adjournment of the Truce
Commission by a fireworks display.
In a new appeasement-through-ameni-
ties drive the Joint Coal Board will
hand-out free greyhounds to miners
on the N.S.W. northern field. A huge
animal like a leopard will be seen by
several people in a Vic. Mallee dis-
trict, and hundreds of visitors will
flock to the nearest township. In a
new Russian purge the Minister for
Purges will be liquidated after con-
fessing under torture that he had
failed to include his wife and daughter
in a purge, knowing that they were
wearing American nylons. The newest
hats for women, crownless and brim-
less, will be welcomed as a return to
sane millinery.
Mar. ; Coal-owners will announce
record absenteeism on the fields
through miners training their new
greyhounds. Two floor-walkers and
14 salesgirls will receive first-aid
treatment when 300 women shoppers
go berserk at a Sydney bargain-sale.
A gigantic hunt will be organised to
shoot the leopard in the Vic. Mallee
“If the wind keeps up We'll be 'ome in time f'r milkin'."
which an inhabitant will remember
escaped from a circus many years
before. A Hollywood studio will
announce plans to produce “Mac-
beth”- as a comedy, with “Schnozzle”
Durante in the title role and Marjorie
Main as Lady Macbeth. “Prayda”
will reveal that jazz did not originate
in America. Its inventor was St.
Vitus, the patron saint of dancing in
Russia in the 16th century.
Apl. : A bull-calf on which some
children had put blobs of yellow
paint will be found in a Victorian
Mallee district, and the publican will
put on free beer for the township
after all the visitors have left, saying
he can well afford it. A daily paper
will publish an article actually written
by the boxer under whose name it
appears. King Farouk of Egypt will
simultaneously touch 19 stone and
England for a loan. A Spokane
(Wa.) man will obtain a divorce on
the ground of mental cruelty after
giving evidence that his wife used
to beat him every night at gin rummy,
and he will be given custody of the
pack of cards. A Melbourne judge
will ask a witness to explain what he
means by the term “stonker.”
May: A royal-commission witness
will cause a major sensation by for-
getting to forget some details of a
vital transaction. An executive shake-
up in a Sydney afternoon paper will
follow a grave mistake in relegating
to an inside page the latest turf-
doping scandal and allotting the front
page to the story of a Korean War
D.C.M.-winner. After a pit-top meet-
ing held at a northern N.S.W. mine,
at which protests will be made against
a wheeler parting his hair in the
middle, the men will all go home.
The N.S.W. “Government” will an-
nounce a new Master Plan to effect
economies, particularly in the field
of Government marketing. A Bris-
bane woman will receive treatment
for shock when a plumber whom she
had phoned only a week before turns
up to mend a burst water-pipe.
June: A leading Soviet composer
will be shot for writing a work in
the key of A major, the same key in
which a symphony had recently been
composed by an American. The
N.S.W. “Government” will announce
the creation of a Choko Marketing
Board, with a chairman (an ex-Labor
M.L.A.) at £5OOO p.a., a deputy-
chairman (an ex-union-secretary) at
£3OOO p.a. and a staff of 14. Seven
mines will be idle on the N.S.W.
coalfields in sympathy with the men
who struck because of the wheeler s
hair-parting. A Brisbane street that
has been newly relaid in concrete
will not be ripped up for four weeks
for replacement of pipes. The cap-
tain of an incoming liner will fail to
state that mountainous seas he en-
countered were the worst in his 30
years’ experience. Despite all the
efforts of a strong bar, a big society
divorce-case will spin out to only 14
days.
July : The Retail Traders’ Associa-
tion will sponsor the inauguration of
Nephews’ Day. The new Choko
Marketing Board will announce that
as there are no professional choko-
growers, as had been assumed when
the board was established, all back-
yard growers with one vine or more
must register with and send all chokos
to the board, under penalty of a £2OO
fine. The Miners’ Federation will
threaten a nation-wide coal strike it
the wheeler who parts his hair in the
middle is allowed to continue on the
job. A Soviet diplomat will accuse
the West of trying to confuse simple
issues .by using “tortuous termino-
logy” ; a few weeks later he will be
arrested by the M-V.D. on charges
of “anti-Stalinist, pro : Trotskyite cos-
mopolitanist deviationism.”
Aug. : The N.S.W. Choko Market-
ing Board will increase its staff to
400 to handle the 150,000 forms being
sent out to suburban residents sus-
pected of growing chokos. Twenty-
eight N.S.W. mines will be idle,
bringing the total of coal lost to
100,000 tons and wages £300,000 over
the wheeler’s hair-parting issue, which,
the miners’ president will stress, “in-
volves a vital principle.” An American
who started a new religious sect will
make only four million dollars put of
it the first year. Anthony Eden will
wear a snap-brim hat instead of his
Homburg, and leading industrials on
’Change will drop sharply. A Sunday-
paper astrologer will warn Leonians
against burning up five-pound notes
between 6 p.m. and midnight.
Sept. : It will be disclosed that the
wheeler whose hair-parting caused the
original dispute on the N.S.W. coal-
fields altered the parting from the
middle to the side the next day. A
Hollywood actress will attempt suicide
by gassing herself with lemonade. Tin
Pan Alley will publish a “hit” tune
in which “moon” isn’t rhymed with
“June.” Dr. Evatt will deliver him-
self of a passionate diatribe against
the ice-hockey selectors for leaving
out of the State team a player who
is a union shop-delegate. Appeals
will be made to Mr. McGirr by turf
interests to reintroduce mid-week
racing to give bookmakers a chance to
recoup their weekend losses, and the
Premier will assure them that Cabinet
will sympathetically consider this
move to so important an “industry.”
Oct. : The chairman of the Choko
Marketing Board will reveal that the
staff has had to be increased to 750
to cope with the protests received
from backyard choko-growers about
their regimentation. A Soviet maga-
zine will claim that irrefutable
evidence culled from old Russian
archives shows that a Russian monk
wrote “Paradise Lost” and that the
English Milton was a foul plagiarist.
The Customs Dept, will ban the
bowdlerised version of “Girls To-
gether.” A nonagenarian will attri-
bute his wonderful health to the fact
that he has been a lifelong total
abstainer and non-smoker. The Com-
munist truce-negotiator, General Un
Hung Lia, will demand that further
talks be presided over by three neutral
umpires, naming delegates from
Poland, Hungary and Rumania.
Nov.: The first prosecutions will
be launched by the Choko Marketing
Board against a citizen for eating one
of his own chokos instead of sending
it to the board. A society charity-
worker will cause a sensation by refus-
ing to pose for a Press photo. A
visitor to a contemporary art exhibi-
tion will correctly interpret the sub-
ject of a work, and the artist will
thereupon gnash his dentures. A man
will make a home-brew that will take
four mouthfuls to tell it is a home-
brew. A visiting French journalist
on a flying visit will be shown the
inside of the pylon of Sydney Harbor
Bridge and taken to a nightclub, and
he will immediately return to France
and write a book telling us what we
will have to do if the country is to
become great.
Dec.: A Sydney paper will over-
look the detailed description of a
murderer’s dress at his trial, and the
reporter will be threatened with the
sack. The chairman of the Choko
Marketing Board will ask the Premier
for an additional 250 inspectors to
police the regulations, and it will be
disclosed that the consolidated loss on
the board’s operations to date is
£135,000. The A.B.C. will reveal that
the year’s cost of the new Debunking
Dept, was £98,500. A nonagenarian
will attribute his excellent lifelong
health to the fact that he has had a
drink of rum every day for 70 years
and that constant pipe-smoking has
made him contented.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
firefighting
Our firefighting authorities could get
some useful tips from George R.
Stewart’s documentary novel Fire, which
describes in detail the U.S.A. forest fire-
fighting organisation in action. With
60ft. steel lookout-towers as outposts,
regional, zone and forest headquarters as
battalion, division and corps respectively,
the set-up is almost military in character.
Each lookout tower is equipped with
instruments to pinpoint any suspicious
smoke or lightning-strike, and reports
from two or more towers give a cross-
reference on the forest map at region
b.q., where the ranger in charge has small
fire-crews at call for immediate action.
Crew-bosses —indeed all bosses in the
field —keep in touch by walkie-talkie.
If the fire breaks away the larger
organisation goes into action to meet the
emergency. The ranger, with his local
knowledge of the country threatened, be-
comes fire-boss. Aircraft are called up
for aerial survey and, in inaccessible
country, specially equipped and trained
crews may be parachuted near the site.
A meteorologist Joins the regional staff
to forecast weather and especially wind
trends. An officer known as “dispatcher”
takes charge of supply in all its aspects —
it is his task to obtain and place man-
power, tools and machinery wherever the
fire-boss may direct.
The fire-boss splits up his control to
division-, section- and crew-bosses —a
crew being about a dozen men. Men are
drawn from every possible source to assist
the professional firefighters. Radio-vans
tour the streets of adjacent cities calling
for volunteers.
Bulldozers are used extensively to
clear breaks, water-tankers operate where
possible and power-saws fell dead timber
in the path of the fire, the object being
to prevent the fire climbing from ground-
level to flame forward along the crown
of the forest. *
In the meantime the fire-camp is estab-
lished by the dispatcher and staffed by
technicians, timekeepers and cooks. It
is equipped with everything required by
a large body of men —hand-tools, cook-
ing- and eating-utensils, rations, bedding,
tents and, probably, a mobile power-
truck for lighting.
Basically, the firefighting is on the
lines we know —blocking the path of the
fire by breaks and burn-backs and
narrowing its front by flank attack. But
the organisation seems to be more
elaborate, better integrated and much
more on its toes than anything we have
so far achieved. — Reddit (N.S.W.).
*'‘Child Labor”
I must make sure my mother reads
'“O’Johnno’s” exposure of the use of
child-labor for harvesting fruit in the
Speck (B, 12/12/’5l). Year after year,
from when we were two till 20, she
dragged us off to pick raspberries and
currants in the hills behind Mt. Welling-
ton. Picking usually started just after
Christmas and finished early in February.
We were not actually chained together,
but we worked long hours, from 7 a.m.
until 6 p.m., with an hour or more for
lunch, and breaks for morning and after-
noon tea. Our exhaustion can be mea-
sured from the fact that after “weigh-
up” (at which we voluntarily handed up
401 b. tins of fruit and helped empty them
into casks for no extra money) we could
scarcely summon up energy enough to
help milk the cows, separate the milk,
play quoits and wrestle in the handy-
man’s hut before we were driven to our
beds in the old barn, where we were
almost too tired to throw our hobnailed
boots at the rats on the rafters, or to
duck our heads under the blankets as a
bat swished by.
We did our best to brighten the hard
days: we pelted and raspberry-washed
each other ; made the air above the canes
ring with schoolboy jokes and sing-songs ;
in the weekends we wandered through the
bush searching for strawberries, cherries
and whipsnakes ; or played cricket with
the locals. But our minds were firmly
fixed on the day of our release, when the
fruit was finished and we could go back,
away from the fresh air and the tree-
covered hills, to the smoke of The
city, to taste again the delight of lessons
instead of fresh raspberries and cream.
My mother must have ruined me.
Three or four years ago my wife and I
did a working tour of Australia, and the
time we recall with most pleasure is the
grape-picking at Renmark, in spite of
the burning sun, the maddening flies and
the back-breaking “gooseberry-bush”
Gordos. — Taswegian (Tas.).
Attracting Tourists
Thousands of wealthy oversea tourists
could be attracted to this country if
they could get to know more of
it; if they could readily obtain infor-
mation on the Australian outback and
the picturesque places near populated
areas.
Some months before going to Canada
on a holiday 1 wrote to the Canadian
Government’s Tourist Department for
literature and information. Heaps of
pamphlets followed, giving all I wanted
and more. One letter even suggested an
itinerary and gave the cost. A repre-
sentative of Canadian Railways offered
to come and show me some 32mm.
movies of Canada’s colorful scenery.
Thanks to all this I was able to have a
first-class holiday and see everything
worth seeing. While there I renewed
acquaintance with an old R.A.F. friend
keen to come to Australia. I told him
to write to the Australian Government.
He did. The few booklets he received in
return were of no use, and he didn’t
come.
Federal Cabinet should give serious
consideration to the establishment of a
well-equipped tourist department, with
agencies abroad, so that intending tourists
could get advance knowledge of the
country.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Fight Against Socialism
As “W.C.C.” says (B. 28/11/’5l), our
liberty is almost equally threatened by
Governments of both political colors. One
reason may be that present-day Liberals
owe much of their policy to men like
Hughes, Pearce and Lyons; men who
started as Socialists and never completely
recanted, though they broke with the
Socialist party. Another reason, perhaps,
is that Liberal tactics often seem to be
aimed at the Labor voter with
watered-down Socialism.
The real root of the matter, how-
ever, seems to be that we are really
governed not by politicians, but by civil-
service heads. They love the present set-
up because of the power it gives them
over the lives and property of everyone.
Laws, we are told, are made by Parlia-
ment. Actually they are framed by some
Minister, approved by Cabinet, and
passed through Parliament for automatic
approval. In framing any law, the
Minister relies largely on his departmental
advisers; it is then drafted by other civil
servants and administered by others. They
can turn a measure they dislike, such as
the sacking of 10,000 of their number,
into mere farce, but they can work a
few extra powers for themselves into
almost any measure.
Nor can we expect any Minister to do
too much about it, even if he had the
time and the detailed knowledge to super-
vise every stage of the operation effec-
tively. The Minister for Agriculture, for
example, may not know nearly as much
about growing wheat as the average
farmer, but he has access to facts —local
and world demand, carryover stocks,
supplies of bags and machinery, storage
and transport facilities, etc. —that farmers
cannot possibly have. Thus it is easy
for him to believe that he knows more
about wheat than they do, and when
they appear to him to be acting stupidly,
and one of his advisers suggests that they
should be compelled, in their own or the
country’s interests, to do this or that, he
is not as shocked as his previous platform
utterances would lead one to expect.
Most of our leaders outside Parliament,
too, have some sort of a vested interest
in controls. The price- and wage-fixing
system, for instance, suits the trade-union
leaders. They can safely agitate along
the lines of “raise-wages-peg-prices,”
while knowing that the men’s basic
grievances, on which their jobs depend,
will remain. In a similar way, members
of the various commodity boards owe
their position to orderly (controlled)
marketing laws.
That leaves nobody to protect us against
the Socialist planners but ourselves. It
is not enough to vote the Socialists out;
Socialism remains arid can never be finally
overthrown. It is deeply-rooted in human
nature, and can only be kept at bay by
constant vigilance. After all. Govern-
ments are sensitive to pressure of public
opinion, and they can, if compelled, assert
themselves against the civil service. It
is due mainly to our past apathy and
selfishness that so much of our freedom
has been filched from us. We must be
continually alert to guard what remains
and to recover some of what has been
lost. And we must realise that the cause
of freedom everywhere is our concern,
that it is our plain duty to rush to the
help of everyone who is being bullied
by a board or an official. Otherwise our
turn, when it comes, will find us without
allies. — Magnoon (Q.).
Railways
“Dieselicus” quotes figures for
economies to be obtained on the Trans
route, and goes on to say that American
railways have been saved by the wide use
of diesels. But it’s not as simple as that.
The diesel has some advantages for
certaia routes, and the Trails run is one
of them, but it’s very different using
this form of traction on one line and
using it on all lines for all types of
passenger- and freight-work.
To assess the cost of replacing steam
locomotives completely by some other
form of traction, the value of the steam
locomotives when scrapped, the value of
such handling facilities as are no longer
usable and the cost of new facilities must
all be added to the capital cost of the
new equipment, which, in the case of
diesel-electrics, is already extremely high.
It is ludicrous to compare directly the
freight and passenger conditions in the
heavily - populated and highly - indus-
trialised U.S.A. with those of Australia,
where one-third of the population lives
in two cities, where most intercapital
loading should economically be carried
by sea and where there are heavy
seasonal freight demands.
Train crews are hard to get at present,
but there are less expensive ways of
wooing labor than buying diesel-electrics.
Because we are too inept to use our
natural resources, it does not mean that
the economic thing to do is to ignore
them.
Australia has placed orders overseas
for more than 400 locomotives since the
war, because we could not build them in
sufficient time, and yet “Dieselicus” sug-
gests that if all the railways were to
make the change the diesel equipment
could be 100 per cent. Australian. —
R.A.R. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 154
Across.
I—Flam1 —Flam production depends upon
this remote Volga boatmanship.
(9)
s—Firm layer for a Paddington and
N.S.W. cricketer. (5)
7 —Give a gun to venerable Bradman
in the final battlefield. (10)
9—Pull to the west. (3)
10 —Wickedness evident when I am
in Essen. (3)
12 — You must have a broken nose
for ages. (4)
13 — It is capable of stretching the
Spanish like a muscular twitch.
(7)
14 — Beat it with vitality. (2)
15 — Fifty helps, that is to get nothing
invested. (4, 5,2)
18— Jackdaw steals tea from Kate. (3)
19— Sit back. (2)
20 — Remember me as a blooming
nuisance. (11)
22 — Negative required a small num-
ber. (2)
23 — Donald, not Donalda, and I see
the relative of the belief that
hapiness is the highest good. (7)
25 — Bad unionist covers an old wound.
(4)
26 — Alderman swallows a conveyance.
28 — Piper’s son has, half a drum
dictum on the way back. (3)
29 After 100, a mad personage is to
use his fists for one with the gift
of the gab. (10)
30 — Footwear strike in a steamer. (5)
31 — Victoria keeps a board over these
parent incursions. (4, 5)
Down.
1 — Pennant on the Spanish, with the
Roman key of Beethoven’s 4th
concerto whipping. (12)
2 Latin twitches of the muscles for
typical 19th-century artists. (9)
3 Bacchanale. (4)
4 Crude dozen squared. (5)
6 —Pine for this marauding European
who swallows nothing. (4)
8— Dig for 55 in a British rive. - . (5)
9 Muscular twitch. (3)
10 — Dust storm from the Asiatic
deserts is turning Roy Rene both
ways. (6)
11 — They supplement inadequate con-
ducting in fights that haven’t
been “fixed”? (7, 5)
16— This grader is always in strife. (6)
17— Comic business might shut one
up. (3)
18 — Hamadryad is an enthroned killer.
(4, 5)
21—Proclamation. (5)
23 Actor in the Ark? (3)
24 Go up with meat in an ancient
Irish writing. (5)
26 Firm progenitor in a deep sleep.
(4)
27 — Gaze couldn’t be commoner. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 153.


0
(
M
X
\
V
m n
that slips
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
'
■ • v- :
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’
Assurance Co. limited
i ' ■ J£
I - •'
■•Vv.
*3
mm
