

The Bulletin
*«The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3776
Price 9d
Wednesday, June 25, 1952
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
ST. GILES CATHEDRAL, FORTRESS OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND
EDINBURGH’S principal church, St. Giles, standing a short way downthe
Royal Mile from the Castle, has played a stirring part
ecclesiastical history. It stands upon the site occupied by a as t
back as the ninth century, which was replaced by a N b™an stmctuie in the
twelfth century: this was burnt down by the invading English under Richa
II in 1385. The present Gothic edifice was built between 1387 and the miaoie
° f X^oiifstan ding t 'architectural feature is the central
the famous “Crown of St. Giles,” dating from about 1495. It was here that
John Knox preached between 1559 and 1572, and he was buried m _ the
cemetery which then adjoined the church. He is commemorated by a plate
in the roadway bearing the initials “1.K.,” and by a bronze statue, within t
Cathedral, to the cost of which Australia subscribed. ......
During the time of John Knox the building was divided. b n y n
jpff> three churches; other portions served as a grammar school, a town
clerk’s office, courts of justice, a prison and a corner was everi found for
storing the gallows. During the reign of Charles I, in 1633, the bishopr
Edinburgh was established, with St. Giles as the Cathedral. At the time ot
the Revolution, in 1688, however, the last of the State bishops was ejected,
and since then, although still popularly designated St. Giles Cathedral, the
church has no official claim to the title.
It was there, in 1637, that a famous incident took place when Jenny
Geddes. a market-woman, incensed at hearing the English Church service read
from the pulpit, flung her stool at the head of the Minister, Dean Hannay,
which resulted in a riot. Her action is commemorated by a tablet bearing the
inscription “ . . near this spot a brave Scottish woman, Janet Geddes, on
the 23rd July, 1637. struck the first blow in the great struggle for freedom
of conscience which after a conflict of half a century ended in the establishment
of civil and religious liberty.”
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
Writing
at HOMF
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) ...Age
Two Great Books
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Has been a best seller since great great grandfather was a boy. Today, in
this new edition, fully illustrated in colour, the world’s greatest adventure
takes on its true tropical brilliance. PRICE £2/2/-.
HERE’S A VILLAIN
George Carson-Cooling’s outstanding book offers the reader hilarious and
provocative entertainment, garnished with odd spots of serious and often
scathing comment. Romping around the educational system generally, this
book has something in it for everybody. PRICE 15/-.
JACKSON AND O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
PUBLISHERS, 304 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The Red Page
"JUNGLE ROAD TO TOKYO."
Lieutenant-General Bob Eichelberger’s
Jungle Road to Tokyo (Odhams) stands
out like a rock in the flood of military
reminiscences. He was the first U.S.
general to command a corps in Australia
-—the I Corps, which in these days is
part of the Eighth Army in Korea, to
which the British Commonwealth Division
is now attached under the enthusiastic
command of Lieutenant-General John W.
0 Daniel (“Iron Mike”) of the famous
1 bird Division in Europe in World
War 11.
Of the fighting which rolled out or by-
passed Japanese forces in the New
Guinea approaches he saw as much as
anybody with the divisions of his I Corps,
and he is one of the most authoritative
writers on the detail of it because he had
a boyish delight of being in the middle
of it whenever possible.
He was, indeed, a man who would not
have pleased Wellington, who did not like
his senior officers to get themselves top
much shot at, and in that category come
some other American generals— at Buna
three out of four, including General
Eichelberger’s chief - of - staff, were
wounded, the furthest away from the
“front” being 75 yeards from the
Japanese lines. General Eichelberger, 57
years old and no mean mark for a srtiper,
came through unscratched, a condition
in which he emerged from the war three
years later despite the fact that he gave
the enemy in a dozen engagements or
more ample chances to scratch him, and
aircraft pilots—he was an inveterate
mover about over large areas—continual
opportunities to do their worst.
He seems to have remained as good-
tempered throughout as could be
expected amid the trials and tribulations
of the war, and he had the merit of get-
ting on with everybody, including Aus-
tralians, with whom his liaison was con-
tinuous during the New Guinea fighting.
There was plenty of room for friction in
his relationships, especially in respect to
supply priorities in those lean and
desperate times. But he is unique in his
generosity of outlook towards the Aus-
tralian command.
He was a highly popular figure at
Rockhampton, where he had his corps
headquarters, and Rockhampton and its
surrounding country and its adjacent
beaches appear to have been equally
popular with him. He loved the “city of
Sin, Sweat and Sorrow” as if it were his
own. He even loved the heat-smitten
Berserkers and other parts of the area
as good training country for troops, and
he was fond of the Rockhampton people.
His introduction to the Second A.1.F.:
When the going is tough, In a brawl or a
battle, there is no better fighting partner
than the man from Down Under. While
the Americans, new to combat, slugged it
out at Buna, the 7th Australian Division
was driving against the Japanese strong-
holds in the region of Sanananda, a few
difficult miles to the west. These Aus-
tralians were not the untrained militia
troops who earlier had fallen back along
the Kokoda trail before the Japanese
advance. The 7th Division and the 18th
Brigade which came in later were crack
outfits with three years of war behind them.
They were troops tanned by a desert sun, who
had served with the British in. North Africa.
They belonged- in fact to the celebrated
fraternity of the “Rats of Tobruk,” who,
encircled by the Germans, held out
indomitably for many months They were
intrepid hard-bitten soldiers, but they, too,
were strangers to jungle fighting.
General Eichelberger’s account of the
Buna-Sanananda fighting is the best
which has been written by an American.
It minimises no failure or weakness and
it seems to put the whole business in
something like a fair perspective. He
does not even minimise the habit of
U.S. pilots of strafing their friends, as on
the first day the U.S. 127th Infantry went
into the line and were promptly treated
to a stick of bombs which caused a dozen
casualties in one company, and the
mournful occasion when his own jeep,
with his commander-in-Chief of Allied
Land Forces, General Blarney, in it, was
suddenly assailed by a U.S. A2O, flying
treetop-high and “firing with everything
it had, while troops on the ground
answered with everything they had”:
« “My God,” said General Blarney.
What’s that?” Nobody had been hurt,
and 1 could laugh. “Just another all-
American battle,” I said, “similar to those
1 have been reporting all along. Those
planes think they are firing on the Japs at
Sanananda, three miles away. Our men
get fed up and fire back.”
The General has a particularly kind spot
for Major-General George Wootten —who
led the U.S. right wing in the final Buna
engagement—as a fighter, and gives him
full credit for his leadership and grit.
And he also has a kind word —one of the
few written during the war —for the
maligned Wirraways:
.... I resented the public indifference to
their flying ability and heroism. My men
saw one Wirraway shoot down a Zero.
This was about like seeing Lindbergh’s,
Spirit of St. Louis shoot down a jet-
fighter.
And he devotes a whole chapter in a
comparatively short book to a generous
account of the services of the Australian
coast-watchers in New Guinea.
The later fighting in which he took
part and directed was at least equally
difficult, especially the eerie battles of the
Biak caves and the campaign Among
the gorges and huge rain forests of
Mindanao, where it was necessary to
bridge the chasms with stout steel cables
flung from tree to tree and “yank across
space” trucks and 105 mm. howitzers as
part of “an engineering delirium.” But
he and his troops in these adventures
were fortified with an experience which
they had gained in their Buna days
and an equipment and engineering, artil-
lery and air support which in 1942 had
been only a dream. They also had a
sea under Admirals Nimitz’s and Halsey’s
command behind them.
Whether his opinion that Japan cannot
recover by her own efforts and that if
the United States should abandon its
mission there the Japanese “would have
no alternative except to take Russia’s
eager and outstretched hand” will hold
good remains to be seen. The Japanese
appear to be doing pretty well for them-
selves. But at any rate there is little
doubt that his opinion that 95 per cent,
of them are anti-Russian is valid.
His book is one without which the
history of the New Guinea and Philippine
campaigns of 1942-45 cannot be studied.
And it is much easier reading than most
works of its type.
EK DUM.
Radio-Cadenza.
Of recent years there have been few
radio news-commentators in Australia of
the American kind, of the style of
Christopher Usher in The Oracle, by
Edwin O’Connor (Reinhardt and Evans),
and certainly none with tne same huge
audience. O’Connor, with some experi-
ence of American broadcasting, has dealt
very faithfully with his victim; as a
bloated poseur in public and in private ;
as an illicit lover of a young lady who
knows on which side her bread is
buttered ; and as a husband.
Full of his own importance and his
huge audience, Usher demands higher
terms on the renewal of his contract
with his tough-guy businessman sponsor.
At this point comes a brilliant cadenza
from the radio-station executive who is in
charge of the programmes: '
“First, you have no idea of just how
much "you owe to me. Don't for a minute
imagine that you just grew, Christopher; you
were made, and you were the end-product
of a long, careful and rather expensive cam-
paign. that the end-product is you instead
of someone else happens to be more-or-
less of an accident. 1 admit that you had
certain rough qualifications: a fair voice, a
fluent, superficial approach, a parochial
viewpoint on world aiiairs, and a hearts-
and-bowels rather than an intellectual
appeal—these were in your favor, yes.
From the beginning, I felt that you had
possibilities, Christopher; I felt that,
brought along properly, you might very
well come to command a large following
among the unsophisticated, all of whom
would seek in you the apotheosis of them-
selves. I felt that you could become —
and I say this without meaning to give
unnecessary offence —a kind of Quintessen-
tial Rube. And so you did, Christopher,
but not on your own. Don’t ever forget
that / selected you, / developed you, /
polished you, I promoted you, and I sold
you, both to the public and to Udolpho
[the sponsor]....
“I want to talk, for example, about this
alleged demand for your services. You can
forget it; it just doesn’t exist. If you
split with Udolpho, you’re done, a dead
duck. You talk about potential sponsors
as though they were strawberry-boxes, as
though they came by the gross. Just how
many firms in the United States today do
you think there are who’d be willing to
spend Udolpho’s kind of money on a news-
commentator? And of those, how many
would be willing to touch you with a
ten-foot pole once they found that
Udolpho had dropped you after nearly nine
years? They respect his judgment; they’d
reason that something was up; they’d con-
clude, finally, that Udolpho had figured
you had outlived your usefulness No,
Christopher, once the word starts getting
around that you may»' be just a wee bit
old-fashioned, that you’ve started to wear
out your welcome, you’re cooked, washed-
up No microphone, no audience; you’ll
be missed for a week or two, we’ll get
letters of protest, maybe lots of them,
then all of a sudden they’ll stop, and you’ll
be just another ex-god, gone and completely
forgotten.
Christopher remains unintimidated;
Udolpho has promised a decision in a
week’s time. For a few days all goes
well; then Christopher’s excited nerves
notice small slights from servants; people
who used to be pleased to give him in-
formation avoid him and give it to other
commentators; his wife discovers him in
sin and leaves him; when he goes for
comfort to his girl, he finds her already
under another man’s protection.
When he has lost everything, the story
takes a sudden and genially surprising
turn. But, gain or lose, what could be
left in the world for a man who had Had
to listen to the radio executive’s marvel-
lous cadenza, and apply it to himself?
The answer, of course, is; Everything.
How long could any of us go on if we
could, in fact, see ourselves as others
see us?
Recent Penguins.
The volumes of the Pelican History of
England published to date fill a real gap
for the layman. Those of us who have
recovered from the boredom inflicted by
the traditional approach .were left
floundering in a sea of memoirs and bio-
graphies, or washed up on the rocks of
professorial erudition. The writers of
the present series make history live.
While they give an excellent general
view of a century each, they are neces-
sarily uneven in literary skill, but most
are of a hig order. S. T. Bindoff’s Tudor
England is a delight to read. Doris
Stenton’s England in the Early Middle
Ages has the learning and fascinating
material, but there are times when one
wishes the custom of employing “ghosts”
Was not more frequent among the dons.
Though not in the same series the late
Eileen Power’s Medieval People, re-
printed in the Pelican series, is a model
for aspiring historians. You can picture
Chaucer, whose Prioress is one of Miss
Power’s characters, congratulating himself
in the Elysian fields on having acquired
a worthy pupil and Trevelyan rubbing his
hands with glee.
Those of us who are not top-ranking
philosophers in nuclear physics and are
thus not confirmed addicts of “Who-
dunits” will hail with approval the latest
addition of M. Simenon to the “ten”
series of Penguin detective fiction.
M. Simenon, doubtless due to his Gallic
approach, is a distinctly different pro-
position from his technical rivals. His
characters, victims and perpetrations and
the medley of people who surround them
are living people and -their surroundings
also come to life. The late-lamented
Edgar Wallace, despite his mass-produc-
tion methods, had something that his
university-trained emulators haven’t, but
M. Simenon definitely out-Wallaces
Wallace. Lost Moorings, in particular, -
can more than hold its own in the current
spate of “psychological” stories.
Reviewed Briefly .
Surf Against the Reef: Terence
O’Brien (Collins). This author, by birth
an Australian, worked for some years in
the Solomons and visited other Pacific
islands. His first novel concerns the lives
of a small group of people, black, while
and khaki, living on adjoining small
islands where copra is grown. Although
the ingredients for any one of half a
dozen fine books are here, the story pro-
ceeds along a level of superficial medio-
crity and ends happily after a most Un-
interesting murder (verdict; accidental
death). Very routine romance.
*
White Horizon : Douglas Liversidge
(Odhams). In 1950 eleven British
scientists were marooned at their base
on Stonington Island in the Falkland®;
this is the story of their rescue by sea
and air, told by a journalist who was on
the fescue-ship John Briscoe, Along with
the usual and ever-fascinating supply of
penguins, huskies, killer-whales and
blizzards there is an amusing but
awkward meeting with an envoy of the
Argentine, Capitan de Corbeta E. N.
Vega, who wouldn’t sign the Port
Foster Customs declaration because “My
ship is anchored in Argentine waters.”
Not a great book in the Antarctic tra-
dition—the place is becoming too civil-
ised —but informative and very readable.
* * ♦ *
The Loves of Richard Wagner : Julius
Kapp (Allen). First published in Berlin
in 1912, amplified in 1921 and 1929, and
now rewritten (1951) by the editor of
Wagner’s collected correspondence (some
6400 letters), this, by modern standards,
reticent record still astonishes. Mathilde
would not give herself to him except in
spirit, but she ended conjugal relations
with her husband to please Wagner, and
at the same time persuaded her husband
to pay for Wagner’s establishment in a
near-by cottage. Later, Wagner and
Cosima hoodwinked not only her
husband. Von Billow, but a king and his
Cabinet; and here we have a careful
account of Von Billow’s sufferings. Not
less interesting is Kapp’s detail on
Wagner’s satin suits; his love of over-
done cake-icing-furnishings; and his
habit of climbing trees and standing on
his head to impress female friends on
country walks —probably all of this was,
as Kapp says, necessary to the composer
of “Tristan” and “The Ring” ; perhaps,
in time, these leitmotivs will become
more and more apparent in the works
themselves.
* * ♦ ♦
A Golden Legend of the Slums : The
Rev. Desmond Morse-Boycott (Skeffing-
ton). Autobiography relating how the
author and his wife founded, in the
London slums, the St. Mary of the
Angels Song School, “unique amongst
English choral institutions, both in its
scope and achievements, and international
in activity.” Along with some exceed-
ingly clerical prose, through which
genuinely good work in the slums may
clearly be perceived, there are a lot of
surprisingly realistic stories of murder,
suicide, robbery and other diversions of
the neighborhood.
POEMS OF NEWCASTLE.
Early Days.
The town began at a place of wards and
beds, , •
A place however small where life began;
Life and the town —a mile, a single mile,
they ran
To end together in a cemetery.
A man could hail a hansom cab
And have it speed him west from life to
death,
From bed to — in a way of speaking—bed
In fifteen minutes. That is why they said
Blane-st'reet was a corridor of Time.
Coalfield.
This land is like a slice of bread
Buttered on both sides,
On top is such a beauty spread
And underneath a mine hides.
My heart prefers the upper, though
My pocket would be loth
To do without the other, so
I like it buttered both.
Modern Morning.
The hooter hoots,
The whistle toots,
The >: ren siren sirens,
The noises shake
Awide awake
Industrial environs.
The people fuss.
Ti e crowded bus
From every quarter scurries,
A id trains arrive,
nd man alive
■ low now the city hurries.
he dredges dredge
Che harbor’s edge.
And normal the occasion.
Where factories poke
Their chimneys, smoke
Begins a new invasion.
■ N.S.W,
IAN HEALY.


“Eclat” Derby at only 55/6
Far Left : "Eclat" neat lace derby with
slashed tongue, sports heel and welted
sole. Black and Brown. 2 to 7£, 55/6 pair.
Left: "Eclat" neat court in black or tan
calf; has neat sports heel, welted soles.
Sizes, 2 to 7i Priced at 63/' a pair.
Below: "Sherry" neat calf court for dress
wear. Sewn soles, bow trim. Sizes,
2to 7. In Black or Brown. 49/6 pair.
111
* ®
.
.
...
; j
r ; , J
■ i
‘lJ'swwisw
; . 1
7 _ rrj
IV
~~ ::
' *•<
/
*
/
Above: "Kay" dipside casual by Robin. In
Black or Brown suede, with calf cap and
counter. Sizes, 4 to 9; fractional fittings,
AA to B. Attractively priced at 59/6 pair.
Above Far Right: "Alma" lace derby. Ideal
for or thopaedic wear. Black or Brown.
Sizes 3 to 6i, priced at 26/6 pair. Sizes
7 to lOi, sensibly priced at 30/- a pair.
Above Right: "Clarke" crepe sole, tie-up.
Has Tawny suede uppers. Sizes, 7to 10|,
in three widths, priced at 33/6 pair. 11 to
reasonably priced at 37/6 a pair.
Above : "Mathew's
derby for boys and
youths. In Black, with
sturdy sewn sole. Sizes,
1 to 5, at 41/- pair.
Sizes to 9, 45/- pair.
Famous for their comfort and good looks, these wonderful shoes by Alma .. Robin ..
Clarkes’.. have been specially designed to pander to every young foot in your family.
r—’l
n
y s
Vt
ex'
lig
*0
i
-~U
.~v-»
o
s>
Q,
\
X
Ik
v;
* ■ V
- •X
w- «»»wviYiy<v-
Above: "Paddle" patent leather shoe, with
centre buckle. Is ideal for parties. Sices 3 to
6-i- } at 25/- pair. Sices 7to 10, at 30/6 pair.
Above: "Gro-Shu" "Kerry." A Tan Ghillie
tie. Fractional fittings, Bto E. Sizes 4to 8,
at 27/9 pair. Sizes 8 to 12$, at 31/6 pair.
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
itbotj Horde
ANTHONY HORDERNS
■ JUNIOR CENTRE - GROUND FLOOR - PITT STREET, SYDNEY - M 2401 - BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


I UNIVERSAL TRACTOR F
trr&
A
p
s"—l
ASK ANY
OWA/BR
m
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wains:
PfcTER LLOYD LIMITED
Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD.
Queensland:
FLINDERS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
South Australia:
KIN6SWAY LIMITED
Western Australia:
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Its 6-way power means it does
more jobs, returns your
investment all through the
year . Its drawbar h.p. the
top of its class—means it does
more work, earns more profit
per hour. And its remarkable
economy saves big money on
fuel bills.
You get the same versatility
and efficiency, even greater
economy with the Nuffield
Universal Diesel.
n# 1 '-
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE. GENUINE SPARE
PARTS AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
1 •
WLFFTEIB
DEALER
NT9.24.52
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
“WITH SELF-CLIPPED WINGS"
By HAROLD MERCER
IF with my passing a few
words are written about m
they will probably repeat th
charge, often made to m
face, that I was a humorist; a
a humorist and also as an enter
prising, hard-working freelance
I claim the right to write my own
obituary. My practice, always
has been to live, financially,
advance; and by dying
advance I shall run true to form
And, after all, I probably know
more about myself than anyone
else.
The fact that I am writing my
obit., however, must not be taken
ais a definite promise. But in
world grown so tough that i
breaks the point of a freelance
there is no knowing what wil
happen. First, to sum up:
He sang, a bird with self-clipped
wings.
Dull often, but quite dull
flashes ;
He made a hash of many things,
But now there’s peace to all his
hashes.
It is left to every man to make
his own hashes; and there is
one detail about hash that is a
compensation for any ill after-
effects —spice is an ingredient. I
must have had a fondness for
hashes or I would not have made
so many of them. But it may be
said ' that usually the materials
for every hash are well pre-
pared for the maker before he
starts upon his job.
It has been said of me that I
have been “the most successful
freelance in Australia,” and I
have frequently been asked for
advice by people who desire to
be successful freelances.
It has always seemed rather a
joke to me. Often, as I have
given the advice, I have been
cogitating desperately about
where to obtain the cheque
necessary to keep the domestic
pot, and other pots, boiling.
There is printed and docu-
mentary evidence —if in the
course of a careless life it had
been collected —to show that I
have been a successful scholar;
a successful actor and theatrical
manager; a successful hotel-
manager ; something similar as
commercial - traveller and an
accountant (I knew all about
accountancy except how to keep
my own accounts); and an
exceedingly successful union-
organiser at a time when an
enthusiasm for such matters led
me into work which resulted in
the organisation of twenty-eight
unions, many of them still in
existence.
The word “success” had been
thrown at me quite a lot; and
the varied experiences gathered
have helped to make the
successful freelance people say
I am (or was), whilst within
myself always was the con-
sciousness of failure.
Failure is of course relative,
but the fact is I have not brought
to fulfilment a single point of the
promise kindly people have seen
in me ; I have not done any of
the work I really should have
done. It has not been lack of
industry; my crime against
myself has been overwork. I
have probably written more
verses than Rod Quinn; and
probably not a single one of
them will be remembered. I
have never had time to polish,
to perfect. Since, at the age of
eighteen, I began to pile upon
my shoulders responsibilities that
have made my life one of
servitude, the spur of necessity
rather than attainment has kept
me struggling. The Kaiser’s war
gave me the only holiday I have
ever had in my life, for even
when I was in staff positions the
urge to make money for liabilities
to be met was still with me.
Theffe is joy in battle, of
course, as long as the battle can
be fought. There is an exultation
even in a temporary success in
a battle that is hopeless and lost.
No man who has money at his
command can have the satisfac-
tion from it that comes with the
cheque won unexpectedly to save
a desperate position. Despite my
full share of sorrows, life and
Harold Mercer wrote this
obituary for The Bulletin
many years ago. On June 13,
after having dinner at his
son’s home at Bondi, he said
a cheery goodnight and
stepped out into the street. A
moment later he was knocked
down by a motor-car. Death
wm instantaneous. Although
in recent years Mercer no
longer drew his main income
from freelancing—during the
war he worked at Sydney
G.P.0., and for the last four
years at Lysaghts—his pen
was never idle long, and he
found in his last two jobs, as
in all before them, plenty of
material for Bulletin pars.
He was 70 at the finish;
“Hamer,” “Hamfat,” “Percy
Pawnticket,” “Harold Hard-
upp” “Exdig” “Spare Corp.”
and a host of other pen-
names die with him.
living have always been beautiful
to me. I have no grouch against
anyone, even those who have not
returned when needed the aid
that was freely given to them.
My hashes have been my own ;
I have so much for which to
thank my forebears that it would
be folly to blame them for their
aid in the hashes.
My name actually was not
Mercer, but Bailey, or more
rightly Bayley, my grandfather
having been an estimable
minister who wrote some tomes
of a purely religious nature. My
father broke his articles with a
solicitor to fight for the South in
the American Civil War, and,
having won his captaincy and a
couple of wounds at Gettysburg,
kept thereafter the form of the
name which was shown on his
papers. The Bailey v. Bailey
divorce, a Sydney sensation of
1893, accounts for the Mercer,
my mother having reverted to her
maiden name and taken me with
her, so to speak.
That incident was one of
fear in my early life. My
father, a genial good fellow
to his friends, was a merciless
bully to those who opposed him
in any way. He had a way with
creditors that might be envied;
after one encounter they avoided
him. How he became a railway-
magnate in India I do not know ;
his position was sufficiently
important for him to be made
the guest of the Australian rail-
way systems when he reached
Australia on furlough—from
which, having left a mountain
of debt behind him, he did not
return ; the free - travelling
privileges were used for some-
thing like six years!
I was born in a three-roomed,
sparsely-furnished cottage at
Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, and my
early years were passed in
extremes of near-poverty and
bursts of affluence, when my
father, having floated some com-
pany, proceeded to spend the
spoils on lavish entertainment.
When I was six my mother took
me to England, where I had my
first schooling, and met a family
in which the military tradition
was very strong, and there were
patches of considerable wealth;
thirteen different brands of
religion, ranging from Buddhism
and Freethought to the belief of
the Baptists and Plymouth
Brethren, leading to much verbal
war ; an intellectual grandmother
who wrote her last article for the
“Westminster Gazette” at the age
of 85, but who had a fatal belief
that a boy should be taught to
“spend money like a gentleman”
—i.e., as if it did not matter ; and
a warrior grandfather wedded to
the ideas of feudalism.
I was expelled from a dame’s
school to immediately score a
“very good” conduct report at a
school where men were my
mentors. I think it was the relief
occasioned by that report which
caused an uncle to give me a
tenner, which I spent in a way
that fully gratified my grand-
mother. I also narrowly escaped
adoption by a wealthy female
relation, with a living in her
gift, who would have liked to
make a parson of me —a
fate to which my infantile objec-
tions were raised very strongly.
My stay in England lasted
three years; the divorce that
came after the return was pre-
ceded by ten months’ imprison-
ment in a boarding-house, where
I had my first experience of war
behind barricades. The fear was
that my father, by seizing me,
would force my mother to return
to him. Incidents of the cam-
paign included a revolver, a
battered-in door and a badly
battered clergyman uncle.
My child-life was dominated
by fear. I saw many instances
of my father’s violence, and I
was an important witness at the
divorce hearing. A bullet
through my cap as I fled for
home some little time afterwards
made it certain that mine was an
unforgivable offence. However,
my father’s violence had by that
time given the police such cause
for action that he was warned
out of the State.
The fear lived, however.
When I made a little fame a
couple of years later as “the boy
chess-player” and “the boy
reciter” it was as Harold St.
Aubyn; in the same name I
passed a university exam. —very
well, too—but the minor pub-
licity gained so scared my
mother, who lived in fear of my
father’s return, that I was with
drawn altogether from school.
My first introduction to The
Bulletin arose out of tha
divorce, a friend drawing atten
tion to comments, one of them
being upon Judge Windeyer’
description of my mother’
conduct as “angelic.” Just fou
years later my first verses wer
published by The Bulletin ;
might have tried it earlier bu
for resentment at the sarcasm
that comment.
Probably an inclination to
write was more or less an inherit
ance—with a grandparent on ori
side who wrote religiously,
grandmother who was a constan
contributor to the reviews, anc
a grandfather on that side who
belonged to a family which
from generation to generation
burst into verse.
It was the surprise of my
young life when postal-note
arrived from The Bulletin one
day for some verses o
mine an elderly friend hac
sent in. I was fifteen then
the joy that every writer
has experienced over his first-
born was mine. That, and the
greed for gold the eight-bob
inspired, set me writing vigor-
ously. The success remained
isolated for some time, and once
there was a rebuff when (anent
some verses signed flamboy-
antly “H.StA.M.”) “Answers to
Correspondents” informed me:
“We would not print that—not i]
your name was X.StA.Z.” But
after that, instead of replies in
“Answers,” matter came back
with little notes of encourage-
ment, such as “Try again,”
pinned to them.
Somehow I found that money
was to be made from para-
graphs ; and I began to exploit
other avenues. In some ways the
comparatively small village of
Sydney was more virile from an
artistic point of view in the late
’nineties than it is today. Aus-
tralian plays were being staged ;
the pantos were local pro-
ductions —I made a little money
by sending in words for songs of
a topical nature; Australian
books were being published. I
found a remarkable market for
advertising verses, then very
popular. One set brought a £25
prize. '
All this was triviality—mere
potboiling. Winning a half-
share in a prize for an essay on
the future of the Australian
Commonwealth (then impending)
was something of an event. The
essay-competition was run by an
English magazine, and the
also-rans who gained mere
honorable mentions flaunted
many degrees. I was really a
serious-minded youth who fled
from cricket directly a match
was finished to continue a search
which went from Professor
Draper and Robert Ingersoll to
Swedenborg for the truth of
things and the real meanings of
life; even when I went sailing
I took tomes with me, and
argued points of theology with
my elders. My serious writing
took a political and social
economic form, and the articles
were published—quite often.
Amongst a mass of uncompleted
novels written with serious
intent was actually a book of
philosophy! And Angus and
Robertson returned it with sug-
gestions for alterations and
resubmission!
Yet my first venture in story-
writing was inspired by a spasm
of jealousy about the favor won,
particularly with a pretty girl of
my acquaintance, by a friend
who had had a schoolboy story
published in the “Sydney Mail.”
I resolved to show that I could
do better than that —nothing less
than The Bulletin was my aim.
The writer’s road may be a
hard one, but it has its compen-
sations. Even in the blase days
when production had to be in
the mass and the main spur was
necessity, the knowledge of some
particular point well made, the
appreciation of someone who
stops in the street to say
how he enjoyed a particular
story, verse or paragraph, exalts
the heart. The ecstasy that came
to me when, turning over a copy
of The Bulletin on a bookstall,
a mere couple of weeks after
(Continued on page 14.)


Vol. 73—No. 3776
Wednesday, June 2S, 1952
The Bulletin
B 3 ! T FI A
QI4A HS AO
r sorr y "
NO
inflation
REGULAR CUSTOMERS, TOO.
“Are you sure you haven’t a bit stuck away under the counter somewhere?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street . Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G P. 0.). Wellington.
ANATOMY OF BURTON.
Was Dr. John Burton, lately head of the
Commonwealth Department of External
Affairs, now endorsed Federal “Labor”
candidate for the N.S.W. seat of Lowe,
openly played for a sucker at Peking, or
did he send all the cabled stuff which has
been attributed to him?
The Peking delegation organised by the
Australian “Committee for Peace in the
Pacific” included Dr. Burton as leader,
the expelled R.S.L. member Gietzelt, Dr.
Mclndoe of the N.S.W. civil service, a
plant-research officer who couldn’t tell
a Communist “plant” in Peking when he
saw one, a lady secretary from the Vic-
torian W.C.T.U. and a pastor of the
South Sydney Methodist fission (“peace”
committee treasurer).
There was an accompanying delegation
from the Communist “Peace” Council,
consisting of Comrades Beitz (president
of the wharfies). Bird (secretary of the
Victorian seamen’s union) and Wright
(president of the sheetmetal-workers).
The whole bunch was described by Dr.
Burton at its setting-out as “a group of
leading citizens genuinely attempting to
break the stalemate on Korea.”
Before Dr. Burton left on this stunt,
Press reporters tried to pin him down to
an intelligible statement of the delega-
tion’s objective. He talked about “exer-
cising our influence on Chinese politics
in our own interests,” but declined to
“prejudice the outcome by indicating what
we propose to say.” The buzz of panic
in the “Labor” party at his departure can
hardly be assuaged by his disclosure on
return that the upshot of the conference
was to organise between now and next
September a bigger and better “peace
conference for Asia in the Pacific” at the
same place and under the same auspices.
Dr. Burton was given the honor of de-
livering over Peking radio, on behalf of
“47 delegates representing 20 countries,”
a fall to peace-loving individuals and
social organisations to unite under the
guidance of preparatory committees which
have been formed or will he formed;
and for Australia he added that on his
return he intended
to propose that an independent delega-
tion, including religious and trade-union
leaders, members of the judiciary and
others be sent to this conference.
In short, the Australian “Committee
for Peace in the Pacific” is to be
developed, as Jock Garden’s Pan-Pacific
Secretariat of past years Was designed to
be, into an extension of the Soviet’s East-
Asian branch of the Comintern. We
shall be permitted “peace” in New Guinea,
as in Korea, so long as, like Comrade
Sharkey, we make ready to welcome in
this country a Soviet army in pursuit of
aggressors.
The announcement of the conference
decision read by Dr. Burton in Peking
was signed by “Mr. Ernest Thornton, of
Australia, one of two members of the
Asian-Australian Liaison Bureau in
Peking of the World Federation of Trade
Unions.” As he concluded his main busi-
ness at the mike Dr. Burton told this
admiring mob of “peace”-artists that “the
Australian delegates here have been
helped and inspired,” that “they will re-
turn to Australia fully aware of their
obligations,” and that “we are along with
you in your march toward peace” (A.A.P.
Reuter report).
What helped to “inspire” Dr. Burton,
and the means by which he hopes to
“inspire” the Australian public, was his
study of what he called, in his series of
cable messages to the chief of the Press
gallery at Canberra, the evidence of
“telling documents” containing Com-
munist charges against the United Nations
forces in Korea of dropping germ-bombs
on the Communist armies engaged in
“resisting U.N. aggression.” Dr. Burton
did not go anywhere near the scene of
first-hand “evidence.” He didn’t even
visit any of the prison-cages to interro-
gate American soldiers alleged to have
“confessed.” Though the “evidence” is
“telling,” he is “not concerned to assert
whether it is true or untrue.” But “there
is need to clarify Australia’s position” on
“evidence prepared by Chinese and
foreign scientists and lawyers,” and en-
dorsed “by a Chinese minister of religion
and by the Dean of Canterbury, Dr.
Hewlett Johnson.” He is confident the
A.L.P. will be impressed, and he will
agitate for the Australian Government to
“ask Washington to inquire and appoint
an Australian civilian to make on-the-
spot investigations.”
Washington, of course, has already
offered every facility for the International
Red Cross to examine the scurrilous and
even libellous charges. Dr. Burton
follows the Communists in rejecting
the Red Cross as investigator. “It is
not independent; its revenue comes from
a particular source; its investigations
could not be conclusive.” The only
acceptable neutral umpire for him is the
proposed “Australian civilian.”
Dr. Burton’s fellow “peace”-adven-
turers. Comrades Beitz and Bird, are
more outspoken. They told the “Tribune,”
on their return, that they were “abso-
lutely convinced” of the truth of
the germ-warfare charges.
Dr. Burton wants Australia to have the
closest contacts with this “peaceful” new
China, though this same China does not,
he reports, intend to establish diplomatic
relations with Britain. That does not
affect Dr. Burton’s “inspiration.” He
was “inspired” nearly a year ago to write
in the Canberra “Times” that British
troops ought to clear out of the Suez
Canal zone in face of Egyptian threats,
that we should pursue common policies
with Asian nations and “not get excited”
about the Persian oil question, and that
we should “follow a neutrality policy
with respect to any Middle East and
European situation even in the event of
world war.” It was during his reign over
the department of External Affairs, along
with Dr. Evatt as his Minister, that the
Communist executive of the wharfies’
union took charge for three years of one
department of Australian foreign policy
and banned Dutch shipping from Aus-
tralian trade in order to support Com-
munist collaborators in Indonesia.
Before he left for Peking Dr. Burton
“confidently anticipated” that “the
A.L.P. will wish to take full advantage
of the factual reports I will make.” But
the new A.L.P. executive has roundly
declared that the Peking conference “was
held to further Communist aggression.”
Dr. Evatt indignantly denied in Parlia-
ment that Dr. Burton was any protege
of his ; he did not even know, he said,
that his political favorite and confidant
was going to Peking until the Press so
informed him. Brother Clive, president
of the “peace committee,” seemed no less
ignorant of its activities. But its vice-
president, milkcarters’ secretary Albert
Thompson, who had signed appeals for
funds for the delegation, leapt for cover.
He was a member of the late N.S.W.
executive of the A.L.P., about to face a
purge; he resigned from the “peace”
committee on detecting “Communist
sponsorship” of the Peking meeting, but
that did not save him from the A.L.P.
purge when it came. The “Labor”
deputy-leader, Mr, Calwell, said “Dr.
Burton’s services to the Communist propa-
ganda machine entitled him to the highest
distinction the Kremlin can afford.”
Dr. Burton met the first reaction within
the A.L.P. by saying that his resignation
from the party, as demanded by Mr.
Calwell, was “out of the question.” In
that case the new N.S.W. executive’s next
step in consistency is pretty obvious.
Libel and Impudence.
“U.N.O.” —actually the U.S.A., Britain,
Australia, the Tprks and a few others —
are, in effect, fighting Russia and China
only in Korea. The so-called North
Korean army consists of but a few
battered divisions, and the suspicion is
that some of those are full of foreigners.
The bulk of the huge armies assembled
by the enemy on the 38th Parallel are
Chinese ; their strategy, arms, fighting air-
craft and direction are obviously Russian.
Yet, while these people are trying to
defeat U.N.O. in war they have full
freedom to get inside the U.N.O. and the
U.N.O. countries to organise fifth-columns
in them, to spy for Korean war purposes
and to summon disloyal or soft-headed
citizens to enemy headquarters, give them
orders and load them with literary poison
to take home and distribute with the
object of weakening local defence, retard-
ing recruiting and carrying on political
sabotage.
On the enemy side of the war in Korea
there is a strict and stringent domestic
censorship in Russia and China. On the
U.N.O. side there is no external or
home-front censorship. The prisoners-of-
war in Koje are able to use the Press of
the countries which hold them prisoners
to advertise the fact that they are out of
control. A dozen traitorous propagandists
under complete control of the enemy—
including at least one renegade Aus-
tralian —have settled down in Panmun-
jon’s “peace” area, and from there are
making wild accusations against the
U.N.O. allies which are disseminated
all over the English-speaking world
with the help of great Press agencies
and without the slightest hindrance
from a censorship. Any publicity
which the enemy cares to send
direct from Peking for dissemination
in Australia can travel freely through the
mails. Communists, fellow-travellers
and parlor pinks can go to Peking or
Moscow under the protection of a British
passport, issued by the Australian Gov-
ernment, and from there launch attacks
on the integrity of the U.N.O. command
with impunity.
Few Australians had ever heard the
accusations that U.N.O. was making use
of germ-warfare until Dr. Burton went
to Peking. There he lent authority, if
not confirmation, to the vile charges and
made use of the Parliamentary Press
gallery in Canberra as a distributing-
agency.
Yet the only action Mr. Casey or the
Government has taken so far is for the
former to remark that he doesn’t think
Dr. Burton is important; that he thinks
too much importance has been attached
to him already.
This week the Commonwealth sees the
incredible spectacle of the Director-
General of Recruiting, Lieut.-General Sir
Horace Robertson, a soldier whose repu-
tation is based on every forthright and
aggressive quality inherent in the Austra-
lian national character, being summoned
before the N. S. Wales Trades and Labor
Council on the initiative of a Communist-
run union (the 8.W.1.U.), of which the
heads are members of the central com-
mittee of the Australian Communist
party, to explain some of his forthright
statements. It was specifically stipulated
that he must not advocate recruiting
when he attended this meeting, to be
prosecuted, in effect, before an industrial
“people’s court” by Communist officials
on a charge of libelling youngsters who
do not enlist. If anybody were to develop
similar action to hinder recruiting or dis-
credit the chief of the recruiting organisa-
tion in Peking—where there is, however,
universal conscription—his head would
be exhibited on the nearest gate in about
half an hour.
The measure of the situation, to be
appreciated fully, needs to be looked at
against the background of the fact that
the very people primarily responsible
for this impudent invitation to
General Robertson have for months
been disseminating what they declare
to be proof that the United Nations
command, of which our own repre-
sentative —General Robertson till a
few months ago—holds the command-in-
chief of all British forces in the Japanese
and Korean area, have been carrying out
plans for organised destruction of civilian
property, burning of women and children
alive, making war by the spread of plague
and cholera, as well as guilty of
arson, rape and atrocities in general
on a wholesale scale. They seem to
be at liberty to make these vile charges
as often as they like, either in locally-
printed journals or leaflets or in the form
of pamphlets imported from Bucharest
and distributed as supplements to the
local Communist papers.
The country seems to have lost its sense
of proportion. It is unthinkable that men
should be allowed freely to make such
charges against the leaders who are hold-
ing back the tide of aggression in Asia
in the interests of Australian security. If
we are at war the Government should
treat traitors, spies and saboteurs appro-
priately—some people were hanged for
doing in Germany against the British
Empire what the Communists are openly
doing in Australia today without let or
hindrance. If we are not at war, then
why have we troops in Korea and what
are they being killed for?
If the legal position is such, as the
result of Dr. Evatt’s gallant fight before
the High Court and his subsequent cam-
paign against the anti-Red referendum,
that the Government cannot use its
defence powers, it at least might try to
use them.
In doing so it should now have the
support of Dr, Evatt, who seems ready to
agree that his viewpoint that we are not
at war, as expressed to the High Court,
was poppycock. And even if it cannot
act under its defence powers, it can use
the Crimes Act, or at least pass a law
of criminal libel in line with State laws
to protect the reputations of our com-
manders.
A few prosecutions would reveal how
far the disseminators of the abominable
charges which are being made are in a
position to prove them or even to make
out a prima facie case which would hang
a dog.
Juvenile Delinquency.
By a Sydney Psychiatrist .)
m.
After feeling the first full impact of
society in the Children’s Court, many a
youngster reaches the mistaken—but very
human —conclusion that he might as well
be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. He
tries to justify himself as a criminal.
If he is committed to an institution he
needs careful handling. The ideal is a
place with plenty of land, where the boy
gets sufficient liberty to develop his
abilities, and where the discipline is firm
without being fussy; a sort of honor
system, with solid sanctions in reserve. It
is important that the men in charge be
of a calibre the boys can respect. If a
boy is locked-up, hemmed in with rules
and regulations—and institutions, how-
ever benevolent, attract regulations with
a kind of irresistible magnetism—if his
every move is watched and reported and
he and his companions are counted many
times a day, the whole thing becomes a
challenge. You cannot successfully chal-
lenge anyone’s ingenuity. An example
is the number of escapees from a N.S.W.
institution of the past.
All very well, the practical man may
say, but what are we to do, under present
conditions, dealing with immediate prob-
lems? The answer is that if the boy’s
reactions are understood, even at this
stage, and under far-from-ideal condi-
tions, he may reform. A number of boys
do reform. Or he may never need to be
committed to an institution at all. But
if he does go to an institution, and if he
is handled unwisely, he has an excellent
chance of becoming a hardened criminal
Yanco Welfare Farm, on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area (N.S.W.), has
suffered something in the public imagina-
tion, perhaps, from the memory of some
happenings in the early 1930’5. At the
time of which I am writing—just prior
to World War II —the atmosphere was
grim and institutional. Inmates —delin-
quents and State wards —had little oppor-
tunity to develop on the general educa-
tional pattern. The place was primarily a
farm and an institution, and the boys
looked like gangs of immature convicts
in their working-dress and heavy boots.
The Welfare Farqj had its quota of
escapees.
For all that, some useful citizens passed
through its fields and dormitories. Some
good soldiers in the last war, and some
good farmers. The last point, to my
mind, is a key to the whole problem
However unsatisfactory the place may
have been then (and it is fair to assume
that it has improved a lot since), the boys
were taught woolclassing, blacksmithing
and had some experience of shearing,
besides getting a fair all-round knowledge
of farming. This experience made them
more acceptable to employers when they
went into the outside world than many
a boy of more academic education, and
thereby bolstered their self-respect. Some
of them were quickly able to achieve the
prestige of specialists—good shearers,
qualified woolclassers. It is hard for a
man or boy to excel at a trade and not
feel pride in it.
Also, some of the instructors were in-
structors, pure and simple, with a single-
minded interest in what they were teach-
ing. They were not jailers. The in-
structor in woolclassing, for instance, now
an instructor in sheep and wool at Sydney
Technical College, was domiciled at the
near-by Agricultural High School.
Others, living at the farm, were essentially
practical men. A boy can feel respect
for a man who can do something difficult
with his hands which he will deny to an
official. The institution was fortunate in
having officers, from time to time, who
were outstanding sportsmen. The farm
had good football and cricket teams.
Years ago a man brought his son, aged
12, to me, with a report of misdemeanors
as long as your arm. He was a terrible
child. I told his father that the only
remedy was to turn the boy loose with a
gun in a thousand acres of rough country.
The father looked surprised, and then
thoughtful. Finally he said; ‘You know,
that sounds reasonable. I was a horse-
trainer once, and whenever a colt be-
came fractious I turned him out for a
month.” The boy did well.
Which brings us back to one of our
fundamental factors —the land. Many
of these boys who have caused nothing
but trouble in their own homes, in the
city and suburbs, have done well with
relatives on farms. Most of them have
never owned anything legitimately in their
lives, and the first thing many of them
do is to adopt some living creature —a
cow, a horse or a dog—with extraordinary
pride and care.
I have held the opinion for a long time
that formal education, as we now under-
stand it, has little to offer to these boys.
But when they are learning something
which really interests them, they iearn


... _ rP ieritv which is sometimes aston-
They make good shearers,
drovers mechanics, motor-drivers-they
are goi at any job that keeps them on
f h ° move and in which they use their
hands. Or, if they are handled ineptly,
they make criminals.
It seems to me that we place too muc
emphasis on the intellect in our genera
education, too little on manual skill. Yet
working with one’s hands is one of the
richest of the creative pleasures—as
artists, sculptors and weekend gardeners
know. Art, perhaps, has suffered by
departing from the Renaissance tradition
of art, as illustrated by Cellini, who could
turn his hand to anything. Our civilisa-
tion has certainly suffered from the
degradation of the skilled worker into a
process worker.
But even in trade-schools there is too
much regimentation. The boy must
learn a trade not by his own methods and
failures, but in a manner decreed. It
frequently happens that a backward lad
doggedly persists in his own way of doing
a task, then suddenly “strikes form” and
outstrips more orthodox pupils.
If we really wish to face the problem
of juvenile delinquency we might make a
start by realising something of the nature
of these children. They are uncivilised,
according to our standards most
children are —and they cannot be regi-
mented. But if we try to curb their
vicious tendencies without making some
effort to develop their personalities we
are begging the question.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Menzies and Defence.
Mr. Menzies's visit to Europe and
America has had the wholesome effect
of removing the idea that defence of the
West is prepared in separate compai t-
ments. The strength of any part of the
British Commonwealth is nothing unless
it is applied as part of the Common-
wealth as a whole. And no plan of
defence can be made for any part of the
world without being dovetailed into that
planned for other parts of the world.
As Mr. Menzies puts it, “We cannot
regard Western Europe, the Middle East,
South-east Asia and the Pacific as a series
of unrelated problems.” In any case,
Britain at the moment is making the
second-largest effort in the defence of the
Pacific and Far East, apart from her
great Middle East effort.
It is proposed now to correlate
Empire and Atlanlic-treaty and Pacific-
treaty effort. Existing Australian pro-
grammes of defence production will be
carried on, including the production of
aircraft and aircraft-engines and of
naval ships. Such programmes may even
be increased; but an agreement has been
reached with the United Kingdom to
give high priority to increasing food-
production, and particularly to meat and
dairy products, and in return to have
defence-material requirements which
cannot be conveniently supplied from
our own resources placed on British
orders.
This is a sensible scheme. We cannot
sell food products to the United King-
dom unless she can pay for them. Vital
items in the defence programme can be
manufactured in United Kingdom fac-
tories in large quantities on assembly-
lines much more cheaply and conveniently
than in Australia, which is not large
enough to have the same scale of
assembly-lines. If this reciprocal arrange-
ment is worked out on an efficient British
Commonwealth basis it should reduce the
economic burden of defence on all con-
cerned.
It is vital that there should be a clear
arrangement at this juncture. The United
Kingdom has made the largest peace-time
effort in defence among British countries
in the past half a dozen years. She has
carried the burden in the Middle East and
the Mediterranean and Indian Oceans
and Malaya almost unaided by the
Dominions, and, partly from economic
reasons and partly because of the deterior-
ating world position, which calls for
greater home security, needs help with
the load. Australia will very shortly
be represented in the Mediterranean by
its two R.A.A.F. squadrons, and the
change from specific Korean Force enlist-
ment to enlistment for three years in a
force for general service everywhere,
which was introduced into the Australian
Army at the weekend, helps to advertise
the world nature of out defence problem.
Works and Work.
According to “S, M. Herald’s” New
York, correspondent, Mr. Menzies there
met from the International Bank
directors an answer to requests for more
loan-dollars more or less on the lines of
that his own Government has returned to
the State Premiers and for the same
reasons:
The International Bank has completed
its report on Australia’s development
Mt lt el is S understood it indicates that Aus-
tralia has too many projects under way
and that the programme lacks priorities.
It questions the wisdom ot driving to a
finish the Snowy Mountains project at this
time....
Of course Australia’s development works,
State or Federal, are all one programme
to New York, as to the home investor m
works loans.
The International Bank view is, m
effect, that the dollar cannot get as much
work done for its expenditure in this
country as in other fields competing for it.
This again is the answer made by the
Australian investor to appeals for sub-
scription of his money to Government
works as against established local private
enterprises. . ...
There can be no disputing now that
Australian development programmes are
not sufficiently organised —they lack
priorities.” They are too dispersed and
ambitious for the resources of-the avail-
able labor materials and money. Above
all, they are too expensive as undertaken
under a reduced working week, inflated
costs, and inadequate supplies of locally-
produced materials to sustain the worK.
If returns from these works could be
assured as quick and profitable, the Aus-
tralian Government might be justified in
creating bank credit to carry out
works on a scale that would go some way
to meet political promises. But such is
not the prospect, and all Governments at
the Loan Council must now recognise the
truth. That is pretty clearly what New
York as the only available loan-source,
has been saying to the Prime Minister.
It is also what the Prime Minister has
already said to the States.
The key, as The Bulletin has long
insisted, is in harder work for greater
man-hour output in the basic industries
and on Government works. The inflation
caused by six post-war years of easy
money and easy going on the job—-not to
say in many directions downright loafing
—now demands its penalties. It is vain
for “Labor” to protest violently against
the employers’ move for a revision of the
40-hour week and a reduction of the basiv
wage and its “prosperity” and other load-
ings. That revision is inevitable if cost
of labor and materials is not to become
so prohibitive as to precipitate a wide-
spread drop in employment.
At the recent A.L.P. executive meeting
in Canberra Dr. Evatt suddenly “called
for greater co-operation and careful
planning to restore economic and financial
stability on a just basis.” He said:
“Xhis cannot be done without a bold
effort throughout the community.”
That is undoubtedly the means to salva-
tion. But will the “Labor” leader stick
to it in the plain meaning of his words,
and will his party follow him?
Flood Frustration.
Maddened by the spectacle of the town
and district being swept every few months
by Lachlan River floodwaters, Forbes
(N.S.W.) “Advocate” the other week tore
into the Menzies Government with every-
thing it had:
A deputation should go without delay to
Canberra and get swift action It is not
a time for red-tape and years of planning.
It is a national emergency. The challenge
should be accepted with no delay.... This
is not a job just for N.S.W. It is short of
finance.... The Federal Government is the
only body that could do the job promptly.
Hardly was the ink dry when another
and bigger flood overwhelmed Forbes,
and at the same time a large area of
south-eastern Australia. All this at
the beginning of what looks like
a wet winter and spring. Every inch
of rain which falls on the headwaters of
the flooded streams in the next few
weeks means more heavy floodings, more
loss, more danger.
There was some excuse for the Forbes
paper, though its challenge to the Menzies
Government is wildly unjust. That
Government is not responsible for the
neglect of the Lachlan or any other river
under State control. Nor can it dictate
to the States how to spend the money they
get from uniform-taxation reimburse-
ments or their own taxation. In short,
the Federal Government has no power
whatever over State rivers.
It may comfort Forbes and other
flooded N.S.W. towns to know that Mr.
Renshaw, a Minister in the Sydney
Government, is trying to rake up some
money to relieve their distress, and that
Premier Cahill’s “social-services” officers
are about with gifts of food, clothing and
blankets. It will not comfort them to
know that the Government which is really
responsible for anti-flood measures is at
the moment far too busy seeking means
of reducing country representation in tne
State Parliament to bother overmuch
with rivers which, until they floo , i
seldom thinks about.
The Forbes district lost the Ashburnham
seat in this fashion a couple of years ago,
part of it being shoved into Young a
part into Dubbo. Maybe the Forbes
people feel that the only Parliament
they’re now represented in is the one a
Canberra.
.
Hungerford Marches On.
From time to time, out of the difficulty
of making up its collective mind and
adjusting High Policy with the rash
opinions of mere groundlings, Sydney
Morning Herald” entertains the town with
the most delightful somersaults.
One such occasion was the famous
double-review of the travelling Jubi
art exhibition, when “Granny let her
Art Critic loose at the opening to con-
demn the entire body of Australian art
except one small back-view of a gentle-
man at the piano by Hugh Ramsay ; an
then the next day felt obliged to publish
on the leader-page a second, much longer
review by “a special correspondent, who
carefully ate the Art Critic’s every word,
one by one and with relish.
Tom Hungerford’s novel The Ridge
and the River has got the old lady m a
similarly amusing dilemma A few years
back, when the “Herald,” for “the benefit
of Australian literature” and to annoy
the “Telegraph,” was running its much-
trumpeted literary competitions (since
discontinued), its judges discovered The
Ridge and the River. But though first-
prizes in other years went to such trifles
as George Johnston’s High Valley and
Miss Ruth Park’s The Harp in the South
(“greater than Jonah,” in the Herald s
memorable phrase), the judges gave
Hungerford only a second-prize, award-
ing no first-prize in his year.
Australian publishing moves slowly,
there is really only one firm, or two at
most, willing to undertake the awe-
inspiring task of persuading the Australian
public to read an Australian novel But
after the usual three or four years’ delay,
during which Hungerford wrote three or
four more novels, still unpublished, The
Ridge and the River got to the bookshops.
Overnight it became a best-seller;
rushed into two editions; was accepted
for publication in America ; and not only
was a popular success but was received
everywhere by the critics with suefi
enthusiasm that Sydney Sun, rather
overstating the case, called it the best
war-novel written by an Australian in the
two World Wars.
A startled review appeared m
“Granny’s” book-page in which the critic
faced with valor and considerable adroit-
ness the awful task of doing justice to a
fine novel which had been awarded omy
a second-prize. With the way thus payed
for her somersault “Granny” was last
week able to announce that her “Great
New Serial,” namely The Ridge and the
River, would begin the task of enlivening
her Sunday paper. Maybe she will yet
describe it as “greater than The Harp in
the South.” .
Besides the pleasure of watching these
antics, it is very good to find that a novel
published in Australia can eventually,
with whatever difficulty, work its way
to a success comparable to that which
other Australian writers have recently
enjoyed by going to overseas firms; and
to find, too, that a work of genuine
literary quality can be a success in this
country. As the “Herald” remarked in
its advertisement for the great new serial,
The Ridge and the River is “the most
vivid and powerful story yet published
about the Australian troops fighting in
the islands to the north” ... but that
opinion, as “Granny” unaccountably
forgot to mention, was quoted from the
Red Page of The Bulletin.
Parrots and Profits.
At Bomaderry, in the N.S.W. Illawarra,
inside a great new factory that had cost
the best part of half a million to build
and which stood on huge piles driven,,
70ft. down through the silt of centuries,
a wealthy Englishwoman talked to an
audience about parrots.
“In the short time I have been here,
she said, “I have seen a great deal of
your country —and I love it. It is a grand
country and I hope to see much more of
it, and of Australians, in the future. I
saw your parrots flashing like opals
against vour grey-green woods, and 1
watched them eagerly—because my
grandfather kept parrots in his English
home, and to see them here took me
back to when I was a little girl.
She is Mrs. John Coats, and her grand-
father was the James Horlick who
founded the Horlicks milk concern back
in 1873. The factory at Bomaderry has
taken four years to build, and Mrs. Coats
was performing the opening ceremony. It
is of four stories—brick, concrete and
steel —and is probably the biggest N.S.W.
building south of Port Kembla, equipped
with the most modern milk-processing
machinery available.
Its primary function is to make proms
for Horlicks. That’s why it was built,
why it was located on the Shoalhaven,
why it will include among its other
functions practical help to dairyfarmers,
why employees will be required to give
good work for good pay, why it will be
run on strict business lines.
Nothing of this was emphasised at the
opening speeches. We’ve become
to talk about profits. If anybody boldly
admits to making profits he s regarded
with deep suspicion. Any company
which, by good management, shows a
nice profit becomes coy, because it knows
that politicians will rise in the Parliaments
and condemn it and point to it with
shaking fingers and threaten it, and a lot
of people will work up a synthetic hate
of it and it will be generally execrated.
Yet the Horlick factory at Bomaderry
and the benefits it will confer on the
district and the nation, along with all the
other factories throughout the land,
wouldn’t be there were it not for the in-
centive of profits. Profits— legitimately
and honestly earned —are a good thing.
Even those politicians who condemn
profits will take profits if they can get
them; so will everybody else.
-o
No Work at Smithtown.
Withdrawal of three ships from the run
between Sydney and the Macleay River
(N.S.W.) by the North Coast S.N. Co.
points the urgency of the need for Mr.
Holt, the Minister for Labor, to devise
some means of dealing with industrial
lawlessness, which seems to be condoned
by the A.C.T.U. as well as by the Water-
side Workers.
The North Coast Co. says that it is
taking the vessels off because the 25
wharfies at Smithtown, on the Macleay,
“ignore instructions from the Stevedoring
Industry Board and flout all law and
order.” . .
Like all companies which deal with the
Communist-run wharfies and seamen, this
company has walked warily and put up
with more than was reasonable. The
straw that broke the camel’s back was the
following:
Wednesday: The Arakoon arrived at
Smithtown to unload. Watersiders asked
officially what action would be taken if a
man reported sick on Thursday. Company
said it would need a replacement to fill the
quota of 10 men called for under award.
Thursday: Man reported sick. Men said
they would require a new pick-up—which
meant payment of another 12s. attendance-
money for everyone in the union who cared
to turn up. Since 24 hours’ notice must be
given of a pick-up to allow every loafer a
chance to come in for his cut, the ship
was idle all day. . .
Friday : Ten men picked up; remaining
15 on roll collected 12s. each. At 5 p.m.
notice was given that men would be needed
again on Monday.
Monday : Man missing. Workers de-
manded another pick-up—with, of course,
another lot of attendance-money and 24
hours’ delay.
The company apparently then saw that
the game might be played indefinitely.
It refused to play. To get the Arakoon
home it had to use some of its cargo
coal because it could not add to its
bunkerage without being bled white. So
the three ships were taken off the run.
North-coasters have been calling at the
Macleay for over 90 years. Smithtown,
with its 850 people,- will now be without
any direct freight communication—it has
no rail connection and nearly all its sup-
plies come by sea.
But does the Waterside Union care?
It wishes the same sort of thing would
happen right through all industry. And
then we might have sufficient unemploy-
ment and general chaos to produce civil
war and the dictatorship of the proletariat.
After that, incidentally, no watersider
would dare to so much as whistle without
a Government permit, and pick-up money
would be paid with the business end of
a boot.
Unbottling Sydney Beer.
A big week:
“Surprise” was the key word at last week’s
hearing of the N.S.W. royal commission on
liquor N. D. James, a former chief-superin-
tendent of the C. 1.8., was surprised at ‘the
large quantities of liquor night-clubs were sup-
posed to have obtained”; Tooth and Co. s
general-manager, Tom Watson, was ‘ very sur-
prised” at the figures revealed to the commission
in connection with the distribution of bottled
beer • Superintendent Harry Boswell was
(i Continued on next page.)


AlO4
%
m
y -
r^V^,
a^MEr-
mmmm
I§P
Travel in State— lnterstate.
Morning, noon and night A.N.A. luxury air liners are
criss-crossing the Continent between their 62 ports o r call which
network our States. A.N.A. air travellers can leave at any
time of the day which suits them best.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
dsf
dsf
dsf
AUSTRALIAN
Branches
NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY.
and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
LTD.
surprised at the evidence of the amount of liquor
going to night-clubs.
Wnen James voiced his surprise Mr. Justice
Maxwell queried his use of the word “sup-
posed.” James replied, “Well, according to the
Press reports.” His Honor: “Not according
to the Press reports. They clearly obtained
the quantities which have been suggested. How
much more we don’t know.”
Questioned regarding his experience with the
night-clubs, James said he had believed that
illicit liquor was associated with them, but he
had not thought they were handling the large
quantities the commission had learried of. He
had never been directed by the late Police-
commissioner McKay to take a tolerant view
of night-clubs, and he did not believe such a
direction had been issued. Asked whether he
had ever suggested that a watch be kept on
night-clubs to check their liquor deliveries, he
said he had never had reason to do so. He
did not agree that the clubs had had an open go.
Mr. Dovey : Can you say one thing that
was done to prevent them getting supplies
of liquor and making them available to
their patrons?—No.
Did you not regard it as your respon-
sibility?—Yes.
Yet you did nothing?—lt was never
reported to me.
James said he bad never heard of the clubs
being “tipped off.” He had never been offered
money to neglect his duty. Since a young man
he had had a private income in addition to
his police salary. Agreeing to disclose his
assets fo an officer of the Auditor-General’s
Department, he remarked: “One thing is clear;
I have not won any money at the races.”
Mr. Dovey; That one has whiskers on
it?—Yes.
Tooth’s g.m., Thomas Watson, who was “very
surprised” at the blackmarket-beer figures, said
he had had some suspicion that some licensed
persons were blackmarketing Tooth’s beer, but
had had no evidence. He had “eliminated”
hotelkeepers from his suspicions because he
thought “we had them under pretty good con-
trol.” He hadn’t suspected any of the big
wine-and-spirit merchants —“I didn’t think for
a moment they would be in it.” That left the
small licence-holders and the grocers, and he
could not narrow down his suspicions to any
of these small ones. “There were too many of
them and I had no lead.”
Later Watson admitted that he had had
suspicions about the House of Hayes. His
Honor asked whether anyone from Tooth’s had
mentioned these suspicions to Hayes. Watson
said they had not done so because he thought
it would have been futile.—“l think the answer
would have been an obvious ‘no.’ ” His firm
had taken action against Doyle Mallett, trading
as Robyns Pty., Ltd., when it found out that
beer he should have been selling to returned
soldiers’ organisations was being diverted else-
where. They had made “a substantial cut” in
his quota.
Mr. Justice Maxwell: Why not say to
Mallett, instead of reducing his quota, “No
more beer”?
Watson: In the light of what I know
now 1 should have done it.
His Honor: Why not at the time? —I
did not think that far ahead.
Questioned regarding the brewing industry,
Watson said that during his time with Tooth’s
he had seen breweries close down at Newcastle,
Maitland, Orange, Wellington, Dubbo, Goul-
burn, Wagga, Narrandera and Temora. Tooth’s
had bought and closed down some of these and
put the properties to other use. Resch’s
brewery in Sydney had also been acquired.
In buying the breweries at Newcastle, Wagga,
Narrandera and Temora they had acquired
about 85 hotels which had been tied to the old
breweries. He considered this was in the public
interest, as it reduced overhead, removed “un-
bridled and nonsensical competition” and gave
the public “a better commodity at a cheaper
price and better facilities to enjoy the product.”
Asked which side of his company’s business
was the more profitable—sale of beer or income
from assets in hotels —Watson replied it would
be about 50-50. As between the two classes
of beer, “until recently the brewery had made
more profit out of bottled beer than bulk beer.
Now, because of rising costs, bulk beer was a
little more profitable.”
Superintendent Henry Boswell was identified
in court by the “mystery witness,” a former
girl cashier at the Caronia night-club, as the
man she claimed to have seen at the Caronia
on the occasion when (she said) the proprietor,
Reg. Boom, after receiving a ’phone-call, had
said to him: “A couple of your boys are on
the way down tonight,” and had addressed him
as Harry. Boswell denied the witness’s story
and that he had replied, “Gee, Reg, I hope you
don’t think I had anything to do with it. I’m
on leave.” He had visited the Caronia twice
last December to see a man called Hayes. He
did not drink or have a meal there. He was
not on Christian-name terms with Boom. He
did not go to the Caronia with a woman.
Mr. Dovey showed Boswell a slip of paper
and asked him if he knew anyone of that
name who was either blinded or had defective
sight. He would call the person Miss W.
Boswell said that he knew the person and that
she had defective sight. He had met her only
twice—once in Pitt-street and once at the races.
He had not been at the Caronia with her.
The “mystery witness” was asked to write
down the name of the woman she claimed to
have seen Boswell with at the Caronia. She
said she did not know it, but had been told
that the woman was the sister of a man who
frequently visited the club and that her sight
was defective. She then wrote down a name
which Mr. Dovey said would be referred to
as Darcy W. Subsequently Boswell said he
did not know Darcy W., brother of Miss W.,
but after further questioning he said he remem-
bered him as a one-time jockey who had to
give up riding through defective eyesight. He
persisted in his denial that he had been at the
Caronia with Miss W. It was possible that
he “was being used as an alibi for someone
else.”
Boswell said he had many times been offered
bribes to neglect his duty, but he had never
accepted any. He hard never used his position
as a police-officer to secure favors for any night-
club proprietor. Mr. Dovey asked him whether
he had helped Abe Saffron, proprietor of the
Roosevelt night-club, to get certain car number-
plates he wanted. Boswell said he had arranged
for Saffron to be introduced to the transport-
officer concerned.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Labor’s” emergence as the strongest
party in Victoria’s Legislative Council is
a natural corollary ot the stupid bicker-
ings that have divided the allegedly anti-
Sociahst forces in that State over the last
few years. McDonald’s rump Country-
party and the Liberal-Country party, first
under Hollway and now under Norman,
have spent more time and energy fighting
each other than in fighting “Labor,” and
for the past two years McDonald has
clung to office only by making concessions
to “Labor.” During the campaign for
the council election McDonald’s Spring-
street Farmers and Cain’s “Labor” party
joined forces to blame the wicked Menzies
Government for Victoria’s plight; from
this “Labor” was the sole gainer.
Before Saturday’s poll, the first held
under full adult franchise, the state of
parties in the Legislative Council was
Liberal-Country party, 18 ; Country
party, S ; “Labor,” 8. This state of affairs
had enabled the L.-C.P. to defeat the
McDonald-Cain attempts to inflict a
Greater Melbourne upon the people of
Victoria and to redistribute electoral
boundaries nearer to “Labor’s” desire.
Half the seats (less one, Gippsland,
where voting was postponed through'
floods) were at the mercy of the electors.
They had been held L.-C.P., 8 ; Country
party, 4; “Labor,” 4; Independent
Liberal, 1. The last-mentioned was Sir
Clifden Eager, president of the council,
who lost the L.-C.P. endorsement through
his refusal to step down from the chair to
help his party throw out the Greater
Melbourne bill. He easily retained his
seat on Saturday.
It had been expected that “Labor”
would improve its position as a result of
the extended franchise. It did. On
Monday it looked as though Cain’s men
might hold 16 seats in the new council,
the Country party 7 (a loss of one), and
Lib.-C.P. 10.
McDonald’s team thus becomes more
a minority Government than ever. As
“Labor” wills, it will remain in office.
With “Labor” support it will now control
the Upper House for the first time, thus
enabling it to “pass” such legislation as
“Labor” approves. When it has passed
sufficient of this to suit “Labor’s” book
Cain will pull out the props and force an
election.
The fact that the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment wants the redistribution of seats
completed by the new electoral commis-
sion—Judge Markeil, Mr. Cronin of the
Western Lands Commission and Electoral
Commissioner Bennetts —before the end
of the year suggests that there will be no
election this year. If Cahill can manage
it he probably will try to get himself in
on the tail of the Senate poll. State
Parliament meets on August 18, however,
and he has a few things to weather even
if the burning anxiety of some members
of the new A.L.P. executive for the
abolition of the Legislative Council has
subsided and if his “majority” does not
decide to destroy him.
The Federal Executive of the A.L.P.
has suddenly defined its policy on the
Korean War. It “views with disquiet the
suggestion that Australian soldiers should
be rationed on a scale inferior to the
Americans” —who have turkey. It thinks
that “U.N. forces in Korea must be sup-
ported with all necessary supplies and
moral aid.” It wants truce negotiations
taken out of military hands. And it
denounces the recent “peace” conference
in Peking as having been held to further
Communist aggression. Surely not the
“peace” conference organised by a com-
mittee of which its own “Labor” Minister,
Mr. Clive Evatt, was advertised as presi-
dent and which was attended by its en-
dorsed candidate for Lowe, Dr. Burton?
If that was the nature of the conference
why did the A.L.P. let Dr. Burton go
and what inquiry does it propose to make
about Clive Evatt’s part?
“Water for the Inland” seems to be a
bit overdone lately.
Announced solemnly that the new
N.S.W. State Executive of the A.L.P. will
“intensify the fight against Communism.”
What fight? Dr. Evatt’s or Dr. Burton’s,
or just the fight of such unions as the
A.R.U., which is represented on the new
body and the Federal president of which
is a member of the central committee
of the Communist party.
Monk, A.C.T.U., to Hobart Junior
Chamber of Commerce, as quoted in the
Press; “We have been getting some
glorious examples of intolerance by at
least two judges of the [Arbitration]
Court. Judges are adopting the attitude
that they must be on top at all times.”
Well, mustn’t they?
The “Labor” Lowe electoral council
has decided that it has “full confidence”
in Burton as its candidate at the next
Federal election. The “full” was appar-
ently a relative term, as the decision was
arrived at by a narrow majority. It isn’t
likely that the e.c. will have the last word
in the matter.
Communist “Tribune” reports Burton
as saying, in reply to a query as to
whether he had seen any signs of disease
in China, that parts allegedly attacked by
germ-warfare had been cordoned off.
“However, China is a well-organised
country. Within three weeks 500 million
people were inoculated.” That’s pretty
good going, even with blunt needles. It
prompts two more questions. Were
Burton, Macindoe and the rest of the
visitors inoculated? If not, why did they
not insist, in the interests of the health
of their fellow-Australians, on being
quarantined after arriving back from
China?
An inspector of the N.S.W. Potato
Marketing Board reported a grower from
Dural, near Sydney, for “having disposed
of potatoes to a person other than the
board.” The spud-man had previously
been fined £2O for a similar “offence.”
McElroy, S.M., dealing with the present
case, said he thought £2O was too large
a fine:
I don’t think the man on the land should
be driven into the ground He has to
take the risk of his crop, buy seed and
market the crop. He must obey the law,
but I don’t know how we are to be fed.
Whereupon he imposed a fine of one
shilling.
Another State electoral roll is under
suspicion in Queensland, and the Gairs’
new State electoral officer—the old one
lost his job after a judicial inquiry about
an election —says he’ll do something
about it. It is Barambah, where the
Wandai shire clerk said the roll was
“appalling” and at the recent l.g. elections
many whose names were on the roll
hadn’t lived in the shire for years. A
remedy for all this is handy in the Com-
monwealth electoral rolls, but the Gairs
won’t use them, although the other States
do.
A Canberra official says Australians
spent £11.6 million more on liquor than
on meat in the first quarter of 1952, the
liquor bill being £40.3 million. Yet for
one person who complains about the price
of beer a thousand moan about the price
of meat. People everywhere talk of boy-
cotting butter and sugar because of
price-rises; nobody talks about boycotting
beer, though its price is nearly double
what it was, and likely to be higher.
When does the senate of Sydney Uni-
versity intend to confer degrees on Peter
and George?
There was a truly international flavor
about an order issued in the Aden
Supreme Court last week prohibiting the
removal from Aden of a cargo of oil in
a tanker which had arrived from Persia.
The tanker, the Rose Mary, was flying
the flag of the Honduras Republic ; the
injunction was granted to the Anglo-
Iranian Oil Co.; the vessel was carrying
the oil for an Italian firm for delivery to
a Swiss oil co.
Those Australian trade-unionists who
think of their American colleagues as
wage-slaves ground down by Wall-street
would find their mouths watering if they
could take a peep at the bankbooks of
some of the American unions. The
United Mine Workers’ Union has- just
offered the United Steelworkers’ Union
a loan to help it through its current strike.
A mere 10 million dollars!
Melbourne police say that the local
blackmarket in beer is vanishing because
there are big supplies in hotels and shops.
Production will kill any blackmarket, pro-
vided official “controls” are wiped out, a
fact which Australians are slow to appre-
ciate.
Victoria has its liquor problem, too,
though no royal commission has yet
begun to investigate it. Mr. Dawnay-
Mould, secretary of the L.-C.P., privately
informed his Parliamentary colleagues
that the party meeting at an Olinda guest-
house would have a private bar and
stewards and. that the “bar” would close
at 11 p.m. on the Saturday and at 7.30
p.m. on the Sunday and that liquor would
be served at Parliamentary-privilege
prices. The guesthouse isn’t licensed, the
Licensing Court doesn’t grant permits for
Sunday drinking, and a permit is required
for serving liquor on “special occasions”
—all of which Mr. Dawnay-Mould
should know, as he was a prominent
figure on the Liberal-party liquor fact-
finding committee which sat for two
years without making any recommenda-
tions. Half-Premier McDonald chortled
when he heard the news, remarking that
things had sunk pretty low when a once-
great political party had to hold out the
inducement of cheap drinks to get mem-
bers to attend discussions. Postscript:
The meeting is now to be a dry show.


($\
a
THE ICEBERG.


“and we’re
going to
enjoy
our own
party”
%
* *
'A
\v.
Ss
k r <i
■**
te-5r
v * i sC
Party-giving is easy when you make
Vickers Gin your standby. With Vickers
and the help of the Vickers Cocktail Recipe
Book, you can mix a great variety of
delicious, out-of-the-ordinary drinks. You’ll
be a more successful host or hostess than
ever! Stock up with Vickers Gin and send
out invitations now!
Vickers gin
FAMOUS SINCE 1750.
Write for the free Vickers Gin Cocktail
Book, containing over 50 tested recipes
for cocktails and long thirst-quenchers
to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
VG 50/16
r.\
JURIS
Circular Chart! for all types
Becord‘ng lr>*tfundents
tor «o f € U»4 of
or
MCT€R CHARtS • Spectator
JACtfOT SO SIiLUVANP* L&
QUEEN STREfcT, BRISBANE
Wherever You Go
■I
mmm?
iss.
mmm
mm
as
Whether you’re driving for business or pleasure,
in town or country, you’ll get the utmost—in
safety, comfort, mileage - J — from Goodyear
Tyres. The 37-year world-wide preference for
Goodyear is proof that Goodyear Tyres are
the world’s best. When you buy tyres, buy
Goodyear Tyres. See your Goodyear Dealer
for the finest tyre value your money can buy.
You can depend on
GOODYEAR
TYRES
More People,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on
any other snake.
C82-I8
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Shares and Values
With hints of some tax-relief
coming in the next Federal
Budget, with wool prices recover-
ing, with excessive merchandise
stocks being gradually worked
down in warehouses, with
a corresponding easing of
the credit situation, and with
the prospect of consumer
demand improving as house-
hold reserves of clothing,
etc., run out, there has been a
slowly-improving tone in the
sharemarket over the last week
or so. Some particular stocks,
too, such as Bradford Cotton,
have perked up following the
announcement of large defence
orders being passed to the
canvas-manufacturing industry.
Though there is the likelihood
of a rise in interest-rates before
the end of this year, in the case
of many second-line stocks this
prospect has already been
allowed for in present and
prospective yields.
Very soon stocktaking will be
in full swing and other balanc-
ing operations will be in hand.
Trading results for the year to
June 30 no doubt will vary. The
textile trade has had almost a
full bad year, though some
sections —especially the cotton-
spinning portion of it —appear
to have done all right, as
indicated by interim-div. rates.
Most woollen and worsted mills
will show poorer results, if half-
yearly reports and div.-rates (if
any) are a reliable guide.
Importers of clothing have
also had a bad year, on
the whole; some have been
in trouble since the first
quarter of the financial term. In
many cases the sharemarket has
made a big allowance for lower
earnings by retailers and whole-
sale softgoods concerns. Some
merchants may now, however,
see better prospects for the dis-
posal of their stock following
the cut in permitted imports.
Recently, in the electrical and
allied trades, Email showed a
record profit. But its figures
were made up to December 31
last, and since then there has
been a fairly severe contraction
in the demand for household
electrical appliances, including
refrigerators. And in the year to
April 30 last William Adams and
Co. showed record earnings after
making unusual provision for
taxation and depreciation. Sales
are reported to be continuing at
a satisfactory level. The co.’s
turnover is inclined to be subject
to the influence of large
engineering - contract items.
Balancing at the same date as
William Adams, but in a dif-
ferent (paper) trade, Edwards,
Dunlop also showed a record
profit and maintained its div.
There has recently been a heavy
fall in overseas paper prices, but
Edwards, Dunlop is well ribbed
for such contingencies.
At last week’s slightly higher
price, Bradford Cotton’s ords. at
31s. 9d., yielding 6.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, showed net
tangible assets with a book-value
of 31s. 7d. a share. Robert Reid
showed 435. Id. in assets for
shares appraised at 21s. 3d.
(Last year’s div. was 12 p.c., but-
this year’s interim was passed.)
Sargood Gardiner had net tan-
gibles of 375. sd. for each £1 of
ord. capital; a 6\ p.c. div. was
paid last year, but this year’s
interim was at the rate of 4 p.c.
p.a. The shares are at 18s. Bank
of N. S. Wales £2O shares, on
offer at £36 last week, showed
a net - tangible backing of
£36 2s. 3d. the previous balance-
day. And some of those assets
are taken into the books at 1817
values or thereabouts.
It is quite obvious, however,
that the sharemarket is not, at
present, taking much notice of
asset values in its appraisement
of share values. It is more
interested in yields and pros-
pective yields. Though David
Jones has net tangible assets of
465. Bd. behind each £1 of ord.
capital the market pays 355. for
Perfumery
“This is so terribly precious we are now selling it
by the sniff.”
tue shares, to obtain a yield of
5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
And Howard Smith, with 375. 9d.
in the window, yields 4.4 p.c.
at 275. 3d.
If Australia is to have any
future at all as a free-enterprise
country there appear to be
opportunities at present for the
cheap acquisition of an interest
in many of our principal indus-
tries, regardless, ultimately, of
how the market behaves during
the present period of financial
uncertainty.
Rum Jungle Uranium
“P. Mobile”: For the first time
in Australian history, five depart-
mental heads will join Mr.
Menzies abroad, at the same
time, with the object of advising
the Prime Minister as to the
development and value of the
Rum Jungle (N.T.) uranium
deposit, with particular reference
to its dollar-raising capacity.
The concourse might suggest
that there is evidence of a very
extensive body of uranium ore
some 60 miles south of Darwin,
but it does not warrant the state-
ments made in the Press that
Australia will obtain, for the
uranium exported next year to
U.S.A., the sum of 5,000,000
dollars nor that, later, the dollars
thus earned will exceed, in one
year, those obtained by the sale
nf wool and meat over the last
five years.
At the present stage of
development that is merely
wishful thinking. The work
done up to the present has
been almost purely qualitative,
and has consisted of delimiting
the radioactive zone around the
location at which specimens of
uranium ore were collected by a
prospector three years ago, plus
the sinking of a shaft and levels
of sufficient extent to allow
the mining of 100 tons of ore.
This work has been carried out
chiefly by the staff of the Bureau
of Mineral Resources, equipped
with Geiger-Muller counters, but
it could have been done with
equal efficiency, and much less
expensively, by professional
prospectors, had adequate
financial reward for worth-while
discovery been offered, as the
operation of the Geiger-Muller
instrument offers no difficulty to
an intelligent layman.
That this approach was not
made has been excused on
security grounds. Photography,'
acquisition of specimens, dis-
cussion of the quantity and
quality of the ore produced and
the presence of any unauthorised
person on the workings are all
forbidden, but the effects of
these restrictions have been
annulled by allowing the first
major shipment of ore, consisting
of 100 tons in 400 drums, to
remain unguarded at Darwin,
where any interested person
could help himself.
The Government might there-
fore well consider the offer of
reasonable inducements to pros-
pectors to engage in the search
for further deposits, and it might
also, without cost, bring the
present high price of Geigers in
Australia under control.
Although the reading of
Geigers is simple, and almost
foolproof, the correct quanti-
tative interpretation of the results
obtained requires long experi-
ence in the field, involving much
trial and error and the candid
recognition and slow correction
of many mistakes. As in the
case of many other geophysical
methods, a widely-dispersed,
low-grade body at or near the
surface will produce much the
same response as a concentrated
mass at depth.
The Maoriland Pound
Things are looking up for
Maoriland’s pound. For the first
time since the big depression the
uptrend in the volume of money
was halted in the latest financial
year (to March 31), and the total
fell £l3l million below the
March, 1951, peak of £291
million. It’s not much to crow
about, but there was heavy
pressure on overdrafts to reckon
with, which makes it more
impressive.
The big point is that the tide
was turned —thanks to wiping-
out £27 million of State debt
with the Reserve Bank and freez-
ing £l4 million of wool cheques
—after the R.B. had been putting
increasing pressure on the brake
for well over a twelvemonth. It’s
good news for thrifty, self-reliant
folk whose savings were shrink-
ing at a rate of nearly 10 p.c. in
the closing stages, when a good
deal of suppressed inflation was
let loose just about the time
world prices went for a gallop.
The patient Reserve Bank,
anxious to avoid severe shocks
for sensitive New Zealand, bided
its time, and now feels it is get-
ting somewhere. Its policy of
steady compression and gradual-
ness should soon begin to have
an effect on the pound, and
through it on Maoriland’s
inflated production and living
costs. There’s no set goal, but
the squeeze is likely to be on
until internal and external funds
are more or less in balance
again, which shouldn’t be so long
if N.Z. can stay the distance
with its export drive while
tightening its import belt, •


CINZANO
m SWEETondDRY
A
llt-is fjrfk
&
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON A
OSUCUVAN
{k mm..*,,
TRADE
MARR
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
and AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC UOAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILE'S
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
“World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?
to the Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
NEW HOMES
AND RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OP HOMES
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Rd., Balwyh, Vic-
toria. WF 4551. After hra. XB 6524
From a banker’s diary
Ho: 3
Monday: Mr.BEMM, a manufacturer
of essential goods, came to
ask the Bank to grant him a
temporary overdraft.
msm
m
m
Striking a blow against inflation
Inflation arises when too much money chases
too few goods. The “Wales” tries to offset this
by fostering the production of more goods. This
manufacturer needed funds to pay wages and
buy materials before he could undertake fresh
contracts. He could not wait until he received
the proceeds of the sale of the articles he had
already made. We were able to lend him the
money he needed, thus helping to keep workers
V.
producing needed goods.
You, too, should consult and
use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCOEPOBATBD IN NEW SOOTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A 52040
'»■
m
*
(T) Gxllujn’s
I*
&
Scots CUhisky
j 5
cfti p luaqH (rounbeb ibot) I- **&•*•*
the name is
(O c CaUums
the whisky is
ill
m Scotland
wm
mii
m
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
On the whole, opinion tends
to be dissatisfied with the results
of the Government’s first seven
months in office. Confidence in
Mr. Eden’s handling of foreign
affairs stays high, but disappoint-
ment is registered over the still-
unsettled nature of Anglo-
American relations. While the
present political to-and-fros of
the forthcoming Presidential
elections are scarcely conducive
to getting down to long-term
business, it is remembered that
Mr. Churchill’s prestige was con-
fidently expected to transform a
loose and sometimes uneasy
alliance into a cohesive unity.
The truth is that his visit does not
seem to have achieved as much
as was hoped for.
By far the heaviest criticism
is directed at the Government’s
alleged timidity in failing to
grasp the nettle of insolvency not
merely firmly but with a resolu-
tion amounting to ruthlessness.
Just as Mr. Churchill’s declared
intention to introduce unpopular
legislation, if necessary, has been
carried out only in part, so is it
held that Mr. Butler’s measures
to save sterling and the lack of
immediacy in his import-cuts
were inadequate to the crisis.
The “Observer,” for example,
affirms: “The Government is
tinkering with running-repairs
when nothing less than a major
overhaul is required.”
These many expressions of
concern take into account Mr.
Churchill’s stipulation that he
can’t put things right by sleight-
of-hand, that he must be allowed
a minimum period of three years
for reconstruction. Certainly the
task is an arduous one, if con-
fined only to essentials. There
are, unfortunately, many side-
issues which not only threaten
achievement but also the future
of the nation, including Parlia-
mentary democracy.
The root cause of the Govern-
ment’s somewhat faltering
progress is unquestionably its
narrow majority and what that
implies—too-frequent changes of
Government, each too conscious
of its insecurity and each can-
celling the other out. The
symptoms of this quite fortuitous
deadlock are all too clear: an
Opposition, nurtured on woolly
theories and Celtic emotion,
catching the nearest way of
making the most of the Govern-
ment’s embarrassments, and de-
preciating, from fear of losing
party favor, its successes. So
preoccupied is the Opposition
with incessant yah-booing and
internal strains that it is quite
unable to formulate any defined
or constructive policy. It is
noticeable that Mr. Attlee leaves
the Chamber as soon as Mr.
Bevan rises to speak, and has
also been the object of a direct
attack in “Tribune,” the journal
edited by Mr. Bevan’s wife and
his henchman, Mr. Michael Foot.
Hard going for Mr. Churchill:
but, say his critics, all the more
reason why he should forget his
flimsy majority and get on
determinedly with the job.
Closed-shop or Free-house?
Trade-unions, whose necessity
to the British way of life is never
questioned from any point of
view, political or otherwise, do
not always act in the best way to
win sympathy from those whose
livelihood is less, sheltered. Yet
the T.U.C., though not represen-
tative of the views of the more
vocative of the rank-and-file,
has behaved in a dignified and
statesmanlike manner towards
the traditional “Tory masters.
By refusing to align itself with
hot-headed threats of political
action through industry and
because of an absence of serious
industrial trouble it has won a
measure of respect. Particularly
is this so over its direct and
well-phrased statement in lull
support of the rearmament pro-
gramme, coupled with a straight-
left at Bevanism and wide-
awake appraisal of the Com-
munist threat, from within.
Nevertheless, public opinion is
becoming tired of the ceaseless
wrangling about open or closed
shops. In one instance, a Dundee
publishing firm seems to be tak-
ing an extremely bigoted and
high-handed attitude
union members, while, in another,
the Durham County Council dis-
plays an arrogant, near-fanatical,
obduracy towards those who are
not. Durham, with its mining
background, is one of the strong-
holds of old-fashioned British
Socialism. That is, Socialism
expressed by puritanical con-
viction, quasi-evangelical faith
and righteous intolerance. To
those who share the black-and-
white outlook of the Durham
councillors a Socialist is good
and what he does, politically, is
better; while the other fellow,
if not bad, is at least sadly in
error: but his actions, because
they are not those of a Socialist,
must necessarily be evil.
A short account of the dispute
between the council and its
teachers has a wide interest in
that it shows the amount of
trouble that can be caused by a
determined, self - satisfied
minority. In 1950 the council
demanded that all its teachers
should be trade-unionists be-
cause, presumably, every good
Socialist was. The teachers
refused, not because they
objected to joining a union, but
because they resented being
bossed over a matter of personal
choice and conviction. A period
of wrangling followed. Then,
last year, the council changed its
approach: candidates were asked
whether or not they were
members of a union—A tech-
nique of enforcing the closed
shop by intimidation. Negotia-
tions broke down, and the
Minister of Education had to
intervene. He ordered them to
cease the practice. The council
quickly found another artifice,
this time by threatening to
penalise the sick—they would
grant extended leave only
through a teachers’ organisation.
After a compromise had been
refused, the teachers’ patience
ran out and nearly 5000 handed
in their resignations. Now the
council, whose chairman has
said “I do not think County
Durham will ever climb down,”
has referred the affair to the
Minister of Labor, presumably
as a delaying tactic.
In all this pother (and doctors,
dentists, nurses and midwives are
also involved) not a single
thought has been given (except
by the teachers themselves) to
those whose f uture is most bound
up with the outcome —the
children of Durham.
“Old Vic.” Vicissitudes
A rather poor season, now
reaching its end, at the Vic. at
least has the ultimate distinction
of finishing on a high, if strident,
note, with an outstanding pro-
duction of a bad play, “Timon
of Athens.” There has been
more trouble behind the scenes,
and an ill-considered public
attack which must have upset the
governors, even if they rightly
deemed silent contempt more
fitting than open feud.
Although inevitably a sign of
our hard times, the closing of
the School at Dulwich (ironically
in the very shadow of the college
that owes its foundation to Shak-
speare’s wealthy colleague,
Alleyn) is a sad and irredeemable
loss to the theatre. The School
had a unique claim to good
service, since it gave individual
and specialised attention to its
pupils. But the bright red which
marked the difference between
receipts and expenditure —from
£5OOO/£7OOO a year —was beyond
relief, either from State subsidy
or from non-existent private
subscription. And, because so
many of the students came from
Commonwealth countries, its
closing will be as deeply felt
there as in England.
“Timon” is Tyrone Guthrie s
last production as director of the
Vic. After several hit-or-miss
essays in virtuosity, he has shed
some of his idiosyncrasies and
evolved a taut, highly-strung,
finely-integrated study of a fallen
misfit. There is little in this
patchy, flaccid play to help either
producer or actor. Timon is but
a shoddy nobleman, and his tall
from high estate to maundering
hermitage is so paltry that it
serves only to illustrate that
classic tragedy depends upon a
mighty fall indeed. Andrb
Morell has not quite the basic
grandeur for Timon ; his inter-
pretation is too self-sick, vain
and unprepossessing. Nor does
the footslogging verse help, for
it so lacks rhythm and muscle as
to suggest another pen than
Will’s.
The exposure of sycophancy
in a corrupt court, the heavy-
thudding satire on worthiness
and materialism, and the failure
of the single sympathetic
character to draw any tears are
all lost because of the uninspir-
ing Timon; and the subsidiary
parts are correspondingly dull.
(The master’s hand must have
been tired, or his mind dis-
traught, when he set them loose.)
Only the epicurean Lucullus,
played with nice effeminity by
John Phillips, and the exiled
cynic, Apemantus, to whom Leo
McKern gives a sharp, can-
tankerous dynamism, have any
carrying-power. (McKern, inci-
dentally, is a youngish Aus-
tralian who has many dynamic
roles to his credit during his two
years with the Vic. He will be
seen in Australia next year in
leading parts with the Stratford
company.)
But the production, except tor
the irritating whiz and whirl of
the crowds, is one for con-
noisseurs.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“North-5-West”: Many of the migrants
coming in from Europe show a capacity
for learning our language which some
of us Old Australians might well emulate.
They beat us hollow, too, in the matter
of common courtesy. My “housekeep,”
a young woman from the Ukraine, landed
in Australia less than a year ago armed
with about a dozen words of English;
this morning she dealt successfully with
an unwanted hawker at the door. Asked
what she had said to him, she replied,
“What I say to him? I say much to him.
I ask him to go to hell!”
» JK * *
“Alsace”: Perhaps it could happen
elsewhere than in Hobart, but I doubt
it. The bright young thing was en-
deavoring to manoeuvre her car from
where it was parked between two others.
Crash! A sudden press on the accelerator
sent her on to the bumper-bar of the car
in front. With a confident giggle, she
reversed. Slap! Right into the shining
model at the back. A couple more
attempts and the young policeman who
had been watching could stand it no
longer. He dashed over, bent down to
the window and asked, “Could I see your
licence, miss?” “Licence?” she repeated,
beaming at him. “Yes, your driving-
licence.” “Don’t be silly,” she giggled,
hitting him playfully on the shoulder,
“Who’d give me a licence?”
* * * *
“Ceg”: I hope the new note in this
advertisement in a Melbourne paper
brought the results its originality
deserved: “My wife having a baby in
September. Our ancestors were probably
transported in a convict ship. 1 was in
the Army and I wish to rent a furnished
flat to six guineas to become a happy
father.” If I had a flat to let I’d be
inclined to let the gentleman have it, *
provided he could produce actual proof
that his ancestors were convicts. “Prob-
ably” is not good enough.
* * * *
“Zake”: The product of the House
of Wimble was hardly dry on my par.
concerning concert programmes (B.
11/6/’52) before I appeared before Mr.
Burl Ives and his guitar, here under the
A.B.C.’s banner. In contradistinction to
the opera people’s newsy 24-pager, Burl’s
programme—same price, a bob —was a
modest eight-pager: five pages of advertis-
ments, the pictorial front page, one bio-
graphical, and one consisting of a list of
songs—not one annotation —from which
he would select his numbers. It took
exactly Imin. lOsec. to ingest the lot —
60secs. for the guff and the odd 10 for
what I paid to get. A charge of tuppence
for it would have constituted daylight
robbery.
* * * *
• “Spokeshave”: The managing-director
of a nylon-stocking factory told the Tariff
Board in Melbourne that, while the
American home-market for the com-
modity appeared to have reached satura-
tion-point at eight pairs of nylons a year
for each woman, production in Britain
had been pairs per woman. So the
English are up to their old tricks again!
In my school-days I was told that the
Crimean War was won in spite of the
fact that all the boots sent out to the
troops were for the left feet. Apparently
Britain is now winning the trade war with
single or bachelor stockings, divorced
from their mates. The director didn’t
state whether the half-pair was left-leg or
right-leg or how the English woman
disposed of her single stocking, but I
think I have a clue The girls of the
London version of the Folies Bergeres
are now in Australia, and, according to
publicity, the Lord Chancellor allowed
the Folies to run in London provided
the neariy-naked girls did not move. No
precise definition of “nearly naked” is
" Don’t keep me in suspense , sister — how's me motor-bike ?”
given, but it is obvious where those half-
pairs of nylons went. The aesthetic
motive behind the Lord Chancellor’s
embargo on movement, however, remains
a puzzle.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: The response to my quest
throughout Sydney’s mercerydom for a
15yin. dress-collar was practically unani-
mous: “Sorry, but we’re out of that size
—it’s a popular line”—and that has been
the case for months. Had I possessed
the foresight to arrange for nature to
equip me with a neck like Big Chief Little
“The champ!"
Wolf’s or Joe Louis’s, I’d have had no
trouble —there were lashings of bats-
wings available from 16jin. and up.
Similarly, I could have been easily
accommodated could I have encased the
shaft that keeps my noddle in its place
in starched linen of 14£in. But it is a
fatal thing to be one of the mob in your
measurements. Time was, of course,
when manufacturers, sensitive to the
barometer of masculine needs, and aware
from past experience of the proportion-
ately greater demand for “average” sizes,
adjusted their output accordingly. Appar-
ently they have arbitrarily determined
that men must wear necks in conformity
with the sizes of dress-collars that manu-
facturers decide to make. In view of this
I have been weighing alternatives. I have
scientifically worked it out that to add
the necessary inch to my neck to enable
me to qualify to buy the nearest extra
size available, I would have to put on
another stone and a half, which would
not only render the rest of my clobber
uninhabitable, but damn’ near break me,
with food at its present cost. I have
therefore written to the chief of the
African tribe that specialises in the elon-
gation and contraction of the neck by
wearing for a specified period a series
of different-sized hoops, asking for par-
ticulars of the technique employed. I’ll
let you know how I get on.
“Helldud”: Insuring against twins (B.
2/4/’52)? An Australian insurance com-
pany once insured against the birth of a
child. It came about because, under the
conditions of a will, a single woman in
the thirties was left a considerable sum
of money. In the event of her bearing
a child, the offspring was to receive two-
thirds of the legacy. When she was
nudging 60, and still a spinster, her
solicitor approached an insurance com-
pany, which with the approval of the
court, issued a policy covering her against
the birth of a child to the extent such
a child would benefit. The company col-
lected its premiums until the death of
the woman—at 70,
♦ * * *
“Feng-Shui”; Midnight horror-shows
in Melbourne—what an institution for a
Government that won’t allow sports in
public parks on Sundays or Sabbath
entertainment! Wandered into one the
other Friday evening and am still shaking.
Boris Karloff and all that. Bodgies and
widgies by the thousand —didn’t know
Melbourne had so many of them —a
couple of fights in the front rows, shrieks
and bellows from the screen, screams
and yells from the bodgies, a Stravinsky
symphony in three movements. As 1
walked home I couldn’t help wondering
why the Government gives all these
facilities for hysteria to the most
hysterical section of the population and
no facilities whatever to honest drinkers.
“Percy Pawnticket”: Luck allowed me
to rent Arthuralice Villa for a time;
although it was getting old, it had all
those fittings that make a house a real
home —one erected for living in rather
than for collecting rents from. But fi
was one of those masses of brick-and-
mortar the name of which meant nothing
(B. 17/5/’52). In reverie it was my
delight to picture the Arthur and Alice
who had wedded those names into the
christening, building their love-nest in
what must have been a bush wilderness,
exultant in every little addition that made
for its perfection and each other’s com-
fort. My idyll made them the perfect
couple, and I hoped that they were living
in perfect felicity in their old age, though
nobody near Arthuralice Villa re-
membered them. Much later an ancient
estate-agent told me the story —he had
had the letting put into his hands when
Arthur and Alice, after four years, had
parted on terms of bitter hostility. The
agent said that their quarrels as to which
was the real owner of the place were a
continual worry to him ; they had fought
one another bitterly on every question
and there was no chance of bringing
them to any agreement on their only
property —which vanished in the payment
of legal costs. After 14 years of
wrangling and considerable suffering—he
had been to prison half a dozen times —
Arthur waited for Alice one night at a
dark street-corner and bashed her to death.
sp sfc * &
“B. A. Ker”: When a Sydney daily
stated that Pakistan had adopted the
swastika as a national emblem I naively
used the information as a peg on which
to hang a “Society” par, (B. 4/6/’52).
Now I learn that Pakistan has not dis-
carded the crescent-and-one-star which
has always been her national emblem;
furthermore, there is no intention of
adopting the swastika for any national
purpose. The regrettable faux pas at
least caused me to delve into the history
of the swastika. I learned that “swastika”
derives from " svasti a Sanskrit word
meaning “well-being.” Kipling used the
symbol on the covers of some of his
books. But the Eastern swastika was
always shown with the crosses pointing
anti-clockwise. Hitler not only corrupted
the meaning of the ancient symbol, but
also changed its form to clockwise. It is
said that there were people in the East
who prophesied that no good would come
of his presumption. Apparently, then,
the cottage-owner who had a swastika
worked on his gable was merely wishing
himself luck. Nevertheless, I’ll stick to
my opinion that the only safe decoration
on a gable is an anchor.
* * * *
‘•‘Hamer”: Some light verbal horseplay
in the “S, M, Herald” brought back to
memory the time when, to get away from
the dull formalities, I began a report:
“The bakers, like their yeast, are in a
ferment.” Then the sub-editor gave
me a rap over the knuckles by remark-
ing “The ‘Herald’ is not a comic paper,”
and the report came out with the routine
“Trouble is impending in the baking-
trade.” My position was fairly secure,
however; a young reporter who was sent
to do an archery tournament in Cen-
tennial Park was less lucky. His offence
was a reference to “the arrow-ing details.”
The note of dismissal he subsequently
showed me said that his method of report-
ing was not suitable for the “S.M.H.”
OLD TASMANIA.
“Stones of a Century, by Michael Sharland
(Oldham, Beddome & Meredith, Hobart). A large-
paper account, with many plates, of old Tas-
manian mansions.”
Tasmania, it seems, abounds
In mansions set in spacious grounds,
Georgian homes of solid stone
Built from the 1820’s on;
At “Shene,” at Mangalore, the stables
Were towered palaces with gables;
“Rosedale” and “Lowestoft” barns are like
A courthouse and a church on strike;
But most important to my tale
Is Robert Kermode’s “Mona Vale,”
“Australia’s largest country home” —
“Calendar House,” it’s called by some;
Its rooms—just fifty-two—appear
To represent the weeks of the year;
Its windows cleverly contrive
A year of days—three-sixty-five,
So in a leap-year it’s permissible
To think there’s one that’s else invisible
Down which historians may creep—
Through this I’ll make a leap-year leap
And wander in poetic mystery
Down years of old Tasftianian history . . ,
Well, now I’m in a filthy hovel,
The victim of a saga-novel.
Transported in the convict times
For one of the more charming crimes;
A noble soul, I save the life
Of my bound-master or his wife,
Menaced by blacks or by bushrangers—
Anyway, heedless of all dangers—
And for this death-defying deed
My kindly master has me freed.
A handsome chap, with golden curls,
I soon am pestered by the girls.
And so I throw myself away
Upon an heiress rich and gay
(I’ve not decided which estate
To honor with this happy fate:
“Panhanger,” now—l like Italian,
Yet “Clarendon’s” a place to dally in,
While “Killymoon” is more baronial —
But “Montacute” is so Colonial —
It’s one of these; I don’t care which)
And now that I’m assured and rich,
I send my wife’s cash out a-sailing
And make a fortune out of whaling.
And then there comes a sad surprise;
My lovely wife, she ups and dies,
Pneumonia being so sure of killin’ —
No sulpha-drugs, no penicillin—
So gathering-up my cash I hale
Back to leap-year and “Mona Vale,”
And much to everyone’s amazement
Jump out of the invisible casement,
Reversing all my previous tricks,
To leap-year, 1956.
And then I’ll wave Victorian quids
At Mrs. Swilliam and the kids:
“Oh, Poppa, you depraved has-been,
Tell us all you’ve done and seen!”
“I’ll tell you, love, and lest you doubt it,
Here’s Mr. Sharland’s book about it.”
“Oh, how delightful! What a view!
Will we have houses like this, too?”
“Well, no, my love. Be shrewd and crafty—
Big homes are nice, but very draughty;
Their owners weep—the taxes hobble ’em;
They cannot solve the servant-problem!”
“Why, dear, I hadn’t thought of that.
We’ll stay, then, in our cosy flat.
Small though it is, and like a pigsty—
But wait till leap-year, 19601”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“E. & 0.E.”: Having laughed over the
Lusby picture (B. 21/5/ ’s2> of the
burglar who demands of the bank he has
just robbed to have a note “broken into
silver for the cab,” I took up the book
I had been reading, to find a not dis-
similar real-life incident described by a
traveller in China. “Our guide took us
to see a friend of his, the local postal-
director. This cannot be an easy job on
the Upper Yangtze. He told us about
some marauding soldiers who stole the
cash from the till and then wanted 10
send the money to their families by means
of postal-orders.”
* * * ♦
“Piper”: The New Australian opposite
me in the cafe was completely non-
plussed by the menu. I was about to
offer my six words of German when the
woman sitting next to me, a severe,
unadorned and puritanical-looking
female, launched into a choice of Euro-
pean languages. Having found one that
fitted, she translated his order to the
waitress in excellent English and relapsed
into prim silence. The man, obviously
fds
co
“ I'm looking for work on the side.”
unwilling to let an opportunity of speak-
ing his own language pass by, tried in
several ways to prolong the conversation,
but got no encouragement from her.
Then, taking a deep breath and in slow
and painful English, he said: “Plis! I
go each day to ze pub and every week
they are givink me seex bottles of ze
beer!” With which her reserve vanished,
she nattered to him happily and volubly
for two or three minutes, and they de-
parted together. When last seen he was
paying her bill
* * * *
“Rooster”; poetical justice was meted
out to a Melbourne gunman when he
attempted a stick-up in a jeweller’s shop
just on closing-time. With the usual
technique he asked to see some samples,
snatched out a gun and stuck it in the
jeweller’s ribs. Then things happened—
in reverse. The victim snatched at the
thug’s gun-arm, whisked the weapon
away and delivered a perfect uppercut.
The gunman staggered out the door and
collapsed on the pavement.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I suppose every human
being wants to make himself felt. Some
do it in one way, some in another. One
in Melbourne climbed to the top of a
30ft. railway signal, and the amount of
feeling he produced was enormous.
Trains slowed down because he threatened
to jump under them and the suburban
railway-service was disrupted. Sight-
seers collected to the number of hundreds,
fifteen police turned up to keep them in
order, the fire brigade brought a ladder,
and among those who climbed up it to
induce the polesitter to come down were
the assistant-superintendent of the Royal
Park Mental home (who administered two
injections), two priests, a co-religionist
who argued with him for two hours, and
a man who tried to tempt him with a
bottle of beer. An ambulance offered
him a mattress to jump onto and firemen
offered him a net to jump into, and two
doctors, six mental-hospital attendants
and an undertaker added their powers of
persuasion. He was finally persuaded
down by the weather and was taken,
partly frozen, back to the institution from
which he had escaped. The poor fellow
would probably have come down much
sooner if nobody had taken the slightest
notice of him.
* * * ♦
“A.E.S.”: Yes, that 1899 tramcar has
had a long innings (B. 21/5/’52), but the
Speck has some steam locos that beat it
—they were born in 1881, and, like
Johnny Walker, they’re still going strong.
Peacocks, they are, and, according to the
blokes who know, they’re as good as any.
Come to that, my dad swears that the
new steam locos coming here from Eng-
land are practically the same as those
he assembled and drove in West Africa
half a century ago.
* * * *
“Jasby”: With the commendable in-
tention of displaying an interest in his
son’s sporting activities, a Sydney busi-
nessman drove from his home at Chats-
wood on a recent Saturday morning to
watch a school football-match. It wasn’t
until they reached home again that Junior
discovered he had forgotten his suitcase
—a new one, containing his street-
clothes and a new pair of football-boots.
Parental lectures on carelessness and the
high cost of keeping a son in clothes
beguiled the eight-mile journey back to
the ground, where they were told that
Jones minor had taken the case into pro-
tective custody. Jones minor, overtaken
at the bus-stop, was relieved of the case,
thanked and sped on his way, Son stand-
ing waving to him in the roadway. “Jump
in and let’s get home to lunch,” said
Dad. Junior did so, and Dad backed
the car to turn. A couple of bumps and
two loud crunches marked the spot where
Junior had put the case down while he
waved. More homilies on carelessness
punctuated the second tpip home, where
they were greeted with the delicious aroma
of grilled steak and the unpleasant news
that a coded cablegram had just been
delivered at Dad’s office. Realising that
the building would be locked up for the
weekend within half an hour, Dad
emptied Junior and his wrecked case
out of the car and took to the road once
more. Junior’s moneybox has contributed
towards the cost of a new case, as a
“Be careful, now, or YOU’LL be overdoing it, too.”
salutary lesson in responsibility, but Dad
hasn’t caught up on that lunch yet.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Another of those overseas
fellows has criticised us. This time a
British chef, who told a Reuter man m
Wellington (N.Z.) that our cooking was
“awful” and that all we thought about
were “dirty great steaks and chops. ’ At
current prices, think about them is about
all we can do. The gentleman joins an
unselect band who kick about most things
Australian from eating to sleeping, our
great sin being that we don’t do things
the way they’re used to them being done.
If ever I’ve the luck to visit Europe, the
British Isles and the United States, I’m
going to take the same line of reason-
ing and criticise accents, foods, art-
standards, clothing and anything else I
can find because they’ll be different from
what I’ve been used to. But I wish I
had the penetration of Mrs. Clooter and
her sister Australian wives When she
read about the British chef she gave a
soprano snort and said, “Australian wives
cook the things their husbands like and
if you want a dirty great steak and give
me ten-bob to buy it you can have it.
Was that man coming or going?” “Go-
ing, I presume.” “1 thought so.” There
was much more in the last three words
than I can possibly convey.
* * • *
“Spokeshave”: I have always thought
that the first discoverable mention of the
term “Jimmy Woodser” occurs in a poem
by B. H. Boake called “Jimmy Wood”
printed in The Bulletin of May 2, 1892,
which bears a footnote to the effect that
a man who drinks with himself is having
a Jimmy Woodser. However, in an
article on the late Jimmy Richardson, the
Melbourne hotel-magnate who never had
a home outside his hostelries and who,
when in them, was frequently mistaken
for the “useful,” Melbourne “Age” credits
the origin of the term to Peter Wood,
the original owner of the old hotel in
Melbourne which Richardson bought and
converted into the existing ornate 12-
storied structure. Any antiquarian
know ?
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Schoolteachers and caning
(B. 4/6/ ’52)? I recall two teachers. One
was a very big man; the other looked
small and wizened even to us. “Johnno, ’
the big fellow, hated inflicting punishment
of any kind; his superior would have
taken delight in running a horror camp.
In the 12 months I was in his class Johnno
used the cane twice —and only delivered
half-hearted “oners” then. Did the kids
“muck up” on him? They did not. His
class was always under perfect control,
every scholar was a trier, and he had
the respect and admiration of every kid
who passed through his hands. The other
fellow inspired only two emotions in his
scholars —hatred and fear. Yet, when
the yearly examinations came around,
Johnno’s class slipped badly. Youngsters
whose work had been brilliant through
the year did not gain a pass. It must
have been inexplicable and most dis-
heartening to a man of his ability and
conscientiousness. Over the years I’ve
often wished 1 could meet him again to
explain. Now, perhaps, it’s too late. But,
if he still reads The Bulletin, here’s the
explanation: Those kids were trying to
fail i -they knew that a pass meant pro-
motion —into the little sadist’s class.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Those leaves on the trees
in St. Kilda-road which hang longer than
their fellows (B. 4/6/’52) do so simply
because of the light and not because ot
any degree of warmth from the electnc-
bulbs. The presence of light, either
natural or artificial, stimulates the plant-
tissues so that by a metabolic process the
carbon-dioxide and water in the air are
converted into substances to nourish and
maintain the leaf-tissues. In darkness
this process not only does not occur, but
is actually reversed, so that the tissues,
built up during the light, break down and
deteriorate. Because of other structural
changes in the leaf-stem it is inevitable
that the leaves on a deciduous tree must
be shed to make way for the new spring
foliage, but, just as a human being can
defy Time longer if well-nourished and
built up, so can a leaf which has been
well-supplied with tissue-food stand the
strain much longer than the one which
has been in relative outer darkness.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Identity is an old
philosophical problem, and the question
of identical twins has been much debated
amongst the scholars. It is possible for
twins to be so like each other that they
cannot be distinguished apart, though a
count of the hairs on their heads might
show that one had one more hair than
the other. Such a case is that of tw r o
London 27-year-olds. They joined the
army together, deserted together and
committed crimes together. The other
day they were sentenced together to 15
months together in the same jail.
* * * ♦
“Fairf”: “Macnell” has been holding
out on us. It took Burl Ives to unfold
the story of “The Golden Vanitee.” The
good ship, it seems, was fighting “the
Spanish enemee” in “The Lowlands
Sea” when the skipper offered a
handsome reward to any man who
would sink the said S.E. in the L.S.
A cabin-boy nobly volunteered, went over
the side with a gimlet, bored a couple
of holes in the enemee, and qualified for
the reward. But the captain, no doubt
figuring out that the boy couldn’t bring
the sunken Spaniard up again, refused to
pay up like a gentleman. The boy be-
came overinsistent and was tossed over-
board, to join the Spanish enemee at the
bottom of the Lowlands Sea, Altogether
a sad story. But to make matters worse,
about three centuries later, grown men
were fitted up with rubber-suits, flippers,
oxygen-tanks, limpet-bombs and various
other accessories, to do what the cabin-
boy did with a gimlet. And Hollywood
goes and makes a picture about them!
* * * *
“Yair”: Fierce competition between the
two fish-shops in this suburb. Joe roped-
in the kid-trade for a while by throwing
four extra chips into the bag. Tony
defeated that move by adding six. Next,
Joe put the chips into vivid-colored bags ;
Tony went one better by putting “Lucky-
numbers” on the bags and giving a penny
a week away to the kid who could present
six bags with numbers in a straight row.
Parents objected to this, and trade seemed
dull for a while. Now Joe has advertised;
“Celery-salt instead of ordinary kind on
all chips.” Tony, however, sprang his
idea on us last night; he said, “I will
buy a farm; I will put a lump of butter
in all bags of chips, but butter is so ex-
pensive I must have cows of my own.”
It may be just an idle boast, but we’«
waiting.
A TRAVELLER’S LAMENT.
A passion for far places 1 have had
Since quite a lad,
So that quite early I acquired a great
Determination
To see as many countries as I could.
This, 1 felt, would ~ „
Broaden my mind and also stimulate
My education.
Nature vouchsafed, in her sagacity,
That I would be . ,
No unimaginative stick-at-home,
But a true rover,
The world my oyster. As familiar with
Some monolith
Of Greece as with the Colosseum of Rome,
The cliffs of Dover.
So it has proved. How my pulse wildly leapt
When first 1 swept
My eyes over the still and mirrored lakes
Of Nordic Finland.
And with what ecstasy did I behold
That outline bold,
That great escarpment that the Andes makes
Of Chile’s inland!
Waikiki’s golden beach, Norway’s fjords,
The Norfolk Broads,
Rjo’s pa'ved waterfront, the hills of Crete,
The storied Tiber;
The Nile along which ply the fellaheen—
All these I’ve seen,
To say nought of Newfoundland s fishmg-
. fleet,
The Pass of Khyber.
My cicerone on these varied trips
Never takes tips.
His comments I have valued, for they’ve been
Of keen appraisal.
On leaving every country he’s expressed
(It’s quite a jest)
Deepest regret, in voice so saccharine
And somewhat nasal.
To one place, though, he has not swept me yet,
To my regret.
I’m making it the plaint, as well I might,
Of this last stanza.
So, why the hell, Fitzpatrick, can’t you make,
Just for my sake,
A travel-talk of that spectacular sight,
Victoria Nyanza?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


(This abridged Prospectus does not comply fully with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1938 and
applications for shares will be accepted only in terms of the Company’s Prospectus dated the Twelfth
day of June, 1952, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar General, Melbourne.)
MOULDED HAIR OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
relating to the issue of
300,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of 5/- each
AT PAR
NOMINAL CAPITAL
1,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £250,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
400.000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £lOO,OOO
PRESENT ISSUE
300.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £75,000
DIRECTORS
William Henry Sweeting, of 28 Parkers Road, Parkdale (Company Director).
Irwin Boyd Knight, of 1021 Malvern Road, Toorak (Company Director).
Walter David Sykes, of 17 Uvadale Grove, Kew (Company Director).
(Two additional Directors to be appointed)
AUDITOR
George Bryce Mclndoe of Messrs. Wilson, Danby & Giddy,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY
I. S. Alexander, of Messrs. Alexander & Boehme,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE
365 Nepean Highway, Mordialloc, Victoria.
SOLICITORS
Messrs. Mullett & Langford, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
VICTORIA ; Messrs. Guest & Bell, 409 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES : Messrs. Headlam & Hewson, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
QUEENSLAND : Messrs. Charles Elliott & Son, 356-358 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
PURPOSE OF THE ISSUE
The present capital is being raised prim-
arily to provide additional working capital to
permit the Company to carry out a compre-
hensive plan to increase production of its
products.
PRODUCTION
Output of rubberized hair and fibre con-
tinues to increase and still greater production
will shortly be achieved. Foam rubber as
pillows and in sheet form is in production and
overlays for mattresses and all types of up-
holstery will shortly be available.
In March last the basic sponge plant was
completed and since then has been operating at
a high level of efficiency. Costs are lower than
estimated, production is higher, and the profit
margin previously budgetted will be exceeded.
Rapid expansion can now be expected from
more presses and moulds without addition to
the basic plant.
THE PROCESS
Percentages of scrap will be even lower than
originally expected and fully justify confidence
in the patented process, to which the Company
has exclusive rights under its agreements with
the English and American patentees, and which
constitutes a great advance on other methods
for producing foam sponge.
SALES
The Company has entered into an arrange-
ment with B.T.M. Agencies Pty. Ltd. appoint-
ing it the sole distributor of its products. The
arrangement is for a period of eighteen months
from Ist May, 1952 and provides for renewals.
B.T.M. Agencies Pty. Ltd. has its head
office in Adelaide, South Australia and
branches in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and
Perth.
' The Company’s products have been
successfully tested by the Defence Services and
substantial orders are expected shortly.
PROFIT EARNING
When full production is attained through
the emplojmient of the additional funds now
sought, it is confidently expected that profits
after tax (at existing rates) will be not less than
12 i% on capital.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS
(a) The minimum amount which in the
opinion of the Directors must be raised by the
issue of 300,000 ordinary shares now offered
for subscription is £27,000. This is in order to
provide the sums or the balance of sums re-
quired to be provided in respect of the following
matters :
(i) Purchase price of property pur-
chased or proposed to be purchased .. Nil
(ii) Preliminary expenses and under-
writing commission and brokerage £2,000
(iii) Repayment of money borrowed
by the Company in respect of any
of the foregoing matters .. .. Nil
(iv) Working Capital £25,000
(b) No amounts are to be provided in
respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise than
out of the proceeds of the issue.
TERMS OF ISSUE
1. The shares are offered in the first in-
stance to shareholders holding shares on the
Twelfth day of June, 1952, in the proportion of
three new shares for each four shares then held
in the existing capital.
2. In the event of any shareholder not
faking up any share or shares to which he is
entitled prior to the twenty-eighth day of June,
1952, the Directors reserve the right to allot
such share or shares to other applicants but so
that in the event of applications exceeding the
number of shares available, then such shares
will be allotted proportionately and any
application money paid in excess of the value of
the shares allotted will be refunded.
3. Applications will be accepted only if
made on the appropriate printed form accom-
panying copies of the complete Prospectus and
may be lodged with any of the abovenamed
Brokers or forwarded to The Secretary,
Moulded Hair of Australia Ltd., c/o. Messrs.
Alexander & Boehme, Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, accom-
panied by an amount of 5/- per share repre-
senting payment in full for the number of
shares included in the application. Copies of
the complete Prospectus with forms for
application may be obtained from the above-
named Brokers or from Messrs. Alexander &
Boehme.
4. The shares are offered at par payable in
full on lodgment of application.
5. All cheques and drafts in payment of
shares should be made payable to Moulded
Hair of Australia Ltd. and crossed “Not
Negotiable”. Exchange on Melbourne must be
added to all country and interstate cheques.
6. The list is now open and will close at
twelve noon on the twelfth day of July, 1952,
but the right is reserved to close the issue at an
earlier time without notice.
APPLICATIONS FOR STOCK
EXCHANGE LISTING
Applications will be made as soon as
practicable to the Stock Exchanges of Mel-
bourne and Sydney for official quotations of
the Company’s shares.
Brokerage of 2d. per share will be paid to
any member of any of the recognised Stock
Exchanges throughout Australia on allotments
made in respect of applications bearing his
stamp.
YOUR BATTERY WILL
GIVE MORE POWER
AND
LAST LONGER WITH
“CELL-PEP” Battery Eejuvenator, an
amazing new development that REMOVES
“sulphate” from the plates and PRE-
VENTS further “sulphating.” One of
the main causes of a battery “wearing
out” is “sulphating” of the plates. Power
is lost and the battery will not hold a
charge. NOW, with “CELL-PEP,” you
can get easier starting, MORE power and
LONGER LIFE from even the oldest bat-
tery. Batteries will become more expen-
sive, and scarce. SAVE yours now, with
“CELL-PEP.” You CAN see the DIFFER-
ENCE in twenty minutes. Simply add
to each cell twice a YEAR. Economical,
too! Large size, does 12 six-volt batteries
for 1 year for only 25/9. POST FREE.
Money Back Guarantee.
Sole Agents:
G. TAYLOR
PASTORAL COMPANY
BOX 3412 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Jl
M
■ a
m m
B
s.
m
The Electricity Trust of South Australia
has established a steam power station at the
Leigh Creek Coal Field. The load demand
includes electric excavators. Two turbo-
alternators are installed, served by two
Babcock boiler units each delivering 25,000
lbs. of steam per hour at 200 p.s.i. and
630°F. These units are equipped with
Bahcock-Detroit RotoGrates. This spreader
type stoker has a forward travelling grate,
providing continuous ash removal. The
units burn successfully Leigh Creek coal
(minus 1") having a calorific value of
5,500, 6,500 8.T.U./lb. with from
moisture and 7/17% ash.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
writing that story, I saw it on
the back page, was something
that it was worth living a hard
life to experience.
A copy of the paper went with
me to the solicitor’s office where
I toiled. I tried hard to conceal
the joy and triumph surging
within me. When another mem-
ber of the staff remarked “See
you’ve got The Bulletin. Any-
thing specially good in it this
week?” I returned casually “A
pretty good number By the
way, there’s a little thing of mine
on the back page.” The paper
went with me to Wynyard-
square during the lunch-hour; I
wanted to sit by myself for a
while, and, although I tried to
read the rest of the paper, time
after time I found myself staring
with exaltation at my own work.
The yarn inspired an old and
very dear friend to remark that
“Instead of being written by a
boy like Harold it might be the
work of an old roue of 50.” My
mother, after reading it, had, I
think, a wild idea of trying to
buy up the whole issue of The
Bulletin in order to destroy it,
and hide my shame. Then pride
triumphed.
The story, incidentally (it was
“At the Crossroads,” published
September 22, 1900), lost me my
reputation as a white-headed
boy amongst the fond mammas
of our set. I was no longer
asked to act as escort for
precious daughters from late
parties ; on the contrary, when I
called upon girl-friends the fond
mammas often made a point of
remaining very determinedly in
the vicinity.
That story brought me my
first Bulletin payment that took
the form of a cheque; and it
occasioned my first call at the
office. Suspicious of my identity,
Tom MacMahon, the accountant,
got me to write out a slip of
copy, which was compared with
the MS. before payment was
made.
My habit was to drop my MS.
on the counter of The Bulletin
and fly before I could be charged
with the offence, but on my next
visit Tom MacMahon inter-
cepted me with the remark that
Mr. Archibald wanted to see
me. No need to repeat what he
said, but Archibald had a re-
markable memory about small
things, forgetful as he was over
many. Only a few months
before he died he said to me
with a sharp suddenness,
“Where’s that book I told you
to write the day 1 first saw you?”
The book is not written yet —
one of the phases of my failure.
Some time afterwards Archi-
bald sent for me again. He had
a little pile of my paragraphs on
his desk. “They are not up to
your best; sit down there and
rewrite them,” he said. Most of
those paragraphs subsequently
appeared.
At that time I was working in
a solicitor’s office, rebelling
against the prospect of adopting
the law, which I hated—and still
hate. An uncle—the same who
had gifted me with a tenner for
my school achievements—had
undertaken, if I made up my
mind to become a lawyer, to
provide me with an income until
I was on my feet. He now wrote
a stern letter objecting to the
“socialistic tone” of some of my
articles my mother had proudly
forwarded to him. I wrote ex-
pressing my gratitude for kind-
nesses received from him, but
declaring that I didn’t intend to
allow anyone to interfere with
my opinions. In that way I cut
off my wealthy uncle with a
postage-slamp ; he never wrote
to me again.
To get away from the hated
law I went on the stage. I had
been a fairly distinguished
amateur, and an offer was made
to me. I was never a good
actor ; the fact that the stage is
full of bad actors probably ac-
counted for the notices I some-
times secured. In three months
I was linked up with the business
side, being appointed assistant-
manager —which meant a regular
weekly salary instead of payment
for six performances or a week’s
work. In ten months I was
managing a company. At 20, it
was the worst thing that could
have happened to me —especially
with my early training in despis-
ing money. As one result, I
landed in Sydney, after a two-
years tour in N.Z., to which the
term “successful” could be (and
was) applied, with 3s. 6d. in my
pocket. The stage never held
any glamor for me ; and I left
it quite willingly when I married
at 23 and decided that married
life and the stage would not
work well together.
By that time I was - making a
fair income as a freelance, but
found that with all my time my
own, the money made went
rather too easily. So I took a
position as a clerk, and in three
months was accountant to a
Waterloo firm. With my salary
and freelance earnings I had the
most prosperous period in my
existence; but plunging with
enthusiasm into the formation of
the Clerks’ Union 1 -experienced
the sack (actually, I sacked my-
self, but I could see the sack
coming following a refusal to
withdraw from my union
activities) and the boycott. That
treatment only stimulated my
enthusiasm. I became a com-
mercial-traveller when I found
the boycott well set against me
as a clerk, and I was doing well
when my new guise was dis-
covered and the boycott applied
again.
The battle was rather enjoy-
able, although bitter at times. I
emerged with a practice' as
auditor; did a tremendous
amount of freelance work; my
knowledge of labor affairs got
me a staff job on the Sydney


ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications
insufficiently stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
M.G.K.: The cliches are too old.
..., Y.H.We gave up when the sun-
downer sobbed himself to sleep
W.: In that form it would be only
cuttable-downable to a paragraph
J.C.S.: A bit too soft for u 5....
R.N.S.: Whenever an Irishman comes
into a story you have to look at
every word twice... .Edx: A pretty
fancy, but we haven’t the space
Yes, it would be a good
nom de plume for a better story
H.S.C.P.: A coy parting of the veils
upon taboos long since broken
F. 8.; The facts about the mice would
break down into a nice paragraph
for “Aboriginalities” D.T.: Duck-
shooting story just missed IS.:
Picture of a wet Saturday afternoon
is true, but too foully dismal to print.
C.T.: “I am enclosing a poem
I wrote for a foreign pen-friend.”
And just the man to send it to
H.O.: Wordsworth and water.
~..V.8.: Fair for your age. De-
scribe the scene in front of you in
your own words, and don’t use jargon
such as
Where human beings do not appreciate
Kind Nature’s marvellous bounteous state.
~..F.R.C.: Send it to the doctor.
K.M.: There’s a mildly pleasing
lilt in “Returning,” but if you’re
thinking of making a fortune out of
poetry, think again... .A.8.M.: It
has a dignity that lifts it above most
political verses M. 0.: “Milk”
spilt W. 8.: No poem has yet
been written that will melt the flinty
heart of the Taxation Department; in
fact, if we bought the poem they’d
tax you on it A.R.: “Attic” not
quite in the top story D.H.: Alas,
your pelicans are howling in the
wilderness W. 8.: Beware of
witches and other inhabitants of
other people’s poetry P.A.K.:
Half a loaf would be better than
your “No Bread” R.E.T.: “In-
spiration came to me while riding to
THE WORLD'S FASTEST
DINGO POISON
NOW AVAILABLE IN AUSTRALIA
“L.L.33” is GUARANTEED in WRITING to kill Dingoes and
Foxes BEFORE they can run more than 10 yards after taking
the bait. “L.L.33” also contains the famous ‘ILUREX” Dingo
Decoy. No dingo can resist it. GET ALL THE SCALPS with
“L.L.33” Dingo Poison. 850 baits for 72/6. 500 baits 86/- BEG.
POST FREE. If you are served by an Air-Line, “L.L.33” will
be sent AIR-FREIGHT at no extra cost
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS;
G. P. TAYLOR PASTORAL COMPANY
(Trading Division)
BOX 3412 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■■
m
*
i
mmems/r
0 O ,° 0
< 3 u °cT, Wo ; c
. “(j e u a . ?«•
r ,- 'o ...
i o c ,ci> >,° • ■
“> ft ffc-mA
0 0 0 ° ■ •
O'to'cfJoZ* .
.° o
0
or,
ce-
ll
U-
&
<%^nM'
z i~) 1
s
V.
6
*
u
‘-&C^s-.
TOOTH’S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Makers of good beer since I83S!
Buckingham's
THE Mm STORE FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY— 61 OXFORD ST..
MAKCHttTIft • MIN'! WIAI • MUS FABRICS « KIOHSHIHOS • SHOW
MtUINCRY • ACCISSORIKt • FiOOt COYOUHO* • CROCMRY • HARPWARIJ
Also 231 Church St., Parramatta
Wonderful
Overseas
Vurchase!
We are able to release these Blankets at
the most sensational price in our history!
Imported
D.B. Size, War Woollen
Silver-grey Blankets
wmm
D.B.size,Bo"x9o //
£5196
Per Pair!
Thick, warm, good quality
with contrast borders and
strongly whipped edges.
CUT OUT AND MAIL NOW!
BUCKINGHAM'S. 69 OXFORD STREET. SYDNEY
Please send ...pairs of blankets. Enclosed plus 3/- for freight.
NAME.......
ADDRESS.
Ti n block'letters)
Goods will be despatched fo nearest railway station.
“Herald” on terms that were ex-
cellent; as a labor organiser I
organised 28 new unions besides
definitely establishing the Clerks
Union and helping to found the
Writers’ and Artists’ Union, from
which sprang the A.J.A.; and
had success as an industrial
advocate.
The world seemed at my feet
in those days ; although how I
managed the work is now a
mystery to me. My office in
Post Office Chambers was known
as “the Little Trades Hall.”
Offers for my exclusive services,
upon wonderful terms, came to
me constantly ; many of them
I regarded as bribes to lure me
from my union work, and re-
jected them with scorn. And
then my own pet union, the
Clerks’, demanded my exclusive
services at £4 per week. In one
way and another I was at that
time making—and spending or
giving away —fully £3O p.w. 1
The resolution making this
demand was carried by a
majority of only one vote, and
I could have defeated it if I had
not been too proud—after the
work 1 had done —to organise
my own support. There were
other incidents that damped my
union enthusiasms, but as I was
withdrawing from activities that
were often quite unpaid, I
crashed generally. The “Herald”
wanted me to go definitely on
the staff, offering to make the
sacrifice of other work worth
while; foolishly I refused, and
we parted company. The
“Herald,” which I found an
excellent employer, allowed it to
be resignation instead of dis-
missal.
After that I let most of the
other work go and concentrated
on freelancing, which I continued
even during my services with
the A.I.F. (in fact, some of my
best-paid freelancing was done
in London, after being invalided
from France). There were gaps.
For a while I was publicity-
officer at Sydney Repat., a sub-
editor on “Aussie” and Mel-
bourne representative of The
Bulletin, but really I have been
freelancing all my life; the
varied other experiences have
merely been the mines that pro-
vided the material for my real
career. There have been few
periods in which, as a sole means
of livelihood, it has been easy ;
the path trodden by the free-
lance is usually cruelly hard.
When I commenced the work
even The Bulletin rates were
very much less than they are
today. The daily papers’ rate
was lid. per line, and there were
queer ideas about verse. A
Queensland weekly, having been
approached for payment for
some verse it had published.
protested that it was not usual
to pay for verse unless specially
ordered ; it forwarded a whole
2s. 6d, The likeable editor of
the now-extinct “A.A.A.” (“All
About Australians”) printed and
paid for (at low rates) several
stories, but told me that he
expected verses free as a sort of
makeweight. There have been
periods of real affluence in the
freelance world, but they are
infrequent and shortlived. The
freelances have, indeed, always
been used as the shock-troops of
every new newspaper enterprise ;
soldiers to be petted and en-
couraged when they are wanted,
and then forgotten. The brief
period of their affluence passes
once the newspaper’s position is
assured.
To make my living I have
written verse and stories, para-
graphs on all subjects, leaders,
special articles and mere jokes.
I have written sermons and
prayers ; advertisements ; articles
of a technical nature ; yet only
in one or two periods have I
made such an income —from
freelancing alone —as anyone
described as “most successful’
might expect.
My- own weaknesses probably
have defeated me, although my
waywardness has been less great
than many people suspect. I
have never yet met a woman
who was as interesting to me
as a good book. I have never
known what loneliness is; life
is too full. But Nature has
provided that he who does not
pursue is pursued. Mistrained to
be careless of money, I have
never actually wasted it disso-
lutely ; yet I have let it go, with
the opportunities it might have
given me for the real work I
have never done, in order to
secure peace.
My own wants are simple. I
recall in the depression years
meeting a friend who talked
despondently of suicide. His
money had gone, and his wife
had left him. Checking my in-
clination to congratulate him, I
shouted- a whisky and then a
couple more, and provided the
four-bob that was necessary to
save him from a sudden end.
Wondering afterwards what had
caused me to let go money which
1 actually needed very badly
myself, I was forced to a laugh
when I recalled the pathos with
which he had told me that he
had been forced to pawn his
other suit. I myself had no
other suit to pawn.
I have carried rather heavy
burdens and have landed in
failure. Life is a beautiful
thing, and I have enjoyed it
fully: when it can no longer be
lived it ends. I have no grouch.
wo* on' my HcMe.;’ VonVtfilto
thc h °K s i anza a ' nll lies lull
fathom flye in the w.p.b,/. ..L.McN.:
Tried i. 0,. the Religious Editor, who
Hn«"of
harrowing blank verse on drought,
rain im d rabbits-have a Haiti....
M.w. , N.ce .<*-Par,ietx but not: our
cup ° f Crul liver’s Travels that when
yoa imagine very big men and very
Uttle men there is not much left to
admire, might be more property
applied to your fantasy.. . .V.M.G.:
Your old-time Maoris could belong
to any suburban literary discussion-
group C. 8.: Not bad, but nothing
happened....R.G.: It’s a good story,
but it doesn’t ring true... .J.McV.:
Good enough, but not for u 5....
A.M.M.: A lot about little....
K.R.S.: We like neither to see spirits
at seances nor to see aunts on the
spirits....M.E.P.: Your engine story
is very bright; you should clean it
up a bit; it is a pity to see a clever
brain - child so underdeveloped
F.S : If you had had a better grip
on it it might not have turned out so
sordid, but even then we should not
be interested... J.A.P.: Only .“I®
notes for a story... .JJ.t Not bad,
but not ours. •. .F.E.H.: More pro Per
to a women’s paper J.C.8.: We re
a bit short of space, otherwise we
might have assimilated “Assimila-
tion”. ~ .F.H.F.: Sir, we have said
our last word —so often.. . .8.P.: AH
it amounts to is that he liked looking
at water while he drank rum.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Byram”: Away in the Dream Time,
Yondi the warrior found the flat stick
in the magic pool. With it he raised the
sky, for in those days the sky was close
to the ground and everything, both man
and beast, crept and crawled on the earth.
When Yondi, with his great strength,
pushed the sky up with the flat stick
which he had found in the pool, some
of the water went up to the heavens and,
falling back to earth, turned into rain
and clouds. The stunted shrubs grew
into great trees, and the birds, finding no
food in the sky, glided back to earth, their
shoulders turning into wings. The
kangaroo stood up on his hind-legs to
see the strange new world and has stood
up ever since. The emu stretched his
neck to see the strange sight that was
unfolding before him. He ran so fast
that his legs grew very long and have
stayed long to this day. Now, all the
animals who crept and crawled in the
beginning were fast asleep when all this
was happening, and have crept and
crawled ever since. When Yondi’s task
was finished he threw away the flat stick
which had become bent under the great
weight of the sky ; every time he threw
“See if you can raise an s.p. joint, Sparks. I'd like a tenner each
way on Stormcloud.”
the flat stick away it would return to
him. And that is how the aboriginals
got the boomerang.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Came on a very old note-
book the other day in which 1 had written
down a list of numbers taught me about
35 years ago by an old man who had
been a shepherd in his native Cumberland
(Eng.). He told me it was always used
to count sheep, though as the list only
goes up to 20 I presume one would tally
with sticks for every score of sheep in a
mob. The little list brought him back
very vividly, and the tripping sing-song
lilt which he taught me to employ in
counting. It was like meeting again an
old poem long-unthought-of and half-
forgotten. There is a rhythm which gives
the list a singing cadence. It runs
thus: 1, Yan; 2, Tyan; 3, Tethera;
4, Methera; 5, Pimp; 6, Sethera;
7, Lethera; 8, Hovera; 9, Dovera;
10, Dick; 11, Yan-a-dick; 12, Tyan-a-
dick; 13, Tethera-dick; 14, Methera-
dick; 15, Bum.fit; 16, Yan-a-bumfit;
17, Tyan-a-bumfit; 18, Tethera-bumfit;
19, Methera-bumfit; 20, Giggot. The
only word of the 20 which I can find
in any dictionary is the last one: a giggot
is defined as an obsolete term meaning
shoulder, saddle or haunch of mutton.
With the smallness of the sheep in the
old days when the rhyme was used it
could not have referred to the weight of
the joint in pounds anyway—probably
the whole sheep would weigh little more
than 20 pounds. The collection is not
one that Roget thought worth recording
in his Thesaurus, either.
* * ♦ 41
“Cliff Towers”: “Brolga” (B. 11/6/’52)
is right when he says that cows and
calves can turn the toughest drover into
a nervous wreck, but I reckon ewes and
lambs will do a better job in a shorter
time, under any conditions. Took 1500
of the demons on the road once from
Red Range, at the back of Glen Innes
(N.S.W.), bound for Delungra, three weeks
away. We had two dogs, both useless,
and by the time we’d got through the
hills to Glen Innes I hadn’t a single
decent human feeling left. So when we
camped on the common and a decent sort
of red kelpie came round the camp he
finished on a chain under the cart. Next
day there was, by the grace of heaven, a
heavy fog, and with the dog going full
blast we were nearly on the dinner-camp
by the time it lifted. Just then three
burly jokers in a cart came past from
the town. One cove said to his mates,
“That looks like my dog,” but he’d hardly
got the words out before I’d yelled “Git
away back!” and the hound was on the
far side of the wing, out of sight. They
went on, and I breathed again. That
evening, just coming into camp, back
they came again, but I saw them first
and dragged the dog into the scrub. He
stayed with us the whole trip (and a long
time after), and we’d never have made
it without him. Now, I always thought,
and still think, that there’s no name low
enough for a dog-stealer, but I didn’t
care then and I don’t care now. That’s
what ewes and lambs will do to a man.
*** * *
“Mat’s Mate”; “Yair,” Mat said re-
flectively. “A lot of funny people have
tried t’ get me on their side at different
times. Blokes have urged me t’ join
clubs of all kinds, unions want me fot
organisin’, parsons want t’ get me inter
the churches, every time some bloke wants
t’ start a strike on a job I’m on he wants
me t’ lead it. I bin urged be Socialists and
Communists and Atokists and poultry-
fanciers, and every time I show me nose
near a bunch of wimmen they want t’
marry me off t’ somebody. Y’ remember
that time in Echuca when the thin bloke
tried t’ urge me inter temperance and that
time in Hind marsh-square in Adelaide,
when the little Mexican banjo-player
wanted me t’ go buskin’ with him? Yair,
they certainly keep urgin’ a man.” He
fell silent. “And y’ never fell f’r any
of ’em?” I said. “No. There’s only one
kind of urgin’ I fall for,” “What’s
that?” “Mate,” he said, “you try urgin’
me t’ have a drink.”
“Roma”: Hec’s employer referred to
by “M.S.” (B. 28/5/’52) reminds me of
another who adopted an unusual ex-
pedient to get rid of his foreman after
his timber-mill had been burnt down.
As it was impossible to replace the mill
equipment, including the boilers, damaged
by the fire, all the hands had been put
off except Bill, the foreman, who had
been there for years —so long, in fact,
that he almost had a proprietary interest
BANK
in the mill. For weeks alone at the mill
he spent his time tidying up, salvaging
and generally keeping an eye on things.
The boss begrudged paying his wages, but
hadn’t the heart to sack him, till at last
he felt that things had to come to a
head. As Bill left the mill at noon one
Saturday he was surprised to see the boss
coming down the road towards him.
“Where you going?” asked the trump.
“Home to dinner,” replied Bill un-
suspectingly. “It’s twelve o’clock, ain’t
it?” “That’s all very well,” stormed the
boss, “but the hooter hasn’t gone. I
can’t have my workmen leaving the mill
till the hooter’s gone.” Bill was aghast.
To blow the hooter for himself was
ridiculous and, besides, the hooter couldn't
be blown while the boilers were out of
commission. However, far from being of
any avail, Bill’s remonstrances were taken
as insubordination and he was dismissed
on the spot.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Monty the Dog and
Perishing Luke hit Narromine just before
closing-time and rushed a few quickies
into themselves before seeking a camp
down on the river. They picked a spot
just below the town common, and, some-
what lazy and vastly content, lay drows-
ing in the late-afternoon sun, Luke on his
back and Monty propped against a tree.
Monty had put his hat on the ground
beside him. He was pondering
somnolently over something Luke had
said when he saw the hat move away from
him. Absentmindedly he reached out and
pulled it back. A, little while later the
hat moved off again. Monty opened his
eyes wider, studied it, eyed Luke suspici-
ously and then looked around. Not sure
of himself he said nothing to Luke but
watched that hat. It moved a couple of
inches. Monty got carefully to his feet,
got a stick, sneaked on that hat and belted
it with the stick. “That’ll teach y’t’ keep
still,” he grunted. Luke sat up and stared
at him and demanded “What’s wrong
with y’?” “It’s me flamin’ hat,” Monty
growled. “Won’t keep still.” He gave
it another crack with the stick. Luke
eyed Monty and the hat, but said nothing.
A little later, when Monty was asleep,
Luke quietly gathered his knot together
and departed. He travelled all night, and
when morning dawned was sighted by a
traveller heading for the Gin Gin bridge,
“Where’s y’r mate?” “It’s this way,”
Luke said. “When y’re got a mate goes
barmy y’ either get him put in or y’ clear
out. I cleared.” And back at Narromine
Monty cleaned the crushed field-mouse
out of his hat and went up town to try
to locate Luke.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Those birds which “8.A.K.”
saw out from the headland could have
been black swans (B. 21/5/’52). When
Vlamingh anchored off the mouth of the
Swan River (W.A.) he saw these birds
in the estuary, so presumably they were
in the habit of going some distance out
to sea. Don’t know what they’d be doing
out there, but they could have been feed-
ing. There’s a bigger variety of life, both
animal and vegetable, in the sea than is
generally realised,
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Pelican
Islands, is it? What has always in-
trigued me is why all these sea-girt lumps
of dirt, in southern waters at any rate,
are today pelicanless. As boys in
Westernport (Vic.) we used to frequent
a Pelican Island between Settlement Point
and French Island, and there one never
saw a big-billed bird. Then I fluked on
an old report of a Customs official who
went to the isle in 1864 and had found
hundreds of nesting pelicans. He took
40 nestlings to the lake in the Melbourne
Botanical Gardens, Later, I learnt that
the fishermen from the near-by old fishing-
station at Corinella waged war on the
rookery and each year sold the eggs, and
the large black-and-white fliers departed
in the 70’s, never to return. Four other
similarly-named islands, the southernmost
in Southport (Tas.), are all likewise
deserted today. Pelicans don’t like
civilisation, for it appears that the Pascoes
and other islands off Flinders were once
pelican rookeries, but with the running
of sheep on these islands 50 years ago
the birds shifted their nesting, abodes to
more remote outlying islets arid rocks.
*■* * *
“Sack”: Chick went down to the
suburbs for his -sister’s wedding, around
about 1924, and while there was per-
suaded to see “The Ten Commandments.”
It was the most-recent picture he had
seen when the kids of that sister’s
daughter came up to spend a holiday with
the old chap. On the first Saturday a
travelling picture-show arrived; the kids
noted the programme and promptly got
to work on their doting relation: "It’s
a beaut, picture, Unc. —all about a
collie-dog. You’d like it; we saw it three
times when it was on in Sydney.” So
Old Chick saw “Lassie Come Home.” He
was greatly impressed. “Our dog’s named
Lassie, too,” young Johnno enthused on
the way home. “She’s a collie, too, and
me an’ Joan think she might have some
pups one, day and
if she does we’ll
send you one.”
The kids had been
gone several
months when a
telegram arrived;
“Lassiejfiree pups.
John ..says you
want one. Com-
ing rail.” Chick
was delighted
with the little
fluffy rolly-polly.
It wasn’t until
the pup’s coat began to grow short-
haired hnd coarse, the forehead broad
and the nose flattish that he began to
develop misgivings. Mac, an authority
on canines, dropped in ; his remarks were
to the point. Old Chick was indignant.
“That pup’s a son of Lassie,” he pro-
tested. “Yair?” drawled the expert.
“Then the last time Lassie came home
she didn’t go straight home.”
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”; That chaffed-up
grass that “Mel Bergen” found in a
termitary (B. 21/5/’52) probably was part
of the heating apparatus. Some termites
use decaying vegetation to maintain the
even temperature of their nests; and
by some complicated system of air- and
heat-circulation they can keep their
nurseries at the same temperature and
humidity during a raging drought and a
white frost. No other being is as well
equipped for life on this planet, except,
perhaps, algae. But that’s another story.
* * * ♦
• “The Missus”: Description of a frog
swimming (B. 30/4/’52) reminded me of
the sports mistress who taught most of
my contemporaries at school the first
stages of breast-stroke. Her theory was
that in both back- and breast-stroke the
legwork was all important. A powerful
swimmer herself, she proved her theory
by covering the length of the baths, first
on her back, then on her front, using her
legs only as a means of propulsion with
her arms at her sides. But her most usual
aid to instruction was provided by a
frog swimming. Viewed from above, and
through the glass sides of his pool from
other angles, one could see exactly how
the legs did all the work, direction being
achieved by muscular tension in legs and
back.
ARCOONA.
I said, is it possible birds can live here?
—All things are possible, a voice replied,
And a little gibber-bird flew past. All round
There lay a landscape bare to the very bones,
No soil, no sand, no grass or bush or tree;
Nothing but a vast heap of purple stones.
Like ants on a flat mound of sand, we stood
In the midst of the bare Arcoona tableland,
And all night long the curlew cried; we saw
No other life, and heard no other sound.
Four kookaburras sat by the Swan River
And laughed in concert; in their eyes was
wisdom:
And I said, here is my country, this sardonic
Laughter coming from a red-flowering gum.
And I have seep parrots shaped like small
green fish
Dart in swift shoals above the blacksoil plains,
Their voices silver-shrill, their shadows falling
On the feeding galahs; those pink breasts turned
to coral
Have seen the green fish dart above—again
Like flocks of slender birds —in coral pools
In the warm waters north of Capricorn.
And once at sunrise, when the world was clear
Of dust and noise, three butcher-birds all sprang
Out of a dead grey tree, turned loops in air,
Then paused and fluted till the distance rang
Like tingling crystal. Here, I said, is the voice
Of a wide, empty land of pure skies;
Not the crow’s hot croak or mudlark’s scream,
Harsh notes of cockatoos or parrot cries.
Four kookaburras sat by the Swan River,
Green parrots veered above the blacksoil plains;
The crow cawed of drought; grey currawongs
Clanged in the ringing gullies after rain;
And from a pandanus palm the Peaceful Dove
Sounded her cool monotony of love.
But thinking on our birds, from north to south,
I come to dark Arcoona once again:
My country is that bodiless voice, crying
Of the lonely curlew, lost on a stony plain.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


All this for onlu
£13.7 6
"MAGNIFICENT-
ODE LUXE),
DESIGNED FOR \
U.S. ARMY /
Fitted
with an
expanding
stainless steel
band, 19/6 extra.
The foresight of John Hay in shipping early brings
you this amazing watch at this am&zing price.
c
JotinTl
O
all €
I WiMoill Order Specialists
MAIL
ORDERS
REGISTERED
POST FREE
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Please forward by registered mail, a Felca “Magni-
ficent-’ ’ for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS BuL
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality -—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 14 pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: C'the guardsman")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
“Macquarie”: There was only one thing
you could bet on when Silent Simpson
entered a horse for the picnic-races—that
not even Silent’s mother would know
whether the moke was going or not. To
anybody naive enough to ask the direct
question he gave a stock reply: “It’s hard
to say, lad ; they’ve all got a chance or
they wouldn’t be there.” He had said
that when his entry won the big event,
and he’d said the same thing when it ran
second-last. Nevertheless, Happy, the
superoptimist, was waiting with a fatuous
grin when the big fellow alighted from
his car. “How d’ you think your horse’ll
go, Mr. Simpson?” he asked ingratiat-
ingly, Silent gave the prefabbed answer.
A few minutes later the simple one tried
again. There was a testy note about the
reply this time. The third approach
received a distinctly hostile reception. But
when Happy breezed up yet again and
asked the question as though he had never
mentioned it before, Silent became a
misnomep The big fellow’s tirade
finished up with: “If you come near me
again I’ll kick your pants till your nose
bleeds. Get to hell!” After the race
Happy hailed the winning owner—from a
safe distance. “Thanks for the tip, Mr.
Simpson. I had a fiver on him.”
Mellowed by the win, Simpson expressed
his mystification: “The tip? How do
you make out that I gave you a tip?”
“Well,” grinned the bloke we had always
thought a bit of a dill, “if you hadn’t
intended to win with him you’d have told
me he was a moral, just to get rid of
me.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Gulliver”; I’m positive, where
“Betcha” merely fancies (B. 11/6/’52),
that the Mah from Snowy River wouldn’t
have had a chance on a modern hack —
and here’s why. Modern sires aren’t a
shadow of* what they used to be. Any
Randwick programme will prove it, be-
cause there just aren’t the high weight
long-distan£e races and three-mile steeples
with 10 or 11 stone up to produce them
—and they’re not there because racing
has degenerated into a gambling device
for the puriler who wants quick and spec-
tacular decisions. So we get mokes,
mares as well as stallions, whose powers
are limited to lumping 7st. over six fur-
longs, and are hailed as living miracles
for doing it. The average station-hack
in Weslralia’s nor’-west 25 years ago
usually carried a 10- or 12-stone man,
201 b. of saddle and a 2gal. water-bag—
with sometimes hobbles, bell, light swag
and a couple of days’ rations for the
rider. Thus loaded, it put in a 12-hour
day, mostly in heavy red sandhills, with
plenty of one- or two-mile bursts at full
gallop, and it could do this for weeks
on end. If it couldn’t it was no good to
anyone. Horse-mustering in those parts
started with a 10- or 12-mile jog to the
paddock, half a day’s fast mustering
over about 40 square miles of the afore-
said sandhills, and a return journey with
the mob at nothing less than a fast hand-
gallop. The last few miles were usually
flat-out as the loose horses became harder
to control. Then, literally drenched with
sweat, the prads were given a free go at
the water-trough and turned loose to
“Half a sec., Herb —me bootlace's come undone."
chase up their own supper of saltbush
and dry grass. I don’t think that, as B.
suggests, better dogs have anything to do
with the deterioration ; ours (mostly red
kelpies from Hawkhurst) were as good as
any today. Racing, too, is not the only
reason. Smaller properties don’t need
good horses; owners and managers get
round in trucks and cars, and it doesnt
matter to them what sort of cuddy the
station-hand has to ride. They’re not
horsemen any more, and they dont ca *j e
what kind of crow-bait carries their brand.
# * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The last brig on the
Australian register, the Edwards of
Hobart, having been wrecked at Port
Phillip Heads in 1912, 10 years before 1
climbed over the old windbags at South
Wharf (Vic.), I concluded that all brigs
had long since passed on to the port of
forgotten ship* Wh™ a *ore m
Colombo a lew months Da ,
we saw_ two bngs drying hug t P
sails. Imagine it! Tealc-bqUt tftey
witt. huge
and. the >’ B s°™.““ xg" S was too
w «- -»->■•£
with every author,ty m Colombo
The
unporuml l lc ™ la ==- |ea[ n P much'about
nTor l°2mton.' V" mXmof con-
w P ... T d : d bnd out the
CX S
miles west, where she was owned by
the Sultan, ana where there are no whites
or motor-cars and all the inhabitants are
Mohammedans. These brigs sai o er
rice and cattle on one monsoon and go
back on the other. Up aloft on that
old hooker laying out on the yardarms—
well, I was a boy again, not back in the
1920’s but at the time of Long John
Silver and his mates.
* * * *
“Ingel Barr”: Though Reddie, our
oversized red terrier of doubtful
parentage, had the usual canine loathing
of the ophidian family, he reserved his
special hatred for the red-bellied blacks,
and the bones of his victims could have
made him a sizeable monument. His
technique was polished. In the open, if
Joe kept to the “on-guard” position,
Reddie would spar round barking
savagely, but keeping clear of clinches.
But the moment Joe turned to leave, or
had his attention distracted, Reddie would
spring. Landing with legs braced and
head low, he would take Joe below the
neck and swing his own head from side
to side at such speed that Joe was little
more than a blur, and quite incapable of
retaliatory action. About 20 seconds of
this, a pause for a fresh grip, and the
treatment would continue. Then, drop-
ping the reptile, he would work meticu-
lously from neck to tail, crunching every
joint. If Joe was underground, how-
ever, Red would scrap all safety-first
rules. He’d burrow for hours to several
feet out of sight in soft earth, but always
delivered the goods, in one or more
pieces. At times he’d back out from
down among the roots of some old stump
with a section of black and red, then
return for further parts, until all of Joe
saw the light. How those underground
scraps were conducted is a matter for
conjecture. As advancing age shortened
Red’s teeth and wind Joe occasionally
got in one for himself, but after being
nursed through a couple of bites Red
seemed practically proof against the
venom. Senility got him at 18.
* * * *
“Niloem”; Flying saucers? I’ve seen
’em. It was almost sunset, and three of
us, fishing in a harbor almost enclosed
by two long peninsulas about five miles
to the west, saw a large black, circular
object which appeared to roll along, above
the horizon, with the setting sun behind
it. In the dull light it was impossible to
say how far distant the saucer was, but
for five minutes it slowly rolled, then
became stationary. Next it developed a
tail which touched the horizon and, still
keeping its circular shape, slowly shrank
in size until only the tail was left. That,
too, eventually disappeared. The whole
occurrence took about 10 minutes and
in the half-light of sunset left the feeling
of having witnessed a supernatural
phenomenon. The explanation? A huge
flock of starlings which had flown along
the peninsula from the mainland and had
then descended to roost in the mangroves.
“Solitude”; “You’ll be riding the north
range tomorrow,” i said to Seventyfiver,
as we huddled over the coals before bunk.
“Well, bring back my old sweater I left
over there, will you? It’s on that big
log where the rabbits are. Y’ know it?"’
“Yam; outside the last gate, on the
right.” “No, you’re on the wrong side
of the paddock,” I explained. “Come
over three ridges to the north.” “Yair.”
“Now face towards the granite knob and
walk a couple of hundred yards, then
turn left.” “What, straight up the flamin’
hill?” “Well, you’ve got to go that way
tomorrow,” I argued. ‘Keep on that
main cattle-pad till you strike the clump
of hickory, then angle off to the right
—er, no, the left; well, it’s a bit to
t he left” “Awright, awright, make
up y’r mind, Sol, an’ let’s git somewhere,
puffed the old bloke wearily. “Bloke’s
too tired t’ be follerin’ y’ round the
paddick all flamin’ night.”
WINTER MIDDAY.
In the cold grey day’s unmoving
Dish, tfce landscape keeps as still
As a bird on a wire,
Making uneasy ' movements only.
I send my glance like water
Across the scene’s dry cold,
To find the houses stark as teeth
In a'paddock-lying skeleton jaw,
And am sad for the chilled lever
On bushes in the steel sky’s hold.
Unmoving in the air’s lead look
The spine-frozen roads and a fence-post
Rooted to a hill are quite half-witted
Under the heavy load
Of sky that is everywhere r over houses
And fences, and above the railway-line down
there,
Where it meets the steel stare with a steel stare.
TASMANIA.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


How much time will yoiit*
Executor have for yaur affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet*
TRUST ESTATES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G, Moncrieff Barron. 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
'Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary : P. H. A ndrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
zfii#
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CORONATION COMMENT.
London “Times,” in a critical
mood, has editorially considered
some very interesting aspects of
the coronation of Queen
Elizabeth, due on June 2, 1953,
following on the Royal tour of
Australia and New Zealand.
The “Times,” referring to the
coronation commissioners
already at work on the exacting
job of arranging details of the
spectacular ceremony, suggests
particularly that certain revision
is long overdue, and is-critical
on other points.
“Even the coincidence of
Empire Day, 1953, with Whit
Sunday, theologically the most
suitable day for such a cere-
mony,” it comments, “has not
persuaded a secular age to re-
turn to the ancient rubric, which
requires the coronation to take
place on a Sunday or some great
feast.
“Yet there is no doubt of the
profound religious significance
of the consecration; and with
so long a time for preparation
it is to be hoped, that the
ecclesiastical authorities will at
last undertake the thorough re-
vision of the rite itself for which
liturgical scholars have been
pleading at intervals for genera-
tions. The elements, handed
down for more than a thousand
years, are of incomparable
majesty and sacred association ;
but they have never been satis-
factorily shaped and harmonised
since the ancient Order was
rather clumsily translated into
English in 1603.
“The attempted revisions later
in the century, by Archbishop
Sancroft, a Saintly idealist given
the impossible task of adapting
an Anglican rite for a Catholic
King, and by Bishop Compton,
a political prelate caught up in
a revolution, did more harm
than good; and though many
piecemeal repairs have since
been carried out it remains true,
as H. A. Wilson wrote in 1901,
that the service:
is like some ancient fabric which has
suffered much from the work of
ignorant builders, destroying where
they sought to improve, but which
yet remains a monument of singular
interest, demanding not only taste and
skill, but regard for its whole past
history in any architect to whose care
it can safely be committed.
“Since in any case some
adaptation will be required to
fit the rite for the sacring of a
female Sovereign, there could be
no better occasion than this for
divines, historians and men of
letters to combine to restore the
Order to its proper perfection.”
The coronation commission,
under chairmanship of the Duke
of Edinburgh, is, in the
“Times’s” view, well designed to
consider the claims of other
countries than England to a
larger share in the proceedings,
but it is not easy, “for the core
of the whole is something which
originated in a realm even more
limited than England—the con-
cordat between the King of
Wessex and the Archbishop of
Canterbury in 838.”
Scotland, it points out, has a
well-founded claim to special
consideration ; “yet it would be
all but impossible to introduce a
Presbyterian element into so
ancient an episcopal rite without
wrecking its delicate structure.
A separate coronation in
Edinburgh is not possible be-
cause there is no longer a King-
dom of Scotland (or, for that
matter, of England); but an
interesting suggestion was made
recently that after being crowned
Queen of Great Britain her
Majesty should keep her state
at Holyroodhouse,. wearing the
ancient Scottish Crown and
guarded by the Sword of Robert
Bruce —the famous Honors of
Scotland which by the Treaty of
Union are never to be removed
from that realm.
“At the coronation in West-
minster Abbey, the most natural
place for representing the rela-
tion to the monarchy of other
realms than England might be
in a late phase of the proceed-
ings, which is outside the strictly
liturgical, rite. After being
anointed and crowned, the
Queen takes symbolic possession
of her Dominions, by being
‘lifted’ into her Throne ; she then
receives the fealty of the
spiritual and the homage of the
temporal lords, the head of each
rank of the peerage represent-
ing the rest at the Throne, while
his brethren in their places re-
peat the words after him.
“Few could object if the peers
of Scotland were given a separate
place in this ceremony; and it
could easily be extended to
enable the independent nations
of the Commonwealth oversea
to make their profession of
allegiance, through their Gov-
ernors-General, or, in their
absence, the High Commis-
sioners. The ancient feudal
formula, whereby the lords
temporal swear to become the
Queen’s ‘liege men, of life and
limb and of earthly worship,’
might not be thought suitable
for these young nations ; indeed,
each of them might wish to
choose its own form of words.
All that needs to be expressed is
a declaration of the loyalty of all
the peoples.”
Lifeline Command.
Moves to have an American
admiral in command in the
Mediterranean as well as in the
Atlantic naturally raised strong
opposition in Britain.
London “Time and Tide,” in
a spirit of not caring very much
who got the job, made one strik-
ing point—that the French,
Italian, Greek and Turkish
fleets had all “signified their
desire” to operate under
American Admiral Carney’s
command.
The British case throughout,
it explained, had been that com-
munications in the Mediter-
ranean, from Gibraltar to Suez,
should be placed under a single
command, and that this
command should be exercised by
a British officer, since the life-
line through the Middle Sea is
a vital interest of the Common-
wealth : “The Admiralty, in
accordance with almost a
hundred years of British naval
thought, looks upon the Mediter-
ranean as a corridor beyond
which lie most of the nations of
the British family, and they have
an understandable preference for
keeping the key to that corridor
in their own pocket.
“The American conception of
the Mediterranean is a more
limited one. Whereas the British
look from west to east and in-
clude the whole sea in their
strategy, the [U.S.] Navy Depart-
ment looks from north to south.
Its attention is concentrated
principally on the Western and
Central Mediterranean, and it
envisages the role of naval forces
in that area as being primarily
to protect the sea-lanes between
North Africa and Southern
Europe. Admiral Carney’s Sixth
U.S. Fleet —a more powerful
force than the Mediterranean
Fleet —and the Allied navies
serving with it are seen by Wash-
ington as an appendage to the
N.A.T.O. South European
Command and little more.”
Also explaining the conflicting
viewpoints, the York
“Herald Tribune’s” London
correspondent commented:
“It is clear that the British
view the Mediterranean and the
Suez Canal as the main lifeline
of the Commonwealth and, con-
sequently, they think of the naval
and military problems involved
there in terms of keeping that
line open.
“The United States, on the
other hand, appears to regard
the Mediterranean primarily as a
base of operations for aircraft-
carriers, whose planes would
attack Russia from the southern
flank. The American emphasis
is on attack rather than defence.
Yet, for the British, defence of
the lifeline is their main
concern.”
Various Voices.
Churchill explains: “My
views are subject to a
harmonious process which keeps
them in relation to events.”
Lord Ismay, leaving to take
up his N.A.T.O. post, quoted
Churchill as saying to him :
“Now that you are going to serve
14 different countries, I hope
that you will not consider it
absolutely essential to put Great
Britain absolutely last on every
possible occasion.”
Eisenhower: “We must not
focus our eyes too narrowly on
London “Evening News.”
“Now all friends again, why not choose Honorable Japanese
Admiral for Med. and save further argument?”
tanks, guns, planes and ships.
They cannot alone preserve the
peace, nor can they preserve
freedom.”
Dr. Toy ohi ko Kagawa
(.Japanese mystic and social
reformer ); “What happens next
in Japan depends on United
Nations policies. Without the
assistance and encouragement of
the free world Japan could
swing to the extreme Left over-
night.”
Earl Alexander of Tunis: “It
is well to remember that to have
weapons which are inferior to
those possessed by the enemy is
bad for morale, but to have a
lack of even these is infinitely
worse. Morale is the most
important single factor in war.”
C.I.G.S. Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim (on Britain’s new
Home Guard): “There’ll be no
months of phony war this time,
and you’ll be fumbling for a
weapon when a paratrooper is
shoving a tommy-gun through
your kitchen window.”
Taft: “I am certainly opposed
to sending any more American
soldiers to the continent of Asia
to defend Indo-China or any
other part of that section of the
world. There is a possibility, I
suppose, of helping the British
to defend Singapore on some
narrow point on that peninsula
buf, if it can be done at all, the
British ought to be able to do it
themselves with our air and sea
assistance.”
General Ridgway: “There is
not now, nor can there be in the
future, any question of the
validity and purpose of the
American stand against the de-
liberately planned, unprovoked
aggression. To have done other-
wise would have been a repudia-
tion of every principle we had
previously professed. To do
otherwise than oppose aggression
in the future will be to acknow-
ledge as sterile every sacrifice
America has made since it
obtained independence.”
British Conservative M.P.,
Robert Boothby : “If you want
me to indulge in prophecy, I
would hazard the suggestion that,
if and when the European
Defence Community is estab-
lished, a British observer will
slip in almost unnoticed and take
his seat unobtrusively at the
council table. To begin with he
will say nothing; but a little
later on he will be asked for an
opinion, and —• to everyone’s
surprise—he will talk quite a
lot of sound sense. Then one
day we shall all wake up and
find that Britain has somehow
or other become a member of
E.D.C.”
U.S. Secretary of the Amy,
Frank Pace “There is no such
thing as an ‘absolute weapon’ in
existence today, nor can we even
foresee a weapon which alone
can win a war. So-called
‘fantastic weapons’ there may be,
but to rely on them alone for
our protection is not only
fantastic but foolhardy to an
extreme.”
Ichiro Hatoyama (founder of
Japan’s “Liberal” party ); “The
Japanese people do not know the
meaning of the words
‘democracy’ and ‘liberalism.’
They don’t know what Com-
munism is. They don’t even
understand the meaning of col-
lective security.... The most
important task in the sovereign
Japan about to be born again is
to educate the people concerning
the advantages of democracy
and the disadvantages of
Communism.”
Woodrow Wyatt (British
Socialist M.P .) on the dangers of
German rearmament: “Only
British soldiers are capable of
keeping an eye on German
soldiers.”
Lord Wool ton : “I hear stories
of Socialist canvassers [at
Britain’s municipal elections]
taking round our miserable
cheese ration, reduced from
\\oz. to loz., to show the failure
of the Tory party. What do
these people think the electors
are —mice or men?”


The ‘extra touch’ with
Sliding Doors
if
r
,' • ■■
In addition to their space-saving advantages, sliding
doors give a distinctive beauty to home interiors.
Running smoothly and efficiently on the famous
"Bangor" Track, they open at the lightest touch.
The most modern and satisfactory method of closing
any opening# sliding doors save up to nine sguare
feet of floor# as well as wall space.
Obtainable from all leading hardware stores
“BANGOR”
Slicing Door Track and Fittings
dsf
A Product of
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Head Office: Box 1578. G.P.0., Sydney
Branches at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Orange, Brisbane,
Townsville, Melbourne, Perth, Ballarat, Hobart, Adelaide.
rf Write to Dept. B at your nearest Wormald
I Brothers branch for “Planning to Build leaflet
I and also full details of how to install 'Bangor
Sliding Door Track in timber' or brick homes.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SHARYN PHEONA HOAD late of
Gunnedah.—TAKE NOTICE that MERVYN
JOHN HOAD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2130 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Ist
September 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A, j; McLACHLAN HOARE & CO., Soli-
citors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney,
Sydney Agents for MESSRS. W. A.
BAXTER AND CO., of Gunnedah. —J-.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
h
9
ttlu
ikV> §
93
n
joyo' u T m \
wmimm
■
*
m
•••
oy
There are many loose references nowadays to
tractor horsepower. Often it’s hard to tell
whether a maker is referring to flywheel, belt
or drawbar h.p. When it’s all said and done, when
you buy a crawler you want to know how much it
will pull. In other words, the drawbar pounds pull
in low gear—the true yardstick of performance. That s
why we feature, not only drawbar and belt h.p., but
pounds pull as well. Your Oliver distributor invites
you to compare an Oliver crawler with other leading
makes— POUND for POUND . . . in price and in
pulling power. And when you add to these, the
many time-tested Oliver features; after-sales service
and replacement parts—and the fact that, thanks to
the Dollar Loan, your distributor can make an Oliver
available to you—it’s no wonder that Oliver gives
you to-day’s finest tractor value!
Order YOUR Oliver Crawler Now!
OLIVER CRAWLER MODELS:
“OC-3”—Pounds Pull (max.) 3,940 at 1.87
m.p.h. Drawbar h.p. (max.) 21.85.
Belt h.p. (max.) 26.36.
“AD” —Pounds Pull (max.) 6,500 at 1.79
m.p.h. Drawbar h.p. (max.) 30.5. Belt
h.p. (max.) 38.
“BD” or “BDH”—Pounds Pull (max.) 8,012
at 1.81 m.p.h. Drawbar h.p. (max.) 38.
Belt h.p. (max.) 48.
“DDH” —Pounds Pull (max.) 14,735 at 1.42
m.p.h. Drawbar h.p. (max.) 61. Belt
h.p. (max.) 74.
“FDE”—Pounds Pull (max.) 28,000 at 1.31
m.p.h. Drawbar h.p. (max.) 110. Belt
h.p. (max.) 130.
dsf
ds
fds
POLIVER Distributors:
OLD. —U.K. & Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wick-
ham St.,. Brisbane. iV.S.W.—Britstand Distribu-
tors, Ltd., 56-64 Gardeners Road, Mascot. VIC.
& TAS.- —Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. P.ty.,
Ltd , 31-43 Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne; 72
Federal St., Hobart. S.A.— Elder Smith * Co.
Ltd., 27-35 Currie St., Adelaide. W.A. —Skipper
Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., 900 Hay St., Perth.
N.Z.— F. W. Smith, Ltd., P.O. Box 1623, Wel-
lington. NEW (GUINEA —New Guinea Co., Ltd.
Free Details Send Coupon
OIiIVEB DISTRIBUTORS,
Box 4726, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me,' FREE, full details of Oliver
Model (please mark)
NAME
ADDRESS
,BU 652
SUNDRY SHOWS
ELENA NIKOLAIDI.
It was at once apparent, at
her brief appearance with the
Sydney Orchestra under
Goossens, that the Greek con-
tralto, Elena Nikolaidi, has a
superb voice and great artistry ;
its true greatness didn’t become
fully apparent until her first
recital, when she sang lieder,
Mozart, Spanish and Greek
songs and opera.
So extraordinary is her gamut
that she can move up to the full
range of a mezzo, and can, when
needed, even bring off full-
blooded notes in the dramatic
soprano’s territory. Of
wondrous texture and beautiful
purity, her voice lilts and
caresses, storms and surges,
always perfectly reflecting the
emotion of her song, and all
without seeming effort.
The great sleep-walking scene
from “Macbeth” —a terrifying
aria to any but the greatest—was
singing by a contralto that one
doesn’t hear in a quarter of a
century. The “Songs of a Way-
farer,” by Mahler, almost start-
lingly reflected the burning
sincerity of the interpreter, who
projects herself into the very core
of her song to wring out its true
spirit. And in Schubert’s “Young
Nun” and “Erl King” the admix-
ture of devotion and passion in
the one and the conflicting
emotions—love, terror, menace
—of the other constituted per-
fection in lieder.
Badura-Skoda has been mak-
ing solo appearances at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, all smiles and
so very young-looking that one
wonders how he can display
such virtuosity in both modern
and classic music. The technical
highlight of his programmes was
a dazzling performance of the
remarkable tone poems of Ravel,
“Gaspard de la Nuit.”
* * * *
For his latest popular concert
with the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra, conductor John
Farnsworth Hall drew, from the
gayer and more readily-
acceptable pages of music,
Mendelssohn’s “Italian
Symphony,” which rejoices for
the sights and sounds of Italy’s
peasant dances, religious proces-
sions and street carnivals ; Saint-
Saens’s '“Carnival of Animals”
Suite and Australian Charles
Mackerras’s distillation of
Sullivan, “Pineapple Poll.”
* * *
The voice section of the grand-
finals of the A.B.C.’s meritorious
annual concerto and vocal
competitions in Sydney proved
an easy task for the adjudicator.
Marjorie Conley pulled well away
from the rest of the field with a
really good rendition of “Una
Voce Poco Fa” —the Sydney
singer has a coloratura of out-
standing quality and fluency.
The concerto section was almost
a blanket finish, with Melbourne
pianist Maxwell Olding winning
after beating off strong
challenges by clarinetist Donald
Westlake (awarded a special
prize at the suggestion of Juan
Jose Castro, who had to separate
them) and pianist Rainer von
Zastrow.
Stage.
The rich subsoil of “Henry the
Fifth” doesn’t flower in full vigor
in Dr. Raoul Cardamatis’s pro-
duction at Sydney Independent:
Nym and Fluellen are well
enough and it is always pleasing
to watch Pistol eating an entire
leek ; but why not make these
people human beings instead of
impossible hobgoblins? Pistol
needs only to be a swaggering
bully: we have the type today.
However, the topsoil blooms very
pleasantly with a properly Mac-
chiavellian Archbishop (Charles
Tasman), an admirable Chorus
(Kenneth Fowles),* an adorable
Katharine (Rosamond Waring)
and a really splendid Henry, who,
with a crispness of voice and
vigor of personality that should
carry him a long way, balances
very effectively Henry’s some-
what contradictory qualities of
sensitivity and toughness: he is
Alan White. The sumptuous
costumes of a Norman Lindsay
watercolor and an intelligent use
of the whole theatre for
pageantry keep the production
gay and fluent.
* * He He
The Kousnetzova Ballet had a
brief spin at Sydney Tiv. between
the finish of the opera season
and the beginning of the
National Ballet Co.’s occupa-
tion. The company has
a remarkably fine dancer in
Valeri Shaievsky, who, on the
opening night, went right through
the programme in “L’Epreuve
d’Amour,” “Danube au Prin-
temps,” “Peter and the Wolf”
and the Polovtsian dances from
“Prince Igor” in a sustained and
excellent exhibition of dancing.
Edouard Sobichevsky, Raissa
Kousnetzova, Myrtle Reeve, June
Newstead, Peggy Harber, Paul
Hendle and George Rajewski all
had their moments, but the com-
pany, a new one, needs a devil
of a lot of work to lick it into
well-drilled order.
* * *
One of the lesser evils of
socialisation is the number of
comedies it has inspired about
the impoverished earl and- the
Labor Government’s desire to
nationalise his ancestral home.
Alan Melville’s “Castle in the
Air” is one of them, and despite
a spicing of witty lines and
romantic interludes it remains a
pretty uninteresting dish. Bris-
bane’s Twelfth Night Theatre’s
production was too haphazard to
have much chance. As the
wealthy American buyer of
ancestral homes, Peggy Lea
Wright came nearest to success,
and Ludovick Gordon was
responsible for much of the
evening’s laughter with his por-
trayal of Menzies, the faithful
retainer.
* * * *
Coward has never been quite
so good nor quite so bad as his
reputation, but he was unques-
tionably at his best when he
wrote “This Happy Breed” —
that sympathetic picture of a
typical English lower middle-
class family and their lives
between two world wars.
John Moore presented a well-cast
and -polished presentation for
Hobart Repertory at the Play-
house, with Patrick Bartlett and
Barbara Manning obviously at
ease in well-sustained perform-
ances as Frank and Ethel
Gibbons. Two delightful charac-
terisations were given by
Winifred Collins and Wayth
Henty, while Bartlett and Dennis
Higgins, as the mildly-inebriated
ex-soldiers toasting “the Buffs,”
made the Scene a masterpiece of
understatement.
H* * H«
A company directed by
Maurice Francis put on “The
Happiest Days of Your Life”
for three nights in a two-by-four
hall at Double Bay (Sydney) to
test “the feelings of the citizens
of the municipality as to the
possibility of forming a dramatic
society in the municipality,” the
municip., etc., being Woollahra,
an area which seems to have
everything except a good hall.
If the feelings of the first-night
audience are any criterion, John
Dighton’s light English comedy
of a girls’ school evacuated to
a boys’ school by a departmental
blunder was thoroughly enjoyed.
Handicapped by a stage almost
at floor-level and a ceiling which
scared anybody over sft. 6in.
tall, producer and players got
away with it, especially Jerold
Wells as the boys’-school wood-
and-water joey and young Pat
Burrington as a bouncing school-
girl.
Art.
In the exhibition of prints and
drawings at, the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, Donald
Friend’s “Galleons at Porto
D’lschia” is an admirable draw-
ing of ships in graceful line and
rich color—quite galleonesque in
fact. Another Friend, “Florence
from San Miniato” ; two faintly
charming drawings by Jocelyn
Rickards ; a landscape by Jean
Bellette; and a rather murky
“Quai du Louvre, Paris,” by
Margaret Olley, head the tailing-
off of a very thin show.


m
P
XJ
J.
\
and jazz has begun,
And frivolous flappers are out for
fun,
Seeking the scenes where the arc-
lights glare,
Taking a chance in the chill night
air.
O Sadie and Maisie and Edna and
May, \
What will poor father and mother
say
In the “wee small hours” if there’s “ ’flu” to
endure,
Without your
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
SEE MORE CLEARLY WITH
“SIRIUS”
“SIRIUS” Binoculars are
made especially for E.
ESDAILE & SONS by a lead-
ing continental maker, em-
bodying optical, scientific and
technical data arrived at after
65 years of experience. De-
sign and finish of “SIRIUS”
is faultless . . . light in
weight, centre screw focussing,
plus a strong, sturdy leather
case.
Zeiss, Ross, Beck-
Kassell, Lems 116 '
Roussell.
2 MODELS AVAILABLE
8 x 30 COAXED £2B/5/-
8 x 30 UNCOATED £2l/5/-
df
dsf
MAJi
ORDERS
Aq ce Pt
ed
add
7/6
«(6>
*OS
Ut ***ce
Post
•te
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. BW 9449, 8631.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern & Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Be- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153'
Goodwill (£273,153) written off .. ■ 106,799
To depreciation reserve, £43,000
1945..114,761 43,594 5 p.c. - 62,500 8,667 115,466
5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 5$ „ „ 68,750 6,688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947. .145,704 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
1948. .158,868 45,000 6 ,, ,, 75,000 38,868 186,726
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 236,726
1949. .150,172 45,000 6 p.c.= 75,000 30,172 266,898
1950. .125,374 45,000 6 ,, „ 75,000 5,374 272,272
1951. .131,547 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 11,547 283,819
1952. .127,286 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 7,286 291,105
+ Excludes depreciation reserve, etc. (now £634,813)
The surprising feature of the latest
accounts of this more-than-century-old
emporium is that the contraction in net
earnings was only £4261. The £127,286
of profit was written after allowing an
unspecified but increased amount for taxa-
tion and £97,975 (up £125), equal to
10 p.c. on plant and 3 p.c. on freehold,
etc., for depreciation. It was 6.3 p.c. on
the £2,000,000 of share capital—£750,000
carries a cumulative 1\ p.c., subject to
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act—•
compared with 6.5, 6.2, 7.5, 7.5 and 7.2
p.c. back to 1947. The div. was kept at an
all-round 6 p.c. for the sixth year in
succession. The £7286 that remained
lifted free reserves to £291,105. In addi-
tion there are specific provisions of
£634,813 for depreciation and altera-
tions ; properties are known to be worth
a lot more than their book-value, and
there are other inner reserves as well.
The co,’s problems are more numerous
and more complicated than those of most
other retailers, especially those doing a
purely city turnover in more or less
specialised lines. That is because of the
universal nature of the business and the
wide area it covers —practically every-
thing that falls under the broad heading
of merchandise, from machinery to
fashion-goods, is handled, and country
trade figures prominently in turnover.
There was a pronounced swing from a
sellers’ to a buyers’ market last term,
especially during the latter half, when a
flood of imports—the obverse of an
inflated export income and due in part
to unexpected early deliveries —together
with a tightening of credit and growth
of consumer resistance brought trouble
to the textile and wholesale trades and
swelled retailers’ inventories. At the same
time a bit more was chipped off gross
margins on controlled lines, and there
were further sharp increases in wage-
rates and all other operating costs.
This combination of increased supplies,
rising costs and a cautious public expressed
itself in a trek toward cheaper-priced
goods, and in a sluggishness of trade
toward and since the close of accounts.
Wholesalers and some others unloaded
goods at cut prices in order to meet
current commitments, and shoppers
became purchase-shy, partly in anticipa-
tion of further price-falls and partly
because the increased cost of food, trans-
port and other essential services reduced
their surplus spending-power. Lines
hardest hit were piece-goods, men’s-and-
boys’ wear, furniture and furnishings and
electrical goods.
In the co.’s balance-sheet figures it all
shows up in a net growth of £870,121 in
stocks, largest and most vulnerable of the
assets. They appear at valuation, which
can be taken to mean that some provision
has been made for possible price reces-
sions. The increase was financed mainly
by addition of £734,111 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., includ-
ing the bank: —
1950. 1951. 1952.
Ord. capital ~ £1,250,000 £1,260,090 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Mortgages . . 300,000 300,000 500,000
Creditors, etc, . .. 879,056 1,074,116 1,808,227
Tax reserves . . 212,114 301,749 345,188
Final divs. .. 60,090 60,000 60,000
Freeholds and lease- „ „„„
holds .. .. 1,204,078 1,269,103 1,389,707
Plant etc . . 475,488 496,365 665,230
Stocks . . . . 1,882,884 1,825,936 2,696,057
Book debts . . 562,333 901,838 934,561
Cash, etc... .. 32,647 63,280 53,779
To meet the net outlay on freeholds (up
£120,604) and plant (up £68,865), which
reflect extension of factory activity and
further improvement of shopping
facilities, £200,000 was added to the
mortgage —arrangements have been made
to draw' a further £150,000 from the same
source if required. The net growth in
working capital, or more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,470,982, excluding the
mortgage), was £115,793.
The immediate outlook is mixed. The
size of merchandise stocks will offset
the effects of import restrictions for
some months. The restrictions are likely
to continue for the next 12 months or
more. They will limit sales in some
departments, but are not expected to
severely affect the bulk of the co.’s turn-
over. The Government’s anti-inflationary
measures —they are closely linked with the
defence problem—will not stimulate
retail turnovers. Still, the national income
is not expected to fall much, if any,
further, and there are hopes that taxa-
tion might become a trifle less burden-
some. The big problem is wage and other
costs, always stubborn items. Higher
wages and cheap services are an economic
dream, without first establishing the con-
ditions which alone can reconcile the two,
namely, increased production and
efficiency.
Although the all-round 6 p.c. div. is by
no means secure, a change, if any, in the
rate might be only fractional. The co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords. recovered from 17s. to 18s,
in the market over the last couple of
months. At the higher figure the return
is 6.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
are priced at par, or thereabouts. Exclud-
ing specific reserves, net tangible cover
is 61s, Id. prefs. and 245. Bd. ords.
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
Year f Dividends ,
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Meh., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1945.106,031 8000 17$ p.c.= 87,500 10,531 287,893
1946.106,271 8000 IS| „ „ 93,750 4,521 292,414
1947.180,843 8000 20 „ ~ 100,000 22,843 315,257
From inner reserves, £14,000 .. .. 329,258
From tax reserve, £70,000 .. .. 399,258
1948.158,651 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 50,651 449,909
1949.162,417 8000 20 „ „ 100,000 54,417 504,327
Revaluation N.Z. properties, £24,759.. 529,086
Currency exchange profit, £20,434 .. 549,520
1950.162,449 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 44,449 593,969
Revaluation land & buildings, £125,241 719,210
Capitalised, £150,000 .. ... .. 569,210
1951.172,185 8000 20 p.c.= 130,000 34,185 603,395
1952.227,795 8000 20 „ ~130,000 89,795 693,190
A most heartening result; and there was
more wheat in the ear than the eye can
see in the parent’s accounts alone. Well-
entrenched throughout Australia and
New Zealand in the wholesale-news-
agency and advertising business, the co.
is also a large importer of printing-paper,
board, newsprint, periodicals, books,
stationery and fancy-goods, etc. Ever
since it took over the old Gordon and
Gotch business 32 years ago the board
has followed a careful and progressive
policy, financially and otherwise. Hence
it has been able to gather some rich
harvests during the post-war boom,
when turnover bounded along in the wake
of inflation and an expanding market for
a growing volume of local and imported
publications, etc.
Profits shot up from £106,031 in 1945
to £227,795 last term, an increase of over
114 p.c. Also the div., which climbed
from \l\ p.c. to 20 p.c., was sweetened
with £150,000 of bonus scrip, three for
10, in June, 1950. The gift came from
a special reserve created by
of freeholds in Australia (£125 241) and
New Zealand (£24,759). It lifted paui
capital, steady at £600,000 for the preced-
ing 30 years, to £750,000 m f.-p. ss.
shares, of which 400,000 are 8 p.c. cumu-
lative prefs. and the balance ords. r
perties are still claimed to be worth more
than their written-up book-value; ana,
on the basis of last accounts, the gitt-
giving has not been overdone so tar as
earning capacity is concerned either.
A record but unstated turnover—
printing-paper and board
largely to the increase —sent the parent s
gross profit up by £353,453:
1960. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit . . £1,039,243 £1.212.116 £l-565.569
Exes. .. • • 886,794 1,039,931 1,337,<74
Net profit .. £152,449 £172,185 £227,795
Including £14,116 (down £12,963) set
aside for depreciation and something ror
taxation, exes, ran off with £297,843 of
the gain. The pleasing feature is that
they were 85.4 p.c. of gross profit as
against 89.9 p.c. in the previous term.
Declared profit was thus £55,610 strongei
at £227,795, or enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 33.8 p.c. on ord. capital.
Excluding the recently-established New
Zealand offshoot, combined net earnings
of parent and subsidiaries were £48,490
stronger at £240,369, which covered pref.
requirements and 35.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 29.2, 28.8, 30.8, 24.5 and
19.6 p.c. back to 1946. The New Zealand
offshoot (paid capital £300,000) was set
up in October, 1950, and the parent’s
holding in subsidiaries increased by
£282,477. For the year to March 31,
1952, it netted £45,540, which is not in-
cluded in any of the figures quoted above.
It all gives the parent’s 20 p.c. ord. div.
as comfortable an appearance as any-
thing of the kind can have these days.
The year’s marked growth in stocks
(up £408,159) and in book debts (up
£316,496) was financed mainly from the
co.’s own resources, thanks to the large
holding of cash, etc., at the previous
balance, which was drawn upon for
£328,054:
Mar.,’49. Mar.,’so. Mar.,’sl. Mar.,’s2.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £750,000 £750,000
Creditors .. 446,084 553,669 716,675 791,622
Tax reserve . . 156,013 192,109 208,083 460,841
Final dive. . . 54,000 54,000 69,000 69,000
Freeholds .. 223,223 261,272 300,247 312,675
Leaseholds .. 13,024 28,464 *
Plant, etc. .. 39,079 57,556 29,174 37,656
Shares subsid. 54,308 54,308 836,785 336,785
Stock . . 546,824 476,438 417,043 825,202
Book debts .. 624,721 730,752 814,951 1,131,447
Cash, etc. . . 259,245 384,957 448,953 120,899
Only £74,947 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The size of the
tax reserve (up £252,758) suggests that
the allowance for the purpose has been
liberal. Stocks appear at or below cost
and debtors’ balances less something for
bad debts. The addition of £12,428 to
freeholds reflects purchase of a property
in Townsville (N.Q.), where a warehouse
is to be erected as soon as circumstances
permit. The more-or-less liquid surplus
was £756,076 (up £68,787).
As for the current term, import restric-
tions on books and magazines have been
lifted, but printing-paper, boards and
some other lines handled remain subject
to cuts. Some overall reduction in the
physical volume of turnover is anticipated,
but, with prices as they are, capital is
expected to be kept fully employed.
Ugliest feature is the high and still-rising
level of wages, freights, etc., from which
little relief is likely until the inflationary
spiral is broken.
The market, which doesn’t expect the
20 p.c. distribution to be interfered with,
prices the ords. at 19s. 6d., or there-
abouts ; the figure had dropped from
28s. a year ago to 18s. a few weeks back.
The return at 19s. 6d, is a shade over
5 p.c. on a2O p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at Bs. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c. Both classes of
scrip rank equally for capital. Net tan-
gible cover (parent’s accounts only) is
9s. Bd. per share.
National Reliance Investment Cos.
To Re- Re-
Mar Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,188
Capital gain, £1767 .. .. 53,955
1947.. 12,808 4J p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
Capital gain, £1054 .. .. 57,015
1948.. 18,654 5 p.c. = 12,208 3446 60,461
Capital gain, £412 .. ■ • 60,873
1949. 27,028 5$ p.c. = 19,571 7457 68,330
Capital gain, £l7O .. .. 68,500
1950. . 34,588 5$ p.c. = 23,100 11,488 79,988
Capital gain, £‘9153 ... •• 89,141
1951. . 42,841 5f p.c. = 30,187 12,654 101,795
Capital gain, £190.. .. •. 101,985
1952.. 57,054 5| p.c. = 36,225 20,829 122.814
How are shareholders in this “managed”
investment co. likely to fare in the near
future? Unless some unforeseen im-
provement in general conditions takes
place, the latest results are probably the
best that can be expected for a while.
Still, there is a reasonable margin between
last term’s net earnings and distribution,
and the 5i p.c. div. doesn’t appear to be
in much, if any, danger at the moment.
The scrip is essentially a long-term pro-
position, with security of income and
gradual appreciation of capital over the
years as the acknowledged targets. On
a rising market, and given good manage-
ment, achievement of these objects is
almost automatic. But since industrial
earnings and security values rise and fall
with changes in economic and other con-
ditions, it is impossible to avoid some
contraction of both income from and the
market-value of the portfolio on a falling
market.
However, with funds represented by
scrip in cos. of proved or good potential
dividend-paying capacity, and with pros-
pects of continued growth under more
settled conditions, the risk of violent
short-term fluctuations in the investment
co.’s own net earnings, and therefore divi-
dends, is reduced by the theory of aver-
ages, which usually works well in the
long-run. The long-term outlook for
both income and capital benefits is
wrapped up with the future of trade and
industry generally. Shareholders have to
rely upon the judgment of the manage-
ment as to what is likely to prove in the
best interests of the co. ultimately.
Obviously much depends upon whether
those in control are good “pickers,” and
upon the cost of conducting the business.
The 23-year-old National Reliance—it
is one of the Capel Court group,
sponsored by J. B. Were and Son —is well
handled at low cost. Shareholders have
had regular but moderate divs from the
start, an average of 4.4 p.c. for the first
eight years, which included the 1930
slump, 4.1 p.c. for the next eight years of
war and controls, and 5.3 p.c. for the
six years to the close of last accounts.
Also, paid capital grew by new share-
issues at par from £50,082 at the beginning
to £250,000 in 1937, remained steady for
the next decade, and then advanced to
£630,000, supported by £122,814 of
reserves, at March 31, 1952.
Last term more capital was at work,
and in some cases earnings benefited from
increased dividend rates, from taking-up
of new share-issues on favorable terms,
from bonus-scrip issues and from a small
amount of underwriting commission. The
£57,050 (up £14,209) of profit was 9.1 p.c.
on capital as against 8.1, 8.2, 7.6, 6.1 and
4.5 p.c. back to 1947. There was also a
small net capital gain of £l9O on sale of
securities.
The amount of outside money in the
business is moderate:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £420,000 £525,000 £630,000 £630,000
Creditors, etc.* 122,398 141,782 189,893 187,762
Tax reserve. . 6,516 7,958 17,951 19,665
Investments . . 608,486 697,682 722,247 907,794
Debtors, etc. 1,197 89,723 45,139 6,027
Cash . . . . 6,561 17,328 172,253 46.410
* Includes provision for div.
The growth in investments was £185,547.
When the books closed the market-value
of the portfolio was £1,006,567, or
10.9 p.c. more than book-value (cost) as
against 58.6 p.c. a year earlier. There
has been a further substantial drop m


RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Doldn has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIN
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1 552, G.P.0., Sydney.
,2/121.
dsf
dsf
ds
4**
*
No home should
be without it...
J
s£
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
established less
special hospit
„”‘ r ' DISTILLED AND BOTTLED lEPggjjS
Street. ST, PETIKS. A
TOLLET. SCOTT t TOLLIT. L"'2SSr^
it. S. W. DISTRIBUTORS!
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.19.12
o* 4
\>r
*0
9f>*
0*
QJyeaMctf
PROGRESS
J • Every year a bonus year
9 Prompt settlement of claims
y\ll classes of Assurances transacted
For service and satisfaction effect all your
assurances through the
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITS'
muni and HIM street; syoHIV.
incorgotaud lo Queensland, 189*
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock anti Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address;
Corrientes, Brisbane.
IS YOUR WILL
UP-TO-DATE?
It may need revision
If you have not revised your Will
to meet to-day’s conditions, the conse-
quences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility
to that someone is too important to jus-
tify delaying until some to-morrow that
may never come.
Why not have a confidential chat with
one of our Senior Officers on the subject
of the appointment of the Company as
your Executor and Trustee alone or
jointly with a relative or friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient manage-
ment thereafter. The final step of
instructing your Solici-
tor redraw your Will
should then be a simple
matter*
If you would have
particulars of the ser-
vices offered by the
Company, write (or
ring 80377) and make
an appointment.
JJ i
Eff
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES « AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon, T. A. J, PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
B. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000.
3 3-39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Offices at WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORAiNGE
life can Supplq Spare
Parts for eVZRy
Enqine life Have]
Ever Built I
That’s one advantage
of buying a Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine, It’s
an assurance too of
satisfaction which you
cannot afford to ignore.
Don’t let import
restrictions worry you!
Wherever you are,
you can always be sure
of spare parts for your
Ronaldson-Tippett
Engine ... the Engine
built in Australia for
Australian conditions.
19/0
■l
Join
&l3k
ESSS-
bucil**l
M MMi
fQ4£
OA£
BUY THE
RIGHT ENGINE
FIRST I
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors: Eonaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney. Qld. Dis-
tributors: Konaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane. °
mWfIIBSON-TIPPETT
ENGINES
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
of most Sije* J
If any “Bulletin”
Manager, who
illustration takes your fancy write to the
will quote you price for the original.
market-value since the close of
accounts. No real capital loss,
however, will occur unless
securities are sold. Composition
of the portfolio is 90.9 p.c. ords.,
8.7 p.c. prefs. and 0.4 p.c. bonds
and debentures. There are
hopeful indications that the
drift in the security market is
near a halting-point.
At 11s. 3d. (17s. Bd. a year ago)
the f.-p. 10s. shares return 5.1
p.c. on a 5| p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
11s. lid. per share.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
The co.’s proposed three-for-
one bonus-scrip issue has fitted
in pretty well with market antici-
pations. The f.-p. 2s, 6d. ords.,
which reached a peak of 295. 6d.
in 1951, were fairly steady
around 235. from the beginning
of 1952 until last week, when the
figure eased to 225.
Because ore-reserves have been
more than doubled by drill dis-
closures in the adjoining Sugar-
loaf area, and since the value of
the ore has been enhanced by its
pyritic content, the board has
written-up the book-value of the
mine from £53,370 to £1,103,370.
The difference (£1,050,000) is to
be used to issue three new f.-p.
2s. 6d. ords. for each ord. share
held at June 27. All the 2s. 6d.
ord. shares are then to be con-
solidated into 10s. units. So paid
capital will become £1,700,000 in
300,000 £l7 p.c, prefs. (redeem-
able June, 1959) and 2,800,000
ords. of 10s. each. All this will
not affect earning-power one
way or the other, but it will make
profits and divs. look less
corpulent in relation to capital,
and might have psychological
advantages if and when new
cash-paid capital is called for.
For the year to June 30, 1951,
the co. netted £370,707 and paid
2s. per share (£280,000). On
capital as it will stand after the
bonus-issue 2s. a share will call
for the same amount, which will
be equal to 20 p.c. on capital as
against 80 p.c. previously. The
immediate return at 225. would
be 9 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
The overburden problem,
which has an important bearing
on costs, is one of the manage-
ment’s greatest difficulties:
Sulphide
Waste Ore , Assay ,
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
i Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1950.. 1,555,074 849*500 2.81 0.58
1951.. 1,402,131 864,900 2.33 0.62
The ratio of overburden to ore,
1.56 to one last term, is expected
to rise to two and a quarter to
one later on.
From mill concentrates, etc.,
the smelter produced the follow-
ing results;
f Metal Content ,
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1950 . , 3614 3570 69,045 14,600
1951 . . 4168 4119 65,135 17,415
The blister is shipped to Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) for refining.
In addition 21,390 tons pyritic
concentrates, assaying 48.8 p.c.
sulphur, were produced.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1951,
were:
Cop-
Gold, per.
Tons. Dwt. p.c.
Reserve ore . . 4,434,000 3.92 2.01
Filling .. . . 1,738,000 1.80 0.10
Low-grade sth cut 1,309,000 1.30 0.50
Low-grade 6th cut 983,000 1.46 0.50
Sub-total . . 8,464,000 2.79 1.21
Sugarloaf .. 6,850,000 2.60 1.02
Total .. ..15,314,000 2.70 1.02
Removal of the Sugarloaf ton-
nage, which excludes 5,000,000
tons of pyritic material, will also
involve removal of about
22.000. tons of overburden.
In addition there are large dumps
of old tailings which might yield
profits on re - treatment for
pyrites. Everything will depend
upon the relative levels of metal
and sulphur prices and costs.
If the Government goes ahead
with its proposed ammonium-
sulphate works large quantities
of pyrites will be called for.
The board is also considering
setting up plant for recovery of
elemental sulphur, and the ques-
tion of an electrolytic refinery
has been talked about.


Divorce Notices.
in“”the” supreme " court of new south
WALES —In Divorce.
TO ALAN HERBERT FEARNSIDE formerly of 81
Fitzroy Street Kirribilli in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MYRTLE EILEEN
FEARNSIDE has filed Petition for Divorce No. 471
of 1950 on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 27th day of August 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition free of charge from MESSRS. DAVID
S. DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR BARNES late of Bondi Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
LOUISA EMILY BARNES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2068 of 1952 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Second day of
September 1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES.
Solicitor, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — -In Divorce.
TO LEWIS SPECK late of Oremorne New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that NORA EILEEN SPECK
has filed Petition No. 523 of 1952 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion for,three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Registry
King Street Sydney by the Bth September 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The opening of the Mary Fairfax
Library at the Women’s College during
the week gathered quite a large number
of celebrities together and provided an
opportunity for many ex-students to
meet again. Guests were greeted
by Miss Telfer, Miss Evelyn Tildesley
and the principal of the college, Miss
Betty Archdale. Sir George Rich spoke
the opening words, and having, as he said,
“circumnavigated the irrelevancies,” he
traced the history of the college to the
present day from the time when he was
secretary of the first board, the college
was at Strathmore, Glebe Point, the prin-
cipal was Miss Louisa Macdonald and
there was one student. Noted among the
guests present were Mr. and Mrs. Frank
McGrath, Dr. and Mrs. B. Schlink, Mrs.
Leon Henry, Mrs. B. Goodman, Mrs.
David Rosenmann and Dr. and Mrs. P. O.
Armytage. Much admired was the dedica-
tion parchment hanging in the library. Its
beautiful lettering in red and gold looked
like something from the Book of Kells. It
is the work of Mr. Eric Roberts.
This has been quite a week for the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children,
starting on Monday with a party at the
Pickwick to say “Thank-you” to Greater
Union Theatres, which raised £6497 for
the society, and finishing on Friday when
four-year-old Sandra Simpson, who is
learning to walk at the Margaret Reid
Hospital, was handed the cheque by
Norman B. Rydge for herself and all the
other little ones who will benefit by it.
Those with an eye to the Opera Ball
in August and the Naughty Nineties later
in the year made a strong mental note
of the delightful costumes of the Kousnet-
zova Ballet. With the decor, they had
been designed by Wilfred Asplin and
made by rfever Raissa Kousnetzova her-
self “Coppelia” (all three acts) on
Wednesday owed much of its lighthearted
effect to them, for there were a few first-
night gremlins round knocking dancers’
hats off, tripping people up, etc., which
must have made the performers feel any-
thing but lighthearted.
The double wedding of Helen and
Margery Horder, daughters of Mr. and
Mrs. L. S. Horder, of Ourimbah, has
special interest, as it is really quite unusual
for sisters to have a double ceremony—
it is more common with brothers, accord-
ing to the Reverend Mr. Cunningham,
minister of the Eastwood Presbyterian
Church, where the wedding took place.
Helen, who married Craig Hawes, son
of Mr. and Mrs. R. Hawes, of Cremorne,
wore a classical dress of heavy white satin
embossed with orchids. Margery, whose
bridegroom was Bruce McCredie, son of
the late Mr. K. B. McCredie, of Ever-
more, Merah North, and Mrs. R. L.
Byrnes, of Orange, wore white lace. The
bridesmaids, in blue organza over pink,
were Valerie Hawes and Maureen Lucey.
The reception was held at the home of
the girls’ aunts, the Misses Spendelove,
of Trelawney-street, Eastwood.
This afternoon will see the first function
arranged by the members of the Royal
Empire Society’s Ladies’ Auxiliary since
Court mourning ended. The play, “A
Happy Journey,” by Thornton Wilder,
will be presented by Doris Fitton, whilst
contralto Elizabeth Tarbut will sing,
accompanied by Hilda Mawby. Hostesses
will be Mrs. A. W. Keighley and Mrs.
D. Lindsay.
From London comes news of the
J. D. K. Roches, of Cranford, Edgecliff,
who have made the Ritz their head-
quarters during their visit to London after
their tour of Europe. Highlights of their
trip have been an audience with the Pope,
their visit to Ascot and the Royal En-
closure and their weekend as guests of
the Duke and Duchess of Sutherland.
Jennifer and Josephine have had a won-
derful time meeting new people and will
be sorry to catch the Andes for South
America at the end of the month, but
no doubt friends in Rio de Janeiro will
make up for that loss. Sons John and
David, from Adelaide, are also making
the trip.
International goodwill is to be given a
fillip in September (3rd to 13th to be
exact) when the Y.W.C.A. will stage an
exhibition featuring the work of 30
nations. Three floors of the Y.W.C.A.’s
building in Liverpool-street will be
devoted to exhibition space, and the Main
Hall, which has a theatre and cinema,
will be used each night by national groups
for folk-dances and other forms of
national entertainment.
It is sad to report the deaths of two
highly regarded Red Cross workers in
Sydney recently. Mrs. J. W. Macarthur-
Onslow, who died on June 13, was a
life-member of the society. She began
her long association with it in the First
World War, when she became a member
of the executive committee. In 1936 she
became the honorary director of Junior
Red Cross and in 1940 vice-president of
the N.S.W. division, from which office
she retired in 1946. Mrs. J. L. Ruthven,
who was a member of the executive
council and president of the day com-
mittee, died on June 14. An active war-
time worker for charity, she put her
energies into the first Dream Home art
union in 1941, and was an ardent worker
for the Red Cross thrift shop. She was
also keenly interested in Junior Red Cross,
p Among the debutantes at the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball will be the Lady
Mayoress’s granddaughter, Ronea Grif-
fiths, and Judith King, whose mother,
Mrs. Grace King, will be matron-of-
honor. The committee for the ball, which
this year has Mrs. C. M. Guiney for
secretary and Mrs. R. F. Boyer for
treasurer, is one of the happiest around
town, and though a great deal of work
is put in by its members the meetings
are invariably pleasant and genial.
The charming exhibition of paintings
at present to be seen at the Grosvenor
Galleries is by Frank Payne—a woman
who is not emulating George Eliot or
Henry Handel Richardson but whose
name really is (or was) Frank Payne.
Now Mrs. Clinton, she says that before
she was born she was christened “Frank”
after an uncle, because there were so
many males in the family no one thought
she would be a girl. At the
opening of the exhibition Mr. Lloyd
Rees spoke of the great kindness
which is Mrs. Clinton’s foremost charac-
teristic. Mr. Erik Langker, who opened
the exhibition, added to this her cheerful
optimism, and said that her work, was
illustrative in the best sense of the word.
Present at the exhibition was Mrs. Lillian
Chauvel, now 85 and still one of our
most energetic art-lovers.
In Sydney at present, but only for a
short while, is Mrs, John Coats, the sub-
ject of our photo this week. Mrs. Coats
is a person of remarkable vitality and
vigorous personality. A granddaughter
of Sir James Horlick, who founded the
wo rid-wide malted-milk business, she
early learnt from him that the most
important things in life were an under-
standing of other people and work for
their happiness. Educated, as she says,
“all over Europe,” Mrs. Coats has a
highly-cultivated outlook and an unusual
power to express herself. Her main work
in life, with her husband, Mr. John Coats,
is to give public lectures on the common
bases of the religions of the world, so
that people, knowing one another better,
can be happier and more tolerant in their
relations. Mrs. Coats has three children,
Mary Manuela, Callum Mackenzie and
Christopher David, who were at school
in Switzerland until recently, but who will
meet their mother in South Africa when
she rejoins her husband there early in July.
Australian songwriters and composers
have formed a new association to improve
the quality and performance of music
composed in Australia, to see that it is
paid for adequately, to promote its use
in radio, theatre, concert and films, to
encourage talent and to try to get some
Government help. These seem a very
worth-while set of objects, and good luck
to the promoters. However, their mani-
festo begins “The Australian Songwriters
and Composers’ Association was formed
on the 7th February, 1952, for the pur-
pose of embarking on a comprehensive
plan to remedy the present unsatisfactory
position of Australian songwriters and
composers.” Now, from songwriters, that
could have been a little more singing.
From Melbourne
Adelaide’s mass demonstration in good-
bye to Governor Sir Willoughby Norrie
(Governor-General designate of New
Zealand) was something to be remem-
bered, and adds one more illustration
of how happy State Governors have
found the South Australian social and
official climate. The whole city was
beflagged; the cathedral bells rang from
the park across the river throughout the
progress (at foot-walkers’ pace) along the
city streets; deep crowds on the route
waved, cheered and sang to the vice-regal
pair; they stopped frequently while
flowers were pressed on Lady Norrie,
obviously very deeply moved.
At sunrise next morning the artillery
salute from the parade grounds below
Government House announced that
the Governor and his lady had
started on their journey to England,
and at Parafield aerodrome the entire
State Cabinet, the local service chiefs, the
judges, the senior public servants, wives
all attending, saw the plane take off
for Darwin, and Mustangs from the City
of Adelaide Squadron rose to give
South Australia’s last farewell salute.
At Alice Governor Norrie and his
lady said their final farewell to the
North on an air-hook-up through the
flying-doctor network.
After two years in Sydney Mrs. John
Bell, formerly Mary Tellick, has returned
to Melbourne, where, with her husband,
Lieut.-Commander John Bell, R.A.N.,
and two children, she is housekeeping at
Balwyn. Prior to living in Sydney
Mary was in England for three years
while her husband did a course at Green-
wich Naval College. Christopher, now
five and a half, was born in England ;
Virginia, aged 15 months, was born in
Sydney. Both had naval christenings;
Christopher at Greenwich, in the font
believed to have been used for the
christening of Queen Elizabeth I, and
Virginia at H.M.A.S. Kuttabul, Sydney.
Mary and John will celebrate their ninth
wedding anniversary at the Navy League
Ball on July 11 at the Royale Ballroom.
Sir Robert Knox, president of the
National Theatre Movement (he made a
most impressive Chinese mandarin), and
the president of the ball committee, Mrs.
Fred Dennett, who in a flowing white and
gold Grecian costume was Aikmena,
welcomed the vice-regal pair. Gertrude
Johnson was in flowing black velvets,
white camellias and loads of costume
jewellery as Violetta from “Traviata.”
Essex and the first Elizabeth, portrayed
by Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke, danced
among a varied array of ballet, opera
and drama characters. With his face
blackened and wearing a gorgeous Court
dress, the Italian consul. Dr. L. Danelli,
was Othello to Mrs. Harold Holt’s
Desdemona. Her long fair hair streamed
out over bouffant blue tulle. The John
Cassons were Sir Peter and Lady Teazle,
Mrs. Isobel Green was Mrs. Hardcastle
from “She Stoops to Conquer” ; Donald
McKinnon was impressive in his kilt of
the clan tartan, and his attractive wife
was “The Girl of the Golden West.”
Architect Lester Bunbury played Marc
Antony to his wife’s Cleopatra, and Dr.
and Mrs. Paddy Moran wore costumes
representing “White Horse Inn.”
Climax of the National Theatre Arts
Festival was the Theatre Ball at the
Royale. The Governor was there with
Lady Brooks, who wore a crinoline gown
of silver-striped white brocade, the hem-
line of which was caught up at intervals
with pink roses.
.Somerset Maugham’s “Larger Than
Life” opened brilliantly at the Princess
Theatre with Jessie Matthews, who is
obviously destined to flourish in all parts
of the Commonwealth. The Governor
and Lady Brooks attended, she in a
graceful gown of orchid-pink brocade.
In the vice-regal party was Pat Sargood,
whose bouffant gown was of white
organdie and her gloves of pastel-blue
satin. Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who, with
her husband, received the official party,
allied a black velvet bodice and a full
skirt of white faille, the apron front and
hemline trimmed with appliqued black
lace motifs outlined with jet beads.
Bouffant ice-blue tulle was the choice of
Mrs. T. T. Hollway. Lady Snow wore
jet-beaded black crepe romaine. Pastel-
green chiffon was Mrs, Constance Day’s
choice. Of burgundy satin, the strapless
top in white embroidered lace, was Tonie
Gwyn-Green’s frock.
When at St. David’s Cathedral, Hobart,
Glory Jean, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, T. Hobden, of Sandy Bay, married
Malcolm, second son of Mr. and Mrs.
S. C. Quatermass, of Nambour (Q.), she
wore magnolia satin lavishly embroidered
with pearls and rhinestones. The fitting
bodice was Victorian, and the very wide
skirt extended into a train. The finger-
tip tulle veil was attached to a satin
cloche cap, finished with pearls and rhine-
stones. The bouquet was a trail of cream
orchids. Mrs. lan McKillop, from Mel-
bourne, was matron-of-honor, and
Rhonda Harvey bridesmaid. Both wore
frocks of old-rose silk velvet made with
full skirts and petal-topped bodices, and
their small matching velvet caps were of
petal design and they carried mauve
orchids. Lieut. J. Long, R.A.N., of
Flinders Naval Depot, was best man, and
John, elder brother of the bridegroom,
was groomsman. Reception was at Had-
ley’s, and among the 150 guests were the
bridegroom’s parents and his sister
Shirley, Neil Gow, of Brisbane, Mrs.
N. Lowe, of Maroochydore (Q.), and
Capt. and Mrs. P. L. Taylor, of Mel-
bourne. Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Quater-
mass will make their home in Brisbane,
where he is doing his final year in
medicine,
Hexham, the South Yarra home of
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll, was filled
with 200 guests bidden to a late-afternoon
party at which lovely, vivacious Jessie
Matthews was guest-of-honor. A huge
bowl of scarlet holly-berries and poin-
settia was set on the mantel in the hall,
and in the drawing-room and dining-
room, where a buffet dinner was served,
green hydrangeas and posies of daphne
formed the decorations. Garlands of
hydrangea were looped from tall silver
candelabra set on the table. Mrs. Carroll
received the guests in a frock of charcoal-
grey nylon-shantung which had a wide,
swirling skirt and a pleated bodice. The
guest-of-honor wore an ankle-length gown
of gold-spotted black tie-silk. Among the
guests were Lady Latham, Sir Archie
Michaelis (who did a wonderful job carv-
ing the turkey), the T. T. Hollways, Mrs.
F. Dennett and her daughter, Mrs. Sue
Cecil, Sir Gordon and Lady Snow, Lady
Blarney, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth,
the Hon. Simon and Mrs. Warrender,
Mrs. Gladys Myer, Jennie and Eileen
Brennan and their niece Anne, Betty
Green, Margery Byron Moore, Heather
Menzies, Marion McPherson and Ray
Thomas.
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor, Cr. O. J.
Nilsen, with the assistance of his daughter
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs, John Inkster, did
the honors at the Town Hall civic recep-
tion to Jessie Matthews. Mrs. Inkster’s
hyacinth-blue beaded jacket-suit was worn
with a black hat. The guest-of-honor,
smart in a black ensemble, was accom-
panied by her daughter Catherine, who
also chose a black outfit. Mrs. George
Hume topped her dyed-ermine coat with
a pale-yellow melusine cloche; Lady
Beaurepaire was in black jacket-suit and
small matching hat.


N
fop
Sure Starts
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY,
. EXLBS
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some pioneering aviation history landed
in Australia the other day with the
genially quizzical, bespectacled C. T. S,
Capel. Here to join A.N.A., Capel made
his first visit 26 years ago to join Sir Alan
Cobham as engineer for his return flight
in the Sir Charles Wakefield. An aero-
nautical engineer working prosaically in
Coventry when word came that Cobham’s
engineer had been killed by a tribesman’s
bullet over Irak, Capel hopped aboard
the first ship to join Cobham for the trip
back. At Darwin they refitted the Wake-
field’s wheels with floats, then flew it
over the Timor Sea at 50ft. to pool the
air-cooled engine. The expected monsoon
forced them down in Burma, but, except
for another forced acquaintance with an
uninhabited island, all after that was
plane flying. Averaging 90 knots, they
had broken the long-distance flying record
of the Italian, Pinedo, by the time they'd
made the Bay of Naples. The happy
landing was made in England 28 days out
from Melbourne. Capel’s share in the
exploit netted him M B.E. Now 55, he’ll
settle in Australia.
Kodak and camera, are practically
synonymous terms (60 years ago O. Henry
talked of a man being “kodaked”) and
in N.S.W. the same thing applies to
PHOTOS.
Clarkson and Kodak. W. R. Clarkson,
shown here in a Prior positive, has been
N.S.W. manager for the big photographic
firm since 1949. An Adelaide man, he
was Bill when he joined the firm in 1925,
Bill when he came to the Sydney Branch
in 1939, and would still be Bill if elevated
to the peerage. Outside the business he
is a golfer. Not a mere club member,
but an officer of Eastlakes and a hard
worker for his club and golf in general.
He has rotated through all the offices of
the Sydney Rostrum clubs and is a coun-
cillor of the Savage Club, where his ability
as speaker and organiser is recognised.
An accountancy degree and a keen
analytical mind, coupled with a flair for
management, is the basis of his success
in business and social,life, his personal
structure rounded off by wide and culti-
vated reading and a good sense of humor.
“F.S.”; There is a story behind the
recent unveiling, at the Inverleigh Presby-
terian Church, near Geelong, of a plaque
to Flynn of the Inland and Clifford Peel.
Peel was a young university medical
student from Inverleigh at the time that
Dr, Flynn came down from the Territory
full of his dream of establishing a chain
of hospitals through the continent linked
by flying-doctors. Peel was C.O. of the
Melbourne University Rifles; Flynn
recognised a quality of leadership in him
and they talked over his project. Then
Peel enlisted in the A.F.C, in the 1914
war, telling Flynn he would come back
and be his first flying-doctor. But he was
killed in his first engagement.
Alec Templeton, the blind Welsh
pianist and composer touring Australia
under the Tait mantle, began his musical
career in Cardiff at the age of 13, studied
at the Royal College of Music and the
Royal Academy of Music, London,
appeared with the London Symphony
Orchestra and gave his first American
recital at the Carnegie Hall in 1937. He
was sensationally successful in the U.S.
as a radio-artist introducing humorous
musical sketches, one of which is “As
Brunnhilde’s Battle-cry Might be Sung
by an American Crooner.” He likes jazz
and thinks that if Bach and Haydn were
back on earth they would make a beeline
for the nearest jam-session. In one half
of his programme he is a serious musician
at home with the Old Masters, and in the
second plays his own arrangements of
classical melodies. He also plays the
zither and the bagpipes—off the platform.
“Uramao”: Revisiting New Zealand,
where the Hill family has its roots deeply
planted, Alfred Hill will conduct the
Wellington Royal Choral Union in its
rendition of his own cantata, “Hinemoa.”
The Hill family has made its mark in
several directions —Gladstone Hill, a
brother of Alfred, was conductor of
the N.Z. Air Force Band for years ; a
sister, Mrs. L Mclndoe, under her maiden
name, Mabel Hill, is one of New
Zealand’s established colorist artists. She
is now in England, where her son, Sir
Archibald Mclndoe, is internationally
known as a plastic surgeon. Another son
of Mrs. Mclndoe, Kenneth G. Mclndoe,
has for years managed the Firestone
46,000-acre rubber-plantation in Liberia,
West Africa.
Having been diverted in mid-passage
from the Australian High Commissioner-
ship to the Indian, Sir Alexander Clutter-
buck will be replaced here by Sir Stephen
Holmes, who has been mixed up in affairs
colonial pretty well since he left Oxford
in 1921. After getting his majority, M.C.
and a pair of “mentions” against Wilhelm,
the new Commissioner went straight to
the British Colonial Office from Oxford,
assistant-principal. Followed the private-
secretaryship to the Secretary of State for
Dominion Affairs, and return to the
Colonial Office, this time as principal, A
visit to the West African colonies in
1928 was the beginning of wanderings
which have taken him on diplomatic
missions just about all over Europe, to
Washington and to Canada. He’s 55.
Leaving Melbourne this week for
Helsinki, A. W. Coles, chairman of the
organising committee which will run the
Games when they come to Melbourne.
Of the one-time “nothing-over-2s. 6d.”
stores, a former Lord Mayor, Federal
M.P. and the man who built up T.A.A.,
Coles is an organiser of some tonnage.
He sees little difficulty in the Games
problem. If there are no more hotels than
there are at present he is expecting private
people to accommodate athletes, as
country people did travellers in the old
days ; he also sees liners moored in the
bay as floating hotels. On his way to
Helsinki he will look in at the stadium
in Los Angeles (where the Games were
held in 1932), and at the Wembley site of
the 1948 London Olympics.
“Macnell”: The letter “S” in brackets
after a naval officer’s rank denotes he’s
a supply bird, responsible to sailors’
stomachs. It has a deeper meaning—the
“S” boys know the Navy’s Bible, King’s
Regulations and Admiralty Instructions,
backwards. In proof of this, Captain (S)
Patrick Perry has been appointed to fill
the new R.A.N. post of Chief Naval Judge
Advocate. Already Director of the
Supply and Secretariat Branch, Perry will
now be legal adviser to the Naval Board
on the administration of the Discipline
Act, and, as well, on all points of courts-
martial procedure. This will be right
down his hatch —a barrister-at-law, he was
attached for a period to the Naval Law
Branch of the Admiralty, and read in
the chambers of the Deputy Judge Advo-
cate of the Fleet. All Naval officers,
regardless of their specialty, have their
action-stations —Perry was at his in.
cruiser Australia at the Coral Sea battle,
and at the bombardments of Cape
Gloucester, Arawe and Hollandia, collect-
ing 0.8. E. He has represented his own
Service at cricket, tennis, Rugby and
squash, and the Mother Navy at tennis
and squash ; also reaching the finals of
the Victorian squash championships in
1935. Strong-faced, built like a bollard,
launched at Oakey (on the Queensland
Downs) in 1903.
Having warmed the Bosch Chair of
Bacteriology at Sydney University for
close on 20 years, Hugh Kingsley Ward
is stepping down. The prof, has been
warring with wogs since, in 1911, N.S.W.
Rhodes Scholar, he went to Oxford, end-
ing up in the bacteriological department
there. He crossed to Harvard in 1926,
had eight years there as assistant-professor
of the science, and came back to his Alma
Mater, full professor. He has fought
other enemies than those in test-tubes —
in War I winning the Military Cross three
times. The experience of his relief, P. M.
de Burgh, has followed something the
same lines —Sydney University graduate,
Rockefeller Fellowship at Harvard, and,
in War 11, six years’ service with the
A.A.M.C. The new man is 35.
As indicated by Heth, Jan Bussell is
never happier than with a skein of
puppet-strings in his able hands. Tour-
ing Australia with the internationally-
known Hogarth Puppets —his wife-assist-
ant, Ann Hogarth, is a descendant of the
painter—Bussell has been playing with
puppets almost since he got out of tri-
angular trousers, and is now, with his
wife, one of the stars of 8.8. C.-television.
Indeed, the other character in Heth’s
sketch, Muffin the Mule, has become such
a household word in the Old Country
that the “Evening Standard” uses him in
cartoons, some score of commercial pro-
ducts use his name, and his announced
departure for the Antipodes caused
ructions amongst England’s up-and-
coming. A cultivated enthusiast who looks
something between film-star Rex Harrison
and hypnotist Franquin, Bussell was
schooled at Marlborough College (where
his father was a master), went to Oxford,
and gladly left there for a chance on the
French stage. From 1939 he got all the
drama he wanted —sub-lieutenant in
corvettes on Arctic convoys, and in a
tank-landing-ship at the Normandy show.
While navalising he wrote three Navy
television-plays, produced by the 8.8. C.,
and has to his credit three books on
PUPPETS.
puppets and a collection of puppet-plays ;
another volume on his Australian experi-
ences is on the slips. Obviously sold on
his art, Bussell talked enthusiastically of
the 400-odd figures he owns, how they’re
made, their different characteristics, their
sometimes intractable behavior —while the
artist hurriedly finished his sketch and
listened, equally enthralled, to the master.
Puppeteering is Heth’s private vice.
The long and lean gentleman here
Coventrated, S. Australian Brewing Co.
chairman Roland Ellis Jacobs (answer-
ing to nothing but “Roily”) took on
brewing after a long period with a well-
known Adelaide importing firm. Known
widely in the city’s business quarters,
he was one-time president of the Adelaide
PINTS.
Chamber of Commerce and of the
Rotary Club. Spare-time pursuits in-
clude helping crippled children (on the
council of the association), and a similar
predilection for animals (vice-president of
the State R.SJP.C.A.).
“C. 8.”: Stanislaw de Tarczynski, who
recently died in Melbourne, was one of
the city’s best-known and -liked musicians.
His magnificent mane of yellow hair had
been seen on all distinguished musical
occasions for upwards of 20 years when
he was leader of the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra and of J.C.W.’s
grand-opera seasons, and Professor of
Violin at the University of Melbourne.
He began his career in Warsaw and
played, as a schoolboy, before Tsar
Nicholas, whose approval got him the
laureateship of the Warsaw Conserya-
torium. Leadership of the Opera
Comique in Brussels and a European tour
followed. In 1912 he came to Australia.
A friend of Melba, he was, like her, an
inveterate joker. A pompous producer
once told the orchestra of which he was
the leader to turn up in evening dress
for a dress rehearsal; Tarczynski arrived
in striped pyjamas. His daughter,
Hlinka, after singing magnificently
through a National Theatre opera-season,
went to London to finish her studies.
Into the Silence:
At 72, in Melbourne, Leigh Sadlier Falkiner,
grazier and company director. The ®° n
F S Falkiner, of Nookoke, Conargo (N.S.W.j,
born at Geelong (Vic.), he had extensive
interests. He was a member of the Wilson
Trust, a councillor of Trinity College, a former
president of the Taxpayers’ Association, a
director of Dominion Films and a member of
the V.R.C. and the Royal Melbourne Golf Club.
He managed the Wanganella Estate station and
stud-merino flock for 16 years.
At 74, T. O. Bishop, Speaker of the New
Zealand Upper House at the time of its aboli-
tion. A product of the Dunedin School of
Mines, born in England, he took what he’d
learned into the Under-Secretaryship of Mines,
in 1918. Later he was secretary of the N.Z.
Employers’ Association, and, from 1921 to 1947,
of the Coal Mine Owners’ Association.
In Melbourne, at 76, ex-superintendent of
police John G. Carter, who claimed to be a
direct descendant of Henry Batman, brother of
John Batman. Among Carter’s children are a
detective-sergeant and a senior constable.
At 77, at Vaucluse (Sydney), Percy James
Grace, nephew of Australian artist Fred Leist.
Grace did some of the country’s finest repousse
(beaten-metal) work, pieces of which were
exhibited in the National Gallery. Earlier a
veterinary scientist, he had owned most of Leist’s
original working sketches.
At Richmond, Surrey (Eng.), at 80, David
Tannock, for 37 years superintendent of
reserves in Dunedin, New Zealand, from which
post he retired in 1940. Earlier in the West
Indies he had charge of the agricultural school
at Dominica, and he was responsible for the
beautiful layout of the parks and reserves of
Dunedin and its fine plantations of trees. He
wrote several books on horticulture and sylvi-
culture.


FOR lOOZCARE OF
YOUR
FLOCK
Vt
IP
m
PTY. LIMITED . . . SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH
RUDIP
Dual-Purpose
For absolute control of ked and lice.
Rudip makes dipping safe, foolproof
and economical —it does not strip out.
Any Rudip left over after dipping can
be used for blowfly control.
For Ked and Lice Control:
1 gal. to 250 water
For Blowfly Control: 1 gal. to 62 water
RUSEPT
Antiseptic
Emulsion
Powerful cleansing germicidal for every
use in shed or yards. Sterilizes, non-
corrosive, easy solubility. I gal.,
4 9 a,s -
SULFADIP
I ' l 11 '
New e s t
development
of sulphur treatment of Itch Mite and
Mycotic Dermatitis. 28-lb., 56-lb. bags.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
. ,i nistles, Burrs, Castor Oil Plant, Docks, Horehound.
etc., can be economically eliminated.
Skeleton Weed in CEREAL crops reduces yield,
down-grades hay quality and can damage valu-
able harvesting machinery.
TAUBMANS No. 6 2-4 D Hormone Weedkiller
TAUBMANS No. 8 2-4 D Amine Hormone Weed •
killer give positive control
SEE OUR NEW WEEDKILLER LEAFLET
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and 1 Synthetics.
“R.N.”: Saying that a claim
by an American authority tha
half the wool now consumed in
the world would be replaced by
synthetic fibres within the next
10 or 20 years was a grim warn-
ing not without some substance
in fact, Mac Falkiner, of
Boonoke. and N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association president,
said it served to strengthen claims
by stud-sheep breeders for the
early lifting of the embargo on
the export of Merinos.
Though two big American
business journals had ridiculed
the prediction, on - the - spot
observers, like the California
Woolgrowers’ Association,
shared fears held by many Aus-
tralians about the possible effect
of synthetics on the wool
industry, due principally to fall-
ing production of fine wool.
Australian sheepmen urging
relaxation of the ban on Merino
export had warned successive
Governments of the danger of
world underproduction of wool,
Falkiner said, and breeders had
emphasised that, far from the
embargo having any beneficial
effect on the Australian industry,
it had been harmful to it. If
wool consumers are unable to
obtain the quantities and
qualities of Merino they require,
impetus will be given to their
replacement by synthetic fibres
or coarser wools to supplement
production of artificial fibres.
Opponents of the ban hold
that the world will not stand still
for the woolgrowers, or for those
who holds false hopes that by
limiting the availability of
Merino sheep Australia could be
made the sole producing country
in the world.
The main point of their argu-
ment is that world production of
rayon filament now runs into
well over 4000 million pounds a
year. Wool’s best answer is a
comparative increase in produc-
tion —since wool has nothing to
fear on a quality basis —and that
can be achieved only if the
world’s Merino breeders are
allowed to build up their flocks
from the only source of good
stud-sheep—Australia.
Frost-Damaged Cane.
“Manwill”: Effect of frost on
the leaves of sugarcane can vary
from a few white markings on an
occasional leaf to such whole-
sale death that not a trace of
green can be seen. But the
effects on the leaves are not
important because they come at
a time when temperatures are too
low for growth, and the loss of
green leaf-tissue has no effect on
the yield.
Losses come from the death
of the buds on the side or at the
apex of the stalk. Some varieties
show scarcely any leaf damage,
yet most of the buds will be
dead. Death of the apical grow-
ing-point can be ascertained by
giving the central spindle a sharp
tug upwards; if it comes away
the apical bud is usually dead
and the sooner the field is
harvested the better.
However, it is the death of
the lateral buds which can cause
the farmer the most bother when
he starts looking around the farm
for plants for spring planting.
The old method of digging at
the buds with a thumbnail or
penknife to see if they are alive
is not at all reliable, and has
often led to germination
failures ; even the part-shooting
of buds is no indication that they
will keep on growing when put
in the ground, since such buds
often die when |in. or so long.
The only reliable test is to split
single sticks lengthwise through
the centre of the buds, and,
before the discoloration due to
exposure to the air sets in,
examine closely the tiny growing-
point under the bud. It should
be firm, a light yellow-brown
color and surrounded by firm,
healthy, juicy tissue.
Tick Control.
“At Senic”; The official pro-
cedure in N.S.W. (B. 28/5/’52) is
that stock are dipped in the tick-
quarantine area every 14 days
only if (1) they’re infested with
cattle-tick —four treatments ; (2)
undergoing eradication treatment
—l5 months; (3) running on a
holding on which tick-fever has
been found —12 months ; and
(4) registered horses working in
and out of clean country.
For cattle to move to clean
country they must have four
dippings (be free of ticks on
each), the period between dip-
pings must be not less than five
days and not more than 10 days,
and the cattle must be put into
clean country within 24 hours of
the last dipping.
Dips are charged with a
mixture of 81b. of arsenic to
400 gal. of water. Normal treat-
ment for stock in the quarantine
area is: Between October 1 and
June 30 each year milking-cows
and calves on the bucket are
examined, and dry stock are
dipped every 28 days. That is in
the coastal area. In the inland
area cattle receive five examina-
tions or dippings. In drought
periods treatments are less,
according to seasonal conditions.
The tick-quarantine area takes
in all of the n.-e. corner of
N.S.W.; it extends from the
Queensland border to about 30
miles north of Grafton and from
the coast to approximately 100
miles inland.
Some progress has been made
in eradicating the cattle-tick, for
at one period it was about 130
miles south of the present line.
Several areas which underwent
eradication treatment were founc
later to be infested, but the lasi
two areas to be treated are stii
tick-free nine years after
treatment.
Tick-fever has occurred al
times in the quarantine area, but
I think it is quite a while since
the last outbreak occurred.
Cattlemen in N.S.W. should
consider themselves fortunate, as
the Government builds the dips,
keeps them charged at the
correct strength and provides
men to work them at no charge
whatever to the stockowner.
Pigs—Plain and Colored*
“J.J.L.”: The Irish have
decided to license only white
pigs for stud use, and that has
set breeders of Tam worths,
Berkshires, Blacks and Saddle-
backs talking, because they have
been increasingly concerned with
the defence of pigmented pigs.
Fears that the Irish edict might
be copied in U.K. provoked
warm words at a meeting of the
National Pig Breeders’ Associa-
tion in London.
Large Whites, it is claimed, are
so consistently ahead on con-
version-ratios that their exclusive
use would give optimum
efficiency to the pig industry.
They maintain fecundity and
hardiness under a wide range of
conditions instead of thriving in
local “pockets.”
A favorite argument for the
one-breed school is drawn from
Danish experience with the long,
lean Landrace. It is contended
that concentration of breeding
and feeding on Large Whites
would give similar waste-free
results in England.
Colored - breed protagonists
rely principally on the virtues of
their pigs for crossing, First
and second crosses usually
Large White on colored—blend
efficient meat production with
finer flesh quality, they say.
Many U.K. farmers, too, hold
staunch respect for the elusive
element of hybrid-vigor. So far
the U.K. Agricultural Ministry
has stood aloof, but cautious
owners of colored pigs have read
their own implications into
official statements favoring pure
strains rather than crosses.
Thirteen major commercial
breeds are registered in England
and Wales, plus an equal number
of such exotics as Dorset Golden
Tips and Lincolnshire Curly
Coats in scattered herds.
Queensland Land Laws.
“Archaps”: After a detailed
survey of the beef-cattle industry
in Northern Australia, W. A.
Beattie, C.5.1.R.0. research
officer, said that land-tenure
uncertainty had been one of the
important brakes accounting for
the grazing industry in Queens-
land making no progress during
the last half-century.
Queensland land laws, he said,
were notoriously uncertain. In
1910 a Land Act consolidated
the 83 existing Acts, but the
position had now again prac-
tically reached the same stage.
Only the merest handful of
experts knew the law as it stood.
The Land Court was a formal
body appointed from the Lands
Department and not from the
actively - practising Bar.
Periodical appearance before the
court not only involved legal
costs for representation, but had
undoubtedly produced an unfor-
tunate psychosis.
The effect of the whole system
on the cattle industry was to
cause uncertainty and lack of
co-operation, prevent graziers
from taking a long-term view of
breeding-policy and improve-
ments, cause many sons of
station lessees to take up city
occupations as there was no
certainty of inheritance, and
encourage “mining” and neglect
of the property in the closing
years of the leases.
A High Producer.
“Mr.”: Here’s butterfat pro-
duction for you! Yarraview Le
Mode, a Guernsey cow formerly
in the herd of Captain A. E. T.
Payne, Lilydale (Vic,), and
recently dead at 15 years, pro-
Mine Was full o’ holes, so I borrowed th' wife's."
duced more than 81411 b.. of fat
from 127,2781 b. of milk in 11
lactations of 273 days each.
This yield does not include her
production for the remainder of
the year after the conclusion of
the official test period, nor does
it take into account her second
lactation in 1939 when no
records were kept.
Taking both recorded and
unrecorded periods, the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture estimates Le Mode’s life-
time fat - production around
10,0001 b. Her average test was
6.40 per cent. \
Following an udder injury in
1945, Le Mode had only three
effective quarters, yet, in her last
six lactations, she yielded 40861 b.
of fat. Her yield of 9761 b. in
1943 gained for her the State
championship. Her greatest
merit, according to the depart-
ment, lay in her consistent
annual production of more than
5001 b. of butterfat over 11
lactations.
A daughter, Yarraview
Admiration, is doing well, having
produced 21441 b. of fat in her
first three lactations and 5661 b.
in 210 days so far this season.
Progress total of Le Mode’s
youngest daughter, La Petite, is
1061 b. in 60 days.
New Lucerne.
“Wenz”; Hundreds of
varieties of lucerne introduced
from U.S.A. (B. 11/6/’52) have
failed here, because they became
practically dormant in winter.
This is an essential requirement
in US. A. lucernes to avoid
winter killing, but it is a serious
defect in Australia, where as
much growth as possible is
desired in winter.
Such growth is obtained from
the local strains (Hunter River,
Tamworth, etc.) which are
similar to Turkestan or Peruvian
types. These mild-winter types
also do well in the warm
Southern States of U.S.A.
Lucernes from lowa or South
Dakota, however, have a large
measure of the “Grimm”
features, of Russian origin.
These types all stagnate in
winter, and are of little or no
value in Australia, no matter
what other good characters they
may possess.
Sowing Lucerne.
“Hortus”: Agronomist J. L.
Green (N.S.W.) thinks that too-
deeply-sown seed explains most
of the failures to get a satis-
factory establishment of pasture
mixture or lucerne. It is
wrong to sow these smaller seeds
at the same depth as wheat.
Lucerne, for instance, must be
covered not more than 2in. nor
less than |in. A good average
depth is |in.
A fine, level, rolled surface is
necessary for this shallow sow-
ing. If the ground is heavy and
cloddy, it’s better not to cover
the seed in any way. Under
normal conditions, lucerne will
germinate freely on the surface
like the clovers. As with most
other things, if more careful
management is given in the early
stages of growth, the better will
be the result.
Green says that, when lucerne
is sown with a cereal crop, the
latter shouldn’t be cut for hay.
It’s better to let it be harvested
for grain, as the straw will give
excellent cover for young tender
plants in hot spells.
If lucerne is sown without a
cover-crop, let it grow all
through winter. Don’t mow or
graze until it is well established
in spring. Some- farmers even
allow a newly-sown lucerne-crop
to stand until a large proportion
has started to burst into flower.
A Wimmera-rye plus sub,-
clover pasture sown with a cover-
crop should not be grazed until
both plants have set seed and
died off. If no cover-crop, don’t
let stock in until sub.-clover
runners have grown to full
length and have seeded. In this
way a successful stand may be
obtained.
Mixed Grazing.
“Shadow-chaser”: Professors
and others urge sheepfarmers
to fatten a few baby cattle
yearly on their sheep-runs.
There may be some choice pro-
perties where this is possible, but
in average sheep country there is
no better way—in average
seasons of removing
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The present fains are those of mid-June of the normal
Bruckner cycle which were some time ago predicted as one
of the breaking-points of the recent drought. However,
the actual Northern Territory and the Barkly and some
northern parts of Westralia may have to wait a while yet.
There are further rains due in June and about the middle
of July, and these are likely to be of a general nature and
in places very heavy. Heavy frosts are likely in early July.


“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
fagee...
t
\
o
“PHENOVIS"
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
fds
PHE.BX.BO
c mm
when & where you want it!
sprav
ainbow
ill
rICATION
m
ZfIimGAWN
mm
otii
ltd
#
pn
425
bUS
rENGTH
St
p/T«
AND
UGHTNEP
83
for
a IuMIM' uM
s y?
■H
1 2 miles of Rainbow aluminium pipe line and parts leaving the factory direct to the customer.
SYDNEY
GRIFFITH
ORANGE
MUSWELLBROOK
GUNDAGAI
MELBOURNE
MILDURA
LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
NEW ZEALAND
To-day the Rainbow Spray Irrigation Organisa-
tion is fully equipped to give a full measure of
“on the spot” service with branches strategically
located throughout N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania, and agents in other states. These offices
and field representatives are at your service at
all times to offer advice and service on all
irrigation problems.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. BU 3425
Branch Offices—Griffith: 127 Banna Ave. Orange: 84
Byng St. Muswelibrook; 5 Bridge St. fGundagai: 230
Sheridan St. Victoria: 64 King St., Melb. Mr, C. Beau-
mont. Mildura: 29 Deakin Av. Mr. C. Beaumont.
Distributors — STH. AUST.: Mr. R. Curry, 24 Light Sq.,
Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Waugh & Josephson
Ltd., 102 Melbourne St, WEST AUST.: Mr. F. C. Korwill,
68 Hobbs Av., Nedlands, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND AGENT: Freshfields Ltd., 118 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
.40/83.14
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
fd
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
9
fds
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:"
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Hist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney;
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerriey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Baffles Place.
%
*
' A
%
/T,.
%
YOUR GUESTS...
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just,
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
WHILE
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DIHNER
■
\0
0V) h jbuUt t^ a r '® a oa\nst.
gS- M "
|THE
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
[Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents
for the ASA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ ________ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA _ _ _ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _____ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
superfluous flesh from cattle than
running them with sheep.
To expect a cow to rear and
fatten a vealer—a nine-months
job—in competition with sheep
is unrealistic. Admitting the
desirability of grazing cattle with
sheep, in the interest of the
pasture, it is too much to expect
to fatten young cattle even in
good seasons and asking for
trouble in bad.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Dipping bagged
carrots in Bordeaux (6:8; 100)
will guard against soft-rot, a
danger to carrots stored in wet
or humid weather.
“Billjim”: Seaweed is good
organic manure, but it is
best to compost it down with
other vegetable matter and/or
animal manure. Seaweed
accelerates the decomposition of
any other vegetable matter mixed
with it and, contrary to popular
belief, contains no more salt than
any land plant. If dried seaweed
is burned the ash becomes a
valuable potassic fertiliser. Other
uncommon but useful additions
to a compost-heap are freshwater
weeds from water-courses and
waterholes and the sludge which
forms at the bottom of ditches
and dams.
“Sundowner”: Warnings
issued from time to time by
State Departments of Agricul-
ture about the dangers of hand-
ling poisonous sprays and dusts
should be heeded. Toxicity of
a chemical alone is no criterion
of the ysk involved. While some
poisons have no immediate
effects in the amounts which may
be absorbed under normal condi-
tions, any of them can cause
harm if small amounts are
absorbed over a period of several
weeks or months. Chief points
to remember are that skin must
be protected and inhalation and
ingestion of the agent avoided.
“Hav”: As a lush summer-
tree the common coral is hard
to beat. Mature trees have wide-
branching limbs and throw a
good shade. Other features are
its rapid growth and ability
to thrive in most soils close to
the sea. Deciduous, it lets sun-
light into stock-paddocks in
winter. Cuttings will root
quickly. Place them about 2ft.
below soil surface and water
regularly till leaves begin to
sprout. But don’t grow them
near buildings, as the falling
leaves jam gutters and drains.
“Tyab”: Jerusalem artichokes
are No. 1 bait for poisoning
rabbits. Plant a small patch now
in cultivated ground. They need
no attention, but plant well away
from the garden. Once estab-
lished they are hard to eradicate.
Baits may be dug as required,
but recommend storing in dry
sand. Results have equalled
thistle roots, without the loss of
time and labor of gathering.
Prepare baits and distribute in
the usual way.
“Hortus”: “Spudato” (B.
23/4/’52) is quite right when,
referring to close-planting, he
says “All it does in a normal
season is to produce a higher
total yield of smaller tubers.” If
a potato plant produces only
small tubers, these, if used as
seed potatoes, will never produce !
, anything but small tubers. >
Potato experts in England picked
their seed as far as possible from I
plants that showed they had pro-
duced large, clean, well-shaped
tubers. But, if you dug up a
plant under which were lying
four or five good-sized potatoes
and a few “seed-size” tubers,
these latter would be valuable
seed, as the plant had proved its
ability to produce big potatoes.


Professor plans Plying Palace
VIENNA 1804
dsf
ROFESSOR ROBERT-
SON has designed a
stupendous aircraft
to carry sixty passengers
on a six-months non-stop
flight of scientific observation.
The giant has a 3-decker gon-
dola containing kitchen, store,
laboratories, music room,
cabins and ladies’ withdraw-
ing room. Surmounting the
machine, symbolising vigil-
ds
ance, will be an effigy of a
rooster, so enormous as to con-
tain an observatory in its eye.
“Aircraft design should be
bolder,” said the Professor.
“If you think that six months
is overdoing it, remember that
there is no ground service yet.
It will, for example, be many
years before somebody invents
the BP Aviation Service for
quick, efficient refuelling.”
AVIATION
fdsf
SERVICE
3
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Limited, Lopdon.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NEVILLE JOHN HITCHEN late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
HITCHEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1752 of 1952 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and she is asking the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney on or before the
4th September 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from N. V.
MENLOYE, Solicitor. 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO~TEDAR (or EDWARD) KINDBERG
(or KING) and his issue and all persons
claiming by through or under them or any
of them.—PURSUANT to an Order of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
required to send in to the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zealand, your
claim to share in the estates of CARL
JOHAN JOHANSEN (otherwise known as
CHARLES JOHN JOHANSEN), late of
Tauranga, Retired Farmer, deceased, and
MATILDA KINDBERG, late of New Ply-
mouth, Widow, deceased, so as to be re-
ceived by the PUBLIC TRUSTEE on or
before the 30th day of November, 1952,
failing which such estates will be dis-
tributed disregarding your claim. —THE
SOLICITOR, Public Trust Office, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
TO JOHN EMIL HALLOP formerly of
99 Hoddle Street Collingwood but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
WINIFRED FLORENCE HALLOP of 406
Montague Street Albert Park Victoria
Married Woman has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Pjothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of July 1952 and
file an answer to the Petition on or before
the Eighth day of August 1952 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. : —D. 0. MORONEY,
LL.B., of 220 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
CarSton Brewery Ltd.
{lnc. in Victoria )
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
On and after Ist July, 1952, the Registered Office
of the Company will be Situated at: —
16 BOUVERIE STREET, CARLTON
TELEPHONE FJ 4905
E. A. DEL SARTE, Manager.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Isn’t it a pity you can’t exchange
your husband the same as a library-
book you have finished reading?”
—Correspondent in women’s paper.
Especially if he’s no thriller.
“A farthing costs the Royal Mint
more than a farthing to make, and
the cost is mounting every year.”
What —not coining money?
4* 4* 4*
“When the doorstep is dirty and
the curtains are a disgrace, the house-
wife is a Socialist.” — English Con-
servative Mrs. W. Hoyle-Smitk.
No need to “Labor” that
point.
4* 4* 4*
Australian women are dogged by
domesticity.”— Mrs. R. G. Casey.
They often have a bone to
pick with their husbands, too.
4* 4* 4*
“The catapult will reduce the need
for aircraft-carriers to steam the long
periods into the wind in order to fly
off their planes, and in some circum-
stances it will enable - planes -to be
launches even from a stationary ship.”
— Women’s^paper.
Speedboats in full flight.
4* 4* 4*
“In Australia, where the juries are
still all male, women get the full
benefit of the sympathy of the oppo-
site sex.” — Melbourne “Age.”
Especially when appearances
are in their favor.
4* 4*
“When we were kids he was a shy
little follow.” — Short story.
Evidently a backward child.
4* 4* 4*
‘ln Wyoming, U.S., a recent law
has been passed making it illegal to
hunt wild game while drunk.”
— ‘‘World’s News.”
Stag parties prohibited.
4* 4* 4*
‘To let, comfortable single room
with breakfast in modern home, suit
bus.” —Suburban paper.
Double - deckers need not
apply.
Sorry, Mr. Swinburne . . .
If I were bold Clark Gable,
And you his latest wife.
We’d never worry, honey,
O’er lousy stuff like money.
Our wealth would be a fable.
We’d live the ritzy life —
If I were bold Clark Gable,
And you his latest wife.
If you were Lana Turner,
And I her current beau.
We’d be on roses, roses,
{For that’s what I suppose is
The kapok of the earner
Of big-time movie dough),
If you were Lana Turner,
And I her current beau.
If I were Tyrone Power,
And you that lucky dame
Who ousted Annabella
And grabbed her fickle fella.
Our hard-up lives would flower.
Grow rich on fan-mag. fame,
If I were Tyrone Power,
And you that lucky dame.
If we were both rich screen-folk,
And not poor you and me,
D’ you think we’d lay off,
darling.
Our snapping and our snarling.
Would dough make us less mean
folk
Could we for once agree,
If we were both rich screen-folk,
And not poor you and me ?
ANON.
A Spot of Deduction.
“A Long Bay prison warder’s car
was blown up with a time-bomb out-
side his home in Redfern. The police
believe that people with, a grudge
against the warder were responsible.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
The sergeant took quite a
while to diselevate his eyebrows
which had shot up into his hair
on reading in the newspaper the
disclosure that Sydney’s night-
clubs had for years been selling
bottled beer illicitly. Having got
them on to an even keel again
he turned to the constable who
had just come in.
“Well, what did you find,
Mulrooney?”
“The carburettor—or was it
the gearbox? I’ve forgotten now
;—landed on a feller’s fowlhouse
two streets away. At least, I
think it was a fowlhouse,
though it might have been a
canary’s cage—it had a couple
of perches. They were on the
inside of the fowlhouse or the
cage ; I took particular notice of
that.”
“Were the perches thick or
thin, Mulrooney?”
“They were, sergeant.”
“Then it was a fowlhouse.
Now, were the birds black or
white ones, Mulrooney? Think
carefully. It might be an
important clue,”
“They all looked black when
I saw ’em, sergeant—it was two
o’clock in the mornin’ and no
moonlight. But I got one piece
of information that might lead
to the apprehension of the male-
factors or malefactor—the birds
were sitting upright on their
perches.”
“A good piece of detection,
Mulrooney. If you keep on
improving like this you’ll become
so good you might even be able
to detect two hundred dozen of
sly-grog being unloaded at the
front door of a dinner-dance
joint in broad daylight. Did you
discover anything else?”
“Yes. One of the car’s run-
ning-boards was missin’. I
suspect someone pinched it.”
“What about the other one?”
“All I could find was a couple
of splinters of it in the guttering
of the warder’s house. I suspect
—though I haven’t breathed a
word of it to anyone, in case it
puts somebody on his guard—
that it was blown up there by
the explosion.”
“Somebody could have put
“Hey! Stop twisting my arm!”
them up there to put the police
off the scent, Mulrooney.”
A look of intense admiration,
amounting almost to awe, spread
over the Mulrooney phiz. “By
gosh, that’s clever,” he said, “I
hadn’t thought of that.”
“Do you think I ought to see
if there are any tell-tale foot-
prints left on the splinters? I’ve
got ’em wrapped in a hand-
kerchief.”
“H’m. You might. And get
the boys to keep a sharp look-
out for a shady character seen
walking about Redfern carrying
the running-board of a car. Any-
thing else?”
“I found a shattered jam-tin
with the burnt end of a fuse-
wire and some bits of dynamite
inside it. It was among the
wreckage of the car.”
“That’s important, Mulrooney.
Good work. It might—l only
say it might, mind you—
establish that whoever wanted to
wreck the warder’s car hadn’t
used a double-faced sledge-
hammer to do it. Of course, the
possibility hasn’t been com-
pletely disproved that it was
some blunt instrument. It was
an old car, don’t forget, and a
big powerful woman you
hadn’t thought of a woman being
the possible culprit, had you,
Mulrooney?—or a small man
could have made a mess of it by
wielding some heavy steel imple-
ment.
“But the splinters found in
the guttering and the carburettor
or the gearbox found on the
fowlhouse two streets away lend
a certain support to the theory
that it was an explosion. The
jam-tin, fuse-wire and dynamite
would seem to confirm it. How-
ever, we can’t jump quickly to
rash conclusions, Mulrooney,
We’ve got to be sure. Did you
find any other clues likely to
establish that it was an
explosion?”
“I did. It’s an important one,
too. The cylinder-block was in
the warder’s front garden. I
examined the inside of one of the
cylinders. It was all black and
pretty badly scored. What
could cause that but an
explosion?”
“Splendid work, Mulrooney!”
“Another suspicious feature,
sergeant, was the distinct smell
of petrol around the remains of
the vehicle. If you had a theory
that the malefactor soaked the
car in petrol and then set it alight,
setting off a hunger and leaving
the shattered jam-tin, pieces or
dynamite and burnt fuse-wire
around as a blind to try and trick
the police into believing an
explosion caused it, then this
would confirm it.”
The sergeant stroked his chin
thoughtfully. “An interesting
theory, Mulrooney. I’ll keep it
in mind. One other thing was
there a hole in the road under
where the car had been
standing?”
“Yes, sergeant.”
“Check up on the Gas Com-
pany, Water Board, P.M.G. and
other likely people to see if
they’ve been digging holes in
the road outside the warder’s
house. If they haven’t, it will
be another clue to help us try to
establish the explosion theory.
Now X have another line of
inquiry I want you to follow' up,
Mulrooney. It’s a most daring
theory, mind, perhaps wildly
imaginative, but it might lead
somewhere. It is that the person
who either blew the car up or
set it on fire was an enemy of
the warder!”
Mulrooney’s face fell open
and his bottom jaw nearly hit
his chest. At his evident surprise
and dismay the sergeant asked
him what was wrong,
“All me work’s gone for
nothing then, surge,” he said
brokenly. “I’ve been pursuin’
inquiries for the last five hours
among all the warder’s intimate
friends thinkin’ pne of them
might have done 'it!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW"S MIND
Rates
My municipal rates have increased £lO
in two years.
If a branch from one of my trees over-
hangs the footpath, or my front hedge
protrudes in that direction, I receive a
notice from the town clerk to have the
foliage cut back within seven days, under
threat of a £5O fine. I must not leave the
debris in the gutter for the council street-
cleaner to remove, but dispose of it my-
self. If I pay a man with a truck to take
it away I must add a few extra shillings
for its disposal on the municipal rubbish-
tip.
_ I wouldn’t grudge the money to sub-
sidise the upkeep of roads or street-light-
ing and other legitimate amenities, but
my council spends ratepayers’ money on
contribution* to such organisations as the
Boy Scouts and Girl Guides and Red
Cross. They are worthy causes, but the
council has no brief to give my money
to them. It also supports a free library
and a free creche, and donates an annual
prize for an art competition—all out of
ratepayers’ money.
Our rates are the highest levied in any
suburban municipality in Sydney, and our
council congratulates itself on its magni-
ficent generosity; enterprise, civic pride
and public-spiritedness. But it seems
unfair that his liberality should be
financed by extractions from over-
burdened ratepayers without their
approval or consent.— Hattie Hop
(N.S.Wd
Commonwealth Employment Service
There are other reasons why the present
Government has decided to maintain the
C.E.S. (B. 21/ 5/ ’52), Now that a good
education is within the reach of all who
are prepared to work for it, some system
is necessary to guide people into careers
for which they are best suited. The
C.E.S. does that. Each year it gives
vocational guidance tests to thousands of
young men and women and recommends
occupations for which they show a
natural aptitude.
In the past most workers drifted into
jobs guided only by financial necessity;
now some attempt is being made to
minimise the number of occupational
misfits.
Perhaps the. most valuable work per-
formed by the C.E.S. is the assistance it
gives to the physically disabled. Instead
of being a drain on the rest of the com-
munity, people with physical handicaps
are encouraged to resume normal, self-
supporting lives. My own case is indica-
tive. After a severe attack of polio-
myelitis I spent 18 months in hospital
unable to use either my arms or legs; I
was constantly worried by the fear of not
being able to work again.
After recovering partial use of my legs
and one arm I was discharged from
hospital with little or no hope of finding
employment, but, fortunately, I was
visited by a C.E.S. employment officer
who, within five minutes, dispelled my
fears and restored my hope. I was given
an aptitude test, a job within my physical
capabilities was suggested, and within a
few weeks, while still convalescing, I
began a course of study to fit me for the
job.
The cost to the Government to re-
employ me was about £2O, but as I am
still more than 85 per cent, incapacitated
I could have continued to draw an invalid
pension for the rest of my life. By invest-
ing a small sum the Government will save
several thousands.—W. M. H. (S.A.).
From the employer’s angle the C.E.S.
is a great help in securing staff—it saves
a lot of time in preliminary interviews
and makes a number of useful recom-
mendations. When a trip to Sydney was
necessary a C.E.S. office was made avail-
able to me for interviewing applicants,
including those who had replied to my
newspaper advertisements. An officer
arranged suitable times for interview and
none of my time in the city was wasted.
I was back at my business two days
earlier than I could otherwise have been
and several pounds better off.
Sugar-grdwers are grateful to the
“That dawg’s gorn and eaten me Prussian-blue !”
C.E.S. for help in obtaining canecutters
from far-off places. Absorption of
migrant labor is aided by the same
department. If it has not been as useful
as it could be, that is not the fault of the
service, but of employers who look on
it as does “Dick Turpin”—a view which
I was inclined to share before I had
anything to do with it.— Scrutator (Q.).
Juvenile Delinquency
As a headmaster of several schools in
the sad south of Sydney I have had oppor-
tunities to study in the field that un-
happy child branded as “juvenile delin-
quent” (B. 4/6/’52). Never have I found
one who would be better off if he were
allowed to leave school at the age of
12. That is a very tender age—apparently
much tenderer than it was 40 years ago
—and I am puzzled that “Sydney
Psychiatrist’ should appear to advocate
the exemption of even some 12-year-olds
from school attendance.
Even more puzzling is the final para-
graph beginning: “One cannot entirely
escape the thought that we make strenu-
ous efforts to reform the young because
we would like them to reform—naturally
—but also because they are too young
and helpless to defend themselves.” The
truth is, of course, that a juvenile delin-
quent who does not reform becomes, in
time, an adult delinquent, and a very
unhappy habitue of slum dives, courts,
jails and sordid havens of lost humanity
which are visited from time to time by
the vice squad.
On the day I read “S.P.’s” article
I had to gather information about six
boys 13 years of age and thereabouts
who had been charged by the police with
breaking and entering. The records of
every one revealed a home broken by
divorce or “parents separated,” None
of the boys would, in my opinion, need
the attention of a psychiatrist. They all
were suffering from a deficiency which
causes emotional and moral aberration as
surely as a vitamin deficiency causes
physical illness. They lacked the funda-
mental needs of all children; love from
two parents and security in the possession
of it (a feeling of being wanted); a sense
of identity with a morally stable family
and opportunities for recreation. Many
a piece of vandalism is the outlet for
energies and imperious urges which should
have been satisfied by a strenuous game,
but I have never met a child who
“smashed things” who did not prove, on
investigation, to come from an unhappy
home.
The point is that some children from
broken homes can find substitutes for
love and security in supervised play-
grounds where they gain a sense of
achievement and ego-satisfaction from the
encouragement of a skilful supervisor or
teacher.
I cannot believe there exists a boy who
would deliberately set out to have himself
expelled from a school unless the school
belongs to the Squeers tradition. Many
of our public schools study each child
as an individual and take a good deal
of trouble to discover why any child is
unhappy. Confidential school records
show many case histories of boys cured
of incipient delinquency by enlisting the
parents’ co-operation and adjusting the
school to the child instead of expecting
the child to adjust himself to a rigid
school discipline.
Fortunately I have never met an “over-
sympathetic but intelligent mother” who
has “aided and abetted” her child in
truancy —I hope such a contradictory
creature is rare. Every mother whom I
have interviewed in the past 10 years has
wanted her child to have a normal and
undisturbed education and has been
grateful to the schoolteacher whose
sympathetic interest helped the unhappy
kid to regain his lost grip.
“S.P.’s” reference to the Education
Department and Children's Court is also
apparently based on experience different
from mine. The Child Welfare officers
of this State and the magistrate of the
court are well-trained, sympathetic men
and women who do not wield “the im-
pressive paraphernalia of the law.” On
the contrary, they inspire trust, usually
gain the child’s confidence and do every-
thing humanly possible to convince him
that his childish social errors do not cause
a stigma. That is proved by the very low
percentage of children who, after being
placed on probation, reappear before the
fatherly magistrate.
Juvenile delinquency is attributable to
mental and emotional disturbances arising
from unhappy home-life ; the school that
uses corporal punishment can aggravate
the disturbance because a caning teacher
does not stop to diagnose. The modern
school, staffed with teachers trained to
recognise the early symptoms of emotional
disturbance, can usually gain the parents’
help and the child’s confidence to pre-
vent serious trouble. Surely that is a
saner way of solving this problem than
turning the boy of 12 free to roam the
streets. — Donald McLean (N.S.W.).
Payment By Results
In most Government and serai-
government departments youths starting
in clerical positions are paid according
to. examinations they have passed. That
can prove most unfair. Two lads, both
the same age, started in the same semi-
government department on the same
day ; one had passed his Leaving Certifi-
cate but the other failed, which means
that one receives £46 per year more than
the other and will retain that advantage
for a number of years. They are doing
exactly the same work and doing it
equally well. Surely, after the first year,
both lads should be paid the same rate.
There are many such, cases.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.). ;
State Spending
Members of the N. S. Wales Cabinet
are still trying to put over the story that
development is being retarded because
of Commonwealth restrictions on finance.
Providing the States with their loan needs
has never been a Commonwealth obliga-
tion—the Commonwealth’s function is to
act as the loan-raising authority for the
Loan Council. The States have majority
control of that body.
In nine years from 1932 to 1941 the
Stevens-Bruxner and Mair-Bruxner Gov-
ernments increased the public debt of
N, S. Wales by £63,384,000. In this year
alone the McGirr-Cahill Government is
adding £64,000,000 to the State debt.
That sum is for works; for housing it is
getting another £8,500,000.
The greatest mistake the Menzies Gov-
ernment has made was to guarantee' to
find £225 million for the States’ works
programmes. The loan market yielded
only £65 million, so now the Common-
wealth has to find £155 million from its
own sources. We are not likely to get
any worth-while reduction in taxation
while the Commonwealth continues to
supply scores of easy millions to the
prodigal States.
Easy got is easy spent, and Premier
Cahill, apparently aware that he cannot
point to tangible achievements, seems out
to measure his record by the number of
millions spent.~K. Me. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 179
Across.
I—Spoil the squabble pith of a bone
vegetable. (6)
4—Cowboy garb gives dollars to
relatives. (8)
B—Student prank not in a stew
artist with toe trouble. (6)
10—Sacrifice oxen and give Hector a
sepulchre. (8)
13— Australian airman. (3)
14 — Santa takes east 150 and a custom
part of a bill. (6)
17 —What the leopard cannot change
back for halts. (5)
19 — Deduce no hellfire. (7)
20 — Libyan town introduces 500 to
Miss Berger. (5)
22 — Take legal proceedings against a
French author named Eugene. (3)
23 It isn’t fitting to sleep in it. (5)
26 — Lip upset an Etruscan scion in
columns. (7)
27 Changed sneak and twister. (5)
29—Whatever pierces the more
socialistically inclined? (6)
31—The Spanish ego minded the ark
of the covenant. (3)
33 Two directions hound a girl cus-
tom banning marriage outside
one’s kindred; (8)
34 — State sovereign is deserting Mor-
pheus’s anas. (6)
35 — Dope anaesthetised part of the
pirate banner. (8)
36 Spice of Miss Rogers is disturb-
ing to a nigger. (6)
Down.
1— Planet in the sky with one little
boy kangaroo or suchlike animal.
(9)
2 Arab to tease a crumpet. (10)
3 Quickness of humor. (3)
5 Body of Mohammedan theolo-
gians take you to the French
parent. (5)
6 Cayenne upset to an interlace-
ment. (4)
7 Potentate overturning an Aus-
tralian Prime Minister. (5)
9 —Dead business. (11)
H —This quarter of the world, alas,
is surrounded by another part.
(H)
12—Approach a current price. (6)
15 — Employ variations of 22 across.
(3)
16 — Time when Napoleon lost his
head? (3)
18—Chum to hail a Victorian bowler
having a conference. (10)
20 — Are in the depot to send out of
the country. (6)
21— Parent’s warbler wrote plays in
Shakspeare’s time. <9)
24 —Snooze a characteristic of a
downy surface game of cards. (3)
25 —Writer in jail. (3)
28—Wench is in this condition in the
Cannibal Islands. (5)
30 —Turk mentioned in “Lakme.” (5)
32—Rising fashion for Esau. (4)
34 —Agitate a joker. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 178


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and
(Qld.) Pty.
Lismore, N.
Ltd.,
S.W.
VICTORIA; Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners* Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
W» entire pare b a PAID AUVKBTXSKKlSMnr
prepared meotbly MOmT- V1HTU8 XSKR1IS
Juue
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
1958
WAS GREAT INVENTOR MURDERED
OR DID HE SUICIDE?
Rudolph Diesel’s Mystery Death
People often fall overboard at sea. Sometimes it’s an accident . . . sometimes they commit suicide . . . and occasionally
they’re pushed. Just how Dr. Rudolph Diesel met his end, on the pross-channel steamer “Dresden,” will always remain a
mystery, because there’s ample room to believe that any one of these things could have happened to him.
On the night of Monday, September 29, 1913,
Diesel left Antwerp, with some associates, to
attend the annual general meeting of Consoli-
dated Diesel Engine Manufacturers Ltd., in
London. They had an excellent dinner, and
retired rather late. His friends saw Diesel to
his cabin door, where they left him in very
good spirits. That is the last time anyone saw
Diesel alive.
Nothing unusual was seen by the men on watch
. . . no one heard anything . . . but in the morn-
ing Diesel had disappeared. It could only be
assumed that he had fallen overboard.
Diesel’s finances weren’t in a very good way.
This led to the belief that he had suicided. But,
on the other hand, his own countrymen, the
Germans, did not like him giving out his patents
to other countries. It was only a short time
before World War I, and many people thought
he had been murdered by his own Government
to prevent any further information going to
Britain,
The possibility that he had fallen overboard by
accident was feasible too . . although the night
was calm, and a disturbance or calls for help
would have probably been heard.
Today the likelihood of solving the mystery of
Diesel’s death is very remote ... but his name
and his work live on ... in the millions of oil-
engines, made to his principle, used all over the
World today.
THE FIRST DIESEL ENGINE 1893
Rudolph Diesel, working for von Krupp and
M.A.N., set out to produce an engine that
would run on coal derivatives, the only local
products that were worth considering as fuel.
His task was hopeless, and he finally finished
up with an oil-burning engine. This ran into a
lot of opposition in Germany because it used
imported fuel.
The first working Diesel Engine was made in
1893, It was designed without a Water jacket,
or a pressure injection system, and just couldn’t
keep cool. Diesel re-constructed it, this time
with a water jacket and air-compressor. It
managed to keep up a sustained run of about
1 minute, but his researches had reached a stage
where they could be considered a success.
By 1897 the Diesel Engine was a commercial
Diesel’s first
engine... it
was made in
1393, and put
p a sustained
run of l minute
at its first trial.
proposition, but it was so unpopular in
Germany that the engines were manufactured
under license, in Britain, the U.S.A. and
Switzerland.
After a few years of widespread popularity the
engine suffered a severe reversal. It was found
that much finer engineering would have to be
used if it was going to be a lasting success. This
created resistance to the engine for a while, but
the trouble was corrected, and the Diesel a
popularity was firmly established.
DIESELS TODAY
Diesel engines are made in thousands of
different shapes and sizes today. They are used
in road and rail transport, for farm machines,
in ships, and as stationary power plants.
They’ve even been tried in aeroplanes, but
they were abandoned because of their great
weight.
Diesels have one big advantage over other
internal-combustion engines because they’re so
very cheap to run. This low running cost is
partly offset by the high initial cost, but for
jobs where they are kept running continuously
they can cut this out in time,
Rudolph Diesel went very close to solving the
World’s power problems, but he didn’t quite
succeed. For certain jobs Diesels can’t replace
Petrol engines. These two power units differ
quite a bit in their applications, and it’s up to
the experts to select which one is right for a
particular job.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., and their distributors
throughout Australia, retain experts to assess
power requirements, and make recommenda-
tions as to what type of engine you require.
If you’re ever in doubt when you want an
engine get in touch with them, and they will
give you the right advice.
AUSTRALIA’S GREAT
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
WE CAN MAKE 'EM BETTER...
...AND WE WON'T BELIEVE IT
Who said we couldn’t make a car in Australia? Who sneered at the Holden when it
made its first appearance? None other than the Great Australian Public themselves.
Overseas critics gave the Holden quite a build-up. A very hard and conservative English motor
magazine put it through rigorous tests, and was suitably astounded. Yet, back here, the people
who made it couldn’t be convinced they’d made something good.
Australians have suffered from this inferiority
complex for a long time. In the early days it
was probably warranted, but this complex
should have disappeared long ago, because
we’ve been turning out equipment that ranks
with the World’s best for years now. In some
fields our equipment is even better than any
similar product you could get anywhere else.
Take Australian-made stationary engines for
instance. There’s not a more reliable engine on
the market today than the Moffat-Virtue Type
V3 Petrol Engine.
It’s right up to the minute in design . . . with a
renewable cylinder block . . . and a special,
high-tension magneto, for instant, all-weather
starting. Big-end and Main Bearings are per-
fectly finished in hard-wearing white-metal.
The whole engine is made to the very finest
tolerances, from the best metal in the World . . .
mined and smelted right here in Australia, too.
All Moffat-Virtue Engines are made in Aus-
tralia. They can show many an overseas engine
quite a few points in design and construction
. . . and they’re backed by a spare-parts service
that won’t let you down,
Moffat-Virtue Engines range in size from a
2 4 h.p. Petrol Engine to a 55 h.p. Diesel.
You can get one to suit the job you have to do
by contacting any one of the Distributors listed
at the bottom of this page.
PRECISION
MACHINING
This man is turning up a flywheel . . .
and he’s throwing all his skill into the job
. . because it’s going on to a Moffat-
Virtue Engine, and has to be perfect.
Every piece of Moffat-Virtue equipment
that leaves their Rosebery (N.S.W.)
factory has to pass a rigorous Precision
Test. If it fails it is rejected.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have men and
machines capable of doing engineering
jobs as fine as any in the world. It pays
you to buy Precision Tested M.V. Equip-
ment.
