

R
t
A PRODUCT OF THE
ţ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT SB CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73— No. 3785
Wednesday, August 27, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROMSEY ABBEY, SAVED FROM THE WRECKER FOR £100
ROMSEY, beside the River Test, eight miles from Southampton, is a town
of great antiquity which grew up around its Abbey Church, originally
founded as a Benedictine nunnery in the year 907 by King Edward the Elder.
His eldest daughter, Ethelflasda, became abbess and was later buried mere.
In Saxon days Romsey Abbey was a notable educational establishment, ana
the daughters of kings and nobles were sent there to be educated. One ot
these was King John’s daughter, Johanna, who later became Queen ot
Scotland. Her governess was paid 2d. a day. , ... w
In 1004 the Danes invaded Hampsnire and aestroyed the Abbey, but
the occupants were able to escape to the safety of Winchester, from which
they returned in due course, and the Abbey Church rose again on the
foundations of the old and continued to flourish. Extensive rebuilding of the
Abbey in the Norman style commenced about 1120 under the guidance of
the Bishop of Winchester, and the present building dates mainly from that
neriod. The magnificent Norman arches with elaborate moulding in the choir
are reputed to be the best examples of this style of architecture in Europe.
Beneath the flooring near the pulpit can still be seen portions of the original
Saxon church which existed in the days of Edgar and Canute.
At the time of its suppression, 1539, the Abbey buildings were valued at
£528, and the people of Romsey were allowed to preserve their splendid Abbey
by buying it from the Crown for £lOO. The deed of sale, signed by King
Henry VIII, is still preserved within the Abbey, together with the famous
Romsey Psalter, an illuminated manuscript dating from 1450 Another
treasure of the Abbey is a remarkable early-sixteeenth-century painted teredos
which narrowly escaped destruction during the Civil War when the Roundheads
desecrated the Abbey. On the north wall of the transept may still be seen
the bullet scars made during that period. The Abbey is surmounted by a
low central tower which houses a peal of eight bells, originally hung in a
During their honeymoon in 1947 the Queen, then H.R.H. Princess Elizabeth,
and the Duke of Edinburgh attended service at Romsey Abbey whfle staying
at nearby Broadlands, the home of Lord and Lady Mountbatten of Burma.


Learn
w
mESSm
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-——-CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
ADAM BRUNSKILL
by THOMAS ARMSTRONG
Ranks with his "Crowthers of Bankdam,” the most
successful first novel by a British author in living memory.
The story of a conflict between two mighty men, arising out of a mining
enterprise in the Yorkshire dales of the mid-19th century, and leading
to an epic combat between the hero and his great foe.
COLLINS
AVAILABLE FROM
ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHERS
The Red Page
CATTLE TO ADELAIDE .
If only for one extraordinary story
about dogs, Joseph Hawdon’s Journal of a
Journey from New South Wales to
Adelaide (Georgian House) should have
been published years ago—it is amazing
how much fascinating Australiana has
lain, like the Henning letters, unpub-
lished ; and how much more, like some
of the convict stories at the Mitchell and
the journals of the navigators, has been
allowed to go out of print.
The Henning letters, of course, were
private property about a private
individual, so the lateness of their dis-
covery is understandable ; but Hawdon,
whose journal is here printed for the first
time, more than 100 years after he wrote
it, is a public figure with a prominent
place in the history of pastoral explora-
tion. He made, in 1838, the first over-
landing journey with cattle from New
South Wales to Adelaide; which settle-
ment was then two years old with a
population of 3000 who greeted Hawdon
and his cattle with. tremendous
enthusiasm, presenting him with a piece
of plate, and, appropriately, roasting a
bullock whole for his public dinner.
His dog-story is merely an incidental
paragraph, of course, but serves to illus-
trate the rich and humorous observation
that enlivens the short narrative:
March 23. I took my departure from the
River Murray, which had been such excel-
lent service to my expedition Steering
a course due west, for the purpose of
arriving at the nearest point of the ranges
in view, knowing that water would be
found only in their vicinity, we passed for
20 miles through a thick scrub of small
eucalyptus. The drays had great difficulty
in forcing their way. In the evening we
halted, but without having found water for
the stock, the range still being two miles
beyond us. We tied all the horses to gum-
trees, made fires all round the Cattle, and,
for the first time throughout the journey,
set watch to keep the beasts from straying
in search of water. A simple circumstance
occurred during the night, a man on watch
having detected two dogs going off in quest
of water, each having a tin pot in his
mouth, one a pint, the other a quart!
The pint-pot adventurer was arrested on
his outset, but his companion with the
quart, a large bulldog, got clear off and
never returned to us more.
But Hawdon has, of course, a great deal
more than this ingenious bulldog to offer
the reader of his narrative. The journey
begins (in January) with heat so intense
that it made the dogs sit down and howl;
after which there is the most colossal
thunderstorm:
It was now quite cool, with every
appearance of a coming thunderstorm; we
had arrived within quarter of'a mile of the
waterhole where we had left the blinded
man, when a tremendous peal of thunder
burst over our heads, The electric fluid
passed along my head, causing me to feel
as though struck with a heavy bludgeon.
Two of the bullocks, within four yards of
us, were killed on the spot, one of them
standing stiff and dead some seconds before
he fell. 1 exclaimed, “That beast is stand-
ing up after he is dead,” but on looking
round for Mr. Weatherall I saw him sup-
porting his head with his hands. He also
had felt the shock but more severely than
myself.
A second peal roared and crashed
around us, killing another beast about
fifteen yards from where I stood. To pre-
vent the whole herd from being killed we
galloped among them to scatter them in
various directions, One fell struck with
the electric fluid whilst I was on the point
of striking it. We dismounted for the
purpose oi bleeding those that had fallen,
and while so employed the tree under which
I stood was shivered to pieces. The thunder
continued rattling around us, resembling a
constant fire ot cannon, branches ahd
limbs of trees falling in all directions.
We remounted our horses, which stood
trembling with terror, that we might the
better view the surrounding scene. Two
hundred of the Cattle had huddled closely
together, each trying under an instinctive
sense of danger to screen himself behind
his neighbor; the rest, in separate groups
of 30 and 40, were flying over the ground
in the wildest state ot alarm, now running
towards us, then bounding away again,
as each successive peal of thunder burst
When the storm had subsided it was fearful
to see the traces of its power left in all
parts of the forest: the noblest trees
shattered to fragments, or uprooted and
hurled prostrate on the ground. Three of
the cattle which we had thought dead were
restored by bleeding, three others were
quite dead and in half an hour were very
much swollen.
The journey to Adelaide would hardly
have been possible had it continued in the
same intensity of drama ; and in fact from
this point on, though occasionally return-
ing to the dramatic on such occasions
as when one of the overlanders climbs up
a precipice and nearly falls off it to break
his neck, the physical adventure becomes
comparatively tame. But the narrative
remains full of richness, as well as of
potential danger, in the continual
encounters with the wild aborigines of
the period, of whom Hawdon leaves some
invaluable and completely unsentimental
pictures:—
February 17. .. .In the evening at dusk
the Blacks were about us in great numbers
and set fire to the small patch of grass
which I had selected for the stock to feed
on. My men turned out, under arms, to ex-
tinguish the fire, upon which the Blacks
took to the river, swimming over in ciuaicis
of 30 or 40 together. As some [were]
carrying a bundle of spears, and others
waving a firebrand in the left hand, they
presented a romantic and imposing scene.
When they landed on the opposite bank
they raised a shout, or rather a yell of
defiance, and set fire to the few reeds grow-
ing along the margin of the water.
February 21 1 was much amused in
the course of the day with the simplicity
of four or five Blacks, who were standing
together whilst a number of the cattle
were walking towards the spot they
occupied, snorting as they cautiously drew
nearer their black observers. It was quite
evident that the natives looked upon the
Oxen as rational beings, as they gravely
saluted them with their usual friendly ex-
clamation, “80, bo, Marwood!,” and
waving green boughs at them in token of
peace.
March 2 Here we saw a tribe of
Natives equal in number to those we passed
in the morning. They carried their spears
and were a very important set of fellows.
In spite of all my threats and warning
they would close round the stockmen. One
of them asked me in perfect seriousness
whether the heifers, pointing to the cattle,
were our wives !... .'their chief was.one of
the most sensible men I ever met with
among the savages of New Holland,, and
appeared to have his men in great order
and perfectly under his command. He was
anxious to have the use of everything
explained. It was a long time before he
could be made to comprehend how the
wheels of the Drays were able to pass
round. I gave him an iron tomahawk, with
which he was delighted.
Faking my hand, he placed it on his
breast and, pointing to a little boy, his
son, and gradually raising his hand above
the boy’s head to the height of a man’s
stature, he by these signs gave me to
understand that he would keep this toma-
hawk for him and give it to him when
grown up, to hunt opossums with, at the
same time imitating the manner in which
these animals were taken and killed.
Hawdon’s subsequent history belongs
to New Zealand. He raised sheep and
cattle in Victoria until 1858, then crossed
the Tasman to Canterbury, where the
Hawdon River and Lake Hawdon show
that, literally, he continued to put himself
on the map. He was a member of the
N.Z. Legislative Council from 1866 until
his death in 1871. The book is admirably
printed, with a portrait of Hawdon, and
is in every way a fine piece of Australiana
which should interest the general reader
equally with the historian.
Australian War Verses .
Kevin E. Collopy’s poetry in The
Splendid Hour (published by the Aus-
tralian War Memorial, Canberra) is the
kind of smooth, apparently flawless verse
which at first glance seems excellent, but
on second thoughts causes doubts to
arise which are hard to explain. What
could possibly be wrong, technically
speaking, with a sonnet so admirable as
“The Soldier”?;
Silent he lay, the murmuring tides of sleep
Washed gently through the darkness of his
soul
The whispering music of the timeless deep.
He heard no more the sounds of combat
roll
Through hill and plain, deep thunder of the
guns
Or beat of human waves upon the shore.
Grim features, carved and burnt by tropic
suns
And days and nights of pain, forever wore
A look of grave content —like desert calm
Or the sleeping ocean’s blue tranquillity,
The night wore on. Too late for human
barm
Or benison, his spirit wandered free
(Seeking old Charon’s dim and smoky light)
Under the earth, through aisles of drowsy
night.
Well, there is nothing very seriously
wrong with this poem and, particularly
in the closing image, a great deal that is
very good. It remains, when all analysis
is finished, a smooth and lovely sonnet.
Yet it is familiar; one seems to have
heard every line of it, except the con-
cluding couplet, before. The phrases are,
in fact, worn smooth with use—“murmur-
ing tides,” “whispering music,” “timeless
deep,” “grim features,” “grave content” ;
and one line, “He heard no more the
sounds of combat roll” is, of course, from
Tennyson:
So all day long the noise of battle rolled.
Mr. Collopy is certainly not using the
sonnet as Hopkins did, as a personal
mode of expression, charged with an in-
tensity of feeling that strains and beats
against the formal discipline:
Nothing is so beautiful as spring—
When weeds, 'in wheels, shoot long and
lovely and lush;
thrush’s eggs look little low heavens, and
thrush
Through the echoing timber does so rinse
and wring
The ear, it strikes like lightnings to hear
him sing.
Mr. Collopy’s conventionality
should not prevent our seeing how
admirably he writes within his conven-
tions. The poems, with a few set in
Australia, deal with A.I.F. and R.A.A.F
adventures in historic battlefields all over
the world—-night-flying over Hamburg
and Cologne; Beaufighter crews at
|? | ar ™ 5 an attack on Lae ; a surgeon at
FI Alamein; a memorial service at
Tobruk ; a soldier at Assisi; the armistice
m the Pacific. They are resolute in spirit
and remarkably clear in their pictorial
quality.
Sea Fever.
A. H. Rasmussen is a Norwegian who
very properly for one with such blue-
water blood—was at sea almost as soon
as he was out of triangular trousers. At
the age of 19 he had his mate’s certificate
—in sail, as his exciting and salty auto-
biography Sea Fever (Constable) con-
stantly reminds you.
Rasmussen was 14 when he joined his
first ship, as a result of his telling his
father that “I wanted to go to sea before
I died, and if he did not let me go, I
would run away.” Fourteen, and ex-
pected and ordered—to do the job of a
sea-toughened man, the child who had
been given up for almost-dead threw off
his consumption and developed into a
robust sailor.
There were happenings which threat-
ened to cut him off more abruptly and
efficiently than his disease. His boiling
m soapy water of the dirty rag in which,
as ship’s cook, he had to cook the duff—
and the consequent fury in the fo’c’sle
when tired seamen bit hungrily into large
chunks of duff nicely flavored with Sun-
light soap; the time a jealous bully of
an apprentice almost jerked him off the
foot-ropes while furling a sail some 60ft.
above a heaving deck; and a vicious
crossing to Norway from Scotland in a
leaky old tub loaded below the Plimsoil
with coal.
But all was not pumping and storm.
Down to Pernambuco for mahogany
logs—“blue skies, a rattling breeze on the
quarter, deep blue waters stippled with
white caps, the ship heeling with a gentle
lift and fall, sunshine, warmth and spark-
ling air, day after day, night after night.”
To be stricken, at the journey’s end, with
Yellow Jack. T: all makes a grand book,
filled with salt and wind and adventure
from cover to cover.
Baltinglass.
The London journalist Lawrence Earl
who wrote the H.M.S. Amethyst story
Yangtse Incident has made a first-rate
extravaganza out of The Battle of Baltin-
glass (Harrap); how, in 1950, the Irish
village of Baltinglass defied the Parlia-
ment of Eire to take the post-office from
Helen Cooke and give it to Michael
Farrell.
Miss Cooke was not the postmistress,
but for 14 years she had managed the
job for her invalid aunt, and the office
had been in the Cooke family for 80
years ; moreover, the Cookes had no other
means of support, whereas Michael
Farrell was the young son of a Baltinglass
man who owned several shops and a
farm and was an influential supporter of
the Costello party then in office.
At the news of the Government’s in-
tention one Sheridan, a publican, began
to organise a Cooke party, gaining as
leader one of Montgomery’s generals.
General Dennis, who also happened to
be landlord both of the Cookes and the
Farrells. There were meetings, deputa-
tions to the Parliament and passive
resistances in the form of standing on
the concrete slab over the underground
telephone-cable when P.M.G. workmen
came to dig it up.
There were wild Parliamentary debates,
and a member was suspended ; there were
public addresses from aeroplanes, and
committees, and hooters to call the
populace when the P.M.G. workmen
came back accompanied by police; and
“the Queen’s cousin” standing on the
concrete slab and all; and the foreign
gentry standing for the first time beside
the common people—if you would hardly
like to acclaim it, with the author, as a
beautiful example of “democracy at
work,” you must admit that it is fine
entertainment, and all the better for being
true.
Various Verse
I HAD A DOG.
I had a dog limped in my shadow,
Saturdays before me, on Mondays after.
And each understood the moods of the
other, glad though
To bark or to growl. Our sort of laughter
Was never that loudness that leaps to a
rafter,
Hangs there too long, like an echo far
madder
Than sane dog, sane man, choose ever to
hear
Under a bridge, where they’ve done for an
adder
And frightened the swallows away for a
year—
Camped there, dark comes darker with
rain;
And, overhead, thunder, Pantagruel train.
Drips bomb, ashes fizz, antiions flip dust.
If I laughed loud laughs, imagine, disgust!
He’d slink off, that dog, and leave me at
last.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
MIGNONETTE ORCHID.
ŵ
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
PEGASUS CARTHAGUS.
The snow-white warriors of Tan Ming
Have found the los green carpet of Yu
Chang,
And there upon its jewelled heart, a thing
Of greatest splendor; one small tree of
Spring
A dark and slender plum-tree full of
flowers
That shook and shook its pinkwhite load
for hours.
Shaped was this little tree like to the
steed
Lost by the warrior aptains. Fair indeed
And lovely to the quaint rich soldier heart
This flowery horse that drew a golden cart.
For, from its feet in oily apricot folds
There rushed and rattled a thousand mari-
golds.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.
COVE OF DREAM.
Here rnopes a silent sea
Where I
After adventurous, mad voyaging,
At anchor lie
Under the lee
Of a dead shore, a somnolent ring
Of cliffs enclosing half the drowsy sky,
Cliffs that soar up interminably,
A semicircle vast and cold,
/Eons old,
That through the sun-forsaken deeps
Of time unchanging sleeps,
So that a horror and blind dread
Comes charging in upon my mind;
For, while all possibilities lie dead,
How shall I find.
Now or tomorrow, or on any day,
Solace or a musing mind
Like mine, any companionship or way
Into the seas of life, any return again
To the buildings and the city streets of
men?
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL


-v . ft
: : J
MM
mm
r
' 1 *
lii^ A -s- *a
* »
' :
■wliiii
llr'v
wf vv »' % >
W^p#
mJiM|P^
m mm§mr'‘
si#
■•"%,• ■ «* -. ■■ . ;
*••%* ■
MML
;J ', *li3wii
. MIH
ttmmm
A
mmm
ms
~ ■■
■
' ' _ : , ; - •-• ■' : '
wm
* 1?'
.Jr 1 ', -
S $, V „ *
1
’■■■‘l
liß 1
-i
>*:*;;■■
Wmm
K <
mm %\
hm
'>wm
WS$&
Famous gunsmiths lor over 3®o years • • •
“RAICK-FRERE”... SHOTGMS
are now available at Anthony Horderns’
Hand engraved 12 gauge hammerless shotgun. It has cross bolt action side clip, 30" blued steel barrels and is nitro proved.
Full choke in left barrel, right barrel has modified choke. The gun is chambered for 2|" cartridges. Priced at £65/10/-.
'
\U
12 gauge Ralck-Frere double
barrel hammer gun, 30" barrels,
cross bolt nitro proved. £5O.
410 gauge Webiey and Scott
single barrel shot gun. £l5/10/-
Bolt Action.
12 gauge Webiey and Scott
single barrel, semi hammerless
ejector gun. Top lever action.
30" barrel, nitro proved, cham-
bered for 2f shells. At £3O.
410 gauge D.B. Richard Burton
Leige shotgun. barrels,
with side lever and folding
action. Priced at £27/10/-.
Famous Sako Mi£le
a high-grade mauser type aetlon
A high-grade mauser type action, with 23barrel, length
overall 43|", walnut chequered stock, with scope mount
base on barrel, stream line finish weight lbs., in the
following calibres: .22 Hornet £62/10/-, 25/20 £62/10/-.
Sako Cartridge Hornet £5/10/- per 100; 25/20. £5/15/-.
nihony Hordenis’
“IRfftH IN ADVEftflSftK?
SUNS AND AMMUNITION LOWER GROUND FLOOR 'PHONE M 2401 BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
* 1


Mile Giant
Beets Ming.
W.A. STATE SAWMILLS REPORTS TD-24
LOGS EFFICIENTLY THROUGH TWO WINTERS
m
Here is a statement that typi-
fies the amazing performance
of International TD-24 Trac-
tors. Working with an
Isaccason WO-24 Winchoist,
Front mounted P-15 winch and
Armstrong-Holland Bullgrader
equipment, the International
TD-24 Tractor winches logs
out from difficult positions
and then hauls direct by the
Tractor to the landing stages.
Logging in Western Austra-
lian Karri Country during
winter months with an
average rainfall approximat-
ing 70" is a most difficult task.
Tractors assisted with logging
arches, jinkers and other
mechanical equipment now
perform this work with re-
markable regularity.
This International TD-24 has now
logged successfully for two win-
ters at Pemberton , the largest
mill in the heart of the giant
Karri country , where logs up to
25 ft. girth are encountered.
Industrial Sales and Service
in all States can supply par-
ticulars of the most suitable
International Crawler Tractor
and Armstrong-Hoi land Log-
ging Equipment to help you
work where others previously
failed.
■ : ..V . . ,
' .... ,
'
■S-W ■ •"■■■. '
. ...
m
■ ■■mm;
IllliiiiS
■fl mmsm
MB H >
-
lIIIIb
1
I
m
W
w
,
■ 1
is
HI
ms
■H
;, i
.... .**
fc- >•«
'
International TD-24 Hauling Karri on Steep Hillside.
Here is the W.A. State Saw Mills TD-24 Inter-
national Tractor fitted with Armstrong-Holland
Bullgrader and winching equipment, hauling a
Karri log, approximately 6ft. diameter at the
butt, up a steep hillside.
■
VS«-
International TD-24 still gets out the big
logs, takes tough going in its stride. It’s
the most powerful crawler in the forest.
iiii
ITT if Tr VT
SERVES IHfi B STSY
THROUGHOUT RUSTRRLIfI
W
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HDBHRT RDELfIIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER
ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3785
Wednesday, August 27, 1952
A SLEEPLESS NIGHT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrqck Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR." LIQUOR AND S.-P.
Evidence before the liquor commission
in N.S.W. has shocked the whole of Aus-
tralia, and in “the second white
city of the Empire” especially it
has aroused an unusual amount of public
concern for the health of law and order.
That N.S.W. “Labor” politicians have be-
come acutely sensitive to this reaction is
shown by the “Labor” Premier’s response
to the Opposition motion when the State
Assembly met last week.
“Labor” politics have ruled N.S.W. for
some 11 years. The “Labor” Govern-
ment, now under its third leader in that
time, prides itself on keeping a well-tuned
ear on the ground in the interests of the
section for which it “governs,” and it
functions under direction for all legisla-
tive and executive action by a supreme
outside junta of union secretaries. The
public has not yet been asked to believe
that none of these manufacturers and
interpreters of “Labor” politics, in
whose own fabric (or that of its poli-
tical opponents) no mouse can begin
to gnaw a hole without notice reaching
caucus, knew nothing of abuses in liquor
administration.
Besides, the public should be quite
capable, especially in its sharply-awakened
attention to the prosperity enjoyed under
“Labor” politics by booze, betting and
blackmarketing, of coming to its own con-
clusion about whether during the past
decade N.S.W. “Labor” in office was so
preoccupied with high and lofty schemes
for the benefit of humanity that it did not
know what was happening.
Booze, betting and blackmarketing
was the dope provided for the sup-
porters of “Labor” politics while the
A.L.P. executive, dictating every move to
“Labor” Governments in N.S.W. and in
Canberra, got on with the job of socialisa-
tion. The unions’ executives were sitting
in the drivers’ seats. Under the “golden
age” of the union boss in politics and
industry alike, “Labor” caucuses in Par-
liament, under this direction, spoke one
way and voted another (or refrained
from voting), while in industry the ramp
of “overfull employment” completed the
setting for blackmarketing of labor and
general loafing in Government employ-
ment and much other employment, too.
What should “Labor” politics, at such
time of making hay while the easy-money
sun shone, care about who made easy
money and how, so long as he was not,
as they said, anti-“ Labor”?
The truth is that “Labor” government
in N. S. Wales has been a political racket
and confidence-trick for years past. No
more degenerate form of government has
ever reigned in the State, and the disposi-
tion of some high posts in the civil service
and elsewhere has become a scandal. The
type of Minister who has arisen in N. S.
Wales “Labor” Governments in the last
decade has rarely created departmental
regard or respect. In all cases Ministers
have been poor material to cope with the
tasks and problems confronting the com-
munity as a whole.
The McKell Government’s perform-
ance during the war was to create the
Sydney Turf Club. While Governor-
General elect, ex-Premier McKell’s last
effort was to prevent caucus from
electing Mr. McGirr as Premier; he
failed, but the objective at least must be
counted meritorious. The McGirr Gov-
ernment’s record is written in the collapse
of the electricity-generating services in the
chief industrial State, the bankruptcy of
all State transport services, the evapora-
tion, like casual water in Lake Eyre, of
some £ll million of war-time railway
profits supposed to be earmarked for
post-war railway rehabilitation, the
affliction by statute of the 40-hour week
as insurance for re-election and in glaring
contempt of the Arbitration Court (then
hearing evidence in the same matter) and,
finally, in the forced sale of the private
lands at pre-inflation values, and the
threat to confiscate absolutely the pro-
perties of small dairyfarmers who refused
to supply butter at under production costs
fixed by the McGirr Government. These,
together with larger lotteries, perennial
feelers on behalf of mid-week racing
fixtures, the packing with “Labor” poli-
ticians of the Cricket Ground Trust which
set bookies agog for Sunday League foot-
ball matches there, and a barefaced effort
to disfranchise certain electors for the
benefit of “Labor” politics in uncertain
Assembly seats, would form the features
of a documentary film which should assist
the N.S.W. public now to decide whether
or not “Labor” knew, or cared, what hap-
pened in the domain in which it allowed
booze and betting a free run.
As for blackmarketing, there never was
such a howl from “Labor” politics as
when the public at a referendum threw
out price-control and its attendant ration-
ing of goods. It is a fitting com-
mentary on the question of N.S.W.
“Labor’s” knowledge of liquor abuses
during the past 11 years that “Labor”
has beep clamoring for return of Com-
monwealth price-control and rationing
ever since the defeat of it in 1948, while
to this day “Labor” has never admitted
the blackmarketing that flourished there-
under. The farce of price-control as
price-control has been exemplified in
N.S.W. (where the McGirrs clung to it as
a relic of the “good old days”), and
appropriately under the administration
of Mr. Finnan. That Minister’s
right to the Assembly seat of Darlinghurst
was challenged, after scandalous delay,
in a court of disputed returns, where the
judge ruled that the limitations of the
Electoral Act provided no means of
challenging more than a fraction of the
number of allegedly invalid votes which
might have upset the election of Mr.
Finnan. And there both Mr. Finnan and
his leader let it rest! The issue, incident-
ally, carried with it the fate of the McGirr
Government’s majority in the House.
The head of the A.L.P. executive which
told the late J. B. Chifley when to somer-
sault in Parliament, and made ex-Premier
McGirr eat dirt at its command, was,
before the liquor storm broke, given
choice of fat vacant Government jobs and
took the presidency of the Milk Board.
There he disposes of the produce of the
farmers whom his “Charley McCarthy” in
the Premier’s office had unsuccessfully
threatened with confiscation unless they
pursued dairying at a loss. The
same “Charley McCarthy” simultaneously
gave himself the well-paid job 1 of chairing
the Maritime Services Board, where his
knowledge of the law of sea-carriage of
goods doubtless matches Mr. Ferguson’s
experience in milk-vending.
It would have been an excuse for these
appointments that what neither of them
knew about his new job he could easily
pick up from experience in high affairs
of State. But if, during years of such
experience, they knew nothing whatever
of the abuses of the liquor laws going on
under their noses, and of the monstrous
ramifications of illegal s.-p. betting, what
validity is left to that excuse?
Slimming Treatment Needed.
The Government of Australia, whatever
its complexion may be or become within
the next few years, will be faced with
unpleasant and inescapable realities.
What is developing is a phase which
might be described as a national sobering-
up, in which manufacturers who have
been in the habit of selling their goods
only as a favor have begun to realise that
it sometimes happens that one has to
look for buyers. Milkmen and
butchers have ceased to treat their
customers in the great cities as if they
were some undesirable species of
domestic animal; traders are be-
ginning to look up the meaning of “com-
petition” in the dictionaries, a good many
of them never having come in contact
with the word before. Even unions are
starting to agree that it is not sharp
practice for an employer to seek value
for his money.
On a broader basis, the changing con-
dition of affairs is evident in a general
restiveness and unease due to slacken-
ing of employment in some indus-
tries which have overstocked themselves
with goods under the blithe impression
that so long as the continent continued
to float all that was necessary to maintain
its buying-power was to keep on flinging
goods into the market. Importers are be-
ginning to thank the Government for
having called a halt to overseas buying
when it did. Many of them by now
would have been very sorry for them-
selves if a severe check had not been
applied.
The situation, of course, is not “almost
desperate” in the employment field, as
Dr. Evatt in his panic-stricken tirade on
the Budget claimed.
His own henchman, Mr. A. E. Monk,
swore in the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court last week;
The nation’s economy is not precariously
unstable. Conditions are basically favor-
able to enterprise... .Public confidence is
not being undermined... .In heavy indus-
tries and munitions there have been notable
increases in employment. Although there
has been a readjustment of economic
activity, which is still proceeding, the
economy is fundamentally sound.
There are some unemployed, the result
of necessary readjustments in industry,
of the unwillingness of some wage-earners
to accept work except in places of their
own choosing, and of the fact that the
demand for labor in the Commonwealth
had become bloated in the last few years
of riotous luxury and wasteful spending.
“Full employment” in “Labor’s” view
has now come to mean full employment
also for an excrescent force of wives and
others, normally dependent, who have
abandoned home-life to add luxury to
an adequate sustenance income. While
they cannot be blamed, it is mainly luxury
industry which employs these people, and
it is a question whether full-employment
policies should demand that work be
found for them whether they add to the
real wealth of the country or merely to
its spending.
The truth is that Australia, while still
needing essential work done on a
huge scale, is showing signs, which
every Government should recognise,
of looking at a pound-note before
it spends it and of beginning once
more to expect value for its money. The
signs are obvious on every hand —in the
tight-handed refusal of investors to fill
some recent loans, and the revisions
of the strength of bloated staffs
which have a tendency to. constrict
because a lot of people who hitherto have
done what work they liked now feel it
safer to do an honest day’s work. There
is a genuine all-round buyer-resistance
to high prices, a general realisation that
the high-wage policy of the unions has
made itself ridiculous and —apart from
politicalised and pressure-group shout-
ing—a genuine demand for tax-
reduction which no Government, “Labor’’
or Liberal, will be able to ignore if the
worlyl manages to get through the next
five or six years without a war.
Australia, in fact, seems to be coming
to a cautious conclusion —though perhaps
it is not yet fully conscious of its own
thought-processes and trends —that its
safety lies in beginning to bring its living-
costs as nearly within the limits of its
month-to-month earnings as possible, with
some margin provided against emer-
gencies caused by possible further reces-
sion in world prices.
This is not going to make the job easier
for Governments, since they, as always in
boom times, are apt to blow up their
obligations like balloons, accumulating
huge staffs at fat salaries and vast
Socialistic responsibilities which act like
a load of iron on a sinking lighter when
economic conditions recede from boom
levels.
A glance at the current Federal
Estimates, with the array of highly-paid
potentates and lavish beneficence directed
to the support of institutions which have
no bearing whatever on the actual well-
being of the people of Australia, very
clearly disclose how much may be done in
reducing the cost of government, and to
ease the burdens of industry and
individuals in the difficult period of
adjustment which lies ahead. There is
scarcely a page which does not reveal
some activity or department which could
be scrapped without anybody being the
worse, yet with the taxpayers consider-
ably better off.
It may inflate the ego and the import-
ance of the Canberra staff of the External
Affairs Department to spend £39,000 on
maintaining a legation in Brazil, £12,000
on an Ambassador in Ireland and £19,400
on a legation in Burma, and these
amounts may not seem very much when
seen against the background of a
£950 million Budget; but, multiplied by
hundreds, as they can be, they represent a
wasteful and wicked squandering of
public money, and take up the time of
people who either should not be employed
or who should be diverted to productive
work. As an aghast member from the
frugal State of W.A., Mr. H. A. Leslie,
M.P., pointed out, miscellaneous services
alone in the Budget account for £lB
million this year, an amount which is £3
million less than the whole consolidated
revenue raised by the Commonwealth in
1913-14.
There is scarcely a department
which does not now spend more on
extravagant trifles than it used to spend
on its whole maintenance at the end of
World War I. And when it comes to the
provision of staffs and salaries the sky
was the limit during the years of “Labor”
rule, and the present Government, faced
with a rising basic wage and a constrict-
ing labor market, seems to have difficulty
in making any noticeable inroads into the
morass. Examples like the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, which •
inter alia —employs 152 journalists at an
average salary of nearly £llOO a year
each, and 302 programme-officers at an
average of nearly £lOOO, stud the pages of
the Estimates like plums in a pudding.
It would be a good thing if a com-
mittee of businessmen were appointed to
study the whole position, and discover
what economies can be made and what
savings could be effected in expenditure
and in the burden of taxation through a
gradual process of the transfer of surplus
staffs to private industry and the elimina-
tion of extravagances which are common
to both State and Federal finance.
It is certainly up to the Commonwealth
to set an example and then to insist on the
States, which seem to have lost all sense
of responsibility since they ceased to
collect their own taxes, following suit.
Canberra's Magna Carta.
“El V.” on Australia’s most expensive
document:
In August, a.d. 1297, a month in which a
modern English king would have been pre-
paring to go off to shoot grouse, Edward 1
of England, Lord of Ireland and Duke ot
Aquitaine, was plunged into the difficulties
familiar to Plantagenet kings. He had deter-
mined to destroy Philip the Fair, who had
fraudulently prevented him from marrying his
son Edward to the daughter of the Count of
Flanders, and he hoped afterwards to humble
the Scots. He had issued an order to levy
his loyal barons and prelates and other fat
subjects and lieges to pay the expenses of his
war, and had found himself involved with
Humphrey Bohun, Earl of Hereford, Lord
High Constable, and Hugh Bigod, Earl of
Norfolk, Earl Marshal, in one of those alterca-
tions which kings would rather forget when
they are over but which history has carefully
remembered in detail. When they had reached
a certain stage they parted with shouts of anger
—“By God, O earl, you shall go to Gascony
or be hanged” “By God, O King, I will
neither go nor be hanged.”
Out went the two barons fuming and in-
sulted, for the King had asked them to serve
in a warlike diversion which he proposed and
under command of a foreigner, a humiliation
to which they would have refused to submit
even for President Truman. They proceeded
to secure a following in self-defence and to
such good purpose that presently the King
found himself reminded firmly that he was
paying little attention to Magna Carta, which
his father had renewed over 60 years before
and with an ultimatum that if he did not con-
firm the Runnymede liberties in general, to-
gether with the Forest Charter, which was of
as great interest to his barons, there would be
no money for his private war.
Very sheepishly before he embarked at Win-
chilsea for Flanders, on August 22, he issued
a patent'agreeing to confirm the Great Charter
of Henry 111. His lieges agreed in return to
pay up.
Writs were at once issued for a Parliament
called in the name of his son to meet on
October 6, pass bills of confirmation and grant
the King aids. Four days later the Act of
Confirmation of the Great Charter was passed,
young Edward, aged 13, presiding, and sent off
to Flanders, where the King sealed it on Nov. 5.
On October 12 the Parliament passed the Great
Charter itself, in Latin. It was identical with
that of Henry 111, except for its opening and
closing words: “Inspeximus we have ex-
amined the Great Charter of the Lord Henry,
late King of England, our Father, containing
the liberties of England in these words..,.we,
ratifying and approving these gifts and grants
aforesaid, confirm and make strong all the same
on behalf of us and our heirs perpetually.”
Thus Magna Carta was produced in its final
version as it has been accepted right through
the ages, known, from its opening word, as
the Inspeximus issue. It was ordered to be
sent to all sheriffs and the holders of all strong-
holds and abbeys in the land, and to be read
in all county courts.
Only two copies of this definitive
edition survive today in the original sealed
with Edward’s seal. One is in the archives of
the City of London, whose liberties were ex-
pressly guarded by one of its sections. The
other lay for the last 400 years in the library
of King’s School, Bruton, a historic town a
few miles from Wells, in Somerset. It was
addressed to the sheriffs of Surrey.
Before the end of this year the 655-year-old
document, a stained piece of vellum 20in.
long and 16iin. wide, written in a clerkly
thirteenth-century hand, with a few words
obliterated by holes and Edward’s white seal
attached to it by a green-and-pink ribbon, will
have left its ancient resting-place to repose
permanently in the archives of the Common-
wealth National Library at Canberra, in the
custody of the Commonwealth Parliaments
Library Committee.
It has been bought by the Commonwealth for
£A15,600, a price which may seem high for a
shabby piece of sheepskin, though American
collectors would pay three times that figure for
it if it were offered in the open market, since
it is, the only original of Magna Carta ever
likely to leave England,
It is appropriate that it should be owned by
a British Commonwealth Parliament, for it is
the oldest historic Act officially recorded in
the Statute Roll of England, in which it and its
Act of Confirmation are numbered 28, the
Roll not having existed when previous Charters
were issued.
Mr. Eddie Ward’s customary exhibitionist
howl of rage might have been taken by any
thirteenth-century Englishman who listened to
the broadcast of proceedings to express the
feelings of Edward I’s ghost as he heard Mr.
Speaker Cameron announce, and Mr. Menzies
approve, the purchase of the instrument, the
last confirmation of which was wrung from the
King by his subjects in 1300 before they would
give him money to wallop the Scots under
William Wallace.


PLAIN ENGLISH
National Self-help.
The move by the Canadian Government,
reported at the weekend, to broaden the
agenda of the British Commonwealth
Conference in November, will be wel-
comed by people who still have con-
fidence in tne British race and in its ability
to manage its own affairs.
The Canadians apparently feel that
there is too little concern among the
framers of the agenda with the doctrine
of self-help, and they have moved (if the
report is true), apparently, to include in
the discussions a review of internal
domestic politics within the Common-
wealth with a view to considering what
internal strengthening of the Empire
structure can be achieved before there is
recourse to external bodies and nations.
The Canadians have been nothing if not
self-reliant during the post-war years, and
their policy has paid them handsomely.
They have used every ounce of available
energy in a farseeing development of their
latent mineral and oil resources, and they
have shown an independence of spirit in
foreign politics which has placed them in
a very strong position as a negotiating
Power and earned them a respect
accorded, perhaps, to no other nation —
certainly to no nation so small in
population.
They have, in effect, become a great
Power, well able to look after themselves,
and they have carefully kept aloof from
the kind of pact in which Australia has
bound itself recently in the Pacific, in
which it must inevitably become a sort of
helot party. Canada has no ambition
to shirk its own defence arrangements
because it thinks it can pole on the United
States.
No group of countries in the world, not
even Russia or the United States, has such
a reservoir of materials and resources in
general as the new countries of the
British Commonwealth. Combining in
effort they can dominate the world
economy in a generation or two by expan-
sion achieved through planned individual
and mutual effort and domestic policies
based on the full exploitation of their land
and metals by means of maximum hard
work and ingenuity.
They need little or no outside economic
aid from now onward if they stick to-
gether, and they have nothing to gain by
living in two worlds, as Australia appears
to be trying to do at the moment —-leaning
on Britain for defence on one side and
on the United States on the other, while
perforce hanging back in the breeching
with a nominal 40-hour week and a
domestic industrial policy, forced on an
unwilling Federal Government, of which
the essence is squander and loaf.
N.T. Development.
Mr. Paul Hasluck is turning Northern
Territory policy inside-out with a
vengeance, and not before it was needed.
The" stubborn George Pearce initiated
the present policy not long after World
War I, and it was a failure from the start.
The limitation of the period of leases
frightened off large amounts of overseas
capital —in one case the late J. B. Cramsie
had a plan which involved the £7,000,000
investment of British money to transfer
Brunette and Alexandria stations and
one or two other Barkly Tableland pro-
perties, totalling about 20,000 square
miles, from cattle to sheep. Options
had been obtained, plans laid out in detail
which involved the provision of water
every five miles, the fencing and re-
grassing of areas, the planting of shade-
belts and the orderly cutting-up and sale
of the improved and restocked area to
men of comparatively small means. But
the promoters were unable to guarantee
a 4’2-year term without subdivision or
even able to specify under statutory sub-
division what country would be resumed.
They handed back their option-money.
Up till recently (perhaps up to the
present) the contemplation of Victoria
River Downs, the largest property in the
Territory held by an overseas company,
with its thousands of miles of good, well-
watered grazing and fattening country,
its fat herds of wild “mickeys” with never
an earmark on them, its dilapidated out-
stations on which submanagers and their
families lived, and its depressing lack of
improvements, made a strong contrast to
what had been done by some adjacent
small-holders.
Mr. Hasluck has the right basic idea.
Under his regime the exemption from
income tax which pastoral properties in
the N.T. have been granted for years as
a concession to a policy of despair has
been wiped out. And tenures are to be
stabilised because, as Mr. Hasluck says,
“Land tenure is undoubtedly one of the
bases of development .. . . Unless the terms
of occupancy allow a man to get a fair
return from his investment you cannot
expect development.”
At the same time, all holdings need
to be reviewed by a skilled committee
before any new undertakings are entered
into, and each property should be con-
sidered from the viewpoint of whether
it would be better to allow it to remain
in the hands of a large company or
whether it can be cut into normal
western holdings.
Decisions on policy should lean towards
the course of action which will be most
likely to increase northern population.
End of the Section.
The calamity-howling by N.S.W. “Labor”
members during the Budget debate in
Canberra is now explained by the actions
of the State “Labor” Government in New
South Wales A The basic-wage rise of
12s. was announced a fortnight
before the Commonwealth Budget was
produced. On the day following the
announcement of the new wage one of
Premier Cahill’s Ministers declared in the
Press that the wage-increase would cost
the N.S.W. Government another
£2,500,000 in salaries, that dismissals of
State employees had begun and that more
would be laid off shortly.
It is now clear, from statements during
the past weekend, that Premier Cahill had
instructed Transport Minister Sheahan
that the prospect °f a further serious
deficit in his department made it impera-
tive that he should cut services and staff
and also railway works programmes in
preparation for “Labor’s” own Budget in
N.S.W. Having this warning of the blows
announced to the public only last Friday
and Saturday, Dr. Evatt and other N.S.W.
members of Federal caucus planned their
criticism of the Commonwealth Budget
as a vehicle of depression and panic. That
the panic-howling to this pattern would
tend to worsen the employment situa-
tion —already seriously affected by soar-
ing wages and costs under the impact of
an inflated economy that “Labor” was
bent solely upon aggravating —deterred
Dr. Evatt and his N.S.W. followers not
in the least. They wanted only to save
“the party” in N.S.W.
Simultaneously the president of the
A.C.T.U., tendering his affidavit in the
Arbitration Court to rebut the employers’
request for temporary suspension of the
quarterly wage-revisions pending the
main hearing on hours and wages, averred
that the national economy under inflated
costs and wages “is not precariously
unstable,” that State railways are now
moving more goods, that employment is
not being reduced under high wage costs,
and that “instability is not being brought
about by frequent wage-rises.” This
“Labor” affidavit gives the lie direct to
everything “Labor” politicians have been
saying in Parliament, and is a mockery of
every detail in the Cahill Government’s
current statements.
The one point on which political and
industrial “Labor” are in agreement is in
the demand for unlimited inflation, no
matter what the ultimate consequences.
As Mr. Menzies justly said, it is the crack-
brained policy of “inflating ourselves oul
of inflation.”
“Labor’s” long pretence in N.S.W.—
five years long—that a reduced working
week was the road to economic prosperity
is punctured at last. The N.S.W. transport
services are officially admitted to be
bankrupt, and the N.S.W. Governmeni
confesses that it cannot continue on the
basis of present award conditions to main-
tain its transport staffs, its working
services or its railway loan-works pro-
gramme. “The money,” said Mr. Sheahar
at the weekend, “is just not there.” Oi
every £1 of transport earnings it is con-
fessed that 19s. goes in wages anc
salaries ; altogether it costs the Govern
ment 265. to earn 20s.
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week
Colonel Bruxner lashed the “Labor’
panic-mongering as designed to bring
about a depression for political purposes
“Recently,” he said,
I challenged the Premier to tell me what
he had done with £192,000,000 of loan
money his Government had received m
the last seven years. His “forceful”
reply has been published in all the coun-
try newspapers. He listed the works the
Government had completed. When I
totalled them up I found their cost came
to £2,900,000, and others to a total of
£1700,000 were being hurried a10ng....
I have heard in this House since it met
at the beginning of this week whispers
that there is to he an early election;
that the Government will close down
work on this and that job so that they
can have men walking about without work
and an election can be fought on unem-
ployment. If anything of that sort is
attempted, even if I die for it, I wiU go
out among the people and tell them
what snivelling hypocrites comprise this
Government . ,
I was a member of the Government that
followed the second Lang Government,
and if any mah wishes to go through hell
let him try to pick up the pieces of a
country that a “Labor” Government has
wrecked, as my colleagues and I had to
do after the people had had a taste of
Mr. “Greater-than-Lenin” Lang.
“Labor” would rather ruin the State
again than admit mistake. On the ground
that they have not got the money to pay
wages for their 40-hour week they would
rather throw men out of work than co-
operate in recasting the working week
and reducing the costs that are causing
unemployment. What the “Labor” party
is exemplifying once again is that nobody
has so little practical concern for the
working-man’s welfare as those who have
climbed into place and power on the
working-man’s back.
Production and Prosperity.
When, in the course of the Budget
debate, External Affairs Minister Casey
said that since the war production m
America had increased by 60 per cent., in
Britain by 25 per cent, and in Australia
by only 10 per cent., protesting voices
came from the Opposition side of the
House—as they always do when anyone
raises the subject of production.
Mr. Casey claimed that one of the main
reasons why America had the greatest
productivity and the highest standard of
living in the world was that American
workers were not interested in a cor-
rosive class-war” and realised that higher
production meant higher profits and a
bigger share in the profits for themselves.
He told the Opposition that Australian
workers would be much better off if their
political and industrial leaders took a
little more notice of what labor move-
ments in other parts of the world were
doing.
In the New South Wales Parliament
Liberal-leader Treatt had something
similar to say. Both Casey and Treatt
have no doubt studied the working of the
Anglo-American Council on Productivity,
founded in 1948 through the efforts of
Stafford Cripps and Paul Hoffman,
director of the U.S. Economic Co-opera-
tion Administration.
Since March, 1949, when 16 men,
drawn from technical, supervisory and
workshop branches of the steel-founding
industry, left for a six weeks’ visit to
America, 66 teams representative of
almost every industry in Britain have
crossed the Atlantic, studied the American
counterparts of their own particular in-
dustries and returned to give British
industry the benefit of what they
have found out. Teams have been
selected by small committees repre-
senting management and labor in the
industries concerned and sterling costs
have been borne by the British Govern-
ment, employers’ associations and the
Trade Union Congress. Dollar costs
have been paid by E.C.A. All who have
had experience of the working of the
scheme are enthusiastic about its success,
and there seems no doubt that at least
some of the credit for Britain’s increased
productivity is due to it.
If “Labor” politicians scoff when Gov-
ernment spokesmen call for a change in
outlook towards productivity, perhaps
they may listen with a little more patience
to one of their own men. Mr. Dougherty,
of the A.W.U., had something to say on
the subject a few months ago, after a
trip to America, but he seems to have
forgotten about it lately. Last week an-
other industrial-“ Labor” man, J. Keena-
han, a vice-president of the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council, back from a tour
of'British industry, told his colleagues
that the great need in Australian unionism
was “greater worker-manager co-opera-
tion and a realistic approach to produc-
tivity.” He said that all progressive
British unions now thought in terms of
productivity and realised that greater
efficiency meant higher standards of
living.
That is sound, honest commonsense, a
commodity all too scarce in this country
today, and in the present state of “Labor”
politics Mr. Keenahan is to be applauded
for having the courage to say it.
Badge of Shame?
Sight of a uniform or mention of recruit-
ing has always been sufficient to bring a
yelp of anguish from Mr. E. J. Ward, so
it was not surprising that he and his
imitator, Dan Curtin, should go into their
act last week when the latter was told, in
answer to a question, that it was a fact
that young men registering at the Com-
monwealth Employment Service for
unemployment benefits were “referred to
recruiting-centres.” The Minister for
Defence told Curtin that there was no
pressure or persuasion to join the
services; it was just a matter of seeing
“if every avenue of employment had been
investigated,” but that didn’t deter Mr.
Curtin from calling it “a plan to coerce
young men into enlistment.” or Mr. Ward
from speaking of “economic conscrip-
tion.”
Both honorable gentlemen were talking
through the back of their necks. If a
young man goes to the C.E.S. in search
of a job it is the duty of the officers to
tell him of any vacancy within their know-
ledge. According to Ward himself the
C.E.S. has no jobs to offer. There are
vacancies in the Navy, Army and Air
Force, well-paid and on good conditions.
Why should Ward, Curtin or anyone else
object to this being mentioned? Surely
the C.E.S. would be falling down on its
job if it omitted to do so.
It was during the term of the “Labor”
Government of which Mr. Ward was a
member that the emphasis on service was
dropped from recruiting-advertisements
and the stress placed instead on rates of
pay, chances of promotion and the oppor-
tunity to learn a trade, but apparently
this did not alter Mr. Ward’s distaste for
the defence forces of the nation. As Mr.
Ward is an inveterate asker of questions,
it is only fair that he should be asked a
few himself. Something like a million ex-
servicemen are entitled to ask him whether
he considers the Queen’s uniform a badge
of shame. Does he consider service in the
armed forces degrading and the forces
themselves an unnecessary extravagance,
or at best a necessary but regrettable evil
to be hushed up as much as possible and
spoken of only in whispers?
Road Transport and Strikes.
West Australians, or those of them
who keep in touch with what goes on in
the eastern States, are feeling mighty
thankful they have no counterpart of
N.S.W. Minister for Transport Sheahan
or his opposite-numbers in Victoria,
Queensland and South Australia, with
an avowed intention of putting private
road transport out of business.
A strike of key railwaymen in W.A.
has just ended after nearly six months.
It was something about margins in the
metal-trades awards. It practically
stopped the W.A. railways, and now that
it is ended only 80 out of 354 loco-
motives are ready for service, and it is
“estimated” it will take a year to get the
railways back to their former efficiency.
W-A., however, managed to carry on
most of its transport during the strike
period. Privately-owned buses, trucks,
semi-trailers and lorries carried passengers
and goods, and with a speed and effici-
ency and at a price which surprised a
lot who looked upon road transport as a
sort of unnecessary luxury. The State
was saved from general immobilisation.
Immobilisation, be it noted, was the
aim of the railway strikers as a form of
blackmail to enforce their demands. The
N.S.W. Mr. Sheahan has declared himself
adamant in refusing to relieve private
road hauliers of prohibitive taxation. He
said something about “vested interests.”
Only road transport saved W.A. from
the “vested interests” of a recalcitrant
union. If Mr. Sheahan and the other
eastern Transport Ministers have their
way eastern Australia will have no such
protection against railway strikers.
Liquor-trade Funds.
Last week, when the N.S.W. Opposition-
leader moved for extension of the liquor
commission’s scope to “permit full inquiry
into all aspects” of police administration
of the liquor laws, the Government by a
majority of one secured a vote that this
was not necessary “at present,” though
the Attorney-General immediately there-
after conferred with the royal commis-
sioner to confirm that this opinion was
also his. Mr. Justice Maxwell so con-
firmed, and added that the commission
was open to any representations from
persons who had evidence showing neces-
sity for widening the scope of his inquiry.
But these later representations have
been concerned only with the sensational
evidence concerning police administration
of the liquor laws, a matter on which
former Premier Stevens’s proposal offers
the proper further course, in the interests
of both the public and the police force —
namely, that the case is one for correction
of revealed evils through reorganisation
under a new outside commissioner, “such
as could be secured from Scotland Yard.”
In point of fact a vital line of inquiry
has not yet been opened, and Sydney
“Daily Mirror” has done public service
in pointing it out. It is one that un-
doubtedly touches closely the public
interest, and it was raised by Mr.
Geraghty during the original Assembly
debate last year, which resulted in the
commission’s appointment. Mr. Geraghty
has given evidence, on subpoena, before
the commission, but was asked no ques-
tions on this point. But he said in Par-
liament that there ought to be disclosures
about the “Liquor Trades Defence
(Continued on next page.)


KLG
I
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. [psus}
o
HOB 6
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
v.
V.
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen. Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
• Also
Telescopic
Prismatic
Binoculars,
Sights,
Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25,
£l5/15/-
+ 12*% Sales Tax
55a
ŵ
K HUNTER STHEET. SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
Council, an organisation the identity of
which has not'yet been disclosed.”
For whom and for what purpose does
it collect Id. in the £ on every invoice
sent out to a retailer?
The invoice carries stamps to the value
of this charge, but where, does the money
go? Here is an organisation that collects
Bs. 4d. on every £lOO, or 83s. 4d. on every
£lOOO. Is it a licensed organisation? In
whose interests does it work? Perhaps
the royal commission can. delve into it
and throw some light on the situation.
If, as the Attorney-General has said,
the Government wants “only the broadest
possible investigation,” this branch of
inquiry is of vital public importance.. In
Mr. Geraghty’s words “Where has this
money been going to?” The fund must
have accumulated considerable propor-
tions over these years ; and if the Gov-
ernment has not expressly referred this
question to the commission as one it
“deems necessary” to be investigated, the
commission has it in its power to recall
Mr. Geraghty and open it from that
source.
Neither the Premier nor the Leader of
the Opposition in recent Parliamentary
interventions concerning the scope of the
inquiry has made the slightest reference
to these secret funds and the disposal of
them. They cannot remain unresponsive
to demands that this defect shall be cured.
The commission’s investigations will not
be complete without this particular probe.
POLITICAL POINTS
Gem of the week: Victorian Half-
Premier McDonald warning “political
parties and sectional interests” not to try
to exert pressure on the “Country-party
Government,”
With a long programme of legislation
before it. Federal Parliament will meet
four days a week from now till the end
of October. Main bills to be discussed
after the Estimates have been disposed
of are the Official Secrets Bill and the
Sabotage Bill, designed to strengthen the
Government’s hand in dealing with Com-
munists ; two banking bills; a bill to
confirm the agreement with T.A.A. and
A.N.A, and a civil defence bill.
South Australia is tightening up security
in its uranium areas by amendments to its
Uranium Mining Act. The new Act
confers powers to declare prohibited areas
and to take action against anyone record-
ing or communicating information “of
anything in a prohibited area or of any
operations being carried out or work done
in a prohibited area.” Penalties are severe.
Premier Playford, in introducing the bill,
said “The results of development of
atomic energy will be available to us only
if we take adequate steps to see that secret
information, which it is necessary for us
to have, is not readily passed on to
potential enemies,”
It seems almost certain now that the
current year will be the last under uniform
taxation, and that the States will resume
their income-taxing powers after June 30,
1953. It also seems likely that a scheme
will be worked out to overcome the neces-
sity for taxpayers to compile more than
one return. This is all to the good ; but
the Federal authorities would be wise not
to accept the further suggestion of one
assessment. Premier McDonald, in his
Victorian Budget speech, spoke of “one
assessment, which will show the amount
payable as Commonwealth tax and the
amount payable as State tax.” With a
joint assessment, even with the items
stated separately, Fadden would still be
the bunny.
As the leader - of the Country party
pointed out in the N.S.W. Assembly last
week, the Government’s review of affairs
put into the mouth of the Governor at
the opening of the State Parliament con-
tained not one word about Korea or
condolence in the grief of N.S.W. families
whose sons, fighting in the Australian
forces there, have been killed and
wounded in action.
Municipal dignity in the face of
disaster:
Mr. Pattinson (Lib. member for and Mayor
of Glenelg) in S.A. Assembly, July 30, 1952:
When a strong breeze blew up the Gulf and
blew the Glenelg jetty away Sir Willoughby
saw fit to call at the Town Hall and express his
sympathy. I was then able to say “At least,
Sir, we still have the sea. They can’t take that
away from us.”
No celebrations attended the opening
of Melbourne’s new bridge across the
Yarra at Swan-street. The reason may
have been that the Government didn’t
want to draw more attention to the fact
that after a war in which Army engineers
threw bridges across rivers many times
as broad as the Yarra in a few days it
took six years to complete the Swan-
street span, and in that period the cost
had time to rise from an estimated £BO,OOO
to an actual £200,000,
There apparently has been a substantial
rise in the market-price of economists.
For a long time their value has been
commonly quoted at twopence a dozen,
but in the Arbitration Court last Thurs-
day Dunphy, J., said “Reading the Aus-
tralian Press during the last six months, I
would think economic experts were two-
pence a pound.” If the new price becomes
standard some of our lean and sawn-off
economists will be passing nasty remarks
about the unearned increment of their
better-covered colleagues.
Half-Premier McDonald’s Budget is,
by Canberra standards, a modest affair,
but in comparison with pre-war Victorian
housekeeping it’s colossal. Mac has
managed to keep his estimates below the
£ 100-million-mark, but only just. He
reckons on raking in £99,551,000 revenue
and spending £99,539,000, leaving him
with a net surplus of £12,000 after allow-
ing for deficits of £2,365,000 on his rail-
ways and £184,000 on his State coalmine.
McDonald has this to say in explanation
of his budgeting for a surplus after five
successive deficits:
Accumulated war-time balances have been
spent for their specific purposes and are
not available temporarily to finance excess
spending from consolidated revenue pend-
ing borrowing for deficits. Loan funds are
limited and are completely inadequate for
our essential works In the last five years
Victoria has had deficits amounting in the
aggregate to £5,000,000. This Government,
and, in fact, no Government, could have
allowed the drift to continue. Persistent
and growing deficits can lead only to
financial chaos for the State The Gov-
ernment would be recreant to its trust if in
present circumstances it failed to take the
position in hand and restore stability to the
finances of the State.
Mac didn’t say whether his sudden
awakening was a kind of political death-
bed repentance or whether it was due to
his recent feat of changing horses in the
middle of the Yarra.
Dissecting his expenditure, the Vic-
torian Premier says it falls into two
classes —general revenue services and
“services which might appropriately be
called business undertakings, for example,
the railways and the State coalmine.”
Considering that the two shows between
them lost close on £6 million last year
and are expected to lose over £4 million
this year, the term “business undertak-
ings” seems singularly inappropriate.
In N.S.W. the State “Labor” Govern-
ment not so long ago raised fares and
freights as the only means (or hope) of
overtaking, working expenses, and has
now accepted the Commonwealth’s
hospital subsidy with a means-test. In
Victoria the Cain “Labor” party, for two
years a close supporter of the McDonald
minority Government, but lately divorced
from that alliance, has attacked Mc-
Donald for taking precisely the same
course in each matter and under the same
inexorable pressure of circumstances.
J. F. Barnes, the “Bundaberg bomb-
shell” of Queensland politics, died last
May. Premier Gair moved a motion of
condolence in the Queensland Parliament
last week:
in all my Christian charity I cannot even
believe that Mr. Barnes could be said to have
served any real purpose in this Parliament
there is none of us who can truthfully say
that he did not abuse the privileges and rights
of Parliamentarians
Mr. Aikens (Mundingburra):... .When we
talk of abuses in this Chamber I can
remember with considerable horror many
abuses perpetrated when Barnes was here —
perpetrated on him, not by him In the
sands of time Frank Barnes has left a foot-
print-many of those who attack him will only
leave a heel-print....
Milk price in Melbourne rose to Bfd.
a pint in June, vendors claiming they
couldn’t carry on for less. Since then the
city’s milk consumption has dropped by
10 p.c. The vendors describe this as a
“disaster,” and say the price will have to
be increased to make up for the reduced
sales. Then, of course, consumption will
fall again.
Stated at the opening of Queensland
Parliament that it now costs that State
from £lO,OOO to £13,000 to place a soldier-
settler on the land in full production.
Most soldier-settlers would settle for half
that if it meant a free hand and no chivvy-
ing by Government chaps. Too much of
the cost goes in forms, files, inspectors
and other things that don’t add an ounce
of grain, a thimbleful of milk or a strand
of wool to production.
Dr. Lloyd Ross, leaving Melbourne
“Herald” to go back to the secretaryship
of N.S.W. branch of the Australian Rail-
ways Union: “I accepted because I
believe that an opportunity is being
offered me to cany on the fight for Aus-
tralian Labor and for the elimination
of Communist influences from Australia.”
If Communist Jacky Brown manages to
retain his secretaryship of the Victorian
A.R.U. a meeting could be arranged
somewhere along the Murray —no holds
barred.
Col. Bruxner, in the N.S.W. Assembly,
on the Cahill Government’s interest in
rural areas and their industry;
A real laugh will go through the countrymen
the statement in the Governor’s speech that ‘tub
policy of my advisers is towards directing the
flow of population from the cities to rural
areas.” This from a Government that took live
seats away from the country and gave them to
the city The Government says to the country
people: “If you want to have a representative
in Parliament come down here where there are
five more seats.”
Prof, W. Macmahon (“Unpleasant
Evening”) Ball has finally decided he will
not accept a section of Melbourne under-
graduates’ invitation to represent Aus-
tralia in Dr. Burton’s train at the Comin-
tern’s “peace” conference at Peking. He
announced this in the Melbourne Press
“after a conference with Dr. Burton,” as
a result of which he was still “unable to
find out the membership of the delegation
and the way in which its leader would be
selected.”
N.S.W. liquor commission:
The Demon Drink himself forced his way into
the royal commission on liquor last week, and
argument raged for some time as to whether
or not he had been responsible for keeping
Metropolitan Superintendent Thompson from
appearing at the court. Dr. H. Speannan said
Thompson was suffering from alcoholic poison-
ing, was “confused, worried, anxious and de-
pressed.” He agreed that a simple description
would be “plain drunk.” He did not consider
Thompson would be in a state to give evidence
for a couple of days. After Mr. Justice Max-
well had suggested getting two independent
doctors’ opinions, Dr. John McGeorge and Dr.
C. E. Percy examined Thompson. Next day
Dr. McGeorge said he had found no evidence
of acute alcoholism. If Thompson had been
in a “stuporous condition” the night before
he saw him, he had made “what might be
called a dramatic recovery.” When examined,
Thompson was not unsteady in his balance, his
eyes were not bloodshot and his knee-jerks
were normal. Dr. Percy agreed with Dr. Mc-
George. At this stage Demon Drink slipped
out unobtrusively and Superintendent Thomp-
son came into court to resume his evidence.
He denied having been under the influence. He
had had a few drinks, but was not drunk. He
had felt too ill to come to court, so had called
a doctor.
The rest of the hearing covered further details
of the betting successes of Thompson and his
predecessor, Superintendent Sweeney, a wine-
licence issued to Thompson’s son in respect of
Bathurst-street premises in which Douglas Bar-
wick, of the Captain Cook Hotel, was inter-
ested, and the garaging arrangements for a
couple of cars allegedly owned by Barwick.
Sergeant Corrigan explained to the court that
a Ford Custom sedan which was garaged at his
house had been got by him for Barwick,
who had paid for it. It was kept at his house
because there was no garage at the Captain
Cook. He had had use of it at nights and at
weekends. Barwick also owned a Jaguar,
which was garaged in the saloon-bar at the
hotel.
Repercussions of the liquor commis-
sion last week included (1) the dismissal
of Sergeant E. C. Davis on the grounds
of serious misconduct, including “going
to a particular nightclub in uniform and
partaking of liquor”; (2) defeat by 44
votes to 43 of a move by the N.S.W.
Opposition to have the scope of the
inquiry widened to include all aspects of
the police department’s administration of
liquor laws ; (3) an invitation to Sergeant
Corrigan to deliver a lecture to the Pro-
gressive Housewives’ Association on
family budgets. The invitation was
declined.
First benefit Riverina residents received
from the taking-over of private electricity
generators by the N.S.W. Electricity
Authority, through its administering
authority, Riverina County Council, was
an increase of 25 p.c, in the price of
electricity.
Queensland Government, noting the
number of unemployed building-workers,
abolished all building-controls last week.
When the Cahill Government heard of
this it was rumored that it intended to
strengthen tick patrols on the Queensland
border, and enlarge the dips to prevent
this form of sanity spreading south. How-
ever, it has apparently decided to risk
being infected, believing itself to be
immune.
One vital change of circumstance
“Labor” speakers conveniently dodge
when they demand a return to the favor-
able employment conditions of the
Chifley post-war years is that nobody can
put back the clock which has restored
German, Italian and Japanese enterprise
to the international industrial market.
“F.S.”: Here is one avenue Mr.
McDonald could explore in his drive for
economy. His Government is paying
about 30 student-teachers an allowance —
enough to live on —to learn “art apprecia-
tion” from the Professor of Fine Arts at
the University of Melbourne, so that they
can teach art to the schoolchildren. As
far as I can see what they are taught is
to let the children do what they like, so
why teach them? Any mother completely
ignorant of art could do that. '
Remarking that about 2000 miles of
railway would be needed to link up NT.
cattle country with agistment, fattening
and market areas, Fairbairn and Went-
worth, M.P.s, say that it may seem a lot,
but “between 1880 and 1890 Australia
built about 600 miles of railway a year.”
True, but there was no 40-hour week
then.


BUYER-RESISTANCE.


ŵ
*
i*
jfl
&
db
R
S'
•j \r-v
C
t
TIME
FOR
CAPS!
m
Y.I&S
’"///.
THE
I
DEPENDABLE
CIGARETTE
40*
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
X937D.6.5?
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Future of Share Prices
With interest-rates up—the
local-government borrowing rate
at above 4\ p.c., with long-
term Consols returning 4£ p.c.
and the maximum overdraft
rate at 5 p.c.—the sharemarket
is more than ever disposed to
take notice of yields from invest-
ment shares.
This regard for income, of
course, is long overdue ; but in
the 1950-51 market excess of
buoyancy there was an anxiety
about inflation that justified
some disregard of investment
yields. The trouble was that
the prudent investor’s attempt to
cover himself against inflation
led to a buoyant market that
was misinterpreted by specula-
tors as a sign of great prosperity,
whereas very few companies
were showing s large profits in
relation to their total capital
investment, especially when
measured in pre-war pounds.
The uninitiated speculator
coming into the market in a big
way at a critical time sent prices
for unproved stocks to ridicu-
lously high levels, and nearly all
other stocks were affected. A
stream of bonus-share issues
arising out of asset-revaluation
further overglamorised the situa-
tion and misled speculators, with
the result that very many people
not normally interested in the
sharemarket became entangled
in it to a distressing extent.
Some have got out. Many
other investors have had to sell
their holdings on a weak market
in order to pay their income
taxes. But there are probably
still hundreds of people waiting
an opportunity to unload stocks
that they were ill-advised to buy
in the first place. And this ex-
cessive and shaky holding of
shares is one of the reasons why
very few stocks show any sus-
tained strength in present share-
trading conditions.
The Bulletin pointed out
many times at the beginning of
the 1951 slide in share-prices
that front-line stocks, such as
8.H.P., A.C.1., C.S.R. and
Henry Jones, were holding their
values much better than first-
class second-line stocks. It was
the expressed opinion here that
these second-line stocks, where
they offered a favorable yield,
were the better buying in very
many cases.
Time has proved this theory
to be generally right; certainly
from the point of view of mar-
ket price. Though in times of
uncertainty such as those which
we are passing through now it is
the tendency for sharebrokers to
put their clients into stocks of
renowned industrial stability,
and this trend has maintained
support for the first-class indus-
trials and insurance concerns
for some time, there has lately
been an easing in front-line
issues, some slipping to near
their lowest level of this year,
whilst most second-liners have
been tending to recover.
The reason for the hardening
of second-liners is that they are
often offering attractive yields,
and when these yields are con-
firmed by trading results and
dividend announcements in
respect of 1951-52 it is sound
policy to give this type of stock
serious consideration.
By no means all companies
balancing on June 30 have yet
presented their accounts or
announced their final dividend.
But some have. Many are
reducing their distributions, but
probably an equal number are
maintaining them. An odd one,
such as Bitumen and Oil
Refineries, has raised its rate.
B.H.P. is now being bought to
yield 4 p.c. Last year its profit
was a little lower than usual
because of higher tax-provision.
In the current term it should
have the help, in its battle with
costs, of the recent increase in
pig-iron and steel prices. In the
circumstances the 4 p.c. yield
looks quite secure, and B.H.P.’s
long-term prospects seem as
bright as any section of free-
enterprise in the Common-
wealth.
Among other stocks that have
maintained their rate of distri-
"If you get me out of this jay-walking charge I may let
you handle my divorce proceedings.”
bution is Bradford Cotton. This
concern is paying 10 p.c., and
the ord. shares, cum Is. div., are
available at 335. 3d., returning 6
p.c. This is a soundly-established
enterprise, and was previously
one of the “glamor stocks” of
the share-list. It has done more
to justify its glamor than most
of the others, notwithstanding
present depressed conditions in
the textile industry. Its trading
results are not yet to hand.
Frederic Ash, R. B. Davies
Industries, , Hotel Metropole,
John Mcllwraith Industries,
Bearing Services, Masonite Cor-
poration and F. J. Walker are
other “second-liners” whose full
results will be awaited with
interest. But it can be taken for
granted that in most cases the
sharemarket will give more
weight to the yield available
than it was doing twelve months
ago. Though not inclined to
respond enthusiastically to in-
creased dividends, investors are
quick to reduce their quotes in
the case of a decline in the rate
of a company’s distribution.
At present money, judging
by the poor response to
some public-body 4i p.c. loans,
is still tight. Income-tax assess-
ments are still an embarrass-
ment in a number of cases. And
not very many balance-sheets to
June 30 are yet available, thus
leaving investors in some doubt
about future income yields.
It is yields that in the normal
course of events determine mar-
ket prices for shares. In the
long run, investors buy shares
for income. And most people
are coming back to that view,
after several years of specula-
tion and hedging against infla-
tion.
The income of industry
generally in future will depend a
great deal upon its ability to
reduce costs of production. That
will involve a large increase in
output per head. Although in
times of slackness like the pre-
sent increased production would
seem out of place, the truth is
that lower costs (arising from
increased output) are necessary
to restore buying and investment
confidence, make the Welfare
State a reality and enable
our products to stand up to com-
petition in the world’s markets.
A surplus of production over
consumer demand is also needed
to provide this slowly-develop-
ing country with essential
capital goods.
Uranium “in Sight.”
“P. Mobile”: A second dis-
covery of a sizeable radio-
active deposit by private pros-
pectors in the Northern
Territory—this time at Edith
River—suggests the probable
occurrence of this type of
mineral in several parts of N.T.
and in widely-varying geologi-
cal environments. It still re-
mains to be proved that the
minerals are of a composition
and nature to allow of the
economic production of uranium
oxide.
The information published
justifies a degree of optimism,
but it does not warrant the
fevered outbursts, some of them
inspired from official quarters,
by sections of the Press.
Most ,of the publicity, to put it
mildly, has been premature, and
it would be a wise precaution
to forbid officials in Govern-
ment employ to make state-
ments of the kind recently attri-
buted to them. Most institutes
of professional mining men
rigidly define the conditions
under which such terms as “ore
in sight” may be used by its
members in reports, and official-
dom should be placed under
similar restraint.
The suspicion that the De-
partment of National Develop-
ment had counted its chickens
before they were hatched was
strengthened by the appeals for
a wider search for uranium
made immediately after the
recent visit of the Prime Minister
to U.S.A. And the Bureau of
Mineral Resources (in spite of
its very expensive equipment,
including air-borne instruments)
seems to have been beaten to
the gun by a group of three
prospectors, who—in view of
the dilatory and restricted pay-
ment to the discoverer of Rum
Jungle—not surprisingly re-
quested to be allowed to work
the deposit themselves.
The Federal Government
might well take a lesson in pro-
cedure from South Australia,
whose Department of Mines,
before it issued any comprehen-
sive statement, made certain
that the type of ore discovered
at Radium Hill was suitable,
both qualitatively and quanti-
tatively, for the extraction of
uranium, commercially, on more
than a laboratory scale.
In the “rights” market last
week Masonite firmed to 14s. 3d.,
and still looked attractive. If
the 12j; p.c: div. is maintained
the new shares, when fully paid,
would yield 7.3 p.c.; 6 p.c. if
the rate drops to 10 p.c. Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries
rights were still slack at 12s. 3d.,
representing 395. 9d. fully paid,
compared with 41s. 3d. for the
old shares. 1.0.1. at 10s. 9d.
meant 335. 3d. when fully paid;
the previous issue, f.-p., stands
at around 345, 6d. A. G. Heal-
ing rights at ss. indicate a fully-
paid price of 10s., compared with
11s. 6d. for the old ss. shares.
All these new issues should be
interesting to those seeking to
invest money at the present time.


RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Beit, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
7
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
k THE RIGIFLEX BEITj
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
J Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
j NAME...
| ADDRESS. - .......
j ........ state .
I—-
ẁ
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Welfare State
Some of the most trenchant
thrusts at Maoriland’s rather
vulnerable and extremely costly
“Welfare State” have been made
by visiting church dignitaries,
who think the level of citizen-
ship falls a long way short of the
ideal needed to make a success
of the big experiment.
Said Dr. Geoffrey Fisher,
Archbishop of Canterbury, at
the end of 1951: “A much higher
level of citizenship is demanded
of everyone under the new Wel-
fare State than was required
under the old order. Under in-
dividualism it was each man for
himself, but the world today is
so crowded and each country
is so complex that individualists
cannot survive. There is a
compulsion on all to find an
order of society which looks to
the welfare of all and serves the
welfare of a11....The Welfare
State has its good and its bad
points, and the question is
whether we can, by patience, trial
and error, keep the good points
and get rid of the bad.... The
next stage to the Welfare State,
if it fails, is a tyranny. If it
breaks down, the country does
not step back into a laisser-faire
State. The challenge in New
Zealand and in Australia is to
raise the standard of citizenship
far higher than anything we
have known in the past.”
That was enough to put Maori-
landers on the spot, and they
accepted and endorsed his Lord-
ship’s appraisal, but that was all.
Lately, a much more caustic
critic has denounced the Welfare
State and all its works. This
worthy, Rt. Rev. Monsignor
Donald A. Mac Lean, professor
of social, political and inter-
national ethics at the Catholic
University of America, Washing-
ton, said: “Socialism and its off-
spring, the Welfare State, mean
the enslavement of the person-
ality and the loss of social,
political and industrial initiative
in a downward path towards
totalitarianism and ultimate
Communism. A system which
claims to care for citizens from
the cradle to the grave strips
them of their rights and en-
thrones the governing authority
as a deity New Zealand
should foster an extensive land-
development scheme in an effort
to counter the full effects of Wel-
fare State control, which are
socially destructive and economi-
cally devastating.”
Hard words from one who
wears the cloth, and most Maori-
landers thought them too harsh,
but the Welfare State in the
“Shaky Isles” might not survive
long in a storm. Its mushroom
growth, topheavy financial struc-
ture, complete lack of an
actuarial basis and almost reck-
less disregard of the limits of tax-
paying capacity all expose it to
danger in the event of a sudden
reverse. So far it has fared
well, with a following breeze.
The real test is still to come.
Price-control Burden
After putting childlike trust in
price-control for a long time,
Maorilanders are just beginning
to realise that the only real
weapon they’ve got is buyer-
resistance, which they’d almost
forgotten how to use. Before
this they were fleeced right and
left when price-control drove
scarce goods into blackmarkets,
and were apparently willing
dupes or victims until the im-
port boom and tighter credit
brought them to their senses.
They’ve been far too tolerant
of incompetent price-control
over the years, and are still not
nearly as critical as they ought
to be. Things would have been
different by now if Mr. Holland’s
Government had managed better
in its first year, when it showed
more enthusiasm than wisdom ;
but there’s not much use in
crying over spilt milk. What rs
needed is a revival of faith in
the virtues of free enterprise,
coupled with, a will on the part
of the Government to put its
original estimable principles into
practice. Mr. Holland and his
team burnt their fingers by a
rather clumsy and premature
effort to free prices in May,
1950, and failed to such an
extent that they have been afraid
of prices ever since.
The trouble then was that
there was too much inflation
about, and nothing was done to
draw it off before prices were
let go. What followed was a
foregone conclusion, yet the
Government made a far worse
mistake last year, when the
doors were thrown open to im-
ports, and M.L. traders rushed
in blindly to buy abroad in the
hope of making fortunes.
The Government is doubly
shy now, but should regain its
courage as tighter credit does its
work. Competition is taking a
hand once more, and price-
control has either lost contact
where prices have fallen or has
got in the way where costs have
been forced up by swollen busi-
ness overheads. At this stage
competition is having a halting
run, and many complaints are
heard about delays, inefficiency,
discrimination, injustices and
red-tape.
There’s too great a tendency
for bureaucratic minds to
assume that the past is the best
guide for the future, and too
much unwillingness to react
promptly to rapid changes in
supply. Alongside this, M.L.’s
system of price-fixing is based
largely on rigidly-controlled
mark-ups which are outdated
today.
Export Prices Up 71 p.c.
When prosperity in New Zea-
land runs into rough water there
is nothing that cheers up Maori-
landers more than a lift in ex-
port prices, and they have been
feeling a lot happier since they
learned that another p.c. was
coming their way for butter,
cheese and meat sold to John
Bull. Not that this satisfies all
Maorilanders, for Britain still
has the better of the bargain;
but they’re moving in the right
direction. The biggest snag has
been in meat, where M.L. has
always considered it is entitled
to the same price as Australia,
and has never been prepared to
accept less favorable treatment.
If Australia gets more than 1\
p.c. N.Z. will want to fie put
on the same level.
Millions from food are a sure
win for N.Z.’s sterling funds,
with no leakage in exchange
under bulk-marketing contracts,
and this means a lot to Maori-
landers as they try to build up
their import-buying capacity
after the heavy drain of the
recent buying spree. Prime
Minister Sid Holland has had
a struggle to restrain producers’
organisations from adopting a
“pound-of-flesh” attitude in
dealings with the Old Country,
and has told them this is not a
time to be twisting the lion’s
tail. He said lately: “We have
to help the lion to recover his
strength. Britain is up against
it. I think she will pull through,
but she needs our assistance.”
If Maoriland has to wait till
the crisis is past before it
presses for equality in terms of
trade it should have a prospect
of reaching a balance within a
few years, and meanwhile there s
nothing that would help it more
than stability in world prices to
give John Bull and everyone
else a chance to get down to
good solid ground.
Like other countries, though
to a smaller degiee than most,
New Zealand needs to carry out
internalreformsto put its .trade
m the best condition, dram off
inflation and boost production.
It would be a wonderful magnet
for overseas capital if it coul
put these finishing touches to its
already prosperous-lookmg
—demand i nvestment
nmitea aemana lor mvcsuncru
An* te “^JheNX
to treatment, and there is no
reason why interest-rates still
pegged at bedrock war and post-
war levels shouldn’t be adjusted
"T* f “‘i tviSds'Thich
conform o raa > >
are not far below Aust
rates Also, a firmer hand with
greedy State departments and,
above all, with overgrown, top-
heavy social-security benefits, to
pave the way for tax-relief and
more incentives in industry
should pay handsomely.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“T.McN.”: The N.S.W. mixed train
encountered a length of railway-line
damaged by flood-waters and stood for
some hours until the repair was made.
The truckload of sheep gazed stupidly
out, shuffled their hoofs, bleated
a little. If they wondered what
the hold-up was it didn’t matter, since
the train crew couldn’t be bothered in-
forming them and they were stuck in the
truck, anyhow. The other morning a
city-bound bus slowed down, sat idle
for a few moments, then went on very
slowly, and stopped again. The driver
departed. The conductor read a news-
paper. The passengers shuffhd their
hoofs, bleated a little. Who cared?
They were stuck in the ruddy
bus, anyhow, and it wasn’t the
duty of the conductor to tell what was
wrong. And city sheep, like country-
sheep, don’t ask questions of their masters.
* * * ic
“OTohnno”; Hobart police-court had
a curious case before it recently when a
woman appeared on a charge of being “in
possession of articles reasonably supposed
to be stolen,” The list included 830 balls
of wool, 324 pairs of knitting-needles, 307
handkerchiefs, 128 pairs of stockings, 92
pantettes and 13 handbags. A detective
saw 30 pairs of shoes under her bed
when searching the room and thought he
had struck a plant! The case was dis-
missed when sales-dockets were produced
and other evidences of legitimate owner-
ship given. The accused said that her
circumstances had never previously
allowed her to possess many things she’d
wanted. Now that she was able to gratify
her urge she had decided to buy quantities
of articles for personal use and enjoy the
full pride of possession. One thing the
case did prove was the benef t of keeping
iftles-dockets.
“Craiser”: A couple of days after
Melbourne Town Clerk Wootton had
issued a warning that persons who carried
placards advertising theatrical shows
through city streets might find the
practice expensive, a traffic-policeman
was staggered to see two men bearing a
large board announcing the forthcoming
appearance of a famous star at a well-
known theatre. They were an owner-
builder and his son who had picked up
some secondhand timber at a wrecker’s.
The legend read “Gladys Moncrieff in
‘Rio Rita.’ ”
* * * *
“Helldud”: At Dee Why (Sydney)
during Courtesy Week a frail old man
approached a group of young folk—two
males, two females and a couple of
nippers—waiting at a badly-defined taxi-
rank, and asked where he could get a
taxi. They directed him to a spot about
a quarter-mile distant. They wanted the
next taxi. Luckily for the old chap he
had some doubts, and, meeting me on the
way to the spot indicated, sought my con-
firmation. He had just told me his story
when the only local taxi, returning to the
rank where the hoodlums waited, hove in
sight. He pulled up when I hailed him
and I put him wise. “Oh, that’s it, is it?”
he exploded. “Hop in, Pop. This is my
last trip before tea, and I’ll be away for
an hour and a half. The joke’s on them.”
Tooting his horn until he had attracted
the attention of the tricksters, he drove
off with the old man.
* * * *
“Clooter”; The other day I encoun-
tered. an Englishwoman ready to bite
pieces out of somebody. It appears that
in England she had a happy little side-
line in home-dressmaking, and when she
decided to come here she concluded it
wouldn’t be a bad idea to bring with her
a few rolls of cloth. As far as she can
sort it out she can’t get the stuff off the
ship because she hasn’t an Australian
import licence and can’t get one, there’s
a prohibitive tariff on that sort of stuff
anyhow, but if she’d thought to cut the
rolls into dress-patterns and converted
them into partly-finished dresses every-
thing would have been all right. “Here,”
I said, “have a look at this,” showing her
an announcement by Customs Minister
O’Sullivan that he’d granted a licence for
the export of 30,000 tons of Callide (Q.)
coal to Pakistan. “What the deuce has
that to do with me?” the lady demanded.
“Look,” I said, “the State of Victoria is
importing coal from India while the State
of Queensland is exporting it to Pakistan.
Now, lady, imagine the cheers as a collier
from Australia for Pakistan passes a
collier from India for Australia, each
loaded with coal.” She gaped at me and
said “I still don’t see” “No,” I cut in.
“Nor me, either. Nobody sees. That’s
what I mean.” But I’m afraid she now
believes me to be as silly as the rest of it.
* * * *
“Bach”: Are there any two-up rules
to cover a special case from New
Zealand? Three pennies were being used
for quick results; two came down, one
head, one tail. The third balanced neatly
on a power-wire 15ft. up. The ring-
keeper barred the throw, and was over-
ruled on the ground that two pennies had
already landed. Then a gust of wind
brought the third penny down tails. Tail-
backers were paid and the game carried
on. So does the argument.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; I can feel a certain
sympathy for the Rev. Eric Robinson, a
Methodist clergyman who at the moment
is in an Indian hospital suffering from
blisters on the feet, as the result of trying
to emulate Hindu pilgrims by walking
across red-hot embers. Whether he
wanted to demonstrate that faith was all-
powerful or prove that there was a trick
in the business is not reported. With an
English acquaintance I once watched a
somewhat similar exhibition of inhuman
fortitude in a Singapore temple. The
devotees had steel hooks inserted in their
flesh between the shoulders, and were then
swung round at a dizzy speed on the
ends of long chains. They showed no
undue strain when they were unhooked.
“Riding with my back to the engine always makes me train-sick."
and the Englishman, being well fortified
with whisky as he had just come from the
usual session at the Cricket Club, wanted
to follow their example. A close
examination of one of the fanatics
revealed that the hole into which the
hook had been inserted Was an old one ;
it was surrounded with calloused flesh as
hard as the hide of a rhino., which had
obviously done duty on more than one
occasion. We could not get him to explain
the treatment he had received to fit him
for his profession ; he was too full of
arrack. The Englishman decided to post-
pone his attempt to a future occasion.
„_, r * „ * * *
Waharoa : The argument over the
influence of comics is nothing new.
Boswell and Johnson debated whether
Gay s Beggar s Opera tempted youths
to become highwaymen. Johnson said no,
Boswell disagreed. .... the contrasts
with the ordinary and more painful modes
of acquiring the property are so artfully
displayed,” That seems to get to the
heart of the matter.
“Evenan” • There seems to be some
Eyenan . There seems to be some
thing sound m Sturmer s theory of the
searcher who pays for rights to search m
trouser - pockets B 6/8/ 52) My
daughter sent a coat to the cleaners ; it
came back minus us two very uncommon
and very expensive buttons. Inquiry at
he cleaners brought negative results and
the statement that they accepted no
responsibility for buttons, buckles or
trimmings she should have removed
them before leaving (he garment. About
a month later daughter saw two buttons
identica! with the originals on a card of
assorted buttons in a ).™k-shop window,
The proprietress explained that she pur-
chased such small items regularly from
an elderly woman who said she collected
fro "} ™ r ‘°. u l uL 1
clothes. X wonder if the postal-note I
lost in the same way ever won a lottery-
prize. It was pinned to an application-
form, and all ready to fill in when some
well-meaning person took my slacks to
*
# ’* * *
“Bo”: The two chief sources of eye-
shanties, it has been my observation, can
be fairly evenly divided between chopping
wood and speaking out of one’s turn. But
Merv, my neighbor, broke new ground
by acquiring a polychromatic “stinker”
through an economy measure. Moved to
justifiable wrath by the size of his latest
electric-light bill, he was not satisfied
merely going around savagely snapping
off lights left on by various members
of the family. He contended that
anyone who had lived in the same
house for years should be able to get
around it blindfold, and set the example
by refraining to switch on the light if he
were only going into a room to get some-
thing and come straight out again. He
could even go into the unlit bathroom
and clean his teeth, although he did
wonder the first night he tried it put why
the toothnowder had a strange taste, and
he discovered when he brought it out into
the lighted kitchen that he’d been using
Mrs. M.’s foot-powder. Then the other
night he walked into the bedroom to get
his cigarettes from the dressing-table and
swept the powder-bowl on to the floor
with disastrous results. Rushing over to
switch on the light to assess the damage
he got the door edge right where the sable
effect would quickly spread eyewards—
the door he had pushed open on coming
in had rebounded off the soft edge of the
bed into the right position for it. Merv’s
house is a blaze of light these nights.
* * * *
“Corn Cob”: Seeing by hearing (B.
6/8/’52)? A young experimenter in
Georgia (U.S.A.), starting with the theory
that bats navigate in pitch darkness by
means of natural radar, devised a pair of
goggles fitted with light-sensitive selenium,
a vest-pocket power-kit and a small
hearing-aid which “ticks off” impulses at
varying rates. He claims this enables a
blind person to “see” where he is going
with his ears. After a wearer gets
accustomed to translating the varied ticks
of the gadget—the time required taking
anything from 12 hours to a week—he is
said to be capable of treading through
busy streets or strange rooms without
danger of collisions,
* * * *
“Findy”; “Macann” has done me the
courtesy of accepting my figures despite
his own experience of Melbourne weather,
SOj no t to be outdone in politeness, I
must accept his statement (B. 20/8/’52),
although I can find no record of the Vic-
torian capital experiencing 60 consecutive
<j a y S off rain. Obviously the damp spell
which he and his sporting friend struck
occurred prior to 1855, the year in which
official recording began,
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Whenever I read of a
marine tragedy my thoughts g 0
4o_ o dd years to one involving me and
miM An aunt returning from England
b ht as a gift t 0 bro ther and
f £ a 2ft to s submar f ne; guaranteed
’ dive and su ’ rface automatically; it
, h cost ds even in those days ,
clockwork-profiled, its diving-apparatus
ingenious arrangement of weights,
f d geared al S ng a* keel. The
providing the nearest water of
d E£ s » d there in excited haste,
,J ded F in wound the sub.’s powerful
; let her go . she sailed mag-
»fl tor abou t 10 y ds . and then
j j / übmerged with amazing realism.
, he g last we o£ her . We
h d [h s for days hoping
£ hope that s Wd break free of
™ag or mud and come up, but she is still
f d missine
p te # ,
clac kety roar the
i>eeragm . vvmi a li y
rnmar-cycle flashed along g . ’
the youth bent low over the handlebars.
The girl riding pillion held a papei-
backed novel which she was reading witn
intense concentration. Suddenly
heavy truck in front stalled, causing
youth to jerk his machine to a s P-
Having no support, the girl bumped
escort violently from behind and t
both dropped clumsily to the road,
people unable to defy the laws
momentum. Bruised and shaken, -
otherwise unharmed, they struggled
their feet and to their surprise t
a traffic-officer calmly surveying the seen-
from the other side of the bitumen, in
policeman walked unhurriedly across,
picked up the book and held lt ,° .
the girl. She reached forward, but tn
youth quickly took it himself, ba
policeman, “You re lucky. As th p
sped away once more, the girl ,
gripping die waist of the canary-c 1
cardigan in front.
PUT AND TAKE.
“Maitland would have to be moved to save it
from further devastating floods, said Hunter Valley
Conservation Trust chairman, Mr. F. H. Brewster.”
By river-banks our cities rise,
But year by year the floods rise higher;
Each year the population flies
And then returns to mud and mire:
It’s time, you’d think, that they began
A less unsettling settler’s plan.
It should be worth while to arrange,
Since Bourke is dry, and Maitland’s wet,
Some kind of town-for-town exchange;
Now our State Parliament has met
They might do worse than get to work
On moving Maitland out to Bourke.
For New South Wales, a sovereign State,
Needs only issue its commands
To alter any person’s fate
Or take his money or his lands:
Parliament, if it takes the notion,
Can move a township in one motion.
It certainly should stop the drift
To Sydney, that’s the country’s loss,
If someone could arrange a shift
Exchanging Walgett for King’s Cross;
Then country-love would grow much deeper.
And Sydney’s meat-supplies be cheaper.
Should Melbourne stand where Sydney stood,
And Sydney swoon on Yarra’s braes,
It might end all the bitter blood
Between them both for all their days:
To understand is to forgive—
But what a dreadful way to live!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


‘.‘B.A.K.”: The young fellows in the
train were discussing the recently-departed
Fijian footballers. “But you couldn’t call
em footballers,” one concluded. “I saw
one of ’em throw a pass, one of our
blokes intercepted, tore down the field and
scored—and the Fiji fellows only
laughed! They seem to think it’s only a
game.”
• * * *
“Gulliver”: Seventy-five years ago
Newcastle (N.S.W.) “Morning Herald”
reported that a Mr. Bevan had
discovered a fine seam of Borehole
coal on his property, and concluded
“Mr. Bevan may be congratulated
on his find, and it is to be hoped
that it will prove as lucrative to
him as it must be beneficial to the
district.” That, of course, was in the old
days, when a man’s property was his
own, and the idea of making money out
of it was not a heresy to be drastically
expunged and denounced. It’s easy to
imagine the plight of the good Bevan had
he made his find today. First, no doubt,
some limelighting politician would
announce that the coal was part of the
nation’s wealth and should be preserved
for the people. The poor Bevan would
have to fight for an assortment of permits
from half a dozen boards and depart-
ments for currency to buy machinery,
licences to import it and permits to use
local materials. He would have to get
the permission of the county planner to
establish the industry where the coal hap-
pened to be and not somewhere where
it wasn’t, and he’d be required to put in
bowling-greens and theatres to Coal
Board specifications. Then the Miners’
Federation would tell him which men he
could employ, and how many, and prob-
ably at the last moment declare the whole
show black for the fun of seeing Mr. B.
go slowly broke.
* * * #
“M.D.”: Suggest that “Ceg’s” home-
doctor book (B. 23/7/’52) is not the
complete compendium. To save argument,
I’ll grant his motor-mechanic equality
with the doctor when he does the
equivalent of sitting up all night with an
obstructed labor and a frantic father, and
continues his ordinary work next day as
usual. Therein I’ve posed myself a ques-
tion : What is the automotive equivalent?
Finally, would “Ceg” whisper the address
of his “first-grade motor-mechanic”? I’ll
guarantee not to tell more than a dozen
doctors whose cars keep conking out in
the wee hours of the morning.
* * * *
“Aestur”: “Bo’s” hints to “chemists
who are asked medical questions” (B.
30/7 / ’52) draw attention to a widespread
habit; people pester the chemist for
advice on everything from chilblains to
cerebral tumors. That the chemist acted,
willy-nilly, as family physician in addition
to his ordinary business was understand-
able enough in the days before free
hospitals, but with the outpatients’ depart-
ment now free to all, the fact that many
still worry him is evidence of a touching.
if misplaced, faith in his ability. Although
I appreciate the chemist’s value to the
community I think he should be restricted
to the preparation and sale of the doctor’s
prescriptions, leaving diagnosis and treat-
ment to the man qualified to do them.
I realise that this would be to many an
unpopular reform, for it is as common
to hear complaints against the doctor —
“He doesn’t know much ; he had to look
it up in a book”—as it is to hear of the
chemist —“Yes, he’s as good as a doctor ;
he passed nearly the same exams.”
* * * *
“Bunny”: The Cheshil Bank (B.
6/8/’52) is even more of a geological
freak than “Ceg” stated. It actually
finishes at Bridport, 30 miles from Port-
land (Eng.), and the stones are gradu-
ated from 3in. at the Portland end to
shingle at Bridport. Many a local fisher-
man, blown ashore on a dark, stormy
winter’s night, has picked up a handful
of pebbles to find his way home.
* * * »
“Youanmi”: He was a stonemason, one
horny hand holding a schooner while
the other showed his companion a fine
pair of lobsters he had just bought for
the evening meal. I quote as faithfully
as possible: “Gawd ’strewth! Twenty-
five bob for the two of ’em! Wouldn’t
it rock y’? Fair dinkum, this cost of
livin’ is somethin’ bloody awful, I paid
over a quid for a chook the other night,
an’ the leg of pork for the weekend was
forty-five bob. I tell y’, I just dunno how
we’re gonna be able to afford to eat
soon.” I’d hate him to have a hand in
compiling that “C”-series index.
“The* Missus”: Tell *“Bo,” who has
trouble with his cloves (B. 30/7/’52), to
substitute a drop of oil-of-cloves or a
pinch of ground clove. He must be
careful not to overdo it; excess of clove-
flavoring is worse than cloves in the pie.
s * * *
“Sackville”: My nomination for the
most optimistic gardener is the cove
who tries to grow a pair of pencil-pines
in symmetry. My neighbor planted one
of the trees on each side of his bay-
window. They were identical. Within six
months the twins had grown as dissimilar
as Laurel and Hardy. He tried gorging
Laurel and dieting Hardy. Hardy waxed
still fatter, while Laurel shot higher. Some-
body recommended a patent fertiliser for
the stumpy one. It promptly died. The
optimist dug both out and planted another
pair of twins. History repeated itself —
in reverse: a reincarnated Hardy grew
outwards where Laurel had streaked
heavenward, while a spindly Laurel
climbed in the other bed. But gradually
a change became noticeable. It was the
most exciting slow-race I’ve ever watched.
By some secret process Laurel was
induced to 'consolidate his gains until
Hardy caught up. Last week they were
tall, identical twins. Yesterday a gale
snapped off one within a few feet of the
ground.
* ♦ * ♦
“Strict Veg.”: People* it seems, are eat-
ing horseflesh in Melbourne; so many of
them that some butchers’-shops have
become “Pets’ Meat” shops— not all the
pets belonging to the four-legged variety.
One butcher reported 11001 b. of
geegee-meat sold over his counter in a
week. This wouldn’t be so bad if Mel-
bourne were Paris, where horseflesh is
regarded by many as highly as beef or
mutton, and where exclusive cafes
frequented by connoisseurs advertise
special dishes, but in Australia horses
are slaughtered in knackers’ yards with-
out the watchful eye of an inspector ;
some of them are old and some unhealthy
and' some are as dead as Caesar’s cat
before arrival. The reason for it all is
the high price of beef and mutton. It
isn’t illegal to eat horseflesh, the demand
exists, and there is only an irrational
“Would you like me to remove my hat, doctor ?”
prejudice against it, so the authorities
ought to make the slaughtering of horses
as hygienic as in the case of sheep or
bullocks.
* * * *
“Nedrium”: One of the most fascinat-
ing academic exercises I have heard of
is the hilarious amusement of plung-
ing one’s hand into molten lead.
Apparently, due to some strange quirk
of the behavior of metals, this feat can
be accomplished without pain. One his-
tory book noted that the Prince of Wales
(later Edward VII) had put his hand
into boiling lead without any harm re-
sulting. One of the readers of the his-
tory wrote to a scientific journal asking
whether anycjpe else had ever done the
same thing and received two positive
answers. A Professor Cheshire claimed
that he had plunged his hand up to the
wrist into 801 b. of molten lead. The
professor went on to say that the trick
would work only if the lead was really
hot. A lecturer at Sheffield University
said he used the act as a demonstration
in his physics lectures—to do with the
“spheroidal state of liquids”—but first
one must moisten the hand. His explana-
tion was that immunity from danger
was conferred on the hand by a badly-
conducting layer of vapor. Wet or dry,
I think I’ll keep my hands out of the
lead.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Men engaged on the Snowy
Mountains hydroelectric undertaking can
help themselves to mineral-water equal
to the world’s best by making a short
journey to the Rock Flat mineral-spring,
situated between Cooma and Nimmitabel.
In the early days of the district settlers
made good use of the water, mixing it
with home-made cordials, while hard-
tack drinkers reckoned it was the best of
all soda-waters to take with whisky.
Women used the water instead of yeast
for making bread, and teamsters made
excellent dampers with it. Later still it
was bottled and sold under the name of
Koomah Spa. Nowadays the spring-
water, which gushes from a flat rock only
100 yards or so from the highway, runs
to waste, manufactured mineral-water
taking the place of Nature’s product.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: There was movement on
the section for the word had got around
that the file from old Red-Tape’s table
had gone astray, and a panic-stricken
chief-clerk was making all manner of
extravagant promises to the minion who
could locate it. An hour later the newest
junior, after pinning down the harassed
section-boss to a promise that recovery
of the lost file would be rewarded with
a prize of the finder’s own choosing,
nominated the privilege of a bath in the
Minister’s private suite. After a suspici-
ously short interval the junior produced
the missing papers. Old-timers swear
that the hair of the section boss, a man
of his word, whitened in the 20 minutes
during which, outside the Ministerial
suite, he kept nit whilst the junior took
his ablutions.
* * * *
“Rocky Ayers”: At the market my
missus had detected an orange with a
bad spot, and in a voice pitched to be
heard a block away she demanded a
replacement. The man behind the stall
just grinned and handed her not one, but
two. The shock almost unbalanced the
little woman and she vowed that that
honest fellow would henceforth have her
regular patronage. Last week she got
another shock. Honest Joe was slapping
oranges into a bag two by two, almost
too fast for the eye to follow. “And
one for the baby,” he said, still grinning
and holding up one in his hand. A pause.
“I suppose you’ve got a baby?” Trem-
bling with excitement at the prospect of
another victory, my bride of barely six
months unashamedly claimed ownership
of several and in went the extra. It
wasn’t until she got home that she found
she was one down instead of one up.
* * * *
“Irving”: Apparently today’s comic-
strip schoolboys (B. 6/8/’52) differ
basically from their Greyfriars prototypes
in that they have an interest in the
opposite sex which would put them, in the.
eyes of both boys and masters, beyond
the pale of the “Magnet” and “Gem”
academies. There was the same celibate
bias governing life at the Queensland
G.P.S. which failed to educate me, though
“dancing” was featured as one of the
extras in the prospectus. Saturday-night
dances were, indeed, held for the
benefit of those taking “dancing,” the
shortage of partners being overcome by
the simple expedient of tying handker-
chiefs round the left arms of half of the
pupils to denote their temporary sexual
metamorphosis. Since many of those
who took “dancing” and their turns as
girls regularly were in the team which
usually won us the G.P.S. boxing-shield
I don’t think that any sexual aberrations
grew out of the practice. My impression
is confirmed by the recollection of a
dance at a Camooweal (Q.) pub, where
the navvy patrons overcame the absence
of feminine partners by the identical
handkerchief device.
A SOBER PERSPECTIVE.
“According to a scientist, the commercial value
of the component parts of the average human body
is just over four shillings.”
“Your blood is worth bottling!” You’ve heard,
Not a doubt, that most pithy expression.
Well, the fact must be faced
(Though it leaves you debased)
That it flatters a humble possession.
Although with corpuscles enriched,
All your gore, when it comes to a buyer,
Isn’t rated so dear.
Why! A middy of beer
Is commercially valued much higher.
A girl’s “crowning glory” may give
Her lover a rapturous pleasure;
He’ll glowingly tell
Of its magical spell,
And account it a wonderful “treasure.”
This fact, though, can not be denied;
The stuff which a perm makes so frizzy,
Though it may look like gold,
If the lady were sold
Would raise little more than a trizzy.
The dowager haughty and proud,
Who considers her fibre superior,
Of a worth unsurpassed,
Feels a pity quite vast
For those beings whose clay is inferior.
How mortified she’ll be to learn
(She will scarcely consider this “cricket”),
That her chassis is worth —
Brothers, damp down your mirth! —
Slightly less than a lottery ticket.
Our giants intellectual you’ll hear
Deliver polemical thunder;
Politicians, you know,
Bigger brain-pans must grow,
And their grey-matter’s truly a wonder.
Yet, strange though it seem, this is true:
Could each member’s brain be extracted
And sold for cash down
’Twould be worth, say, a brown —
And our laws, too, could still be enacted.
Every man greatly values his life,
Be it banker’s or butcher's or hoddy’s.
But it’s brutally plain
That we’ve all, in the main,
Very much overvalued our bodies.
If you’re not of the “average” kind
You’d bring rather less, so I take it.
But science has proof
That you’re worth, on the hoof,
Very little —four shillings, they make it.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
"RACHEL HENNING" AS A BOOK.
Few Bulletin features in recent
years have created as much interest as
The Letters of Rachel Henning, pub-
lished in instalments during the latter
half of 1951 and early-1952. Hun-
dreds of appreciative messages have
been received from people in all parts
of Australia, and some from as far
afield as Canada and Japan.
The letters were written to relatives
by Rachel Henning, an intellectual,
adventurous young Englishwoman,
between 1853 and 1882, and represent
a fascinating, authentic and first-hand
record of Australian history. They
have a gossipy charm and provoca-
tiveness that make them an absorbing
story to present-day readers, bringing
back the atmosphere of the past with
a freshness that nothing in our literary
or published historical records has
previously done. The letters, too, link
the end of the period in England Jane
Austen portrayed in Pride and
Prejudice with the beginning of the
present age in Australia. And Rachel
Henning was in company with our
Queensland pioneers.
The Letters of Rachel Henning are
now being made available in book
form. They are illustrated with over
40 superb pen-drawings by Norman
Lindsay, supplemented by maps and
other relevant addenda. Norman
Lindsay himself has prophesied that
Rachel’s letters will become an
Australian period classic.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
represent a book of about 110,000
words, well printed, with an attractive
illustrated manilla cover. There is an
authoritative introduction and an
epilogue to the letters, as well as many
explanatory notes, all combining to
make the book a complete and satis-
fying factual story, unique in
Australian literature.
The Letters of Rachel Henning will be sent post-free to any address
in A ustralia on receipt of seven shillings and sixpence {7s. 6d.) by :
The Book Department,
‘THE BULLETIN,” BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


UNIVERSAL TOOL
FOR EVERYBODY
HANDYMAN
’6
HOUSEWIFE
JUNIOR
FARMER
"B O B"
THE MUL,TI-PIUSPOSE STAPLING
TOOE
Staples, drives nails, hooks, tacks.
Ideal for fencing, etc.
Tor ©very home, household, farm or
workshop “Bob” is indispensable.
w
ŵ
ẁ
X
ẃ
AMAZING VALUE!
Complete with 2 lock-
ing levers, magnet and
1000 assorted stainless
staples as pictured.
29'6
SEND ORDER TODAY TO
DOMEX TRADING CO.,
343
(Dept. 82 JT),
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Domex Trading Co. (Dept. 22E),
243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send me one “Bob,” com-
plete in wooden box, for which
1 enclosie 29/6 (add postage 2/-).
NAME
ADDRESS
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO BARBARA ELLEN LEISK late of
Junee.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
JOHN LEISK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1706 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion during three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you must enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd
October 1952 and you may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from F. W.
EWART, Solicitor, 21 George Street,
Parramatta.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD ALBERT GEORGE NEWHAM,
husband of ELIZABETH ESTHER NEW-
HAM, or any of his descendants or any-
one knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Marton, New Zealand?
The Woman Molak
by OLAF RUHEN
THE Reverend John Mac-
Allister was brash enough
to poke an ecclesiastical
nose into dozens of matters
that didn’t concern him, a fact
that, incidentally, made his life
too busy for him to bother with
an analysis of his errors. Prob-
ably the brashest thing he ever
did was to set out to persuade
Fiddle Wittner into marriage,
and even he was surprised when
he won the campaign in the first
round. Fiddle immediately and
enthusiastically agreed with him.
But when the padre turned to
the poor benighted heathen
girl who had shared Fiddle’s
bed for the past eighteen
years and broke the joyous news
that now she could marry her
protector, he struck an immedi-
ate and unforeseen snag.
For Molak flatly refused to
have anything to do with the
proposal.
Even more disconcerting was
the fact that she didn’t look up
from the game of Lucky she
was playing on the floor in the
corner of Fiddle’s big living-
room, dealing the worn cards
to Fiddle’s sixteen-year-old
oldest and a couple of her kins-
men whom Fiddle employed
casually round the house. Not
even the suggestion of legitimis-
ing her four children appealed
to her, though the Reverend
John explained the concept at
some length, wiping an inordi-
nate amount of sweat from his
fresh young forehead with a
neatly - monogrammed linen
handkerchief.
“Better this way,” said Molak
in the English she preferred to
pidgin and enunciated in a sweet
low voice that had once thrilled
better men than Fiddle. She
answered often enough and
sweetly enough to persuade the
Reverend John she was not
being deliberately rude, but she
also made it fairly definite that
she was much more interested
in her incomprehensible card
game than she was in the wel-
fare of her immortal soul.
P INALLY the padre gave up
' and left the house, strol-
ling very slowly to the river
where Fiddle was anointing a
new native canoe with red-lead
in the afternoon shade of the
riverbank trees.
“Mrs, Wittner objects to the
ceremony,” the padre said. “I
find it very hard to understand
... I had no idea ... I mean
I would have thought . . .”
Fiddle concentrated his atten-
tion on working the brush-ends
into the deep-carved head of a
crocodile which adorned the
canoe-bows. When it became
obvious that the Reverend John
was without words to express
himself he helped out.
“She’s got a mind of her
own,” he said.
“You must send her away,”
said the padre, dictatorial as
usual.
Fiddle thought a while over
that. He said “She was here
before me. I’m not sure that
she’d go.”
“It mustn’t go on. It’s a
terrible example to the people,”
said the Reverend John. “In the
interests of the community she
should leave your house.”
“You could suggest it to her,”
said Fiddle, an equable man for
all the lined grimness of his face.
When he looked up at the end
of the sentence the padre could
have sworn there was a momen-
tary twinkle in his eyes.
“It’s an abomination,” said
the Reverend John, his gorge
rising. He was new to the
islands. “It’s a stink in the
nostrils the way you are living.
You ought to have considera-
tion for the fact they regard you
as head of the community. The
people all look up to you. If
you can’t control Mrs. . , . this
woman, you should get out your-
self.”
Fiddle carefully squeegeed
the paint-brush and balanced it
on the edges of the pot.
“That’s hardly reasonable.
Padre,” he said. “I’ve been here
a long time. I don’t reckon we
do the people here much harm,
Molak and me. They’ve got
kinda used to us, and they never
knew anything better before.
On the other hand, you haven’t
been here so very long yourself.
You might be able to get round
Molak after a bit. Far as I’m
concerned I’ll marry the girl the
day she wants me to, but I won’t
walk out, and I don’t think she
will. Better leave it for a while
and try again.”
“Never put off till tomorrow,”
said the padre; but his eyes
were puzzled.
T" HAT night Fiddle Wittner
* laughed aloud into his third
rum. Behind him bare-breasted
Molak, padding silently past on
her bare feet, stopped at the
back of his chair and placed her
fingers gently on the nape of his
neck, running the tips of them
up into the soft fair curls as she
paused there for a moment. It
was an unobtrusive gesture,
even though there were no others
to see it, and Fiddle acted as
though he were unaware of it.
“The padre told me I should
go away,” he said when he set
the rum down.
Molak smiled sweetly and
said nothing. Her confidence
was not at all touched by the
fact that Fiddle had left home
before. She was a young thing,
not in the least aged by her two
happy, naked, half-white babies,
when Fiddle first went to
Sydney, and Fiddle himself was
in his early thirties. Before that
he had never seen a white city,
or, for that matter, a white
country. He had been born in
the islands and never imagined
anything better.
That first trip to Sydney
coincided with the last piping
days of the uneasy peace, when
the rumble of tanks on Czecho-
slovakian roads raised only
faint echoes beyond those new
and shaky borders. And Fiddle
was rich with the accumula-
tions of a lifetime spent in the
islands, with a bank-account
growing so fast that the debits
set down for the occasional case
of rum, the new rifle, the launch
engine and the smaller Euro-
pean necessities of his life
hardly checked its growth. In
his small way Fiddle was a king,
and though his kingdom would
never have been accounted
wealthy the costs of its adminis-
tration were negligible, and
small streams of wealth flowed
intermittently in from many
directions.
On the steamer, amongst
planters and vaguely familiar
Government men on furlough,
and the round-trip tourists who
represented an entirely new race.
Fiddle was amazed to discover
the numbers of fascinating new
ways in which money could be
spent. He came to the swift con-
clusion that he had been missing
things. Less justifiable was the
opinion he rapidly formed that
he was attractive to women.
But it was understandable. A
typist spending the savings of
five uneventful years on two
months of Pacific heaven showed
a marked preference for his
company on an otherwise
lonely boat-deck as well as in
the lounge-bar and other spots
perhaps less accessible ; and she
never found it necessary to ex-
plain her motives to him. And
a wealthier, older woman,
travelling with her sister to get
some relief from the drabness of
a country store and her husband,
its proprietor, made a brave
attempt to displace the typist
without achieving anything but
an extended range of vision for
all three.
Luckily for Fiddle, neither of
these sirens was headed for
Sydney. The typist stayed there
briefly, long enough to give him
an introduction to an expensive
night-club, and after that Fiddle
was on his own, in a colloquial
rather than a technical manner
of speaking.
FATHERS swam into the pic-
ture, attracted mainly by
Fiddle’s charming and ingenuous
way of carrying a proportion of
his wealth in small rolls of
fifties—remember those fifties?
—so inconspicuous in the breast-
pocket, so flaringly obvious in
the fingers. And Fiddle learned
things ; such items of intelligence
as that an orchestra, under the
baton of an approachable leader,
would play any item the girl-
friend wanted, and that this had
its effect on the girl-friend; that
a friendly head-waiter could
contrive an excellent table in the
best situation on an otherwise
crowded floor ; that a taxi-driver
could be persuaded, for a con-
sideration, to give away the
night’s prospects and become a
general factotum and message-
boy of a superior kind.
He discovered also the com-
fort of superior lodgings and
good cuisine, of twenty-four-
hour good company, that could
and would still take a dismissal
as equably as Molak, and still
flatter his ego on subsequent
occasions. He discovered the
attractions of racetracks and
cruising yachts, of gymnasiums
and tiled pools and massage-.
benches. He revelled in every
luxury the islands boys had ever
mentioned in their after-fur-
lough braggings, and consider-
ably more of luxury than any of
these had been able to afford.
So it was not surprising that
When the most fluid of his
vanishing fortunes had disap-
peared altogether, and he had
consequently returned to the
islands, the seat of his kingdom
no longer looked so pleasant.
The food no longer tasted as it
had, and the experiment he made
of importing a couple of cases
of good wines was not a success.
There was seldom anyone to
share the bottle, for Molak still
ate in her corner, and, anyway,
he preferred the strong warmth
of overproof Queensland rum.
The bed, with the surrounding
air stilled to occlusion by the
mosquito-net, was not so fresh
as that in the spring-tinted
rooms in which he had woken
to a Sydney morning conscious-
ness. The jungle drums were no
substitute for the sophisticated
rhythms of a swing band; the
lap-laps of his boys less flatter-
ing to the eye than the stiff
shirts of waiters perhaps less
deft.
And Molak was no longer
even Molak ; for he had lost her
to momentary illusions of a red-
haired, gay and saucy chit of a
Sydney companion whose name,
surprisingly, was Myrtle. Those
blue eyes of hers, those chiselled
nostrils, that hair which, loosed
of restraint, massed into a glory
on a cushion or a pillow-slip,
the body he had never been able
to command, nor ever. forget,
were all within his arms on a
hundred nights. And then there
would be only Molak, and she
less than Molak, because she was
never in his vision.
So Fiddle laid his long-term
plans. He nursed his income
back to a thriving state, scrap-
ing every shilling and conserv-
ing equipment. He negotiated
to send the elder children to
school in Queensland. And
then he sent for Molak and
told her that their life together
was at an end.
She took it very well, he
thought, looking him squarely
in the eyes and saying nothing
except words of acceptance.
She made it very easy for him,
and when he had left he cursed
her without knowing why. He
had left her provided for, and
she needed very little. And
Sydney was ahead of him.
D UT it was further away than
he had thought. Two days
after he caught his ship, while
they were at sea, the radio
brought in the news of Pearl
Harbor and Singapore. There
was a new era opening in the
islands.
Fiddle Wittner, being of nor-
mal courage and not irrevoc-
ably tied to any future of his
own planning, left the ship at
Port Moresby and, after a very
few days of form-filling and
waiting, found himself a mem-
ber of the coast-watchers, a unit
in which the sterling service he
later performed was taken as
normal by an unimpressed
bunch of fellow-heroes.
He got to Sydney eventually
at the beginning of 1943.
Naturally he was still in the
Service, and he had a couple of
training-courses to attend, but
he had time on his hands, and
a good spell of leave, and he
enthusiastically took up his
island plans at the stage at which
he had laid them down. He
wanted a wife who was white,
charming, pert and preferably
red-headed. He wanted her
beautifully dressed and well
turned-out, so he started where
he could find an opening. He
looked for her in the night-clubs,
which he found rather more
populous than formerly. He
also found that head-waiters no
longer had tables reserved
against his coming unless he had
made previous arrangements;
that taxi-drivers were less accom-
modating, and that band-leaders


ft|V Aysr *4UA*
\
O
\
"i .l
tffrissfe?
iT%
s!3S
Ti
:CWK
s>rn
••••??*!?*>
'- <3 »
|~S:jl •- /- —I
iSSSR^
*3v£ <>»
■' ■
&SS
vax
SR
o-:
>s=
«i
• - - >■ -. * .
3lr i .^cnT’’A *V7»
JhW > Jiv.J r
*
~''V'V-i^Ss,^s
r-c-=5
•-
; i^jpy
r>s?vy% l ' y
Sk?»
;: : 5
'Rpscrs
FORDSON MAJOR FARMS AUSTRALIA
Enquire from your local Fordson dealer .
Lowest-priced
tractor per
horse-power rating
with ali this Standard EQUIPMENT
Lights, Starter, Brakes, Belt Pulley,
Radiator Shutters, Power Take-Off.
Fordson Major is its own best advertisement with
over 30,000 Sales since 1945 ... almost equal to all
other makes together... IT MUST BE GOOD TO
BE USED SO MUCH. The truth is that Fordson
Major is the greatest single asset any farmer can
have. On top if its over-whelming sales leader-
ship it is undisputedly the lowest-priced tractor
per h.p. rating.
And what tractor compares with Fordson Major s
low-cost versatile power for 101 farm jobs . . .
ploughing ... harvesting ... orcharding ... dairy
and ‘mixed* farming etc. Either the Kerosene
or Diesel model offers a choice of gear ratios for
work where soil conditions and size of imple-
ments neecf extra pull at the drawbar. But
nothing will convince you like A DEMONSTRA-
TION ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY ! Arrange
it with your Fordson Major Dealer to suit your
convenience.
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR;
£641
Kerosene Model with
Steel Wheels
Kerosene Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
£1312
Diesel Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
TERMS:
LIBERAL TERMS ARE AVAILABLE EVEN AS
LOW AS 25% DEPOSIT WITH BALANCE OVER
3 YEARS.
OVER 30,
FORDSON MAJORS
ARE NOW WORKING
IN AUSTRALIA
H iiß vM: Tth ■!— i~m i
AU'STR ft I. i A
had long lists of required selec-
tions ahead of his.
He could have overcome the
worst of these difficulties by
flashing tens (no fifties now) he
carried in his well-lined pockets.
But the war had made his future
look very insecure, and there
was the matter ahead of him of
impressing a prospective bride,
a business for which Fiddle was
convinced he needed money
he had little presence and few
civilised abilities.
In his second week he met a
dark little charmer called Nita,
but after three nights she ditched
him for an American Army
major, and though he saw her
again he was resentful. He
drifted from one place to
another more and more un-
happily ; walking, as often as
not, because of the taxis that
speeded past his uniform to
where something in American
olive-drab raised a beckoning
finger from the kerb ahead.
P)OLLY was an Army girl he
*—' met in his second month.
She was tall and she was lovely,
and, best of all, she had red
hair. She was a good companion
and accommodating, and Fiddle
enjoyed his every moment with
her. Except that he couldn’t
get used to her uniform, stiff and
masculine, making perversions
of tendernesses and discouraging
contacts. Dolly’s other belong-
ings ran to an evening dress
with accessories—an outfit she
sometimes swapped with
barracks-mates —swimsuits, and
that was all. Fiddle, neverthe-
less, decided that his opportunity
had arrived.
His ways were his alone. For
all his experience of the world,
his plan of campaign was that of
a lad in his late adolescence. At
an early stage of the association
he got all her physical measure-
ments, a rather cunning strategy
this, carried out with the bluff
friendly transparency of a man
from the bush. He compared
her, to her advantage, with the
current newspaper beauties
whose proportions were listed in
detail in the Sunday sheets, and,
thus armed, he started shopping.
Without telling her anything
about it he bought Dolly a
whole trousseau, silk night-
dresses and negligees, under-
clothes of a texture he wouldn’t
have believed existed but for
previous Sydney experience,
shoes and handbags and jewel-
lery. He topped off his pur-
chases with a rather magnificent
diamond, set in a ring of which
the measurement was the only
guess he made. He had the
trousseau delivered to his room
in rather charmingly-matched
travelling-cases, and, with the
ring in his pocket, set out to find
Dolly.
It was a bad night. Outside
the hotel he had the luck to stop
a taxi, but as he laid his hand
on the door-handle the driver
leaned towards him. “Sorry,
mate. I’m booked,” he said. At
the same time he reached over
and opened the back door for
two young American officers
who had come up behind
Fiddle’s back. He waited un-
successfully for twenty minutes,
and it rained as he began to
walk. He found Dolly rather
cool; and later, when he pro-
duced the ring for her, she
laughed in his face.
In the morning he put most
of his possessions into storage
and wangled himself a seat on
an Army plane. He was in
Moresby two days later, with
three weeks’ leave still left to
him.
HE didn’t see Molak again
until after the war. She
was in the crowd which wel-
comed him back to the village;
not in the forefront, nor hiding
at the back, but with the others
of the women a little aside, and
she smiled at him, her eyes open
and honest. Later, when he had
opened the house, he went down
to the-■village and found her.
The war had aged her very
little. She was still upright and
well built, not thin anywhere
and not overnourished. Her
skin glowed with a bronze
beauty that was properly youth’s.
He said “You will come back
to the house,” and she assented
without surprise and without
expressed pleasure.
When she was there she asked
him “When will the white missus
come?”
He answered “There is no
white missus” ; and that was all
that was said.
It was years before Fiddle
thought of the luggage in
storage in Sydney, and he sent
for it more as a whim to awaken
old memories than for the value
that was in it, for the bill he had
to pay seemed more than its
worth. The night it arrived he
got very drunk on rum and went
through the matched suitcases
intended for Dolly, holding each
fragile piece up to the light and
shaking it out and presenting it,
one piece at a time, to Molak.
She was pleased, he thought,
and that night they had a great
deal of joy in each other, Molak,
unlike the others of her tribe,
being almost Polynesian in this
attribute. But in the morning
Molak appeared still in her lap-
lap without the clothes and the
ornaments and the jewellery
except for simple gold half-
moons of earrings. When he
went to the village later Fiddle
saw why.
Every woman in the place
was wearing something that had
once been intended for a red-
haired bride —a brassiere, or
silk panties, or a slip, or a trail-
ing chiffon negligee. Some wore
flaming brooches in their lap-
laps or, incongruously, in their
short-clipped frizzy hair. Even
the men shared; the luckier
ones carrying handbags.
Molak never said anything to
Fiddle about her lavish distribu-
tion of his gifts, and Fiddle,
after days of consideration, said
nothing to Molak. But he never
again had the vision of white
faces, white attributes in his
association with her. His love-
making was with Molak and
not with some substitute for a
red-haired, faraway beauty. And
gradually the dainty, light little
pieces of textile nonsense wore
themselves out or were relegated
to other uses, such as making
strainer-cloths for the sago.
They were not, after all, very
useful in that climate.
BUT there were still women
wearing the clothes when
the Reverend John Mac Allister
came to the village, and he
asked Fiddle once where they
came from.
“Trade goods,” said Fiddle,
and the padre reflected aloud on
the ridiculous choice of some
amateur traders.
He tried again to persuade
Molak into marriage with the
amenable Fiddle, but Molak
would have none of it; and
each time the Reverend John
came to talk his failure over
with Fiddle.
“There’s another matter,” he
said once. “If you could per-
suade her to wear clothing a
little more adequate I would be
most grateful. The other women
follow her lead, you know, to a
great extent. I’ve managed to
persuade some of the girls to
wear their blouses —I don’t like
them called Mother Hubbards;
it’s an ignominious term —but
most of them won’t listen to
me.”
Fiddle looked doubtful. “Not
sure that I like them, Padre.”
“It’s not a matter of looks.
It’s a matter of morals,” said
the Reverend John severely.
“You go right ahead, then,”
said Fiddle. “But you won’t
make her wear them. She just
doesn’t like clothes above the
waist. You talk to her.”
“Perhaps if you bought her
some . . .” pleaded the Reverend
John.
“Not even if I did,” said
Fiddle. “T bought her some
once and she just wouldn’t wear
them.”
“A most remarkable woman,”
said the Reverend John, shaking
his head. “Most remarkable.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
he addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
“On Going Down Under”
went under... .A.L.: Now on the
road back to Quirindi... .R.S.: Verse
has lost its topicality E.J.W.:
Callow L.L.R.: It was a dead-end
“Street Song”... .R.M.L.: At least
we can agree with you that “The
platypus is a very unsociable cuss.”
Bellerive: Here you kick off:
Dave McNamara, Former Captain of
St. Kilda Football Club.
Former captain of St. Kilda
Shifty fast and tall.
Powerful in a scrimmage
And wonder with the ball.
Champion distant kicker '
Among rivals of he’s time
He’s tatics were a credit
In our Victorian clime.
As a marker and a kicker
A master of the game
In former years of football
Bore a household name.
G.A.M.: Try the children’s page
of a women’s magazine... .C.P.:
Drafted to the squad of spring poems
earmarked for execution... .P.J.8.:
Sorry, his luck is out... .H.D.: There
are too many flaming poets in Aus-
tralia kissing the gentle rose... •
H.P.: “Australia’s Sprinting Queen”
did not last the distance... .J.S.M.:
Bumpy and uneven F.G.: Too late
“Grey winter hath gone like a weari-
some guest”... .F.J.: The last two
lines might very well apply to the
whole; “Nobody wants it and that’s
how it goes”... .8.W.: We, too, have
wondered
Who is George, this wraith that stalketh
Thumb to nose, whilst lawyers talketh
Of the grog which he did hawketh
For night-club patrons to uncorketh?
W.G.: The kind of poem that
makes us want to climb into the
nearest hollow 10g....J.C.: It seems
to be a subject for Chic Sale (“The
Specialist”)... .N.G.D.: Nothing
new T.N.: Much too rapturous
for our sedate pages... .E.M.: The
first line then:
0 great stern-minded gums, grey-green
fingered shoulders gazing up. down and
through, Australia’s dreaming, brittle
and embalming air; you permit in your
ancient omnipotence, my hallucination.
. ...R.L.: “The Eulo Queen” calls
for immortality, but you did not do
her justice P.M.; Autograph-
album verse.... R.P.: That comes
from living at King’s Cross.


ABORIGINALITIES
VOICES OF THE SEA.
What the wind says to the deep waters
Who can tell?
What can be heard
In the great craters
Between the random pulses of the swell
By the wandering bird
Against whose bosom no wild blast
Can rouse a whisper or displace a feather?
While for us in our ships
The gale is full
Of lunatic voices,
Confused and raging noises
All blent together—
Shrilling of wires, tremblings in the mast,
The balked wave cursing at the hull,
The engines far below
Telling their sad monotonous beads,
The feet of seamen pattering to and fro —
A pattern of sound woven of many threads,
Not by the busy winds alone
But by concurrence of the ship and the wind:
And if there be no ship what then?
No crash of wave on iron, no conflict there
But silent breathings of the flowing air
Free from the bustle and stress of striving men.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
“Horseless Horseman”: In a book by
two English naturalists, James Fisher and
Peter Scott —for years they discussed
queries in the 8.8.C.’s “Nature’s Parlia-
ment”—l read that “no animal can see
in the dark.” Eliminating marsupials,
since they may be referring only to
European animals, I wonder how it is that
that most wonderful of all horses, a
cattle-drover’s night-horse, when going
full gallop in the blackness after the
stampeding cattle, misses trees, potholes
and logs as he makes his way to the head
of the mob? And what of the horse
which, on pitch-black rainy nights, pulls
up and refuses to go on, and then we
have found an unexpected gate or fence.
Again, take dogs. On one long droving
trip from Barrungun to Pooncarie
(N.S.W.), although the hobbled-out horses
rarely tingled a bell an hour before dawn,
they were always brought on camp by first
light. Reason: As soon as we picked up a
bridle in the dark our blueheeler would
set off, and all you had to do was follow
him straight to the mob. He never failed
to take us direct, though the horses, in that
God-forsaken Darling River country,
would be at least a mile away.
* * * *
“Wanderer”: Not the least interesting
exhibit at the Brisbane show this year is
an Bft. taipan. Though in a large glass
box, he’s the liveliest and prettiest glisten-
ing brown-snake in captivity. He was
caught a few weeks ago at Freshwater,
near Cairns, by three brothers, and after
the show he is to be sent to the Hall-
strom serum laboratories in Sydney in
“I’m getting forgetful —I had to go back
for my underpants."
an endeavor to find an antidote for the
poison from this, the largest of all Aus-
tralia’s * venomous snakes—the breed
grows to 12ft. and thick as a man’s fore-
arm. Because of his formidable biting
apparatus he is our most deadly shake.
Mrs. Paula Perry, who exhibits this
wriggler in a sideshow containing most
slitherers from a death-adder to a python,
has the head of a female taipan preserved
in formalin. She believes that when more
is known of this giant northern snake
it will be established that the female of
the species has the bigger mouth and
fangs.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; We had a contract
knocking down some mallee for a cocky
on the Pinaroo line (S.A.) and pitched
our tent on the job. After about a week
a cocky’s two daughters became interested
in us, and showed it by presenting us
with home-made pies and invitations to
the house for ludo and euchre. We
seldom drank beer when on a job, but
one Saturday we went to town and Mat
gathered one empty whisky- and Several
empty beer-bottles. These he placed
judiciously in the scrub about our tent.-
The cocky duly spotted them. He
quizzed me and I knew my part. “It's
me mate,” I said sadly. “He can’t leave
it alone. Secret drinker, too. Hides the
stuff and goes it when nobody’s looking.”
The cocky frowned. “That’s bad luck,”
he said thoughtfully. I reported this to
Mat. “That ought t’ choke ’em off,” he
said. A week went by. No home-made
pies. No invitations. Then the cocky
caught Mat up in the scrub and debated
with him. “What did he say?” I asked.
Mat was disgusted. “Put it on me for a
whisky,” he said, “an’ when I said there
wasn’t none wanted t’ gimme the dough
t’ go an’ get some if I’d keep it hid in the
tent.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”.: Late winter, and here
I am floundering around in the mud
not so far from Sydney, trying to find
enough cobbers to help me eat the best
crop of cauliflowers I’ve ever grown.
I know who’s responsible; he and mate
are probably sunning themselves up near
Cairns and aren’t due back for a couple
of months yet. When they do return he
is likely to be wearing a new suit;
instead of the varied greys in which
he left he will sport the neat black-and-
white that gives his race the name of
white-winged triller, or peewee lark. One
of the native birds for which we have
found a pleasant name, its original
monicker, caterpillar - eater, unpoetic
though it is, nevertheless fits the fowl
very well; and it was in pursuit of
retaining that reputation that a couple of
them—a female and an immature male —
dallied long after their usual time of
departure and cleaned up the cabbage-
grubs from my caulies, with the
aforesaid embarrassing result. The
pairs don’t return together, so if in the
spring you see a greyish stranger with
lighter wing-primaries hopping about the
grass, don’t think you’ve found a new
species ; hold off for a week or two and a
bright little pied mate will have called
her to the treetops to lend a hand in
tossing together one of the skimpiest
apologies for a nest in all
birdland. Neither bold nor
very shy, they feed where it
suits them, and should they
come into your garden slip
away and leave them to it,
for they’re worth their
weight in uranium.
# * * »
“Phil Anthus”: Bush
youngsters are often able to
teach their teachers in matters
of natural history, and the
small girl who assured a scep-
tical inspector that birds
sometimes bath in dust (B.
23/7/’52) was perfectly
correct. In point of fact, the
child might fairly have con-
tinued the educative process
by telling her ill-informed
critic that, in addition to
water-bathing and dust-bath-
ing, birds indulge in sun-
bathing, smoke-bathing and
ant-bathing. All five terms
are recognised in ornithology.
Ant-bathing, now known
throughout the world as “ant-
ing,” was first definitely made
known about a score of years
ago in Australia, and has
since been the subject of
theorising in various coun-
tries. The best bet seems to
be that its purpose is akin
to that of other forms of
bathing; that is, to purify and
stimulate the skin. Incidentally, although
the term “anting” was coined because
certain birds were seen to apply ants to
their bodies, the same term is adopted
when other mediums are used —and these
have been known to include beetles, apple-
peel, aromatic leaves, vinegar, cigar-butts,
and even beer. Obviously, then, the
bathing mediums of birds—in spite of the
school-pedant who limited them to water
—are more extensive than even those of
the belles of Hollywood.
* « * *
“Old-timer”: Baldy’s only attribute as
a station-hand was his wizardry with
machinery. He was scared of horses,
dogs, men and sheep. A gummy old ewe
had only to stamp her foot and glare at
Baldy and he’d go over the yard-rail like
a kangaroo. When the shearers came the
boss always sent Baldy into the back
paddocks to save him from being bullied,
and nearly every time he went to town
some one or other of us had to save him
from some enraged office-boy who
couldn’t knock a chop off a gridiron.
Usually such a character earns only con-
tempt from the men who have to work
with him, but if he lasts long enough the
protective instinct develops to the point
where his mates violently resent attacks
by outsiders. However, the time came
when Baldy proved his worth. It was
just before Christmas, and fire raged
through the back-country. With Baldy
driving the ute with our tucker and gear,
and based on Sundown hut, we were
“ Thanks , but I never have more than half a dozen schooners now —
I'm in trainin' for the tennis champeenship."
getting the stock out of danger and fight-
ing the fire, when word came down the
line that a change of wind had sent the
fire straight for the hut. Before anyone
could move Baldy tore off in the ute.
“Strike me fat!” roared Fleming. “He’s
so scared he won’t stop this side of
Kosciusko, There goes our tucker an’
everything.” An hour later the ute came
through the smoke. Baldy’s eyes were red
and running, there were charred leaves
and bark in the truck. His grin was a
yard wide. “I got her,” he cried. And
he had —the 18gal. keg we had stored in
the hut for Christmas!
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Touching on
“Gravelsnatcher’s” lake in the W.A.
near-desert (B. 20/8/’52), old Ted, who
was on the track early in the piece,
remembers the deluge of 1896, when a
coach bogged in the rising waters and
the horses were drowned before they
could be released. After that rain Ted
and his mate found a freshwater lake
about three miles off the main Kalgoorlie
track and about 18 miles out of Cool-
gardie. They erected a water-stand on
the track, carted the water in and made
£5O a week selling it at threepence a
gallon. It was the only freshwater lake
in the vicinity, and a week or so after it
filled it teemed with tadpoles. They’d
hatched out from eggs deposited after the
previous rains lord knows how long
before. That lake lasted six months, and
until it was dry the partners had to strain
every drop through bran-bags. They
averaged two buckets of tadpoles to every
200 gallons.
* * * ♦
“Bill Ding”: “Sou’-west’s” enthusiasm
for tree-growths in the south-west
corner of W.A. (B. 30/7/’52) has rather
run away with him. A life of over 50
years in the jarrah-country sawmills does
not lead me to endorse his claim that a
jarrah of 20 years’ growth will give good
timber. A pole, perhaps, but not a sub-
stantial one. Jarrah is a slow-growing
tree. When the old Jarrahdale sawmill
had to retrace its steps over its earliest
areas —70 years old —it didn’t get much
picking in the way of new trees. The few
logs it got were from trees spared at the
first venture. Nobody seems prepared to
declare how old good-sized loggable
jarrah-trees are, but there is a fair con-
sensus of opinion that their age is from
100 to 300 years.
“Chuck”: For 20-odd years a cobber
of mine has been running a place for a
bloke in the city—a few cattle, a bit
under 2000 ewes, nearly as many lambs
and as many acres. Single-handed he
has kept fences, etc., in order, done
all stock-work, including buying and
selling, kept property reasonably free
of noxious weeds and rabbits, and
at crutching- and shearing-times has en-
gaged shearers, picked-up, classed and
cooked for the gang. He draws wages
for the job, and has seen his boss on rare
occasions. Getting on in years, he wrote
giving notice of his intention to retire,
and soon afterwards along came a bloke
to take over. The new man had never
been on the land before, but had recently
“worked on a weir-construction job in
the country.” He didn’t know there were
different breeds of sheep, couldn’t tell a
Hereford from a fit of colic and, inquiring
for the nearest vet. in case of stock
sickness, was concerned at finding there
was none available. Reporting to the boss
that he considered the new manager for-
warded unsuitable, cobber received a
letter showing surprise. Hadn’t the boss
interviewed the man himself! He had
seemed well-spoken, well-built and
willing. However, if after further trial,
my friend was still unable to recommend
him, would he write again, as there were
plenty of men being put off works pro-
jects at the moment, so it would be a
simple matter to get another one to send
along in his place. Ye gods!
* * * *
“The Missus”; If “Sou’-west” (B.
6/8/’52) can’t get chillies and he wants
to try the old drover’s method of break-
ing-in pups I can recommend cayenne-
pepper. It’s really only hot chillies
ground up, and sixpennorth goes a lot
further than sixpennorth of parrot-feed.
♦ * * *
“B.”: Dad Evans needed a man for
helping with work on the farm, and,
learning that a neighbor was about
finished with the bloke he had, rode over
to make inquiries. “Yair, Newie’s a
nice bloke all right,” the neighbor in-
formed him. “Does his eight hours
driving the truck or sitting on the tractor,
but you want
to keep all the
shovels an’
picks out of
sight while he’s
with you, be-
cause they
make him sick.”
Dad scowled
worriedly for
a bit, then de-
cided he’d do
'his best. “And
don’t let him
see a mattock,
either,” the
neighbor continued, “or a fern-slasher.
Them things don’t agree with ’im. Yair,
and if you don’t want him to go off in
a dead faint, you’d better hide your
crowbar where he won’t catch sight of
it.” Dad nodded, and before the new
hand arrived next day the mentioned tools
were duly hidden. “I’ll show you y’r
quarters,” Dad greeted Newie. “Over
this way.” They were passing a pile of
logs at the back of the house when
suddenly the new hand jumped wildly
and stifled a yell. “Wha’samatter?”
gasped Dad, “What is it?” He glanced
all round. “Gosh, yair, look out, it’s
a snake awright.” “Snake!” grunted
Newie contemptuously. “That all.
Gripes, I thought for a second it was the
blasted axe!”


£
(D Callxim’s
Scots CUhxsky
Ji
€fti|«BuaqH (rounfccb iao7)«.s*ft»*r»
the name is
(T) c CaUam’s
the whisky is
> Distilled and blended in Scotland
Mil
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions througnout Australia
JACKSON 4,
OSUIXIVAN
. a pixiju ,
TRAO« MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
.AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSEJS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
lOO%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
!
mm
m
ms. s
Hi
3«x«Vs<
5.
w
S^umll
; '>-
* »*Sv
sgg
sis
sis!
'&&&£&&&&&■SsSS&S&&eS&%^--^
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because U is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only li pints of Kero jor
12 hours’ light —it is safe—it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
“Chink”: The tale told by “The
Pirate” (B. 6/8/’52) regarding a wild
magpie’s deluding of a sheepdog by
imitating a human voice takes me back
over the years—a festive pied-piper used
to perch in a treetop near my bush home
and troE “Merrily danced the Quaker’s
wife” in quite accomplished fashion. We
often wondered whether that soloist was
an escapee from confinement or a natur-
ally wild bird that had picked up the
tune from a captive. Anyway, wild
magpies of both kinds (white-backed and
black-backed) do mimic in odd instances
a considerable variety of sounds, ranging
from the notes of other birds to the
neighing of a horse, the barking of a
fox and the sounds made by a man
when calling his cows home. As for
mimicry by mags in captivity, this has
been known for more than a century.
George Bennett, a Sydney doctor-
naturalist of the 1850’s, had an especiaUy
accomplished bird to which he was so
attached that he took it with him on a
trip to England. At sea, the feathered
comedian amused passengers by his
mimicry of the mewing of cats, the bark-
ing of dogs, the cackling of hens and the
crowing of cocks. UnluckEy, this last
imitation got him into holts with genuine
cocks on board—he knocked out three of
his big opponents and then turned up his
toes. Bennett’s autopsy revealed that the
plucky magpie had died from exhaustion.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Torres Straits island
natives had a physiological equivalent of
the Maori mana (B. 6/8/’52). This
was a paste obtained by the somewhat
grisly process of scraping the substance
lining the inside of the frontal bone of
the skull of the deceased warrior. This
was consumed by the unblooded bucks
in the belief that it would endue them
with the same martial qualities. The
skulls not only of dead chiefs but
of any well-performing warriors and
even of enemies were prospected for
the war-winning ingredient. Because of
its scarcity participation in it was, by
dictates of the tribal headmen, strictly
limited to those who, by tradition or
physique, demonstrated themselves as
likely to be benefited by its consumption.
I learned of the practice when, whilst
being shown the burial cave of Sobia and
Waiaia, two of the greatest warriors of
Badu Island, I noted the caving-in of
the frontal bones of the otherwise well-
preserved skulls, and suggested that this
was evidence of the club blows which
presumably killed them. A grandson of
one of the dead heroes then spilled the
beans.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Sheep committing suicide
(B. 6/8/’52)? In nearly a lifetime of
tending the things, I’ve found that when
they are kept so healthy that there’s no
legitimate excuse, they’ll die of plain
cussedness. If, following a few
mysterious deaths, one calls in a
vet., he learns after a time that the
jumbuck analysed had zomzillydarnthing
in the woteveritis, cause and cure un-
known. If the feed is poor, sheep lie
“According to my reckoning We’ll raise Thursday Island by nightfall."
down resignedly and let the crows have
their eyes. When it is extra good, they
die overnight from pulpy kidney. If they
are cut at shearing-time, the flies get
them. If they aren’t cut, the flies get ’em
anyway. I’ve had a ewe shove her head
behind a fence-post and die because she
thought she couldn’t get it out, and a
lamb walk up the fork of a log and peg
out there because he couldn’t go further
forward. If there’s a 2ft. bog in a
1000-acre paddock a jumbuck will cer-
tainly drown himself ; and a trailing piece
of barb is always sufficient excuse to
tangle himself and stay there. But for
a sheep that is neither pushed, frightened
nor blind, to deliberately jump off a
cliff into space for the sole purpose Oi
finding death? While granting the
blighters would probably do it if some-
one told ’em about it, I can’t believe
the breed have yet thought up that one.
“Bass”: I’d accept “Naturala’s
explanation (B, 30/7/’52) that in igenous
animals and some introduced species
learn to avoid poison plants but
for this: I’ve ridden horses througn
miles of country where the poison-
bushes were so thick that we kept
the nosebags on continuously, and any
animal attempting to eat the other
herbage would almost certainly have
taken an odd piece of poison with it;
and an odd piece of some of W.A. poisons
is plenty. Now, I’ll concede that an
adult ’roo might use sufficient care m
feeding in such country, but I won’t have
it that young Toos either could or would
totally avoid the poison. And there were
young ’roos there —I’ve put theni up.
Similarly cows which have been reared in
“Cape Tulip” districts will feed amongst
the stuff without harm, whilst an intro-
duced beast will succumb quickly. Ive
seen cows feeding where the tulip was so
thick that the wandering tongue couidn t
avoid drawing some into the mouth, yet
they were not harmed. I think that a
certain immunity must be gained, possi y
by eating the plants at a non-toxic period
of their growth, and that this immunity
may be hereditary.
J * * * *
“Kros”: There is no simple, direct
explanation of ‘‘Sparks s poser (B.
6/8/’52) —why a blue spark should jump
from the finger of a man working in
wool when he points towards the gal-
vanised-iron side of a W.Q. woolshed. At
the point where the spark occurs there
must be a difference of potential: positive
on the wall, negative at the fingertip, re-
sulting in an electron-flow from the man’s
body. However, without seeing the exact
set-up, or being informed of every per-
tinent detail, nobody could give “S. ’
more than a possibly correct solution.
Bodies (human and otherwise) can be
charged electrically in several ways;
friction is one method. The current
through the man’s body was probably in-
duced by the friction of working in wool
(perhaps, as well, he wore some metal
article which continually rubbed against
the wool). That the iron is “alive” may
be due to contact with an electrically-
charged conductor which may be dis-
charging through it, The “hot, dry
winds” would not be of direct concern,
except that the perspiration they would
help to cause would assist in the build-
up of flow. As for the blueness men-
tioned, the reflection of the spark against
the dirt and dust in the air would cause
the color. Incidentally, one of the first
machines with which sparks were obtained
(built by Hauksbee, around 1700) made
use of the principle of moving a man’s
hand up close to a revolving sphere, the
sparks in this case jumping from sphere
to finger.
* * * ♦
“Tyabb”: No need for “Betcha” (B.
6/8/’52) to question his own sobriety: he
could have seen a footsore kelpie run on
two legs. In our Victorian district resides
a dog which in a road accident had his
near front-leg off, and the near hind one
hopelessly shattered, yet he can still
show a fair turn of speed, though it’s an
uncanny business to watch. Sometimes
he skids badly when cornering at speed ;
but that has little to do with balance,
which is near perfect.
* * H* •
“Byram”: Away in the Dream Time
between the Great Dividing Range and
the sea lived the Turawal tribe of abo-
riginals who hunted in the valley ci
Burragorang. During one great period of
floods the tribe took shelter in a great
cave, but after being there many days
some died of cold and hunger. To a
young warrior a dying elder entrusted the
lighted fire-stick, with instructions not to
let it go out, as no fire could be lit with-
out it. But it fell from his frozen hands
and went out. Waking, he was thoroughly
frightened and decided to make the
journev to a great smouldering gum and
relight the stick—for the aborigines had
not yet learned to make fire by rubbing
sticks together. When he didn’t return
his faithful sister, Myee, went searching,
and came upon his body, beside which
grew a strange plant on the top of which
was a beautiful flower which had the form
of a torch, its color bright as fire. She
knew then that this was the torch he had
relit and which he had evidently put
upright in the ground before he died.
She gave out the tribal call “Warrak”
to teii the warriors she had found him.
The surrounding hills gave back the echo
time and again—“Waratah, Waratah.”
And that’s how Australia’s torchlike
native flower got its name.
ROAD TO SPRING.
One day of unforgotten spring
The old road caught fire,
And the rider climbing the hill that evening
Rode with a whistle gold and clear
Into the flames that hid him there.
The wheat in the paddock by the road
Rustled like a running flare,
And the burning magpie’s image-throated mood
Lit and fanned the wind-thrummed wire
That gossiped news across the shire.
Heroic flicker in smoking dust,
The striding ploughman heard
Under the hill golden where then had passed
The slow blaze of rider and bird
The song in which he felt assured.
N.S.W.
David Rowbotham.


w
: asmmjL
with ECONOMY that's
outstanding!
When you buy a Nuffield Universal with 6-way power, you
own a completely equipped tractor with all the power you
need where you need it I Swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
power take-off, hydraulically-operated 3-point linkage system
and full electrical equipment make the Nuffield tractor a
versatile, economical “task force” in itself! You’ll appreciate,
too, Nuffield’s five forward speeds, ranging from 1 to 18
m.p.h., that save you time between jobs and money on the
job! Equivalent of a 10-horse team, the Nuffield Universal
uses as little as 1-1/3 gallons of fuel per hour under normal
working conditions. Obtainable in both Kerosene and
“Cold Start” Diesel-operated Models.
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD. South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
«RW*
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
ŵ
NT10.24.52
» NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W. tig
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ENTANGLED UNCLE SAM.
How very thoroughly the
traditional American policy of
no foreign entanglements has
been jettisoned is indicated by
this outline of commitments
gleaned from a “U.S. News and
World Report” survey:
Thirty-seven nations now look
to the U.S. to rush to their aid
in case of Russian aggression or
Moscow-inspired attack. Uncle
Sam has already signed, or soon
will sign, formal pledges to that
effect.
U.S. commitment virtually
extends from Pole to Pole—
from Greenland in the north to
the southernmost tip of South
America. The entire Western
Hemisphere can call on the U.S.
for help as a result of the Rio
and Atlantic pacts.
Europe, from the northern tip
of Norway down through
Germany and swinging around
to Greece and Turkey, is a U.S.
defence line under the North
Atlantic Treaty. Most of Africa
is a U.S. defence responsibility
by virtue of European possessions
or ties. And in the Pacific the
U.S. commitment extends from
Japan through the Philippines to
Australia and New Zealand.
As well, the U.S. pledge under
the Atlantic Pact covers islands
and qther possessions of
America’s European allies. U.S.
help is also called for in case of
attack on any ally vessels, air-
craft or troops anywhere in the
area.
In addition, outside these
major treaties, Communist Yugo-
slavia counts on U.S. aid if
attacked. Spain is working on a
defence deal with the U.S. The
Middle East, including the Suez
Canal, will be a U.S. defence
responsibility as soon as the
Middle East Command has been
worked out.
Then there is, of course,
Korea. Also, Indo-China, now
getting U.S. arms aid, expects
much more if Chinese Com-
munists invade in force. Burma,
now threatened, expects help,
too.
In short, U.S. promises
blanket practically the entire
non-Communist world.
Call to London.
Explaining in the House of
Commons the calling of British
Commonwealth leaders for con-
ference at the end of November,
President of the Board of Trade
Thornecroft listed first among
matters to be discussed the
general agreement on tariffs and
trade and “the whole question
of preference.”
The Churchill Government, he
said, intended to re-examine the
whole basis of Britain’s com-
mercial policy with other mem-
bers of the Commonwealth.
The main discussion would
have to do with not only the
structure of the existing trade
organisation but how to build
a trade policy more stable and
enduring.
“It is clear,” he said, “that we
must seek to expand the amount
of trade within the Common-
wealth, and to that end we must
develop our resources not with
some academic idea of complete
self-sufficiency within a narrow
bloc but in an endeavor to be
less helplessly dependent for
many of our needs upon the
dollar world.
“Equally, we must endeavor
to persuade the Americans to
give us some reductions in the
tariff barriers which now sur-
round us. We must sell more
to them, not only in manufac-
tured goods but commodities
from the sterling area, and we
must encourage the flow of in-
vestment from the dollar world
into the sterling area. These are
not mutually exclusive. We
shall have to use all of them if
we are to surmount the con-
siderable problems that confront
us.”
Johnno Rearmed.
Observing Turkey on the spot,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” special
correspondent Robert Stephens
sees its policy now subordinated
entirely to one dominating aim—
the strengthening of the country
against a possible Russian
attack:
“The American aid pro-
gramme which has poured more
than a thousand million dollars
worth of military and economic
aid into Turkey in the past five
years has been a more spec-
tacular success here in both the
military and economic fields
than in any other country.
“With this material assistance
and the tactful advice of a
thirteen-hundred-strong Ameri-
can military mission the Turkish
Army has been reorganised, re-
equipped, and retrained into a
powerful modern fighting
machine, the strongest in the
Near East and one of the
strongest in the whole of the free
world.”
Russia's Germans.
“For some time to come the
West German force is likely to
remain a dream, and its Soviet
counterpart a nightmare.”
And not only a nasty night-
mare, but a very real one, sug-
gests London “Economist.” It
debunks the notion that the now
well-indoctrinated East Ger-
mans would not fight for Russia
against their countrymen of the
West:
“It would be wrong to think
that the Russians will not find
sufficient Germans to serve them
in due course. Even now there
are enough members of the
People’s Police who are willing
to fire on their fellow-country-
men and drive them out of their
homes along the Elbe frontier.
“And the hundreds of thous-
ands of youths who can be
mobilised for demonstrations
under giant portraits of Stalin
suggest that the present reluct-
I
!
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) “Mirror."
TALKING THROUGH HIS HIGH-HAT.
ance to take up arms will be
overcome in Soviet Germany.
“It is, indeed, a remarkable
fact that West Germans who
affirm that 90 per cent, of the
Soviet zone is anti-Communist,
at the same time take it for
granted that in a war the East
Germans would fight for the
Russians.”
Lords ' Reform.
Lord Simon, in his new book.
Retrospect, makes suggestions:
“Two changes are urgently
needed in the composition of the
House of Lords.
“The time has long gone by
when a man ought to be accepted
as a legislator because he is the
son of his father. The only
hereditary peers of Parliament,
should be those whose personal
contribution to public affairs or
administration makes their
membership justified,
“Secondly, the creation of life-
peers should be extended until
these form an important and
indeed predominating element
in the House. The Crown
might continue as the fount of
honor to create new peers as
advised, but the limits to its
power to create peers of Parlia-
ment should be prescribed.”
U.S. Economic Miracle.
Sir Norman Angell, in one of
a series of London “Time and
Tide” articles:
“The economic miracle by
which the United States has been
able to provide not only much
the highest standard of living
anywhere in the world for its
own people (the average
American family, counting in the
working-class, has an income of
over a thousand pounds a year),
but has also, out of the surplus,
been able to provide generous
aid for half the nations of the
earth, is to be explained by the
high productivity of the indi-
vidual American worker.
“This, however, is not to be
explained by any innately
superior industry of the indi-
vidual but by the greater use of
mechanical power. The
American workman today uses
more than twice the power used
by the average British worker.”
Dragnet Digest.
Crucial Year. —“Military ex-
perts,” comments the “Phila-
delphia Inquirer,” “still regard
1954 as ‘The Year of Danger.’
In our opinion the year of
danger is now —1952.” The
reference is to the Joint Chiefs
of Staff in Washington, who, two
years ago, named 1952 as
“danger year,” later amended it
to 1954, and recently reaffirmed
this latter date.
In the Persian Garden.—
Tehran correspondent, New
York “Herald Tribune”: “Persia
suffers from the complications
of old age, poverty, dirty politics
and foreign pressures.”
Wool Drop.— London “Times
Review of Industry” report:
“During 1949 the world used
approximately 80 million pounds
more wool than it produced: in
1950 consumption exceeded pro-
duction by about 108 million
pounds, but last year, as a result
of the sharp fall in consumption,
production was greater by 115
million pounds.” This though
“during the early months of 1951
consumption was extremely
high.”
British Migrants. —Accounted
for by London “Financial
Times”: In the period from
1946 until the end of March this
year 290,000 British migrants
entered Australia. From 1946
to the end of 1951, 203,000 went
to Canada, 40,000 to New Zea-
land, 75,000 to South Africa and
46,000 to Southern Rhodesia.
Tussauded Ike. —Eisenhower,
as soldier, naturally has his place
at Madame Tussaud’s, bht appar-
ently they’re waiting till after
November before deciding
whether or not to change him
into civvies. They’ve been had
once. Edinburgh “Scotsman”
reports that in the 1948 Presi-
dential outbreak they were
“galluped” into having a figure
of Dewey all ready to set up.
“When the results were
announced and Truman returned
to the White House,” says the
“Scotsman” feelingly, “£350-
worth of Dewey went into the
melting-pot.”
Aftermath to ’Flu. —Britain’s
Socialists, comments a London
“Financial Times” writer, must
be flattered by the constant
scrutiny to which their party is
subject: “They must feel they
are mighty important people. So
they are. An influenza epidemic
next February could make them
H.M. Government in March.
From the ’flu to another devalua-
tion of the pound could be three
months, could be six.”
All Want British Planes.—
Reporting on the first new
British plane to be sold to Japan
since the war, an Auster Aiglet
trainer, and Jap orders for other
Austers, “which can be used for
light freighting and agricultural
spraying,” a London “Times
correspondent adds: “Austers
are now being used in at least
75 countries. Eighteen Aiglets
have recently been ordered by
the Pakistan Government, and
50 others from different parts of
the world.”
Calculating Corns.— Touching
on the plentiful sentimentalists
who make the major error of
thinking Joe, Mao and co. thinK
as they themselves
“Observer” comments: “In fact,
senior Communists act on colder
calculations of interest and
power, are less swayed by sud-
den incidents, and are far less
easily influenced by sentiments
of anger or indignation. The)
are, broadly speaking, un-
appeaseable and unprovokable.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM OASSADY late
of 56 Doomben Avenue Eastwood. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET CASSADY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2532 of.
1952 on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Fifth day of November
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HUNT & HUNT,
Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Don't be
fooled
by
big
money
n
ẁ
So you’re young, and earning good money. But
how much is your “big wage” really worth? Think
what it costs you to live! And what about your
future?
Do you know that a Serviceman of 18 —after 3 to
6 months’ preliminary training—earns over £lO/4/-
a week, PLUS EXTRAS worth many pounds a
week more?
At least £lO/4/- a week and all these extras!
ẃ
Free food and accommodation.
Free initial clothing issue.
Medical, dental and hospital ex-
penses free. Full pay during
illness.
Retirement on a pension while
young enough to enjoy it.
At least three weeks’ leave per
year, with concessions in fares
and travelling time.
Check these advantages against your
- m m m .
present job!
Organised, on-the-job training to
increase skill and pay.
Career opportunities in over 100
occupations.
Diligence and proficiency ensure
promotion and pay increases.
Continuity of engagement at all
times.
Why not find out more about the career opportunities in
the Services NOW!
i - Enquire at the following without obligation: ———
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building.
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King Street. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. in Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting. PF4O-112-62
SUNDRY SHOWS
Landscaped Land-
scapes.
It is generally pleasant to
meet the artist whose work is
not founded on the current
passing affliction of all art and
no painting; all style and no
craft; and, since he most obvi-
ously does not subscribe to that
dictum, Charles Meere gets
away to a very favorable intro-
duction with his exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
Here is the accomplished painter
speaking his language with
smooth, detailed precision and
not without polish.
What he is saying, however—
what he is observing and record-
ing—is another matter. Too
often one meets the landscape-
gardener neatly trimming and
pruning the charming errant
harmonies of nature to outlines
and patterns of almost mathe-
matical symmetry; and too
often, as in “Morning Light,
Gleniffer,” one finds that
vitreous sheen (which character-
ised the artist’s winning entry
for the 1951 Wynne Prize) across
his landscapes, giving them the
effect of nature imprisoned by
glass.
That predilection for design,
of course, stems from the artist’s
murals like the “Australian
Beach Pattern” and “Atlanta’s
Eclipse” (Sulman Prize, 1938) —
both large and smoothly impos-
ing, but, in essence, lifeless —
and runs with rather chilling
influence into his large view of
“Dinan - sur - Ranee, Brittany,”
and, less obviously, into the
warmer, mellower painting of
“The Road to Kalang.”
Against those criticisms, how-
ever, the artist presents, un-
answerably, several lovely little
landscapes like “Poplars at
Tumut,” “Aftermath of Flood,
Bellingen,” “The Elm Drive,
Tumut,” “Morning Light, Sirius
Cove,” “The Bull Paddock,
Goldbrae” and an uncatalogued
painting of red earth and green
trees —all of them evidence of
an uncomplicated vision of
beauty and of a demonstrated
skill to record it.
The mural influence seems to
creep into several portraits, but
there is one of Peter Hopegood,
meticulously painted, which re-
ports something of the per-
sonality, and there are the same
qualities about that of Colin A,
Sinclair, 8.A., LL.B.
“Craiser”: An exotic
phenomenon in the Melbourne
art world is Eggert Gud-
mundsson, who describes him-
self as an “Icelandic aborigine,”
and is holding an exhibition of
paintings and drawings of his
island at the Kozminsky
Galleries. There are pictures, as
vivid in color as the views of the
Never Never of Albert Namat-
Jira, of the aurora borealis,
glaciers and hot-springs and
volcanoes, including Hecla, of
caves with fairies in them, of
cattle and drovers up to their
necks in snow, of the midnight
sun (easily the best sketch in the
exhibition), of the familiar
Iceland-poppy in its natural
habitat and of Icelandic fisher-
men, seamen and storytellers.
There are also Australian
swagg i e s, diggers, drovers,
kanakas and outback farmers.
Yet the remarkable thing about
it is that, though Mr. Gudmunds-
son and a Melbourne modernist
or National Gallery student are
poles apart geographically speak-
ing, artistically they meet as
brothers, inasmuch as they have
been trained in the same con-
ventions.
* * * *
Another “primitive” has been
discovered in Melbourne. He is
David Stephen, Melbourne’s
oldest painter, who started at 80
and is hanging the evidences of
his innocence of training at the
Mural Hall at Myer’s. The
results are far better than most
of those moderns who try con-
sciously to recapture the inno-
cence of eye of childhood but
can’t. Mr. Stephen paints almost
as a child paints. There is, of
course, no more merit in that
than in a child’s first attempts
to express himself in language,
and in order to go further he
would have to get the proper
teacher, and that’s not easy. One
Artist Heth’s impression of
Bolingbroke (John Pooley),
Richard (Leon Peers), York
(Brooke Denning) and John of
Gaunt (Brian Barnes) in Sydney
Metropolitan Theatre’s current
production of “Richard II.”
of his most striking efforts is
“S.P. at the Local.” It has all
the ingredients—the barman,
the loungers at the bar, the cat
on the windowsill, the somnolent
atmosphere of a Saturday after-
noon and the expectant bookie
making for his usual stand in
the backyard.
* * * *
Charles Bush’s exhibition at
Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne, of
English and Continental oils,
watercolors and drawings is diffi-
cult to contemplate with calm
detachment because of the
artist’s high reputation. Mr,
Bush is easily the most prolific
of Australian art prizewinners
though he hasn’t won the Archi-
bold Prize yet: he might do that
soon judging by his portrait of
Douglas Watson in this show.
Generally speaking, he sees what
everybody else sees and puts it
down quite slickly, as, for in-
stance, the red sun in “From
London Bridge-Winter,” but
the underlying thing, the unseen
thing that only a Turner sees,
he doesn’t see. There is some-
thing of this inner quality in
some of his watercolors, how-
ever, like “The University and
National Gallery—Glasgow” and
it creeps into “Fishermen’s
Chapel, Jersey,” which catches
some of the sombreness of a
Channel evening, but “Gorey
and Montorgueil,” painted on
the same island, has the common-
placeness of a poster.
* * H> *
Gwen Eichler’s oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
suggest that she has smothered
the scenes before with a coarsely
vigorous application of paint—
possibly the result of being over-
interested in developing style
and insufficiently concerned with
the real problems of painting;
less interested in what she is
painting than in how she is
painting it. One might offer
her Rodin’s advice: “Everything
is contained in Nature, and
when the artist follows Nature
he gets everything.” At present
Miss Eichler appears to be fol-
lowing other artists.
Elena Nikolaidi.
Elena Nikolaidi impressively
confimed at her final Sydney
concert the conviction earlier
established that she is the finest
contralto heard in this country
in living memory. No matter
in what medium she sings—
opera, oratorio, lieder, modern-
art song, French, Spanish and
Greek folksongs—her artistry is
unerring; no matter how exact-
ing may be the demands of the
composer her magnificent voice
stands up to it with never a sug-
gestion of strain or effort.
Her opening Handel group
consisted of two numbers as
widely divergent in mood and
treatment as possible; “O Sleep,
Why Dost Thou Leave Me?”
from “Semele,” and “Spring Has
Come” from “Ottone,” the one
soft and gently flowing, the
other a veritable surge of joy,
and each flawlessly rendered.
The first of a lovely Schubert
group was “To Music,” sung
exactly as it should be, rever-
ently, for this was Schubert’s
supreme hymn to his earthly god.
Richard Strauss’s “Standchen”
was rapture.
Four lullabies —by Benjamin
Britten, Ponirides, Brahms and
Mozart —offered great contrast
in treatment, but all were of
great tenderness. There were
Greek songs, of course, in some
of which Mme. Nikolaidi’s
subtle sense of humor found
full play.
* * ♦
Illness restricted Elena Nikol-
aidi to one Brisbane appearance,
but in that recital she was able
to display the magnificence of
her contralto in a wide range of
vocal music. Primarily an
operatic singer, her encore, the
“Carmen” “Habanera,” was her
most exciting number and re-
vealed her as an ideal interpreter
of that difficult role. Her lieder-
singing stayed on the surface. It
was operatic acting in miniature,
not the rare identification with
poet and musician that is the
gift of no more than a handful
of singers today. Her generous
allotment of folksongs included
the delightful “Songs of the
Auvergne,” and their strong feel-
ing for earth and sky suited per-
fectly the vigorous, clear line
of her magnificent voice.
"The Importance of
Being Earnest."
Wilde’s comedy leaves so
little for the actors to do that
one has come to expect a modern
resurrection to justify itself by a
particular brilliance and sumptu-
ousness of presentation. Those
things can hardly be expected
from amateur societies, yet
Canberra Rep. did do the play
at least competently. Some of
the comedy could have been
played up more, but if the cast
did not always help Wilde as
effectively as they might have
done, at least they did not greatly
hinder him.
Despite her trouble with the
accent, Joyce Goodes was a
consistent Lady Bracknell, who
gave the lines full force; yet
she could have got more from
the role by stressing its massive
dignity rather than masculine
strength.
Grant Mclntyre, as Algy, was
polished and easy. He was rol-
licking rather than languid,
and while that made him less
Wildely amusing in the first act,
it made him more convincing
later. Brian Hall, as Worthing,
supported confidently, and cer-
tainly deserved better clothes.
The women were better
dressed than the men, which
was unfair to Wilde, but they
were much more shockingly
made-up, which was some sort of
justice. Nancy Gleenson-
White’s Gwendolen took some
getting used to, but then so she
should; she had one or two
moments of near brilliance and
her interpretation became more
and more convincing as she went
on. Rosemarie Copland, as
Cecily, was even and convinc-
ing, but rather too flat at times
—perhaps she was overawed by
the sublimely superfluous nude
statue which towered over the
Manor House garden.
F.M.T.
Nothing particularly new or
startling has been contributed
by the undergraduates assembled
from the four quarters of Aus-
tralia for the inter-university
festival of drama at the Union
Theatre, University of Mel-
bourne, The New England
University D.S, essayed
“Dangerous Corner,” but failed
to give life to the assortment of
Priestley characters in various
stages of marital disintegration.
The Adelaide University D.S.
made a better showing of the
same author’s “They Came to a
City,” which has been done be-
fore in Melbourne. The gentle
Priestley satire was smartly
given, especially by Keith Buck-
ley as Sir George Gadney, and
the play was admirably dressed
by Derek van Abbe. Sydney
chose “Amphitryon 38”—done
in the right comedic spirit and at
great speed by Roger Cox as
Jupiter, Patricia Conolly as
Alkmena, his human girl-friend,
and Helen Pay ten as Leda. The
Queensland University D.S. took
a header into “The Cocktail
Party” and nearly, if not quite,
came a hopper. Lynore Nicklin
and Irene Erbacher saved it
from disaster. The men were
unconvincing.
* * * *
“Swan Lake,” “Petrouchka”
and “Le Beau Danube” were
added to the ballet procession at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, and,
though something fresher would
have been gratefully accepted,
there was plenty of freshness in
the presentation, especially in
Tschaikowsky’s choreographic
poem. Peggy Sager and Miro
Zloch shared the honors of the
dancing in “Petrouchka,” but
there is a strange monotony in
the variety of Stravinsky’s music
which was repeated in the mim-
ing and buffooning of Graham
Smith, as the Blackamoor, Paul
Hammond as the Charlatan and
the demoniac antics of Ronald
Reay as the Devil. The ensemble
was most at home in the artless
goings-on on the banks of the
Danube, and here Kathleen
Gorham, as the street dancer,
was perfectly married to Strauss’s
luscious music. Edna Busse
wasn’t difficult to watch, either.


:
OEaiH CIITIES INVESTMENT IU. J UJ4II
NENL ESTATE , STOP t STNTION
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7B
Your Estate will he Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 188 S)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1944. 728,675 5 p.c. = 694,245 34,430 4,955,696
1945. 759,367 5 „ ~ 694,245 65,122 5,020,818
1946. 779.292 5 „ „ 694,245 85,047 -5,105,865
Profit, sale assets, £24,542 .. . . 5,130,407
1947.1,221,351 7i p.c. =1,041,369 179,982 5,310,389
Profit, sale assets, £61,899 .. .. 5,872,288
From tax provision, £125,000 . . 5,497,288
1948.1,255,388 8J p.c. =1,157,075 98,313 5,595,601
Profit, sale assets, £8622 ..' .. 5,604,223
1949.1.236,049 8J p.c. =1,157,075 78,974 5,683,197
Share premiums, £1,946,091 .. 7,629,288
Profit, sale assets, £49,073 .. .. 7,678,361
1950.1,286,742 8& p.c. =1,284,513 2,229 7,680,590
Share premiums, £1,587,608 .. 9,218,198
Profit, sale assets, £8894 .. . . 9,227,092
Less prov’n forfeited divs., £2069. . 9,225,023
1951.1,716,925 8$ p.c. =1,539,391 177,534 9,402,557
Share premiums, £2,045,949 ..11,448,506
Profit, sale assets, £19,741 ..11,468,247
1952.1,937,270 8i p.c. =1,810,074 127,196 11,595,443
As a young and expanding economy,
fine of Australia’s vital needs is forma-
tion of new capital assets. And if there
is one organisation more than another
which contributes to this need it is
B.H.P. and its subsidiaries. Without
danger of swamping demand, the group’s
big and costly programme of expansion
provides, among other things, for doubl-
ing steel output. For technical reasons
much of the new plant has not yet had
an opportunity to develop full earning
capacity, and since the programme is by
no means complete, the organisation
obviously awaits an opportunity to do
itself justice in both output and earnings.
For these and other reasons, the
parent’s scrip possesses all the essentials
of a sound industrial equity. Nevertheless
the price has followed the trend and
moods of the market generally. Except-
ing occasional short-lived rallies, the
market trend over the last 12 months
has been downward, for reasons previ-
ously explained in these columns.
During this period the price of B.H.P.’s
f.-p. £1 shares dropped from 555. to
41s. 9d. The return at the lower figure
is 4 p.c. on an 8i p.c. div. basis, with
satisfactory long-term prospects. Net
tangible cover is visibly 335. 6d.
In the short - run shareholders’
prospects have been modified to a
limited extent by the board’s decision
to meet immediate additional capital
commitments of the principal sub-
sidiary—A.l. and S., whose big and
expanding plant at Port Kembla now
rivals that of the Newcastle steelworks
—on loan instead of share account.
Later on, however, shareholders might
be asked to assist in financing com-
pletion of the new cold-rolling mill
and tin-plate plants, construction of
which will be retarded pending comple-
tion of the increased steel-output pro-
gramme up to and including the hot-
finishing mill.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts coal came forward in
better quantity, thanks partly to increased
allocation from the Joint Coal Board and
partly to improved output from the co.’s
own efficient and mechanised pits. One
immediate result was an increase of
57,407 tons in the pushing-rate of the
coke-ovens, which aggregated 735,566
tons. That enabled the blast and open-
hearth furnaces to turn out an additional
104,835 tons (14.2 p.c.) of pig-iron and an
extra 65,651 tons (8.6 p.c.) of steel-ingots
respectively:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron . . 718,485 625,458 738,877 843,712
Steel ingots. . 711,068 684,947 757,064 822,715
The figures are best since 1942 and 1945,
the chairman says. Still, considering
plant capacity then and now, they are a
sad commentary upon what has hap-
pened to productivity, mainly because of
inadequate supplies of coal and the 40-
hour week. The lift in tonnage of iron and
ingots was carried right down the line,
through the blooming, plate, merchant-
bar, cold-rolling and other mills. More
by-products—tar, ammonium sulphate,
benzol, etc. —came from the coke-ovens,
too.
At the shipyards at Whyalla (S. Aust.)
the fourth 12,000-ton ore-carrying vessel
was launched, and is now being fitted-
out to join the other 15 units of the co.’s
fleet. Also, the fourth 6000-ton freighter
was completed and handed over to the
Shipping Board, and the keel of a new
10,000-ton cargo vessel was laid.
The subsidiaries all gave a satisfactory
account of themselves. AX and S.,
whose £13,500,000 of ord. capital is
owned by 8.H.P., paid its second ord.
div. of 2i p.c. (previous payment was 5
p.c. in 1946), and it shouldn’t be long
before recent large additions to plant
begin to show up in its p. and 1. account,
and thus enhance dividend prospects for
shareholders in the parent co.
The parent’s own accounts showed a
profit of £1,937,270 (up £222,345), equal
to 8.9 p.c. on average capital. But that
leaves out of the reckoning undistributed
earnings of the subsidiaries. Here are
the combined figures for the whole group,
including outside interests:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings—- 1950. 1951. 1952.
Working profit. . £5,453,424 £7,645,466 £8,132,290
Divs., etc. .. 418,202 447,636 371,616
Total . . £5,871,626 £8,093,102 £8,503,906
Depreciation . . 2,513,363 2,849,643 2,798,416
Taxation . , . . 1,410,231 2,580,315 3,092,877
Other exes. .. 343,799 341,524 325,781
Total exes. . . £4,267,393 £5,771,482 £6,217,074
Net profit . . 1,604,233 2,321,620 2,286,832
Profit, sale assets. . 49,004 21,979 11,397
The provision for depreciation makes the
total so set aside over the last dozen
years approximately £34,000,000. Of the
£2,286,832 (down £34,788) of profit,
about £121,000 appears to belong to out-
siders. The other £2,165,832 was equal
to 10 p.c. on B.H.P. average ord.
capital.
During the year shareholders put up
£6,137,845 £4,091,896 capital and
£2,045,949 share premiums:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
, B.H.P. , Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.!
1948.. 13,884,902 9,420,540 2,225,514 9,234,336
1949.. 13,884,902 9,895,799 2,259,863 9,387,045
1950.. 17,777,083 12,107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
1951.. 20,852,300 14,443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
1952.. 24,944,196 16,816,052 2,336,221 17,134,832
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1948.. 16,604,210 6,595,418 2,573,660 9,022,084
1949.. 18,959,926 7,641,989 2,174,700 6,650,884
1950.. 22,517,069 8,838,696 2,811,249 7,527,170
1951.. 26,389,915 10,593,218 3,001,402 9,717,330
1952.. 32,407,841 14,341,154 4,590,866 9,891,940
* Including proportion reserves. t Includes tax
provision.
The new share and premium moneys, to-
gether with an extra £5,038,905 from
sundry creditors, etc., went mainly into
fixed assets (up £6,017,426), stocks (up
£3,947,936) and book - debts (up
£1,589,464). The major part of the
expansion programme should be nearing
completion by next balance, except the
portion already mentioned.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.t
1944.. 31,242 3100 7f p.c.= 25,371 23,608
1945.. 31,660 3100 7J „ „ 25,371 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 3100 7J „ „ 25,371 9,875
1948.. 40,769 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 5,843
Reserves.
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,786 4000 „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO 7,250
1951.. 56,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
1962.. 51,939 4000 10 ~ „ 36,918 33,946
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
t After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
Linseed-oil arid linseed-meal stockfoods,
turned out by factories at Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, are the
commodities which this co. markets. Pre-
war the problem was to sell the oil, a ton
of which results from every two tons of
stockfood produced. Now oil has be-
come an important, if not the major,
factor in earnings. This switch followed
firstly the co.’s success during the 1930’s
in inducing Michael Nairn, the Scottish
lino, people, to set up here, and in arrang-
ing with Blundell Spence, the big oil
merchants of Hull (Eng.), to use their
trade-marks on the Australian market,
and secondly the rapid post-war growth
of the paint and lino, industries, the two
principal consumers of the oil. The
stockfoods have long enjoyed, a wide
market in the dairying and pastoral indus-
tries, where they are used to enrich butter-
fats and enhance production of fat-lambs,
mutton, beef and wool.
On the production side, chief trouble
since war ended has been irregular sup-
plies of linseed, im ported mostly from
abroad, and consequent intermittent out-
turn of both stockfeed and oil. However,
the processing and packing of imported
oil, together with small but increasing
supplies of homegrown linseed, filled the
gap. Hence the encouraging growth in
profits until 1950, since when the mount-
ing burden of costs, including taxation,
has been the chief factor responsible for
the contraction in net earnings. There
have been others, of course, such as the
short-lived and stupid price-freeze by the
N. S. Wales Government about a year
ago.
Last term presented a mixed and chang-
ing picture, brighter at the beginning
than at the end. For the first half sales
were a record for the second half they
“showed a considerable decline, without
any present indication of improvement.”
the board says. It was difficult to obtain
adequate supplies of seed and crude oil
until September last. Then orders, which
had been placed well ahead, came for-
ward with a rush, leaving the co. with
stocks well in excess of immediate trade
requirements when the books closed.
The surprising feature is that, despite
a sharp rise in cost of production and
distribution, and. after allowing an extra
£2894 for depreciation (£24,135) and
something for taxation and “various”
contingencies, there was a drop of only
£4654 in declared net earnings. The
£51,939 of profit claimed was enough to
give the 10 p.c. prefs. their full contract
rates (£4000)' and show 13 p.c. on the
£369,182 of ord. capital as against 14.3,
14.8, 12.9, 11.2, 9.1 and 9 p.c. back to
1946. The div. was maintained at an all-
round 10 p.c.; the £11,021 that remained
lifted free reserves £33,946 higher than the
goodwill item (£115,748). In addition
there was £286,681 earmarked for “de-
preciation and replacements.”
To carry an extra £746,787 of stocks
(they appear at valuation) and lop
£344,888 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. (chiefly payments for early
deliveries of seed and oil), the co. went
to its bankers for £915,253 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £236,374:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £409,182 £409,182 £409,182
Deprec. reserve 232.106 251,637 270,867 286,681
Overdraft . . 2.72,618 915,253
Sndy creditors* 564,560 1,400,751 1,286,246 891,358
Staff fund . . 24,000 29,000 29,000 29,000
Pinal divs. .. 22,501 29,689 20,459 20,459
Premises .. 118,264 186,267 158,243 160,404
Plant.. .. 255,124 292,865 329,114 352,983
Stocks .. 725,458 963,163 859,489 1,606,226
Book debts . . 219,209 240,654 246,998 303,705
Cash, etc. . 168,710 494,559 308,884 162,610
Goodwill . . 115,748 115,748 115,748 115,748
* Includes suspense accounts.
The net addition of £23,819 to plant re-
flects outlay in connection with new oil-
refining equipment.
Although there has never been a wide
margin between disclosed earnings and
distributions, the 10 p.c. div. is by no
means secure. Costs are still rising, a
good season is in prospect, which isn’t
likely to strengthen the demand for stock-
foods, and there is little indication of
immediate and marked strengthening of
turnover in the paint and lino, industries.
However, the long-term outlook for the
business is encouraging.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the £1 ords. at 345. 6d. (575. a
year ago) to return 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Excluding the depreciation
reserve, net tangible cover is 21s. 104
The 10 p.c. prefs.—£2o,ooo firsts and a
like number of seconds, subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act-
seldom appear on ’Change.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
- Dividends Nominal
Pref. He-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves,t
£ £ £ £
1945 .. 62,360 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 208,938
1946 .. 54,441 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 224,039
1947 .. 33,545 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 222,914
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 212,914
1948 .. 27,105 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 210,019
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 200,019
1949 .. 27,345 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 197,364
1950 .. 30,342 1880 6„ „ 28,020 197,706
1951 .. 34,987 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 ISS^
1952 . . 35,535 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 198,887
f Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding de-
preciation reserve ( £170,000 as at June 30, 1952).
One of the largest and most fashion-
able hotels in the Commonwealth, the
Australia has been able to squeeze only
moderate profits out of the post-war
boom. The volume of trade in the bar,
lounge, catering and guest-occupancy
sections of the undertaking has moved
with the times. In this class of hotel,
more so than in most others, maintenance
of high standard of service and comfort
is the backbone of goodwill, and some of
the services yield little or no profit, and
the position has been aggravated by the
40-hour week and relatively rapid staff
turnover inseparable from a sellers’
market for labor. For a while increased
takings, held down by controlled tariff
rates, failed to keep pace with steep and
recurrent wage-lifts and the brisk advance
in the cost of food and replacements, etc.
Catering was, and still is, the section
hardest hit.
Net earnings fell sharply from a peak
of £62,360 in 1945 to £27,105 in 1948,
and then, by dint of careful manage-
ment, climbed slowly to £35,535 last term.
Over the same period the div. dipped
from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and rose to 7 p.c.
for the last two years; and at June 30,
1952, free reserves were £25,152 below
the figure at which they stood six yean
earlier.
Despite actual and impending changes
in the economic climate, all sections of
the business held well last term, and turn-
over benefited by small increases in
scheduled charges. All but £548 of the
gain, however, was gobbled by increased
operating costs and extra Government
bleeding—provision for taxation (£41,000)
was £ll,OOO heavier, and the usual £lO,OOO
was set aside for depreciation. The
£35,535 of profit was enough to hand
the prefs. their 6 p.c. and show 7.2 p.c.
on the £467,003 of ord. capital as against
7,6, 5.4, 5.3, 6.7 and 11 p.c. back to
1946. And there is nothing in the pub-
lished accounts to suggest that the co,
did much, if any, better than was claimed.
During the year a few additional rooms
and some plant were added to the hotel
at a net cost of £36,849:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Stock .. £9,334 £11,145 £18,666 £37,301
Book debts.. 10,3 68 1 6,45 9 20,36 9 20,596
Cash, etc. .. 55,535 52,500 57,585 53,000
Liquid assets £75,237 £80,104 £96,620£11'0,85i
Mortgage . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Creditors* .. 60,38 7 54,913 7 5,549 115,820
Excess
liabilities. . £135,150 £124,809 £128,929 £154,923
Property and
equipment.. 96 2,5 17 9 62,61 7 981,63 4 1,018,483
Paid capital 5 0 0,003 5 00,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets and
carry an extra £18,635 of stocks the co.
added £40,271 to the amount coming to
creditors, etc.
During the current term, conditions
generally promise to be less buoyant than
of recent years. This and the wage
question pose new problems of costs in
relation to income, especially on the cater-
ing side. Appearances are that the bar
and lounge trade will remain the chiet


DAVIES & COLLiISON, Patent Attor- \
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. j
Australian and Overseas Patents and ;
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OWEN MELVILLE MURCUTT of
707 George Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH MAY MUR-
CUTT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1048 of 1952 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Third day of
November 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WALLER FRY & FAULKNER, Solicitors,
456 High Street, West Maitland, or
their Agents, MESSRS. BRAYE &
MALCOMSON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fill’* l '
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Boad,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.S.W.
CUARDX
Ca^h/
4*M6h/cv-
PROTECTA
€tnd-SfM Rtyla&Aikg
TILL
w
Satiable tor every type of business it records
nil Salta. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing Id appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.LtdL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
CAPITAL
APPRECIATION
Experienced Mining Engineer
requires partner or partners
to exploit large
BEACH DEPOSITS OF
RUTILE AND ZIRCON.
Industry offers sound, assured
returns. Enquiries to Box 857,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientea, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie. Bobin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street. Brisbane
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: , .
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
0. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
i
313
mil
313
am
ml
y
FOR 57
YEARS
AUSTRALIAN
MEIROPOIJTffI
LIFE ASSURANCE COLTO.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895)
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney. BWBO6I
TODAYS PROTECTION -TOMORROWS SECURITY
SARGANB «««^
ON FENCE POSTS, RAILINGS,
BRIDGE DECKING, BUILDING TIMBERI
%
m
■
Start saving
money now
with a Hargans!
Fences! Yards! Sheds! Bridges! Cut your own timber
quickly and easily for all of them with a Hargans Mobile
Power Saw. With a Hargans you can fell trees where other
mobile saws cannot operate; then cut billets, rip them into
slabs of any size for fencing posts, square gate-
posts, strainers and droppers—bevel cutting the
tops and edges if you wish. i . ,
You can slot and groove posts and rails for yards and rip
timber into slabs for bridge decking and boards (even
four-by-two’s) for sheds.
Get a Hargans and start saving money now.
Easy terms • Speedy service • Ample spares^
or *&
s
H 54.84
Sole distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Malioch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Branches at: Newcastle,.Lismore, Wagga, Hay and Melbourne
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
MAIL
TO-DAY!
(Mail this coupon to address at left)
Please send me free brochure of photographs
showing how to fell trees, cut fence posts, etc.,
with a Hargans.
NAME -
ADDRESS
contributor to net earnings. The
current year’s tax bill will get
the benefit of last year’s 10 p.c.
prepayment, but the overall relief
in the rate of co. tax is small.
Doubtful of what lies ahead,
the market prices the f.-p. £1
ords. at par as against 275. a
year ago. The 6 p.c. prefs. at
225. yield 5.4 p.c. Including the
depreciation reserve (£170,000),
net tangible cover is £26 7s. 6d
prefs. and 355. lOd. ords., all
represented by fixed assets,
worth, as a going concern, what
they can earn.
Central Victoria Dredging
Technically the co. has put
up an encouraging performance
under difficult conditions, chiefly
shortages of manpower,
materials and electric current,
and steep and persistent rises in
wage and other costs, which have
pressed heavily against the static
price of gold. For the year to
March 31 last it netted £48,026
(up £14,773), equal to 12.3 p.c.
on the £390,000 of capital, or
1.235. per 10s. share. No div.
was paid.
The co.’s first dredge, on the
Jim Crow area, near Newstead
(Vic.), has given a good account
of itself, but the second dredge,
on the near-by Amphitheatre
area, has run into more difficul-
ties than were anticipated. The
2,000,000-c.y.-p.a. Jim Crow
machine set in on some
10,500,000 c.y., averaging 2.12
gr. recoverable gold, in Dec.,
1949, and, excepting minor in-
terruptions, has worked continu-
ously since for the following
results;
Dredged, Fine Value,
c.y., Gold, c.y.. Net
March, ’’ooo. Oz. Dwt. Profit.
1950* .. 358 2078 2.78 £19,105
1951 f .. 1603 6398 1.92 33,263
1952 f .. 1581 7761 2,36 62,055
* Three months, fl 2 months.
It was the higher-grade ground,
helped by an extra £1 an ounce
for gold sold on the free market
since Nov. 1, 1951, that put the
spring into last term’s profit
figure. The average value per
yard was 18.21 d. (up 3.41 d.).
Working costs were 9.27 d.
(down 0.58 d.) per yard, a credit-
able achievement considering the
395.-a-week increase in the basic
wage during the period.
The Amphitheatre dredge, also
a 2,000,000-c.y.-p.a. machine,
was bought from Victoria Gold
Dredging, dismantled, trans-
ported and reassembled on the
present site. It began digging
on June 12, 1951, and at March
31 last it had turned over
700,441 c.y. for 2.2610 z. fine
gold, an average of 1.55 gr. But
it cost 14,28 d. a yard to handle
ground worth 11.97 d. The re-
sult was a working loss of £5402.
Chief trouble was sandstone
boulders in the deep closely-
compacted quartz-gravel wash.
They jammed the buckets, inter-
fered with dumping and caused
the original motors, now re-
placed by more powerful ones,
to burn out. Dredging has
ceased pending installation of
new equipment to ensure effici-
ent dumping to the screen-
hopper. There is 20,000,000 c.y.,
bored to average 2.04 gr. re-
coverable gold, awaiting treat-
ment in this area. Average
depth is about 35ft., of which
12ft. is overburden. And there
is a further 6,000,000 c.y., ex-
pected to average 2gr. recover-
able gold, in the Guildford area.
What the future holds for the
venture will depend largely upon
the level at which costs flatten
out, upon the success of the new,
equipment in handling the
Amphitheatre ground and upon
what happens in connection with
the price of gold. South African
and other producers have made
out a strong case for a lift in the
dollar price; but since the ques-
tion is partly mixed up with
politics, it is difficult to say
when this lift will occur, if at all.
When the books closed the
co.’s current assets totalled
£68,142, of which £47,812 was
stores. There was £71,016 com-
ing to the bank (£57,767) and
sundry creditors (£13,249). After
recent sales at 195,, buyers offer
17s. 9d. for the f.-p. 10s. shares.
Despite many difficulties,
Great Western Consolidated
N.L. is living up to prospectus
estimates so far as its construc-
tion programme is concerned.
Formed early in 1950 as an off-
shoot of Western Mining Corp.,
the co. took over a number of
auriferous leases covering two
mineralised ore channels striking
a little west of north from
Southern Cross (W.A.). Chief
of these is the Copperhead,
where 172 staff cottages, etc.,
have been erected, and a 30,000-
ton-a-month null is now near-
ing completion. It is expected
to begin crushing at an initial
rate of 20,000 tons a month in
October next. The initial feed
will come mainly from 790,000
tons of opencut ore, average
assay value 3.4dwt., and there
is a further 1,300,000 tons under-
ground expected to average
s.sdwt. Main shaft at the Cop-
perhead is down 1045 ft., and
developments have conformed
closely to prospectus estimates,
the board says. The small
quantities of scheelite met with
on No. 6 level don’t look like
developing into an important
deposit of the stuff. The co.
has £1,768,000 of capital to feed
in f.-p. 10s. shares, of which 14
p.c. are held by Western Mining
Corp. At March 31 last £629,738
had been spent on mine property
and development, £621,170 on
plant and £297,199 on housing.
Stores figured at £181,235 and
sundry current assets totalled
£49,611. Outside liabilities and
provisions amounted to £49,941.
The market prices the scrip at
Bs. 9d. as against 7s. 2d. a couple
of months ago.
* * * *
The luck of the game, the
chance of finding rich specimen
stuff, which keeps prospectors
continually on the hunt, is
illustrated by the fortunes of
Messrs. Gordon, Kent and
Baker, who recently got
530 z. 17dwt. gold from a parcel
of 4cwt. of ore taken from a
pocket in the Camel paddocks,
four miles east of Coolgardie
(W.A.). About three months
previously they unearthed two
other small but rich pockets,
which yielded and 15oz.
respectively. These finds were
within half a mile of the once-
famous Brown’s El Dorado.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
A cable from her sister Lois, in London,
was received by Anita Whetton (daughter
of the J, C. Whettons, of Cremorne Point)
when she married Bruce Graeme Wallace
at St. Stephen’s on Saturday. Anita’s
dress was of heavy white satin with
guipure lace panels trimming the skirt
and the bodice, a long train and double
puff sleeves. Her knee-length tulle veil
was held in place by orange-blossom, and
she carried a bouquet of pale-pink orchids.
Her bridesmaids were her cousin Irene
Oddy (Rose Bay), Olga Tomlinson (In-
verell) and Wendy Hyles (Bungendore),
who is a niece of the bridegroom. They
wore white marquisette over taffeta with
unpressed folds round the skirt and
shoulders. Their bouquets were blue and
pink hyacinths, which also formed the
littie curvettes on their hair. Reception
was held at Windsor Gardens. Bruce is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Wallace,
of Mosman.
Liked Noel Habgood’s candor when
opening his exhibition of photographs at
David Jones’s Walk Gallery. He said:
“People ask me why I have these exhibi-
tions—well, really it’s pure vanity. Every
photographer has two characteristics—
one, that he possesses the best lens in
the world ; two, the habit of inflicting his
work on one and all. I have these two
characteristics very strongly ; hence these
shows.”
Admired Joy (“Kiss Me, Kate”) Turpin’s
necklace and earrings worn with a black
taffeta dress; they were made of little
clusters of roses and flying birds. Also
admired her hairdo, a combination of
chignon and horse’s-tail. Joy always
wears glasses when not on the stage —
glamorous ones tinted red-gold to go
with her hair.
Detested the torrential downpour that
prevented guests at the opening of Parlia-
ment from leaving the hallowed precincts
and getting off to lunch. From the
veranda some brave spirits made a dash
for cars, but most were imprisoned by the
blanket of rain, perhaps with the dreadful
fear of never getting away.
Some notes on spring hats taken at the
Anne Collins showing: Fashion is divided
into the American and the French styles.
The American is a very small half-hat ;
the French is slightly deeper and often
very large. Colors are white with black,
yellow (from daffodil to gold), beige,
blonde, pink and a lovely clear scarlet
(there 'is a beautiful tricorne by
Colombier in this color, its brim laden
with scarlet carnations). There are
sailors, large and small, bretons, bicornes,
shells and bonnets. Materials are shark-
skin, plaited vandyke straw, wood-shaving
straw, leghorns and white pique. Cutest
little hat is Paulette’s fantasy sailor in
wicker with a black velvet binding and a
saucy white pique bow. Newest is Dior’s
“Bathing Cap” style.
Mrs. * Preston Stanley Vaughan, that
overflowing fountain of energy, words,
ideas, feminine indignation and know-
ledge, gave a talk to the ladies of the
English-Speaking Union on Thursday in
which she roved through the centuries
and round the world with much vigor.
From her was learnt that Julius Caesar
had commented on the freedom that
British women enjoyed—rights equal with
men —lost during the Dark Ages and not
recovered until recently. She says that if
women tell her they are not political she
feels inclined to reply “Then you must be
dead,” for today politics regulate every
aspect of our lives from the cradle to the
grave, and we must be political whether
we like it or not. The hostesses at this
meeting of the Union were Mrs. Clive
Smith and Mrs. E. Kirchener.
One of those engaged in the happy
flutter of trousseau-buying is Desiree
Meredith, whose papa is Colonel S. P.
Meredith, stationed in Tokyo. Desiree
has just arrived back from a holiday in
Japan with her mother. She will marry
Queenslander Bill MacFadden, at St.
Mark’s, on September 29.
Helping to organise the dinner-dance
on the Neptunia on September 16 are
Mrs. E. O’Halloran, Mrs. Percy Dalton,
Mrs. Odille Maher and Mrs. Joseph Coen.
The party, which is limited to 150 guests,
will start with cocktails, then proceed to
an eight-course dinner and finish with
dancing until 11 p.m. It has been
arranged by St. Vincent’s Ladies'
Auxiliary, of which Mrs. Tom Bateman
is the president.
It has been said that women are not
really connoisseurs of cigarettes, that
their preferences are mere affectation and
that, blindfolded, few could tell the differ-
ence between one cigarette and another
—apart from the Turkish or Egyptian
types, of course. From Canberra comes
the story that men are no better. There
it is said that before a Cabinet meeting
Mr. McEwen, Minister for Commerce and
Agriculture, substituted Australian-
tobacco cigarettes for those in the boxes
and that, although the meeting went on
for three hours with most of members
smoking all the time, no one remarked
the difference.
Grafton has its jacaranda, Orange its
cherry-blossom, Canberra its wattle —now
Goulburn is making known its lilac with
a spring festival —“Lilac Time” from
October 3 to 12. The programme looks
tremendous, eight to 10 items nearly
every day, with apparently every turn of
mind anticipated and catered for. It looks
as though anyone wishing to go down to
Goulburn in lilac-time had better book
in now.
This is young Patricia Church, mezzo-
soprano from Arncliffe (N.S.W.), who is
taking part in the 1952 Mobil Quest over
2UW. Patricia intends to leave for Eng-
land in six months’ time to further her
musical studies. She has already passed
all musical examinations at the N.S.W.
Conservatorium of Music, and was
awarded the Licentiateship of Music in
conjunction with the Royal College of
Music, London. The Mobil Quest prize
is £lOOO, and in addition to this the ship-
ping firm of Lloyd Triestino has donated
a first-class steamer passage to Italy so
that the winner can study further in that
land of singers. Photo by Noel Rubie.
What sort of dances do people like
for the important balls they attend during
the year? At the committee-meeting for
the Lady Mayoress’s Ball (due in Sep-
tember) it was agreed that as far as the
younger folk were concerned the quick-
step, jazz waltz and samba were out-
and-away the most popular. There were
many voices, however, for the old-time
waltz (including Mrs. R. F. Boyer’s en-
thusiastically-nominated “Blue Danube”
and the “Merry Widow” as indispensable)
and the “Pride of Erin,” which is so
pretty to watch. The barn-dance seems
to be an absolute necessity at Sydney
balls, but more than one usually meets
with disapproval.
Elena Nikolaidi wore a beautiful dress
at her matinee concert on Saturday:
pale-bronze and sea-blue pure silk chiffon
shantung, the new glamor material
to be bought in Sydney this season
for the first time. Her corsage of
cymbidium orchids for the first half of
the concert was delicate green, for the
second half pale-pink. The dress, Madame
Nikolaidi said, had been bought in New
York, where she gets most of her clothes.
All members of the public are invited
to visit Sydney University on Saturday,
when Open Day concludes the centenary
celebrations. The public will be able to
see special exhibits arranged by various
faculties, and to attend films and lectur-
ettes illustrating the work of our home
of higher learning. Among the films to
be shown are two of special interest to
women, “Children’s Emotions,” with a
commentary by Dr. M. W. Brown, and
“Child Care and Development,” intro-
duced by Dr. W. F. Connell. In addition
there will be opportunities to see the
various buildings of the University, in-
cluding the beautiful Quadrangle and
Great Hall.
Matron Hill, general-secretary of the
Far West Children’s Health Scheme, re-
turning from her “holiday” of one week
in the West, says that there is a lot of
goodwill towards the Far West Scheme
in the country. During her tour, which
covered nearly 12,000 miles. Matron Hill
addressed halls crowded to overflowing
at Dubbo, Narromine, Cobar, Nevertire
and Bourke. In the 27 years since the
scheme was founded Matron Hill had
only twice been away for two consecu-
tive weeks. This “holiday” was to have
been the third time, but the illness of
Mr. C. Linfoot and of the superintendent
of the scheme, Mr. Sid Coleman, made
her cut it down to one week. Adventures
on her trip included wading through
boggy tracks to see prospective camp
children at the Nevertire School; receiv-
ing a cheque for £250 from the 2DU
Waggon Wheelers Club at Dubbo, and
being escorted along the boggy roads
between Cobar and Bourke by Mr.
Tommy Clapperton, a friend of Rev.
S. Drummond, founder of the scheme.
From Melbourne
No post-war appeal for money has had
greater success than the one sponsored by
the Spastic Children’s Society to help
country or city spastic children who need
help which cannot be given in their
homes. The society appealed for £25,000,
and at a late-afternoon party at Scott’s
Hotel, given by the chairman and
members of the Council of the Spastic
Children’s Society, it was revealed that
over £42,000 had been raised. The
children in schools throughout Victoria
thought so generously of the children who
need help that they contributed just
over half the total raised. The
Spastic Children’s Society has 12 acres of
ground at Glen Waverley, and soon an
initial hospital, which will house 10
children, will be opened. The money just
raised will provide the capital for a new
and up-to-date hospital where more
children will be assisted.
At this “thank-you” party Brigadier
Cappe was present to receive, on behalf
of his soldiers at Puckapunyal, thanks for
their splendid contribution of £l5OO for
the and Mrs. W. K. Burnside,
president of the women’s committee,
handed over a cheque for £5OO, a gift
from the Rotary Club. Among members
of tier committee present were Mrs. R.
Bryant, Mrs. Herbert Smith, whose
husband organised the appeal, Mrs. F. W.
Thring, Mrs. Eric Cottrell and Joyce
Macartney.
The president of the Victorian branch
of the 8.M.A., Dr. Charles Byrne, and
his wife entertained overseas, inter-State
and Victorian members of the Medical
Congress at a late-afternoon party at their
South Yarra home. The host and hostess
were assisted by their daughter Mrs. John
O’Sullivan and another daughter, Mary
Byrne. Among the 200 guests were the
Chancellor of the University, Sir Charles
Lowe, and Lady Lowe, the president of
congress, Sir John Newman Morris, and
his daughter, Mrs. H. A. Standish, Dr.
A. J. Collins, president of the Federal
Council of the 8.M.A., and Mrs. Collins,
Prof. and. Mrs. Lambert Rogers, Sir
Gordon Gordon-Taylor and members of
the Federal and Victorian Councils of the
B. Mrs. Byrne wore a black crepe
sunray-pleated frock with a jacket of
black Persian-lamb, Mrs. O’Sullivan a
coat of navy lined with red to match her
small hat, and Mary Byrne a frock of
pastel-pink brocade.
This is attractive 19-year-old Benita
Harvey, who has come from Sydney to
appear in the role of Thea in Doris
Fitton’s production of “Black Chiffon,”
which opens at the Princess on August
28. At the age of six Benita made her
debut with an A.B.C. broadcast. When
she was 13 she began her stage training
with Mina Shelley and has appeared in
many plays in Sydney, among them
“Streets of London,” “Little Lambs Eat
Ivy” and, recently, in the title role of
“Snow White” at the Independent.
The Balmoral-room at Scott’s Hotel,
with its gay red-tartan carpet, was aptly
chosen for the cocktail-party given by the
commanding officer, Lieut.-Col. I. H.
Lowen, and officers of the Vic. Scottish
Regiment. This was to announce arrange-
ments for the third post-war ball to be
given by the Victorian Scottish Regiment
in conjunction with the Melbourne Scots
in the Royale ballroom on September 11
Highlight of the ball, which will be a
blending of ballroom and Highland
dancing, is to be the grand march led
by Col. Lowen and his wife. Guest-of-
honor will be the Chief-of-the-General-
Staff, Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell, and
Mrs. Rowell will accompany him.
Also, a feature of the ball will be the
distribution of heather, to be flown from
Scotland. It is gathered by ladies
associated with the home regiment at
Upper Deeside, near Balmoral Castle,
Object of the ball is to raise funds for
the purchase of sporrans for the men of
the Victorian Scottish Regiment. Ticket-
secretary is Captain H, M. Taylor
(WY2073).
Mrs. Stanley Smith, who sails
shortly for a holiday at Nauru, was
hostess at this pre-ball party; she wore
black wool jacket-suit and black velvet
beret. Mrs. Keith Hamer’s grey suit was
contrasted with a black straw osprey-
laden cloche. Mrs. P. Taylor was in black
faille suit and wide-brimmed winter-white
melusine hat. Ethel Holmes’s ensemble
was grey and black. Frances Walsh wore
a tiny black beret with her grey suit.
Mrs. Frank Tait opened the exhibition
of watercolors by Lionel Lindsay at the
Sedon Galleries, most of them
painted during the artist’s seven years
in Spain. Before the exhibition was
even opened many of them were
adorned with red stickers. Mrs. Tait,
smart in white felt tricorne hat and dyed-
ermine coat, brought her schoolgirl
daughters Isla and Anne to the exhibition,
and was also accompanied by Mrs. V,
Letcher, whose black suit was topped with
a pastel-pink-lined black hat. Among
other art-lovers present were Mrs. F, H.
Wright, whose suit and hat were in slate-
grey tonings ; Mrs. Cliff Sedon-Thompson,
in junior-blue angora frock and a wide-
brimmed hat of white melusine; Mrs.
F. J. Thring, wearing a wine-toned jacket-
suit and dusty-pink grosgrain sailor hat;
and Mrs. Percy Damman, whose coat and
hat were deep-blue.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was the
setting for the evening wedding of Heather
Judith, second daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Stewart, of Coroona, Hamilton,
and Savile, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
C. M. Armytage, of The Wilderness, Cole-
raine, The bride wore a pearl-pink faille
gown and a Honiton-lace veil which fell
gracefully to the hem of the skirt and
was held in place with orange-blossom;
her bouquet was of pale-pink Christmas
roses. Her sister, Mrs. W. Woodburn,
was matron-of-honor; another sister,
Sandra, was bridesmaid. Their frocks of
pale-blue French marquisette featured
pink sashes to match their bouquets of
pink Christmas roses. Tiny sprays of
similar flowers were worn in their hair.
Best man was Norman Armytage, and
Bob Douglas was groomsman. Reception
was at the Delphic.
Dorothy Maynor was a striking figure
at her final Town Hall recital. She wore
a sweeping, long-sleeved gown of ruby-red
velvet and diamonds glittered at her
wrists and throat. The intense emotion
which she projects into her songs, com-
bined with her fascinating personality,
have made her a favorite in this city
Sitting with the Con Charltons were Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Menzies. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell was with Senator Ivy Wedg-
wood, Mrs. H. G. Connell was with Derek
Hartley, and Hephzibah Menuhin with
one of her schoolboy sons.
“The Loveliest Night of the Year"
could well be the title given to the dinner
and mannequin-parade staged at Menzies’
in aid of the Animal Welfare League Lort
Smith Hospital. Organising spirit was
Mrs. Scobie Mackinnon, who wore a full-
skirted black tulle gown with a bodice
which had jet beads and shoe-string
shoulder-straps. Lady Herring was in the
official party in a rust-toned velvet gown.
Lady Gullett wore a peacock-blue velvet
jacket with her bouffant matching
taffeta gown. A white ermine jacket with
short sleeves of dyed-ermine was worn
by Mrs. Edric Henty over her frock of
white chiffon. Ticket-secretary, Mrs.
Maurice Nathan, added a white Arctic-
fox stole to 'her black tulle frock. A
tobacco-brown velvet gown with a fishtail
train was "tVorn by Lil Wightman, from
whose salon came the gowns the man-
nequins showed.
Of old-gold brocade was Mrs. L. R
Buxton’s short strapless frock. Notable
were Mrs. Bruce Rose’s kingfisher-blue
swathings of tulle, the lily-of-the-valle}
tucked into the cuffs of Mrs. A. G. Silk ?
white faille, Mrs. Colin Chisholm’s fin
black faille frock with its deep hem m
black Chantilly lace, and Barbara
ballerina of heavy ciel-blue lace over
orchid-pink satin, complete with cum-
merbund sash. “South Pacific” star. Mar}
La Roche, wore a ballerina frock of moss-
green velvet. Her co-played, Virginia
Paris, covered her electric-blue chiffons
with a sweeping black velvet cloak.


SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
TBlbs.
ẁ
Sturdy
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
a T^AIL-BRtriSH
toiwau
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING i
a
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co, Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. C. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
K.
rr»
ev
5s
• The Knight Sat
ID the HAU
the Vassals stood around:
None durst among them, great or
small.
Create the slightest sound.
"Gadzooks!” he cried, and roared
with rage,
"This cough I’ll not endure,
So quickly, Knaves, and send my
Page .
For
Woods 7 Great Peppermint Core.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Up to a year ago 23-year-old Alfred
White, the son of a miner from Swansea
(N.S.W.), was knocking about north
Queensland and the islands —a mode of
life which indicates why he took on his
next adventure: enlistment, from Thurs-
day Island, with the 3rd Battalion of Aus-
tralian Royals. In Korea the other day
White, now signaller, went out with a
large patrol on a night raid. They had
crept to within 10 yards of the objective,
an enemy trench, when the objective
flared suddenly into a vicious welcome.
Intense machine-gun fire and volleys of
grenades seriously wounded the patrol-
commander, his 2 i/c and n.c.o.s. In the
resultant confused melee White took
charge, re-formed the patrol and on
authority he had requested from head-
quarters ordered its fighting withdrawal.
Instead of accompanying the patrol to
safety, he returned three times to within a
few feet of the enemy trench, each time
lumping out a wounded Digger. Then,
still under fire, he searched for his C. 0.,
failed to find him, returned to advanced
base and supervised the complete evacua-
tion of all wounded before clearing out
himself. Private White now tacks M.M.
after his name.
A personality who merits mention here
is Djungarai, otherwise One Pound
Jimmy, who lives somewhere east of
Alice. He was the sitter for the portrait
of the abo. who figured on the Common-
wealth B£d. stamp, now revived in the
2s. 6d. stamp for telegrams and parcels.
Djungarai’s magnificent stance, his
majestic beard like that of an Old
Testament prophet, and his dignified
expression have made him world-famous
and put up the prestige of the Australian
abo. An old man who doesn’t ride now,
he was once a celebrated buckjump-rider ;
so “Walkabout,” which thought of pre-
senting him with a saddle and bridle, has
decided to give him a camp valise and a
camp-oven. The editor, Charles Holmes,
was first to spot his noble countenance
amongst the tribe, and it was “Walk-
about” photographer Roy Dunstan who
took the picture. The P.M.G. etchers
immortalised it.
“M.G.S.”: Back from a research jaunt
in America, with a Master of Architecture
degree from Harvard (the only one in
Australia) and some alarming intel-
ligence, Peter Stephenson, the 31-year-old
son of the senior partner of the Mel-
bourne architectural firm of Stephenson
and Turner. The alarming intelligence is
that stonemasons, bricklayers and other
practitioners of the building-craft will
soon be as extinct as the dodo ; in their
places will be the “rigger.” A rigger is a
chap who assembles and juggles with com-
ponents, these being the bits and pieces
which go to make a building (all
except the floor-slabs and the columns),
and which nowadays in the U.S. are
almost exclusively made in mass-
production factories. The individual
craftsman, Stephenson opines, won’t be
needed. The trades and professions in the
U.S. are so concerned about this revolu-
tion in construction that they are calling
conferences all over the country to deal
with the problem. Stephenson’s instructor
was the famed Gropius, the German pro-
fessor who started the modern movement
in Europe.
Notched his 60th year of ordination to
the priesthood, James Whyte, R.C.
Bishop of Dunedin (N.Z.). Born 84 years
ago in Kilkenny, he was also ordained
in the cat city. Shaking the auld
sod off his shoon, he came to Australia,
to be seized upon by Cardinal Moran for
several big jobs—among them a professor-
ship at Manly College, Sydney, an
inspectorship of Catholic schools, then
the chancellorship of the archdiocese.
When the second bishop of Dunedin died,
Whyte was selected to fill the vacancy.
Of his 32 years as bishop, 11 have been
spent in hospital with paralysis of the
feet.
“F.S.”: Aborigines and negroes seem
to take to Occidental singing like ducks
to water (as instance Harold Blair and
Dorothy Maynor), but with the Chinese
it is entirely different, probably because
of their tradition. A Celestial songbird
might be naturally equipped with a bass
or a baritone, but tradition demands that
he warble in an extraordinary falsetto —
even the toughest blokes in the Chinese
operas I used to listen to in Shanghai
found it necessary to sing with about as
much expression as a buzz-saw. So it is
a remarkable achievement for Yi-Kwei
Sze, the first graduate of the Shanghai
National Conservatorium of Music, to
have attained an international reputation
of such proportions that the A.B.C. is
bringing him out next year for a concert
season. He has almost as dark a bass as
Chaliapin, sings in six languages and has
risen to fame in the U.S. since he went
there in 1947. His Chinese wife will
be his piano accompaniste.
I
Most of the components of the radio-
science assembly at Sydney University
could pass as anything from morning-
suited Cabinet Ministers to camera-
carrying American tourists; but Prior’s
subject could be nothing but what he is—
a distinguished scientist/ Complete with
broad, studious forehead, capped by a
long mane of white hair. Dr. Balthasar
van der Pol, both before and during
Hitler’s war, was Director of Research at
Philips’s huge works at Eindhoven, in
Holland, a target that was frequently
mentioned in the briefing-rooms of
Bomber Command. The scientist was
clever in other things than his own pro-
fessional field. He managed to fool the
occupying Germans into believing he was
doing a first-class job of co-operation,
when, in actuality, he was making an
even better job of systematic sabotage—
RADIO.
till the last month before Holland was
freed, when the Gestapo woke up and
Van der Pol just barely had time to go
into hiding on a farm. Now resident in
Geneva, director of the International
Radio Consultative Committee, the radio-
man will leave for the U.S. after the get-
together in Sydney, to tour the main
radio-research laboratories in that
country.
“Macnell”: Charted here by Wells,
Captain Allan McNicoll, Vice-Admiral
John Collins’s deputy on the naval staff,
takes command of cruiser Australia. 'The
new owner stood-by the building of
cruiser Sydney, and was in her when, in
company with his present command, she
looked in on Gallipoli on Anzac Day,
1936. Torpedoes have had an attrac-
tion for McNicoll—he qualified in the
science before the war. and was in British
cruiser Fiji when she attracted a
ŵ
POEMS
TORPEDOES.
U-boat’s cargo in the Atlantic. After
that McNicoll served with the Ist Sub-
marine Flotilla, operating from Alex-
andria. There he had further intimate
acquaintance with tin-fish. Six months
after an Italian sub. was captured it
was decided to remove the firing-pistols
from the corroded--and therefore ex-
tremely touchy warheads of the
torpedoes in her tubes. Torpedoman
McNicoll was handed the job, in the
middle of which delicate operation he was
given the pleasant news that the pistols
might be magnetic! He accepted the risk,
worked gingerly on, and got all eight
pistols out. His cold courage brought
him the George Medal. Followed harsh
service on Russian convoys, then the in-
vasion of Sicily, in both spheres as
Squadron Torpedo Officer aboard battle-
ship King George V. Having served for
almost all of War II with British ships,
he had just been appointed to cruiser
Hobart in the Pacific when Hiroshima’s
bomb put the Fleet’s muzzle-covers back.
Son of Brigadier-General Sir Walter
McNicoll (one-time New Guinea Admini-
strator), Australia’s new skipper lists, next
to torpedoes, the somewhat different
arts of music and poetry as his main
interests.
Reached the end of the track in Perth,
Jeremiah Bryce Durack, last of the
Durack brothers who pioneered in
N.S.W., Queensland, S. Australia and
Westralia. Born at Goulburn (N.S.W.),
where his parents had lived since 1845,
he moved with them to Burawa in 1868,
but after six years of station-life in that
area he went with his elder brothers, John
and Thomas, to develop stations along
the Castlereagh in Queensland. When
drought ruined that venture the brothers
decided to move west, a decision helped
by reports from Alex Forrest and their
cousin Michael, who had been exploring
in the Kimberleys. Then came the
famous cattle-drive, claimed to be the
finest overlanding feat in history, on
which the brothers moved 7500-head of
cattle from Cooper’s Creek to the Ord
River ; the drive of over 3000 miles com-
menced on June 3, 1883, and ended late
in 1885. The Durack brothers settled on
what became Lissadell station, J.B. later
dabbling in mining at Hall’s Creek and
in (he Murchison country, further south.
He left the north-west in 1907, and took
up mixed farming at Wickepin and
Harvey, retiring 10 years ago. He was 93.
Landed in Melbourne, Dr. Ronald
Melville, who looks after. the world’s
largest collection of Australian flora —
which isn’t in Australia but at the Kew
Herbarium, London. There our flora
is represented mainly by dried speci-
mens sent to the doctor, who became
wildly excited in S. Australia when he saw
a bird pollinate a banksia—there being
no bird-pollination in England. On this
first visit of his to these parts he intends
spending a year in the Victorian field
studying, collecting and labelling the
native flora.
“Uramao”: An ex-New Zealand
artist now living at St. Monica, California,
George Thompson-Pritchard, has made a
gift from his large collection of Old
Masters, which he gathered in Europe and
the U.S., to the Wellington National Art
Gallery. It consists of 30 paintings repre-
sentative of famous artists who do not
hold a place in New Zealand national
galleries. A work of his own, the sign-
ing of the Bill of Rights, was presented
by the artist to the House of Represen-
tatives a year ago.
Two “firsts” have been scored by Fred
Chaney, new president of the Westralian
R.S.L. —he being the first airman and the
first War II Digger to hold the office.
Like his predecessor, Tom Sten, Chaney
is a schoolteacher. He served in the
R.A.A.F. in New Guinea and Borneo,
coming out with A.F.C. and a flight-
lieutenant’s rings. A lithe 37, with a
keenness in debate and a gift for oratory,
he’s had a breaking-in for the new job,
having been senior vice-president last
year, and acting-president since Sten left
for England last March.
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 65, Henry Havelock
Cornish, ex-Judge of the Supreme Court. Pro-
fessor of English and New Zealand Law at Vic-
toria University College, Wellington, from 1930
to 1934, he was elevated to the Bench in 1945,
and retired in 1950.
In Sydney, Claire McGregor, a nursing-sister
with the First A.I.F. in France. Very few
of even that courageous band of nurses won
the Military Medal. Sister McGregor was one
of the four who did, during the bombing of
No. 2 casualty-clearing station in June, 1917.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 75, J. M. Clarke,
formerly chief guide at the Hermitage, Mount
Cook, and last of the trio that conquered Mt.
Cook 58 years ago; he was then 17. His party
forestalled the English alpinist, E. A. Fitz-
gerald, who travelled round half the globe to
make the attempt. After serving in War 1,
Clarke joined the State Hydroelectric Depart-
ment and remained there for 20 years.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 88, Oliver Nicholson
one-time chairman of directors of the Bank ot
N.Z. and the N.Z. Insurance Co. A solid block
in Freemasonry, he was the oldest practising
solicitor in Auckland, and one of the country’s
most able financiers.
In Sydney, at 68, Carl H. Klem, one of the
pioneers of town-planning in Westralia. While
practising as a surveyor in Perth, he was a
member of the original Town-planning Associa-
tion, as well as of the Metropolitan Town
Planning Commission. Other work included
planning the City Beach area for the Perth
City Council, three building estates at Mt.
Lawley, and designing the links for the Mt.
Lawley Golf Club, of which he was a life
member. Also a member of the first council
of Perth’s Wesley College.
At 75, in Melbourne, Horace Washington
Harrison, doyen of motorists and motor-
administrators. He joined Vacuum Oil in 1905,
was later manager, owned one of the first three
cars in Victoria, was secretary of the Chamber
of Automotive Industries since its inception in
1913, and organised every Melbourne Motor
Show since 1924. Founder and editor of the
“Australian Motorist,” he played a leading role
in the formation of the N.R.M.A.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Mary Hunter, prominent
in literary circles. She was president of the
Henry Lawson Society, chairwoman of the
Lindsay Gordon Memorial Society and vice-
president of the Australian Literature Society.


ẃ
✓Ff
i
mu
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS
PTY. LIMITED . . . SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH
RUDIP Dual D P 7° !O
For absolute control of Iced and lice.
Rudip makes dipping safe, foolproof
and economical —it does not strip out.
Any Rudip left over after dipping can
be used for blowfly control.
For Ked and Lice Control:
1 gal. to 250 water
For Blowfly Control: 1 gal. to 62 water
RUSEPT
Emulsion
Powerful cleansing germicidal for every
use in shed or yards. Sterilizes, non-
corrosive, easy solubility. I gal.,
4 gals.
SULFADIP development
of sulphur treatment of Itch Mite and
Mycotic Dermatitis. 28-lb., 56-lb. bags.
IMPROVEMENT
Thistles, Burrs, Castor Oil Plant, Docks, Horehound.
etc., can be economically eliminated.
Skeleton Weed in CEREAL crops reduces yield,
down-grades hay quality and can damage valu-
able harvesting machinery.
TAUBMANS No. 6 2-AD Hormone WeedMl*
TAUBMANS No. 8 2-4 D Amine Hormone Weed-
killer give positive control
SEE OUR NEW WEEDKILLER LEAFLET.
PASTURE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRISBANE ROYAL SHOW.
“Jason”: There were 469
head in the stud beef-cattle
section at Brisbane Royal Show
compared with 555 last year, the
decline beipg due to the drought.
Herefords, with 175 head,
doubled the biggest entry in any
other breed, and, though other
breeds were as much as 38 p.c.
cheaper at the subsequent stud-
cattle sales, Herefords showed
a slight improvement. A total
of 273 bulls and 10 females
realised 80,290gn5. at auction,
15,705gn5. less than 267 bulls
and 27 females made in 1951.
Highlight of the Herefords
was the magnificent team from
Woodlands Stud, Greenmount
(Q.), now run by Mr. and Mrs.
Geo. Bassingthwaighte. Sired by
Haven Idol (imp.) and Wood-
lands Lion, son of Golf Hill
Vulcan, this team won reserve
bull championship, junior cham-
pion bull and sire’s progeny
group prizes. When seven
Woodlands bulls went to auction
three made four-figure prices
and the draft averaged 814gns.
R. Morrow’s champion Here-
ford, Runnymede Skymaster,
from N.S.W., is one of the most
stylish champions Brisbane has
ever seen. Skymaster won a
novice class, and the reserve
junior championship at Sydney
Show last year.
Hays Bros., of Bexley
(N.S.W.), showed their Sydney
reserve champion, Bexley
Tornado (imp. in utero). He
won in a strong class for bulls
two years or over, but was out-
classed for the championship,
though time may recompense
his owners with bigger awards.
H. R. Spencer flew two bulls
from his Victorian Bon Spiel
stud ; neither won ribbons, but
•Bon Spiel Broadway topped the
sales (all breeds) at 1250gns. and
Bon Spiel Bucknell brought
lOOOgns.
David Pratten sent a magnifi-
cent Bexley Master Cup team
from his Turee stud, Cassilis
(N.S.W.), and won the cow
championship with Turee Prin-
cess and the heifer champion-
ship with Turee Marinda. The
stud also won the A. J. Mc-
Connel memorial prize for
breeder’s group, second prize in
the sire’s progeny group, was the
most successful exhibitor of
Herefords and sold 10 bulls for
4950gn5., one at HOOgns.
Poll Herefords
Eighty-eight Poll Herefords
were judged by G. E. Kirkby,
of Moree. Mrs. Max Wright,
Bickham, Blandford (N.S.W.),
won 11 prizes with seven re-
markably uniform bulls headed
by the champion, Lyndley Sou-
venir, who shows extraordinary
hindquarter development. He
returns to the stud. Blandford
Echo topped sales for this breed
at lOOOgns.
E. W. G. McCamley, Eulogie,
Dululu (Q.), paraded a magnifi-
cent team which won him two
championships (junior champion
bull, Eulogie Conductor 2nd,
and cow champion, Eulogie
Fancy 3rd), reserve champion
bull (Eulogie Snodger 3rd), six
firsts, two seconds and four
thirds.
D. R. and M. E. Hutton,
Bellgarth, Cunningham (Q.),
showed reserve champion cow
(Bellgarth Joan 2nd), reserve
junior champion heifer (Bell-
garth Betty 2nd), three firsts,
five seconds and three thirds.
Shorthorns
Shorthorns were disappoint-
ing, considering the breed’s
popularity in the north.
Champion bull was Bmbri
Secret, from Kinkuna, Manilla
(N.S.W.). B. Secret was sired
by Calrossie Subsidy (imp.), now
heading a leading Victorian
stud, and brought 700gns. at
auction. Best headed bull was
the junior champion, Coombing
Moslem, from Coombing Park,
Carcoar (N.S.W.), and a son of
Kirkton Elite (imp.), who is leav-
ing good heads on all his stock.
G. F. Warby paid 500gns. for
Moslem. Reserve junior cham-
pion was D. R. McCaughey’s
(N.S.W.) Coonong Vagabond,
by Erimus Charlie (imp.). Cows
and heifers left much to be de-
sired, outstanding being the
junior champion, K. J. Patter-
son’s Kinkuna Dot.
Poll Shorthorns
Poll Shorthorns, as usual,
provided a duel between J, T.
Scrymgeour, Netherby, War-
wick (Q.), and A. Langmore,
Prospect, Jondaryan (Q.). A
sprinkling of N.S.W. exhibitors
shared minor honors. Gunna-
warra Gay Lad 10th won the
bull championship for the third
year, and Netherby Red Radi-
ance 2nd won the female ribbon.
In addition, the Netherby team
bagged three reserves, 10 firsts
and three places, but A. Lang-
more showed both junior cham-
pions. Incidentally, Prospect
has won the male junior cham-
pionship in Brisbane every year
since 1946. Top price of
1200gns. for the breed was
L. A. Whitelaw’s Wendouree
Beau Robbie 2nd, runner-up in
his class to the champion.
Aberdeen-Angus
The Black Polls staged their
best section to date. Judge
C. A. M. Ross, of Glen Innes,
upset calculations by passing
over W. E. Webster’s (Q.)
1500gns. Jago 4th, of Mangatoro
(imp. N.Z.), and selecting H. F.
White’s (N.S.W.) Bald Blair
Rowa (a magnificent son of
Wallah Ottawa, champion bull
at Brisbane in 1947 and 1948)
for top honors. Reserve was the
Scottish Australian Co.’s Texas
Urchin.
Junior champion bull was
Webster’s Sarum Graphic, one
of the most perfect youngsters
ever seen in Brisbane. White’s
Bald Blair Benny was reserve
junior champion.
D. Dowding’s Fairlands Black
Opal won the cow champion-
ship for the third time, while
Webster’s Sarum Dorgammer
11th was junior champion. Mul-
ben Embassy (imp.) won the
sire’s progeny group, with
Abington Graphic’s stock in
second place, both groups be-
longing to W. E. Webster.
Devons and Red Polls
Glen Moan, Willow Tree
(N.S.W.), scooped the cham-
pionship pool in the Devon
section.
E. E. D. White made history
as a Red Poll judge by refus-
ing to make awards on the
ground that the exhibits were
not in show condition.
Fat Cattle
In a section of 350 fat cattle
judged by Harry Simpson, Lynd-
ley (Q.) bulls sired 55 prize-
winning cattle, J. Sparkes win-
ning the champion pen with
three dehorned Hereford bul-
locks which averaged 15661 b.
and made £75 each at auction.
Best pen of six came from W.
Kent’s Jondaryan (Q.) property.
They were Aberdeen-Angus
averaging 13651 b., and won the
reserve championship. The
champion single steer was a 24-
year-old A.-A, shown by Wallah
Pastoral Co., Redbank (N.S.W.).
The Australian Meat Board
competitions attracted a good
entry, highest points being
scored by 33-months-old Aber-
deen-Angus from the Scottish
Australian Co.’s Texas Station.
Although entered in the crop-
fattened section, they were
actually the result of a pasture-
improvement experiment in
which Wimmera and Italian rye
with a sprinkling of lucerne
carried a beast to acres
throughout the year.
Dairy Cattle
In the butterfat contests Con
O’Sullivan’s N.S.W.-bred A.I.S.
matron, Swanlea Diana 14th,
broke the Australian 48-hour
record by nearly |lb. of butter-
fat. She gave 7.79461 b. Reserve
was W. Henschell’s Yarranvale
Minerva 3rd with 6.23491 b.
Max Dudgeon judged 300
A.I.S. in the type classes and
gave the cow championship to
N.S.W.-bred Oxleigh Kate sth.
She won also in 1951 and is
owned by J. Phillips and Sons,
of Sunny View, who collected
most of the major prizes for
cows and heifers, closely fol-
lowed by A. Pickels, of Black-
lands.
Champion bull was E. Scott’s
Kapleton Monty and reserve
J. C. Savage’s Holmlea Hilda’s
Boy. Rhodesview had a strong
team, and the type and produc-
tion trophy went to Mark
Lester, of St. Andrews.
Champion Ayrshire cow for
the third time was L. Holmes’s
Benbecula Tranquil; champion
bull J. N. Scott’s Auchen Eden
Lord Tomboy.
Guernseys showed improve-
ment. H. Knopke’s Myalla Dell
2nd and Myalla Dainty 3rd,
champion and reserve last year,
again headed the females, while
H. West’s Moongi Gay Boy 2nd
“It's th' smoothest gum-tree I've ever seen."
took his second bull champion-
ship.
Vessel formation of the
younger Jerseys fell short of the
standard of other years, but
mature cows impressed the
judge, R. C. Broad, of Victoria.
Champion cow was A. L. Sem-
green’s Tecoma Golden Darling,
who holds a certificate for
6011 b. of butterfat. Reserve was
Trecarne Doreen 7th, owned by
Granger Bros. F. W. Kath's
champion bull, Trecarne Golden
Lad 2nd, is by Trecarne Ruler
2nd, and in 1950 one of his
daughters won reserve champion
as a three-year-old. Reserve
champion bull was R. J. Craw-
ford’s Dreaming Ranger (imp.),
and next-best in the judge’s view
was W. R. Leggett’s Eagle’s
Banner (imp.), son of two
Jersey Island champions. Mrs.
I. L. M. Borchert won the
breeder’s group and Granger
Bros, the exhibitor’s group.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
Further disturbed weather is likely from the action of a
southern sunspot group about to reach the active position.
This group has a northern cognate group, and for that reason
may bring rains in northern drought areas, as shown in
the records of 1916, the cyclical year in the Bruckner series.
In other regions it is not certain if this spot will give
flood rains, as the original floods in 1810, which is the
double cyclical year, were only mentioned in July; but the
record is a very short one and therefore only a partial guide.
That for the northern dry areas is more recent and more
detailed, and so far this is the only part of the cycle con-
cerned that has not been fulfilled.
MELBOURNE SHEEP SHOW.
“Mr.”: The display of
Merinos in the superfine and
fine-wool sections of the 1952
Melbourne Sheep Show was one
of the best seen in Australia
since the war. Tasmanian Saxon
Merinos repeated last year’s per-
formance, taking both ram and
ewe championships in the super-
fine section. The champion ram,
from R. R. Taylor and Son’s
Valleyfield Stud (Tas.), was a
magnificent animal carrying a
beautiful even fleece. The re-
serve, from Mt. Gow Estate,
Shelford (Tas.), had excellent
conformation and was well
covered underneath. Cham-
pion ewe came from J. R.
Foster’s Pleasant Banks Stud,
Evandale (Tas.). This ewe,
which was well covered with a
true 80’s count, was champion
last year. The reserve ewe, from
the flock of T. W. Lewis, Dobie
(Vic.), was a true superfine,
though not so dense as the cham-
pion. In the judge’s opinion she
would have done better had she
been a little better covered
underneath.
Feature of the fine-wool sec-
tion was the winning of the
championship by the young
Goroke (Vic.) breeder G. G.
Walker for the third year in suc-
cession. His Melbourne cham-
pion of 1950 and 1951 was un-
placed this year, but his entry
in the under-24-years class, won
him the title. The new champion
is a very even sheep with a par-
ticularly good front well covered
with lustrous 70’s of pronounced
character. Buchan (Vic.) breeder
J. T. Hodge, Murrundella, won
the reserve championship with
a deep-bodied ram of excellent
conformation, carrying a lovely
fleece with no tendency to
sparseness underneath.
The best ewe came from the
James Russell Estate, Barunah
Plains (Vic.). She is beautifully
sprung, with great depth and a
nice-handling, even fleece. The
reserve, from H. N. Begg’s
Estate, Nareeb Nareeb, Glen-
thompson (Vic.), is also very
well fleeced, but did not carry
through as well as the champion.
Murray Downs, of Swan Hill
(Vic.), was untroubled to win
the ram championship with a
sheep having a bold outlook,
well-balanced front and solid
wool well carried down. Mawal-
lok, Beaufort (Vic.), won the
reserve with a massive ani-
mal with excellent conforma-
tion. Champion ewe entered by
F. C. Clark and Sons, Boorowa
(N.S.W.), carried one of the
best medium wools seen in Vic-
toria for some years. She was
well covered with a pleasing,
soft-handling medium fleece.
Ram championship in the
strong wools went to last year’s
winner, a ram from J. J. Han-
nan and Sons’ Norton Creek
Stud, Horsham (Vic.). An out-
standing ram with a deep, even
frame and a good head and
nose, this sire carried a lustrous,
even fleece. The reserve, shown
by Murray Downs, although
good, was an obvious second
choice, though a more careful
preparation could have narrowed
the margin. The ewe champion,
from the unhoused Banongil
Stud of C. O. Fairbairn, Skip-
ton (Vic.), was also champion
in 1951.
Corriedales
Corriedale entries at 182 were
85 better than last year. Cham-
pion ram was entered by Comp-
ton Archer and Son, Quamby
Plains (Tas.), and the reserve by
M. Carroll and Sons, Redbank
Stud, Molong (N.S.W.). The
champion is a huge upstanding,
well-balanced sheep strong in


'‘Phvnnvis” Worm R*mt»du
M
m
fa
3^_
\
w.
m
tA
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ẅ
PHE.BX.BO
w
rm
s*4
DM
*0P S
F"
asuti
0
0
T
7*co
tv
the Stout
that’s a great
Winter drink!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
88.160
HEDGE CUTTERS
Rotary Electric (32, 110 or 230
volts). Efficient, Quick, Saver.
Distributed by
HEDGE CUTTERS
PTY. LTD.
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Tel. Nos.: MU 1807 & 2371.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
w
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ŵ
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible tor any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTBIBUXOKS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co.. Ltd..
Launceston and Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
■SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham
bets, Raffles Place.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. •• 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ... 22/6
What is
VALUE
ẁ
The building of a Ronaldson-Tippett engine calls for
expensive plant, skilled men and best materials plus
expert inspection all along the line. The operations
involved are costly but you get VALUE . . .a
dependable, economical power plant which will last
a lifetime.
ẃ
Yes, the best costs money. A low price
might mean a bargain in other fields, but
NEVER in an engine !
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY in most sizes!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT Ltd.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors : Ronaidson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
42 Bridge St., SYDNEY. Qld. Distributors:
Ronaidson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 127
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
ROMIDMMTIPPETT
ENGINES
n
Ilf [
&
WITH AGA
Perfect Meals . . •
and Piping-Hot Water
including 3 Baths a day!
It’s a wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily; and so coolly, too, thanks to Aga’s insulation.
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guaran-
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot water service, with three
hot baths a day, from the same small single fire!
ẅ
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga
is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
AG A
V COOKER J
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents lor the AG A COOKER and
BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _______ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ „ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
Wool right down. The reserve,
a recent Albury winner, has
excellent staple, but is not as
even as the champion.
R. H. R. Baker, Baringhup
(Vic.), showed the five-year-old
ewe champion, a winner in Mel-
bourne (1950 and 1951) and at
Albury in July. This ewe has a
splendid carcass, and, though
showing her age, a very sound,
good-handling wool. The same
owner won the reserve ewe
championship.
Polwarths
Polwarths fielded 148 entries
from 16 exhibitors, a record.
Top sheep were of good quality,
but in some classes there was an
obvious tail. Champion ram in
the horned class came from the
Tasmanian stud of Frank Youl,
Elsdon. This sheep was very
densely fleeced with typical
sire’s wool and was outstanding
over the thighs. Dowling Gum-
ming and Co., Jellalabad (Vic.),
took the reserve with a ram not
quite up to the champion in
frame but possessing an excel-
lent cover of well-crimped fleece.
The display of polled rams
was high class ; the champion
came from the Formosa Stud
(Tas.) of L. and C. Lawrence, a
big-framed sheep, well sprung
and covered with an even fleece
of good quality right through
to the belly covering. The re-
serve champion, from the same
stud, was a nice-headed sheep
with a beautiful even fleece.
Jellalabad’s ewe champion was
solid and covered with a nice-
handling fleece of 56’s quality.
British Breeds
In numbers and quality the
Ryelands showed an improve-
ment on other years and gave
the judge, S. M. Artaud, a diffi-
cult task to separate some of
the tops. Top ram came from
lan Mclntosh’s Lornshill Stud,
Goulburn Valley (Vic.). The
champion was an exceptionally
thick, stylish son of Shipping
Captain (imp.). Ewe champion
also came from Lornshill.
Champion Border Leicester
ram exhibited by G. Starritt,
Kelso Park, Mooroopna (Vic.),
was reserve champion at Albury
in July. This ram is a well-
fleshed, beautifully - woolled
sheep. Champion Border ewe,
from the same stud, was excep-
tionally well grown, with a
lovely even cover.
Among the Dorset Horns
there were few tail-enders and
little between the tops. Cham-
pion ram and champion ewe
came from the Deepfields Stud
of K. G. Luke, Romsey (Vic.).
Reserve ribbon went to C. H.
Hawkins’s entry from Finley
(N.S.W.), and reserve ewe
honors to W. G. Beer and Sons,
Nanneella South (Vic.).
Southdown champion ram,
shown by C. H. and S. T. Haw-
kins, Shepparton (Vic.), is a
splendidly - proportioned ram
standing well fore and aft.
Champion ewe came from
Comely Banks Stud, Cora Lynn
(Vic.). Compactly built, this
ewe handled well and had an
attractive, well-poised head.
Romneys had 50 entries from
five studs. Most successful was
Howard Yelland, Glentrevor,
Newlyn (Vic.), who entered the
champion ram and the two ewe
champions. The ram, which had
been champion at Albury and
reserve at Sydney, is a big, well-
proportioned sheep with a fine
masculine head and an excellent
fleece carried well down. Top
ewe from Glentrevor is a well-
sprung sheep carrying an excel-
lent fleece.


COLCHISONE the sensationally effective
NEW treatment brings
swiff, sure
RELIEF FROM
EBUT
BHEOMATBM
and other conditions which cause pain, inflammation
and swelling of joints and limbs such as
SCIATICA • LUMBAGO • FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! Scien-
tific research into the cause
of those pains and aches in
joints and limbs from which
you suffer shows that in the
vast majority of cases they
are due to a “Gouty” con-
dition— the result of urates
forming through excessive
uric acid in the blood.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in the hands
and feet or any old injury
to a joint, and, for your own
sake, you must not neglect
these warnings. Frequently
they are the forerunners of
more severe complaints, and
if allowed to continue un-
checked your elbows, knees,
ankles or other joints may
become swollen and in-
flamed; you may suffer
unbearable agony and even
deformation of the joints or
crippling.
By dispersing and elimina-
ting these URATES and at
the same time counteracting
the URIC ACID conditions
of the blood, COLCHISONE
brings almost immediate re-
lief. Taken at the first
signs of an attack, it
helps prevent a worsening
of your condition, but even
if you suffer from GOUT
or RHEUMATISM in its
advanced stages you will
find the results just as
effective. Pain, swelling and
inflammation of the hands,
feet, elbows, knees, ankles
and shoulders will fast dis-
appear and you will regain
the freedom of movement
you had given up as lost.
COLCHISONE is a specific
for Gouty Rheumatic, con-
ditions. It is a Colchicum-
Apium - Guaiacol treatment
never before available in
Australia. Each one of its
ingredients is effective in it-
self, but it is the special
method of combining all
three that makes it so com-
pletely successful. It is . . .
ECONOMICAL One
bottle contains several
months’ supply.
HARMLESS There are
no unpleasant results or
after-effects.
RELIABLE It brings
prompt relief in even the
most obstinate cases.
COLCHISONE
From your
chemist
PRICE 30/- for several
months' supply, ineluding
valuable diet instruc-
tions.
FREE!
Should you require further
information on this vital
subject, it will be sup-
plied FREE and POST
FREE on request.
If you have any diffi-
culty in obtaining COL-
CHISONB, write direct
to the sole Australian
Distributors: RICKARD
MEDICAL PRODUCTS
PTY. LTD., 55 York
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PM
US*
am
mm
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
MMHMi 1 MH| j
:
—k
■
K |
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND GEORGE FRANCIS
HAMMOND formerly of Boronia Road
Bullaburra in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that VALERIE
ELAINE HAMMOND has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1877 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 27th day of October 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY &
COMPANY, Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM HAMPTON late
of Bank Chambers 85 Goulburn Street
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
AGNES HAMPTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1497 of 1952 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
29th October 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. L.
THOMSON, Solicitor, of 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 346 of 1952.
TO DOROTHY EVELYN HILL formerly
of Mosman New South Wales but now of
Brisbane Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE
that a Decree for Restitution of Conjugal
Rights and Order have been made requir-
ing you to return and render conjugal
rights to your husband JOHN DESMOND
HILL on or before Ist October 1952 The
home to which you are to return to your
husband is at No. 16 Bickell Road Mos-
man aforesaid You are to file in the
Divorce Office King Street Sydney on or
before 7th October 1952 a Certificate of
your compliance with the decree You
may obtain reasonable expenses for your
return on application to your husband’s
solicitor A. R. SHAW 34 Martin Place
Sydney A copy of the decree order and
notices have been posted for you to your
father MR. S. R. J. MAY 10 Ryrie Road
Earlwood If you fail to comply with the
said decree within the specified time your
husband may forthwith petition for judicial
separation or divorce. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL HENNESSY late of Keira
Street Wollongong New South Wales.- —
TAKE NOTICE that JESSIE HENNESSY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1966
of 1952 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and of habitual drunkenness
and habitual cruelty towards her for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 27th October 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ARTHUR T. GEORGE & WEST.
Solicitors, of 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO RAYMOND ROY SHREEYE, fomerly
of Wellington and of Lower Hutt in the
Dominion of New Zealand Factory Worker
but now of parts unknown the husband of
ALICE THELMA SHREEYE of Wel-
lington—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
by your wife praying for the dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground
of three years’ separation has been filed
in the Supreme Court at Wellington (New
Zealand) and that unless on or before the
24th day of September 1952 you file in
the Supreme Court at Wellington an
answer to the Petition you will not be
entitled to be heard except on questions
of costs custody and maintenance and
the Court may proceed to hear the Peti-
tion and pronounce judgment without
your being heard FURTHER that until
you have given an address for service you
will not be entitled do receive notice of
any proceeding or documents or to
address the Court at any stage of the pro-
ceedings The decree for dissolution is
made by Decree Nisi in the first instance
and until such decree is made Absolute
the marriage is not dissolved A Decree
Nisi is not a defence to a charge of
bigamy A copy of the Petition and of a
Notice addressed to you will be supplied
on application at the Supreme Court office
at Wellington. Dated at Wellington this
Bth day of August, 1952. —H. J. WORTH-
INGTON, Deputy Registrar. Friends of
the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward him this advertisement.—
KEITH TAYLOR MATTHEWS is Solicitor
for the Petitioner whose address for ser-
vice is at the offices of MESSIEURS
DUNCAN, MATTHEWS & TAYLOR. 140-
150 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New
Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
PERCY WILLIAM OHATFIELD formerly
of Branxholm in the State of Tasmania.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of RUBY MAY CHAT-
FIELD formerly of Scottsdale in the State
of Tasmania but now of No. 25 George
Street Launceston in the State of Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground of desertion In
default of you so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose afpressw
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an Appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, or at the Launceston District
Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston.—
D. W. SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N.B. —-Friends of the abovenamed PERCi
WILLIAM OHATFIELD who may see this
advertisement are requested to bring «
under his Notice.
Public Notice.
I, SERGE VLADIMIROVICH KOUHOFF.
of Russian nationality, born at Novocher-
kassk, Russia, resident one year in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 156 Little Walk
Street, North Sydney, Sydney, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under
Nationality and Citizenship Act, IMS.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“The word Budget is derived from
the French word bougette, meaning
a little bag.” —Sydney “D.T.”
At times a cat has been let out
of it.
“School dances are definitely part
of general education,”
— Women’s paper.
Boys are trained to stand on
their own feet.
4* 4* 4*
“A very tight skirt is not a sensible
thing.” —Fashion note.
Yet it does cause the wearer
to watch her step.
4* 4* 4*
“Many of the people who visit us
in 1956 will expect to find a primitive
country filled with blackfellows,
kangaroos and bushrangers.”
—Melbourne “Age."
However, blackfellows and
kangaroos are becoming extinct.
Cash on Delivery.
“Police became interested in an
organisation which hired husbands
to any woman needing one.”
—Sydney “Sun."
It’s hoped the law extends some
toleration
To such a necessary innovation
By means of which a husband is
supplied
To any dame of doubtful years
requiring
A spouse to call upon to do some
squiring
At social functions, yet who is
denied
Through lack of charm, or what
you will, a hubby
Of any sort, athletic, lean or
chubby,
And who by all her sex would be
decried
If she should form liaisons in-
discreetly.
The law would meet its obliga-
tions neatly
By seeing that the hiring firm
complied
With two conditions: cash to be
refunded.
And bonds of matrimony
promptly sundered.
If hirers were not fully satisfied.
D. H. E.
Interlude.
We had been poking around
the store and had left—or, more
correctly, had been asked to
leave—the toy department after
little Murgatroyd had scored a
direct hit on the floor-walker
with a dart-gun, an action on
the part of the fellow which
clearly indicated a miserable
spirit of intolerance as well as
a poor sense of business. I
may, for all he knew, have been
about to spend £lO there.
As we passed through the
electrical department there was
a washing-machine in action,
and beside it stood a demon-
strator-salesman. There was
nobody else around, and he
looked rather forlorn. Murga-
troyd, the better to make speech
interpretable, removed a large
wad of bubblegum from his
mouth. “Gee, pop, 100k —the
water whizzin’ around in it’s
makin’ that iron thing inside go
backwards and forwards. Cum-
manavalook! ”
Now, Agapanthus and I are
rather proud of the keen
mechanical mind which Murga-
troyd so obviously possesses, and
so we do our best to stimulate
it.
As he saw us approach the
demonstrator visibly brightened.
“You would like to see it
demonstrated, sir,” he asserted
rather than asked. As I indi-
cated my willingness he tossed
a towel on the floor and invited
us all to wipe our boots on it.
When he had accounted it
“If seems only the other day that I christened your wife."
sufficiently grimy he put it in
the machine.
“In less than eight minutes,”
he purred, “that will come out
as white as the driven snow, and
without having been touched by
human hand. And absolutely
no damage will be done to the
fabric. The action of the agita-
tor is as gentle as a mother’s
hand when bathing her babe. It
just doesn’t take the dirt out —
it persuades it. And while it is
doing that to your washing,
Madam, you will be able to sit
and do your knitting!”
“No, I wouldn’t,” said the
practical Agapanthus. “My
mother does all ours.”
“Ahem. Well, now, with this
machine there is none of that
dreadful turning of the wringer
by the barbarous old hand
method that made our women-
folk old before their time. Re-
member, using this machine
definitely involves no work
whatsoever. To simply feed
clothes into the power-wringer
and see them emerging already
half-dry and snow-white can
only be considered a pleasure.
Now, in the few minutes it takes
for the machine to ease all the
dirt out of the towel I will show
you on this same model over
here that isn’t working the
simple way in which the safety-
catch works on the wringer, and
other interesting points.”
After he had finished giving
us this vital information he led
the way triumphantly back to
the machine that was going.
“Now,” he said dramatically,
“you will witness a miracle!”
As he bent down to switch it
off Murgatroyd, who had disap-
peared while we had been look-
ing at the other machine, leaned
over and banged the safety-
catch up. As the rollers flew
apart with a tremendous clatter
the demonstrator took off almost
vertically. As he descended, still
shaking, he bent on Murgatroyd
a most murderous look, and I
could sense that some choice
phrases were simmering some-
where inside him. But he con-
quered his ire with an obvious
effort, doubtless .as the tantalis-
ing vision of a sales-commission
reappeared before him.
Having reassembled the
wringer he said: “Now watch
closely how simple it is!” He
switched it on again, dived his
hand in among the suds and fed
an object through the wringer.
As it emerged he gaped at it,
goggle-eyed. “Why, it’s a felt
hat!” he exclaimed. “How did
that get in there?”
A dreadful suspicion
apparently descended on him
then, for he glanced at a vacant
peg on the wall. “It’s my bloody
hat!” he said savagely, turning
on Murgatroyd brutally. “Why,
you little”
t “Desist, I beg,” I enjoined him
sternly. “Remember, there is a
lady present”-
“I wouldn’t give a damn if it
was a queen! ” he howled. “Look
at my good Stetsalino!”
“Well, it has cleaned it, any-
way,” I said. “And it probably
needed it. But we’re waiting to
see the towel.”
He again dived his hand in
and unwound from the agitator
a gaberdine coat, and from his
expression I gathered correctly
that this was also his, and by
the difficulty he was having in
extracting his fingers from it I
also gathered—again correctly
—that little Murgatroyd had put
his bubblegum in to be cleaned
with the rest.
“Well,” I said, “the machine
certainly seems most efficient. I
am greatly impressed.”
The d.-s. swallowed hard.
“Well,” he said with an effort,
“will you pay cash or would
you like deposit-and-terms?”
“Oh,” I replied, “a washing-
machine would be useless in our
place. The wife’s mother lives
with us and she used to be a
washerwoman. Come along,
Murgatroyd,”
Bo.
Substitute for Suckers.
“A whisky crisis may develop in
the United States because the Govern-
ment needs 150 million gallons of
alcohol for synthetic-rubber produc-
tion.”
There's panic over in the States
Amongst their topers old or
frisky
For now, alas! the cruel Fates
Have clamped down on sup-
plies of whisky.
And connoisseurs are on the
watch
At every point of vantage try-
ing
To sight a little drop of Scotch
Where once they looked for
saucers flying.
For that which is the breath of
life
To man is going into rubber,
And gloom throughout the land
is rife
While hardened drinkers
loudly blubber.
And soon, perhaps, we’ll reach
the stage
Where men, like kids, will call
for mummy
To give them what will be the
rage —
A nice synthetic - rubber
dummy.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Afler the Welfare State
After the latest rise in the basic wage
one can just imagine the hordes of loafers
who burden the country sighing with
relief: “She’s still going up, she’s jake. ’
A broadcast debate the other day finally
decided that no one could possibly have
made better use of this country than we
have. It all depends, of course, on what is
meant by “making use” of it. We have
made use of it to create a paradise for
the work-shy, and have devised and
copied all sorts of means to stifle
individual initiative and reduce everything
to the level of the so-called “common
man”—forgetful of the fact that the
world has been made a better place for
the common man to live in by men out of
the common. If the common man doesn’t
look out he will very shortly be left to
his own resources, which, by his own
admission, don’t amount to much.
The very real tragedy of our times is
that almost an entire generation has been
brought up on Easy-street, with the result
that the aggregate demoralisation is
shocking. This demoralisation is civil and
economic, and by no means confined to
youth, because the virus has spread,
helped by shots-in-the-arm given by both
political parties indiscriminately. The
drug-addict is hardly more savage in bis
appetite than the common man given a
taste of the Welfare State. Governments
shrink from the suicidal course of snatch-
ing any of the fruits from him, even
though they are performing be
legerdemain of putting it in one pock#
and taking it out of the other.
But it is a mirage. By a long-drawn-
out set of circumstances, Australia has
been in the box-seat of international
affairs for nearly 13 years. The sands
are running out. The rest of the world
is, here and there, while making guns
and repairing war-time damage, also find-
ing time to produce goods. Peace,
ironically enough, is Australia’s greatest
danger. Should war break out the gears
of the merry-go-round, now slowly grind-
ing to a halt, will churn away h\ -oily
again and all will be well. Safe . m
the anguish of the Mad Continent at the
Foggy Isle, the terrors of the Middle Bast
and Asia, we can set to once more and
make all the goods that other people can’t
make because of war.
But if this peace business persists it
will be a very gloomy picture. We might
even have to work for a living—some-
thing we haven’t really done for 13 lovely
years. The howls of the common man
will avail him nothing. Brief appearances
at the “job” will no longer supply him
with the things for which, in normal
times, a common man had to toil hard
for half his active life.
Everywhere one looks, the Welfare
State is creaking to a dismal halt. In
West Australia the only vital spark that
keeps us going is supplied from relatively
unorganised, individual private-enter-
prise : primary production and road
haulage. That vital spark is generated
by the ability to work hard, by contempt
of long hours and by readiness to accept
more dinner-times than dinners. Those
are the only qualities that will save ns
when the bottom falls out of the Welfare
State.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
The Bandwagon
Of course higher prices for butter and
cheese will not increase production (B.
30/7/’52), but why stop at that? The
trouble did not start there. Under a
freely competitive economy, the man who
is having trouble making ends meet has
three main choices. He can spend less,
work harder, or work to better purpose
(improve quality).
As soon as the Government starts to
control the price of his product, be it
butter, top-hats or manual toil, he has
another and more attractive alternative.
He can combine with his fellows to force
the Government to raise the price he may
charge. It appears, to have been some
trade-union official who first had the
idea of concentrating all his efforts on
forcing-up wages. It was simple, had a
wide popular appeal and, best of all, he
could never work himself out of a job,
for each increase would soon make
another necessary.
We all realise that today, and most of
us have scrambled on to the band-
“Sorry I couldn't jump the table, old man, but congratulations just
the same.”
wagon. Dairyfarmers, returned soldiers,
old-age pensioners, schoolteachers, in fact
almost all organised groups in the com-
munity, have joined the unions in pressing
the Government of the day for more pay
for less work.
We all know the whole set-up is crazy,
but we all want all the others to stop
first. Now prices of our primary pro-
ducts, on which our export-trade and
hence our economic life depend, are get-
ting so costly that overseas customers are
likely at any time to stop buying them.
That will ruin the farmers, they will stop
spending money because they will have
none to spend, and the remaining four-
fifths of the population, which lives on
and by them, will collapse into poverty.
Whatever our politics, we should all be
praying that the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment will be able to forestall the collapse,
or the story of 1929 will be repeated.
And, if we really want to see them win, a
bit more hard work and less clamor for
more money from all hands would be
in order. — Magnoon (Q.).
Butter Price
The price of butter (B. 23/7/’52) is
determined by a price structure which
allows the butter-producer just the bare
cost of production. A dairyfarmer is
presumed to have a farm capable of run-
ning 51 cows, good enough and fed
enough to produce 2151 b. butter per head
per year. He is presumed to be able to
buy the farm, cows and plant and
improvements for £7500 —£15,000 is more
likely.
As an investor and manager and
laborer the farmer is allowed only £BOO
a year for working 52 56-hour weeks
without holidays. He is allowed only one
laborer to help him, so his wife and
children must relieve him occasionally.
The cause of the fall in butter-produc-
tion has been the low price and slave
conditions. The remedy, therefore, is
higher prices and better conditions. —
L. T. (N.S.W.).
“Canned Berra”
Red-tape is the usual cause of trouble
between pressmen and Parliamentarians.
This time the tape’s brown. Stewart
Gockburn, the Prime Minister’s Press
secretary, accompanied Menzies on his
last trip to U.K. and U.S.A. In Washing-
ton he attended a Truman Press con-
ference and saw the advantage of having
the tape-recorder sit in on it. It enabled
the newshawks to return to a more
leisurely scanning of question-and-answer,
ensured accuracy and responsibility and
obviated that scream of “misreported”
which so often bashes the ears of the
newsman.
But when Gockburn induced the Prime
Minister to install it at Canberra, much
as it may have saved in the way of time
and Pitman, it didn’t save trouble. The
Press Gallery saw in it some subtle attack,
not only on their privilege and prestige,
but actually on the freedom of the Press
generally. The transcript of the Press
conference, after being made available to
them for immediate needs and conveni-
ence, was posted off to a selected mailing-
list for wider information and publica-
tion.
The boys who originated the questions
put to the P.M. conceived the notion that
they were entitled to a more-or-less exclu-
sive use of the answers, and they saw in
the tape something of a threat to their
jobs—if newspapers could tape the
answers, why waste a man when they
could also tape the questions? (They
have apparently a poor estimate of the
importance of their personalities and their
abilities in the lobbies and the lounges
and even as shrewd guessers. A tape-
worm never got anyone a preview of a
Budget or an earful of a party brawl, a
palace revolution or a caucus purge.)
The blue is still on for young and old
at Canberra, but you can’t help thinking
that the newspapers will eventually take
to the tape not only there but in other
ways. At least one Melbourne freelance
has found that the tape has more than
paid off in interviewing and a thousand
other jobs, A blind reporter uses a com-
bination of tape and telephone. And
this par. was typed from the tape. The
recorder, in fact, is on its way in.—
X.X. (Vic.).
German Contrast
Australia’s position today is depressing
and alarming. As costs soar production
declines. Export trade is dying for the
sufficient reason that our goods are being
priced out of competitive markets. Many
local industries are shrivelling because,
despite the artificially high wages, con-
sumers can’t afford to pay the retail prices
demanded.
Contrast that situation with war-
shattered Germany. I was there in the
middle of 1946 when the great cities were
but heaps of rubble and London appeared
unscathed in comparison. The vast
Krupps works at Essen were a mass of
twisted steel girders and tottering stone
pillars, and that applied largely to all
heavy industries in the country. People
in the cities were existing, seven to 10 in
cellars, oh a food-ration which was
shockingly inadequate.
The German people appeared down and
out. Anything like complete rehabilita-
tion, industrially and socially, seemed a
visionary hope. Look at the position
today. Even allowing for Marshall Aid
the recovery of Germany is little short of
miraculous. The country is already a
formidable competitor in export markets ;
soon railway-engines made in Germany
will be running on Australian lines.
The explanation is, of course, the fibre
of the people. Riven and distracted
though it is by the Communist intrusion,
Germany is rapidly regaining the position
it held before the Kaiser’s war, due to the
hard work, determination and efficiency
of the mass of its population. What an
object-lesson for us. —G. Elburg
(N.S.W.). '
Vocational Guidance
The point about vocational guidance
(B. 30/7/’52) is that, by enabling potential
misfits and others to find a useful and
concordable place in society, the v.-g.
man is quite as productive as the doctor,
schoolteacher, politician, etc.
It is most unfair to label vocational-
guidance officers as bureaucrats. There
are thousands who can testify to their
efficiency and successful guidance, and
the expansion of their activities since the
war amounts to recognition of the social
and economic value of their work. The
vast increase of knowledge, and the
proving of different levels of innate in-
telligence, make vocational guidance
essential if human resources are to be
used efficiently.
“Dick Turpin” should not draw atten-
tion to his day—there is plenty of evidence
of the damage that misfits and malcon-
tents can and have done. —M. S. (N.S.W.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 188
Across.
I—Oarsman1 —Oarsman and my turn to help
a kitchen hand. (12)
9 —Father backing the king-emperor
sleeping place for fruit. (7)
10 — Put a limb on a legless creature
before I finish off one of the
Philippines. (7)
11 — Authorising the north between
disease-carriers and chant. (9)
12 — Khachaturian, a wool-producer.
(4)
13 — Bill may become this and prac-
tise one of Bill Shakspeare’s
arts. (3)
15 —Evil equipped with a burning
thread like a candle. (6)
17 — Finish upside-down. (3, 2)
18 — This diverts the conductor of
Sydney’s Philharmonic. (3)
19 — Sacks in return for the spur of
a printed letter. (5)
21 —Unethical morning relative of
the mouth. (6)
23 —Etruscan title larking in republi-
can, style. (3)
25 — Fiddler whose career known
as a rule, (4)
26 — -Severely criticise the bachelor
essayist in this joint. (5, 4)
29 —Hides for this success for the
bookies. (7)
30 — Raven up confusing an upstart.
(7) . , .
31— Half a moment beneath a wicked
Indian city. (12)
Down.
1— The least profound will ring a
direction. (10)
2 German boy initiates unusually
lurid revolutions in China. (5)
3 Silence is thus broken to give
legal permission. (7)
4 Sell concerning the rabbits with
the bat. (6)
5 on a steam-yacht for an
African gas swallowed by an
Asiatic. (8)
6 No thanks from this in hearth
equipment. (7)
7 Miss who regrets she’s unable
to lunch today, so ring and sit
up. (4)
8 — I defame an insular personality.
(8)
14 —Entranced to name the letters of
one step in a kangaroo’s pro-
gress. (10)
16 —Lamb under the grain name of
an actress whose other names are
7 down and 29 across. (8)
18 —Mistake after tea during
Robespierre’s regime. (6)
20 —Swing around angrily for a strip
of cloth stitched on by its upper
edge. (7)
22—-Rum rate can thus be riper. (7)
24—Cavilled and angled. (6)
27- Brace after have mixed this
bitter. (5)
28— Grey like an Aunt Sally. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 187


wan/
• d «
■i
;¥v:^v
■ ■
I M
mm. k f
II
'1
1
. • ' .
I
■
■: ■■■ ' > ,v, • , 5® '
*
: ■ . : ■ , ■.. . ■ ' v. : ■
: : : . . ■ v ' : : . ;>■ : .*! ;
§ ; V ■
Hi . ,
■
'' ■ ■ \
• ]
iT#;
.
■■■:■;■ .'V,, ■ "
•■■■■: • . . Ait'tm . -
r - - I:
Wwasm
KB
■ I
The business man with limited LEISURE, who
must keep up to date with his reading in
quick, concentrated patches, should turn to
HASTINGS DEERING'S FORD NEWS. It is
the greatest collection of worth-while reading in
condensed form possible to find.
You'll enjoy the variety afforded by 16 pages of
photos, 8 pages of new cartoons, items, articles, anec-
dotes, interviews. Get this "unusual" and very
modern magazine. This is NOT A MOTORING
MAGAZINE. Some of the August contents;—
"REVERENCE FOR LIFE."
"The deepest thinking is humble. Only when thinking
becomes quite humble can it set its feet upon the
way that leads to knowledge."
FIGHTING A FLY.
It's the tsetse, and it brings dreaded sleeping
sickness!
MEDICO'S MOMENTS.
Three needles a day made him a human pin-cushion.
WHAT’S YOUR SLEEP DEPTH?
Another angle on the riddle of sleep.
ABUNDANCE THROUGH CHEMURGY.
Agricultural techniques can outstrip increasing
populations.
LEFT-HANDED CHILDREN!
Leave them alone! it's dangerous to correct
them!
THIS MONTH'S COVER.
Many readers have asked for the technical
details of the camera used. The camera is
a Linhof 69 Super-Tecknika. The lens is a
Schneider fB.S 10.5 centimetres.
The "EVENING LIGHT" was obtained as the
sun was setting at mid-winter. The rose
colour with the soft light is due to the
excellent work of Freshwaters Ltd., the
colour-engravers.
Mr. H.
-ffaiiinqi Dee 1 Inq'6
HfWS
FO*P
CROSSING THE ATLANTIC SINGLE-
HANDED.
It took Edward Allcard 14 years and three
attempts!
MALAYAN AMBUSH.
First-hand account of bandit attack in Perak.
PLASTIC BAGS FOR BETTER TOMATOES.
16,000 plants per acre with this new system.
U.S. STUDENT NEWSPAPERS.
School weeklies keep youngsters well
informed.
BE YOUR OWN PSYCHOLOGIST.
If your husband seems a little feminine, don't
panic!
ENGLAND'S "NARROW BOATS."
Don't call them barges! 70 ft. x 7 ft. is
standard!
DOGS UNDER A CLOUD IN BRITAIN.
Yes, Nigger and Spot are on the outer. Read
why!
SICK PETS CAN BE DANGEROUS.
That's when kiddies cuddle them more.
if WRITE TO HASTINGS DEER-
ING LTD. for 12 months' sub-
scription form or ring M 0412
for 12 issues at 12/- post free.
ISSUED MONTHLY.
w
HASTINGS PEERING BUILDING
William Street. Sydney. Crown Street
Corner.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney. M 0412 (33
lines).
