

The Bulletin
'‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3752
Wednesday, January 9, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
pALMORAL CASTLE, the Highland
U home of the King and Queen, has
been ' a Royal residence for over a
hundred years. This famous estate, con-
sisting of eleven thousand acres, stands
beside the River Dee amid the Grampian
Mountains, which are renowned for their
wild beauty.
Balmoral was originally an area of
dense forest, and in the fourteenth
century the name was spelt Bouchmorale
—“the town of the great wood.” It was
not always a peaceful retreat, however,
for the original castle was a crude
stronghold with a turreted keep, from
which the approach of rival clansmen
could be quickly observed and effectively
opposed. The estate has had at least
four owners, one of whom was James
Farquharson, who was known in
Jacobite circles as “Balmoral the
Brave.” He proved himself a fearless
warrior at the Battle of Culloden, after
which he took refuge at Balmoral with
his surviving clansmen.
Balmoral was first visited by Royalty
in 1848, when Queen Victoria, on the
advice of her physician, stayed there. She
found the mountain air so stimulating
that she purchased the estate four years
later. The Castle at that time was of
modest proportions, although the original
building had been extended and recon-
structed. Prince Albert, however, was a
keen advocate of housing reform, and he
persuaded the Queen to build a new
castle which would uphold the dignity of
the Royal Family. Linder his direction,
therefore, plans of the new building in
the Scottish baronial style were prepared,
and in 1853 the Queen laid the founda-
tion stone of the present castle. Material
used was the local white Grathie granite,
and the mansion consists of two blocks
with connecting wings, turrets and a
projecting tower one hundred feet high.
The building was completed within two
years, and was occupied by the Queen
and her Consort in 1855. Ballochbuie
Forest was added to the estate by Queen
Victoria, who bequeathed Balmoral as a
royal residence for her successors.
Today, Balmoral, with its deer forests,
grouse moors, river and loch fishing, is
probably the most replete of the great
sporting estates of Scotland. When the
Court is not in residence the public is
admitted to the grounds on two days a
.week on payment of a small fee, which
is devoted to charities.
BALMORAL, ROYALTY'S SCOTTISH HOME
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4


iSULi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS;
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. a/-.;
Book lists on Mansfieldiana. Caxton Press, early an>
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Laws
and others). Specialised fields for book hunting.
The Red Page
PETER DAWSON.
One remembers, as a very young
reviewer in another branch of the trade,
accepting free tickets to a Dawson-
Hambourg concert, with the young re-
viewer’s patronising remark, “Well, I’ll
go to hear Hambourg, anyway”; and
coming back with the report: “We went
to hear Hambourg, and stayed to listen
to Dawson.”
He had only to open his mouth and
that lovely flood of velvet tone, so rich,
so seemingly effortless, drowned any
objection you might have had to “Boots”
or any of the other boarding-house
ballads his public liked to hear; and
when he overflowed into Handel, or a
setting of “Crabbed Youth and Age”
which one especially remembers, the
words and expression and music rejoiced
in the unity of really great artistry, and
spoke of the study and care which had
gone to produce the entertainment. He
was always good value, and now he has
written a book, Fifty Years of Song
(Hutchinson), which is good value, too.
In this book he makes complete con-
fession of the harmless deceptions, only a
few of which had been previously sus-
pected, which. for many years he has
practised upon the world ; the imposition
of the Era Malley poems upon Australian
students of advanced literature was a
joyful and brilliant hoax for its amateur
perpetrators, but the imposition of
“Hector Grant” upon the British vaude-
ville stage as a rival to Harry Lauder
was for Peter Dawson a matter of hard
necessity. Not only did he appear as
Hector Grant in one part of the pro-
gramme and as Peter Dawson in another,
entirely unsuspected by the audience, but
he also wrote his own Scottish songs, one
of which was more successful in record-
ing sales than any he sang of Lauder’s;
nor would Lauder himself, who had a
great admiration for “Hector Grant’s”
singing, believe that Dawson was the
same Hector.
But at the time this really large and
brilliant hoax was no joke to Dawson.
Boosey, “the Emperor of Bond Street,”
had told him to pencil-in some Queen’s
Hall engagements, and Dawson had had
the temerity to write, asking for con-
firmation of the penciilings in ink.
Boosey replied:—■
I do not require your services at all for
the coming season, nor at any time. And
you can cut your cloth, accordingly.
All young Dawson had known was
that with tnost English concert-managers
“pencillings-m” were tentative arrange-
ments ; he did not know that with Boosey
a pencil-in was as good as an engage-
ment. Boosey cultivated the doctrine
which only the all-powerful can afford,
that his word was as good as his bond,
and was only too ready to underline it—-
the letter quoted, for instance, meant that
the British concert-halls were closed tight
to young Mr. Dawson —hence “Hector
Grant,” and hence, also, Dawson’s first
Australian tour of 1909. There, when he
met another concert-hall Emperor, he
was more circumspect: the Taits post-
poned his contract, so that he had to
pay his own fare from Adelaide to Mel-
bourne, or some such, an amount of three
pounds. He showed no chagrin, but a
week later took the £3 off John Tail at
poker.
These things are all told a little shyly
rather than sadly ; they are just part of
life to him ; but those of us who have
witnessed the deification of A 1 Jolson
and George M. Cohan in films will
wonder why British film people have not
thought of doing the same thing with
Dawson. The Boosey-Hector Grant
incident should make enough basis for
any film.
Or take the story of the young Adelaide
plumber who persuaded his father to let
him leave the business and study singing
in England ; who decided to do the right
thing, and presented himself for tuition
to Charles Santley wearing a tail-coat,
striped trousers, waistcoat, top-hat and
tan shoes; or the penniless young singer
standing-by while his young wife searched
her trunk for the six pennies she had
used to keep her stockings up in panto-
mime so that he might afford his fare
to his first appointment in a recording-
studio ; or practising jiu-jitsu in the wings
of a musical-society concert, and throwing
his adversary onto the stage ; or, in Ire-
land, innocently singing a partisan song
brought to him in the interval, so that he
had to be secretly evacuated from the
concert-hall to avoid a crowd that wanted
to ask him a few questions ; or writing
the tune for “Boots” to the rhythm of a
railway carriage, and rushing into his
hotel to demand, before registering, a
piano, so that the tune would not vanish
before he got it down; or surviving the
august disapproval of Sir Henry I. Wood
(“Don’t ever sing rubbish like that here
again! ”) when “Boots” brought down the
house at the last “Proms” concert before
the 8.8. C. took them over; or spud-
barbering in the Army ; or on a recruit-
ing tour of song and fisticuffs with the
American boxer, Jimmy Clabby; or, at
the suggestion of Oscar Asche, getting
Edward Lock ton (Teschmacher) to make
versions of Adam Lindsay Gordon poems
so that William G. James, now head of
the ABC’s music, could make songs of
them, then asking Oscar Asche to hear
the result:
I stopped, turned, and found Oscar stand-
ing up with his fist raised, and shouting,
“How dare this roan parody our great
poet?” He looked for all the world like
some huge, angry gorilla. And he trumpeted
, again, “I say, where is this man who dares
do this to our great poet?” and before any
of us poor astonished creatures could
vouchsafe a reply, Oscar stamped out of
the studio, violently angry.
And the wonderful story of how
Malcolm McEachern complained at a
Savoy Hotel inauguration of “The Society
of Australians in London,” at which
Winston Churchill was guest-of-honor,
that there were no Australian wines, and
sent for the manager, who said,
We have no Australian wine, but we have
some good South African wine.
Whereupon McEachern in terrible
wrath demanded that a messenger be sent
to Australia House ... In addition to
these stories, there is an account of the
early days of the British recording
industry. Dawson was in on the ground-
floor —with the phonograph cylinders,
singing them at the rate of five shillings
a round, and, since the matrices had
short lives, singing a popular record over
and over again until the order was filled.
His version of “John, John, John, go and
put your trousers on” was a huge
success:
In order to cope with the unprecedented
demand for this song I had to sing it over
and over again. I used to begin at 10 a.m.
and go on till 1 p.m., when I had lunch;
start again at 2.15 and work through until
5 p.m. I kept that up for five consecutive
days. But I made £75.
Which seems to indicate that he sang
the same song three hundred times in
five days. This helps to explain a story
that used to go round Sydney about a
singer, whose name one doesn’t* need to
call to mind, who mentioned a song and
asked Dawson if he happened to know
it. “Not very well,” Dawson said, appar-
ently without sarcasm. “I’ve only been
singing it fifteen years.”
In those days spies used to visit music-
halls to get the words of popular songs
down in shorthand, while miniature
recording phonographs were taken in to
get the tunes. After three or four visits
to the halls, the spies would collaborate
on song and orchestration, and a singer
with a suitable voice would be chosen to
record the song—then the Copyright Act
cut into this little ramp, and song-writing
for records became a paying occupation*
Dawson recorded under four names;
his own for high-class music; “Hector
Grant” for Scottish songs; “Franlc
Danby” for light popular songs, and
“Will Strong” for music-hall hits. As a
composer, he signed himself “J. P.
McCall, Peter Allison, Evelyn Byrd,
Denton Toms, Charles Webber, Arnold
Flint, Geoffrey Baxter and Alison Miller.”
By 1920, he had a guarantee from
H.M.V. of a minimum of £l2OO a year,
and had sold five million records ; by
1925, he had sold eight million, and the
latest figures are over thirteen million.
King George V had a “good collection ’
of Dawson records, and “expressed his
fondness for them” ; Austen Chamberlain
sought him out at a city dinner —“I have
a big collection of your records My
father really started my collection and
my interest in your singing, for he
possessed a goodly quantity of your
cylinder records . . . ” And:
Others who were kind enough to go out
of their way to call on me and talk about
their collection of my records were the late
Lord Asquith (H.H.A.), Bonar Law, Lord
Baldwin and Ramsay MacDonald. Mr.
Oscar Preuss, of the Gramophone Company,
tells me that one of the finest collections
of my records is owned by Mr. Winston
Churchill.
Mr. Dawson has a most interesting
chapter on “Stories Behind the Popular
Successes” —it seems that he was the first
to sing, “a few years after World War I,”
Major Murray’s “I’ll Walk Beside You”
—at any rate, he took it round the pub-
lishers, sang it, and got it printed ; he
was second in the world to sing “The
Floral Dance,” which was inspired by
the “Furry Dance” in Helston, Corn-
wall ; one of his most popular songs,
“The Dreamer,” turned down by all the
English publishers, and not acclaimed
until Ernest Lashmar took a fancy to it
in Australia, was written by a traveller
in cosmetics ; another, “Australia, Home
of the Brave and Free,” was sent him by
Henry Baxter, a Sydney physical-culture
expert—nay, as the rhetoricians say, the
second verse of Dawson’s own “V for
Victory” song, “the biggest seller of any
song in the history of Australia,” was
supplied by the Mayor of Sydney,
Alderman Stanley S. Crick, who was
sponsoring the Australian Comforts Fund
to which the income from the song was
given.
If the critic of poetry as just plain
poetry cannot go all the way with Mr.
Dawson in his appreciation of the kind
of verse which, obviously, makes fine
songs, some conductors, most accom-
panists and most music publishers will
not be very happy about the chapter
“Seconds Out,” where he says some well-
chosen and long-pondered words:
My last word on accompanists: I have
seen no progress in their art during the
whole course of my career.
Accompanists, he says, do not know
the music by heart ; they let the singer
down when he needs the loud chord to
boom a high note; they drop their
music ; they do not ventriloquially supply
the word he has forgotten; they want to
get a name as soloists and try to take the
limelight. Conductors are mostly musical
snobs; most get their interpretations off
other men’s records :
The vast majority have no time for the
average singer. They regard them as non-
musical, in their sense of the word, and
obtrusive. The hours I have wasted in
the early part of my career —hours thrown
away waiting until the conductor thinks fit
to give the unfortunate vocalists a run
through with the orchestra.
Songwriters don’t take enough trouble
to polish their work ; but
the “new” songwriter is up against a
system that gives the composer little chance
of making a fortune the quick way. The
publisher is a pastmaster in the art of the
“knocker.” Your song may be really a
winner, but the publisher will not let you
know that. He will pull a poor mouth,
and get the composer down so low that he
will gladly sign on the dotted line below a
maze of small print overlaid with innumer-
able “buts” and “jfs” that would take a
clever man a week to understand. The poor
comppser is so pleased with the fact that
his song is to be published he does not
realise until he writes further successes that
the publisher rakes in the shekels and the
composer the fame.
As you see—good value all the way ;
and stories about Pachmann, Melba,
Albert Sammons, John Curtin, Granville
Bantock —who used to set popular songs
for his friends and was greeted in
America, where he was to give lectures
on music, by students singing his noble
work, “Who’ll Give a Penny to the
Monkey?” as a compliment—Arthur
Fadden, Chaliapin, Sir William
McKell . , .
With pictures, lists of some of his
recordings, a list of the songs he sang
in twelve BBC. programmes, of which,
evidently, he is justly proud, and a list
of some three hundred songs from his
repertoire.
R. McC.
DERBY DAY.
GATE MEN.
Pay your dollar and watch the races,
Seaweed mares and jockey faces,
Sweating clerks with odds to call;
Flags and girls in blowing laces.
Stallions kicking down the stall—
All for a dollar, one and all!
BOOKMAKERS.
Ladies, gents, we’re here to lay her
Any way you like to play her;
Stab the dark or dream the winner.
We’re the boys who foot the dinner;
Plan for ease with Rose and Skinner,
Answers to a maiden’s prayer.
BARMEN.
What’s your trouble? For a shilling
Here’s a mention in the billing,
Leading parts at half a crown.
Should the Books, give you a grilling,
Take a voyage to renown;
Come and drink our sorrows down.
THE GARDENER.
Now the hungry have all gone
On the sounding of a horn
Leaving me, a solitary.
Picking papers from the lawn——
Pages from some history
Blowing into yesterday.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Reviewed Briefly .
Studies in Medieval and Renaissance
Music: Manfred F. Bukofzer (Dent).
A learned, impressive and highly-
technical survey by a leading American
authority, who discusses early English
music, choral polyphony, dance music
and the cyclic mass.
* * * ♦
Hudson’s Green Mansions is the latest
volume to be added to Dent’s handsome
Uniform Edition. It is, of course, his
masterpiece: whatever else she symbolises
—life, poetry, beauty—Rima is certainly
the incarnation of nature, the embodi-
ment of all the delight which Hudson
felt in wild places, and his prose—the
thinness and dullness of which in such
journalistic sketches as Nature in Down-
land has' rightly been criticised —rose
splendidly to match his passion. It’s a
book that will live ; with, say, Stevenson’s
The Ebb Tide and Conrad’s Heart of
Darkness .
* * * * I
The Good Time Guide to London :
edited by Francis Aldor; art editor
I. Hofbauer (Harrap), The perfect guide-
book, whether you want to find the
British Museum, which eluded the present
reviewer during the whole of six months’
more-or-less diligent search in London,
or decide to spend the evening at Dirty
Dick’s—a less elusive joint and, on the
whole, just as respectable. Famous sights
and rare Sights, famous shops and rare
shops, famous theatres and reasonably
infamous nightclubs; when to tip, what
to wear, how to get to Whipsnade, a
bridge-club or a golf-course: all enter-
tainingly written, and illustrated in color
by such bright sparks as Fougasse and
Topolski. No intending tourist should
miss it.
*** * ■ |
Hussar of the Line : Francis Hereward
Maitland (Hurst and Blackett). An
account of life in the British cavalry
before the horses turned into tanks. The
author obviously knows all about it but
never quite gets down to brass tacks ;
too much light humor about training and
not enough of the feeling underlying it;
too much generalisation and not enough
autobiography. The book stops short
at the point when the regiment goes into
action in France.
* # * *
A series of books about “Rivers of
America,” published by Hodge, includes:
The St. Lawrence by Henry Beston, The
Hudson by Carl Carmer, The Ohio by
R. E. Banta and Suwannee River by
Cecile Hulse Matschat. The books are
nicely produced, unusually readable for
works in such a series, and Miss
Matschat’s in particular has a lot of very
good nature-writing in it, about boars,
bears, rattlesnakes, etc.
* * * *
A Hundred Years of British Painting;
1851 to 1951: Hesketh Hubbard (Long
mans). A useful account of artists, move-
ments and exhibitions, covering in greater
detail and a more academic style the
ground lately brilliantly traversed in
William Gaunt’s three monographs. No
doubt most of it is reasonably accurate ;
but the Australian Exhibition of 1923 is
dismissed in five lines, apparently
borrowed from a critic of the period and
chiefly devoted to an attack, from the
moral point of view, on Sir Lionel Lind-
say under the impression that he painted
Norman Lindsay’s watercolors or drew
Norman Lindsay’s pen-drawings.
* ♦ V * ■%
Famous Paintings; An Introduction to
Art for Young People : Alice Elizabeth
Chase (Macdonald). Miss Chase is an
Assistant Professor of Fine Arts at Yale,
and the book has the guarded recom-
mendation of Sir Gerald Kelly. It
consists of 51 large color-plates, the
artists including Raphael, Breughel,
Rubens, Tintoretto, Delacroix, Cezanne,
Matisse; with an explanatory com-
mentary on each painting. The basic
purpose of the book, done by com-
mentary and juxtaposition of illustra-
tions, is probably to persuade the young
reader that Franz Marc’s “Red Horses,”
Chagall’s “Snowing” and Matisse’s
“Harmony in Blue” can be ranked equal
with the world’s masterpieces; but they
still look rather flimsy to stand long
against the cold winds that blow upon
Olympus. Among the American color-
plates included is a boxing-picture,
“Stag at Sharkey’s,” by George
Bellows, which shows to how great and
how damaging an extent serious art in
the U.S. has got itself mixed up with
commercial magazine illustration.


T4O
can # vc Y ° U
\
I
&
O *
mS
\
mHm.
■I
1
m
X :
;
-
BjgjM
1
1
-
w
mm
a
■
K
V*.
B
H
. ■ ;
,■
■
I
> „ V
SB
i
■
I
H
mm
BH n
H
faa
m
■
'
9
made by expert craftsmen ...
"Tree”
Brand Super-grade
• Slipper free comfort,
• Hard-wearing,
• Finest grade leathers.
A shoe with masculine charm. With “Tree” you’ll feel that slipper
comfort. Yes sir, and a most durable shoe, one with the highest
grade leathers moulded for the finest fitting by expert craftsmen!
I,—Zebu Brogue obtainable in Black or Tan. A good wide
fitting. Punched and gymped. Extra stout welted soles, in
full and half sizes. 97/6 pair.
m
M. .•'■&S I
M
m
n H i
Ht I
'
■ H
i
mm
wmm
b
*■
jtt*
*>•"*. -
mm
■■■;•.
IH■
hk
i
:
■
■
;■ m
v
|||K
■
£
5M
il
i :
B
:3l«
2. Made from imported zebu on the “Ace Last.” Whole golosh, punched and
gymped cap. 1 ramp. Full and half sizes. Black or Tan. Also stocked in
imported calf. Price, 96/6 pair.
3. —Four-hole Derby for the man who likes a nice light shoe. In Black Kid or
Tan Calf. Genuine welted leather soles. Full and half sizes.
Tan Calf, priced at 65/- pair; Black Kid, priced at 72/6 pair.
4. —Glace Kid “Fiteasy Last,” wide lilting. Cap or plain toe.
Full and half sizes. Price is 72/6 pair.
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
dryg
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. PHONE: M 2401. POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ofr OUA L
t&efajMned~M*iiled /’wdiidwtu
ake ntMkp&m pMke
m
SanSßra
1 1 fi
I
... .-,,. i
■r ~
Mi
HH
yy
y.
mam
m
■%yyy mm
WlSmmMMMmi
I V ■ " BMDH
. .
BHSI
&<p
M/mMm
;i : ,
■a?
■HMHHHHHHHSHHI
•'•..: -_e.:
■
I
Hi
Wm
mmmmm
labhwSSwflSSSS
'■■ • '. ,;V, ■'
H
wssm
g
mm
I,
sgg
Hi
-.a..-;,
||BM| ■'■■ 8 ■•'••-"S
liflll
wmamSliSllmlbWi
i
msm .
•'••.•••
,
1 1
Ml
I;.; /4 -.'.i ■ 'T.-v
HHHH Ha
- ■. i
; V ■
S iSi
Mi
IB
/ ■
■■Hf
>
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3752
Wednesday, January 9, 1952
WHAT BOB MENZIES REALLY MEANT.
“Fellers of Australier,
Blokes an ’ coves an’ coots,
Shift y’r—carcasses,
Move y’r—boots!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
ORGANISING FOR WORK.
Turning from a nation-wide indulgence
in sport and spending over the Christmas-
New Year break, Australians are pre-
sented with all the “urgent” working-
day problems carried over from 1951 —
and from the years before that—with
their pressure upon our economic con-
ditions increasing all the time. Our
people had hardly finished congratulat-
ing themselves on their prowess in inter-
national cricket and tennis when
industrial spokesmen began warning
them of the effects of the coming basic-
wage rise in February, the first of
another and prospectively steeper rise
through this year’s quarterly series. Last
year the rise was in all 25 per cent, on
the wage-base of the year before.
It is easily apparent that if we
played as a team against the economic
evils of which we complain as whole-
heartedly as we engage all-comers on the
sporting fields, our problems would
rapidly dwindle. Not that disputes and
antagonisms do not appear in our sport
also, as the always-vocal Dr. Evatt will
bear witness ; but they are submerged in
an overriding common aim to “win out.”
The Prime Minister has uttered some
New Year homilies based on this text.
It may be true, as he says, that industrially
as a nation we have been trying to do too
much too quickly, but as individuals
too many of us have been trying to do too
little too slowly.
But would he or any other Australian
say the same about our record in inter-
national sport? And if that is not true
with our limited population in sport, why
is it true of our economic aims? Should
we accept it as true until we have made
the effort and proved it?
The Socialist-propagated myth that the
Menzies Government could “put value
back into the pound,” or even that it
promised to do so by mere legislation
while the community went on its easy-
going ways doing as little as possible for
the highest wages to be extracted on a
short labor market, is losing ground. So
is the other Socialist pretence that fixing
prices of goods alone would cure infla-
tion, without increasing short-supplied
goods by greater man-hour output. There
is another favorite “Labor” alibi in the
agitation for “fixing” profits, but this
control is, of course, advocated for em-
ployers’ profits only, and not for those
of the working hands. The McGirr-Gair
experiment with price-fixing of butter
should have resolved all doubts about the
efficacy of price-control on cost of goods ;
it was simply driving butter out of the
local markets, and even out of produc-
tion. What “Labor” really means, but
dares not say, is that prices of goods
should be kept static for the consumer
by Government subsidies, ever-increas-
ing, on the goods thus pegged, the sub-
sidies to be financed by taxation, also on
a constantly-rising scale, levied on the
consumers of fixed-price goods.
Apart from the fact that nowhere in
the world has such a procedure worked
to cure undersupply of goods, no price-
law in history, even under dictatorships,
has ever prevailed to the extent of com-
pelling a holder of goods, farmer or
merchant, to sell at the fixed price. Even
fanatical price-controllers in the “Labor”
party have admitted that difficulty. The
goods would simply disappear from the
market.
Mr. Menzies’s appeal for a general
united effort is to be applauded. So is his
appeal to Australians to shape up to the
burdens imposed by the Budget as neces-
sary in the effort to tackle first things first.
What is still looked for is Government
example in the curbing of wasteful habits
and in gingering-up individual applica-
tion to the daily round of work. It is not
enough for the head of the Government
to have the right views, or even to apply
them throughout Government depart-
ments —as Ministers occasionally declare
they have done. The Government must
not only prune non-essential expendi-
ture, but also seem to be doing it.
Otherwise the example it sets (if any) is
useless.
Every Australian is capable of com-
piling his own list of reasons for the
failure hitherto of the fight against infla-
tion —the inflationary condition being
one in which the supply of goods never
catches up to the supply of money.
Because of years of shortage of
coal there have not been enough steel
products, power, gas, cement, chemicals
and rail and shipping transport to satisfy
national development undertaken. Be-
cause of easy hours and high wages in
the cities farming has undergone severe
decline, and rural production in food
essentials has been hit first by disastrous
floods and then drought and widespread
fires. These are the direct and com-
pounding causes of inflated prices, and
as we have admitted these influences into
the wage-structure, the inflated wages
resulting are now frightening everybody.
To sit idly and howl about depression
and unemployment and the iniquities of
the Government is not in the code of
an Australian Eleven fighting on a worn
pitch or Davis Cup players bracing them-
selves to the strain of a long set in a vital
round. This year will bring a challenge
to our national stamina, and, as Mr.
Menzies says, to our capacity for team-
ship.
For this reason there ought to be, in
the weeks immediately ahead, the most
careful preparation of the employers and
union-leaders for the conference in mid-
February on the 40-hour-week problem.
Somehow, without creating such asperi-
ties as will mar the conference, there
should be produced factual evidence
of the effects on production during the
past four years of the shorter week’s
operation. Neither employers nor union-
leaders can be ignorant of the truth that,
whatever the answer may be in some
occupations, the effects in others have
been calamitous.
It is idle for unions to maintain that
they will fight to the death to “keep con-
ditions won” —leaving aside their claim
for still-shorter hours—when basic ser-
vices such as State railways are drifting
into bankruptcy and chaos as the result
of 40-hours, They have never made up
the running-staffs they need, of which
the reduced working-week in effect
deprived them, and they are fighting an
obviously losing battle against running
costs. Efficiency is failing against these
odds, and the burden laid on all railway-
users, and on all taxpayers also, is quite
as onerous as the much-discussed
burdens of the Commonwealth Budget.
From some such starting-point the
conference called by the Chief Judge of
the Arbitration Court should come easily
enoygh to the question what can be done
to make the 40-hour week succeed. Sir
William Kelly has already said very
bluntly that the parties have not been
sufficiently interested in assuring that 40
hours in the week should be worked.
Easy-going by employees, conscious of
short-supply in the labor market, and by
employers who have been inured under
“controls” to the practice of passing on
costs to the consumer has corroded the
standard week like rust, and will corrode
any standard hours.
Of course for a long time now Aus-
tralian industry, viewed as a Test cricket
team, has not had to meet any formid-
able competition. This year the Ger-
mans and the Japanese will be taking the
field again. That point also the February
conference might keep well in the general
picture before it.
This Court Doth Order . . . .
[A considered opinion on a far-
reaching subject. The writer, W. B.
Fleming, is a N. S. Wales country
solicitor .]
It is late, but not too late, to wake up
to the true relationship between arbitra-
tion and law. Loose thinking in this con-
nection has led us far along the dangerous
path towards contempt for not only legal
institutions but also the whole concept
of the rule of law.
It is suggested that, in setting up our
system of industrial arbitration, we have
acted without a proper appreciation of
the respective functions of law and of
arbitration as an instrument of adminis-
tration ; and have made a serious blunder
in attempting to assign to arbitration
tribunals, and those set in charge of them,
judicial status. A long line of great
British lawyers has with great care and
skill preserved truly judicial functions
from the taint of bias. Yet it has hap-
pened that our very respect for our legal
system has caused us to ask the impos-
sible of it and endanger its foundations.
Whether a Government - sponsored
system of industrial arbitration be good
or bad, arbitration is a concept which
has, basically, no necessary association
with law. It has none with compulsion.
If men agree to arbitrate they should be
free to do so. If they formally agree
that the award of the arbitrator, whatever
it be, shall be binding upon them, the law
will, in proper cases, enrorce the agree-
ment. The courts will make available the
ordinary channels of litigious process and
the compulsion of the King’s writ to
enforce a bargain freely and properly
made ; but not if the bargain sought to
be enforced be shown to have been pro-
cured in such circumstances that the party
sought to be bound by it was not reason-
ably free to decide whether to accept its
obligation in the first place, or had not
opportunity to form a reasonable idea
of what that obligation was.
But can anything but confusion result
from building any social machinery or
system on a foundation of such a concept
as that indicated by the self-contradictory
expression “compulsory arbitration ?
It is suggested that the attempt to do so
has had a perfectly natural and very
dangerous effect. Has it not resulted in
an attempt to invest men and institutions
with judicial status when the functions
they are performing are not truly
judicial? If parties decide to arbitrate
and choose an arbitrator, they can, and
often do, agree to accept his decision as
final and binding. But they do this by
agreement; and that agreement cannot
extend to assign to him, while the King’s
writ runs, the power to enforce that de-
cision himself. They arbitrate ; they do
not litigate; and they thus avoid the
unbridgeable gulfs established between
parties to litigation.
To insist that parties to industrial dis-
putes must submit to what amounts to
litigious process not only in the disputes
which arise out of the bargain, but in
arriving at the bargain itself, involves a
number of evils. It commences by com-
pelling the parties to the treaty for the
bargain to accept complete assignment
to one of two contesting sides. Falsely
and unnecessarily, it makes them feel that
they must accept alignment as class
against class. It makes for the exaggera-
tion of claims and the pressing of argu-
ment, specious or genuine, with equal
vigor, characteristic of litigation. It puts
a premium on unethical advocacy: that
prostitution of the human intelligence for
which, the appetite having been
stimulated, the seller offering greatest
assurance of early gratification can name
the price. It turns what should be a
series of discussions on occasions offer-
ing opportunity to learn the other fellow’s
point or points of view and difficulties,
and causing little, if any, loss of time and
production, into a political and pro-
cedural war, in which only the wealthy,
the irresponsible or the desperate will
willingly engage. It makes for the bitter-
ness and bias which any lawyer knows
are quite inseparable from litigation;
warping judgment, straining truth, and
making later reconciliation almost
impossible.
These results, though wasteful and
disturbing to social peace and good
citizenship, do not in themselves suggest
disrespect for judicial pronouncements.
That commences when any man is
prompted to feel that he may escape
without punishment, and even increase
his stature in the eyes of some among
his fellows, if he disregards, or even
contumaciously disobeys, an order of a
court. If the rule of law is to prevail, the
hand, and, more important, the opinion,
of every decent citizen should be against
him who disobeys the order of a court.
He who goes to jail rather than obey
such order may salve his personal con-
science and test the opinion of others in
a matter of principle. He may even win
legitimate applause for his choice. But
he nevertheless obeys the order of the
court. Contempt of court is an offence
which cannot, in an orderly society, be
condoned.
Given judicial functions and left free to
perform them, British courts can be relied
upon so to discharge them that no citizen
will have reason to suspect that the
strictest justice will not be dispensed with
the coldest impartiality to the extent that
legislation will permit. Our courts have
always taken particular care that no
decree or order should issue from them
which it is not possible and reasonable
for the King’s writ to enforce. It has
been recognised that to do otherwise
would be to invite the contempt deserved
by pompous impotence.
If properly represented, voluntary
associations, whether incorporated or not,
corporations established by the Crown
for discharge of functions or purposes
requisite for good government, and other
aggregate beings, though they may have
“no body to be kicked nor soul to be
damned,” may properly appear before
courts as parties to litigation. But when
it comes to insisting that the necessarily
delicate and often very personal bargains
between men in industrial matters can
only have State approval if, before they
are made, every person who, in his
calling, can possibly be affected by that
bargain has been forced to align himself
on one of two sides in what amounts
almost to a litigious proceeding; and
then to clothing the tribunal which is,
by statute, compelled to conduct that
unnatural proceeding with judicial status,
and assigning to its pronouncements the
status of an order of court: do we not
move into a position in which we ask
even the most highly trained ingenious
mind to perform an impossible task?
If we create a situation wherein a pro-
nouncement issued as an order of court
or of a judge cannot be enforced, because
of the obvious political, as well as
physical, impossibility of enforcing it,
do we not erect a signpost to the road to
contempt of all orders of all judges and
of all courts?
The present attempt by the disrup-
tionists to make industrial arbitration
unworkable is not prompted chiefly by
any desire to destroy that system and
thus directly add to social discontent. It
is, in fact, a very cleverly conceived attack
upon the dignity and respect for all
judicial authority in the community.
We do not need to throw away indus-
trial arbitration. But we must distinguish
between arbitration and legal process;
between judicial functions and political
and economic approaches to disputes in
the sociological sphere.
Judges, when exercising judicial func-
tions, must be preserved completely
from any suspicion of being affected by
considerations of personal feelings. Such
feelings will always exercise some
measure of control over judgment and
opinion in the formation of bargains.
They are inappropriate in the examination
of questions as to what are those bargains,
and as to whether those bargains have
been kept or broken. Judges are safe
only while allowed to be strictly inter-
preters, not planners; examiners, not
abstract theorists. We must preserve to
them that safety, and to their orders un-
questioned authority, if we desire to
prevent the wreckers from using our very
courts and judges as weapons with which
to create disrespect for authority, dis-
content with order, and the misery of
lack of faith in anything.
Progress.
“Feng-Shui” : For the first time for
goodness knows how many years the
equine population of Australia has fallen
below the million-mark, and if it con-
tinues to fall at its present rate —50,000
neddies per annum —there will be few
horses at all left by 1968, though there
will no doubt be an odd Hatrack or two
to contest the Cup in Melbourne. There
will also be a luxury trade in ladies’ hacks
and children’s ponies, and there will be a
few outlaws for buckjumping shows,
which will become a sentimental cult like
archery and yachting.
In 1990 a crank will achieve notoriety
by riding round Australia like Don
Quixote on an old moke. In 2000 an Aus-
tralian Lady Godiva will ride down
George-street in a swimsuit sitting in the
back of a Packard which will have a
horse’s head for a mascot. There will be
a Back-to-the-Horse Society in Adelaide,
whose members will all turn up in
Mercurys and Bristols to the annual
dinner at which the poems of Adam
Lindsay Gordon will be recited.
Gordon called the horse the noblest
work of God next to man. The decline
of God’s noblest work is attributed to
the growing mechanisation of farms in
Australia. Tractors don’t provide manure
like horses, and can’t be boiled down for
blood-and-bone when they die, so there
will be a decline in the crops and pastures
and the agricultural chemists will get to-
gether to consider the problem, and as
mechanisation is in the fashion they will
devise some mechanical means of restor-
ing the fertility of the soil. When this
works out in the further depletion of the
country’s natural asset some professor
will think up some way of dispensing with
the soil altogether and food will become
a laboratory product.
By 2200 the farmer will have gone the
way of the horse, and have vanished
except for one or two picturesque
examples who will raise pumpkins m
window-boxes in the old way and write
books about it which will be best-sellers
like Alan Villiers’s Last of the Wind-
ships.
If anybody feels all this to be an exag-
geration he has only to consider the race
of 100-ton dinosaurs which were lords or
the earth before the Ice Age. Their idea
of progress was getting bigger and bigger,
and when their pastures began to dwindle
they ate themselves off the earth, inei
sole living representatives are the htue
lizards that run about the ceiling, an
which were better adapted to meet tn
new conditions than a creature as big
a bulldozer and twice as hungry.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No Peace.
The Korean armistice negotiations, which
have been a failure, never had any
chance of succeeding. They were entered
into by the Chinese and North Koreans
only for propaganda purposes, and the
U.N.O. allies have gained nothing from
them save a knowledge of the cruelty and
treachery against which they are contend-
ing. The disappearance of tens of
thousands of Allied prisoners-of-war is in
itself enough to show the world what it
is facing in its Communist enemy.
While the negotiations have actually
been in progress the Foreign-languages
Press of Peking, a replica of the Moscow
Foreign-languages Press, has been pour-
ing out a stream of matter demonstrating
the speciousness of the enemy’s pretence
to be ready for peace. He is ready for
peace on his own terms, which would be
tantamount to a surrender by U.N.0.,
to its disgrace before a grinning Asia,
and to the trial of U.N.O. leaders as war
criminals.
One piece of Communist literature
which has come out of Peking in the last
few weeks —and which, of course, is being
sold enthusiastically and in large quanti-
ties by the Australian Communist party
—is a document called “The First Year
of Victory,” referring to a year of
Chinese history It has a frontispiece
map which shows the whole of Korea as
a Communist country, and which also
shows the borders of Communist China
as reaching across the China Sea to
within shooting-distance of the shores of
Luzon in the Philippines. In other
words, the enemy claims not only to rule
China but to have right of control of
the main sea-routes from Australia to
the China coast and to Japan.
The Chinese Premier, in the first article
in this illuminating work, claims that his
side has “annihilated 8,070,000 enemy
troops during the four years of war” be-
tween July, 1946, and October, 1950, and
to have captured mountains of spoil,
including 54,430 artillery-pieces. A cal-
culation shows the absurdity of the
casualty figures, because even in the most
primitive war there are certain engineer-
ing and time-factor relationships which
in the course of nature exist between
killed and wounded and between slaughter
and materiel. And in the ordinary course
of affairs, unless wounded and prisoners
are knocked on the head and included,
8.000. “annihilated” means another
32.000. or so wounded. It is signifi-
cant, perhaps, that the Chinese reports
avoid specific statements that the enemy
were killed in battle. His troops were
just “annihilated” like vermin.
A more significant fact is that every
statement of the potential or action of
the Communists’ opponent seeks to link
him with the United States. All the arms
of the Chinese Nationalist forces are
described as “manufactured and supplied
to the Kuomintang reactionaries by
the United States,” except a few by Japan.
And stress is laid on the “close alliance
militarily” of China with Soviet Russia.
The Premier adds;
The United States deliberately concocted
the assault of the Syngman Khee puppet
sang: against the Korean Democratic
People’s Republic in order to expand its
aggression in the East. ...By these
frenzied acts the U.S. Government has re-
vealed Itself as the most dangerous foe
of the People’s Republic of China. The
U.S. aggressive forces have invaded China’s
borders and may at any time expand their
aggression.... The Chinese people firmly
oppose the aggressive brutalities of
America and are determined to liberate
Taiwan and other Chinese territory from
the clutches of the* U.S. aggressors.
There is much more in the same strain
with references to “broken skulls.” And
this is not the vaporing of some propa-
gandist or spokesman. It bears the signa-
ture of the Chinese Premier, Chou
En-lai.
Yet Dr. Evatt and his kind are still
prepared to sneer at Mr. Menzies in
offensive language as a “warmonger”
when he attempts to place Australia, now
engaged in fighting Chinese troops, in
some state of defence.
Belated Recognition.
The New Year honor which came to
Davidson, J., retired from the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench, is a public recog-
nition of his reports on the N.S.W. coal-
mining industry from two royal commis-
sions, 1929-30 and 1945-46, and his war
work as president of the Commonwealth
Coal Board in 1941.
Following his second investigation, the
Joint Coal Board, established by Com-
monwealth and N.S.W. Governments in
1946, has been tackling some of the de-
fects to which he drew attention, but in
the main his masterly report on the con-
ditions which have gone near to paralys-
ing the industry remains as true today as
when he wrote it six years ago. “A
stage has been reached,” he then declared,
“which borders on disaster, and threaten-
ing crisis demands bold measures.”
These were some of his observations
and conclusions;
Conservative estimate of capacity of
operating underground coalmines in N.S.W.
is 12} million tons per annum working on
one shift daily.
This output could be doubled with a
second productive shift.
Mechanisation of pillar-working, pro-
hibited under legislation by rulings of the
N.S.W. Minister for Mines, would sub-
stantially increase productive capacity.
In present conditions an enforceable, or
indeed any, agreement between the owners
and the Miners’ Federation directed to the
preserving of discipline in the mines is
impracticable.
Miners are opposed to early extraction
of pillars by mechanical means for the
reason that, as they formed them by hand
work, they should have the benefit of the
easier task of taking them down when
crushed in process of time. For the same
reason there is opposition to rapid extrac-
tion so that the lighter and more profitable
task may last longer. These views have
led to restrictions upon the number of pairs
of men employed in manual extraction of a
pillar.
Pit-top meetings, strikes and absenteeism
are beyond all reasonable proportion.
The system of payment on contract rates
is the origin of innumerable undesirable
customs and practices leading to disputes.
The system should be abolished coinciden-
tally with increased mechanisation and daily
wages.
in some collieries a darg has been placed
on machines whereby their output is limited
to absurd quantities much below capacity.
Time-studies of the operation of machines
are objected to by mineworkers, who con-
tend it amounts to spying.
Among the manifestations of the unhappy
condition of the industry are: incessant
pit-top meetings and other stoppages, extra-
ordinary apathy in the more stable workers
to these hindrances to their earning capacity,
almost complete absence of discipline, an
excessive accident rate, to which absence
of discipline is a contributing factor,
inefficient and archaic methods of mining
owing to inadequate mechanisation, con-
stant propaganda and a pervading atmos-
phere of elections and electioneering
promises, weak leaders who create situa-
tions they can’t control.
The actual productive period does not
exceed 30 hours a week for 36 weeks of
working-days in the year.
Bargs are actually penalties imposed by
miners on owners for refusal to grant con-
cessions. No remedy is open to an employer
when by a “drop-back” or “knock-back”
darg, miners in a pit refuse to raise their
daily quota of coal won beyond the lowest
tonnage of a pair of miners in one working-
place ; or when an absurdly small quantity
much below capacity of machines is fixed
as their output, although they have been
installed to increase production and ease
working-conditions.
Among a long list of recommendations
Judge Davidson urged the installation
of as complete mechanisation as possible
in all mines at the earliest opportunity ;
abolition of the contract system of pay-
ment, cleaning and grading of coal, pre-
vention of consumers from delaying a
ship in port to obtain coal from a
particular mine, an apprenticeship scheme
for youths with obligation to attend
technical mining school one or two days
each week, and no youths to work under-
ground for first 12 months of employ-
ment. There were also recommendations
concerning amending legislation which
the Menzies Government has followed,
giving more power to the arbitral
authority, especially for imposition of
disciplinary penalties on unions and
individuals causing strikes in defiance of
awards, or for declaring individuals or
enterprises “black.”
To the McGirr Government in N.S.W.
it is, of course, hopeless to look for
initiative. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, supplying practically all the money
for the Joint Coal Board’s development
operations, seems to be extraordinarily
longwinded in taking action on essential
correctives with which the Davidson Re-
port has acquainted it for at least six
years. True, the requisite sovereign
powers for action lie only with the
N.S.W. Government; but Mr. Menzies
ought to know by now how to twist Mr.
McGirr’s tail to that end. But for the
Federal money the Joint Coal Board
would flop and the mines would revert
to control by the owners, which the Mc-
Girrs would scarcely like.
A Duty Accepted.
A good deal has been said about the
enthusiasm of the lads now drafted into
training in the three fighting services.
Contrary to expectations, few of those
called up have applied for exemption.
But a much more significant aspect, in
the light of the past 35 years, is the
acceptance by the people generally of the
idea that military training is necessary.
Except from the “Labor” politicians
themselves, there has been no significant
opposition to the scheme.
Public acceptance of national service
ought to have forcibly struck the “Labor”
party. It drove the conscription wedge
between the people in 1917, and has
spared no effort since to keep it there.
Though giving lip-service to the idea of
defending the country with volunteers, it
has never encouraged voluntary enlist-
ment nor displayed any love for those
who volunteered to fight for Australia in
two wars.
Its Mr, Ward opposed voluntary
enlistment in 1939, demanding that Aus-
tralia sit back and concentrate on supply-
ing food and materials to her allies rather
than men. Its Mr. Curtin introduced a
half-baked service plan when the Japanese
appeared off our coasts and very nearly
drove a second wedge between the fight-
ing men themselves. Its Mr. Chifley de-
clared that the next war would be a
“push-button” affair, and coldly received
suggestions that young men should be
trained. And its Dr. Evatt led strenuous
“Labor” Opposition to the present train-
ing plan, which was rejected by the
“Labor” majority in the Senate (which
side-stepped the issue by setting up a
select committee to examine it), and, by
this and other means, forced the Prime
Minister to ask the people for a second
mandate.
How he got it and how “Labor” lost
its Senate majority in the process is now
history. On receipt of that mandate,
however, the Government immediately
began the training scheme and the people
have accepted it, their main criticism
being that it doesn’t go far enough.
It could be that, in regard to military
training, long recognised as imperative
by pretty well every country on earth,
large numbers of Australians have at last
outgrown the attitude created in 1917.
That attitude was actively cultivated ever
since by every little party politician and
enemy of the Empire and Australia. If
the present Government did no more than
kill it it has earned the nation’s
gratitude.
The Press.
From M. F. Dixon, formerly manager
of the A.B.C. news service:
I agree with all “H.H.L.” (B. 26/12/’5l) says
about the deterioration of metropolitan daily-
newspaper standards insofar as accuracy and
responsibility are concerned. When I joined
the A.B.C. in 1936 and became charged
with the responsibility of presenting listeners
with an accurate, responsible news service from
material taken from the daily papers it was
an almost daily experience to have to correct a
basic news story that we had accurately para-
phrased from one of the daily papers with which
the commission had an arrangement for the use
of its news.
That was the beginning of the fight for an
independent news service for the A.B.C. —a fight
that continued for nearly ten years before it
had success. Had the newspapers of the day
been more accurate and responsible in their
treatment of news the move to set up an inde-
pendent service might never have been made.
1 knew that other A.B.C. programmes costing
more than news at the time were drawing only
a fraction of its audience; 1 was aware also
that the commission was spending money lavishly
in other directions; and the contention that it
could not stand the cost of a really up-to-the-
minute, accurate, responsible news service left
me cold. Many country listeners were writing
to the A.B.C. at that time saying they would
willingly double their licence fee for a com-
prehensive news service.
I was not greatly concerned about the
political risks we were likely to run in getting
our own news, because, as far as Federal Par-
liamentary news was concerned, the A.B.C. had
been independent of the papers from 1937 on,
when the then Postmaster-General, Mr. Archie
Cameron, directed the commission to appoint
its own Parliamentary correspondent at Can-
berra. A widely-experienced journalist, Warren
Denning, was chosen to fill the post.
Cameron’s direction to the A.B.C. aroused a
storm of protest from the daily papers; it
followed a clash between the Prime
Minister, Mr. J. A. Lyons, and the newspapers.
Lyons claimed the Press had refused to publish
a statement of Government policy; and Cabinet
then authorised him to get his message to the
people through a national broadcast. Later, in
1946, when the Curtin Government amended
the Broadcasting Act directing the A.B.C. to
set up its own news-gathering service, opponents
of an independent service professed to see in
it a liaison between certain members of the
news staff and the Labor party to give Labor
preference in political news.
The fact that a non-Labor Government nine
years earlier had directed the A.B.C. to make
itself independent of the Press as far as Federal
political news was concerned was sufficient
answer to that absurd suggestion. If listeners
ever had any real cause for complaint about
the over-use of political news by the A.B.C.
the blame rested with the “higher-ups” in the
commission and not with the working journalists.
One of the most embarrassing errors 1 can
recall our having broadcast while we were rely-
ing on the papers for news was a report, taken
from a Sydney afternoon newspaper, that a
passenger-plane from some distant country
centre was missing on the flight to Sydney. The
reaction was immediate. Within a matter of
minutes rival companies had offered the use of
planes for search purposes and to carry on
the service; and some timid passengers who
had ordered seats for the following day hastened
to concel their bookings.
As it turned out, the “missing” plane was
safe in its hangar at Mascot before the news-
paper story appeared; but the newspaper hadn’t
bothered to make a last-minute check of its
information, and as the A.B.C. was obliged to
rely on the material in the papers it repeated
the error to the wide, wide world. The owners
of the plane knew A.B.C. chairman Cleary
personally, and directed their complaints to
him; Cleary in turn asked me to make good
the harm done, even to the broadcasting of an
abject apology. He was generous enough to
admit, though, that the incident was a powerful
argument for an independent service, or at least
for the right to check all newspaper stories
before using them.
Another time we used a newspaper story to
the effect that the Hospitals Commission had
directed the sacking of a doctor from a country
hospital board; the main threads of the story
were correct, except that the newspaper sacked
the wrong doctor, and the A.B.C. repeated the
error. Sportingly the injured medico agreed
to accept our correction and apology.
Cleary finally became convinced of the need
for the A.B.C. to have its own service, but
Boyer, both before and after he became chair-
man, stuck to the newspapers, even after he
had got into hot water with some Queensland
graziers through our use of an incorrect sum-
mary of one of his statements appearing in a
Sydney morning paper.
The layout and typography of Australian
daily papers may be, as “H.H.L.” says, equal
to anything in the world; but I should hate
to think the standards of accuracy and respon-
sibility in leading overseas newspapers such as
the “Times” (London) and the “New York
Times” are no higher than they are in Australia.
Power From Tully Falls.
Work began last week on the first stage
of the Tully Falls hydroelectric scheme,
one of several development projects
planned to harness the water-power of
the rivers of North Queensland. There
is a vast store of potential energy in the
rivers that rush down from the Atherton
Tableland through the coastal range—
with the Burdekin added, they are
estimated to be capable of producing
316,000 kilowatts, of which total the
Tully scheme is expected ultimately to
contribute over 70,000 kw., although the
first stage, on which preliminary work
has just begun, will return only about a
third of that figure.
Tully Falls are one of the scenic
glories of the Tableland. The Tully
River winds its way through densely-
timbered jungle country before taking its
big plunge of 1000 P in an almost
vertical drop, after which it continues
along Tully Gorge, the walls of which
are almost 2000 ft. high. Because the
wild and rugged nature of the catchment
area makes it unsuitable for settlement,
most of the land drained by the river has
been declared a forestry reserve, and the
committee of inquiry which reported on
the Tully and other schemes pointed out
that as a result of this the water-regula-
ting character of the area would not be
likely to be lessened in the future by
erosion.
The scheme involves building a dam
seven miles above the falls and a
diversion-weir a few hundred yards above
them from which a tunnel and penstock
will take the water to a powerhouse in
the gorge below. Later stages provide
for the duplication of the main power-
station and the construction of smaller
ones where the Nitchaga and Cochable
creeks join the Tully.
Transmission-lines will link the new
source of power with the existing Cairns
system, and the whole of the area bounded
by Cairns, Atherton, Mt. Garnet and
Innisfail will benefit. In making its re-
port the committee claimed that electricity
would be produced by the scheme at a
cheaper rate than it could be supplied by
a coal-burning power-station, and that
the wear and tear on the hydroelectric
plant would be negligible compared with
the other; the dam, weir and tunnel, for
instance, will last indefinitely. Cheaper
running-costs and avoidance of delays
through industrial troubles on the coal-
fields were other points raised. A final
argument is that once the works are
completed the water delivers itself,
whereas to keep in operation a coal-
burning station of equivalent output
225,000 tons of coal would have to be
transported from the coalfields to the
station every year.
Construction-work of this nature is
necessarily a slow business, and it will be
a long time before the first of the
18,000 kw. Pelton turbo-alternators com-
mences to turn. But to the people of
North Queensland the important thing is
that the job has begun.
Councils and Booze.
The N.S.W. Local Government Associa-
tion, stating reasons why it should be
allowed to appear before the N.S.W.
royal commission on liquor, claims that
councils are concerned about the present
Liquor Act, the transfer of licences,
community hotels, local option and
accommodation for the public.
It declares that the requirements of the
Liquor Act in respect to community
hotels “place very serious obstacles m
the councils’ way, and especially notes
that a council proposing a community
hotel is forced to reveal its hand and t us
allow private hotel interests “to intervene
as they have done in the three a PP‘
tions for licences so far made y
councils.” . ,
When a conditional licence was granted
to Randwick Council for a community
hotel at Maroubra there was an appeal o
the Supreme Court by way of prohibi-
tion against the grant, and, when that wa
dismissed, a further appeal was taken to
(Continued on next pogei)


\ -
I
m
<202
CRAVEN ‘A*
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
nuukspeeieUltf ib
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■ -
SfSSSi
;
m-y
am
the High Court, but subsequently with-
drawn.
When Stroud Shire Council was
granted a licence for a hotel at Forstei
it had to withstand an appeal to the
Supreme Court by “certain objectors.”
The third (unnamed) application was
“strenuously opposed.” It would be
interesting to hear these councils on the
forms of opposition and the expense of
the litigation.
The L.G.A, is “concerned” by the
number of licences transferred “notwith-
standing the outspoken and unequivocal
opposition of residents of the area” to
which the licence was to be transferred,
and cites four instances: —•
Transfer of licence of the Crown,
Ultimo, to Cremorne. Mosman Council
opposed it before the Licensing Court and
subsequently appealed in Quarter Sessions.
It lost.
Willoughby Council vainly opposed
transfer of the Imperial from North Sydney
to Chatswood.
Ku-ring-gai vainly opposed transfer of
the Galway Castle from Redfern to Lind-
field.
Manly opposed transfer of the City
View from Redfern to Balgowlah, was
defeated, appealed and lost the appeal. It
went to the Supreme Court, which directed
a re-hearing, but the hotel interests took
it to the High Court, which found against
the council.
In the Lindfield case the L.G.A. claims
that “very thorough action was taken to
ensure that the views of the local
residents were secured.... a public meet-
ing... .overflowed to an adjoining hall
strongly worded resolutions (of
opposition to the transfer) were carried
—unanimously, it is believed,” In a
canvass council officers got 4319
signatures against the transfer and 96 in
favor.
At its 1949 conference the L.G.A.
adopted this resolution:
(1) That the present Act governing trans-
fers of hotel licences be amended to provide
that such transfers may not be approved
by the Licensing Court unless a ballot of
electors is taken and such ballot is favor-
able.
(2) That local-option provisions be re-
stored to the Liquor Act.
(3) That provision be made for an appeal
from the decision of the Licensing Court.
It hopes that the royal commission will
allow it to submit evidence on these re-
lated matters and further suggests that
the commission call upon the councils
named and some others to speak their
piece. When this went to the printer the
L.G.A, knew only that its submissions
had been placed before the royal com-
mission, which is temporarily in recess.
POLITICAL POINTS
No greater measure of the stature of
Churchill could be found than the
attitude of the American papers towards
his impending arrival. The least pessi-
mistic writers seemed to expect the old
boy to bully or cajole President Truman
into making all sorts of concessions
detrimental to the interests of the U.S. —
perhaps that is why the entire Cabinet
accompanied the President to the Wash-
ington airport to meet the P.M. and his
party. The more apprehensive scribes
were almost prepared to see Winston tear
up the Declaration of Independence.
Nevertheless, they extended Britain’s
Prime Minister a wonderful reception
when he arrived, giving the impression
that even if he should happen to walk
off with the Statue of Liberty he would
still be America’s favorite visitor.
Reply of A.W.U. secretary Dougherty
to General Robertson’s request for co-
operation in the recruiting campaign was
that his union was assisting the country
“by getting its members to pull their
weight in the development of Australia.”
That’s all very well, but the general is
looking for thousands of men who are
willing to devote some spare time to
learning how to defend their country.
Dougherty and other union-leaders can
do Australia a great service by urging
their members to give some of their
leisure for this purpose.
No one will deny that Denmark, Hol-
land and Belgium were highly developed
countries in 1940, but that didn’t avail
them much when invasion found their
defence insufficiently prepared.
Small wonder that trade-union leaders
have done nothing towards encouraging
recruiting for the services when the Par-
liamentary leaders of the A.L.P. have
vtood aloof from it.
Newspapers in three States are
sponsoring subscription lists for a wed-
ding-present to tennis champion Frank
Sedgman in appreciation of his decision
not to turn professional—yet. The
money seems to be rolling in, and good
luck to the lad and those who are giving
it! But the success of the appeal throws
into relief the pitifully-poor response
made to an appeal for funds to buy
equipment for another band of amateurs
—the surf-patrols that make N. S. Wales
beaches safe for hundreds of thousands
of surfers every weekend throughout the
summer. Apparently we require our
athletes to be successful and spectacular
before we dip in our pockets. The life-
savers do their stuff so efficiently and un-
obtrusively that they are taken as a
matter of course —even by many of those
they rescue.
Dr. Evatt, in a Sunday-night broadcast,
accused the Government of “transferring
the whole burden of inflation to the backs
of the people.” Probably the most dis-
honest feature of the Evatt “Labor” policy
is this pretence that the burden of infla-
tion can fall anywhere but on the
people.
Stalin sent a New Year message to the
people of Japan, wishing them good luck
in their struggle for independence from
foreign occupation. There is no news of
a similar message being received by the
people of Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia or the former Baltic
republics.
Sydney industrial chemist C. K. Bliss
has attracted interest overseas with a
sign-language he has invented and which
he claims will go far towards educating
“backward peoples.” Maybe it will, and
there seems to be some scope for signs
in our own community. A teacup, for
instance, could stand for Commonwealth
Public Service, an overcrowded sardine-
can for N.S.W. Government Transport,
a loaded camel would do for the House-
wives’ Association, a blank space for the
Housing Commission and a vacuum-
cleaner for the Commissioner for Taxa-
tion.
Press obituaries of Litvinoff were
mainly laudatory, that in S. M. Herald
being particularly so, ascribing to him “a
splendid intelligence,” “true humility”
and “a complete personal honesty,
patriotism and humanity.” This was too
much for Biff Wentworth, M.H.R., who
pointed out in a letter to the “Herald”
that Litvinoff was arrested in Paris in 1908
for attempting to pass banknotes which
were part of the plunder in a bank-
robbery in Tiflis, staged to get funds for
the Bolshevik party, and that he was for
years prominent in other shady trans-
actions for the same purpose. As to
patriotism and humanity, he had
acquiesced in the liquidation of the
kulaks and the purging of most of his old
colleagues.
An unexpected repercussion of the lead-
bonus which has brought boom condi-
tions to Broken Hill and Mt. Isa is the
threatened cessation of work on the
partly-completed copper smelter at Mt.
Isa. The lead-bonus, introduced at a time
when the price of lead was low, is now
£l7 ss. a week. It is paid to all employees,
including those engaged on building the
copper-plant, so that the lowest-paid
adult on the job now receives £27 10s. sd.
a week. The company argues that the
time has come for a revision of the
bonus, and that, in any case, the price of
copper will not stand the artificial wage-
level lead and zinc have so far sustained.
Labor force on the construction job has
been reduced by 100, and the company
says the completion of the job “hangs in
the balance.”
The industrial correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Argus” notes that “most trade-
union leaders are not particularly happy
about the necessity to force workers to
leave jobs of their own choosing, but are
accepting the situation because of Aus-
tralia’s economic needs.” But, when the
Chifley Government proposed to socialise
the whole economy, with power to order
people to this job or that, these same
union-leaders were all for it.
Astounded by the low consumption of
electricity recorded by a cottager’s meter
in Ross (Scot.) an inspector called. The
housewife told him, “I only switch the
electric light on long enough to light the
oil-lamps.” This was treated as an item
of world news, yet in Sydney a large
part of the time the inhabitants only get
electric-light long enough to find their
matches. And all swear that it makes
no difference to their electricity bills.
Newspaper headline : Better quality of
mandarins. What! Hasn’t Mao Tse-
tung abolished ’em, after all?
A Melbourne man, inspired by the pub-
licity put out by the Murray Valley
Development League, wrote to the League
asking where he could buy a small block
of land cheaply somewhere along the
Murray. The League had to admit that
it didn’t know of any river land avail-
able for small buyers. Yet there are
parts along the great stream where a man
could settle and nobody know he was
there unless he advertised the fact.
Argument for the control of the Iron-
workers’ funds is still raging hotly. Secre-
tary Short, acting on legal advice, got
the Commonwealth Bank to refuse to
allow the old executive to operate the
union’s bank account, McPhillips and
Co., on other legal advice, persuaded the
bank to reverse its decision, but the bank
agreed to let matters rest for seven days
to give Short time to test the position in
the courts. That’s where the matter
stands at present.
If Judge Maxwell, of the N.S.W. liquor
inquiry, had called for volunteers to
assist him in the task on which he is now
engaged he would have needed several
special trains to accommodate those wil-
ling to help. He is visiting Hobart, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to get first-hand
information of drinking conditions in
those cities.
Minister McEwen’s department an-
nounces that total wheat yield for the
four main exporting countries is 1923
million bushels, and importers’ demands
910 million. The department sees in this
a “strong” wheat market, and doubtless
it will be used as the reason for con-
tinued Government control of the stuff.
Every New Year a romantic ceremony
takes place at San Remo, the picturesque
town on the eastern horn of Westernport
Bay 70 miles from Melbourne, when a
clerical dignitary blesses the fishing fleet
which is the pride of the village. This
year the ancient ritual was performed by
the Very Rev. H. T. Langley. The fisher-
men love it and turn up in their hundreds.
No paper has yet reported what the fish
think of it, or the housewife who can’t
get a fish, blest or unblest.
Manchester “Guardian” has something
to say about getting Australians back to
the land:
The sociologist’s view is to provide better
amenities in the unlovely and unloved
country towns. The economist’s view is to
revise the Australian tariff schedule, which
shelters inefficient, high-cost manufacturers.
Another view still is that neither measure
will be necessary ; that, at the present
rate, thousands will shortly be starved out
of the cities. After all, you can’t eat
money.
There is a ship called the Tyalla. It
was bought by the Commonwealth and
fitted with improved crew quarters and
other things for the carrying of iron ore.
Total cost was £500,000. Her former
owners worked her with four engineer
officers, the Australian Navigation Act
provides for five, the Australian Shipping
Board says six are sufficient, she carried
six on the delivery voyage to Australia,
the Institute of Marine Engineers says
she must have seven. With a full crew
she has been lying in Adelaide over a
fortnight while all this is being sorted
out.
In the course of unpeaceful peace-talks
at Panmunjon the Chinese delegate
accused the Americans of transporting
Chinese Nationalist troops from Formosa
to Burma. If past history means any-
thing, this accusation should shortly be
followed by reports of Chinese Peoples’
“volunteers” in Burma.
Second batch of National Service
trainees have just gone into camp. If
they make as. good use of their 14 weeks
as the first crowd did they’ll be a credit
to the scheme and a complete justification
of its introduction.
“Post-office Christmas revenue sets a
record,” boasts the Commonwealth
Treasury statement. The post-office
certainly set a record beforehand in
charges for letters, parcels and telegrams
—the P.M.G. collected 3d. or 3|d. on
every Christmas-card —and all it is really
entitled to pat itself on the back about
is that the public did not boycott its
luxury-cost services.
It cheers the eye to read of this sort
of thing—in other places. An American
Congressman says the U.S, Army wastes
12 million buttons every time it makes a
new issue of pants to the G.ls. because,
though the buttons are provided for
braces. Army regulations prohibit the
wearing of braces.
Indonesia has announced its recogni-
tion of Egypt’s claim to the Sudan.
Presumably the Gyppos will reciprocate
by acknowledging Indonesia’s sovereignty
over Dutch New Guinea, both nations
will make the necessary alterations in
their atlases and the rest of the world
will carry on as before.
Commonwealth statistics on housing
construction show a marked improvement
on the previous year. During 1950-51
work was begun on 82,000 homes;
67,444 were completed, and at the end of
June last there were 80,101 under con-
struction. Corresponding figures for
1949-50 were: 68,292 ; 55,485 ; 65,508.


/(arborp WAS TOO
CROWPEP '
AMP COLLAROYHAP
too much weep. ——-
AT NEWPORT THE CHANNEL
WAS TOO PEEP
AMP AT AVALON THE SHARK-ALARM
SOON PBP / so we WENT
ON TO
BEACH, WHERE THE SURF WAS
S7MPLY MARVELLOUS .
BEACH-CRAWL.


TOLD BY BELL S
NO. 4
3k
• s
jrV»’'k'‘' /N V
i
m
th
r*
'
ri
t
,VW
tVv
T^\l
3**
Bell of the
Corn-stalk
At the beginning of the eighteenth
century, the village of Croslaswitz in
Northern Germany had only one bell, so
small that it could not be heard on the
outskirts of the village. A second bell was
badly needed but the poor villagers could not afford to pay for it.
One Sunday, Gottfried Hayn, the schoolmaster, was going to
church when he noticed a green corn-stalk growing out of the
churchyard wall. This gave him a very bright idea. When the
corn was ripe, he took the seeds and sowed them in his garden.
From this small beginning, the crop increased until, after eight
years, it was sold to finance the casting of the beautiful bell which
now hangs in the church tower at Croslaswitz. Its history and
birthday—lsth October, 1729 — are engraved on it with a cast of
the corn-stalk to which it owes its existence.
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature Scotch
Whisky— ring for Bell’s, the good old whisky!
BELTS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
DistiVed and blended by
ARTHUR BELL * SONS LTD.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1823
AFORE
tcotefij
'•■lers *.w<sf6yt
Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid much
future care and worry
By the appointment
of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as
your Executor and
Trustee, you will ensure
the maximum protec-
tion for your
dependents.
The Company has a
wide knowledge of in-
dustrial, investment
and pastoral problems.
By efficient manage-
ment and courteous,
wv
friendly service, it has grown to be the
largest Trustee Company in the Southern
Hemisphere.
An ever-increasing number of profes-
sional and business men, realizing the need
to provide the maximum protection for their
dependents, are following the example of
men with larger Estates who have appointed
the Company as their Executor.
If you would have further information
as to the services rendered by the Com-
pany ring B 0377 or write and mahe an
appointment . A Senior Officer will gladly
give the information you desire.
| TRUST FUNDS TO LEND [
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. Y, DOUGLASS, Managing Director
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
33.39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Thrift and Investment
There is hope, from the de-
clared economic policy of the
Federal Government, that thrift
is again to be regarded as a
virtue, and as such to be entitled
to some tangible reward.
Higher interest-rates on Gov-
ernment and public-body loans
have been necessary in order to
encourage thrifty investment in
fixed-interest securities. It was
unfortunate that a change to a
higher interest-level meant, auto-
matically, a fall in the market
price of old low-interest-bear-
ing securities, especially those
with long terms to run. But
borrowing at the old rate had
become impossible, and there
was no alternative but to offer
a more attractive rate. Still, the
change might have been effected
more adroitly than it was. And
the conversion of the old 4-per-
cents. to lower rates still rankled
in many minds.
For 12 years after the out-
break of war the position of
investors in Government' securi-
ties steadily worsened. Interest-
rates on new issues declined, and
the value) of money went down,
too. Not only did the income
of bondholders drop in actual
money-figures ; its buying-power
was down, and so was that of
the capital-value of the bonds.
In terms of living costs, what
was worth £lOO in 1939 is now
worth under £4O.
An attempt is now being
made to stabilise the cost of
living, which would mean, at the
same time, protecting the real
value of the bondholder’s invest-
ment. If the rate of interest is
steadied at £3 15s. per cent, on
long-term Government loans
and inflation is checked a much-
desired confidence will return to
the bond-investment market.
As it has been over the past
few years, it has become in-
creasingly difficult for Govern-
ments to raise loans for neces-
sary public works, and the more
bank credit has been relied
upon the greater has the infla-
tion evil become in its effect on
the gilt-edged investor’s security
and, again, on the support for
Government loans. Inflation
has a willy-willy effect on the
bond-market no less than in the
costs-wages spiral.
In restricting bank advances,
budgeting for a surplus, financ-
ing some public works out of
revenue and attempting to divert
more manpower to essential
industries the Federal Govern-
ment has encouraged a set of
economic circumstances in which
more investment attention has
been given to Consols. The gilt-
edged market was hardening to-
wards the end of 1951. But in
order for the thrifty investor in
fixed-interest securities to get his
full deserts, the cost of living
will need to be stabilised. The
economic programme of the
Government is actually aimed at
this objective in the first
instance.
Many thrifty people, of
course, have investments outside
the gilt-edged market. Probably
the most useful body of in-
vestors are those who put their
savings into industrial shares
and thus. promote the activities
of private enterprise. But while
industry will have to meet
slightly higher interest charges
in 1952, and some sections of it
will be affected by reduced de-
mand for consumer goods, all
essential industries should thrive
under a national economic policy
which aims at more efficiency,
greater output per man and a
more ready availability of
essential raw materials.
Already it is possible for the
investor (as opposed to the
speculator) to obtain a higher
yield on industrial ordinary
shares on ’Change because of
the revision of share prices,
N.Z. Business Conditions
Year-end trade in Maoriland
had a good deal in common in
the last pre-war years, when
New Zealand was struggling to
“ Mum —ask Daddy when are We having a ride in
the boat.”
pay its way abroad and was
saddled with the Socialists’ im-
port controls. Traders were in
a more nervy state than in any
Christmas season in between, as
Maorilanders held their purse-
strings tighter than for a long
time. When, for the first time
for more than a decade, there
was plenty to buy, Maorilanders
weren’t in a spending mood,
Christmas business wasn’t brisk
enough to make up for months
of slackness since midwinter or
to relieve the minds of over-
stocked firms. Businessmen who
rushed in to stock up as soon
as the Board of Trade decon-
trolled most soft-currency im-
ports from late 1950 onwards
hadn’t reckoned on buyers
taking a holiday. Things might
have been all right but for the
strain on credit, which was some-
thing no one counted on in the
boom last spring and summer,
when most of the stuff was
ordered, but with the banks
throttling down thrifty Maori-
landers began to play safe, too.
This change could hardly have
come at a more awkward time.
With overdrafts stretched, busi-
ness was in no state to stand a
siege. It was anything but happy
between stern bankers and in-
different customers, when the
need of the moment was to
liquidate stocks. There was
plenty of money in the savings-
banks and at call in the trading-
banks —the banks were bulging
with funds —and Maorilanders
could have filled the gap left by
tied-up credit without turning a
hair; but they wouldn’t. Pros-
perity was running on a new
course, and consumers were
waiting to be prodded by new
incentives and the lure of lower
prices or values. Some were
looking for higher interest. All
wanted more for their money.
Price-cutting and sales-push-
ing helped, but everything, ex-
cept foodstuffs, grocery lines,
refrigerators, sewing-machines,
other up-to-the-minute household
equipment, metal goods and, of
course, new cars, took a lot more
selling. Prices for used cars
came down with a bump in mid-
spring, and have stayed down,
but they’re still high by all but
boom standards. Maorilanders
waiting in queues for new
models have had to write off
fat premiums of several hundred
pounds on British makes of
post-war cars, and car-specula-
tors have been licking their
wounds.
A big slice has been knocked
off values for high-class resi-
dential property and building-
sites, too, but homes and sites
within reach of the average
purse still have a scarcity value.
There’s not much chance of
cheaper homes until builders
“step on it,” and they’re not
likely to speed-up while wages
are high, tradesmen are scarce
and conditions are very much
to men’s liking. Wages, materials
and taxes were all a bigger
charge on production in 1951
than in 1950, and the odds are
they’ll be higher, rather than
lower, in 1952,
Record Oil Year
American Petroleum Insti-
tute’s annual review reports that
the U.S. oil industry in 1951 pro-
duced the greatest output in
history to meet a record demand.
U.S. refineries processed 2372
million barrels (42 gallons each)
of crude oil, 182 million more
than in 1950, at the rate of
7,230,000 barrels a day. Crude-
oil production in U.S. was 2245
million barrels, 273 million more
than last year. Even so, domestic
demand was 2568 million
barrels, and imports of crude
and refined products rose to
meet this consumption.
Mobilisation and rearma-
ment programmes accounted
chiefly for the increased de-
mand, but there was also
increased industrial and civilian
use. Demand for U.S. oil has
risen 71 per cent, in the past 10
years.
With world production in
1951 estimated at 3986 million
barrels, U.S. consumption is now
nearly two-thirds of the aggre-
gate. The rest of the world
produced 83 million barrels less
than in 1950 (190 million
increase in world aggregate ; 273
millions increase in U.S.A.).
U.S. motorists used the petrol
produced from 1132 million
barrels of the total crude oil
treated in 52,000,000 vehicles,
3,000,000 more than were on the
roads in 1950. “At an average
of 15 m.p.g.,” says the review,
“this quantity was enough to
drive 29,000,000 times round the
globe at the equator.”
The review also states that,
after more than 20 years of vain
search in North Dakota, drillers
in 1951 struck oil there in the
Williston basin, and “this
brought a whole new area into
being as potential oil territory.”
The Distillers Company, Ltd.,
of Scotland, it to acquire a 40
p.c. interest in C.S.R. Chemicals,
Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.,
Ltd. On a 30-acre site at
Rhodes (N.S.W.) it is intended
to produce cellulose-acetate for
the Courtaulds rayon project (in
which the C.S.R. has a share-
interest) and for the plastics in-
dustries, chemicals for making
aspirin and a broad range of in-
dustrial and pharmaceutical
chemicals. Full production of
all lines is expected by the end
of this year. The C.S.R. and
the Distillers Company are
already jointly interested in
Robert Corbett Pty., Ltd., at
Lane Cove! The Distillers Co.,
like the C.S.R., is a large manu-
facturer of industrial alcohol. It
also manufactures raw materials
for the plastic industry, organic
and pharmaceutical chemicals
and solvents.


CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom.
Licensed Restaurant.
13 5922
Under Entirely New Management.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funis Exceed
£190,000,000
Office* 3
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
4 and PERTH
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACfCSOX
OSULUVAV
SW?*, -
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AN9 AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LEITERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CINZANO
Sweet
■■'my.
or
<H Dry
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Bobin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address;
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
Hie only.ante
fo North America
providing a
FREE DEEPER
fo every passenger
dsf
lnformation and bookings
from your local travel agent
or any airline booking office.
General Agents; Trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Offices
53 Martin Place, Sydney. Phone;
BW 2741.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO U. K. VIA U. 8. A. OR CANADA
mm
m
gSfi?
..... ...
SSKSS
mm
mm
mgmmgm
Nuffield M 4 hauling
10 ft. Header in
heavy crop.
■si
m
> life -1 _ X
wmmm
mmm
ELD
. J
: j
f
NT.6.24.51
BUILT AND BACKED BY A
NAME YOU CAN TRUST!
IT HAS EVERYTHING— DOES EVERYTHING
In every Slate through-
out the Commonwealth the
Nuffield Universal has been
farm-proved a practical, versa-
tile, reliable tractor, ideal for
Australian conditions: 6-way power
(viz., Swinging Drawbar Belt
Pulley Power Take-off 3-way
Hydraulics); operates all usual
trailed and fixed implements;
4-wheel to 3-wheel conversion and
vice versa on the farm; adjustable
tracks; 5 forward speeds; full
electrical equipment; independent
turning brakes. Kerosene or "Cold
Start" Diesel operated.
ds
fd
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS ARE SOLD AND SERVICED
BY AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DISTRIBUTORS AND
DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
DISTRIBUTORS:
iimtoßisa
MIFFED
DEALER
N.S.W.: Peter Lloyd Limited; VICTORIA: Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Ltd.; QUEENSLAND:
Flinders Motors Pty. Ltd.; SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Kingsway Limited; WESTERN
AUSTRAUA: Park Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.; TASMANIA: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The past year in the theatre
was not remarkable for its
services to drama —an art which,
in these hard times, is becoming
a rare and expensive luxury. A
backward glance over the 1951
productions is not especially
rewarding. Outside Shakspeare
and Chekhov, the fare was
monotonously stolid and un-
inspired, Jean Anouilh is well
established as the leading con-
temporary playwright whose
successive works not only over-
lap but are also apparently
inexhaustible. It is all the more
surprising to learn that his
output for 20 years has been no
more than one play a year: so
that his success outside France,
well-merited though it may be,
depends upon new translations
rather than upon new plays.
The list of productions is more
revealing for its omissions than
for its rewards. One looks in
vain for astringent political
satire, for an incisive portrayal
of contemporary manners, for a
new play of literary quality or
for one dealing with urgent
social problems. (It is true that
“Women of Twilight,” a first
play by a Swiss Cottage waitress,
depicts unmarried motherhood
with undeviating stress, but its
appeal lies chiefly in the harrow-
ing squalor of the women’s
segregation and exploitation by
a villainous landlady.)
Nor have our established
practitioners of the theatre been
keenly disposed to uphold their
reputations. There has been
nothing new from J. B.
Priestley’s pen, nor from T. S.
Eliot’s. Christopher Fry has
given us a morality, “A Sleep of
Prisoners,” but it was acted in a
church and not in a theatre.
Except for one Tennessee
Williams play (written, in fact,
before “A Street-car Named
Desire”) the names of the
younger British and American
authors of post-war promise are
noticeably absent from the bills.
High Cost of Culture
The economic vagaries of the
commercial theatre are prover-
bially unaccountable. There
never was a time when the play-
houses were not waging a losing
war against one imponderable
foe or another. How they keep
going is a mystery known only
to successful managements.
That present conditions are dif-
ficult is all too plain from the
hard fact that only three shows
in the West End have been run-
ning for more than a year. All
three are comedies, easy to
follow and loudly re-echoing
with laughter.
Production costs are mounting
at the same time as audiences’
spending-money is dwindling.
The result is that managements
have not only to play “safe,”
but have also to keep in mind
what barbers call the “passing
trade”—in this instance the
floating hotel population of
delegates, businessmen and
holiday - makers who under-
standably want no more than
“something to do” after dinner
as relaxation before the next
day’s round.
Without subsidy and State
patronage the “quality” theatre
would certainly fade into
desuetude. This is clearly shown
in the 1950-51 report of the Arts
Council. Out of the Exchequer
grant of £575,000, as much as
per cent, went to three
national institutions: Covent
Garden (£145,000), Sadler’s
Wells (£47,500) and the Old Vic.
(£27,500). The “success” of
Covent Garden is proved by the
attendance figures (97 per cent,
of capacity for ballet and 87 per
cent, for opera). Away from
the capital, the Arts Council has
frankly to admit that the wider
world spurns cultural drama.
The year previously the council
sadly recognised the failure of
travelling “fit-up” theatres to
draw more than meagre audi-
ences, and resignedly declared
its intention to concentrate upon
certain repertory theatres. It
now has to record the failure of
the establishment of permanent
theatres at Swansea and Salis-
bury and to deplore the sorry
inevitability of bestowing its
main resources on the metro-
polis to the neglect of the
provinces.
And the metropolitan theatres,
unless sheltered by subsidy or
tax-remission, are too shackled
by financial difficulties to indulge
in cultural experiment,
Plays and Players
Two plays stand out as super-
lative. Chekhov’s “The Three
sisters” was put on as part of
the Festival of Britain celebra-
tions in a poignant yet virile
production by Peter Ashmore,
The other is widely acclaimed as
the year ’ s best, both in London
and in Edinburgh. John Gielgud
(in company with Diana
Wynyard Flora Robson and
Le wis Casson) reaches the twin
summ its of poetic and dramatic
achievement in Shakspeare’s
rare i y . se en tissue of Sicilian
i ntr igues, fatalities, reappear-
ances and droll rogueries, “The
winter’s Tale.” Still running
after breaking all previous
reco rds, the play has music by
Christopher Fry.
sir Lauren ce Olivier, bold in
management as he is unmindful
of box-office values, lost a for-
tune over Menotti’s opera about
the tragic effects of totalitarian
re d-tape, “The Consul.” He
later gave London two short but
dazzling seasons, one with
yivien Leigh and himself in
b oth the Shakspeare and Shaw
“Cleopatras” and the other with
bis Parisian counterparts, Jean-
L ouis Barrault and Madeleine
Renaud, in French repertory.
(Continued on page 15)


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Findy”: Optimism for 1952, expressed
by many prominent citizens, is apparently
not shared by those who run the film-
houses around Sydney; judging by the
keynote of their New Year’s Eve offerings
they view the future with grim forebod-
ings. One chain of suburban theatres ad-
vertised in this strain: “We dare you to
be at our midnight Shiver, Shudder and
Shake Show tonight.” The films they
were relying upon to produce the horri-
pilation included “House of Franken-
stein,” “The Mummy’s Curse,” “Cry of
the Werewolf,” “Weird Woman,” “Dr.
Cyclops,” “Terror by Night,” “Strange
Case of Dr. X,” “Eyes of the Under-
world,” “Soul of a Monster,” “House of
Dracula,” “Return of the Vampire,”
“The Mummy’s Ghost,” “The Un-
invited,” “The Cat Creeps,” “Frozen
Ghost,” “Revenge of the Zombies,”
“Isle of the Dead” and “Bedlam.”
I presume that when the programmes
were over those in the audience took off
their shoes, danced widdershins round the
theatres and then rushed off in all direc-
tions gibbering maniacally,
* * * *
“Bo”: Every few months, it seems, one
comes across in real life a parallel, with
slight variations, to one of O. Henry’s
bizarre situations. The latest occurred at
Bologna in Italy when a youth deter-
mined to elope with his inamorata, crept
into her villa, grabbed the girl and drove
away. When he saw her in the light he
found it was his beloved’s sister. She re-
fused to go home, whereupon the gallant
one married her. In the O. Henry story
the faint-hearted lover is being chiacked
on a park bench by an ex-pugilist who
had the same weakness in the ring—as
soon as he climbed through the ropes his
knees turned to water. Stung into tem-
porary gameness, the lover rushes to
the telephone and rings his girl’s home.
Could he mistake the “sweet, thrilling Tel-
fair tones” which answered him? Imper-
turbably he brushes aside all preliminary
small-talk and comes to the vital issue,
speaking fast before his courage deserts
him. Will she marry him or won’t she?
He wants her answer. Comes a gasp of
surprise and “Of course I will, Phil —but,
oh, do come round right away!” He
dashes round, arid as he rings the bell
come the stomach-flutterings, the wild
desire to dash away. Then the door is
opened, and the sister of the girl he
thought he’d rung walks towards him,
starry-eyed. “Why, Phil, I thought it was
Sister you wanted,” she says, and snuggles
up to him. Yes, he married her.
* * * *
“Sack”: The woman in the crowded
tram carried one of those string-bags
that look like a red ferreting-net fitted
with handles. As she clung to the hori-
zontal bar the bag and its contents served
as a sort of buffer between herself and
the rest of the tightly-pressed passengers.
Nearing the end of the section the lady
began to edge towards the doorway. Her
progress was halted abruptly ; not by the
press in front but by an anchorage
behind. The string-bag was stretched
astern like a mooring-rope—one of its
countless loops had fouled the lap-belt
button on a man’s sports pants. A swift
tug achieved nothing—except a horrible
thought in the mind of the human bol-
lard. He moved towards the door and
gained a little slack, his fingers working
with frantic haste. The tram stopped.
“ Don't be so silly, Arnold !”
For what, no doubt, seemed hours to her,
the woman hovered in indecision, then
climbed down to the road, still retain-
ing her grip on the wooden handles. All
of a dither, the man stepped on to the
footboard; his ears were burning red,
and his fumbling hands wrenched and
plucked in an agony. From the other end
of the car the conductor jerked the cord.
Suddenly the woman relaxed her hold,
dived her hands into the bag, extracted
both parcels and stepped back. The most
embarrassed man in Australia, I struggled
back into the compartment —wearing a
sheepish grin and a red string-bag
dangling like a sporran.
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: Death can be a real gentle-
man at times. The family of an old
music-lover whose life was tending to be-
come mostly aches and pains decided to
gladden his Christmas by putting the
gramophone records of two of his
favorite operas in his stocking. Such a
gift could not keep; the usual schedule
of Santa Claus was anticipated, and the
trying-out of the records became a
regular p’arty-night for the old gentleman.
As the familiar music flowed the
delighted old chap acted as conductor
and hummed-in to the arias. The sudden
cessation of his most triumphant hum-
ming startled his friends. The old chap
had died in his chair. Could any ending
be kindlier to such a man than making
the passage across Jordan with “La
Donna e Mobile” lilting in his mind?
* * ♦ ♦
“Casca”: So the bankrupt Persian
Government is floating a bond issue to
raise funds? Wonder if they’ll do any
better than the Chinese Nationalists did
in 1946. No Chinese in his right mind
would ever lend money to the Govern-
ment, so the issue was in danger of flop-
ping. Thereupon the Nationalists
instructed all officials, from provincial
Governors down to village headmen, that
it was their patriotic duty to support the
issue and that they had better subscribe
the amount shown in attached list, or
else. How the officials got the citizenry
to subscribe was their own affair. One
small town had just received a consign-
ment of U.N.R.R.A. food-supplies for
local relief, so the wily mayor seized the
parcels and sold them in the market to
raise his loan quota. Everybody was
happy—except perhaps the poor—and
the mayor gained much face. It was a
pity an inquisitive Australian inspector
of U.N.R.R.A. heard about it and with
entire lack of sympathy made the mayor
replace the food from his own resources.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Conflicting reports regard-
ing the prevalence of serious crime among
New Australians are puzzling newspaper
readers. Perhaps I can explain the
phenomenon. In Singapore many years
ago I noticed that my fellow-Australians
were continually getting into trouble,
pinching things, upsetting rickshaws and
ruining the respectability of Malay-street
with their brawling; yet when I started
counting cases over a period I found that
statistics put a different complexion on
the matter. I concluded that the thing
was purely a hallucination produced by
the papers. When an Englishman was
nabbed for something his name was either
not mentioned: he was dubbed as a “cer-
tain person,” or his name was given with
no national prefix. If a bloke from this
part of the world was jugged, however,
it was invariably “an Australian named
William Johnson was charged with being
drunk and disorderly” or with “knocking
the turban off a Sikh policeman.” The
natural result was that the otherwise
friendly English got the impression that
Australians were responsible for all the
crimes except those committed by Malays
and Chinese. Australian papers seem to
be producing the same effect, not only
with regard to crime, blit with regard to
culture, so that an eminent educationalist
can say that N.As. have made enormous
contributions to our art and science and
a St. Kilda police-sergeant can declare
that 90 p.c. of the naughtiness on his
chaste beaches is due to New Australians.
« « * *
“Ceg”: In these days, when all sorts
of stratagems have to be devised to get
prompt delivery of the more popular
makes of cars, it is interesting to look
back to the time when the salesmen had
to work hard for their commission. In
1937, having allowed my driver’s licence
to lapse for a few years, and wanting
another, I had to present myself for a
police driving-test. I picked up the John
and off w© went for a chatty drive round
the city. He asked me whether I owned
a gar, and if not what sort I was going
to buy; X told him I had in mind one of
the smaller types. He passed me and I
got my licence. When I got home
three hours later I found that six car-
salesmen had called to see me. They
would all be back after dinner, and had
left their cards. All represented small-
car agencies, and one or two even offered
to split their commission with me. That
cop must’ve been a livewire.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: Tasmanian postal-
officials have discovered that storm-
clouds bring added revenue in the way of
larger receipts from public-telephone
booths and greater numbers of letters.
They draw the inference that people
write more letters when a wet weekend
occurs and upsets outdoor plans, and
that cancellation of appointments or a
talk over the phone instead of a personal
call accounts for the bump-up in telephone
receipts. The further claim is made that
it is always possible to tell when there’s
been a wet weekend by checking public-
booth accounts. Future historians who
want to ascertain what the weather con-
ditions were during our era will no doubt
find the new information useful.
* * * *
“Brace-Pennant”: Nautical lingo (B.
19/12/ ’51)? I’ve always been amused at
the habit of old-time ratings when talk-
ing of ships they have served in ; as, for
example, “I commissioned the Terp-
sichore” or “/ brought out the old
Ariadne,” This custom extended to the
merchant service. Let me illustrate.
Visualise a steamer tied up to a wharf,
and another vessel of the same line edg-
ing in to take up the berth ahead. A
member of the crew of one ship recog-
nises a former shipmate on the other and
the following conversation ensues:
“Watcher, Tubby, who brought her aht?”
“Capt’n Brace-Pennant.” “Capt’n Brace-
Pennant be sugared! Who’s the
butcher?”
* ♦ * *
“Chevroford”: At least one Melbourne
motorist has a conscience. A citizen
parked his bright, new, shiny model by
the kerbside and went in to do some
Christmas shopping. When he cam© out
his gaze was saluted by a large indenta-
tion on his starboard mudguard. He was
looking angrily for a policeman when he
caught sight of a piece of paper tucked
into the handle of the driver’s door. It
was a note expressing deep regret for the
misadventure and giving the offender’s
name and phone-number and an assur-
ance that cost of repairs would be met.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Twisty Turner used to take
on an occasional council job, and once
when he had finished a small road-clear-
ing contract the engineer who called to
inspect was treated to a cup of tea on thfe
table in the tent on the road while he
signed his certificate. That done and the
engineer gone. Twisty dismantled his
tent and the planks and blanket from the
table-top, disclosing a grand old redgum
stump which he thought ’twould be a
shame to be movin’. Once caught, the
engineer was wary when later Twisty was
on a piecework job, napping stones for
roadmaking. He spotted a big log close
to one of the heaps of stones to be
napped, which could serve for a variation
of the old trick, so he made a mark on
the fence-rail opposite. The job finished
and the several heaps measured, he broke
up the heap opposite his marked rail.
It was 100 per cent, stone. Twisty had
been wary, too, and had moved the
marked fence-rail a few chains, opposite
a dinkum heap of stone and the smoulder-
ing ashes of another log. When last seen
Twisty was running a city fruitbarrow.
“Harry! Can't you get your mind off those sheep and cows back home?."
AT LARGE.
“It ia surely time that the interests of the public
at large were given due weight” (by the McGirr
Government). — S.M.H. Leader.
“The Chief Secretary, Mr. Clive Evatt... .appealed
to holidaymakers not to shoot ‘our fast-disappearing’
wild birds and animals.”
“Public at large!” said James McGirr.
“And we neglect it —that’s the charge.
Well, it would be in character —
But what’s this ‘public’ still ‘at large’?”
He sent for Evatt. “Look here, Clive;
The public—it’s got loose again.
The old free spirit’s still alive—
They’re quite untameable, some men.
“Though most are battened down with Boards,
Unions, Committees of Control,
With Civil Service, with Awards,
Some still invoke the corporate soul.
“So if this public won’t see reason,
And stays at large to mock and flout
Our rule, declare an open season
On everyone, and clear them oift!”
“Heavens!” said Clive. “I can’t do that —
It’s brutal and ridiculous.
Why, Bert would have me on the mat —
They’re nearly human, James, like us.”
“The public,” James McGirr replied,
“Is anti-social, 1 insist,
And, roaming round the countryside,
It’s growing anti-Socialist.
“You must suppress its ugly cry,
But keep a specimen or two,
And label them Vox populi
In bottles, or Taronga Zoo.”
However, Clive was sorely hurt,
And wept all night, and wept all day,
Till Jimmy sent for brother Bert,
Who soon explained his tears away.
I can’t say how he did, although
I’ve pondered it for hours and hours;
But all who know of Bert will know
The task was well within his powers.
n.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“S.”; It has never seemed quite right
to me that if the young Mr. Browning
had entered The Ring and the Booh for
the Jubilee long-poem competition he
would have been held ineligible; nor
could Milton have entered Paradise Lost:
the poems had to be about Federation,
an extremely awkward subject unless the
poets happened to be in a federal mood.
A competition simply for the best long
poem would have been a much better
idea. Still, Mr, Peter Bladen, of Crawley
(W.A.), who took the first prize of £350,
seems to have found an ingenious way
out of the Federation difficulty by writing
about “The Old Ladies at Newington,”
inspired by a visit to the Newington State
home for aged women in Sydney. The
Rev. Father T- McDonnell, of St. Stanis-
laus College, Bathurst (N.S.W.), shared
second prize with Mrs. N. Gibson, of
Grafton (N.S.W.), the one writing about
“My People” and the other dealing with
the aborigines under the title of “Instead
of the Brier,”
* * * *
“Clooter”: It is with a sense of grati-
tude that I see Australia starting another
year, though I can’t be sure to whom
my thanks are due. Not long ago I was
being assured that Dr. Evatt had saved us
from something or other, but had hardly
begun to investigate this when the Press
informed me that a gentleman named
“A Woman's place is in the kitchen."
Hassett, who was then running some sort
of a partnership with another gent,
named Miller, had saved us. Just after
that another candidate for salvage
appeared in the form of some representa-
tives from the halcyon isles of the Carib-
bean, which were duly saved in Adelaide,
though this seemed to be a collective
rather than an individualistic effort. With
that interlude over Australia was in im-
miner! danger again, this time from some
threatening Americans, but once again
a saviour appeared in the form of a
young man named Sedgman. Without
pursuing the matter further, let me say
that no country with so many saviours
ready at hand can fail to face 1952 with
the utmost confidence.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Recent reference to
Sydney as “deserted as it usually is on
Saturday afternoons” emphasises a
singular change in human habits. In
former days “doing the Block” (it was
the Martin-place, George-, Market- and
Pitt-streets town centre) was a social
activity of Saturday middays and Sunday
afternoons. Surging leisurely round,
people from the suburbs remet old
friends and made new ones—especially
the boys and girls; probably thousands
of the present generation could trace
descent from romances begun on “the
Block.” The pubs and tqashops were
open, of course, on the Saturday, and
the pilgrimage could be punctuated with
refreshments, Melbourne had its Block,
too; Brisbane its Queen-street; it was
Queen-street in Auckland (N.Z.) as well;
in Wellington the seething tide swept
backward and forth between Lambton
Quay and the “mountain” which over-
looks the port entrance. Maybe it was
an old “small-town” habit which pre-'
vailed in cities all over the world; and
probably its fadeout is world-wide, too.
* # ♦ *
“Nakhoda”; A pair of Japanese lovers
were so blissfully happy and so sure that
they could not be happier that they de-
cided the other day to suspend their lives
just at that point; they blew themselves
up, together with two rooms in the sea-
side hotel in which they were staying.
I submit this new idea for a happy ending
to the attention of the film-producers.
When the beautiful girl falls into the arms
of the young man in the Harris-tweed
suit at the final close-up the assumption
is that they are going to live in the same
state of emotional exaltation for ever
and ever, though there isn’t a person in
the audience who doesn’t know that it
never happens in that way. If a lover
gets security in relation to his girl he
loses interest in her —nobody runs around
looking for the pound that he knows is
in his pocket. Only insecurity can give
him back his interest, but that means he
has lost the girl. To rid himself of his
feeling of insecurity he may court her
again. If his courtship is successful he
once more attains to boredom. And the
same mathematical law applies if it is the
girl who attains security in relation to
the young man. Immutable love doesn’t
exist outside movies. The Japanese pair
may not have reasoned it out in this way,
but they acted quite logically if they
wanted to make their love immortal.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Sydney wasn’t quite sure
whether or not it had a holiday on
December 31, and those who got it didn’t
seem to know what to do with it. A
blue cattle-dog in George-street, however,
celebrated the passing of 1951 by relent-
lessly chasing trams past Wynyard station.
The hound ignored taxis, cars, trucks and
buses —also, to the astonishment and per-
haps the affront of their guards, the
corridor-trams, concentrating his efforts
on the coupled toast-racks. The dog
refused to explain his mission, and a
popular conception was that the toast-
racks were about the nearest thing he
could find to an outback drover’s wagon-
ette and supposed that the cattle must
be somewhere in the vehicle. He was
wrong; only a sheep-dog would have
suited the contents,
» * * ♦
“Jasby”: One popular A.B.C. feature
is a session in which a roving reporter
records the opinions of schoolchildren on
all manner of topics; the youngsters
speak with an engaging frankness, and
the interviews appear to be quite un-
rehearsed. At present the man with the
mike is in England, and in one of his
recent sessions he asked kiddies from an
English school for their ideas on the
difference in conditions in their homeland
and Australia. One little girl had very
definite ideas. Conditions, she said, were
more primitive in Australia because she
had read that the aborigines there just
built themselves a bark shelter when
night came, and had no permanent
houses, whereas “up in Scotland the
peasants have stone huts, and go home
to them every night.”
.** * *
“Fairf”: I was awakened on New
Year’s Eve by a noise that rose above the
sounds of revelry—the skirl of the pipes,
Drowning the valiant, if blotto, efforts
of a male chorus, a piper was marching
down the street. Still half-asleep, I tried
to isolate the tune. It wasn’t “Scots
Wha Hae” nor “Wi’ a Hundred Pipers
and A’ and A’,” “The Cock of the
North”? No. Suddenly, by an amazing
coincidence, the singers managed to strike
the same line in unison and in time with
the instrument—“lrene, good-ni-hi-hight,
Irene, good-night.” Well, if ever Caledonia
was stern and wild it has reason to be
nOW !
» * * •
“Swelpme”: There was a time when I
regarded my favorite hatreds—radio-
advertising men—as the sort of mental
"My paintings are only to be looked at from a distance."
degenerates that they seemed to think I
was. How often, as I divided my atten-
tion between the breakfast-chop and a
radio programme in order to catch the
time, have I exploded: “What in thunder
does it matter to us what American
women do!” Nevertheless, from station
to station the cliches haunted me with
the persistence of a recurring decimal :
“Last year six-and-a-half million Ameri-
can housewives demanded ” Or:
“.... used by two million American
women.” But now I have been forced to
reassess the mental-torturing creatures.
Radio-ad. writers are not morons. It
took a greengrocer to prove it to me.
Stranded with a quantity of floppy, heart-
less lettuces, he had a brainwave —whence
the sign in his window: “New! Ameri-
can diet lettuce. Slimming!” Result:
What would have been dumped for pig-
feed sold like hot cakes —or should I
say American doughnuts?
♦ • ♦ ♦
“X.S.”: Between Christmas and the
New Year, when tens of thousands of
Victorian holiday-makers were deployed
about the hills and beaches, the cards
were all stacked for a repetition of the
grim happenings of Black Sunday in 1939,
when Toolangi, Warrandyte and a dozen
other places were im-
molated and there were
as many unpublished
heroisms as there were
disasters. One among
many suggests itself to
the recollection: one
firefighter, while en-
gaged in beating out
flames, was bitten by a
black snake. He
grabbed a slasher from
a mate, chopped
off the top of his finger—and carried on.
This year a cool change turned up, and
the danger passed—for the moment. The
immense equipment installed throughout
the State by bushfire organisations some
six years ago and not yet really tested
remains standing at the ready.
* * * *
“Dune”: Interpreters for New Austra-
lians at picture-shows (B. 26/12/’51)?
Perhaps our picture-show managers will
adopt the idea used in the more cosmo-
politan parts of the world and use extra
screens for displaying the dialogue in
various languages. I recall a show in
Cairo where the soundtrack was in Eng-
lish, a small screen below the picture
gave the dialogue in French, one on the
right a translation in Greek, and another
on the left supplied an Arabic version.
I felt sorry 'for the Greeks and Arabs;
they would, after a short time, get a
headshaking complex like the gallery at
a tennis match. Recently in Sweden I
saw a Crosby-Hope-Lamour comedy. The
soundtrack was in English—most of the
films in that country are either American
or British—and the Swedish translation
was superimposed on the lower part of
the screen. Unfortunately the Swedes
seem to have a great sense of humor, and
their roars of laughter at the printed
lines completely drowned the screen
voices, s® that we British visitors had to
try to lipread the actors or imagine the
dialogue from the pantomimic gestures,
A Popeye cartoon, without Swedish
translation, was also screened, but those
Nordic peoples know their strips, and
their laughter at the animated hero’?
antics was worth the price of admission.
♦ * * #
“Metax”: Those controlling our new
hospital have set an example that is
worth copying. Instead of the usual
foliage for adornment only, the grounds
are decorated with a healthy-looking crop
of potatoes.
# * * *
“Exdig”; The average person is as
muzzy about figures regarding rainfall,
m.p.h., temperatures atmospheric and
human, and distances as about wind
velocities (B. 26/12/’5l). “A couple of
inches of rain” and “about 100 in the
shade” may boil down to 20 points and
85 degrees actual. A police witness testi-
fied that a car had swept past him at
40 m.p.h. “I ran and intercepted it at
the next crossing, your Worship,” he
explained—the case being promptly dis-
missed. The most grotesque mis-esti-
mates of human temperatures in my ex-
perience occurred at the casualty clearing-
station at St. Omer in France during
1917, Shortage of medical-corps per-
sonnel caused a light-duty patient to be
put on ward duties, and an overworked
ward-sister, after showing him how, told
him to go round and take the tempera-
tures. The first Digger he tried, seeing
he was fogged, offered to help him out.
He withdrew the “heat-stick” from his
mouth, pretended to read it, and said
“Put me down as 120,” indicating where
on the chart. The joke appealed tp
others. The next man assessed his blood-
heat at 190, and there were plenty well
above boiling-point. The M.O.’s face was
a study when he made his round and
struck the first of the inflated heats; he
hastily looked at some others and then
grinned grimly. “There’s not much we
can do for you fellows,” he said.
“According to the record you’re roasting
in hell already.”
* * * *
“Derf Reltuc”: The Sydney suburban
bus in which I was travelling home about
11 p.m. whizzed along at high speed until
it passed the picture-theatre; then it
slowed down to almost walking pace. My
curiosity aroused, I asked the conductor
why the pace was suddenly clapped down.
“Well,” he explained, “the pictures are
due to finish any minute now and 1
wanted to miss the crowd, so I told the
driver to step on it. Now he’s ahead ot
schedule, so he has to take it easjr.
We crawled on at about five m.p.h. while
the people who streamed out of the
theatre a few minutes later wondered why
they had to wait nearly half an hour for
the next bus.
AN OVERDUE RELIEF.
This year there will be, so the pundits say,
A “general scaling-down.” The first faint
rumble
You’ve heard, and not so very far away,
Some aerial castles may begin to tumble.
There’ll be some getting-out-from-under in
The used-car and a host of other rackets.
The profiteers who’ve had a wondrous spin
(In spirit to the late Ned Kelly kin)
Will find the going hard to make their
“packets.”
Of late some evidence they’ve trotted out
To show how strong is now the “buyer-
resistance.”
That damn-the-customer idea’s about
To fold up—it could never go the distance.
In short, the glorious binge we’ve all been on,
In which we very nearly drowned our
throttles,
Is on the way out. Rather woebegone,
In Bacchus-attitude we sprawl upon
A heap of empty economic bottles.
But, say! This “scaling-down”—surely it can’t
Mean that the boss, when now he may be
seeking
A new stenog., may stipulate she shan’t
Airily walk out on him while he’s speaking!
How tough, too, if her employment-terms
In future may contain no such provision
As make-up bars and free all-over perms,
The right to do all shopping in the firm’s
Own time. Good heavens I What a fearful
vision!
And what of Tim, the office-boy? Must he
Accustomed now to lording and surveying,
Be forced to yield up his autocracy,
The small dictator’s role he’s been portray-
ing?
Shall he be forced, on threat of being fired,
Now to unbend and do the boss’s bidding?
Till now, whene’er his service was required,
From lolling round he’s been so darned dog-
tired
He couldn’t do a thing—and that’s no kid-
ding.
With what unspeakable relief will he,
The boss, welcome the change that is im-
pending!
Ye who’ve the least compassion will agree
His agony’s been something very rending.
No longer will he have the need to tax
His temper by the need for laughing loyally
At every joke the office junior cracks.
With such deliverance he can relax
By promptly celebrating, and right royally.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Letters of Rachel Henning
Springfield,
June 26, 1877.
My Dearest Etta,
The months fly by so quickly
that I almost lose count of them
sometimes. It seems only yester-
day that it was hot summer, and
now we are in the middle of
winter —but such a winter! We
have had about six weeks of the
most glorious weather, cold
mornings and evenings with
sometimes a slight frost, and
still bright sunny days that make
you feel it is a pleasure only to
be alive!
You have heard of Biddulph’s
removal to Canterbury House,
where as you may remember
Annie and Mr. Hedgeland lived
with him before he was married.
It is a beautiful place, and both
he and Emily seem to be the
better for the change from the
sea air. Biddulph was always
very fond of the place. There is
such a nice garden full of
camellias, azaleas and all sorts
of flowering shrubs. I have not
been there yet since they moved,
but I hope to go up in the spring
to visit both Biddulph and
Annie.
Annie has not been very
strong this winter, but seems to
be better now. She has just been
staying at Canterbury for a
fortnight with Teddy, while Mr.
Hedgeland was away surveying,
and enjoyed it very much.
We have two side-saddles now,
as Biddulph gave me Emily’s
when she left off riding, and
it makes us very independent
when any friend is staying here.
Mr. Taylor is a great deal too
busy to go out, and a Miss
Ebsworth, who has been staying
with me, and I used to ride
about everywhere together. One
day, in company with two other
ladies, we made an expedition
up Mt. Keira. We rode as far
as we could up a very steep
road, and, when it came *to
climbing, we tied up our horses
under some trees and scrambled
up the rocks to the top of the
mountain. We got to the edge
of what is called the Victoria
Rock, with a sheer descent in
front of us for some hundred
feet, and such a glorious view
there was of the whole valley of
Illawarra at our feet and an
illimitable sea-view beyond,
I was the leader and promoter
of the expedition, and I confess
I felt rather uneasy lest during
our absence anything should
have frightened our horses and
they should have all broken
their bridles and gone home
leaving us in the lurch. How-
ever, we found them all right
when we came down again, and
then we rode to a place where
there was a beautiful little clear
spring coming out of the rocks,
where we had lunch, after which
we dug up ferns for the gardens
and then rode home after a very
pleasant day.
Miss Ebsworth and I also used
to take long walks and explore
the mountains about here. She
is a great walker and does so
thoroughly admire the scenery,
and there is nothing like the
Illawarra scenery in Australia.
She brought down with her
some books on the Anglo-Israel
theory, which she used to read
to me on all convenient
occasions. She firmly believed
every word of one childish
book, even the account of
the arrival of the prophet
Jeremiah and the Jewish princess
in Ireland in company with the
Scone coronation-stone. Also
that the American people are
the tribe of Manasseh, and that
the Irish are the evil-doing
Hirites and Hittites! No doubt
it is an interesting speculation
where the lost tribes are, and it
if easy to imagine that in the
general migration from eastward
to „ westward some of the
Israelites found their way into
Europe and may be among the
Teutonic nations. This one can
believe; but it requires great
faith to swallow the prophet
Jeremiah and the holy stone,
I think it must be since I last
wrote to you that we have taken
to dairying instead of exclusively
depending upon hay-farming, I
persuaded Mr. Taylor into it, as
I thought he was working too
hard, and that butter-making
would pay as well and be easier
work, as the two lads we have
on the farm can do the milking,
etc. We got a few good cows
besides those we had before, and
I think the new speculation will
pay very well. We make now
about thirty pound of butter a
week and get Is. 6d. per pound
for it in the keg or wholesale.
We shall soon be milking more
cows, and of course shall get
more butter. In the summer the
butter is much cheaper, but then
you get more of it.
"Mark my words! Mark my words, Henning!”
I have been very busy garden-
ing since Miss Ebsworth left.
The garden is always rather
neglected when there are visitors
here, as I have to go out every
afternoon. It is getting a pretty
place now, I should like to show
it to you. The trees and shrubs
are growing up, the veranda-
pillars are covered with flowering
creepers, and the beds are
always full of flowers.
Last year we made a drive
with a circle for carriages to
drive round, and the trees and
shrubs are planted round it and
growing wonderfully. Now Mr.
Taylor is just beginning to make
anew approach to the house.
The old way follows the road
and comes in through the barns
and stockyard, etc,, at the back
of the house. The new way will
avoid all the out-buildings, cross
a very pretty creek by a bridge,
and come up to the front of the
house; but I could not make
you understand the difference
without a map of the farm.
The bridge is just begun, but
I do not suppose the road will
be made for another year, as
there is a great deal of work in
it and we cannot afford to put
on a number of men and get the
work done at once, but perhaps
there is more pleasure in making
improvements when you have to
wait for them and do them bit
by bit. There is great pleasure
in having a place of your own
and seeing it gradually grow into
beauty.
Now I must say goodnight, as
it is ten o’clock, and we keep
early farmhouse hours. Mr.
Taylor, having finished his book,
says it is time to have prayers
and go to bed.
My kindest love to you all.
Ask Mr. Boyce what he thinks
about the Anglo-Israel theory.
Your most affectionate sister,
Rachel Taylor.
Canterbury House,
August 30, 1877.
My Dearest Etta,
I generally write to you when
I am away from home, as I have
more time when I am on a visit
than when I have the house, etc.,
on my hands. I came up from
Springfield to Parramatta on
August 15 to spend a month be-
tween Annie and Biddulph. It
is nearly two years since I have
been up before ; somehow I find
it very difficult to get away from
home. There is so much to do
and see after on a farm.
I found everything pretty
much as I had left it at
Parramatta —the bright little
house and garden and the
beautiful view from the hill on
which it stands.
Mr. Hedgeland is looking very
well. He is now a Government
staff surveyor and keeps two men
to help him in his work. They
are often at home for days
together while Mr. Hedgeland is
mapping out his surveys, etc., so
Annie is able to have her garden
kept in nice order. However,
they are thinking of leaving
Parramatta as it is rather a
lonely place for Annie when Mr.
Hedgeland is out all day.
Teddy is very much grown
since I saw him last year ; he is a
nice little boy, and very clever, I
think. Annie still teaches him,
and he is getting on very well
with her. He is learning Latin
now. Annie says he ought to go
to school, but there is no good
school at Parramatta for little
boys.
I spent a fortnight with Annie
and came here on Tuesday last.
As you know, Biddulph is now
again living in that pretty house
he had before he was married.
It looks much the same except
that the shrubs and trees have
grown a good deal in five years.
I was quite glad to see it all
again. Biddulph is looking well,
but rather thin. I think that dur-
ing Captain Tucker’s absence it
was rather a worry to him to
have the whole business of
Tucker and Cos. on his hands.
Emily is looking very well,
though she is expecting another
baby in January. The baby is a
darling little fellow; that like-
ness Biddulph sent you home
does not the least do him justice.
I had no idea he was such a
pretty child. The photo gives
you the idea of small eyes and
he has beautiful eyes, very large
and soft and blue. We all think
they are like Annie’s. He has
also very pretty soft curly hair
just the color that Biddulph’s was
when he was a little boy. This
is a pleasant place to stay at,
such a lovely garden and
grounds. There are real trees of
camellias here, and, as you may
fancy, there are any quantity to
gather, and the house is full of
camellias and azaleas.
I have had a good deal of
shopping to do as I have not
left Wollongong for nearly two
years. It is not quite so con-
venient to shop from here as it
is from the North Shore,
Mr. Taylor is very good about
writing and sends me the home
news every other day. It is
rather lonely for him while I am
away, but he is busy about the
farm all day.
Captain Tucker arrived about
a week ago ; you will have seen
by the papers what a wonderful
passage the Lusitania made,
forty days—the fastest trip on
record. Captain Tucker looks
all the better for his year in
England.
Upcott Sloman came down
last Saturday, and I think he is
the nicest boy I ever knew. He
is not seventeen yet, but he is
nearly six feet high and very
handsome. He is very gentle-
manly, but at the same time
thoroughly simple and boyish in
all his ways, and with none of
the colonial coolness and assur-
ance that we English all hate so.
Amy says that it is a great trial
to her to part with him, and I do
not wonder at it. I do hope he
will get on well. I think they
were right in choosing surveying
as a profession for him ; it pays
well out here, and Mr. Hedge-
land will be able to help him so
much.
With very much love to
yourself, believe me, dearest
Etta, ever your affectionate
sister,
Rachel Tayi,or.
Springfield,
March 25, 1 878.
My Dearest Etta,
I am afraid I have two letters
of yours unanswered, but I
rather delayed replying to the
last, in order to make some
inquiries about the old King’s
friendship with Grandpapa.
From Hannah Dashwood’s note,
which you forwarded to me,
however, I suppose you no
longer want the information you
asked for.
However, for our own satis-
faction, I ascertained beyond a
doubt that the intimacy was
during our grandmother’s life
and not after Grandpapa had
married Mrs. Buxton. I think
it was the Princess Sophia, not
Amelia, who was thrown from
her horse near Poxwell, and lay
ill there for some days, and it
was on this occasion, I suppose,
that she presented the silver tea-
and-coffee service to Mrs,
Henning.
Amy has the teapot, and 1
think the Edmund Buxtons have
the coffee-pot. The inscription
on the former I got Amy to copy
for me; and it is as follows:
The gift of her Royal High-
ness the Princess Sophia to
Elizabeth Henning, September
21, 1799.
Grandpapa did not marry
Mrs. Buxton till 1808 (see Life
of Sir Fowell Buxton ), so this
inscription settles the question
at once.
In 1811 the King was pro-
nounced insane and the Prince
of Wales appointed Regent, so I
suppose his trips to Weymouth
were over by that time, or a
year or two earlier.
The illness of the Princess
Sophia was most likely the
beginning of the acquaintance.
PEOPLE IN THE
LETTERS.
RACHEE HENNING, the writer ot
the letters, born 1826, came to Aus-
tralia in 1854, returned to England
in 1856, and came back to Australia
in 1861. She went to Exmoor (Q.)
In 1863, returning to Sydney in
1865, and married Deighton Taylor
in 1866.
HENRIETTA ("ETTA”) HENNING,
born 1837, married Rev. T. W.
Boyce, and remained in England.
ANNIE HENNING, born 1830, came
to Australia in 1853 with Biddulph,
and went with him to Queensland
in 1863. Married George Hedge-
land in 1866.
AMY HENNING, horn 1838, came to
Australia with Rachel in October,
1854, and in September, 1855,
married Thomas. Sloman, a banker,
of Bathurst <N.S,W.)
BIDDUEPH HENNING, born 1834,
came to Australia in 1853. Visited
bis married cousin Bin don Bid-
dulph near Wollongong, then
leased a farm from Rev. Sparling
at Appln. Eater he bought 180
acres of Crown land near Rixon’s
Pass, Bull! Mountain, at 355. an
acre, and built a bouse there in
1855. He sold this in 1857 to Henry
Osborne. In conjunction with the
Tuckers he bought Marlborough
station (64,000 acres, near Rock-
hampton) for £9OO In November,
1858. In 1863 be moved north to
Exmoor, on the Bowen River, near
Port Denison, his sisters Rachel
and Annie accompanying him. In
1864 he took up an additional hold-
ing (Lara), which stretched from
Alick’s Creek to the junction of
the Cloncurry River, a tributary
of the Flinders, and comprised
eight blocks of 85 square miles.
Although the country was good
it did not pay because of trans-
port difficulties. Biddulph married
Emily Tucker on Nov. 26, 1872, and
later became manager of Tucker
and Company in Sydney.
[The foregoing were the children
of the Rev. Charles Wansborough
Henning, M.A. (son of Edmund
Henning, of Poxwell House, Dorset),
and of Rachel Lydia Henning (nee
Biddulph). The parents were both
born in 1797, and married in 1825.
Charles died in 1840, his wife in
1845.]
EINDON BIDDUEPH and TRE-
GENNA BIDDUEPH were cousins
to Rachel Henning on her mother's
side, and belonged to the well-known
titled family of the name. Tregenna
married in England in 1857 and then
settled in the Shoalbaven district of
N. S. Wales.
The TUCKERS—friends of the Hen-
nings and Biddulphs. They were
interested, with Biddulph Henning,
in Queensland station properties.
WIEEIAM TUCKER was founder
of the Australian firm of Tucker
and Co. CAPTAIN JAMES
TUCKER was his brother.


\
Hospitality's
7
7
The name is
(D c CmUuns
r /
The whisky is
i \
MS
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
/
Don 9 t stew
IN YOUR OWN HOME ALL THIS SUMMER
INSULATE
fd
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOI
Enjoy year-round comfort. In sum-
mer rooms stay up to 15° cooler
than hot outdoors ... in winter-
warmer and draught free!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation' office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and how
you should insulate your home with 8.1. Home Insulation.
N.S.W.: Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
8.1.37
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q'land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AU8T.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terraco,
Adelaide
WEST. AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
10 Elizabeth Street, Premantle
Despite disagreement in high
places, the Old Vic. has had a
better season than last. Unfor-
tunately the Vic.’s latest acquisi-
tion, that towering old-stager
Donald Wolfit, has quickly fol-
lowed the example of three of
its distinguished producers and
resigned, apparently because he
was unable to work in with the
company. Here is one theatre
where stars seem unable to
settle down for long, yet whose
places are readily filled. Wolfit’s
valedictory appearance, signifi-
cantly, will be long remembered,
As the ageing fop. Lord Ogleby,
in “The Clandestine Marriage”
(an 18th-century “bread-and-
butter” comedy of manners by
Colman senior and David
Garrick) he gave a performance
of comic perfection as rich in
style as period furniture; and,
ironically, blended well with an
unrenowned but accomplished
cast.
Roving Spotlight
Whatever else, the year has
not been without novelty.
Emlyn Williams, a Dickens lover
of long standing, had the idea to
impersonate the Master giving
one of his famous readings. His
spare-time experiment has taken
on with such infectious response
that he could, if he chose, devote
the rest of his life to this pursuit,
with the entire English-speaking
world waiting upon his tours,
Since he is to devote the whole
of his proceeds to theatrical
charities the “profession” has
cause for deep gratitude to his
hobby.
Failure is no novelty, but
better luck surely lies in store for
John Whiting, a young actor
who had the distinction of the
Haymarket Theatre and a
brightly twinkling cast for his
first play, a comedy promising
enough in script which un-
happily proved to be inane in
performance, A few months
later a more serious play of his,
although a prize-winner, was
pronounced by the critics to be
“diffuse,” but was valiantly de-
fended by its judges and also by
a pane l of the stage’s intelli-
gentsia.
_ , ,
Four productions resu ed
directly from actors unfulfilled
ambitions. Godfrey Tearle, who
understudied Sir George
Alexander 50 years ago, played
the lead in Pinero’s “His House
in Order.” Always serious-
minded, Jack Hulbert was pre-
vented from going “straight” by
his jutting chin. He now plays
the main part in “The White
Sheep of the Family,” a gently
ironic comedy with a twist that
is anything but straight. George
Formby’s 20-year-old ambition
to play the fabulous spendthrift
of “Brewster’s Millions” has
brought him to town in the
£40,000 musical adaptation “Zip
Goes a Million.” And Leslie
Henson, for long a wjould-be
Pepys, nightly wears a periwig
and feathered hat as a result of
his persuading Vivian Ellis to
£? n Y5 r */•. P a B an . s And So
Bed into a musical.
Australians in the London
theatre have had varying for-
tunes. Bad health has checked
Margaret Johnston’s rise to
greater heights, but her tre-
mendous performance of the
overintense spinster in “Summer
and Smoke” has set her firmly in
the top rank. Peter Finch has
spent a hard-working year with-
out conspicuously adding to his
prestige. His lago was strangely
inconclusive; but lago is also a
thankless part that few actors
want to repeat or to look back
upon. Loudon Sainthill is
among the few scenic designers
in steady demand. The variety
and scope of his talent are con-
tributory factors to the continued
success of the “Lyric Revue,”
with its score or so of scenes,
Hugh Hastings’s comedy of
naval rough-and-tumble, “Sea-
gulls over Sorrento,” must have
earned a sizeable fortune for
the Treasury, and will soon have
its 650th performance.
and it must have continued some
time after our grandmother’s
death, for I remember a story
of Aunt Harriett’s —she kept
house at Poxwell after Mrs.
Henning’s death —and she said
that on one occasion the Royal
party were lunching there, and
she was handing a tray of some-
thing to one of the royal dukes
(I think the Duke of Sussex),
and, seeing her standing, he got
up and, insisted on her sitting
down and waited on her himself.
Then there was a story of the
old King taking up our father in
his arms, when he was a very
small boy, and asking if he
knew who he was, and being
very much delighted when the
child replied “Grandpapa
King!” And you must re-
member Grandpapa’s pet story
about his meeting the King out
riding shortly after our grand-
mother’s death, when he was in
great sorrow, and how the King
desired his train to fall back, as
“he wanted to speak to Henning
alone,” and then, riding on with
him, “he talked to him like a
father” and advised him to marry
again, for the sake of his young
family; “But mark my words!
Mark my words! Mark my
words, Henning! If you ever
expect to find another such
woman as your first wife, you
will be disappointed.” I re-
member exactly how Grandpapa
used to move back his plate and
tell that story.
Another of Grandpapa’s
stories was that one day the
King came from Weymouth and
inquired for Mrs. Henning, and
was informed by the servant that
she was washing lace. The King
had a way of repeating his
words: “Washing lace, washmg
lace, is she? Then I’ll go and
help her.” A comic-paper pub-
lished in Weymouth produced an
illustration of the King and Mrs.
Henning over a washtub,
washing lace together.
I am certain it was at Poxwell,
not at Weymouth, that the King
used to visit, because while at
Poxwell Grandpapa was farm-
ing the estate himself, but when
he went to Weymouth he was
a banker (and, if you recollect,
it was the run on that bank that
ruined him), and another of his
stories was that one day he was
complaining to the King of the
difficulty of getting sufficient
men to make the hay, and the
next morning he found a small
detachment of soldiers drawn up
before the door, they having
been sent by the King with
orders to make Mr. Henning’s
hay. 1 believe they performed
more in the way of consuming
bread and cheese and beer than
in haymaking.
I have been able to get the
inscription on the gold cup,
which Biddulph keeps at his
bankers’, and I dare say he will
get it out at the new baby’s
christening and fill it with claret-
cup to drink his health. The
inscription is as follows:
First of all there is the Royal
coat-of-arms on the gold cup,
then:
Honi soit qui mal y pense.
Dieu et Mon Droit.
Given September 26, 1800, to
Edmund Henning, of Poxjvell, in
the county of Dorset, esquire,
by his Majesty, King George HI.
“We got to the edge of what is called the Victoria Rock.”
In some of your summer trips
you ought to go to Weymouth
and visit the old places. It is a
pretty drive of about four miles
to Pox well. It must have been a
fine old place once, built in a
square round a court and with
stone-mullioned windows and a
large low hall with oak rafters
and a great oak table where, very
likely, “sacred Majesty took his
dejeuner,” and a fine old brick
gateway, or, rather, gatehouse,
with a small chamber over it,
where there is a legend that some
heiress of the Henning family
was shut up for contumacy, and
betimely escaped therefrom with
her lover,
I used to hear a great deal of
family history from Uncle and
Aunt John Henning, but I have
forgotten it now. There was an
old place called “Henning’s
Crookstone” where our great-
grandpapa lived, and where all
his family were brought up.
Then there is a most picturesque
old manor house, called Radi-
poll, close to Weymouth, which
also belonged to Grandpapa and
afterwards to Uncle John.
Wolverton was a very fine old
place with an ivy-covered gate-
house as large as a modem
cottage and the house a sort of
castellated building. Biddulph
was the rightful heir to these
properties.
I do not think you have read
this poem of mine, so I will
inflict it on you:
THE DAYS OF CHILDHOOD.
The happy days of childhood, how
swift they fleet away;
How soon beneath the world’s cold
breath its feelings must decay,
Its fervent warm affections, its con-
fidence and truth,
With all its bright imaginings and
cherished hopes of youth.
The gladsomings and gaiety its sunny
light that throws
O’er every time and scene till all in
its own bright sunshine glows.
Alas! That life’s dark clouds should
e’er that fairy dream destroy
And overcast that rosy dawn of
innocence and joy.
There is no spot so lovely as our
early childhood’s home,
And thither still the heart returns,
wherever we may roam;
The tangled brakes where wildflowers
grew its overshadowing grove,
Its streamlets and its valleys claim our
first and latest love.
There is no joy like that we felt when
in the springtide hours
We bounded o’er the wild, free hills,
and plucked the mountain flowers
Where tall fern waves and harebell
blue with purple heather blends
Such gay, unfettered happenings with
the years of childhood ends.
There are no friends like those who
for our infancy have cared,
And no companions dear as those
who all its pleasures shared.
Oh, what is like a mother’s love, or
who her place can fill
When her cheering smile has passed
away and her gentle voice is still!
And none can e’er such sympathy in
weal or woe impart
Asa sister gives who aye hath shared
each feeling of the heart;
And where shall we such shelter find,
in trouble or in harm,
As in the sure protection of a
brother’s shielding arm.
We may form new ties of friendship
and other bonds of love,
But they are not like the flowery links
that our happy childhood wove;
For the world its chilling influence
upon our hearts has thrown,
And though the chain may sparkle
still, its first bright glow is gone.
How often when around the earth
the shades of twilight close
And evening’s gentle hand hath
hushed all nature to repose
The visions of the past arise, and
many a vanished scene
To memory appears, as though no
change had ever been.
And mid the stillings of that hour
we seem to hear a sound
Like whispers from the spirit’s land
breathe in the air around;
Voices of those whose pilgrimage has
long been ended here,
O’er whom the quiet grave has closed
since many a weary year.
And for a while as once we were
again we seem to be;
Again we feel the gaiety of a soul
unworn and free.
But the dream decays, and life once
more assumes a dreary hue,
And all its sad realities again stand
tor* 10 Vlew '
These are hours of happiness on
earth, but their sunshine may not
last,
And the joyous days of childhood
must be soon for ever past.
They are like the gleams of treacherous
light that on the stormcloud play
Then fade away, and deeper gloom
succeeds the short-liv’d ray.
I must conclude. Fond love
to Mr. Boyce and the children
and to yourself,
Believe me, dearest Etta, your
most affectionate sister.
Rachel Taylor.
(To be concluded in next week’* issue.)


ABORIGINALITIES
“Harbel”: I never thought the time
would come when I would hear some-
body say a good word for the blowfly;
but a chap I struck recently breeds the
loathsopie creatures as a necessary
adjunct* to his business. Nor, he informed
me, is the idea his alone. “Most scientific
horticulturists use blowflies for cross-
pollination now,” he declared. “The
blowfly is dusted with the desired pollen
and placed where required in the blossom
to be fertilised. The system is more
reliable than the brush method and less
likely to injure the delicate interior of
the flower.” “But why couldn’t you fol-
low Nature and use bees?” I asked. “We
could,” he countered, “but it wouldn’t
do to use any bee —it might be already
carrying pollen from a score of other
blossoms.” I submitted that bees could
be bred and kept virgin for the purpose.
The expert on the practicability of
the suggestion, but apparently I had
thought of nothing new. “We can and
Lovers
“Faint heart ne'er Won fair lady , Basil.”
have used that method. The disadvantage
is the time involved. Why spend weeks
rearing a matured virgin bee when we
can get the same results from a blowfly
which is ready for use in several days?”
So once again the immortal Bard has
proved correct; “And find. ...good in
everything.”
♦ * * *
“Colonial Cove”: The truce declared
by those South Queensland blacks when
the bunya-nuts were ripe (B. 5/12/’5l)
had a parallel in the occasional truces
declared by the abos of south-west W.A.
when a whale came ashore. That part
of the W.A. coast being on the regular
humpback run, such things happened just
about every season. Or it might be a big
blue whale, or even a too-aged sperm.
Anyway, when such a mountain of meat
humped up in the surf a sort of fiery
cross went around and all the tribes
gathered to the feast. And what a
feast! George Grey, later Governor and
then Premier of N.Z., witnessed such a
sight when as a lieutenant he did some
exploration around W.A. in the 1830’s.
Always the lad with an eye for the ladies.
Grey on this occasion found himself
shocked. One of the most appalling
sights, he declared, was to see a young
native woman, “with the face of a satyr
and the form of a Venus,” emerging from
a tunnel literally driven into this mountain
of whale flesh, covered with grease from
head to foot. And, of course, the feast,
like an Irish fair, always ended with a
devil’s own fight. Everyone being fed
right up to fighting weight, it only needed
some buck from a visiting tribe to be
caught philandering with one of the local
ladies for the “blue” to be on. Casualties
would not be very heavy, but the donny-
brook would serve admirably to reopen
intertribal feuds, which would run until
the next leviathan came ashore.
* * * ♦
“Cheriton”: Talk about adversity and
strange bedfellows! Lightning started no
fewer than 14 fires in the bush round my
Queensland hangout—we’ve had ’em
burning in the south-east for three weeks
—and I just had time to muster up the
woollies and get ’em into the big tank
(practically dry) before the flames were
right round us. Self and sheep were
presently joined by a family of emus and
then a few kangaroos dived in. Last to
join the party was a wild boar. We
spent the entire day together in the big
hole. Didn’t have much to say to one
another and we all got out safely in the
end. It seemed a long day because, per-
haps owing to the fires or the Menzies-
Fadden Budget, or the mailman having
started Christmas, I hadn’t seen a Bully
for weeks, and when I opened a dis-
cussion on politics with the boar he
coldly ignored me as one whose informa-
tion was sadly behind the times. So I
hope you’ll send me one quickly,
* r *
Mat s Mate : A gang of us congre-
gated in a Mildura boarding-house wait-
*ng for the grape-snatching to start, and
Put m the time with crib, penny-poker,
yarns, occasional jaunts to the local pic-
tures, and beer. As the days went by one
bloke gradually emerged as the greatest
talker this side of the black stump. No
matter what the subject, he knew all about
it, and dominated all discussion. He was
impervious to sarcasm and barracking,
and seemed to enjoy his reputation—until
one night. The game was six-handed
crib, and Noisy was talking 19 to the
dozen as usual. He downed a fourth ace
to make it 31 and 14 holes and barked
“Ha, ha, I could see that cornin’ soon as
Mat made it twenty-nine. I was
sittin’ ” “you tryin’ f make out y’
“ Howzat!”
got a photographic mind?” Mat de-
manded. “Somethin’ like that,” burbled
Noisy. “Soon’s y’ played your ace I
could see” “Well, y’re wrong,” Mat
snapped. “What you got is a phono-
graphic mind, an’ it’s wearin’ inter
grooves ; it screeches /” Thereafter some
sort of peace ruled.
* ♦ <• •
“Loulalo”: Evidently trevally occasion-
ally like a change from their usual salt-
water diet. In the Hopkins River some
four miles east of Warrnambool (Vic.),
below the old Tooram homestead, a bar
of worn boulders (once a belt of volcanic
lava) separates the tidal saltwaters of the
river from the fresh part of the stream.
Once, picknicking there, we heard a
peculiar sighing sound as a sheet of solid
silver rose a foot or so from the water
and fell back with a loud splash. Six or
seven feet of grassy water-weed edged the
steep bank, and beyond it to the opposite
shore the river for 50ft. below the stones
was a closely-packed sheet of silvery fish.
Seemingly around the two-pound mark,
they lay head-on to the bar, and, at about
five-minute intervals, the whole sheet
would rise in this concerted leap. They
would not bite at shrimp or any other
sort of bait, being apparently intent upon
some form of water-life coming with the
flow of freshwater through the boulders.
Next morning the fish had vanished;
either the food-supply had given out or
an alteration in the water-temperature
had forced a retreat.
* * * *
“Zake”: The first whale-marking to
be done anywhere since the war—carried
out by the C.5.1.R.0. Fisheries Research
vessel Warreen in mid-1949 between
Carnarvon and Pt. Cloates (W.A.) while
north-bound to take part in a tuna survey
—is already getting results. At the end
of the season just closed one of the marks
fired by Warreen was recovered from a
humpback at the Pt. Cloates whaling-
station of the Nor’-west Whaling Co. It
was thus recovered within a few miles of
where it was fired, a remarkable coinci-
dence, considering that the whale had in
the meantime visited the Antarctic feed-
ing-grounds with the rest of the hump-
back stock. This valuable work follows
up the early experiments carried out be-
tween 1934 and 1937, when the Royal
Research-ship William Scoresby, one of
the vessels of the Discovery Investiga-
tions, marked large numbers of whales
on the Antarctic grounds. Some of those
marked were taken up to two years later
during whaling operations off Nor’-west
Cape. Recently an aged female hump-
back marked as far back as 1936 was
recovered at the Carnarvon station of
the Australian Whaling Commission.
♦ ♦ * *
“Brick E.”: The building-line ran right
through an ant-bed, and young Ted was
digging the trench* on that side. Right
up to the gravelled mound the young
fellow worked ; then, somewhat gingerly,
commenced to cut through it. Thirty
seconds later he was rushing for the shed,
there to drag off his shorts and rid his
tortured person of a score of vengeful
meat-ants. He returned still having a rub
at various sections of his anatomy and
voicing a strong protest. Old George
hid a grin. “What’s up, son?” he asked
innocently. “Aw, strike me,” growled
the young-’un, “that’s over the odds
expectin’ a bloke to take the trench
through there—them ants’ll eat y’ alive.”
“Tell yer what, I’ll swap yer,” offered the
old-hand. The change was made with
alacrity. Experience took over tHe attack.
First the old bloke loosened the laces of
his heavy boots so they would “slop,”
then he pulled the tops of his thick,
knitted socks over the legs of his
dungarees. Though infuriated ants
swarmed around in savage confusion the
old chap showed no sign of discomfort.
When the trench was * -completed he
calmly emptied the squashed ants out of
his boots and explained to the chippy:
“See what happens to ’em when they try
to cross the gap between y’r boot and
y’r leg? A few might get across, but
they can’t get a go at y’ unless they
climb right up to y’r neck. These young
fellers have got no experience—they get
around like bush-apes with nothin’ on but
shorts and sandals” At that second
Ted clutched his shin and howled. “See
what I mean about experience?” asked
George. “A bloke with experience
wouldn’t’ve swapped a trench with a
meat-ants’ bed in jl for one that had a
bull-ants’ nest.”
* * * *
“Ringer”: We were having a run of
bad luck with our cooks, three coming
and going in a month, so, as one of the
shearers professed to know something
about it, they decided to try him out.
On his first day they all straggled in for
lunch to see a solitary leg of half-cooked
mutton on an otherwise bare table. Old
Peter the Pig sang out: “Any bread?”
The bab. shook his head, “Any
spuds?” pursued Peter. “No spuds,”
said the new cook. As Peter angrily
hoisted the meat out the door the cook
flew for him. “Y’ old cow!” he roared.
“Whaddaya think you’re stoppin’ at —a
flash Brisbane pub? Nex’ thing you’ll be
wantin’ flamin’ gravy—well, y’ won’t get
it here, I ain’t goin’ to mollycoddle y’
with fancy food an’ spoil things for the
next bloke.”
* * * ♦
“Dune”: Do they often come like this?
I was cold sober at the time and can
produce several witnesses whose strongest
tipple is milk. Squatting on a heap of
cement bricks and looking perfectly at
home was a common-or-garden variety
of frog. But he was so well matched in
color to the cement bricks that he was,
at first glance, hard to focus on. His skin,
too, being rough, showed up like the
sandy finish of the bricks. I would have
liked to move him to greener quarters to
follow up any chromatic reaction to the
change of environment, but he squeezed
into his concrete fortress; and, after all,
it was his home, and I didn’t have an
eviction-order handy.
* * * *
“Long Bob”; I would say that the
parrot seen by “W” (B. 26/12/’5l) with
the lories was the red-winged variety
(Aprosmictus ery thropier us), being either
a female or immature male ; the males at
full plumage are much gaudier fowl.
Presumably the lories are crimson
rosellas. I have often seen both these
lories and parrots in the one tree at
Tooraweenah (N.S.W.), and I think their
feeding habits may be similar.
STRANGE STRONG SONG.
I stood by a hill of stone
’Midst dust and flies and heat
But never was I alone
For ever I heard the beat
Of sticks from a phantom throng.
Mud-daubed with clays from this earth,
All singing a strange strong song
Of this land and its fierce rebirth.
The boomerangs measured the beat
And a song-man gaunt and old
Gave strength to the dancers’ feet,
And thus was the story told:
“We oame in the Dreamtime dawn,
We claimed this land as our own
As hills and rivers were born
From songs that are carved on stone,
“Carved deep by Elders who taught
The tales of days gone by:
How Heroes fought as they wrought
Life from a thunderous sky.
“We gazed as the white ones came
From out where the cold winds blow;
Fearing a thing without name
We crouched with our spears laid low.
“We watched as their cattle spread
On grass-lands far and wide
Yet ever they rode ahead
With our kinsfolk by their side.
“Their homes by our waters grew
By pads that our fathers made;
And the old became a new
Broad road with its roaring trade.
“And we who saw this go by
A song from our Elders give:
‘By greed does a country die,
Through faith shall its people live.’ ”
The voices faded away
With the wind’s low mournful drone;
Before me the broad earth lay,
And the heat on the hill of stone.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


“Solitude”: The pup was new to the
game, and I’d whistled, bellowed and
cursed myself hoarse when Seventyfiver
appeared, “Y” oughter stop that pup
chargin’ in like that, Sol,” he advised.
“He works too fast.” I ignored the inter-
ruption. “Y* wanter check that pup, Sol,”
he began again, as the mong dashed
eagerly forward at my bellowed order to
sit down. “It don’t do sheep no good t’
be raced like that. Make ’im go slower.”
“Sure,” I growled, “I’ll mention it to
him some time.” Followed another
sanity-shattering five minutes, then: “If
I was you, Sol, I’d stop that pup
racin’ ...” “Yair?” I managed, with a
noble effort. “Well, the trouble is I’ve
got too many dogs to handle. You take
the pup for a bit. I’ll tie him at the
shack as I pass.” Without waiting for
his reply, I hurried off. I kept out of his
way for a few days after that; then, hear-
ing him bringing in a mob of woollies
from the rough hill, I rode over to watch.
Sure enough, he had the pup. It was
working slowly behind the mob in the
correct manner, but something caught my
eye, and I closed in. Dragging by a length
of chain round the panting mong’s neck
was a short, heavy piece of wood, which,
despite all his efforts, effectively hobbled
him to half-speed.
* * * t
“Edjudina”; I wonder if “W.M.H.”
(B. 12/12/’5l) ever met a real untutored
child of the Australian desert. The abo.,
he says, is no better equipped physically
than the white man to endure scarcity of
water. Actually—and I speak from
experience—the white man as compared
with the primitive aboriginal is a sponge.
He pours as much fluid into himself in
one day as would serve a desert black for
a couple of weeks. “W.M.H.” should try
taking a Trans-line trip. Skipping over
the Nullarbor, which for the main part
was impossible country even for the abo.
“This act renders your policy invalid."
before the building of the line, he would
observe what is regarded as one of the
extraordinary botanical features of the
Centre—the salmon-gum forest east from
Kalgoorlie. He would doubtless imagine
himself stranded in that country: travel-
ling by night to conserve the water in his
body, resting by day in a cool hole dug
in the sand. To begin with, the earth,
hard loam, wouldn’t be cool even in that
forest. And with what does he think the
abo. would dig the hole—a hole big
enough temporarily to entomb his entire
body? Has “W.M.H.” ever tried digging
such a hole in hard ground with no other
tool than a stick? And, remember, that
salmon-gum country, hard enough itself
to kill any but the experienced bushman,
is Garden of Eden stuff compared with
the Great Victoria Desert, Yet the
aboriginal survived on that desert, as have
also a few whites. David Carnegie was
one: his exploring party, Coolgardie to
Hall’s Creek and back in 1896-97,
travelled by abo. rules; no man wet his
lips from the start, soon after daybreak,
until camp late in the afternoon.
Carnegie knew that if a man under such
desert conditions once started sipping at
the waterbag he was done. But only
exceptional desert-hardened men could
stand the going: Carnegie had learned
from the desert abos.
* * » #
“Old-timer”; When the new prices for
beer and spirits reached the pub at Col-
larenebri there was a lot of talk about
the robbing Governments and costs of
living and so forth. Jim Carroll, who’d
had a few and was about to leave, called
“Sing ’em out, boys. This is my last;
one for the road. Gimme a small glass,
boss.” This last to the publican.
“Gripes,” said that worthy, “a small glass
costs as much now as what a big one did
when I first come here.” Nullagine put
down his empty schooner and looked
severely at the speaker: “When didjer
ever see a big glass o’ beer?” he
demanded. There was a silence as every-
body tried to take this in. Nullagine
looked round. “All beer glasses is small,”
he told them, and morosely shoved his
schooner over for a refill.
* * * *
“Ringwood”; Whilst the possum pro-
ceeds up a tree in a manner similar to
the koala —that is, in a series of little
jumps—his method of descent is exactly
the opposite. He comes down head-
first. When shot, he sometimes hangs by
his tail in a death-grip, and remains
there until only the skeleton is left, thus
cheating his slayer of his pelt. The bear,
of course, descends stern-first like his
human friends. All the squirrel family
climb trees orthodox fashion, but vol-
plane down, usually to the base of
another tree.
♦ * * *
“Pedant”; The idea that the holes in
the earth’s crusts that contain the oceans
were made by huge masses of semi-plastic
matter being torn out by the earth’s
motion and flung away to form the moon
won’t—well, hold water. If such tearing-
out had taken place it would have been
around the equator, where the circular
motion is faster, and the sphere, being
slightly thicker there, would have taken
longer to cool. Actually, instead of run-
ning east and west, the line of the oceans
is north and south, the only east-west
expanse being the Southern Ocean, well
down where centrifugal motion was least.
A rational explanation of the formation
of the oceans is this; Originally a ball
of gas, then of fiery liquid, the earth
slowly grew a crust. This, now reckoned
to be about 40 miles thick, must have col-
lapsed of its own weight many times, the
inner molten core constantly shrinking
from loss of heat through countless
millions of years. Even when the crust
was five miles, ten miles thick, it con-
tinued to collapse. There is no guarantee
that even now at 40 miles thick it will
not some day collapse: it constantly
threatens to do so. The greatest depth
of ocean is under seven miles, the highest
mountain less than six. The average
depth of ocean is three miles. Thus it
requires no great stretch of probability
to picture a crust ten miles thick collaps-
ing and forming the holes into which the
oceans, long suspended as steam in the
atmosphere, ultimately fell. The oceans
of Venus, it is surmised, still hang
suspended over that planet.
* * *
“E.”: Was riding down the road with
Sam, when Jack Canny overtook us.
“That division fence between you and
me is smashed pretty bad,” he told Sam
sorrowfully. “Don’t know what hap-
pened it, but we can’t leave it like that.”
“No-o,” Sam agreed. “Your bull must
’ve done it,” “Aw, no, he’s not the
destructive kind,” said Canny hurriedly,
“More likely your poddy calves. Still,
it’s not your fault, Sam, and I’m ready
“Usually We don't fold 'em till We land."
to meet you there and help fix it, as soon
as you say. I suppose you’d like to get
it done tomorrow?” “Might as well,”
sighed Sam. “What time?” “Just what-
ever suits you,” Canny replied, with a
generous gesture. “All right. First thing
in the morning, then? About seven?”
Canny rubbed his chin, “Well, the
trouble is I’ll be milking then,” he
pointed out, “and I never finish before
nine. But I’ll come any time at all after
that till the five-o’clock milking again.”
“Well, what about just after dinner?” Sam
suggested. “Say two o’clock?” Again
there was a worried pause. “Of course,
if you really want me then,” his neighbor
replied slowly, “I could miss the factory
meeting, I suppose. But it means a lot
to me, this meeting, and it probably won’t
finish till nearly five.” “That’s all right,
well do the fence in the morning then,”
decided Sam. “What about half-past nine,
eh?” “Just whatever suits you,” agreed
Canny readily. “Might be a bit late
myself, seeing I’ve got to do up my truck
in the morning, but don’t you wait for
me, Sam. I’ll get there for a while some-
how or other. But, just in case I don’t,
make sure you get that netting-wire very
tight, won’t you?”
* ♦ * •
“Merv”; If “Nota Bene” cares to
amend his statement to agree with
“B. A. Ker” (B. 12/12/’sl> I’ll stack my
coat against both of them. Considering
the spread of shot at various ranges, it is
in theory easier for the average shooter
to hit a still target at longer range than
at close range. In practice this usually
works out, too, but on the moving target
—no, sir. If the grim choice were ever
thrust on me I’d prefer to take my chance
dodging shot on the run at 30 yards than
to take it sitting at 10 yards.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Took about 30 traps with
me round the hill-paddock, and left them
under logs wfiere, safe from sheep, they
would pick up the few remaining rabbits
Returning, I remembered I had set hap-
hazardly, using no line or system, and had
traversed all parts of the rough 300 acres.
Try as I did, I could be sure of no more
than half-a-dozen trap-positions. Two days
later I set off in the same direction, and
with no trouble at all visited each trap
in turn. Understandable then how a dog
can follow a meandering trap-line after
the first set, and pause at each trap. The
ability has nothing to do with active
memory. Took myself home one time by
the same method, after my horse had
cleared after my guide, leaving me in a
stretch of unknown range-country. The
section was heavily timbered, each range
and gully looked alike, I was miles from
a known landmark, amid many cul-de-
sacs and few outlets. All I was sure about
was the end of the gully I last entered.
Forcing my thoughts on other matters I
set out, plodding doggedly over ridges
and skirting gullies, taking little note of
the surroundings, till finally I emerged
into settled country at my point of entry
into the ranges. I don’t try to explain it.
The sleeping sense is opposed to rational
thought. But my trouble is that, while a
dog or nag can do it any time, I unfor-
tunately can’t.
He H* H« He
“Skip”: While feeding the fowls the
other evening I noticed two drakes look
up as a small duck stumbled from a
clump of lea-tree into the paddock with
loud quacking. Then they left their
grub-hunting, and quacked off to meet
her, exchanging greetings and escorted
her toward the fowl food, standing off till
she had refuelled. Web-footed chivalry
is still in flower!
* * *
“Abdul”: In the days when an outback
battler could live well enough on a few
bob a day “Tarcutta” Ted used to do odd
jobs. A bit of a miser, he had a bank
account in which he deposited his ac-
cumulated savings twice yearly, and from
which he drew out a shilling every day.
The bank staff weren’t enthusiastic about
the book-work involved, and one day Ted
was informed he could withdraw no
less than a pound at a time. Next day
he drew out the allowable minimum
without even a protest, and there were
sighs of relief from the staff, for, know-
ing his limited spending-powers, Ted
wasn’t expected back for at least a fort-
night. But hardly had the doors stopped
swinging after him than he walked in
again, to make a deposit of 19-bob!
* * » *
“Bo”; Just as there is no wrath so
righteous as that of the burglar unjustly
accused of doing a “job,” so there is no-
thing that riles a cocky more than to have
some neglect about his property ascribed
to a wrong cause. Which is why, when
Patterson from along the ridge unthink-
ingly leaned against Dad Brodie’s corner-
post and brought it down to a crumbled
mass, his subsequent remark that the
thing must have been rotten with white-
ants aroused Dad’s gorge. “Allow me to
tell y’,” he came back with simmering
indignation, “that there ain’t no white-
ants in this fence. If there’s one thing
I’m fussy about it’s them. Alwiz made
it a habit to get on to ’em right away as
soon as I see a trace of ’em. Look!”
he stooped and picked up a handful of
what had been the corner-post, and
crumbled it into dust with his fist—
“ Not a termite in it anywhere — thaf't
on’y dry-rot!”
THE OLD DESTROYER.
Heie where the river elbows through the hills,
Fast on a bank of sand, a shoal of years,
The old destroyer, half rolled-over, drives
Into a silent wave of trees that rears
A hundred feet above her empty decks.
She is a shadow merely; long ago
Her fires of life were drawn, her lamps put out:
Now in her flooded hull sea-flowers grow;
Now for the green free swoop of waves that ran
Spendthrift and wild albng her graceful sides,
Time and the old slow river have exchanged
The dark, dishonorable stain of tides.
Yet —strike her plates at twilight—you may hear
Life in the old ship yet, the boom and ring
Of orders, cheerful laughter, good strpng talk
Deep from her heart of darkness answering.
“Life in the old ship yet”—the echoes fade,
Within the shell the breeze falls slack and dies.
The gulls like ghosts swing downward to the
rails
And fill the evening with their thin white cries.
N.S.W,
ALEC BOLTON.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000, Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Circular Chart* for ell type*
of Recording Irutrument*
lor *nr cl*M ol MacMoory
or Cqglpmanl
METER CHART* • SpodaUf
UNmt «•••••*••< fa* •* Ol i IT
O'SHLUVAN^U
STREET. BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET SLAVERY: THE FACTS.
A map showing the location
of the slave-labor camps in
Russia has been published by
the American Federation of
Labor’s committee on free trade-
unions.
The number of slaves in the
camps today is set down at
some 14,000,000.
Regarding them, New York
“Herald Tribune” comments:
“A trickle of desperate fugitives
from the slave camps behind the
Iron Curtain keeps alive the
prickling knowledge that
millions of wretched men are
working and living like beasts.”
Covering the satellite countries
as well, so much irrefutable
documentary evidence on the
operations of the slave system
has piled up that U.N.O. has
appointed a special tribunal to
deal with this most wretched of
all features of the once-styled
“paradise.”
GRIM “EQUALITY”
None of the U.N.O. findings
“will be available to the public
within a reasonable time.”
Therefore, submitted evidence
compiled by the International
Federation of Free Journalists
has been published by this
group’s chairman, Boleslaw
Wierzbiansky, in a London
“Daily Telegraph” letter.
This is restricted to the
satellites. The most effective
system, it is stated, is that in
Czechoslovakia, where at least
240.000 prisoners work in dif-
ferent mines, factories and
other industrial enterprises:
“In the uranium mines around
Jachymov in Northern Bohemia
alone, 20,000 prisoners are
employed in 65 different camps.
Other centres of forced labor
are near Pardubice and
Budejovice.
“In Rumania nearly 200,000
people are detained in slave-
labor camps, many of them
employed on constructing the
Danube-Black Sea Canal.
“In Bulgaria about 60,000
inmates live in 19 of the most
important labor camps.
Bulgaria supplies another form
of slave labor, the so-called
labor army units, embracing
140.000 slave laborers, which
gives a total of 200,000.
“In Poland over 50,000
prisoners are kept mostly in the
Silesian mining district, but a
special camp exists in
Hrubieszow, where ex-service-
men who served with the Polish
forces under British command,
and after the war returned to
their homeland, are kept.
“In Hungary about 80,000
prisoners were detained in 20
concentration camps at the
beginning of 1951. Since May
this number must have been
increased by people evicted from
various towns.
“Conditions are brutally in-
human, with inadequate food,
inadequate clothing, unheated
hovels and insufficient medical
attention, which produces a high
mortality-rate. Ironically, some
of the camps in Czechoslovakia
are given names such as
‘Brotherhood’ and ‘Equality.’
“The free nations cannot
ignore that inhuman practices of
forced labor have spread
thousands of miles westward
during the last five years, bring-
ing slavery to the very centre of
the European continent.”
DEAD MILLIONS
U.S, Intelligence (as reported
in the “Herald Tribune”) has
estimated that in the past few
years 1,500,000 Eastern Euro-
peans have died as a result of
forced deportations of popula-
tions, purges and confinements
to prison and slave-labor camps.
In a London “Daily Tele-
graph” article, “Liquidation by
Deportation,” Michael Padev
has reported that in all six
satellites (Albania, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
Poland and Rumania) the total
number of deportees is certainly
not less than 2,000,000.
“The figures,” adds Padev,
“may seem incredible to people
unfamiliar with Iron Curtain
affairs. If anything, however,
they err on the side of under-
statement. No pen can describe
the full horror of the sufferings
of countless ‘class enemy’
families, marked for col d-
blooded liquidation almost
within the sight of Western
Europe.”
INSATIABLE
To the U.N.O. tribunal trade-
union organisations have sub-
mitted documented reports.
One quoted by a London
YUGOSLAV COMMENT ON RUSSIAN COLLECTIVISATION.
“He pulls me gratefully because I liberated him from capitalist exploitation.”
“Time and Tide” writer is a
brochure entitled Stalin’s Slave
Camps compiled by the
International Confederation of
Free Trade-unions.
It details how, to get the labor
supply needed for the vast in-
dustrial enterprises set in motion
under the five-year plans, the
Kremlin began using prisoners
for forced labor. But the
demand for labor, was insatiable,
so to increase the supply of
prisoners forced labor was pre-
scribed as the penalty for all
sorts of offences. Then, under
the compulsion of need, it was
prescribed that offences were not
really necessary to get men into
forced labor. “Attitudes of
mind” were enough.
One document quoted in the
brochure says: “You have been
arrested because it has been con-
firmed that your attitude to the
People’s Democratic Republic is
entirely negative.” The sentence
in this case was of 18-months’
forced labor in a slave-camp.
RELATIVES
It was discovered, too, that
the labor supply could be in-
creased considerably if not only
the individual but his relatives as
well were made responsible for
his actions or “attitudes.” If a
man flees the country, relatives
who knew of his intention are
rounded up for anything up to
10 years of forced slave labor;
even relatives who had no know-
ledge of the intended escape can
be given five years.
Among the categories listed
for deportation from the Baltic
countries were:
Persons who had occupied
prominent positions in civil or
communal service: prominent
members of anti-Communist
parties. Social Democrats,
Liberals, small farmers, active
members of Jewish organisations,
industrialists, wholesale
merchants, owners of large
houses, shipowners, owners of
hotels and restaurants, persons
who had been in the diplomatic
service, relatives of persons who
had escaped abroad.
NO TRIAL
A further field, it is pointed
out, was found by abolishing
trials and the necessity for prov-
ing guilt.
Thus, the Corrective Labor
Codex of the U.S.S.R. lays it
down that: “Persons are directed
to corrective labor who have
been sentenced thereto by ( a )
sentence in a court of law or ( b )
decree of an administrative
organ”:
“In practice men are arrested
in the dead of night, no charge
is preferred against them, there
is no trial and no opportunity
of bringing evidence. They
simply disappear to a slave-camp
and may be there for months
before knowing what the charge
or even the sentence is. Nor is
the sentence at all determinate.
It can be extended again and
again for ‘offences against camp
discipline.’
“The war provided, in the
persons of German and Japanese
and other prisoners, a new and
wide source of slave labor. The
Russians declare that they have
repatriated all foreign prisoners,
but millions of them are still
missing. In many cases, doubt-
less, the horrible conditions of
the slave-camps have killed them
off, but it is likely that in the
dim recesses of the U.S.S.R.
hundreds of thousands of them
are still living as slaves.”
The figures on this are that
the U.S.S.R. has failed to
account for approximately
3,000,000 prisoners taken in
World War 11.
“Families all over Germany,
Italy and Japan as well as some
in Hungary, Austria and
Rumania know that fathers,
brothers and sons were captured
by the Russians and have not
come back.”
NAZIS OUTDONE
“The conditions in the camps
defy description,” says the “Time
and Tide” writer, quoting the
trade-unions’ report. “Food is
about half the number of calories
necessary !o maintain health,
medical attention is appallingly
inadequate, disease abounds.
From a sanitary and health point
of view conditions are vastly
worse than in Hitler’s notorious
camps.
“This slave labor, which now
comprises one person in every
10 adults in the Soviet Union and
which has been instituted every-
where where the Communists
have triumphed, is the more
frightening because it has be-
come an integral part of the
planned Soviet State. No change
of heart in Communist Govern-
ments could alter it, for the
economies of the countries con-
cerned have come to depend
utterly upon it.
“EXPENDABLES”
“The world has seen chattel-
slavery ; it has seen feudal ‘tied
serfdom’; it has seen what is
called ‘wage-slavery.’ But the
slavery of the workers in the
slave-camps of the totalitarian
regimes is worse than all or any
of them.
“The owner of the chattel-
slaves had an interest in keeping
them strong and well. So had
the feudal lord for his men. So
has the capitalist. The Com-
munist regimes have not. The
labor is ‘expendable.’ Masses of
additional slaves can be mobilised
to take the place of those who
die. The recruiting authority is
the M.D.V. State enterprises
notify their requirements of
labor and the M.D.V. rounds up
the necessary number.”
In another of its documented
reports, dealing specially with
Poland, the International Con-
federation of Free Trade-unions
lists some of the tasks of a
“social labor inspector,” includ-
ing visiting the sick and unmask-
ing “cases of simulated illness.”
The Free Trade-u nio n s
organisation describes the docu-
ment about Poland as “a blue-
print of that nightmare world
which the Communists aim to
achieve ; a world in which the
individual worker’s every move-
ment is timed to serve the
economic interests of the omni-
potent State, his very thoughts
moulded in perfect harmony
with the insane ambitions of
power-crazy dictators.”
Various Voices.
British Food Minister, Gwilym
Lloyd George: “Our [Britain’s]
stocks of wheat and flour,
margarine and cooking-fats,
sugar and butter, to take a few
examples, are well below the
level of 1941,”
Eisenhower: “Even now our
troops are not helpless. If the
balloon goes up today, what we
are going to do is fight, make
no mistake about it.”
Paul Porter, of Economic Co-
operation Administration,
explains what America aims at
in E.C.A.’s successor, the
Mutual Security Agency: “In
fixing the amount of our [U.S.]
support we shall negotiate with
each country on the size of its
defence programme. In help-
ing Western Europe to rearm
we shall provide people as well
as dollars. Among them will be
highly - trained production
specialists, available where
needed to help Europeans turn
out more goods from their
defence factories.”
British Trades Union Congress
assistant - secretary, Victor
Feather: “The only real hope
for this country is to make our
industry more efficient and to
increase our production. We
have got to insist on wider joint
consultation to help to bring
this about. At the same time,
this country will have to enter
into international arrangements,
particularly with Commonwealth
nations, about the production,
the allocation and the price of
raw materials, so that we can
get some stability into the world.
That is going to mean more
planning, not less.”
U.S. Air Force Secretary,
Thomas K. Finletter, on re-
armament : “We are trying to
make it plain that what we are
really after is peace. These
armaments are not intended to
be used unless we are compelled
to use them. The purpose of all
these armaments is to give the
world, and our statesmen in
particular, the chance to work
out some sort of system with
the Communist world which will
give up war as a means of
settling differences between
peoples.”
International Statistical Insti-
tute president, Dr. Stuart A.
Rice, at the Delhi conference,
where 200 delegates represented
38 countries: “How can a
scientifically-trained mind find a
common ground of understand-
ing with those in Moscow who
assert that the law of proba-
bility has nothing to do with
statistics ; that statistics cannot
be concerned with mass
phenomena of nature; that its
theoretical foundations are all
embodied in the tenets of Soviet
orthodoxy; and that its whole
raison d’etre is to aid in perfect-
ing a Communist society?
These theses suggest the existence
of an unbridgeable gulf between
Soviet conceptions and those
which have guided the develop-
ment of modern science since
the heliocentric theory of Coper-
nicus, founded on empirical
observation, triumphed over
medieval dogma.”
Professor of Physiology at
Cambridge, E. D. Adrian, on
brain operations by which
“behavior can be changed,’’
with removal of “forces which
lead to anxiety and self-
criticism” : “What is remark-
able is not so much that they
can be altered by interfering
with the structure of the brain,
but that these particular forces
can be dissected out, so to speak,
leaving the rest of the person-
ality not greatly altered. We
do not know enough to predict
how far such dissection might
go, but it has to be realised that
the surgery of the brain is much
less formidable than it used to
be.”
U.S. defence mobilisation
director, Charles Wilson: “We
are going to produce not only
everything that is needed to
supply our current forces, as
well as to ship arms to our allies,
but we are going to establish
standby facilities and reserve
production lines that can
instantly be expanded to provide
for the needs of all-out war if—
and may God forbid—it should
occur. I put no stock in the
gloomy prophecies that a de-
pression will follow the achieve-
ment of our peak of strength.
The American economy is still
capable of great expansion.”


On the average • • .
one family
in three relies
an the
YOU DON’T EARN THE TRUST OF THOUSANDS
BY CHANCE.
One in three Australian families, on the average,
rely on the A.M.P. The A.M.P. has earned this
trust by service; service given in full measure for
over a century because the A.M.P. is, and always
has been, a wholly mutual society. There are no
shareholders, and all surplus earned is returned in
full to policyholders. Perhaps that is one of the
reasons why the Australian Mutual Provident
Society, in just over a century, has grown to be
the largest Mutual Life Assurance Office in the
British Commonwealth, and the firm friend of
countless thousands of Australians.
Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
skill on your family finance so as to obtain the
maximum value in protection for you and your
family. His background and training make him
the ideal person to assist you. The A.M.P. Agent
Is a "Sure Mend in Uncertain Times”.
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
General Manager:
M. C. Buttfield
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches through-
out Australia,
New Zealand, and
Great Britain.
The A.M.P. is the
largest Mutual Life
Assurance Office
in the Empire.
Ai.aoi
Missing Friend.
WOULD ELIZABETH ESTHER NEW-
HAM (nee Dawbin), or anyone knowing
her present whereabouts, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE,
Marton, New Zealand?
The Department of
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in a wide
range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in touch
with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home-study courses
will open up new interests and enthusiasms as well as lead to
EFFICIENCY PROMOTION SUCCESS
Any person, other than those of school age, who, by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, cannot attend Technical College classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses.
I ART.—Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Drawing-
Dressmakers’ Art, Display Card
Writing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE—Bookkeeping. Commer-
cial English, Commercial Principles,
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial
Law, Income Tax Law and Practice,
Banking, Finance and Foreign Ex-
change, Cost Accountancy, Company
Secretarial Practice, Economics,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Cor-
respondence, Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—L 0C a 1
Government Town and Shire Clerks’
Certificate, Local Government
Auditors’ Certificate
ELECTRICAL TRADES for appren-
tices and journeymen.
ENGINEERING TRADES.—Fitting
and Machining, Automotive Mech-
anics, Refrigeration (for apprentices
and journeymen), Steam Engine
Operation,_ Steam Boiler Attendants,
Gas Engineering, Diesel Engine
Operation, Motor Maintenance (for
owners and drivers of motor vehicles).
SURVEYlNG.—Certificate Course.
GENERAL EDUCATION.—EngIish
and Mathematics (approximately
from Ist year Secondary to Leaving
Certificate standard), French, Mech-
anics, Modern History, Geography,
Economics (approximately from In-
termediate Certificate to Leaving Cer-
tificate and/or Matriculation to Uni-
versity of Sydney standard).
MARINE ENGINEERING.—Ist and
2nd Class Marine Engineer’s Certifi-
cate, Part A.
BUILDING TRADE Building
Construction, Carpentry and Joinery
(Theory, Calculations, Drawing and
Trade Practice).
PRINTING TRADES. —Composing,
Printers’ English and Arithmetic
Linotype Operation, Bookbinding,
Letterpress Printing (for apprentices
and journeymen).
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS.— QuaIi-
fying examinations (Degree and Dip-
loma Courses), N.S.W. University of
Technology, Certificate Entrance, De-
partment of Technical Education,
Intermediate (see Secondary) and
Leaving Certificates, matriculation
to University of Sydney, Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH.— HeaIth Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
RURAL. —Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry Farm-
ing, Sheep and Woolclassing, Dairy
Technology, Dairy Farming, Bee
Keeping, Farm Mechanics (including
Farm Machinery, Farm Scfence and
Farm Arithmetic), -Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Farm
and Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION. — H ou s e Drainage,
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing,
Gas Fitting.
SECONDARY.— EngIish, French,
Latin, Mathematics I and 11, Arith-
metic, Algebra, Geometry, History.
Geography, Bookkeeping, Art, Social
Studies, Handicrafts, Technical
Drawing, Needlework, Home Eco-
nomics.
HOME HANDlCRAFTS.— Dress-
making, Millinery, Dressmakers’ Art,
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and other of the above courses.
PERSONS RESIDING IN THE SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA
OR IN A COUNTRY TOWN SERVED BY A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE SHOULD APPLY FOR ENROLMENT IN THE APPRO-
PRIATE ORAL CLASSES.
Fees moderate—details available on application.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO; The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Department of
Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (in block letters)
ADDRESS
Music at the Close.
Sydney is mostly a sort of
great sprawling brawl to live in,
with every bus and tram rush-
ing madly on its way before you
have had time to swing yourself
into a seat (if there is a seat),
every motorist trying to knock
you down, racketeers and black-
marketeers flourishing, a thous-
and greedy hands stretched out
to grab your pay-envelope,
murder enjoying a carnival with-
out fear of the death-penalty,
and everybody busy being un-
civil to everybody else in the
scramble for money and elbow-
room. If the city is growing
and developing it is growing like
some demented fungus.
But occasionally it does some-
thing to redeem itself; to be-
come what a city should be; a
centre of civilisation, a focal-
point of the nation’s develop-
ment at its highest. And one of
those rare and redeeming
occasions was the A.B.C.’s
night-time orchestral concert in
the Domain.
Trying to be popular—per-
haps wisely in an arena
usually devoted to the Sunday
entertainment of Atok i s m.
Nudism, Trotskyism, Com-
munism and a hundred other
vociferous lunacies —the A.B.C.
put on rather a scrappy pro-
gramme. But it was, in its way,
magnificently Australian. James
Wilson, repeatedly assuring the
amplifiers that he would scorn
to fight with such a foe as
Handel had provided for him,
is an Australian baritone; June
Bronhill, charmingly impersona-
ting a Mozart maiden in blue in
the huge wooden box where the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
sits, is an Australian soprano;
there was the Hurlstone Choral
Society melodiously building
Jerusalem in Australia’s green
and pleasant land.
Along with the bits of Wagner
and Mozart there was a sturdy
bit of Alfred Hill and also
Henry Krips’s “Land of Mine”
which won the A.B.C.’s Jubilee
song competition; and even
when Miss Bronhill was singing
an air from “Maritana” it
turned out that the English
composer had based it on a trip
to this part of the world and
was complaining about the
shortage of love in Tasmania.
And, dramatised by the
A.B.C.’s box of light and tall
amplifying-towers, the Domain
is, when you come to think of
it, the centre of a surprisingly
rich concentration of Australian
culture. You get to it past the
lovely Shakspeare Memorial and
the rather squashy bas-relief
put up not long ago to com-
memorate the steeds of the Light
Horse; past the Public Library
and the Mitchell with its price-
less store of Australian literary
and historical treasures; and
then on the far side, after you
have walked through that
superb avenue of Moreton Bays
(which may no vandal ever be
allowed to cut down), there is
the Art Gallery with the
Gruners, Streetons, Lindsays,
Ramsays, Tom Robertses and
Hilders which the daily news-
papers may try to efface but
time will never; and round the
corner to the left, just near
enough to be mildly astonished
at hearing Wagner in a haunt
sacred to the Domain-dossers of
old, is George Lambert’s gentle
statue of Henry Lawson with his
dog and his swag. Henry spent
a lot more time in Sydney than
he ever did on the track; but
still, that’s the legend.
All in all, it was a fine
spectacle; the headlamps and
ruby tail-lights of cars passing
along Macquarie-street, the dark
Moreton Bays and shapely Port
Jacksons with an occasional
flying-fox swooping softly from
one to the other, a steamy mist
drifting across the stars in a
fresh north-easterly, the slight
figure of Joseph Post cajoling
his horde of musicians in the
box, and the tall towers filling
the night with music.
It left with a Bulletin man
three abiding impressions; that
the public had at last found a
proper use for Sydney’s Sunday
newspapers—there had been a
light shower before the concert,
and the 4000 people all brought
their favorite news-sheets, un-
folded them, and sat on them;
that, comparing this sylvan
scene with the dismal and dusty
dens where you have to go to
find worth-while plays, Sydney
music-lovers are a lucky tribe;
and that an ugly and menacing
year had at least come pleas-
ingly to a close.
"The Sleeping
Princess."
To Tschaikowsky’s intense
annoyance the court and the
Tsar didn’t like his “Sleeping
Princess” at its first presenta-
tion in 1890. He knew he had
done a good job, but the court
would probably have liked a
few jokes from the Widow
Twankey to brighten up things
at the Christmas season.
The subsequent history of the
ballet proved the composer right
and the court wrong, and Boro-
vansky could not have made a
better selection for his final
show at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. The ballet, usually
done in snippets as “Aurora’s
Wedding,” is given entire in its
five acts and apotheosis, and
there is scarcely a dull moment
in it for the epicures of dancing,
Borovansky having poured all
his available talent into it, Wil-
liam Constable having let him-
self go in the matter of scenery
and costumes and the tech-
nicians having partially con-
quered their passion for show-
ing up every artificiality of
make-up and emotion with their
ferocious lighting.
In several places, notably the
awakening of Aurora from her
100-year sleep and the transfor-
mation of Florestan’s palace to
a jungle, the effects are most
engaging, and the actors become
part of their environment in-
stead of looking as if they were
gummed on.
Peggy Sager makes frequent
appearance as Aurora, and her
vigorous body, her equally
vigorous dancing and her im-
passioned miming, when she
gives herself a 100-year sentence
by pricking herself with a knit-
ting-needle, invariably brings
the house down.
Paul Hammond as Carabosse,
the wicked fairy, is as sinister
a figure as any panto demon,
and the frequent apparition of
solemn-faced young men in
skin-tights and short jackets
chasing and picking up the
sylphlike figures of the ballerinas
provides what must seem like
comic relief to any youngster
who has been taken by his
parents to see this new sort of
panto. The story, containing as
it does all the necessary ingredi-
ents of love, hate, good and evil,
malevolence pursuing beauty,
suspense, tragedy and triumph,
is perfect for the purpose. In
the festival of dances at the
finish the company attains the
highest standard. And through
it all runs the thread of
Tschaikowsky’s glittering music.
Vic. Students' Show.
“X.F.”: Melbourne National
Gallery trustees, teachers and
judges have been busy arrang-
ing and judging work by
students who range in age from
14 to 50 and come to Australia’s
premier art school from places
as far apart as Perth and Dar-
win. When their job was
finished the walls of the Mc-
Allen Gallery were covered with
as heterogeneous a collection of
art fashions as could be
imagined.
It would be interesting to
know why the judges awarded
a first prize to a landscape in
which the trees, boats and houses
all seem to be suffering from an
attack of yellow jaundice and
another first prize to a still-life
of fruit and bottles which is
very badly painted and all
green? A nude with a receding
head and obtrusive lower exi-
tremities gets another first prize,
and the Grace Joel prize for a
half-nude goes to the back of
a lady which has no more
aesthetic quality than dozens of
others in the exhibition. Two
small studio interiors appear to
have some quality.
Who’s Who in Australia
doesn’t include Jenny Howard
in its list of eminent English-
women resident in this country
who have made a regular con-
tribution to the education of the
young, but as far back as pre-
sent commentator can remem-
ber Miss Howard has always
turned up at Christmas, as spry
and fresh and interested as ever,
to introduce the kids to a world
of wonder and real skill and
aspiration. She is on the job in
“Aladdin” at the, Princess, Mel-
bourne, at the moment, frustrat-
ing the wicked machinations of
Abanazer and, with the aid of
slave-of-the-lamp Arvid Fibigs,
rescuing the lovely Chinese
princess Patricia Hardie from a
fate worse than death. It is a
great show, and there’s nothing
better in it than Eddie Edwards
as the Widow Twankey.


IBIS BOOKLET
ON REQUEST
L 2:
«tiS
Vu
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTS
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
■pvO you know: when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Herald & Weekly Times (Melb.)
f Dividends ,
/—* —Pref.— Re-
Sept., Profit.* 6£ p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
1945. .251,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184.. 508,484
From tax reserve, £70,511 .. 578,995
1946. .254,140 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 654.510
From tax reserve, £15,773 .. 670,283
1947. .245,821 8124 16,500 14 p.c.=157,40C 734,074
From tax reserve, £19,786 .. 753,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,860
1948. .292,330 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=180,800 1,236,765
Surplus sale investments, £243,546. . 1,480,311
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110. . 1,585,421
From tax reserve, £24,642 .. 1,610,063
Depreciation, £236,219 .. .. 1,373,844
1949. .272,228 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,417,447
Reduction reserves, £105,334 .. 1,312,113
Depreciation, £87,579 .. .. 1,224,534
1950. .322,828 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,318,737
Taxes paid, £5399 .. .. .. 1,313,338
Depreciation, £89,440 .. .. 1,223,898
1951..321,102 8125 16,500 14.1 =204,000 1,316,375
* Includes provision for depreciation,
t After deducting intangibles, now £ 250,009.
It was a difficult year for the newspaper
and magazine publisher, and the co.—
Australia’s largest publishing-house—did
well to show a net profit of £231,662,
which was only £3037 short of the 1950
figure and £3037 more than the pref. divs.
and 14.1 p.c. to the ords. called for.
Shortage of, and the high cost of, news-
print and steep rises in wage and all other
production costs were the main troubles.
To help meet them selling-prices of the
co.’s journals were increased in Oct.,
1951—the “Herald” and “Sun” from 2d.
tb 3d. a copy—advertising-rates were
lifted by 50 p.c, in March, 1951, and
smaller-column measure was introduced
in the following July.
Commenting on the position, the chair-
man, Sir Keith Murdoch, said:
We have been pinched for newsprint—
badly pinched. We could have used 25 p.c.
more of our vital raw material. There has
been no shortage of news; the times have
been stirring enough. No shortage of
advertisements; business has streamed past
the door. No shortage, really, of circula-
tion, although no newspaper will ever regard
its circulation as adequate.
In Melbourne the co. turns out two dailies
(“Sun” morning and “Herald” evening,
each with net daily sales around the
410,000-mark) which are the back-
bone of the business, as well as
three weeklies and a like number
of periodicals. In the color-gravure
section, which has “reached a
position among the top publishers of the
country,” book sales exceeded 800,000
for a turnover of £330,000. The co.’s two
Victorian broadcasting-stations (3DB and
3KL) have been “soundly profitable,” and
satisfactory returns were received from
shareholdings in the “Courier-Mail”
(Brisbane), “Advertiser” (Adelaide) and
Australian Newsprint Mills (Tas.), a
venture which the co. pioneered and
which, subject to adequate power becom-
ing available, will presently turn out
about 40 d.c. of Australia’s newsprint
requirements.
The only lame duck is “Woman’s Day
and Home,” a weekly now published by
Herald Gravure Pty., Ltd., which is
jointly owned by H. and W. T. and John
Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd. (Sydney). It
is an amalgamation of two women’s
journals—“ Woman’s Day” and “Home”
—launched separately by each co, a
couple of years ago. The amalgamated
publication has now “reached what would
have been, when it was launched, a profit-
able state of sales and advertising revenue,
but has been struck by numerous new
costs, and has had to be substantially
helped by the earnings of our other pub-
lications,” the chairman says.
Increased selling-prices and advertising-
rates brought in an extra £690,343. There
was a slip of £4231 in the return from
investments;
Revenue— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Trading .. £3,598,209 £4,308,249 £4,998,592
Investments . . 74,334 80,095 75,864
Total .. £3,072,543 £4,388,344 £5,074,456
F.xpenditure—-
Wages, etc. .. 980,081 1,148,155 1,371,812
Printing paper. . 1,490,486 1,915,145 2,219,015
Other exes. .. 883,630 986,795 1,128,747
Taxation .. 89,000 108,000 123,220
Total £3,443,197 £4,153,095 £4,842,794
Net profit . . 229,346 235,249 231,662
The rise in the wage bill, etc., Was
£228,657, and in the paper bill £303,870
and in other exes. £141,952. The co.
used 27,800 tons of paper which cost
on the average £7B 16s. 6d. a ton. Over-
seas supplies are bought through the
pool, which paid up to £175 a ton for
some lots. Output of the Tasmanian mills
fell short of expectations, owing to the
Government’s cancellation of its original
power contracts with these mills. The
£231,662 of profit claimed covered the
pref. divs. (£24,625) and 14.3 p.c. on
the £1,440,000 of ord. capital as against
14.6, 14.2 and 16 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. The div. remained at
14.1 p.c., which approximately was the
rate paid since 1938.
Profits in the introductory table include
the p. and 1. allowance for depreciation
(£89,440, up £lB6l last term), which is
then shown as written off. Until 1949 this
allowance was tossed into a reserve for
restoration, etc., which has since been
taken out of the window and deducted
from the book-value of plant, etc.
Chief movements in balance-sheet
figures were a net addition of £302,328 to
shareholdings, on which the board makes
no comment, of £130,713 to freeholds and
£43,368 to plant:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Stock .. .. £831,275 £656,020 £586,445
Debtors, etc. . . 734,319 886,476 837,491
Shares other cos... 672,480 792,426 1,094,754
Cash, etc 210,166 2,811 2,090
Liquids .. .. £2,448,240 £2,337,733 £2,520,780
Liabilities* .. 653,582 885,768 1,185,258
Surplus .. . . £1,794,658 £1,451,965 £1,335,522
Freehold, etc. . . 677,466 755,340 886,053
Machinery and
plant .. .. 788,676 951,432 994,800
Net assets .. £3,260,800 £3,158,737 £3,216,375
* Includes provision for taxation.
To help meet the outlay stocks (down
£69,575) and debtors’ balances (down
£48,985) were reduced and £299,490 net
was added to the outside debt, etc. To
finance completion of the new Hawthorne
building and installation of additional
plant and equipment already on order
the co. has arranged to issue £750,000 of
4j p.c. unsecured registered notes in equal
proportions to the A.M.P. and Colonial
Mutual Life. So shareholders aren’t
likely to be asked for more at the
moment.
As for newsprint, the supply position
is becoming easier, thanks to increased
Canadian output, for purchase of which
the Government has granted a new alloca-
tion of dollars. But the price promises
to be higher. Still, bigger papers will
mean more advertising, and the current
year’s accounts will get the full benefit of
the lift in rates, etc. However, next
month’s anticipated lift in the basic wage
is likely to mean a big lift in the payroll
total—employees number some 1880 —as
well as all-round increases in transport
and other charges.
At 15s. 3d. (225. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. ss. ords. return 4.6 p.c. on a 14.1 p.c.
div. basis. At 265. 3d. and 245. the £1
p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. yield 4.9 p.c. and
5 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover is
£25 ss. 6-\ percents, £ll 6 percents and
9s. 7d. ords.
Com’wealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. < — serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1946 ~ 154,921 10 = 95,207 59,714 302,060
Refund deferred maintenance, £3775.. 305,835
1947 ~ 150,,048 8 = 76,665 73,383 379,218
From inndr reserves to special depre-
ciation, £155,174 534,392
1948 .. 211,489 10 = 116,665 94,824 629,216
Unexplained addition special depre-
ciation, £78,186 707,402
1949 .. 168,378 10 = 145,832 22,546 729.948
To capital assets reserve, £86,046 . . 815,994
Net unexplained addition, £21,027.. 837,021
To tax reserve, £67,523 .. .. 769,498
Added intangibles, £5396 . . . . 764,102
1950 .. 310,790 10 = 174,998 f 135,792 899.894
Reserves capitalised, £486,105 . . 413,789
Capital profit, £3965 .. .. .. 417,754
1951 .. 239,939 8 = 204,814 35,125 452,879
* After deducting excess cost over net tangible
value shares in subsidiaries on incorporation (now
£734,874), and including special reserve for depre-
ciation ( £226,303 at June 30, 1950).
t Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip issued Oct., 1950.
Formed in Sydney in 1935 with the
blessing of the British Oxygen Co., Ltd.
(London), which has been a tower of
strength on the financial and technical
sides, this big holding co. set out to
achieve economies in buying and selling
and to hasten development by bringing
under one control a number of widely-
separated concerns engaged in producing
and distributing oxygen, acetylene and
other industrial and medical gases and
ancillary equipment. Later subsidiaries
making electrodes and welding equip-
ment were added to the group, which now
consists of nine operating cos., six of
which make industrial gases, etc., one
manufactures industrial- and medical-gas
equipment and the other two electrodes
and welding equipment.
Production and sales expanded with
the rapid post-war growth of Australian
industry and establishment of new fac-
tories at metropolitan and country
centres. Shareholders, who got into the
picture with 10 p.c. in 1937, have since
received annual divs. averaging 8.8 p.c.
and paid capital, £850,000 at the start,
had grown to £2,999,713 at Sept. 30,
1951, when the lot, and £452,879 besides,
was represented by net tangibles in the
books. In October last two lots of new
£1 shares were put out, one a gift and
the other for cash. The gift was 486,105
bonus shares, provided by the parent!
writing up the book-value of its holdings
in subsidiaries by that amount. The cash
issue was 1,055,581 new shares at par,
and all but £287 of the money had been
received when the books closed.
The £1,055,294 of fresh cash-paid
capital, together with £183,871 from the
bank and the year’s provisions and sur-
plus earnings, etc., was used to lighten
the debt to the London co. and finance
further expansion of the undertaking;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,458,314 £1,458,314 £2,999,713
Overdraft . . 34,277 183,871
Creditors . . .. 714,214 1,079,539 315,979
Tax provision . . 171,771 272,906 449,846
Final div 87.499 116,665 115,208
Freeholds, etc. . . 456,369 530,785 843,092
Plant, etc. . . 1,022,486 1,373,347 1,477,285
Investments .. 34,426 34,4-26 34,426
Stocks .. .. 1,082,332 1,129,668 1,467,930
1(0'k debts .. 446.319 551,899 693.613
Cash, etc. .. 154,091 207,193 1,150
The amount coming to' creditors was
reduced by £763,560, while £312,307 was
added to freeholds, etc., £103,938 to
plant, £338,262 to stocks and £141,714
to book debts. Cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £206,043 net. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,132,254) increased by
£678,178.
And the programme of expansion is
not yet complete. Two new liquid-
oxygen plants and a dissolved-acetylene
factory are to be installed at Sydney, and
similar units are to be erected on a 22-
acre block recently bought at Preston
(Vic.). Also, small liquid-oxygen units
are to be added to the Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Perth factories, and more manu-
facturing units are to be set up in expand-
ing industrial centres. To meet the out-
lay additional capital will be required in
the “relatively near future,” the chair-
man says. In this connection, however,
capital-issues control has yet to approve
whatever the board’s proposals may be.
Last term turnover continued to ex-
pand. The contraction of £70,851 in
declared net earnings was due to the
steep rise in operating costs and heavy
provision for taxation (£306,824, up
£117,946), which included £29,564 for de-
ferred tax on special initial allowance for
depreciation. The £239,939 of profit
claimed was 9.5 p.c. on average capital as
against 21.3, 11.5, 18.9, 15.7 and 16.2 p.c.
back to 1946. A couple of points was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 8 p.c.,
which is equal to 9.5 p.c. on capital as it
now stands, less the bonus scrip already
referred to.
Since the close of accounts selling-
prices for oxygen and acetylene gases—
controlled in all States except N. S. Wales
—have been lifted for the first time since
1947. But since the allowance for de-
preciation (£212,641, down £25,296 last
term) is based on original cost, which is
about one-third of present replacement
cost, consideration is being given to
building up a fixed-assets replacement
reserve to bridge the gap. It is doubtful,
therefore, whether better than an 8 p.c.
div. need be looked for at present. Much
will depend upon the extent to which
gains from expanding turnover offset the
continued rise in costs.
The co.’s pound shares, which fetched
70s. in June, 1951, sold at 495. on Dec.
21 last. At the lower figure the immedi-
ate return is 3.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is visibly 235.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- De-
June, Profit. , Dividends N serves, licit.*
£ £ £ £
1944 . . 8,565 6 p.c. = 6,556 2,009 6,161
1945 ..„ 9,628 6 „ „ 7,272 2,356 3,805
1946 .. 13,331 7i „ „ 9,983 3,348 457
Reserves.*
1947 . . 19,206 10 „ „ 13,311 5,895 5,438
From tax reserve, £6718 .. .. 12,156
Profit sale Govt, securities, £655 .. 12,811
1948 .. 24,371 10 p.c. = 13,908 10,463 23,274
To staff fund, £5OOO 18,274
1949 .. 24,437 10 p.c. = 21,656 2,781 21,055
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 19,055
Share premiums, £46,422 .. .. 65,477
1950 .. 47,673 10 p.c. = 33,659 14,014 79,491
To staff fund, £2OOO 77,491
1951 .. 89,607 10 p.c. = 34,642 54,965 132,456
To staff fund, £7OOO 125,456
♦After deducting intangibles (now £7517) and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £111,801).
Shareholders in this 15-year-old manu-
facturer of high-grade and standard
Axminster carpets and rugs, which are
turned out from locally-spun yarns, came
into the picture with a 5 p.c. div. in the
third year of operations. The rate climbed
to 10 p.c. in 1947 and has remained steady
since, the average over the last dozen
years being 7.7 p.c. And at June 30 last
they could see the whole of their capital
and £125,456 besides represented by
tangible assets.
As additional plant was installed pro-
duction and sales expanded, chief bottle-
necks being delays in delivery, and short-
ages of skilled labor and materials. To
help overcome the labor problem staff
has been recruited in the U.K. and a
hostel built to house them. Also, to
ensure adequate supplies of the right
kinds of yarns, a controlling interest
(51 p.c.) was bought in Sydney Woollen
Mills Pty., a couple of years ago. The
proprietary has a paid capital of £98,605
in 303,400 f.-p. 6s. 6d. shares, of which
Carpet Manufacturers bought 154,740
for £93,076, paying in 46,538 of its own
f.-p. £1 shares issued at a premium of
100 p.c. Besides carpet and other yarns,
the new subsidiary, which used to be an
offshoot of John Vicars and Co., Ltd.,
makes blankets, rugs, tweeds and does
contract carbonising as well. Last term
it netted £29,259, or 29.6 p.c. on its capital
and paid 18 p.c. from tax-free reserves,
reducing them to £42,631, about half of
which will be paid eventually to the
parent. At June 30 last net tangibles
were equal to 455. lid. per pound of paid
capital.
The parent thus received £9052 from
the subsidiary (equal to 9.7 p.c. on the
purchase price of the scrip), which was
passed to its own tax-free reserve, raising
it to £17,098. After allowing £28,747
(up £9473) for depreciation and £54,000
(up £37,800) for taxation, the parent’s
own profit was £41,934 stronger at


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
*><r
aTis"
HEU"
aT |CA
..C
mw
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain Dolcin Tablets have
brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIN
Helpful and Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin (.Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, &.P.0., Sydney.
2/l2t_
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, G.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advx.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Y:
mt
...amdmffi
md tMtm
&W 6& Middmty-
The "PERFECT POUICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD'
HUNTER. AND 8110-H STR£ETS. S Y 0 N I Y,
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
-'s.
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
CASH
and
CONVERSION
LOAN
Offers You
£4-2-6%
More Than Double Bank Interest!
Issued at Par. Currency: 10 Years
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Tasmania.
Principal and interest are guaranteed by the New
South Wales Government.
New Cash is required—lnvest your savings.
Holders of Loan No. 36, maturing on Ist February,
1952, can also secure more than double bank
interest by converting to the new Loan at once.
MAKE SURE OF £4/2/6%
Apply at your nearest branch of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia, the Board’s Head Office,
or through any member of a recognised Aus-
tralian Stock Exchange. Prospectus and applica-
tion forms available on request.
The Loan will close on 26th January, 1952, . and
is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
£80,555, making total profit from
all sources £89,607 (up £41,934),
or 25.8 p.c. on capital as against
14.1, 11.2, 17.5, 14.4 and 10 p.c.
back to 1946. It was an encourag-
ing result to which new plant and
higher selling-prices contributed.
Expansion remains the key-
note of balance-sheet figures:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£,£,£,
Paid capital*.. 259,387 346,422 346,422
Mortgage .. 3,333 8,333
Overdraft .. 64,744 115,754 208,139
Sundry cred’rs 20,771 38,022 73,691
Tax reserve .. 15.747 31,748 51,453
Final div. .. 12,020 17,321 17,321
Premises .. 186,557 241,987 254,552
Plant ~ . . 130,935 196,956 265,328
Shares subsid... 93,076 98,076
Stocks .. .. 106,056 135,910 259,612
Debtors ~ 31,971 45,210 64,044
Cash, etc. .. 15 51 1,005
* Includes calls paid in advance —£8185,
1948; £7107, 1949.
To meet net additions of £12,565
to freeholds, £68,372 to plant,
£123,702 to stocks and £18,834
to book debts the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £92,835
and to sundry creditors for a
further £35,669.
To help finance yet further
additions to plant and provide
more working capital 115,454
new £1 shares were issued, one
for three, at a stiff premium of
10s. each at end September last.
When all the money is in, re-
serves will benefit by £57,727 of
share premiums, and paid
capital will be £461,898, on
which 10 p.c. wifi call for
£43,417 less profit than was
shown last term. But the pre-
mium will make 10 p.c. worth
only 6.6 p.c. on the new share
capital.
Since the books were ruled off
trade has held fairly well, and
another lift in selling-prices has
helped to offset the rise in raw-
material and operating costs.
Still, the market has lost some
of its old buoyancy, and com-
petition can be expected to get
more of an edge on it.
At 365. 6d. (425. early in
October) the f.-p. pound shares
return 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div.
basis. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is 275. lid.
Q’land Cement and Lime Co.
Net / Dividends N Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£%% % £ £
1946.. 19.179 9 7 7 18,051 81,248
1947.. 22,129 9 7 7 18,052 85,325
1948.. 31.300 9 7 7 18,052 98,573
1949.. 21.431 9 7 7 18,052 101,952
1950. .30,717 10 8 8 23,224 109,445
1951.. 48,580 10 8 8 26,938 131,087
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now
£531,673.
This co.’s shares are among
the few to have appreciated in
the generally nervous and reced-
ing market of 1951, though
they lost a little ground during
the usual seasonal decline in
December. At June 30 last paid
capital stood at £392,063 in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183
second 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
263.061 ords. Of the latter
245.061 were called to 12s. each,
and the remaining Bs. has been
asked for since. The prefs. rank
in the order stated for divs. and
capital, and advance point for
point with the ords. after the
latter have had 6 p.c. Last year’s
rates of distribution were 10
p.c. firsts and 8 p.c. seconds and
ords., which together called for
only 55 p.c. of profit claimed.
The f.-p. £1 ords., which
fetched 355. a year ago, sold at
465. in November, but dropped
to 425. before the Christmas
recess. The return at 425. is 3.8
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div, basis. On
the same basis the second prefs.
at 41s. 6d. also yield 3.8 p.c. The
firsts at 445. return 4.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. Excluding
the depreciation reserve
(£531,673), net tangible cover is
£l3 16s. lOd. firsts, 635. 3d.
seconds and 295. lid. ords.
The co., whose plant is at
Darra, near Brisbane, is the only
cement producer in Queensland
at the moment. To keep in step
with growing demand in the
southern half of the State a new
100,000-ton-p.a. kiln is being
installed, thus lifting total plant
capacity to 250,000 tons p.a.
Owing to delays in delivery
only part of the new equipment
contributed to last term’s earn-
ings. The balance of the plant
has since arrived, and installa-
tion is well under way.
The co. also holds 120,000 £1
contributing shares in the new
North Australian Cement Co.
(Townsville), which is not ex-
pected to come into full produc-
tion until 1954-55; meanwhile
its paid capital carries interest
at 3i p.c. p.a.
Last term output increased,
sales reached a record 170,648
tons (up 17,219 tons), and there
was a small increase in con-
trolled selling-price. After allow-
ing something for taxation and
£47,181 (up £9305) for deprecia-
tion the spring in net earnings
was £17,863. The record
£48,580 of profit claimed was
enough to pay minimum pref.
requirements, plus 6 p.c. to the
ords., and the balance was
equal to 8.6 p.c. on average
capital (pref. and ord. combined)
as against 4.2, 2.3, 6.4 and 2.6
p.c, back to 1947. With more
plant at work, output and sales
for the current term should-
further improve, but rising costs
threaten to gobble most of the
gain.
During the year £79,279 was
added to the book-value of
plant, £47,923 to stock and
£39,963 to book debts:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. 245,061 294,073 392,063
Creditors* .. 131,861 123,931 170,926
Final divs. .. 10,251 15,151 17,667
Freehold .. 22.075 22,641 23,131
Plant, etc. .. 701,942 730,226 809,505
Stocks .. .. 143,183 147.159 195,082
Book debts .. 40,844 84,267 124,230
Cash, etc. .. 32,698 47,799 96,468
* Includes provision for taxation.
To help meet the outlay the
amount coming to outsiders was
increased by £46,995, and
£97,990 of fresh share capital
was gathered, and a further
£98,059 has been called since the
books were ruled off. The out-
look is one of strong demand
for some time to come.
Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines
The co.’s leases adjoin the
Emperor’s on the Tavua field,
Fiji. For the year to June 30 |
last less but higher-grade ore
was milled for a better return of
gold and silver:
Ore
Milled, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1949 .. .. 20,353 29,736 9577
1950 .. .. 22,496 21,381 6537
1951 .. .. 17,717 23,749 8855
Head-value of the feed was
29.98dwt. as against 21.56dwt.
in 1950. There was a sharp in-
crease of 31s. 7. Id. in working
costs (1245. 4.5 d. per ton), due
mainly to extraction of 4353
tons ore stacked for future treat-
ment, to difficulty of mining
residual blocks and to waste
sorting underground.
However, the better grade en-
abled £2832 more profit to be
shown on account of mining,
and £38,437 more was received
in dividends. Total profit was
£41,269 stronger at £184,119,
equal to 4s. 4-1-d, a share:
Profit— 1950. 1951.
Mining ~ .. £95,461 £98,293
Divs.—
Gt. Boulder .. 27,306 45,511
Other ~ .. 20,083 40.315
Total profit .. £142,850 £184.119
The div. was lifted from Is. 2d.
to 2s. 6d. (Is. Id. of it tax-free)
per ss. share.
At June 27 last ore reserves
were positive 42,000 tons,
averaging 20dwt., and 20,000
tons probable, averaging lOdwt.
Drilling and development have
indicated no important extension
of known ore-bodies.
Excluding shares in Tavua
Power Co. (£17,000) and Solo-
mon Gold Exploration (£3375),
the co. has £1,071,678 invested
in public-co. shares, debentures
and Government securities at
June 30 last. The market-value
of these holdings was £1,540,960.
Current assets totalled £94,388
and current liabilities £222,239.
On the basis of market-value of
investments, the more-or-less
liquid surplus was £1,413,109. At
335. a share (275. a year ago)
the market values the undertak-
ing at £1,361,250, and there is
over three years’ profitable work
ahead of the mine.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Looking for somewhere to take the
kiddies—a show maybe? The advertise-
ments for New Year films make some
interesting reading, especially as these
have presumably been selected as suit-
able holiday fare. One is described as
looking “deep through the keyhole at
the she-wolves on the prowl.” Another
is about a “Wildcat woman—man of
action. Despising each other, yet to-
gether, they defied outlaw, anger, greed
and lu'st!” A third, while more
innocuous, is less intelligible: “Their love
was a melody... .that became a cherished
memory, but nothing could silence the
music it inspired.... or halt the joyous
tempo of the dancing years.”
Everyone has gone to Palm Beach,
Terrigal, Bowral, Moss Vale, etc., except
this Letter and several thousand other
Sydneyites (judging by the traffic in the
morning), but those who are left are hav-
ing an opportunity (a) to recover from
New Year, and ( b ) to settle down to a
little bit of reading— not anything heavy
you know, but reading just the same.
The lass in the picture is Wendy Howes,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Howes,
of Warrawee, who is newly-engaged to
Stephen Losch. Wendy is not long
returned from a visit to California,
U.S.A., where she and her mother spent
four and a half months visiting relatives
and taking in a three weeks’ sojourn in
Honolulu on the way home. Photo, by
Hugh Spencer,
There’s Patrick Campbell’s Short Trot
with a Cultured Mind with drawings by
Ronald Searle, which makes even the
most kindhearted laugh at ineptitude and
discomfiture, mainly because it’s
P. Campbell’s own discomfiture that’s held
up for inspection. The sketch “Let the
English Alone —They Bite” contains what
the Americans call “the perfect squelch,”
when the mild and mannerly Englishman
decides it’s time to put this Campbell in
his - place and says “I don’t know who
you are, sir, but I do know that you are
damned offensive. The only other thing
I wish to say is that I have never liked
people with red hair and close-set eyes.
They remind me of ferrets. Good-
night.”
Marjorie Sharp's latest book, Lise
Lilly white (Collins), is about a well-
brought-up French girl in England. Hav-
ing enough accomplishments to “civilise a
Roman colony,” she seems lost in Pad-
dington, but cousins in Somerset who
wear tweeds and twin-sets, a Polish count
who is a bit of a spiv, emancipated “arty”
girls, a couple of interested swains, and
an aunt who is French and formidable,
are dished out nicely together to make
another of Miss Sharp’s palatable souflle-
like dishes—not, however, another Cluny
Brown. That was too much to hope for.
Still, there is a nice dog mentioned
in it called Trash so that his owner could
say “Who steals my dog steals trash.”
There seems to be quite a bit of money
to be made writing about one’s family ;
that is, if one can reasonably present
them as crazy, fabulous and, above all,
humorous. If one feels bleak about
one’s parents and siblings (brothers
and sisters, in case you don’t know),
it’s better to change the names and try
to pass the opus off as fiction. However,
books like Cheaper by the Dozen, My
Sister Eileen, I Remember Mumma and
(on a much more exalted plane) the
books containing Sir George Sitwell are
off to a flying start at the present time.
Mink on Wednesdays, which seems to
be the latest of these cashing-in-on-the-
family books, echoes Valentina’s famous
phrase, “Mink! Pooh, mink is for foot-
ball,” as the author, Felicia Lamport,
belongs Jo a wealthy Jewish- American
family that really wore mink for week-
days and ermine on Sunday—not to men-
tion the sable and chinchilla that found
their way into the wardrobes as a matter
of course. Felicia’s mother, a hurricane
type who “raised them with an iron hand
in a doeskin glove of the latest Parisian
design,” is really worth meeting. Her
father, a eupeptic man of “rich” habits
who, instead of intoning the kiddush
before meals in a soft, tuneless chant,
used to swing into it with a strong, lusty
voice, is quite heart-warming. “He felt
that being Jewish was as much fun as a
good circus, and he liked to communicate
his enthusiasm to others.”
Although this book is written in a
rather naive way and in an offhand,
scrappy style, it has so much gaiety and
gusto that it makes good holiday reading.
Any account of lots of money spent
freely and enjoyed in the spending makes
good escape-literature, and this one intro-
duces quite a few vividly-amusing people,
as well as giving one a fair idea of how
to be happy though rich.
There has been quite a little storm of
protest about the four koalas which are
being sent to California for a film.
People seem to think that these simple
unaffected Australians will have their
heads turned with adulation, will be
“groomed for stardom,” will acquire
artificial airs and graces, and will come
back discontented and unrecognisable to
their old friends, hankering for all the
fleshpots of the gay Hollywood life.
Those who know of the San Diego
zoo or of its director, Mrs. Belle
Benchley, will have fewer qualms. Mrs.
Benchley is a quite remarkable person
who was appointed as bookkeeper to the
San Diego zoo in 1925 and, although she
had had no previous experience with
animals, became director within 19
months. Her fascinating books, My Life
in a Man-made Jungle and My Animal
Babies, published in 1932 and 1936 re-
spectively, give an account of her work
and reveal the secret of her success.
Belle Benchley seems to love all the
animals and to think no scheme for their
welfare too elaborate to attempt. In her
zoo are “flying cages,” built over ravines
where in the spring the swaying trees are
filled with nests, where pools and streams
are always filled with flamingoes, herons
and egrets, and where eagles, hawks and
vultures can soar as nature intended them
to do.
It is not hard to believe the report that
Mrs. Benchley has “been preparing for
the koalas for 20 years, planting the
correct species of eucalypts until she now
has 2000,” for care and patience seem to
be her most outstanding qualities. One
very beloved exhibit in her zoo, a walrus
called Marie (“one of the smartest babies
we had ever had,” says Mrs. Benchley),
became ill and was weaned from the
bottle to eat clams made of a “mixture
of finest white fish and rich dark
mackerel cut into one and a half inch
cubes. The cubes were dipped in sardine
oil to which had been added a little iodine
and viosterol, then taken out and rolled
in powdered clam-shell until they looked
just ready to be popped into a deep-fat-
frying basket. They were served upon a
clean white, solid plank table. Marie
herself selected the place from which to
eat —a little ledge just above the table
from which, with her short neck, she
could easily reach the luncheon set below
her.”
Really, on second thoughts, it does
seem as though our koalas might “get
ideas” if they go to San Diego!
However, perhaps all will be well with
them in the care of a director who writes:
“When zoo directors chide me at the con-
ventions for mothering my animals, and
claim that that is why we have so many
babies in San Diego, I plead guilty, I
have learned to mother these mothers and
their babies because, by sharing family
secrets and making mental notes, I know
when all is well and when I’d better do
something, and do it quick.” Yes, you
can have our little ones to look after for
six months, Mrs. Benchley.
.
From Melbourne
Two women who have devoted many
years of work to two of this city’s
largest public hospitals were among those
who received honors in the New Year’s
list. It is almost 20 years since Mrs.
E, M. Cornfoot, who received the 0.8. E.,
first became a member of the Women’s
Hospital’s Board of Management, which
she still serves. Last August Mrs. Corn-
foot retired as president of the hospital
after serving in that capacity for a three-
years term. During this period the hos-
pital organised its great appeal which
netted over £150,000. Mrs. Cornfoot has
also been a keen worker for the Brother-
hood of St. Laurence. Mrs. Raymond
Buxton, 0.8. E., has since 1941 been
honorary organiser and treasurer for St.
Vincent’s Hospital auxiliaries. Her work
for the hospital, of which she is a life-
governor, began as far back as 1924. In
1940 she joined the central executive of
auxiliaries. Although St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital has always been her main interest,
Mrs. Buxton worked during the last war
for the 2/14th Battalion welfare fund,
and was a member of the A.I.F. Women’s
Association.
Lady Michaelis, wife of the Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly, is sharing
in the congratulations her husband is
receiving on his knighthood. Her own
work is associated with the Eye and Ear
Hospital, for which she has worked for
more than 30 years. She was one of the
early treasurers of its auxiliaries, and is
now president of the council of
auxiliaries and a member of the board of
management. Lady Michaelis is also a
vice-president of the Royal Empire
Society, and she has worked for some
time for the kindergarten at Balaclava.
Lady Michaelis and her husband have
three daughters, Mrs. Alan Salek, Mrs.
Alan Marks and Joan; the latter has
been in England for the past two years,
where she is working as a physio-
therapist at Hammersmith Hospital.
The Governor’s daughter, Jeanette
Brooks (pictured here by Athol Shmith),
who has become engaged to Lieut. Robin
Henry Edwin Byrne, R.N., only son of
the late Mr. H. Byrne and Mrs. Austin
Layard, of London, is 22 years old. The
pair met just a week before the Governor
and his family sailed for Australia, and
Robin accompanied them as A.D.C. to
Sir Dallas. The wedding will take place
at Christ Church, South Yarra, on
February 12 at 2.30 p.m. Lieut. Byrne,
who has obtained special leave from the
Royal Navy, will fly here for the
wedding, returning to England in March.
Jeanette will remain in Australia until
after the Royal visit, and will leave by
sea in May to join her husband in
Portsmouth. Jeanette, who is dark-haired
and has a winning personality, drives a
transport for the Red Cross.
Noel Coward’s frothy but entertaining
“Fallen Angels” had its premiere at the
Princess Theatre with American Diana
Barrymore as one of the “Angels” ; a
disagreement later with the producer,
however, led to much tearing-up of con-
tracts, and now June Clyde has Barry-
more’s part in the play. In the audience
were Mrs. Norman Lynch, the pattern of
whose French nylon taffeta was a check
in gold and brown ; Mrs. A. E. Hotch-
kiss, who teamed a black guipure lace
bodice with a bouffant black organza
skirt; Mrs. Bruce Cornish, her black
crepes enlivened with a wide sash of
magnolia satin ; Mrs. Garnet Carroll,
who added a scarlet velvet stole to her
black crepes ; June Jago in eau-de-Nil
satin ; Mrs. Alan Benjamin, her chiffons
dove-grey; Mrs. Don Morell, whose
ombre chiffon shaded from gold to
green; Mrs. H. Silk in silver-beaded
white crepe gown and white Arctic-fox
stole, and her two daughters, Mrs. H.
Sluice wearing pastel-pink chiffons, and
Mrs. Hudson Ralfs in a gown of
hyacinth-blue satin brocade.
Of inter-State interest was the marriage
at Wesley College Chapel, beautifully
decorated with St. Joseph’s lilies and
gladioli, of Margaret Alice, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Napier, of
Canterbury, with Dr. lan Lumsden,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. D, McVey,
of Pymble, Sydney. The bride’s gown of
white corded silk faille was cut on classi-
cal lines and featured a slight train. Pearl
knots held her full-length tulle veil, and
she carried a sheaf of white lilies. The
matron-of-honor, Mrs. Dan McVey, jun.,
wore a bouffant gown of white em-
broidered organdie, and her bouquet of
pink roses matched the flowers she wore
in her hair. The bridegroom had his
brother Dan as best man. The home of
the bride’s parents was the setting for
the reception and the motif for decora-
tions gladioli in red and white and red
roses.
When Frank Thring took over the old
Rep. Theatre at Middle Park, redecorated
it in soft shades of mauve and chartreuse
and announced his first productions as
Christopher Fry’s “A Phoenix Too Fre-
quent” and Oscar Wilde’s “Salome,” his
friends stood by ready to cheer and com-
fort if the adventure flopped. “Venus
Observed,” the first full - length
Christopher Fry play, which had its
premiere recently, has now set the seal
of success on this young man’s venture,
and the Arrow Theatre has become a
cultural centre. Alan Burke produced
the play—it is his last Melbourne pro-
duction, as he leaves for Canberra at the
end of the season to become manager-
director of the Canberra Repertory. Zara
Holt designed and made the clothes worn
by women members of the cast. “Venus
Observed” is set in the autumn season,
so Mrs. Holt cleverly combined autumn
tonings in the day frocks and evening
gowns ; thus as the players moved about
the stage the tones of the ensembles
merged into a harmonious pattern.
There was quite a fashionably-dressed
throng of first-nighters. Mrs. Olive
Thring chose deep midnight-blue laces ;
Mrs. Herbert Benton’s graceful white
crepe gown and jacket were patterned in
a floral design ; Mrs. Harold Holt’s bal-
lerina frock was of lime linen, its off-the-
shoulder bodice highlighted with white
embroidery—her stole was in a lighter
shade of lime ; Mrs. M. Copolov draped
mink furs over her short frock of Ameri-
can-beauty crepe; of gold-and-black-
striped tie-silk was the frock worn by
Mrs. Frank Nichols; Mrs. Sue Cecil’s
black gown had the dropped shoulder-
line of the bodice finished with a deep
lace ruffle lined with pink; Mrs. Jim
Fitzgerald wore navy taffeta, the bodice
massed with opalescent sequins; Mary
Elizabeth, her daughter, chose a ballerina
frock of white broderie Anglaise.
The weather was perfect for the New
Year’s Day V.R.C. meeting at Flemington
and history repeated itself when a portion
of the Hill stand was destroyed by fire —
four years ago on New Year’s Day the
same stand was damaged by the same
agency. The fine weather brought out
pretty shantung, silk and linen frocks,
and plain colors were worn with brilliant
accessories. White was a popular choice
—Mrs. Fred Dennett was a devotee,
adding a wide-brimmed coarse straw hat
to her linen suit. Also in white linen
frock, which carried white linen lace, was
Winsome Dane, who gained contrast with
a large black crinoline straw hat. Lady
Snow’s black-and-white-patterned silk
frock was topped with a picture-hat of
white straw. Mrs. Arthur Laver’s black-
and-white-check silk frock featured an
apron skirt; her black straw hat had
a scooped-out brim. An unusual frock
was chosen by Mrs. Norman Paul: to a
slim black linen skirt was attached a
swathed bodice of pink linen patterned
in black rings ; the swathing at the waist
finished in sash-ends. Black French
romaine combined with cinnamon-brown-
and-black-patterned silk made the attrac-
tive bolero suit worn by Mrs. D. Tink ;
her black straw hat was finished with
veiling.
To introduce the newly-arrived U.S.
Naval Attache, Captain Robert Denbo,
and Mrs. Denbo, the Assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, Commander Robert Macklin,
and his wife gave a delightful buffet
dinner-party at the Dorchester. A spray
of gardenias was pinned in the deep-b'ue-
striped-satin ballerina frock worn by Mrs.
Macklin, while Mrs. Denbo chose an
ankle-length frock of beige Chantilly lace
fashioned with a low neckline sewn with
seed-pearls ; for contrast she pinned a
cluster of deep-red roses in the bodice.
Jeanette Brooks covered her ice-blue
satin gown with a beige-fox jacket, and
Diana Phipps, who is a guest at Govern-
ment House, wore a sheath gown of
black crepe with a silver-fox cape. With
her black frock trimmed with sequins
Mrs. John Inkster wore an osprey-
trimmed black hat, Lady Collins matched
a frock of aqua-blue angora with a tiny
cloche, Mrs. Paddy Moran’s beige coat
was finished with a beige-fox collar, white
lace was appliqued on the black linen
frock worn by Mrs. Norman Robinson,
and a gay scarf embellished Mrs. W. S.
Cox’s black frock and scarlet hat. Mrs.
A. E. Hotchkiss chose black crepe for
her frock, which was highlighted with a
cream guipure-lace yoke.


mw/m
Sure Starts
txvbt
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX1.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ten new knights:
Justice William Raymond Kelly (K.8.E.), called
to the Bar in 1921, was one-time president of the
S. Australian Industrial Court, a stipendiary
magistrate before he was 28, and before that
mayor of Yorketown. A painstaking judge,
he has been one of the uprights of S. Australian
football, and is now Chief Judge of the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court. Born in Calcutta.
Thomas Walter White (a guest of the
unspeakable and “Tommy” to all who know
him) entered politics via the Balaclava seat
(Vic.) in 1929, and was Minister for Trade and
Customs just before War 11. He donned Air
Force Blue again in that scrap and was Minister
for Air before going to London last year as
High Commissioner. He married a daughter
of Alfred Deakin. (K.8.E.)
Major-General Samuel Roy Burston (K.8.E.),
Director-General of the A.M.F.’s medical ser-
vices in War 11, comes of a family with line
military traditions, his father, Major-General
James Burston, having commanded an infantry
brigade at the Landing. The new knight, after
graduating from Melbourne University, also
served on Gallipoli, as well as in France, win-
ning D.S.O. and C.B.E.
A Mudgee (N.S.W.) native, b. 1878, Colin
George Davidson (K. 8.) had 21 years on the
N.S.W. Supreme Court bench from 1927, with
changes of work as chairman of several royal
commissions on coal, one of these going imo
the safety and health of miners. One of the
most gentlemanly of judges, his name is best
known in association with the Davidson report
on the coal industry, issued just after War 11.
Justice Charles Gavan Duffy, following
in paternal footsteps, reached tne Victorian
Supreme Court bencn back in 1933. Son of a
former C.J. of the High Court, Sir Charles,
with two brothers, served in War 1, emerging
with his majority. Bluff-faced and good-
humored, he used to be an athlete of mark
and an inveterate rider after hounds. (K. 8.)
A pastoralist when not attending to Legis-
lative Council duties, John H. Lienhop was
in the Victorian Upper House for 14 years and
a Cabinet Minister for four of them. Holder
of an acre or two in the Riverina, north
Victoria and Gippsland, before he shifted to
London, Victorian Agent-General, Sir John
diverted himself with racing, and had presided
over the Bendigo Jockey Ciub. (K. 8.)
An Adelaide lawyer who succeeded fellow-
knight W. R. Kelly as president of the S.A.
Industrial Court, Edward James Morgan has
for sidelines literature and art. He was one
of the small board which assisted Louis
McCubbin in running Adelaide’s National Gal-
lery. His grandfather was Premier of S. Aus-
tralia some 70 years back. (K. 8.)
Chief Justice of Tasmania, John D.
Morris, K.C.M.G., became K.B. in tne 1943
New Year list. Hailing originally from Victoria,
tie moved to the Speck in 1930, and rapidly
made a name for himself as a member of
the legal firm headed by the late Premier
Ogilvie. One of the Commonwealth’s youngest
judges when elevated, he was only 36 when he
took on the acting-Chief Justiceship.
A popular choice in Brisbane, John Beals
Chandler (K. 8.) has had a lien on the northern
capital’s Lord Mayoralty since 1940. Born in
Norfolk (Eng.), he had a period in politics in
War 11, and founded one of Queensland’s
biggest electrical shops, as well as the Q.P.P.,
now the State Liberal Party. Two of his sons
were killed in action in the war.
Archie Michaelis, Speaker of the Victorian
Assembly since 1950, has held the St. Kilda
seat for the past 20 years. Prominent in Mel-
bourne Jewry, he was educated at Melbourne's
Wesley College and England’s Harrow. Old
Digger, now Knight Bachelor.
“Macnell”; Amid the ranting and roar-
ing of Moussadek’s minions during the
Abadan crisis, there was one very com-
forting reality—the British Navy was
there. The other day the Persian Gulf
Command was changed—Captain Arthur
Wallis, who stood by throughout, being
relieved by Captain Theodore Podger.
A gunnery specialist, the new man
was gunnery - officer in Admiral
Somerville’s famed Force H, which
helped to trap the Bismarck, looked
very capably after the western end
of Malta convoys, and in which Aus-
tralian destroyer Nestor served for a
time. Later Podger was responsible for
the pointing of what such heavies as
Rodney, Malaya, Ramillies, Nelson and
Illustrious carried in the way of shell-
throwers.
Stepping into the editorial job vacated
by L. K. Munro (now in Washington as
New Zealand ambassador), H. G. Bell has
been associate-editor of the Auckland
“Herald” since 1942. Son of an old-time
newspaper proprietor, Robert Bell, the
new editor was born in Timaru in 1893,
won his B.A. degree in mental and qjoral
science, and served with the M.L. Rifle
Brigade in the Kaiser’s war.
A B.E.M. award in the New Year list
will return the pungent stench of fuel-oil
to the noses of many Australian naval
and merchant sailors who survived, in
oil-scummed seas, their ships’ sinkings.
In a hold of trooper Wahine, stopped by
a reef when bound for Korea last
August, were six serviceable 25-pounders.
M. Bluett, a gunner of the 16th New
Zealand Field Regiment, volunteered to
draw their teeth. A simple operation for
a gunner, except that the six guns were
buried in sft. of viscous fuel-oil, in pitch-
blackness. The smell must have been
overpowering. For three hours, right up
to his neck in oil, Bluett scrabbled and
twisted, till he finally emerged with all
six breech-blocks. He’s now in Korea,
handling 25-pounders again with
breech-blocks fitted.
“Uramao”: Jewry in New Zealand will
be agog next month —the chief Rabbi of
the British Commonwealth, Israel Brodie,
will visit the Fernland to induct into the
charge of the Hebrew community of Wel-
lington Rabbi Hugo Stransky. It will be
the first such induction in the Dominion.
A Czech, Rabbi Stransky had his share of
Nazi persecution.
For the record, Squadron-Leader
Cedric Thomas, D.F.C., of Brisbane, is
the first British pilot to mount 100 jet
missions in air-to-air combat. Deputy-
C.O. of No. 77 Squadron in Korea, he’s
led those well-blooded Meteorites on
pretty well every mission they’ve flown,
and has been mixed up in all but two of
the clashes Meteors have had with the
MIG-15’s. Now 27, he joined the War II
R.A.A.F. at 18 from a Brisbane
insurance-office.
Leaving law tor learning, solicitor
Alec Ball will take over the Fairbridge
Farm School at Pinjarra (W.A.). One
of the founders of the junior-
farmer movement in Westralia, and
for long interested in the State’s youth,
he was captured at Alamein, and had
three years in p.-0.-w. camps in Italy
and Austria. His main idea in giving
away his legal practice is to seize the
chance the new job at Fairbridge will
give him of helping child-migrants from
Britain.
This is Francis Joseph Condon, Leader
of the Opposition in South Australia’s
Legislative Council. Born 66 years ago,
OPPOSITION-LEA DER.
he has been in Parliament for 27 years,
and has held down the Federal presidency
of the Federated Millers and Mill
Employees’ Association for over 40.
Condon has served on several royal com-
missions, has been a member of the
Public Works Standing Committee for
two decades and is popular with political
friends and foes alike.
Interrupted in his bag-packing to sit
for Prior, Colonel Rowley Perkins is off
to the vales of Kashmir, one of a
band of fellow-officers who will act as
additional military observers for U.N. in
that triggery spot. Perkins has been in
those parts before, when, in the Seaforth
Highlanders, he served on the n.-w.
frontier in 1924. Duntroon graduate, 33
years in the Army, he just missed the
Kaiser’s stoush, and in Hitler’s was the
first commandant of the Armored Corps
School at Puckapunyal. Later C.O. of
the 2nd Army Tank Battalion Group
(that armored stuff kept back to meet a
Jap invasion), he ended the Pacific war
in Borneo, with a British Civil Affairs
CEASE-FIRE CHECKER.
unit. His job to police the 1949 cease-
fire agreement between India and
Pakistan, Perkins will work under Major-
General R. H. Nimmo, formerly G.0.C.,
Queensland, now Chief Military Observer
in Kashmir.
Retired from the general-managership
of the Provident Life in Maoriland after
46 years’ service, H. de C. McArthur.
Successor, L. J. Murray, boss of the
company’s Australian office in Sydney.
Gained their brass-hats in the Navy’s
New Year honors, Bill Dovers and Leslie
Hinchcliffe, now three-stripers. Born the
year the Kaiser fell, Dovers was in
cruiser Canberra when Hitler made his
bid, but saw most of his war service in
destroyers. He won his D.S.C. while in
command of sloop Swan. Distinguished,
when last sighted (apart from a first-class
football reputation), by a black and
devilish-looking face-fungus. Hinchcliffe,
in two years before Dovers, is also a
destroyerman; he specialised in anti-
submarine pleasantries, getting his meed
of practice in the art while serving in the
Mediterranean. John Plunkett-Cole, who
commanded Hinchcliffe’s old ship Napier
in the battle of Crete (where Hinchcliffe
got his D.S.C.), steps up to captain on the
same list. He commands both destroyer
Anzac (lately of Korea) and the 10th
Destroyer Flotilla.
“Cauboy”: Wirthcircusgoers and
there are still some of half a century’s
standing—will regret to learn that Phil
Wirth, last of the dynasty in the male
line, has tossed the whip into the ring
and doffed the long-tailed black coat of
the ringmaster for a publican’s apron. It
was Phil who staged Wirth’s biggest sen-
sation of modern times at Cuptime in
Melbourne. Twenty eminent citizens,
including Air-Minister Tom White, were
invited to dine among the lions. A
table was set-up in the cage and the
trainer, as host, served the soup and
sherry while the denizens of the jungle
looked on in dignified silence. Among
the feral onlookers, unknown to the
humans, was the beast which made head-
lines by twice attacking its trainer and
which, when later introduced in a cage
at the Zoo to two of its untrained
brothers, promptly attacked and killed
one of them. Seeking a quiet life, Phil
has bought a hotei in north Queensland,
where the only elephants and tigers he’ll
need to deal with will be pink ones with
blue spots. Sister Eileen is carrying on
under the Big Top.
Old Digger and veteran politician
Alexander Hugh Panton passed on in
Perth on Christmas morning. Born at
Alma (Vic.) 74 years ago, he went to the
Westralian goldfields in 1899, but left
soon afterwards for service on the South
African veldt. His second helping of war
was with the 51st Battalion, A.1.F.,
in the Kaiser’s war. Between wars
he was an active member of the A.W.U.,
of which he became State president. En-
tering Parliament as member for the West
Province of the Legislative Council in
1919, he lost his seat at the next election,
was returned to the Assembly for
Menzies in 1924, and switched to Leeder-
ville when electoral boundaries were
altered in 1933. In that year he became
Speaker, and five years later entered the
Cabinet as Minister for Health and
Mines. As Health Minister he launched
the National Fitness Campaign in the
West; as Lands Minister in the last
Labor Government he inaugurated the
Land Settlement Scheme for ex-service-
men in Westralia. Two sons served in
War 11.
Familiar for many years as medical-
officer of the S. Australian Children’s
Welfare Department and of the Jails
and Prisons Department, Adelaide medico
Charles Ernest Cameron Wilson has
passed on. His grandparents on both
father’s and mother’s side were S. Aus-
tralian pioneers, and his paternal grand-
father, Thomas Wilson, was Adelaide’s
second mayor. First active with scalpel
and stethoscope at two big Melbourne
hospitals (Melbourne and Adelaide Uni-
versities having given him his degrees),
C.E.C. enlarged his experience in West
London and Manchester, and came back
to practise for 24 years at Wallaroo and
Kadina, becoming mayor of the latter
town. One-time B.M.A. State president,
he hobbied with ornithology, and took a
lively interest in, and had played, just
about every sort of sport. He was 76.
“C. 8.”: Only cultural awards for
Victoria in the New Year honors were a
B.E.M. to William Ferguson, baggage-
man and scorer with every Test team
which has toured England and South
Africa since 1909, and an 0.8. E. to
Gladys Moncrieff. Gladys started on the
histrionic ladder as a child touring
Queensland with her parents, rose to
stardom as Teresa at the opening night
of “The Maid of the Mountains” at the
old Royal in Melbourne, and made her
first London appearance at the Gaiety in
1926. A car smash laid her off from
stage-work in 1938, but, though a partial
cripple, she staged a comeback as Sonia
in “The Merry Widow” four years later.
Although a dancing part, she managed it
so well that she deceived her audience
even better than did Sarah Bernhardt
when she returned to the French boards
with one leg amputated, to entertain the
poilus at the front in War I. Gladys
sang in New Guinea and in Korea. Like
Melba and Nellie Stewart, she has the
stamina of one who loves the platform.
Into the Silence;
In the south of England, within a few hours
and a few miles of each other, two noted British
sailors, troth with Australian associations.
Admiral Sir Claud Barry, D. 5.0., submarine
expert, brought the gift submarine J 2 to Aus-
tralia in 1921. Serving in subs in War I, for
two crucial years of War II he was Admiral in
charge of all the R.N.’s submarines. Director
of dockyards at the end, he married a Geelong
girl while in Australia, Sir Arthur James Baxter,
Orient Line commodore till his retirement in
1949, won his D.S.C. while in command of
destroyers in War I; in War II he led 37
Atlantic convoys, losing only two ships.
Middle-East-bound Diggers will remember him
as captain of trooper Otranto in that first
convoy. He was an A.D.C. to the King.
In Melbourne, at 66, Daniel Gerald Toohey,
the first Australian n.c.o. to win the M.C.,
in 1916, when a sergeant-major. He was a
bridge-supervisor with the Country Roads
Board.
In Sydney, at 55, C. F. Lewis, an Old Digger
who, gathered in by the Germans at Ypres
when he was 19, spent most of the rest of
his life himself gathering. Earlier with the
Land Tax Department in Adelaide, he shifted
to a more pleasant form of garnering, deputy-
director for N.S.W. of the Commonwealth
Loans Organisation, and at the end was, as
well, deputy-director of recruiting in the State.
Born in Adelaide, he spent much of his life
in the Payneham district, where grows the fattied
S. Australian celery.


“PhenoYis” Worm Remedy
V
■ ; --
Jl
m
w
r
I
II
* ***,
.../'// mH~ for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
• PHE.7.X.IB*
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose f Co.. Pty- Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
r, -x-ttv xrv?.w.’ry.v.'
■;S v,
mm
teas*-'
(
m.
4
m r.
::,,,
i.
Fireplace
Harmony
DESIGN: No. 8
HEIGHT: 37*"
WIDTH: 6'6|"
A Wunderlich Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surround
gives the finishing touch to the modern living
room. The ceramic cream mottled buff glaze
finish is in harmony with present day furnishings,
and affords freedom from discolouration.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs.
I '§Wuncle>tluJv
Fireplace surrounds
1 OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Handling Sheep.
“Ngaduri”: Sheep, like
horses, must always be worked
as quietly as possible, and, like
horses, their instinctive desires
must be bent to suit the job in
hand. Mustering away from
the wind will take twice as long
as toward it, but once they are
in a mob the gregarious instinct
takes over and they will walk
with the wind without trouble.
Yards can vary very widely in
their suitability for working
sheep. The same plan which
suits one way may be a com-
plete failure if turned at an
angle of 90 degrees. The require-
ments are simple. In an effort
to escape from the yards, sheep
will slip round corners very
readily, and the more bends and
twists in the yards the better the
sheep will work away from men
or dogs and toward their own
kind.
They also like to run toward
the light; so that if most of the
drafting is done in the early
morning the race should be
erected so that the sheep run in
an easterly direction. Shadows
across their path appear solid
to sheep, so there should be
none to cause that jumping
which makes sheep so hard to
count and that jambing in the
race which can be very exas-
perating. The man on the gate
should stand with the sun in his
face so that his shadow does not
fall across the race. Also, sheep
greatly prefer to run uphill
slightly, and if the race is built
on a slope toward the mouth
they will run smoothly.
The mouth of the race should
be narrower than its outlet. The
reverse is usually the case, and
two sheep coming in at the one
time jamb each other when they
get halfway down the race. The
other way only one sheep is ad-
mitted at one time, and once in
the race has plenty of room—
though not enough to turn
round—and that saves a lot of
bruising as he makes his dive
into the yard at the end. A good
man on the gate will have his
gate ready for the sheep as it
approaches, and will not be try-
ing to slam it over in the sheep’s
face as it makes the dive for the
open yard. Many sheep have
been killed and many more
injured this way.
A barking dog should not be
tolerated, except for use in
trucking, where a man cannot
get in the low trucks. Similarly,
I have not yet found any need
for yelling and shouting and
artificial noises like tin rattles.
If the shed is bad and the
entrance narrow and dark, then
the obvious thing to use is a
pet as a leader. Keep the pet
about the place and see that he
is fed daily in the shearing-shed.
He will walk straight in when
the gates are opened for him,
and the others will readily
follow.
Dry-meal or Skim-milk?
“Hortus”: Herd Survey
Officer Munro (Lismore) gives
interesting details of experi-
ments conducted by E. R. Mison,
of Tatham (N.S.W.). Scheme
consisted of feeding calves on
whole-milk for four weeks.
Then they were switched over to
a special calf mixture of dry-
meal, made up from cal. carb.,
bone charcoal, sugar and 96 per
cent, of meals from by-products
of barley, wheat, rice and
linseed.
Analysis of the meal worked
out as follows: 16 per cent. min.
crude protein, 7.5 per cent. max.
crude fibre and 9.5 per cent. min.
crude fats.
Fifty-four Jersey calves were
reared in two years. The meal-
fed calves showed greater
stamina than those reared on
skim-milk, were more disease-
resistant and appeared to be
much firmer.
Allowing l|d. per gallon for
skim-milk, the cost of milk-fed
calves worked out at 7s. 6d. a
month per calf, whereas it was
ss. per animal fed on dry-meal.
Thus a saving of 10s. per calf
was made under the dry scheme
over a four-month period.
Added to this, there were no
cases of scours. At weaning
(four months) there was no
check in growth or develop-
ment.
Minor Soil Elements.
“Gardenvale”: The ordinary
householder with a few citrus-
trees in sandy alkaline soil can’t
easily get a few pounds of
sulphates of copper, zinc and
manganese. They are sold to
farmers in bags, and the supplier
will not normally split a bag.
However, inspired to greater
oratory by “Springvale” (B.
21/11/’5l), writer persuaded
suppliers to open bags, and his
citrus-trees have been given a
limited dose of trace-elements
sprayed round the surrounding
soil. A recovery from deficiency
troubles is hopefully expected in
due course.
Having at the same time a
dozen or so tomato plants, due
for pulling out and burning on
account of wilt (early plantings
of Tatura Dwarfs), an experi-
ment was tried to discover
whether trace-elements might act
as a reviver. A small quantity of
the three sulphates was dis-
solved and watered in round the
roots, followed by a good water-
ing to spread out concentrations.
The improvement in a few days
gives promise that these plants
may be saved.
Perhaps those who, like
“Springvale,” know their soil
chemistry could tell how much
tomato growth and health is
dependent on the presence of
trace-elements.
Poultry Pests.
“Rooster”: Seven species of
lice are commonly found on
fowls. They attack the body,
the head, the shafts and the
wings. Injuries caused by them
are mainly due to the irritation
and continual gnawing of the
skin. Excessive infestation pro-
duces serious hindrance to nor-
mal growth and health, reduces
egg-production and paves the
way for the onset of diseases.
Brooding hens, worried by the
maddening bites, may even leave
the incubation over long periods.
Wherever there is general un-
cleanliness and overcrowding
lice abound.
Concentrate on prevention.
Litter from floors, nesting-places,
yards, hoppers, feed-bins and
troughs should be regularly col-
lected and burned, if possible,
“This beats the Sydney swimming-pools !”
as near the pens as would be
safe to avoid contaminating
fresh soil. All movable parts
should be removed, scrubbed
and disinfected at regular inter-
vals. A 5 p.c. solution of lysol
will safeguard against mites or
lice, but it should be thoroughly
sprayed in every corner, and no
part of the buildings should be
missed.
Sorghum Stubble.
“Agnc”; W. G. Robertson,
C.5.1.R.0. agrostologist at Bris-
bane, states that, contrary to a
belief in some quarters, there is
no poisoning of the soil by sorg-
hum crops, but only a temporary
deficiency of nitrogen.
Some farmers are afraid to
turn-in sorghum stubble because
immediate results from the soil-
fertility angle are disappoint-
ing. But what has occurred,
after turning-in many tons of
fibrous material low in nitrogen,
like stubble, is a slow decomposi-
tion compared with the quick
decomposition rate with succu-
lent material. Effects of turned-
in stubble would possibly be
obtained two years later.
In the glasshouse, said Robert-
son, they had noted that it took
seven to eight months under
perfect conditions before most
material decomposed; it must
take much longer in the field,
particularly in a dry season.
Zinc Deficiency.
“Myrr”: In fruit-trees there
are two main causes of zinc-
deficiency ; zinc is washed out
of light soils by rain, in heavy
soils (with a high lime or
organic - matter content) the
mineral may become unavailable
to the tree because of the forma-
tion of insoluble compounds.
To remedy the lack use the
following sprays: For citrus,
zinc - sulphate 11b,, hydrated
lime Boz., water lOgal.; for
deciduous trees, zinc-sulphate
51b. in lOgal. of water applied
before or two or three weeks
after pruning; for vines, brush
with a solution of 11b. of zinc
sulphate in Igal. of water
immediately after pruning.
As the zinc corrodes metals,
wash out spray-pumps and rods
after using a zinc spray.
New Theory.
“Tubercle”: A new theory,
developed in Russia, in regard
to the root nodules of
leguminous plants is that they
are not an indication that the
organisms contained in them are
obtaining the plant’s supply of
nitrogen from the air. It is
rather that the deep roots of
these plants draw nitrogen from
lower levels of the soil, and that
the presence of nodules is an
indication that the supply of
nitrogen has reached a state of
sufficiency for the plant.
Starting and Stopping.
“Oral”: Racing starts not
only impose severe strain on
tyre casing, particularly the side
walls, but the consequent fric-
tion between tread and road sur-
face causes more rapid wear on
the tread, as well as producing
flat spots, caused by skidding.
Fierce braking has the same
effect, in reverse, as fierce
acceleration. Black tyre prints
left on a dry road after an
emergency pull-up is virtually all
scorched rubber direct from the
tread of the tyre. The amount of
wear caused by braking de-
creases with the amount of
weight applied to the pedal, a
simple fact often overlooked.
Pasture on Stubble.
“Mr.”: Much labor can be
saved if the grass is surface-
sown on stubble ground follow-
ing a cereal crop. In Victorian
districts where the annual rain-
fall averages around 25in. a com-
bination of perennial rye-grass,
101 b. per acre, and mid-season
subterranean clover, 21b., sown
after the main autumn break,
will make a good pasture which
has the advantage of stubble
protection in its early stages.
In 30in.-rainfall zones try the
addition of N.Z. cocksfoot 51b.
and N.Z. white clover 11b., with
Sib. of Italian rye-grass and a
sprinkling of strawberry clover,
ilb. to the acre. The Italian
rye and strawberry clover will
provide early feed while the
more permanent components are
becoming stabilised. Italian rye
needs to be watched, however,
to prevent it overshadowing the
slower-growing species, in which
case mowing or a quick grazing
will keep it in check.
Pasture Management.
“P. Konshus”: Any per-
manent pasture, natural or
introduced, must have good
management as well as top-
dressing if the best value is to
be got from it.
This includes controlled graz-
ing, not only from the stand-
point of stock numbers but also
deferred or rotational grazing.
The natural concern of a per-
manent pasture is to do its best
to store reserves to maintain its
production over a long period.
If the landholder forgets this in
a desire to obtain and make use
of all possible feed at all times
the pasture will take its revenge
by reneging on him just when
he wants it most.
When the pasture is growing
faster than the stock can con-
sume it, that is when the mow-
ing of the top growth is bene-
ficial to all concerned—the
stock, the landholder and the
grass itself,
N.Q. Pasture Trials.
“Bill C.”: Using Shorthorn
steers from an Upper Herbert
River (N.Q.) property, Queens-
land Agriculture Department
will test the carrying capacity
of grass-legume pastures at
South Johnstone and Ayr
(N.Q.).
Sixteen 18-month-old steers
have been fattened on 20 acres
of sown pastures under rota-
tional grazing. Average daily
weight increase in the steers was
1.21 b. and, at 2\ years, the aver-
age dressed weight of the first
slaughtered steers was 7061 b.
The department has been
growing guinea-grass, Para-grass
and a legume called Puero on its
experimental plots in the north.
Evergreen Citrus.
“Biro”; Seville oranges will
grow in almost any district, and
are most useful for marmalade.
Navels are suitable only for
warmer climates, as they tend
to ripen slowly and remain sour
where it is cold. Valencias or
Joppas will grow well even in
the cooler climates if given a
sunny position with a northerly
aspect so as to catch the winter
sun. The lower slopes, or shady
positions, are, as a rule, un-
suitable for oranges. Citrus-trees
make beautiful shrubs, and also
look well in painted tubs.
Dogs and Worms.
“Bat”: Dosing of dogs ever>
three months for worms gives
only temporary relief if the
fasces are not destroyed by burn-
ing. The dog should be fasting


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A, MAGNEY, Chairman; F, W. Duesbury , Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C, 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Service life
attracts
the finest
Australians
Because there is no prouder or more honoured
calling than membership of the Navy, the Army
or the Air Force, with the privilege of sharing and
carrying on their, splendid traditions.
Because no other life offers the same spirit of
comradeship.
Because Australia’s three great fighting Services
offer a choice of over a hundred different careers,
each with opportunities for steady advancement,
on-the-spot training to increase skill and pay.
Because Service pay plus the Serviceman’s extra
benefits free food, accommodation, clothing,
medical and dental attention, special allowances,
etc. compares very favourably with rewards in
civilian industry.
Because Australia’s policy is to provide for the
Serviceman’s leisure hours through recreational
and sporting facilities, canteens, clubrooms, etc.,
and for his personal comfort.
Because all three Services provide for a substantial
pension or gratuity on retirement while a man is
still young enough to enjoy it.
Full details of Service careers and immediate
vacancies are available to you simply for the asking.
Because:
df
JOIN
the J NAVY, the ARMY or the AIR FORCE
Enquire at the following without obligation: “
Combined Services Recruiting Depots I
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney: \
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish •
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building, I
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King St. In Hobart: Franklin i
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
I I
luued by the Director-General of Recruiting PF8.112.W
CORNS
REMOVED BY
French
CORN CURE
also CALLOUSES.
Quick easy and econ-
omical. Just rub on.
Buy French Corn
Curb at chemists.
Jars 2/3. Postage 7d.
Anthony Horderns
Sydney
Pharmacy Dept.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 17 of 1951.
BETWEEN GEORGE ROMAN FROST
Petitioner and EILEEN MARGARET
FROST Respondent. ERIC KINGSLEY
EVANS Co-respondent.
NOTICE OF CITATION.
TO ERIC KINGSLEY EVANS late of
Cairns. —TAKE NOTICE that the said
GEORGE ROMAN FROST has commenced
a suit against the said EILEEN MAR-
GARET FROST in this honourable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of adultery by the
said EILEEN MARGARET FROST with
you AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the office of the Registrar of
this honourable Court at Canberra on or
before the Seventh day of February 1952
and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner may proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this Fourteenth day of December
1951. —E. R. BOARDMAN, Solicitor for
Petitioner, City Canberra. M. S. JOHN-
STON, Acting Registrar.
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOEE
WANGIRELL4 ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N.S.W.
THE HI
WIRE STRAWS*
AMO fiSMCS*
% TOUGH ENOUGH
FOR ANY WIRE .
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR
THE HIP POCKET...
HIPPO —the mighty midget that
will break 8-g. fencing wire,
strains indefinitely without biting-
ft
y
Weighs only 21bs., folds to fit in
hip pocket. Mighty leverage,
simple to use, nothing to wear out.
55
Plus
Postage
MANNING & OSBORNE
8a OASTLERRAGH STREET, SYDNEY
f:
MU
Esdaile's 2\x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
0 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
0 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion —Eye relief 3^in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23±ft. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
ds
AND SONS]
PTY. LTD.
n 5»»
■»**
n* 1 *
n*?
ixfjfiS
#lSl
v%&a
fsd
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Cordon and Co. Ltd.
&vcermJMtA>€t&e
Gordons
when dosed, and, as the action
of arccoline is quick, there
should be no trouble in keeping
the run free of the parasites,
Walk the dog for a quarter of
an hour to prevent vomiting of
dose, then confine and later burn
kennel sweepings.
_ “ ~ “ •
oeedlings.
“A-Jay”: Seed-beds for
crucifer crops (cabbage, cauli.,
lettuce, etc.) should be of new
soil; a light sandy loam is best.
Sow seed in shallow drills not
less than 4in. apart. A length
of broom-handle or some similar
round rod, impressed in the soil
to about half its diameter, makes
a good drill,
Sow seeds as thinly as pos-
sible, endeavoring to space them
about |in. apart. This is fairly
easy, with practice, trickling
seed through thumb and fore-
finger. Dust the bottom of the
drill with lime or chalk, as this
makes the dropped seed easy to
see. Cover the seeds with £in.
°f sifted soil and firm the surface
with a flat board, then spread a
thin mulch, not more than £in.
deep, of sifted compost or well-
decayed manure.
Soil should be moist before
sowing, and the first week daily
waterings will be necessary, but
after the two-leaved stage, the
intervals of watering should be
reduced and applied only when
the top inch of soil is obviously
dried out.
Commence thinning when the
plants are in the two-leaf stage,
first spacing them lin. apart,
then 2in. apart when the first
true leaves appear. When these
develop, thin to 3in. or 4in.
When thinning or weeding seed-
lings, see that the soil is moist
and afterwards water again to
consolidate the soil around the
roots of the remaining plants.
The Texan Saddle.
“San Luis Rey”: Texan cow-
boy saddles are not popular
because of their hard seats, but
this can be overcome by tying
a Ift.-square piece of sponge-
rubber to the seat by means of
two bootlaces through two holes
punched in the leather on each
side of the seat.
Treated thus, they are easier to
ride in than the English-style
saddle, do not need counterlin-
ing, and if a sheepskin with six
months’ wool on is cut oblong
and enclosed and sewn into a
bonemeal bag as a saddle-cloth
or pad, they are easier on a
horse’s back. Military saddles
can be treated in the same way,
but are not as easy as the Texan.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: Cut scions of decidu-
ous fruit-trees for grafting dur-
ing the dormant winter months,
using shoots produced in the
previous growing season. The
scion wood must have growth
buds on it and needs to be cut
no thicker than an ordinary
lead pencil. Arrange the scions
in loose bundles with the basal
ends level, and heel them into
moist, well-drained soil. If the
wood shows any tendency to
shrivel, stand it in water until it
revives.
“C.A.A.”: June is the month
to plant rhubarb in the south.
Ground should be trenched 2ft.
deep or more and plenty of farm-
yard manure dug in. A good
substitute is old straw mixed
with a handful of sulphate of
ammonia to each 9ft. of row.
As these beds are almost a pei-
manency in the garden their pre-
paration should be thorough.
“Myrr”: To prevent drop of
grapefruit approaching maturity,
spray late in May with a dilute
solution of 2,4-D, 22 parts per
million. This works out at Igm.
to 10 gallons of water, or, for
the larger grower, lOgm. to 100
gallons. Dissolve the chemical
in warm water and stir into the
spray-vat with 2oz. of white-oil
emulsion to each 10 gallons of
water. The oil acts as a sticker.
Apply spray to the stem end of
the fruit.
“My”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture reports a big
emergence of Oriental peach-
moths in the Goulburn Valley,
and advises growers to spray
with D.D.T., strength 0.1 per
cent. Codlin- and light-brown
apple-moths are giving trouble,
and the spray recommended —
D.D.T. 0.1 per cent., with lead
arsenate 31b. in lOOgal. of water
—is checking them.


TLLEY.
TABLE LAMPS
=o#
r
r\
v
n
t
n't
o
o
St
caV)
no^'
VC
eco
so
(&' s
If you want the best Kerosene pressure
lighting you must have TILLEY!
TILLEY Table Lamps, “The Queen”
(illustrated) height 21 \ n and “The
Princess” height I6|", give you perfect
300 candle power lighting for 12 hours
using only l£ pints of Kerosene.
TILLEY Lamps are trouble free,
require fewer spares and less
maintenance, and are the finest lamps
you can buy today.
Made only by
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
OF
HENDON, ENGLAND
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE, Cl
He Hopes to be
Tomorrow's Fuhrer
Nazism, which the world be-
lieved dead, has risen again in
Western Germany. Ranting
speeches, blackshirted toughs,
youth movements — the old
Hitler technique is being faith-
fully followed.
January Reader’s Digest
brings you a first hand report
on Otto Ernst Remer — a
dangerous ex-Nazi hero who’s
being built up to lead Germany
to a new fascist glory. Hard-
faced Remer, like Hitler, is a
fanatic. In two years he has
rallied hundreds of thousands
of embittered Germans to the
Socialist Reich Party.
Get your Reader’s Digest
today. 31 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Occasions when no Gift is
more acceptable than a
lAVMNA
SWISS MASTERPIECE
a
h.%.
\
(A
£3
On every
occasion
which tra-
ditio n a I I y
calls for a gift
of lasting value, give
a 17-jewelled Lavina
Swiss Watch. It will be
cherished through the
years for its exquisih*
perfection.
14 VINA
WATCHES
The Choice of Millions
Established 1852. Vllleret, Suisse.
LW2OAI
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“The low rumble you hear is infla-
tion cranking up for another erup-
tion.” —New York “World-Telegram
and Sun.”
Meanwhile the public is
quaking.
“Do women dress to please men?
I dare say that women undress to
please men.”
—Methodist Rev. H. T. Bone.
Despite our claims to civilisa-
tion, we haven’t got past the days
of bare baiting.
“The future bathroom would be
spacious, with large areas of glass to
admit health-giving sun-rays.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Paradoxically, though only
for the well-to-do it will stress
the see-me side of life.
-!• *f*
“The long bare and eroded slopes
of Mt. Olympus, mythical home of
the Greek gods, will soon again bear
laurel groves and fig-orchards.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
By Jove!
J-
“The pig escaped and ran into a
hotel after eluding his pursuers.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Mingling with the mob at
the bar around 6 p.m. he would
easily pass unnoticed.
“Train accidents show most injuries
to passengers are caused by falling
luggage.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
Well, they’re sitting targets.
Pop Goes the Question.
When you’re in love you love
to ask a question
Of your beloved —you even
note replies:
“Does cream upset your darling
indigestion ?”
“Where did you get those
beautiful dark eyes ?”
{Heredity, fathead /)
"Shall I compare thee to a
flagon foaming ?”
Or: “Love, wilt take my heart
to guard and keep ?”
Or else: “O mistress mine,
where are you roaming ?”
Or even: “Crikey! Do I
wake or sleep ?”
{Yes.)
In time the quizzing stops. If
not, at least
No answers are expected,
bleak or sunny :
‘‘How dare you speak to me like
that, you beast!”
Or: “Woman, do you think
I’m made of money !”
{Ichabod.)
A little yearning is a quizzy
business,
But marriage oft eliminates the
quizness.
NEIL MILLAR.
Geared for Romance.
“I am so weary of the American
snobbery that only a truck-driver can
fall in love. Have not the rich got
eyes, hearts and appetites as well as
the poor?”
—Theatre critic Beverley Baxter.
Love comes to rich and poor
alike
In limousine or on a bike,
And spends his little feathered
darts
On monarchs seated on his
thrones,
Or milkmen driving in their
zones
And fools as well as men of
parts.
And yet it seems unjust to me
To call the process snobbery
Which seeks to choose a man,
alive
And vital when it comes to love,
For any maid would rate, above
The wealthy, chaps with lots of
drive.
D. H. E.
Another “Actuality”
Broadcast.
“Ding, dong, ding...this is
station Two TT; the time is
seven forty-five. Our usual fea-
ture this time every Thursday
night is to take listeners on an
interesting descriptive tour, as it
were, of an important industry
at work. Tonight we will
describe the various processes
that go to the making of beer.
So now I’ll hand you over to
your cicerone for the evening,
Wallington Rudd. There you
are, Wallington.”
“Thank you, John. Well, here
we are at the Dingbash Brewery,
makers of the famous K.O.
Lager and Wryface Bitter. Now,
here is the manager, who will
tell us first some interesting
things about the various pro-
cesses. How are you, Mr.
Sudds?”
“Fine, Mr. Rudd. Now per-
haps just before we start off if
you could be persuaded to
sample a bottle of our lager—
you’re going to do a lot of talk-
ing, you know.”
“Well, thanks, don’t mind if
I do—a little thoracic lubrica-
tion, ha! ha!...Ah, no doubt
about the quality of that, Mr.
Sudds. Beautifully mellow,
creamy, with just the right bite
in it...thanks, just another...
um.. .now where do we go from
here?”
“Well, Mr. Rudd, here’s the
bottling department just through
this door. If you’ll bring your
microphone we’ll show you how
it’s done. See”
“see a bar-bell around, lady?”
“Well, there is a beautiful
sight, listeners. All the bottles
going around and being filled,
then sealed under pressure, and,
yes, they are being automatically
counted, too. What’s that, Mr.
Sudds? Well, I don’t mind if I
do ; it’s pretty warm in here to-
night. ITianks—well, here’s skin
off your nose.”
“Well, Mr. Rudd, there’s not
much more of interest to see in
this section, and we’ve still got
to cover quite a lot of ground
before the whole sweep of our
organisation is covered. Perhaps
if we go through now to the
room where the actual brewing
takes place. It is most fascinat-
ing, especially for those who
have no idea how beer is
actually made. But just before
we go I’d like you to try this
bottle of our special export
bitter, Mr. Rudd.”
“Thanks, Suddo, ole boy.
Well, lishnesh, we’ll shoot
through to see washail being
mixed, but before we go I’d like
to deshcribe bo’ls goin’ round in
machine —or ish it machine goin’
round in bo’ls? Whash it
madder, anyway? Har, har!
Thanksh, ole boy—well, skin off
y’r belly.
“Beau’f’l sight, thish, bo’ls
rushin’ round full of glorioush
beer. Picture no artish can
paint—he’d go cockeyed if he
tried. Har, har! Whashat,
Suddo? Brewin’ department?
lush wait till I clean up larsh
this export lager,
“Look, lesh forget brewin’ de-
partment. Only matter shlingin’
malt, hops, yeast an spot o’
t.n.t. in to give it a kick. Washat,
Suddo, ole boy? Look, call me
Wallo —no need shtand on shere-
mony.
“Well, lishnesh, thish pro-
gramme’s got a beautiful head
on it tonight. Havin’ bonsher
time here. What isht, brewery,
ishn’t it, Shuddo? Yair, thash
ri’ —can shee bo’ls goin’ round
• —now the brewery itshelf’s goin’
round. Yair, Shuddo, fill ’em up
an’ blasht expense. Chin, chin!
“Well, lishnesh, lemme desh-
cribe bo’ls goin’ round. They
go round in shirclesh, not
squaresh. Keep ruddy good time,
too. Beau’f’l sight—norra one
outa step. Jush tried to grab
one ash it went pasht, but misht.
Bo’l musta ducked when it shee
me cornin’. Cunnin’ blighters,
bo’ls,
“Washat, Suddo, y’ ole
blank? Doan be shilly—ain’t
even shtarted deshcripshn yet.
We haven’t been to see brewin’
done yet, ’ave we? Doan re-
member sheein’ mops, yalt an’
heast bein’ mixed up.
“Well, here we are at bo’l
department again. Washat,
Shuddo, ole boy? Ain’t left it?
Well, mush deshcribe bo’ls
rushin’ roun’. Shu-hic-perb
sight, lishnesh, shu-hic-perb!
Can’t make out, though, bo’ls
never sheem get anywhere. Jush
keep goin’ roun’. Mush finish
Somewhere! Well, I’m shtop-
pin’ here till I fin’ out, even if
it takesh all ni’. Thanks,
Shuddo, ole boy, givin’ lishnesh
chance shee all ramif. ..ramif
.. . dammit, all gyvo an’ know-
how an how beersh made. But
who cares how ish made long
ash it ish made. Thish ish
Jullington Wad shayin’ goo’ ni’
an’ blasht y’ all. Har, har!
Goo’ni’. G 000...”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Controls Have Failed
The trouble about controls is that a
good case can be made out for almost
any one of them, taken by itself. It is
reasonable that, at times, supplies of
scarce and essential building materials
should be reserved for such vital neces-
sities as homes and food-production.
And, of course, landlords could prey on
Louse-hungry tenants to their hearts’ con-
tent unless rents were pegged —though I
Lave never heard a valid argument for
pegging at present levels. What more
natural, too, than that the Government
should see that its people should have an
even distribution of butter and potatoes
nnd other scarce commodities? For that
matter, when coalmines, steelworks or
<lairyfarms are short-handed, why should
men not be taken from less-essential
employment and sent to them?
But, viewing the scene as a whole, there
can be no doubt that the whole system
of central control has failed. For one
thing “control” in this sense is synony-
mous with “restriction.” It is a purely
negative approach. Building-controls
Lave deprived the country of many shops,
offices and other useful buildings, but
Lave not encouraged the building of more
homes. Effective demand would do that,
hut controls have got in the way. Con-
trol of foodstuffs has driven' farms out
of production ; control of road-traffic has
not helped the railways, but has merely
concealed, for a time, their steady decline
to bankruptcy and obsolescence.
The economy at present is like a box
of tomato seedlings that have been raised
under glass. They cannot develop
properly where they are, but too sudden
an exposure to the elements would be
fatal. The gardener knows the answer—
carefully-graduated doses of fresh air
soon harden them up. That’s what this
country needs.— Magnoon (Q.).
Those London Funds
As Mr. Menzies noted, Dr. Evatt is
all at sea when he urges the reduction
of imports to conserve London funds.
Doesn’t he know that the basis of all
sound trade is “goods in exchange for
goods?” Why does he think the money is
in London, unless to be wisely spent?
That’s what money is for, and with
Britain depending on her export trade
for survival we should buy all we can
from her.
If our own spoilt and pampered second-
ary industries cannot stand up to a bit
of healthy overseas competition, par-
ticularly from Britain, then it’s time those
employed in them turned their activities
to other fields.
Shortage of foodstuffs and wool is
steadily becoming one of the world’s
major problems, and, taking the long
view, it could be argued that Australia
would be better employed as a primary
producer while leaving the manufacturing
side largely to Britain. Certainly we all
seemed to be better off in the days when
that was the economic set-up, both as re-
gards availability and quality of goods.
A fictitious London exchange-rate and
high tariff have cost the consumer dearly.
Money, it used to be said, was “mads
round to go round.” That was in the
days before our monstrous £300,000,000
Commonwealth note-issue; but the axiom
remains. What would the pioneers of
this country have said had they been
required to accept inconvertible London
balances, instead of goods, in exchange
for the products they sent abroad?
It’s bad enough to have the note-issue
on an inconvertible basis —didn’t a noted
economist state that never in the history
of the world has an inconvertible note-
issue failed to reach zero?
We want goods today, just as much as
ever the pioneers did, and we should get
them where we can instead of sacrificing
everything to maintaining a collection of
secondary industries working a 40-hour
week with all sorts of additional holidays
and concessions thrown in.
Money is merely a medium of exchange,
and it’s a nice point whether the hoarding
of it in London, or here in Australia for
that matter, does not result in the crea-
tion of a monster of our own making.
One glaring fact remains, and that is. that
“Like 'em boiled in their jackets?"
the people who spent their money wisely
as they earned it are today in a much
better financial position than those who
kept it in the form of bank balances or
paper securities. Goods for services or
goods should be the motto. It seems to
run counter to all the exhortations for
thrift, but actually does not, as thrift can'
be illustrated in other ways than in bank
balances.— Ceg (Vic.).
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz” (B. 12/12/’5l) writes
of the apparent futility of trying to dredge
the mud out of Newcastle Harbor. That
should have been an obvious fact when
the first vessel went aground, and the
spectacle of puny dredges trying to
remove the accumulated silt of years of
erosion in the Hunter catchment seemed
nothing short of pathetic.
There are millions and millions of
tons of mud in the harbor and millions
and millions more lying on the bed of
the river. Gouge a narrow channel in
this mud and sides and ends slip in till
the bed is level again. The warning was
sounded 20 years ago, when Morpeth
wharf became useless. Since then the
silt-pan has been creeping slowly down-
stream to fill the harbor, while New-
castle was blind to the threat to its port.
Even supposing it were possible to clear
the harbor-bed, it would take 20 years
more for the river to scour itself clear
back to Morpeth, and that mud in turn
would be dumped in the harbor and have
to be dredged.
Years of “land-mining” and specula-
tion in the once-fertile valley have
reduced it to the so-called “Hungry
Hunter” of today and deposited its
wealth at the feet of Newcastle.
The distasteful truth is that the port
is finished, and if the people of the
hinterland don’t unite in protest a mint
of money will be wasted. There is only
one solution —business must go else-
where. A port must be built at Port
Stephens, with rail-communication with
Newcastle’s heavy industries. — Arbee
(N.S.W.).
Cattle Lines
Droving cattle from the NT. to the
Queensland coast has always been a
failure, but it has had to be done —it is
the only way cattlemen could get their
stock to market. One bright bunch of
Westralian cattlemen on the edge of the
Kimberleys pioneered Air Beef, killing
their stock inland, freezing it and flying
it to Wyndham. After several years’ hard
work they are at last making it pay.
Expansion of this scheme throughout the
whole northern cattle-country, however,
is impossible and uneconomic without
heavy Government subsidies.
Building a railway from the coast of
Queensland through to Wyndham is the
only means of giving a new life to our
cattle industry and allowing it to expand.
Such a railway would become a
strategic line of defence, and it would
permit the cutting-up of many large hold-
ings and give the north an industry based
on similar lines to those in southern
States
If properly opened up the north could
support between 8,000,000 and 10,000,000
people and give Australia the greatest
cattle lands in the world.
Transport is the first essential to secure
a steady market for any commodity.
Lack of transport killed Australia’s
northern cattle-country before it was ever
properly developed. If a road could be
built across the continent from Darwin
to Adelaide in war-time, surely a railway-
line across the cattle-country is feasible
in time of peace. — Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
Taxation of Co-operatives
A special committee appointed by the
Maoriland Parliament to investigate and
report on all aspects of taxation has
released its report. Dealing with the
taxation of co-operatives, the report
says:
“Where a producer co-operative also
carries on the functions of an ordinary
trader and makes profits buying and
selling merchandise to the public
generally, the committee recommends it
should pay tax at appropriate company
rates on the profits it earns, even if they
are not distributed by way of dividends
on shares. - Profits of a co-operative
dairy company applied as fixed or work-
ing capital for any such merchandising
activities should be taxable,
“Where consumer co-operatives derive
profits from dealing with non-members
the committee recommends they should
be taxed at appropriate company rates
on that profit, unless they rebate that
profit to the non-members.”
Should these recommendations be
adopted they will still leave the N.Z.
co-operatives with many tax advantages
over ordinary traders, but at least they
will be steps in the right direction, and
will tend to restrict the advantages to
genuine co-operatives.
A similar committee was set up by
Federal Treasurer Fadden in 1950. Like
its Maoriland counterpart, it investigated
the taxation of co-operatives, but
although its reports on other aspects of
taxation have been tabled in Parliament,
the Treasurer has never released its find-
ings on co-operatives. Nor can he be
forced to do so, as the committee was
appointed by the Treasurer himself and
not by Parliament.
Co-operatives in Australia, and their
members as’a section, enjoy a tremendous
advantage over the rest of the community.
In some areas —the coalfields, for instance
—they have almost ousted the ordinary
trader.
There is nothing wrong with the co-
operative movement as such, but the
current high taxation rates on private
traders and companies and their own
comparative immunity have given them
an advantage that legislators of other
years never intended them to have.
The time is surely appropriate for the
Treasurer to table this section of his
committee’s report, even if he does not
intend to act on its recommendations.—
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Shaw Was Not Cruel
“Chips” (B. 21 /11 / ’5l) states that
Bernard Shaw’s remark, “Those who can,
do, those who cannot, teach,” is unkind.
The Virtuosi and performers have
our admiration and respect. Years of
studv and labor contribute to their ability
—to say nothing of innate capacity.
Yet it is no disgrace to be a teacher.
Many performers are failures at teaching.
A different mental constitution is required
to make an able teacher. Intelligence,
sympathy and patience are not always
found in virtuosi. And virtuosi are
dependent on capable teachers during
their early years of training.
No, Shaw did not mean to be unkind
when he made the statement. It was
merely a statement of fact; an observation
he had made. Unkindness or cruelty was
below his character. He was a just man
with a genuine love for humanity. —
E.L.H. S. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 155
Across.
I—One1 —One who argues in the European
fog. (8)
s—Scoffs at people who reconnoitre.
(6)
10 — Peewit circuit on an arm of a.
large dwelling. (7)
11— Athena sends a digger to Vir-
ginia. (7) ,
12 — Sorry one to thoroughplace tor
an enjoyer of cruelty. (6)
13— Turn up with 50 and the para-
mour garment. (8)
16 — Small islands post one hundred
pertaining to a Moslem sect. (8)
17 — By what Latin fleet of Britain in
a S.A. town. (5)
19 — A French worm swears. (5)
20 — Federal electorate takes the morn-
ing with an article ship in the
Eastern trade. (8)
22—What to do with dead Valentine
during a pause. (8)
24—Otherwise misbehave with one
influential family of Roman
princes. (6)
26—Submit to a French half-thousand
therefore. (7)
28 —One who besieges women and a
cadet reporter who might become
one of 5 across. (4-3)
29 — Board upset me on the bay. (6)
30 — Censored has the alternative thus
enraged. (8)
Down.
1 — Tongue gloss. (6)
2 Petrifying one separates the cir-
cuit from the comedown. (11)
3 Corseted parent among the
strongest supports. (9)
4 Herb Wise. (4)
6 Waterway question’s Capone’s
ability. (5)
7 An hour in Germany. (3)
8— Mast on a circle throwing
purtches. (8)
9 Lying in wait during the morning
with a transport “heel” and a
duck. (9)
14 — Chamber music available when
Shakspeare’s Cesario blows “him-
self” to smithereens. (5, 6)
15 — Everything I gun or a creature
that barks. (9)
17 — Card game during a dance as far
as Latin training over the East. (9)
18 — When nails are fixed for my male
patient becoming an ex-patient.
(8)
21—Wickedness hovers over the wicked
sailor. (6)
23—Of less frequent occurrence. (5)
25—State emblem with the relevant
state in Essen. (4)
27 —Strike gently with the wicked
uprising. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 154.


HRSTIRGS DEERIHC
'SLv
Finance & muESTmeni co. ltd
■'l:'f '■
• • •
supplying financial service &p
Australia's national develops
A.E.C. (Aust.)
PIT. LTD.
78 WILLIAM ST.. SYONEY
Phone M0412 (33 lines}
Mr. H. HASTINGS
DEEPING
Cfcafrmafl of Director*
mm
DIESEL TIPPERS
TRUCKS • BUSES
Illustrated is an A.E.C. "Matador"
Mark 111 Heavy-Duty Tipper.
A.E.C. has a grand record for a
long life of economical and profit-
earning service. Ail modern
engineering advancements
that have been tested and
proved in service by A.E.C.
("Builders of London's
Buses") are embodied in
the "Matador."
DIESEL POWERED SHOVELS • CRANES
DRAGLINES
A Lima Shovel at work in the world's largest
copper mine, U.S.A. With world markets
insisting on cheaper goods, more economical
production is achieved by the adoption of
these new machines. We are bringing these
same machines to Australia.
All Lima equipment is designed to handle the
heaviest, hardest and largest scale earth
moving, and similar work, in the most difficult
terrain.
Early delivery for approved priorities.
BUT
£
y
O
$m
s3a&
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LTD., 78 WILLIAM STREET. SYDNEY
micHicnn
d v,. : vsi^t ri y t't-
Maximum profitable use of
construction and excavating
machinery is determined by
its actual productive time on
the job.
DIESEL POWERED
SHOVELS • CRANES
DRAGLWES
Ease and speed of movement become of great importance H
high productivity of equipment is to be attained.
Michigan is designed to fill the need for a versatile, highly
mobile Power Shovel, and has gained wide popularity with
Contractors, Industrial Plants, State,
County and Municipal Departments.
EARLY DELIVERY ON APPROVED
PRIORITIES.
ic&g
.■! r
Michigan
TMDT 16
Capacity.. •
£ Cubic Yard
DIESELS PTY. LTD., 78 WILLIAM STREET. SYDNEY
HARLAND & WOLFF
BELFAST and LONDON
BRITISH DIESEL ENGINES
THE "H. & W." ("Harland & Wolff") Diesel Engine as a power-producing
unit for industrial purposes is noted for its fuel economy, low operating
costs, entire absence of standby losses, and the simplicity, safety and
reliability of its operation. The range of application is almost unlimited.
This "Harland & Wolff" Engine drives a 1,600 K.V.A. alternator at 333
r.p.m. and incorporates the latest four-valve head design ensuring
maximum scavenge ana
excellent combustion
resulting in low fuel
consumption.
All the ranges of
"Harland & Wolff"
engines are suitable for
dual fuel operates**
M
m
Mr. H. HASTINGS DEERING
Personal Representative
in Australia for
HARLAND & WOLFF
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Corner.
'Phone M 0412 f 33 lines)
■TOT"
