

_
fd
fd
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
i%5
B. SEPPELT &SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3757
Wednesday, February 13, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TATTERSHALL CASTLE,
PALACE AND FORT COMBINED
'T'OWERING above the Lincolnshire
fenlands, near Woodhall Spa, are the
massive walls of Tattershali Castle, one
of the best examples of a fortified dwell-
ing in Britain. It was built in 1440 by
Baron Cromwell, Lord High Treasurer
to Henry VI (1422-1461), and replaced
an earlier thirteenth-century fortress of
which the outer moat, some earthworks
and foundations still remain.
Baron Cwomwell added an outer ward
to the old enclosure and transformed the
original castle into a palace, the chief
feature of which is the great quadrangular
tower, 110 feet high. Its four stories are
surmounted by battlements built of
Ancaster stone. The walls themselves are
built of small red bricks, with patterns in
blue-black brick, and are, in places, six-
teen feet thick. Nowhere else in Britain
can a finer example of medieval brick-
work be seen to better advantage.
Each of the four floors within the castle
has a large central room from which
open out smaller chambers. A particu-
larly noteworthy feature of each of the
big rooms is the possession of elaborate
heraldic chimney-pieces, which were ad-
mired by an American millionaire in
1911, and were only saved from being
shipped across the Atlantic by the pat-
riotic action of the Marquess Curzon,
who bought the castle and adjacent
grounds and presented it to the nation.
The castle was damaged during the
Civil War, and in this century by light-
ning, but restoration was completed in
1914, and this great fortress is now open
to the public. The Guard House serves
as a museum in which may be seen a
wide range of pottery and other objects
of interest which have been found in the
vicinity of Tattershali Castle,


n>
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
tOO Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
—— CUT HERE AND
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary j
Prospectus, free and without obligation. |
My Name I
|
Address
(5.8.152) .-Age...... .
The Red Page
ROUGHLEY ON FISH.
There is something very pleasing to a
fisherman in the omnivorous and
voracious appetite for all kinds of fish-
mg T. C. Roughley displays in Fish and
Fisheries of Australia (Angus and
Robertson); for if the reviewer clings to
a prejudice in favor of the trout, and if
others may prefer to troll for swordfish
or get washed off the rocks spinning for
tailor, it remains a fact admitted by all
true brothers of the angle that anything
at all is worth catching.
It is possible to crouch under a wharf
at La Perouse with two thousand small
boys, under the pretence of teaching a
small nephew to fish, and find a profound
satisfaction in hauling in a small striped
fish named mado, so meagre and bony
that even a cat won’t eat it. There is a
charm, as Mr. Roughley admits, in land-
ing the foul and slimy eel—whose smoked
flesh, Mr. Roughley insists, is good tucker
and should not be restricted to New Aus-
tralians. In retrospect at least there is a
vague pleasure in rocking greenly in a
dinghy off Flinders, drifting for flathead
whose nresenco on tbo lino thrmiob their
wnose presence on me line, tnrougn their
own insipidity and in the horrid haze
of seasickness, was entirely imperceptible.
There is something—-though exactly what
is difficult tn define—ln he said fnr «it
is aimcuit to define—to be said tor sit-
ting tor hours in a boat on Sydney
Harbor, religiously returning to the water
an occasional cockney bream or gently
detaching a catfish And as for fishing
°/ kream up the Hawkesbury, on nights
when the dark water is alive with phos-
phorescence and the mullet go streaking
through it like arrows of white as
Rodenc Quinn found, in the best bit of
verse he ever wrote, there is poeti y in
tn£ r; ,
Mr. Roughley doesn t go quite so low
down the fish scale as to write about the
mighty mado He says there are 2200
species of fish m Australian waters and,
reluctantly, he cant land them all m one
book, even so large a volume as . Fish and
Fisheries in Australia. But so far as the
ordinary fisherman goes-and in fact it
wovfld be an extraordinary fisherman who
had caught all the fish m this book -he
nas certainly covered everything that
matters.
To deal first with the lordly trout- Mr.
Roughley says that trout eat snakes
—a rainbow taken in Eas
Gippshmd contained a 12m. tiger-
snake. They also eat bulldog-ants- in
the case of one large specimen it had been
swallowed while living, and its man-
dibles were so deeply embedded in the
stomach-walls of the fish that it required
considerable force to disengage it. Since
these ants are possessed of a long and
extremely potent sting it is probable that
it made its presence felt in an unmis-
takable manner. p ~ *
that— flvYs hatch-
that except when a special fly is h tch
mg—the trout exercises little or no
selection in his choice of diet; a very
dangerous and heietical theory to put
before a fisherman who has seen an Aus-
trahan poet stand up to his waist in the
icyGoodradigbeeat Wee Jasper for over
an hour, offering every fly in his box to
a monster which at last took the one it
had been waiting for and dashed off and
l he l ast ' ‘ a I’ 1 ' mcidentally,
which has been variously estimated (by
the man who lost it) at from 81b. to 14!b.,
and which must truly have been at least
ait n 1.1 . .1 „
Mr. Roughley says, too there aie as
many arguments in trout-fishing asAheie
are trout that a Victorian expert who
has spent his life m the absoibing hobby
of exploring the st machs of trout has
never found a single proof of anm-
bahsm, in spite of the fact that trout are
notorious for eating each other in the
c j T , . u ■ ,ti 11
confined spaces of hatcheries. .Well,
maybe Victorian trout are nice-minded,
while New Zealand trout have picked up
bad habits from the Maoris: but there
.... ,
was once a villainous bait-fisherman who
dropped an inanga into the Waikato at
the Ara-tia-tia Rapids, caught a 9in.
rainbow with it, put the rainbow on for
bait and caught a 121 b. brown with it;
and inside that same old cannibal was a
large deceased water-rat.
Still, inexhaustible as the trout is as a
subject for conversation, reverie and con-
troversy, there is also the Spanish
mackerel. This, as it happens, is a fish
of which the reviewer takes rather a dim
view, having made the mistake of
pursuing it around the Barrier Reef in a
tourist launch which stopped for 20
minutes every now and again to catch a
few fish —time enough indeed to pull in a
superb Red Emperor, and to see a lady-
angler attached to a coral-cod so
immense that you hardly knew which
had caught which: it straightened Out
the hook and its great bulk sank slowly
down to the coral again—a tourist launch,
one was saying, which up-anchored again
every 20 minutes and whizzed hack to
Daydream or one of the other islands to
let the tourists ashore to play ping-pong,
and so saw no mackerel at all. But the
Spanish mackerel does indubitably exist;
and Mr. Roughley quotes himself
magnificently on it from his Wonders of
the Great Barrier Reef : —
As the fish sights the boat it tears away
in another mad rush, taking about 50yds.
of line out. And then the fish, sft. of
fighting fury, turns again towards the boat;
with a great rush it leaps clear over the
stern, and we see its glistening black eye
staring at us; we see a row of sharp,
vicious teeth as the fish, stiff as a ramrod,
cleaves the air above us. As it hits the
water it sends a shower of spray over us,
and when next we sight it it is 30yds. or
40yds. away.
There is, too, in the mackerel chapter,
an account of the wahoo which grows to
a weight of well over IOOIb., and which
no less an authority than Ernest Heming-
way described as the best-eating of all
game-fish: “It is occasionally caught by
anglers trolling on the Great Barrier Reef
for Spanish mackerel; striking a wahoo
they imagine they have hooked a Spanish
mackerel gone wild. It has also been
recorded from the north-west coast of
Western Australia.”
There is the imperial swordfish ; con-
cerning which we learn that the first
marlin to be landed with rod and line in
Australian waters was taken by Roy
Smith, of Yass, N. S. Wales, off Montague
Island on the N. S. Wales South Coast.
We have a day fishing with Mr. Roughley
at Bermagui; an account of the exploits
of Zane Grey and Harry Lauder —all
immensely interesting reading, but the
best and saddest swordfish story of all
deals with the Anniversary Celebrations
in 1938 when the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment offered a prize of £5OO for the
biggest game-fish to be caught in an
Australia-wide angling contest:
The irony of it was that during the
period of the competition a black marlin
weighing 1226 pounds was found stranded
on a beach in Twofold Bay, and conjecture
was rife as to whether this fish had been
actually hooked by an angler. Was it one
of those that really did get away? It
would have constituted a world’s record.
Then there is the snapper. If most
people know or have darkly suspected
that “So esteemed is the snapper as a
food-fish that it is by no means
uncommon for fish in less popular favor
to be served in restaurants under the
snapper’s name,” you may not know
that “snapper” and not “schnapper” is
its correct name —“The name ‘snapper’
was given to the fish by Captain Cook,
who in his log dated Friday, May 25,
1770, stated that there were caught off
Cape Capricorn (Queensland) ‘some fish
of the snapper kind’ ’V—or that snapper
for the N. S. Wales market are mostly
caught in fish-traps originally designed
for leatherjacket; or you may never have
been able to settle the argument as to
whether the cockney bream is a young
snapper or a distinct species of dwarf
snapper invented to persuade the fisher-
men of Sydney Harbor that life is still
possible in the overpopulated, overfished
precincts of a big city:
Various names are given to the snapper
during the course of its growth. The
youngest stages are known as “cockneys”;
as they grow they become “red bream”;
then “squire”; then “snapper”; and finally
when old and with well-developed humps
on the head, they are frequently referred
to as “old-men snapper.” This has led to
much confusion, and inquiries are frequently
made as to whether a red bream is a young
snapper. The transitional stages are quite
arbitrary, and no one can say with any
certainty at what stage a red bream becomes
a squire, or a squire a snapper, although
it might be safe to say that at a weight of
about lllb. the red bream qualifies to be
called a squire, and at a weight of 31b. a
squire earns the dignity of being called
snapper.
Fish and Fisheries of Australia is an
almost complete rewriting of a book
called Fishes of Australia and Their
Technology which Mr. Roughley pub-
lished in 1916 and which has been out of
.print for many years. Mr. Roughley has
“endeavored to give essential details of
the most important fish found in Aus-
tralian waters, of the commercial fishery
in its many phases, and of the methods
adopted by anglers to lure the fish to
their lines.” With 60 colorplates illus-
trating the various species of fish —which
should be extremely useful to the amateur
who, like the reviewer, might have some
difficulty in identifying a grunter or
knowing precisely what kind of monstrous
garfish it was when the surf at Warrie-
wood was invaded one day by shoals of
Long Tom—it is in its way an amazing
production ; resembling in its combina-
tion of authority, comprehensiveness and
freshness Joyce Allan’s recent Australian
Shells; with the distinction, of course,
that Mr. Roughley’s fish spend most of
their time eating Miss Allan’s shell-
fish . . . the authors, perhaps, should be
kept on separate shelves.
It is typical of Mr. Roughley's
omnivorousness compared with the
ordinary fisherman he is a whale-shark
amongst sardines —that his most ardent
love seems to be with commercial fishery
on the grand scale, what is known as the
“pelagic fishery,” concerning which he
writes:
This branch of Australian fisheries has
scarcely yet been tapped. It is true that
such pelagic fish as the barracouta and the
Australian salmon [which, as Mr. Roughley
points out, is not a salmon; its name is an
insult to the entire trout family] have been
exploited for many years, the former by the
use of jigs and lures, the latter bv means
of beach seine nets hauled usually on
ocean beaches, but little effort has been
made to capture such important fish as
the tuna, pilchard, common mackerel,
anchovy, or jack mackerel, which are found
seasonally on various parts of the southern
half of the Australian coast in great shoals.
It was not until 1943 that jack mackerel
were successfully netted offshore, and it
was not until late in 1949 that tuna were
caught by trolling in any considerable
quantity. If there is to be any great
expansion of the fishing industry in Aus-
tralia it must come from these and similar-
species, and recent successes in their cap-
ture are a pointer to their commercial
exploitation.
So the book develops far beyond being
just a useful handbook for the weekend
amateur and a kind of printed aquarium
for the nature-lover into a political thesis
of national importance. There is an
account of the cannery for tuna and
salmon at Narooma, N. S. Wales, which
(in 1936-37) Mr. Roughley was largely
instrumental in establishing —he is
Superintendent of N. S. Wales Fisheries —
and notes on the subsequent establish-
ment of many other canneries in other
States, including six in Tasmania and
five in Westralia.
All this is extremely important material
for anybody concerned for the future of
the fishing industry and urgently
important, too, since fish is hardly to be
bought these days in Sydney fish-shops,
and we seem determined to starve our-
selves of that article in our national diet
as well as of butter and wheat. But
important political theses are not neces-
sarily readable; in fact they are usually
abominable. Mr. Roughley is an excep-
tion. He always manages to remain, so
to speak, magnificently fishy. He can
make even the scaling of fish in a cannery
a fascinating operation:
The first process is the scaling of the fish.
This may be accomplished in two ways: a
rapidly revolving scaler with blunt blades
concave in shape to fit the body of the
fish, electrically operated and held in the
hand, is rubbed against the side of the
fish from behind forward, when the scales
are cleanly removed from the skin; or the
fish are placed in a machine operated on
the same principle as a potato-peeler. This
consists of a metal cylinder with vertical
projections on the sides and with an
undulating floor. It is partially filled with
water that revolves at considerable speed;
the fish are kept in constant circular
motion, rubbing against the sides and each
other, till in a short time all the scales are
removed. In practice this method of scaling
has been found to be more economical and
more efficient than the hand-operated
machine.
And when he wishes to find out (in
1949) whether tuna off the Australian
coast will take a lure with sufficient readi-
ness to make pole-fishing in the American
style a worth-while commercial proposi-
tion he doesn’t —as you might. expect
from a Superintendent of Fisheries —
“call for a report”: he goes fishing . . .
on an American company’s clipper, the
Senibua, on “the first pole-fishing expedi-
tion in Australian waters”:
It was about 5.30 in the morning of 16th
October that the fun started. About 20
miles east of Jervis Bay a tuna struck one
of the lures trailing from the stern, and in
a short time bluefin tuna averaging about
251 b. in weight were hitting the deck.
Snap! went a line; crack! went a pole.
Some big fish were about, and it was
decided to fish in pairs. But the fish were
beyond the capacity of two fishermen to
handle them, and teams of three were
formed, with no more success. These fish
were estimated to weigh between 150 and
2001 b., and all broke away, leaving poles
and lines littered about the deck. Three
shoals were located that morning No
further patches were made until 7th
December, when the Senibua ran into a
shoal of southern bluefin tuna about 12
miles east of Merimbula (a little north of
Eden). The shoal was located at about
4 p.m., and fishing continued until 8 p.m.
under electric lights, when, although the
fish were still biting freely, the fishermen
gave up through sheer exhaustion afW
landing 27 tons. The fish weighed’ un tn
651 b. and averaged about 301 b P °
So even if it is to these vast and still
largely-neglected schools of tuna that he
has most enthusiastically given his heart
—if is not simply that the spectacle
of a leapmg-bomto, one of the tuna
family, racing through the water at 3f)
miles per hour, has caught and held
the reviewer’s eye—Mr. Roughley always
remains a fisherman, to whom all things
about all fish are sacred and enthralling
He is interested in eating them, and says
his preference above all other fish from
the edible point of view goes to the pearl
perch. He is interested in all methods
of catching them, and says that pro-
fessional fishermen attract the savage
barracouta around their boats by splash-
ing the surface of the water with their
“jig-sticks” (short rods) to simulate the
thrashing of a fish as it attacks its prey ■
that he knew a professional fisherman on
the Murrumbidgee who used centipedes
for bait for Murray cod and “never felt
any ill-effects” when the bait bit him;
and that if you want to catch crabs for
bait for groper you can do it like this:—
I saw....two anglers at South Reef, at
the entrance to Sydney Harbor. One of
them was armed with a crab-spear, to the
end of which was secured a small octopus.
He thrust the octopus into crevices in the
rocks and drew it along from one end to
the other, and the crabs, terrified of their
mortal enemy, rushed out headlong ahead
of it, to be secured in the gloved hands
of his mate.
He is interested—in his superin-
tendental as well as his private capacity
—in the naming of fish and says that you
should call black fish luderick; that the
nannygai (feally a most edible fish) sold
very much better to the public after the
name was changed to redfish, but that the
department refused to allow the trade
to go so far as to rechristen it king-
snapper ; that the sergeant baker com-
memorates a sergeant of that name who
was the first to catch one in the early
days of settlement in N. S. Wales; that
the silver perch should be known by that
name and not by the uncouth appellation
of grunter; that gummy shark is politely
referred to as Sweet William in South
Australia; and that the aborigines were
quite as bad as we are in mixing up the
names' of fish—“ They used the term
‘barramundi’ for any large freshwater
fish and Australians followed them, with
the result that at least three Queensland
fish, the giant perch, the lungfish and
another fish of very ancient lineage,
Scleropages leichhardti, are commonly
referred to under this name.”
He is interested —as who is not?—in
the shark, and says that the largest shark
caught anywhere in the world in accord-
ance with international angling rules was
G. R. Cowell’s white shark of 19191 b.
(what. Zane Grey called the “great white
death”) off Kangaroo Island in May,
1941 ; that the harmless whale shark,
occasionally seen in Australian waters,
grows to a length of 50ft.; that the
beastly tiger-shark is “a scavenger among
scavengers”—-one caught off Bondi con-
tained a full-grown spaniel, several sea-
birds, many fish and the head of a
dolphin, “probably all dead before being
picked up off the ocean floor”; that,
though eight species are regarded as man-
eaters, there is unimpeachable evidence
against only the whaler shark; that the
American “shark-repellent” solution of
copper acetate could conceivably be
released in the sea parallel with the surf-
ing beaches to make a protective barrier,
though it seems that bathers would have
to swim in darkened water, which might
not prove popular with platinum blondes;
and that a shark is more likely to attack
a moving object than a stationary one ...
as when being charged by a bull, all you
have to do is stand still and see if it
gores you or bites you, as the case may
be.
Altogether, whichever way you look at
it, this is a truly magnificent book: up-
to-the-minute, with all the latest informa-
tion about spear-fishing; handsomely
produced ; authoritative ; full of odd bits
of information such as that the shark
doesn’t turn oyer to bite you, that the
freshwater catfish makes a nest for its
eggs (“the fish, grabbing pebbles and
small sticks in their mouths, carry them
to the nest and deposit them on the
bottom”), that professional fishermen
keep anchovies in floating cages f° r up
to four months, and that newly-hatched
soles and flounders are not flat but have
an eye on each side of the head like any
other fish; and a book, finally, w “‘ c
always stays so close to the water that
you feel you are sitting in a boat over
an oyster-bed at night with tfm author
listening to “the constant ‘crack’ as the
bream break the shells.” It is a smgulady
beautiful thought that by the time this
review is printed in The Bulletin (he
reviewer will be on holidays .. • fishing.
D.S.
{“Red Page” continued on page 4.)


■
m
£7/7/6
m m
H
si
■
87/3
£6/13/6
£4/10/9
Travel Bag of genuine top grain cowhide with strong
slide fastener, with lock attached. Cloth lined. 18in.,
£4/10/9; 20in., £6/10/-. Crocodile grain, 18in., £4/15/3;
20in., £6/15/-.
Club Bags in genuine hide made on a steel frame with
cloth lining and two inside pockets. 20in., £7/7/6.
Crocodile grained hide priced at £B/6/3.
Fibre Suit Case in genuine vulcanised fibre. This strong
lightweight case is water-resisting and fitted with English
locks and comfortable plastic handle. 24in., 87/3; 26in.,
94/6; and 28in., priced at £5/1/9.
Cabin Cases covered in attractive canvas tweed with two
supporting wooden hoops. English locks and centre clip
and leather handle. Size 26in., priced at £6/13/6; 28in. f
priced at £7/3/9; and 30in., priced at £7/14/-,
■■■
n
HP v '' sb? 'Hi
■
iWM.
m
mi&M
mam?
h'm.
mm
W&M
m
m
m
kM-A
mM
w®?' vv:
■ o
pp§*
iSmM-
** : ::'
m
m
:-'
n
:■■..■■ sigiiS«S«s
.
• : ‘ f
i
11
■ -.
■ iff
Thl'" *m
*r*\A
m*3sr*? *■
\"V.
::
I
if
X; ■
■
■
.: i
■
I
i
&HH
' -
i> ify
|||| - '
; |%\i
■- X.
:a>
iS
| :-;l V'
v;' r.'X
s;
9
Hi
1
.-. ■
m
i
;:X :
&:..s
■
A beautiful ensemble in lightweight fibre • • •
Three-piece Travelling Set
This attractive set comprises a lightweight suit case, ladies’ dressrobe and gent’s
wardrobe case. The attractive striped tweed is on a fibre foundation with leather bindings.
English locks, and in colours Grey or Brown. The lightweight suit case (centre) 24in.,
£5/5/-; 26in., £5/13/9; 28in., £6/2/6. Ladies’ Dressrobe (right) carrys ten frocks without
crushing. Price, £lO/19/6. Gent’s Wardrobe Case carrys three suits in lid three compartments
in body of case for shirts, and socks, etc. Price, £lB/19/6.
Fibre Cases from 36/9
These cases are constructed from hard vulcanised fibre and are very strong and water-resisting. Two English
locks, strong steel frame, lid support and plastic handle. 16in., priced at 36/9; and 18in., priced at 41/6.
:
&
sail!*
ini
: K
*-
TRAVEL GOODS—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


“ Ton asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir ”
There are certain pleasurable occasions—out of the
ordinary, and above the everyday—which deserve and
command tributes only of the best; it is for these that
BENSONand Hedges have thoughtfully provided
their Super Virginia cigarettes.
-''5R5
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H. M. KINO OEORO6 VI
c mAen *m/i/ jAe sSeM
df
BENSON
HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON
W. I
TBW Mj
In“ Shore”—the Sydney Church
of England Grammar School,
The Foundation and First Head-
mastership, Viewed from the
School’s Sixtieth Year, by E. R.
Holme, 0.8. E., M.A., Professor
Emeritus, University of Sydney,
Member of the original com-
mittee of the Old Boys’ Union
and for over fifty years Member
of the School Council, With a
Foreword by His Grace The
Most Reverend the Archbishop
of Sydney, President of the
School Council (A. and R.), we
have an example of what may
well be called bookmaking of the
old school ; for after the title-
page we come to a request to
old boys to help fill in the names
under old photographs of cricket
and football teams, then to his
Grace’s foreword, then to two
“Thoughts on History” from
Macaulay and Andrew George
Little, then to Prefatory Notes,
first “To Members of the School,
Past and Present,” second “To
Other Readers,” then to a list
of Acknowledgments, then to
“Vital Lampada Tradunt,”
“Shore’s” song, then to the
“Preface; From Robson to
Robson,” then to the list of
Contents and Table of Illustra-
tions, then “An Introduction
from Earlier History,” and so,
at last, to Chapter One.
The work that follows these
graceful preludings and pre-
liminary flourishes is of the
old school, also ; sound, authori-
tative and humane ; and as is
proper to a school that keeps
burning the little candle of the
classics in a naughty world,
Vital Lampada Tradunt, it has
for motif the theme of the earliest
and greatest of classics: the
baneful effect of women upon
the destinies of men, Troy, the
Diocese of Sydney, the Sydney
Church of England Grammar
School—a common fate befell
them . . . more or less.
For Bishop Barry, who
founded “Shore,” had been in
Australia only four years before,
in 1888, he tendered his resigna-
tion because of
the state of health of his wife from
whom... .after a marriage lasting
thirty-seven years, he could not endure
to be parted as he must be if she
were compelled to live in England,
from which her English physician
stated “definitely” she could “not
return to Australia without seriously
endangering her life.”
Professor Holme seems to have
difficulty in accepting this resig-
nation at its face-value:
A resignation so motivated and
explained seemed remarkable as refer-
ring to the climate and other condi-
tions of life in Sydney....lt is said
that the Synod heard him in complete
silence. Some members may have
known the earlier history of the
Church in Australia and have thought
of the first Archdeacon, who had no
wife, but left his post in anger and
resentment as if saying, “I banish
you.”
However, Bishop Barry be-
came assistant Bishop of
Rochester until 1891, Rector of
St. James’s, Piccadilly, 1895-
1900; and finally assistant
Bishop in West London from
1897:
He was also Canon of Windsor
from 1891, an appointment paradoxi-
cally but generally interpreted as not
a sign of Royal favor.
Bishop Barry seems to have
remained long enough in Aus-
tralia to give the credit for
“Shore” to Bishop Broughton’s
original scheme for “not only
The King’s School, Parramatta,
as a great boarding-school, but
a King’s School in Sydney to be
a still larger day school,” at the
school’s opening in May, 1889 ;
and thus brought E. I. Robson
on the stage to enact the second
Homeric simile.
Ernest Iliff Robson (no rela-
tion of the present headmaster)
was an old boy of Repton, the
English public school, and a
graduate of Cambridge and, at
the time of his appointment as
“Shore’s” first headmaster, Clas-
sical Tutor and Lecturer at
Ormond College, Melbourne. He
was a fine oarsman, and laid the
basis of “Shore’s” rowing—as,
indeed, Professor Holme assures
us, of most else that is lasting
and admirable in the school’s
tradition and administration. But
six years after his appointment,
in 1895, he married. The head-
master’s house, till then, had been
graced and managed by his three
sisters, notably by the eldest,
Gertrude Robson. “It was like,”
says Professor Holme, “replac-
ing a team by a single player.
....In the headmaster’s house
there was no longer the same
focus of school interest. There,
inter ft„ had shifted more to
society.”
o r> u
Mrs Robson “thought and
expressed herself, it j s said in
terms of the‘professional man’s
Wl f e ’_her husband’s business
was not herSj and wherfi _
were required to assist in it thev
wou|d 4 be salaried St
„ g. although u a
’ ~ f , had
her own gilts, and they were
B ood , she was the daughter of
a Melbourne headmaster Dr
Morrison of WriTriii '
A - mrnson, ot Scotch College,
“terian s“°bu. Srtofh
which Weigal. could not rj,“
That Weigall could not see
eye to eye with the headmaster
SC f ° tCh “vf*® P ° int
against poor Mrs. Robson; in
f act , mention of Weigall leads
Professor Holme to the brink of
the sin ° f covetousn ess ; for if
the Sydney f hurch authorities
had been awake-up to Weigall in
]866? and ha d offered him the
inauguration of an earlier
“Shore,” he would not have
been able to take over and lead
the failing Sydney Grammar
School to glory; there might
not have been (loud cries of
“Shore! Shore! ”) any Sydney
Grammar at all; nor would Mrs.
Robson have troubled the tran-
quillity of the new school.
But we must deal with history
as we find it: the financial crisis
of the ’nineties cut attendance
down from 135 in 1893 to 83 in
1900:
The headmaster was believed to
have, not unnaturally, taken counsel
with his more experienced father-in-
law, himself head of a great school
for boys. It was not within the
specific English Public and Grammar
School tradition. Its methods....
might not have been well suited for
use by.... a “traditional English
Grammar School” headmaster in
Sydney conviction grew among
the “Shore” staff that certain methods
of retrenchments proposed here had
their origin in Melbourne
In short, the masters, who did
not want to be sacked or given
extra duties, opposed the head-
master ; a barrister and a clergy-
man deputed by the school coun-
cil inquired into the matter, and
reported in favor of the masters,
and Robson resigned at the end
of 1900. He went back to Uni-
versity College, Melbourne, was
always pleased to see an Old Boy
of “Shore,” but never returned
to the school he had started;
and later he advised a school-
master who had asked whether
he should take an offer of a
headmastership, “If you want to
go straight, don’t take it ”
For the rest. Professor
Holme’s book is a scrupulous ac-
count of the formation of the
school, its organisation, its early
pupils and attainments in sport
and scholarship, and its early
masters: D. P. Evans-Jones, A.
C. Pilkington, Rev. D. Davies,
R. G. Burnside, C. H. Linton,
A. D. Hall and L. A. Baker, with
some words on Robson’s re-
markable sister, Gertrude, who
afterwards established a pre-
paratory school to feed Sydney
Grammar, and then went rms-
sionarying to Thursday Island
and New Guinea, dying, in 1917,
of intermittent fever.
PHAIUS ORCHID.
Out of the brackish sand
see the phaius orchid build
her intricate moonlight tower
that rusts away in flower.
For whose eyes for whose eyes
does this blind being weave
sand’s poverty, water’s sour,
the- white or black of the hour,
into the image I hold
and cannot understand?
Is it for the ants, the bees,
the lizard outside his cave,
or is it to garland time,
eternity’s cold tool
that severs with its blade
the gift as soon as made?
Then I too am your fool—
what can I do but believe?
Here like the plant I weave
your dying garlands, time.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3757
Wednesday, February 13, 1952
THE UNDYING FLAME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
WELFARE AND WAGES.
In both Britain and Australia the ideal
of the Welfare State is bogged down.
There, as here, the Socialist “experiment”
with which it was bound up failed for
largely similar reasons, and the problems
confronting succeeding Governments,
committed to programmes for recovery
from Labor’s financial debauch, are
much alike, though the reaction upon the
far bigger and more complex industrial
structure in Britain is naturally more
arresting.
The problem centres about the com-
bating of inflation, which was the
Socialists’ vehicle for the revolution and
is now running amuck in the national
economy; the raising of production-levels
in imperatively-required directions; and
the restoration (by rearmament) of that
national security without which “social
security” is impossible. Without a solu-
tion of these difficulties, found intract-
able by the Socialists, the Welfare State
of their dreams is doomed. To complete
the parallel between the British case and
our own, the trouble over the “C” index
for adjustment of the Australian basic
wage is on all fours with that over the
late Attlee Government’s “interim price
index.” Naturally so, for each is sympto-
matic of a common malaise.
The conference sitting in Melbourne
this week under the Chief Judge of
the Arbitration Court seeks to bring em-
ployers and unions to united action in
(1) remedies to check a rise in
costs which is stifling the industries of
their common concern and (2) longer-term
measures for stabilising the national
economy on a higher level of efficiency.
Under the Commonwealth’s limited
constitutional powers the court is the
industrial Parliament, and its judges are
the industrial law-giving authority, as the
Full Bench of the Arbitration Court has
expressly declared. The Chief Judge’s
conference-aim is to persuade the parties
to a voluntary agreement as preferable
to decision by way of compulsion, which,
as Chief Judge Kelly significantly
said, might throw industry into dissension.
The same effort is being made in Britain.
The whole aim of the Welfare-State con-
cept is to avoid dictation as an intrusion
upon democratic freedom. Maybe that is
but an ideal, like other assumptions upon
which “the great experiment” was based.
The point is: If the unions do not stick
to the principles on which their Welfare
State was founded, who else in the com-
munity can be expected to do so?
What is now clear beyond disputation
is that, without greater production to
support it, the “Labor” ideals of “social
security” from the cradle to the grave,
“full” employment, especially in the
sense of every man staying in his chosen
job for life, and “freedom from want
and fear” —which Dr. Evatt calls “human
rights”—cannot be anything but mere
moonshine. Every Labor leader en-
gaged in and about the Government
machine while Labor was in office in
Britain and Australia during the five
rocky post-war years knows this, many
of them have admitted it, and their par-
ties, having split over the lessons revealed
by experience, have now to decide
whether Labor policy shall or shall not
go over to the Communist creed that only
a dictatorship can achieve the industrial
discipline necessary for the Welfare State
they imagined. That, of course, means
an end to freedom, and “welfare” will
be a synonym for servility.
Some of the miscalculations made by
Labor were suspected at the outset by
the chief exponent of the Attlee Govern-
ment’s policy in Britain, the former
editor of the “Daily Herald,” Mr. Francis
Williams, in his book The Triple Chal-
lenge (1948). It is interesting to compare
his stipulations for success of the Welfare
State with the analysis of its working-out
now published in considerable detail by
an assistant - editor of the London
“Economist” and prominent publicist,
Ernest Watkins, under the title of The
Cautious Revolution. Williams insisted
over and over again that under national-
ised industry workers must, and it was
believed would, work harder than under
private employers, that increased produc-
tion and closer relationship between
management and men were prerequisite,
and that trade-unions must be forbearing
in demand for hjgher wages until greater
man-hour production should be forth-
coming.
Socialist planning takes for granted a
great deal of goodwill and reasonableness
on the part of the majority of men and
women and is an expression of confidence
that economic decisions accepted after dis-
cussion at every level of industry will
prove more effective than compulsion.
In other words, it was confident that
union executives would be able to per-
cnirip nr rnmnel thp rant and file tn
acle compel the rank and file to
accept the essentials laid down.
Watkins sets up early a key passage,
of “a sad, nostalgic note,” from the
pamphlet on the idealist new order with
which British “Labor,” to its surprise,
won the 1945 elections in a canter After
outlining its detailed programmes tor the
Welfare State it read:
There is no good reason why BrUam
should not afford such programmes, but
she will need full employment and tne
highest possible industrial efficiency to do
so The economic purpose of govern-
ment must be to spur industry forward,
not to choke it with red-tape.
But the theories, emotions and assump-
tions prevailing at the outset could not
stand the strain of practical conditions,
and failure would have come much
earlier but for American financial aid.
There was no greater delusion than that
nationalisation of industry would have
upon workers “the effect of a religious
conversion.” It was supposed that higher
production would look after itself once
“the last dragon” of unemployment was
slain, and nobody foresaw the conflicts
over the meaning of “full employment”
the necessity to direct labor into essential
industries, or the corollary to nationalis
tion in the banning of “official” strikes
in nationalised industries. Mr. Watkins
records a statement by a Socialist
Minister in January, 1951:
What people have got to do is a really
honest day’s work and appreciate that
unless they do at least 20 per cent, more
than they have been accustomed to in the
past, there is not the slightest chance of
our getting out of our economic difficulties
or raising the standard of living above
what it is today.
To some extent every democratic State
must be a welfare State. Its Government,
being based on adult suffrage, must seek
to establish a minimum standard of living
below which it will not willingly allow
its citizens to descend. But for the
working-output upon which any measure
of prosperity depends the post-war
democracy, both here and in Britain,
must resolve current confusion about the
purpose of wages paid. If a wage is to be
the equivalent of a subsistence allowance,
and this assured, then no man will work
harder than he wishes, and claims for
higher wages based on skill can only be
met by industry’s output. Justice can
be done to the skilled worker, and to the
honest worker, whether skilled or not,
only on payment by results —for work
done. The crisis before the trade-unions
is the call to them —if only for sake of
their Welfare State —to face that truth
with courage and a broader outlook on
their obligations to the community.
In Britain Labor’s Chancellor Dalton
sponsored the cheap-money campaign
just as Mr. Chifley did here. He crashed
on the rocks of “convertibility day” (the
appointed date for free convertibility of
sterling into dollars under the American
loan agreement), and when Stafford
Cripps took over he introduced restric-
tions on credit to fight inflation and divert
employment into essential industry, just
as the Menzies Government is doing in
Australia. Cripps’s policy still dominates,
and the latest Commonwealth Finance
Ministers’ Conference in London has
endorsed it. It is that “the sterling area”
must be fortified at all costs, that Britain
as its guardian must win some indepen-
dence of U.S.A. and to that end must
acquire (and preferably earn) as many
dollars as possible, and that no dollars
must be wasted on non-essential imports.
It was Cripps, also, who insisted that any
closer “linking-up of economies with
Europe through organisations like cus-
toms unions” was unthinkable for Britain
without assurance (nowhere in sight yet)
that “it will not jeopardise the sterling
area.”
Under the Cripps policy the British
Socialist Government had to cease living
in the pre-war world of “the depression.''
Against the necessities defined by Cripps
for recovery of national stability the
Labor party is trying to revolt now as
it dared not do while Cripps reigned at
the British Treasury. The unions deserve
better help and guidance. In Australia,
also, the “Labor” Opposition is flying in
the face of one of the late Mr. Chifley’s
last exhortations to the Menzies Govern-
ment —that it should do what is necessary
to save the Australian economy, however
unpopular the action might be.
ANOTHER ELIZABETH.
The sudden death of King George the
Sixth came at a moment when all the
world was absorbed with fears of wars, of
international treachery and of the conse-
quences of a long, destructive period of
British internal political folly and wishful
economic thinking. It came sadly, when
hope had been born that his health was
so far improved that after his con-
valescent visit to South Africa he would
enjoy many years of life. This hope was
supported by the fact that the heiress to
his Throne, the Princess Elizabeth, had
! already embarked on a tour to East
Africa and Australia which was to keep
her away from home for many months.
But the King knew himself to be a
doomed man, and death came suddenly
in the quiet rural surroundings of
Sandringham, amid which his father
died peacefully 16 years ago.
He was one of the best beloved of
English kings in centuries, but he died
younger than any for 250 years. He had
never coveted or desired the Throne ; he
had not been trained to occupy it in his
youth. His inclinations, and those of his
Queen, were for a quiet family life, and
they were cast for their ultimate roles
through circumstances which might have
destroyed any modern Throne save that
of Britain.
History has proved that King George
the Sixth possessed the right quality and
touch for his task, as well as the
genius expressive of the spirit and
aspirations of the English people. He
was called on to rule at a time when not
only was there a danger to the whole
British Empire and Commonwealth from
external threats, but an almost equal one
from internal weakness, schisms and a
spirit of surrender to sentiments which
split the fabric of British Dominion and
detached some of it—no doubt much to
its sorrow, as in India and Burma, where
already the glib destroyers of the British
raj are reaping a harvest of fear and
turmoil as a reward.
Though King George’s reign of 15
years saw his realm weakened and
reduced and the substance of Parlia-
mentary government imperilled by the
foolishness of Governments, it also saw
the Crown strengthened in its hold upon
its peoples. He was in action at Jutland
with the Royal Navy, and he equally with
his people experienced the sacrifices and
perils of World War 11. Himself a visible
symbol of hope and courage and sym-
pathy, his cheerful appearance on the
scene, full of quiet determination as an
earnest of the fact that the roots of exist-
ence had not been torn up, was the
inevitable aftermath of every disaster.
He was bombed —he and the Queen
narrowly escaped injury—and rationed
as other people. He worked the months
round during the war, and in its after-
years strove with dogged and equable
perseverance despite illness, fatigue and
the discouragements and distractions of
ill health. He came to be regarded as the
embodiment of the British spirit, quiet,
unassuming, unflagging and uncomplain-
ing, but with the kind of will that knows
no surrender and does not recognise the
possibilities of failure.
The division of the Crown through the
increasing spirit of independence among
overseas British peoples strengthened
rather than weakened the King’s prestige,
and gave each Dominion a new sense of
ownership in the Throne insofar as
the King has become to each a special
and individualised monarch as well as
what Mr. Churchill calls “the deeply-
founded and dearly-cherished link”
which binds the whole Commonwealth of
British peoples together. More than that,
British kingship has in a strange fashion
been adopted by peoples not under
British rule as something important to
themselves, the British Crown being the
steadiest landmark in the history of con-
stitutional development and liberty.
The United Kingdom may now be
threatened by a ruthlessly organised
external violence and by the internal
dangers of the class-war, as well as
restricted in its living by shortages which
can be cured only by years of austere
sacrifice; but continuance of the
monarchy is not only unhesitatingly
accepted: it is actually at the moment
being welcomed with universal enthusiasm
as the symbol of a hope for a new
age of expansion and greatness —an
Elizabethan age under the namesake of
the greatest English ruler of all time.
There is little doubt but that the time
is ripe for the coming of such an age, and
that the reigns of English queens have
always been favorable to the real growth
or resurgence of English greatness. The
England which Elizabeth Tudor inherited
was in many ways much like the
Britain which has become the care of
Elizabeth Windsor at the same age as her
great predecessor. It was a country torn
with doubt and religious difference. Its
government machine was an uncertain
instrument typified by a Parliament not
unlike the Parliament of the Attlee age,
the instrument of faction and the slave
of theory which the new Queen could
caution to abandon “childish arguments
and quiddities more beseeming to schools
than Parliament Houses” and get down
to manly business. There was a threat
from a gigantic and fanatical Power from
without as there is today. There were
inflation and poverty among the English
people.
Yet in less than 30 years all this was
past. From no resource save the ability
to release and apply the latent English
strength and genius, the Elizabethan age
was created as a living force of which the
manifestations are just as potent and
inspiring today as they were 370 years
ago: in the sciences which grew from
Elizabethan research, in music framed
on Elizabethan lips, in aspirations and
lionhearted courage and traditions
expressed in Elizabethan words of such
universal and undying appeal that the
dramas of an Elizabethan playwright
could be the greatest draws of the London
stage in the dark days of the Battle of
Britain of 1940, and company-
commanders in the invasion of
Normandy in 1944 could recite the speech
of Henry V before Harfleur in confidence
that it would still stir English hearts.
Pope Sixtus V, who had no reason to
be a friendly critic, declared of the first
Elizabeth 30 years after the inauspicious
beginnings of her reign: “Just mark
how well she governs; she is only a
woman, only mistress of the half of an
island, and yet she makes herself feared
by Spain, by France, by the Emperor,
by all.”
It should be a lesson to the British
Commonwealth Cabinets of the new
Queen that much of the achievement
which drew this compliment was attained
through the Government of the day ceas-
ing to meddle with individual lives and
thought, and leading rather than com-
pelling, thus enabling the nation to give
full expression to its genius and ambitions
and to exercise its maximum strength in
concentrated effort upon the common
purposes of building up both its material
and spiritual resources, instead of being
driven to devote itself to factional class-war
and self-defence against official authority
and its interferences and exactions.
What is most needed to make the age
of the new Elizabeth great and enduring
in its effects is a return to the concept of
individual freedom and endeavor as
opposed to the kind of modern regi-
mentation which is clogging the arteries
and paralysing the limbs and initiative
not only of British peoples but of nearly
all civilised nations.
The world is becoming sick of the
kind of liberty which is administered by
controllers and boards and used like a
strangler’s cord to kill ambition, to stifle
freedom of action in industry and private
life and to drain away the rewards of
free enterprise and hard work.
A Gorilla at Large.
The likeliest explanation for the strange
hairy creature, thought to be a gorilla,
reported by Sydney “Daily Telegraph” to
be roaming the wild bush country of the
Moehau Range in New Zealand’s Coro-
mandel Peninsula, is, of course, simply
that it is a New Zealand poet in his final
despair.
For even if there is now a State
Literary Fund to help authors into print
and Mr. Allen Curnow’s valuable though
limited A Book of New Zealand Verse
recently got itself into a second edition,
it cannot be supposed that conditions are
very much different from the days when
“Art in New Zealand” bravely lost
money on every issue and when a
prominent author disposed of the unsold
copies of his book by marching them
through Auckland in a wheelbarrow and
tipping them into the harbor.
But there are, of course, other possi-
bilities. There is no record of Mr. Walter
Nash’s having been, sighted at any
distance from his usual haunts in the
political wilderness, nor do the tracks ot
the creature indicate that it wears run-
ning-shoes ; but in view of Mr. Hollands
recent triumphant return to power the
strange shy hairy animal could very well
be one of the leaders of the late strike
on the waterfront. . ,
The taniwha out of Maori mytholog ,
like the Australian bunyip, is essentially
a monster of the water, and though it has
undoubtedly been hooked and lost by
many anglers in Lake Taupo hence the


enormous size of New Zealand fish-
stories—it is hardly likely to startle
campers in the bush with its mysterious
footfalls as the present intruder is said to
do. The Maori fairies, or patu-paiarehe,
are an equally unlikely solution, being
red-haired, fair-skinned people who ran
off with pretty Maori maidens and who
probably came over in the Kon-Tiki with
Thor Heyerdahl.
Maori history, since there was a primi-
tive race dispossessed by the Maoris, and
since New Zealand ornithologists recently
discovered the supposedly extinct
notornis living comfortably by a lake in
the South Island, offers a likelier field
than mythology ; but the tangata-whenua
are convincingly reported to have been
eaten to the last man —it was rather like
the coming of the Australians to
Tasmania.
If the gorilla is a Maori it is most
likely to be one of the prophets, much
given to hair, whiskers and strange
doctrines, which the race still throws up
from time to time: one of the latest, near
the blameless village of Hawera, pro-
claimed that “God will provide,” let his
hair and his beard grow long and never
worked again ... a very modern outlook.
The Coromandel Peninsula is, of
course, as the 200 tumbledown pubs of
Thames and Waihi bear witness, a
country of the gold-rushes; and if any
old fossicker still survives that would be
quite sufficient to account for the legend
of a gorilla with “night intrusions into
camps, dogs bristling and snarling be-
cause of some strange presence.” There
is, also, the chance that one of the
Japanese prisoners, who, as in Australia,
attempted to escape during the war, suc-
ceeded. And finally, since the animal is
reported to have been seen “running
along a bush track” by two pig-hunters,
there is always the possibility that one
of the pig-hunters saw the other.
But whatever the monster is, long may
it flourish. If it weren’t for the Grafton
Polar Bear, the Clarence Crocodile, the
Lake Dynevor Bunyip, the Junee
Reindeer, the immortal Tantanoola Tiger
and now the Moehau Gorilla, not to
mention such overseas phenomena as the
Abominable Snowman and the little red-
bearded men from Mars in the Flying
Saucers, life would appear to be merely
what it is ; and that is quite unbearable.
PLAIN ENGLISH
McGirr's Land Scandal.
If the N.S.W. Government was consoling
itself with the reflection that outbursts
of public indignation against its land-
banditry were confined to the rural areas,
where it hasn’t many votes anyhow, it
can forget it. A Tocumwal man, possibly
to his astonishment, has proved that the
country isn’t alone in this.
He is Mr. Rivers Johnson, a one-armed
farmer, himself a victim of the McGirrs’
peculiar system of “acquiring” land for
soldier-settlement by offering the owner
1942 values plus 15 p.c., with the choice
of being robbed like that or having the
land seized anyhow and getting only
1942 values for it.
Mr. Johnson was “compensated” with
£8 an acre for land previously valued at
£2O and while adjoining other land sold
at £3O. For a strip through which the
Government ran a canal he got nothing,
and when he protested bailiffs and police
arrived and ran his stock off the area.
His story is typical of hundreds of
others in N.S.W. Stirred by the injustice
inflicted on him and by what he had read
and heard of others, he travelled over
400 miles to Sydney and called a public
meeting about it. He must have been
gratified at the response. The small hall
engaged was filled with representatives of
farming and grazing organisations, the
R.S.L., wool firms, individual country
and city landowners —the latter compris-
ing a widow who said land left to her by
her husband had been seized by the
McGirr Housing Commission for an
absurd price.
All these people were despoiled land-
owners or represented them. But there
were also present returned servicemen
who had plenty to say, the most damning
statement being that soldier-settlement
had come to a standstill in N.S.W.
because of the McGirr Administration.
Squadron-Leader R. Wingrove declared
that “every decent returned soldier seek-
ing land looks on the McGirr acquisition
terms as atrocious.” He said that those
already on land were scared because they
believed that a Government which could
force acquisition on such terms from the
original owners could take it back in the
same way from soldier-settlers —and they
saw such a threat in Lands Minister
Renshaw’s statement that the Govern-
ment would take over farms which didn't
produce what the Government thought
they ought to produce. There was a
singularly dramatic moment when a
young man in R.A.A.F. uniform arose,
said, “I’m Wing-Commander Kater.
I’m just back from Korea. I support
that,” and sat down again.
The McGirrs must face the N.S.W.
people within the next 18 months.
Perhaps because of that they are talking
of introducing legislation to pay “up to
present values” for acquired land. That
isn’t good enough. Fortified by a High
Court decision that, as the Government
of a sovereign State, they are empowered
to acquire private property on any terms
they think fit, and acting with typical
arrogance since the decision, they have
handed to the Opposition —if it knows
how to use it —an election-winning
weapon. The people demonstrated to
the Chifley Government that they have
a deep regard for the rights of a man in
his lawful property; it is likely they
merely wait the opportunity of a similar
demonstration to the McGirrs.
Meantime, the people cannot lose sight
of the fact that hundreds of their fellow-
citizens have been defrauded by the
McGirr form of legalised robbery, and
that common justice demands they be
recompensed at the first opportunity. No
other State has attempted to do what the
McGirrs have done ; the Commonwealth
Government refused to be a partner in
their land “deals”; and the N.S.W.
people, as soon as they throw the whole
gang out, should insist on a “just-terms
clause being written into all legislation
for the Government acquisition of
property.
M.Ps. and Principles.
On the day on which Sir Raymond
Kelly, Chief Judge of the Arbitration
Court, suggested a 10 per cent, cut in the
basic-wage adjustments and in share-
holders’ dividends, plus reductions in pay-
ment for overtime and other measures
for gradually deflating the ballooning
of the basic wage, the Commonwealth
Government produced the Nicholas
report on members’ salaries.
It proposes that the Prime Minister s
joint salary as an M.P. and a Minister
should be raised from £4900, of which
£l5OO is a tax-free entertainment allow-
ance, to £9650, of which £3900 will be
tax-free. The report remarks that he
should have a salary in keeping with his
office, but it “does not suggest that he
should have the income of a successful
physician or barrister or manager of a
great business.”
The Treasurer, it is considered, should
have £5750, including £lOOO tax-free
allowance, plus £5OO member’s tax-free
expense allowance. The salary of the
Leader of the Opposition, it is suggested,
should go up from £2lOO to £4900,
including a special £lOOO tax-free
expense allowance.
Members hitherto have had £l5OO a
year since 1947, before which they had
£lOOO. The Taxation Commissioner
made them a concession for expenses
which may or may not have been justified.
They have had £96 a year in free
stamps, a gold pass over all railways,
which also took them into most race-
courses and Heaven knows where else,
besides free air-travel to Canberra and
free trips occasionally to New Guinea and
the NX They had 365. per day living
allowance in Canberra, where the Hotel
Kurrajong catered for them at rates which
ordinary citizens have only dreamed or
in the last decade. They had other small
concessions and a private secretary each
—at a wage of round £lO a week latterly.
Last year the House sat just over 50
days.
The Nicholas committee recommends
that all salaries be raised to £1750, plus
graded allowances arranged in five groups
which will give 65 M.Ps. £4OO, 16
£5OO, 30 £6OO, five £7OO and seven £9OO
tax-free. Some of the city and suburban
men are to lose their private secretaries
and will obtain secretarial service from a
typists’ pool, which will be hard on those
whose mental equipment scarcely runs to
the task of composing a coherent letter
in grammatical English. To all this is
added an expansion of the pension
arrangements.
The whole scheme is thoroughly objec-
tionable in principle. It is quite fair
that a member should be granted exemp-
tion from taxation on legitimate expenses
which he can exhibit to the Commissioner,
but to create members a special class
entitled to exemption on a fixed amount
is to introduce a principle which is com-
pletely untenable and one which not even
the eloquence of Mr. Menzies or the
assent of Dr. Evatt could justify.
Stony-broke Transport.
Latest reports of the McGirrs’ financial
bushfire which is burning-up N.S.W.’s
so-called “business” undertakings comes
from the State’s railway and road-trans-
port reports for the financial year ended
June 30 last.
The tale of woe virtually describes the
position as hopeless, since custom is
falling-off, services have been curtailed
and only expenses are flourishing like
“salvation Jane” in the wheat-paddock.
There is no longer any disguise of the
truth that the 40-hour week has done as
much damage as a careless picnic-fire in
conditions of extreme bushfire emerg-
ency. And it is receiving just about as
much official corrective attention.
The railways’ “trend towards bigger
deficits” is thus recorded:
Loss in 1947-48 £111,585
Loss in 1948-49 1,915,785
Loss in 1949-50 2,494,605
Loss in 1950-51 6,417,432
The years 1948-51 saw the McGirrs’ 40-
hour-week legislation as a contribution
towards sharing “the general prosperity,”
the extra cost of which, said Premier
“Gimme” McGirr at the time, his Gov-
ernment could meet in its stride. The
Railways Commissioner reports that
£3,000,000 of the added loss last year
was directly attributable to overtime
(rendered necessary by the 40-hour week).
The loss was incurred despite in-
creases in freight-rates of 16 to 40 per
cent., parcel-rates of 25 per cent., and
passenger fares of 12| per cent. Freight-
rates have since been again doubled or
more.
During the year 4525 trains were can-
celled, though “the increase in earnings
would have been much greater if it had
been possible to carry all the traffic
offered.” Statement of losses, thieving
and damage of goods in transit, and
compensation sums paid out thereon, is
not included.
State road-transport and tramways lost
£1,560,244 during the same year, at the
rate of Is. lOd. daily on each £1 earned
on week-days, 4s. 2d. on each £1 on
Saturdays and 12s. lOd. on each £1 on
Sundays. Increased fares merely
deflected passengers from using the ser-
vices-—or at least those who paid fares.
The falling-off in custom for the year
was 20,366,000 passengers (an average
of about 60,000 a day). People found it
cheaper to use their own cars, hired-cars
or taxis, or to walk. The department has
observed that, along with everybody else.
The estimated loss on buses and trams
for the current year (1951-52) was esti-
mated to more than double itself again,
at £3,610,000, but recent fare-increases
are now expected to reduce the loss to
£2,610,000.
Thus the N.S.W. transport services are
now running at a deficit-level of £lO
million annually, steadily increasing.
Tribunals to relieve Ministerial responsi-
bility have now been appointed, one to
declare what fares and one to declare
what freight-charges shall be paid by the
public.
Britain's New Poor.
From London: The Conservative
Political Centre is well qualified to probe
into the experiments of its predecessors,
since it comes fresh to the job and also
has a representative pool of diverse minds
to draw upon to conduct its researches.
Moreover, a freedom from doctrinaire
ties makes for dispassionate and objective
ciiicilysis
There is certainly neither woolly think-
ing nor party bias in The Social Services:
Needs and Means, written by two Con-
servative M.Ps., Mr. lain Macleod and
Mr. J. Enoch Powell. This shilling
pamphlet classifies the social services into
two main groups : those rendered in kind
and cash; and those which are, or are
not, subject to a means-test.
The authors point out that, since
many people must needs put more into
the social services than they take out,
these services exist, in fact, only for a
portion of the population. They then
affirm that the dominant question is not
“Why should a means-test be applied to
a social service?” but, “Why should any
social service be provided without any
test of means?” On this point there will
be much argument, particularly as in
Britain the means-test is an unpopular
subject, which conjures up an abiding
horror of long-past Poor Law administra-
tion, Bumbledom and unsavory memories
of unemployment in the ’thirties.
What has caused such a stir is the
authors’ inclusion that Britain has
reached a crisis—all theonore dangerous
for being unrecognised—in the whole
fabric of social services. It is distressing
to learn that more people received
national assistance (in cold reality, “poor
relief”) in 1950 than in 1900. And here
is a pertinent anomaly: insurance bene-
fits are intended to be, and are, granted
to all contributors irrespective of their
means; but if a man’s State pension is
not enough for him to live on he must,
unless too proud to accept “charity,’ sub-
mit to a means-test in order to ask for
more.
If the authors’ findings speak for them-
selves, so also do the rates of pension as
a basis of subsistence. In September last
the retirement pension for a married
couple was raised to 505., which com-
pares with the public-assistance scale of
50s. plus rent. Even with the ancillary
benefits of free medical attention and so
on, this won’t go far towards ensuring
a carefree old age. But, as is pointed out,
the fall in the value of money will cause
the national-insurance benefits to become
derisory. Even if money were stable for
the next few years, the gap between
national insurance and national assistance
would already be far too wide.
So much for “cradle -to - grave
security.” To restore the value of the
insurance benefits means an increase in
premiums, spread over employee,
employer and Exchequer, with the latter,
presumably, bearing the greater share and
having, of necessity, to draw upon the
national income. That introduces new
problems, especially when account is
taken of the food subsidies, the health
service and rearmament.
There will, no doubt, be bitter party
controversy over this pamphlet and its
conclusions, but some anxious questions
are being asked. Is the civilised and
laudable idea of State pensions practic-
able? Is a false sense of security in-
duced in the knowledge, vaguely com-
prehended, of being “insured”? And is
self-help the only sure insurance against
hardship in old age?
Blair Athol Again.
This time it’s a “final” report handed to
the Gair Government by a Dr. A. A. J. K
Eskreiss, of the Powell Duffryn people
(who’ve been examining Blair Athol for
years), and it puts all previous reports in
the shade.
It claims that petrol from Blair Athol
coal could be landed in Brisbane at Ifess
than lOd. and sold for 2s. a gallon, that
the petrol would be better than ordinary
motor-spirit, that 80 million gallons a
year could be produced —a lot of it high-
octane aviation-fuel —with another 20
million gallons of kerosene, diesel oil,
crude oil, etc.
• The report visualises a plant to cost
£3O million, around which would be built
a fertiliser plant at Rockhampton using
ammonium from Blair Athol and pyrites
from Mt. Morgan, plants making argon
gas, ethylene, methanol and a “great
variety of acrylic plastics.” 5
Dr. Eskreiss remarked that “we don t
want to make this a political issue, or
excite public opinion one way or the
other.” He added that time was im-
portant: “Today the plant will cost £3O
million. In 1948 it would have cost £l5
million. In 1955, according to estimates
based on rising costs, it will cost £6O
million.”
Which can only mean that the gentle-
man has been observing a few other
things besides Blair Athol coal during
his stay.
Why Sydney Pays.
“C.S.” conducts a private commission;
A rash of special articles in the Sydney daily
and Sunday newspapers heartily condemned thc
city’s one big fruit and vegetable market, alleged
that it was a hotbed of rackets, and scared the
McGirr Government into threatening to hold a
royal commission. They’d have done a lot
better if they’d made Sydney understand that
it has outgrown both its market and its fo '
sunnlies and that, not the accused market, but
bad P administration generally and concentration
of nearly a quarter of the entire Australian
population in one place are the chief causes o
SC The ty market agents, who sell on commission
from grower to retailer, are a special target for
attack They are accused of forestalling, of
robbing growers, retailers and housewives right
and left. Yet most of the stuff is sold direct
from grower to retailer, the growers market,
which no agent is allowed to operate, covering
£ acres The agents’ market covers about
A acres and in it is handled produce sent to
agents from all over N.-S-W. and other States.
Aaent’s commission xs hmited to 7 2 p.c., every
aeent must be licensed and must put up a
fidelity bond ranging from £lOOO to £2OOO. The
agent’s job is to sell what is consigned to him
for the best price he can get.
There was a royal commission m 1939. J. K -
Butler, then Registrar of the Farm Produce
Agents’ Act, gave evidence that m the previous
13 years total defalcations by agents had
amounted to £13,000 out of a turnover of £7B
million. P. S. Macdermott, secretary of the
N S W. Chamber of Fruit and Vegetable Indus-
tries estimates that since the Act was proclaimed
(19261 at least £l9B million has been handled
in the markets and total agents’ defalcations
would not amount to £30,000.
Spurred by the newspaper articles, the McGirr
Government sent police to investigate the
{Continued on next page.)


4202
CRAVEN “A"
Their quality and smoothness
Is unmistakable
inode specially ito
ptei/ent soiettmafe
CARRERAS
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
; .
‘M
alleged rackets. They reported they could find
no evidence of them. If they found a noisy
organisation called the “N.S.W. Fruit Shop-
kee P ers ’ Association’? they ignored it. Mr.
Macde “’ s chamber says:-
There are no rackets m the knowledge of
this chamber, which knows as much about
the markets as anybody. There are no
forestalled. There are jobbers and mer-
chants (erroneously called forestalled), who
operate a service to certain buyers who find
them useful, but who handle not more
than 2 p.c. of the fruit and vegetables sent
to the markets.
To sa y tbat growers are robbed is non-
senfe' + . Tbe a g ents ’ bein § licensed are
under strict supervision, and must produce
their books on demand. Prices are high
because costs of production and transport
bave multiplied from four to six times pre-
war figmres, because the outer-suburban
vegetable and fruit gardens are vanishing
under houses and factories, and because the
city population is such that even in good
seasons the supply is below demand.
.h e Pe ; e h .^
last Thursday is any guide;—
Some City Markets merchants slashed
wholesale potato prices by 30 p.c. today,
30s. per cwt.
Merchants say there is oversupply of
potatoes at the markets because shopkeepers
ar ® not , sellin s them
Retailers are now keeping potatoes out
0 f sight” and rationing customers to lib.
an order.
They are using them as sales bait, they
claim -
I he I ruth , of , ! h i who l e matte , r ,, is tbat > as
with other foodstuffs such as milk and meat,
Sydney is suffering the effects of its own sins,
It is somewhat in the position of overcrowded
Britain, in that it has to get its food from
distant places, having overrun its own produc-
ing areas. While high wages, “full employment,”
short hours, controls, transport chaos and the
concentration of population continue Sydney
will pay high prices for its food. No royal
commission can alter that, and though the
creation of large suburban markets may cut
costs and bring the produce closer to the house-
wife, it will not create more food.
POLITICAL POINTS
On solemn and momentous occasions
Winston Churchill can always be relied
on to find the fitting word and the apt
phrase, and, being in the best sense of the
term a man of sentiment, he is never
ashamed to allow his heart to share
equally with his mind the task of decid-
ing what his lips shall say. It was there-
fore only natural that his broadcast
address on the death of the King whose
war-time Prime Minister he had been and
who looked upon him as a personal
friend should be the most moving tribute
paid to a well-loved monarch. Revealing
that King George had known from the
nature of his complaint that his life was
near its end, Mr. Churchill said:
During these last months the King
walked with death as if death were a com-
panion—an acquaintance whom he recog-
nised and did not fear. In the end death
came as a friend, and, after a happy day
of sunshine and sport, after a “Good-
night” to those who loved him best, he
fell asleep as every man or woman who
strives to fear God and nothing else may
hope to do.
Striking a personal note at the end of
his address, Churchill recalled that he
had lived his childhood and early man-
hood under Queen Victoria, and said he
might well “feel a thrill in invoking once
more the prayer and anthem, ‘God Save
the Queen.’ ”
Churchill’s Ministerial record must be
unique in modern times. He held
Cabinet rank under four monarchs —
Edward VII, George V, George VI and
now Elizabeth ll—and was close friend
to a fifth, Edward VIII.
Since the Nicholas report was released
most Federal members have attempted
more calculations than they have done for
years, with the object of finding out how
much heavier their own purses will be if
the recommendations are adopted. The
report suggests varying rates of remunera-
tion for members, depending on their
estimated “electorate expenses.” Salary
will be raised £250 (making it £1750), but
in addition a sum will be provided tax-
free for electorate expenses. This will
be £4OO for city members, and will range
up to £9OO for country members
“furthest out.” How much better off a
member will be on the Nicholas sliding-
scale will depend on how much he has
been able to persuade the Taxation Com-
missioner to allow him in the past as
deductible expenses.
While this subject of electorate ex-
penses is under discussion it is surely
time someone explained just what comes
under this heading. It is well known that
there are nuisances in every electorate
who waste the time of their member over
matters on which he should not be
expected to concern himself. On the
other hand, some members go out of
their way looking for trouble, even to the
extent of advertising in local papers and
pubs inviting their constituents to “bring
their problems” to them.
Westralia’s McLarty Government, in
appointing a successor to the late Senator
Nash, apparently acted on the principle
that a man of the same party as the
deceased Senator should be chosen;
accordingly former “Labor” Senator
Cooke returns to Canberra. As
the term of Senator Nash was
due to expire on June 30, 1953,
his successor will have to submit himself
to the electorate again next year.
A bunch of South Queensland dairy-
farmers is out to persuade Minister for
Commerce and Agriculture McEwen that
the best way to get more milk and butter
is to guarantee all dairyfarmers a “10 p.c.
profit-margin on production costs.” It's
not original, being the method by which
the war-time “Labor” Government dealt
with producers of war materials. Far
from resulting in more production it re-
sulted in higher all-round costs and a
lot of loafing.
Telephoning The Bulletin from
Adelaide, Clyde Cameron, M.P. for
Hindmarsh, objected to the statement (B.
30/1 / ’52) that he was “fired” by the
A.W.U. at its convention at Mackay (Q.)
on the ground that it could not stand
politicians holding union offices. He said
that, because of illness dogging his
family, he resigned as a delegate (he had
been a member of the A.W.U. executive
in S.A.) and that the convention over-
whelmingly rejected a motion seeking to
exclude M.Ps. from A.W.U. positions.
The Bulletin hastens to admit that it
was misled in the matter. Daily news-
papers, according to the “Worker,”
started the story, “and refused to publicise
the real reasons for the absence of both
delegates” (the other being C. L. Davis,
M.H.A. for Port Pirie).
The position of Clyde Cameron in the
A.W.U. in S.A. nevertheless remains odd
to the outside observer. No official com-
mentary has been heard on his participa-
tion in the banning by his local A.L.P.
executive of the A.L.P. industrial-
groups in S.A,, which are presumably the
A.W.U.’s allies in the fight against Com-
munism within the unions.
Chief Judge Kelly, of the Arbitration
Court, has issued a 14-point plan to
“stabilise” employment and wages. After
World War X the late President Woodrow
Wilson issued a 14-point plan to
“stabilise” the world. This astonished old
Clemenceau, then Premier of France, who
dryly remarked that 10 points had been
good enough for Le bon Dieu. That
didn’t stop Dr. Evatt from producing
another 14-pointer, intended to “stabilise”
Australia, The world rejected Wilson’s,
Australia rejected Evatt’s, the A.C.T.U.
has rejected Kelly’s. Who said thirteen
was an unlucky number?
To Francis Harold Hawkins, McGrrrrr
M. for Newcastle, fell the job of
answering for Lands Minister Renshaw a
charge that the N.S.W. Government’s
method of acquiring land for soldier-
settlement was “downright thievery.”
Protests about the State Government’s
resumption policy are sheer humbug, com-
ing from the people concerned. The only
limit to the quantity of first-class land we
can buy on the prices we are paying today
is the shortage of loan funds.
The policy was too much for the Com-
monwealth Government to stomach—it
pulled out of its agreement with N.S.W.
on soldier-settlement. There is no “limit”
on the area the McGrrrrrs can acquire
because they abuse their power and use
threats to intimidate landowners. Does
Mr. Hawkins really believe that
1942 values, plus 15 p.c. (which is paid
only if the victim gives in without a
struggle), is a fair price for highly-
improved farm land? What about V.G.
figures coming out now?
The “Australian Worker” (A.W.U.
organ) puts a broadside into Jacky Fer-
guson, president of the A.L.P., on the
latter’s defence against a charge of “cook-
ing” ballots for “Labor” selections for
N. Legislative Council;
For more than 50 years Labor has been
waiting for a majority vote in both Houses
so that steps could be taken to abolish the
Legislative Council. If Labor can’t abolish
the Upper House when it hasn’t got a
majority in both Houses, and won’t when it
has, it is only downright hypocrisy to re-
tain “Abolition of the Upper House as
No. 1 plank or any other plank of Labor s
platform.
Mr. Ferguson’s silly jibe about disrup-
tive tactics” fell with exceedingly bad taste
from the lips of an ex-Communist-party
instructor, whose erstwhile pupils are still
sowing seeds of disruption in the ranks of
the Labor movement and whose own
union is still affiliated with that Com-
munist citadel of treason and disruption —
the W.F.T.U. —and who himself was bitterly
attacked by the Queensland Premier (the
late Mr. Hanlon) for visiting Brisbane to
help Communist disrupters in their attack
on the Queensland Labor Government.
Ferguson has not so far found speech
for reply.
Once more the Miners’ Federation has
rebuffed plans for the mechanical
extraction of pillar-coal. A conference
which included Senator Spooner, the
chairman of the Joint Coal Board, N. S.
Wales Mines Minister Arthur and repre-
sentatives of the mining companies drew
up a plan whereby the vast quantities of
coal now standing in pillars in the
Cessnock district would be won
mechanically with proper provision for
“stowage” to ensure the safety of miners.
Coal Board chairman Cochrane and the
Minister for Mines put the proposition to
the Miners’ Council, but that body would
have none of it. Communist Williams,
boss of the Miners’ Federation, said the
council’s attitude on this matter was
governed by the interests of members’
wage standards, maximum safety and
security and “the conservation of the coal-
seams for the nation.” That story won’t
bear examination. Wage standards are
attended to by the Coal Tribunal, and
every overseas expert who has been con-
sulted agrees that the job can be done
with safety. As to conserving the coal-
seams for the nation, surely the more im-
portant thing is to make the coal-seams
serve the nation? They can’t do that by
staying underground.
Northern Miners’ Federation proposes
to send a delegation abroad—at tax-
payers’ expense—to study methods of
pillar extraction. It might be a good
plan to include all the federation’s Corns
in the party. They could put in a few
months studying the subject at first-hand
in the Soviet mines which they never
tire of holding up as examples of mining-
made-easy. When they returned they
would probably find that the N. S. Wales
miners, freed of Red influence, were
tackling the pillars without complaint.
Victorian branch of the Australian
Railways Union is the latest to apply to
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
for help to overthrow Communist
officials playing skittles with union rules.
Communist Brown, secretary (and return-
ing officer for union elections) of the
branch, has jockeyed through a “special
conference” an “amendment” of the
union rules to provide that the secretary
(himself) and his cobbers, the assistant-
secretary, the industrial-officer and the
organiser, should be elected not by the
rank-and-file periodically but by just such
a conference, for a period unspecified.
Secretary Scully, of the A.L.P.
industrial-group in the union, has lodged
with the Court Registrar a petition signed
by 3000 Victorian railwaymen (500 was
enough under the new Act) to protest
against this defiance of union rules. The
Communist move in the Victorian A.R.U.
is of a pattern with that of which the
court has been required to take notice in
the ironworkers’ and the clerks’ unions
and to intervene by ordering court-
conducted elections.
Postponement of discussions on the
Japanese Peace Treaty may mean that
U.S. Congress will ratify it before
Canberra resumes the debate on the sub-
ject, the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations
Committee having unanimously recom-
mended ratification. This would he a
blow to R? Fvatt
cruel blow to Bert Evatt, who was ex-
pected to make much of the fact that the
Government, while claiming that it would
for Australia to oppose a treaty
which America sponsored, was yet rush-
mg its ratification ahead of Washington,
Back from its tour of neighboring
States in search of first IvjnH
, . 0t nrst-hand informa-
tion on the drinking habits of Australian
topers, the N.S.W. royal commis-
sion on liq Uor has resumed its
hearinp of thp. w Q i r
oi tbe loC!d Side of the
problem. When the metropolitan
licensing-inspector gave evidence the com-
mission heard some interesting figures.
He said that of 34 objections raised by
the police in the last five years to the
renewal of publicans’ licences not one
had been sustained. In 31 cases the
Licensing Court had overruled the police;
i n two cases it had refused renewal, but
the applicant had won on appeal to
Quarter Sessions. The remaining case
lapsed through transfer of the licence,
tt After all the shifts and changes in
Labor” policy while the anti-Red bill
V as before Parliament, it is not surpris-
*nS ba *- the ranks are still rather con-
used on the Communist issue. Take
S enera l - secretary Dougherty of the
A.W.U. He’s dead against encouraging
so-called Youth Carnival, and says
bls union will offer it nothing but active
opposition, because it is conceived by
~* e Commform and designed to poison
the mmds of y° uth and S ®U them the
Communist doctrine of disruption. So
far 80 good ; but when he says that “an
uonest-to-God Federal Government
would have banned the carnival outright”
confusion creeps in. The Federal Gov-
ernmerd bas no P°wer to ban the carni-
val; Dougherty was among those who,
on ]y a few months a g°, helped defeat the
r£ferendu m which would have given it
tbe P° wer -


ROADSIDE SHOPPING.


1
■
m
tfo
'
. ':.. W6££ir.Al,,„
I
... JULISTRSHST*!' „
J»«T:«>nT£Nri *. r>y,r fen.
' i.-*
P5O/54
FRENCH
ICORN GUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
■ ' .
Available at
lAuthonv Horderns-' I
Cronulla’s Leading Guest House
THE WESTELLA
New dining-room, excellent cuisine.
Licensed to serve drinks with meals.
Full board. Hot water all rooms.
First-class Accommodation tor 80 Guests.
HONEYMOON’S.
Book Now for Easter, EB 5022.
Under Entirely New Management.
Public Notice.
I, BEDBICH JUNEK, known as
FREDERIC JUNEK, of Czechoslovakian
nationality, born at Most, Czechoslovakia,
resident one year In Australia, now resid-
ing at 87 O’Sullivan Road, Rose Bay,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
ORTtTTC
DID YOU KNOW THAT
ikapu/man
awaMsuomam ;
THIS WAS THE EVENT OF
/8&3 WHEN ABORIGINAL RUNNEK W
ROBERT KIHNEAR OF DIM3OOIA *
(WC) WON * TNE C/FT* «Sp m |
DIP YOU KNOW THAT
JGOLFER
—AT TNE DONCASTER
NINE HOLE PUBLIC GOLF COO WE, ERIC 60010
PLAYING FROM THE FIRST TEE NOTED
OUT IN ONE /N THE CUP OF THE
LAST HOLE. THE NINTH GREEN IS
ABOUT THIRTY YARDS TO TNE
RIGHT OF THE F/RST TEE AND
GOULD’S FIRST SHOT Sk/ED AND CUT
BACH TO LODGE JN THE NINTH CUR
&
wm
193 D-10.51
wamrion Tobacco
F/HE COT AND
HEADY HUSHED, IS
ENJOYED BY AN ARMY
OF SMOKERS WHO
roll-the/r-own; and
_ TNE MANY SMOKERS
WHO PREFER A PIPE CHOOSE EITHER BRIGHT
OR DARK FLAKE CUT. ALL,HOWEVER, AGREE
—//Sr
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Credit Policy and Output
There was no life whatever in
Australian sharemarkets last
week, and the general price-
trend was downward. A number
of interim-div, distributions were
at lower rates, in most cases be-
cause of the need to retain liquid
funds in the business rather than
because of much (if any) fall in
profit-earning. Two or three
companies have increased their
interims.
But whilst lower div.-
distributions have sent some
shares down further, where in-
creased benefits come to share-
holders they rarely have much
strengthening effect on the
market for their shares. There
are very few people interested in
buying industrial investments at
the moment simply because it
has ceased to be the rage to do
so. (And a rage it really was
four or five months ago.)
The present depression in
share prices is so far more a
market condition than an
economic one. Some concerns
show every prospect of main-
taining their distributions, or
improving them. But that
former zest for Stock Exchange
speculation has gone for the
time being, and a bilious eye is
now turned towards almost any
favorable investment news.
When an improvement in the
tone of the market comes it will
probably leave the impression-
able speculators flat-footed. But
little improvement is likely to
be seen for a few months. There
is considerable concern about
income-tax assessments this year,
and there is a tendency to hold
liquid funds against the issue of
these assessments. Reserve funds
set aside in Stock Exchange
securities to meet tax demands
are probably still being
liquidated, and there is little
tendency to make short-term in-
vestments to meet current
obligations with the sharemarket
in the mood it is at present.
After the Lord Mayor’s show
comes the dust-cart. And after
an orgy of speculation come
the splitting headache and the
swearing-off. The timid and
shaky investors are still getting
out wherever they can. But they
are not all out of trouble yet.
Some who bought on margin are
still in, and their brokers in with
them. Until those who are being
nursed are able to stand on their
own feet the market will remain
subject to fainting-fits and
giddiness.
There are often unreasonable
differences in yields offering
from different type of shares
available on the Stock
Exchanges. But the market has
some justification for regarding
basic industries as the pick ot
present investments. It believes
that regardless of its ultimate
method of processing, steel will
be in high demand in Australia
for many years to come; like-
wise with cement, and even coal.
It wifi thus be noticed on
’Change that the company repre-
senting the basic industry will be
valued on a basis that will give
a low yield, whereas a variety
of processing companies may be
bought into to give a very high
return. This is presumably be-
cause the market is not yet sure
which processing companies will
be favored by raw-material sup-
plies, finance and Government
orders.
Yet it is amongst many of
these second-line concerns that
money will be made by investors
as time goes by. The companies
which are favored by the trend
of events should do very well
indeed because, on the whole,
industrial activity in Australia
should continue to increase dur-
ing the next decade. That is in
spite of any immediate disloca-
tion there may be to business or
to sections of business as a re-
sult of the determined attempts
by most of the Western Powers
to curb inflation and to steer
“If cook’s asleep , don’t disturb her.”
their economies back to the de-
velopment of essential industries.
At present business is reported
“flat” in many sections of Aus-
tralian industry, and this is the
result of buyer-resistance fol-
lowing previous domestic over-
buying, the withdrawal of easy
credit facilities to most types of
borrowers, the drop in wool
prices and the excessive supply
of many types of imported con-
sumer goods now available.
Gradually these problems
should sort themselves out. It
may take months in some cases,
a year or more in others. Re-
tailers with large stocks of
fashion-goods may have special
difficulties. But the building and
construction trades, taken as a
whole, should soon be fully
active again, though with per-
haps a different type of emphasis
in their activity, A very large
programme of national works
still lies ahead of the manpower
and industry of the Common-
wealth.
“The heat is on” in Australia
in a number of ways at present.
The basic-wage inflation menace
at last fully recognised, even if
there is no unanimity of opinion
as to how it should be dealt with.
The “milk-bar economy” is
now almost universally dis-
trusted. If present plans of the
Federal Ministry are carried
through there will be drastic
changes in our industrial way of
life, including a great deal more
work demanded in return for in-
flated wages. But those plans
will be a failure if the ultimate
result is not a large increase in
the output of essential private
industry as a whole.
Australian Oil-refining
“Petro”: That Anglo-Iranian
is following the lead of the Shell,
Vacuum and Caltex oil cos. and
is preparing to build the “biggest
yet” petroleum refinery in Aus-
tralia should come as no sur-
prise to those who have followed
recent trends in the petroleum
industry.
This island, from the viewpoint
of world geographical security,
now occupies much the same
position as did the British Isles in
the early years of this century
with respect to Europe, and we
may have to assume a role,
formerly played by Britain in
two global wars, of acting as the
largest aircraft-carrier in the
world.
Anglo-Iranian is also under
the necessity of finding gainful
employment for the specialist
technical staff which was
banished from Abadan by the
Persian Government.
This co. has now decided to
build a £4O-million refinery at
Kwinana, Cockburn Sound,
about 14 miles south of Fre-
mantle, W.A, The plant is de-
signed for an annual throughput
of 3,000,000 tons of petroleum
products, which will bring Aus-
tralia’s total of locally-processed
petrol and other crude-oil de-
U P t 0 6 * minion tons
m 1956, when it is expected that
me refinery will be on-stream.
This is against an estimated de-
mand of million tons, so that
Australia, in that year, will be-
come almost self-sufficient in
petroleum-processing.
Contrast the present total
Australian throughput of
900,000 tons with the current
requirement of 5* million tons
per annum. Storage-tankage at
the new refinery alone will
amount to a million tons, which
is only 300,000 tons below the
present total seaboard storage of
Australia.
During construction 3000 to
4000 hands will be employed,
and the refinery, when on-
stream, will provide regular
work for 1000 persons.
In normal times Australia
could readily supply all the con-
structional steel required, and at
a cost far below that of the
imported material, but most of
this plant will be fabricated over-
seas with the object of conserv-
ing local supplies of scarce steel
and other building require-
ments.
Part of the refinery output will
be exported, but, within Aus-
tralia, the distribution is to be
handled exclusively by Common-
wealth Oil Refineries, Ltd., in
which the Australian Common-
wealth holds 425,001 of the
issued 850,000 £1 shares, Anglo-
Iranian holding a minority of
two shares less.
The increase in C.O.R, distri-
butional activities will demand
extra capital to the extent of £l2
million ; and the Government, in
order to maintain its controlling
interest in this lucrative venture,
has to provide at least £6
million of this.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O, 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
‘Mi
111
I
dp 1
(D ColUim’s
i-V :
Scots (JJhisky
Ji
cftipßuaqH /*ou*6cb IBo7)tS*&t* w
the name is
CI) c CaUums
the whisky is
Distilled and blended in Scotland
Mil
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
In Which
A-N-Z
* * *
Are Merged
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD
Established 1837
Balance Sheet As At 30th September, 1951
incorporating the undertakings, Assets and Liabilities of The Bank of Australasia Limited and The Union Bank of
Australia Limited
which were transferred to Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited as at 29th September, 1951
(This Balance Sheet is expressed in Australian Currency.)
LIABILITIES
£A £A
Capital, Authorised and Issued—
-8,500,000 Shares of £2
each .. £17,000,000
Less Reserve Liability
thereon 8,500,000
aS Currency l ) £8,500,000 Equivalent to £ A 10,667,500
Reserve Fund (See Note
1) (English Currency) £5,750,000 Equivalent to £A 7,216,250
Dividend Payable February, 1952 .. .. £A 377,016
Less Income Tax £A 1< 9,083 197 933
Profit and Loss Account Balance 1,121,122
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Current, Deposit and other Accounts, including
Bills Payable and Drafts in Transit, provision
for Taxation and Contingencies Reserves ..
Balances Due to other Banks
Amounts Due to Subsidiary Companies
Acceptances for Customers, as per contra ..
Confirmed Credits, Guarantees and other Engage-
ments on behalf of Customers, as per contra ..
Notes —1. The amount of the Reserve Fund
includes the equivalent of £1,030,000
English Currency, which represents
the former balance of the Share
Premium Account of The Union
Bank of Australia Limited.
2. Assets and Liabilities in currencies
other than Australian have been con-
verted into Australian Currency at
the rates ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet.
3. There are forward exchange con-
tracts for the sale of currencies to
the value of £A17,181,253 which are
covered to a corresponding amount
by purchases or by arrangements
with central banks.
4. Under the Companies Act, 1948,
banking companies, including this
bank, are exempted from showing
the aggregate amount of their
reserves, the movements therein and
the market value of investments.
19,202,805
345,629,443
27,768,092
753
21,484,010
414,085,109
61,206,514
f A 475,291,623
ASSETS * A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques of other Banks
Balances with and due from other Banks
Investments at or under Market Value —
Quoted in Great Britain:
British Government Securities 5,300,569
Other Securities 216,881
£A £A
36,475,775
12,009,873
1,794,962
5,517,450
Quoted outside Great Britain:
Australian and New Zealand Govern-
ment Securities
Other Securities
8,549,560
248,379
Unquoted Securities
8,797,939
682,322
Tax Reserve Certificates —British Government .. ..
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia (Central Bank Division) .. ..'
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. ....
Loans and Advances to Customers (less Provision
for Doubtful Debts) and other Accounts .. •• ••
Liability of Customers for Acceptances, as per contra
14,997,711
46,027
100,083,000
55,172,368
168,978,163
21,484,016
411,041,895
Fixed Assets—
Bank Premises and Sites in London, Australia and
New Zealand, at cost, less amounts written off .. 3,04-,587
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary Companies, at
cost, less amount written off (The Subsidiary
Companies have not traded at any time and have
made neither profit nor loss. Their only assets
are deposits totalling £A753 with this Bank) .. .. W 7
Liability of Customers and others on Confirmed
Credits, Guarantees and other Engagements, as
per contra
414,085,109
61,206,514
£A 475,291,623
G. C. GIBBS. Chairman.
A. T. MAXWELL,
Deputy Chairman.
A MACKINNON, Director.
C E MimCH ] Head office Mana s ers -
A. H. BULLOCK, Head Office Accountant.
9th January, 1952.
Joint General Managers
W. H. THOMAS
for Australia and
New Zealand:
A. R. L. WILTSHIRE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Mr. Churchill’s declared
change of emphasis on Far East
policy has provoked doubts and
arguments in some quarters, and
the touchy business of the North
Atlantic naval command is hurt-
ful to pride, however many
allowances are made for hard
truths and changed circum-
stances. Yet the success he
achieved from his U.S. trip
greatly exceeds that expected,
not least because expressions of
confidence in the American
Press were reassuring—from the
“New York Times’s” “It is not
too much to say that a smoothly-
working, harmonious relation-
ship of this sort can save the
free world” to the “Baltimore
Sun’s” “The fact that Mr.
Churchill’s visit has produced so
little news is by no means a bad
sign. For it is conflict....
rather than harmony that makes
news.”
Material agreements and
diplomatic issues apart, most
patriotic Britons welcome a
change for the better in Anglo-
American relations for its own
sake. The anti-Americanism of
the Left, including factions other
than the Bevanites, which fol-
lowed the disappearance from
the international scene of Mr.
Bevin, has been a disconcerting
factor that was beyond Mr.
Attlee’s power to repair. Mr.
Churchill’s visit has brought
home to us not only that Britain
needs America but also that
America needs Britain. And the
final words of the joint com-
munique are both far-reaching
and a source of confidence: “We
are resolved to build an Atlantic
community, not only for immedi-
ate defence but for enduring
progress.”
Tightening the Screw
There is every indication that
the Government means to honor
its declared resolve to shrink
from no measure, however un-
popular, to save and succor the
pound and to stem inflation.
That this task promises to be
hard and thankless is already
made plain by the angry reaction
to the 5 per cent, cut in educa-
tional costs. Now the Chancellor
of the Exchequer has hinted that
he intends to save £350,000,000
a year on imports and to tighten
up metal-using industry in favor
of exports. And the Budget has
yet to come.
No serious industrial upheaval
has yet attended the change of
Government, and all credit must
be given to the Trades Union
Congress for the dignified and
proper way in which it has ad-
mitted its responsibilities. But
much less responsible is the atti-
tude adopted by the “Daily
Herald” and the majority of
Labor spokesmen, whose inces-
sant yah - booing has now
extended to Mr. Attlee. There
are two major struggles in
Britain today: the struggle to
save the pound and the struggle
within the Labor party both to
make its voice heard and to re-
tain its following. As well as
intensifying the class-war and
thus the artificial splitting of the
nation into two camps, Labor
voices are raised to deny Mr.
Churchill any possibility of
reflected achievement.
Steel is very scarce, and now
available only on allocation.
This will undoubtedly cause
hardship and transitory unem-
ployment until employers and
men have resettled themselves
into priority work; it will also
mean a shortage of goods on the
home market. British steel pro-
duction was down by 1,500,000
tons last year. Mr. Churchill’s
deal has reduced this deficiency
to 500,000 tons, but at least six
months must elapse before
American shipments start com-
ing through. Coal remains scarce
because of lack of manpower.
The miners have worked longer,
with voluntary Saturday shifts,
but absenteeism remains high ;
and the output per man, despite
mechanical aids, is less than in
1937. Although a few mines are
employing Italian labor success-
fully, the innate prejudice of
miners’ lodges is the one obstacle
to the extension of this practice.
Against this, hard-dying preju-
dices are being broken down and
improved methods of produc-
tion introduced, but very slowly.
Old Vic. “Dream”
Those who rate “The Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” low
among the comedies will find
support for their conviction at
the Old Vic. Tyrone Guthrie,
whose enchanting production at
the same theatre during the
’thirties is still talked about, has
apparently decided that nothing
less than sweeping innovations
will save the play. For Mendels-
sohn’s music he has substituted
furry drum-rolls and tinkling
chords on the celeste, which are
not improved by amplification.
In concentrating on the main
weaknesses the tenuous
wranglings of the lovers and the
heavy-handed humor of the rude
mechanicals —he has succeeded
only in magnifying them.
The king and queen of the
fairies are made so other-worldly
that they are demoniac, Oberon
being terrifying in mime if
hardly in voice. And the pro-
duction has such a profligacy of
movement that one longs for the
referee’s whistle ; the lovers, for
instance, are so busy stepping
from here to there that they
might be playing “tag.”
An innovation is a 14-year-
old Puck, although it does not
quite come off. Terry Whale is
obviously a natural actor, unself-
conscious, reposeful and un-
hurried. He speaks well and is
everything he should be, except
mischievous.
Individually, the performances
are excellent, if sometimes out
of key. Douglas Campbell is a
gentle, lovelorn Theseus ; Irene
Worth a coy, purposeful and
introvert Helena ; Jane Wenham
a petite but fiery Hermia and
Robert Shaw a dashing
Lysander. Jill Balcon’s verse-
speaking as Titania is never less
than eloquent. Paul Rogers’s
Mummerzetshire Bottom stands
out a shade too spry, too spiv-
like for traditional tastes, but
both the timorous Flute of John
Walker and the recorder-playing
Snout of Rupert Davies are gems
of just-rightness.


Society
“Jasby”; I see a Victorian educa-
tionalist has stated that tests prove that
the highest intelligence is found among
families with “between one and two
children.” I knew a family like that
once. The first child was nothing out-
standing, but the balance of the offspring
made up for it. Its parents called it little
Decimal-Point, partly because they felt it
wouldn’t be fair to burden portion of a
child wifh a full Christian-name, but
mainly because, from the very fact of
its incompleteness, they didn’t know
whether to give it a male or female name.
It was always a puzzle to me how the
little beggar managed to exist —with one-
and-a-bit arms and legs, a similar quota
of eyes, ears, nostrils and all other
portions of the body that usually come
in pairs, not to mention being short
several yards of intestine and with an
undetermined fraction missing from every
organ, vital or secondary. Yet exist it
did, and so did millions like it, as statistics
show that in every country the average
family runs into something and a fraction
—in Australia, I fancy, two point some-
thing and, therefore, according to the
authority, not very intelligent. But as
far as Decimal-Point was concerned
there was no doubt about hes or hir intel-
ligence. He simply had to be intelligent;
otherwise with all those deficiencies she
couldn’t have lived.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: How the other half of
Sydney spends a holiday. There are
hundreds of other motorists on the Hume
Highway, but we turn off along the new
drive to the left of Lansdowne Bridge.
There are roarings from open country on
the right—a club racing motor-bikes up
a steep, rough track in hill-climbing tests.
Onwards towards the coast. Here a
cricket match in progress ; there tennis-
players in action. Girls playing vigoro—
their boy-friends sitting watching.
Cyclists pedalling madly in training-
sprints. Scores of swimmers enjoying a
clear river in a deep gully. A fisherman
standing in motionless solitude. Down
to Audley in National Park. Picnic
parties ; girls and boys in rowing-boats.
One young man in a boat on his own —
he is shepherding a model yacht. On
through the reserve. A sheepish-looking
spoony couple in a parked car. Beside
a sedan a woman looking furtive. She
thinks she’s hiding the pilfered wild-
flowers. Hikers. The south - coast
beaches and hundreds of surfers. High-
board divers at Thirrour'pool. Youths
flying burp-burping model planes at
Stuart Park. White-hatted bowls-player’s
near Wollongong. Homeward bound.
Thick traffic. A car trailing a boat.
Another with a surf-ski lashed on the
hood. Others bearing fishing-rods. A
utility, ferret-boxes on the back. Tired-
looking Boy Scouts. Hollywood-type
cowgirl and cowboy returning hired
ponies. A reeling, singing drunk. And
yet fools and knaves still contend that
Australians could be regimented to think
in one groove—and still be happy.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I note with mixed emotions
that in the Belgian Congo a nice problem
has arisen with the flocking of the natives
from the bush to the towns, Leopoldville
and Brazzaville having suffered astonish-
ing population-increases because of it,
and lesser towns also. Reasons for the
concentrations are the same as those in
this allegedly more enlightened country
—more factories, high wages and so forth
—and results are equivalent in the matter
of foodstuffs ; the food-producing rural
population having been too reduced to
feed the swelling towns. Of course, liv-
ing costs have soared, particularly the
price of wives. Where a handful of
spears, a couple of rattan baskets or a
few yards of cotton once bought a
spouse, parents now demand real dough.
A lot of prospective bridegro'oms now
can’t afford a missus, and too many
of the girls, balked of a meal-ticket, are
turning to the oldest profession. It’s
somewhat different here. Our girls can
get highly-paid jobs—often so highly-
paid as to make them chary of matrimony
—and even when married they can still
hold their jobs or take one now and
then to tide the family over periods of
financial stress. On the other hand, the
Congo natives have their compensations ;
so far they haven’t been inflicted with
price-control and basic-wage ‘'adjust-
ments.”
* * * *
“Craiser” ; Approximately 3000
hysterical onlookers mobbed Frank Sedg-
man and his bride after their wedding at
Toorak Presbyterian Church, the bride
was jostled, an “Argus” reporter was
knocked off a wall, one of the few men
present lost his false teeth, three brides-
maids were crushed and half the crowd,
90 per cent, of it female, stood on the
bodies of the other half to have a peep
at the happy pair. It isn’t known whether
the “Argus” will make a claim for
damages to its reporter against the crowd
which it helped to create with its hysteri-
cal reporting of every movement of the
young tennis-player.
♦ Jfc V *
“Macquarie”: Some sly prohibitionist
must have been pussyfooting about
among our Australian artists —in the
whole 92 paintings entered for the 1951
Archibald Prize there is not one that
looks as though the artist had a really
good dose of “the horrors.” Further-
more, only two suggest a slight hang-
over. The Wynne Prize exhibition dis-
plays a couple that could have been
painted with a donkey’s tail, and might
have given the hangers some concern as
to which would h| the right way up, but
nothing in the good old lost-weekend
tradition. It took the Sulman Prize to
demonstrate that there are still artists who
can drink something stronger than weak
tea or lemonade. Imagine trying to con-
jure up a color scheme like a peacock’s
nightmare—on lime cordial. And how
could raspberry-syrup generate such an
inspiration as the prominent motif in
“Man”—a pair of eyeballs pulled out by
the roots and padlocked in a canary-
cage? But some people can't appreciate
art. A young couple near me surveyed
the sculpture “The Tea Drinkers” from
all angles before the girl asked: “What
are they made of. Jack?” “Looks like
concrete,” decided her hubby. “Con-
crete!” exclaimed the lass. “Well, it’s
“ What , two shillings parking fee! Here—take the car!"
not fair. Fancy them being able to waste
cement like that—and we can’t get any
to do our lavvy floor.”
i" * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A review of John
Alden’s “Merchant of Venice” reminds
me that Alfred Dampier once remarked
that Shylock was “the only gentleman in
the play.” Dampier, so a travelled critic
who had seen them all assured me, was
the best Shylock of his day. A curiosity
about the play is that while there have
been Jewish protests about it “The Mer-
chant” has always been a favorite with
the Jews themselves, and Jewish actors
have been fond of pldying Shylock.
Possibly the best example was Maurice
Moscovitch. Moscovitch was playing
the part in a Yiddish theatre in
London when a manager made him an
offer to play the part in English. Mosco-
vitch learned English lines in a fort-
night—thereafter his career was entirely
in English-speaking countries. When he
came to Australia he spoke English
remarkably well, especially considering
how he had made his start with it. He
finished in Hollywood, where his son Nat
is still an identity.
* * * *
“Bo”: Were I ever allotted the task
of compiling a book of hints to young
men about to seek a matrimonial mate,
I would skip such relatively unimportant
attributes as possessing no living relatives,
being able to cook arfd sew, ability to
obtain 25-bob’s-wprth of goods for every
pound spent, being an expert gardener
and mower, having an innate dislike of
mink and silver-fox and being a non-
question-asker. To ensure that he picked
a helpmeet whose sunny nature would be
a constant joy to him I would advise the
young man of the one infallible test. Let
him observe the girl of his choice as she
rushes up the steps of a railway subway
and dives for the train which, gathering
speed too quickly, leave's her to wait for
the next. If she scowls and mutters
darkly he would show wisdom in break-
ing it to her that he was a leper or had
elephantiasis and get out of it that way.
But if she could still raise a smile, even
an embarrassed one, then let him follow
the advice of old Polonius and grapple
her to his soul \vith hoops of steel. It is
the supreme test of feminine temper.
v i 5
“Nakhoda”; Among the bushfire
stories was one from a reporter who said
that he saw a resourceful farmer, as the
fire approached his house, rush out and
gather a flock of sheep and drive it round
his house to make a firebreak. There
was brush, the reporter noted, growing all
around the house and even underneath
it. One wonders why the farmer didn’t
burn his fire-break long ago, since con-
stant warnings have been issued by the
authorities for months past; and why
call him resourceful? A navigator would
hardly be called resourceful if he went to
sea in a ship full of holes and then stuck
his head in one to stop her from sinking.
» * * *
“Noll”: Never in the whole of
my 27 years have I been more
embarrassed and disgusted than when
yesterday X got on a crowded tram.
A schoolboy, wearing a school blazer
which should have indicated some
sort of good upbringing, rose from his
seat, as one would expect him to do. .No
sooner had I settled down comfortably
when he said, “Oh, pardon me, madam,
but I have left something on the seat,
and you are sitting on it.” Fearing for
my frock, I stood up, and as quick as a
flash the little rotter slipped back into
the seat, and with the most brazen
effrontery said, “Again pardon me,
madam, but, with all due deference, I
would suggest that next time a gentleman
surrenders his seat to you it would not be
out of place to say ‘thank you.’ ” In
front of all the others, too. I was never
so put out. I complained to the con-
ductress, but all I got from the hussy
was a sarcastic grin and a remark that
“these men do treat us women cruel,
don’t they?” And she even had the nerve
to demand my fare.
* * * ♦
“M’Lou”: “A murder a week!”
seems to be the slogan of George Good-
child, the writer who invented that natty
detective Dandy McLean and his capable
assistant Sergeant Brook. During the
three-and-a-half years in which I have
received the Glasgow “Weekly News” a
murder mystery solved by these two has
been a regular weekly feature. Goodness
knows how many years previously the
yarns had run, or how much longer
Goodchild can spin out ingeniously dif-
ferent methods of murder and detection ;
but as he has several detecfive-novels to
his credit besides the McLean stories, he
must find murder very profitable. And
so will any other writer who can acquire
that invaluable asset, a popular character
around which to weave innumerable tates.
* * * «
“Vingter”: Joke-block (B. 23 /1 / ’52)
of the matelot using his kitbag to smuggle
his lady-friend aboard reminds me of the
exploit of a group' of homing Diggers
after World War I. A homeless French
urchin, who had become the mascot of
the unit, was smuggled aboard the Aus-
tralia-bound transport in a kitbag the
mouth of which was loosely packed with
loaves of bread, which formed a good
camouflage fo*r the tiny stowaway. Pos-
sibly the higher-ups turned a blind eye
on the manoeuvre, but the lad arrived in
Australia. If my memory is right the
episode had a tragic aftermath, as the
youngster was later killed in a motor-
cycle accident on the Geelong-road be-
tween the city and Point Cook, where he
was serving as a R.A.A.F. fitter.
* * * *
“X.S.”: They are searching for an
anti-myxomatosis vaccine now up at the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne. It isn’t for the protection of the
common or garden bunny, however. Out-
breaks of myxo. have occurred amongst
specially-bred rabbits held for experi-
mental work at the Baker Research Insti-
tute, and the principle to be used will be
the same as for vaccination for smallpox.
* * * *
“Giro”: Came across two Balts who
have been used to swimming in their
home country without benefit of bathing-
trunks, but, having learned that this is
not done on Australian beaches, have
always been immaculately attired when
surfing. Recently they went to the men’s
baths in Sydney Domain, and, noting
that it was quite closed to public view
and only the eyes of other male swimmers
could see them, they stripped off and
dived naked into the pool. An attendant
soon ordered them out and made them
don vees. They can’t quite understand
it —and, come to think of it, neither can I.
THE GREEN ROAM.
, *4, num ber of agents will fly inter-State to canvass
for Sydney vegetable supplies.”
Drought the demon, Fire the felon,
Borne by tree and grass and stump, can
.Liquidate the watermelon
Long before the parish pump can.
Every kind of vegetable,
Barbecues of stock and chookery,
Join the feast, but we’re unable
To enjoy Ma Nature’s cookery.
But we must not be cressfallen
Or give way to vain abuse:
Erom the sky come voices, calling,
Let us mind your peas and queues!
“Aeroplanes assure our entree
To dessert or sunbaked green,
Seeking up and down the country
The elusive Might-Have-Bean.
“Supreme in fields of human lettuce,
Eeafing through histories by the barrow,
We free Today from famine’s fetters
To march into the shining Marrow! ”
Though we applaud to see M. Peas
Shelled from the Reporters’ Gallery,
Clean potatoes such as these
Deserve a chance to raise their celery.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“T.McN.”: My newspaper has it that
the magazine of the British Medical
Association (London), “Family Doctor,”
has “ridiculed suggestions that mixing
drink? increases drunkenness.” I’m glad
this canard has got what it deserves. A
few weeks ago I had three schooners at
the local, then went round to Bob’s. Bob
had a bottle of sherry, which we emptied.
Then we went to the golf-club and sang
theip some songs, drank a schooner and
two rums and an argument. After the
fight we picked ourselves up or some-
body picked me up and the taxi-driver
put us out at the pastrycook’s. He had
some home-brew, so we took him back to
the club, and Bob couldn’t get his door
open so we pushed a window in and
Bob’s wife threw stew all over us, and
the tram was full so we had to walk, and
by the time we got to the pub the beer
was off, we had brandy-lime-sodas
and a whisky-chaser and fell down the
steps, and when Frank put us on the
sofa and told the constable who we were
the silly goat looked at us and said
“You’ve been mixin’ ’em again.” So I
don’t believe it.
* * * *
“Pomona”: “Percy Pawnticket” on the
use of the word “woman” took me back
over the years to the time when my
mother, calling on her cousin, a jeweller
i n London,
was ushered in
by the daily
help with the
words “Here’s
a young woman
to see you, and
the cat’s-meat
lady has
called.” Inci-
dentally, was
London the
only city where
cat’s meat was
delivered daily—a nice long skewer with
several slices of what looked like lean
roastbeef but was horseflesh and a piece
of liver? I suppose war and the meat
shortage have put an end to that busi-
ness. Our cats would have been horrified
could they have foreseen the future;
they disdained any other form of nourish-
ment. The cost was one ha’penny per
skewer.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The quaint uses to
which the term “New Australian” can
be put. I read in my morning paper
that a New Australian baby, 17 months,
fell through the window of a moving
train. Fortunately he escaped with minor
cuts and bruises, but I am left puzzled
as to whether he was a New Australian or
a new New Australian, in which case, in
strict legal terms, he would just be a
simple Aussie like myself.
■* « « •
“Hamfat”; That good old prop the
long arm of coincidence turns up again
in the first Australian screening of the
Cyrano de Bergerac film being shown at
the Sydney Palace (turning back to films
after a flesh-and-blud spell). It was at
the Palace, nearly 50 years ago, that
Rostand’s poetic drama was given to
Sydney, with the American Henry Lee
in the name-part. Bill Anderson, who
ran melodramas throughout Australasia,
was then controlling the Palace, and it
was largely a Bill Anderson audience,
hungering for blood and'thunder, that
rolled up on the opening night. Not
understanding the poetic drama, it became
restive, and Henry Lee lost his temper.
“Otherwise I forget it.”
Advancing to the footlights, he
trounced the whole audience, talked about
Australian savages, and put the match to
one of the worst explosions ever known
in an Australian theatre. Bill Anderson
was not the man to let the expense of a
lot of advertising go to waste. Next day
he announced that Lee was returning to
U.S.A., but the play would go on with
Ed-mund Dug-gan as Cyrano. That
seasoned veteran of melodrama knew
how to cut the poetry into meaty gobs
which Billandersonians could accept,
and the play had its season.
“539 and NX16326”: Sorrel at El
Alamein (B. 16/l/’52)? It’s there, all
right, but instead of a World War II
variety it is a left-over from the days of
1915, when the Composite Force which
included the Australian Light Horse
camped on/ that area on their way to
Mersa Matruh against the Senussi tribes.
This plant appears with rather prolific
growth after wet seasons —which are few
and far between. It has provided fodder
for the animals of the Bedouin tribes for
years.
♦ * * ♦
“Den”: The extent to which the
various activities of U.N.O. have become
riddled with bureaucracy has been
strikingly shown by the U.N.E.S.C.O.
decision to sponsor a universal history.
It has been condemned by various his-
torians on the ground that a history
planned by a committee on which a whole
“mixed grill” of nations is represented
is bound to be colorless and of no real
value. Even the compiling of it is to be
controlled not by one mind but by a com-
mittee. That great historical achievement
the Cambridge Modern History was
planned by one man —Lord Acton.
* * * *
“Irving”: After watching a juvenile
fracas iij a Melbourne suburb I asked
the 10-years-old victor the secret of his
evident handiness with his maulies.
Cryptically he replied “Horse-manure!”
I first took this as a rebuke to my
curiosity, but the terse reply proved to
be merely economy of words when the
full story was wheedled out of the
embryo Griffo. In our horticulturally-
minded suburb horse-manure is fast-
vanishing wealth beyond rubies, and the
movements of a pensioned-off draught-
horse paddocked in a vacant allotment
are closely watched by youngsters,
spurred on by promise of parental reward
for their garnerings. They are out with
their sacks at crack of dawn. This
diminutive maestro of mitts had several
times been hijacked of his spoils by horse-
manure pirates from another street. His
father had thought the tuition fees of a
city boxing-academy a small price to pay
for his offspring’s proficiency in repelling
attacks and so adding fresh lustre to
family honor and dahlia-petals.
A * * «
“The Missus”; Those early adventurers
in radiology (B. 28/11/’5l) had their
exciting moments. There was the one
when our local medico persuaded his
wife to let him “ray” her chest, just for
the experience. The lady was a buxom
dame and enjoyed perfect health, so she
was puzzled rather than alarmed when
her spouse grabbed his phone and be-
sought a fellow-practitioner to “come
round at once.” Ho,wever, when both
men displayed concern at what they saw
she became restive and demanded an
explanation. Gently her husband told
her that she had a row of peculiar dark
specks at inch intervals, apparently em-
bedded in her spine. Frightened, she
mounted the examination-table and lay
face-down to have her back examined.
It didn’t take long to clear up the
mystery; she was wearing a brassiere
which hooked up down the back.
* * * *
“Doric”: Italians certainly know their
Shakspeare. On a train from Milan to
Venice we thought we were the only
English-speaking people in the compart-
ment. At one railway-station I was
unable to see its name and, with my
limited linguistic abilities, I asked a
signora, “Nome slazione?” “Verona,”
she answered. “You know—two gents.”
* * * *
“8.J.L.”; Years behind the counter
have inured me to strange requests from
customers, but yesterday no less than
three staggered me. The first was a chap
who wanted a small tin of paint. Those
I had were not small enough; he had a
wooden inset about two feet square, and
expected to buy just enough paint to
cover it. The second was a lady with a
broken drawer-catch. She wanted only
the broken part replaced, so I had to
explain that this little patent was sold
only as a complete assembly. She de-
parted in high dudgeon because I wouldn’t
sell her half a unit, the entire cost of
which was sixpence. Finally came the
lass* who wanted black paint—“ Not one
of those horrible dull blacks, you know,
but a nice light shade of black.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Emel”: Odd to think that the vehicle
which really ‘decided the standard-gauge
of British railways, 4ft. Bjin., was the
Roman chariot, despite the fact that its
gauge was about 4ft. llin. But the old
British roads were built to take Roman
chariots, and when, later, horse-drawn
carts were commonly used in Britain
they, built for the existing roads, were
about 4ft. Sin. wide. When, before the
first railways were laid, a House of Com-
mons Committee noticed that in the
Railways Bill no gauge was mentioned,
the Prime Warden of the Shipwrights’
Company went out and measured the
first cart he saw, so settling 4ft. its
width, as standard gauge.
* * * *
“C.G.”: I move up in support of
“J. 8.” (B. 16/1/’52) about “flying” flags.
“Surely you don't expect me to be engaged to you every day in the week!"
The fellow vjho “wears” them probably
shuns “the,” and says “I was in Sydney”
and “Tobruk sailed for Japan.” Admiral
of the Fleet Cunningham ( Sailor’s
Odyssey) never does this. He says “The
Warspite with the Illustrious sailed from
Alexandria” ‘ “four destroyers under the
orders of Captain P. J- Mack of the
Jervis.” He drops “the” in lists of ships
(Gunboats Ladybird, Aphis and Gnat)
and in signals (“Barham is due for dock-
ing”). Otherwise he says consistently
the Rodney, the King George V., the
Vanguard.
* * * *
“Uramao”; They tell me the staff of
the New Zealand Weather Office, after
close study of the auguries, testing satura-
tion-points, taking wind gauges, reading
thermometers and studying other means
of ascertaining what lay ahead, decided
that a Tuesday was due for a big blow
and much rain in Windy Wellington.
Indications pointed to no low or high
depression crossing the Tasman Sea the
following day, however, so they con-
fidently decided on the Wednesday for
their annual picnic at Day’s Bay —a
delightful spot, where the poetic soul of
the weather-bureau people could for a
time forget floods and whirlwinds, thunder
and winged lightning and revel in the
Topic pageantries of the bay. But, alas!
Tuesday was a perfect day, and as the
assembled weather prophets and their
satellites gathered on Wednesday for the
outing the floodgates of heaven opened,
and never was there such a deluge. The
picnic was off.
* * * *
“Grise”: Probably the blackmailer of
“Sixenate’s” par. (B. 23/1/’52) was
known only unofficially to the police. A
neighborhood where I once lived was
annoyed by a Peeping Tom. A young
woman awoke one night to find him look-
ing in at her window; she ran to the
neighbors for protection, but by the time
she returned with help the peeper had
disappeared. Lodging a complaint at the
police-station next morning, she was
asked if she knew the intruder’s name.
She did not, but was sure she would
recognise him if she saw him again.
According to her account the police said
that was a pity; they knew quite well
who the offender was and wanted to get
him, but they had heard of him only
privately, and apparently could not take
official notice of unofficial information.
“And you’re the only person who’s
lodged an official complaint,” they said.
The moral apparently is: Don’t leave the
police to do everything without help.
* * * *
“X.M.N.”: No less ludicrous than the
sight of a Japanese ship discharging
South African coal in an Australian port
is the present position in England. Once
one of the largest exporters of coal, she
now buys a considerable quantity from
the U.S.A. Adding further distress to
the minds of thinking Englishmen is the
fact that this coal is not coming into the
country direct but is being transhipped at
Rotterdam, this being cheaper than dis-
tribution by coasters from a port of
discharge in England. It was found that
the expense of long demurrage on a ship
of 10,000 tons discharging at a British
port would more than wipe out the extra
freight to Rotterdam and the tranship-
ment freight over to England. The basic
reason for this is that the rate of dis-
charge in Rotterdam is three times as fast
as that in a British port.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The casualty clearing-
station at St. Omer (B. 9/1 /’52) had
another hilarious incident. On my arrival
there in the old Ford ambulance with the
shrapnel-holes in its roof everybody was
chuckling; the nurses especially could
not look at a big Queenslander without
giggling, and, although he was much
tied-up, he seemed to be able to grin at
the joke, too. The villain in this case—
an unconscious one—was a corporal
attached to a first-aid station. One of his
duties was to tag each patient with the
nature of his trouble as the M.O. called
—“G.S.W.” (gun-shot wound), “Shrap,”
“Shell-burst,” and so on. In this case the
M.O. had called “Premature burst The
corp. evidently mis-heard. The big
fellow arrived at the C.C.S. bwinded
“Premature birth,”
STRETCHING THINGS A BIT.
“During the day the weight of the body pressing
on spine and arches shortens the human frame,
during the night’s rest the bones stretch to normal
size again.”— Medical Journal.
Don’t make the mistake of supposing that
Because you’re a vertebrate, ,
Your bones, well packed with their marrow-fat,
Will always support your weight
For the day, without their developing
A nasty sort of a kink;
It’s rather, in fact, disquieting
To ponder that, long before evening,
You’ve started badly to shrink.
Perhaps you have idly wondered before
Why, when you had left the house
Of a morning, you seemed so far off the floor,
Bending down as you kissed your spouse
Good-bye. Then, when you returned at night
You nad to climb up on a chair
To acquire the necessary height
To peck at her cheek —that con/iubial rite
To withhold which you just wouldn’t dare.
A thing that once puzzled and gave you a jar
Has now been made crystal-clear:
That, whereas at midday you’d lean on the bar,
At six you’d reach up for your beer. 1
Conversely, a mystery no more it will be
Why your bed seemed to shrink of a night;
That by morning your feet would, by some
devilry,
Poke out through the end —well, you know now.
You see.
It was you, just regaining your height,
Say, hadn’t you noticed, while homeward bound,
A dragging sort of a noise
As you walked? ’Twas your brief-case trailing
the ground.
And you must have heard all the boys
Yelling out to come over with them and play,
At their “three-holes” and “postman’s
knocks.”
And hadn’t you noticed their laughter gay
On spotting your trouser-legs, as they
Concertina’d around your hocks?
Well, this happens to me and it happens to you,
For every man-jack of us owns
amounts to (at least in the medical view)
Extremely elastical bones,
Politicians, of course, never suffer the same
As the rest of us; haply because
Habitual recumbency lends to the frame
Surcease from the stretches and strains that the
Dame
Has decreed to be natural laws.
H.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”; Bruiser was the keen fisher-
man ; Charlie was just going along for
the day’s outing and to collect himself a
feed or two. He started where Bruiser
told him, and was mooching quietly up-
stream plying a fly over the water when
suddenly he stopped dead in his tracks,
then backed off in search of a waddy.
With the dead tiger-snake draped over a
log, Charlie proceeded more warily, and
hadn’t gone far when he ran into another
tiger on the bank. This one showed fight,
and Chari’s spine was creeping by the
time it was dispatched and laid out in
the customary manner. Thereafter his
interest in fishing waned considerably,
but he stuck to it until he had accounted
for five brown trout and two more
snakes. He waited then for Bruiser, who
arrived humping a heavy bag of fish ;
and for the next hour he listened long-
sufferingly to the story of exactly how
each one was caught, and the reasons why
several dozen others weren’t. At length
he got in with his query: “See any
snakes?” “Snakes!” squinted Bruiser.
“Aw, I dunno. Might’ve. Yair, come to
think of it, I did hear plenty rustlings,
an’ I remember seeing a tiger on the edge
of the hole where I got that big’n. Had
his head up at me, if I remember right.
Eh? No, dunno what happened ’im ; y’
see, it was just then the two-pounder
struck.”
* * * •
“Solitude”: As I rode towards the pub
to pick up Seventyfiver I noted the
station dogger taking the pack down to
the creek. At his heels came an old
poddy sheep that, unafraid of the dogs,
obviously intended staying with his
friend the dogger while he could. Idly
I counted the mongs trotting in front,
and, still doubtful whether the tally was
27 or 28, swung off at the pub. A
quick’n, then I called to the old bloke
and we hit our saddles once more and
pulled out. The dogger’s pack had now
finished their drink, and were making up
the bank on their way back to the station.
Seventyfiver glanced at them, looked
back, stared thoughtfully at his horse’s
ears, then counted the change in his hip
pocket. “Bloke couldn’t get shot on
eight-an’-tenpence, could he, Sol?” he
asked presently. “Not if he had a few
pennies an’ things left?” “No. Why?”
“Aw, nothin’,” he drawled. “It was just
that f’r a minute I could nilly ’a’ swore
I seen a sheep drivin’ a mob of dogs.”
* * *
“Kelms”: If “Smithy” (B. 16/1 /’52),
who once speared a detonator on the
point of a pick, ever tells that yarn to
an experienced miner he’ll not only be
believed —he’ll have to listen to a lot
of equally - unbelievable experiences.
Funny things, dets. I’ve seen a tin of
them fall off a dray and be squashed flat
by the iron-tyred wheel and not a peep
out of any of them. I’ve seen one sliced
in half with a crowbar, with the same
result Same with bulk explosive. There’s
nothing much touchier than guncotton.
Army regulations stipulate that its
moisture content shall not be permitted
to fall below 30 per cent, because if it
gets drier than that it’s unsafe to handle.
Yet once when we were initiating a
charge the primer, which fitted into a
hole in the guncotton slab, fell into
some mud. It wasn’t wiped thoroughly,
and when it exploded it simply shattered
the slab without detonating it. Yes,
explosives are as safe as houses in the
hands of experienced men. They can
even clinch the detonator on to the fuse
with their teeth. I don’t do it myself,
though, not because I’m not experienced,
but because a mate of mine, who was
experienced, blew his head off that way.
* * * ♦
“Eureka”: Tlje cocky’s eyebrows shot
up at the question asked by the new
migrant at the end of his first day.
“Bathroom?” he repeated. “Ain’t got
one. If y’ must have a bath one of the
boys’ll show you to the swimmin’-hole.”
“But I’d like a hot bath,” said the new-
comer. “Cripes!” exclaimed the cocky.
“Y’ on’y get them in ’orspital—this is a
dairyfarm.” A
¥ * * *
“Vingter”: The ability of the South
Burnett blacks to stand up to concerted
rifle-fire (B. 2/1 /’52) is attested by the
skeletons remaining to this day at the
bottom of the deep Coomba waterhole
on Tarong station in the Nanango district.
In 1846 a party headed by J, J. M. Borth-
wick, the founder of the property, was
attacked by a band of blacks and fled to
the shelter of a large rocky ledge over-
“Go quiet on the war-drums — they're racin' at Randwick."
hanging the waterhole. In this position
they had only their flanks to guard, as
they thought, since their rear was pro-
tected by a wall beneath the rock and
their front by the waterhole. Their feel-
ing of security was shattered when, from
the ledge above them, a spear hurtled
downwards and inwards, it having been
thrown by a solitary black who lay on
his belly to reach over and hurl the
weapon. The lone spearman fell easy
victim to the point-blank fusilade of the
defenders, but his place was taken by a
succession of others. The costly attack
was abandoned only when the supply of
spears and not black manpower ran out.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Bert never believed in
fairies, but now he admits that there
could be mermaids, and he reckons
"He has no comment to make , gents."
they’re crook. There was a crowd out at
the river on New Year’s Day, and Bert
was in good form from the springboard ;
but his exhibition ceased when, upon
taking a header into what he thought was
clear water, he dived
hard against the
sparsely - covered
torso of a sub-
merged female, and
in emitting
the under-
water ver-
sion of a
startled yell,
out fell his
tatts. Not
having fore-
seen this
emergency,
Bert hadn’t
enough breath aboard to continue on
after them; so he surfaced, gulped hard
—he could take more spacious gulps
now —and duck-dived in pursuit of his
fluttering fangs. For the next hour Bert’s
most prominent feature was his rump,
but the weary search yielded the lower
set only; the uppers, with varied surfaces
presented to the willing current, have
probably tumbled their way right down
to the deep hole, and are being sniffed
and glared at by some sulky old cod.
Bert has been fitted for new grinders and
hasn’t been near the river since. I told
him about those alleged eels that live so
deep that they carry their own electric
lights; he reckons they’re a good idea —
pity women wouldn’t wear them when
they trietj fancy swimming below
springboards.
* * * *
“Wnat y’ got in the bag,
Stan?” Hal asked, as the other came
through the fence and turned up past the
pub. “Bit of lime,” came the reply.
“Lime! Funny thing t’ be humpin’
about. Where’d you get it?” “Aw, it’s
I had over when I did that chimney
o mine, Stan explained. “Where y’
taking it. Over to ol’ Hemlock’s.”
Hal glanced in the direction indicated,
and frowned thoughtfully. “Cripes, I
woulqn t ve thought Hemlock’d want any
lime, he pondered. “What’s he goin’t’
use it for?” “Put round some vegetables
down on that river flat, he told me.”
Vegetables! Well, fancy that, eh?
Seems funny Hemmy startin’ a garden.”
“Oh, I don’t think he’s doing the work
himself,” Stan went on. “Humpy
Charlie’s growing the things and giving
Hemlock half.” “What, for the use of
the ground, eh?” pursued Hal. “Sort of
partnership business. Well, then, what’s
Hemlock supplying the lime for? You
tell him it’s the other bloke’s job to find
the lime, see? And the seed, too. Well,
half of it, anyway. You tell him t’ have
a proper talk to Charlie about that be-
fore he starts. It ain’t right. Not that I
can see why Hem bothers with old
Charlie at all for; he’s just a plain sticky-
beak an’ knowall, that bloke, if ever I
seen one.”
♦ # * ♦
“Edx” on W.A. goldfields timbers:—
“Edjudina” (B. 9/1/’52) has defined a pretty
big Centre in order to make it embrace the
salmon-gum forest east from Kalgoorlie. Only
375 miles from Perth and 220 from Esperance,
no Kalgoorlie citizen considers himself anywhere
near the Centre; a coast-dweller, rather. Kal-
goorlie is almost 1000 air-miles from Alice
Springs, the centre of the Centre, and the Great
Victoria Desert which bounds the salmon-gum
forest on its east stretches between them: still,
that forest is an extraordinary botanical feature;
thriving as it does in an Bin.- to lOin.-rainfall
area, it is one of Nature’s wonders, unparalleled
anywhere. The present timber-stands are only
part of what was there, and although there are
still areas of what can be described as “heavy
forest” south-east of Kalgoorlie, about the
Dundas district, the original eucalyptus forest
of the Kalgoorlie-Coolgardie district is gone-
stripped completely out for miles around long
ago, for firewood and mining timber, the small
siulf standing now being regrowth. The country
in which Hunt sank his wells in 1864 and where
Bayley, Hannan and co. 30 years later found
gold, must have had a very different appearance
from that seen by the visitor today. It was
forest then, but of a type beyond the normal
imagination, which usually associates forest with
high rainfall. The harsh, dry land of sunbaked,
iron-hard topsoil supported a wondrous growth
of 40ft.-60ft. salmon-gum and the lesser
eucalyptus-morrel (blackbutt locally), gimlet and
jam, with not very much of anything else and
no undergrowth; only, after rain, grass. Salmon-
gum and gimlet are unusual, quite apart from
their environment. The first is the densest
eucalypt (741 b. per cubic ft.), one of the
strongest, and extremely tough and durable. The
smaller, graceful gimlet, with its dead-straight,
spirally-fluted trunk of trefoil or quatrefoil
cross-section (which differentiates it from all
other euoalypts), is even tougher, and will bend
almost double under excessive loading
before yielding in a fibrous splintery fracture.
Both have clean, smooth, paper-thin bark which
makes for easy handling. It was a most for-
tunate natural provision that the country m
which most of the gold occurred should be
surrounded by a copious supply of timber
suitable for firewood and of unique value as a
structural mining timber, for without it the
development of the goldfields would have been
much less speedy and profitable than it was.
The extent of the timber-cutting activity on
the goldfields, and its significance in relation
to the mining industry, can be seen from figures
given in a W.A. Government publication of
1912. In one year (1910-11) over 600,000 tons
of this timber, valued at £500,000, was cut for
firewood and building on the mines, not count-
ing 25,000 tons also cut for domestic use m
Kalgoorlie and Boulder. Taking the first as an
average figure, it is probable that that rate of
cutting has obtained for nearer 50 than 4U
years. All that from a small area with an
average annual rainfall of less than lOin. and
of high unreliability, where no white man
thrown on his own natural resources could
possibly survive. When Bayley returned to his
find from Southern Cross the second time, in
September, 1892, after having made public the
discovery, many went with him, and half the
Yilgarn quickly followed, but by March, until
the rain came, the field was deserted. It was
just impossible to live there, and the lure of
gold being the potent force it is, when white
men wouldn’t go near a place on this eart
where gold could be had for the Picking up,
that place could be justifiably be called well,
tough country.
KITTY OF THE GOLDFIELDS.
[An extract from “My People” by the
Rev. Father R. McDonnell of St. Stanislaus
College, Bathurst, N.S.W., placed second
in the Jubilee long-poem competition.]
Kitty had lots of men friends:
she liked them, and they liked her,
for she was a very nice girl.
(O life is gay where the trombones bray
and the lights shine in your eyes.)
This is the road that Kitty came
jolting with Cobb and Co.,
over the mountains dripping with blue
from the haze of summer piled high to the sky.
For Kitty came out to the Western fields
to sing when things were slack,
laughing her way with her latest man
over the Crown to the Royal yard,
the old stone Capcrtee Royal.
(O life is gay when you’re on display
and the lights shine in your eyes.)
In the yard to the smell of horses
drink and smoke and warm healthy sweat
and sharp carbide on a wagon top
Kitty sang songs and danced for the diggers:
Mack hair and tights, foamy white lace,
flashing white teeth at the peak of the joke;
and they paid for the hair, tights, joke and teeth
with little chamois bags and nuggets of gold.
(O she sang and they sang
and the choruses rang,
as tinkers tailors soldiers sailors
forgetting their drink and loneliness
in Kitty’s grace and dewiness
paid her gold to sing to them
and to dance on the golden field
and be kissed to the tune of her little squeal
and the satisfied chuckle of a bearded man
looking for luck and a red flag.)
There was gold aplenty those golden days,
and love and laughter, flirting and kisses
mixed with gold, belonged with the gold,
and knives and blood belong with gold.
(O life is gay where the cradles sway
when the lights are in your eyes.)
O, it’s even gay on a working day
though the work may be, confidentially,
a knife in the ribs or a broken neck
from a drop in an old abandoned shaft:
which was what they found, peculiarly,
had happened to Kitty’s manager friend.
So Kitty came back to Sydney,
but they never found who did it:
the living lived and the dead stayed dead.
(And Kitty’s life rolled on quite gay
for you must be gay where the trombones bray
and you’re on display and you need your pay,
lights or no lights in your eyes.)
Down the rungs lay Kitty’s road,
but she always had plenty of men friends,
for she liked them and they liked her:
she was really a very nice girl.
It was one of them thought he remembered her
face,
(he was a policeman), but couldn’t quite place
where he had seen her, but that wasn’t strange,
for a week in the river had made quite a change
to goldfields and night-club Kitty.
(A showgirl found today in the reeds,
full of disease inside like Kitty,
half her age, but very pretty,
burst to the surface with a bubble and hiss.
Safe from the sharks but found by the crabs,
she was sort of remembered by one of our crew
—a pretty good judge, as the rest of us knew —
saying, probably find she was one of the drabs;
but whatever she was, she left not a clue
but herself, like Kitty, naked and blue,
sheeted on one of the cold morgue slabs.)
n.s.w.
R. MCDONNELL.


Mat’s Mate”: When we were taken
on at the grape-snatching in Mildura I
went out in the vines and Mat was put
on the dip with a dark, quiet sort of
bloke, the boss himself doing the carting
from vines to dip. On the fourth day
after we started the boss came in with a
load in mid-afternoon. The dark bloke
was missing. “He went up to the house,”
Mat said, “Told me he wanted t’ see your
missus about somethin’.” The boss looked
puzzled. “The missus isn’t there,” he said.
She drove into town this morning. It’s
funny he’s not back. Do y’ know this
bloke at all, Mat?” “Not very well,”
Mat said. The boss went up to his house.
The bloke had gone through it, loaded
the loot on one of the kids’ bikes and
departed. “Cripes,” Mat wailed, when
he heard the news, “I didn’t think I knew
him, blit I know the well enough
now. He borrowed a quid off me this
morning! ”
* * * *
“Chink”: The itch that causes hosts of
insignificant names to be cut, scribbled or
plastered on trees, rocks and buildings is,
in general, a cosmopolitan disease, but
some useful inscriptions were left on trees
by early explorers. Some of us have been
trying of late to assess these historic mes-
sages, and we now have a considerable
collection, including examples that figure
as exhibits in museums in at least four
States. The area most productive of
“tongues in trees” is that from Darwin
west across the top of the continent, and
that is because of the presence there of
the baobab, with its expansive trunk and
soft bark. Bushmen in the Kimberleys
used to proclaim that the history of the
region could be written from what the
trees have to tell. From the days of the
explorers and the Kimberley gold-seekers,
almost every veteran baobab has acquired
“visiting-cards,” and some have been
decorated profusely. On the Ord River is
one (the history and present condition of
which I would like further information
“Huntin's no fun with Cholmondeley around."
about if anyone can proffer it) that carries
“Patterson’s Prayer,” a dashing invoca-
tion in rhyme that ended with the lines:
“Now, oh God, forgive our sins,
And may every cow on the Ord have twins!”
“P „ * * *
Bass ; Can anyone explain why
some Australian aborigines won’t let their
babies cry? At the first wail from her
th a nadve pother—l’m speaking of
me desert natives—gathers it up and
oa es °F shakes it into silence. If the
mother is absent the father or some
member of the fribe quickly finds her.
In any case the kid is silenced. I can’t
think of any logical reason for the
practice. Our abos have never been so
beset by enemies that silence around a
camp was desirable, and anyway a native
camp is about as rowdy as any congrega-
tion of humans or sub-humans outside of
Canberra. It may have some religious
significance, or it may stem from their
natural affection for their kids; for,
despite some inhuman practices, they are
fond of their children. Whatever the
cause, the practice may have something
to do with the high mortality in ’flu
epidemics. Denied the opportunity to
exercise their lungs they grow up weak-
chested and susceptible to cold germs.
* * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: In the last days if
earth’s nakedness some billions of years
ago, by a peculiar concatenation of
circumstances there arose conditions
favorable to life —and life appeared. But
nature didn’t gaze kindly on her infant.
With earthquakes, floods and howling
gales she sought to destroy it; with
pestilences and plagues she set life against
life; and with droughts and fires and
changing seasons she tried to denude the
earth. But life persisted and grew, and
out of its travail it formed laws for its
own preservation. Some of those laws I
can understand. I can understand the
seed of a winter-growing plant lying in
dry ground for months, to spring to
sudden life at the first rains ; it doesn’t
amaze me' that some seeds may be in
moist earth until spring’s warmth calls
them. And I see nothing incomprehen-
sible in the fact that some seeds may lie
dormant for several years—simply a
plant’s defence against nature’s treachery
in varying the seasons. But now, when
the summer is more than half gone and
the swamps are drying out, there is
appearing on the mud and shallow fringes
a wealth of plant-life, springing from
seeds which have lain, insoluble, under
several feet of water through the winter,
and through lesser depths during spring
and summer. Obviously they’re not
and if they needed warmth
they’ve had it in recent heatwaves. Yet
they’ve waited until the water would be
gone when their sprouts were an inch
high. It beats me how the knowledge
penetrated to the thick mud in which they
were buried, and how they managed to
delay the event.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Schultz, an easygoing
German, and Reilly, a fiery little Irish-
man, had farmed side by side up in the
Ovens Valley for years, and probably be-
cause the Irish fire was quenched in the
Teutonic stolidity and the latter’s stub-
bornness melted before the Celtic heat,
they’d got along splendidly. Then
Schultz sold out to a successful city man
who had ambitions to set up a model
farm. He applied what he called
“efficiency methods” to farming, and in
no time a state of war existed between him
and the Irishman, who couldn’t get used
to not using short-cuts, being compelled
to pay half the cost of a new boundary-
fence, having his wandering cows im-
pounded and so forth. Then one day
Shamus, Reilly’s brindle greyhound, put
up a hare by the river. The hare flew
the boundary-fence and ran in among
the efficient man’s lambs. So did Shamus,
who was not aware of the laws of tres-
pass. The efficient man took a 12-bore
shotgun and put an end to Shamus’s
career. He then wrote a coldly efficient
note to Reilly ordering him to remove the
obstruction on pain of being haled to
court. Reilly frothed at the mouth, called
upon the saints to stand by him, rushed
madly from' his house and charged the
enemy, which called up reinforcements
and had Reilly efficiently dumped in the
road. “And,” said the efficient man, “you
are to reftiove that dead dog at once.”
Reilly retreated, brooded all night, and
“Heads it's a dud.”
faced the morning with equanimity. He
started his tractor, drove it through the
efficient man’s oats, backed up to the
remains, hooked on to them and dragged
them through the oats, over the adjoin-
ing kitchen garden, and so away. They
say that where there weren’t bits of
Shamus smeared over the efficient man’s
territory there was the shmell of him,
bedad, and that the efficient man and his
family had to retire to Wangenalla for a
week.
♦ * * *
“Barbel”: The lady was a stranger to
me ; she’d heard I kept lovebirds. Would
I sell her “a—a male bird?” She’d had
a pair, but one had got out in some
mysterious fashion and she strongly sus-
pected young Barry—he was the boy next-
door—and she was worried, because she
was sure the “female bird” was lonely,
etc. I offered her the pick of the aviary.
She selected “The pretty blue one.” I
pointed out that the bird was a hen. Oh,
in that case she’d have the yellow one. It,
too, was a hen. The woman was obviously
beginning to suspect I was trying to
thwart her for some underhand reason.
She made another choice. Another hen!
It was too much for her. “Every one I
pick you say is a hen! ” she exploded. “If
you don’t want to sell me a lovebird why
did you tell me I could pick which one
I liked?” “But they are hens,” I pro-
tested. “You can see for yourself.”
“How?” she demanded suspiciously. “By
their wattles, of course,” I answered in
surprise. “The hens have brown wattles
and the cocks blue.” A thought occurred
to me, and I asked: “But you knew that,
didn’t you?” “No ; how would I be
expected to know?” the lady demanded.
“Then how do you know that the bird
you have is a hen?” I said. “Well, it
would be, wouldn’t it?” she asked
naively. “It was the one with the ring
on.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: The city visitor loudly
announced his great knowledge of farm
life, and his intention of displaying it.
Now, what could he do? Bring in the
milker? Right. It was bang in his line.
The job called for his red-figured shirt,
tailored strides and wide sombrero.
Then, appropriating a stockwhip, he
swung it mightily and approached old
Dais. Dais was dreaming under the
willow by the dam, but she woke in mild
surprise to view the strange apparition.
Calmly she watched its approach, until
the sting of the stockwhip shocked her
into hasty retreat. Unfortunately she
chose the wrong direction, and, followed
by the stinging lash, stuck to it. Red-
shirt arrived back, announced that a
horse was needed and purloined one he
found saddled. Again the whip crashed
on old Dais and off round the paddock
she went at a trot, with red-shirt five
lengths behind, but coming nobly. Across
the paddock, round the dam, down the
gully, the threatening whip was every-
where, and though Dais did her best she
was only bovine. Three-quarters of an
hour later, bawling low and tonguing, she
was safely inside the cowyard beside the
sweating horse, while the apparition
strode up and down reciting his exploits.
It was then I spotted the old man com-
ing, and by heading him off diddled the
dailies of a headline sensation.
* * * *
“Blime”: I don’t belong to the school
that believes a thirst is born and not
made, and claim it is because Buff has
cultivated his for so long that he is dis-
tinguished as a local record-breaker.
On a shelf in a corner of the local an
enormous pot stands memorial to his
prowess. In the days when firms did such
things, a brewery forwarded the great
mug to the pub as an advertisement; and
as a catchline Bung deposited it on the bar
with the standing offer that anyone who
could drink its full contents in one
straight drink would get the beer for
nothing. If the drinker came up for air,
he paid. Half a dozen blokes who
fancied themselves in the line had a shot
at it, and several of them got as far as
half-way before giving up. The mug
still stood on the bar, a challenge to the
thirsty, when Buff drifted in. He’d just
ordered, when someone pointed to the
mug and explained its presence. Buff
leaned over, shoved it towards the bar-
man, nodded, and the bloke filled it to
the brim. Then, while the crowd
watched, grinning. Buff lifted the outsize
and started. Higher rose the bottom of
the great mug, while grins faded, eyes
popped and jaws gaped stupidly, “Ha!”
Buff dropped the empty vessel back on
the bar with a grunt of appreciation.
“Did y’ say f’r nothin’ ?” he asked
quietly. “Good-oh. Fill ’er” But
Bung had snatched the giant mug back.
“No, by cripes, I don’t,” he cut in.
“You’d not only have the beer off in no
time, but you’d be nark enough to stick
around till you broke a bloke.”
* * * *
“E.”: The road was steep, narrow and
precipitous, but Herb knew it pretty well.
Further, if it came to a point, it could
probably be proved there were worse
drivers than Herb, and with the con-
fidence gleaned from stoppages at several
wayside pubs, he swung the wheel and
let her go. In the back, the load of
blokes returning from the district race-
meeting sang on, recklessly unconcerned
over the weak brakes or the headlights
that shed a feeble glimmer on the road
ahead. Came a
sharp bend, an
oncoming car,
and a huge
boulder that had
rolled from the
hillside above.
Herb swung
wildly, braked
in vain, hit the
boulder and
over they went.
The car nose-
dived into space, somersaulted twice,
and settled gratingly into the branches
of a tree part-way down. For a minute
there was silence, then: “Anybody hurt?”
came Herb’s voice. One after the other
they reassured him there wasn’t a bruise
between the lot. “Bus isn’t damaged
either,” Herb declared a bit later, as he
crawled round in the treetop. “Have to
call tomorrow and get Plugger to haul it
up.” He found Plugger the next morning
still in bunk at his camp. “Gripes, what’s
the matter?” Herb greeted. “You crook
or something?” “Crook’s right,” growled
the other disgustedly. “Was pushing the
flamin’ wheelbarrow up to the woodheap
yesterday when I tripped an’ broke me
blasted leg!”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: As one who was foolish
enough to try the experiment, I can
assure “Dune” that his grey frog would
not have changed color if he had moved
it from the stack of cement-bricks on
which it squatted (B. 9/1 / ’52). Possibly
instinct tells the little bloke that he tones
with the color of cement-bricks, but he
will make his home in a stack of o.k.
reds or patent-kiln commons with the
same alacrity, A brick-stack is a most
attractive abode for any type of frog;
not merely because there are numerous
crevices down which he can slip to escape
potential enemies but because capillary-
attraction draws moisture up into at least
the bottom courses, making a cool, damp
haven, though everything else be hot and
dry. Nor is he alone in his choice of
domicile. Moving a small stack of no
more than 150 bricks, after a heavy rain,
I displaced two green frogs, a little grey
one, three numb and dopey newts,
countless earwigs, four leeches —the flat,
slimy type, not the species that look like
baby black snakes —and the inevitable
green-black centipede that can be
pounded into the mud with a full brick
time qfter time and still come back full
of fight.
BOOTMAKER,
I called for my shoes;
they’d last the winter,
but longer than that
would be a wonder.
The bootmaker’s fingers
flicked over the shelves,
high heels beside hobnails,
Sixes by Twelves.
Ranked there like old women
when bargains are sold,
some hinted at secrets they held,
but none told.
Small shoes for slim ankles?
Black suede should go well
with blonde head . . . perhaps.
I could not tell.
The bootmaker followed
my careless eye,
he wrapped my parcel,
ms voice was dry:
“Her shoes, when it comes
to choosing a lover,
are as good a sign
as any other.”
N.S.W.
ROGER CHALLIS BROWN.


the only.airline
io Aforfk America
providing a
•ft) every passenger
f
fa Information and bookings
from your local travel agent
or any airline booking office.
General Agents: Trans-Australia
Airlines. BCPA Head Office;
53 Martin Place, Sydney. Phone;
BW 2741.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO U. K. VIA O. 8. A. OR CANADA
8CA.96.12
Public Notice.
I, KONRAD DOMINIK. of Polish
nationality, bom at Poznan, and
resident 3 years in Australia, now re-
siding at 25 Knight Street, Banksia,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948-50.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS REEVES late of Lidcombe.
—TAKE NOTICE that EDITH
MARGARET HOSKINO REEVES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1699 of
1951 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
or upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Fourteenth day of April 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from DAWSON & HERFORD,
Solicitors. 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
M* rsntb
ys
n
v'4s£2^
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE T|
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. LA
Stcmds
The APRENTICE
bY A.E. STURGES
HE came out of the print-
room and looked cauti-
ously round the office, lit
a butt and leaned on the
apprentice’s board, puffing and
nattering. I called him:
“Hey, Wellsy!”
He jerked up and around,
then ambled across, his eyes
questioning.
“Done that print yet?”
“No, not yet, Art.”
“What’s wrong with you?”
Resentment flushed his face,
his voice complained. “Give a
feller a chance. I been busy.”
I suppressed a smile. He was
a queer kid: short and stocky,
curly ginger hair, wide brown
eyes with a slightly mad look
due to a defect of the pupil, and
a lopsided mouth.
“What, holding Johnny’s
board up?”
“I was askin’ him somethin’.”
“For a fag?”
He laughed in spite of himself.
“Matter o’ fact, I was askin’
him about apprenticeships.”
"ffm, if you don’t watch your
step they won’t concern you.”
“Why?”
“Well, you’re not too well in
with the chief, are you? And
if he sends in a bad report, the
apprentice committee might
knock you back.”
“B ’em. I been thinking.
I dunno whether I want one,”
“Why?”
His eyes screwed up in
protest at the smoke from the
butt. He took it gingerly be-
tween finger and thumb, looked
at it for a second, then reluct-
antly dropped it and trod it out.
“Well, fellers I was at school
with are gettin’ a fiver a week,
an’ I’d be stuck here on a few
bob for five years.”
“Yes, but you’d have a trade ;
they won’t.”
He thought this over. I could
see the thoughts chasing across
the mad eyes.
“Any way a feller could get
some of his time knocked off?”
“Doubt it. Might if you're
exceptional. Have to be good
on the tools, and at night-school,
too.”
The mention of night-school
darkened his face. “Yeah, that’s
another thing. Feller’d have to
trot along to school like a
flamin’ kid while his cobbers
were at the flicks and the dogs.”
“You can’t have it both ways,
Ivan.”
He looked round the office,
searched for another butt, and
lit up. “How long you gotter
go to night-school for. Art?”
“Depends, Four years for a
certificate, seven for a diploma.”
He nearly swallowed the
butt. “Seven! Feller’d be on
crutches.” He laughed at his
joke.
“Well, I don’t want to frighten
you. Ivy, but if you’re aiming
to be a professional engineer
you’ll probably need three
diplomas.”
“Three! Break it down. Art.
You’ll have me goin’ for the
term o’ me natural.” He took a
long draw. “What ones?”
“Mechanical, structural, elec-
trical.”
From the board in front,
Davis hissed a warning. We
looked up as the chief walked
in. Wellsy was instantly trans-
formed. He pinched out his
butt. “I’ll run that print off for
you now, Art.”
“Good. Don’t forget to mark
it ‘Advance.’ ”
“0.K.”
He walked briskly to the
print-room, darting a sideways
look at the chief, who watched
him until he disappeared, then
swung his eyes to me. I bent
over the board, muttering to
myself as if in concentration.
TEN juinutes later Wellsy
tossed the print, slightly
damp, slightly scorched, on to
my board. “There she is, Art.”
“Thanks. Mark it‘Advance’?”
“Oh, no. Lend us your red
pencil.” He unrolled the print
and wrote large, laborious
letters, looked at them with
satisfaction and rerolled it. “I
was thinkin’ while this was goin’
through the machine, Art.” He
frowned seriously. “Be a good
idea if I did those three diplomas
together, ’stead of one after the
Other.”
“Reckon you’d find it tough
going.”
“Why?”
“Well, if you’re doing one
diploma it means three nights at
tech, and a couple at home for
problems. If you took on three
you’d have to do five nights at
tech, and work at home every
weekend. And then you’d have
to pass every exam, for seven
years.”
“Gripes, a feller might as well
be dead.” His forehead
wrinkled. “How many nights
you say for one diploma?”
“Three.”
“That’s a lot for seven years.
Think I’ll just do the certificate.
That hard, Art?”
“Oh, gets a bit tough the last
year.”
“An’ if a feller don’t take an
apprenticeship, he'd have no
night-school at all.” He looked
pleased with the thought, and lit
a whole cigarette. He rested his
elbows on my board, making it
difficult for me to move the
machine. I leaned back,
resigned.
“Tell us a bit about the grape-
pickin’ on the Murray, Art.”
“I’ve told you about it
before.”
“Yes, I know. But I like
bearin’ about it. When do they
start?”
“ ’Bout February.”
“Be nice and warm, eh?”
“Damned hot, sometimes.”
“I like her warm. How d’ you
pick ’em?”
“Just snip off the bunches
and drop ’em into tins.”
“Gripes, sounds nice ’n’ easy.
How many d’ you have to pick
to make a crust?”
“We got paid by the week.
Didn’t make any difference how
many we picked.”
“Gripes.” Wellsy looked
pleased. “You kiddin’?”
“No. But you have to work.
The blocker’d soon give you the
bullet if you loafed.”
“Reckon a feller’d get a job,
Art?”
“Easy. They want thousands.”
“Any girls go?”
“Plenty.”
“Sounds a bit of all right.”
He looked into a sunlit future.
“Wells!”
The senior draughtsman’s
voice cut into the dream.
Wellsy shoved the fag in his
pocket and hurried over. I
picked up notebook and rule
and slipped out.
HALF-WAY through lunch
Wellsy came in, belched
loudly and sat at the table,
squeezing in between me and
Morgan. Morgan moved
fastidiously.
“These cookhouse dinners are
crook. All wind,” Wellsy said,
and belched again in support of
the statement. I turned a page
of my book. I saw Harper wink
at Morgan; they respected my
preference for a quiet read at
lunch, but enjoyed the diversion
of someone else pestering me.
“What’s the book. Art?”
“Autobiography.” I didn’t
look up.
“What’s that?”
“Bloke writing about himself.”
“Who’s this one?”
“Gorky.” I hadn’t taken a
line since he started. I began
again at the top of the page.
Wellsy peered over my arm.
“Funny name, Art.”
“M’m.”
“Where’s he come from?”
“Russia.”
“What’s he do?”
“He’s dead.”
Harper and Morgan took the
opportunity to get rid of their
stifled mirth, and laughed
uproariously at the feeble joke.
Wellsy kept on. “What’d he do
when he was alive?”
“Lot o’ things.”
“What like?”
I gave up and closed the
book. Wellsy picked it up and
looked at the title-page. “S’pose
these writers make a lot o’
dough, eh?”
“Some of them.”
About to say more, he hesi-
tated, looked at the others and
got up with a “See you later.”
I packed up my things to a
barrage of chiacking from
Harper and Morgan.
“Interesting bloke, Wellsy.”
“Rather have him than
Gorky, Art?”
“What’s he got that we
haven’t. Art? You won’t talk
to us at lunch-time.”
I gave a feeble grin and left
them.
About two o’clock 1 saw
Wellsy beckoning me from
the print-room. I waited a few
minutes, then went over,
“What do you want?”
He looked embiassed, so
unusual for him that I wondered
what was coming. At last he
blurted out: “How’s a feller get
a book published?”
“Why?”
He flushed. “I’ve written
one.”
“Eh? Come off it.”
“Well, not a book. A story.”
“Oh, yeah. What about?”
“Well, it’s about a feller on a
farm. He gets to know a sheila
in the city and falls for her. But
she don’t like the farm, see —
too dirty and smelly. So he
chucks it in, gets a job in town
and marries her. After a while
he gets sick of her and sick of
the city, and wishes he was back
on the old farm. But when he
leaves her and goes back, he
can’t settle to it. So now he
doesn’t fit in anywhere.”
He looked at me anxiously
“Not bad. Did you really
write it?” I was impressed-
Wellsy was only a boy.
“Yes. But that’s not the
finish. He starts gamblin’, see
and loses all his dough. Then
he takes to thievin’ and gets
caught. And the joke of it is,
when they shove him in he gets
sent to the jail farm, and so
he’s back on the land after all.”
I was really surprised. Wellsy
watched me,
“What do you think of it
Art?”
“Good effort.”
“Reckon I could sell it?”
“Well, depends how it’s
written.”
“That’s what I was goin’ to
ask you about. Would you read
it through for a bloke?”
“Yes, I’ll do that for you.”
“How much dough’d a feller
make from it?”
“How many words?”
“Dunno, haven’t counted
’em.”
“You’d get about three quid
a thousand.”
“That all! How do these
writer blokes get all their
dough?”
“Well, they rake it in if they
write a best-seller. But you can’t
make a fortune from a story—
you only sell it once.”
Wellsy considered this. He
looked cunning. “P’r’aps a feller
could make it longer?”
“Takes doing.”
Through the glass panel of
the door I saw the chief look
round the office, “I’ll have to
get back to the board.”
I FOUND it hard to keep my
A mind on my work; I kept
thinking of Wellsy’s story.
“How’s the job coming?”
I looked up. It was Johnson,
the designer, whose work I was
detailing. “Fair. Bit of trouble
with the bus bars —so many
things to clear.”
Hp looked at the plan,
“Might have to leave the station
at a different spot.”
I groaned. “Don’t say that;
I’ve detailed the joint there.”
Wellsy went past with a pile
of magazines for the library.
Johnson watched him go. “ ’Er,
I was going to mention, Art.
Tire boss is watching Wellsy. I
wouldn’t let him hang round
your board, if I were you, or
you might get into strife.”
I grunted, but didn’t look up.
I could feel Johnson looking at
me. He decided to let it go at
that, and bent over the drawing.


The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
no basting of the meat.
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,,
cooler ... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
li 3 *
S5 5
Grills are extra-rapid \ . and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guafbnteed fuel economy.
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
i AGA COOKER
w
m
e >b i
' fCA JJ -
s^KANT[f
jf U,f >'
P Wma nlh°r
P e <"'t fo
~fe- W»ne/ 0
f/Mli
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ’AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO, LTD. 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 EOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE Car.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. G wEBStEK
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. PERTH.
SUPER NU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes. Super
NU-METAL will recondition your motor 'while you drive. Permanently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest Jengines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250',000 users since
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners. Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs for 1 Cyl., 10/G; 4 Cyls., 30/-;
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-.
NU-METAL No. 2 for Bearings, Noisy Gearboxes and Diffs. Price 29/6,
Cali, write or iilione. Ataii orders please add 1/6 N.S.\V. and
2/- Interstate for packing and postage. Sorry, no C.O.D.’s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque, M. 0., P.N., for _
Or send me an Illustrated Polder describing the action of Super NU-METAL.
NAME (Block Letters)
ADDRESS B. 13/2/’52
BRISTOL TRADING CO.
Ist FLOOR, BRISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone MA 7250 (Near Market Street)
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
d
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
9 Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 121% Sales Tax
fd
f
Customers buy more when congestion is
reduced and shopping made pleasant
■
m
m
'.J
■
*3
m
m
M
■v;--
I
m
I Z
sep
m
m
i yun
-
THIS IS A FACT IN
EVERY MODERN STORE
WHERE
01 i s
Escalators
HAVE BEEN INSTALLED
TWO OF JVUt POST-WAR DESIGN OTIS
ESCALATORS INSTALLER AT
DAVID JONES LTD SYDNEY
Extensive surveys of traffic conditions made in modern stores
equipped with escalators and lifts prove there were far more
shoppers on the floors served by escalators than other floors.
Why? Because the escalator offers immediate, easy, convenient
travel and is preferred by shoppers.
The Otis escalator installation at David Jones Ltd. Market Street
Store, Sydney, draws customers to other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more. Escalators move people quickly,
comfortably . . . reduce traffic congestion . . . make shopping
pleasant . . . increase sales. Let Otis survey you'r store —the facts
will interest you.
ELE.WATOR OOiPArr
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD,
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE ® ADELAIDE ® BRISBANE ® PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
★
New Post-War Designs
OTIS ESCALATOR
INSTALLATIONS
Brisbane: McWhirters Ltd 6
„ T. C. Beirne 6
„ Finney Isles & Co 6
Melbourne: Myer Emporium Ltd. .. 12
GEELONG: Myer Emporium Ltd. .. 1
Sydney: Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 4
w David Jones Ltd 4
„ Farmer & Co. Ltd. ... 4
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd 8
perth; Boons Ltd. 4
“Now, what angle have you got
this duct at?”
U/HEN I went out for a cup
“V of tea, Wellsy was swilling
water and gooey over a batch
of prints. I stood watdhing him
as I drank.
“How did you come to think
up that yarn, Ivan? Ever know
anyone like it?”
“No. Read a story once
about a farm bloke gettin’
spliced to a society dame.” He
tipped on some more gooey, then
looked up at me anxiously. “But
he didn’t chuck in the farm and
go to the city to work.”
The truth hit me. “What
about that gambling part where
he loses all his money?”
“Oh, I saw somethin’ like
that in one o’ these crime-
doesn’t-pay flicks. Not exactly
the same, though.”
“And you sort of joined them
up?”
“That’s right.” He looked at
me suspiciously, mouth open,
eyes worried. Yellow gooey
dripped on his shoes. “Nothin’
wrong in that, is there. Art?”
“Long as you’re not caught.”
He let the print he was hold-
ing fall crumpled into the
trough. “You mean you can’t
copy anything?”
“ ’Course you can’t.”
“You gotter think up every
word?”
“That’s right.”
“Cripes, it’d take a feller years
to write one story.” He
straightened the print and pegged
it on the rack, then turned an
unhappy face. “Feller might as
well do an apprenticeship.”
“U/ELLSY!”
* “ He looked up with his
“what’s-wrong-now” expression.
“Get us tracing AX seventeen
sixty-thfee, will you?”
“In a sec. do? I’m going to
the strong-room soon’s I finish
a couple of prints.”
“Don’t forget, then. Better
write the number down.”
Quarter of an hour passed. I
went out to the strong-room.
The door was slightly ajar and
I peered in. Wellsy was sitting
on a stool under the “No Smok-
ing” sign puffing a fag. He
jumped up as I swung the door.
“Where’s that tracing?”
“Couldn’t find her. Art.”
“You might’ve let me know.”
“I was just cornin’.”
“Look in ‘A’ drawer?”
“ ’Course.”
“In the foreign drawer?”
“No.”
“Have a look.”
He pulled it out, leafed
through the tracings. “Ah, here
she is.” He looked like a dog
finding a bone. He rolled it,
marked it in the book and gave it
to me. I turned to go. “Hey, Art.”
“What?”
“How’d a feller get to be a
plastic surgeon?”
“Why?”
He looked a bit sheepish.
“Just wonderin’. I been readin’
a book about one. Make a bit
a dough, I reckon.”
“M’m.”
“What’d you have to do.
Art?”
“Well, for a start, an ordinary
medical degree.”
“What, like all the quacks?”
“Of course.”
“How long for?”
“Five or six years, I suppose.”
“Cripes.” He looked disap-
pointed.
“Were you thinking of taking
it on?”
“No, no, not me. Be a hard
course, eh?’”
“Harder than an engineering
certificate.”
Wellsy grinned. “Chief in,
Art?”
“Yes.”
“Hang on then, and I’ll come
back with you. Just flap this
smoke out first.”
I CORRECTED the tracing,
1 and when it was dry took it
to the print-room. As I went
in, Wsllsy put a piece of pd*per
into a drawer.
“What’s that?”
“Nothin’. Just a little job.”
“What sort of job?”
“Bit of architecture.”
“Give us a look.”
He passed it over. It was a
rough drawing of a two-story
block of flats. “Where did you
copy this from?” He looked
indignant. “Nowhere. I did it
myself.”
“Did you get a bit from one
book and a bit from another?”
“No. Plonest, Art. It’s a
hobby.”
“Do you just do it for fun?”
“No fear. That’s for a builder
I know.”
I gave him a hard look. “You
mean to tell me he’s going to
build this from your drawing?”
“Well, he gets a feller to draw
’em up properly from my
sketches,”
“Does he pay you?”
“ ’Course.” Wellsy read my
thoughts. “You think a feller’s
lyin’.”
“Tell you the truth, I do.”
He looked hurt. “You ask
Dad. He knows I do ’em.”
I didn’t know much about
architecture, but I thought I
knew enough to bowl Wellsy
out. I shot a few questions at
him about the plan. The
answers came pat.
“M’m, you seem to know a
bit about it.”
He looked pleased.
“Why don’t you take it on?”
His face dropped. “The old
man reckons I haven’t got
enough brains, and he hasn’t got
enough money. He’s set on me
bein’ a fitter.” He fished out a
fag. He’d taken about two
draws when the door swung open
and in walked the chief. I
didn’t like the look of him. He
glared at me, then barked at
Wellsy:
“Finished those quick-dries,
Wells?”
“No, sir. I was just going to
start.”
“Get a move on then. The
plant engineer’s waiting for
them. They should have been
ready an hour ago.”
He gave me another look and
went. I gave Wellsy a hand: he
fed tracing and paper into the
machine; I washed the prints,
and dabbed them between two
towels, then we flapped them
over radiators. Wellsy trimmed
them a'nd hurried out to the
chief.
I watched through the glass-
panel. Wellsy tried to put them
down and rush off, but the chief
called him back. I couldn’t
hear a word, but the chief was
certainly letting go. Wellsy was
just listening. He came back
with his tail between his legs,
and sat on the trimming table,
utterly dejected. He sought con-
solation in a butt. He took a
long pull, and looked round the
dim room with distaste. He
turned to me. “Tell us about
the grape-snatchin’, Art.”
“Good Lord, Tve told you
about it a dozen times.”
“I know. But I like bearin’
about it.” He took another draw.
“When do they start. Art?”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
IF GERMANY UNITES.
“No one with a sense of his-
tory can believe that the parti-
tion of Germany is permanent.
Sooner or later, in one way or
another, the two halves will
come together.”
Not only Germans fully en-
dorse that prophecy by West
Berlin Mayor Ernst Reuter. It
is taken as axiomatic in respon-
sible British and American com-
ment.
One of the most influential
and highly regarded of present
German figures (among the
occupation authorities as well as
among his own countrymen),
Reuter has also declared:
“We count upon it that there
will be a time when we will have
one Berlin, one Germany and
one world in which men can live
in peace and unity without fear,
in which there are no passports,
no zonal borders and no intern-
ment-camps.”
INEVITABLE
What can be put down as
certain is that German unity will
become a major issue before this
year is out.
With Russia opposing it at
every point (while pretending
the opposite), it is agreed all
round that it will not come
either quickly or easily. “The
day of reunion,” says London
“Economist,” “may still be far
off according to the time-scale
of the Western world. 8ut.....
it will inevitably come.”
Even those in Britain who do
not like it at all thus take it for
granted. ' America, going by
general official and newspaper
comment, is enthusiastically for
it, and this year will work even
more directly than hitherto to
advance it.
CHANCELLOR’S ROLE
A curiously involved role in
the piece has fallen to Chancel-
lor Adenauer, as the Russians
and Germans of the East (says
the “Economist”) bid higher
and higher to win the Germans
of the Federal Republic away
from a Western policy:
“Dr. Adenauer sees Ger-
many’s salvation in close and
permanent association with its
Western neighbors, in the first
place with the traditional
enemies, the French. And he
sees that real links with France
would probably become impos-
sible if the Germanics of East
and West were reunited first.”
Having secured ratification of
the Schuman Plan, he now
wants positive action on the
European Army as soon as
possible towards completing the
tie-in with the West.
A GREAT CHANGE
Unity would not only com-
pletely change the German pic-
ture ; it would radically change
the whole picture of Europe.
“The true object of European
union,” comments a New York
“Herald Tribune” writer, “is to
establish the conditions under
which it will become possible for
Germany to be reunited.... .and
to deal with some hope of suc-
cess with the enormous changes
which German reunification will
cause in Europe and in the
world.”
For one thing, a “New York
Times” staff correspondent in
Germany points out, it would
mean that a great many of the
U.S. plans and policies in Europe
would have to be either
scrapped or else drastically
changed and statesmanship of
the highest type would be called
for: (1) To keep a united
Germany out of the Soviet
embrace ; (2) to ensure that a
united Germany did not become
aggressive ; (3) to make sure that
this very strong State did not
try to become the political
arbiter of Europe by playing off
the Soviet Union against the
West.
SOVIET STAND
Those are the main doubts.
On the favorable side: “One of
the reasons that some well-
informed officials doubt whether
the Soviet Union ever will make
the supreme gesture to bring
about unification on Allied terms
is the position of Russia if
Germany were united in
freedom, the only condition
which the West seems willing, to
accept at the moment.
“The Soviet Union would then
be on the defensive. The
frontier of freedom would be
moved eastward 185 miles from
the Elbe to the Oder, Poland
and Czechoslovakia then would
be open to Western influence.
With a united democratic
Germany firm with the Western
Allies, enough political pressure
might be built up to induce a
general Soviet withdrawal from
Eastern Europe.”
COMEBACK
Even as it is, Germany has
already made an amazingly suc-
cessful comeback, so much so
that London “Economist” heads
an article “German Exports
Soar,” while New York “Herald
Tribune” heads one “The Boom
in Western Germany.”
“The pre-war pattern of Ger-
many’s foreign trade,” says the
“Economist,” “has been swiftly
regained. Engineering products
are again the most important
group of exports. Sales of heavy
machinery, machine-tools and
cars have soared in the last three
years.”
Stating further that the rise of
exports to the U.S. has been
“particularly remarkable,” it
adds that “it cannot be said that
the Germans have secured their
place in the export markets by
unfair methods,” a point on
which Japan (as earlier noted
here) has been widely criticised.
The important fact to J. Bull is
that “German industry has been
quickly catching up on Britain
in overseas markets.”
London “Daily Mail” reports
that “Throughout the Near and
Middle East German agents are
busy renewing contacts and in-
fusing new life into the ‘dremg
jiach Osten ’ And they are
booking orders.”
“How astonishing it is,” the
“Mail” comments. “Germany
was down and out in 1945. Now
her industrial production (Wes-
tern zones) is already 148 per
cent, of pre-war.”
It points out a big German
advantage —the Germans are not
burdened with a vast rearma-
ment programme. Result:
“Britain, a war-winner, is
seriously handicapped against
Germany, a war-loser, because
Britain is rearming to help de-
fend Germany. While Germany
builds bridges for Egypt,
Britain makes tanks for use on
the German plains.”
RIVALRY
A New York “Herald
Tribune” staff correspondent in
Germany also gives a rearma-
ment explanation of the German
recovery as a trade rival:
“Western Germany’s industrial
machine is geared to make con-
sumer goods, which are finding
ready markets at home and
abroad, while the Allied Powers
are not so fortunate. This
accounts for Germany’s startling
resurgence as an industrial
competitor, while Britain,
France and the other States are
forced to cut back production of
consumer goods, especially for
export, in favor of guns, planes,
tQTIIfQ ptf*
“It*is,” the “Herald Tribune”
man also comments, “one of the
anomalies of our time that the
cold war, which is reducing the
standards of living in both the
Communist and democratic
worlds because of defence spend-
ing, is raising Western Ger-
many’s standards „of living to
unexpected new highs with every
passing quarter......
“Cut off from their old
market areas in Eastern Europe
and the Balkans, the Germans
have found new markets in the
West formerly dominated by the
British, French and other
Powers. A United Nations eco-
nomic study released last sum-
mer —and about the last authori-
tative information on this
controversial subject available —
disclosed that Western Germany
was overtaking and succeeding
Great Britain in the sales of
metals, metal products and
chemicals in Western Europe.
For example, in 1949, Western
Germany’s exports of chemicals
to this area were 67 per cent, of
Great Britain’s; in 1951 Ger-
many’s exports jumped to over
210 per cent, of Britain’s.”
U.N.O. Follies.
Fairly enough irked at the
thought of British taxpayers
being called on to fork out
£382,179 for the upkeep of the
United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisa-
tion, a London “Financial
Times” writer fiercely com-
ments :
“U.N.E.S.C.O. has probably
committed more follies and
—Glasgow “Bulletin.”
THE ABOMINABLE “NO” MAN.
extravagances than any other
United Nations body—and that
is saying a lot.”
Noting that its latest effort is
the “promotion of a History of
Mankind in six volumes and
running to three million words,”
he adds: —
“Surely no good book has
ever been written by a com-
mittee..,..”
He seems to have overlooked
one very good Book that was.
Next in Persia.
“The major oil concerns of the
world have supported the British
boycott of Persian oil with such
unanimity that the nationalised
Persian oil industry has not been
able to sell a drop.”
In view of which a London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent
lately in Tehran sees Moussa-
dek’s position becoming steadily
weaker and the general situation
of the country deteriorating and
certain in the long run to become
impossible. . .
This he expects to reach crisis
a month or so hence. Mean-
while Moussadek is left with
only two cards to play. One is
to threaten that he will, at what-
ever cost to his own country,
continue to block the flow of oil
so long as he can retain his hold
on power. The other is the
threat that, in the chaos of his
own collapse, or possibly even
by his own deliberate choice, the
gates may be opened to Com-
munism' and to Russian control
of Persia, with all that implies
for the world balance of power.
Both those threats the corres-
pondent considers empty. Dr.
Moussadek, he believes, will be
overthrown by the Majlis before
the country collapses; and It
is reasonable to suppose that Dr.
Moussadek’s successor would
come with a mandate to get the
oil flowing again.”
Tourist Values.
They’ve hit on a new standard
of values in striving Britain,
reckoning the value of tourists
in terms of British motor-cars
exported. Thus, the ‘ Econo-
mist” :
“Compared with the one
motor-car represented by the
average American tourist (if he
travels in a British ship), the
average visitor from the British
Commonwealth is worth two
motor-cars —he stays much
longer.
“Canadians were the most
numerous last year: 34,000 of
them had visited Britain by
October, compared with nearly
17,000 Australians and about
the same number of South
Africans.
“It must be sadly recorded
that the average European visi-
tor is worth the export of only
a bicycle—but there were plenty
of them.”
Various Voices.
Marshal of the R.A.F., Sir
John Slessor: “An airfield today
costs more than a first-line
battleship did before the first
world war.”
British composer Herbert
Howells: “Not even politics
should be blamed for the un-
mitigated dreariness of the ‘Red
Flag.’ ”
Churchill, on his Govern-
ment : “We do not seek to be
judged by promises but by re-
sults ; we seek to be judged by
deeds rather than words. We
require at least three years
before anyone can judge fairly
whether we have made things
better or worse.”
U.S. Secretary of State Dean
Acheson : “It is hard to say that
any one year is more critical
than another, but it seems to
me certain that we will have it
in our power in 1952 to take
action, or to withold action,
which will have a decisive effect
upon the cause of peace.”
Anthony Eden, on emigration
within the Commonwealth:
“These movements do not
weaken us in this island because
they add to the strength of the
whole. This is a topic which, I
hope before long, can be a
source of fruitful discussion
between us within the Common-
wealth family.”
America’s top man in Ger-
many, McCloy: Ido not won-
der that Germany’s friends
sometimes get a sudden sinking
feeling. I must confess I do.
We have come to the period,
however, when we must permit
the Germans to take action
themselves in the protection of
their own freedom. Otherwise,
we run the risk that the Ger-
mans will never develop the
instincts of freedom.”
General de Gaulle: “You can-
not make war just with
Pentagons and H.Qs. You make
war with the blood and souls of
men. You can only build
European and Atlantic defence
on the basis of realities, and
these are national realities.”
U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff,
Gen. Vandenberg: “In my
opinion the danger of a general
war will not decrease appreci-
ably until we hold in our hands
the tools we would need to fight
such a war successfully.”
U.S. Defence Mobilisation
Director, Charles E. Wilson:
“When we consider that the
negotiators for the United
Nations at Panmunjon have
spent over six months endeavor-
ing to reach only a cease-fire in
one small corner of the globe, it
is clear that the time required to
reach a workable basis for last-
ing peace throughout the world
has to be measured in years, and
perhaps decades.”
New U.S. Ambassador to
Moscow, George F. Kennan:
“It is essential to recognise that
the maiming and killing of men
and the destruction of human
shelters, however necessary it
may be for other reasons, can-
not in itself make a positive con-
tribution to any democratic
purpose.”
Belgian Foreign Minister , M.
van Zeeland: “Our hearts still
lie with our own fatherlands,
and European organisation must
therefore respect the national
States.”
Sir James Robertson, Civil
Secretary to the Sudan Govern-
ment, speaking in Khartoum:
“I assure you that the British
members of the Executive
Council and the Governor-
General are fully determined to
do their best to hand over power
to Sudanese Ministers this year,
and that is also the policy of the
British Government.”
General Templet, on taking
over as new British High Com-
missioner in Malaya: “I fully
realise the implications of the
job and the importance of it not
only from the political and mili-
tary but also from the economic
viewpoint. I shall do my best to
do the job,”
Lord Layton: “For better or
for worse, geography has made
us [Great Britain] permanently
part of Europe —perhaps the
most vulnerable area of all to
modern weapons. We in these
islands should do well to recog-
nise that our fate is for ever
linked with that of democratic
Europe. So long as our neigh-
bors honor the basic rights ot
civilisation it will be our duty as
well as our interest to sustam
them.”
American U.N.O. delegate,
Benjamin Cohen: “Since the
Communist revolution the of a
ruling classes in Russia have
been liquidated, but their places
have been taken by a new ruling
class, the elite of the party • • • •
The iron discipline of the Soviet
elite, the new ruling class, far
exceeds that of the earlier
despotism which it supplanted.
British M.P., Cyril Osborne,
on wage rises and demands for
more: “Unless this folly *
stopped it will ultimately pro-
duce hunger and unemploymen .
The higher standards the nation
demands must be earned.
England doomed because i
people refuse to believe that the
world does not owe us som
thing for nothing?”
Lord Ismay, Secretary for
Commonwealth atwn f' j: s .
world is ia quite a crazy. da
tracted condition. We ha
full-scale war going 9
Korea. Then there are Malay >
Indo-China, EOT* “*J .S'
At the back of it alia Russia,
glaring and growling-


Armchair Motor
Pulßman Tours
of Europe
See Europe the easy way—in
superlative comfort. Choose one of
the LUXURY LAND CRUISES
which guarantee leisurely, trouble-
free travel, and visit the historic
and beautiful places you have read
about.
The ITALIAN LAKES, SPAIN,
ROME, The DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL,
RHINE, SCANDINAVIA, YUGO-
SLAVIA (7 Countries Land
Cruise) and SWITZERLAND.
You are advised to make your reser-
vations before arriving in the U.K,
Cablegrams: Imbelgrip, London
LUXURY LAND CRUISES
LTD.,
Princes House, 39 Jermyn Street,
London, S.W.I, England.
Phone; REGent 4580 & 5241.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Ci/ARD
PROTECTA
SUI Riy,
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature t«
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
91 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TUB AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
FONDE EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
mm.
m
mm
pi
ft.
-
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her "by a whisker”... it was that
smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave, too, will look good and
feel good with Palmolive the Shaving Cream that gives
better shaves to } men out of every 4. Here’s the proof:
1,251 men tried it ... 81% reported "Beards easier to cut!’*
...76% said "Less razor pull”. ..71% said "Closer shaves”
... 80% found "Smoother feeling skin.” Judge it yourself.
Join the ranks of successful men. Get smoother, more
comfortable shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
Re
WOmSMART
mm
mm!
USE
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
AKUBRA
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Kiss Me, Kate."
In “Kiss Me, Kate,” at present
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
Sam and Bella Spewack
borrowed heavily from Shak-
speare’s “Taming of the Shrew,”
but Shakspeare could hardly
complain of that, because he
borrowed “The Shrew” from “A
Shrew,” a play that was extant
before his was, though some
learned scholars say that “A
Shrew” was borrowed from
“The Shrew” and was run
against it.
Shakspeare also shoved into
his play some of his own busi-
ness, so he could scarcely com-
plain on that score of Cole
Porter, who shoved into Sam
and Bella’s opus some of his own
lyrics, three of them said to be
so fruity that even the A.B.C.
couldn’t stand them.
It is generally conceded that
Shakspeare improved on the
quality of his predecessor, but
whether Bella and Sam improved
on the quality of Shakspeare is
another question. Probably they
hadn’t an* such highfalutin
intentions, but were just out for
a romp with Shakspeare and in
romping with him couldn’t help
but get some echoes of his
robustness into their own busi-
ness.
“Too Darn Hot,” the song-
and-dance act with the Colored
Diamonds, the spanking of Joy
Katharina Turpin by Petruchio
Hayes Gordon and the dressing-
room scene where Mr. Gordon
is dunned for a gambling debt
by Alec Kellaway and Morgan
Davies as two gangsters while
Miss Turpin fumes and frets in
the room adjoining are distinctly
snappy, while Mr. Cole Porter
rams things home with some 18
songs to which the milk-oh will
give six months’ immortality, or
even longer.
Having been a lumberjack, a
biochemist and a cycling
fanatic, Mr. Gordon has all the
equipment for a shrew-tamer,
plus a voice with all the volume
of a foghorn and a variety of
facial expressions. When he
appears in the play within a play
he makes as noisy and boister-
ous a Petruchio as an Eliza-
bethan could wish for. Miss
Turpin is a beautiful young
woman, and sings and acts with
great abandon.
The Independent Theatre,
North Sydney, has turned up
with a brilliant production (by
Doris Fitton) of Anouilh’s
“Ardele,” a cynical, grotesque
and altogether arresting play
to be reviewed here in due
course.
"The Sleeping
Princess."
The Borovansky Ballet’s pro-
duction of “The Sleeping Prin-
cess,” which was reviewed here
during its Melbourne season, is
now the current attraction at
Sydney Empire, and, what with
the extravagant magnificence of
its settings and costumes, its
arching palaces and dim forests,
and enough dancers to make
even the large stage of the
Empire seem crowded, it is quite
a successful spectacle, if not
altogether a spectacular success.
Possibly because they were
overshadowed by their surround-
ings, or possibly because they
lacked the capacity to dominate
them, few of the dancers —with
the exception of Dorothy
Stevenson and Paul Hammond—
seemed able to bring their parts
even to fairytale life, with the
result that the piece took on the
atmosphere of vast and cheerful
pantomime rather than a grace-
ful fairytale.
Princess Aurora is danced
alternately by Peggy Sager, Edna
Busse and Kathleen' Gorham,
and, on the night the present
commentator attended, Miss
Sager had the stage. She is a
beautiful dancer, but the
dramatic qualities and cold
classicism which serve her so
well in other roles—her notable
“Swan Lake” in the last Boro-
vansky season, for instance —
are a little too formal for her
current role, even though she
tries to infuse them with some
warmth and sentimental appeal,
and even though her dancing,
particularly in the last act,
reaches almost pyrotechnical
brilliance.
Miss Gorham’s exuberant
dancing, on the other hand, has
rarely been hindered by classi-
cal precision or exactitudes, but
it has a certain substantial
earthly vitality not altogether in
accord with fairytale prin-
cesses. Edna Busse, however,
although she may not have
quite the dramatic intensity of
Miss Sager, nor quite the joyful
abandon of Miss Gorham, is an
exquisite dancer, and, as she has
shown often enough in ballets
from “Coppelia” to “Giselle,”
can assume those extra shades
of the pathos and gaiety and
little-girl touches necessary for
Princess Aurora.
Still, the differences between
the three dancers are, in them-
selves, interesting, and, as M.
Borovansky remarked with a
pecuniary glint in his eye on the
opening night, a good reason to
see his production three times.
Dorothy Stevenson makes a
very graceful Lilac Fairy, and
gives the part just sufficient
meaning to take over proceed-
ings when necessary—a balance
which was also achieved by
Paul Hammond as the wicked
fairy, Carabosse, and by Miro
Zloch as Prince Desire.
The little specialities of the
final act —Puss in Boots, Red
Riding Hood, the Blue Birds,
the Three Ivans, the Porcelain
Princess, etc. —were done with a
lot of sparkle, and, along with
Miss Sager’s spectacular danc-
ing in the pas de deux, brought
a spectacular evening to a most
spectacular close.
Queensland’s Moreton Gal-
leries aptly described their first
show for the year as a “Summer
Exhibition” —it was presented in
the State’s “cruellest month,”
and the entire collection of con-
temporary Australian painting
glowed with light and color.
The most popular painting in the
gallery was a smallish Heysen,
showing a cluster of gums, their
top-most branches drenched in
sunlight. Robert Johnson’s
“Old Schooner” was a fine
literal study, but still requiring
an indefinable touch of sea
poetry about it. Kenneth Mac-
Queen’s “Summer Sea” was too
rhythmical in subject but suc-
cessful in its color and clarity.
Three flower studies demanded
attention Dargie’s “Spring
Flowers,” a golden reminder of
an earlier season ; John Farmer’s
“Hydrangeas and Daisies,” a
warm and lovely thing of deep
blues; and Margaret Coen’s
flower-piece which challenged
the freshness and texture of the
original flowers.
Although Will Shuttlewood,
who has a large show of oils at
the Athenaeum, Melbourne, is
presumably trying to paint the
light of nature in his Australian,
Sydney Harbor and New Zea-
land landscapes, it is a curious
thing that his effects, whether
they are painted in spring or
autumn, or in whatever country,
all look extraordinarily like the
atmosphere round Melbourne
on the day his exhibition
opened. The formula is there in
nature, and Mr. Shuttlewood has
caught it exactly in all, or nearly
all, of his pictures, but it is diffi-
cult to believe that nature could
repeat itself so often or in so
many different places.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heller;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Are you going abroad ?
Before going abroad it is well to consider the advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent. It
supervises business affairs and interests, remits income regularly, collects rents, dividends and
interest, prepares Land and Income Tax returns, attends to the investment of moneys, the
payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services.
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obligations. An interview can
be arranged to suit your convenience.
Write or call for free booklet.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
TRX.3S
The WLED AT COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
/ Dividends * To Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Amount, serves. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1946.. 92,576 5 8J 86,062 6,514 1,634,659
Unexplained reduction res., £90,385.. 1,544,310
1947. .161,825 5 9i 92,125 69,700 1,614.010
Unexplained addition reserves, £918.. 1,614,928
1948. .221,267 5 9J 92,125 129,142 1,744,070
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1949. .219,145 5 9i 92,125 127,020 1,967.042
Exchange fluctuation, £9901.. .. 1,957,141
Adj. book-value investment, £22,125 1,935,016
1950. 5 12 112,750 290,641 2.225.657
Cost redemption deb. stock, £137,291 2,088,366
Adj. book-value investment, £4865 .. 2,083,501
1951. .621,539 5 14 123,688 497,851 2,581,352
* After deducting contribution to staff fund. The
1945 and subsequent figures are shown after de-
ducting English income-tax on divs. The rate p.c.
of dividend shown is the gross rate, but the amount
is net.
This is the world’s premier woolbroking
house, and it does a very extensive
pastoral-finance, shipping and other
agency and general merchandising busi-
ness as well. Headquarters are in
London, but most of the business is done
in Australia (where over half of the
capital is invested) and New Zealand,
and there are strong and growing connec-
tions in Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda,
where merchandising accounts for the
major part of turnover.
Features of the 12 months covered by
the last accounts were; (1) A record
profit won under exceptional circum-
stances which will be long remembered
in the wool trade ; (2) growing import-
ance of the merchandising activities ; (3)
consolidation of the East African busi-
ness, which has become more profitable ;
(4) reduction of the debenture debt; (5)
planning of a big new building pro-
gramme, to be carried out as materials
and labor become available, which is
expected to cost £2,000,000 or more.
Before the 1950-51 wool-selling season
opened, war had broken out in Korea,
and prices at early auctions jumped
about 70 p.c. above closing rates for
the previous season. Assisted by devalua-
tion of sterling and pressure of American
buying on war and stockpile accounts,
bids went from one peak to another as
the season advanced, reaching their
summit in March, 1951. Then, following
withdrawal of American support and
appearance of consumer resistance,
values descended sharply, as the follow-
ing comparison of the Australian average
per bale shows:
June, 1950 ..£69.25 | April, 1951 .. £147.68
Sept., 1950 .. 117.71 | Mav, 19'51 .. 120.48
March, 1951 .. 202.20 j June, 1951 . . 81.44
The total amount realised for the 1950-51
Australian clip was £636,330,574, which
was approximately the value of the three
preceding clips added together. The
inflationary pressures generated are still
working their way through the economy,
and have given rise to many economic,
fiscal and other problems. However, the
picture has changed greatly since June
last —more will be said of it presently.
All other sections of the business con-
tributed to the year’s record profit, too.
The net return from merchandising, to
which the management is now giving a
lot more attention, increased by 50 p.c.
After making an unspecified and prob-
ably liberal provision for bad and
doubtful debts, allowing £341,788 (up
£132,109) for depreciation and £1,515,732
(up £740,234) for taxation, and sending
£50,000 (up £25,000) to the staff pension
fund, the declared net result increased
by £218,148, reaching £621,539. That
leaves out of the reckoning the cost of
debenture redemption (£137,291) and a
small reduction (£4865) in reserves.
The £621,539 was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£13,438 net) and show a juicy
40.5 p.c. on the £1,500,000 of ord. capital
as against 25.9, 13.7, 13.8, 9.8 and 5.1 p.c.
back to 1946. The cautious board lifted
the distribution from a nominal 12 p.c.
to 14 p.c., of which 4 p.c. was labelled
bonus. The rate is nominal because U.K.
income tax of 9s. 6d. in the £ reduces
the 14 p.c. to 7.32 p.c. (stg.) in the hands
of shareholders, which is equal to 9.15 p.c.
in Australian currency at the present rate
of exchange. For the same reasons the
pref. div. is worth only 3.82 p.c, in
Australian money.
The £497,851 (80 p.c.) of the year’s net
earnings ploughed back into the business
hoisted visible reserves to £2,581,352, of
which £250,000 has been earmarked as a
special premises reserve in connection
with the big new-building programme
already referred to. The business, which
has expanded considerably over the last
decade, has outgrown practically all the
premises in which it is now housed.
During the year the old 4 p.c. and
4£ p.c. irredeemable debentures
(£2,425,979) were repaid (by agreement)
partly in cash and partly (£1,500,000) in
new 4 p.c. debentures maturing 1955-70.
One result has been a net contraction of
£945,755 in the debenture debt (reducing
it to 43.6 p.c. of shareholders’ funds as
against 69.2 p.c., 1950, and 122 p.c., 1939),
and another will be a net saving of
£40,889 p.a. in interest payments. Also,
it might mean that shareholders, not
debenture-holders, will be given more
opportunity to contribute to future addi-
tions to the capital structure;
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital* .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Debentures . . 2,975,454 2,945,755 2,000,000
Current liabilities 6,663,217 10,767,286 17.399,970
Tax reserve . . 565,019 791,870 1,538,924
Interest of outsiders 6,328 7,901 7,503
Provident fund .. 1,108,902 1,118,966 1,151,296
Pinal dividend .. 56,375 77,000 85,313
Freehold, etc. .. 1,812,781 1,934,888 2,222,296
Advances .. . . 3,354,641 3,329,418 6,894,503
Other debtors . . 2,307,381 3,330,256 5,541,076
Merchandise . . 2,304,205 2,733,219 3,003,412
Cash & investments 5,563,329 8,606,654 9,103,071
* Includes £500,000 5 p.c. prefs.
The year’s addition of £6,632,684 to
current liabilities was largely clients’
surplus funds left in the co.’s keeping.
The increase in advances (up £3,565,085)
and other debtors (up £2,210,820) was a
combination of expanding business and
inflation. The co. is well equipped to
finance a still larger volume of business,
as the large holding of cash, etc. (up
£496,417) shows.
Australia’s wool cheque for the first
half of the current season was
£151,762,899, or £119,049,830 less than
for the corresponding portion of the
previous clip. The average per bale rose
from £70.38 for August to £89.03 for
October but eased to £81.86 for
December, and there are signs that condi-
tions in the trade are becoming more
settled. Two imponderables are Govern-
ment buying on defence account and
consumer resistance. Whatever may
happen in the short-run as a result
of changes in the international!
situation, the price of wool will
not be depressed by emergence of a
burdensome surplus. Still, drought and
bushfires have brought heavy losses to
many Australian growers, and costs and
taxation are high. For the broking- and
finance-houses it all means increased
risks and a relatively lower level of earn-
ings—one co. recently reduced its
interim div.
At 10s. lOd. (15s. 7d. a year ago) the
co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. return 4.2 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution, subject to
adjustments in connection with double
taxation. Net tangible cover is 13s. 7d. a
share. The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on the Australian market.
John McGrath Industries, LtcT.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends —* serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
John McGrath and Subsidiaries.
’47.. 25,245 9 p.e. = 23,027 2,218.. 217,250
Share premiums, £78,509 .. •• ••
’48... 47,413 12 p.c. = 38,684 8, (29.. 804,488
From depreciation reserves, etc., £44,161 348,649
From share premiums, £8991 •• 307,640
’49 98,917 15 p.c. = 61,665 37,252.. 394,892
Share premiums. £39.375 .. •• - 434.267
Surplus revaluation assets, £373,30a .. 807,632
Unexplained addition res., £4353 ..
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. .. ;jkl’9Bs
’50... 263,666 8£ p.e. = 52,500 211,166.. 773,151
To tax reserves, £12,778 .. •• •• 760,373
John McGrath Industries and Subsidiaries.
Add net reserve adjustments on
reconstruction, £1,358,765 .. ..2,119,138
July, *
Reserves capitalised, £750,000 .. ..1,369*138
’51... 351,722 10.1 p.c. = 165,000 186,722..1,555,860
* 13 months. 1951 reserves subject to £1,267,862
excess cost over par value shares in subsidiaries.
The figures in the table are evidence
of how this big engineering and motor-
vehicle distributing, etc., organisation has
romped along over the last five years,
doing a little inflating on its own account.
Paid capital shot up from £225,000 at
June 30, 1946, to £1,500,000 at the close
of last accounts. Of the increase no less
than £1,000,000 was bonus scrip, and the
balance (£275,000) cash, which brought
with it a further £126,875 of share pre-
miums. The bonus scrip came partly
from share-premium and revaluation re-
serves and partly from the £1,267,862 by
which the cost (to the present holding
co.) of shares in subsidiaries exceeded
their par value. The tangible prop for
capital is slender, and net earnings are
likely to prove sensitive to future fluctua-
tions in the relative levels of turnover
and costs.
The present holding co. bought all the
750,000 f.-p. £1 shares in John McGrath,
Ltd., and with them control of a string
of subsidiaries, in Jan., 1951. Combined
net assets of the group at June 30, 1950,
totalled £1,510,373. The price paid was
£1,500,000, satisfied by the issue of eight
new f.-p, ss. shares for each old f.-p.
£1 share. That excludes £750,000 of
share premiums, the new ss. shares being
issued at a premium of 2s. 6d. each for
purposes of the deal. No cash payment
was involved, so the £750,000 was a book
adjustment.
Now, to help finance establishment of
a new subsidiary, National Forge Pty.,
Ltd. (Melbourne), a cash issue of
2,000,000 new ss. shares is to be made at
par, one for two, to those on the register
at Feb. 21. That will lift paid capital to
£2,000,000, on which an 8 p.c. div. would
call for less than half the profit claimed
last term. The new offshoot, scheduled
to begin small-scale production about
April next, is not expected to turn out
forgings in quantity until Sept., 1952.
And a further £lOO,OOO will be needed to
house Government plant to make addi-
tional forgings for defence purposes.
Present subsidiaries are:
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.,
Lidcombe, N.S.W. (paid capital £350,000);
John McGrath Motors Pty., Sydney (paid
capital £375,000), distributors in N.S.W. of
Humber, Hillman and other cars and
trucks; John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty.
(still to be capitalised), distributors of
similar makes of vehicles in the northern
State ; Industrial Sales and Services (N.S.W.)
Pty., Lidcombe (paid capital £250,000), dis-
tributors of tractors, earth-moving and
other heavy equipment, etc.; Perkins (Aust.)
Pty., Alexandria, N.S.W, Cbaid capital
£200,000), steel merchants and distributors
of petrol and diesel engines, power shovels,
etc.; Perkins Pty., Melbourne (still to be
capitalised), same as Perkins (Aust.) Pty.;
Magnesium and Aluminium Alloys (Aust.)
Pty., Sydney (paid capital £100,000), at
present inoperative; Astra Engineering Co.
Pty., Marrickville, N.S.W. (paid capital
£3396); John McGrath, Ltd., Sydney (paid
capital £1,000,000), which still continues to
function as an intermediate holding co.
All operating units reported record
turnovers last term. After allowing
£100,365 (up £37,248) for depreciation of
plant, and something for taxation and
other contingencies, combined net earn-
ings of the group last term (13 months)
were £351,722 (up £88,056). That was
23.4 p.c. on capital as it stood at the close
of accounts. Including an interim div.
of £75,000 paid by John McGrath Ltd
shareholders received £165,000, or 101
p.c. p.a. on £1,500,000 of capital. The
current year’s profit is not expected to
be as good as last term’s; still, the board
says it hopes to pay an interim 3 p.c. in
April and a final 5 p.c. in September,
making 8 p.c. for the year.
Owing to adjustments on transfer some
of the 1951 figures, especially in connec-
tion with freeholds (they were written up
by £481,116), are not strictly comparable
with the two previous years’:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. . . £412,500 £750,000 £1,500,000
Outside interests . . 65,867 104,325 124,088
Overdraft . . . . 215,158 21,082
Creditors, etc.* .. 326,186 629,832 1,150,600
Inter-eo. balance . . 251,903 265,824 550,972
Final div 61,919 15,000 90,000
Freeholds . . . . 387,745 750,837 1,012,485
Plant . . . . 201,138 253,059 361,799
Stocks, etc 878,667 1,132,728 1,772,400
Debtors . . ~ 244,784 384,824 479,598
Shares .. . . 5,500 6,000 2,000
Cash .. .. 10,591 19,889 75,376
Intangibles .. .. _ 1,267,802
* Includes provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £639,672 of stocks, add
£94,774 to book debts and £108,740 to
plant, the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., was increased by £520,768
and inter-company balances by £285,148.
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£537,802.
After exercising the rights to the new
issue, net cost of the ords. at Bs. is
7s. 4d., giving a return of 5.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The rights, which have
a theoretical value of 2s. 4d., might prove
the cheaper purchase. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is ss. 9d. per
share.
Tutt Bryant, Ltd. (and Subsidiaries)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c.
Brought forward, £62,578 .. .. 62,578
Private co. tax 1946 & 1947, £53,390.. 9.188
1948.. 52,649 *54,247 7.590
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 30,090
1949. .101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 81,887 111,977
1950. .185,145 5781 15 „ ~ 37,969 141,395 253,372
1951. .207,603 7500 15 „ ~73,828 126,275 379,047
* Includes £50,000 divs. paid before conversion to
public co. and £4247, equal 10 p.c., thereafter.
t Subject to intangibles, £3OOO.
Behind the quick and profitable
development of this 13-year-old dis-
tributor and manufacturer of heavy-duty
construction and ancillary equipment lies
Australia’s big post-war developmental
programme of national and other works,
including water-conservation, irrigation,
hydroelectric projects and plans for
increased coal production and improved
rail, road and air-transport facilities, all
of which call for movement of large
quantities of earth and rock.
The co., which claims to be the largest
supplier of construction equipment in the
country, holds some 35 American and
British agencies—many carry rights to
manufacture under licence—covering
machinery for earth-moving, quarrying
and opencut mining, road-construction
and -maintenance, sawmilling and log-
ging, materials handling, railway con-
struction and drilling. And subsidiaries
have been set up in all the mainland
States to attend to the assembly, distri-
bution and servicing of the products
manufactured and handled.
Output, unable to keep pace with
the order-book, has increased as
more factory-space and equipment be-
came available, chief limiting factors
being shortage of materials and delays in
delivery of components from overseas.
Turnover has bounded along thus:
1946 .. .. £552,600 1949 .. ..£2,061,124
1947 . . . . 959,900 1950 . . .. 3,376,766
1948 .. .. 1,380,300 1951 .. .. 4,410,417
The improvement last term was
£1,033,651, or 30.5 p.c., thanks partly
to Australia’s dollar loan, which greatly
increased the value of the co.’s American
agencies, most important of which are
those for Allis-Ghalmers and Le
Tourneau machines.
Since mid-1948 shareholders have put
up £759,375 of fresh capital. The last
£421,875 of it was gathered in two par
issues to those on the ord. register last


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Telephones: FA 2178 (3 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Carrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
i
i
i
%
[ li UiuUuiww u^—
'Udltay'
>4
mm
Wmrnm
m
m
m
m
mm
m
m
mm
m
% /:
the'brasNf
with
Mm€
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
I • Makes hair healthy
j and handsome
jt‘s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
LHI/121
Sold at all
Chemists & Stores
m
k-
m
mm
m
W'
Missing Friend.
MITCHELL. —Edward Augustine or Ed-
ward Augustus brother of Mary Theresa
Mitchell who died in July, 1942. Any-
one claiming to be related to the said
E. A. Mitchell or knowing his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, No. 1
Bligh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Youngest
member at
il ustraliu 9 s
largest tamilg
m vi
to { &
m
W
On the average ...
one family in three
relies on the A.3M.P.
The A.M.P. family is a special family. Not
bound by blood . . . they are bound by common
ties and common interests. They pool their
savings in the interests of each and alf. They
mutually share in the benefits of their thrift, for
the A.M.P. has no shareholders, all surplus being
returned to policyholders.
No wonder that in little more than a century the
A.M.P, has become the largest mutual life assur-
ance office in the British Commonwealth, and far
and away the largest life assurance office of any
kind in its home country of Australia.
• • •
Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
skill on your family finance so as to obtain
the maximum value of protection for you
and your family. His background and
training make him the ideal person to
assist you. The A.M.P. Agent is a "Sure
Friend in Uncertain Times".
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
Branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand
and Great Britain.
The A.M.P. is the
largest mutual
Life Assurance
in the Empire.
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield . Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
A2/201
term —168,750, one for two,
Oct., 1950, and 253,125, one for
two, March, 1951 —thus lifting
paid capital to £909,375 in
150,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 759,375
ords.
Bigger turnover took care of
the rise in costs, and, after
allowing for depreciation
(£37,870, up £18,127) and taxa-
tion (£181,212, up £61,298), net
earnings stepped up by £22,458,
-reaching £207,603. The pref, div.
took £7500, and the balance was
equal to 40.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 70.8 p.c.
and 56.3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept
at 15 p.c., leaving £126,275, or
60.8 p.c, of the year’s profit, to
plough back into the business.
The £379,647 of reserves is sub-
ject to only £3OOO of intangibles.
The year’s new capital, to-
gether with an extra £242,723
from the bank and £61,777 from
sundry creditors, went mainly
into stocks (up £302,886) and
book debts (up £459,033) —the
growth in stocks was due partly
to moderate stockpiling of scarce
raw materials;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital £300,000 £487,500 £909,375
Overdraft . . 146,055 400,314 643,037
Sundry credi-
tors .. 291,077 392,449 454,226
Tax provi-
sion .. 111,157 139,161 168,059
Staff fund .. 11,767 12,830 14,350
Final divs. . 11,875 24,844 48,047
Freeholds .. 85,837 106,949 166,641
Plant . . 39,368 58,907 98,663
Shares sub-
sidiaries . 14,500 30,761 75,178
Stock .. 549.250 1,110,862 1,413,748
Book debts 284,278 387,970 847,003
Cash, etc. .. 7,765 12,021 12,508
Intangibles . 3.000 3,000 3,000
Net addition to freeholds was
£59,692, plant £39,756 and
shares in subsidiaries £44,417.
Including shareholdings, the im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,020,718) was
£448,702.
The co. still has a large back-
log of orders to fill, the Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide fac-
tories are being further extended,
and the board anticipates
another prosperous year, despite
changes in the fiscal and eco-
nomic climate and continued rise
in costs. Still, competition is
beginning to grow, and credit
and capital controls, drought
and the shrinkage in export
income are likely to react on
demand from the private sector
of the economy. However, the
long-term demand outlook for
the business is encouraging, and
there was a wide margin between
last term’s net earnings and
distributions.
At 50s. (60s. three months
ago) the f.-p. pound ords. return
6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 21s. yield 4.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £8 11s. sd.
prefs. and 295. lid. ords.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1942.. 35,033 7 = 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 34.821 7 34,886 435 52,635
1944.. 35,215 7 34,386 829 53,464
To inner reserves, £3OOO .. 50,464
1945.. 23.471 5 24,562 49,373
1946.. 10.788 2 9,824 964 50,337
1947.. 30.815 6 29,474 1,341 61,678
1948.. 39.118 7 34,386 4,732 56,410
1949.. 39,822 7 34,386 5,436 61,846
1950.. 36,806 7 34,386 2,420 64,266
Loss.
.951..37,416 26,850
From inner reserves £37,416 64,266
* After deducting intangibles, £lOOO.
This is the first time since 1931
that the co. has run into the red
and that shareholders have been
passed by—they have never had
more than moderate returns from
the business, an average of 5.2
p.c. over the 19 years to 1950.
Last year the co.’s own opera-
tions resulted in a loss of £61,817
as against a profit of £16,189 for
1950. But divs. of £24,401 (up
£3784) received from invest-
ments, mainly shares in the Singa-
pore Cold Storage Co., reduced
the net overall loss to £37,416.
The board blames chaotic condi-
tions in both the local and inter-
national meat-trade, adverse
seasonal conditions and rising
costs for the collapse of earnings.
A year ago there was promise
of a good season, particularly in
the north; but it didn’t
materialise, owing to the absence
of winter rains. Thus fewer
cattle came forward, and their
condition suffered, of course.
And the position was further
aggravated by the effect of the
1946 drought on the number of
beasts maturing during 1950.
Killing at the co.’s Ross River
works (Townsville), on which a
lot of money has been spent
lately, terminated six weeks
earlier than usual. At the Bris-
bane abattoirs the eo.’s opera-
tions continued without serious
interruption. But drought
bumped up the price of fat live-
stock, while wages and the cost
of stores and all other operating
exes, continued to spiral, thus
increasing the pressure against
the price ceilings in both
domestic and export markets—
locally selling-prices are fixed by
Government decree, and the
meat contract between the U.K.
and Australian Governments sets
the figure in the export trade.
The industry is prevented from
trading with hard-currency areas,
where much higher prices are
obtainable. “This highly-profit-
able business has been taken by
the Australian Meat Board to
the exclusion of the industry,
thus diverting the trade from its
pioper channels,” the chairman
says.
Fixed assets, which include
unspecified shareholdings in
other cos., increased by £47,423,
making the growth over the last
three years £186,620, mainly on
account of the new freezing block
at Ross River:
1949. 1950. 1951.*
Paid capital £491,232 £491,232 £491,282
Creditors*., 343,775 654,262 975,372
Final div... 34,386 34,386
Fixed assets,
etc. . . 651,591 696,412 743,835
Shares subsid. 50,000 50,000 75,000
Stock .. 100,880 333.749 509,088
Stores .. 77,883 99,693 99,265
Debtors .. 50,885 64,292 103.682
* Includes provision for contingencies, etc.
Stocks were up £175,429 and
book debts rose by £39,390. The
outside debt, etc., which in-
creased by £321,110, exceeded
more-or-less liquids by £263,337
(up £72,423) when the books
closed.
The outlook for the current
term is not encouraging. Con-
tinued drought promises to
reduce the quantity and quality
of cattle for slaughter, and to
keep prices for fat stock high,
while wage and other costs are
still climbing. Much will depend
upon seasonal developments.
The recent increase in export
contract prices will help to soften
the blow, but prospects of a div.
for 1952 are uncertain at the
moment. Any advantage to pro-
ducer or consumer from the new
15-year meat agreement between
the U.K. and Australian Govern-
ments is illusory, the board says.
For the co.’s f.-p. 15s. shares,
which sold at 21s. in May last,
buyers recently offered 10s. with
sellers standing off at 16s. Net
tangible cover is 16s. lid. per
share.


Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY McDERMOTT late of Sydney—TAKE
NOTICE that MOIRA McDERMOTT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4667 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause within 3 years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st day of April 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MERVYN FINLAY & COMPANY. Solicitors,
Newlands House, 141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUOHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN BELINDA SENIOR and JOHN
RAYMOND KEEGAN both late of Cessnock New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT
CARROLL SENIOR has filed a Petition No. 3090 of
1951 praying for a divorce from Kathleen Belinda
Senior on the ground of her adultery with Raymond
Keegan If you or either of you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 14th day
of April 1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from R. B. B. TEMPLEMAN, Solicitor,
180 Church Street, Parramatta.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar,
Missing Beneficiaries.
NEXT OF KIN SOUGHT.
GRUNER. —Will any person having any information
which might be of assistance in tracing the where-
abouts of FREDERICK CHRISTIAN LIEBIG, also
known as FREDERICK FRAME, who was born at
Boulder in Western Australia on Ist February, 1906,
please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria, who is the
administrator of the estate of ADAM HAMILTON
GRUNER, deceased.
Public Notices.
I. LEJBA GERMAJZE, of Polish nationality
at Vilno. Poland, resident 5 years
residing at 2 Mons Avenue, Maroubra, in <l^
apply for Naturalisation under the Nations .
Citizenship Act, 1945.
I. LEJB MARKMAN, of Polish nationality, born
Vilno. Poland, resident 5 years in “am.
residing at Villa “Shalom,” Donovan Avenn,
Maroubra, intend to apply for Naturahsatio
-the Nationality and Citizenship Act, la* o -
Women’s letters
From Melbourne
With all flags at half-mast and
shop windows draped with black and
royal purple, the hearts of women every-
where go out to three sorrowing women
in London: The Dowager Queen
Mother, Queen Mary; the Queen
Mother, Queen Elizabeth, and to young
Queen Elizabeth 11, who is now on the
throne. These three, mother, widow
and daughter of the dead sovereign, have
given to the wbrld a true conception of
the joy and beauty of happy family life.
And especially at this time women are
thinking of the graceful young Elizabeth
and the burdens she will be called on to
carry. But one thing is very sure ; the
example her royal father set before her
will be faithfully followed as she dedi-
cates her life to the peoples of her realm.
In brilliant sunshine, 10,000 people
crowded the steps of Parliament House
and the streets below and acknowledged
with the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
Government and civic leaders that “the
high and mighty Princess Elizabeth
Alexandra Mary” was now their Sovereign
and Liege Lady. In a reverent silence
broken only by the sound of a plane
droning high overhead and the prattle of
small children excitedly waving flags the
vast crowd watched the Royal guard, sup-
plied by the Flinders Naval Depot, and
the Depot band form in ranks before in-
spection by Sir Dallas Brooks, dressed in
the uniform of a general in the Royal
Marines. This short ceremony over, the
Governor joined Government and civic
officials on the steps. For the first time
for over half a century the words God
Save the Queen were heard in the
streets of this city and then, still in
silence, the crowds went their ways.
Earlier in the day the Chief Justice, Sir
Edmund Herring, behind the purple-and-
black-draped doors of the Executive
offices, had re-sworn Sir Dallas Brooks
as Governor of this State, after which
the Premier and members of his Cabinet
were re-sworn.
Set down for February 12, the wedding
of Jeanette, daughter of the Governor
and Lady Brooks, which would un-
doubtedly have been one of the happiest
functions ever to take place from Gov-
ernment House, was of course postponed
on account of the King’s death. A letter
from G.H. intimates that “for the time
being, it is not possible to select a date
for the wedding, but it will take place as
soon as possible, since Lieutenant Byrne
has only a limited period of leave before
he must return to naval duties in England.
When the wedding does take place, it
will be a quiet family event with no
reception afterwards.”
Those who have come from Great
Britain to settle in this city have a special
place in the work of the Victoria League
in Victoria. The Overseas Wives’ Bureau
and the New Settlers’ Club, which are
organised and staffed by the league, have
been a real service to the strangers from
abroad. Closed over January, the bureau
and club are now open at the League
rooms, 167 Collins-street, C.l, and
British migrants are invited to call.
Inquiries may be made by calling Central
5918.
The Women's Hospital has a new
matron, Ruth Meaney, who succeeds
Miss A. M. Sage, during whose term of
office the hospital was brought to a fine
pitch of efficiency. Since last December
Miss Meaney has been acting-matron.
Before joining the staff of the Women’s
Hospital two years ago the new matron
gained considerable nursing experience
overseas. In 1947 she did a 12-months’
course in administration at the Royal
College of Nursing in London under the
auspices of the Florence Nightingale
Memorial Foundation. Thence she
toured hospitals in Norway, Denmark,
Sweden and Belgium, and later worked
at leading hospitals in Montreal and
Toronto, Canada. Miss Meaney, who
was born at Allandale, spent several
years in Ararat before coming to Mel-
bourne in 1934 to begin her nursing train-
ing at the Alfred Hospital. In 1940 she
joined the R.A.A.N.S. and served with
the 2/4th Australian General Hospital in
the Middle East, the Pacific area and
Australia. On being discharged from the
R.A.A.N.S., in which service she rose to
captain, Miss Meaney was appointed
supervisory sister to the Alfred Hospital.
Rosemary Miller, daughter of Ted
Miller and the late Mrs. Miller, was born
in New Zealand, but with her parents
settled in Sydney. Eighteen months ago
she starred in “Dark of the Moon,” and
since then has appeared in the film
“Captain Thunderbolt” and in radio with
Dick Bentley. Rosemary, a 21-year-old
brunette, is now here rehearsing her part
as Dorothy in “To Dorothy, A Son,”
which has it premiere at the Tivoli on
February 26. Photo from George Glover,
Sydney.
The marriage of Gladys Irene, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George Hill,
of Reservoir, with Dr. Joseph Aarons,
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. S. Aarons, of
Caulfield, was quietly celebrated. Wesley
College chapel was the setting for the
ceremony, at which the bride wore a
gown of magnolia faille which featured
a long-sleeved bodice with a heart-shaped
neckline and a very full skirt. Her finger-
tip veil of tulle was mounted on a pearl
coronet, and she carried a bouquet of
stephanotis, waterlilies and gardenias.
The bride’s sister Margaret was brides-
maid, Her bouffant gown was of ice-
blue organza and her bouquet of mixed-
toned flowers. John Fethers was best
man. After the ceremony the bride’s
parents gave a buffet aftemoon-tea at
the Hotel Windsor for intimate friends,
and at night more friends were entertained
by the bridegroom’s parents at their
Caulfield home.
The three young Australian girls who
were to have taken part in the programme
of opera, drama and ballet, which was to
have made up the Command Perform-
ance in the postponed Royal tour, will
now take part in the Arts Festival
season which begins next Saturday.
Marie Collier, who was selected to sing
the title role in a scene from “Aida,”
will now be heard as Santuzza in
“Cavalleria Rusticana,” which, with
“Pagliacci,” will be substituted for the
Royal Command programme. June
Brunei! will play St. Joan, while Lynn
Golding, again dancing the dual role in
“Swan Lake,” will be included in the
ballet presentations.
Guests-of-honor at the late-afternoon
party given by Trevor Oldham, M.L.A.,
and Mrs. Oldham at their Toorak home
were Sir Archie Michaelis and Lady
Michaelis. Mrs. Oldham’s attractive frock
with its full skirt and puff sleeves was of
rose-shot taffeta. Lady Michaelis chose
a black frock and a crimson hat banded
in black grosgrain. Daughter Mrs. Alan
Marks wore a navy-and-white-floral frock
and small white hat finished with veiling.
Mrs. T, T. Hollway’s sand-beige crepe
frock had black accessories. Lady Eager’s
silk frock was printed with copper-and-
white flowers on a background; her
small hat was black.
From Sydney
It was early morning when most of
us heard that our King was dead the
morning of a sullen, humid day that
matched the momentary catching of the
breath, the suspension of thought that
comes with shock. And in the week that
has passed since then the pall of stillness
and oppression spread by the weather
seems to have settled, too, on our
hearts.
It is not loyalty alone that prompts this
sense of loss. Whether we had him in our
thoughts or not, the King was always in
our lives, a necessary part of our back-
ground, one of the springs of our
activities. And this king, George VI, was
known to us as a man whose majesty was
in his goodness, whose nobility was not
only of birth but of character.
To his wife, the Queen Mother, we
can stretch out a hand of true sympathy,
not only sorrowing with her, but re-
joicing, too, that the King was granted
those two great blessings —a good life
and a happy death.
Outwardly the city has made little sign
of mourning. The summer crowds are
as gay and colorful as ever. Here and
there one sees workmen taking down the
pictures of Elizabeth and Phillip which
were to have witnessed their visit to the
town. Here and there a laurel wreath or
a drape of purple marks a tribute to the
Empire’s loss. Occasionally one sights a
woman ostentatiously dressed in purple
whose draperies may be a tribute also or
just a whim. Most social functions were
cancelled during the week. The King’s
School did not celebrate its 120th birth-
day this year. Parties were put off not
only in respect but for lack of joyous
spirits.
The races were on at Randwick,
though, and it was a little depressing to
read that many women dressed in sub-
dued colors apparently as a sign of
mourning. Really, if these women had
felt the monarch’s death so much they
could have stayed away from the races
for one day.
In this photo is writer E. M. England,
who is Mrs. E. M. Anders, of Ipswich
(Q.). Recently in Sydney for the marriage
of her daughter Carol Bertie to Gordon
Ross, of Perth, Mrs. Anders dropped into
The Bulletin to tell of her newest
literary activities. Two books are almost
ready to spring from the hands of the
publishers: Road Going North, written
in collaboration with grazier J. S.
Lipscomb, of Julia Creek (Q.) (whose
pen-name is “Ray Albion”), and House
of Bondage, which was serialised in the
“Woman’s Mirror” as Strange Sequence .
but was largely rewritten to bring it up-
to-date. Mrs. Anders’s published works
include her book of poems Queensland
Days (Dymocks, 1944) and her novel
Where the Turtles Dance, published in
1940. “My most profitable venture,” says
Mrs. Anders, “was the publication of my
short-stories which I brought out during
the war; Tornado was badly got up
owing to restrictions, but at least
financially it was a success.” She is at
present working on a novel with a town
setting which is to be called Madonna in
Scarlet (“if it’s ever finished,” she adds).
Mrs. Anders, who formerly lived at
Croftby (Q.), has two daughters, Carol
Ross, who is a journalist in Melbourne,
and Patricia (Mrs. H. E. Kleinschmidt),
who is a B.Sc. (Agriculture) and who is
an entomologist in the Department of
Agriculture in Brisbane.
The Queen has proclaimed a period of
three months’ mourning, and it will, of
course, be compulsory for the heads of
services, people in official positions, etc.,
to follow this. To most of us, however,
the wearing of black will merely continue
to represent what it has been for the past
10 years: the badge of the well-dressed
woman.
It was not so in the early days of the
century. Old Bulletin files disclose that
when Queen Victoria died the Governor-
General issued an order for everyone to go
into the deepest mourning from January
28. The writer of the Letter in those days
adds “Immense consternation! If the
Government will provide the mourning
this might be done, but otherwise it is
out of the question with a quarter of
Sydney, anyway. A white frock and
black hat is what one sees everywhere.
A few women go about shamefacedly in
blue and pink. Dressmakers cannot take
any more orders, and the city has run
right out of black voile.”
Nevertheless, the women of Sydney
apparently rose to the occasion and
elaborate black toilettes made their
appearance within a couple of weeks. The
displays of grief, too, were really rather
alarming. The letter reported (with some
disapproval) “I saw a baby girl dressed
as a little Queen Victoria. She had a
little gold helmet on her head, was
decked with black ribbons, and draped
about with a motto that had the words
‘Mother and Wife’ in it. She was
carried proudly through the crowd on
her father’s shoulders, and moved women
to tears —they knew not why.” Today,
let us hope our grief is more sincere for
being less dramatic.
Concerts and theatrical performances
were not cancelled during the weekend,
and one of the best patronised was the
A.B.C. orchestra’s performance of con-
temporary music at the Con. The
summer night and the somewhat romantic
surroundings of the Con. seemed to make
sense of the proposal to build a National
Theatre somewhere round Farm Cove.
Certainly it was the opinion of several
who were present that it would be well
patronised, and, indeed, if they will go in
such numbers to hear Bartok, Hindemith
and Shostakovich maybe they will go to
hear Shaw, Shakspeare and Christopher
Fry.
At the opening of the Monte Luke
exhibition of “Beautiful Brides” held in
the Walk Gallery of David Jones, Mrs.
Charles Walton got the usual warm round
of applause for the oft-repeated and ever-
welcome opinion that “Australian girls
are the best-looking in the world and the
best-dressed, too.” Certainly her words
were borne out by the assemblage there
present, as most of the people at the
opening were the originals of the photo-
graphs, good - looking, youthful and
many still wearing their trousseau dresses.
Among those who attended in proof that
the camera didn’t lie were Mrs. Peter
Mark (who was Berice Bowman). Mrs.
Terry Matthews (Norma Nall), Mrs. L.
O’Neill (Phil Donohue), Mrs. Neville
Baker (Maire Glasheen), Mrs. J. Chap-
man (Shirley Gray), Mrs. M. Middleton
(Pamela Schlink) and Mrs. Michael
Boggs (Betty Lovelock).
In the fashion showing of French
models by Pellier Pty. there was no doubt
of the color dominance for the autumn
season —it was black, white, emerald-
green, with the rest a long way back.
Black velvet was the material most
frequently shown —either for dresses,
skirts or trimmings. White was much
used for evening wear, especially in con-
junction with black, as in a long strapless
sheath of white lace over satin diamente
embroidered and worn with a black velvet
overskirt —also to be used for a cloak;
and in a beautiful black velvet dress by
Jaques Path, full-skirted and worn with
a white satin fitted bolero outlined in
black and bronze beads. Green satin was
also worn with a black velvet skirt, the
bodice richly embroidered with black
beading. Only other colors shown were
navy, burgundy (a faille evening gown),
sulphur yellow (with black net), pale-blue
chiffon, grey jersey and a dark purple.
The ways of officialdom are indeed
queer. A bride married about a month
but still living at her old home last week
received a notice from the electoral-
officer headed “Notice of Objection to
Person Objected To,” which she found
sufficiently staggering without the further
information that an objection had been
lodged with his office that she should
not be on the rolls because she didn’t live
in that subdivision. (It does seem queer
to send a notice to an address based on
the ground that one does not live there.)
Obviously the purpose of the notice is to
prevent her enrolling somewhere else
under her married name, and as such is
quite reasonable, but she herself says that
she finds the wording most objectionable,
and objects to being objected to as an
objectionable person.


IF YOU LIKE WINE
OLD AND GOOD
d
WINE
Established 1847
PERSONAL ITEMS
The name of Buring is pretty well
Th nvmous with Australian wines— Leo,
s yn r 0 f the firm, notched his half-
g'ntnrv of association with the industry
C u nther day. Born in S. Australia,
Hnca ted in Adelaide, Geisenheim on the
nhine and Montpellier in France Leo
bed the vine from a turn-of-th
C in ?nrv managership of Mmchmbury
vineyards, outside Sydney to the govern-
? directorship of Lindeman’s, presi-
Scv of the Federal Viticultural Council,
finally, head of his own sizeable
nncern which purveys its products oppo-
site The Bulletin building in Sydney.
Among other things the Buring and
Sbeis (Adelaide) people are pleased
£ is that their Quelltaler hock
was the first Australian wine served
nt a Lord Mayor’s banquet in London,
and also at the House of Commons.
Hieh among Australian medicoes
stands Henry Simpson Newland, a
FRCS of England and Edinburgh,
and also a Fellow of the corresponding
American institution. He learnt his
snnzerv in London, Pans, Prague, Vienna
and 8 the U.S., and found his skill fully
occupied while on Gallipoli and as c.o. of
the Ist Australian Casualty Clearing
Station in France. He has the rank of
lieut -colonel and D.S.O. as a legacy of
that service. Vice-president of the
B.M.A. centenary meeting in London in
1932, he was knighted in 1928 and
retired the other day.
The Bulletin records with pleasure
that two members of its staff, Charles
Shaw and J. E. Macdonnell, have recently
had books accepted for publication in
England. Shaw’s novel Heaven Knows,
Mr. Allison, set on a Pacific island, is to
be brought out shortly by Shakspeare
Head and Frederick Muller, Ltd.; Mac-
donnell’s Valiant Occasions, a set ot
articles covering the principal British and
Australian naval actions in World War 11,
most of which have been printed in The
Bulletin, has been accepted by
Constable. Shaw, a worker, wanderer
and journalist in the bush before he
joined The Bulletin, has previously
published half a dozen books, of which
Outback Occupations is the best known.
Macdonnell, aged 34 and hailing from
Toowoomba (Q.), served 14 years m the
Navy, rising to the rank of com-
missioned gunner, and has previously
published, as well as his naval articles
and short-stories, a war-book entitled
Fleet Destroyer. Shaw writes as ‘ Old-
timer” for this paper, Macdonnell as
“Macnell.”
Passing of a pioneer:
The small band of Australian air-pioneers
still on deck was reduced by one of its most
adventurous spirits when Paul McGinness we
aloft in Perth the other day. Answering to
nothing but “Ginty” among flying-men, born
at Framlingham (Vic.), 56 years ago, McGmness
left for Gallipoli with the Bth Light Horse, and
in the savagery on Pope’s Hill won D.L.JVt.
Transferring, in Palestine, to No. 1 Squadron,
A.F.C., Ginty soon made his mark as a Hasten
fighter-pilot, a clever tactician who received only
one bullet-hole in his fuselage for his six or
seven victories. He received, as well, D.r.u.
Back in Australia he teamed up with Hudson
Fysh and engineer Arthur Baird in plans to
compete for the £lO,OOO prize offered by Billy
Hughes’s Government for the first Australian
to fly from England to Australia. With those
plans frustrated b'y the death of their backer,
Sir Samuel McCaughey, McGinness, with Fysh,
chose, surveyed and laid down the Longreach-
Darwin section of the first air-route across Aus-
tralia, which was later followed by Ross and
Keith Smith. Then, in 1920, came the forma-
tion of the original Qantas by McGinness, Fysh
and McMaster; and, two years later, the open-
ing of the Charleville-Cloncurry regular air-
service, the first in eastern Australia and the
second in Australia. With Baird as engineer,
McGinness piloted the Charleville-Longreach
section of the infant service. It was the spirit
of men like McGinness and Fysh in those
hazardous days which inspired staider minds
into building the present-day Qantas, whose air-
borne monsters now fly pretty well round the
globe.
W. S. Robinson, one of the biggest —
and most reticent —men in Australian
finance and industry, has resigned the
presidency of the Consolidated Zinc
Corporation, giving his 75 years as the
reason. Son Lyell is vice-chairman in
London.
When Major Leslie Hopton lands
back in Australia shortly he will be show-
ing Australia to his three nippers for the
first time —Hopton having been abroad
on business martial since, from a South
Australian country bank in 1939, he
joined the 2/10th Battalion as a one-
pipper. In Tobruk for most of the time
the Rats were holed up there, he saw out
the Syrian campaign (with his wife-to-be
nursing at No. 1 A.G.H. not far off), was
in Darwin when Jap bombers had their
early picnics, and, from an air-co-opera-
tion school, shifted to the Solomons,
liaising with the Americans. He came
west in time for the Balikpapan landing,
had a spot of military government in
Macassar, and when the Korean war
broke out was D.A.Q.M.G. in Japan,
responsible for the Royal’s equipment.
In Adelaide he’ll meet his five brothers;
they might talk shop—one of them hav-
ing been also a soldier, the other four
R.A.A.F. pilots.
Arthur John Birch left Sydney Uni-
versity in 1937 with first-class honors and
the University Medal for organic
chemistry. He comes back to it, professor
of the subject. Most of the time in be-
tween he has been researching and teach-
ing at Oxford.
Most platitudes are apt—and the tag
“a man who gets things done” covers
Keith Fraser accurately enough.
Sketched by Prior the day he took over
the N.S.W. Commissionership of Rail-
ways, Fraser came back from the War
II Middle East with an 0.8. E. leading
his engineer’s initials, added to a remark-
able reputation among British Army
engineers. Before the war one could
travel from London to Cairo on an
unbroken 4ft.-Biin.-gauge railway
except for a section over mountains-ot-
the-moon limestone country between
Beirut and Tripoli, in Syria. In 1941
Middle-East strategy required this gap to
be bridged—French engineers tentatively
suggested three years in which to do it.
Fraser, then c.o. of the Australian Rail-
way Construction Group, signed on
10,000 Arab laborers, 500 Bedouin
women to cart stone to the crusheis, and,
over seven large bridges, finished
the job in 10 months. He ci owned
a pier of each bridge with the
Rising Sun insignia, and at the point
where the last spike was driven home
by General Alexander (on the Kelb
River—“kelb” for dog) a plaque of Jack
Moses’s Gundagai towser was carved from
the living rock. Fraser’s grandfather was
the N.S.W. Railways’ chief civil-engineer ;
his father was also that, as well as
commissioner; so Fraser has repeated
his dad’s record. The new commissioner
NEW RAILWAYS CHIEF.
has in his office one of the 12 maps which
a Digger cartographer of his unit made
of the historic Syria railway (Alexander
has one), hanging beside a tattered Union
Jack which was flown from every span
of the new Hawkesbury River br * d §®
indicate wind direction before floating
each span into position. Fifty-nme, born
Sydney, educated Shore, first pay £1 a
week, present reward £lOO per weeU
E. J. P- Morgan, appended hereunder,
has been president of South Australia’s
Industrial Court and of the Board of
Industry for the past 10 years. A
stipendiary magistrate at 34, the president
hails from Warwick on the Downs (Q.),
went to Adelaide as a boy, graduated
LL.B. from its university and was called
to the bar in 1921. To the “R.” of his
initials E.J.R. hangs a tale of a black-
INDUSTRIAL JUDGE.
fellow’s fidelity. It stands for “Ranembe,”
the name of a Binghi who way back in
the 1850’s carried Morgan’s grandfather,
pursued by hostile blacks, to safety across
the Murray. The deed saved the
passenger for the Premiership of South
Australia some 20 years later, and has
been remembered by male descendants
carrying the name, E.J.R.’s son Petei
being the latest holder. A generous
patron of the arts, though he admits he
couldn’t draw a straight line to save his
life Morgan is one of the small band
which helps Louis McCubbin to run
Adelaide’s National Gallery. Married to
a granddaughter of Peter Waite, founder
of the Research Institute, E.J.R. became
Sir Edward in the recent honors.
“M ”• Whatever British matelots think of the
Supreme Allied Atlantic Command going to
an American, they should be s atisfied m
choice of second-dickey. What Admiral Sir
George Creasy, at present C.-m-C. Home ldeet,
doesn’t know of the Atlantic (and what be
expected to skulk in its depths m another war)
it’s not much use asking the next man about.
When Hitler let go Creasy was in command ot
the Ist Destroyer Flotilla; for those hrst
bitter years of U-boat attacks in the Atlantic
he was responsible for directmg the Bntis
Navy’s anti-submarine warfare. Having, wun
his incredibly hard-worked destroyers, frigate
and corvettes, broken the back of Jbe sub
marine menace, he shifted to the bridge ot
battler Duke of York. In her he came upon
Scharnhorst trying to get at
barred by a small force of cruisers an
destroyers Creasy wasted no time.
afternoon darkness he opened w.th star-she ,
silhouetted the German s bulk, and let go wn
full broadsides of his 10 14-mch. Suttein g
heavy damage, Scharnhorst ran. But th e punish
ment she’d received slowed her down Hanging
on their big friends dank, .die venptu
destroyers saw their chance, raced ahead of the
German and hit her with a shoal of
Then up came Duke of York again. Ine
destroyers saved 36 of Scharnhorst s complement
of ovS 1500. Perhaps Creasy's hugest ,oh
was his appointment as naval chief of staff to
Eisenhower for the Normandy affair. J°J, “tkT
off his knowledge of what goes m Atlantic,
he finished the war admiral in charge ot suo
marines. Fifty-six, he’s had 44 years in service.
Winston Churchill has a connection
with the Wilson Hall, recently destroyed
in Melbourne, his first-cousin, Raadoipd
Gordon Wilson, being the only child ot
the only child of Sir Samuel Wilson, who
was responsible for its building. ir
Samuel’s son, Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon
Chesney Wilson, married Winston s aunt
the glittering Lady Sarah Churchill, and
was killed in France in 1914.
“Trinco”: Harold Leclair Ickes, passed
on in Washington, once said: “If a man
worked hard at it all his life he couldn t
get a bigger list of enemies than I have
He may have been right, but though the
forme? U.S. Secretary of the Intenor will
be remembered for his flaying tongue, he
was not Roosevelt’s close adviser and
member of Truman’s Administration for
his caustic wit alone. The last of the
original New Dealers, as administrator of
the public-works programme from 1933
to 1939 Ickes spent thousands of millions
in America’s great anti-depression effort,
building all over the country works rang-
ing from prairie schoolhouses to vast
hydroelectric schemes and super high-
ways. He became one of the earliest
Nazi targets when, just before War II
broke, he refused to sell helium to Hitler,
maintaining the gas would be used for
war purposes, not dirigible voyages.
Starting as a not-very-successful sports-
reporter, the “old Curmudgeon, as he
called himself, graduated to political
reporting on Chicago newspapers, a job
which whetted his taste for public life.
Seventy-two when he finally and
acrimoniously broke with Truman (he
had “resigned” six times in his political
life), he was 77 when the Reaper called.
Born in Manchuria; educated to
M.A. degree in Glasgow; traveller
through France with the Northumber-
land Fusiliers on Kaiser’s business;
Carnegie tutor in English at Vanderbilt
University in Nashville, Tennessee; Pro-
fessor of English at the University of
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg John
Young Greig has now come to roost in
the English Chair at Otago University,
New Zealand. One-time journalist, in be-
tween lectures Greig has produced half a
dozen novels, many essays and several
biographies, the most notable of the
last-named being his biography of David
Hume, the Scottish philosopher. It
brought Greig the James Tail Black
Memorial Prize for the best of its kind
in the year 1931.
Started by Gertrude Johnson, the Arts
Festival of the National Theatre in Mel-
bourne, which was a surprising success
last year, promises to make a bigger hit
this year. Producers are all agog about
the discovery of a dramatic soprano
who is expected to knock ’em in the role
of Santuzza in “Cavalleria Rusticana ”
Twenty-one-year-old Marie Collier, she
is a Melbourne singer who was selected
by conductor Schildberger after an audi-
tion at the Princess Theatre. Ballet-
master Shabalevsky is flying from Rome
and Walter Gore, the choreographer and
dancer of the Ballet Rambert, is on his
way in the Orion, with Paula Hinton.
Stood his 95th birthday watch the other
day, Frank Cole, of Boulder (W.A.), who
claims to be the oldest ex-naval man m
the British Empire, and can’t be far out.
Cole manned his share of yardarms ana
sails in the days before steam displaced
canvas in the Royal Navy, and he served
in ships with George V and the grand-
father of the Duke of Edinburgh. Though
shore-bound now, he’s still hale and
hearty enough to move under his own
power.
Among its new citizens Tasmania
numbers one who has clipped the hair
of several British Prime Ministers. John
Adams, barber to the House of
Commons, had among his clients Lords
Asquith and Balfour and Mr. Churchill
—between customers he walked through
17 countries as a hobby. At 82 he is
going to try a new climate.
Into the Silence:
At Rockingham (W.A.), at 76, Frederick
Lytton Warner, a Victorian by birth who went
To Westralia in 1895, joined the police six years
later, and changed from blue to khaki on go g
overseas with the 44th Battalion in 1916. He
entered State Parliament “ 1932 t CT- memner
for Mt. Marshall, holding the seat till he retired
from politics in 1942. A keen R.S.L man,
he was for some years on the State executive.
At 69, in Melbourne, Thomas Paterson,
former deputy-leader of the Federal Country
nartv He represented Gippsland in the H°us
of Representatives between 1922-43, andl at
various times held the portfolios for Markets,
Transport and Migration. In the latter job he
struck trouble with Mrs. Freer,
In Launceston, at 89, Peter Anderson, philan-
thropist and collector of firearms. He gave a"
ambulance for use in War 11, and for years
presented £lOO to charities every birthday.
In Svdney at 79, Harry K. Williams, one ot
19*38 d as its very able financial editor for most
of the latter half of that period.


m
m
is
-*•
-Xv<x
wSw i
?H
TOti
PS
sii?
V; .s wm
m
m
mm
OLIVER FULLY AUTOMATIC WIRE-TIE BALER RECORDS
1755 BALES MEADOW HAY IN 8-HOUR DAY
O OLIVER OC-3.—ldeal for
hilly going:, for all the jobs
on the smaller farm. Draw-
bar h.p. 31.85. Belt h.p. 36.36.
• In their first season of operation OLIVER fully automatic
No. 8 Balemasters” are setting up outstanding baling figures
for Australasia!
Working in meadow hay at Hawkes Bay (N.Z.), the Oliver
Baler (illustrated above), drawn by an Oliver Standard ‘77’
tractor, logged 200 bales per hour during the “running-in”
period. An Oliver “Balemaster” Baler at Waipawa (N.Z.)
totalled 1755 bales in eight hours, including necessary stops
for wire coil changing. Bales averaged 30 to the ton.
In Australia, in lucerne and in oaten and wheaten hay, Oliver
“Balemasters” have regularly recorded 200 bales per hour.
The No. 8 Fully Automatic “Balemaster” ties a short, firm
holding knot and twists it into the bale. No scraggly ends,
no waste. Bales are sliced for ease in feeding-off, wire-tied
for compactness, storage, ease 'of handling. Bale length anc
weight is readily adjustable. The No. 8 “Balemaster” has the
in-built quality of all OLIVER products—“FlNEST IN FARM
MACHINERY.”
OLIVER TRACTORS—FARM MACHINERY
BRITSTAND EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
OLIVER DISTRIBUTORS:
Q’JLD.: U.K. & Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham St., Brisbane.
N.S.W.: Brltstand Distributors, Ltd., 56-64 Gardeners Road,
Mascot. VIC. & TAS.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne; 72 Federal St., Hobart.
S.A.: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35 Currie St., Adelaide. W.A.;
Skipper Bailey Mdtor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St., Perth. N.Z.: F. W.
Smith, Ltd., Grey St., Wellington, N.Z. NEW GUINEA: New
Guinea Co. Ltd.
OLIVER
authorized
(britstand)
CINZANO
SWEETand DRY
mm om
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUUJVAtf. y
mm... jV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Foster-mothered Bulls.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Outback”: In his latest pub-
lication, “Livestock Improve-
ment, Dr. John Hammond
stresses the importance of feed-
mg m the first eight months of
a bull calf’s life, but says that
« ° r t- goo< ? feedin S does not
affect the animal’s genetic quali-
ties and inherited characteristics
Feeding did not affect the
genes it would produce, but good
feeding did enable the animal to
sh ° w . wh at genes it contained.
Admittedly, he says, an animal
does not always breed true for
the particular character it shows,
and the progeny test was the
most potent method of picking
out true - breeding animals,
though selection was the basis
of all animal improvement.
It was this basis of selection
which decided a bull-buyer’s
purchase ; he sought some desir-
able characteristic which he
wished to impart to his herd. His
commercial herd might be reared
under poor environmental con-
ditions and on a low nutritional
plane, but if he bought a bull
reared under such conditions its
limited development would not
show what the animal’s charac-
teristics were. The well-nurtured,
“pampered, foster - mothered”
show-ring bull would show its
particular characteristics to the
maximum advantage, but the
question was: Would a bull
reared in the best environment
be able to impart its charac-
teristics when sent to a poor
environment?
Dr. Hammond cites the im-
provement in livestock-breeding
in India since two centres were
established 25 years ago where
cattle are fed and managed
under optimum conditions. For
thousands of years Indian cattle
were bred for milk-production,
but no progress was made in
breeding. When the two breed-
ing centres were established
cattle soon showed the genetic
superiority of some cows by
their higher milk yields, and
from these cows bulls were used
which transmitted those quali-
ties to the next generation. By
following this practice in suc-
cessive generations average yields
in these herds rose year by year
and were today far above the
level of the original stock and
of those in surrounding districts.
This, he claims, did not imply
that acquired characters were
inherited but rather that a good
environment enabled the pick-
ing-out and breeding from those
animals with the potentialities
(or genes) for higher production,
and which, under poor condi-
tions, would never have become
evident. If a poor environment
and low nutritional plane were
found to be the chief factors
limiting production in, say, the
beef-producing areas, young
bulls must be reared in thq best
possible environment, so that
selection for the genetic charac-
ters desired could be effectively
made.
Dr. Hammond claims that a
900 gal. dairy-cow can rear 10
beef calves a year, giving each
of them 90gal. of milk over a
three-month period. If the calves
were kept in boxes while the
cows grazed they could be given
concentrated “creep” feed and
water to prevent any check at
weaning. Calves should be well
fed for the first eight months,
when growth-capacity was at its
highest. In fact, says Hammond,
half the good qualities of our
beef breeds are due to their
being suckled and well fed
during the early stages of life.
With dairy-cattle it was possible
to make proper genetic selection
only when nutritional environ-
"You'll find things have changed since you Were in
town last. Mum.”
mental conditions permitted of
a higher milk production than
the average genetic level, and it
was the same for beef.
Linseed Production.
“Linum”; Drier conditions
last season showed that there are
climatic limitations to the suc-
cessful production of linseed.
After three previous seasons of
good rainfall in the wheat-belt
there was a tendency to push
linseed-growing into normally
drier and hotter districts. It had
been repeatedly stressed that
linseed requires either long cool
ripening conditions such as
normally obtain in the most
favored parts of the south-
eastern wheat-belts, or spring
rainfall such as usually occurs
in the north-west N.S.W. wheat
area and on the Darling Downs.
The only successful crops of
linseed obtained last season were
under irrigation or in those
regions.
One strong reason why more
linseed should be sown in those
portions of the wheat lands of
Australia next season is that full
world parity price, plus freight
charges from overseas, expected
to total about £2 a bushel, is
guaranteed.
With a yield per acre of about
two-thirds of that which is
obtainable from wheat on the
same good land, and with no
chiselling of the price or inter-
ference by Governments, what
wheatgrower would not want to
grow linseed in place of wheat?
Can the Pests Win?
“C.J.S.”: Since in Queens-
land dipping (B. 16/1/’52) has
not been universal, it cannot be
said to have had a fair trial.
Dairymen who are under super-
vision of inspectors must dip ;
those who are not under control
very rarely do.
There are hundreds of miles
of open country along the
Queensland coast, quite suffi-
cient to breed ticks to keep the
rest of Queensland tick-ridden.
Any control-measure to be
effective must be complete and
universal. All cattle must be
dipped at regular intervals, and
that means all cattle covered by
stock returns and probably many
which are not. *
A Bee Disease.
“Drone B.”; Dwindling,
especially in early spring, has
been a rather mysterious prob-
lem to apiarists, and many sug-
gestions have been put forward
to explain the condition. In
recent years, however, evidence
has been accumulating to show
that Nosema disease may be the
cause. As far back as the 1920’s
the presence of large numbers
of spores of Nosema apis were
shown in some dwindled
colonies in Victoria. In 1950
apiarists who had cases of
dwindling were asked to com-
municate with the Department
of Agriculture in Victoria, as
that department had the prob-
lem of dwindling under review.
Nothing further has been
heard. Whether this is due to
lack of response by apiarists or
to lack of information is not
known.
The symptoms are an increas-
ing restlessness in the bees. In
light infections losses of bees
may be so small as to be un-
noticeable, but in cases of heavy
infection large numbers of dead
and dying bees may be found on
the ground, on the landing-
board and floor of the hive.
Individual infected bees
usually show an inability to fly
and may be seen crawling along
the grouno or up blades of grass
trying to fly but unable to leave
the ground at all, or only for
short distances. They may seem
su^er^n S from a sort of
mild leg-paralysis, and the wings
may be rather askew. The
abdomen is often bloated and
shiny. The intestine is often a
dull greyish color and more
fragile than that
of a healthy
bee. Cold wet
weather such as
is often experi-
enced in southern
areas in early
spring may
accentuate the
condition.
Definite diag-
nosis is obtained
only by micro-
scopic examina-
tion of the
stomach and
contents for the
parasitic organ-
ism. As with
many other
organisms, the
spore of Nosema
apis has a tough
outer shell and
is rather resist-
ant to dessica-
tion, though not
so resistant to
heat or direct
sunlight, and is
readily destroyed
by carbolic acid.
Iron for Young Pigs.
“Ferric”; Losses of young
pigs between birth and weaning
are very heavy where the breed-
ing-sows are kept confined.
This is not so, nor are there so
many runts, nor so much sick-
ness, when breeding sows and
litters are allowed grazing or
have separate moveable pens.
One of the reasons for the
difference is lack of iron. Sows’
milk has notoriously little iron.
In nature the young pig roots


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fd
. , . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
IBARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAHEEEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebe disteibutiox CO.
(Dept. 2m), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Phenovis” Worm Remedy
m
m
X
W
V
,ri
I
...///' Naif’ for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
■ PHE.7.X.18"
f any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Aiding Australia’s Advance
wmm
Wmm
BOEAUST* is keeping pace
with Australia’s Industrial Development • . .
Since 1934 BOEAUST (then known as Mirrlees, Bickerton &
Day Pty. Ltd.) has been providing Power for Australian
Industry. To-day, as part of the Associated British Oil Engines
Group, it offers the resources of the world’s largest producers of
industrial diesel engines.
Each year, and to an ever-increasing extent, industrial con-
cerns, both large and small, are drawing upon this specialised
technical knowledge and experience.
Priority arrangements with its Manufacturing Companies in
Britain ensure early deliveries of diesel engines from H k.h.p.
to 2,500 b.h.p. and diesel-alternator sets from 3KVA to 2,000
KVA.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street, Sydney. 368 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Distributors in all States.
Recent Boeoust installations
Australian Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.
Babcock & Wilcox of Australia Pty. Ltd.
Frank & Bryce'Bentley Pty. Ltd.
Lewis Berger & Sons (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Berlel Ltd.
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd.
Cable Makers Australia Pty. Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Beflning Co. Ltd.
Concrete Industries (Aust.) Ltd.
David Jones Ltd,
Davies Coop & Co. Ltd.
Electric Lamp Manufacturers (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Electricity Meter Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Farmer & Co. Ltd.
James Hardie & Co. Pty. Ltd,
I.C.X. of Aust. & N.Z. Ltd,
National Wire Products Pty. Ltd.
Nestles Food Specialities (Aust.) Ltd.
Nut Foods Pty. Ltd.
Frank G. O’Brien Ltd.
Quality Castings Pty. Ltd.
Reichhold Chemicals Inc. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Sanitarium Health Food Co.
The Shell Co. of Australis Ltd.
State Dockyard (Newcastle)
Stirling Henry Ltd.
Sydney Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.
Taubmans Ltd.
Tlmbrol Ltd.
John Vicars & Co. Ltd.
F, T. Wimble & Co. Ltd.
Wunderlich Ltd.
f
d
ivnoiivn)
f
dfd
* I 1 art
the Associated British Oil Engines Group, now producing the largest number of industrial diesel engines in the world.
in the ground, and in so doing
swallows enough soil to make
up the deficiency. Iron-deficiency
3w£*s
either by putting fresh soil daily
into the' pen or by weekly ad-
ministration of an iron prepara-
tion during the first few weeks.
Soil Analysis.
“Rooster”: It would repay
any new farmer to send a
sample of his soil to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture in his home
State. He would then know
exactly what minerals were lack- ,
ing and what minor elements
were missing altogether.
Biochemistry of the soil has
endless and varied aspects, and
is comparatively in its infancy.
But the farmer of today has
every opportunity to improve
soil quality.
Soil is actually unconsoli-
dated debris formed by climatic
conditions and weathering. It
may be very shallow or many
feet deep. Physical and chemical
changes occur continually, and
the debris only becomes a soil
when micro - organisms and
plants become incorporated in it
and begin to bring about their
biochemical changes.
Local physical, chemical and
biological changes largely influ-
ence the fertility. As a demon-
stration of the above, it is
interesting to note that, in arid
soils relatively poor in organic
matter, micro-organisms (bac-
teria) form more than their
usual proportion (about 5 per
cent.) of the organic matter, and
this is chiefly due to a pre-
ponderance of certain bacteria
under the alkaline or saline con-
ditions of such soils. These
microscopic denizens are capable
of nitrogen-fixation, the amount
of nitrogen released being pro-
portional to the amount of glu-
cose broken down. The presence
of ammonium salts inhibits this
process, which means that an
increase in the glucose concen-
trate will control the rate of
fixation.
Nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur,
calcium, magnesium, potassium
and iron are all important
elements in plant-growth. In
addition the “trace” elements
manganese, copper, boron and
zinc are also necessary for
healthy growth. More recently
it was learned that cobalt,
molybdenum, tungsten, vana-
dium and selenium have bene-
ficial effects on certain species
of plants. The amounts of
some of these elements required
specifically for individual species
may be very small.
As an instance, one part of
boron in 12,000,000 in a nutrient
solution in which beans are
grown will suffice to maintain
them in good health. And a
concentration of one part of
molybdenum in 100,000,000 will
ensure vigorous tomato growth.
Infinitesimal fractions, yet with-
out them the plants sicken and
are prone to disease, even
though the soil is reasonably
fertile and well supplied with the
major elements. Deficiencies of
any of the major elements will
most certainly predispose the
plant to virus and fungus
diseases.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: We use the half of
an G id lOOOgal. tank (without a
bottom) for small clutches of
chickens. Small blocks of wood
ra i s jng the edges enable the
chicks to travel in and out of
the pen. The mother hen cannot
leave, but her clucking prevents
the chicks from going too far.
They get plenty of exercise with-
out the old hen leading them
everywhere. (Top of pen is wire-
netted over to stop Broody
flying out.)
“Big Billy”: Experiments at
Parafield (S.A.) poultry station
showed that the hormone stil-
bestrol improves young cockerels
for the table. Birds were treated
at four months with 15 milli-
grammes of the hormone, and
the effect was almost instan-
taneous. They became more
docile, no losses resulted from
fighting and growth was more
even. Flesh quality and texture
were found to be superior to
that of untreated birds. The
operation is simple and costs
only about 2d. per bird.
“C.A.A.”: Large jam-, syrup-
or honey-tins with the bottoms
removed are ideal for the pro-
tection of young tomato plants.
As seedlings are planted and
covered tie to a single long stake
which will support the plant
when it is too big to be con-
tained in the tin.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
February is controlled by three cycles, now in a. state of
flux. There is some uncertainty as well as hope. The eye es
agree as to further good rains north of the Tropic; ur er
south the eastern areas have moderate prospects. At some
points there are good rains along the N.S.W. coast, an
one cycle shows a large area from Brisbane to Grafton and
on to the highlands with very good falls about the middle
of February. . ,
In the southern States the late January rams suggest the
control of the Main and Uranian Cycle,, but in these the
February rains do not seem at all strong. In West Austra la
the recent cyclonic blow seems to belong to the Bruckner
Cycle, and that cycle shows another possible blow this
month near Wyndham.


THE BALL BEARING
• PRINCIPLE
Applied to the
Pulverising of Fuel
The ball bearing principle is as essential to
a pulveriser as is the wheel and axle for
transportation.
The grinding element, being designed In the
form of a giant ball-race, ensures that the
balls remain truly spherical irrespective of
the amount of wear they receive.
Cuts power consumption in half.
These features are only to
be found in the B. & W.
Type “E" Mill.
m,^
m
m
lii :
ftS /'i
c
Top Right:
B. & W. Type "E" Mill
of 11 tons per hour
nominal capacity.
Centre:
Grinding element of
B. & W. Type "E" Mill.
Above:
The large door in the upper half of
Type "E" Mill allows free access*+o
grinding zone, where there are no
cision parts requiring lubrication.
the
the
pre-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W,
Branch Office and Agencies in all Slates
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
S/ff&yfitiST?
You can relax and enjoy your outings when you
know your family, your car and you are safe.
Safety depends on more than careful, considerate
driving—it depends on car condition—on tyres.
The best tyres are the safest —that means Goodyear
Tyres. For 36 years it has been true that more
people, the world over, ride on Goodyear Tv-es than
on any other make. This is a remarkable tribute
to their long wear, comfort and safety. See your
Goodyear Dealer and remember, it is worth
waiting for Goodyear Tyres.
ENJOY SAFE HOLIDAY MOTORING ON
GOODYEAR
TYRES
and for greater safety
This simple routine will add safety as
well as longer mileage to your tyres:
• Check pressures regularly.
• Change tyre position every 2,000 or
3,000 miles to equalize wear.
• Inspect tyres regularly—have small
cuts repaired early.
• Check wheel alignment and balance.
• Drive moderately—speed kills tyres.
SMOKE-OH!
“Mrs. wore a white lace blouse
under a black nylon skirt.”
—Sydney “Truth.”
That’s carrying the “bare-top”
look a bit too far!
, *i* *J* 4*
That was Sydney Torch conduct-
ing in ‘Duncan’s High Heels.’ ”
— A.B.C. announcer.
It sounded as if it hurt, too.
“After Mondays, British housewives
dislike Wednesday most —mending
day.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun-”
But it’s not a patch on
Monday.
4* 4*
“When you reach for your tape-
measure, don’t be too disheartened.”
—Beauty note.
Just pull yourself together
when you get around to it.
•I' 4*
Conclusions and
Interpretations.
Monday : The Washington
correspondent of the Mintjulep
(Fla.) “Megaphone” reports that
when the Egyptian Plenipoten-
tiary-Extraordinary, Botne Bey,
was seen to leave the White
House, where he had been
explaining the necessity for
the destruction of American
property in the recent Cairo
riots, it was noticed he was
savagely chewing the edge of the
tent he was wearing. This has
been interpreted in diplomatic
circles as indicating Egyptian
intransigence and a hardening
of Arab League opinion against
the West. The fact that soon
afterwards President Truman left
the capital grinning broadly has
been construed as adding
further proof that America’s
President suffered a severe diplo-
matic reverse, which will be a
serious blow to American
prestige in the Middle East.
Tuesday : The Cairo corres-
pondent of the Baton Rouge
“Bassoon” reports that the report
that the Egyptian Plenipoten-
tiary-Extraordinary, Botne Bey,
was seen to nibble his tent while
coming from a stormy interview
with President Truman has
posed a major crisis for the new
Cabinet, a spokesman for which,
it is believed, stated unofficially
that such an action could only
be construed as the reaction to
an unsympathetic American
attitude to Egypt’s legitimate
nationalistic aspirations. It
would be inevitably interpreted
as an affront to Egypt’s dignity.
As Botne Bey is an influential
member of the Rebufd party and
wields tremendous power in
Egyptian politics because of his
virtual stranglehold on the great
naughty-postcard trade, it is
feared that an open breach with
the U.S.A. might be imminent.
Wednesday : Demanding that
a complete ban be placed on all
hot-dogs, juke-boxes, Coco-
Coola, Bing Crosby records and
the activities of square-dance
callers, howling mobs stormed
through the Wazir and El Wata-
din districts today stoning police
and setting fire to Egyptian
business-houses in retaliation for
the insulting American attitude.
In an inflammatory speech, Rat-
bag Bey, the Socialist leader,
told the mob to have extra
revenge on the hated Americans
by refusing to sell their tourists
naughty postcards and refusing
to accept tips from them.
Thursday : The Cairo corres-
pondent of the Choctaw (Ga.)
“Challenger” has revealed that
King Farouk was observed leav-
ing the Honky Tonk nightclub at
5 a.m. yesterday morning escort-
ing a blonde American torch-
singer. This has been interpreted
in circles close to the palace as
an earnest of the King’s sincere
desire for a better understanding
with the U.S. The fact that he
had been on American bourbon
all night instead of the usual
Scotch has been construed as a
clever attempt to drive a wedge
between the two great Western
Powers. The additional fact that
his customary curled and aggres-
sively waxed moustache was
seen to have a distinct droop is
also seen as betokening a less
unrelenting attitude, and has
sharply raised hopes that a
rapprochement with America
and a settlement with Britain
over the vexed Sudan question
may be closer than is generally
realised.
Friday : Rabid Pasha, the
Minister for Begging, urged
Parliament today to call for an
expeditionary force to invade
America. Only the might of
Egyptian arms, he said, would
make the Americans realise their
President could not give insults
to a sovereign Power like Egypt
without bringing upon itself the
just wrath of a mighty, warlike
people. The speech resulted in a
free-for-all fight among members
of the Wafd, Blufd, Hufd and
Dafd parties, several of whom
were taken to hospital. The
chamber was wrecked and the
furnishings torn down and burnt
as a warning to America, After
calm had been restored the
Premier, Aly Maher Pasha, said
the forbearance shown by
members in not completely
wrecking Parliament was in strik-
ing contrast to the unbridled
savagery which marked Parlia-
mentary debates in decadent
Western countries like England,
where members stabbed and shot
one another at the least
provocation.
Saturday : The Washington
correspondent of the Mintjulep
(Fla.) “Megaphone” states that
he has been reliably informed
from an unusually authentic
source close to the Egyptian
Embassy that the reason why
Botne Bey, the Egyptian
Plenipotentiary - Extraordinary,
was nibbling the tent he was
wearing as he left the White
House after conferring with
President Truman was to re-
trieve the piece of chewing-
gum he had parked there before
the interview began. Leading
shares on ’Change immediately
shot up several points when this
was disclosed, and in Cairo
King Farouk gave gifts of two
piastres each to the city’s 100,000
fly-beaters, donkey-belters and
water-sellers in commemoration
of the restoration of goodwill
between Egypt and the U.S.
Sunday: Cairo mobs defied
tear-gas bombs as they tore
through the streets today over-
turning buses and setting fire to
one another in protest against
the ban placed by the Socialist
leader, Ratbag Bey, on the sale
of naughty postcards to
American tourists. After they
had looted the Bank of Egypt
and attempted to bum the tram-
lines they sang “The Star-
Spangled Banner” until fire-hoses
dispersed them.
BO.
Trial.
Does rumor’s breath inflate
your reputation ?
The armchair critic waits to
prick the bubble.
Have things gone wrong ? Loud
is his indignation,
A very present yelp in time of
trouble.
I dreamed an armchair court
was constituted
To try a prisoner with
righteous fury :
A hundred armchair critics
prosecuted ;
Ten thousand armchair critics
formed the jury.
Envy and ignorance and spite
and proud
Opinion primly gave their
evidence ;
No cross - examination way
allowed;
No witnesses were called for
the defence.
And in my vision I myself was
was there.
Serene, impartial in my easy-
chair.
NEIL MILLAR.
The Formative Years.
“Sweaters are the lazy girl’s way to
romance.” — Film-star Jane Russell.
What means would best enhance
The prospect of romance
For modern girls who picture
life to be
Devoid of perfect bliss
Without a lover’s kiss
And, later on, a home and
family ?
Should they develop bents
For old accomplishments
Acquired by their Victorian
ancestry
Or lazily make use
Of sweaters to induce
Some man to note their lovely
symmetry ?
Why, surely it is fair
That any lass should wear
Just what she needs to shape her
destiny.
BERT.


THE OTHERFELLOW'S MIND
The Rag Trade
They’re at it again. As soon as any
known economic law threatens to operate
in this country, steps are immediately
taken to block it, and so render a natural
corrective process ineffective.
We heard a lot about free enterprise
and competition being left alone to
remedy our grievous economic ills, but
it seems that the competition must be
restricted to industries manufacturing
within Australia. As soon as poor old
Britain attempts to find an outlet here
for the products of her factories a howl
goes up from the local industries affected ;
both from the owners and the labor
unions concerned.
The latest example? Fully-fashioned
English stockings, selling in Sydney and
Melbourne at from 7s. lid. to 9s. lid. a
pair, are undercutting the Australian
product, which, so it is said, cannot be
made for less than 12s. lid. Immediately
representatives of the union and four
employer organisations made arrange-
ments to wait on the Minister for Trade
and Customs to discuss the “threat.”
That word “threat” is good.
What else is involved but the long-
awaited opportunity for the suffering Aus-
tralian public to get goods a little cheaper
at the cost of lower dividends for the
companies, and the possibility of the
“worker” doing a bit more for his or her
extravagant wage? Maybe a few of the
many public holidays and the famous
40-hour week would have to be pruned
a bit. What a shame!
One of the employer organisations
represented at the deputation to the
Minister is the Knitting Industry Council,
and if there is one class of manufacturer
which can stand a cut in the whacking
dividends it is those gentry. Generally,
the clothing trade (women’s frocks in
particular) has had a great beano for a
long time. From when the “pieces” of
material are bought by the wholesaler,
until the finished frock comes to rest in
one of the countless small shops or
salons, overhead is loaded on to overhead
until the ultimate cost to the Australian
woman is about four times what the
frock cost to make in the workrooms.
The proposal to be made by the
deputation will no doubt be on the lines
of a higher tariff. It’s to be hoped the
Minister stands firm. What do these
people think is to become of the
secondary industries of Britain if we
don’t take their goods? I suppose they
would gladly watch Britain and her
industries go to the wall, so long as the
sacred high dividends and fantastic work-
ing conditions in Australia are main-
tained. They must be made to realise
that the Dominions are the proper outlet
for products of English factories. We
sink or swim together.— Ceg (N.S.W.).
Market for Short Stories
Several statements in The Bulletin
article (2/1/’52) are open to con-
tradiction by anyone who writes for
a living. It is right in querying the
suggestion, made by the judges in the
Jubilee short-story competition, that the
Commonwealth Literary Fund should
start a magazine to publish short fiction.
It would be hard to imagine anything
more preposterous than a Government
trying to run a fiction magazine. The
judges also chose an unhappy title
when they described the type of story
worth encouraging as “non-commercial.”
Any good story is a commercial proposi-
tion —provided that there is a market
for it.
At present the Australian market for
short stories is woefully limited. As
stated. The Bulletin does publish good
stories, but it has space for but one
or two a week, whereas only a market
which can take up to a score a month
will enable a new school of Australian
writers to come into being. It is not
correct that “Meanjin” is kept alive only
by a subsidy from the Commonwealth
Fund. It is giving some help, but before
it was granted C. B. Christesen, the
founder, dropped £2500 into it over a
period of 10 years, and, in any case, the
University of Melbourne has given far
more help than the C.L.F.
How can the statement “The best
writers don’t usually bother to enter for
competitions” be reconciled with the fact
“It’s the only Way I can keep them still.”
that well-known writers usually carry
off the prizes? Is The Bulletin
serious in inferring that a good
writer would not be attracted by
a prize of a few hundred pounds, but
would prefer to receive about £lo—if
lucky—by selling his work direct to a
paper or magazine? In order to gain
acceptance by most of our existing
papers and magazines stories must be
written to a pattern. Failure to observe
that rule brings little save rejection-slips.
What Australia needs is a magazine on
the lines of the British “Argosy,” with
a touch of the “Saturday Evening Post”
about it, to publish modern variants of
the type of yarn which Lawson, Bedford,
Campbell and a score of others wrote
back in those happy days when there was
a market for their work. Such a maga-
zine should be a commercial proposition ;
the reading public is hungry for it.
Other publishing ventures in the way of
new periodicals have confounded their
critics by proving successful. When
“Man” first appeared it was described as
a shadowy imitation of “Esquire,” but it
is still going strong, and has fathered a
few healthy youngsters.
In the same way “Outdoors and Fish-
ing” has proved a success by catering for
the sportsman ; so has “People,” which
gives biographies of notable or notorious
persons, and “Hoofs and Horns,” run by
a man who makes saddlery, has proved
astonishingly successful. The opportunity
is here to follow suit with a first-class
fiction magazine.
Its editor would have to start off with
the idea that the story is the main thing,
no matter who wrote it or if it fails to
follow the women’s-magazine pattern.
Australian writers would have to do their
part by creating characters on the lines
of Tugboat Annie, Captain Hornblower,
Alexander Botts and Mister Glencannon,
as well as by using the wonderful back-
ground material now lying neglected. We
have a real treasure-house in that way:
New Guinea, the Pacific islands, the Fly-
ing Doctor, mining and prospecting, pro-
fessional fishing, timber-milling, forestry
work and a score of other things. The
venture could also earn a few dollars by
submitting the cream of the stories for
simultaneous publication in America.
Most important of all, such a magazine
would have to employ somebody who
could pick out the writers who have the
material and who would send to them, in
place of the usual rejection-slip, construc-
tive advice on how to bring their work
up to publication standard. New and
capable writers cannot be found in any
other way, nor can they flourish when
found without an adequate market for
their wares. If such a fiction magazine
is started in Australia there is little doubt
about the reading public and the
advertisers doing their part. H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
New Australians
A stream of questions met R. D. Huish,
Queensland president of the R.S.L., when
he said that the printing of newspapers
and Government notices in foreign
languages should be stopped and that
every contact with a migrant should be
in English.
Mr. Monk, of the A.C.T.U., described
the proposal as “rather brutal”; but
wouldn’t it be brutal if the opposite
policy were adopted and as a result in
10 years’ or 20 years’ time the migrant
still found himself an alien in the country
of his adoption, and as isolated as when
he came here?
I employ an N.A. He couldn’t speak a
word of my tongue, and, having learnt
it at school, I can’t speak a word of his,
and there is absolutely no communication
between us except of the crudest nature.
He doesn’t know what I am thinking, or
if I am thinking at all, and I don’t know
what he is thinking, though, by the sad
expression on his face sometimes, he
may be thinking a great deal.
After a couple of weeks he began to
feel intensely lonely, and started using
the phone, and I found the book left
open at pages where clubs, committees
and associations of his fellow-country-
men were listed. He was trying, naturally
enough, to find a haven that he could
run to where he could talk and be talked
to to his heart’s content, where his asso-
ciations would be fulfilled and where his
national prejudices would be the same as
everybody else’s, and he wouldn’t have to
make any efforts to adapt himself to the
national prejudices of his adopted country.
If he succeeded he would become just
another member of an alien minority,
of which there are already plenty of
examples in Australia, and end up in some
foreign ghetto, where everybody is taking
in everybody else’s intellectual washing,
without learning a thing about the
country.
The most unpopular races in this
country are precisely the ones who tend
to form these ghettoes, and the ones who
do it most are those who have suffered
so much in the past from their ghetto-
making that one would imagine that the
first thing they would do when they came
to a new country would be to get as far
away from their former habits as possible.
But no! As soon as they have been
rescued from persecution in one country
and are taken to another they start crowd-
ing into voluntary ghettoes of their own
making, generally in the best suburbs.
The most popular aliens in this country
are Danes, Swedes and Norwegians—and
Germans. The chief characteristic of
these northern people, especially the
smaller nations, is an ability to mix with
people and not get into a racial huddle.
Everything that will help a New Aus-
tralian to adapt himself to his new
environment will be an advantage to him
—and one of the first things, as Mr.
Huish points out, would be never to speak
to him in his own language, even if you
know it. — Feng Shui (Vic.).
Housing
Australia could do woise than follow
the example of Britain by permitting and
encouraging local government to build
and rent houses. Administrative costs
would certainly be lowered, as the local
authorities already have administrative
staffs which could handle some, if not
all, of the additional work. At any rate
the organisations are in existence, and
no complete, new, top-heavy departments
would be needed.
Australia’s five town-clerks who have
just returned from England, where they
were guests of the British Government,
were strongly impressed by the fine work
being done by local government in their
housing schemes.
The bulk of the houses are of the two-
storied, semi-detached type, substantially
constructed in brick, with every reason-
able convenience, and are set in garden
surroundings, with the roads and foot-
paths completely paved. Roads and foot-
paths are assured in council housing-
schemes, while here in Australia some
new house-owners can’t get their vehicles
within several hundred yards of their
own houses in winter.
These houses are built for letting only,
and it is not uncommon for councils to
own from 20 to 30 p.c. of the total
houses in their territory. The Edinburgh
Council owns 25,000 houses within the
city. Rentals are low, varying from
11s. 6d. to 30s. a week, and the councils
are responsible for maintenance. Govern-
ment loans for 60 years at 2 i p.c. interest
provide the finance. When the loans are
repaid the councils have a substantial
revenue-producing asset which helps them
to keep down rates and provide good
community facilities. There is no reason
why similar local-council housing schemes
could not be carried out here. —J. C.
(S.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 160
Across.
I—lnvested topic of discussion by
Hamlet and three miles by a
Communist. (11)
6 —American sailor backing this
mechanical device. (3)
8— Swine associated with the German
lodger. (7)
9 Nips used to live in this number
I criticise and leave. (7)
11—Herod to course. (9)
13— Cutter. (5)
14— The heads of coins ring to be
poetry. (8)
17— Lies in one of the Hebrides. (4)
18— Cutter noticed a proverb. (3)
21— Head of Columbia Pictures be-
heads cinema officials hiding
nasturtiums. (4)
22 Spy the progenitor returning the
hat to a state of the U.S.A. (4, 4)
25 Superficial measure in the alterna-
tive imitator of the Volga boat-
man. (5)
26 Showing the front view when the
very drunk are confronted. (4-5)
28— Do not stop the entreaties on one
with a flower. (7)
29 Tubby on a bandstand. (7)
31 — Our French spn returned. (3)
32 — Injury on holy images played by
some musicians. (11)
Down.
1 — Hope over 21 and a cheap officer
have a change rung on eight bells.
(3, 5)
2 Inclined one during a fast. (5)
3 Gilbertian princess conceals this
help. (3)
4 Surroundings of young Moses in
aeroplane currents. (8)
5 Artistic negro beast. (6)
6 Song-like music invites Miss
Horne to testify as to my ability.
(9)
7 Tied-up Communist is urged to
imitate a cow. (6)
10 —Fish with employees noted for
plainness. (9)
12 —Rooster on a draught-horse. (9)
15 — Vehicle becomes venerable after
six homes for clerics. (9)
16 — Personage with a fallen musket.
(3)
19 — Bounder in town in S.A. (8)
20— Blow the girl, this helps to raise
and lower the bucket. (8)
23 —Receptacle for Menzies and Hope,
(6)
24 —A matter of intimate personal
concern and a fortissimo tune. (6)
27 —Not able to duck a division of a
poem. (5)
30—N.Z. bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 159.


Price £5/3/0
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemist*
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct" to
us and we will see that your requirements are sent to any address in
1.1 t ' liL
the Commonwealth.
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
No soap, water, brush or blades needed
'■v' T r:
'V
m
£9/2/6
for th
ELECTRIC
DRY-SHAVER
■ |s •'€
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following outstanding characteristics.
It is fully guaranteed against de-
fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
There is also a special model for
operation on 25 to 32 volt home-lighting
plants.
Price £ll/9/9,
Shave anywhere - anytime with the
* OJ/O *
NON-ELECTRIC " DRY
SHAVER
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non- ✓
electric precision instrument is a useful /
substitute for your Viceroy Electric//
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when I
travelling and on holiday camping \
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op- ( /
crate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver
K
£9/2/6
ROLLS RAZO
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA P T Y. LTD*
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives:
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
