

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3753
Wednesday, Janp#y 16> 1952
Pn& 9<L
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE ROYAL FESTIVAL HALL, WORLD'S BEST AUDITORIUM
THE Royal Festival Hall, on the South Bank of the Thames, between
Hungerford Bridge and Waterloo Bridge, will continue to play its part in
London’s cultural life long after the Festival of Britain year, 1951. For, of
the thirty buildings built on the Festival site, this magnificent concert hall,
the finest and most modern of its kind in the world, is the only permanent
structure—built at a cost of some £2,000,000 by the London County Council.
It represents the first instalment of the Council’s proposed re-development
of the South Bank as a cultural centre.
The problem oi keeping out external noise caused by trains passing over
Hungerford Bridge to and from Charing Cross Station was overcome by the
architects, Robert Matthew and J. L. Martin. The great auditorium, seating
3,000 people, was planned scientifically to ensure the best possible acoustics.
It is suspended behind its massive outer walls in the middle of a lighter
surrounding structure designed to afford extra protection from noise and also
to allow easy access from all sides.
The spacious foyers, staircases, bars and promenades are, in the most
part, separated only by glass screens, so that a remarkable series of vistas is
obtained within the building, giving a sense of space and lightness, and the
huge windows afford spectacular views up and down the Thames. the river
front of the Festival Hall is occupied by a two-level restaurant, which opens
out on to a terrace above the riverside promenade. Ah the interior httmgs,
including furniture, carpets and cutlery, have been specially designed, and he
greatest care has been taken to ensure that the building, in every respect, is
as near perfection as possible. . . , , IQSI
The inaugural concert was held in the evening of May 3rd, 1951,
following the unveiling of a commemorative tablet by His Majesty the King.
The programme, consisting of works by Elgar, Handel, Purcell, Vaughan
Williams and other British composers was performed by
London choirs and orchestras under the direction of Sir Malcolm Sargent
and Sir Adrian Boult.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C*4


d
nffiSspni
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL* —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.352) Age
The Red Page
CATTLE COUNTRY.
No doubt it is possible to write a better
or a stronger book about the outback
than We of the Never Never, since all
authors, except Shakspeare, may theoreti-
cally be surpassed, and Mrs. zEneas
Gunn’s classic, in spite of its virtues, has
a certain thinness, but the publishers of
F. J. McLeod’s Womba; An Aboriginal
Stockboy (Georgian House) are taking a
risk when they quote from their reader’s
report: “It is no sacrilege, since Mr.
McLeod is a man and Mrs. Gunn a
woman, to assert that in Wamba we
have a masculinity and verve beyond We
of the Never Never... A believe this
book is destined to become an Australian
classic.”
A frequent awkwardness of style
—with occasional grammatical errors —
seems to suggest that this is really not
quite the sort of writing of which classics
are made. You can have either the fine
prose of a master of style, or you can
have the simple, direct language of a
plain man telling what he knows in his
own natural vocabulary; but you can’t
have, as in this book, a plain man awk-
wardly using an unnatural literary
vocabulary and talking about looking at
“the flora and fauna” as they rode
leisurely along when he really means, as
indeed he says later, looking at the green
birdflowers, the pink-flowered tea-tree
and the chestnut-eared finches. The
book is rather like another near-classic
of the outback published in Tasmania
during the war, Bowyangs and Boomer-
angs : it needs subediting into simplicity.
As a story, moreover, it is too jerky and
inconclusive ; weak in its visualisation of
Womba, moving in a series of jumps,
and finishing nowhere.
But having made a necessary protest
in defence of tha dignity of classics, this
reviewer has no wish to go on picking
faults in Womba: for if it is not a
masterpiece of style, it is always read-
able and, when we escape from the flora
and fauna, has the merit and the attrac-
tion of absolute authenticity in its
descriptions of the landscape: —•
They camped in a dry watercourse in a
little valley between the low ranges, water-
ing the horses and filling the canteens at
a rock-hole at the bottom of an abutting
hill near the camp. The water-supply,
though recently replenished, was already
becoming polluted by bifds and animals.
Red-legged waterhens played hide-and-seek
in the reeds below the rock-hole. Bronze-
wing pigeons with whirring wings flew in
and out to water; and waxbills were in
hundreds, making a pretty picture as they
gyrated about or settled in the trees.
Some blacks —by their tracks a family
group—had camped there the night before;
their little fires were still smouldering.
There were other signs of life. Womba
pointed out tracks of nocturnal animals
that had made it their watering-place, and
would be coming in stealthily for a drink
that night—goannas, wild dogs, bandicoots,
kangaroo-mice and percnties, goanna-like
reptilians six to eight feet long. They would
be lucky to see such timid creatures in the
dark. Frogs croaked “Quart-pot! Quart-
pot!” Insects in the reeds chirped un-
ceasingly all night. A soft wind moaning
in the trees and the distant tinkling of the
horse-bell put them to sleep. Day broke
calm and fragrant.
Mr. McLeod was a member of the
Mounted Police in the Territory as a
young man ; then went into the stock-
and-station business. He centres his book
on Dericka Station, one of the big cattle-
runs in the Macdonnell Ranges, a year
or so before the Territory came under
Federal administration ; and by the time
you have finished it there doesn’t seem
to be anything you don’t know about
how the station was run —what kind of
people, black and white, worked on it;
everything they did around the home-
stead or far out in the ranges ; the birds
and the animals ; the wild blacks ; all the
life of the wild, hot, lonely country.
In a book of this kind it is details you
want; exactly what was done around the
stations; and not the dry, statistical
details of the author who gets his material
at secondhand, but facts that have be-
come rich and warm in the memory of
a man who has known and loved the life
he is writing about. And that is just
what Mr. McLeod gives you: how they
salted the beef to preserve it in that red-
hot climate; the little black ants that
got into their clothes and “inflicted un-
ceasing misery by crawling over the skin
biting at will” ; the chestnut mare
that had been sold 18 months before to
a station in the Kimberleys and made
her own way back, 1200 miles across
almost waterless country, to the Yellow
Swamp where she was foaled; an
aboriginal medicine-man being bribed to
release from approaching death a native
at whom he had “pointed the bone” ;
a history of “shin-plasters,” the out-
back’s currency of promissory-notes; a
trank account of promiscuity between
stockmen and lubras, very different from
the sentimental pictures conjured up by
city bushmen ; a battle between a cow
and a dingo, ended by a stockman riding-
down the dingo in a chase that makes
fox-hunting seem a very pale sport; an
eagle picking up a spinifex-wallaby and
killing it by dropping it to the ground ;
a full account of breaking-in colts; a
description of the naked blacks of the
bush “poisoning” the waterholes with
their narcotic pituri and afterwards
clubbing the drugged emus...
And if the book is rather vague as a
story about Womba, the aboriginal boy
who became an expert stockman, it has,
nonetheless, a dramatic theme running
through it, giving it continuity and, in
the end, the climax that the Womba
story lacks; simply, the theme of the
cattle. Mr. McLeod seems to have set
out to write a book about Womba for
boys, but what he has accomplished is
a story for adults about how Dericka
Station mustered its cattle.
And a stirring story it is: of long,
hard riding to camp in distant parts of
the station ; of cattle that had lost hope,
licking the mud or standing apathetically
round a dry claypan; of a stockman
throwing an outlaw bullock that kept
breaking for the hills ; of meetings with
other stockmen from neighboring runs
who have come to join in the muster,
their yarns and their diversions; of a
search for cattle that had strayed to a
remote waterhole, and of the slow and
laborious return to the base camp, with
the stockman as well as his cattle in
danger of perishing from thirst; of a big
roan bull, mad with rage, charging a man
in the yards and pinning him in a corner
“with its horns stuck in a rail on each
side of him” ; of a station bull fighting
a scrubber:
The powerful station bull caught the
scrubber fairly under the belly and, lifting
him off the ground, hurled and pushed him
two full lengths away. Again and yet again
he pushed him, now to the right, now to
the left.... The scene around spoke for
itself. For a space of thirty-odd yards the
ground was torn up like fallow; every tree
and shrub was trampled down, and blood
and hair bespattered the ground everywhere.
The other station bulls, up to then on the
windward side of the fight, came up for a
closer view of the dead bull and smelt the
blood. Pandemonium at once broke loose.
In a perfect frenzy, bellowing and tearing
up the ground with their forefeet and horns,
they were soon engulfed in a dense cloud
of dust that completely hid them from
view.
“They’ve gone mad!” said George.
It’s a great pity that a book as good
as this couldn’t have been just a little
better ; clarified in style, more certain in
movement and direction. It is hardly
likely to be reprinted for generations as
a classic ; but at least one can say that
because it’s alive and authentic, with so
much of the legendary quality of the
outback embodied in it, it will always be
as well worth reading as it is now.
STORM-BIRD.
Storm-bird singing high above
These red acres, let your love
Drop in showers till they reply
With the music of the eye.
Sing out of your island-tree
Until charrped latitudes of sea
Break within the seed and hide
The furrows in a springing tide.
Storm-bird singing all alone
In the slanting thunder-sun.
Make your song a gentle rain
And every note shall stand up green.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Lionel Barrymore.
Lionel Barrymore, with the aid of
Cameron Shipp, who did for Billie Burke
in With a Feather On My Nose, has pro-
duced an autobiography, We Barrymores
(Peter Davies), and a nice, modest,
casual, sincere, ordinary run-of-the-mill
genius they dress him up as, or he is.
As the title suggests, he is one of the
Barrymore-Drew stable; he is never
happier than when he is talking about
John and Ethel, except, maybe, when he
is talking about Lionel. His greatest dis-
like, excluding that of audiences, is of
acting. Having worked himself as a
young man on to the threshold of Broad-
way, he married a 16-year-old and hared
off to Paris, where, supported to some
extent by sister Ethel, he studied art. He
came back to be a great American maga-
zine illustrator, but when he saw some
framed examples of contemporary prac-
titioners in “Collier’s” waiting-room he
went out without seeing the editor and
rammed his own work into the first dust-
bin—ash-can to him.
And so back to wretched stage-suc-
cesses, “The Copperhead” and “Peter
Ibbotson,” a dramatisation of Du
Maurier’s book, in which he played the
old colonel to brother John’s nephew,
and a flop in “Macbeth.” In 1925 his
agent got him into Hollywood, much,
he says, to his surprise, at 10,000 dollars
a picture. The rest is celluloid.
Well, not quite. In 1912 he went to
work for D. W. Griffith in New York,
at about the same time as Mary Pickford
and Anita Loos began business ; and he
has a fair line of chit-chat about those
old Biograph days, and especially about
Griffith’s genius - photographer, Billy
Bitzer. Bitzer came before Griffith;
photographed him as an extra in a crowd-
scene and was asked to explain why
Griffith appeared to have four arms.
Griffith explained that he had made some
study of the films, and thought that, if he
didn’t jerk about in the acting, he would
not jerk about, as was the obvious
requirement, in the finished product.
More than a decade later we find Mr.
Barrymore producing in Hollywood; he
was first to produce Tibbett in pictures,
in “The Rogue Song”; he claims,
although he admits that others may have
had the same idea, to have been the first
to follow an actor round in a talking-
picture with a microphone strung to a
fishing-rod—before then the actor had
always to move so that at the moment he
spoke he would be near a microphone
concealed behind a flowerpot or at any
one of five or six places on the stage.
He considers, and produces an interest-
ing little two-act play to prove it, that
he was the discoverer of Clark Gable.
For those of us who are inclined to deny
that there can be acting on films, Mr.
Barrymore, who may well be received as
an expert witness, says “Don’t Sell
Movies Short”; he speaks of Greta
Garbo as a great actress, also of his little
leading lady, Margaret O’Brien ; Spencer
Tracy gives him pleasure ; and Katharine
Hepburn reminded him, and Jack and
Ethel, of Maudie Adams —when a Barry-
more is reminded of someone it is
evidently a Good Thing.
Louis B. Mayer also comes into his
by no-means large category of excel-
lence: the great man said, when Lionel
Barrymore had cracked his thigh for a
second time, and they were talking of
ending him off as an actor —“If he goes
I go.”
It also seems worth mentioning that
his father, Maurice, sent the script to
Bernhardt from which “Tosca” was
written—when he complained about his
ideas appearing over someone else’s
name Bernhardt replied “If a great man
gets the germ of an idea from some
obscure American, what does it matter?
These things often happen.” Years later
Lionel Barrymore met Puccini in New
York when he was writing “The Girl of
the Golden West,” and in spite of
Belasco’s; apprehension—“ Look out, here
it comes! ” —merely asked to shake
hands. He remembers having been intro-
duced to Tschaikowsky, though not
having known who it was at the time
The last of the plates is a reproduction
of an etching which shows that Mr
Barrymore has little to learn of the
technique, at any rate, of art; he also
mentions that he is a private pianist and
player on the oboe. He has orchestrated
some of MacDowell’s piano pieces and
had them played; also the bar-room
quartette “On the Banks of the Wabash
Eugene Ormandy performed his
orchestral piece in memory of brother
Jack, “In Memoriam”; Rodzinski and
the New York Philharmonic performed
his “Partita”; Sevitzy and the Indian-
apolis Orchestra did his piano concerto •
and the Burbank Symphony, under Leo
Damiani, performed his “Opera Buffa.”
BUSH FIRE.
Twilight’s gentle trusteeship fails—pockets
of darknes-s
Picked by a false dawn. So the lame wan-
dering fable
Of a flying-fox, mistily spun between two
pines,
Tightens backward, hopeless, for that blue-
paper balladry
Buried with the sun; so the redgum,
vividly resigned
To a mooning minute and to the night
hour coming.
Must tremble again with its sallow begging
colors;
So the dozing orchards yawn, greyly half-
awake.
For what moves on the horizon, hoodwinks
the blinded sky.
Is one far threat gathering flame. Remote,
now, lovely,
That spring-toothed vision bearing towards
the dream:
Only a blade of hatred, working and sway-
ing,
Bursts through the lying saffron and shows
itself.
N.S.W,
FRANCIS WEBB.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Widows of Broome: Arthur W.
Upheld (Heinemann). Mr. Upheld is one
of the few Australians writing detective
stories who has mastered the simple pro-
position : that the best way to sell
mysteries is to create a memorable
detective. In Detective - Inspector
Napoleon Bonaparte, the Australian
aboriginal sleuth, he’s got a beaut, a
literary property that should last him a
lifetime, and could easily take him on to
the stage or to Hollywood. This present
case is of a depraved fellow whose
murderous impulses are aroused by the
sight of widows’ night-dresses on
washing-lines in Broome. It must be
admitted that when the murder is finally
sheeted home we are less surprised than
disappointed—the murderer has not been
woven into the fabric of the book suffi-
ciently for us to believe that he could
have taken so large a part in it —but by
the time he is discovered we have been
so interested in the Australian publicans,
sinners, police, gay widows, business-like
widows, and well-spoken derelicts, and
impressed by the bravery and cleverness
of Detective-Inspector Bonaparte, that
this does not seem to matter so much.
* * * *
Money on Murder: Heather Gardiner
(Hutchinson). Miss Gardiner, of a Perth
bookshop and with an Honors degree
from W.A. University, wrote this story in
London about the murder of a rich
woman racehorse-owner in a Melbourne
hotel on the eve of the Melbourne Cup,
the narrator being a Sydney woman-
journalist. It is something like an
M. G. Eberhardt, without quite so much
of the glutinous atmosphere: the poor
little beautiful narrator has been jilted
by Larry, who has married the rich
woman, and now wants to be free. An-
other lovely popsy, in tow with a hand-
some blackmailer, cannot buy her 1.0. U5.
back from the rich woman. She it is
who finds the body. Then the victim’s
jewels are discovered in the narrator’s
room ; the inquiry ranges over the pub,
out to the Melbourne Cup, and concludes
with an all-night vigil, with the narrator
as bait for the murderer, in a hotel room.
* * * *
Assassins at Large: Hugo Dewar
(Wingate). Survey of a number of GPU
assassinations and kidnappings in
Mexico, the U.S., Germany and France,
the Mindszenty case in Hungary and
various political murders and “treason
trials” in the Soviet itself. Mr. Dewar
writes soberly enough in a journalistic
style, producing a great deal of evidence ;
and if nobody can prove that Krivitsky,
as he suggests, was forced by the GPU
to “commit suicide,” blackmailed by a
threat to his wife and child, it would be
still more difficult to prove that
Trotsky assassinated himself with the
famous alpine-pick or that Madame
Kasenkina, who threw herself from the
third-floor window of the Soviet Consu-
late in New York (August 8, 1948), was
really, as the Consul-General explained,
yearning to go back to Russia.
* * * ♦
The Story of the Century: Victorian
Government (Specialty Press, Mel-
bourne); Another volume in the spate
of official publications produced by the
Jubilee and Centenary frenzy, but an
excellent piece of work by editor-in-chief
Doyle, and a testimonial to the admirable
quality of local printing and illustrating.
The story is mainly the political story,
and much space is given to the long and
bitter constitutional struggles between the
Legislative Council and the Legislative
Assembly over —it is amusing to read —
payment of members, among other things
less important; but what makes the book
valuable is the pictorial record. Among
the treasures of Victoria’s Parliamentary
library is a large portfolio of watercolor
sketches by William Strutt, a young Eng-
lish artist who came to Victoria in 1850,
which the editors have used to enliven
their history. An early photo reveals the
interesting information that there was a
temperance hotel on the corner of Lons-
dale- and Queen-streets kept by one
Tankard.


I
v
m
m
W
Hi
■
mm
m
m
£7/7/6
:>
*
'
■I
*' I
B
Vo.
£6/13/6
-c:
5^
n
m
U
lili
SssSS
C «:;t:
m
mM
«
£4/10/9
Travel Bag of genuine top grain cowhide with strong
slide fastener, with lock attached. Cloth lined. 18in.,
£4/10/9; 20in., £6/10/-. Crocodile grain, 18in., £4/15/3;
20in., £6/15/-.
Club Bags in genuine hide made on a steel frame with
cloth lining and two inside pockets. 20in., £7/7/6.
Crocodile grained hide priced at £B/6/3.
Fibre Suit Case in genuine vulcanised fibre. This strong
lightweight case is water-resisting and fitted with English
locks and comfortable plastic handle. 24in., 87/3; 26in.,
94/6; and 28in„ priced at £5/1/9.
Cabin Cases covered in attractive canvas tweed with two
supporting wooden hoops. English locks and centre clip
and leather handle. Size 26in., priced at £6/13/6; 28in.,
priced at £7/3/9; and 30in., priced at £7/14/-,
a
:
i C 8
■■Sami
■
. •<
PBffK
I
hUSBM
I f mi
ft
wm
'N
:■• .■■■.'
»; : -
m
m
v'; ■
■
I ■
m
M
I
;■
m
I
Bn—
mm ■
IHm
wmmnm
m i
■;■;■' :‘;V ■;,;,■-■
wm
m
mmmm 'zWmmmmiß
: :\ >
imaglggiiii
A beautiful ensemble in lightweight fibre ...
Three-piece Travelling Set
This attractive set comprises a lightweight suit case, ladies’ dressrobe and gent’s
wardrobe case. The attractive striped tweed is on a fibre foundation with leather bindings.
English locks, and in colours Grey or Brown. The lightweight suit case {centre) 24in.,
£5/5/-; 26in., £5/13/9; 28in., £6/2/6. Ladies’ Dressrobe {right) carrys ten frocks without
crushing. Price, £lO/19/6. Gent’s Wardrobe Case carrys three suits in lid three compartments
in body of case for shirts, and socks, etc. Price, £lB/19/6.
'
36/9
£
Fibre Cases from 36/9
These cases are constructed from hard vulcanised fibre and are very strong and water-resisting. Two English
locks, strong steel frame, lid support and plastic handle. 16in., priced at 36/9; and 18in., priced at 41/6.
fdf
m\
SSI
TRAVEL GOODS—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


POWER MDU lAN DEPEND ON /
mt
• ••
tmpm
fWt
m
lIJ
C'. V,
■I
'so.
9|
SI
:
ilii
38
■
Hi
m
MS
"OUSniAI
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
UgM'mg
Crusting
\ * /' 11 mm*
■annuo, am fmortHaucfr
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL—
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
/
A
/
/
y/y//
z
7T
/
\
VZS»MSZV>.
&
«4M
A 069
\
£
mmm
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVILE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HOBRRT RBEIRIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FDR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3753
Wednesday, January 16, 1952
%
%
% is
v„
y %
-o
2
WILL THIS ONE GET TO PORT?


The Bulletin
m. M .. ...... ..
Ihe [National Australian Newspaper
“Australia lor Ik. While Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
stralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0,), Wellington.
LONDON FUNDS DOWN.
The financial year to June 30 last ended
with Australia’s holding of gold and
balances abroad at over £720 million.
At no time in our history, before or since,
has this country been so affluent with
spending-money abroad as it was in June
of last year. And, three or four months
prior to that, wool was at its record
level, contributing the greater part of our
export income, from which we were
paying for unprecedented imports and
building up record reserves of spending-
power, Income from wool was so high
that the sheep was becoming to be re-
garded in bleary industrial eyes as an
economic menace instead of a benefactor.
Things have since changed very sud-
denly. Wool prices have fallen 36 p.c.
during the first half of the 1951-52 selling
season by comparison with last, and if
present prices continue the decline for the
year will be greater still by reason of
the high prices realised during the latter
half of the previous season. Our export
income has dropped sharply as a result,
whilst imports, under stimulus of orders
based on early-1951 conditions of paper-
money plenty, have continued to roll in in
an increasing flood. The result has
been that up to the end of November
we bought £197-million-worth more of
goods than we sold abroad, whereas for
the same part of the preceding year we
had a credit balance of £3l million.
The effect of our huge adverse trade
balance on our London funds has been
rather staggering. In the period covered
approximately by the foregoing figures
the visible drop in our overseas
funds was £240 million. By December
26 the fall had increased to £2BB
million, and the total of the Com-
monwealth Bank’s holding of “gold
and balances abroad” was down to
£431 million. There is every indication
that the drain is, for the time being, still
going on, though, on trade figures alone,
perhaps at a reducing rate. Wool ship--
ments are probably increasing, and there
is no doubt that most importers (because
of credit conditions and “consumer-
resistance” inside Australia) are cancelling
overseas orders wherever they have an
opportunity, thus reducing the future cost
of imports.
Just as overseas trading surpluses often
bring an embarrassment of impression-
able capital imports, so trading deficits
tend to frighten speculative funds out of
a country and accelerate the adverse
nature of the balance of payments. Some
mild form of a flight of capital seems to
be on in Australia at the moment, the
fall in our London funds being greater
than the trading deficit for the same
period. But there appear to be definite
limits to the extent to which a flight of
capital from this country may reasonably
go. Transfer of capital funds to countries
outside the sterling area is next to
impossible, and within the sterling area
it is difficult to find a more favorable
repository for capital than Australia, not-
withstanding our present difficulties.
Britain itself is in a much more precarious
economic position.
Probably this first half of the 1951-52
overseas-trade year is the worst that we
shall see—unless we get another large
dollar loan to be spent on capital goods.
A dollar loan would bring in additional
goods not available from the sterling area
and add to our trade deficit and our
overseas debt, though not reducing our
London funds. Apart from special
dollar transactions involving goods
required for national works there
is little doubt about there being at present
a shrinking in the Australian demand for
many overseas goods ; not only has the
demand by the public dropped, but
merchants have embarrassing stocks on
hand. Even motor-cars are not sought
after at the rate they used to be. The
trade deficit for the month of November
was lower than for any of the three pre-
ceding months, but this was because of
increased export values, not lower im-
ports. It will take some time for the
impetus which early-1951 buoyancy gave
to the ordering of overseas goods to work
itself out and for present slackness in
internal business conditions to reveal itself
in import figures. But the economic out-
look in January this year is vastly
different from what it was in January a
year ago.
Among the many implications to be
drawn from our overseas trade and
financial position is the one that an up-
valuation of the pound in relation to the
dollar has become more difficult than
ever, and that any up-valuation in rela-
tion to sterling will now depend upon
whether sterling is further devalued in
its standing with the dollar. Australia
from now on will be endeavoring to dis-
courage imports instead of encouraging
them by giving our pound a greater
buying-power externally.
With our London funds down so
heavily in six months, and with the
prospect of further declines in the next
few months, Canberra financial
authorities will be concerned about con-
serving our balances abroad for essential
raw materials and capital goods. As in
the Commonwealth, finance will not be
made so readily available for consumer-
spending overseas. Whilst the Govern-
ment appears reluctant to impose specific
Customs controls on imports from the
sterling area, it no doubt counts upon the
financial reactions from present trade
trends and banking policy to work their
own cure in respect of excessive imports.
Australia nevertheless just now needs
a steady stream of tools, equipment and
materials to carry out the national works
necessary to look after its increasing
population. It is still capable of import-
ing large quantities of these things pro-
vided consumer-spending overseas is cut
down. Our export potential remains high.
But a bigger coal and steel output in the
Commonwealth itself would ease the
position very much by lessening our de-
pendence on overseas sources for many
requirements of the heavy industries.
The whole British Commonwealth will
need to approach this world-trade
problem with that objective in view—the
raising of per capita output of nearly all
essential raw materials. But Australia in
particular is a very bad case. Not only
have we fallen down on the job of turn-
ing out coal and steel in accord with post-
war demand ; our transport services have
deteriorated greatly, and the production
of foodstuffs has slumped alarmingly.
Perhaps the comparatively hard times that
seem now to be approaching will
stimulate interest in seeing to it that
essential jobs are done. Certainly there
is more labor available for essential
industry than there was two months ago,
when the near-luxury trades were able to
outbid the less-glamorous and less-
affluent types of industry.
The financial sail-shortening and the
attempt to divert manpower and materials
to more essential industry that were
undertaken by the Federal Government
in the latter half of last year are shown
by current developments to have been
begun none too soon. Not only has
Australia’s trade balance deteriorated
rapidly because of our own spending
spree and the downward trend of world
prices; Britain also is facing a trade
crisis, especially on dollar account. All
over the world there is a tendency to-
wards a buyers’ market again, and
sterling-area goods are far too high in
price in many cases.
The time may not be far away when
attempts will be made to stimulate Empire
trade by an extension of British prefer-
ences. That will involve a reconsidera-
tion of the terms of Britain’s dollar loan,
of the Havana Charter and the decisions
of the Torquay Conference. These at
least are likely to come in for a great deal
more political attention than they did
when the whole world was a sellers’
market two years ago.
There are few problems facing Aus-
tralia at the moment that harder and
more intelligent work won’t cure. But
inflation has to be checked and our
national finances trimmed to meet
changed conditions. Restrictions and
readjustments, which may be disturbing
temporarily, are bound to be prominent
as our economy shakes down in 1952.
Under ideal conditions of money-
supply and marketing Australia has
thrown away a golden opportunity over
the past six years. Instead of working
diligently it has idled, quarrelled, experi-
mented, speculated and lost. It now re-
mains to be seen whether under more
austere conditions it can make good its
lost opportunity and still come out on
top. Australians are a pretty hopeless
mob if it can’t.
Hinges of Fate.
Of the differences which arose between
the Washington Administration and the
late Attlee Government in Britain British
publicist Ernest Watkins, an assistant-
editor of the “Economist,” writes in a
book reviewing the Socialists’ perform-
ance during the past five years that, apart
from widespread and serious irritation
with American foreign policy in Britain,
the critical developments in Korea and
East Asia generally
revealed a weakness in the Tabor move-
ment—the fact that so many of its members
have an almost pathological dislike of the
United States. This is not necessarily the
result of an equivalent liking for Com-
munist Russia. It is not based on a
rational view of American capitalism, which
is conceding more and more influence to
trade-unions. It is the bitterness of the
idealist who has seen his first love, the
Russian Revolution, corrupted and de-
filed and who seeks blindly for a sub-
stitute on which to vent the despair within
his heart and mind.
To that may be added a wider and
non-partisan British distrust of U.S.
policy based on conviction that America
has been wrong in Asia from one end to
the other—over Manchuria during the
later war years, over Korea, over Indo-
China, over India under the Congress
party, over British aims in the Balkan
States during the war, and since the war
over Palestine, Persia and Egypt. The
abiding American political idea seems to
have been that all Asia had to be liber-
ated from British influence.
It is also widely believed in Britain
that the United States Government is
wrong in a view, barely disguised, that
a third world war, against the Russian
bloc, is inevitable; that the American
attitude towards China can precipitate
such a war ; that the trend of antagonism
is being crystallised by Washington’s
behavior, not of desire or intention so
much as from inexperience in world-
leadership and above all from an
inherent impermanence in American
policy. In this year of an American
Presidential election this lastmentioned
anxiety is not easily to be removed.
On top of these concerns it is obvious
that U.N.O. is a delicate enough inter-
national plant without the transplantation
from its hot-house into the open, and
exposure in the devastating climate of
Korea. There its fate as an instrument
of “police-combat” was given over into
the hands of General MacArthur ; and
whatever may be said of MacArthur’s
strategical ability, he was clearly a better
strategist than he was a U.N.O. head-
constable. This is hardly astonishing con-
sidering that U.N.O. had no Korean plan
at all when the campaign started, and
has evolved none since. The Korean war
has, in fact, been an American war which
U.N.O. has formally adopted. The thing
to do —as MacArthur held —was to
advance in force to the Yalu (only he had
not the force), hold it against allcomers
and set up an all-Korean Government
behind that protection. That the hydro-
electric works on the Korean side of the
Yalu were vital to Manchurian industries
in the hinterland on the opposite side
could surely have been a bargaining-card
for peace. But policy and campaign
were both bungled.
The “Korean rehearsal,” as English
war-correspondent Reginald Thompson
calls it in his book Cry Korea, has
revealed, he says, that:
It Is impossible to liberate a country
unless it is able fully to stand on Its own
feet when the liberation process is com-
plete. The United Nations are in danger of
finding themselves forced, in effect, to
colonise Korea, or to abandon it once
more, an easy prey to Russians or Chinese,
who know precisely what It is they have
to sell and have no qualms about the
manner in which they sell it.
The United Nations cannot afford to
embark upon adventures of this nature
unless motives (and aims) are crystal-
clear and unless all members are prepared
to accept all the results. For it is certain
that as soon as the United Nations depart
from Korea there will be nothing to deter
the Communists, inspired and helped by
China and Russia to take over.
Apparently Britain and the British
Commonwealth is not “prepared to accept
all the results of its [U.N.O.’s] actions”
if these were to lead to war against an
Asian mainland bloc mobilised by
Moscow and Peking. Probably the
United States Government is not ready
to go as far as that either. It must be
added that there have been some alarm-
ing commentaries —Reginald Thompson’s
book is one of them—on the waste and
inefficiency of the American troops in
Korea —until the accession of General
Ridgway to the supreme command, at any
rate.
To these political and military con-
siderations, which must have been in the
minds of every member of Mr.
Churchill’s delegation to Washington,
should be added a passing reference to
an economic consideration recorded for
the enlightenment of Washington by
several post-war American special envoys
to Europe. The unexpectedly abrupt
ending of American lend-lease in 1945
was calamitous in its reaction upon
America’s chief war-time allies. It was
bitterly resented in Moscow, and the
British economist Watkins (above-cited)
regards it as tragic from the British view
“because the need to make some decision
was forced upon President Truman too
soon in his political life and growth, at
a time when he felt himself to be no
more than a man nominated for office by
one solitary elector. Death.”
Mr. Churchill’s prime purpose is intel-
ligible enough: it is to create a personal
understanding to help in consultation and
collaboration on what must be done.
The stalemate in Korea is dangerously
critical because it is arousing movements
of violence and defiance of local authority
in other Asiatic regions, and it has
exposed the impotence of U.N.O. to
prevent war or assert its authority against
those who defy it. Pretty plainly, there
will be no settlement in Korea now with-
out a settlement with China and Russia in
other quarters of Asia.
Mr, Churchill must have reckoned on
difficulties in this U.S. election year in
getting President Truman to admit any
mistakes of American policy in handling
the problem of China and China’s inter-
national status. The two leading Powers
could not be farther apart than in their
recognition of opposing regimes purport-
ing to govern China, a divergence which
began with Churchill’s dissent from
Roosevelt’s war-time insistence that
China must be made a fifth equal Great
Power in world-government. And U.N.O.
having palpably failed in the expecta-
tions of its founders, there is no visible
substitute save a strong Anglo-American
working partnership (which must include
the British Commonwealth countries) to
maintain peace. It is not really out of
character with the Chinese puzzle that
the two leaders should admit as a basis
for such partnership their recognition of
opposing sides in China’s own quarrel.
Tactics must be desperate indeed —
especially for the miserable Korean
people—which persuade (if they do per-
suade) the military command in Korea
that continued hostilities there have the
merit of preventing Communist China
from carrying the ideological war into
Indo-China, Burma and the Malayan
peninsula in assistance of local insurrec-
tions. U.N.0,, having fallen down in
Korea, is clearly quite unable to protect
these lands rich in rice and rubber and
tin and a dozen other essential export
commodities from similar devastation.
What is the use of F.A.0., U.N.E.5.C.0.,
Colombo Plans, or any other organisa-
tions for uplifting Asian conditions, if
all south-east Asia is to suffer the ruin
and misery already made of Korea?
For Australia there could be no more
gripping and intimate concern than in
the three Western Powers’ military con-
ference in Washington which follows the
Churchill-Truman talks. There is already
an incipient guerrilla war in Indonesia,
and the headquarters of the Peking
Comintern’s branch at Bangkok is
reported to be in process of moving south
to the Indonesian capital. Restoration of
domestic law and order in the south-east
Asian lands is the responsibility of the
Western Powers now meeting to compose
some form of common action, con-
ciliatory as well as military. The main
problem remains—to discover whether
approach to any bargain with Russia is
possible. This was, by his own declara-
tion, the prime motive of Mr. Churchill’s
seeking a return to office in order to
“finish the job.”
Comforts for Korea.
Army Minister Francis’s appeal to
Australia to send comforts parcels to
British troops in Korea —since the British
people at home are on such short rations
themselves —brought a response from
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor Nilsen. He
invites any Australian family able to do
so to “adopt” a British serviceman in
Korea and send him a regular parcel.
Despite high prices and some current
shortages of their own, Australians should
respond. The war in Korea is as much
our war as it is anybody else’s. We are
not doing enough in supplying the U.N.
forces there with men and munitions. We
could make up for it, in some small
measure, by sending extra food and other
things to British soldiers whose own
people are existing on less than Army
rations.
The fact that Mr. Francis’s appeal
comes during truce talks which most
people hope will lead to peace is beside
the point. Firstly because no real sign
of peace is in sight, secondly because even
if a truce came the troops would still be
there for some time.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor" and the Treaty.
If “Labor” were in power in Canberra
it would have been obliged to approve
the general terms of the Japanese peace
treaty, whether it hates the Japanese or
not.
It would have been obliged to do so
because its dissent would have been quite
unavailing to prevent the treaty being
signed by all other Western Powers, and
to have stood out as maintaining an
indefinite state of war with Japan could
in no way have served that objective
which Dr. Evatt demands —the security
of Australia from future Japanese attack.
By refusing to sign a “Labor” Govern-
ment would have put itself at odds with
the other British Commonwealth
countries, the United States and U.N.O.
(for what U.N.O. is worth), for which the
treaty proposes Japan shall qualify and
receive membership. The only views
which side with Dr. Evatt in this matter
are those of the Communists —in which
point the “Labor” leader remains true to
character. This isolation from the
English-speaking countries and ranging
of Australia alongside the Soviet and
its satellite States would have been a
quite untenable position even for such a
contortionist in diplomacy as the
“Labor” leader.
In Opposition Dr, Evatt can safely
oppose the treaty, and he does so because
his line is never to agree with the Gov-
ernment about anything, even in foreign
policy. All the same he ought to “stand
up and be counted,” as his friend Prof.
Julius Stone would say, and asked in
Parliament to explain how he would:
L—Assure Australia’s security by con-
tinuing a state of war with Japan.
2. —Produce a “harder” peace by his
own efforts against the major Western
Powers.
3. —Arrange for the indefinite military
occupation of Japan as a counter-measure
to signing peace.
4. Find the troops and the money for
the job of keeping over 80 million
Japanese in their own islands in a con-
dition of subjection to Australia.
Alternatively, if Dr. Evatt means that
the United States ought to have been
forced, against its will, to insist on harsher
terms for the Japanese treaty and pay the
price of occupation, he should be invited
to explain how he would have engineered
that compulsion upon Washington.
Washington already knows Dr. Evatt
as primarily a limelighter, and his churlish
greeting to the American pact for mutual
security with Australia and New Zealand
—which was what Dr. Evatt once wanted
—is not likely to pass unnoticed there.
Collective Security, Is It?
Moves by U.N.O.’s political committee
to provide for an international collective-
security force and action against aggres-
sion, even if the “Security” Council
should fail through the Great Powers’
veto provisions, are the result of an
incisive report by U.N.O.’s Collective
Measures Committee appointed a few
months ago to draw up a plan to give the
veto-free General Assembly means to act
on its own initiative in emergency.
Australia’s delegate among the sponsors
for the scheme opened the debate. Those
supporting it include also Britain,
U.S.A., France, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
Philippines, Turkey and Yugoslavia. The
resolution proposes that all nations should
hold ready forces to meet aggression any-
where, and that a panel of military experts
should be set up to advise on use of such
forces.
After Australian approval for the
scheme had been heard the next speaker,
for U.S.A., supported, declaring that the
new collective - security plan would
obviate such improvised measures as
those taken to meet the aggression in
Korea.
Before the debate proceeded further
the Russian member, Vyshinsky, asked
the political committee for adjournment
before he spoke—doubtless in order to
refer to Moscow. After the interval, duly
granted, he appeared with a demand that
the Collective Measures Committee
should be abolished and the plan thrown
overboard as “a mockery of the U.N.
Charter,” and designed “to spread false
alarms to cover Anglo-American aggres-
sive actions.” With this persuasive pre-
liminary Vyshinsky then proposed a meet-
ing of the “Security” Council, with
Foreign Ministers or heads of States
present, “to help bring about a successful
conclusion of the Korean peace
negotiations.” This American spokesmen
promptly rejected.
No better confirmation of the need
for the new collective measures proposed
could be required—if U.N.O. is to save
its face at all.
Mouldering Memorials.
A writer who visited the ceremonies at
Rod Quinn’s grave professed himself
shocked at the neglected state of the
adjacent tomb of William Bede Dailey :
and well he might be.
Australia seems to be about the only
country in the world which has no grati-
tude to its historic great. Yet Dailey was
everything that should appeal to an Aus-
tralian, since his whole life was symbolic
of what Australian energy and ability can
do when linked with Australian oppor-
tunity.
He was born poor and with no
advantages of birth, yet this did not
prevent him from rising as high
as it was possible for any citizen of
his State to rise in his day. He was,
moreover, of Irish parents and educated
in the age of the Hungry ’Forties, yet
he became above everything a symbol
of the unity of the Australian colonies
with the United Kingdom, a great patriot
first and foremost, and great in other
fields only in a secondary way.
He became one of the first Queen’s
Counsel of N. S. Wales. He held office
again and again in various Ministries
despite a sturdy independence and a
habit of going into retirement from
politics at intervals. Even in the
age of Parkes, whom he succeeded
as member for Sydney, and Robertson
and Buchanan, he was esteemed as the
country’s outstanding orator and one of
its writers of prose.
But he is best remembered for one act.
When he became Acting-Premier of N. S.
Wales in the middle ’eighties and the
news of the death of Gordon in
Khartoum came he did not hesitate. In
the face of powerful opposition and
almost universal ridicule he offered the
first Australian contingent for overseas
military service, thus dealing a death-
blow to the “cut-the-painter” movement
which at that period had been gaining
ground. He, in fact, decisively estab-
lished the idea that while Australia would
become a nation it would be a nation
which was part of a British Common-
wealth.
Dailey refused honors on several
occasions, including a knighthood, but
eventually he became Australia’s first
Privy Councillor and, dying in his early
fifties, he became the first Australian to
have a memorial dedicated to him in one
of the two great shrines of famous
Britons, St. Paul’s Cathedral, where it
was unveiled by the Earl of Rosebery, a
British Prime Minister.
Yet in his own country his grave is a
wilderness, and when a journalist men-
tioned the fact the other day he felt
bound to identify Dailey for a bodgie-
widgie generation as the large man who
stands on a pedestal in Hyde Park. More
about him he apparently did not know.
At any rate, in the decrepitude of his
resting-place Dailey is not altogether
singular. The tomb of Macquarie had
fallen into almost the same state. A
private move is now being made to keep
it in order, the owners of the land around
it having generously given it to a trust of
private Australians —provided the fervent
patriotism of the Commonwealth can
rise to the height of finding about £6OO
to give permanent dignity and neatness
to the sepulchre of its first proclaimer
of the doctrine of freedom, its first great
builder and roadmaker, the first patron
of its literature and arts and the man who
first officially used its name —Australia.
The McDermott Case.
Frederick Lincoln McDermott, con-
demned in 1947 to life imprisonment for
the murder of William Henry Lavers,
walked out of Long Bay jail on Friday
a free man, the N. S. Wales Government
having acted on the royal commissioner’s
recommendation that he should be
released. Mr. Justice Kinsella, who pre-
sided over the inquiry, reported that
additional evidence produced before him
established a strong probability that the
jury at the original trial had been misled
by erroneous evidence on an important
matter, and that if this evidence had been
available to the Court of Criminal Appeal
at the time of McDermott’s appeal in 1948
the verdict of guilty would not have been
allowed to stand.
Lavers was, it is believed, murdered
outside his store near Grenfell (N.S.W.)
in the early hours of September 5, 1936,
by someone who called him out to pump
petrol from his bowser. His body was
never found. Chief evidence against
McDermott was that he had been heard
to admit the killing, and that he had been
seen in a car on the road from Forbes
to Grenfell the day before the murder
and had sought petrol from a passing
motorist. His defence as to the admis-
sions was that they had been made to
stop the ramblings of a drunken woman
whose idea of humor it was to accuse
him of the killing. He had agreed with
her to humor her.
Trial evidence indicated that the car
in which McDermott had allegedly been
seen had been owned by a man called
Parker, and that it could have made the
tracks which police measured outside
Lavers’s store. The new evidence, said
the royal commissioner, proved almost
conclusively that the car which made
those tracks could not have been Parker’s
car. He did not agree with counsel that
the new evidence proved McDermott
innocent, but the law did not require him
to prove his innocence. In other words,
McDermott was entitled to the benefit
of the doubt. He therefore recommended
his release.
The net of circumstantial evidence
which brought McDermott almost to the
gallows—his death sentence was com-
muted to life-imprisonment—was partly
of his own weaving ; but against that he
can congratulate himself that if it had
not been for his own persistent efforts
to get his case reopened he would prob-
ably have had to serve bis sentence to
the bitter end. The Public Solicitor, Mr.
R. Hawkins, who was responsible for the
inquiry being held, has said that Mc-
Dermott put his case so convincingly in
letters and by word of mouth that he and
officers of his department found them-
selves believing in his innocence despite
the trial evidence. According to Mr.
Hawkins, McDermott can thank himself
more than any other man for his
freedom. McDermott divides his thanks
among Mr, Hawkins, Mr. Shand, K.C.
(his counsel) and the governor of the
Goulburn jail.
To the Australian public the
important thing about the decision is its
demonstration that they live in a country
where even Justice itself can be called
upon to account for its actions, where
lack of financial resources is no barrier
to obtaining redress of wrongs, and
where the Law is not afraid to admit and
repair its mistakes.
Watch on the Molonglo.
Politics went so far off the boil during
the holiday season that “Labor” Deputy-
leader Calwell has been moved to try to
stoke up the fire. “ ‘Labor’ is playing a
watching role,” he said, “so that it will
be ready to step in and clean up the mess
left by the present Liberal-Country party
Government. The people must be edu-
cated to realise the innate rottenness of
capitalism.”
What the people have already been
educated to realise is the innate rotten-
ness of Socialism. Mr. Calwell’s veteran
colleague, Senator “Fixer” Ashley, has
been tottering about the Sydney “Labor”
lines letting off little crackers in the Press
about the “futility” of the Menzies Gov-
ernment, which “has been in office two
years and done nothing.” In point of
fact, for 18 months of that time the
“Fixer” and his fellow-obstructionists in
the Senate were in a position to prevent
any Government legislation at all, and
they made a dead cert, of it. Their
obstruction would be operating still if
the Governor-General had not “let us
down,” as the “Labor” party says, by
granting the Prime Minister a double-
dissolution, whereafter the people whom
Mr. Calwell wishes to re-educate voted to
“give the Government a fair go.”
As soon as the Government was
clothed with Parliamentary power to act
it proceeded to do so through its Budget
provisions. The inflationary disease had
become much worse during the 18-
months “Labor” blockade of the Gov-
ernment in the Senate. The Evatts, Cal-
wells and Ashleys hate like poison the
cutting-off of easy money for the boost-
ing to the skies of prices and wages;
after all, that was their policy for
socialising the country through inflation
in order to ruin all private-capital invest-
ment and soften-up industries for the
nationalising process. Their campaign
against private enterprise persuaded the
unions that a fair day’s work for fair
wages was no longer necessary, since the
less work was done the quicker
“capitalist” society would go haywire.
They pinned their faith to “price-control,”
which assured nothing save shorter and
shorter supplies to meet growing
demand.
This is the mob which demands that
the Menzies Government shall withdraw
the Budget, renew the spending spree
with larger free pensions and other hand-
outs, reduce taxation and flood the
financial watercourses with Treasury bills,
reduce interest-rates and fill Government
loans by compulsory methods, and so (in
Mr. Calwell’s words) “clean up the
mess.” Since the day (some weeks ago
now) when Mr. Jacky Ferguson, head of
the politbureau which gives the Evatts,
Calwells and Ashleys their orders, was
heard on a public platform declaring
that if a “Labor” Government was in
power it would have to take counter-
inflationary action much like that the
Menzies Government is taking, that
gentleman has vanished from sight and
hearing. Every other “Labor” spokes-
man has piped-down till the echo of Mr.
Ferguson’s words should have died
away. They are starting now to talk
again, relying on the public’s limited
capacity for remembering such things. If
the balloon rides all right no doubt Mr.
Ferguson himself will reappear with a
blast delivered against the anti-infla-
tionary iniquities of the Menzies-Fadden
Budget. That also will be in character.
Promising Transport Idea.
What could go a long way towards
overcoming the costly and time-wasting
business of transhipping goods at break-
of-gauge stations and of speeding-up
delivery of many kinds of goods from
railway-stations to warehouses, wharves
and other places, as well as bringing
about a real form of co-ordination
between road and rail transport, lies in
the plan of a Melbourne company.
It proposes to get perishable foods to
outback North Australia in refrigerated
containers. These, holding 12 tons of
frozen cargo, 15 tons of chilled or up to
20 tons of cooled stuff, could leave Mel-
bourne (say) and be opened up at Mt.
Isa or Tennant’s Creek as fresh as fhe
day they left.
Light rails will be laid on flat-top
railway-trucks. At a break-of-gauge point
the broad-gauge would be backed to the
narrow- or standard-gauge truck, also
laid with light rails, and the container
simply wheeled from one truck to the
other. For road-haulage a semi-trailer
similarly fitted with rails would take the
containers to and from railheads.
It doesn’t need much imagination to
see the possibilities in the notion. It
looks a lot more attractive than the vast
plan to standardise all the railway-lines,
would certainly be miles cheaper, and
could be put into operation almost at
once.
A Big Maoriland Industry.
From Auckland: With mid-1954 as the
target for the turning-out of the first
newsprint and pulp from Maoriland’s
State pine forests, planners of the big
£l5-million industry, which will dwarf all
other New Zealand manufacturing pro-
jects, are drawing up an exacting time-
schedula that will allow the builders just
30 months from the word “Go.”
Zero-hour to start construction is near.
As speed is the key, easygoing Maori-
landers will have to move more smartly
than has been their habit, but most
of the labor force, key operatives and
technical experts will come from abroad.
The alliance of the Fletcher building
combine with Yankee contractors is the
best guarantee that no time will be lost.
This union of forces was too powerful
for rivals in bidding for the permit, which
is sealed by Maoriland’s Government
with a promise of financial support.
Fletchers and the Merritt-Raymond
U.S. construction concern have already
shown their capacity to work together by
their partnership on Auckland’s new £2-
million import wharf, and it is an open
secret that they’re on their toes for the
contract for the Auckland Harbor bridge.
In big industry in Maoriland today they
have the field to themselves. They will
build the newsprint and pulp mills for
the Tasman Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd.,
which aspires to be a N.Z.-directed and
Australia-N.Z.-financed concern, with full
operating powers and with the Murupara
State forest at its disposal as a source for
the raw material.
State and private enterprise will be
linked together to carry the scheme
through, and later to make it pay. The
Government is committed to spend £l4
million-odd on railway and harbor facili-
ties, electricity-reticulation and some
hundreds of houses, and there is some-
thing intriguing in the prospect of a close
working union in which the State will
control the situation at both ends—that
is, on the supply-line to the forests and
on the export side —while private enter-
prise is in the middle.
The lion’s share of the £29 million to
cover capital costs will be put up by the
Government, which is prepared to find
15 p.c. of the £l5 million share-capital
to float the new co., besides sinking £l4
million in national development works
that will be its own responsibility. The
Tasman Co. will seek a big overseas loan
to pay for imported equipment and
materials, but expects to raise a shade
over half its flotation funds on this side
{Continued on next page.)


CBJOTEN
W
SHHI
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A'
ft
4189
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
of the world, to safeguard Dominion
control.
Annual production targets the co. has
set itself are 60,000 tons of newsprint, of
which N.Z. will take 30,000 tons, rising
in time to 40,000 tons; 40,000 tons of
kraft pulp, of which three-quarters will
be exported, mainly to Australia and
U.S.; and 40 million board feet of sawn
timber. By-products will be turpentine,
caustic soda, resin and some other
chemical lines.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament reassembles for a
short term on February 6 —primarily for
the purpose of ratifying the Japanese
Peace Treaty. While olive-branch talk
is in the air the opportunity will probably
be taken of putting through a really non-
controversial measure, which is expected
to have the hearty support of both sides
—the biff to increase members’ salaries.
Joel Moses Gabb, who a quarter of a
century ago refused to take his share of
a Salary Grab, died last year. Next
month will show whether he has any
spiritual successor at Canberra.
Dr. Evatt made it clear at the weekend
that “Labor” will oppose ratification of
the Japanese Peace Treaty when the bill
is introduced next month. He complained
that the negotiations for the treaty were
carried on in an atmosphere of politics
and expediency. The Doc. must have
been feeling out of sorts or surely that
would have been the very thing to
commend the treaty to him.
“Labor’s” professions of concern for
future danger to Australia from a
rejuvenated Japan would sound more
sincere if the party showed a little more
interest in the present defence of the
country.
When the Prices Ministers meet in
Sydney next week they will discuss pro-
posals for easing price-control on cloth-
ing and textiles. Merchants and retailers
have been urging this for some time,
pointing out that textile-production has
increased to such an extent that mills
have found it necessary to retrench staff,
and that, with goods piling up on the
shelves, retail-stores may soon face the
same problem. The argument is that
decontrol would enable stores to cut
prices on cheaper lines, thus increasing
turnover and recoup their losses by
increasing prices on more expensive
goods. This, of course, was normal trade
usage before price-control.
In France the National Assembly is
going through its familiar but apparently
ever-fascinating routine of locating
sufficient of its members who can find
a group o| subjects on which they can
think sufficiently alike sufficiently long
to form a Ministry. M. Pleven’s Govern-
ment, which fell last week, had been in
office five months, and that is almost
exactly the average fife of a French Gov-
ernment these days—there have been 15
of them since the Liberation. Owing to
the multiplicity of parties in France
almost every Government is a coalition,
and sectional interests begin to under-
mine it almost as soon as it is sworn in.
Financial disputes wrecked the Pleven
Government; the Socialists refused to
support its proposed economies in the
railways and social services.
In Belgium, too, the Government has
fallen through the unpopularity of its
measures to deal with the prices problem.
Yet Evatt and Co. speak as though the
cost-of-living crisis is peculiar to Aus-
tralia and directly attributable to the
Menzies Government.
The people of Sydney are, after all,
not so ungrateful to the surf life-saving
clubs as was suggested by the poor
response to the “Bob-in-the-boat” appeals
made on the beaches during the holidays.
On Thursday “S. M. Herald” opened a
subscription-list in aid of the fund, kick-
ing-in £5OO to give it a start. First-day
promises totalled £2786, and by Monday
the figure had grown to £6076.
A Melbourne “Argus” writer, com-
menting on the fact that on his arrival in
New York Churchill encountered some
pickets with signs, points out that picket-
ing is a business in the U.S.A. whereby
professional sign-carriers are hired by
this or that organisation and that
Winston shouldn’t believe that the sign-
carriers were against him. In conclusion,
the writer says “In the cause of Anglo-
American friendship it is important that
Mr. Churchill should know this.” Some-
body had better send him an “Argus.”
According to the calendar this is not
an election year in Australia, but it
wouldn’t take much rocking of the poli-
tical boat to send voters in three States
to the polls. Half Victoria’s Legislative
Councillors have to come up for re-
election next June, and there’ll be a big
temptation for Cain’s “Labor” boys to
pull the props from under McDonald’s
minority C.-P. Government and make it
an Assembly election, too. In Tasmania
the Cosgrove team has been virtually
governing on sufferance since June, 1950,
largely because, after three elections in
three years had through the mathematical
marvels of proportional-representation
produced a deadlocked House, party
funds and energies were too exhausted to
stand a fourth. Still, that was 18 months
ago, and there were signs of restiveness
in the Assembly before Christmas. The
third possibility is, of course, New South
Wales, where McGrrrrr’s maGeraghty of
one is always threatening to revolt.
An account for under £2 sent to a
Commonwealth Government department
came back to the sender last week with
five different rubber-stampings on it,
nine lots of initials and a variety of
pencillings and inkings-in. Oddly, per-
haps, it also included a cheque in pay-
ment, which was what the sender of the
account really wanted.
On Monday the Ironworkers’ civil
war had reached the stage where a
national conference at which A.L.P.
supporters outnumbered Communist
delegates was considering proposals
initiated by secretary Laurence Short,
designed to break the long domination
of the union by the Reds. Earlier, the
Commonwealth Bank had reversed its
decision not to allow the former Com-
munist officials of the union to operate
its bank account. Short intimated that
the conference would be asked to deal
with this matter, too, and also to
ascertain how much of the union’s funds
had been used for Communist purposes.
Meanwhile the former national president
of the Ironworkers, J. M. McKay, is
being asked by the Victorian A.L.P. to
show why he should not be expelled from
the party.
After all, it doesn’t matter any more
that Victorian Premier McDonald could
not prise more loan money out of the
Loan Council or, finally, the Federal
Treasurer. His wails about the effect of
the loan-cuts on the Kiewa hydro-
electric scheme have rent the air for
weeks. Now about 17 unions are shaping
to shut down the work on Kiewa tunnel
because the Victorian Electricity Com-
mission has increased charges at the
Kiewa hostel. Wages on these Victorian
works have been rising in a manner to
frighten taxpayers, but the unions do not,
it seems, recognise the consequences of
such wages on the cost of accommoda-
tion.
Wheat Board chairman Teasdale has
gone on record with the statement that
even fewer acres will be seeded with
wheat this autumn (last year’s acreage
was down by nearly 2,750,000), and that,
unless a miracle occurs, by 1953 there
will be only enough wheat sown to keep
local flourmills going and provide stock-
feed —none for export. Teasdale calls for
“the most heroic efforts by State and
Federal Government and wheatgrowers”
to avert this; that would constitute a
miracle.
A.C.T.U. president Monk has hopped
into the debate on falling wheat acreages.
“There’ll be a serious shortage,” he
trumpeted, “unless farmers or potential
farmers can be encouraged to use the
available land.” Now all Monk has to
do is encourage his unionists to do a
bit so that coal and steel will become
available to provide wheatgrowers with
machinery, spare-parts, transport and
other material.
Coalminers returned to work on
Monday after the long Christmas break
with the knowledge that Australia’s coal
requirements for 1952 would be in the
vicinity of 17,300,000 tons. On the ex-
perience of the past the total won’t be
reached, but if the miners could bring
themselves to put forward the same effort
throughout the year as they did during
the last fortnight before their holidays
the final total wouldn’t fall far short of
the goal.
Comrade Brown of the A.R.U. an-
nounces that his stooges will protest to
the Vic. Railway Commissioners against
the “high price” being paid to have Mel-
bourne’s Spencer-street station painted
for the Royal tour. If the design were
black hammer-and-sickles on a red back-
ground Comrade Brown wouldn’t care
what it cost.
“A Reminder” inserted in the advertis-
ing columns of the dailies by the N.S.W.
Electricity Commission told consumers
that “the electricity zoning regulations
which were relaxed for the holiday period
will again come into force on Monday,
January 14, 1952.” Kindly-intended no
doubt, it unfortunately appeared the
morning after one of the worst blackout
days for many months.
The McGrrrrrs work in mysterious
ways, but the wonders they perform are
not always of their own choosing. One
result of a thumping rise in country rail-
freights has been to drive thousands of
tons of land products from northern
N.S.W. into Queensland, to be carried
thence by rail to port and local market
far more cheaply. Probable next step:
Having thus reduced its own business, the
McGrrrrr railway outfit will shove its
rates up again, thereby accelerating the
rush across the border,
N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Sheahan, in the course of a statement on
the tram-ferry-bus argument:
Indiscipline in the community today
seems to have become so rampant that no
matter what is attempted it must be con-
demned before final details are approved.
The Minister may have some grounds for
resenting ill-advised criticism from ill-
informed critics, but in blaming it on to
“indiscipline in the community” he is on
the wrong bus-route. If a community has
faith in the wisdom of its rulers, based
on past experience of sound administra-
tion, it does not condemn in advance any
plans they put forward. But a community
which for years has suffered a Govern-
ment which blights everything it touches
must sooner or later reach the stage where
it doubts the Government’s capacity to
do anything right. That’s not indis-
cipline ; it’s a sign of an awakening from
slumber.
America has once more asked Russia
to return the 670 ships lent during the
war under lend-lease agreements. This
is an argument which has been going on
for years. Russia’s last word on the
subject, some months ago, was that there
were in any case only 498 vessels, not
counting two ice-breakers which were
held up in the ice. Fifty-six ships had
been lost during military operations “and
for other reasons.” The Soviet refused to
hand back any ships, maintaining that the
U.S. had promised to sell them to Russia.
The American viewpoint was that any
offer to sell was contingent on an overall
settlement of the lend-lease account,
which Russia had consistently refused to
consider although the original amount of
claim had been reduced from 2600 million
dollars to 800 million. Washington
wants Moscow to submit the dispute to
the World Court.
Another year has passed by without
any news of Macquarie-street’s Missing
Man—J. M. Baddeley, former N. S.
Wales deputy-Premier and Minister for
Mines, who was appointed Director of
State Coal Mines a few years ago and
hasn’t been heard from since.
A student at Memphis University (U.S.)
was found to be studying three days a
week at another university five miles
distant, getting top grades at both, editing
annuals at both, writing columns for two
university papers, doing sports-reporting
for a local rag, in summer working every
day at an ice-cream factory, and finding
time to look after a wife and two children.
Instead of presenting him with a medal
one university sacked him because it
feared he would have a nervous break-
down. Looks as if Australian trade-
union principles had got in somewhere.
Westralia is planning a new deep-
water port for the nor’-west. Sited at
Black Rocks, near Derby, it will take five
or six years to build, will cost a million,
and will, it is hoped, give an impetus to
the development in the West Kimberley
area. There’s still one snag—the Federal
Government has been asked to foot half
the bill. Its favorable decision, according
to McLarty, “is confidently expected.”
Queensland local-government bodies
are in desperate straits for funds, and all
they get when they ask the Brisbane
Government for help is a cold finger
pointed at Canberra, the Brisbane Gov-
ernment being in harmony with the Syd-
ney one in blaming Menzies and Fadden
for everything. Now the secretary of
the Queensland L.G. Association is talk-
ing about councillors and aldermen
staging “sit-down” strikes. That wouldn’t
worry the Brisbane Socialists —they’d be
only too happy to take over anything
they could get their hands on.
There is nothing very flattering in the
cabled report that manufacturers in
Milan, Italy, consider Australia their best
market for prefabricated houses. Italy
suffered much devastation in the war, and
Milan came in for its share of attention
from Allied bombers, yet its factories are
able to help meet the housing needs of
this country, which escaped scot-free, yet
can’t turn out sufficient building materials
to meet its own requirements.
A Melbourne paper claims that “Few
people agree with Mr. McDonald,
Premier, that Melbourne has solved its
traffic problem.” But few people agree
with Mr. McDonald anyhow.


i
a
°s>om 9
FANTASY.


One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
WHY
EDWARD LUMLEY CAN
EFFECT LARGEST SCALE
INSURANCES
at
Kmmt ßdted
Marine, Fire, Accident, Workers 1
Compensation and all forms off
Industrial and Commercial
Insurance
As insurance brokers, tied to no specific
insurance organisation, Edward Lumley &
Sons are able to secure for their clients
the best insurances on the most advan-
tageous terms. In fact, Edward Lumley
& Sons can, and do, effect insurances with
the foremost underwriting companies
throughout the world, including Lloyd’s
of London. A ’phone call, which will entail
no obligation, will bring an experienced
executive to discuss your insurance needs.
And in view of Edward Lumley & Sons’
exceptional buying facilities such a talk
will almost certainly prove to be of value
to your organisation.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: B 0538
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter Street, Newcastle. 6 1810
2 Magellan Street, Lismore. 'Phone 380
ELS.es.ie
Business. Rollery. etc.
Shares a Little Firmer
Though the sharemarkets
opened for 1952 on a slightly
higher general level, support
for different stocks was
patchy. Again market leaders
were mostly in demand, and
these still gave a low yield
—B.H.P. 3.2 p.c., A.C.I. 3.2 p.c..
Tooth 3.5 p.c.. Burns Philp 3.4
p.c., Henry Jones 3.1 p.c.,
Queensland Insurance 2.6 p.c,
and A.W.A. 2.8 p.c.
By contrast, old-established
but newly-listed concerns gave
considerably higher yields—
John Mcllwraith 5.4 p.c.,
Frederic Ash 6.3 p.c., A. J.
Benjamin 7.4 p.c. and F. J.
Walker 5.5 p.c. Some cos. with
longer listings also gave higher
yields—Bradford Cotton 5. p.c.,
Berlei 4.8 p.c.. Commonwealth
Engineering 5.6 p.c., Fairymead
5 p.c., Swans 5 p.c.
The next six months will prob-
ably be spent by many investors
in sorting out the solid from the
shaky among the multitude of
newer listings. High yields are
offering from some of these at
present prices and on last year’s
rate of dividend; but some
market observers are inclined to
wait and see what the div.-rate
is going to be for the year to
June 30 next before grading
these stocks.
Some new listings may prove
to be overcapitalised (the result
of a too-heavy vendor’s hand
at the time of conversion) as
time goes on ; and earnings will
be subject to heavier taxation in
the current year, which will
present trading difficulties for
some.
Attractive buying at present
appear to be Frederic Ash at
475. 6d. (yield 6.3 p.c.), Brad-
ford Cotton at 40s. (5 p.c.) and
John Mcllwraith (235. 3d., 5.4
p.c.).
Concerns having acute prob-
lems in present circumstances
are some woollen-textile cos.,
newspaper proprietaries, cloth-
ing wholesalers and timber
merchants.
Worsted Industries, Ltd.
The Sydney sharemarket is
rather slow to make up its
mind about the ss. shares in
"Basil! What have you done with the top of this clothesprop?”
Worsted Industries, Ltd., which
was floated in July last year,
when the public was offered
80,000 ss. shares at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each. The scrip
opened up with dealings at
around Bs., since when sellers
have been prepared to do
business at 75., with buyers
offering ss.
The subsidiary co., Man-
chester Weaving Mills Pty., Ltd.,
was formed in 1927 to take over
the Liverpool (N.S.W.) weaving
business started by Topen and
Ives. In 1935 a spinning section
was added. In addition to
making the yarn for weaving
into suitings and dress materials
the co. now sells yarn to other
weaving-mills.
On their old book-values, net
tangible assets were equal to
6s. 6d. for each of the 240,000
ss. shares which were issued by
Worsted Industries, Ltd., during
the float, including 160,000 that
were handed to shareholders in
Manchester Weaving Mills as
purchase consideration. On in-
dependent revaluations the back-
ing was equal to 11s. 7d. for
each ord. share.
During the year to June 30
last the subsidiary made a
profit, after stock-revaluations in
the light of lower wool prices,
of £8915. This was equal to a
shade under 15 p.c. on the capi-
tal of the parent co. as it now
stands.
The prospectus claimed a
profit of £7872 for the first half
of the year to June 30 last, so
that in the second half it would
appear that the profit was only
£1043. But stock-revaluation
would involve a recasting of
estimates for the whole trading
year, and it does not appear that
the second half of the period
was any less profitable than the
first.
Bringing into account capital-
issue and premiums since the
books closed at June 30, net
tangible backing per ss. share on
old book-values would be
6s. Bd. as at that date, after
deducting £10,154 which appears
as premium on share-purchase
in the consolidated accounts.
On a revaluation basis the back-
ing would be nearer 12s. per
share.
Stocks were in the bodes at
£84,459 at June 30, when out-
siders, including the tax depart-
ment, were owed £71,034. Since
then the business has had the
benefit of £30,000 more capital
and share premiums, so that
finances should be comfortable.
Total fixed assets were then
£17,333 in the books, excluding
the £10,154 premium paid for
shares in Manchester Weaving.
The co. appears to be over the
hurdle presented by the fall in
wool prices. It has keen
management that has been very
successful in the past, and
though conditions in the trade
are now rather difficult, on De-
cember 6 the co.’s board re-
ported that since the accounts
closed turnover has been well
maintained, “whilst orders in
hand are of sufficient quantity to
give rise to optimism for the
remaining portion of the
current financial year.”
It is anticipated by the board
that, “subject to unforeseen
eventualities,” the co. will be in
a position to pay an interim of
10 p.c. ip March this year. On
a 10 p.c. div. basis the ss. shares
would yield 7.1 p.c. at 7s. And
there appears to be a good deal
of inner strength remaining in
the book-value of assets.
Lakes Entrance
“Petro”: The announcement,
made in August last, that the
pumping of oil from the shaft at
Lakes Entrance in East Gipps-
land, Victoria, was to cease
owing to the uneconomical
volume of production and the
refusal of the Government to
provide further subsidy (B,
12/9/’5l) appeared to mark the
end of the absorption of public
funds by the search for oil in
that area.
Now, however, the Minister
for National Development,
Senator Spooner, says that the
Federal Government, in con-
junction with Lakes Oil, Ltd.,
and the Victorian State Govern-
ment, is undertaking further
surveys and investigations in the
Lakes Entrance district.
The issue is confused by the
Senator’s statement that no evid-
ence has been produced of the
existence of significant quantities
of oil there, and that there is no
justification for the Government
to do other than accept the
advice of its experts.
The matter became further in-
volved when he added that this
did not mean the abandonment
of hope of striking commercial
oil in the district, and that it
was better to expend Common-
wealth money where there were
some prospects of success than
to make financial assistance
available against the weight of
expert technical advice.
The weight of the advice of
experienced oil technologists has
certainly been preponderantly
against any possibility of com-
mercial production in East
Gippsland, but those with little
or no practical experience in
petroleum geology appear to
have been misled by published
estimates of the total oil content
of the Lakes Entrance reservoir
beds, which have little relation-
ship to the amount of crude oil
commercially recoverable by
any known technique.
Now that Lakes Oil, Ltd., has
ceased production it is difficult
to appreciate what useful con-
tribution it can make to the
extended survey, and it is
hard to justify the diver-
sion of the part of the technical
staff of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources from the urgently re-
quired work of collating and
supplementing data of the several
States Departments of Mines on
coal and metalliferous ores to a
forlorn search for petroleum in
an area which has never
attracted responsible and experi-
enced oil companies.
This may be an explanation
of the confused and involved
nature of the Senator’s state-
ment when he announced the
decision to expend still further
the time of Federal technical
officers and public funds on un-
certain projects which would be
much better handled by private
enterprise—if such could be in-
duced to become interested.


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
CKSUIX1VAW
pirua
w*o«
MAftR
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
|AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS 5 ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
he has a
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —•
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERB
lets like a band
when placed flat
Yrm -.in I upon the orifice.
ln «u !r at once * without effort and
withL m °. Vements - control y°«r hernia
l and security. It cannot
has by vi , olent movement and
all 3 W hn°K d c ?“ p i etel y successful by
? i lave trie d it.
u T"* c J* at/ f° r fr be LITERATURE.
djstbibution CO.
pt. 2J), 248 Elisabeth St, Sydney
sfs
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies „ fiel fie; 2 Jr
Yearly Subscription..; K . ; 22/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
C. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
m
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.tt7S.IS ‘
555-
U€t
•ir
If
isgg
r«£
M i ■'
/ ~ ?% '
w
mm.
•-•:-■ .
5
. :-■
mi
..■■■.
.
-
mmm
m i
m
BY APPOINTMENT
AftOATH TOBACCO CO. CTB.
Sme (kPßiss
CIOARCTTB MANUPACTUntft* f
TO H.H. JUM* lIOMI mS
asm
SJi
■3 5^
State Express 555 Cigarettes appeal
especially to smokers who know
and appreciate that extra touch
of quality. Made slowly and with
particular care. Three Five’s” always
maintain their fine reputation gained
throughout the world over more than 50 years.
StqteQphpss 555
(three fives }
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
N.Z. Credit Policy
Maoriland’s Reserve Bank is
putting teeth into credit-controls
as it gets ready to curb overdraft
expansion in the opening months
of 1952, and has ordered the
trading banks to screen all over-
drafts more closely.
The first to shake in their
shoes have been traders with
over-extended accounts, who
took a plunge and missed in the
past year’s scramble to make fat
profits under freer trade. They’ve
been carried by the banks since,
with total advances inflated to
nearly 30 p.c. above the 1951
opening level of £ll3 million;
and the Reserve Bank, with
more real power than when it
had to dance to the tune of the
Socialist money-spinners, is de-
termined not to let this go on.
As the trading banks have
always co-operated with it in a
good spirit, partly because it
doesn’t compete with them, slim-
ming in credit can be taken for
granted as Maoriland turns its
back on cheap and easy money.
Under the new order the
banks will: (1) put the rule over
all accounts where limits exceed
£lO,OOO, or where borrowers
have been leaning too heavily
on the banks in relation to their
capital; (2) give a flat “No” to
importers’ appeals for more
funds, except for “tiding-over”
the temporary overgrowth in
stocks ; (3) tighten-up on hire-
purchase finance; (4) keep a
watchful eye on all borrowers
below £lO,OOO.
Bank credit has been helping
to drain away a sizeable propor-
tion of New Zealand’s exchange
reserves, and governor E. C.
Fussell, of the R. 8., has warned
that this drain Could not be met
for long. Some of the credit
has been used as working capi-
tal to fill the widening gap as
rising inflation has left cos.
more and more undercapitalised.
Banks don’t exist mainly to lend
for these purposes, and if they
let themselves be drawn into
this sort of financing on a con-
siderable scale upward pressure
on prices is the result, as Maori-
land has learned.
The moves didn’t come as a
surprise to business or investors.
The writing had been on the wall
for some time. Cos. will have to
rely on the public now for funds
to bring capital more into line
with their needs, and it will be
a help if Capital-issues Control,
which operates in N.Z. for all
amounts of £lO,OOO and up-
wards, is a little more lenient in
fixing premiums. Some issues
of late haven’t been easy to
float.
Maoriland is following in the
footsteps of banks in other
countries as it plumps for
tighter and dearer money. Busi-
ness and industry could do with
millions that have been lying
idle in the vaults earning nothing
and making the Dominion’s
money-system too liquid. At
least some of these millions
should be put to work.
Taxation and Production
New Zealand has learnt, after
months of waiting, that the way
to arrive at a plan for taxr
reform is not to pick experts
from national organisations and
ask them to do the job. Maori-
landers were hoping that the
dozen experts who spent six
months delving into taxes,
anomalies, weaknesses and
dangers would be able to pro-
duce a blueprint for a brand-new
tax system to replace that
planned 28 years ago and
amended year after year until
the original was almost unrecog-
nisable ; but from the Govern-
ment downwards they’ve been
disappointed. The committee of
lawyers, accountants, manufac-
turers, commerce-leaders and
representatives of farmers, labor-
unions and stock-and-station
agents did a lot of hard work
and hatched out a crop of
useful findings, but on the
major issue of company-tax
reform it split in half, with six
in favor of taxing dividends in
the hands of shareholders, as
well as profits in the hands of
companies, and the other six for
a rival plan to assess cos. on a
flat-rate basis.
It’s a safe bet that Maofi-
landers will give their casting-
vote for the rival plan, or some
modification of it, which will
leave divs. tax-free, will avoid
wholesale revaluation of shares,
and will disturb taxes as little as
possible. Cos. will continue to
pass on as much of the tax-load
as they can in prices, and con-
sumers will pay through the cost-
of-living.
The Government, disillu-
sioned, sat on the report until
Parliament adjourned, three
weeks before Christmas, then
released it when everyone, above
all the businessman, was too
deep in end-of-year trade to give
it more than a passing glance,
and all organisations were going
into recess. There’ll be no
chance of whipping up interest
in the new year unless some-
thing is done to give the public a
lead. The Government, sitting
on the fence, is looking for
guidance, but is more likely to
be nonplussed by silence or be-
wildered by conflicting views
than to be shown a way out. It
would have more prospect of
help if it put the issue to some
outstanding financial and taxa-
tion authority abroad, asked him
to weigh the evidence and sought
his advice on the course to
follow. If it doesn’t seek some
help like this, Government and
Parliament will only get into
deeper water.
Many Maorilanders think the
dual system of taxing profits
and divs. has merits their present
method of levying the whole
amount on cos. lacks, but others
like the simplicity of their
system, although they’re not
happy about the high rates
larger cos. have to pay. Taxes
on the present scale strike at
incentive, and there’s nothing
M.L. needs more today than a
spur to production. If output
could be lifted the manpower
shortage would lose its strangle-
hold, goods would be cheaper,
real prosperity would receive a
fillip and tax-income itself would
come in for a share of the gain.
Looking ahead, the outlook
for the Welfare State is shaky
unless the pace in industry can
be quickened. The staggering
cost of social-security benefits,
now close to a million and a
quarter weekly, couldn’t be met
if the tax yield fell, and the tax
committee has put its finger on
a vital weakness in warning all
Maorilanders of the dangers of
the “vast inflationary process”
of misnamed social security,
without any actuarial basis,
reserves or guarantee of future
income. Since the mushroom
growth of the Welfare State
under the Socialists, which has
been checked, though not halted,
by the Holland Government, it
has become clear that New
Zealand is to some extent living
on capital, which is like a cow
drinking its own milk, and this
doesn’t breed efficiency, enter-
prise, thrift or industry. There’s
a connection between the
financial drift and the produc-
tion drift, and reform is as neces-
sary on the one side as on the
other. Maorilanders have had a
small instalment of tax cuts
lately, but they want something
more substantial in 1952, what-
ever happens to the proposals
for tax-reform. As the issue is
bound up with record State
spending, a national economy
campaign and tax-relief must
go together.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Harbel”: In the heart of the noise,
hustle and bad manners of Sydney there
is an oasis that calls me every time I go
to town. It is situated in an upstairs
gallery of a large bookshop. There the
clock turns back —or perhaps it never
advanced. Even the books have lost that
stiff, haughty, new look. Amongst the
hundreds of secondhand volumes are old
friends of long ago, a few ancient
enemies—mainly from schooldays—and
modern publications that offer an enjoy-
able acquaintance. Attendants neither
hover around with irritating impatience
nor remain insultingly indifferent when
a customer has made a selection. Ask
the time as one of the elderly, courteous
assistants is wrapping up your purchase
and he will shoot no glance at his wrist;
instead his right hand will traverse his
gold chain lovingly, produce a gold
hunter with a graceful gesture, open it
with a snap and announce “Two forty-
eight, sir,” or something of the kind.
Never “Twelve to three, mate.” The
brown-paper parcel will not be stuck
down with transparent adhesive-tape; it
will be tied neatly fore, aft and across —
with a loop of string provided for carry-
ing purposes. And all that for —as the
docket will indicate —“Two volumes, 65.”
♦ * * »
“Casca”: Unesco researchers have dis-
covered an Australian plant “of the
sorrel variety” growing vigorously at
Alamein, the seed having been scattered
when soldiers were feeding their horses
during War 11. Different kinds of fodder
were used by the various cavalry
regiments of the Eighth Army, accord-
ing to the breeds of their mounts. The
light chargers of the Hussars had a dif-
ferent diet from the heavy General Grant
draught breeds of the 7th Armored Divi-
sion—and, of course, some of the fodder
may have come from Maribymong or
Lithgow. But it must have been an
unusual kind of seed that was scattered
at Alamein —it made such a helluva noise
when it hit the ground.
* * ♦ *
“Becks”: Easily the most popular
sport in the world today is Sphairistike, a
ball-game invented in 1874 by an English-
man, Major Walter Wingfield, and at first
played on a court shaped like an hour-
glass. Sphairistike got away to a flying
start. The first British championship
tournament was played in 1877, and the
game soon spread to the Continent and
America, and then throughout the whole
world, so that today there is no civilised
country in which it is not played. An
international trophy, played for annually,
attracts teams from more than 40 coun-
tries. The hourglass shape of the court
disappeared early in the piece ; so, appar-
ently, did the original name of the game.
It was an awkward word, anyway, so
it’s no wonder Sedgman and Co. prefer
to call their favorite sport lawn-tennis.
* ♦ * *
“Cauboy”; Diana Barrymore’s ter-
minating her contract at Melbourne
Princess at the beginning of the run of
Coward’s “Fallen Angels” because pro-
ducer Eric Reiman, so she says, wanted
to cut out some of the business with
which she produced gales of laughter
from the audience at the first night
recalls the biggest laugh that has ever
been raised in a Melbourne theatre. This
was when two heroes in a blood-and-
thunder melodrama arrived on the stage
at the same time and threw themselves
at the feet of the heroine. The leading
man had been celebrating, and turned up,
much the worse for wear, just before the
rise of the curtain. He was put to bed
in his dressing-room, and promptly sank
into a profound slumber, from which he
was awakened half-an-hour later by the
words, spoken by the heroine, of a well-
remembered cue: “Is there none who will
defend me from this villain?” Hastily
arising from his couch, the leading man
dashed on to the boards from the prompt
side with “I will,” just as his understudy
rushed on with the same offer from the
other side. An unimaginative manage-
ment rejected the suggestion that the turn
should be repeated nightly for the
remainder of the season.
* * * ♦
“Ymar”: Maybe Rachel Henning
wouldn’t allow Mr, Somerville to crack
peach-stones on her kitchen table (B.
19/12/’5l), but I knew an Australian-
born country housewife who, after select-
ing the day’s meat from the farm-killed
sheep, cut it up with a cleaver on a
corner of hers. When she wanted a
blackwood extension-table she saw adver-
tised at a local sale her husband asked,
“Would you cut up the meat on that ?”
“If I wanted to!” she declared. She
didn’t get the blackwood, but when the
corner of the kitchen table was so far
hacked away that the leg fell out she did
get a new table. Since then it’s been
husband who selects the joint and brings
it to the kitchen ready for the oven.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: None of the scribes
who recently chronicled the decease of
the American lady who dispensed journa-
listic balm to the world’s lovelorn for
over half a century recalled that 25
years ago she visited Australia, where
her name is now perpetuated in die term
for questions released by Parliamen-
tarians according to the fire-orders pre-
pared by party bosses. Actually Dorothy
Dix was the third of a trio of the same
name which has won world fame for her
sex. i The first, born in America in 1808,
was a pioneer reformer in the treatment
of the mentally ill. After successfully
hazing the authorities of her own State
into some palliative methods, she turned
“Mr. Mahlstick is very busy. Can you call back laler ?”
her attentions to adjoining Administra-
tions, and from there swept through
Scotland, England, France, Turkey and
even the Vatican State, doing a mighty
job in alleviating the lot of the mentally
afflicted. She also founded the Ameri-
can Army Nursing Service, which had its
baptism of fire in the Civil War. The
surviving Dorothy Dix is the British
Empire’s first woman judge, appointed
recorder of the County of Kent in 1946.
* * * *
“LB.”; I write in defence of “Macnell”
and in defiance of “Nobby II.” Nautical
history does not report what flags Noah
was wearing when he ran the Ark ashore
on Ararat, but no nautical publications
of the past, historical or otherwise, refer
to any vessel “wearing” flags. Half a
century ago in the halcyon days of the
British Empire when British boot-topping
was seen in every port, when the White
Ensign and the Red Duster really ruled
the waves, no Britisher ever referred to
any ship wearing anything. That was
reserved for the ladies who were discussed
with gilsto in the dog-watches—what they
did wear alsft or below. No blue-water
shellback ever heard of the word wear
except in regard to “wearing ship.” The
years 1900-14 were the heydays of the
Royal Navy and the old mercantile
marine, when one either served the
owners, the King or the parish-rigged
Geordie tramps. In those days when ton-
nage was built by the mile and cut off by
the yard—we flew flags and we served in
ships. AH these newfangled ideas have
originated from Paymaster Talbot-Booth
and other blokes who don’t know the
difference between the key of the
keelson and a harness-cask.
jjj
“Jubilee”: “Old-timer” (B, 5/12/’5l)
seems to have his facts well-established
with the story of the origin of “Send it
down, Huie,” and his “40 years or more ”
rather proves his case. But here’s my
experience. In 1912, in a bush boarding-
house in New Zealand, a packman was
being walked about to keep him awake
after taking a bottle of lysol under the
influence of a disappointment in love.
“Come on,” said his mate, “pull yourself
together; we’ve got to take the pack-
horses out tomorrow.” A quiet stranger,
who may have been an Aussie, drawled
“He’ll take no packhorses out. He’ll
soon see Huie now.” The packman died.
Accepting “Old-timer’s” story as correct,
mine is at least interesting in showing
the speed of travel of a misconception.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: Crowded bars nowadays
preclude such pastimes,. but possibly
somewhere in Australia there is still a
pub where the stranger is invited to play
“Corker-loo.” In the days when I
encountered it the mug used to be
inveigled into a discussion on the speed
of his reflexes, and was induced to take
P&rt in a contest to test them. Each man,
stood opposite a cork on the bar, and at
a signal had to spring forward and hold
his cork" up; the last to do so had to
shout for the mob. Tensed for action the
victim would bound forward and wave
his cork aloft triumphantly, to find be
was the only one to do so; the others
merely feinting at theirs. Technically he
was die last to hold up his cork, and
weight of numbers prevented him from
doing anything but pay the penalty. This,
of course, was good for only one round,
but “being the crow” provided free drinks
for all in the know till the mug woke up.
The ringleader would produce slips of
paper, a hat and pencil. He would care-
fully write “crow” on a slip, show it
round and drop it in the hat. Then each
player would call out in turn the name of
some other bird, the m.c. would write a
name on a slip, and drop it in the hat
which was then passed round ; the one to
draw “crow” having to shout. Somehow
the guileless stranger always seemed to
pull out the crow. The explanation, of
course, was that the villain in charge
would write “crow” on every slip.
* * * «
“Ex-C.G.”: I can go back a long way,
bht I don’t remember Melbourne’s Block
(B. 9/1//52) being,full of “social activity”
on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. In
winter the social activity occurred at the
football-grounds, and in summer on the
beaches and in the hills. When the Block
really came into its own was on Friday
nights, when not only the Block but all
Bourke-street from Paddy’s Market to
Spencer-street, Elizabeth- and Swanston-
as far as Victoria-street, and Collins- and
all the “Little”-streets in between were
thronged. But the press was greatest on
the Block, where a bloke met his bit o’
skirt after he’d shaved and dressed in his
new blue-twill suit and black velour hat
and the patent-leather boots with the kid
uppers, and strolled round and round,
waiting occasionally while she bobbed
into a haberdashery and exchanging com-
pliments with cobbers on the same lurk.
You could spring her a decent brooch
for a dollar or a bunch of daphne for a
brown, and if she happened to be wear-
ing a pair of the new black silk open-
work stockings and had just had her hair
bobbed your chest stuck out another inch
and you were a prince of the boulevard,
and she the dead livin’ spit of Helen of
Troy or Chloe or any one of them famous
clinahs. Tomorrow was Saturday, and
there was half a day’s work to do and
get to the football in the afternoon, but
tonight—ah, whatcha giyin’ us about
Saturday afternoons?
* * ♦ *
“5 G.R.”; I’ll flatten anybody who
wants to scrap Melbourne’s trams in
favor of buses. The part they play in
keeping citizens.physically fit can scarcely
be exaggerated. We have to climb in by
sheer strength at peak periods, and hang
on inside by fingertips. With the no-
footboard-riding law in force, passengers
learn the art of balancing on their toes
as well, while their bulk hangs out. But
another argument in favor of trams was
evidenced on Christmas Eve in South
Melbourne when a packed juggernaut
arrived at a stop where a lady and two
gentlemen were juggling with a heavy
weight in a wheat-sack. There was a
slight delay' while they had friendly
words with the tram-driver; then they
parked their heavy package on the front
bumper-bar. How else would they have
got their “niner” to the terminus?
m
ADVICE.
“Four koalas have been sent to Hollywood to
appear in the film ‘Botany Bay.’ ”
Australians go as new ones come,
And four koalas catch the mood,
Exchanging the Australian gum
For the exotic Holly-wood.
These little scraps of fur—so nice,
Such innocents abroad! —well may
Be grateful for some good advice
To aid them when they’re fur away; —
Beware the cheesecake photograph!
An actress can strip anywhere,
With good results, from neck to calf—
But what can a koala bare?
Charm not the public sympathies
With incense such as Mitchum smoked;
Let Coca-Cola’s devotees
Be spared frbm a koala coked!
Beware the awful aftermath
Of getting known as rising starlets;
The bathing-suit, the bubble-bath,
End the careers of most koalets.
Deny to Donald Duck his wish —
The Indian Runner’s rich persuasion;
It’s virtue in a good hot dish
To figure as a cold koalation!
Play up, koalas, play the game!
And if you do it with success,
Innocence, truth and filmland fame
Will, for the first time, koalesce.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Billy S.”: From an entertainment
angle the biggest laugh I got out of 1951
was the unconscious beauty put over in a
tear-jerking radio serial. After the drama
had snaked its way along for weeks and
months the middle-aged hero’s wife went
into hospital to have a baby. Followed
harrowing sequences with wife at death’s
door and worried husband pacing up and
down the corridor. Then a nurse tells
the husband all will be well—a message
of hope for him and presumably for
thousands of listeners spread throughout
the land—and the husband replies, “If
only I could do something, I feel so
impotent .”
* * * v
“Sebak”: Is there any prefix in the
English language more constantly used
than “super”? My dictionary is a mere
midget, but it lists 60 words between
superabound and supervisor. Then there
are the words that have come into use
since the old-fashioned little volume was
compiled; supercharger, superheated,
supersonic, etc., not forgetting—nor for-
giving-superman. And the prefix is
infiltrating even farther into our lives.
Recently I was in a florist-nurseryman’s
shop when a good-looking young fellow
"No! I’ m NOT a mermaid!"
entered and asked for “Super No. 5.”
Inra • Contr^ve d to look arch while also
co ™P lete ly blank. One Shirl was
to the assistance. She duplicated
tnr., ex P ress i°ns of her colleague. “You
bliuT- su P e FPh°sphate,” explained the
a dm- in * g °^J ec t of their flagrantly open
adpuratioa. They did not know. With
vrmnE ail L S °* Owning eyes on him the
dra™ S i °«P ma do a self-conscious with-
of Oh. boy! What d’you think
nn, Shirl?” breathed the girl with
the widgie haircut. In five letters Shirl
expressed everything: “Super!”
* * * *
Lao-dah”; There’s nothing new in
the idea of a universal picture-laneuaee
9/1 /’52). The Egyptians had one ; so
did the Chinese. The Chinese ideograph,
for man was originally two arms, two
legs, a head and a body. The arms and
the head vanished through the ages, but
the symbol is still recognisable as a
picture. Happiness was represented by
the combination of a hand, a mouth and
a field, the notion being that the labor of
one pair of hands working one field filled
one mo . uth : the .very sound Celestial idea
of felicity in this world. The advantage
of the Chinese picture-language is that
every literate Chinaman can read it,
though the sound he gives each picture
will be determined by the province or
even the town he comes from. If Mr.
Bliss s picture-language catches on we
will all be able to write or televise to
Eskimos or Frenchmen and read their
books and newspapers, but we won’t be
able to talk to them any better than we
do now.
* * * *
Macdee”: One of my writer friends
complained to me that his cowboy stories
—on the American pattern and set in the
States—written for an Australian pub-
lisher, had been copied by an American
publisher, without payment. He did not
appreciate the compliment. I learned in
conversation with him that some Aus-
tralian writers of Westerns have acquired
such facility in their “art” that they are
considered better than their American
contemporaries. Maybe here is a way to
break the dollar drought. Let Professor
Copland recommend a chair of “Western
Literature” at the National University at
Canberra, open to paying students from
U.S.A.
* * * *
“Uramao”; Though Winston Churchill
once said a man couldn’t make a good
speech on iced water, other factors helped
him to develop his effective use of
common words. In his autobiography
he tells of a rebuff he once received for
his youthful tendency to indulge in
purple patches. After the Sudan cam-
paign he wrote a history of it entitled
The River War. To acquire style he
studied Macaulay and Gibbon, and was
coached on the voyage home from Africa
by war-correspondent G. W. Steevens.
While working at his history in the saloon
of the Indiaman under the eye of
Steevens Winnie was carried away with
his narrative. “The dawn was break-
ing,” “the mists were rising from the
river,” and “within the stern amphitheatre
one of the minor dramas of war was to be
enacted” evoked from Steevens “Ha!
Ha!” Winston said angrily “Finish it
yourself, then,” and walked up on deck.
When he cooled down he went back to
the saloon. Steevens had gone, but the
manuscript was still where he had left
it. In the margin were the words: “Pop-
pop! Pop-pop! Pop! Pop!” and at the
foot the word in large letters: “BANG! ”
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: A major mystery of
Sydney life for me is the identity of the
pavement moralist who chalks “Eternity”
on city and suburban footpaths. He must
cover a considerable territory in a night,
for I have seen the warning word newly-
written at Bondi and in Pitt-street on the
same morning. Until the other day I
thought Mr. Eternity had no other
vocabulary beyond that word. I was
wrong, for chalked outside the Lottery
Office last week in his copperplate
calligraphy was the challenging slogan:
“God or Mammon?”
“C.Q.”; When a Melbourne man took
a trip out to the suburbs he was
astonished to find a house being built on
a block he owned. Inquiry revealed the
alleged disposal of title of block by a
salesman ; an arrest followed, and four
charges of forgery and one of larceny by
bailee. In pre-war days, during a land-
boom, a Mildura man bought a block in
the same district, and on his Show trip
to Melbourne 10 years later took a look
at his property; he found a Catholic
school in full operation. It was a sur-
veyor’s mistake in this case, and the
country-man took no advantage of an
embarrassing situation beyond charging
the church the rate then ruling.
♦ * * *
“Clooter”: As a golfer of some experi-
ence and no renown it depresses my
ancient soul to see so many youths taking
up a game which is not a youthful game.
Apart from other aspects, golf is not a
teams game ; it is purely an individualistic
affair, and if sport is to be of any use in
“Ain't I ever gonna get a bike of my own?"
chara»ter-building for the young it must
be used to teach them the virtues of pull-
ing together. Oh, I know something of
the sort could be said of tennis, but
modern tennis is an affair of wild and
strenuous flurries of short duration,
whereas golf is a leisurely business entail-
ing a three to four hours’ stroll around
open spaces, speed and noise being taboo,
and the very nature of it an encourage-
ment to philosophy. No, I don’t like
youths playing golf—they’re generally too
good at it.
* * * *
“Garward”: The Nips, back-pedalling
down the Kokoda Trail, were replaced by
a smaller but collectively greater menace
in the form of bush-rats which, in count-
less battalions, overran our artillery-post
on the outskirts of Moresby. Rusty,
smarting under the overnight reduction
of a delicately nurtured moustache to a
stubbly bristle, viewed disgustedly the
failure of a legion of devices claimed by
their inventors as overwhelmingly suc-
cessful against rats and satirised the in-
ventors by himself producing a chestnut
among Heath Robinson devices. This
was a flat stone suspended above a piece
of cheese sprinkled with pepper, the
theory being that the rat would dash his
brains out against the overhanging rock
in the sudden upwards head-movement
promoted by the sneeze caused by
the pepper. What surprised Rusty
were two dead rodents who appeared to
have died in exactly the manner pre-
scribed. Fortunately we were able to
maintain a continuity of dead rats, so
that, at the time we moved out, his faith
in the device was still unshaken.
♦ * * ♦
“Bo”: A doctor writing in the British
Medical Journal points out that the
pressure exerted by the dentist during an
extraction causes pain in the jawbone on
the opposite side, and suggests that the
pain would disappear if the dentist were
to allow the patient to bite hard on his
unoccupied thumb, injury to which could
be avoided by wrapping it in eight thick-
nesses of gauze held by a rubber-band.
The suggestion seems an excellent one.
The thought constantly in the dentist’s
mind as he worked on a stubborn molar
that the strong, horselike teeth of his
patient were quite capable of going
through rubber-band and gauze and
effecting a neat amputation of his top
joint would ensure that completely
relaxed frame of mind in which the
dentist, like the golfer, is at his best.
There is, however, one slight weakness
in the scheme: would not the patient’s
jaw, biting down hard on the rubber,
bounce off it so hard and thus open his
mouth so wide as to risk the dentist’s
getting an attack of vertigo as he gazed
down the suddenly wide-open gullet? Or
mightn’t it cause the patient a fractured
jaw? Perhaps it would be better to give
him a large piece of Bulgarian-rock to
chew on that side —his concentration on
the problem of how to swallow the juice
with his mouth open while the dentist
was tugging away should make him
almost oblivious of what was going on.
* * * *
“Ben Ari”; As the three of us smoked
our way through the anxious hours in
the maternity-hospital waiting-room our
tongues clattered, mostly on things we
knew nothing about. At last the
conversation turned to railways. I
mentioned that my maternal grandfather
was a young civil engineer in ’B6 when
hundreds of Chinese were employed to
lay the rails between Darwin and Pine
Creek —and how those Chows could lay
rails without the spur of a basic tenner!
My tale was interrupted by the appear-
ance of a business-like young nurse with
a howling bundle. All three of us stood
to attention with ill-restrained expect-
ancy. The nurse beckoned to me while
my erstwhile companions edged up
curiously. As I parted the folds of blue
blanket the yellow rays of the tinted
fluorescent tube fell on a slant-eyed face
which had ceased bellowing long enough
to don an appearance of sudden Oriental
inscrutability. Incoherent with delight I
did not register the admiring audience’
comments at the time, but, thinking back
I have a strong feeling someone saic
“throwback.”
* * . * 4c
“Teeperce”; Many of us have fount
ourselves in agreement with the schoolboy
announcement that “Latin stinks” (B
19/12/’5l), but I remember one occasion
on which it proved useful. When our
battalion occupied the Cyrenaican hamlet
of Slonta we had no Italian-speaking man
on strength and no single villager had a
word of the English, so it seemed we were
up against a stone-wall in the matter of
passing on orders to the civilian popula-
tion. Suddenly inspiration came, and
Intelligence arranged a rendezvous be-
tween the village priest and our R.M.O.
It was a harrowing business, but, out of
the lingual marriage of convenience be-
tween the cleric’s liturgical language and
the doctor’s dog-Latin, a hybrid lingua
franca was conceived. Orders were trans-
lated from English to dog-Latin, from
thence to ecclesiastical Latin and from
thence to modern Italian, thus saving the
villagers from collective apoplexy, which
point they were dangerously near in their
frenzied desire to co-operate.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Stranded in a north-west
town, a Perth man was asked'to make up
a four at bridge with the local magistrate,
the publican and the hamlet’s one con-
stable, At midnight the publican had to
pull out, so the cop undertook to find
another, player to keep the game going.
He returned in about ten minutes with
a quietly-spoken chap who played a very
conservative, but sound, game. An hour
or so later the John and his friend left,
but the constable was soon back for a
yarn before turning-in. “Where did your
mate go?” asked the visitor. “Oh,” the
John explained, “I had to put him back
in the cooler.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: A food that graced the
spacious later days of Queen Victoria,
but now seems lost, was the sheep’s-
trotter. Round Ballarat of the gold-
digging days a couple of Cockneys used
to visit the killing-pens collecting the feet
left hanging to the sheepskins. By some
subtle alchemy these were turned out on
to the trays of butcher-shops, delicately
white. Stewed with parsley and served
with sauce they made a small boy feel
glad he had been born. Reboiled and
cooled in jelly they went on as counter-
lunch in many of the hotels. Just fancy
lining up to a tray of fresh buttered rolls
and jellied sheep’s-trotters, the only sanc-
tion for entry being a threepence for a
pint of beer!
ANOTHER NEW DEAL.
“The basis of a new technique in haircutting for
men, designed by its sponsor to make ‘the same
pleasant improvement on a man that women take for
granted,’ is ‘structural’ cutting; this will depend on
the shape and features of the face and will include
the upswept mode, side-training, etc.”
you who’ve regarded rather as a trial
The craggy dial
Handed to you by Nature; to be borne
Rather than relished,
Heart up! The latest in tonsorjal art
Now plays its part;
Your frontispiece, by hair cleverly shorn,
May be embellished.
It’s been accepted far too long that Man,
The also-ran
In Beauty Stakes, should leave the hair-do field
All to the ladies.
His homely clock (with looseness they deduced)
Needed no boost.
This attitude, it now has been revealed,
Quite retrograde is.
Have you eroded patches on the dome?
Scissors and comb
(With butterfly-clips to hold in place the curls)
Wielded with cunning
Will make what’s left an upswept glory so
Fetching, you know.
That in the smiles of the admiring girls
You’ll soon be sunning.
Despair no longer, brother, if your phiz
Lantern-jawed is,
Its contours not unlike a horse’s, shaped
Much like a fiddle.
Adonis-like you’ll seem when side-burns sprout
And go straight out,
To lend it “balance,” with your hair all draped
Towards the middle.
If with a face that’s rounded like the moon
You look a goon
Despite that you have tried to break it down
By growing a zonker,
Just let your barber have a go. You’ll find,
When he’s designed
A fitting hair-do, all your former clown-
Like looks he’ll conquer.
No matter what the features of your mug—
Waterwing lug
Or broken nose —of handsomeness you’ll be
The proud possessor
By having a “structural” hair-do. Still, I’ll bet
The benefit you get
Will be far less than that gained easily
By your hairdresser!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


■i
* X
Vfusadee
if
m
STA
|||||
• SSS ■>,
,-rr. Sf.ts
■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
The Letters of Rachel Henning
Springfield,
November 27, 1 882.
My Dearest Etta,
I was going to write to you
by this mail, and now I have to
thank you for two copies of the
“Graphic,” which we have
received lately. The last arrived
only a few days ago. Thank
you very much for sending
them ; it is a great pleasure to
us to see them, as we do not
take in any illustrated paper.
The war pictures are very good.
We all rejoiced greatly at the
English victories in Egypt, and
generally think that it is a pity
we cannot manage to “annex”
Egypt. The Anglo-Israelites in
particular appear to think that
the Great Pyramid belongs
especially to us.
Since I wrote to you last we
have had a visit from Biddulph.
He came down in October and
stayed a week with us. It is
always so pleasant to have him,
but we were most unfortunate
in the weather. After a drought
that had lasted for months the
weather broke up the very day
after his arrival, and it rained
during nearly the whole of his
visit, so that he could hardly
go out at all.
Mr. Taylor wanted some
fencing put up the other day on
the farm and one man refused
to do it because, he said, he
could not make 9s. a day at the
work, the ground being hard ;
6s. to 7s. per day is the regular
wages of a laborer, and the diffi-
culty is in general to find men to
do any work that may be
wanted.
The railways employ a great
many now. The Illawarra rail-
way is making great progress,
and will, it is said, be finished
in two years, as far as
Wollongong. I do not think it
will be by any means an unmiti-
gated gain to the district. It will
be very convenient when we
want to go to Sydney, but it will
bring down, on holidays and so
forth, all the rag-tag and bobtail
of Sydney, to invade our
beautiful hills and valleys.
It will make land more valu-
able, though. Already Sydney
speculators are buying land for
villa sites, etc. Mr. Taylor was
offered £3O an acre, lately, for
what we call the “hill paddock.”
It is a hill containing about thirty
acres, partly covered with trees
and bush. We keep all our
horses and cattle there, so, of
course, we should not think of
selling it, or, indeed, any of the
farm, but it shows how land is
going up, as, nine years ago, we
gave £ll per acre for the whole
farm.
I do not suppose we should
ever like to sell it, whatever its
value, for we should never find
a place we liked so well, or in
the midst of such lovely scenery
as Illawarra. And when you
have made a place entirely, as
we have this, built the house and
planted every tree and shrub,
you get very fond of it. It is
wonderful how the trees have
grown in nine years. The house
was built on a bare paddock,
and now, at a little distance, it
looks as if it stood in a grove
of trees: pines, cypresses,
mimosas, etc., although there
are none very near the building.
Just now everyone is talking
of the accident to the “Austral,”
lamenting that the finest
passenger-ship in the world
should have been allowed to sink
at her moorings in calm water
from sheer carelessness. The
captain, chief-officer and chief-
engineer, asleep in their cabins,
with all the coaling-ports open
on one side and no water in her
ballast-tanks. I suppose they
will get her up again, but it will
cost an immense sum.
The other disaster of the year,
the burning of the Garden
Palace, was also caused in a
great measure by Government
carelessness, only one watchman
to look after that immense
building. Quantities of Govern-
ment papers were destroyed,
and, among others, most of the
railway plans. The Illawarra
line is being resurveyed for one.
I heard from Amy a little
while ago. They seem all well
and very gay at Bathurst. The
girls go out a good deal, and I
think it is a very good thing for
them. Having no servant, I shall
not be able to ask any of them
down here this Christmas, but
I always fancy this is rather a
dull house for young people
(girls, I mean; Teddy delights
in it). There is not much visiting
in Wollongong.
Mr. Taylor, now and then,
goes out, but I never do, as with
only one servant we cannot
return people’s hospitality with-
out an enormous deal of
trouble ; besides, X cannot afford
evening dresses! However, as
you know, I never liked parties
even when I was young, and
should think them the greatest
bore now lam old. Mr. Taylor’s
gentlemen friends sometimes
drop in to tea, and that is the
extent of our entertaining.
This will reach you about
Christmas, or a little later. We
shall think of each other then.
Kind love to Mr. Boyce, the
girls, Leighton and yourself.
Ever, dearest Etta, your most
affectionate sister,
RACHEL TAYLOR.
Epilogue.
And so end, nearly thirty
years after she wrote, from
England, her first letter to
Biddulph and Amy in Aus-
tralia, the letters of Rachel
Henning that have been re-
tained and preserved by her
family. But though, in her
last letter of the collection,
she mentions that “I never
liked parties when I was
young, and should think
Biddulph Henning at the age of 19, just before
he sailed for Australia. His first Christian-name
was Edmund, but he was always called Biddulph
by his family.
them the greatest bore now I
am old”—she was then 56
Rachel was, in fact, very little
past the middle of what was
to be the span of her’adult
life. She was to live long
enough to see the outbreak
of the Great War of 1914-
18, to ride in a motor-car
and to see an aeroplane in
flight. She died on August
28, 1914, at the age of 88.
Her lifetime, in effect,
linked hie end of the period
Jane Austen portrayed in
‘‘Pride and Prejudice” with
the beginning of the present
age. It also linked the cul-
ture of genteel mid-Victorian
England with pioneering
Australia and the fever of the
gold-rushes. When Rachel
arrived in Australia there was
no railway yet in service.
When she died there were
22,000 miles of railroads
throughout the Common-
wealth.
All the youthful Hennings
who came to Australia, with
the exception of Amy, lived
to a great age. All except
Amy outlived their spouses.
Biddulph—Rachel’s ‘‘darling
Biddulph”—though he came
to Australia in the first in-
stance because he was con-
sidered delicate, lived to be
94; he died on June 8, 1928.
Annie died in between
Rachel and Biddulph. Amy
Sloman, first of the sisters to
marry in Australia, though
the youngest of them, died in
Bathurst on June 6, 1891.
She had nine children.
Biddulph had three
children, Annie Hedgeland
one. Rachel had none. Etta
—“My dearest Etta”—had
three. Rachel was never to
see Etta or England again
after she came to Australia
the second time in 1861.
Etta’s husband, the Rev.
T. W. Boyce, died in June,
1890, while Biddulph, his
wife and three children were
visiting England. Etta her-
self lived on for another 30
years—until five years after
Rachel’s death.
Rachel’s husband, Deigh-
ton Taylor, became a chronic
sufferer with asthma, and it
was decided to sell their
home, Springfield, nearUnan-
derra. They left it, with
the beautiful garden Rachel
created there, in 1896, and
joined the Hedgelands in
renting a house called Lyn-
wood, at Ryde, near where
Biddulph had his home
(Ermington, at Ermington
Park, on a site now occupied
by the Ryde-Parramatta Golf
Club). Both husbands died
at Lynwood. The widowed
sisters then took a house—
called Huaba at Hunter’s
Hill.
Ermington Park was a fine
old home. Somewhat inac-
cessible but lending itself to
entertaining, guests usually
stayed the weekend. There
were a large ballroom, tennis-
cpurts, and boats on the
river. On Sundays guests
and family drove to St.
Anne’s Church in Ryde.
Biddulph and his family
afterwards moved to Hunter’s
Hill, and it was at his home
there Euthella that his
wife Emily died in Sep-
tember, 1902. He then
bought Passy, in the same
suburb, from the Garrick
estate.
Passy had previously been
rented by Sir George Dibbs,
one-time Premier of N. S.
Wales. The house was built
by Italian labor, and each
stone in it had to be handled
by two men. A handsome
circular cast-iron staircase
rose from the centre of the
large reception-hall.
When Biddulph’s three
children married, his two
sisters came to live with him.
It was at Passy that they
spent the remainder of their
lives.
It was perhaps strange, but
very appropriate, that the
surviving Henning children
who started life together
should end it together as
brother and sisters. As they
were together at Exmoor, in
Queensland, so, forty years
later, they were together at
Passy. They were a devoted
and harmonious family,
with Biddulph now the head
of it instead of Rachel.
Rachel, as may be
imagined from her writings
as a younger woman, as an
old lady was a distinctive
character keenly obser-
vant and critical but un-
demonstrative, of strong
opinions but rarely letting
her personal feelings appear
on the surface, reserved ex-
cept when among her rela-
tions and intimate friends of
long standing, a dry wit at all
times, and often a very baffl-
ing person to strangers. Her
little nephews and nieces,
who themselves are now
grandparents, regarded her
sometimes with awe.
The outstanding features
of her life were her affection
for Biddulph, for her
younger husband Deighton
Taylor, her appreciation of
the natural beauty of rural
England and (in time)
Australia, her fondness for
poetry, and her love of
flowers and pet animals.
Horses and horse-riding she
adored.
She was an intellectual
and an individualist to the
end, slow to make friends
but just in all her dealings,
and always more at home in
the library or the garden
than in the kitchen. The
most active years of her later
life were spent in the garden
of Passy, in Passy Avenue,
Hunter’s Hill, where she
ignored Fashion’s changes
and frivolities but remained
constant to the affections
and sentiments—and maybe
many of the prejudices—of
her youth.
D. A.


UNDER THE SPELL
by OLAF RUHEN
ti I AD-EEZ and gentlemen”
The voice had quelled scream-
ing women and coughing lions,
and risen triumphant above the
trumpeting of elephants in twenty years
of circus tents. Now it boomed super-
abundantly through a sleek stage micro-
phone, and people who, as the curtain rose,
had leaned forward in their seats to hear
it, how shuddered back, and stole glances
at their neighbors, and offered silent thanks
for the dark obscurity of the theatre.
Dalzell de Roscoe, the owner of the
voice, warmed to the effect his opening
had created, and boomed along his well-
worn oratorical path without inhibition;
“Lad-eez and gentlemen ; I wish to draw
to your particular attention the spectacle
which you are presently to see—a
spectacle such as it has never been your
fortune to see in this or any other
country, a spectacle which reveals to you
the mysteries of hypnosis combined with
telepathy in an amazing demonstration of
one man’s will.
“You will see —within a few minutes
you will see on this very stage an ex-
position, an interpretation of the
mysteries of the mind so revealing in its
immensity as to be breathtaking. Ladies
and gentlemen, I wish to introduce for
your particular attention the unbelievable,
the mysterious, the brain-defying and in-
credible, the world-renowned master of
the mysteries, Professor . . . Vladimir . . ,
Stanislavski.”
The windows shuddered as the last
triumphant word bounded to the high
roof and struggled with its own echoes
above the cowering audience. Mr. de
Roscoe gestured grandly, extending a
pudgy hand towards the wings.
Nothing happened.
Puzzled, he tried again: “Ladies and
gentlemen, Professor Stanislavski.”
Looking backward over his shoulder,
the professor arrived on the stage with
four quick little running steps, a ballet
entrance. He recovered his balance,
oriented himself, and bowed gravely to
the audience ; while the electrician who
had propelled him went back to the
switchboard, dusting his hands.
The audience clapped and stamped,
welcoming the lean cadaverous figure in
tails. The professor flashed his eyes
around the crowd, and bowed and smiled
an acknowledgment. He raised a hand
for silence, said: “Please,” and waved a
regal permission for De Roscoe to pro-
ceed. Dalzell de Roscoe produced a long
typewritten screed from his pocket,
stepped back a yard from the microphone
—perhaps to signify the relinquishment of
his status as an extempore speaker—and
began to read.
“It is not the intention of Professor
Stanislavski to astound and amuse,” he
read, frowning, “so much as to advance
the public appreciation of the mysterious
powers which direct the sciences of
hypnosis and telepathy. His uncanny
ability to command these powers was first
revealed to him at the University of
Kiev, where, as a student of philosophy,
he conducted a series of amazing experi-
ments amongst his fellows. He”
His voice went on and on, abandoning
confidence for speed, to the end of the
lengthy document. Against the scattered
applause which followed the professor
raised his hand.
“Please,” he said; and there was
silence.
“I speak not good English please, and
my frand he knows no Russian. You ex-
cuse. What I say my frand translate. It
is difficult please. You excuse.”
COLLOWED, from De Roscoe, and at
* length, an invitation to the audience
to look the professor in the eye, stand
on one leg, close its several eyes and re-
frain from swaying while the professor
exercised his far-reaching will against it;
and commanded it to sway. For the
exercise the piano played slow music.
The suspense was terrific. When the
strain was over, Mr. de Roscoe invited
all those who had swayed, feeling them-
selves to be under the influence, to come
up on the stage and subject themselves to
more detailed experimentation. Bashfully,
four people came forward and climbed
the stairs—a white-haired lady, a young
sophisticate, a woman of forty who had
once been considered dashingly Bohemian
in her neighborhood, and a spectacled
youth who looked horribly forlorn in
such a feminine gathering.
The professor said: “Please,” and held
up his hand to start all over again.
“A lot of you were swaying,” De
Roscoe accused widely. “I saw you.”
“Also,” said the professor, “one eye.”
“The professor says a lot of you had
one eye open as well.”
A thousand eyes stared back at the
professor, who, with quick birdlike move-
ments of his head, attempted to look
back into as many of them as possible ,
his glance criss-crossing the spread of the
theatre. Then the hands at the side, the
knee raised and the determination not to
sway to the rhythmic music of the piano.
This time when the professor called for
victims a considerable procession made
its way to the stage. .
\/IC GRIFFITHS, watching from the
v front row of the dress-circle, nodded
approvingly as his twin brother Slipper
(christened Vernon) climbed the steps;
hampered by the rheumatic movements of
an old man immediately in front of him.
When the line-up was complete, there
were twenty-three people against the
back-cloth, all trying to crowd into the
furthest comers of the stage.
The professor made a careful selection
of subjects. In half-dozen lots the
volunteers came forward, were hypno-
tised again, and swayed obligingly to the
music. Good energetic swayers the pro-
fessor eschewed. He sent them back to their
places in the hall, along with a tall youth
who flickered his eyes open once or twice,
and three reformed characters who no
longer swayed at all,now that they enjoyed
the full criticism of the crowded theatre.
Slipper Griffiths could have been re-
garded as an exception to the general
rule. He was swaying as though his life
depended on it —as indeed, for the next
week or two, it did —but the professor let
him stay along with the other seven en-
thusiastic people he had chosen.
And now the real show was on. The
eagle eye made its bird-like trans-
missions of authority, the hands dropped
back in the chairs, the arms rose and fell
in unison, according to instruction. The
simpler exercises performed, the pro-
fessor* entered wider fields. He set out to
prove the hold he had on these, the
hypnotised, the servants of his mind.
“You are watching the bioscope. It is
sad. Very sad, please,” he said, address-
ing the eight inanimate forms,
De Roscoe left the microphone for a
whispered consultation with the professor,
and returned full of confidence.
“They’re at the movies,” he said. “It’s
a sad picture. Mother is dead and father
dying. Little Annie is lost in the snow.
It is all sad, so sad. It is tragic.”
The hypnotised women lowered their
heads. The old man with rheumatics
fingered his mouth. The spectacled
youth stared straight in front of him.
After a moment of indecision Slipper
Griffiths produced a large khaki handker-
chief and hid his face from view.
“Now, please,” said the professor.
“He’s fonny,”
“The baby’s cold and starving, and
there’s a gas strike on and the power’s
off. There’s no money in the house”
intoned De Roscoe.
“Fonny, fonny,” screamed the pro-
fessor.
“Oh, funny,” said De Roscoe. “The
programme’s changed. Mickey Mouse.
Bob Hope. Frank Sinatra. Jack Davey. It's
very funny. Oh, it’s the funniest picture
I’ve ever seen. I can’t help laughing.”
THE handkerchief dropped, and Slipper
Griffiths let out a bellow of mirth.
One by one the other expressions changed,
and soon subjects and audience alike
filled the house with laughter. The
laughter continued, in the audience, as the
subjects followed instructions to give their
several interpretations of the attitude they
would adopt when riding horses in the park.
Then they rode in a tram.
“Fares, please,” said the professor.
“The conductor comes in,” said De
Roscoe. “He’s asking for the fares,”
The women opened imaginary hand-
bags and took out imaginary purses. The
men felt in their change pockets—some
in several pockets.
“It’s all very lifelike, isn’t it?” said the
fellow next to Vic Griffiths, up in the
circle.
Vic regarded him dispassionately for a
moment.
“Nobody got up and got off the tram,”
he said.
“Er, no. No, that’s right,” said his
neighbor. He looked at Vic a few
seconds before he returned his attention
to the stage.
“Comes a man, a bad man,” said the
professor.
“A crook has entered the carriage,”
said De Roscoe. “He is a bad man.
Your money is not safe. He’s going to
steal your money if he can.”
The women clutched their handbags
under their arms. The fat lady brought
her knees together quickly, and felt
cautiously at the neck of her dress. The
rheumaticky old man felt at his middle,
and the other men patted their hip-
pockets, or the inside pockets of their
coats.
The show moved on to its ordained
climax. The old man did a solo act,
directing traffic at a busy corner; a girl
wound up a ball of wool, and another
answered questions that were written up
on a blackboard. Now Slipper came
forward, ready to go into another trance.
i < K T OW the professor will begin an act
never before attempted in the
history of the State,” intoned De Roscoe,
calling on his best reverberations. “In a
most daring exposition of the powers of
hypnotism he will, with this young man’s
permission, put him into a state of com-
plete catalepsy from which he can be
awakened only by the professor himself.
He will lie in this state for an entire
week —for the entire duration of the pro-
fessor’s stay in this city.
“During all this time he will be encased
in a coffin which will be on display in the
vestibule of this theatre for four and
twenty hours in every day. So that there
can be m> deception, the public is invited
to view the coffin at any time ; and see
for themselves the professor’s subject in
the most sustained trance yet undergone
by anyone in Australia.
“Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vernon
Griffiths, who has indicated his willing-
ness to put himself under the influence of
the professor in this astounding experi-
ment which rivals the greatest feats of
mental dominance ever performed any-
where by the Masters of the Mind.... ”
Slipper Griffiths looked at the floor
throughout the oration, except for a brief
moment when De Roscoe mentioned! the
collection to which everyone would be in-
vited to contribute. Then he looked side-
long at the professor and lowered his
eyes again. He wasn’t used to the lime-
light, and he was taking a long time to
get used to it.
There was quite a lot of fol-de-rol be-
fore Slipper was finally established in the
coffin which was to display him. He was
put through the preliminary paces of
hypnotism again, and after he had given a
spirited imitation of a bus-driver at his
work in heavy traffic, was subjected to a
needle-stabbing process to prove him to
be in a state of “complete catalepsy.” A
member of the audience had been in-
vited to drive a pin into the calf of his
right leg, and when this had been done,
to everyone’s complete satisfaction, he
was backed into the standing coffin, and
the show was over.
Except for a small glass inspection-port
in the lid, it was an ordinary coffin, and
the professor made great play with a
huge screwdriver, securing the lid in
professional style; except that he in-
corporated into the routine frequent
pauses during which he continued his
admonitions to the coffin’s occupant:
“Sleep deep. Sleep a deep sleep. Please.”
FULLY half of the audience tried to
remain in the vestibule to watch the
coffin being carried into position between
the ticket-box and the stairs. It was set
at a steeply-reclining angle, a position in
which the pseudo-corpse was assured of
a reasonably decent chance to rest. A
huge collection-box was set up in front
of it, with a placard plastered with in-
formation which included resumes of the
experiment, a quick sketch of the pro-
fessor’s life history, and an estimate of
the advantages accruing to science as a
result of his mental daring.
There was no doubt about the success
of the experiment. There was always a
huge crowd for the professor’s nightly
demonstrations, and for most of the
twenty-four hours of the day there were
little groups of people admiring the
almost tangible evidence of his handi-
work. Even in the small hours of the
morning there were suspicious-minded
characters who took advantage of being
in the area to check up on the coffin’s
contents.
Two of these had an experience one
night which, in more exalted moments,
they were later inclined to attribute to
the supernatural; though they seldom
spoke about it. The first one, standing
in the gloomy lobby, made a prolonged
inspection through the port.
“He’s there all right. Bill, he’s still
there.”
“He’s a right guy. He’s on the job.
He’s a good joker. Put a bob in the box,”
Bill said.
The other took up the box. “It’s heavy.
Bill. He’s got a lot of bobs in it. He
don’t need ours.” Bill started towards
the door, but his cobber stopped him.
“Say, Bill. Cop the dough in this kitty,
will you? Anyone about?”
Bill went as far as the street, returned
and reported: “Not a soul.” He hefted
the box. “There’s a few quid in here, Joe.
Get moving.”
It was then that a hollow voice boomed
through the building, and left the walls
throbbing.
“Drop it, mug, or by —— ...”
HPHE intruders ran. At the back of the
1 lobby a door opened, and two men
rushed out of it.
“For Pete’s sakes, what’s the matter?”
asked De Roscoe.
“Tried to do a mike with the kitty,”
the coffin explained less heatedly. “Two
guys just ran out.”
“Well, you don’t have to bawl like
that,” complained the professor. “You’ll
bring the damn’ town out. You want to
use your brains once in a while, young
Slipper.”
“It’s not Slipper. It’s Vic ”
“Don’t give a damn who it is. I can’t
ever tell the two of you apart. And I
don’t want to. Now pipe down. Here
comes somebody.”
A policeman came into the doorway,
shining his torch.
“Something wrong here?”
“Please?” asked the professor quickly.
“Just saw two fellows run out of here.
Anything wrong?”
“Yes. The professor and I caught them
trying to get away with the collection,”
said Do Roscoe. “At least, they were
looking at it pretty close and we scared
them off.”
“They’re pretty well away then,” said
the cop. “Couldn’t see who they were?”
“Not a chance,” said De Roscoe
hastily. “Not a chance.”
OU know,” said Slipper, after the
* professor left town on Sunday.
“We were the mugs there, Vic.”
“I w 7 as the mug,” Vic claimed. “Three
twenty-eight-hour shifts was worse than
four twenties.”
“Ah, but I had to go up on the stage
and all. And get a needle in my leg.
And it was me that got the job. But we
were mugs, the pair of us.”
“We didn’t do bad out of it. Slipper.
A tenner to start and twelve-sixteen in
the kitty. And dinner on the house.”
“Yeah But we had the wrong angle.
It was the professor who was right. He
just coined it.”
“But he could hypnotise. Some of
those mugs was hypnotised. That old
guy with rheumatics. He said: T was a
sceptic when I came in and I go out con-
vinced.’ You heard him.”
“He’d got himself kidded. That was
the answer. I bet that’s the answer. I
bet I could hypnotise. AH I need’s some
practice, and I bet I could do like the
professor. Here, stand on one leg and
look in my eye.”
“You stand on one leg. Slipper. I’ll
do it.”
“Okay, then. Turn on the radio.”
“Okay. Now shut your eyes and
sway.” Delighted, Vic went into his turn.
“You’re playing the piano,” he said
“Sit down. Now you’re riding in a tram
Now sleep deep,”
“It looks dinkum,” he decided at last
“Maybe we could get a team together
There’s a load of cash in it.”
But Slipper stayed sitting on the bed,
his eyes firmly shut. Vic nodded grimly,
and felt in his lapel for a pin. He used it.
He prodded Slipper where it would hurt
the most and Slipper didn’t move a
muscle. He took liberties with Slipper
that Slipper would be bound to resent;
and Slipper stayed put.
Vic took a step backwards and
scratched his head.
“Well, what do you know?” he
marvelled.
And he let Slipper sleep till [Tuesday,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Curate’s Egg”: Against “Mac-
Fergus’s” station cowboy (B. 19/12/’5l)
in the industrial Ishmael Stakes I
nominate the bookkeeper on smaller
pastoral properties, where, as often as
not, no cowboy was employed in the
days I knew them. All the cowboy’s
duties listed by “MacF.” devolved on
the bookkeeper, whose pen-and-ink duties
were a comparative sinecure. It was
always the bookkeeper who fixed up the
gates, mended the windmill or extricated
the bogged beasts during the weekend
when the occupants of the men’s huts
could not be disturbed and the jackeroos
and overseer were in town in the vortex
of the social whirl. His presence at all
mustering-camps was taken as a matter
of course, and, if he couldn’t keep the
boss’s car or truck in order, he was
reckoned a pretty poor bookkeeper. Of
course, as an “inside” man, he ate and
slept at the homestead, and there was
always the 1000-to-one chance that he
might marry one of the Miss Jumbucks.
Still, he had the advantage of acquiring
experience more varied than the jackeroo.
Indeed, I knew one head of a large
pastoral firm, with properties all over
Queensland, who made it a practice of
appointing his managers not from his
overseers, but from among the book-
keepers,
* * * *
“Chuck”; Was walking quietly up the
gully when I spotted the ewe feeding
down towards me. I knew the animal.
She was, as always, on her own, and she
was stone-blind. Stopping, I watched her
nibbling along busily, blundering over
or through each clump of black tussock
as she struck it, stepping high over
nothing, and once hitting a log and slew-
ing along its length. She was coming
straight towards me, and I waited,
motionless. On she came, unconcerned,
until she was about sft. off; then sud-
denly she stopped. She stood quite still,
pointing in my direction, obviously
suspicious, and waiting for a clue. The
air-drift was from her to me. Once her
head went down as though to resume
feeding; then up it came again uneasily,
to stare with empty sockets in my direc-
tion. Presently she turned at right-angles,
and detoured in a great wavering arc,
hitting logs and falling over timber, to
rejoin the gully again 20 yards down.
There, contented, she resumed feeding.
A sheep’s nose isn’t that good, and with
the breeze against her I doubt if it could
be that. If you asked me I’d say just
plain instinct.
» * * *
“Solitude”; The rooster on the fence
behind our camp let his head go in a
mighty effort, and Seventyfiver rolled
over testily. “What do them sort o’
birds have t’ make that infernal din for
every mornin’, Sol?” As more crowing
came from all points of the compass
Seventyfiver growled again. “Get hold
of ’em, Blue,” he ordered. The old dog
rose obediently, trotted to where the tent-
flap would be if we’d had a tent, looked
left and right, then back inquiringly at
the old bloke. “Get hold of ’em.” Blue
trotted further, said “Woof” at a gum-
tree and returned, worried lest he hadn’t
done everything possible in the difficult
circumstances. “They belong t’ old
Mother Stacey, them birds, an’ they
wander all over the town,” Seventyfiver
complained again. “Blasted nuisances. I
s’pose she wouldn’t even know how many
she had, would she, Sol?” “Cripes, how
would / know! ” I got up then, picked up
“That Was Very like the ball Tibhy Cotter got Hobbs with at
Melbourne in nineteen twelve."
the cattle-draft from the saleyards and
left the other mob for the old bloke to
deliver. That night I met him again at
the same camp. Wearily I dropped along-
side the tea-billy and was reaching for the
stale damper when a scrumptious smell
hit me. Seventyfiver motioned to the pot
near the coals. I poured gravy over the
damper, joyfully speared out a couple of
chunks of something and paused. Cripes,
where’d the old coot get the. ...er....
Could be wild duck. Yair, but did wild
ducks have legs that big? Aw, well, how
the hell would / know!
* * * *
“M.P.”; The noxious weed St. John’s
wort is, I am convinced, frequently mis-
pronounced. I dislike the suggestion
$0*0^
0S&
f
“Come an' arrange th' flowers, Alf. Your color-harmony is more
lyrical than mine."
that St John had an excrescence similar
to those which Oliver Cromwell defiantly
Ordered to be reproduced in his portrait.
The Anglo-Saxon wyrt-geard, literally
plant-yard, signifies the earliest of
gardens. There many plants were grown
that we still cultivate, and they fall
roughly into three categories: plants for
food such as onions, cabbage, carrots,
“pompions”; herbs for flavoring, for
physic and for strewing; and flowering
plants such as roses, lilies, violets, helio-
trope, used largely for sweetening food.
Herbs for strewing on the floors included
basil, balm, fennel, camomile, lavender,
marjoram, sage, roses, violets. They
were mingled with the rushes that
covered the floors, and no doubt their
pungent smell was pleasant in rooms
when ventilation was almost unknown.
Anyway, do refer to it as St. John’s
wyrt, please.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”; Some years ago I
had termite trouble, and fought them
with a commercial preparation. The
directions told me to put this stuff, if
possible, right where the pests were
working without disturbing them or
breaking their tracks. I was also to place
some of it between pine boards and bury
them around the house. The makers
claimed that the termites ate the prepara-
tion, which contained a poison, and died.
They were then eaten by their cobbers,
who also died, and were in turn eaten,
until the colony was wiped out. I think
the claim was justified. Anyway, the ter-
mites ceased to trouble me. Recently, in
a new district, I struck th© same trouble
and applied the same remedy. The
preparation is the same, but the effect is
entirely different. I placed some in a
door-frame in which the pests had estab-
lished themselves, and they vanished
overnight. That was too quick, and, as
they appeared almost immediately in
another part of the house, I knew they
were not wiped out. Since then I’ve
found that I can keep them on the run
by dusting the stuff wherever they appear.
but I can’t get them to eat it. They
won’t touch the baits I’ve buried for
them, though they’ll eat identical unbaited
wood placed a foot away. Yet this
preparation is supposed to attract them,
and I think it did a few years ago. Since
it’s mainly pine sawdust, its basic ingredi-
ent hasn’t changed, and it should be just
as attractive. I know I’ll be howled
down when I ascribe to termites an intel-
ligence which permits them to profit by
experience, but I’ll take some convincing
that they haven’t learned to avoid poison
like poison.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; “Yairs,” said the big
fellow, “I’m broke down in
one time an’ about half-past three in the
afternoon a bloke all whiskers and with
milk on his boots pulls up an’ offers me
a job. It’s only worth a coupler quid a
week an’ tucker, but I gotta get some
dough somewhere, so I take it on. He’s
doin’ some shoppin’, an’ about five he
picks me up an’ we head for his ranch.
We yarn a bit as we go, an’ it starts t’
get dark, an’ I asks him what time well
get there, ‘Aw,’ he says, ‘we ought t’
get home be seven. Are y’ hungry?’
‘Too right,’ I tells him. ‘Oh, well,’ he
says, ‘y’ll be able t’ have a good feed.
Soon’s we get home we’ll get the cows
up, an’ while y’ start milkin’ I’ll tell the
missus t’ get the tea on. Won’t take us
long t’ get through 26 cows, an’ then
well separate an’ ’ —‘Hold on,’ I says.
‘Don’t we eat first?’ He looks startled
an’ says, ‘Gripes, no! Gotta get the work
done first. Well milk an’ then well
separate an’ ’ I grabbed the reins and
pulled the neddy up an’ hopped down
inter the road. ‘Well flamin’ well
separate now!’ I says, an’ heads back t’
Warragul.”
* * ♦ *
“Smithy”: “North Australian’s” par.
on Darwin (B. 29/ 8/ ’5l) must have
aroused plenty of memories for service-
men who came to know the Cinderella of
Australia. I wonder if the pot-
holes in the roads are the memories of
those weapon-pits I helped to sink with
jackhammer and dynamite. “N.A.”
should be proud of those holes; they
were beauts. We belted ’em down till
we hit solid rock, and then blew ’em to
kingdom-come with up to as many as a
dozen charges. I vividly recall once
when two of the sticks failed to go off;
fizzers they were, but the brains of the
Smith family, nothing daunted, went into
it with pick and shovel. I found the
location of the first one when I sliced
the stick in half with a shovel. The
second one came to light when I found,
the detonator on the end of the pick. A
still-dazed non.-com. later told me what
that stuff was capable of.
* * * *
“M.S.”: The local saleyards held their
normal quota last week for the first sale
of the year. Pen after pen of jumbucks
went under the hammer, while graziers
lined the fences and thoughtfully chewed
straws. Down-country butchers and
exporters were operating freely, and now
and then a local added a nod. Next to
me on the fepce the agent for a city firm
looked up from his notebook, avoided
the auctioneer’s eye and stopped bidding,
“Dropping out?” Tasked mildly. “Yes,
plenty more,” he nodded. “The skin
value on those is only about eight-bob,
and some of ’em aren’t quite killable,
which brings their meat price to nearly
fourpence a pound.” He glanced across
at the full yards awaiting their turn, “I’ve
got four or five pens already,” he added,
“and my instructions are not to exceed
fourpence a pound on the hoof. Can’t
make it pay over that.” During the
afternoon I watched him buy several
more lots, all safely within his margin;
then, remembering some domestic instruc-
tions, I hurried off to catch the butcher.
“There y’ are,” said Chopper, throwing
the leg I’d selected on to the scales.
“Eighteen-bob.” “What!” “Well, I’d
like to see anybody do it for less,” he
shrugged, “with the price y’ got t’ pay
for everything these days.”
* * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: Sam’s shining-new
big car jibbing on us, and Sam having
spent his youth among bullock-teams,
we were stranded 20 miles from a garage,
with night approaching and a fair chance
of spending it in the open. It seemed
our luck was in when a young bloke
in a sports model pulled up and asked
the usual questions. He’d lifted the
bonnet and was about to dive beneath
it when Sam said abruptly, “D’ y’ know
what y’ doin’? If y’ don’t, leave the
blanky thing alone.” The bloke dropped
the bonnet and cleared off in a huff.
“You’re a bit tough, aren’t you?” I asked.
“He might have fixed it.” Sam just
grunted. It was half an hour before the
next bloke came along and he’d reached
the same stage as his predecessor when
Sam cut in again. This chap just grinned
and went ahead, “Had one o’ these last
year,” he tossed up from the car’s
innards. “An’ I went right through it.”
Sam didn’t interfere again, and in a few
minutes the car was purring nicely. “By
cripes, you took a risk then,” I reproached
the old bloke as we rolled along. “That
cove might have cleared off, too.” “Not
a chance,” Sam grunted, “If a man
knows his job he’s not offended when
he’s asked f’r his credentials. That first
bloke probably didn’t know; any more
about it than you do.”
HE COULD HAVE FOUND HIS
WAY.
He could have found his way there with shut
eyes,
Under the hawthorn’s overhanging gloom,
He heard the fat bees fumbling through the
bloom.
The starling’s long, low whistle of surprise—■
“Has he come home?”
So well he knew the pattern of a place
He never had set eyes on till this hour,
While the unseen beckoned, the unknown set
the pace.
Blindly he went, as saints to heaven’s grace
Or night-moths to a flower.
A light enveloped all things, not of day,
However it poured through polished leaves in
sunny
Shafts of strange color of greeny-gold bush-
honey
But shed from —what? How many lives away?
No clue now, to any!
Then something reached put arms and gathered
him in.
Preoccupied bees still crept through the pale
curds
Of bloom, the sweet conversation of the birds
Continued, as he felt that spell begin
To work, not needing words.
What power had circumvented time and space,
Refuting the melancholy “Nevermore”? . . .
And then he met the strangers at their door.
All things lapsed back into the commonplace,
Exactly as before.
Forgotten was the moment. People talked
According to pattern, gone the far-off tone
Of trumpets from some kingdom overthrown —
Some furnace of joy through which he must
have walked,
And not alone.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Edx”: One of the slowest journeys
known to the outback was made some
years ago by old Harry up on the East
Murchison (W.A.) in his Dodge tourer.
It was a happy party that piled into the
old bus late one wet Sunday night and
started on the 80-mile trip back to the
mine after a weekend in the nearest
town. They were in safe hands with
Harry driving; the more he drank the
more cautious he became and the slower
he drove. As the old battler left the
town behind and chugged and bumped
along the rough bush track the wind
nearly tore the hood off, and the rain
streamed down like a waterfall, while
Harry got as much help from the
lightning as he did from his battered old
headlamps. But all was lighthearted
within as the cheering bottles were passed
around, and the company alleviated the
journey’s tedium with anecdote and
song. On through the teeming night they
jolted until after one terrific bump Harry
got on to a smooth piece of road at last.
The rain had stopped and dawn was
paling the headlamps’ glim when young
Jim, whose job it was to throw the
empties out through the side curtain-flap,
noticed that the scenery was no longer
moving past. He drew the attention of
the others to this, saying “Better tel|
Harry.” Harry, bolt upright, was fast
asleep with his foot still planted on the
accelerator, while the engine was plug-
ging away at normal speed. They got out
amazed. The rear wheels, both clear of
the ground, were spinning around, one
forwards, the other backwards. The rain
had washed the road right out, and the
old girl was high and dry, bellied on the
crown of the road.
* * * *
“Water of Lethe”: Tom is an
enthusiast. His present interest is home-
brew. He got hold of a very musty sgal.
stone-jar, gave it successive treatments
with soda and with lime, but was still
suspicious of its cleanliness. I said “Use
your fresh-spent hops with some yeast,
a handful of sugar and a gallon or two
of warm water; that’s a method of
seasoning a new keg, and it might do to
finish off your jar.” Tom turned up
yesterday with a faraway look in his
eyes. We chatted. Tom said “You said
to keep rolling it, didn’t you?” I nodded.
“That’s what I kept telling the missus.
I put it beside the bed to be handy. I
wake up in the night like any other bloke,
but the missus went hostile. You said
keep it rolling, didn’t you?” I nodded
again. He continued; “Well, I did —
never got out of bed, just leaned out and
rolled it and went to sleep again.” He
paused. “There was a bang and swoosh
and I’m sitting up in bed with the missus
yelling. I switched on the light. At first
I had to come in and out a bit to clean
up, and she starts talking. I said to her
that anyone would think the jar was hers
to hear her talk, but it did no good. You
said to keep it rolling, didn’t you?” I
nodded. “It was daylight when I finished
cleaning up and her still talking, so I
brought in a tray with a pot of tea and a
slab of toast and she calmed down.” He
paused, and in the bright tones of the
true enthusiast said “A flaming good
job it was only the cork that blew out
and not the bottom of the jar, eh?” I
nodded.
* ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: Four koalas are
going to California to star in a film, and
they’re to stay with a lady who has grown
a forest containing over 2000 different
types of eucalypts. That doesn’t surprise
me. There are far more eucalypts than
ls commonly known, and there may be
many more that haven’t yet been found ;
°ut the report goes on to say that the
lady imported some seeds from Aus-
tralia, and gathered others from different
parts of California. If she got eucalypt-
seeds from America they came from
trees which were imported from Aus-
tralia, Eucalypts are confined to this con-
tinent and the islands to the north of us,
and it’s only a few varieties that grow
away from the mainland. Some types
are so choosy of their soil and surround-
ings that they appear only in strictly
limited areas. The Westralian red-
flowering gum is native to only a very
small patch in a sou’-Westralian district,
and another type is found in only two
areas, each of about two or three acres
and about 50 miles apart. The name
eucalypt suggests a forest giant, but many
varieties are shrubs, growing no more
than a few feet high. Yet some of them
have remarkable blooms. A Perth man
who grows them as a hobby is stopped
by strangers when he carries the flowers
down the street, and he swears people
doubt him when he tells them the flowers
are from eucalypts. If whoever named
wattle as Australia’s national flower had
given some thought to the matter the
honor would have gone to the eucalypts.
They’re typically and essentially Aus-
tralian. Acacias are scattered through-
out the southern hemisphere.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I disremember whether
it was in Hayfork or Back Eucapivy, but
it doesn’t matter much. In those days
there were a lot of travelling comps, on
the roads, coves who’d set type for a
week or so in the local newspaper, get
a few bob and then hit the track for
somewhere else. Well, one blew into
Hayfork or the other place and was taken
on the “Sentinel” or “Beacon” or “Kite”
or whatever it was. The bloke that owned
the paper had it on his own, but he was
also the local undertaker, and in this
game he had a rival. The paper-owner
was also a bit of a wowser. The
temporary comp, didn’t like him, not
only because he nagged about beer, but
because he was mean and also he used
his paper to boost the undertaking and
wouldn’t take the other undertaker’s ads.
Well, after about a fortnight the comp,
decided he’d had it, and was looking for
a way to get square with his boss when
he was handed new copy for the boss’s
undertaking ad. Part of it read:
Reverent and Calm Service, Reason-
able Charges. Special Rates for Families.
The comp, eyed this, grinned and
grabbed his type-stick. That night, after
carefully putting the rag to bed, the comp,
snatched his time. He was 20 miles away
next morning when the astonished citizens
of B.E„ or Hayfork or wherever it was
read: “Reverent and Calm Service.
Reasonable Charges. Special Rates for
Families. Children Half Price to Any
Part. No Pass-Outs,”
♦ * * *
“Bo”: The new rousie had never let
up since he had lobbed at the station on
the variations he played on his favorite
theme, which was the superiority of
everything in his own home district to
anything he had struck anywhere else.
They had the biggest tallies, the best
sheep, the biggest timber, the most
wonderful soil, the most consistent rain-
fall, the best-kept properties, etc. The
“ Mornin', Brig. The quartermaster said to
ask you nicely if I could have a hairnet."
wearisome recital went on till old Jim,
fed up, cut in one day with: “An’ I sup-
pose the pests y’ got up at Mundiwanni
are the best an’ biggest in the country,
too.” “We ain’t got any pests there —any-
way nothin’ to speak of,” hotly defended
the rousie. “We keep ’em down.” “What,
no foxes?” “Oh, yair, we got foxes
occasionally. Big-’uns, too. Some o’ the
skins from our districts have brought the
biggest prices in the State.” “An’ I sup-
pose,” said Jim sarcastically, “the most
cunnin’ ones are found there?” “They
are, too,” bit back the rousie. “Well,
you’re wrong, they ain’t,” went on Jim
evenly, “The most cunnin’ foxes ain’t
found anywhere— they keep outa sight!”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Australian shearers might now
be collecting danger-money for risking an
eyeful on the board if the recommenda-
tion of a select committee, set up in
1856 by the Colony of Victoria, been
given effect to. The idea was to import
llamas and let them graze on the Gram-
pians, Pyrenees, Mount Macedon Range
and the mountainous tracts of Gipps-
land. Their wool is good and fine, parti-
cularly that of the pacas; they are as
hardy as goats and their flesh was said to
“I'll SAY you've hit an artery!"
be equal to the fat sheep of Castile.
However, as the animals are equipped
with a spongy hoof armed with a claw to
enable a secure footing on the ice of the
Andes, it seems very doubtful whether
the Australian climate would have suited
them.
* * * *
“L.T.”: In our Melbourne suburb the
cicadas have taken to murdering sleep
with night-long carols. All the birds are
developing bags under their eyes, and
human insomniacs are wondering when
the insects are going back to their tradi-
tional manner of reserving their deafen-
ing chorales for when the sun has
climbed to its zenith.
« * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: “Akrabo” (B.
12/9/’5l) “disputes my use of a saddle
for a pillow,” whereas I had made no
claim to such a practice, though I have
not infrequently, as have innumerable
bushmen, used it for such a purpose,
failing anything better to keep my top
end out of the dust and death-adders and
other terrestrial flotsam.
If “A.’s” “seasoned com-
panions” had been as
highly “seasoned” as some
I have memories of, a whiff
of horse-sweat would not
make any appreciable dif-
ference to his night’s dis-
comfort; for instance, a
roadside camp beside a
drought boghole with
rotting carcasses (in and
out of the water) and a
frightfully-befouled cattle-
dog or two seasoning the air
from all points of the com-
pass to a degree where the
cowdung-smoke provides
in contrast the very musk
of roses. But if he goes
bush again and hasn’t, on
packing his “offside slave”
before setting out, slung a
sugar-bag stuffed with his
change of clobber, towel,
etc., on top of the pack-
bags the swag being
strapped down on top of
the lot —let him wedge
his saddle (lining - side
up) between a couple of chocks
of wood or even a few pads
of dry cowdung, and provided he
has previously protected his saddle when
in use with a saddle-cloth —and only a
newchum would ride without it —the
“effluvia” shouldn’t worry even a holiday
bushman. If he wants a really cushy
camp, let him stand up his pack-saddle
on end against a tree, turned underside
towards the fire and back to the wind;
place his saddle (lining-side up) between
the flaps, sling the sugar-bag of clobber,
etc., on the rear end and pull the “nap”
around him. The only thing likely to
disturb his rest then would be a few feet
of brown snake. However, my general
camp use for my saddle is to provide a
windbreak for my cattle-pup. It teaches
him to respect it as a shelter ; to keep his
teeth out of the lining, and to stay with
a saddled horse.
* * * *
“Blime”: Snitch wasn’t popular with
Bill, because of his exaggerations in
currying favor with the boss. He wasnt
popular with the nesting magpie either,
on the way to the twice
the maggie had drawn blood. “111 shoot
the damn’ thing if it’s not careful,” raved
Snitch, mopping at his head. “It never
misses swooping at me on sight.” “Yair.
Natural f’r them sort o’ birds,” drawled
Bill. “Y’ won’t cure him.” “But I’ve
never interfered with the cow. And I
don’t walk close to his rotten nest.” “Aw,
it ain’t that,” came Bill’s voice again,
“But he’s got t’ live. An’ he’s got them
two squawkers in the nest t’ think about.
Them things alwus have their gobs wide
open.” “Yes, but what I mean is, why
pick on me ?” howled Snitch. “He doesn’t
chase you. does he?” “ ’Course he
don’t,” drawled Bill. “Why should he?
Only when I dig the garden he swoops
down just the same as that every little
while. Yair,” he nodded slowly, “alwus
hungry, them maggies. An’ they love
worms.”
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: Wondering why the new
mill had stopped pumping I found a
maggie had festooned the works with
wire. It took me a quarter of an hour
with the cutters to get rid of the tangle.
* * * *
“S.H.H.”; Any time at old Charlie’s
place you were liable to be booted by
one of several tame emus, nipped by
stray sulphur-crests or have to chance
a broken neck over a collection of sprawl-
ing, overfed fauna that lived and loafed
on the old chap’s bounty. Thus, when
a fellow-naturalist
with a private
zoo wrote t o
know if he could
supply a wombat,
Charlie replied
that he could,
though at the
moment he
“hadn’t one on
hand.” With the
help of his old
cobber Mick, he collected one from a
near-by range, but as the mixed didn’t
leave till the following day, how to hold
the captive overnight was the problem.
Eventually they bunged him into a 40gal.
drum, wired the top with No. 10 and
locked the lot in the old bam. In the
morning they found the drum on its
side, the wire wrecked and a huge hole
in a corner of the dirt floor. Old Charlie
got down on his knees and peered into
the hole, then, listening, motioned to
Mick. “He’s still diggin’—get a mattick,
quick, and go round to the side and I’ll
tell yer where to dig,” he whispered.
Soon the dirt flew. “Whoa! ” said Charlie.
“ ’E’s changed direction —over there,
Mick, near that other stump —’bout two
feet.” An hour later the area outside
the barn looked like a miniature of
Lambing Flat in the ’sixties. Mick
mopped his brow and lent on the mattock,
“Look ’ere, Charlie,” he croaked. “I’ve
had this cove. Let’s go out and git a
’iggerent blankard —this bloke knows too
much.”
MEMORIAL TO THOMAS HARDY.
Old horse that plods along the row
Breaking the clods with dragging harrow.
Old man with pipe in teeth who follows slow
Along the crumbling furrows,
Ignore the tractor’s loud uneasy whine
Which, hastening up and down
Between the green rows of trembling vines,
Shatters the perfect round of afternoon.
Old horse, old man are still, although they move,
Caught in a timeless frieze,
A pattern neither time nor change can sever.
I see them move like clouds; I seize
The moment, and the moment is forever.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.**
BE"
a
is
yr f
a
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Rater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.27A.IS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
N.A.T.O. HEADACHES.
The initials could well stand
for New Aspirin Taking
Organisation, judging by a few
of the headache-loaded problems
the London “Times’s” diplo-
matic correspondent has seen
worrying the North Atlantic
Treaty members, with (Ike)
Eisenhower prodding them to
get busy.
The experts, for instance, get
down to assessing what’s a rea-
sonable defence effort for each
N.A.T.O. country. They agree
that, as a broad test, the
national income of each shows
its economic position. But the
definition of national income
differs from country to country.
The figures given do not include
the same items.
For example, in countries
with a large agricultural popula-
tion the large proportion of
produce which is bartered be-
tween peasants and consumed
by them is not taken into
account. Again, the pay of
national - service men differs
widely from country to country
and affects the national-income
figures accordingly.
Changes in population must
also be considered. Italy has a
rate of population - increase
which greatly exceeds that in
France or Britain, and is an
important factor in depressing
the Italian standard of living.
Then again, the size of differ-
ent age-groups in different
countries varies. A country
with a large and rising propor-
tion of men and women of
working age has evidently an
important advantage.
The actual amount spent by
each country on defence has
also to be taken into account.
But the member - countries
meet defence costs differently.
The tradition in France and
Italy that national-service men
serve for next to no pay
operates, for instance, as an im-
portant form of defence taxa-
tion, not reflected in the budgets.
And who pays how much of
the cost of air bases, communi-
cations and port facilities in any
particular country? (This one
fairly groans with headaches.)
As one more of the “Times”
man’s example, “fair shares” as
between countries should—
ideally—be on the basis of pro-
gressive taxation, so that richer
countries, like richer income-
groups in any one country, are
taxed more heavily than the
poorer. It would, however, be
necessary to get agreement both
on the basic rate which will be
allowed to each country before
any contribution is to be ex-
pected, and also on the rate of
progression of the tax. A very
high basic rate might exempt
the poorest countries from a de-
fence contribution altogether. A
fairly high basic rate and an easy
rate of progression would bene-
fit poorer countries at the
expense of richer countries.
And so it goes on—over a
couple of smallish-type columns
in the “Times,” and over the
days, weeks, months and years
in N.A.T.0., maybe to a chorus
of “Aspirin for the love of
Ike!”
The Oil Bluff.
“A sort of blackmail by the
threat of suicide,” a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
calls Moussadek’s technique,
which runs:
If the British won’t accept
our terms Persia will go broke,
there will be a trumped-up revo-
lution, and the country will be
swallowed up by Russia.
“A daring bluff,” is Baltimore
(U.S.A.) “Sun’s” view of this
game. So thinks the British Gov-
ernment, according to a Wash-
ington correspondent of London
“Observer,” who reports it as
believing the danger of Persia’s
“going Communist” is generally
overrated, and that if
Moussadek’s Government falls
a more reasonable one would
probably take its place.
The ITS. State Department, on
the other hand, believes that
Moussadek has genuine popular
support, and that if he falls the
danger of the Communists tak-
ing over is high.
This is not to suggest any
positive British-U.S. division.
Middle East defence needs,
pointed by Egypt’s action, are
too pressing for any risk of that.
On one thing there is unani-
mous agreement —that a crash in
Persia soon is certain. Some
time in February is now the
guess of most of the prophets.
Thus, a “Herald Tribune”
correspondent in Tehran, liken-
ing Persia to a madhouse on
fire:
“The occupants, in their
moments of lucidity, are per-
fectly aware that the madhouse
is burning, and that all will
shortly be consumed in the
flames. But all are paralysed—
by irrational fears and hates, de-
lusions of grandeur, or simple
inertia and stupidity—so that no
one is capable of putting the fire
out while there is still time.
“There is not a great deal of
time. The best current guess is
that the fire in the Persian
insane asylum is likely to get out
of control before the winter ends,
probably some time in February,
For at about this time, according
to present projections, the
Persian Government should run
completely out of money.”
Meanwhile, the “New York
Times” points out that, with the
British tanker fleet entirely
redistributed, “In the best of
circumstances the Iranian oil-
fields could not get going on any
scale for six months or be
restored to the status quo ante
for a year or two,”
Pending further developments,
a U.S. committee representing 19
American oil companies has
stated that, bar a temporary
reduction of aviation spirit, the
oil gap has been completely
filled. The committee, which
works closely with its counter-
part, the British Overseas
Advisory Committee, has been
quoted in London “Times” as
being worried about the first
three months of 1952 —the
North American winter is the
period of greatest demand for
fuel oil —but it maintains that,
once spring has come, “we can
iust foreet about Iran.”
Socialism in Eclipse.
Socialism, which “at one time
hoped to take over all of
Europe not subjugated by its
sinister offshoot. Communism,”
has passed its apex and is now
declining.
To this reading of the signs
“New York Times” adds the
finding that Socialism is itself,
in fact, changing—“under the
impact of both the Soviet
menace, which has posed a clear
choice between freedom and
slavery, and of Socialism’s own
experience when in power”:
“Beginning as a revolutionary
movement dedicated to the de-
struction of Western society in
the name of the ‘c’ass struggle’
and the ‘dictatorship of the
proletariat,’ it has not only re-
pudiated the doctrine of violence
in favor of the humanistic and
democratic traditions of the
West to the point of becoming
an outspoken foe of the system
which succeeded in wedding
—"El Tiempo,” Colombia.
“ WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BIG BAD WOLF?”
Communism to Russian despot-
ism and. imperialism.
“It has also abandoned, modi-
fied or sidetracked most other
formerly sacrosanct Socialist
tenets, including the decisive one
of public ownership of the
means of production and distri-
bution.
“Today it concentrates on
espousing the social - welfare
State, first established by Bis-
marck as a weapon against
Socialism.”
"Freeze the Cold War"
English banker John Smith, in
the “National and English
Review,” adds up some of his
impressions after a recent visit
to Russia:
“My first and most powerful
impression of Russia was one
of fantastic decrepitude ; almost
everything—roads and railways,
buildings, new or old —is in a
state of the utmost decay....
“The Russians have clearly
embarked on a vast programme
of capital works which to all
appearances might well occupy
them for a lifetime; and,
whether it is intended ultimately
for war or peace, war in the near
future could do nothing but
damage and delay the pro-
gramme.
“I should have preferred all
along to relate what Russia is
like and how I was followed for
three days by a secret police-
woman —whether on or off duty
I never discovered —and many
another item of sinister farce.
But it is more important to bring
the news that Russia is not
irresistible once we are rearmed,
though she will always trouble
our peace while she endures her
present regime ; that the regime
cannot be changed by persuasion
or inward force ; that it depends,
however, for its life on the
capitalist West, and that to
render it harmless we need only
freeze the cold war solid, and
isolate Russia from the West,...
“To do this we must first
simplify our relations with the
East by a policy of tit-for-tat
and hard local bargains—a
policy that can in no way
endanger peace, since the
Russians, though not necessarily
warlike, are already as hostile
as they can be; and that we
must use the years of waiting.
during which, armed but
inactive, we watch our enemy
weaken, to promote this counter-
reformation of the West.”
Dragnet Digest.
Labor Allsorts. London
“Twentieth Century” inspects a
mixed bag: “TTie [British]
Labor party is a queer mixture
of total Socialists, trade-
unionists, mild Liberal
reformers, old radicals, pacifists,
rationalists, Christians, vege-
tarians and bicyclists.”
Mongrels, Puppies, etc.
Washington correspondent of
London “Economist” in an
article on America’s Corns: “At
home, as well as in the Middle
East, the United States has been
sadly awakening to the realisa-
tion that the underdog can be a
cur.”
The Jap Return. —Assessed by
the Far East correspondent of
London “Twentieth Century”:
“The return of Japan to the
status of a sovereign Power and
potential great Power was one
of the most important events
since 1945. To fail to recognise
this is to miss the realities of
the time.”
Vulnerable Nippon. —Looking
into reported Jap reluctance to
rearm, London “Economist”
considers this would hurt the
Japs more than it would the
Yanks: “Even if the Americans
were driven from Japan their
general strategic position in the
Pacific would still be a strong
one, while ‘neutral’ Japan would
be subjected to the double
unpleasantness of being occu-
pied by the Russians and
bombed by the Americans. The
‘free ride’ may look attractive,
but in the end it might turn out
very costly for Japan.”
Europe’s Mirage. —A London
“Times” letter-writer debunks
European federation: “If it
were proposed to turn the British
Empire into a federation nobody
would join, and obviously the
conception of a federation of the
British Empire is a much simpler
conception than that of a federa-
tion of western Europe, with all
its differences of language, habit
and outlook that characterise the
various countries. If the issue
were ever submitted to the
British people at a general elec-
tion I do not think that one
supporter of federation would
be elected.”
Could Happen Here. —“New
York Times,” on the cost to
Americans of the defence
effort: “We had better get
braced —we haven’t felt the full
wallop of it yet.”
Casey’s English Air. —London
“Observer” on the Australian
Minister for External Affairs;
“Casey looks and sounds so
English that it has on occasions
made him unpopular in Aus-
tralia. But as a statesman who
knows both countries, he has a
great part to play: he can prob-
ably do more than anyone to
help Mr. Churchill and Lord
Ismay concert a Commonwealth
policy.”
Worse than Munich. —Aba-
dan, “the worst defeat suffered
by Great Britain during the pre-
sent century in the sphere of
foreign relations,” is rated in
London “Sunday Times” an
even lower humiliation than
Munich, “for there our discom-
fiture was inflicted by the then
greatest Power, and we were
not the only great Power to
suffer it. Here we have swal-
lowed the cup of shame at the
hands of one of the weakest
nations in the world, and we
have swallowed it alone.”
The Peaceful Chinese. —Re-
ferring to the fact that there are
still “many observers with long
experience of China who cannot
believe that China might be-
come in the near future an im-
portant military factor in world
affairs,” London “Economist”
remarks: “It would be well not
to rely too much on the inherent
pacifism of the Chinese and to
remember that only a century
ago the Germans, apart from
Prussia, were regarded as the
most peaceful of European
peoples.”


GOING TO ANY OF
51 COUNTRIES 7
G3*v
■og
ft*
r\
X
/
u
Jt
Big men in big
business often travel
frequently and far.
They know that one
face-to-face talk is
worth two dozen
letters ; and often
need to see for them-
selves how their
overseas business is
functioning.
By 8.0.A.C. they save hours, days, even weeks ot
valuable travelling time—and time is money. Speed-
bird services to 51 countries on all six continents save
waiting-to-travel” time, too ; so vital personal contact
vvith overseas prospects or representatives can be made
at short notice.
Your local Travel Agent will be pleased to provide full
details without charge.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA • HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
AFRICA e ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K.
TO U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA e BERMUDA
TO ALL 6 CONTINENTS
fir- BO AC
A2B/AU
St™ 10 ! 1 & . Boo !*ings .- Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (8.0.A.C.
or frrv*. , Ben . ts tn Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
jrom travel agents in all cities and towns.
Specify 8.0.A.C. Air Cargo for your overseas shipments.
Lm‘ SH °J ERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAY
' IASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAY
£5O PRIZE
Northern Territory
Competition
The Town Management Board of
Darwin will conduct a competition for
a prize of £5O from moneys made
available by the Commonwealth
Jubilee Committee for the best entry
submitted on “An Historical Review
of the Northern Territory.” The com-
petition is open to all persons who are
living in or who have lived in the
Northern Territory.
Entries must reach the Secretary,
Town Management Board, Darwin,
from whom copies of the regulations
governing the competition are obtain-
able, not later than 24th May, 1952.
FONDE
*
KM 14
EN 1724
RE2VIY MARIAN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Elastoplast
M TRADE MARA
DRESSINGS
give the best protection
CHOOSE
WATERPROOF
PLASTIC SKIN
to protect injuries from
.j water, grease -
and oil /f .
CHOOSE FABRIC
on all other
occasions
M
1 ' -
n
You're sure of comfort and the finest protection
when you use Elastoplast, Waterproof is very thin
but strong, and its smooth, non-catch surface can
be washed like your own skin. Fabric Elastoplast
gives the same elastic comfort, stretching with
skin movement. Both dressings have a medicated
pad to assist healing, and are flesh-coloured and
inconspicuous.
A VARIETY
OF SIZES IN THE
RED TIN
AT YOUR CHEMIST
m
N\V>
•m*
ffissigS
Waterproof tins
have a white band
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Venus Observed."
Take a plot in which a duke
solaces himself with amateur
astronomy for his many un-
solved human problems ; make
the unsolved problems three or
four former mistresses and a
wife who has departed this life
leaving the duke with an heir
who is in love with the same
new girl as he is ; bring them all
together in an observatory in a
ducal mansion; throw in dis-
quisitions on astronomy,
philosophy and the futility of
human endeavor couched in the
most elegant English; add
descriptions of nature, life and
love expressed in verse form and
generally ending with a sardonic
jest or a pun or even a criticism
of the author’s own method—
as when one character says quite
truly “But this is all so
academic” —let the descriptions
be expressed in terms that fre-
quently reach the high realms
of poetry, only to tumble down
in some disarming wisecrack;
and let the underlying motive
be cheerfully romantic, and you
have the play Christopher Fry
wrote to order for Olivier —
“Venus Observed,” given its
Australian premiere at Frank
Thring’s Arrow Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
But anyone expecting to
see the Greek Aphrodite, Venus
naked and unconditioned, is
likely to be disappointed. Mr.
Fry’s Aphrodite is modern. She
is smart and pretty, but there is
nothing real about her.
Since it is a play of brilliant
patches that no body of actors
could make living as a whole it
was a tribute to Alan Burke’s
producing that the literary con-
tent was so well done as to keep
the interest. Michael Duffield as
the duke whose contemplation of
the stars is interrupted by the
intrusion of so many mundane
problems was dignified and
easy, Robert Gardiner as his son
was pleasant, Alan Baxter as the
duke’s bewildered agent was
distinctly funny and Maureen
Stott as his daughter represented
the conditioned ideal and spoke
some of the best lines in the
play with great feeling.
"Fallen Angels."
This earlier Coward, hastily
put on at the Melbourne
Princess after the playwright
had refused permission to stage
his latest opus unless he knew
the cast of players, was appar-
ently done in such a mood of
desperation by all hands that a
person who saw it for the first
time wouldn’t know whether the
author had any serious intention
when he wrote it, or whether it
was a bad play or a good play
being murdered.
There is some observation in
the situation of the two married
women who are slumbering in
the arms of Hymen along with
their dull and half-dead hus-
bands when Venus puts in an
appearance in the shape of a
cable from a Frenchman with
whom they have both had an
affair two years before their
marriage. The wives discover
that they hate their husbands
and hate one another, the hus-
bands discover a new interest in
their wives because they fear to
lose them, everybody starts
howling, and the howling-match
continues through two-and-a-
half acts until the symbol for
Venus makes his appearance full
of a sublime assurance and the
curtain goes down in the comic
impotence of the husbands.
The play hasn’t the quality of
“Brief Encounter,” but, what-
ever there is in it, it couldn’t be
seen under the barrage of over-
acting by June Clyde, Richard
Webb, Anthony Ward, Daphne
Winslow and Eric Reiman.
"St. George and
the Dragon."
Ray Lawler’s Australian
panto, “St. George and the
Dragon,” at the National
Theatre, Melbourne, is an excel-
lent bit of writing and a pleasant
variation from the conventional
species. Instead of the custard-
pie and soap-suds interpolations
he has a consistent story, and
the humor comes out in the
situation of the distressed damsel
incarcerated in a low white
tower by the spells of a witch
whose two sons, Archibald and
Leslie, are being trained up to
the profession but have difficulty
in passing their examinations.
The Witch’s Cave, the Land
Above the Clouds and the
Woodland peopled by sky-
sprites, fire-imps and other
fauna have the right touch of
the fantastic, and, in the
absence of a principal boy, Reg
Dell plays the hero with a mas-
culinity and a pair of long legs
which emphasise the sweet
romantic femininity of Princess
Alicia Smyth. As the witch June
Brown is outstanding.
The National Anthem.
One can readily
agree most of the way with “G.”
(B. 2/1/’52) anent murdering
attacks on the National Anthem,
played with local variations and
trimmed to unexpected short-
ness. With the Royal visit loom-
ing it is worth quoting the
official arrangement laid down
by military and other authori-
ties for many years. The
authorised arrangement is that
published by Boosey and
Hawkes, and should invariably
be used and rendered thus:
The first bars will be played
“p” at M.M. 60 crotchets, using
the full reeds, horns and basses,
the whole phrase of six bars
being slurred over in all parts.
(The brass will be brought up
smartly into the playing position
on the third beat of the fifth
bar.)
The cornets and side-drum
will be added on the second beat
of the sixth bar, the four
quavers being slurred, making
a rubato, the side-drum rolling,
beginning pianissimo, a cres-
cendo being made to a fortis-
simo on the first beat of the
seventh bar, where the full band
will be employed, at a tempo
of M.M. 52 crotchets.
The last eight bars will be
played fortissimo as broadly as
possible—almost slurred —simi-
larly to an organ legato style.
The bass-drum and cymbals will
not be used, but the side-drum
and tympani will continue to
roll throughout. A rallentando
will be made in the second-last
bar.
When the first part only is
used for saluting or for any other
purpose it will be rendered in
the style indicated for the last
eight bars, i.e., fortissimo as
broadly as possible, at M.M. 60
crotchets.
For concert purposes the
National Anthem will be played
in its entirety, and must be pre-
ceded by a three-bar side-drum
or tympani roll, crescendo
falling to “pp,” at M.M. 60
crotchets.
For singing, the key of “F”
will be used.
The practice in Australia of
shortening the Anthem has
undoubtedly been brought about
through its proper use when
saluting the Governor-General
or State Governors, since these
are entitled to the playing of the
first six bars only. This vice-
regal salute, however, should
never be used as an exit signal
at the movies; it is significantly
laid down that for concert pur-
poses the whole Anthem will be
played. Another common mis-
take in Australia when singing
the Anthem is to use through-
out the words “our King”
instead of more correctly “the
King.”
"Wherever She Goes."
“Cauboy’s” report on a new
Australian film:
“Wherever She Goes,” at
the Grosvenor, Melbourne, is
based on Clare H. Abrahall’s
Prelude, which was based on the
early struggles of Eileen Joyce
to become an artist. It may or
may not be largely fiction and
the details may be all wrong, but
it seems as emotionally real as
the magnificent Tasmanian
mountain scenery, the views of
Hobart, Perth and the drab
Kalgoorlie goldfields look
authentic.
The film shows an anxious,
insecure little girl whose father
has gone off to the Westralian
goldfields and whose mother is
sitting at home in a bush humpy
solacing herself for her unhappy
feelings with dreams of
suburban comfort, while her
daughter is wandering along a
bush-track solacing herself for
unhappy feelings by imitating
birdcalls.
She accidentally meets an
artist who is playing tunes on a
mouth-organ, and she is en-
chanted. It is the first time she
has heard man-made music. The
artist recognises that she has a
natural ear and encourages her
to learn the mouth-organ, which
she does in secret. Then he tells
her she should learn an instru-
ment more complex, and in
Hobart, where the family has
gone to catch a ship to join
their father, he introduces her
to the piano.
They reach the goldfields,
where her father displays the
same opposition to her musical
aspirations as the mother. She
goes to a convent school, where
a nun promises to teach her, but
the lessons will cost sixpence a
time ; so she plays outside a pub
to the diggers and takes up a
collection. The publican has a
cracked piano and allows her to
practise on it, and even a two-
up school in a desolate mining
dump provides some of the
wherewithal for her to continue
her musical education.
Her father hears about it and
wants to punch the publican on
the nose for making his daughter
into a street-beggar, but the
publican’s nose is saved when she
wins a local music festival. Her
parents are impressed, and she
goes to Perth to practise more
furiously than ever, and the
film ends with the little girl
dreaming at a concert of play-
ing some great concerto in New
York or Co vent Garden under
some great conductor and the
dream merges into the real
Eileen Joyce actually doing the
thing that she has dreamed of.
There are a few technical
creaks in the film, but the overall
effect is quite pleasant, Nigel
Lovell and Muriel Steinbeck, as
the parents, and John Wiltshire,
Rex Dawe and Jacqueline Kott
give f.a.q. performances but are
quite overshadowed in the
matter of naturalness by young
Suzanne Parrett as the little
girl.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
t t t-» n i ' Dividends To Re- Re-
uy, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.f serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
’44.. 190,762 9 p.c. 7fi).c. 194,335 770,529
’45.. 241,230 9 „ 8J „ 211,585 29,645 800,174
259,449 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 39,238 839,412
’47.. 274,094 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 53,883 893,295
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 943 295
) 48 " 320,320 9 p.c. 10 p.c. 237,460 82,860 1,026’155
’49.. 326,946 9 „ 10 „ 237,460 89,486 1,115,641
Staff fund - £62,823 1.178 a 6 a
■ >o " 382,771 9 p.c. llfp.c. 266,211 116,560 1,295,024
From inner reserves, £1,446,863 .. 2,741,887
Revaluation assets, £2,360,862 .. 5,102,’749
Reserves capitalised, £1,750,000 .. 3,352^749
t Added stock reserve, £295,000 . . 3,647,749
’51.. 442,735 9 p.c. 7*g.c. 329,335 113,400 3,761.149
* After deducting goodwill (£250,000).
t Including staff partner shares (6 p.c.).
The last was one of the most eventful
years in the history of the Myer business,
which is the biggest department-store
organisation in the Commonwealth.
Highlights were (1) writing-up of the
book-value of fixed assets by £2,360,862 ;
(2) capitalisation of £1,750,000 of the re-
serve thus created by a one-for-one
r?^^' S^are * s . sue » (3) disclosure of
£1,446,863 of inner reserves which had
been accumulated out of earnings; (4)
cash issue of 200,000 ss. ords. to
rw?™ y f™1 xecut * ves .’ (5) the raising of
£1,000,000 by a public issue of 4f p.c. un-
secured notes; (6) purchase of the retail
business of Patterson, Powell Pty., Ltd ,
Ballarat (Vic.), for £87,500 in f.-p.
Myer ords. ; (7) marked improvement in
turnover and an increase in net earnings.
In the revaluation freeholds were written
up by £1,935,055 and plant, etc., by
£425,807, thus bringing their book-
values nearer the undisclosed revaluation
figures. Of the inner reserves disclosed
£670,000 was in respect of stocks,
£250,000 book debts and £526,863 was
shaken out of “current liabilities and
provisions.”
Paid capital thus advanced to
£4,342,450 (up £1,862,500) in 655,450 £1
9 p.c. prefs., 99,500 £1 staff-partnership
shares and 14,350,000 ss. ords. The
writing-up, disclosure of other inner re-
serves and issue of bonus-scrip were
book adjustments which do not affect
actual earning-power one way or the
other, nor does the allocation of earn-
nings by way of depreciation appear to
have been materially affected. The bonus
issue makes net earnings look more
moderate in relation to share capital, of
course, and also makes the div. worth
double the declared rate on ord, capital
as it stood before the gift. The million-
pound note-issue is earning more than its
keep last term’s declared net earnings
were equal to 5.4 p.c. on shareholders’
net tangible funds (capital and reserves
combined).
Though trading conditions showed
signs of becoming more difficult toward
the close of accounts, the year was one
of expanding turnover and profit for
Both the parent and its half-dozen sub-
sidiaries—Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.,
(Adelaide); Myer Woollen Mills Pty.
(Ballarat); Economic Cash Buying Co.
(Melb.), which takes care of the short-
term credit purchases of the parent’s
customers; Morris and Jacobs Pty.
(Geelong), bought toward the close of
accounts in 1950 ; Patterson, Powell Pty.
(Ballarat); and Myer Emporium
(London), Ltd., which looks after the
group’s overseas purchases. The Geelong
and Ballarat businesses are in process of
being enlarged and developed along the
general lines of Myer policy.
The growth in the parent’s own turn-
over (up £4 million as against an increase
of £2f million in 1950) took care of the
advance in costs and narrowing of gross
margins, and enabled the board to write
net earnings £60,024 stronger at £442,735.
That was after allowing for depreciation
(£214,864, up £12,564) and taxation
(£650,000, up £100,000), as well as send-
ing £295,000 (£220,000 in 1950) to the
stock fluctuation reserve, making it
£965,000, approximately 20 p.c. of the
inventory total (at or under cost) at July
31 last. The £442,735 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. and partnership
divs. (£64,960) and show 10.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands. Although the
div. was dropped from Ilf p.c. to 7f p.c.,
the bonus-scrip issue makes the lower
rate equal to 15 p.c. on old holdings.
The combination of events resulted in
big changes in balance-sheet figures, of
course:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. . . £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £4,342,450
Mortgages . . 460,000 897,500 1,442,500
Registered notes*. . 1,000,000
Creditors .. .. 1,721.004 2,148,318 2,555,765
Tax reserve . . 478,438 589,895 687,906
Final div. .. 120,750 143,750 177,500
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,794,500 1,783,500 3,988,479
Plant, etc. .. 651,354 810,799 1,214,152
a r es • . . . 532,558 751,351 1,278,366
Stocks .. .. 2,220,730 2,621,942 4,926,672
Debtors . . . . 1,224,240 1,571,916 2,543,139
Cash, etc 15,221 14,929 16,462
* Unsecured.
The growths in share - capital (up
£1,862,500), creditors (up £407,437), free-
holds, etc. (up £2,204,979), plant, etc. (up
£403,353), stocks (up £2,304,730) and
book debts (up £971,223) were the com-
bined effects of the book adjustments
already mentioned and of the year’s
bigger trading, to help finance which the
£1,000,000 of new note and an extra
£545,000 of mortgage moneys were got
in, and more besides. The actual in-
crease in the amount coming to sundry
creditors was £934,000-odd, in stocks
£1,654,000-odd and in book debts (in-
cluding amounts owing by subsidiaries)
£721,000-odd. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £2,900,968 (up £1,720,293).
Since the close of accounts retailers
generally have been passing through a
difficult, but not serious, period of re-
adjustment, following the tightening of
overseas and other trade-credit facilities
and growth of buyer resistance, which
eased with the approach of Christmas
spending. However, to meet bank and
current trade obligations, and adjust
stocks to altering conditions, the big re-
tailers sold some lines at cut prices, and
reduced their forward orders. At the
same time recurrent wage-lifts have
greatly increased payroll and all other
charges, as well as having created a need
for additional working capital.
At 9s. 9d. (235, a year ago) the co.’s
f;P- ss. ords. return 3.8 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
4.6 p.c. on his money counts on a 9 p.c.
distribution, or other benefits. The £1
prefs. at 365. (41s. a year ago) yield 5
p.c.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
t Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. / —Ordinary— ~ serves, serves.f
£■ £■ p.c. £ £ £
44., 68,056 5000 11£ ■= 44,872 18,184 318,044
’45.. 70,878 5000 lli= 44,872 21,006 339.050
46.. 94,733 5000 18| = 54,844 34,889 378,939
Net share-premiums, £13,847 . . 387,786
’47. .103,742 500 15 r= 64,999 89,027 476,813
Share-premiums, £111,776 .. .. 588,589
Goodwill increased, £BOB .. .. 587,721
Reduction reserves, £B7 . . . . 587,634
’4B. .207,231 5000 17i = 96,390 105,841 693,475
Net addition reserves, £8056 .. 696,531
’49.. 171,617 5000 176 = 100,554 66,063 762,594
Share-premiums, £130,029 .. .. 892,623
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £987.. 893,610
Unexplained reduction res., £9799.. 883,811
’50..245,424 5000 20 = 134,071 106,353 990,164
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £2369 .. 992,533
’51..299,184 5000 15 = 142,967 151,217 1,143,750
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,128,750
* After eliminating outside interests. t After de-
ducting goodwill, etc., £18,917, written off in 1951.
It used to be Taubmans, Ltd. The
name was changed to the present title
shortly after the close of last accounts,
when the parent’s main factory at St.
Peters, near Sydney, was passed to a new
subsidiary and another offshoot was
formed to take over the chemicals divi-
sion at Villawood, near by, Taubmans
Industries thus becomes a holding co.
controlling a group of eight highly-
efficient subsidiaries, which constitute
one of the largest paint, surface-coating
and chemical-insecticide manufacturing
organisations in Australasia,
The drop in the div. last term is not
indicative of the trend in the trade, or
of any inherent weakness in earning-
power, nor of the future possibilities of
the scrip ; it is a reflex of the effect of
capital-issues and credit-control upon the
domestic financial requirements of a
vigorous and expanding organisation. To
meet the outlay on new premises, plant,
stock, etc., the board had arranged to
borrow £500,000 on debenture from the
A.M.P., but the Government-control
agency cut the figure to a disappointing
£150,000. The board intends to go ahead
with its original programme when money
becomes available. Meanwhile the need
to conserve earnings is obvious, hence
the cut in the div. from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c.
Over the last dozen years, issued capi-
tal has grown from £398,867 to £1,254,219
—it includes £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. pref.
money—shareholders have had divs.
averaging 14.1 p.c., and tangible reserves
have climbed from £197,932 to
£1,128,750. The last 2,298,364 ss. ords.
were issued in May, 1950, at a premium
of Is. each. At Sept. 30 last they were
paid to 3s. 6d. each, and the remaining
Is. 6d. has been called since the close of
accounts. The premium (£130,029) was
added to reserves.
Since the war demand has run ahead
of production, and continues to do so.
Limiting factors have been shortages of
raw materials —especially linseed-oil, pig-
ments, resins and tinplate —and of skilled
labor and electric power; and the labor
and materials problem has also hampered
expansion of factory premises and plant.
Last term several fires caused damage to
buildings and plant and some loss of
stock, all of which were covered by outside
insurance. The resultant dislocation was
not serious; production increased and
sales (amount not stated) stepped up by
over 44 p.c. So, despite rising costs and
bigger allowances for depreciation and
taxation, combined net earnings of the
group were £53,760 stronger at £299,184.
That was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show an attractive 30.8 p.c, on average
ord. capital as against 35.8, 29, 36.7,
36.6 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1946. On
average shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
14.8 p.c., which suggests, among other
things, that assets are well worth their
book-value.
The amount of working capital in the
business, or more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,659,776), increased by £306,803:
Taubmans, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. , 668,989 674,591 966,923 1,239,515
Outside
interests .. 105,063 154,368 148,311 153,811
Overdraft .. 75,085 129,174 15,639 115,023
Creditors* .. 392,744 565,897 825,474 958,597
Exchange a/c 40,646 54,785 56,480 60,020
Staff fund .. 15,000
Final divs. . . 64,642 64,642 90,977 73,638
Freeholds .. 301,474 394,371 436,815 496,783
Plant . . 272.675 331,783 372,090 425,538
Stocks . . 1,061,340 1,172,591 1,598,156 1,883,173
Debtors, etc. 401,269 465,848 644,934 896,349
Cash, etc. .. 3,886 41,458 41,973 42,512
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet net additions of £285,017 to
stocks, £251,415 to book debts and
£113,416 to fixed assets, £272,592 of fresh
share capital was gathered, £99,384 was
added to the overdraft and £133,123 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc.
At 19s. (325. 6d. early in 1951) the f.-p.
ss. ords. give an immediate return of
3.9 p.c, on a 15 p.c. div. basis, with possi-
bilities. The pound prefs. at 225. 6d. yield
4.4 p.c. Net tangible cover is £23 16s. 7d.
prefs. and 10s. 9d. ords.
Vesta Battery Co., Ltd.
r~ Divs.
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.!
1948.. 22.553 418 12 p.c. = 16,440 5,694 29,767
Assets revaluation, £14,638 .. .. 44,405
1949.. 41.407 418 p.c. = 28,977 17,012 61,417
Less exchange adjustment, £770 .. 60,647
1950.. 41.779 418 15 p.c. = 25,689 15,672 76,319
1951.. 49.636 418 15 „ „ 38,908 10,310 86,629
* Includes additions to insurance reserve, etc.
t After deducting intangibles, £14,500.
This co., now well established through-
out Australia and New Zealand, took
over the manufacturing and distributing
rights of Vesta Battery Corp. (U.S.)
about 23 years ago. It was always profit-
able, but had never put on much weight
until after the public became interested
in June, 1948. Since then development
has been rapid, thanks partly to enter-
prising management and partly to quick
growth of the number of cars, trucks,
tractors, etc., in use, and to development
of a new products division, which makes
battery-chargers and testing apparatus,
electric oil-chargers and automobile
jacks, etc.
Paid capital shot up from £22,056
early in June, 1948, to £317,915 at June
30, 1951, by capitalisation of £44,594 of
reserves and three cash issues at par
totalling £251,265—£75,007, June, 1948 ;
£68,503, March, 1950; £107,755,
December, 1950. And profitable employ-
ment was quickly found for the new
share capital and more besides. Over the
last four years divs. have averaged 14.9
p.c. from profits averaging over 23 p.c.
on capital actually employed.
The call for batteries has continued to
run ahead of output, which has been re-
stricted by shortage of lead. Supplies of
virgin lead, obtainable only on a quota
basis, are supplemented by scrap, which
has been difficult to obtain at the fixed
price, which was lifted from £35 to £65
a ton in Sept., 1950. But the selling-price
of batteries, which is controlled, was not
increased until Sept., 1951. Although
rising costs have narrowed unit margins,
the impact has been largely absorbed by
expanding turnover and labor-saving
devices. Last term additions were made
to factories in both Australia and New
Zealand, and the new products division
made “substantial contributions” to both
sales and profit.
Turnover increased by 45 p.c.,
approaching the £BOO,OOO-mark. Includ-
ing unexplained additions to reserves,
the profit was £7857 better at
£49,636, That was after allowing for
depreciation (£7647, up £3275) and taxa-
tion at the increased rate (£33,551, up
£15,551). The £49,636 covered the small
pref. divs. (£418) and 18.9 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 24.2, 29.9 and
16.1 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The div. was maintained at a generous
15 p.c„ and the £10,310 that remained
lifted reserves £86,629 in excess of in-
tangibles.
The year’s bigger trading, due partly
to inflation and partly to increased out-
put, is further reflected in expansion of
balance-sheet figures:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. .. £141,657 £210,161 £317,915
Overdraft .. .. 33,483 71.762 102,573
Creditors .. .. 63,824 83,976 107 027
Tax provision .. .. 32,691 35,027 35 919
Final dividend . . ~ 13,910 15,623 23^704
rand and buildings . . 88,865 88,594 107 793
Plant and machinery . . 33,513 52,562 61’274
Furniture, fittings, etc. 12,702 17,680 21 124
® toc , k J 118,862 212,420 291’,815
Book debts .. .. 92,589 121,124 187 925
P a , sh . 421 488 3’,836
Intangibles .. 14,500 14,500 14,500
To meet net additions of £79,395 to
stock, £66,801 to book debts and £3l 355
to fixed assets, £107,754 of fresh capital
was gathered, £30,811 was added to the
overdraft and £23,051 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£214,353) was £86,709. P
The expanding products division is
presently to be moved to new factory
premises, recently bought at Rosebery,
near Sydney. Turnover has continued
to increase since the close of accounts,
and the board sees no signs of an early
recession in overall sales. However, the
sharemarket, doubtful whether expand-
ing turnover will take care of the con-
tinued steep rise in costs, prices the f.-p.
10s. ords. at 225. (28s. a year ago) to re-
turn 6.8 p.c. so long as the 15 p.c. dis-
tribution continues. Net tangible cover is
12s. 9d. a share. The well-protected
prefs. (£2150 firsts and £2500 seconds,
both 9 p.c. cumulative) are not listed on
’Change.
Mt. Isa, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit.f Dividend serves, serves.
£ £>£,£,
’44.. 76,980 Nil 76,980 105,563
45.. 126,230 Nil 126,236 231,799
46. . 149,410 Nil 149,410 381,209
Share premiums, £139,838 .. .. 520,547
’47.. 502,585 10 p.c. = 194,206 308,379 828,926
’48.. 872,921 17 „ „ 755,779 117,142 946,068
49. .1,457,337 25 „ ~1,157,652 299,685 1,245,753
Share premiums, £184,852 .. .. 1,430,605
Cost debenture redemption, £107,829 1,322,776
’50.. 878,587 15 p.c. = 736,183 142,404 1,465,180
51. .1,360,842 25 „ ~1,354,384 6,45§ 1,471,638
f After deducting debenture interest and allowing
for depreciation.
The co.’s big medium-grade silver-lead-
zinc and high-grade copper deposits
are at Mt. Isa in the centre of N.Q.
Ore is milled on the spot, and the pro-
ducts railed to Townsville, whence the
silver-lead bullion is shipped for treat-
ment at the Britannia refinery on the
Thames, near London, the zinc concen-
trates are sold overseas, and the present
small output of blister copper goes to
Port Kembla (N.S.W.), where it is refined
and sold locally.
The mainspring behind the leap of
£482,255 in last term’s profit was the
rise in metal prices. Treatment of more
average-grade ore and bigger output of
lead, zinc and silver contributed, too.
Construction of the new £3,000,000
copper plant is approaching completion,
and the co. has bought all the issued
capital in Mining Trust, Ltd. (London).
The £1,360,842 of profit was 27.7 p.c.
on average capital as against 17.9, 32.7
and 19.6 p.c. back to 1948. It was written
after allowing for depreciation (£578,364,
up £178,364), taxation (£1,745,665, up
£1,225,665) and payment of the lead
bonus to employees (£1,359,923, up
£691,040) and interest on debentures
(£114,381, down £10,933). The div.,
which dropped from 25 p.c. in 1949 to
15 p.c. in 1950, was lifted to 25 p.c. again,
which can be taken as a hint that the
board is satisfied with the outlook.
London average (stg.) prices for lead
and zinc moved in this way:
Year. Lead. Zinc.
June 30, 1950 .. £S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
June 80, 1951 .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
July, 1951 . . 173 6 4 177 16 6
August, 1951 .. 181 10 0 190 0 0
November, 1951 .. 176 10 0 190 0 0
Actual prices received by the co. aren’t
disclosed. But the market has continued
to strengthen, and two ships were
chartered toward the close of accounts to
take accumulated zinc concentrates to
Antwerp.
The mill handled 559,275 tons (up
27,465 tons) ore, assaying 5.40 z. silver,
7.3 p.c. lead and 7.3 p.c. zinc. The grade
was a little below the silver and lead in
run-of-mine ore. Including small
quantities of fluxing and purchased ore,
total production of metals was:
June Silver, Lead, Copper, Zinc,
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1949. .2,886,410 38,547 497 28,907
1950. .2,583,466 33,606 582 21.214
1951. 34,650 437 22,946
The marked improvement in recoveries
attained in 1950, due to sulphur-dioxide
treatment in the flotation plant, was
maintained. Operating costs were 9.255.
heavier at 80.585. per ton crudes, due
mainly to wage-lifts. The figure does not
include the lead bonus, equal to 48.15.


CORUNDITE
o
Qh°jm
c
to<r f
oo
d
HO 220
REQUEST A COPY OP
THE K.LG. RECOMMEND-
ATI ON BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
mm-
Sii
mm.
m
m
m
mmsMAKr
mm
mm/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her "by a whisker”... it was that
smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave, too, will look good and
feel good with Palmolive the Shaving Cream that gives
better shaves to 3 men out of every 4. Here’s the proof:
1,231 men tried .. . 81% reported "Beards easier to cut!’*
...76% said Less razor pull”. ..71% said "Closer shaves”
•.. 80% found Smoother feeling skin.” Judge it yourself.
Join the ranks of successful men. Get smoother, more
comfortable shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
FS4/121
sdf
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
Why the
Uni a Belt
is so successful!
For every man -..
• A FINE BRACED FEELING
OF FITNESS
• A PERFECT SUPPORT WITHOUT
RESTRICTION
• A MASSAGE WITH EVERY MOVE-
MENT BY THE PATENTED LIBIA
TRICOT
Evolved by medical men and there-
fore anatomically correct in design,
the Linia Belt is easily placed in posi-
tion. Fits every curve of the body.
Arrows indicate how the Linia Bolt
lifts and holds the abdominal organs
in their correct position whilst pro-
ducing a definite reduction in the
girth. Also ideal for post-operation
wear.
Visit us and try the Linia Belt or send
for the illustrated "Danger Curve"
booklet and order by post. Your
remittance will be refunded if you are
not entirely satisfied.
MILLIONS OF MEN THROUGHOUT THE WORLD ENJOY LIFE
THE LINIA WAY
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only Dy
of Paris Pty. Ltd,
84 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE. C.I. Phone FA 8357
Open Saturday Mornings.
Branches throughout the British Isles, and the Continent
ikm
&
I
m
\
I
7ipwie/'a/ibn
AS
•V2i
m
mm
wm-y
WS
% &
!
&»***
M
Poj *
° C A
r mi
f 3!
i
The standard of
good taste in gin
for more than
200 years.
I
GIN
/aniouA Amce /7SO
VG4B/U
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
per ton of ore as compared with
245. lOd. for the previous year.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1951,
were:
t Assay— —^
, , Pb, Zn, Ag,
, J l ?*; — Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz.
Sulphides .. 9,234,337 8.8 7.1 6.8
Carbonates .. 264,568 9.1 4.0
Copper—
Sulphides .. 2,892,930 4.02
Oxides .. 58,734 7.9
And there are sound reasons,
geological and structural, for
believing that a lot more pay-
ore exists outside measured
limits, vertically and laterally.
The hunt for coal at Oakey
Creek has been abandoned, and
the co. has now become
interested in Bowen Consoli-
dated Coal Mines, Ltd., whose
deposits total some 40,000,000
tons of good coking and steam-
ing coal. At the moment the co.
draws the bulk of its coal from
the Blair Athol field.
The new copper plant,
originally scheduled for comple-
tion in June, 1951, is not
expected to get into production
before mid-1952, owing to de-
lays in delivery of plant and
materials. It is to handle 30,000
tons of copper-sulphide ore for
an output of 1500 tons blister a
month. About 900 men are
employed on the construction,
etc., and they all receive the lead
bonus—now £l7 ss. a week—
though the price of copper will
not stand the artificial level of
wages that lead and zinc prices
and production have thus far
sustained. Under existing condi-
tions the profit from copper is
therefore likely to be much less
than originally expected. The
co. has asked the Arbitration
Court for a revision of the lead-
bonus clause, and much will
depend upon the decision.
The year’s addition to the
book-value of fixed assets was
£1,478,071, of which £1,225,000-
odd was in respect of the copper
venture; —
„ ~ , 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £4,907,885 £4,907.885
Reserves .. 1,465,180 1,471,638
Depreciation res.. . 1,660,097 2,238,462
Debentures .. 1,539,788 1,477,288
Creditors! .. 1,712,244 3.177,463
Mines and plant,
at cost.. .. 6,431,199 7,909,270
Stocks* .. .. 2.380,872 3,251.974
Debtors . . . . 444,522 432,685
Bonds, cash. etc... 2,029,101 1,678,807
* Includes products on hand, f Includes
final div.
Most of the increase in the
creditors item (up £1,465,219)
was on account of tax provision.
Since the close of accounts Isa
bought all the issued capital
(5,945,988 f.-p. 4s. shares) in
Mining Trust, Ltd., in exchange
for 849,427 of its own f,-p. £1
shares—it looks like an all-
round advantageous and satis-
factory deal. The Trust co.
netted £87,358 and paid 6d. a
share (£78,041 net) for the 12
months of 1950. Its principal
asset is the Britannia Lead Re-
finery (paid capital £100,000),
which netted £78,966 and paid
divs. totalling £41,250 net over
the same period. Among its
other assets are shares in New
Guinea Gold Fields (843,147,
4s. 3d. each), Saudi Arabian
Mining Syndicate (397,520, ss.
each), Big Bell Mines, Ltd.
(20,000, £1 each), and Anglo-
Westralian Mining Pty. (6500, £1
each). The Trust co. also held
116,463 £1 shares and £1,147,040
8 p.c. debentures in Mt. Isa. So
Isa will now control redemption
of most of its own debenture
stock, as well as the refinery.
Last week Isa’s £1 shares were
offered at 60s. (48s. a year ago)
to return 8.3 p.c. on a 25 p.c.
div. basis.
Bulolo Gold: Dredging, Ltd.
The co.’s headquarters are at
Vancouver (Canada), its aurifer-
ous deposits are on the Bulolo
and Watut Rivers (New Guinea),
and a number of the 1,000,000
issued and f.-p. $5 shares are
held in Australia.
For the year to May 31, 1951,
less average-grade ground was
handled with a corresponding
drop in the quantity of gold and
silver recovered; -
1950. 1951.
Dredged, c.y. .. 13,615,000 12,330,820
Recovered—
Gold, fine oz. .. 70,992 68,189
Silver, fine 0z... 31,786 30,399
Value, c.y., cents* 19.48 20.62
Costs, c.y., cents* 10.38 10.88
* Canadian.
The management did well to
keep the rise in costs to 1.14
cents per c.y. Operating profit
was $1,200,455 (down $38,232).
But after paying Australian
income tax ($18,546, down
$12,662) and allowing for ex-
change adjustments ($102,290,
down $472,226) the net amount
available was $1,079,619 (up
$446,754), equal to $1,079 per
share (21.6 p.c.) as against
$0,632 per share (12.6 p.c.) for
the previous year. The div. was
dropped from 100 cents (20 p.c.)
to 75 cents (15 p.c.), subject to
Canadian absentee tax of 15 p.c.
Dredgeable gravel reserves at
May 31, 1951, were estimated
at 78,000,000 c.y., averaging
20.8 cents (U.S.) per yard, and
there was 13,000,000 c.y. averag-
ing 18.46 cents (U.S.), to be
worked hydraulically.
For the six months to Nov.
30, 1951, 5,439,520 c.y. were
treated for 39,4180 z. fine gold,
compared with 6,351,000 c.y. for
36,6760 z. fine gold for the
corresponding period of the
previous term. For these and
other reasons, including the right
to sell gold for industrial pur-
poses on the free market, where
it is now fetching about £A2 an
ounce more than the statutory
price (£AIS 10s. 3d. an ounce),
a better showing promises at
next balance.
Nos. 3 and 6 dredges were
closed down permanently in
May, 1951. Nos. 4 and 8 are
expected to cease operations
about mid-1953, and No, 2
about a year after that. The
co. will then be left with two
big deep-digging machines, Nos.
5 and 7, each of which has about
12 years’ work ahead of it. No.
5, which was capsized in Nov.,
1949, is not expected to be in
operation again until toward the
end of next month.
Meanwhile there is the proba-
bility of the co. adding another
string to its bow. A preliminary
joint agreement has been
reached with the Commonwealth
Government for establishment
of a plywood venture in the
Bulolo Valley. Plans for erec-
tion of plant to handle
10,000,000 board feet p.a. have
been drawn up, and details con-
cerning the commercial possi-
bilities of the venture are being
worked out. If the board
finally considers the project
attractive enough shareholders
might be asked to assist.
On Sydney ’Change buyers
recently offered 555. (675. six
months ago) for the dollar
shares.
Rawang Tin Fields, Larut Tin
Fields and London Tin Corp.
have each sold their one-third
interest in the unequipped Bang
Toe property (Thailand), esti-
mated to contain 55,000,000 c.y.
of 0.571 b. dirt, to London-con-
trolled Kamunting Tin Dredg-
ing. The price for the whole
area is £BO,OOO cash, payable on
issue of mining leases. Kamun-
ting’s property at Pangna on the
west coast of Thailand, which
is equipped with two dredges, is
nearly worked out. The co. also
holds a large area in the Larut
district (Malaya) equipped with
four dredges.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Four bridesmaids will attend Jeanette
Brooks when she is married at Christ
Church on February 12. They are
Marion, daughter of Sir Clive McPherson
and the late Lady McPherson —her
friendship with Jeanette dates from the
time they met on the ship which brought
the Governor and his family to Aus-
tralia ; Anne Spraggett, daughter of
Colonel R. W. Spraggett, private secretary
to the Governor, and Mrs, Spraggett ;
Gillian Pain, daughter of Mrs. J. F. H.
Pain, of South Yarra, and the late
Colonel Pain ; and tall, charming Heather
Menzies, daughter of the Prime Minister
and Mrs. Menzies. With the prospective
bride, they have been shopping for
materials for the wedding frocks.
In the glow of soft candlelight, the
only illumination in St. John’s, Toorak,
and in the presence of his Grace, Arch-
bishop J. J. Booth, Judith, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Coles,
was married. Her bridegroom was James
Frank, only son of Mrs. E. R.
McLaughlin, of South Yarra, and the late
Mr. McLaughlin, of Corowa (N.S.W.).
The bride’s gown provided the touch of
“something borrowed,” for she wore the
one in which her sister Margaret (Mrs.
I. A. Bright) was married. Cut on simple
lines, it was of cream faille. A pearl
coronet held her finger-tip veil of creamy
tulle, and she carried a trail of white
orchids. In attendance were the bride’s
sister Janice and Charlotte Blackwell.
Their bouffant frocks of white chiffon
made over cream tulle were worn with
small matching hats. They carried
bouquets of frangipani and stephanotis.
Bruce Shanks was best man and N. H.
Young ’groomsman.
Reception was at the home of the
bride's parents. Great bowls of cream
and white gladioli were set in the recep-
tion-rooms, and hot-house begonias in
every hue glowed behind glass at one end
of the drawing-room. In the garden,
under a flowering jacaianda, guests stood
and chatted before moving into the gold-
lined marquee where the wedding-
breakfast was served. Here again were
flowers in profusion, for the poles which
supported the marquee were massed with
cream and gold gladioli. Mr. and Mrs.
Coles were assisted by Mrs. McLaughlin
in receiving the guests. Mrs. Coles wore
a fully-pleated gown of aqua-blue chiffon
and a matching beret which had a
diamond ornament at one side. Mrs.
McLaughlin’s chiffons were dove-grey,
her large hat swathed with matching
tulle. Among the many guests were Mr.
and Mrs. A. W. Coles, the latter wearing
a gown of hyacinth-blue crepe topped
with a tiny white crepe jacket; Sir
Leslie and Lady McConnan, her bouffant
gown of pastel-pink chiffon having the
bodice gleaming with matching sequins ;
Mrs. Frank Worthington, in a gown of
white organza patterned with large
sprays of misty-blue and grey flowers ;
Mrs. Erl Grey, whose slim-fitting frock
was of white guipure lace ; Mrs. J. J.
Booth in dove-grey crepe; Mrs. F. E.
Lampe, her gown of cinnamon-brown
Chantilly lace ; and Verity Alley, whose
bouffant frock was of white organdie.
Jennifer, younger daughter of Mrs. D.
S. Hore-Lacy, of Mount Selby, Kallista,
and the late Commander G. A. G. Hag-
gard, R.N., was a lovely bride when she
married at Holy Trinity, Kew, Lieut.-
Commander Dacre Henry Deudraeth
Smyth, younger son of Lady Smyth, of
Portland, and the late Major-General Sir
Nevill Smyth, V.C. Jennifer’s gown was
of white brocade highlighted with a faint
silver thread, and it featured a slimly-
fitted pointed bodice, long sleeves and a
full skirt falling into a train. Misting
the gown was a long tulle veil held in
place with a coronet of orange-blossom.
Two lovely old brooches supplied the
“blue” touch, one worn at the neckline,
the other on the sleeve. One brooch had
belonged to her great-grandmother, and
the other had been worn by the bride-
groom’s mother at her wedding. The
small mid-Victorian posy was of orange-
blossom. Brother Geoffrey gave his
sister away, and the ceremony was per-
formed by Bishop McKie, assisted by
Canon Thornton.
The bride’s sister, Mrs. J. Deasey, was
matron-of-honor, and June Crowther,
Oeone Gardner and Anne Spraggett were
the ’maids. Their ballerina-length frocks
of white organdie had a small raised
pattern of tiny leaves bordering the skirts
and the tiny puff sleeves. Narrow love-
in-the-mist-blue velvet sashes encircled
their waists, and flower-wreaths worn in
their hair matched the love-in-the-mist
posies they carried. Lieut.-Commander
Tony Synnot, R.A.N., was best man, and
the bride’s young cousin, Christopher
Clemons, of Tasmania, dressed in a smart
white sailor suit, was page. The bridal
party left the church beneath an arch of
swords held by the ’groom’s fellow-
officers —to be correct, there were three
dirks included in the arch, for cadet-
midshipmen, sons of three of the officers,
were among those who formed the arch.
They were James, son of Commodore
H. J. Buchanan, Tony, son of Commo-
dore Roy Dowling, and Anthony, son
of Lieut.-Commander Charles Reid.
Reception was held at Blytheswood,
the home of Lady Syme, the bride’s
grandmother. The nautical flavor of the
wedding was sustained by the many naval
uniforms seen among the 300 guests, who
were received by Mrs. Hore-Lacy in i
full-skirted afternoon-frock of corn-
flower-blue chiffon and a picture-hat of
matching tulle, Lady Smyth, whose
frock-and-jacket ensemble in light beige
was worn with a small pink straw hat
trimmed with matching roses, and Lady
Syme, who offset her black lace gown
with a picture-hat of emerald velvet. The
Governor’s daughter, Jeanette Brooks,
wore a navy faille frock With wide revers
of white sharkskin and a small cloche
hat in matching blue. Mrs. David Syme
added to her black frock a small pink-
feather toque. Mrs. Henry Maling, of
Portland, wore navy and a matching hat
of feathers. Mrs. R. H. Spraggett’s dove-
grey silk frock was patterned in white.
Mrs. Peter Condon’s yellow-and-white
silk frock was worn with a large white-
straw hat. Mrs. Violet Street’s grey-and-
black-patterned faille jacket-suit had for
company a grey tricorne hat clustered
with grey flowers. Mrs. Charles Reid
topped her black suit with a picture-hat
of black velvet.
This attractive lass is Margot, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. V. J. Cornaga,
of Darling Point, Sydney, and formerly
of Melbourne, who recently announced
her engagement to Desmond, eldest son
of Mrs. P. Telfer, of Malvern, and the
late Mr. Telfer. The ring is a Brazilian
sapphire surrounded by diamonds. Well
known in this city as a leading manne-
quin, Margot was also a member of the
younger set organised by Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell to assist the work of various
charities. Swimming, tennis and cooking
are among Margot’s accomplishments.
Desmond has just returned from Korea,
where he was war-correspondent for the
A. Wedding is dated for March 8
at Scotch College Chapel, the reception at
Menzies’. An Athol Shmith study.
The party given by the Sidney Bowens
in their Ivanhoe home was a dual-
purpose one: to celebrate the 14th
wedding anniversary of the host and
hostess and the addition to Sidney’s
already formidable list of degrees of his
B. with honors. Mrs. Bowen’s frock
of grey tie-silk was patterned with tiny
cyclamen flowers. Among the guests
were Mrs. E. Ladner, whose gaily-
patterned silk frock topped with a black
velvet bolero ; Mrs. Neil Ross in beige
crepe; Mrs. lan Morgan, who wore a
black faille ballerina frock; Val
Glenfster, who allied a black sweater
glittering with pink sequins with a pencil-
slim skirt; Carmen Sprake, whose deep-
blue crepe frock was clustered at the
neckline With lime roses; and Alice
Adcock, her pastel-blue frock having tiny
white buttons.
When at the V.A.T.C. meeting at
Caulfield Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife
of the V.A.T.C. chairman, gave a
luncheon-party to presswomen. She wore
a smart black shantung suit and a black
picture hat swathed with tulle. During the
afternoon the committee-box filled with
well-groomed women. Lady Burston’s
black-white-and-grey-patterned silk frock
was worn with a large grey straw
trimmed with flowers. Mrs. Ken
McLean’s black faille frock and jacket
ensemble was worn with a pastel-pink
straw hat. Layers of black lace formed
the brim of the wide hat worn by Mrs.
S. Garnsworthy with her black frock,
which had a large double collar of white
organdie.
From Sydney
Congratulation-corner is devoted this
week to Miss Winifred Brennan, who
was awarded an M.B.E. in the New
Year’s Honors list for her work as ad-
ministrator of the Australian Comforts
Fund (Queensland). Miss Brennan is
well known for her active association
with many women’s organisations in
Queensland, including the National
Council of Women (of which she has
been honorary treasurer since the war),
the Lyceum Club and the Country
Women’s Association. Golf is her recrea-
tion, and she was recently elected a life-
member of the Brisbane Golf Club,
where she has been associates’ secretary
for 17 years.
Valerie Isbister, who greets you from
this Montgomery Dunn photograph,
plays the part of Gretel in the production
of Humperdinck’s fairy-tale opera
“Hansel and Gretel” which opens at the
Con. tonight. This opera is quite a god-
send to socially-barren January, a month
devoted so earnestly to the fulfilment of
resolutions that no one ever seems to
have the frivolity to organise parties and
dances. However, “Hansel and Gretel”
gives us all a chance to enjoy something
really charming and to feel at the same
time that it’s “doing us good.” Per-
formances will continue till January 21,
and there will be matinees tomorrow
Thursday 17th and on Saturday 19th.
The opening night should bring
out some of the satins and diamonds
and glad rags generally. Eugene
Goossens saw a rehearsal before
he left for overseas and said that it was
the finest-cast opera he’d seen in Sydney.
The decor is by Robin Lovejoy, who has
gone to considerable trouble to get
special fairy effects while retaining that
conventional element people seem to
think necessary in opera. Present at the
opening performance will be the Lieut.-
Governor, and some of our well-known
young lovelies will be selling the pro-
grammes. The production is in aid of the
extension fund for the Ryde Home for
Incurables.
Early in the New Year there passed
away in Sydney a woman whose dynamic
personality and patriotic fervor will be
remembered with admiration: Mrs. S. A.
Trim, 0.8. E., a noted identity of the
Tamworth district for 21 years. In
World War I she established unpre-
cedented figures by raising in seven
weeks £3024 for Tamworth and District
Battleplane; her total expenses being
only £l4. On another occasion she raised
£l5OO for the Y.M.C.A. without leaving
the platform, which in the first world
war meant the cost of three huts. Mrs.
Trim leaves one son, Jack, ex-Flying
Corps, who lives in Sydney.
Visiting Sydney for a six-months
holiday is Mrs. Reginald Short, who will
be remembered as Laurie Harris, of
Mosman. Laurie left these shores two
years ago for a trip abroad, but having
travelled through the Continent and
England she stopped off at South Africa
to marry the manager of Barclay’s Bank
in Lourenpo Marques, which romantically-
named spot is in Portuguese East Africa.
She and her husband are staying with
Laurie’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jack
Harris, of Mosman, and will return to
Lourenfo Marques in March.
The custom for wine waiters to p OUr a
little into the host’s glass first for his
approval (or otherwise) is one that could
profitably be extended. How about de-
manding that a little of the Irish stew be
ladled out for acceptance or rejection 9
A cut off the steak would be enough to
mark it as too tough, or as flavorless a
taste of the apple-pie would tell y’ ou
whether you’re going to get real apple-
pie or merely one of those revolting
diamond - shaped bits of puff - pastry
poised on top of tinned apples. Perhaps
it’s too much to hope for, and also per
haps one would no more have the nerve
to send the food back than one has at
present to send back the wine. Still, it
was a nice thought.
There aren’t many authors, even among
the women, who ever present an adequate
picture of what people in their books are
wearing. The men writers content them-
selves with saying things like “Her dress
matched the moonlight, soft and pale,”
Most of the women specify the material,
as “Her dress of white chiffon, soft and
pale, matched the moonlight.” Seldom,
however, do we get a complete idea of
the outfit. Was the said dress classical
or romantic in line? Was it strapless or
demure? What jewellery was worn?
What color shoes? Did she have a wrap?
If so, was it white mink or merely a
chiffon stole, or maybe something
unusual, like a white angora shawl?
These reflections are prompted by the
recent reading of Helen Mclnnes’s latest
book, Neither Five Nor Three (Collins),
mainly because Helen Mclnnes seems to
be one of the few writers who really
know their “Vogue.” Her descriptions of
appearances are quite vivid, as, for
example: “Rona stared at the girl, in
black slacks and expensive suede sandals
and a slickly-tailored white linen jacket,
who was holding back a red setter at
the end of a bright-green leash. It was
Mary Fyne, her pretty face smoothly
powdered, her lips a deep coral to match
her nails, a smile in her green eyes, her
head tilted to show her excellent neck
and the charming fall of her smooth red
hair.” Women readers who know that
Rona is wearing somebody else’s navy
dress with her own black handbag, and
shoes that need polishing, and that she
has no gloves, will realise just how she
felt.
These things are, of course, incidental
to the main theme of the book, which is
an exciting picture of how the Com-
munists work to make converts among
the near-intellectuals, and the impact of
these activities on a small group
in New York, The characterisation
and background are pleasantly natural.
Altogether it is a book definitely to be
recommended for summer reading.
There was a surprisingly large roll-up
to the exhibition at David Jones’ of
“Yugoslavia Through the Eyes of the
Camera Artist” when it was opened
during the week by Education Minister
Heffron, who was accompanied by Mrs.
Heffron. The Consul-General for Yugo-
slavia, Mr. Cvrlje (pronounced, approxi-
mately, Ts-vrel-ye), was not accompanied
by Mrs. Cvrlje, who was at home looking
after their new and first son, Sydney,
christened (a nice compliment) after our
home town. National costume, as worn by
Maria Koslovich and Miriam Grgorino-
vitch, looked very charming. Mrs. Kos-
lovich explained that each girl had to
spin, weave and make her own dress and
headdress herself, and then to embroider
it. Her own costume was cream linen,
heavily embroidered with bar-and-braid
work and flowers richly done in satin-
stitch. These costumes are worn only on
special occasions in Yugoslavia now, she
said. Among those who came along to
the opening were Zdenka Payk,
Margaret Degotardi, the Erik Langkers,
Mrs. Gladys Lister, Mrs. Bill Kendall and
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan.
At the reception to commemorate Anni-
versary Day to be given by the Womens
Pioneer Society, the guests will include
Lady Northcott (patron of the society),
heads of the Navy, Army and Air Force,
consular and diplomatic services, as well
as the presidents of the Royal Empire
Society, Historical Society, Genealogical
Society and representatives from all other
bodies and organisations interested in the
history and foundation of Australia.
Musical comedies seem to have taken
on a new lease of life lately. “Bnga-
doon,” at the Royal, is attracting large
audiences, mainly because of its ga)
music and unusual story. One hears tha
the producer of the show, James Mac-
Gregor Jamieson, who is also prmcipa
dancer, won the N.S.W. Highland Fling
championship and also the Hornpipe _ tor
“lassies and men over 16” at the 84tn
Highland Gathering at the Sydney Show-
ground on January 2. Mr. Jamieson sai
that the Sydney Highland Gathering was
one of the best he had seen anywhere m
the world.


The wine of to-day and
the wine of the future
dsf
WINE
Established 1847
PERSONAL ITEMS
Few public speakers have the experi-
ence of Eric Scott, Federal president of
the Australian Pharmaceutical Guild,
who is representing Australia at the Inter-
national pharmaceutical conference in
England. He spoke on Australia’s “free”-
medicine scheme, and the time allocated
to each speaker was three and a half
minutes. When Scott’s time was up he
was granted an extension, and in the end
talked for 40 minutes. A subject he could
have handled with equal interest and
authority is boxing; 30 years ago he was
heavyweight champion of Victoria.
A New Year R.A.F, promotion takes
Edmund C. Hudleston up to air-vice-
marshal. Hailing from Perth, a product
°f Guildford school, Hudleston left
his native heath before he was 20, and by
the time Hitler’s test came had had 12
years’ flying experience with the R.A.F.,
part of it on the North-west Frontier.
Adviser to the Turkish Government on
matters aeronautical when the storm
broke, he soon got into it in the Middle
East, to go through the North Africa,
Sicily and Italy landings: experience
which equipped him well to take on his
biggest War II job—boss of the 2nd
Tactical Air Force Group in Europe,
Montgomery’s advanced artillery. For
the past year head of Britain’s No. 1
Group, Bomber Command, he’s now on
Eisenhower’s staff.
“Trinco”; It was characteristic of
Admiral Raymond Spruance that his
appointment as U.S. Ambassador to
the Philippines should have been
hardly noticed by the Press. The
blue-eyed, wiry and wind - beaten
man who wrote “Chief of Central
Pacific Command” under his name in the
Japanese war shuns personal publicity—
while the other big names of the Pacific
fighting were continually spotlighted by
publicity, Spruance (the man behind the
defeat of the Jap fleet at Midway,
Doolittle’s bombing of Tokyo, behind
Guadalcanal, the Gilberts and the
Marshalls) entrusted his reputation only
to Navy men. It stood high
enough there Admiral
Nimitz, then Pacific Fleet
commander, made him his
Chief-of-Staff, A hard
driver with his character
in his face, Spruance has
always contended that
carrier-based aircraft are
the new artillery of a
modern fleet—a contention
shared now by the high
brass of the Royal Navy, as
well as by Australia’s sea-
going head. Spruance will
be a handy man to have
round the Philippines.
George Willoughby,
G.O.M. of the Australian
stage, first dipped his lid on
this page some 40 years
back, when he was head of
the Willoughby Company.
Caricaturist Hal Gye pre-
sented him characteristically
—hands in pockets, ample
midriff outthrust and legs
set solidly astride. Between
his legs could be seen a
stage, with a villain and
heroine thereon, plus a
notice threatening dire
punishment for failure to be
punctual at rehearsal.
George Willoughy Dowse
(to give him his full name)
came to Australia from
England at the turn of the
century with Charles Arnold’s company,
after playing a season in South Africa,
Willoughby later took over the company,
intending to open at the old Criterion in
Sydney; unfortunately bubonic plague
claimed his two leading female artists
two days before opening night. This
vicissitude failed to stop Willoughby,
and the play went on. Not long after-
wards he teamed up with Hugh Ward
in a highly-successful partnership, before
coming under The Firm’s musical-comedy
wing and broadcasting for the A.B.C.
Willoughby first trod the boards at 18 at
the Savoy in London in a Gilsullivan
chorus; he was 82 at the Final Curtain.
“K.”: Died in Alice Springs, Mrs, J.
Bohning, who had lived in the Northern
Territory since the ’nineties, and had
borne seven children, all still living.
Known throughout the Territory as “a
grand woman of the bush,” she could
handle horses and cattle as well as most
men and better than many. Most of her
life was spent on the Helen Springs station,
400 miles north of Alice, and she was the
first person to take a train-load of cattle
from Alice to the Adelaide-market. Her
husband told the large crowd of
Territorians at her funeral that when she
and one of her daughters were starting
on this job a railway inspector objected
that two women could not attend to a
train-load of cattle on such a journey.
“I said to him; ‘lf they can’t handle any
situation it will be no use bringing any
of your men along because it will be
beyond them,’ ”
This Dubois drawing of Anthony
Dattilo-Rubbo was done when The
Bulletin called to congratulate the 81-
year-old art-teacher on the invitation
he’d received from the Italian Govern-
ment to exhibit 14 of his paintings at the
Mostra Oltremare (Beyond the Sea) Ex-
hibition to be held in Naples this year.
Instituted to show the activities of
Italians in foreign countries, it was
natural that the exhibition should have
the maestro represented—he was born in
Naples, studied at the Royal Academy
there, started his art-school in Sydney at
the turn of the century (it is still going in
Pitt-street); was largely responsible for
the founding of the Manly (Sydney) Art
Gallery (one of the finest municipal col-
lections in Australia), and is represented
in all Australian National Galleries. His
portrait of John Curtin hangs in King’s
Hall, Canberra. The visitors mentioned
his title, Cavalier of the Crown of Italy.
MAESTRO.
The alert, wise old eyes in the brown face
twinkled. “Title? Oh, yes, I have a title.
But the title I would like to be remem-
bered by is: One who worked honestly
and who has helped, a little, his
fellows.” Arthur Murch, Margaret
Coen, Donald Friend, Erik Langker
and many other former students
will bestow the accolade unhesitatingly.
A.D.R.’s only son, Sydney, is Professor
of Bacteriology at Melbourne University.
When he signed the visitors’ book at
the Royal Caledonian Society’s rooms in
Melbourne a few months ago the Earl
of Hopetoun gave as his address Hope-
toun House, South Queensberry, West
Lothian. It was a forwarding-address
then, but it is his for keeps now since the
death of the Marquess of Linlithgow
gives him the succession to the title
which, incidentally, he wins by only a
few hours from his twin brother. Lord
John Hope. The new Lord Linlithgow
won the M.C. in War II just before he
was taken prisoner by the Germans. Lord
John is the M.P. who stood up in the
House of Commons and pleaded for the
destitute widow of a German colonel
who had sheltered his brother during a
Gestapo raid on the prison camp in which
he was held. The late marquess was
Viceroy of India from 1936 to 1943, and
was the son of Lord Hopetoun, Aus-
tralia’s first Governor-General.
The 1951 award of the J. K. Moir
Natural History Medallion has gone to
Tarlton Rayment, F.R.Z.S., author and
naturalist, who in 1936 with The Valley
of the Sky won the British Empire section
of the £5OOO all-nations novel com-
petition. In 1935 The Bulletin pub-
lished his monograph A Cluster of Bees,
and he has written many standard
manuals on the honey-bee and the
nectariferous plants of Australasia
besides doing research work in mal-
nutrition in honey-bees.
Called it a day after more than
30 years as g.-m. of Commonwealth
Steel, W. E. Clegg joined the co.
when it was an infant producing
railway-wheels and -axles at Waratah,
near Newcastle (N.S.W.). He leaves
it one of Australia’s largest steel-
works, employing almost 2300 as against
the original 170. One of the best-known
figures in the industry, Clegg has been
for 25 years senior vice-president of the
Metal Trades Employers’ Association,
with 30 years on the Newcastle Technical
Advisory Council; is a member of the
N.S.W. University of Technology
Developmental Council, president of
Newcastle’s Division of the Institute of
Management, Associate Member of the
Institution of Engineers and president of
the Newcastle District Asso-
ciation for Crippled Children.
He also finds time for bowls.
Remaining on the board of
co. as director and con-
sultant, he is succeeded by
E. G. Smith.
Elevated to the numeri-
cally-small band of R.A.N,
engineer - captains, Roger
Parker was awarded a prize
for navigation on passing-out
as a snotty from Flinders.
He’s lived that down, how-
ever with a competent
record in the engine-room of
three hard-fighting R.A.N.
ships. In cruiser Sydney in
the Mediterranean (when the
racing-boats of the Australia
licked the Med. Fleet), he
later stood-by the building of
our Norman and Nepal, and
on completion went to sister-
destroyer Nestor. Nestor’s
18 months of life were almost
continually exciting, cul-
minating in the reception of
three Luftwaffe bombs in a
Malta convoy. The third
ripped a large hole in
Parker’s boiler-room, killed
the crew and washed out all
steam and power. Air-attack
was concentrated on her,
and, added pleasantry, the
floating oil below caught fire. Soaked
hammocks stuffed through a funnel
access-door fixed that, and she was
taken in tow. It was no go ; Nestor
had to be depth-charged to the bottom.
Parker shifted to cruiser Hobart, and
was responsible for her 72,000 horses
when, with Chicago and Australia, she
helped turn back the Jap invasion force
headed for Moresby in the Coral Sea
battle. For this, 0.8. E.
At the Pineclay Creek (N.S.W.) school
in the ’eighties (which was attended by
Flenry Lawson a decade earlier) Simon
Hickey, pictured here by Prior, estab-
lished a claim to fame with his unhesi-
tating spelling of Popocatepetl. Some 60
years later, seeing his impressively-named
mountain for the first time, he was able to
add another characteristic paragraph to
the story of the roads he travelled from
the N.S.W. bush (via shearing-camps.
PARAGRAPHS AND POLITICS.
harness-maker’s workshop and the elec-
tion platforms of the newly-formed Aus-
tralian Labor movement) to the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly. Hickey sat in the
Assembly as member for Alexandria from
1912 to 1920, and as one of the five
members for Botany for a further two
years. For seven days he was Speaker of
the House; and for nine years to 1934
he was a member of the Legislative
Council. As “Simon” he has contributed
hundreds of paragraphs to The
Bulletin, mostly on bush and political
subjects. A witty conversationalist and a
good after-dinner speaker, Hickey is one
of the old school with a fund of good
stories to tell. Some of them are retold
in a book of reminiscences, Travelled
Roads, just published by Cheshire,
Melbourne.
When 29 experts in virus diseases from
different countries meet shortly in con-
ference in New York they will have for
president Dr. MacFarlane Burnet,
Director of the Walter and Eliza Institute
in Melbourne, whose explorations into
wogdom are world-famous. The job of
the scientists assembled will be to
standardise the nomenclature of viruses,
which have become almost as numerous
as the plant world and have just as much
variety.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 92, William Philpott Hallam,
radio pioneer whose early work led to the radio
time-“pip.” He joined the Tasmanian Colonial
Secretary’s office and rose to be head of the
P.M.G. engineers’ branch in the Apple-isle.
Interested in radio at the beginning of the cen-
tury, he sent a wireless message in 1900, 12
months before Marconi sent his signal from
Poldhu to Newfoundland. When King George
V visited Australia in 1901 Hallam sent a signal
to the escort ship, H.M.S. St. George—the first
ever sent from Australia to a ship at sea.
In Brisbane, at 69, John Dash, Queensland’s
Transport Minister between 1932-39. Before
getting into Parliament in 1920 he was a lively
union-organiser in the north. He went
out of politics in the 1941 election, having been
member for Mundingburra for close on 21 years.
At 71, in Devonport (Tas.), F. H. Haines,
contractor, builder and sawmiller, descended
on the maternal side from the Cheverton clan,
who for generations have loomed large in the
development of the island. Haines started with
the old firm in the first year of this century,
timekeeper and paymaster for Cheverton and
Freeman when they continued the main trunk
railway from Ulverstone to Burnie. He then
launched out independently in that part of the
State, ending as one of the largest mill-owners
there. Charity was his hobby.
In Melbourne, at 73, Harley Griffiths, a con-
temporary and pupil of Max Meldrum, who
did most of his best work before 1914. Some
of his portraits of politicians hang at Parlia-
ment House, Canberra, and several galleries
have his landscapes. His son, Harley Cameron
Griffiths, was a foundation member of the
Australian Academy of Art.


GIFFARD MK. I DIRIGIBLE 1852 Construction s
Strengthened longitudinal main spar suspended
from cigar-shaped gas bag. Open framework type
car carrying power unit and crew hung from
mainspar.
Dimensions: Length 143 ft.; max. diameter 39
ft. Capacity of gas 88,000 cu. ft.
Power Plant: Vertical single cylinder, 3 h.p.
steam engine. Weight 117 lbs. per H.P.
Airscrew: Two blade lift. diam. fixed pitch.
Tip speed 32 ft. per sec. Control: Vertical tri-
angular fin on mainspar. Performance: Max.
air speed 6 m.p.h. Recommended cruising speed
5.5 m.p.h. Maximum lift 4,900 lbs. Maximum
range in service, 17 miles.
TODAY: great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd. %
I ATI ON
d
SERVICE
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All States.
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne.
CORNS
French
CORN CURE
also CALLOUSES.
Quick easy and econ-
omical. Just rub on.
Buy French Corn
Curb at chemists.
REMOVED BY
Jars 2/3. Postage 7d.
Anthony Horderns
Sydney
Pharmacy Dept.
m
c
a
ganirttwa!
m
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED 1858 sC
special p
Swlt’-SfL »•»">■«»
WSS* • T *«r. sx n
»i| TOR.
t OLUV. SCO
Your guests
will know
you serve
the best
fsd
fsd
f
df
sd
fs
N.B.W.
DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
vsT.ia.i*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Can the Pests Win?
“C.S.”: The question will
occur to anyone who cares to
think over both the past history
of the landman’s battle against
pests and diseases and present-
day methods of attacking them.
There is reason to believe that
we’ve got some animal and plant
diseases under, but the same
thing cannot be said about para-
sites such as sheep-blowfly,
sheep- and cattle-tick, sheep-
lice, worms, fruit-fly, Ruther-
glen-bug, codlin-moth, rabbits,
dingoes, weevils and many more.
Nor of noxious weeds. And
the spore-carried fungus diseases
like potato-blight, black-spot,
sodium, downy-mildew, tomato-
wilt and so forth are still with
us.
So far nobody in the various
State and Federal statistical
departments seems to have
attempted a calculation of what
all these pests cost us in hard
cash and loss of production in
the land industries every year.
Perhaps statisticians already
know that the figures would be
so astronomical that nobody
would believe them.
The real question, however, is
why is it that in the face of a
massed attack by scientists and
chemists, in spite of reams of
publicity put out by officials as
to how to deal with pests, in
spite of modern chemicals for
which almost miraculous results
are claimed, the pests continue
to rampage through crops,
orchards, gardens, sheep-walks
and cattle-runs, invade homes
and generally behave with a
cheerful contempt of the mea-
sures taken against them?
Two aspects of a situation
which contains many are these:
If modern “wonder” chemicals
like D.D.T. and B.H.C. and
what-have-you have not made
any serious impression on the
multitude of insect pests, is it
because they are (a) not what
they’re claimed to be or ( b )
being wrongly used? And has
there developed in Government
anti-pest departments a deadly
rut of self-satisfaction?
On the first aspect, taking
ectoparasites of stock as an
example, these points are rele-
vant; Sheep-lice, sheep-fly and
cattle-tick, as the grazing
industry knows, are either
increasing or at least maintain-
ing their numbers. It is claimed,
as far as lice are concerned,
that there has been a too sud-
den and too widespread change
from the old arsenical treat-
ments to the highly-advertised
synthetic insecticides. These, be-
cause of their insolubility in
water, have not worked. It has
been forcibly suggested to
C.5.1.R.0. and other official
people that not the specifics
themselves are at fault so much
as the methods of application.
Attempts to have this theory
“Go walkabout , mine tinkit. These modern flats
too noisy."
properly tested have failed,
though every possible—and
sometimes impossible argu-
ment has been used.
What is true of lice is true of
sheep-fly, cattle-tick and many
other things. This leads to the
second aspect. Government de-
partments have long been
notorious for their refusal to
listen to outsiders. No matter
what the problem, whether in
agriculture or traffic control or
making bricks, the official mind
generally resents the impertin-
ence of any private person who
dares to hint, however mildly,
that he has a more efficient
method.
There is in Government de-
partments what amounts to a
tradition of infallibility. It
bears a strange resemblance to
the bigotry which condemned
Galileo and derided Jenner. And
though the laws which make the
marketing of insecticides subject
to Government approval are
very necessary, they are also
used as a barrier against the
competent outsider.
To what extent this aspect of
officialdom is responsible for
the slow, disappointing and ex-
pensive progress of anti-pest
work can’t be assessed. But
Governments who have begun
telling the people that the land
must produce more or they
themselves will go short and see
their export markets fail ought
to interest themselves in it. In
America the problem has been
partly solved by attaching “ideas
men” to the relevant depart-
ments. Their job is to examine
everything that comes in from
outside and, if it looks promis-
ing, to have it thoroughly tested
and reported upon. They have
the power to insist on tests being
made. That’s a scheme worth
a trial.
A Drenching Plan.
“Senior Farmer”: In the
control of sheep’s internal para-
sites there has been too much
dependence on haphazard
drenching. Sometimes spec-
tacular results have been
achieved, but drenching results
can be more effective when the
job is done at those times of the
year when mature parasitic
larvae are likely to be eaten
with the pasture.
Different worm - larvae are
favored by different weather
conditions, and if drenching is to
be done scientifically a pro-
gramme is necessary. There are
now two lines of attack: the
so-called “strategic” drenchings,
which are fairly fixed for cer-
tain periods known to favoi
larvae development, and
“tactical” drenchings, which are
governed by rainfall because it
is known that a fall of 50-60
points or more, extending over
several days and accompanied
by dull cloudy weather, is likely
to be followed by development
of the free living stages and in-
take of infective larvae.
In view of the relative low
efficiency of drenches against in-
mature worms, tactical drench-
ing shoud be delayed for ap-
proximately 18-20 days after the
necessity for treatment has ap-
peared, This allows the worms
sufficient time to become more
vulnerable to the drench but not
long enough for them to lay
eggs and recontaminate the
pastures.
Where more than one kind of
worm is causing trouble a
strategic treatment will often
serve several needs. For
example, a late-winter treatment
against nodule-worm serves
also as a pre-spring offensive
against barber’s-pole, and at the
same time must be fitted into
the general regime so that it
becomes a pre-lambing treat-
ment for ewes which will lamb
in the spring.
The drench recommended for
January-February is the copper-
sulphate-arsenic one to fore-
stall a late-summer increase of
barber’s-pole.
C.5.1.R.0. has discovered that
a spell of only three weeks will
clear up 90 per cent, of the eggs
and larvae in a paddock. Thus
the spelling of a paddock for
this period will measurably help
in the control of parasites.
Phenothiazine is on its own
when it comes to controlling the
major internal parasites of
sheep. Fortunately the drug is
becoming more plentiful. It is
easier to handle and better
known to the Australian sheep-
owner. It is to him what peni-
cillin is to medicine.
Dip-proof Ticks.
“Boophilus”: When the
cattle-tick appeared in Queens-
land the Agriculture Depart-
ment had a choice of two
weapons to meet it, and selected
the one already blunted against
the dingo, prickly-pear and the
rabbit, namely arsenic-poison-
ing, The other choice was to
produce, through application of
Mendelian laws, cattle with a
high tolerance of both heat and
ticks.
Less than 10 years ago it was
clear that tick had beaten the
Department. It stood up to
stronger dips and more frequent
dippings far better than did the
cattle, which were weak from
tick worry and drought. Then
came D.D.T., which, tempor-
arily, tipped the odds steeply
against the tick. When it ap.
peared that D.D.T. wasn’t the
winner, gammexane appeared
and it was claimed the tick was
outed.
It wasn’t. Last month reports
continued to come in of mor-
tality, mostly among Jersey
dairy herds —due, it is believed
to frequent dipping of weakened
cattle.
Concurrently with this comes
publication of the report of
Queensland’s latest royal com-
mission on the pastoral industry,
recommendation No. 15 of
which is:
Comprehensive controlled investiga-
tions should be made in the tropics
into the relative merits of British
breeds and breeds incorporating desir-
able features of Brahmin and Afri-
kander cattle with a view to evolving
a superior breed with increased heat
tolerance, quicker growth and high
tolerance of external parasites.
At the end of over half-a-
century of trying to poison the
tick, it is seeping into the depart-
mental mind that, from the start,
the job was one for the geneticist
rather than the chemist. A
striking aspect of this discovery
is that our beef-producing com-
petitors made it at least 20 years
ago.
The Great Waste.
“San Luis Rey”: Enough
grass went to waste between the
18in.-rainfall belt and the coast
in Queensland last year to feed
all the stock in Australia for
two years. I don’t say that it
could have all been conserved,
but Queensland, which has the
largest area of good pastoral
land in Australia and the largest
holdings also, has the largest
drought losses. If Australia is
going to keep a large population
it w : ll have to alter its methods.
Income tax could be used as a
lever to that end.
Purchase of haymaking
machinery should be a deduc-
tion from income tax. So
should money spent on water,
ringbarking and fencing. Pleas
that it would create a privileged
class cannot be entertained. We
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The first quarter of this year does not offer any special
rains, except those due on the main cycle about mid-
January. The sun is now bare of spots, but they may
come very suddenly, showing no sign one morning and great
activity that same afternoon. There was a heatwave pre-
ceding such activity in 1881. This year the heatwave
has already appeared. In the Bruckner cycle, which seems
now to be operating, the first big rain was early in April.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Of YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AVSTRALIAN PVPr <
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
I
m
a,
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
IMPORTANT
LAND AUCTION
On the property 6 miles from
Birchip, Vic., on the main
Bir c h i p/Warracknabeal and
Watchem Roads.
Thursday, January 31, 1952,
at 2.15 p.m.
164£ ACRES Kids
lb4iS FREEHOLD lb4B
Known as
“MORTON PLAINS” ESTATE
1600 SHEEP 1600
comprising ewes, various ages,
young wethers and weaners, all
of which will be drafted for age,
type and condition.
For further particulars and right
to inspect, apply:
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Eng.)
Melbourne and Branches
ELDER SMITH & CO. LTD.,
Warracknabeal, Melbourne and
Branches
R. E. WARNE & SONS, Birchip
H. G. TAYLOR, Birchip
(AGENTS IN CONJUNCTION, for
the Executors of the late James P.
Kensley)
GUARD
PROTECTA
HU/*
TILL
Suitable for every type of basinea It record*
•II Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O'SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
For Sale.
MIXED FARMS.
234 acs. Freehold rich dark loam; 14 acs.
cleared for plough, 100 acs. suitable for
plough; permanent water. House, 47 x
37ft. high block; 20 Grade Jerseys;
Farmall steel wheel tractor; 10 disc sunder-
eut; double row planter; 3 mis. school,
township, 23 mis. Rockhampton. £2,300.
174 acs. Freehold, creek frontage. 50 acs.
cleared for plough. Fenced 8 paddocks.
14 acs. passionfruit. Fordson 1927 tractor,
plough, harrows, 2 row planter, mower,
scuffler, tools. Shed, 32 x5O ft. House,
3 rooms, 3 verandahs. Transport, 28 mis.
Rockhampton. £1,400.
IRRIGATION: 512 acs., 160 acs. rich
scrubland, mostly red soil, 35 acs. cleared
plough. Creek, permanent irrigation water;
10 h.p. diesel, pump, main, spray lines.
60 Grade Jerseys. 12 h.p. rotary hoe,
ploughs, planter-cultivator, harrows, small
tools. House, 5 rooms, verandahs. Trans-
port, 17 mis. Rockhampton. £4,500.
FARM EXCHANGE,
19 Denham Street, Rockhampton.
Phone: 3768, after hours, 3199, 2161.
CRONULLA’S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
IB 5923
Under Entirely New Management.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
\
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
sx
fAdcdhj
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET- SYDNEY-
£3B/10/.
+ 121 % sales tax
*
BW 8631.
SUPER NU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes, Super
NU-METAL will recondition your motor while yon drive. Permanently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest engines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users since
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners. Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs for 1 Cyl., 10/6; 4 Cyls., 30/-;
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-.
NU-METAL No. 2 for Bearings, Noisy Gearboxes and Diffs. Price 29/6,,
Call, write or ’phone. Mail orders please add 1/6 N.S.W. and
2/- Interstate for packing and postage. Sorry, no C.O.D.’s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque, M. 0., P.N., for
Or send me an Illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-METAL.
NAME (Block Letters)
ADDRESS _______ 8.16/l/’52
BRISTOL TOMITO W
Ist FLOOR, BRISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone MA 7250 (Near Market Street)
Mob
CO
3
%
One Machine
to Cut the Posts
AND Dig the Holes
'Mk.V
'Sr
✓ v
'JS^>v
-»• .-ap-v.
TWO MACHINES IN ONE ANITeACH THE FINEST OF ItS KIND
Basic unit is the famous Mobilco Mobile Circular Saw, so light and hand/
that one man moves it through the bush, fells trees and cross-cuts them by
himself without effort. Mobilco handles trees to 2 ft. 6 ins. in diameter
both felling and cross-cutting. Blade turns through full 360 deg. to fell
low or high, cross-cut towards you or away from you, scarf or trim at
any angle, Mobilco is perfectly balanced on pneumatic wheels, weighs
only 210 lbs. is powered by a reliable 7 b.h.p. petrol engine, is equipped
with simple clutch mechanism and sealed unit transmission, shaft and
gears are totally enclosed in an oil bath.
CHANGE TO POST HOLE DIGGER
Property owners and contractors save many man-hours with the new
Mobilco Post Hole Digger Attachment to the Circular Saw. Make a
simple changeover by removing Saw Blade and clamping on Post Hole
Digger. Attachment to Bore Post for wire may be installed at the same
time. Your Post Hole Digger digs a 10 in. hole to a depth of 2 ft. 8 ins.
through average going in just fifteen seconds—think what saving that
means in a mile of fencing. With Post Boring Attachment you have a
complete system from standing timber to an erected fence ready for wire.
CIRCULAR SAW OWNERS
Enquire about the new Post Hole Digger Attachment. It pays for itself
in a few miles of fencing.
fsd
Every Mobilco Machine leaves the factory
with a comprehensive 6 months’ guarantee
Service facilities are available throughout
the Commonwealth.
B0I03®
All Mobilco machines and attachments may
be purchased on the easiest of terms. A
moderate deposit is payable and small
monthly payments complete the purchase.
Buy your Mobilco now, and meet the
monthly payments out of increased earn-
ings.
Write now to
LCO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
252 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Victoria.
Central 4799, Central 1027, Telegrams “Mobilco” Melbourne.
Sydney Factory Representative:
It. H. Sivertsen, 47 South Parade, Campsie. ’Phone, L.P 4309. After hours, XY 1733.
MC2424
I are facing a new economy, and
| an increase in land-production
is imperative if we are to eat.
It is all very fine saying
graziers should conserve fodder,
but a plant for the purpose costs
about £2OOO. And that is money
actually spent on the preserva-
tion of the income-earning asset.
If it is not a fair thing to allow
it as a deduction, then nobody
need be surprised if the grazier
is content to save his breeders
and let the rest go when the
tight season comes.
Safety on the Tractor.
“Big Billy”; Engage the
clutch only from the driver’s
seat of a tractor, and don’t dis-
mount from a moving machine.
Drive at low speeds over rough
country, near creek-beds and so
on. Reduce speed before mak-
ing a turn or applying the
brakes. Don’t let other persons
ride on the tractor when it is
being worked.
Don’t stand between the trac-
tor and the drawn implement
when either is being moved for-
ward or backward for hitching.
If sharp turns must be made fit
long hitches. Be sure the gear-
lever is neutral before crank-
ing. Engage the clutch gently,
especially when going uphill or
pulling out of a hollow.
Ride always on the seat, never
on the drawbar or drawn imple-
ment. When drawing a load
don’t take up the slack with a
jerk. Keep the tractor in low
gear when going downhill. Don’t
put on or remove the driving-
belt while the pulley is revolv-
ing. Be careful in removing the
radiator-cap if a pressure-cool-
ing system is used or if the
motor is overheated. Don’t re-
fuel with the motor running or
while it is hot.
Better Bees.
“One B.”: “Drone B.” (B.
26/12/’5l) omits what many
bee-herders consider the most
valuable characteristic of all —
longevity of the workers. If
these be short-lived a prolific
queen and a large broodnest are
necessary to keep up with wast-
age ; a big proportion of the hive
is consequently immobilised on
nursery duties.
With long-lived workers not
only does each bee last longer
but a comparatively small
broodnest suffices and a high
percentage of bees is available
for field work. Pick the hive
that fills its supers rapidly with
a small broodnest.
Instrumental insemination may
have its place in the laboratory,
but heaven forfend its becoming
available for field use. In no
field can the results of this prac-
tice yet be properly evaluated.
It has taken decades for the
dangers of chemical, to the
virtual exclusion of natural,
manures to become apparent in
deterioration of soil structures
and inferiority nutritionally of
the foodstuffs produced: so, ,
too, there may well be a virtue
in the natural performance of
the generative act, whose lack
may, in the long term, com-
pletely neutralise the advantages
of the scientific control achieved.
Up-to-date Outdated.
“Spudato”: Up-to-date pota-
toes (or their alias, Factor)
have had a long innings in
N.S.W., but with the rise of
better varieties should soon be
literally out of date.
Either of the three varieties
bred by Jim Carroll, potato-
breeder, of New England exV-
periment farm, viz., Monak,
Moona and Adina, or the new
American varieties. Sequoia and
Sebago, considerably outyield
Up-to-date under all conditions,
and, in addition, give a higher
proportion of top-grade tubers.
A more recent American
arrival, Saranac, is yielding
better than any of the above-
named under some conditions.
It was an unnamed seedling
included in some material ob-
tained by the N.S.W. depart-
ment from the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. Under local
conditions it performed so well
that the U.S. department was
asked to give it a name. In
addition to its high-yielding
ability, Saranac is resistant to
ring-rot disease and also some-
what resistant to attack by late
blight.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: Reporting potato-
moth activity in most Victorian
potato areas again this season,
the Department of Agriculture
recommends prompt spraying
where moths have appeared with
D.D.T. (standard strength of
0.1 per cent.). The initial spray-
ing should be followed by
further sprays spaced about
three weeks apart while the
weather is hot and dry.
“M.”: As paspalum shoots to
a head the fibre increases and
protein decreases. Use of the
mower will retard this process
and prolong the life of the stand.
It also lessens the risk of stock
being poisoned by ergot. The
presence of ergot is indicated by
a sticky secretion on the heads
of the grass.
“Billjim”: Rust on geranium
can be stopped by fortnightly
sprayings with 2fl. oz. of col-
loidal sulphur to 2gal. of water.
Before spraying pull off and
burn affected leaves. Sulphur
discolors paintwork, so take care
if the geraniums are against a
building.
“C.A.A.”: To combat zinc
deficiency common on the alka-
line soils of the Murray Valley,
Vic. Department of Agriculture
advises a spray application of
101 b. of zinc sulphate and 51b. of
slaked lime in lOOgal. of water.
Apply before spring growth..


ALL OVER THE WORLD
m
Good mornings begin with
Gillette
The gaucho devoted to leisure,
Thinks shaving a positive pleasure;
He finds Blue Gillette
With the sharpest edge yet,
For removing the whiskers a treasure.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
e
6-BLADE PACKETS, 2/3
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/6
D
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 9/-
The world 9 s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
1/162
P e %hes
/
<h ARE EASY . ..
wm
bn.
Ss
f he
with
4-oven
AGA
COOKER
Yes, it’s cleaner . . . cooler . . . easier with an AGA! Here is
a Cooker that is almost automatic — no gadgets to watch, no
switches to turn, no matches to strike. Twenty-four hours a
day. its 3 hot-plates and 4 ovens are ready for instant service,
for the AGA burns continuously ... yet its guaranteed
maximum fuel consumption cannot exceed 3i tons of coke per
year! Each of its 4 ovens automatically maintains an exact
temperature (1) a roasting oven for joints (2) a baking oven
for bread and cakes (3) a
simmering oven for soups, cas-
seroles, porridge, etcetera (4) a
warming oven for keeping food
and plates hot. The vitreous
cream enamel and chrome finish
is easy to keep sparkling.
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE ’AGA’ OR WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING ST.. SYDNEY
132 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET ADELAIDE;
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS A ®,
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. PERTH
— &z t iaa
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
British-built, the AGA is guaran-
teed for 10 years against faulty
materials and workmanship.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Seaside holiday, delightful locality,
catering people who avoid crows; est.
1948. Thomas De Luxe Camp, East
Devonport.”
—Launceston “Examiner."
Caws and effect, as it were.
*!• -V
“Some girls never give up using
their fingers to make calculations.”
—Psychology note.
But shapely ones can always
count on their legs.
•I*
“For sale, male wire-hair terrier
pies, excellent pedigree.”
—Suburban paper.
For hostesses who put on dog?
“Swinging sideways, he hurled him-
self at a widow and bounced into the
room.”
—Story in “Western" magazine.
And she caught him on the
rebound?
•fc *
“Some wives make an art of cook-
ing.’ ’ — Brisbane "Courier-Mail . v
Husbands sometimes need to
be sculptors to appreciate their
masterpieces.
4* 4*
“We want our back view to be one
of smartness, and not of careless
grooming.”
—Beauty editor of women’s paper.
Anyone who slacks forfeits
attention.
Lyric.
Drink to me only with thine
eyes, and thou
Wilt never be intoxicated,
sweet.
Or leave a kiss within the cup—
but how
Can I enjoy what I like better
neat ?
Nay, chide me not with poet-
picking, girl;
I only rob the richest in the
land.
Would you reject an out-of-
season pearl.
Or scorn a gem because it’s
secondhand 7
hook at me only with thy
lustrous lips.
And I will scan them close
with mine, my love;
Or leave a kiss upon thy finger-
tips,
And I will never let thee wear
a glove.
Think of me only with thy hair,
wherefore
I’ll be no less hair-brained
myself. Nay, more —
C No more. That’s enough.)
NEIL MILLAR.
Progress.
‘Tn Sydney a thoroughly good cook
and laundress gets 20s. a week.”
—“Letters of Rachel Henning’’ {1874).
“The good old days,” they
called them. Gosh I’ll say they
were —for madame! Shows how
we’ve advanced. Imagine, girls,
a pound a week to cook and
wash! No wonder maids were
poor as crows and made sheep’s-
eyes at lords or earls, poor
things. Good Lord! A wage like
that, in spite of bed and tucker
found, seems too absurd to con-
template.
Today, such pittance would
astound a modem girl; with
rage she’d choke if worked a
week to earn a pound. Take
me —I’m getting nearly eight
and, what is more, I’m just as
broke.
MISS SMITH.
Spinning It Out.
“Some members of the legal pro-
fession, by indulging in irrelevancies
in argument, must bear some of the
blame for the present congestion in
the courts.” —Letter to Sydney paper.
“Your Honor,” said Mr.
Blower, K.C., “my learned
friend has just submitted that
the article made by the de-
fendant company has no more
connection with that made by
the plaintiff than chalk has with
cheese. I put it to my learned
friend that chalk is a mineral
substance which, when com-
pressed into cylindrical form,
may be used for writing, as on
a blackboard or slate. Has he
not heard of the expression ‘to
put it on the slate’?”
Mr. Tort, K.C.: “The term
‘slate’ can also be used in a
completely different sense. It
could be a building material.
Would one be likely to climb up
on the roof of a dwelling for
the purpose of putting chalk
on it?”
Mr. B.: “My learned friend
has overlooked that ‘slate’ may
be used in the sense of reproof:
an employer may be said to
“ ’Spose We better put her back now."
‘slate’ an employee who has been
lax in his duties.”
Mr. T.: “Meaning to ‘tell him
off.’ ”
His Honor: “ ‘Tell him off’? I
can’t say I have heard the ex-
pression. Is it a colloquialism?”
Mr. T.: “Yes, your Honor. It
means to —er —to tick him off.”
His H.: “Tick him off’? I’m
afraid you have the advantage
of me, Mr. Tort.”
Mr. T.: “Well —er that
means to tell him off, your
Honor.”
His H.: “Oh, I see. Well, you
may proceed.
Mr. B.; “It would be reason-
able to assume that a ‘slated’
employee would thereafter be in
the gun.”
His H.: “ ‘ln the gun’? Would
you be kind enough, Mr,
Blower, to elucidate a statement
that seems to have some vague
reference to martial matters?”
Mr. B.: “Well, your Honor,
‘in the gun’ means being—er—as
it were, in the gun.”
His H.; “You mean literally
—that is, in danger of being
discharged at any moment by
the one whose finger is on the
gun-trigger, in this supposititious
case the employer?”
Mr. B.: “Exactly, your
Honor.”
His H. (mildly): “I must con-
fess that I fail, at this juncture,
to see any connection between
an employee who is in danger
of losing his employment, a stick
of chalk and some Camembert
or Gorgonzola. I trust it will
make itself apparent in due
course.”
Mr. B.: “I am coming to that,
your Honor—all in the court’s
good time, of course. I have, I
submit, established to the satis-
faction of this court that chalk
is a mineral substance usually
seen in the form of a com-
pressed cylinder, and that it is
often associated with a slate. So
far so good. A slate could be
either a building material, a
writing medium or a rebuke.
Dryden has it:
The proud he tamed, the penitent he
cheered,
Nor to rebuke the rich offender
feared.”
Mr. T.: “My learned friend is
hoist with his own petard. An
offender would ipso facto be
culpable, deserving of censure,
worthy of blame, immoral.
Sharp has said ‘Every man, in
doubtful cases, is left to his dis-
cretion, and if he acts accord-
ing to the best reason he hath
he is not culpable, though he be
mistaken in his measures.’ ”
Mr. B. .-“Exactly! ‘Mistaken
in his measures.’ If I know my
Webster, a measure means the
contents of a vessel by which
quantity is measured, a standard
of dimension, a fixed unit of
quantity or extent. In the
Gospel according to Luke,
thirteen, twenty-one, occurs the
phrase: ‘lt is like leaven which
a woman took' and hid in three
measures of meal.’ ”
Mr. T.: “That is using the
word ‘meal’ in its narrowest
sense, referring to the coarser
powder produced by grinding
grain without bolting. Cannot
a meal also mean a part, a
portion, a repast?”
His H. (mildly): “Doesn’t
this seem rather irrelevant, Mr.
Tort? What has meal to do
with a chalk and a slate?”
Mr. B.: “Exactly, your
Honor! I can only assume that
the object of all this side-track-
ing of a perfectly straightfor-
ward issue is to divert the atten-
tion of this court from the
patent weakness of my learned
friend’s case. I had a vital
object in bringing the court’s
attention to the word ‘measure.’
In its commercial application—
and that is what we are con-
cerned with —a measure is a
vessel, such as that used by a
milkman. The lacteal fluid, the
vending of which constitutes his
trade, is derived from the bovine
species of animal of which the
Jersey is a celebrated breed.
Need I add that from the milk
secreted by the Jersey cow may
eventually be processed an
excellent cheese?”
Mr. T. (desperately); “Cheese
can also have another, a col-
loquial application. One has
frequently heard the expression
to ‘cheese it.’ ”
His H.: “‘Cheese it’? Pray,
what does that mean?”
Mr. T.: “To ‘cheese it,’ to —■
er —can it, your Honor.”
His H.: “ ‘Can if? p re
ably it is intended to C onv?v
that ‘it’ should be confined \I
hibited, circumscribed, w
within strictly limited bounds”
Mr. T.: “That’s it,
Honor. Shut up.” ’ your
His H.: “I beg your pardon
Mr. Tort.” y on ’
Mr. T.: “To ‘shut up,’ your
Honor. I was merely addine
another meaning to the term
‘cheese it.’ ”
His H.: “Well, I should hone
so.” (Laughter.) ”
Mr. B.: “May I proceed, your
Honor? I was referring, when
my learned friend attempted to
run us up another blind-alley, to
a Jersey.”
Mr. T, (more desperately);
“A Jersey can also refer to a
pullover, a jumper”
Mr. B. (triumphantly);
“Exactly, a jumper! And what
else, may X ask, does one associ-
ate with a venerable cheese
other than jumpers? Does not
your gourmet take an especial
delight in savoring his favorite
jumper-cheese, or cheese in
which mites might be observed
disporting themselves? I confi-
dently contend, then, that the
connection between chalk and
cheese is thus definitely estab-
lished, thereby vitiating my
learned friend’s submission that
the article made by his clients
has no connection with that
made by plaintiff!”
( Proceeding —and howl)
Bo.
Afterthought.
Your hair is silken gold (or
golden silk)
Your loveliness to crown,
And falls about your shoulders
white as milk,
In curls as soft as down .
Your hair is rapture, dear, to
fondle; thrills
My trailing fingers. But
I find ( although I save hair-
dressers’ bills)
It’s one fair cow to cut I
P.O.M.C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Copper Shortage
S.A. missed the great gold booms which
did so much for all the other mainland
States, but it has something far more
enduring and of much greater value.
Today the iron-ore shipped from Whyalla
supports Australia’s steel industry, the
State’s gypsum deposits can supply the
continent’s needs in the way of plaster ;
it produces great quantities of salt and
the exploitation of the Nairne pyrites
deposits will soon end the sulphur
shortage.
It isn’t entirely due to the luck of hav-
ing the essential deposits of minerals.
Premier Playford knows how to plan for
the future. In spite of handicaps even
greater than those which are holding up
the development of the opencut coalfields
in Queensland, he developed the low-
grade coal deposits at Leigh Creek, and
he is now pushing ahead with the same
type of work on the uranium fields.
One of the few things on which he has
fallen down is copper production. A
little over a century ago the Burra mine
made S.A. for a brief period the world’s
leading producer of copper; later, the
Wallaroo and Moonta mines produced
large quantities of the red metal, but they
had to close down in the early 1920’5, and
it would not pay to reopen their old
workings as the deposits were almost
exhausted when operations ceased. The
S.A. Mines Department has been very
active in the search for new shows, but
the mistake has been made of looking
for a single large new deposit, instead of
assisting to develop and work the many
small, proved lodes now known to exist.
The combined output of these small
shows would not only end the shortage
of metallic copper in S.A., but could help
to ease the Australian shortage as well.
In the Flinders Ranges alone there are
many of these small lodes, whose ore
assays from 4 per cent, to 9 per cent,
copper and which can be worked by
small groups of miners. A few of them
are: Blinman, Lady Daly, Mora,
Marrowie, several around Copley and
two at Orraparinna. At present only one
copper show in the area is being worked,
and that only because its ore assays as
high as 75 per cent, copper. Its entire
output is being taken by a fertiliser
company, to be used in correcting the
trace-element deficiency of pasture lands.
Groups of experienced men are eager
and willing to work the other deposits,
but the insuperable difficulty is the lack
of a smelter. Even at the present sky-
high price of copper, it does not pay to
raise small parcels of ore, send them by
lorry and rail to the seaboard and then
ship them to Port Kembla for treatment.
The whole position would be altered,
however, by the establishment of a small
smelter at Port Augusta, to be run with
coke at the start, and later on to use the
electric current from the huge new power-
house now being built there. Copper-
smelting and -refining does not call for a
big and expensive plant; in the early
days of S.A. it was done with small
furnaces fired by charcoal at Kanmantoo.
To get the ore to such a smelter there
would be from 30 to 60 miles of road
cartage, followed by about 150 miles by
rail. South Australia will need an
immense amount of copper cable for the
high-tension lines which will carry the
current from the new Port Augusta
powerhouse to centres of population
hundreds of miles away, in addition to
the normal industrial needs, and huge
areas of land can be brought into profit-
able production if copper salts are used
to correct the deficiency of that element
in the soil.
A small smelter at Port Augusta would
enable the small but numerous copper
shows in the Flinders Ranges to supply
the needs of South Australia.—H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Co-operatives
By implying that co-operatives are all
immune from taxation “Dick Turpin”
(B. 19/12/’5l) gives an entirdly false
impression. To secure such exemption a
co-op. must fulfil certain conditions.
Number of shares held by any person
and dividend paid must be limited (in
“Trust YOU to find your Way through the sharkproof-net !”
Queensland to a maximum of 300 shares
and 5 per cent, respectively, though the
former figure is to be raised). There must
be one vote per shareholder, not one per
share; shares must not be offered for
sale on a Stock Exchange ; and 90 per
cent, of the co-op.’s business must be
done with its own members. The last
provision is the main obstacle—very few
consumer co-ops. can comply with it,
though more producer concerns do. The
rest pay tax like any other company. In
any case a simple calculation will show
that no person can receive more than
£l5 p.a. from any one co-op. by way of
dividend, so the “wealthy” shareholders
(dairy-, pig-, poultry- and bee-farmers,
peanut- and canegrowers, etc.) cannot
derive such an enormous benefit from
this exemption.
The charge that rebates are tax-free
profits will not hold water. The highest
authorities, including two successive
British Chancellors of the Exchequer,
have held that they are not profits, but a
saving to customers. Two further points
arise here. First, any company is at
liberty to make such payments to its
shareholders, and they will not be tax-
able. Because other companies choose
not to do this, they can hardly expect to
penalise the co-ops. for so doing.
Second, if the Treasurer could be per-
suaded to tax these payments, he would
also have to tax all similar payments,
such as cash and trade discounts. What
a howl there would be then from the
“sock-the-co-ops.” mob!
Actually, the true profit of a well-run
co-operative is small. Its main object is
to serve its members, either by paying its
suppliers the best price possible, or by
selling to its customers as cheaply as
possible. A successful consumer co-op.
with which I am associated, and which
pays tax, had a turnover last year of
more than a quarter of a million pounds,
and paid less than a thousand in
dividends. Hardly excessive profit-
taking !
The Queensland law “D.T.” objects to
is certainly bad, in keeping with quite a
lot of ‘♦smash-and-grab” legislation
passed by the present Government. It
was not sought by existing co-ops., and
they would shed no tears if it were
repealed, as it would be by any demo-
cratic Government. But, so far, I haven’t
heard of its powers being used.
“D.T.” uses the familiar dodge of
speaking of co-ops. in contrast to private
industry. If they are not private enter-
prise, what are they? The true contrast is
between co-op. and proprietary, and the
men on the land, at least, have good
cause to fear the second label where
applied to food-processing.— Magnoon
(Q-).
Third-party Insurance
Properly organised, compulsory third-
party insurance could do a lot towards
reducing the toll of the road. At the
present time it does exactly the opposite.
The careless and reckless driver knows
that no matter what happens he is
covered by insurance, and therefore
suffers no monetary loss if he is involved
in a serious accident.
If premiums were fixed on a sliding
scale there would be a radical change.
First-year premiums could be fixed at
something reasonable, and after 12
months without a claim the motorist
could receive a 20 per cent, reduction,
with a further cut each succeeding, claim-
less year until he Was getting his cover
for a nominal amount.
On the other hand, the motorist who
had a claim should be called upon to pay
an extra 20 per cent, for the second year
and an extra 50 per cent, the following
year if he still had more claims. In that
way the careless motorist would be hit
where it hurts —in the pocket—and many
would drive with greater care.
When ordinary insurance premiums
are on a sliding scale it should be simple
enough to arrange compulsory third-
party insurance along similar lines,
adding the extra penalties each year for
the careless driver. As things stand at
present the careful driver is paying for
the recklessness of the few who can
afford to be careless, because the law
compels them to insure, —W.P. T.
(N.S.W.).
P.M.G.’s Department
There is no such animal as an
“assistant - divisional - engineer” in the
P.M.G. Department (B. 28/11/’5l), and
to suggest that group-engineer is “in
experience” equal to a cadet is ridiculous.
A group-engineer is, for several years of
his life, a cadet-engineer, after which—
and after passing examinations of recog-
nised professional standard —he becomes
an engineer Grade I and, later, Grade 2.
After that he may’ be placed in charge of
a group of engineers and, by reason of
his responsibility, education and profes-
sional experience, become entitled to the
salary which “Postscript” imagines
“managers of sizeable factories” envy.
That salary is fixed by the Public
Service Board and the Arbitration Court,
and, in spite of popular belief, they are
not fairy-godfathers to the p.s.
It sounds as though “P,” may have been
one of “the weeds on the domain”—
doesn’t he know that the union demand
of “last in first out” did not give the
departmental heads much choice in their
weeding, and certainly gave them no
chance at all of picking “poppies”?—
Chartered Engineer (Papua).
Fowls, Feed and Prices
It costs 575. 6d. for a single bag of
stockfeed wheat today—take it or leave
it. Fair quality only, no blue-metal,
rats’-nests or silo rubbish. Just over
three bushels. No matter whether soaked,
boiled or dry-fed to layers or fats, it can-
not catch up to anywhere near retail
prices of googs at ss. Id. or prime poultry
at nearly Bs. a pound.
By the time one carries or buys water
by the gallon, pays the in-betweens both
for feed and for the marketing of eggs
and fats and takes over 60 hours a week
to do it—well, who wants a poultry-
farm cheap?
There are three prices on graded eggs
to the producer, each price being less the
board’s luxurious marketing deductions.
At the meat end, the best for hens is
Is. lOd. pound, and for fats 2s. 10d.,
both live-weight on the farm. Neither is
retailed to the eater for much under Bs.
a pound.
Where does the evaporation take place
between what the wheatfarmer gets for
his golden grain and sweat and the price
at which the chook expert feeds it to his
birds? And who gets the difference be-
tween the Is. lOd. a pound for retired
hens and the 2s. lOd. a pound for cocks
and the Bs. a pound the citysider pays for
’em?
No, city-dwellers will never be killed
in the stampede to go on the land. They’d
be crushed to pulp by the land army
answering an ad. for a cushy job in the
city.— Bock (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 156
Across.
1 Servant urges Idriess to have a
row. (8)
5 Harmony requires a hundred on
a rope. (6)
10—Two artists carry weight to
Georgia in the Cook Islands. (9)
11 Completely freshen Mo and the
West. (5)
12—Rue de Nous with Rebecca in a
stew. (4)
13 Gallic of scarce counterpoint. (7)
14—Like French art. (2)
18 French bear whatever belongs to
you and me. (4)
19 Sheathed resort has those two
kinds of leg-ware. (8)
20—vNeEeEe. (8)
22 Pinched to a mark of approval.
(4)
24—About. (2)
25 Six have a session alternative for
one who calls. (7)
26—80wl carries this prejudice. (4)
29 Half’s hidden by the showy. (5)
30— Mounts by Plymouth for luck.
(5-4)
31 — Coppers take any back street
ruler. (6)
32 — Repeats a pronouncement balance
with a setback. (8)
D.own.
1 — This twister gives the chauffeur
his salary. (5-6)
2 Disquiet of Ginger isn’t put back.
(10)
3 Sealing compound for a plucky
musician. (4)
4 Weights of Asiatic Jeopards. (6)
6 Firm alternative upset the country
crowning. (10)
7 Has scattered snow. (4)
8 — Took a wife rising with precipi-
tation. (3)
9 Joker alludes to the mentality
and the production of Alice’s
acquaintance. (6)
15 — Pods note 500 ships. (4-7)
16 — Pollard’s associate might be
found in such containers, for this
flourishes. (10)
17 — Because it’s this, I often wager
that I’ll eat my hat. (4-3, 3)
19 —Haggard character. (3)
21 —Snub, thin and lightweight. (6)
23 —Our men hide in this part of
Ireland. (6)
27 It makes John Citizen walk back-
wards and forwards every week-
end. (4)
28 — Mercury measures the race divi-
sion. (4)
29 — Took sustenance. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 155.


|M
mm
ASK
FOR
suasnom
DNiiuOddns —dtias
1 f-?'
€I3IHIS
A SURE WINNER
for every wear - everywhere
You will never lose if you select
“Stamina”. On form they are
Australia’s popular choice and
by experience they come first in
public demand.
WHY? —-Because their pedigree
is unrivalled —by Stamina, out
of Crusader. Every Stamina
garment carries the guarantee
that the cloth will never fade or
shrink that the cloth is a
Crusader pure wool worsted.
Because the wonder Crusader
Worsted Fibres from which ALL
Stamina Clothes are made are
diameter for diameter stronger
than steel.
For Value, for Quality, for
Smartness, for Appearance, you
cannot pick anything that pays
as well as STAMINA.
TAILORED
FROM
CRUSADER
CLOTH
