

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 73—No. 3783
Wednesday, August 13, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
AS A PAINTER, CHURCHILL HAS BEEN "HUNG" AT BURLINGTON HOUSE
ONE of the outstanding events of the London season is the Royal
Academy Summer Exhibition, held annually at Burlington House—home
of the Academy. This famous exhibition of the works of living painters,
architects and sculptors is competitive, the works being submitted to
committee of Academicians, • _ ~ .
Sir Joshua Reynolds was the founder and first President of the Royal
Academy of Arts in 1768, when it had its first abode in Pall Mall ; later it
moved to Somerset House and to the National Gallery in 1838 and. finally,
to its present home in Burlington House. Its officers are known as
Academicians or, more familiarly, as R.A. s, of which there are forty, and
also thirty Associates (A.R.A.’s)—vacancies being filled by election, at which
the whole body of members vote. There are several honorary members.
It was in the Summer Exhibition of 1947 that two landscapes submitted
bv a Mr. Winter and accepted by the Selection Committee startled the art
world when it was revealed that this pseudonym concealed the identity of
no less a celebrity than Mr. Winston S. Churchill. He has been hung in
succeeding Royal Academy Exhibitions, and art editors in many parts of
the world have clamoured for reproductions of his paintings.
Hie exclusive Academy Dinner is held each year on the Saturday before
the opening of the Exhibition, and is attended only by guests of elevated
position,” high rank, distinguished talents, or knpwn patrons of the arts.
The after-dinner speeches usually receive world-wide attention and public y.
At other times of the year there are held in Burlington H ° u^e^ t ‘° h P S an °i
an international character; thus there have been Chinese Italian Dutch and
Oreek Exhibitions, and also an exhibition of the Kings Pictures, rne
permanent Collection of the Royal Academy is in the Diploma and Gibson
Galleries, which were badly damaged during the air-raids of the Second
World War.
Burlington House, which is reached through impressive archways from
Piccadilly, was originally built in 1664 as the town house of the first Earl
of Burlington, but was sold in 1854 to the Government for £140,000.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.


Um
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.352) .'.Age
yllla
BOOK
or
THE
MONTH
Traitor or Saint ?
MARTIN MERRIEDEW
by MARY BORDEN
A new novel with a drama of great intensity! The
central character, an idealist of outstanding brilliance,
is involved in a conflict between his duty to his coun-
try and his conscience. “Mary Borden manages to
maintain an atmosphere of astonishing suspense
throughout her story ... Martin Merriedew was a
traitor, a madman or perhaps wiser than most of us.”
—Daily Despatch
At all Booksellers. HEINEMANN
The Red Page
COUNTRY TUNES.
As I went out to walk
Beside the river flowing
A *ui W not hoped to see;
A black man washing a white horse.
That s how the world was going.
He washed the horse’s tail
And plaited it with yellow. *
The wild west show had come to town,
That s how I saw the high white horse
And the brave black fellow.
The wild hawks flew above the smoke
Above the river flowing;
The drunken cowboy stumbled past
And his long legs without his will
Took him where they were going.
I saw his eyes of bitter blue.
Who crossed my path unknowing.
Who would leap over my head that
night
Over the tent pole, over the stars.
Over the river flowing.
I never hope to see again
The white horse decked in yellow.
The horse, the hawks, the river in
flood.
The cowboy’s eyes of bitter blue
Or the brave black fellow.
r n.
I am the old horse
That pulls the council dray
Full of bright fallen leaves
And people say
Took at old Bob, he looks
Older each day.”
I am the old horse
Without driver or goad
Going to the leaf-burning
Drawing my glittering load
Past the small houses,
Down the soft road.
111.
The angry geese and the petulant
grebes
Quarrel down by the water’s edge
But the great white innocent swan
Dreams in the sedge.
He does not sing, he does not fly.
He sails close to the river’s rim.
His spirit is ravished away by the
mo-on.
She has taken him.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.
Simenon Stories.
In The House 'by the Canal (Routledge
and Kegan Paul, Ltd.), translated bj
Geoffrey Sainsbury, Georges Simenon of
the famous “Maigret” series turns away
from the detective-story to “straight’
fiction: offering two long short-stories or
short novels similar in form to Maupas-
sant’s Boule de Suif.
In both the stories the* hand of the
thriller-writer is apparent: but very much
co their advantage, in the sustaining of
suspense—the reader is lured by a quite
legitimate withholding of information, by
mysterious hints and promptings, towards
deepening drama and terror. At the
same time there is that fidelity of charac-
terisation which has always distinguished
Simenon’s thrillers from those, of most
other practitioners. The people in both
stories, though one is set in France, are
drawn from the novelist’s native Belgium.
“The House by the Canal” is a study in
morbidity and peasant decadence: every-
body is a little eccentric in it and more
than a little depraved. A small boy
who interrupts an attempted rape is
murdered and buried in a canal, his red
jersey sometimes still visible under the
winter ice. Two brothers are rivals for
the love of a sadistic cousin, one of them
eventually murdering the other for her
sake. It is queer, cold, clammy story, at
once repellent and fascinating after the
manner of Maupassant’s “Little Louise
Roche.”
The second story, “The Ostenders,”
though full of war-time tragedies and the
drownings of fishermen, is much happier
and more robust; not unlike Conrad’s
The Rover. •
Built chiefly on the character of a
stalwart fisherman, leader of a tribe of
Belgians who sail their boats to France
when the Germans in World War II over-
run their country, it might be interpreted
as a protest on behalf of the common
man against the bureaucracy which is sup-
posed to have been one of the prime
causes of France’s defeat ... for the
fishermen, anxious to preserve their boats
from the enemy, are hampered at every
turn by the authorities, are allowed only
with the greatest reluctance even to catch
fish for the hungry villagers, and are
forced to stay on until the port is occupied
by the Germans. In the end they take
matters into their own hands and escape
to
“The Ostenders” is also a study in the
problems of refugees: the mixture of
welcome, suspicion, ready hostility and
gradual assimilation which such people
must encounter everywhere; and which
these Belgians, on the day when the giant
leader had made his first offering of
free fish to the French villagers, only to
leam that Leopold had that day ordered
his country’s armies to lay down their
arms, encountered in a singularly memor-
able and moving form. But the essential
basis of the story is not political but
simply human ; it is a study of Belgians
of many different types, from the robust
leader to the trollop who prostitutes her-
self to the Germans, involved in an ex-
citing drama. In contrast to the fogs
and sodden fields of “The House by the
Canal” it has a climate of sunlight and
the fresh sea-breezes.
The publishers quote an English re-
viewer who offers the interesting sugges-
tion that Simenon may be making his way,
like Balzac, through thrillers and pot-
boilers and through a big and diverse
output, to great heights in French litera-
ture. These two stories, both rather
familiar in their total effect, are hardly
enough to prove the point; but it seems
possible, and they are certainly very read-
New Schooling.
a great wave of interest in psychology
ran its course between the two world-
wars ; nowadays we are less likely to be
excited by the paradoxical changes it
made to teaching than to hope that it is
producing valuable results as well as bril.
liant methods.
The experienced parent will realise that
no amount of scientific brilliance can
teach multiplication better than the
monotonous, the baleful chant of a class
in full cry: “Twice wunna too; twice
tooah for,” etc. But he must also admit
surprise when his son runs off eagerly to
such a model modern institution as
Coogee State school, arriving an hour
early because it is his day at traffic-duty or
some other mighty responsibility they
have mapped-out for him; and such a
remarkable phenomenon should predis-
pose the said parent to think kindly of
The Education of the Personality, by
Donald McLean (Heinemann).
Mr. McLean, headmaster of Banks
town, “the largest school in the souther
hemisphere,” says the back-flap, wit
2200 pupils, has an informative chapte
on Discipline and Guidance,” whici
details modern methods with backwar
children, noisy children, cheats, imperil
nent children, children who ask for help
hypersensitive and silly children—e.g.
“Mr. Lloyd’s” way with “Ted” the van
dal: discovered smashing floorboards, h
was encouraged to smash more that were
dangerously thin, and then asked to help
put new boards down. This, of course,
is familiar stuff to readers of Sunday
supplements—the most interesting chap
ters are those on “The Activity Method,’
“Integration with the Community,” etc.
in which, with reproduced forms anc
diagrams, Mr. McLean lets us see some
of the methods of modern education as
they are used at Bankstown.
Children are encouraged to talk (“open
the larynx and you open the mind”); and
walk—to factories (“skilfully-planned
excursions provide the most valuable
experiences ); and study (“the power to
study is of more moment than any par-
ticular facts gleaned from study”); to
solve problems ; to form committees that
“write accounts of voyages, make graphs,
maps and folders, paint sets of pictures,
make models,.arrange exhibitions.”
A class of eleven- and twelve-year-old
girls spent six weeks in specialised study,
after which, on the annual “Parents’
Day,” each delivered a lecture “that well
could be called learned” on one of 14
aspects of the “History of Printing”—•
Tj l6 Earliest Writing,” “Hieroglyphics,”
The Invention of Paper,” etc.
Again, in the reproduced form. “Do
Use Your Mind?” one notices,
under “Reading a Newspaper”;
■ ai l y° u distinguish between news and
views?
Find out what is meant by: half-truths,
colored reporting, editorial comment....
And in the same form, under “Spotting
the Flaw,’ the pupil is introduced to
Irrelevant Anecdote, Irrelevancy by
Abuse, Irrelevancy by Labelling, 'Confu
Coincidence ar *d Cause, Irrelevant
Objections, Irrelevant Authorities un
named, unproved, outdated.”
[Exercise I: State whether Mr. Me
Lean s assertion that “Shakspeare’s father
was a bankrupt butcher” (page 74) con
stitutes “colored reporting,” “half-truth,’
irrelevancy by abuse” or “irrelevancy by
labelling.”] *
We journalists will have to pull our
socks up. But journalism itself can only
gain from an increased and more critica
interest in its techniques, as music gainec
from the A.B.C.’s youth-concerts. When
the average Australian school-product
knows as much about the points to be
looked for in art and literature as he
knows about those in cricket and League
we shall be on the way to eradicating the
dreadful Australian negation: that of the
man who condemns what he doesn’t
understand, and so finds little enough to
approve.
A book like this of Mr. McLean’s may
be taken as a sign that such amelioration
is on the way; State-school authorities
have seemed aware for some time that
man does not live by “tool subjects”—-
reading, writing and arithmetic—alone ;
but their success in producing something
more than highly-skilled barbarians seems
to have been confined so far to individual
schools.
R. McC.
Germans on Australia.
L. L. Politzer’s Bibliography of Ger-
man Literature on Australia, 1770-1947
(Pan Press, Box Q 1761, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne) is an unexpected but timely piece
°r A ustra liana in view of the recent flow
of German immigration.
It is a list of books on Australia
written in German by German authors
and includes translations into German of
books by Australian writers, so that along
with O. E. H. Becker’s Das Australische
Abenteuer (a romantic historical novel
published in Leipzig in 1939), Albert
Harasser’s Die, Rechtsverletzung hei den
Australischen Eingeborenen (an article in
the Magazine for Comparative Law,”
published in Stuttgart in 1936, on
Offences of Australian Aboriginals
against the Law”), and Professor Rieck-
mann’s Wander ungen in Austr alien und
Polynesien (1868) there are such old
acquaintances as Eleanor Dark’s Prelude
to Christopher (translated into German,
in 1937), Egon Erwin Kisch’s Landung
in Australien, Henry Lawson’s Aus-
tralische Geschichten (under which dis-
guise are some “Australian Tales,”
including “The Drover’s Wife”), Jack
McLaren’s Ich Und Meine Wilden (a
translation of My Crowded Solitude), and
Henry Handel Richardson’s Maurice
Guest and The Young Cosima—appar-
ently The Fortunes of Richard Mahony
has never been translated.
Altogether Mr. Politzer lists some 260
items, among which may be mentioned,
as illustrating the scope and interest of
the bibliography: Stefan Kotze’s Dawn
of Culture in Papua, which Mr. Politzer
himself has translated into English, in an
unpublished manuscript, and which he
describes as “well-written personal recol-
lections of the author’s experiences in
Papua, whilst still a .German colony” ;
E. A. Zuchold’s Biographical Sketch of
L. Leichhardt , a report on Leichhardt’s
second exploring venture, from the diary
of Daniel Bunce ; and Hans Bertram’s
Plug in die Hoelle, the account of Ber-
tram’s flight from Germany to the Timor
Sea, in the course of which he was lost
for 53 days on the north-west coast of
Australia —the book was translated into
English in 1936. Many of the later items
reveal Nazi ambitions in the Pacific; the
most interesting of the early ones deal
with the goldfields or with bush wander-
ings.
There are some typographical errors
which one would not expect to find in a
work of this kind—Jack McLaren is spelt
“Maclaren” in the alphabetical index,
from which Eleanor Dark is missing ; the
publishing-firm of Seeker and Warburg
becomes Seeker and Warburg; there is a
line transposed on Page 19 ; etc—hm
general the book is pleasing in f nr l?
It contains, as well as the
list and the alphabetical indexTcSond
logical index; and each book listed k
described and briefly criticised The
edition consists of 75 numbered’ conieV
priced at £5 ss. Mr. Poiitzer honefh
will “fill a gap overlooked up-to-date bv
other bibliographers.” * ate by
Farmer-Essays.
Ronald Duncan, the surrealist poet and
religious dramatist who is also a Devon
shire farmer, has since 1946 contributed
an essay every Saturday to the London
Evening Standard” under the heading
Jan s Journal” ; a collection of these
deservedly-popular essays on farming and
farming-life has been published as The
Blue Fox (Museum Press) with an intro-
duction by Brian Vesey-Fitzgerald.
The result is a bedside-book for farmers
or city-dwellers alike', every little essay
has point and finish. We are amazed by
the curious transaction in which the local
plumber replaced Duncan’s old pump and
pipes to the Abbey fishpond with new
copper pipe and a modern rotary pump—
for nothing, until it turns out that the old
pipes and pump, “laid, I suspect, before
the Reformation,” were lead, and, taken
away as useless scrap, brought the
plumber £ll2 a ton . . . : • '
There is the story of how Duncan and
another conspirator, dressed as under-
takers come to measure the body
frightened the colonel’s malingering
employee who had discovered the advan-
tage of lying-up for the new sick-benefit
money by day and poaching at night; of
the tendency of geese to break their
hearts if their mates are sold, and of the
gander thus desolated who consoled him-
self by staring at his own reflection in a
window from which no new mates could
draw him; of the farmer who went for
divorce after his mare bit a lump out of
his bald head. While bandaging the
wound his wife began laughing, and on
his inquiring the reason, she explained,
“I’ve always thought your bead was like
a turnip, too.”
“The Blue Fox,” by the way, is the
village pub.
The Artist at Work.
The Artist at Work, by H. Ruhemann
and E. M. Kemp, a recent Penguin, starts
off with the proposition that “to witness
as it were, the actual process by whic
quality comes into being is sure to furthe
understanding and discrimination”—
which is true enough; taste may be
innate and may be developed in many
different ways, but surely one of the way
is to learn something about technique.
The book tells the reader in very enter-
taining fashion, how technique developed;
how the traditional triangular or
pyramidal composition came into being
through the Church’s demand for repre-
sentations of the Virgin with the Child
in her arms and how it persisted for
several centuries of painting; how
tempera gave way- to oil; how mixer
techniques took the place of alia prima
and how Leonardo da Vinci built his
work up layer upon layer, while some
of Rembrandt’s pictures are almost alia
prima ,
We learn that Renoir, the gayest of
painters, painted on brilliantly white
canvas with absorbent priming, and, like
Rubens, made inspired use of the routine
trick of blending neighboring tones
smoothly together; that Van Gogh, on
the other hand, animated everything he
painted—a field, a chair, or an old boot —
with his own dynamic rhythm, his thick
strokes of pure color following with in-
tensity the formation of the objects ; that
Cezanne composed not with things but
with color and that his distortions came
about not from defect of eyesight, whim
or incompetent drawing, but through his
focusing his eye on a restricted area of
his subject and noticing how straight lines
which he saw with only half an eye
seemed to sway sideways; that Modig-
liani exaggerated Cezanne’s distortions to
the point of affectation and that, just as
El Greco anticipated Dobell with his
{“Red Page” continued on page 4.)


;; :
*5
X
mm
wm*
i
L
1
ft
■v.';v
I
■li
mm
■
&
m
*
1
1
w
m
I
4
Hi
iiiiii
«
• ■■><••
RAICK FRERE single barrel 120.
shotgun, with 30" choked barrel, feat-
uring automatic ejector, pistol grip,
chequered stock. Priced at £3O.
Double barrel hammer gun, 12 gauge,
by RAICK FRERES. With 30" bar-
rels, nitro proved, chambered for 2\
cartridges, cross-bolt action. £5O.
The 12 gauge BROWNING auto-
matic shotgun, 5 shot, barrel.
Plain model, £63/10/-: engraved, £66.
ventilated rib. Priced at £74/10/-.
A folding model shotgun made by
the famous
Double-barrelled, it is 410 gauge. An
Pdeal gun for the orchardist. £27/10/-.
k Gffl FOR EVERY SHOOTIIfi PURPOSE AT MTIIOW HORDERIS’
Advanced engineering and modern research techniques have produced firearms for the discriminating sportsmen of Australia. And typical
of these new guns are the models featured on this page-all from ANTHONY HORDERNS'. You can choose the gun you want
from a very large stock of all types of firearms at ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Take advantage of the helpful adv.ce of our experts.
vW' ; ‘.V
E 5
M
- ;; -s?
C
A
SI
2 '
sses
T~
fc
sr~
Featured is the famous high-grade Mauser type
action SAKO rifle with accurately-mounted peep
sight on barrel, .22 Hornet and .25/20. £62/10/-.
Spotlight for Night Shooting
An essential for night shooting—a spotlight. This
gives 100-yard beam. For use with 6-volt wet bat-
tery. It has a Bin. reflector and attachment tor fitting
to rifle. External focusing and switch. 47/11 each.
The BERETTA sporting rifle, with 3 actions—single.
automatic and repeating. Holds 4-8 ca £ +r ' d 9 es -
Sports model, weight 6ib., priced at £34/5/-.
Target model, weight lb., priced at £37/15/-.
SLAZENGER'S .22 single shot, bolt action sporting
rifle. Non-self cocking, positive "safety." £l2/1/8.
w
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
iithonj Horderns
GUNS AND AMMUNITION LOWER GROUND FLOOR.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
Biography - Classical - Belles-Lettres - Fiction - History
Oratory - Poetry and Drama - Romance - Science
Theology and Philosophy - Travel - For Young People
Anthologies
per 7/9 »"'•
(postage 6d.)
All the works are unabridged unless otherwise stated. The
volumes {size 6J by ii inches ) are well produced with clear
printing, good paper, cloth binding lettered in gold. The sales
now exceed 38,500,000 volumes,
A SAMPLE SELECTION FROM 500 AUTHORS
BOSWELL
Life of Johnson (2 vola.,
Nos. 1-2)
LAMB
Essays of Elia (No. 14)
SCOTT
Ivanhoe (No. 16)
JANE AUSTEN
Pride and Prejudice (No.
22)
TROLLOPE
Barchester Towers (No.
30)
CARLYLE
The French Revolution
(2 vcds.. Nos. 31-2)
CELLINI
Autobiography (No. 51)
PLATO
Republic (No. 64)
SHERIDAN
Plays (No. 95)
VIRGIL
jEneid (No. 161)
BALZAC
Old Goriot (No. 170)
MELVILLE
Moby Dick (No. 179)
WORDSWORTH
Poems (2 vols.. Nos.
203. 311)
THACKERAY
Vanity Fair (No. 298)
PRESCOTT
Conquest of Peru (No.
801)
MARCO POLO
Travels (No. 306)
CHAUCER
Canterbury Tales (No.
307)
GOETHE
Faust, Parts I and II
(No. 335)
POE
Tales of Mystery and
Imagination (No. 336)
ARISTOPHANES
Comedies (No. 344)
CERVANTES
Don Quixote (2 vols.,
Nos. 385-6)
HAZLITT
Lectures on the English
Comic Writers, etc. (No.
411)
HOMER
Iliad (No. 453)
Odyssey (No. 454)
FIELDING
Joseph Andrews (No.
467)
BYRON
Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works (3 vols..
Nos. 486-8)
BEN JONSON
Plays (2 vols., Nos. 489-
DO)
IBSEN
A Doll’s House and
Other Plays (No. 494)
TOLSTOY
War and Peace (3 vols.,
Nos. 525-7)
GREEN
Short History of the
English People (2 vols..
Nos. 727-8)
STEVENSON
Treasure Island and Kid-
napped (No. 763)
VASARI
Lives of the Painters
(4 vols., Nos. 784-7)
FLAUBERT
Madame Bovary (No. 808)
RABELAIS
Gargantua and Panta-
gruel (2 vols.. Nos.
826-7)
BOCCACCIO
Decameron (2 vols..
Nos. 845-6)
OSCAR WILDE
Plays, Prose,»and Poems
(No. 858)
MAUPASSANT
Short Stories (No. 907)
CHESTERTON
Stories, Essays, and
Poems (No. 913)
ARNOLD BENNETT
Old Wives’ Tale (No.
919)
CONRAD
Lord Jim (No. 925)
SOMERSET
MAUGHAM
Cakes and Ale (No. 932)
ALDOUS HUXLEY
Stories, Essays, and
Poems (No. 940 J
STENDHAL
Scarlet and Black (2
vols., Nos. 945-6)
OVID
Selected Works (No.
955)
THOMAS MANN
Stories and Episodes
(No. 962)
ANATOLB FRANCE
At the Sign of the Heine
PCdauque and The
Revolt (No. 967)
QUILLBR-COUCH
•Cambridge Lectures
(No. 974)
The Koran (No. 380)
Poems of Our Time, 1900-
42 (No. 981)
PUBLISHED BY J. M. DENT AND SONS, ALDINE HOUSE,
BEDFORD ST., LONDON, W.C.2
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
new descriptive list (in itself a miniature Guide to Literature ) is available post
free on request from your bookseller or the Australian Representative ;
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY., LTD.,
431 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
THE COMMUNIST WAY OF FIFE, by THE BISHOP OF ARMIDALE.
Three addresses. f} x 6. 29 pages. Paper cover. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 2/6.
MBS. KIND BABBIT, by JOAN ARONDSTEN. Six plays for children.
(Mullens’ Plays for Children No. 2.) 7£ x 5. 52 pages. 7 illustrations.
Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 3/3.
OUB SOCIAL, SYSTEM, by ROBERT H. CLAYTON.
An introduction to Australian civics. 7J x 5. 186 pages. 11 illus-
trations. Limp cloth. Robertson &} Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 8/9.
EVEBY BOY’S ADVBNTUBE OMNIBUS, by Several Authors.
9J x 7J. 128 pages. 46 illustrations. Board cover. Associated
General Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 8/6.
STUDIES IN AUSTBALIAN LABOUR LAW AND DELATIONS,
by ORWELL DE RUYTER FOENANDER, The problem of industrial
peace. 8J x SJ. xxix, 242 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne
University Press. 30/-.
TIDINBILLA ADVBNTUBE, by RICHARD H. GRAVES.
Adventure story for boys. 8J x sf. 150 pages. 3 illustrations. Cloth
binding. Dymoek’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 9/6.
MODE BN AUSTBALIAN POETEY, edited by HENRY MACKENZIE
GREEN. An Anthology, Second edition, revised. 8| x Bi. xii, 205
pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press. 17/6,
CABCOOLA ADVENTUEE, by NOURMA HANDFORD.
A story for girls. 8J x sf. 148 pages. Cloth binding.
Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 9/6.
Dymock’s
A COMPANION TO ST. JOHN’S GOSPEL, by JOHN STEPHEN HART.
A commentary for the layman. 8J x Bi. viii, 215 pages. Cloth
binding. Melbourne University Press. 12/6.
JOUBNAL OF A JOUBNEY FEOM N.S.W. to ADELAIDE IN 1838,
by JOSEPH HAW DON. Early exploration. 9i x 6 J. 76 pages.
7 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding. Georgian House, Melbourne. 21/-.
AUSTBALIAN PEODUCTION AT THE CEOSBBOADS, by R. F.
HOLDER, PROF. 8. M. WADHAM, HON. H. E. HOLT, DR. JAMES
VERNON, DR. E. R. WALKER, SIR DOUGLAS COPLAND. A study of
primary and secondary industry. 7 J x 5. 154 pages. Paper boards.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
SYDNEY—FBOM THE SKY, by FRANK HURLEY. A camera study.
8 x 10J. 48 pages. 41 illustrations, 1 map. Paper boards. Angus
& Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
NUTS ON WINE, by WALTER JAMES.
Second edition, revised. Wine —food —literature. 8} x 6. 93 pages. 32
decorative drawings. Cloth binding. Georgian House, Melbourne. 18/-.
GEOFFBEY HAMLYN, by HENRY KINGSLEY.
An Australian novel of the romantic 1850 s. 8f x Bi. 466 pages.
Cloth binding. Hallcraft Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 17/6.
AN INTBODUCTION TO ABDOMINAL DIAGNOSIS, by ALAN E.
LEE, M.D. ( Melb.), F.R.C.S. {Eng.), F.R.A.G.S. A handbook for
students and practitioners. 6 x 10. 176 pages. Cloth binding.
Australasian Medical Publishing Co. Ltd., Sydney. 32/6.
AN ANTHOLOGY OF AUSTBALIAN YEBSE, edited by GEORGE
MACKANESS. New revised edition. 8J x SJ. 406 pages. Cloth binding.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
BBOWN MEN AND BED SAND, by CHARLES P. MOUNTFORD.
School edition. Aboriginal life and legends. 7i x 5. 76 pages. Paper
cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 4/-.
THE LOBE OF THE LYBEBIBD, by AMBROSE PRATT, C.M.Z.S.
Eighth edition. 9 x SJ. 80 pages. 21 illustrations. Paper boards.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 10/6.
THE IBIS AND ITS CULTUBE, by JEAN STEVENS.
Breeding and growing irises. 10 x 7J. 168 pages. 7 colour plates.
30 b/w illustrations. Cloth binding. Lothian Publishing Co. Ptv.
Ltd., Melbourne. 45/-.
LEICHHABDT IN THBATBE, by FRANCIS WEBB. Poems.
8f x Bi- 47 pages. Quarter cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd ,
Sydney. 15/-.
FIRST FLIGHTS, by WILLIAM LLOYD WILLIAMS: Drama for junior
grades. (Mullens’ Plays for Children No. 1.) 7J x 5. 40 pages
6 illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd. 2/9.
The Australian Book Publishers ’ Association
BULLETIN FOR BOOK
LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z., specialises in rare and
current N.Z. and Australian books, also in
bookish items of general interest. Our
Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual
sub. 8/6.) We specialise in Katherine
Mansfield items, in Australian and N.Z.
poetry, history, flora and fauna of N.Z.,
South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
From Australia to almost anywhere
BY
to all Six Continents
c CP
A
(m
i i
&
•>ic\
\
Your local 8.0.A.C. travel agent has all of the
answers to your trip planning problems, and
will gladly arrange all your bookings free of
charge. One ticket takes you all the way to
almost anywhere in 51 countries by 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird Services.
You fly in deep-seated comfort high above-the-
weather in pressurized, four-engined Speed-
bird airliners. No charge for excellent meals
and mealrtime drinks. No staff gratuities.
33 years’ international flying experience.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON . INDIA
PAKISTAN . MIDDLE EAST . AFRICA
EUROPE . GREAT BRITAIN . U.S.A. . CANADA
CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA . BERMUDA
&
A
I
CP 3 G=>
B. 0. A. C. —first with the
The present Comet Service
between London and Johannesburg is the
forerunner of world - wide 8.0.A.C.
Jetliner services to come.
(jOHdC
Information £f Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C .
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS-AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A32/AU
elongated figures. Carlo Crivelli
(1430-95) anticipated the modern
“abstract” painters by gumming
ornaments of gilt wood and
plaster, sometimes threequarters
of an inch thick, on to his
pictures.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Instant’s Clarity: Lex
Banning (Futurian Press). Lex
Banning’s verses have something
to say, and when he allows him-
self the use of simple lyrical
forms he often succeeds in say-
ing it. Furthermore he is not
without wit. Consider, for
instance, “Ariadne”:
And Ariadne,
whose supple fingers on a clue
of silk spun Theseus into a kingdom,
the Minotaur to death, and her own
betrayal,
found complete consolation in the
arms of Dionysos;
the myth, perhaps, pays tribute to
the powers of Naxos wine.
Two-hundred copies of the book
have been printed. Two other
recent Futurian publications,
both slight, are Reba Ginsberg’s
verses The Numberless Sands,
and Zero Equals Nothing, an
exceedingly experimental short-
story by Graham B. Stone and
Royce Williams about a rocket-
trip to the moon.
* * * #
“Direction”—edited by L. H,
Davison (Melbourne), This new
quarterly magazine has an
attractive cover, good printing
and is of a convenient size. Its
contents are patchy. There are
two short poems by Judith
Wright; not attaining her best
standard, but distinguished by
fine craftsmanship and beautiful
imagery. Vincent Buckley con-
tributes a lyric of considerable
power, using to advantage a
lighter form than is customary
with him. Four other verse-
writers are represented, busily
flogging those long-dead horses:
imagism and vers fibre. The
critical essay is well represented
by Elizabeth Vassillief writing
on T. S. Eliot’s “Four Quartets,”
and badly by Max Harris, who
reveals astounding ignorance of
recent Australian verse-writing
and publication. One even feels
that his praise of Ray Mathew’s
work is suspect, admiring, as he
does, that promising young
writer for such peculiarly addled
reasons. “Direction” also pub-
lishes a short-story, reviews and
an amateurish black-and-white
drawing.
* * * ♦
“Language” edited by
Geoffrey Alan Mill (Athenian
Publishing Co., Sydney). A
magazine to be issued every two
months. An editorial article
explains that space will be pro-
vided “for the publication of
sincere and developed discussion
on language,” especially as such
problems affect the various arts
and sciences. The editor also
hopes to attract “the writer
specialising in satire.” The initial
essay is an excellent discussion,
“The Writer and the Crisis,” by
Judith Wright McKinney (Judith
Wright). Harry Hooton contri-
butes a characteristic article, and
there is a smattering of light-
weight verse not helped by
contrast with short reprints from
Swift, Tennyson, Keats, Hood
and Thomas Randolph. Space
is also given to book and drama
reviews, and to two uninspiring
reproductions of daubs by
Lawrence Hope,
* * *
Phoenix Rising: Marguerite
Steen (Collins), This novel
follows The Sun Is My Undoing
and Twilight on the Floods, and
in it Marguerite* Steen brings her
chronicle of the Flood family,
of Bristol, into the 1930’5. In
the persons of Aldebaran
Flood and Orlando Sax, various
family and racial conflicts are
resolved in a manner which
followers of previous Flood
fortunes will doubtless applaud.
However, as her history more
nearly approaches our own time,
exaggerated characterisation,
always a Steen weakness, be-
comes overwhelmingly apparent;
a defect which is not lessened by
a superficial and sometimes
anachronistic style, particularly
in dialogue.
* * * *
Middle Kingdom: Martin
Haley (printed for the author by
Co - operative Press, Ltd.,
Berwick-street, Valley, Brisbane).
Essays on “Chinese Poetry in
Translation,” “Chinese Poet, Po
Chu-i,” “China and the Western
Powers,” “Confucius,” etc., also
many poems, many either trans-
lations or imitations of the
Chinese. The best essay is that
which compares and contrasts
the efforts of various translators
of Chinese poetry; Mr. Haley’s
own translations and develop-
ments leave the reader with much
the same feeling as those of other
translators—that the translations
have a profundity for such as
know the originals that is denied
to the reader who sees only the
English.
* * * *
The Fiddler of the Gorge:
Robert A. Moncrieff (copies
from the author, c/o Job Stone
Pty., Ltd., 265 Margaret-street,
Toowoomba; Bs. 6d.). Mr.
Moncrieff, a linotype-operator-
mechanic, set, printed and folded
this little novel of a dog whose
cruel master matched him for a
life-and-death struggle with
another dog. The dog escaped
and had an affair with a dingo
bitch ; was saved from a dingo
pack by a big strong musician
who used to play a violin in the
forest; and, when the cruel
master sought the dog out, there
ensued a bloody battle. Alto-
gether it is a vigorous and green
little fantasy; but if Mr.
Moncrieff had been as good an
editor as a printer it might have
been better.
* * * *
Provincial Verses: Lionel
Welsh (copies from the author
79 Barkly-street, Ballarat East;
7s. 6d.). Verses published in
The Bulletin and “Woman's
Mirror” and six other papers.
Mr. Welsh celebrates bell-
magpies, grey thrushes, robins,
pilot - birds, musk - lorikeets’
yellow-faced-honeyeaters, gold-
finches, friarbirds, rufous-
fantails, eastern - spinebills,
swamps, bees, wild-aniseed,
sarsaparilla, irises, lilies, turkey-
lolly-men, Afghan hawkers, and
a great many more scenes of the
Victorian countryside, filling
traditional measures with exact
observation; e.g., musk-
lorikeets :
Their emerald coolness touched with
fire
Of red-tipped bills and crimson
brows,
They hurtle upward to adorn
The honeyed boughs.
They creep out to the blossom ends
And hang head-down below each
cup,
Troubling the flowers as they brush
The sweetness up.
In “Gim Shan,” a long narra-
tive, he does not quite make the
blank verse come alive as verse;
but it is a lively and colored
picture of the life and death of
a Chinese in the Victorian gold-
rush days, obviously the result
of considerable research.
♦ * * *
Landscape with Figures:
Ronald Fraser (Cape). An
unusual novel, rewritten from a
version published in 1925, in
which three Englishmen, rather
like Alice through the looking-
glass, pass into a landscape of
Chinese prints and there have
print-like adventures, Lord
Sombremere’s daughter falling
in love with a young Chinese
gentleman. The best part of it
is the sensitive Chinese landscape
evoked from the prints; the
story never quite gets out of the
shadowy and fanciful thinness
in which it was conceived.


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3783
Wednesday, August 13, 1952
SNAKEBITE CASE.
"We'll ease the ligature to get his blood circulating again. But that snake still looks cheeky. Bob."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
.Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth .
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
AN EASIER BUDGET.
The 1952-53 Budget programme, pithily
presented by Treasurer Fadden, boiled
down to the essential fact that, with huge
commitments to the States, with a
£2OO million defence programme and a
still-rising basic wage at astronomical
heights, the Government cannot manage
this year’s business on less than £959
million, or £5O million-odd more than
last year. At the same time it will grant
taxation concessions equal to another
£5O million. But no surplus is reckoned
on this year.
Everybody gets the 10 per cent, rebate
represented by last year’s special impost
on income tax—about £36 million. Every-
body feels the benefit of the reduction of
sales tax and of the regrouping of items
under it, the top limit coming down from
66| per cent, to 50 per cent. Parents
educating children and sporting-clubs have
some small concession. Public companies
be relieved of advance-payment of
company tax, to which they were made
subject last year, and of 2s. in the £ on
the first £5OOO of taxable income, so
that the new rate will be (inclusive of the
2s. special levy imposed last year) 7s. in
the £ on the first £5OOO and 9s, there-
after. There will be an increase
in the tax-free retention allowance
in the case of private companies,
and the undistributed profit in excess of
the amount will be taxed at a flat rate
of 10s. in the £. Federal land tax goes
by the board.
The remainder of the concessions
take the form of relatively small
but highly welcome increases in social
benefits to meet rising costs. The Budget
was summed up simply by the
Treasurer himself. The overall plan is
designed to provide incentives to work
and production, to meet all Common-
wealth expenses, including capital
expenses for the year, out of revenue and
to hand back to the taxpayer what the
Government doesn’t need. The criticism
of the Federal president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, Mr. W. J.
Allison, that it “is unspectacular but
generally satisfactory” seems to epitomise
all reasoned criticism.
Business in general will agree with Mr.
Allison that the payroll tax, which remains,
is iniquitous, but that “if the community
desires the Welfare State—cost £172
million this year—combined with neces-
sary defence” —which had risen in cost
from £169 million to an estimated £2OO
million for 1952-53 —“high tax-rates are
inevitable.” Though even at that they
are not nearly as high as they might be
and compare more than favorably, as
Treasurer Fadden showed from the tables
included in the Budget papers, with those
of any other country bearing the same
type of responsibilities—Britain, Canada,
the United States and New Zealand. It
will certainly provide encouragement to
the business community: more than a
Budget has for some time, as much from
the trend towards private enterprise
shown in the Government’s expressed
policy as in the actual concessions made.
Of the capital works and services
of £lO6 million, more than a quarter is
inevitable outlay on post-office and
broadcasting facilities and another quarter
set aside for war-service homes, the only
other major items being the Snowy
Mountains scheme and civil-aviation con-
struction. This shows the tendency of the
Government to give way to private
interests in the matter of construction, for
it represents a very considerable decrease
in the volume of works, having regard
to increased costs, though it is only £4
million less on the whole than last year’s
estimate. The country could expect con-
siderable tax relief if similar views were
forced upon the State Governments,
especially the squandering Cahill Gov-
ernment, as they may be if the Federal
Government’s determination to restore the
principle of responsibility for State taxa-
tion spending to its owners, the State
Premiers, is brought about.
State load requirements may “receive
some special assistance from bank
credit.” In the prevailing state of the
public-loan market Treasury thoughts are
iiKeiy to run in that direction. But any
use of bank credit for public works
should be made only if surplus labor and
surplus materials are available to do the
job, and if State Governments can estab-
lish a case for the use of extraordinary
finance methods. No cut-and-dried plans
about bank credit should be made in
advance, except that its use should be
kept down to a minimum.
For the rest, the promise of legislation
to pull the Commonwealth Bank off the
backs of the trading banks, to separate
its diverse central banking and trading
functions on rational lines, to advance
interest-rates and gradually free invest-
ment capital from its straitjacket, fore-
shadow the end of a dangerous era. Dur-
ing the “Labor” period of rule even some
young Liberals, under Socialist pressure,
seemed to have reached a point at which
they were not sure of the difference be-
tween the phrases “criminal community”
and “commercial community.” But that
phase seems to have ended for the time
being with the Treasurer’s statement that
the “springs of action [of the Australian
economy] lie principally in business firms
and individuals who in the end determine
whether there is to be inflation, recession
or stability.” This may sound so
unfamiliar as to be almost heresy to many
people in a country which was taught for
a solid decade to believe that a Govern-
ment is an almost inexhaustible fountain
of beneficence, and can do anything—
ward off depressions, bring prosperity
and do away with work —though, of
course (sotto voce), with the taxpayers’
money.
It needs to be understood that the
responsibility under free-enterprise rests
squarely on all shoulders, and not merely
on those of some classes with which other
classes happen to be at industrial war.
And if all sections can be made to under-
stand that there is no reason why the
encouragements given in the current
Budget should not be extended in sub-
sequent Budgets. Some at least of the
concessions outlined by Treasurer Fadden
have been made possible by the remark-
able freedom from disturbance which coal
and other industries have enjoyed under
the present Government, with a con-
sequent improvement in output. And the
further this healthy tendency multiplies
itself, with the exclusion of Communist
leadership from the key unions, the more
it should be possible to take off the
public’s shoulders in the next Budget,
Whatever the policy, however, we are
not yet out of the wood, and cannot be
while material progress is hampered and
stability endangered by a class-war trade-
union and “Labor” policy (not yet
liquidated) of over-high wages, short
hours and low production.
Until the problems which arise
out of this position are settled, and until
the overseas currency reserves, depleted
to danger-point by the mad import spend-
ing which drained our funds of a record
amount by more than five-eighths of their
total, or nearly £5OO million in a single
year, are restored, there can be no real
economic security.
The Government is wise in making it
settled policy to rebuild its overseas
reserves to safety levels, and in recognis-
ing that inflation is an ailment which be-
comes readily chronic, and tends to
intensify its symptoms by feeding on its
own germs.
On the whole the Ministry is to be
congratulated on seeking, as the Trea-
surer says, to “adjust conditions so
that neither inflation itself nor the reaction
from it will run to extremes.” Its task
is rendered the harder by the un-co-
operative attitude of the Opposition, which
cares nothing for what happens to any
economy except a Socialist economy, since
its ultimate aim is to wipe out capitalism
altogether, and, in the words of Mr.
Calwell, to “pluck the fowl.”
Inflation and an Olympiad.
Other efforts having failed to arouse
Australians for united effort to halt and
turn back the inflation which is throttling
the national economy, there is one appeal
as yet untried that might be made. None
other seems to have had any effect on
political parties, businessmen, trade-
unions or the consuming public, all seem-
ingly unimpressionable and impenitent.
We have tried price-fixing quackery,
manipulation of bank-credits, industrial
wrangling and industrial peace-confer-
ences, strikes, exhortations from the
pulpit, ethical appeals like those of “The
Call.” Value continues to run out of
the currency like water out of a sieve. A
pernicious anaemia flourishes on the
prevalent insane notions that the national
economy can be revitalised by some
painless legislative enactment, and that the
individual citizen ought to be able to
enjoy a wonted, and even an improved,
standard of living by doing less and less
work to provide for it. The same
individual holds that his Parliament,
whose members were elected for the
purpose, have established “social
security,” and that he can not only keep
a cake which does not exist but eat it,
too, if only the political party in power
at Canberra be temperamentally fitted
to administer Government guarantees
against adversity first claimed as a natural
right and then enshrined in the statute-
book.
An utterly false attitude towards work
as earning-power, wages and profits as its
measured reward, and money as not a
token of exchange-trade but a commodity
synthetically manufactured, is not only
poisoning the economic bloodstream but
is eating like a cancer into the nation’s
moral fibre. The further attitude of the
patient towards consequential afflictions
is to report sick and go to bed with them.
Somebody told the story the other day
of a man seeking medical aid of whom
an observer remarked to the doctor —“All
that man wants to put him right is a good
kick in the stern.” To which the doctor
replied: “It would do a whole lot of my
patients good ; but, of course, that is not
done.” Those industrialists who howl for
some political sleight-of-hand to cure
inflation offer much the same sort of case.
No action save in general and intel-
ligent co-operation will do the job. It is
the interest not of one section of the
people, but of all sections alike. Yet
every appeal for this united effort has
struck no spark of response. The only
results visible so far have been protests
of injustice organised by some of the
myriad pressure-groups bent on snatch-
ing selfish advantage from a deepening
general discomfort, or a widely-shared
but ignoble sentiment that “the sooner
the crash comes the better.”
There is one course not yet tried. Is
it possible that an appeal in the name of
the great god Sport might succeed in
galvanising the community as a whole to
some effort to overthrow this lethargy?
The Helsinki Olympic Games are over;
and the Australian representatives’ per-
formances there were followed by the
home public with a single-minded concen-
tration which owed something not merely
to the events themselves but also to the
consciousness that the next Games, in
1956, are due to be held in Australia. In
the words of the late J. B. Chifley’s last-
recorded exhortation concerning inflation
—addressed to “every man in public life
with a sense of responsibility”—the
watchers in this country of the Helsinki
athletic contests did evince “consideration
for the country’s honor, prestige and
standing abroad and the heritage of its
future citizens.” But only for the sake
of Sport. In face of the daily and increas-
ing industrial emergency at home it seems
that any such response might as well be
expected from the dead.
Let it be asked, therefore: Are Aus-
tralians willing to allow inflation to ride
on unchecked and ruin the Melbourne
Olympic Games in 1956? It was stated
in the Arbitration Court last week:
During 1951 twice as much was added
to the basic wage by quarterly living-cost
adjustments as was added by the court
after its inquiry in 1950 [the 19s. increase
to the basic wage of December in that
year], and the spiral is proceeding at the
same pace today.
Published statistics bear this out. The
basic wage (in shillings) for Sydney in
the fourth quarter of recent years rose
thus:
Last qtr. 1948 123
„ „ 1919 132
„ „ 1950 146 plus 19 =■= 165
„ „ 1951 plus 42 = 207
Third „ 1952 (unfinished) plus 28 = 235*
* Unfinished.
Assuming (optimistically) that the tempo
of this increase were to continue at
merely the same rate and not a com-
pounded one—that is to say, by no more
than 40s. a year henceforth —any man
can work out for himself that by the end
of 1956 the basic wage would be around
£2O a week. That would entail, on all
experience, actual wages (for those whom
industry and Governments could still
afford to employ) of £22 to £25.
Let anybody who agrees that the
national prestige would flop if Australia
had to abandon the staging of the
Olympic Games of 1956 ask himself what
the prospects would be of preparing for
them on wages and costs of materials
reared on this sort of inflation-spiral. It
would, of course, become obvious before
half the next four years have passed that
the country’s economy simply could not
stand the necessary diversion of labor,
materials and money for entertainment of
contingents of world athletes. The costs
of feeding, housing and transporting them
—invisible exports certainly—would be a
heavy drain on falling production and
services; and the Games in an Australia-
wide setting of raging unemployment in
every industry but those of the note-
printing presses and the training-tracks for
foot-runners would be a hideous mockery
of the sacred flame from ancient Greece.
The cynical may retort that before then
the crash would come which would bring
the country to its senses. That eventuality
would do little to produce a happy setting
for the 1956 Games, and would ruin the
projected visit of Queen Elizabeth and
her Consort in 1,954. There is no more
time to be lost if Australia is to meet a
challenge in both 1954 and 1956 to
exhibit in full measure the vigor, initiative
and stamina for which this country still
cherishes, surely, a reputation won against
all competitors in the past.
Abos No More.
The new plan for dealing with native
welfare in the Northern Territory, put
forward by Mr. Paul Hasluck, is novel,
though it is not new in principle, since
it runs parallel to the embryo visions
of early humanitarians, such as Governor
Macquarie,
Its basis is the recognition of the fact
that there are aboriginals and aboriginals,
that some are able to look after them-
selves and to exercise the rights of citi-
zens, and that some are not.
Strangely enough, the number of full-
blooded aboriginals in some areas has
been growing under the impetus of better
food and shelter and regular work. The
day has gone when the abo. was reckoned
a nuisance on a northern station. Far-
seeing pastoralists in recent years have
begun to see the race as a valuable labor
pool and to encourage its birthrate and
attend to its health and education.
Under existing legislation every person
of aboriginal blood is considered as an
aboriginal unless, by application to an
official, he can obtain exemption. Those
to whom the law has applied have had
no votes, have been restricted in their
use of liquor and have been subject to
other controls, while the attitude of the
white towards them has been equally con-
trolled for their protection.
Under Mr. Hasluck’s scheme the pro-
cesses will, in effect, be reversed. No
person will be considered an abo. unless
specifically brought under the provisions
of the aboriginal laws, and the justifica-
tion for this will not be race or color
(or infusion of color). The test will be
whether the person concerned needs spe-
cial care and protection. Persons who
are brought under the provisions of the
new laws which are being drafted for
submission to the Northern Territory
Legislative Council will have the right to
apply at any time for exemption if they
feel they can manage their own affairs
in open competition.
Some details have yet to be worked
out, but the method of procedure will
be roughly that all persons living in the
manner of the European community will
be exempt from the provisions of the
ordinance, but the Administrator of the
N.T. will be given power, on the recom-
mendation of the Director of Welfare,
to declare persons. or groups of persons
to be in need of special care and assist-
ance. Natives living in reserves or com-
pounds or employed under permit will
be declared in tfyjs category in the begin-
ning, but it will be possible for all natives
who so desire to approach the courts for
relief, and it will, on the other hand, be
made legal for the courts to commit any
person, white or black, who on official
application is found to come within the
provisions of the ordinance, to the care
of the Welfare Department, But the main
point of the legislation is that no person
will be within the ambit of the new laws
simply because he is of abo, blood. He
must be specially brought within them by
declaration.
About 20 years ago aboriginal reserves
of around 64,000 square miles, an area
greater than England and Wales, were
created, mainly in Arnhem Land. Today
there are only about 6000 natives living
in these reserves, and only about 10 per
cent, of them live a fully tribalised life.
Over 4000 are fully under the influence
of the Government or missions, and
another 1000 are partly under civilised
influence. The first steps are to be taken
tentatively towards the ultimate breaking-
up of these reserves, a move rendered
advisable by the knowledge that much
of them probably contain atomic and
other minerals which should be located.
Though it is not contemplated that
personal titles to any land in the huge area
which is locked up at present will be
given, the Administrator will be author-
ised by the new laws to grant prospecting
and mining rights on reserves, subject to
conditions which may be necessary to
protect natives, the revocations being
reported to the Federal Parliament, in
which they will be subject to disallowance
in the same way as N.T. ordinances and
regulations. Royalties will be levied and
paid into a trust fund for the general
benefit of the aborigines. There is not,
however, any intention of immediately
throwing open the reserves for prospect-
ing, but the means are being provided
with a future in view. Perhaps Binghi
himself may take to the Geiger-counter.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence Realities.
The provision of an increased defence
vote—£2oo million, against £169 million
last year—has had all too little attention
from critics of the Budget. This country
is more concerned with getting “something
for nothing” than in contemplating grim
realities—except when a horse falls in
the straight or a bookie departs without
leaving his address.
Mr. Casey’s remarks on the urgency
of completing the Pacific defence
organisation went almost unnoticed dur-
ing the week in the excitement produced
by the removal of the 10 per cent, income-
tax levy and the abolition of land tax.
And affairs like the Anzus Conference,
with all their publicity and decisions,
committees and staffs, unfortunately tend
to screen the real position. Plans made
by three Powers isolated from the rest of
the Western Defence Nations, from the
United Kingdom, Canada, Japan and
India, have about as much real substance
as a politician’s promise. The hard
realities of a hardening situation lie ahead
and have to be tackled.
One thing which needs to be faced is
that the burden of defence will at least
continue at present levels for years
and may become heavier, even if there is
no war. Some of the weight will fall on
us indirectly, but it will be felt neverthe-
less. The changes in Europe will be one
source of this weight.
With the signing of the peace “con-
tracts” with Western Germany restric-
tions on the production of steel, for
instance, will go completely, though that
country will operate within the Euro-
pean international cartel created by the
Schumann plan. Coal production also is
due for huge expansion in Western
Europe, with economic results which must
be felt right round the world. And
Japan is only beginning her recovery.
It becomes more urgent every day that
Australia should order its economy
and industry to meet the world conditions.
Our enemies, of course, are low-cost
countries because their labor, the main
ingredient of war production, is slave-
labor and to be had in emergency for
the price of feeding and clothing it at
bottom level. Given equal efficiency of
machinery, and not allowing for lower-
ing of costs and multiplication of effort
by the vast bulk of production, it will
cost as much for one Australian labor
unit to produce as it will four Russian
units.
The tendency in Australia has become
to think of effort in terms of money. But
our Allies are likely to think in terms
of what a population of 8,000,000-odd
virile people ought to to the
common pool in terms of their own
outputs per head.
Unfortunately war is a grim reality to
people nearer to it than ourselves; not,
as with many pressure-groups in Aus-
tralia, a handy Socialistic device to keep
“full employment” and high wages going
in otherwise slack times.
..
Soles Tax and C®sss.
Some Sydney businessmen’s comments on
the Budget discount themselves at once.
If those making them know the real
causes of the decline in sales and the
consequent decline in employment they
are expert at disguising their knowledge.
The remarks of spokesmen for the
N.S.W. Radio and Telephone Manu-
facturers’ Association are an instance.
Sydney “Herald” gathered into its gloom-
columns, reflecting Sydney business recep-
tion of the Budget, some six inches of
depression from the vice-president an
another couple of inches from the presi-
dent of that body. Their moan is that
a reduction of sales-tax from per
cent, to 20 per cent, is not enough and
th Q+ it is the taxation of their industry
which has caused people to refuse to buy
at current high prices.
First radio commentator:
The net result [of the raising last year
of sales-tax from 8$ per cent, to 33J per
cent.] has been that during the last ten
months 50 per cent, of the employees in th
radio industry have been sacked, te
industry wellnigh ruined, and the sales
tax collected has been but a fraction o
what was collected at lower rates.... The
people would not pay the lagh prices for
radio caused by the monstrous tax of 33$
per cent.
Second radio man:
The reduction from 33$ per cent, to 20
per cent, in radio-receivers is far too little,
unrealistic and gravely disappointing. Ine
radio industry has lost all p lon J en *| um ■
present. It won’t be restored by the
Budget, which will do nothing to ease the
unemployment in the industry.
Not quite in step, it seems. The re-
marks above-quoted should be read m
the light of the information published at
length in Melbourne “Age” a fortnight
previously by Mr. N. C. Burgess, presi-
dent of the Electrical Radio and Tele-
phone Manufacturers of Australia. Some
of it:
Despite its efficiency the industry cannot
continue to sustain the hammer-blows it
is receiving, as in'the case of the recent
12s. basic-wage adjustment-rise... .This
state of affairs stems from the nation’s
attitude as reflected by awards and wages
towards WOKK.
Since 1946 the hourly wage-rate In
Australia has increased by 95 per cent.
In the U.K. over the same period the in-
crease has been 33 per cent., in Canada 59
per cent., and in U.S.A, 45 per cent. This
inflationary state of affairs in Australia
has had disastrous repercussions on our
costs of production. In Australia wage-
inflation is now the worst of any of the
free countries of the world. Normally the
British workman over the year works
about 61 more weeks than does the Aus-
tralian... .2147 hours of work per year,
whereas his counterpart in Australia pro-
vides 1880 hours
Working with a formula based upon
the number of hours worked, with a cor-
rective added, to bring the average British
wage-rate into line with Australian cui-
rency, we find that the Australian
manufacturer must pay out £l9B for every
£lOO which his competitor in U.K. pays
for the same amount of skilled labor and
£202 for every £lOO his British competitor
pays for unskilled labor.
As between the post-Budget statement
by Sydney representatives of the manage-
ment in this industry and the pre-Budget
(Melbourne) statement by its all-Aus-
tralian president, there is not much diffi-
culty in deciding which of them has got
the nub of the matter.
Costly Coal Bottleneck.
Treasurer Fadden says some of the
worst industrial bottlenecks have been
broken, and includes coal-production in
that category of improvement. Certainly
the volume of coal mined has increased,
but the N.S.W. bottlenecks in transport-
railway and shipping —are far from
broken yet. The freight-charges due to
delays, lack of modern loading facilities
and sheer inability of carriers to transport
more coal are adding greatly to coal costs.
As Minister Mcßride (deputising in
the Commonwealth Labor portfolio) says,
the accession of 1367 new workers in the
coal-pits (he does not say what propor-
tion of them underground) accounts for
improvement in production during the 12
months ended on June 30 last. But the
extra number the Coal Board wanted this
year was 3400, and by the end of 1955 it
demands a further 3000 on top of that.
The first half, January-June, of the
year 1951 was notable for weekly coal
strikes on political issues; and for the
27 weeks of 1952—up to July 19 last-
output was about 1,300,000 tons better
than in thp corresponding period of 1951.
The total mined for this year to date
(Coal Board figures) was 8,089,725 tons—
-6,619,281 underground and 1,470,444 tons
opencut. The rate (underground) will
still fall short of the 1942 effort: it works
out at 11,767,000 tons underground and
2 614,000 opencut, a total of 14,381,000
for the full year. And this showing has
to be viewed against (1) a weekly loss
from strikes still averaging nearly 28,000
tons (northern collieries), though this
rate is an improvement by about one-
third on the 1951 strike losses; and (2) a
continuing failure to meet industry s
requirements from N.S.W. fields which
the Coal Board estimated for the current
year at 17,300,000 tons.
The failure of transport services in
N.S.W. to shift the volume of coal lately
produced is one sign of the continuing
coal bottleneck, and this is reflected too,
in the formidable increase in cost of coal
to industrial consumers, especially in
States outside N.S.W. Coal freights and
coal prices are rising all the time. Prices
(averaged) as at June 30 have risen since
1949: —
1949. 1950. 1951.
Newcastle f.o.b. .. 40/2 45/1 W/*
Melbourne f.o.w. .. 69/- 74/a
Adelaide f.o.w. .. 66/6 71/7 90/9
Uranian tie f.o.w. . . 81/7 91/7 •
Prices are well above those levels today.
The shortage in the southern States has
caused heavy subsidising by th £ Com-
monwealth of coal imports.
Spooner stated recently that in 195 U-M
£1,703,841 was paid in subsidies on
733,604 tons of overseas coal, and in
1951-52 £1,354,085 on 231,841 tons.
From the one year to the next the subsidy
paid per ton rose from £2 4s. 4d. to
£5 ss. lOd. on this coal for South Aus-
tralia, and from £2 7s. 9d. to £6 2s. Bd.
a ton for Victoria. These are wicked
figures. The Minister said that overseas
freights, which reached 160 s. during
1951-52, have now dropped to 80s
But these statistics give some idea ot
the coal bottleneck remaining.
Annexe It!
Statements issuing fr<rm the Anzus
Conference at Honolulu s re so confused
that it is difficult to understand what was
done there ; but the overall impression is
that Mr. Casey has removed Australia
from the British entered
into a separate defence arrangement with
the United States and joined that
country’s empire.
It may not be as drastic as that; but
such announcements as that he has invited
the United States to use the Manus base
suggests a personal proprietorship like
that which Dr. Evatt exercised over this
continent when he was Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs. In any case, if Manus
belongs to us to the extent that we can
invite other Powers to use it without
U.N.O. being consulted, it is about time
that the fact was confirmed by complete
annexation. But if New Guinea territory
is the property of the United Nations,
and we are merely trustees, how can we
differentiate between the Powers which
have an equal property right in it?
How can Australia, in the present posi-
tion, a member of U.N.0., sworn to up-
hold its principles, justify refusal to offer
the same facilities to any other Power
within the organisation —Russia or Indo-
nesia, for instance —or Japan in particu-
lar, if that country is presently admitted?
The whole position is a complex farce.
It is truly about time Australia turned
the northern islands which are necessary
to our defence into an integral part of
the Commonwealth.
Taxes and Culture.
Whatever pleasant features the Com-
monwealth Budget holds for farmers,
companies, shopkeepers, trade-unionists
and the rest, it does nothing to remedy
a long-standing injustice to the people
who keep the national culture going.
A creative artist may take anything
from two to five years to complete a
book, a picture, a statue or other work,
scratching a living in the meantime, with
no certainty of ever getting a cash return.
If Fortune smiles and that particular
work suddenly earns them £lOOO or more
the tax commissioner promptly grabs a
large share, allowing nothing in the way
of a deduction for the years of work and
waiting.
When it comes to prizes for creative
work the position is worse. Although
other prizes are generally exempt from
taxation, it is held that should a writer,
artist, playwright, singer or composer
win a cash prize in a literary or artistic
competition the money is taxable because
it is earned by one who makes the prac-
tice of the relevant art his occupation.
Which plainly suggests that if a profes-
sional plumber won a short-story compe-
tition his prize would be exempt.
Commonwealth Governments have
always made great professions of en-
couraging creative art. There is a Com-
monwealth literary grant every year to
assist writers on specified projects, and
cash prizes were given for writers and
artists as part of the Commonwealth
Jubilee uproar. In this case the Com-
monwealth evidently gives out money
with one hand and grabs portion of it
back with the other. .... ,
All that is asked—and it is fair enough
—is that writers and artists be allowed
to have their tax payments spread pro-
portionately over the period in which the
income was earned.
Korean Fighting.
“Ek Dum”: One of the effects of the
Korean peace negotiations is a delusion
that Korea is a matter about which
there is no hurry; that at least
something is being gained by a lull
in the fighting. And men are not bemg
killed” Against this attitude of mmd
Major-General Cassels has just issued a
warning from the British Division.
No account is being taken of me
victory which the satellites of Moscow
are winning in immobilising Perhaps
600 000 men directly connected with the
Korean campaign who might be em-
ployed on the productive work of peace.
Since this is achieved on the Chinese side
bv the use of slave conscripts, paid at
sub-coolie level, it is economically a good
bet for the Communists in any case, more
especially as they do not have to tie up
huge amounts of shipping and air-
transport on overseas communication-
lines. Their gun-fodder, animate and
inanimate, is more or less produced on the
*° The idea that the Korean war during
the lull is a bloodless conflict is also a
delusion. Its casualties are far heavier
than the average in the New Guinea and
island war of 1942-45. Since the armistice
talks began a year ago, up to the_ third
week in July, the United Nations forces,
including the South Koreans, have
suffered 80,000 casualties, including 16,000
killed. During that period the British
Commonwealth has lost 2500, including
400 killed. In the first three weeks
of July, total U.N.O. casualties were
4000. And this attrition goes on day
after day. The English and U.S. papers
scarcely come out two days together
without a fresh list of dead, wounded and
missing.
On the supposedly inactive front—a
very important sector —which the Com-
monwealth Division is holding, there is
not a night in which there is not patrol
activity, in which a hundred or more
Australians or British or Canadians do
not risk their lives in a no-man’s-land, in
which the enemy knows every tree-stump
and tuft of grass by sight in all lights.
Of course the other side has lost in
manpower more heavily than ourselves,
though in relation to its resources and
the value of individuals in its economy
perhaps not more heavily than the United
Nations. And it has gained the time to
build its line into a fortress.
The Eighth Army is faced with a huge
task if it is ever called on to break the
stalemate. And a perilous one if it is
called on to defend itself from a major
attack made from positions such as those
which the enemy has created.
A Policeman's Lot.
Police-officers tottered from beds of
sickness last week to tell the N. S. Wales
royal commission on liquor (Mr. Justice
Maxwell) of their success as punters, and
even greater success in balancing the
family budget.
Most modest punter of the three officers
examined was Sergeant H. J. Corrigan, of
the Vice Squad ; he “did not bet to any
extent,” but in August, 1949, won £136
on a Tartan Girl-Warrah King double.
The bet had been placed for him by a
friend, Douglas Barwick, licensee of the
Edinburgh Castle Hotel (now of the
Captain Cook). Asked whether he knew
that Barwick had been prosecuted for
blackmarketing liquor and failing to
keep proper books, he said 6 Yes. It was
about that time that he had become
friendly with him. . .
Referring to an investigation of
Corrigan’s accounts by an officer of the
Auditor-General’s Department, Dovey,
Q.C., asked the sergeant whether it was a
fact that in the 10 years to July, 1952, his
assets had increased by £3376 —£509 paid
off his house and £2867 banked. Corrigan
said he was not sure; he thought that
might include some family earnings.
Quoting figures of earnings and savings
for 1945-46, Mr. Dovey said:
That left £176, out of which to keep
house, yourself, your wife and two
daughters?—Yes.
That is something less than £3 ius. a
week?— About £3 10s. a week.
For food, clothing, medical expenses,
hospital expenses, rates and all the other
incidentals? —Yes.
Are you serious? —Yes.
Similar figures were quoted for other
years. Corrigan said his wife did her own
dressmaking and made her own hats ; he
did his own shoe-repairs. He denied a
suggestion that he got his meat, bread and
groceries at half-rates. He had never
received any gifts, except occasional small
sums from his mother. Asked whether
he would believe anyone else claiming to
have kept a family on such amounts, he
said “I would.”
Former metropolitan police-superin-
tendent J. F. Sweeney agreed that in the
last nine years of his police-service his
total net income was £7735 and his assets
increased by £6898. He said his betting
transactions during that period had
resulted in a profit of about £3OOO. The
reason he had not produced to the
Auditor-General’s Department a record
of his win on a Tesmic-Golden Tan
double in April, 1951, was that he
thought details were wanted only up to
the time of his retirement in August,
1950. He was still betting and still win-
ning. The double in question had won
him £6OO for £2. ~ ,
After Sweeney had told how he
financed a car-purchase after his retire-
ment —the explanation involved keeping
£9OO in cash for 18 months ‘ to be in a
position to pay for it,” although he was
all that time paying interest on an over-
draft—Dovey, Q.C., asked why it was
that since his retirement Police Depart-
ment cheques paid into his account were
drawn against almost immediately,
whereas in 1948-50 they remained in the
bank. Sweeney replied: “Well, I was
betting, and had assistance from my sons
in running the home.” Saying that he
would expect this to be explained more
fully, Maxwell, J., gave Sweeney permis-
sion to stand down on the plea of
sickness.
Sickness was also the reason advanced
for the non-appearance of metropolitan
police-superintendent W. C. S. Thompson
in court on Tuesday and Wednesday. Mr.
Justice Maxwell refused to accept the
certificate or evidence of Dr. T. R. Quinn
as proof that Thompson was unfit to
appear. On Wednesday, after Quinn had
answered several questions regarding
Thompson’s condition (complaint,
influenza and insomnia; temperature,
((Continued on next page.)


w «r
«
: >/^
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdaile's 2Jx
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
® Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
® Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2jx—Eye relief 3 jin.
to sjin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—-Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23|ft. per
100 yards.
ẃ
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and. business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONEY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,"
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
iMi
'iif'M l
:: ;
ill
ill
H
i I »•• fcUWi'J
m
s
[..M* .
Iff Ul! ‘M
M. ■■■M
m^rWM
99 degrees; pulse, 100), his Honor said he
was quite satisfied that the witness was
well enough to attend. Later it was
announced that Thompson had been
taken to Prince Henry Hospital by police-
car.
The following morning Thompson was
present in court. In evidence he admitted
he had not been “perfectly frank” on the
occasion of his last appearance, when he
had said he did not bet heavily. Qualify-
ing this, he said it depended what was
meant by heavily. He agreed that in the
10 years to May 29, 1952, his assets had
increased by £11,400; his salary and
allowances during that period totalled
£Bl4l, Approximately £5OOO of the
increase came from betting. The rest
represented savings—roughly £6OOO.
After cross-examination Thompson
admitted having previously concealed
from the court that he had £l5OO in cash
at his home on May 26. In the first five
months of this year he had won £2348,
spread over 15 or 16 meetings. Parti-
culars of these wans were contained in a
book produced in court. To the sugges-
tion that all the entries appeared to have
been made at the same time, Thompson
said they had been copied out of a
smaller “flimsy exercise-book.” He had
cut the pages out of the original book and
destroyed them, as they were of no more
use. He had kept another book for a
while in 1949, and there were other
records on “pieces of paper.” Most of
his bets were placed with Ken Ranger.
Mr. Dovey, after questioning Thomp-
son about individual bets, told Maxwell,
J., he proposed to call the bookmaker’s
clerk to give evidence about the betting-
sheets produced in court.
Earlier Douglas Barwick, licensee of
the Captain Cook Hotel, had told of
visits to the races with Thompson, the
most recent the previous Saturday. He
knew Corrigan and had placed a winning
bet for him —about £l3O. Thompson had
had a half-share in a winning double
with him on the Doncaster-Sydney Cup
in 1951. Other police-officers who
visited the Captain Cook were Wiley,
Crothers, Caiman and Brooks.
POLITICAL POINTS
Spare a copper?
General Press comment on the Fadden
Budget was that it contained something
for all. The trouble with most of its
critics is that they want something for
nothing.
Federal land tax is to disappear after
42 years, the Government having decided
that it has outlived or failed in its avowed
purpose of “breaking up large rural
estates,” the bulk of the tax having come
in recent years from city property incap-
able of subdivision. Canberra is therefore
“to vacate the field.” Now stand back,
you State Treasurers.
It has come out that N.S.W. Minister
for Transport Sheahan’s railways depart-
ment is going in for heavy road trucks
itself. And, according to one observer,
it takes the inevitable three men to do on
a railway road-truck what two do on a
private one. And what becomes of
Sheahan’s allegation that “these heavy
trucks are breaking up the roads and are
a frequent cause of accidents”?
From being merely incidental, income
tax in various forms now represents more
than half the revenue collections of the
Commonwealth —tax on individuals
£383,500,000, on companies £167,000,000,
payroll tax £40,000,000—£590,000,000
out of total revenue proper of
£887,890,000. Of the rest soaked out of
the public £254,000,000 comes from
indirect taxation, £62,000,000 from
Customs, £104,000,000 from excise and
£88,000,000 from sales tax. Customs
returns are budgeted for at £52,000,000
less than last year, but Fadden has
great confidence in the continued thirst
of Australians —he counts on an increase
in excise.
From the new schedule of sales-tax
exemptions: Candles and tapers (but not
including decorative or art candles). So
blackouts are here to stay!
Stark lunacy is creeping once again into
the Opposition camp in Queensland
politics. At the last State election the
Country party and the Liberals came to
an agreement to avoid three-cornered
contests —a policy even more vital to
them in Queensland than" in other States,
owing to first-past-the-post elections,
reintroduced by “Labor” for very obvious
reasons. That agreement still stands, and
under it the Nash seat, won in 1950 by
Dunstan (“Labor”) by a mere handful
of votes, is listed to run a Liberal candi-
date, with the joint endorsement of both
Opposition parties. The Libs accordingly
chose R. S. Powell, of Gympie, where-
upon the Nash C.P. electorate council
announced its intention of putting up a
man against him. Lib. headquarters are
up in arms, and C.P. chiefs say they can’t
prevent the locals from running a man
if they choose. That may be so in theory,
but in practice it means giving “Labor”
the seat on a plate.
“Farouk’s Bored,” declared a Mel-
bourne-paper headline. As far as Farouk
is concerned, aren’t we all?
From September, 1939, to August,
1945, Australia lost 33,000 dead and
180,000 wounded in six years of high-
powered, modern war —213,000 casualties
in all. From August, 1945, to August,
1952, seven years of high-powered
modern road transport, Australia lost
11,000 killed and 200,000 wounded in
road accidents —211,000 casualties in
seven years of peace. War casualties
cease when the war ends; peace-time
killings and maimings go on and on.
Under a bill introduced into the Vic-
torian Assembly to amend the Police
Offences Act ordinary citizens are given
power to arrest people who bash police-
men. Judging by past performances only
extraordinary citizens will exercise the
power.
The External Affairs Department can
no longer be called “the baby” of Com-
monwealth departments. It has become
a bloated, squandering old Father Christ-
mas throwing sinecures and sub-
sidies around like a drunk on pay-
day. It used to be run for a few thou-
sands a year before 1939. Now it
spends several million on its “miscel-
laneous services” alone, including nearly
£700,000 splashed up on U.N.O. and its
offshoots. What does Australia get out of
a grant of £4OOO a year to the Australian
United Nations Association? And what
is the return from £12,000 spent on main-
taining an “Ambassador” to Eire or
£84,000 expended on the Moscow
Embassy?
Another point which seems to be a
puzzle is Ambassadorial Salaries. The
Ambassador to Ireland gets £2500 and
has a staff of two and a representation
allowance of £5252 ; the Ambassador io
Japan, the largest and most important
nation in the Pacific, gets also £2500, with
a representation allowance of £2500, and
the Ambassadors to China, West Ger-
many, the Netherlandsi —and France
are all on the same basis.
Playford seems to have struck the
jackpot again.
Eddie Ward, put up by “Labor” as
calamity-howler-in-chief, keeps insisting
that there are more than 100,000 unem-
ployed. Mcßride, Acting Minister for
Labor and National Service —the port-
folio once administered by Ward —has
given an effective reply to this;
1. Commonwealth Employment Service
figures at July 25 showed 45,000 persons
“unplaced in employment,” of whom 13,480
were receiving unemployment benefit.
2. There was not an accumulating number,
but a constant turnover; in June and July
“placements” were at the rate of 25,000 a
month.
3. The number on relief represented less
than one-third of one per cent, of the work-
force; trade-union figures for unemployed
showed only 1.1 per cent, of their members
opt of workr—this would mean about 38,000.
Many of the employees recently “laid
off” from factories were elderly people
who had returned to industry during the
manpower shortage; these would not
normally be classed as unemployed.
Many others were married women who
had resumed housekeeping. On the other
side of the picture there had been a move-
ment into the basic industries and services.
Coalmining employment had increased by
1367, with a consequent increase in out-
put. The steel industry, public transport
and hospitals had also gained.
Mcßride spoke of the present as
“a time of readjustment in which a very
worth-while redistribution of the labor
force was taking place.” Both manage-
ment and workers were realising that a
change in outlook was necessary. As a
result “management is becoming increas-
ingly cost- and efficiency-conscious,” and
“the worker once again values a job, and
is recognising his responsibility to give a
good day’s work for his pay.” There is
surely more sanity in that sort of remark,
as well as more awareness of national
responsibility, than in the calamity-crying
of Ward.
Postage-stamps as propaganda. For
some years Argentina issued a stamp
depicting the South American continent
and showing the Falkland Islands as
Argentinian territory. Latest issue of the
stamp goes one better —a sector of
Antarctica has also been philatelically
annexed, as well as the South Shetlands,
South Orkneys and the rest of the Falk-
land Islands dependency. It is not clear
whether Perdn is claiming the South
Pole, too, but judging by the stamp he
doesn’t intend to go short of penguins.
Another losing year is reported by the
costly Socialistic Queensland-British Food
Corporation farce in Queensland, and the
chairman, after talking about a “drastic
change in the set-up,” produced four pro-
posed changes;
1. —Greater on-the-spot control.
2. —Control by a completely new govern-
ing body on which private pastoralists and
growers will he represented.
3. —Conduct of the project as an experi-
mental organisation rather than a com-
mercial proposition,
4. —Greater concentration on raising
cattle for Britain, instead of large-scale
cultivation of grain sorghum for pig fatten-
ing either here or in Britain.
The best thing that could happen would
be for the thing to be sold for whatever
price it would bring and the idea sent
into that Socialist limbo where lie the
African peanut- and egg-schemes.
Proceedings in the basic-wage case
would be greatly simplified if Chief
Justice Kelly could persuade Mr. Justice
Maxwell to lend him Sergeant Corrigan.
Revelation that N. S. Wales Rail-
ways are spending large sums in
buying heavy motor-trucks to get into
the road-transport business explains the
sudden decision of N.S.W. transport tsars
to tax private motor-trucks off the roads.
It also blows out the claim that penal
road taxation is designed to protect the
railways against “unfair competition.”
.Adherents of that discredited faith
Social Credit still bob up from time to
time to point out that a Social Credit
Government has ruled the Canadian pro-
vince Alberta since 1935. In a way they
are right; the same Government was
returned last week for another term.
What they do not emphasise is that it has
never done any social-crediting and is
never likely to, as currency and note-
issue are under Dominion control.
Alberta’s prosperity doesn’t spring from
the A+ B theorem, but from oil plus
natural gas.
Colin Clark, never a man to mince
matters, let himself go on the subject of
price-fixing officials in an article in
“S. M. Herald”:
. Looking back over the years when I was
in contact with Price Control both in the
later years of Commonwealth administra-
tion and the period of State administration,
I think I can truthfully say that I have never
met anywhere such an ignorant and self-
opinionated body of officials, lacking the
simplest understanding of the difficult
questions which they had to decide —the
rejects of the public service and of private
businesses alike.
And “Labor’s” only cure for inflation is
price-control!
P.M.G. Anthony says phone-rentals
will have to be increased again—among
generally-increased postal-rates. The first
thing the P.M.G. will bump, if he goes
on with it, will be orders from thousands
of householders to “Come and take your
ruddy phone away.”
“F.S.”; Melbourne City Council’s
latest contribution to the solution of the
city’s mad traffic problem was to let loose
a horde of highly-paid officials to paste
warning stickers on the windscreens of
thousands of cars parked contrary to the
regulations. The only result was to rouse
one car-owner to seek legal opinion as to
whether the council’s action wasn’t tanta-
mount to illegal trespass. The Bumbles
would be better occupied finding out what
positive measures the U.S., which has the
same problem, is taking in the way of
providing off-street parking and loading-
places and the use of parking-meters
which actually make a profit.
U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion is sponsoring a tour of Australia by
20 specialists who will study our forests—
if tney can find them—with particular
interest in eucalypts and their value in
reclamation work. It will astonish a lot
of Australians to learn that in India, along
the Mediterranean and in California
people actually plant gum-trees, and any-
one caught near them with an axe would
be almost shot on sight.
This unemployment: At Cairns (Q.)
last week 500 wharfies struck work
because they were refused their demand
of an extra man in the gangs to “reach
for the hook” sft. away from loading
coal-baskets.
In an article complaining about the
way taxation has increased—published
just before the 1952 Fadden Budget—a
writer gave as one example comparative
excise returns on booze and smokes:
1941. 1950.
£ £
Beer .. ... .. 11.2 m. 33.4 m.
Spirits .. .. 2.3 m. 6.9 m.
Tobacco .. .. 4.Bra. 10.2 m.
Cigarettes, cigars .. 2.9 m. 10.1 m.
Cigarette-papers .. .68m. Im.
Still, anyone who resents the impost can
chuck up booze and smoking and still
live.


("X'MPA/
B'ls a.m.
9-45 a.m.
3-50 a.m.
9-15 a-m-
- '{uesp*y
(j^PNESPAy
'^HUfSSP^y
- Tqpp'Y
/O
’FLU.


One of the twenty million
corks used each year for
Champion,
SPOPTtfTES
BiFORt GWM
FRANK IREPALE FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN ‘
BATSMAN WAS’CAUGHT S TIMES IN A FIRST
GRADE INNINGS AGAINST PETERSHAM MARCH
10? 1917 HE WAS CAUGHT BY WICKET KEEPER
QUINEY -NO BALL.HE WAS AGAIN CAUGHT BY
QUINEY - NO BALL.NEXT HE WAS CAUGHT AT
SLIP-NO BALL.NEXT BALL THE WICKET KEEPER
AGAIN HELD A CATCH-NO BALL.WHEN CAUGHT
AFIFTHTIME OFF SLOW BOWLER BASSETT,HE WAS GIVEN OUT.
m m
6 /
BROTHERS H.B.AND C.”
VAUGHAN PLAYING AT CRICHEL PARK
HALVED THE I7BYP FOURTH
HOLE IN ONE .SEVERAL INSTANCES HAVE
OCCURED OF HOLES BEING HALVED IN *
ONE, BUT THIS PERFORMANCE BY TWO
BROTHERS HAS NEVER BEEN EQUALLED.
!w ■ ■■
D/D Y 6(/ TMA r
f/MMmvroMeeo
IS THE CHOICE OF SMOKERS WHO
APPRECIATE A REALLY SATISFYING
SMOKE. AVAILABLE IN FINE CUT, REAPY
RUBBED OR FLAKE CUT FOR THE PIPE
IT IS im..,4emPIOMSMOK£ t
P 'vsO ; ; :3i
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for fhe Pipe .
THE BUDGET.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is this year budgeting for
a revenue of £960 million, com-
pared with an actual revenue of
£lOO2 million last year. At exist-
ing rates of taxation, according
to Treasurer Fadden’s esti-
mates, revenue would have been
£7 million more than in 1951-52.
His taxation concessions are
reckoned, therefore, to amount
to £49 million.
In the preceding year the
national income had risen by
30 p.c. In 1951-52 it rose by
only 4 p.c. Income-tax receipts
during 1952-53 will partly be
based on the previous year, partly
on this. But the Treasury ex-
pects taxable income, so far as it
affects the revenue of the Gov-
ernment, to be higher in 1952-53
than it was in the preceding
period. It aims to collect more
income-tax this financial year
(£550 million) than it did last
(£537 million), even allowing for
concessions. But Customs
revenue it expects to be down
£52 million at £62 million, and
sales-tax income £7.5 million
lower at £BB million. Excise
revenue (£lO4 million) is esti-
mated to rise £4 million, Post-
office and miscellaneous revenue
is calculated to move up £l3
million (to £96 million).
Among items of expenditure,
defence outgo tops the list—£2oo
million, up £40.5 million. Pay-
ments to or for the States are
put at £l7B million —up £l7 mil-
lion. Total spending from
revenue is reckoned at £959.5
million, compared with £903.8
million last year, when there was
a Budget surplus of £98.5 mil-
lion. Appropriation to the
National Welfare Fund is cal-
culated at £164 million (down
£7.5 million). Of the total Com-
monwealth expenditure of
£959.5 million, no less than £662
million is in respect of defence,
war and repatriation services.
State Governments and “social
security.” Among the rest, £lO6
million represents capital works
and services, and £B3 million
“business undertakings,” in-
cluding the post-office.
Among taxation changes, land-
tax is to be abolished entirely.
As the Treasurer said, the tax
was instituted in 1910 for the
avowed purpose of “breaking up
the big estates,” but it was now
being paid principally by city
landholders.
The 10 p.c. special levy im-
posed last year on individual tax-
payers will not be continued this
year. A reduction of 2s. will
be made in the 9s. tax on income
of public companies so far as
the first £5OOO of income is con-
cerned ; the rate will still be 9s.
on the excess over £5OOO. The
system of advance payments by
companies will be discontinued.
Private companies will still
pay ss. in the £ on the first
£5OOO of taxable income and 7s.
on the balance, but will be
allowed a tax-free retention of
undistributed profits ranging
from 50 p.c. of the first £lOOO
down to 25 p.c. of £5OOO and
upwards.
Taxation on undistributed
profits in excess of the retention
allowance will be 10s. in the £,
instead of the present complex
system at the rates applicable to
individual shareholders according
to a national distribution of
profits. No rebates of taxation
will be allowed, however, in the
case of retained profits subse-
quently distributed as dividend.
The maximum rate of sales
tax is reduced from 66f
per cent, to 50 p.c., and rates
charged on toilets and cosmetic
preparations, sporting goods
and radios is down. The
number of rates is reduced
from six to four —50 p.c., 33i,
20 and 121 per cent.
The Government intends to
finance £lO6 million of capital
works and services out of
“Come away from that glory-box, Sam—We gotta crack
th' safe.”
revenue. This represents an
appropriation of surplus revenue,
even though it looks as if
this appropriation, in total, will
be slightly less than last year,
and, of course, there will be little
or no admitted Budget surplus,
whereas there was a £98.5 mil-
lion surplus last year.
Discussing counter-inflationary
activities of the Government and
the clash of Federal and Stale
interests in the Loan Council the
Treasurer said that its own
budgetary measures of the previ-
ous year were broadly correct
and justified. The extra tax
revenue levied had been needed
to help the States out with their
works programmes, though the
State Governments in return did
little but complain that it was
not enough. Fadden continued:
We do not on this occasion ijatend
to finance State works out of Com-
monwealth revenues. We consider
it justifiable, in the light of the
change in economic conditions and
the emergence of some signs of un-
employment, that loan-raisings for
essential works of a truly develop-
mental and productive kind should
receive some special assistance from
bank credit.
To state the matter in another
way, we intend to reduce taxation
as far as the Commonwealth
budgetary position makes it possible,
but we are not going into deficit
to reduce taxes.
We will this year meet all Com-
monwealth expenditure, including
our own capital works and services,
out of revenue, after making sub-
stantial tax adjustments.
We have endeavored to reconcile
prudence and responsibility with en-
couragement to enterprise and a
checking of certain recessive ten-
dencies in business and employment
which, if left to themselves, might
cause much damage.
During 1951-52 Australia’s
international currency reserves
had fallen from £843 million to
£362 million —a drop of £4Bl
million. The adverse balance of
trade for the year was £530 mil-
lion, including freight and insur-
ance.
All in all, the Budget appears
to be a reasonable one. As the
Treasurer said, “business in a
number of phases has passed
into a phase of slackness and
uncertainty,” and, in the cir-
cumstances, the 10 p.c. surtax
placed on personal incomes last
year, as well as the 10 p.c.
advance tax-payment asked of
companies, was due for revision.
The same applies to some of the
sales-tax reductions: they are
in keeping with the times.
On the side of taxation con-
cessions, most criticism will be
based on an apparent bowing to
departmental convenience. There
has been a streamlining of the
method of collection, and, whilst
this may also make it easier for
the taxpayer to estimate his tax,
it does not follow that he will
be taxed as equitably as before.
A lot more attention deserves
to be given to the question of
allowing adequate tax-free de-
preciation provision to industry
in these inflationary times —
times, also, when consumer
demand has been so high as to
tend ’ to make capital assets
depreciate at a much more rapid
rate than hitherto. Industry
deserves far more consideration
than it has received over the past
few years. It has not, on the
whole, made nearly enough
profit, and may not have enough
financial strength to continue
reproducing itself. Australia is
industrially a backward country,
and while coddling will do in-
dustry no good, it should not be
required to act as a beast of
burden for everyone else.
Bradford Cotton has main-
tained its 10 p.c. ord, div. for the
year. Final div. of a shilling
a share will be paid on October
13, At 345., cum div., the
ords. yield 6 p.c. The co. is
among the solidest of our textile
cos. Its factories in both N. S.
Wales and Victoria are now be-
ginning to benefit from the
board’s decentralisation policy.
* * * *
A.C.I. rights at 13s, 4d. repre-
sent a paid-up price of 40s. lOd.
when the scrip is fully-paid on
December 31. The old scrip is
now at 435. Either type of
investment seems worth attention
for an immediate yield of about
4± p.c.
* * * *
The £4 12s. 6d. per cent, rate
offered by the Tasmanian Hydro-
electric Commission stole the
show among the public-body
borrowing recently afloat. It
was oversubscribed by nearly
50 p.c. Sydney and Melbourne
bodies offered 4j- p.c.
* * * *
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney), showed
a profit of £70,657 (up £6870)
during the year to May 31 last.
The div. on the increased capital
was dropped from 15 p.c. to
121 p.c. Results for the current
term will depend on financial
conditions in the building trade,
the board thinks. The co.’s £1
shares are at 48s. on ’Change,
yielding 5.2 p.c.
Frederic Ash, which balances
to June 30, is also in the builders’
hardware trade, and last year it
showed earning-rate and divi-
dend similar to Swans. For
1950-51 an interim of 5 p.c. and
a final of 10 p.c. made 15 p.c.
for the year. Interim for 1951-52
was again 5 p.c. Its scrip has
been cheap recently at 425.
* * * *
Masonite rights at 14s. have
great appeal


»»•
I IS
<3!
V
HOPS $,
SfA
i •- f -vflaßg
0
r
©
o
v 4 co w
sfv. AO^
it
smtt
Stout!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
88.163
(I
I am a Manufacturer
~fr
S
Success in my business requires a combination of
sound technical and financial management.
1 always consult my A.N.Z. Bank Manager
concerning financial matters and
have found his advice and experience invaluable.”
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia
Established 1835
The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN. AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
~r m p fChairmaif) ECTo^.’ w. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (^^ a s' )- ROBEKTSON . NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MAN!ON, Genera “ a = cr g
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Friendly
Service
Fly Canadian Pacific
style on your next
overseas trip. Relax in luxurious Loung-
aire” reclining chairs and enjoy unrivalled
service from two courteous stewardesses.
Delicious food served aloft... bar service,
champagne too! All complimentary of
course. Canadian Pacific is world-renowned
for friendly service, and rightly so. Fly
relaxed arrive refreshed.
SYDNEY • AUCKLAND • FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
ẅ
{Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours;
and Honolulu— 32 hours.)
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad
offer you full information.
airlines
t Whirl's Greatest Travel S>
“Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
lian Pacific Airlines Limited-Incorporated in Canada.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wage-rate ‘ ‘Standstill’ J
While wage-rates in Australia
have skyrocketed with quarterly
adjustments, in a frenzied part-
nership with soaring prices, now
slowed down. New Zealand has
had nearly 18 months of stabil-
ised wages, which the Arbitra-
tion Court, after a most search-
ing investigation, hasn’t seen fit
to disturb.
This immunity from wage-
inflation in the closing phases of
the long war and post-war
prosperity cycle has been a great
asset to MX trade and business,
and* along with continued buoy-
ancy in exports —thanks to the
productivity of rich farmlands
—has helped New Zealand to
keep its balance in the trying
time it has just come through.
The last rise of 15 p.c. in
general wage-rates was ordered
in February, 1951, a few weeks
before the waterfront and ship-
ping strike half-paralysed some
key branches of trade and in-
dustry. Since then the cost of
living has risen, but not, in the
court’s opinion, sufficiently to
warrant another general order.
With more freedom than Aus-
tralia allows, the N.Z. Arbitra-
tion Court is at liberty to take
into account a lot of other
factors besides the cost of living,
and on this occasion has done
so. It sees economic conditions
as “satisfactory, although some-
what uneasy,” and private in-
comes as higher than ever be-
fore, but doesn’t like the look
of things in Britain, which is the
sheet-anchor for MX, prosperity.
It’s a commonsense appraisal,
and the court’s decision is
obviously framed to back up
other efforts, particularly credit
and exchange controls, to put
value back into the pound, or
at least to halt the drift. In the
end it is real (not money) wages
that count most, and the court
has done its best to preserve the
substance in its “standstill” deci-
sion. There’s a certain amount
of dynamite in a decision like
this, but it’s not of the violently
explosive type.
Exchange Rackets
Profiteers in sterling and
dollars in Maoriland’s un-
official exchange market made a
welter of it in the four months
they had the field to themselves,
from the time the Reserve Bank
stepped in and resumed rationing
of funds, at the beginning of
April, until nearly the end of
July, and some fat gams must
have been netted, on the side.
Speculators, brokers, agents,
dealers and traders were all in
the swim, with business and
robbery well mixed up, and by-
passing the banks was one of the
most popular forms of sport tor
all except the most upright char-
acters. To preserve a pure and
spotless conscience and reputa-
tion while this racket was
flourishing was one of the
sternest tests for Maonlandcrs.
Grey-market and black-
market sterling at 235. or 245.
for a pound approached the
Australian rate, and dollars of
the same color at Bs. 6d. or Bs. 9d.
up to 10s, were well above the
Australian official rate. With
such tempting gains to be picked
up it was, perhaps, no wonder
that funds which normally would
gravitate into Maoriland s ex-
change-pool were kept in side-
channels and obscure places, and
it may have been equally natural
that mercenary-minded folk.
should be cashing in on N.Z. s
shrinking overseas investment
reserves.
Everything was strictly hush-
hush, off the record and fairly
well out of sight of official eyes,
though bankers weren’t blind to
it. The clearest evidence was
chronic weakness in N.Z.’s ex-
change funds during the months
of normal seasonal recovery.
But the banks couldn’t do
much about it because there was
nothing to prevent any keen and
enterprising trader from
verting funds into decontrolled
goods and recouping himself by
selling these at a handsome profit
when he brought them in. In
time credit-control should dram
off the surplus spending-power,
which is the root-cause of all
the trouble; but no one can
figure out how long will have to
be allowed to get inflation down
to the safe point. It’s obviously
dangerous to try to rush things
—as Australia’s experience in
the use of the credit weapon has
shown. Meanwhile there is risk,
because the reserve strength ot
Maoriland’s pound, although
considerable, is not unlimited.
At the moment it seems to be
a question whether N.Z. can get
through by relying mainly on
long-term measures to work out
a remedy; if it can’t the only
course may be a return to direct
import-control on a full scale to
close up the loopholes and block
the avenufcs for profiteering wit
unofficial funds. The danger
today seems to be one or halt-
measures, which leave too many
escape-routes.
The Holland Government is
in a bit of a dilemma because ot
its pledge to blaze a trail back
to freedom by methods the
Socialists eschewed, and to avoid
a return to import-licensing like
the plague, but in a sticky situa-
tion import-rationing as a
temporary expedient could oe
the lesser of two evils.
Of course, there’s a strong
body of barrackers for freedom,
but it isn’t as disinterested as it
tries to make out, for exchange-
speculators and traders who are
their ready dupes live and thrive
only so long as there are un-
licensed imports and goods free
from price-control to be turned
over to the public in M.L. stores
and retail shops. Their first
major reverse was a late-July
move by the Government to
tighten up on car purchases,
which had been the best outlet.
This clipped their wings, but it
didn’t kill the racket, which
seems likely to go on, on a
modified scale, to be stopped
finally when the cash runs out,
or sooner if the Government
takes a firmer hold of imports.
Capital Assets
If New Zealand doesn’t look
out it will find itself biting off
more than it can chew in new
capital projects to make up for
war and post-war leeway, meet
pressing demands of the present
and provide for the future.
Schemes for transport air, road
and rail-hydroelectric develop-
ment, drainage, new industries,
and urban rebuilding will run
into a fabulous sum, and Maon-
landers have hardly begun to
think of how or where they’re
going to get the money.
The £3O million Murupara
pulp-and-paper scheme alone,
which might be pruned to £2O
million for the establishment
stage, would be enough, on top
of routine work which has to go
on more or less all the time, to
tax Maoriland’s, strength; but
there are plenty of other projects,
large in themselves, though small
by comparison. Among these,
the £4i million Auckland harbor
bridge, which, with approaches
and ancillary works, might in-
volve a total outlay of £Bj mil-
lion or so, is the most ambitious.
One of the questions Maori-
landers are asking themselves is
whether they should look tor
finance abroad, and it s obvious
they’ll have to before they get
far, even if they don t now.
Profiting by Australia’s experi-
ence, they’d do well to concen-
trate their efforts and give highest
priority to revenue-producing
projects. Pulp and paper seems
to pass easily by this test,
although the industry is a highly
competitive one. The bridge is
doubtful. Auckland is not a
parallel case to Sydney in geo-
graphical features, and the
detour round the upper harbor
will be a fairly easy one for
Aucklanders when the new
marine highway is completed m
that direction.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: This inter-city rivalry!
“Everything is now set for the 1956
Olympics,” a Sydney scribe tells us,
“except for Melbourne’s uncertain
weather.” As the main meteorological
drawback from the point of view of
athletics is wet weather, the implication is
that the writer fears Melbourne may turn
on the rain and wash out the Games.
And am I far wrong in suspecting a
subtler implication that there would be
no such risk if tlje fixture were moved to
Sydney? Well, here are the rainfall
records of the two capitals, based on
readings going back over 90 years: Mel-
bourne, annual rainfall, 25.55 in.; Sydney,
annual rainfall, 46.98 in. When these
“Swing her over to starboard , Charlie."
|
figures are quoted the Sydneysider’s reply
| is usually, “Oh, yes, but Sydney’s rain
I comes in large quantities. In Melbourne
| it’s always drizzling.” The records refute
: this charge also. On the average rain
■ falls in Melbourne on 141 days each
I year ; in Sydney, on 151 days. I am writ-
I ing this in Sydney on the sixth day of
| August—the sixth successive August day
of rain and gloom. Real Melbourne
weather, everyone tells me.
“Cauboy”; Arrival of the first negro
singer of the feminine gender to sing in
Australia reminds me of a negro baritone
who was booked to sing, in a musical
comedy, a negro chantey with a deep
rolling refrain requiring a voice which
sounded as if it came from the bottom
of a beer-jug. A sudden cessation of the
preliminary puff pars suggested that some-
thing had gone wrong, md when a local
singer done up with u.. :nt-cork appeared
in the part on the opening night it was
rumored that the virtuoso had come up
against our immigration laws. It was not
so: he had left San Francisco a baritone
and for some unexplained reason had
arrived at Honolulu a tenor.
* * * a£
“Didit”: I fell for the neatly-dressed
dame, with bonny girl-child at heel, who
diffidently introduced herself as “Mrs.
So-and-so. You’ll remember that my
husband used to wool-class for you some
years ago.” Well, So-and-so did wool-
class for me once. With commendable
embarrassment she explained her errand:
out of cash, couldn’t cash a cheque in a
town where she was not known, recalled
that hubby had frequently and favorably
mentioned my name. I cashed her
cheque for a tenner, and, of course, it
bounced. After commenting on my
intelligence, my bank-manager asked if I
knew where she had been staying in
town. I told him the pub. A telephone
chat with Bung elicited the facts —cer-
tainly he knew Mrs. So-and-so ; she was
his ex-cook, turfed out without benefit
of notice and observed leaving town a
couple of days earlier, destination un-
known. I have since ascertained that
So-and-so is now in West Australia,
from which I deduce that he and his
missus have parted. I congratulate him.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Such is the attitude of
daily-paper art criticism in Sydney that
anyone who commits a clear and poetic
vision to canvas can expect, at best, indif-
ferent recognition, while anyone who
apes the post-impressionists can be
reasonably sure of verbose, if sometimes
obscure, analysis. Picasso is the ultimate ;
Gruner belongs to the “unfortunate
period” of Australian art. lam pleased
to report, therefore, a news-item from
Sydney’s “Daily Mirror,” which comes
by way of a Paris message to the
American magazine “Quick,” quoting
extracts from Libro Nero, by Giovanni
Papini, soon to be published in Italy.
According to the cable, “Picasso attri-
butes his success to playing painting
‘jokes’ which captivated the critics
because they could not understand
them The art critics had, he said,
‘praised all the changing oddities’ which
had passed through his heted.” The
artist himself is further quoted as say-
ing; “The less they understood them, the
more they admired me. By amusing
myself with all these jokes, all these
trifles, all these brain-puzzles, I became
celebrated.,. .When lam face to face
with myself, I have not the courage to
consider myself an artist in the great and
ancient sense of the word,” In fairness,
it should be noted that the story has
passed through a lot of hands; and there
is also the risk —which his devotees
ignore—of taking the artist too seriously,
even in this. But how delightful it is to
think that the old boy has spent a lifetime
cheerfully enticing a generation of artists
and critics out on to a limb of solemn
nonsense and is now, just as cheerfully,
lopping it olf.
* * « «
M. K. Bishop: Let me come in with
the real story of the bishop and the sea-
serpent (B. 28/5/’52). It all started when
my brother, W. D. Bishop, who was
employed on W. T. Mortlock’s Coffin
Bay sheep-station, about 30 miles from
Pt. Lincoln (SA.), saw some strange
creature washed up in the surf at the
extreme end of the property. Point Sir
Isaac. It was an inaccessible spot, and a
close examination of the—shall we say—
sea-serpent could not be made. Sub-
sequently my brother mentioned the
matter in a letter to another brother
“But I thought you Were taking me to the pictures.”
in Adelaide, who, in turn, told a
fellow-boarder —a newspaperman. The
story, doubtless with a few trim-
mings, got into the Adelaide Press
and was cabled to England. By
that time the report was so garbled
that instead of recording that a
bloke named Bishop had found a dead
sea-serpent on the beach near Coffin Bay
it read “Bishop found dead on beach,”
or something like that. The Rt. Rev.
Geo. Wyndham Kennion, who occupied
the see from 1882 to 1894, was Bishop
of Adelaide at the time —he had suc-
ceeded Bishop Short —and the stir
created in the Kennion family must have
been really something. Funny? Well,
Mrs. Kennion, in Adelaide, could hardly
have been amused when she had to
answer cables and letters of condolence
received from the Old Country. The sub-
ject was strictly taboo in our house for
many a year; my dad was furious, and
for the life of him could not imagine
why the confounded boys hadn’t enough
commonsense to keep their mouths shut.
The effect on the newspaperman’s con-
science is not recorded, but it is said the
sea-serpent couldn’t have cared less.
* * « *
“Giris”: On Manus the Navy and the
R.A.A.F. are co-operating closely—or so
one of our Defence heads says. He is
right—between the hours of 8 a.m. and
4 p.m. when the radio is operating. Out-
side those hours urgent incoming messages
for the R.A.A.F, are taken by the Navy
and delivered by jeep—the distance from
the naval depot to R.A.A.F. station being
12 miles. If the weather is bad or the
jeep is on other duties, an hour or more is
lost before the message is delivered. Why
can’t they be phoned? Well, the main
reason is that there is no telephone con-
nection between the two services.
* 4c * *
“Pongo”: My entry for the brightest
display of initiative by a public servant.
Phil Davis, senior mechanic at William-
street (Sydney) telephone-exchange, and
Alf Bloore, chief mechanician of tele-
phones, both since departed, were the
principals. Bloore entered a city-bound
tram at the Haymarket and saw Davis
seated opposite. “Hullo, Davis,” said
Bloore. “Why aren’t you at your ex-
change?” Davis ignored him, and began
an animated one-sided conversation with
the cove seated beside him. Bloore
tapped him on the knee and repeated his
query. Regarding his boss with a
puzzled gaze Davis replied: “You’re
quite mistaken, sir. My name’s Fer-
guson“Not Davis, eh?” fumed Bloore.
“Do you imagine I don’t know you when
I see you? Don’t be an idiot, sir. Why
are you away from your exchange?”
Still unruffled, Phil assured his chief that
he was mistaken, and added: “This chap
Davis must be the dead-spit of me. I’ve
been taken for him before.” As the tram
pulled up in King-street Davis was already
legging it to De Luca’s fruit-shop,
whence he rang William-street exchange.
“Davis here,” he cracked. “If anyone
rings for me, put ’em on here.” On
arrival at the G.P.O. Bloore immediately
rang William-street, asked for Davis and
was put through to De Luca’s shop.
“Where are you, Davis?” said Bloore.
“At William-street, sir,” replied Davis.
“Didn’t I see you in a George-street
tram a few minutes ago?” “Not me, sir,
I haven’t been out this morning.” Bloore
rang off and tried again a few minutes
later, with the same result, except that
this time Davis’s apparent mystification
convinced him that he must have been
mistaken. Davis graciously accepted his
apology.
“Pawang”: Yes, “Soc,” my authority
for saying that Shakspeare was lame (B.
30/7/’52) was that very stanza in the
Sonnets where he says that he was “made
lame by Fortune’s dearest spite” and later
calls himself “not lame, poor, nor
despis’d” because his love is engrafted
on the beauty, birth, wealth and wit of»
the Dark Lady, If he didn’t mean lame
when he said lame, what did he mean
when he said “despis’d”? He certainly
didn’t think he was intellectually lame.
He constantly tells his mistress that the
only reason why she will be remembered,
despite her birth and beauty, is because
he wrote about her; and that is a fact
that has been confirmed by history. No-
body knows who she was, but we do know
she existed and that she was common-
place enough to jilt one of the greatest
men of all time for a huntin’, fishin’ and
shootin’ young gentleman who probably
more nearly fulfilled her mother’s idea of
a proper lover than the lame, poor and
socially despicable poet. Shakspeare ex-
pressed his unhappy feelings in writing
poetry; his rival probably expressed his
happy ones by huntin’ and fishin’. There
is a perfect parallel here with Richard
Crookback and Clarence. The opening
lines of “Richard HI” are extraordinarily
like the sonnet. Richard, in fact, might
be said to be a self-portrait.
* * * *
“Wackford”: Our headmaster en-
courages parent-teacher co-operation.
It’s an excellent idea, but sometimes
proves a trial to the teacher. When a
doting mother wants to know why her
Johnnie is not progressing as he should
it is difficult to say that all he needs is
a few sound applications of the old-
fashioned rod, both at school and at
home. When one such parent asked me
today how her son was working, long
experience made me murmur tactfully,
“He could work a little harder.” It was
a relief as well as a shock to hear her
reply; “Well, Mr. Wackford, you give
him a good caning every time he loafs.
He’s only lazy, and is getting beyond
me.” If other parents are like this I’m
all for parent-teacher co-operation.
THE BARROW AND THE CHAIR.
A relay of truck-drivers whose jobs are threatened
by the N. S. Wales ban on private road-transport
walked a wheelbarrow to Melbourne faster than a
chair railed at the same time travelled there. N. S.
Wales Minister for Transport, Mr. Sheahan, con-
sidered it a ‘moronic stunt/”
“Though you’ve four legs of wood, and you’re
carrying no load,”
Said Barrow to Chair, “I assure you,
If I take the highroad, and you take the
railr iad,
I’ll be in Melbourne before you.”
So Barrow was bundled; and, packaged and
bundled,
Chair was by State personnel borne;
Chair taking the railroad, and Barrow the
highroad,
Barrow was first-in to Melbourne.
“I’m speedy,” said Barrow, “but not as an
arrow —
I’ve waited two days, ere, to greet you;
You travelled by railroa , I travelled by high-
road—
Now, how did I happen to beat you?”
* -Ah, Barrow,” said Chair, “I think you’re
unfair
To use me to sharpen your wit on;
It’s different by highroad, but on a State
railroad
They think chairs are only to sit on;
* A c hair on a station provides a temptation
To the average Government fundament;
Had I gone by highroad, and you gone by
railroad,
I might have been first, to your wonder-
ment.”
“But Barrow said “Ho! I should like you to
know
My time might have been even shorter
Had I gone by railroad, and you gone by
highroad—
Consider the Government porter:
“At the sight and the feel of*my handles and
wheel
He d have passed me like passing the buck;
Had I gone by railroad, and you gone by
highroad,
You’d still have been down on your luck.”
At this Mr. Sheahan said “Don’t be plebeian — l
I’m not concerned which of you won it;
But whether by highroad, or whether by rail-
road,
Pushing One’s Barrow will be from tomorrow
A State occupation, by nationalisation,
A matter for Ministerial ministration and
organisation,
But, otherwise, only a stunt.”
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“Hist”: He had a very mild attack of
the measles, and the doctor insisted on
isolation, which, not feeling particularly
ill, he found tedious. When the doctor
paid his second visit the patient pleaded
for release. “It’s this being confined that
I can’t stand,” he declared. The doctor,
hailing from Scotia, peered at him from
beneath shaggy brows. “Ye wouldna’
like it at all, laddie,” he said. “Not
at all!”
* * * *
“Billgee”: Stranded in Brisbane for
a few days in 1943 on the way back to
our R.A.A.F. station up north we found
ourselves out of cash, but with a 35mm.
camera, “borrowed” for domestic use on
leave. Something had to be done to
break the drought, and the sight of the
local brewery awakened inspiration.
After we had taken a few filmless shots
of the brewery-gate to arouse the watch-
man’s curiosity, we explained that we
were R.A.A.F. public-relations men seek-
ing photographs for distribution among
the troops. For good measure we
“snapped” him, whereupon he asked ixs
in to partake of a couple of bottles he
“I wish you'd pr1a1c1tise your basketball somewhere else."
had stowed away. Thus encouraged, we
got him to pass us on to other depart-
ments, and went the rounds, alternately
oointing our empty camera at groups of
brewerymen, selfconsciously performing
their accustomed tasks, and gratefully
accepting proffered tankards. Never
before had any brewery been so much
photographed in one morning and never
since have two R.A.A.F. public-relations
men been so well sozzled at so little cost.
“Meekatharra”: My own belief about
these unidentified objects which hurtle
about the sky from time to time is that
they’re flying saucers, and I’ll stick to that
theory until I’m proved wrong. But, if I
were investigating them, I’d be rather
wary of “inexplicable phenomena”
recorded by radar-stations. Having
watched a few screens I’d say there’s
nothing better than radar for picking up
mysterious objects. Flocks of birds, willy-
willies, dust, electrical and other storms
are fairly easily identifiable once you
know the characteristic “blips” they pro-
duce on the screen and consider their
direction and speed. But there are odder
things, such as the little flickering ghost
echo which suddenly pops up on the trace
and appears to travel at about 5000 miles
an hour ; or the dancing heat echo which
doesn’t appear to move about much in
any direction, but which comes and goes
often enough and in sufficient numbers
to make you think you’ve spotted some-
thing—we used to put them down to the
reflection of heat from large surfaces of
rock. Lastly, there’s the bugbear of tem-
perature inversion which “bends” the lobe
down so that, instead of sweeping the
surrounding air for aircraft, it lies along
the ground and picks up every range
and hill about the place, and, according
to one conscientious operator I knew in
the north-west, even kangaroos and
whales.
“J.A.8.”: If “Taswegian” (B. 23/7/’52)
had taken a proper look at that Cradle
Mountain plumbing he’d have found
something much more interesting and
ingenious than a wooden plug serving as
a tap. In that climate pipes freeze-up and
burst unless the water is running con-
tinuously, and Gustav Weindorfer, who
built the chalet, had no money to spare
but lots of time and a forest of King
Billy pine at his doorstep. So the plumb-
ing was entirely of wood. A V-gutter
brought water down from a forest stream
to a box close to the bathroom wall. At
one end of the box was a shutter, and
when this was raised by pulling a cord in
the ladies’ bathroom, water flowed into a
short trough leading to the bath. At the
other end of the box water overflowed
from a V-notch. When the wooden
handle (“Taswegian’s” plug) in the men’s
bathroom was pulled it drew a small chute
under the overflow, diverting the water
to the bath. 'Later, when less hardy
visitors followed the pioneers, chip-heaters
wepe put in, and short pipes with taps
were fitted to the water-box.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Few people realise that the
force which propels the modem 21-
inch naval torpedo is still, in this atom-
age, steam. A tight mass of delicate
machinery is packed into the steel cigar—
out of it comes a range of some 20 miles,
a speed of 36 knots and a punch packing
the blast of a cruiser’s broadside. In the
nose, the warhead holds 5001 b. of
explosive, which can be exploded only
by a direct flame. Small detonators of
fulminate of mercury are fitted into a
large primer, which is kept harmless by a
four-bladed pistol capping the detonators.
Motion through the water screws the
pistol right on to its detonators—a bump
against a steel hull does the rest. The
engine is driven in the initial stages by
compressed air, then by superheated
steam. After a number of revolutions of
the twin screws fuel and water are allowed
to pass into the combustion chamber,
where three igniters are already burning.
The fuel fires; the water, now flowing
through generator coils, is converted into
superheated steam, then passes on to do
its job in the engine-room—all in a length
of 6ft. Xhe screws whirl in opposite
directions, tending to keep the torpedo on-
course. If it deviates, a gyro in the
buoyancy-chamber automatically works
the vertical rudder and brings the speed-
ing load back on-course. Once depth is
set, it is maintained by a hydrostatic
"No blackbirds, your Majesty. It Was either goal or galah .”
valve, influenced by differing water
pressures at different depths. It is surely
a tribute to the genius of Whitehead and
the Austrian Luppis that the first Aus-
tralian-made 21-inch torpedo fired at
Pittwater (N.S.W.) the other day differs
little in principle from that first tin-fish
which, on trials, sank a hulk off Sheer-
ness close on a century ago.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The remark of Michael
Rabin, the 16-year-old violinist, that Aus-
tralian critics were “hilarious” seems to
have touched one Melbourne critic on
the raw. He said that the young man
displayed a lamentable ignorance of the
critic’s function, which was to stand
between the musician and the public and
contribute to the understanding of music
by measuring the individual work or
performance against the widest possible
background. What this “widest possible
background” is sets me wondering. I
started out. once as a practising critic
and heard my first symphony perform-
ance —conductor, Professor Heinze ; the
piece, Beethoven’s Seventh —and I found
it extraordinarily woolly. The violins
especially sounded fuzzy, and I didn’t
hesitate to say so in my notice. The
background in my case was the pianola.
I had played that piece times without
number on my pianola in Liszt’s tran-
scription, and it had never occurred to
me that a run of staccato notes on the
piano was the nearest Liszt could get to
the long swing of the fiddles. I fancy
the professor would have found that very
hilarious had he known of it.
* * * *
“Bo”: The now-common sight of a
fellow striding along the street, quite un-
aware that he has committed a social
solecism by wearing his trousers half-
mast, should be less in evidence when
the new braces for which I have taken
out world patent rights shortly come on
the market. This virulent sartorial dis-
ease, for which I had long sought a cure,
springs basically from the fact that most
men possess only one pair of braces —only
industrial tycoons, blackmarketeers and
wharflaborers can these days afford a
pair for each pair of trousers they possess
—and consequently are compelled to
transfer them from one pair to another,
usually in a hurry.. What happens? A
man may have adjusted his braces so
that the trouser-cuffs of a new suit sit
snugly, as they should, on the shoe-
uppers ; transferred thoughtlessly without
adjustment to an old but still-wearable
pair of rammies which long association
wMi the dry-cleaners has shrunken a
couple of inches, it leaves a similar dis-
tance of sock showing between shoe-top
and cuff. With my patent braces such a
hurried transfer with its resultant em-
barrassment will be impossible, as will
be the treading-on and wearing-out of
the cuffs when a reverse transfer from a
shrunken garment to one of pristine
length occurs. A small red light appear-
ing on the adjusted gadget will make
the wearer instantly aware of his
threatened social defection,
* * * *
“Kem”: Why not make use of Burton
and other “peace” delegates who are
stumping the country persuading miners
and others to weigh-in their good cash to
pay their air-freight to Peking? Perhaps
they might be persuaded to undertake a
slightly more difficult task—that of telling
the same story of the benefits of sovietisa-
tion to the 80,000 “deviationists” who
don’t want to be repatrir'id to North
Korea and Communist China. As this is
said to be the only obstacle to an
armistice in Korea, the delegates would
be doing a real service to the cause of
world peace.
* * * *
“Becks”; Except at Sunday-school
picnics I’ve never run in a relay-race in
my life, so I won’t attempt to judge be-
tween the relative merits of the American
and Continental methods of passing the
baton, but it does appear to me that in
these days of magic-eye cameras and
photo-finishes passing the baton is just a
little out-of-date. After all, it was not
introduced as a test of digital dexterity,
but merely as the best means of proving
that Runner B didn’t get off the mark
before Runner A reached it. The essential
thing in a relay-race is_ that the four
members of the team shall each run one
lap as fast as possible. Surely some
electronic 'Svice can be produced that
will ensure that nobody beats the gun?
“Kelvin”: The fumbling of the baton
by Marjorie Jackson, which cent her team
the Olympic relay-race, seems to have
been sensibly regarded by that lass as
the fortune of war, a philosophic attitude
which contrasts with that in which Louis
Fox lost the world’s billiards champion-
ship to fellow-Aaierican John Derry in
New York in 1865. Fox was about to
play a ludicrously easy shot to clinch the
championship when a fly alighted on the
ball. The insect was shooed off, but
returned half a dozen times. In exaspera-
tion the temperament:.! Fox stabbed at
the fly with his cue, grazed the ball and
thus miscued, with the result that it was
Derry’s turn to shoot. From a seemingly
hopeless leeway Derry went on to a be-
wildering succession of breaks and won
the match. Fox strode out of the crowded
room without speaking and could not be
found by searching pressmen. Five days
later his body was found in East River. *
• - * * *
“Front Counter”: He leant menacingly
across the Bulletin reception counter.
“Do you print this?” he demanded,
flourishing a journal devoted to fisticuffs.
His broken nose and cauliflower ears
suggested caution. “No, sir. What’s the
trouble?” “Lookit this, lookit this. Says
here this Filipino bloke beat me in
Manila. It’s a bloomin’ lie. The things
they get away with —cashing in on a
feller’s profession and all; and what do
I get out of it? Nothing.” The com- i
plaint continued for several rounds. I !
extended my deepest sympathy, hastily j
glanced at the - publisher’s name, then
read the offending article. The com- 1
plainant’s name was mentioned once, and 1
only in passing. “When was the fight?” ■
I asked. He thought a while. “Er— ,
about nineteen twenty-one.” Then off he
bounced, no doubt to seek further
succor for his wounded pride.
THE IDEOLOGICAL ROSE.
“The Vienna correspondent of London ‘Daily Tele-
graph’ reports that the Hungarian Communist news-
paper ‘Esti Budapest’ condemns the latest English
rose catalogue because of the ‘Fascist’ 1 names of some
of the roses.”
The gardener who abjures the “queenly flower”
And grows instead the things he can devour
Will And of them he never need be critical —
A pumpkin’s aspirations aren’t political.
He needn’t yet be fearful of disorders
If he prefers to grow herbaceous borders.
Nor is he ever likely to be spotting
His bulbs engaged in subterranean plotting.
His plums or persimmons—even the rashest —
Will seldom be accused of turning Fascist.
But danger lurks for him who presupposes
That he has planted democratic roses.
My catalogue looked innocent enough,
Outside the usual highly-colored guff
(Each rose, I was informed, was “richly
scented”;
A “brilliant, fadeless color” it presented.
Its foliage “disease-proof,” and its growth
Quite vigorous—on that they’d stake their oath).
So, confident I couldn’t go astray,
I ordered, among others, “K. of K.”
A hybrid tea it was, I was assured,
So sparse of thorns I never could get skewered.
Of upright growth (which argued some pro-
priety),
It was “a splendid decorative variety.”
A rose of martial nature I expected,
One that would always have its flanks protected.
A plant whose sternness might with awe have
filled you,
Able to beat off strong attacks of mildew;
By doubts of its survival never haunted,
To every onslaught standing pat, undaunted.
And so I granted it the pride of place
Within the garden bed it was to grace.
The choicest fertilisers round it strewn,
It grew apace. Alas! I realised soon
That, far from being a floral gladiator,
The thing was turning out a cheap dictator!
A Fascist rose, if ever there was one,
It quickly had all others in the gun.
Its brutal, strong-arm methods made them
fear it;
Only the climbers ever would go near it.
I’ll swear it gave the Fascist’s own salute.
But when in spring that rose began to shoot
I deemed it time, before it got the urge
To make me victim, that I’d start a purge.
I extirpated it, quite ruthlessly.
The nurseryman I chatted later. He,
It seems, had made a proper bloomer. Yea,
“Glory of Rome” I’d got, not “K. of K.”!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HOLDEN
OWNERS
REPORT
a
AND
BETTER
' f per^X“«/
fyntons
Bin
Sara
Ns
IV
30 ™'les per gXn° n has aVera ged
csseys /fy. ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
" ... on all types of taxi work
average slightly over 30 miles per
gallon.”
i. £, Aioore, Bundaberg, Q’land.
m P-g !. h *" e * ver ‘g‘d over 32
C ' *
"... will consistently average up to
35 miles to each gallon ...”
M. S. McLeod, Adelaide, S.A.
raved 37 4mS« per gallon . .
Charles frost. Doyletford. Vie.
5.000 ’nl'lle's P ”7' “™mptlon over
A £ ' Co«rot„'. Wa
Letters from Holden owners all over Australia
who have carefully checked performance figures
confirm Holden’s amazing economy.
It’s small car economy with big car comfort and en-
gineering features—6-cylinder power and performance,
big car seating for six, roomy luggage compartment,
ease of handling and stylish low-slung design.
Holden Australia’s Own Car is backed by GMH
Australia-wide service facilities and spare parts
availability.
5065
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
★ There are two Air Chief Radios
specially designed for Holden.
★ Convenient Hire Purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. General
Motors’ own finance company.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Dealers throughout Australia
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all States.
The Fire-Engine
By
DAVID
CAMPBELL
THE morning the fire-engine
came the two children were
in trouble for forgetting to
clean their teeth. Instead,
they stole out by the side
veranda ; and by the time the
wire-door told behind them they
were beyond effective hearing,
racing like young lambs across
the misty horse-paddock.
Miss Frost stood by the door
and called for the last time.
“I shall not call again,” she
cried.
But the children were lost in
the shifting mist, in the shrouded
bulk of the elms; and all she
saw in the fairy sunlight was
their green footprints crossing
the opal sheen of the clover.
Miss Frost held her throat a
moment and felt it burning. She
was upset; her whole day was
in tatters. With a flux of
pleasure, she rehearsed their
return for lunch.
At the front gate, the
children studied the wheeltracks.
“No, it’s not come yet,” said
Janet. “That’s the mailman.”
“How do you know,” said
Billy, “that the fire-engine hasn’t
the same sort of wheels?”
With his fingers he gathered
up seams of mud where tyres
had laid down a fresh mould in
clay,
“I just know,” said Janet.
“Fire-engines have big wheels.”
She climbed up on a gate-post,
arranged her skirts and waited.
Billy picked up some more clay
and began modelling a fireman's
helmet.
“I still think it might be it,”
he said, “I think we ought to go
down to the dam,and see.” For
the fire-engine was to pump out
the waterhole for cleaning,
“Don’t be silly,” Janet said;
so Billy climbed up on to the
other gate-post and waited, too.
The mist sagged with light along
the road; great red hands of
rivergums tore out patches of
blue ; a rainbow lay down across
the clover. At last (“Oh, look,
Jan! ”) the sun itself came bounc-
ing along the road through the
mist.
“There it is! There it is!”
cried Billy, and Janet forgot to
say “Told you,” and said instead
“Come over on to my post,
Billy.” For girls are so made
that they enjoy themselves more
when they are close to someone.
“See it shine!” cried Billy,
clambering up beside her. “I’ll
bet it’s as big as a house.”
A ND indeed at a distance the
fire-engine made a brave
show. The sunlight waved flags
in its brasswork and streamers
of mist peeled from the painted
navy, red and gold. For a
moment it held its splendor, the
thing itself, awaking images of
night-skies flushed with flame, of
screaming monsters glimpsed
through crowds, of ladders,
waterspouts and jumping nets.
The children sat in awe. Then
the mists cleared and the fire-
engine rattled up the road, as
comical as a very old train. It
had high, spoked wheels and a
low square bonnet, and three
men sat up straight-backed and
melancholy on the perched
driving-bridge.
“They’re not even wearing
helmets,” said Billy in dismay ;
but Janet was giggling so infec-
tiously that he forgot his disap-
pointment and joined her in
mockery.
“Just old porters’ caps,” he
said. “Look!”
“And so serious!” Janet’s
voice was shrill with laughter.
“As if — oh dear — it was
Christmas Day.”
The fire-engine shook to a
stop before the gate, and the
children on their post regained a
precarious gravity.
“Well, aren’t you going to
open the gate?” said the driver,
and he blew the siren.
The driver was Mr. Pringell, a
bland, red-veined, ponderous
man, and the siren was not a real
siren. It had a cylinder and a
plunger ; and when the plunger
was pushed in, it sprang back,
emitting a wailing cough for
each movement like the double
action of clearing the throat. It
was too much for the children.
They were shaken by agonies of
laughter and shyness. Janet
swivelled on the post and cried
into her dress, while Billy, slip-
ping down and averting his dis-
torted' face, opened the gate. He
leaned over the gate and the fire-
engine drove through past tl
quivering backs.
The fire-engine stopped,
Mr. Pringell, turning, said “V
what’s so funny?” Which sent
the children into renewed
smothers of laughter.
“I must be a comic, eh,
Albie?” Mr. Pringell said.
“Never knew I was so funny.
Real Little Tich! ” And he
cocked his cap on the side of his
head and pulled his face into
humorous grimaces. With gasps
of relief the children stopped
laughing.
“We weren’t laughing at you,”
Janet said. “We were laughing
at something completely dif-
ferent.” With great hauteur she
climbed down from the gate-
post. “Where do you want to
go to?” Immediately the
children started laughing again.
“Always up to some stupid
tricks,” said the young man in
the right-hand seat.
He was a broad-shouldered
Two Sets of Songs... David Camphell
SONGS FOR A HAWK.
I
When shall men rest?—
When the lyrebird loses his tail
And young hawks stay in the nest.
Pride is the lyrebird’s song
And the tail he got from the sun-
set
Is a thousand light-years long.
See where the hawk leaps up on
air!
The wind slides under his feet
And ground-larks keep to the
brier;
For on the yellow plains
A shadow runs through the grass
And sheep go by in narrow lanes.
Where morning flies with the
hawk.
Send up your heart
To take the sun’s fierce look
For all is sailing in the morning.
And do not talk of rest:
Day is a thousand light-years long.
II
Noon is ringed in shade;
Under the blue trees
Sheep and swagmen take their
ease;
But before heart can rest
It must build an eagle’s nest.
Let the noon delay;
Make your love strong
With a mix of lime and song;
Only in the heart’s recess
Can lamb and eagle come to peace.
Then let the moment go
For who would keep a hawk
Under restraint of hood or lock?
It is enough for my part
To find a feather in my heart.
WEDDING SONGS.
I
I do not sing this song
For the tired ears of men,
But to praise the lily
At the first hour of the moon;
To praise all setting out
The bird in the arms of the morn-
ing
When light is like a spring
Of his clear notes born;
The flower that knocks at the bud
For fear it withhold its pledge;
All tides that stand transfixed
Between innocence and know-
ledge.
And I praise the bride
As I fear for the bridegroom.
May his two thumbs be fingers,
His fingers flesh of a dream.
And after let them be
Human and happy. Then
They may learn a different love
And misunderstand their children.
II
Follow the cock and the red hen
Where the land turns sighing
from the plough;
Learn the contentment of the
loam. -
Sowing-time is working late
That a nodding harvest come.
Follow, follow, follow the barn-
cock home.
Let all life be in the round.
Swallow, melon, pout of dove,
Hereford and honeycomb
Nature’s mother-wit approve;
Good is only at the prime.
Follow, follow, follow the barn-
cock home.
Here learn a different love.
If the passing minutes please,
The clamorous hour shall bring
no harm
Other than a mother’s care;
Three o’clock shall find you warm.
Follow, follow, follow the barn-
cock home.
What’ is time but getting old
And adding grandsons to the
score?
They have had the best of time
Who spin the seasons round once
more
And find the aching worth the
dream;
Then follow, follow, follow the
barn-cock home.


** I think I’d like)
n White Horse
better than anything**"
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
imm
17 JEWELLED
SWISS
WATCHES
ChwM.w,
jiiUiow
ne\\w« ttS
and
%
from
THE WONDERFUL AG A
MODEL C.B.
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic, and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker burns coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides an ample hot water service for all kitchen
needs plus 3 hot baths a day! Comfort, ease, and
simplicity of use —all these are yours with the Aga
(Model C. 8.), in addition to guaranteed fuel
economy!
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
Y THE
AGA
V COOKER j
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
[Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the
ASA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ 113 Grenfell Strecrt, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons ltd., Hobart
| . SB
Regd.
Sup
reme
100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
hHhI
For quality—for economy—for safely you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on IJ pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer's Representatives: (“THE guardsman")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
vmmg man with dark finger-
waved hair and a fine nose, and
until he spoke Janet did not
recognise him for the dopey,
pimpled youth who had once
cleaned the station boots and
been dismissed for calling Miss
Frost by her Christian-name.
They had admired him for that,
and were sorry they had behaved
so badly to him. For they had
behaved badly, putting chaff in
his hat and frogs’-eggs in his
tea and pushing open the
lavatory door while he was
inside. Now he had returned on
a fire-engine; and Janet knew a
new shame. He was as little like
that dopey youth as the engine
P r (reams was like the trap
he His name was Bob.
yourself,” she said,
well, this isn’t getting
umped out,” said Mr.
:'l “All aboard and we’ll
si under way.”
Ar they clambered up on
uie oacK, Billy whispered “There,
I told you! It has the same
wheels as the mailman.”
AT the waterhole the firemen
became very busy ; that is,
they stripped off their coats,
rummaged in the cavernous,
hearse-like belly of the fire-
engine and brought out blue
overalls and an assortment of
rubber boots. As they buttoned
themselves into the overalls, the
three men faced one way, gazing
long-sightedly into the mists of
the valley, and Janet scanned the
hills behind. They stamped
about a moment, getting the feel
of the rubber boots. The day
was warming, and it was a
pleasant change to be out in the
country.
“All let?” Mr. Pringell said.
“Well, I think we’ll back her in
here, Albie.”
The dam was a small square
excavation with a grassed
holding-bank on the lower side.
Because it was small, the children
sometimes swam there in the hot
weather and picnicked on the
bank while they fished for
yabbies. During the long
summer it had almost dried up,
receding to a muddy pool in the
centre. This had been topped-
up by the first autumn rain
before Old Bill got around to
cleaning it with the scoop and
four bay draught-horses.
Now the fire-engine backed
perilously down to the edge of
the water. The wheels were
chocked, great canvas hoses were
unwound like entrails from the
belly of the engine, and Albie,
with the copper strainer of the
suction-hose cupped in his hands,
began to wade out into the dam.
The other two stood back in
their gumboots and overalls
giving advice.
“Carry the pipe well out,
Albie,” they shouted. “More to
the right, Albie. Look out,
Albie, or the water will be over
the top of your boots.”
Then, turning to Billy .without
lowering his voice, Mr. Pringell
said “Of course, it’s no use talk-
ing to Albie, he’s as deaf as a
post.”
Still stooped over the copper
strainer, Albie looked up from
the centre of the dam and a
smile spread over his round
creaseless face.
“How will that do?” he said in
a whisper.
“Right! ”
Mr. Pringell worried the gears
to Pump, and a head of water
coursed down the delivery-hosS
like a goat in a python, leaving
a dozen silver fountains in its
wake. Bob walked down the
hose, laying flat stones over the
leaks. When he came to the last
hole he placed the sole of his
boot on it and rolled himself a
cigarette.
“Going to be a nice day,” he
said.
HE stood there some time for
Janet’s benefit, like St.
George with his foot on the neck
of the dragon. Finally he laid
a stone over that leak, too, and
joined Mr. Pringell and the
children on the clovered bank.
The mists thinned around them,
and the sky turned the muddy
waterhole to blue. It was as if
they were at the centre of a
pearl. Nothing existed but the
bank and the dam and the fire-
engine throbbing like the heart
of the world. They stretched out
idly in the sun, and Janet, edging
over, leaned her back against
Bob’s knee.
After a time Billy got up and
threw a stone into the dam,
splashing Albie.
“Don’t do that,” said Mr.
Pringell. “Albie’s working.
Somebody’s got to keep the
strainer out of the mud.” Rais-
ing his voice he called “How’s
it going, Albie?”
The dam was almost empty.
Albie fossicked in the mud with
one hand, and threw a piece of
rag on the bank. Billy washed
it at the outlet-pipe and found it
was one of his cloth hats. He
put it on and danced a jig in
the sunlight.
“It’s mine,” he said. “I
wondered where it’d got to,”
“There’s something else,
Albie,” Mr. Pringell shouted,
pointing. “Over there, see?”
Albie followed the direction
of his finger, and, resting the
strainer on the toe of his boot,
reached over for a second piece
of cloth. Immediately Janet saw
it she sprang up crying “Throw
it to me, Albie. Albie! Do you
hear!”
But Albie did not hear.
Methodically he rinsed the cloth
in the shallow water at his feet,
and, holding it wide between his
hands, grinned seamlessly. He
held a pair of girl’s cotton
bloomers.
“Aha! ” said Mr. Pringell.
“Now who would they belong
to?” While Bob smirked his sly-
boots_’ smile.
“You’re mad ; you’re all mad,”
cried Janet suddenly. “I wish
you all were dead! ”
And, turning, she ran wildly
down the valley. Stumbling
through the mist she heard the
laughter of the men following
her.
BILLY stayed to help the fire-
men roll up their gear.
When he crept in for lunch he
was surprised to find Miss Frost
and Janet seated at either end of
the sofa, and all Janet’s old dolls
spread out on the seat between
them. Miss Frost did not seem
to be cross ; in fact, he had never
seen Janet and their governess
quite so friendly before. Good,
he thought; she must have for-
gotten. Pocketing his hands for
his best swagger, he said “Gee,
you should have seen ...”
“Go out,” said Janet. “We
don’t want boys in here.”
“You’ll find your lunch in the
pantry,” said Miss Frost, “And
I’ll speak to you later about your
teeth.”
“But the fire-engine,” Billy
said. “Gee, it was a dotty old
thing!”
“No such thing,” said Janet.
“It was a lovely' fire-engine.”
Billy walked out and ate his
lunch alone in the pantry.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.S.: It’s an ancient butt E. 8.:
No little English guttersnipes, lady;
we’ve got enough of our 0wn....
M.F.: Dog-and-sheep sketch not bad,
but it’s like a picture without a
central point of interest or design.
Bellerive: A deep dive:
The Frog.
When out for a frolic
In sun mist or fog
Acrobritic and funny
Is the quaint green frog.
A creature of capers
Bold merry and sleek
Twill sumersault into
A waterhole or creek.
D.B.E.: Afraid “Reorientation
of the Australian Economy” can’t
be achieved in “approximately 620
words” F.S.: It just happens that
we’ve got a couple of much better
hospital-stories... .M. 8.: Twas a
rough night, your “Night on Copper
Mountain”; and morning brought
little relief W.R.: The best story
is still the first you showed us; we
couldn’t touch the complete series, but
maybe some book-publisher would.
J.B.; If your cooking was any-
thing like your writing it was certainly
homely:—
Blow the Tucker-bill.
I once tried myself out cooking at a
wayback shearing-shed,
Before they’d sampled many feeds the
whole crowd wished me dead.
I burnt up tucker by the ton to demon-
strate my skill.
And when the mob would protest I’d say
“Blow the tucker-bill!
“Yes, blow the tucker-bill 1 ” I’d say.
“There’s lots of stuff to bum;
“A cook must scorch a ton or two before
he starts to learn.
“Blow your lousy tucker-bill, I don’t
give a damn,
“If you don’t like it you can go and
live on bread and jam.”
There was none could eat my minceballs,
my puddings or my stew,
I forced some on a mob of tramps—they
buried quite a few.
There was no time to wash or shave, I
looked just like a black;
At last the shearers tossed me out, and
now I’m on the track.
J.P.: Schmaltz, as the hep guys
used to say A.H.0.: Your
Michael in love with a gum-tree was
more of a weeping-Willie L.A.K.:
Amusing enough game of put-and-
take; but we’re not taking....
DJ.H.: “Red Pants” discarded
M.E.P.: “Will” story a good idea
forced into an old routine
C. 8.: Melodrama L.H.P.; Always
pleased to see an effort to write a
neat detective-story, but the gimmick
about the picture-show alibi was old
when Adam was a boy M.D.;
Afraid the story was a bit arid, too.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Murlonga”: At a cattle-station in
W.Q. the manager and his wife, sitting
on the veranda after dinner, noticed
Jerida, the house gin, drift by several
times. Mrs. Manager knew the signs:
she called Jerida aside and asked her
what she wanted. Jerida was mighty
secretive: she wanted, “Yabba belong-it
Marmee.” The boss responded to the
call. He stood beside Jerida, with the
Missus in the background to listen-in.
Jerida went all coy, giggled, scratched the
ground with her bare toes and said, “Tha’
one, Billy, the head-stockman, him bin
trunk.” The boss laughed at the idea:
“Nonsense, Jerida. I was talking to Billy
ten minutes ago. He’s quite sober.” But
the gin being adamant, the boss wanted
» details. “How do you know he’s drunk,
Jerida?” She looked down, giggled
“Well, it's a one-horse town, ain't it?”
again, scratched the dust with her other
big-toe, and burst out: “I know him bin
trunk, right ’nough. Him must’ve bin
trunk—him bin try to kiss me!”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Just hit town when a cove
came out or the pub and looked up the
road inquiringly. ‘Teen anything of the
service bus?” he asked. I shook my
head, explaining I’d come in by the other
track. He looked undecided. “Ride on
to the ridge there,” I advised, “and you
can see the bus road doubling on the
next range for about five miles.” “Good
idea,” He strode towards the hitching-
rail. “Have to borrow a nag. Wonder
who owns this ’un.” He swung on, and
jabbed his heels into the animal’s ribs.
The horse reared and fought, then settled
to a few rounds of pigrooting, ' That
bringing no result, it tried quick side-
jumps in every direction, threatened to
roll, then began pitching, circling madly,
and changing direction. Came a pause
in the performance and the cove slid off.
“Whew!” He straightened his belt, ran
an eye over the nag, walked round its off-
side, then looked all about on the
ground. “Lose something?” I asked.
“Dunno. S’pose y’ didn’t notice,” he
drawled, “if that moke had a brand on
it afore I got on?”
* * * *
“Long Bob”: The high price of the
usual rifle ammo was a problem I solved
by buying a .22-calibre Webley Scctt air-
rifle, slugs for which, at Bd. per 100, made
bunnv-destruction a payable proposition.
I once cleaned up 100 rabbits marooned
by floodwaters with only a few shots
wasted. Two foxes have also fallen to
this weapon—not bad with only the
atmosphere and a powerful spring as the
propellants.
♦ * * ♦
“Edx”: Even Westralian prospecting
has no better real story of El Dorado
found and lost than that of old George,
out in strange country when his mate Bill
died. It being January there was only one
thing for George to do —give his mate
temporary burial before getting into town
as quickly as possible. He rolled Bill up
in his blankets, put him in their barrow,
and with pick and shovel slowly wheeled
him away into the bush. Sadly he marked
out a grave and began to dig. He had
dug down about a foot when he saw
gold. Suppressing a strong impulse to
go on digging, he seized the barrow,
trundled it off a couple of chains, and
quickly marked out another grave.
Again, at about a foot down, good gold
showed, and, wildly elated, he hurried
off with the barrow once more, to dig
a third grave; but this time he struck
gold sooner than before, looking even
better. George was now sick with excite-
ment, At this fabulous rate he was a
rich man. Torn between a burning desire
to get at the gold and his duty to his
mate, he grabbed the barrow and jog-
trotted a good 200 yards further on
before starting afresh. It was no good.
Only 15in. down he broke into a heavily
metal-studded vein, and was forced to
abandon yet another sepulchre. He
couldn’t bury a man in a potential gold-
mine, not even his mate, so he had no
option but to press on. By dark he had
struck it rich in his fourteenth grave, and,
baffled, uneasy and exhausted, he left
Bill in the barrow and staggered back to
his tent. At daybreak George resumed
his frantic funereal delving with fresh
hope, which dwindled, however, as his
remarkable run of luck continued. Under
the blazing sun his desperate situation
grew hourly more acute, and when, later
in the day, another party of prospectors
came across him running, wild-eyed,
through the bush pushing a corpse in a
wheelbarrow and mumbling “Gold every-
v.heie. Too much flamin’ gold,” they
naturally thought he was crazy. Two of
them immediately took him into town,
while others, going on, discovered the
chain of trenches. It was some consider-
able time before George managed to con-
vince the warden that he was not a mad
murderer, and when at last he got back
to his camp the rush was over, the
country claimed, pegged and half worked-
out for miles around, and poor old
George didn’t get a penny out of his dis-
covery. It is a peculiarity of the geo-
logical structure of W.A. that its gold-
bearing formations almost invariably lie
n.n.-w. and s.s.-e., and while it was
the purest chance that this happened to
be the direction in which George had
started off to bury his mate, he had un-
consciously maintained a straight line
along what proved to be a rich but narrow
reef just below the surface.
« # * *
“Taswegian”: Tasmanian aborigines
certainly were big fish-eaters (B. 23/7 / ’52);
mutton-fish, oysters and mussels were on
their menu as often as mutton-bird,
penguin, wallaby, lizard and wood-grubs.
“Well, heigh-ho, and TH-A-ANKS for listening!”
They were particularly partial to cray-
fish. They had no cray-pots; their
method was to dive, carrying in one hand
a basket plaited from native grass; the
cray would be seized with the free hand,
put in the basket, brought quickly to the
surface and thrown to those waiting on
shore. Grabbing a cray when he’s in his
element and you’re out of yours isn’t ail
attractive game. But neither the Cray’s
pincers nor the freezing water caused the
tough he-man abo. the slightest discom-
fort —he always sent his womenfolk to
do the fishing.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy the Guv, had
mustered Moonlight and brought the
sheep as far as Minduk, seven miles from
home. It had taken longer than expected,
for it was a dry winter and the sheep
poor. At Minduk Jimmy ran out of
tucker and tobacco. There was a bit of
feed about the tank and Jimmy decided
the sheep might as well have it before
the last stage, so he left them and with
his two dogs rode through the mallee into
the station, intending to pick up tucker
and tobacco and return next day. Mean-
time the boss, worried because James
was two days late, took Little Curl and
headed for Minduk, following the track
in case Jimmy and the sheep were on it.
Jimmy had struck a straight line for home
through the scrub. They missed each
other, of course, and when the boss got
to Minduk and found the sheep minus
Jimmy and the dogs he concluded that
(a) Jimmy was bushed or (6) had hit out
for Euston and the booze. So he in-
structed Little Curl to watch the sheep
and hunt for Jimmy and himself headed
for Euston. Jimmy, arriving at the
station, learned of the mission to Minduk
and decided, naturally, that the boss and
L.C. would bring the sheep in, so he
waited at the station. The boss, drawing
a blank in Euston, became convinced
Jimmy was lost, mustered a search-party
and rode with it back to Minduk. It
wasn’t till that night, when Jimmy and
Pocketknife rode out to Minduk to see
what had become of the boss and Little
Curl, that the thing got sorted out, and a
veil had best be dropped over what was
said by all concerned.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I know why
those station noddies 25 years ago in N.Q.
(B. 23,'7/ ’52) were wild—-among other
things the stallions were unbroken. They
ran at large each in 30-square-mile pad-
docks with about 20 mares. It used to
amuse me the way an equine gentleman
treated new members of his harem, always
the best-proved station mares. For the
first few weeks he would have nothing to
do with them except to “rip the bark” off
them and hunt them away every time they
approached the mob, which he always
trotted behind, not in front of as some
poets would have us believe. My greatest
fright on a horse was riding a gelding
through a paddock with brood mares
and an equine dictator in it. 1 had been
warned, but what’s the use of warning a
young fellow? I wasn’t going to ride
12 miles when I could take a short-cut.
Well, on seeing the brood mares my
moke whinnied. Over came the stallion,
opened-mouthed and straight for us. To
make matters worse my mount became
terrified, the more so as the stallion
ripped and kicked at him. Finally, fortu-
nately for me, the gelding bolted and 1
got through the gate, my mount and I
both exhausted, with 15 miles between
us and the homestead.
* * s|s *
“Mark O’Polo”: There is no need for
“Salmon Gums” to go blowing up petrol-
bowsers or for “Gravelsnatcher” to risk
getting his hair tangled up in a rotary
printing-press in order to demonstrate
the reality of static electricity (B.
16/7/’52). Travellers on some of Mel-
bourne Tramways Board’s buses have
endured the
phenomenon for
years, in the form
of heavy shocks,
usually awarded
to the first to get
on or off after a
run of several
blocks —and this
raises a point. On
grasping the
metal standard of a Tramways bus while
his feet are on the ground and so dis-
charging the full effect generated by a
fast run of half a mile or so on a dry
day, the agonised victim is invariably
flung to the pavement away from the
bus; he is thrown back. This proves that
the direction of the discharge is from
bus to earth, otherwise, as soon as he
touched the bus, he would be hurled into
it; and that never happens. There is no
surcharge for this treatment, and it may
be the board’s method of getting
passengers used to more fare-increases,
which have much the same effect, or it
may be that they haven’t heard about
trailing chains.
♦ ♦ * *
From “Wingella” (Darwin, N.T.):
It is expected that over 500 persons, many
of them N.T. residents, will be applying tor
new pastoral leases in the N.T. The total are
involved is about 16,000 square miles. 1
Land Board may have to sit for many weelcs
fo deal with applications.
Dr. Watsford, of the N.T. Department of
Health, has taken delivery of a new three-
engined Drover ambulance-plane tor T se f
the outback. The plane is fitted
seats, two stretchers, a radio which operates
on either human voice or morse. A
medical-service planes flew nfh
last year, and about 15,000 miles last mo
To lend point to Territory demands for a
new wharf, about 60ft. of the present wharf
collapsed into the sea the other day. N
was on it at the time.
L. Sharkey, general-secretary of the .Com-
munist party, passed through Darwm with his
wife, en route to Moscow. Only two P
met him on his arrival here, other than Sec y
officers.
As a result of the drought, wild peese, ducks
and other native birds are destr ®Z* f f round
market - gardens, especially those
Knuckey’s Lagoon and Maranga £4(X)
farmer’s estimate of his loss runs to' on
Geese may be counted in their tn
the lagoons, and as fast as a few get
others come in.
BRADY.
A bitter wind blew out of the north and the
skies were dull and grey
When, spreading swiftly, the news went forth
that Brady had passed away.
And in many a hut and miner’s shack and in
many a shearing-shed
The men who toil in the great outback mourned
for an old mate dead.
For Brady was ever a restless soul, a rover by
lam. and sea,
He saw life clearly and saw it whole, and a
minstrel born was he.
He loved the bush and the open plains, the
light of the western stars,
The clink-clink-clink of the hobble-chains and
the wind in the green belars.
He sang of the woods and the wilderness, he
sang of the Spanish Main,
Of the gallant sailors of good Queen Bess, who
harried the ships of Spain,
Of the clipper-ships of the Indian trade run-
ning the Easters down
With every inch of canvas spread, hell-bent for
London town.
Back in the long-departed years a spirit of vague
unrest
Stirred in the hearts of the pioneers from east
to the farthest west.
The first faint flicker of nationhood, a vision
of things to be,
A mighty nation —one faith, one blood —united
from sea to sea.
Then Lawson, Brady, and Quinn betimes, united
to wield the pen
To tell the tale in their stirring rhymes of the
hopes and the fears of men.
Quinn and Lawson have long since passed with
the task of their lives fulfilled;
Now Brady follows with faith held fast in the
nation he helped to build.
He has launched his barque on a timeless sea,
to follow a guiding star,
He has heard from the bourne of eternity the
call of his mates afar:
When he comes to the end of his last long
quest may the beacons brightly burn
And his roving spirit at last find rest in the
port of No Return.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Mat’s Mate”: A pup who might have
been an Airedale if his mother had been
more selective attached himself to us on
the back road from Condobolin to Tulla-
more (N.S.W.). He seemed to be mainly
feet, mouth and stomach. All efforts to
teach him to hunt, stand guard, retrieve
or mind his own business failed. When
he wasn’t ambling along with us or sleep-
ing he was eating. He’d eat anything ; on
one hungry stretch Mat said we’d better
keep our eyes open or he’d start on us.
We tried to lose him, sell him and give
him away. It was no good. “Well,” I
said, “we better give him a name.” Mat
pondered. “We’ll call him Government,”
he said. “Government?” “Yair, Govern-
ment. He ain’t worth a damn, he takes
everythin’ an’ does nothin’, an’ we can’t
get rid of him.”
« * * *
“Sebak”: It’s not really surprising that
names of towns which derived from
aboriginal words have, in many cases,
become distorted beyond recognition with
the original (B. 16/7/’52). One of our
national failings seems to be the tendency
to make simple words complex. The
early settlers, for instance, noticed that a
small member of the parrot family thrived
at Rose Hill (near Parramatta, N.S.W.);
thus the bird became known as a “Rose-
Hiller.” Enter the bloke who has to make
things complicated ; he alters the spelling
to “rosella” —and his version is accepted
and passed down to posterity! Not even
kids’ toys are immune from this lingual
busybody. When I was a boy I played
with a Meccano-set —the. “an” as in
mechanical. Last Christmas I went into
a shop to buy one for a nephew. Smugly
the assistant corrected me: “Mec-arn-o?
Yes, sir.” I’ve since discovered that I
seem to be the last person in Australia
who doesn’t put the “r” in the word. No
doubt the modern child is mecharnical-
minded. But I’m dying fighting over the
Nullarbor Plains. When I went to school
the name was merely a statement of fact
in Latin —“null arbor”: “no trees.”
“ Hey—lipstick on the glass!”
Today it is rare to find a diehard who
doesn’t want to give the vast plain a black-
fellow twist and make it “nullabor.”
* * * *
“O, K. Lee”: The history of Australian
exploration is against “Kelms” (B.
16/7/’52) and others who contend that
Binghis, as a race, aren’t good bushmen.
Almost to a man the explorers had abo.
guides with them on their expeditions.
Since these natives were recruited in the
settled districts it follows that they were
employed to lead their bosses into terra
incognita, a task for which they would
not have been engaged but for con-
fidence in their bushmanship. The war-
time airfield at Jacky-Jacky on Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.) perpetuates the
memory of the N.S.W. abo. who guided
Kennedy on the expedition which would
never have been possible if the black
hadn’t been able to find his way about
beyond the boundaries of his own stamp-
ing-ground. The policy of enlisting in
the famous Queensland Native Police
abos from districts other than those they
would be required to police is another
proof of the bushmanship of the native,
since the force was officered for the most
part by chaps who could just about get
lost within 100 yards of their camps.
With the guidance of their abo. “other
ranks,” the native police officers and
n.c.o.s were, however, successful m
running down Binghi fugitiv in the
latter’s own terrain.
* « * *
“Chuck”: “It’s the high price of skins
that is responsible for the continued
supply of rabbits,” our district rabbit-
inspector had said to me. “Cockles
make so much out of them they take
care always to leave enough bunnies m
the paddock to breed more fat cheques.
A good sideline from their point of
view” —this was when skins were two-
or three-bob each. “Now if skins were
worthless,” he contended, “you’d find that
rabbits would soon disappear. Farmers,
realising they are nothing but a menace,
would exterminate them.” “But,” I’d
argued, “everyone is out after every rabbit
he can lay hands on, because of its value.
Not only farmers, but workers, trappers,
weekenders, and Mum and the kids. The
farmers, being busy and short-handed
“Aw, don’t give me that,” he’d
scoffed. “They tell you anything. But
when you’ve seen as many rabbits as I
have, and heard as many excuses for
them, you’ll know that nothing but low
skin-prices will get rid of the pests.
That was a few years back, and for some
time now (until the latest rise) pelts didn’t
pay for the trouble of skinning, pegging-
out, etc. Therefore, with the exception
of the myxomatosis areas, rabbits have
never been so plentiful. Unfortunately,
rabbit-inspectors move on, but often I
wish I knew where that bloke is now.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Charlie called me over to
the fence. “Ever heard of a pony having
sugar-diabetes?” he asked. I assured him
that I had not, “Well, I reckon that there
taffy’s got it,” he declared. I asked the
obvious question. He replied with
another: “When people have diabetes
they drink gallons o’ water, don’t they?”
I thought they did. “Well,” he went on.
“That pony drinks twenty-two gallons of
water a day,” I couldn’t believe it.
Charlie was positive. “I put the hose
into that drum and fill her every morn-
ing,” he said. “And every night she’s
down to the last half-inch.” “The drum
must leak,” I contended. “Not on your
life!” was the prompt reply. “The
ground’s always bone-dry around it.” The
kids were tried in their absence and
reluctantly exonerated. Even the amount
of fluid consumed by birds, dogs and cats
was discussed. But the only verdict
possible seemed to be that the pony had
the thirst of Erin. On the Sunday morn-
ing Charlie hailed me as I passed. “I
filled her this morning and I’m goin’ to
find out, if I have to stay here all day,”
he declared. We had just finished
straightening out the world’s politics when
Charlie started, “Can you hear that suck-
ing sound?” he asked. I could. We raced
to the drum—and solved the mystery.
He had neglected to pull the hose out of
the water; somebody using the tap, a
couple of hundred feet away, had
unscrewed the coupling and let the end
drop. Gravity and the siphon principle
had done the rest.
* * * *
“Macquarie”; X confess to being a
“bit of a bower-bird.” A nut lying on
the road, an interesting-looking scrap or
metal, a buckle, a screw —anything at
all that looks as if it “might come
in handy” impels me to dive on it as
another jewel to add to the junk in my
shed. But I do draw the line; so the
object which bumped off the four-wheeled
horse-wagon raised no acquisitiveness in
me. The lady in the little weatherboard
cottage beside the rural road, however,
seemed to have a different viewpoint. No
sooner was the wagon out of sight than
“Are you quite SURE it conforms with council requirements?"
she shot out of her little white gate,
snatched up the lost property and whizzed
it off inside. That must have been nearly
seven years ago, I’d forgotten the incident
until the other day, when I happened to
pass through the little hamlet again. On
the veranda of that little cottage stands
an aspidistra which would hold Grade’s
famous specimen to a close decision. It
is surrounded by ferns and plants grow-
ing in every type of tin, can, kitchen and
bedroom utensil conceivable. But in its
huge container it holds pride of place. I
suppose beauty is in the eye of the be-
holder, but if I’d been the lady I would
have at least painted something over the
tarred exterior —if only in case the
rightful owner claimed his property to
return it to its humble, but essential,
sphere.
* * * *
“Sack”: Ken’s whole trouble is hero-
worship ; and the hero of all his yarns is
—Ken. When he has the first say the
feats he performed “when I was a young
feller” are amazing; but when he has
second go he is absolutely invincible.
The new bloke was a bit of a skite him-
self. With becoming modesty he told us
he used to be able to run the hundred
in 10 seconds. Ken promptly beat him
by two-fifths. The new cove blinked, then
went on to say his long-suit was really
endurance running: he’d come second in
the State marathon once. Ken had never
done that, but confessed to a boyhood
pastime of running down emus “for a bit
o’ fun.” Newy admitted that was pretty
good—it reminded him of the time he
rode a bike from Emu Plains to Mount
Victoria with a 13-stone mate on the
handlebars. Bike-riding? Well, if there
was one thing Ken used to be really
good at when he was young it was push-
ing a grid. He related how he had
pedalled heavier men up higher moun-
tains. When Newy sprinted on his cycle
Ken beat his times, when he rode
unbelievable distances in a day Ken rode
farther and stopped to mend five
punctures. When the new fellow claimed
to have patched a tube with a postage-
stamp, Ken vowed he had done the job
with wattle-gum and tea-tree bark.
Finally Newy woke up. “Listen, mate,”
he growled, “you took up the wrong
game. You oughter ’ve been a boxer —
you’re the best counter-puncher I’ve
struck.”
« * * •
“H.G.L.”: The abos use telepathy to
convey complex messages to each other
without a word being spoken, with a
minimum of signals. For instance, the
elders of the tribe—who, by the way, are
never elected to that office; they just
become members —never sit and argue or
reach a decision by voting on any par-
ticular subject; they agree with one mind.
But —and this is the point—there must
be a “master” mind to lead them. Much
has-been published of the smoke-signals
of the blacks. Yet how can they send
messages when they' haven’t a written
language? The smoke-signal is used only
to attract attention. Then, as one old
boy expressed it to me; “Mine been think
’bout nothin’.” In simpler words, he made
his mental process a receiving instrument.
When his acknowledging smoke was sent
up the other fellow commenced trans-
mitting. And it was his thoughts which
he sent. The fellow at this end never
read the message ; he expressed it simply:
“Mine been find ’urn.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Rounding the post-office
corner, I reined in behind Herb s mob
of woollies, and watched while Herb
coaxed, patted and in turn ordered his
dog to heel. "What’s the matter with
him?” “Aw, he got a bad fright on that
corner a while back when he wasn’t much
more ’n a pup,” explained Herb, and
he wants to clear out an’ run whenever
he sees it now. Getting better, tnougn,
and he’ll come good, long as I watch
him. Here, Skip,” he called. Come on,
can’t y’ see there’s nothing here t be
frightened about? Right up, that s it.
Good dog.” He patted the mong as it
gazed round uneasily, then, when its tail
wagged with more confidence, he sent
it busily round the sheep. “He’ll be
right,” Herb nodded. “Had a lot o
trouble like that with a nag one time,
too. But I kept at him and fixed him
the same way.” It was some days later
I came on Herb camped by the bridge.
He tossed a paper-covered book down as
I rode up. “Well, it’s good to be some
people, just lolling in the sun and read-
ing,” I remarked. Herb jerked his thumb
towards the tome. “Aw, that,” he replied.
“Ain’t a bad book in a way, though it’s a
bit farfetched. About a cove who gets
one o’ these here psychologist jokers to
cure him of a fear complex he’s had since
he was a young bloke — and all by just
workin’ on his mind!”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The shooting-party of four
of us happened on the little bark kipsie
by the creek. Its owner, sitting on an up-
turned kero.-tin near the doorway, jumped
up, obviously delighted to have somebody
to talk to, which indicated that he wasn’t
a hatter, anyway. The old chap’s lively
conversation passed from inquiries about
the shooting, touched on the fox that
yapped from the hill every night, ran
over the merits
of our various
weapons, and
lingered lov-
ingly on the
fine firearms
he had pos-
sessed over the
years. All
quite interest-
ing and sane.
Then sud-
denly he
seemed to remember his duties as a host.
“I’ll make yez a drink o’ tea,” he said,
and disappeared inside the hut. He came
out carrying a big black billy full of
water, an enamelled mug and the smallest
billycan I’ve ever seen —a condensed-
milk-tin fitted with a handle. With the
smouldering fire built up again, he filled
the little billy and placed it over the
flames. We looked at one another. So
he was a hatter after all! In a surpris-
ingly short time the can was boiling. The
old bloke put a pinch of tea in the
pannikin, poured the water on top, re-
filled the small vessel and swung it over
the fire again. “Who’s first?” he asked.
Then, perhaps reading our thoughts, went
on: “See the idea? This way the first
feller gets his drink in no time. And
he’s done with the mug by the time the
next bloke’s ready. Yez’U all have had
a drink within ten minutes; but if I
hada put the big billy on it would’ve took
longer than that to boil, and then one
of yez would have had the mug, one
the little billy and the other two would’ve
had to wait till they’d finished,” And I
had questioned his sanity 1
TRAINING CAMP, BATHURST.
bones of Brens on the hunched shoulders
of Panorama, we felt the whip
of April, winter’s quisling.
Islanded in discontent
we saw the goose-grey waves of mist
drown morning in the plain, ramt
as a prayer one spire floated up. The thiust
of the bladed wind remained.
Beneath the moon’s cold smile,
ground-sheeted like lumps of animate clay,
security’s scarecrows, we patrolled the hills
bricks for a house unbuilt, we said,
till a bugle blew revelation:
above our homeward climb
Last Post, a silver flare,
bloomed on the unremembered height
with dedicated paths day-clear;
content, we faced the night.
N.S.W.
R.D. MURPHY.


iweujS
kvtU
ijmb...
w
mm
EH
QZS
m
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESta
Special hospit
•Hi Sly™.
IT0«| (
TOLLEY'S
"‘Cut
ŵ
Ho »H»A4
BRAMdy
TST.2l.iaj
ft.*.*, DISTRIBUTORS! TOOTH ft CO. LIMITED
\A
ii
'tro/ii
the pen with the
hand-made nib
a
\
Swan Pens look attractive, but the
important thing about them is the
hand-made nib.
Nearly 100 years of experience is
embodied in Swan nibs, and that is
why Swan Pens can give you a life-
time of smooth, easy writing. There
is a nib to suit every style of writing.
Choose a Swan Pen and have a
friend for life.
MODEL 44
PRICE 71/6
MABIE; TODD
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY
PENS
100 years
of good writing
TRADE-
I ARK
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE DEAN OF DUPES.
Ranging from solemn to
jocular, comment on the Dean of
Dupes and his germs continues
to enliven the British Press,
Majority verdict appears to be
that he has managed to make
such a hopeless ass of himself
that he has some real value as a
joke.
Also, that he has so discredited
himself that he discredits what
he seeks to serve, and the Corns
must be pleading “Save us from
our friends, especially in gaiters.”
Here are a few of the less-
solemn comments:
“Sunday Times” writer: “He
has made himself ridiculous.
How much better that he should
remain so than that persecution
should convert him from a figure
of fun to a figure of martyr-
dom!”
“Yorkshire Post” (unintention
ally devastating ) ; “Little as he
may recognise it, the Dean of
Canterbury has become a mes-
senger of Satan, that father of
lies,”
“Daily Telegraph”: “The
[Communist] ‘Daily Worker,’
of which he is a director, stated
that he had remarked: ‘I was
traihed as a scientist and know
what it means.’ His scientific
training was in geology and
mechanical engineering.”
“Daily Express” : “It is sad
to see an old man make such a
fool of himself.”
“Daily Mail”: “The ‘Red
Dean’ may be a fool, a stooge,
or a dupe, as some of the more
charitable critics have said ”
“Manchester Guardian”:
“Nor is the Dean certifiable,
although no doubt the psychia-
trists are itching to experiment
with him.”
The same: “He gave an im-
perishable picture of how
Chinese peasants go out in the
fields and collect ‘germs’ with
chopsticks, dropping them into
bottles. In the next breath the
‘germs’ became ‘insects,’ which
is a little better but still as funny.
Perhaps the Dean may introduce
the new sport to the children of
Canterbury. But one likes best
his story of the negro who,
apparently to prove either his
invulnerability or the innocence
(or wickedness) of the [U.S.].
State Department, bit the head
off an insect —and got a tempera-
ture of 104 degrees. That is
really a bit of the Middle Ages.
Still, when one comes to think
of it, the Dean is a rather
medieval figure—in his credulity,
in his capacity to believe non-
sense, in his ecclesiastical pomp.
But he is hardly an admirable
one.”
“New Statesman”: “If the
Dean of Canterbury had a sense
London “Daily Express.”
"Just thought up by the Propaganda Ministry—the Gas and Gaiters Bomb. Suggest we
drop them over New York, Paris, Rome, Tokyo. Delhi, Bonn ...”
of humor, his picture of thou-
sands of Chinese children saving
themselves and their country
from typhoid by searching the
fields for infected insects, and
popping them into bottles with
chopsticks, would go down to
history as the prime example of
ecclesiastical wit. Sidney Smith
never thought of anything half
so ridiculous.”
“Economist”: “He provides,
for the education of the public,
the essential and invaluable
reductio ad absurdum of the
whole class of fellow-travellers ;
thanks to him, no publicist of
his kidney will be able for a
long time to come to fulminate
against American germ-warfare
without automatically evoking a
disrespectful obbligato accom-
paniment on invisible chop-
sticks.”
Stevenson, Candidate.
By all report, even Eisenhower
has the job ahead of him to beat
Democratic choice Adlai Steven-
son, who seems to be as highly
regarded as Ike himself. A few
sample comments;
London “Spectator” : “He has
exhibited, as Governor of the
important and populous State of
Illinois, integrity, firmness,
sound judgment and a courage
in stamping-out corruption that
have won nation-wide admira-
tion. General Eisenhower has no
doubt many qualities so far
unrevealed. On qualities
revealed in action, and apart
from any question of party or
personality, Mr. Stevenson must
be adjudged the most fitting
Presidential candidate in the
field.”
New York correspondent,
“Manchester Guardian”: “A
bright, urbane, 52-year-old intel-
lectual and lawyer, whose poli-
tical experience had been limited
almost exclusively to legal chores
for the New Deal, an economic
war mission to Italy, and then
an intense spell with the United
States delegation to the United
Nations, he was chosen by the
Illinois Democratic bosses in
1947 as their candidate for
Governor. The bosses picked
him as an innocent ‘fall guy’
who would give tone to the party
in the misery of its certain defeat.
Stevenson’s campaign revealed
a dazzling political figure to the
cities and farms of Illinois. He
was elected Governor by the
huge majority of 570,000.”
Walter Lippmann, New York
“Herald Tribune” : “He should
be on almost every count a most
formidable opponent.”
Dragnet Digest.
One Thing Clear. —London
correspondent, “New York
Times”: “If there is one thing
clear about the Communist party
it is that its leaders are born to
be purged.”
Soviet Major Industry.
London “Daily Telegraph” find-
ing: “The exposures of treason
in Sweden and the earlier report
of the Canadian royal commis-
sion are sufficient evidence that
espionage is a major industry in
Soviet Embassies.”
Britain and Korea. —London
“Spectator” testimony: “In
Britain the most persistent
tendency of opinion on the
Korean war is the tendency to
forget.”
Shanglow. —Far East com-
mentator O. M. Green, in
“World Review”: “Of all the
multitudinous shipping which
once made Shanghai the sixth-
greatest port in the world, .there
is one Butterfield and Swire ship
from and to Hong Kong once a
fortnight and one Chinese ship.”
A TV Term. —Might perhaps
be as well to get used to it;
London “News Chronicle”
records that the “candid camera”
of the air, the television version
of the “walky-talky” radio-
transmitter, is called “creepy-
peepy.”
Two Rights Make an Ike. —
Noting the Corns’ current howls
of detraction of Ike, “New York
Times” retorts: “General Eisen-
hower not only has the right
friends; he has the right
enemies.”
Fantastic Korea. The
Korean scrap has been called
here “the amazing war”; a
London “Economist” report adds
this bit more to amazement:
“By announcing the targets
before the bombing in some
cases, the United Nations have
eased the tactical situation for
the Chinese fighter squadrons.”
S’Africa Summarised. —“New
York Times” correspondent’s
finding on the spot: “Race rela-
tions in South Africa are worse
than they have ever been in the
Union’s forty-two years.”
A irmen Shortage. London
“Daily Express” quotes Ameri-
can military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin on “a decline in the
urge to fly” among young men
in the U.S.: “While until re-
cent years the Air Force and
Naval Air Arm had more
volunteers than they needed,
now men who want to fly are
getting scarcer all the time.”
Reluctant “Volunteers.”
“New York Times,” on the
Korean p.-0.-w.: “The refusal
of so many prisoners to return
not only exposes the hollowness
of Communist claims that they
were ‘volunteers’ but also puts
the Communist chieftains on
notice that many more of the
slaves they have armed are
equally anxious to escape. This
cannot but raise formidable
doubts in Communist minds as
to the reliability of their forces
in a conflict with the West.”
Looted Abadan. Persian-
confiscated Abadan has had an
anniversary, of sorts. Accord-
ing to London “Daily Tele-
graph,” the 70,000 workmen have
now been paid for a whole year
to do nothing. Meanwhile, the
vast plant “is gradually pilfered
or rots and rusts in disuse.”
Very Secret Germs. —London
“Economist” notes one important
point generally passed over in
the germ-war blah; that, if germ-
warfare had been waged on a
large scale, as the Communists
say it has, it could not have been
done without the knowledge and
consent of the non-American
contingents in Korea and their
Governments.
After Joe. Holding that
Stalin has come to occupy a
position which “nobody can
inherit,” Edinburgh “Scotsman”
correspondent Edward Crank-
shaw gives as his own guess that
when Joe dies, or before, there
will be a public reversion to
committee rule. “The mantle of
Stalin will be divided. Thus,
Molotov may very well become
Prime Minister once more;
Malenkov, general-secretary of
the party, and so on.”
U.S. Protectionism. “New
York Times” sums up: “Actu-
ally, what increasing numbers
of [U.S.] producers seem to be
asking for nowadays is protec-
tion not from unfair foreign
competition but from any foreign
competition.”
Not-so Free World. —Milan
“Corriere della Sera” takes a
poor view of U.S. economic
policy; “If America buys and
imports freely it compels others
to follow its example. If it
refuses to do so the world
becomes a prison in which men
fool themselves that they are
free. It is a tragedy that after
the second World War the
United States preferred to give
rather than to buy.”
Now Buyers Dictate. —The
“sellers’ market” definitely gone,
Britain’s ability to trade its goods
abroad depends now, in London
“Daily Telegraph’s” view, on
their quality and their price;
and “in a world that has become
less appreciative of quality price
is ever more important.”
Life's Little Ironies. —“U.S.
News and World Report” notes
as specially ironical that Britain’s
dollar problem would be well on
the way to solution if full and
free trade with the Soviet bloc
were permitted.


BUI 4
SS
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Divorce Notices.
TO ALFRED HENRY DILLOWAY Re-
spondent late of 51 Hangleton Road Hove
Sussex England 13 Lindon Street Dutton
Park Brisbane and 23 Council Street Bondi
Junction Sydney A petition for Divorce
has been filed against you Upon an
application by letter to MESSRS. RISING
& RAVENSCROFT, of 95 Cannon Street,
London, E. 0.4, England, a copy of the
Petition will be sent. If within three
months hereafter no application has been
made nor appearance entered the Court
may hear the Petition and pronounce
judgment.—H. A. de C. PEREIRA,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO EILEEN EUGEAN JONES (formerly
BURGIN) late of Repatriation Hospital
Concord.—TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR
WILLIAM OWEN JONES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce against you No. 2334
of 1951 on the grounds of desertion with-
out reasonable cause by reason of your
failure to comply with a Decree of Resti-
tution of Conjugal Rights made in suit
No. 2123 of 1949 on the 20th February
1950 If you wish to defend this suit
you must enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 10th September
1952 and you may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from F. W.
EWART, Solicitor, 21 George Street,
Parramatta. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND ROBERT WHITEMAN
late of Petersham. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET WHITEMAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2384 of 1952 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish j;o defend you might enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
13th day of October 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
ALLAN E. CUPIT & BEST, Solicitors, of
Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD B. KNOX, Chairman. DOUGLAS E. LYSAGHT. Deputy Chairman.
ROBERT J. VICARS, ERNEST W. STREET, GREGORY B. KATER, ALEXANDER H. DICKINS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1952.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 19th August, 1952, at noon precisely.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised
£12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—379,l2l shares of £25 each ■
Less; Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share
£9,478,025 0
4,739,012 10
0
0
Paid up • • xv u
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the Bank) .. 4,650,000 0 0
Pinal Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account '
£9,389,012 10 0
189,560 10 0
198,382 3 10
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions for
contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
£9,776,955 3 10
173,217,093 10 9
13,513 10 0
1„189,945 2 5
£184,197,507 7 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Money at Short Call in London
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia . .
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and
due from other Banks
Treasury Bills —Australian Governments
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at or below
market value (including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities) —
Australian Government Securities
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
£15,129,102 9
156,250 0
34,600,000 0
6,002,211 11
10,000,000 0
25,463,897 8
11,407„764 10
9
0
0
9
0
9
6
-£102,759,226
0 9
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting provisions for debts
considered bad or doubtful) • •
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amounts written off
All other Assets
76,272,342 12 8
1,227,522 18 4
3,938,415 15 3
£184,197,507 7 0
D. R. LYSAGHT 7
R. J. VICARS j
Directors.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBER 0 F BANKING COMPANY OF
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at toe Head Office
and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and
Head Office We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and m
fur op?nlo C n the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up » as
the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations
El rot l Slsll l Sd C .S“r£»rd. which the Chip.., i. rented to
keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
Sydney, 17th July, 1952,
MACQUARIE COWPER ]
H. W. MACKISACK j
Auditors.
» PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1951, at the rate
of 8 per cent, per annum, paid on 22nd January, 1952 £189„5bl) 10 o
. Transfer to Eeserve Fund
Reduction of Bank Premises Account
fLiunce nronosed to be dealt with as follows .~—
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1952, at the
50.000
25.000
riuenu lUI WW ’ ' 180 66(1 10 0
rate of 8 per cent, per annum £ iqs q«9 ,in
Amount carried forward 198,36.. 3 10
387,942 13 10
£652,503 3 10
Rv Amount brought forward from 3Cth June, 1951 ••••• £208,660 1
By Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1952, after payment of all expenses
” of management (including Directors’ Fees, £8.750) and provision for
taxes and for rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed
deposits, and for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies 443,843 2
£652,503 3 10
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE. General Manager.
D. E. LYSAGHTI
B. J. VICARS i
Directors.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Wistaria Trees."
This, by Joshua Logan, put on.
by the Coronet Group at the
Kadimah, Melbourne, is a
unique piece of literary piracy
or whatever you like to call it.
The author doesn’t mind what
you call it —he expressly states
that he found in the theme of
Chekhov’s “The Cherry Orchard ”
a perfect echo of the passing
of the decadent aristocracy of
the American slave States.
The first act is an almost
exact transliteration of the first
act of “The Cherry Orchard.”
Instead of Madame Ranevsky,
the decaying noblewoman of
Russia with her nostalgic love
of her cherry orchard, we have
Lucy Andree Ransdell, the
decaying aristocrat of Carolina,
with her nostalgic love of her
wistaria arcade ; and instead of
Leonid Gayef, Madame’s de-
caying brother, we have Gavin
Leon Andree, on his last legs,
psychologically speaking.
Instead of Lopakhin, the ex-
serf who has become a wealthy
merchant, we have Yancy Loper,
the poor white boy grown rich
who saves the ineffectual Lucy
from the gutter by buying the
family mansion ; and instead of
the liberated serfs with a
nostalgic love for their serfdom,
we have the emancipated negroes
with their nostalgic love of the
days before emancipation and
their old masters.
Chekhov was a wizard ait
creating this atmosphere of
nostalgia, and, thanks to him,
there is the same wizardry in
Mr. Logan’s first act. In the
second act he loses touch with
his exalted model. There are
more of his brush-strokes than
of Chekhov’s, and he can’t make
his negroes live as Chekhov
made his peasants, and the
Coronet people couldn’t, either.
The third act gets further from
its model, but the atmosphere
is restored at the final curtain,
when Yancy rushes out and
orders his workmen to start
chopping down the wistarias and
the thud of the axes on the
creepers sounds sad and lonely,
just as they do on the cherry
orchard.
The best performances were
given by Moira Hunter, Lorraine
Davey and Charles Matthews.
It is a commentary of theatre-
going Melbourne that there were
not more than 30 people present
at a play as good as this one.
"Richard II."
Sydney’s Metropolitan Theatre
breaks about even with its
current production of “Richard
II.” On the one hand there is
the pageantry of royalty and
dukes and earls cramped in the
confines of a small stage; on
the other there is John Apple-
ton’s production and Jos. Hollo-
way’s blaring sets making the
best of those difficulties.
On one hand, again, you have
Leon Peers’s Richard lacking
enough of the royal blood to give
full value to the tragedy; on
the other you have a clear and
lasting impression of his lisping
petulance, his moments of
scheming intelligence and his
aesthetic dreaming. And so with
John Pooley’s Bolingbroke: too
much tortured idealism and not
enough of the common touch,
and yet a clear, forthright figure
of full and rounded speech.
The balance runs on through
the other characters. Brian
Barnes’s Gaunt has too much of
doddering senility and not
enough dignity, yet he gives a
kind of gasping, angry strength
to his dying speeches. Brooke
Denning’s York is better—firmer
and stronger —but he, too, could
well add more dignity and
strength to his portrayal.
Bill Bain’s troubled and
well-spoken Aumerle; Ray
Irons’s bluff Northumberland,
Bea Wenban’s stricken Duchess
of Gloucester, Paul Herlinger’s
Surrey and, later, his wild little
Welsh captain, all make their
points of character. Lou
Davies, Brian Barnes and John
Fleming make rather overmuch
of the clowning business in the
garden scene —although the audi-
ence loved ’em for it. Moira
Redmond gives quite a fetching
beauty to the Queen, and, at the
deposing of her husband, looked
as though she felt the grief and
admiration she was supposed to
feel.
On the other hand, surely
Bushy, Bagot and Green are
not just the empty fops which
Lou Davies, Reg Harper and
John Fleming made of them —
it must, after all, require a
certain amount of hard and
ruthless intelligence to win and
hold the touchy and unpredict-
able royal favor.
Goossens and Maynor.
At the special orchestral con-
cert under Eugene Goossens
last week the Sydney Town Hall
was about half-full —and doubt-
less many of the audience must
have wished they had been in
the same state and thus been
less acutely aware of some of
the cacophonies served up to
them.
Sydney audiences have asked
for the punishment they’ve
been getting this orchestral
season from Mr. Goossens —
and they’re getting plenty—by
their strange habit of vigorously
clapping even horrifying noises,
apparently because they think
they should.
If they withheld their acclama-
tion from works which assaulted
their eardrums and their intelli-
gence they mightn’t have had to
put up with such a thing as the
two Choric Dances by the con-
temporary American Paul
Creston. The programme stated
“there is no programmatic idea
or external inspiration attached
to the Dances.” The two adjec-
tives are redundant.
The Symphony No. 1 by Robert
Hughes, written for the Com-
monwealth Jubilee Competition,
is a fairish work containing
about four minutes of really
worth-while stuff—in the scherzo.
Other items were Weber’s over-
ture “Preciosa,” a delightful
morsel; Tschaikowsky’s highly-
colored fantasia “Francesca da
Rimini,” which has a beautiful
section for clarinet and provides
a real picnic at the close for
the cymbalist; and Ravel’s
“Bolero,” the maddening repeti-
tiveness of its theme becoming
towards the final crescendo
almost intolerable, though the
brilliance of the scoring is un-
deniable.
There was compensation in
some exquisite singing by
Dorothy Maynor, her “Depuis le
Jour” from “Louise” being a
sheer flood of rhapsody.
“You Can’t Take It With
You,” Kaufman and Hart’s
hilarious three-acter, turned up
at Frank Thring’s Arrow
Theatre, Melbourne, and it was
no mean feat of producer Robin
Lovejoy to convey the atmos-
phere of tangled emotions in the
rowdy household of Martin
Vanderhof, of New York, with
jolly old Grandpa, who has given
up his business for 30 years be-
cause he can’t see any sense in
it and has determined just to
have a good time. Myrtle Wood,
Elizabeth Price, Wynne Austin,
Brian Moll, Leslie Matthews,
Ray Fellows and John Cousins
all played their parts remark-
ably well, and Kevin Colebrook
as Grandpa was perfect. The
palm for a spectacular perform-
ance, however, went to Joseph
Hyman as the cracked dancing-
master.
« * ♦ *
It would be possible to present
Christopher Fry’s “Venus
Observed” as a scintillating
exhibition of verbal fireworks in
the manner of the earlier Fry,
but in his production for Bris-
bane’s Twelfth Night Theatre
Peter Munro rightly kept the
brilliance within the limits
demanded by the characters and
philosophies presented. Munro’s
own performance as the Duke,
while savoring the wit and
euphuism of the poetry,
emphasised man’s increasing
struggle against the relentlessness
of time which alters the quality
of all human desires and loves.
As well as that understand-
ing of the central figure,
one remembers equally the
delivery of the poetry by
most of the cast, in particular
Jacklyn Kelleher as Perpetua and
the characterisations by Gladys
Parkinson and Alan Denby.
* * * *
“D.”: Shortly after Picasso’s
reported admission of having had
the critics on with “jokes, trifles
and brain-puzzles,” another in-
teresting art item was announced
from Italy. The Roman
Catholic Church’s Holy Office
in Rome has denounced modern-
istic trends in church archi-
tecture, painting and sculpture,
and has instructed R.C. bishops
throughout the world to remove
from sacred buildings all statues
and pictures which represent
“deformation of true art.” The
prohibition extends to “any sort
of so-called art which ‘disturbs
or even merely diminishes’ the
piety and devotion of the faith-
ful,” and “anything which is a
‘deformation or debasement of
sane art,’ which contradicts
Christian, grace, modesty ot
piety; which offends ‘the true
religious spirit’; or which is
unusual in appearance.”


W-Xa-.
s» 3XV
A%\%
IFIO
0 MAKE A CAKE
> Sake a Cake
BakerS man.
Deck it with tapers as quick as you
can!
Dozens of kiddies are coming to tea,
Dear little Cuddles has just turned
three;
Poor little girlie! We thought she’d
die.
Dread croup is so prevalent in July:
Watching her gasping was hard to
endure
Till she had
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Care.
Every child has a gift
It’s a wise parent who knows
how to encourage a child’s hid-
den talent. Most parents are in-
clined to judge their child on
school marks alone, overlook-
ing the really great gifts he or
she may have. In August
Reader’s Digest widely-known
teacher and psychologist
Hughes Mearns tells how he
came to understand children
and what they taught him. Of
how time and again in after-
school meetings he came upon
a treasure of unsuspected
talents in his pupils. Here is a
most helpful article for parents.
Each month The Reader’s
Digest touches upon many
phases of life in today’s world.
August issue is packed with 29
articles from magazines and
current books. Get your copy to-
day. One shilling and sixpence,
all newsagents and bookstalls.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ẃ
' Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and 01-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories, Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co.
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 17.4 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,192 24,000 305,000 269,244
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 343,332
26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 335,699
From inner reserves, £99,430 .. 435,129
36.8 p.c.
1947.. 300,683 24,000 276,000 683 435,812
21.6 p.c.
1948.. 323,138 24,000 182,000 141,138 576,949
From tax reserve, £22,381 .. 599,330
25.3 p.c.
1949.. 364,716 24,000 190,000 150,716 750,046
1950.. 596,244 24,000 572,244 1,322,290
From tax reserve, £lBO,OOO ..1,502,290
1951.. 750,844 24,000 726,844 2,229,134
Behind the rapid and very profitable
expansion of this big offshoot of the,
American Goodyear Tyre and Rubber
Co. lies alert and efficient management,
good organisation and modern plant and
equipment—it all means much so far as
costs are concerned —as well as years
of virtually uninterrupted inflation, which
brought with them a certain amount of
fortuituous profit. Since the war ended
demand for the co.’s expanding range
and growing volume of products has run
ahead of output. While demand has
been spurred by annual growth in the
number of new cars on the roads, and by
the increase in the number of trucks,
buses, tractors, earth-moving and other
heavy vehicles in use, output has been
hampered by shortages of various kinds.
However, additions to buildings and
installations of new plant, now nearing
completion, will soon put factory capacity
ahead of the order-book, and demand
looks like losing some of its former
buoyancy. So the emphasis in policy
might change, temporarily at any rate,
from expansion to consolidation. Of the
various factors pressing upon earnings,
costs promise to be the most trouble-
some, Still, the present high level of
profits, the ramifications of the organisa-
tion, its financial set-up and the position
the industry occupies in relation to the
economy as a whole augur well for the
future of the business.
Last term turnover increased by
approximately 45 p.c., reaching in round
figures £14,500,000. The leap in net earn-
ings was £154,600, raising declared profit
to a record £750,844. It covered the pref.
div. (£24,000) and a juicy 58.1 p.c. on the
£1,250,000 of ord. capital (held by the
American parent) compared with 45.8,
45.4, 39.8, 36.8, 25.3 and 13.4 p.c. back
to 1945. That was after allowing £143,703
(up £13,104) for depreciation and
£687,437 for taxation, but leaves out of
the reckoning £lBO,OOO previously over-
provided for taxation and doubtful debts
and now written back into the p. and 1.
account. It was a surprisingly good
result considering the steep fall in the
price of raw rubber —due mainly to the
changed pattern of consumption in
U.S. —and the continued climb of
operating costs.
To help soften the impact of credit-
restriction on expansion, no ord. div. was
paid for the second year in succession—
since the co. was formed 25 years ago
the ords. have received divs. averaging
14.8 p.c. Thus £726,844 of the year’s net
earnings was ploughed back into the busi-
ness. But it was not enough; a further
£550,000 of 4} p.c. debenture money was
got in (it is earning a lot more than its
keep), and the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., was increased by £748,915:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Pref. capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital.. 750,000 750,000 1,250.000 1,250,000
Debentures 1,600,000 2,150,000
Creditors . . 508,291 1,299,772 212,534 961,449
Tax reserve.. 403,934 224,172 861,172 620,222
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 464,000 507,197 631,787 1,272,645
Stocks . . 1,388,085 2,045,167 3,358,519 4,690,964
Book debts . . 682,304 762,243 1,306,206 1,486,130
Cash, etc. . . 9,786 9,384 249,485 61,067
On freeholds and plant £640,858 more
was spent than was written off, £1,332,445
was added to stocks and £179,924 to
book-debts. Stocks appear at the lower of
cost or market-prices, less provision for
possible future price decline.
The Australian public is directly
interested only in the well-protected 8 p.c.
prefs., which at 30s. (38s. 3d. a year ago)
yield 5.3 p.c.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 94,273 12Jp.c.= 84,233 10,040 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.c.=: 52,645 13,541 514,219
1945.. 65,050 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 12,405 526,624
1946.. 66,473 10 „ ~67,386 525,711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ ~67,386 525,455
From doubtful debts reserve, £lOOO .. 526,455
1948.. 67,474 10 p.c. = 67,386 88 526,543
1949.. 67,676 10 „ ~67,886 290 526,833
1950.. 70,098 10 „ ~ 67,386 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 „ „ 67,386 2,392 531,937
1952.. 76,276 10 „ „ 70,883 5,393 537,330
Although earnings have remained on
an even keel in relation to capital, and
there was no change, nor was any
anticipated, in the dividend-rate, the price
of this co.’s f.-p. 16s. shares fell from
575. 3d, a year ago to 345. in June last
and has since strengthened to 40s. 3d.
The return at 40s. 3d. is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. It is difficult to say when
better than 10 p.c. need be looked for,
though there is the possibility that share-
holders might be asked to put up a bit
more capital later on.
The price-movements conform with
general trends of the market. They are
not the result of any weakness inherent
in the co. itself or in the industry in which
it operates, but of changes in the
economic and financial outlook. While
inflationary pressures were at their peak,
and still gathering force, and money was
plentiful and very cheap, and labor a
bottleneck to production in the essential
industries, investors looked mainly to
capital appreciation in the market for
their gains. But as the Government’s anti-
inflationary policy began to take hold,
and commodity prices fell, and money
became tighter and a little dearer, and the
labor position eased following develop-
ments in the textile and other trades, the
assessment of share-prices shifted to a
healthier yield-from-dividend basis.
Kandos (paid capital £748,251) and
Australian Cement (paid capital £947,767)
are two holdings cos. which have been
equal partners in Australian Portland
Cement Pty., biggest producer of its kind
in the Commonwealth, since 1930, when,
seeing trouble ahead in the industry, they
decided to get into double-harness, and
the partnership has been a satisfactory
one. Since 1943 the operating co. has
sent along a steady 6 p.c. on its capital
as against 9 p.c. for the five years before
that. Kandos paid 12i p.c. for the five
years to 1942, followed by 7.8 p.c. for
the remaining three war years, and then
10 p.c. for the seven years to the close of
last accounts.
The operating co.’s two plants are at
Kandos (N.S.W.) and Fyansford (Vic.).
At Fyansford annual capacity was
recently stepped-up from 260,000 tons to
310,000 tons, and the capabilities of the
Kandos works, which used to be 200,000'
tons p.a., have been increased, too. To
finance the outlay and provide more
working capital, the operating co. has
issued at par £500,000 of fresh capital
since 1948, lifting its paid capital to
£2,500,000. To pay for its half of the
new issues, Kandos got in the remaining
Bs. on 187,184 of its 16s. shares, and drew
upon Government securities and cash for
the balance. At June 30 la.st its assets
consisted of shares in the big operating
co. £1,250,000, Government securities and
cash £68,467, and shares in (£5000) and
advances to (£9000) a small subsidiary.
Pipe Linings (Aust.) Pty. £14,000. There
was only £9696 coming to sundry
creditors, including provision for taxation.
One of the attractions of scrip in old-
established, efficient and moderately-
capitalised cement cos. like this group is
that, on the demand side, the outlook is
one of steadily growing pressure for some
years ahead. Although output of the
industry in N. S. Wales is running at
little more than threequarters aggregate
plant capacity, there are many major
public works, and a lot of private con-
struction, now held up for financial
reasons, yet to be undertaken. The
present slackness in home construction
should soon be offset by demands else-
where. The Budget has afforded a little
welcome relief in taxation. Biggest and
ugliest problem at the moment, in this
and other industries, is the self-
propelling wage-costs structure, which is
the kernel of the question now before the
Arbitration Court.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 22,423 8 p.c. = 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201,286
Taxation, £22,258 179,028
1946.. 39,806 16 p.c. = 22,254 17,552 196,580
1947.. 39,734 16 „ „ 22,255 17,479 214,059
1948.. 59,346 16 „ „ 22,255 37,091 251,150
1949.. 78,551 16 „ „ 22,255 56,296 307,446
1950.. 124,811 20 ~ ~ 27,818 96,993 404,439
1951.. 150,407 20 „ „ 41,707 108,700 513,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 488,139
1952. . 102,479 20, p.c. = 41,706 60,773 548,912
To sta,ff fund, £25,000 .. .. 523,912
The boom in the motor trade reached
a turning-point about the beginning, of
the third quarter of the 12 months
covered by the co.’s latest accounts. In
the rebound from the dangerously-infla-
tionary situation of a year or so ago,
goods have become more plentiful, credit
has become tighter and a little dearer,
the tempo of trade generally has slack-
ened, structural shifts are taking place in
employment, the self-propelling wage-
costs structure is pressing more heavily
upon narrower gross margins, and traders
and others have adopted a cautious
policy, and are likely to continue to do
so until economic readjustments make
the outlook less obscure. In this respect
Government policy as revealed in the
Budget should be a steadying influence.
Provided the mad costs spiral can be
arrested before it cripples the economy,
and provided developments overseas do
not result in severe price-recessions for
British-made vehicles, the short-run out-
look for the big distributors in the Aus-
tralian motor trade is for satisfactory
though lower levels of turnover and
profits.
Howards is an old-established and
well-shod undertaking which has always
given a good account of itself —it paid a
steady 8 p.c. through the worst of the
1930’5. It now holds the franchise for
Morris vehicles, one of the most popular
makes in the market, for Queensland
and the Northern Rivers district of N. S.
Wales, as well as refrigeration, radio and
other agencies. It also gleans some nice
pickings from servicing and sales of
parts, too.
Turnover advanced steadily for the
first nine months of the last term, and
then fell away “considerably.” Total
sales for the year, which exceeded £3£
million, were about the same as for the
previous term. But margins narrowed,
and there was a slip of £17,434 in gross
profit:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit.. £425,678 £570,352 £745,556 £728,122
Exes. . . 297,127 365,541 470,149 510,644
Tax provision 50,000 80,000 125,000 115,000
Net profit .. 78,551 124,811 150,407 102,479
The growth of £40,495 in the cost of
running the business was only partly
offset by a reduction of £lO,OOO in what
looks like a generous tax-provision. The
net result (down £47,928) was equal to
49.1 p.c, on capital as against 72.1,
89.7, 56.4, 42.6 and 28.6 p.c. back
to 1946. The distribution was kept
at 20 p.c., of which 10 p.c. js
labelled “special dividend.” Average
distribution over the last seven years was
17.7 p.c., compared with a steady 8 p.c.
for the six years before that. Owing to
the change in outlook, the cautious board
says “shareholders may have to accept a
lower rate of dividend than has been paid
in the last few years.”
Finances are comfortable, and assets
are known to be well worth their book-
value :
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £139,093 £139,093 £208,533 £208,533
Overdraft . . 145,486
Creditors . . 115,826 196,425 215,690 479,487
Unearned
interest .. 11,594 15,166 26,750 26,243
Tax provision 67,647 97,728 142,497 121,907
Staff funds . . 25,000
Final div. .. 22,255 27,811 41,707 41,706
Freehold . . 67,095 79,895 85,355 112,780
Plant, etc. .. 5,442 6,086 6,875 , 10,894
Stocks . . 299,467 585,234 402,350 887,545
Book debts, in-
vestments. etc. 235,122 352,998 438,279 404,260
Cash, etc. . . 56,735 1,942 215,457 36,310
The year’s growth of £485,195 in stocks
—due mainly to accelerated deliveries of
vehicles and parts —and of £263,797 in
the creditors item, and shrinkages of
£179,147 in cash, etc., and of £34,019 in
the omnibus item (book-debts and invest-
ments, etc.) are interrelated. The net
additions to freehold (up £27,425) and
plant (up £4019) were on account of the
new assembly works at Hendra, near
Brisbane, and the service and repairs
shop at South Brisbane.
At 575. (80s. a year ago) the pound
shares return 7 p.c. on a 20 p.c. distribu-
tion, or 5.2 p.c. should the rate drop to
15 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 70s. 3d.
Bennett and Fisher (Adelaide)
r Dividends
Prefs. To Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 24,138 15,000 '3 p.c. = 9,000 138 3,098
1945.. 24,868 15,000 3i „ „ 9,750 118 2,980
1946.. 24,865 15,000 3-1 ~ „ 9,750 115 2,865
1947.. 34,362 15,000 41 „ „ 12,750 6,612 3,747
7i P-c.
1948.-67,447 22,500 7J „ ~22,500 22,447 26,194
1949.. 71,013 22,500 „ „ 22,500 26,013 52,207
1950.-116,918 22,500 10 „ 30,000 64,418 116,625
1951.. 930.22,500 15 „ ~45,000 138,430 255,055
1952.. 877.22,500 121 „ „ 37,500 52,877 307,932
* After deducting goodwill (£27,000), written out
of the accounts in 1951.
The boom in the wool trade has put
this Adelaide wool-broking, pastoral-
finance and merchandising business in a
stronger position, financially and other-
wise, than ever before, and so brightened
the outlook for shareholders. At June 30
last those on the register could see the
whole of their £600,000 of capital intact
and £307,932 besides, whereas in 1946
£2865 of the capital was unrepresented
by tangibles in the books. Over the same
period divs. averaged 8.3 p.c., lowest
3i p.c. and highest 15 p.c. For the pre-
ceding 20 years the average distribution
was approximately 2 p.c.
The contraction of £93,053 (43 p.c.) in
last term’s net earnings was due to the
descent of wool prices from their arti-
ficially high levels of the previous season,
lower livestock values and the perennial
rise in costs. Here are the figures for the
last two seasons for the South Australian
clip, of which the co. handles about
13 p.c,:
Year. Average
June 30, Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1951 .. 383,632 £62,978,171 £164 8 3
1952 .. 405,831 33,888,783 83 10 0
The 1952 experience was relatively a
bit better than in other States, thanks to
seasonal conditions. Although there was
a drop of £29,089,388 (46 p.c.) in the
value of the clip, the cheque was second-
biggest in the history of the trade, and
there were good clearances at auction,
despite difficulties of manufacturers, who
suffered most from the rebound. The
three countries to buy more wool than


BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As At Close of Business on 30th June, 1952.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference shares of £lO each
4,000.000 Ordinary shares of 10s. .each ..
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO
per Unit
4,000,000 Ordinary Stock Units of 10s. per
Unit
Paid-up Capital
Eeserve Fund (used in the business of
the Bank)
Final Dividends proposed payable August,
1952
Balance of Profit and Loss A/c.
Total Stockholders’ Funds .. .. ■ • • •
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. ..
Balances due to Other Banks .. • •
Amount due to Subsidiary Company
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obliga-
tions of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call in London •
Treasury Bills —
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value)
Australian Government .. .. .. £3,440,132 3 9
Other Government . ■ 1,196,156 5 8
Local and Semi-Governmental Authori-
ties .. .. 199,494 16 4
£13,232,750 11 2
6,027,722 6 0
118,286 8 2
1,437,500 0 0
10.500,000 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stamps
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less amounts
written off) ••
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time,
and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset
is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank)
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra ..
4,835,
2L248,
10,570
53,
,783 5 9
,000 0 0
,879 16 7
,312 5 8
£68,024,234 13
88,118,807
2 1
3,138,241 3 8
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1953.
To Expenses— Head Office, 630 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees £4,392/6/8) .. ..
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes ..
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down ..
£3,658,469 3 1
544,925 9 2
340,562 17 9
£4,543,957 10 0
To Amounts written off Bank Premises ■..
„ Dividends— n n
Interim paid February, 1952 . . . . f 142,347 0 0
Final, proposed payable August, 1952 14«,34< 0 0
~ Balance carried forward .. •• • • • ••
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commis-
sions and Other Income after deducting interest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of wlium
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubt fm Debts
has been made)
£45,000 0 0
284,694 0 0
168,130 15 9
£497,824 15 9
£4,543,957 10 0
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
I. PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON. General Manager■ of The OommereUd
Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Re^rvei
and accumulated profits are used in the business, and t the best of my
Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of m.
knowledge and belief, true in every particular. Directors of the
Names, addresses and occupations °* the who are Hie Dire.
company.! the date of .ho STMDEY
THOMPSON EDWARDS, Shipping Director, Melbourne ; CODIN FORSYTH MF.ARES.
Solicitor Melbourne • NORMAND HILL, Wool Broker, Melbourne.
And' I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of 5
rendering persons making a false declaration punishable wilfuliand corru] pt pelrj y.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 29th day o J y,
thousand nine hundred and fifty-two. PPG GORDON
Before me— - *'
H. F. CLARKE,
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits wider 'the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We. WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, of Melbourne,
bein'* Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do hereby certify
that in oifr opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn
nn so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs,
and that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the
results of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
W. S. REID.
COLIN F. MEARES.
Dated at Melbourne this 29th day of July, 1952.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS.
Melbourne, 29th July, 1952.
To the Stockholders of r.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Ladies and Gentlemen, , , _ , , _
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the y«ar
ended 30th June, 1952, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properiy
drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Company s
affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company
for the year, according to the best of our information and the explanations given
to us and as shown by the books of the Company. u
The London Office Return to the 30th June, 1902, duly audited by Messrs.
Jackson, Pixlev & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and Liabilities at the
Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants.
W T e have received assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have
supplied us with all the information and explanations we have required.
We are. Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. FOOKES.
WM. S. PHILIP.
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. C.X.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
{
kuv mom
I-
SANDERS#
g!oce FILES
Correspondence. Invoice*.
•tatement*. etc., filed In the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n-onth —or j
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
i and tor-
mlorrnatloß
application
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/-
Yearly 22/6
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Kobln M. Coril*
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane
from
SCOTLAND
—every
precious
drop
mScoiclj
3L ACJ£
WHITE
IUCHANAIIC
iOW.SCQUN
SSAPPOI NTM.VS'
~HM. THIeIS^S
SCOTCH WHISKY,'
BLACK A WHITE
> u »...UV«*UV
SPECIAL *fcLe,Nb l o»‘
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKYVOISTI LLI ».*•
Glasgow » LONDON^
CUSTAUCWRS DISTIIUmr.MUIBIH.SPfYSIW.SCOnAHD
net CONTENTS I PINT' S Ftoio OZS
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
.
By Appointment to
Jhe Late King George VI
ẅ
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd,
ŵ
m
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN - No. 8; HEIGHT: 37J ;
WIDTH: PRICE (at works):
Add the finishing touchy to your living-room
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available tor open
and gas fires and "Kosi". "Wonderheat and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask vour local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.O , Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
ẁ
SURROUNDS
OP GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
in the previous season were
Japan, Italy and France.
As usually happens, costs
proved more stubborn than
prices. A fall of £43,219 in the
co.’s gross earnings (£598,599)
was accompanied by a growth
of £49,834 in exes. (£485,722),
which included £120,000 (down
£23,500) for taxation and £21,731
(up £7829) for depreciation. The
£112,877 of profit was enough
to pay the prefs. P-c.
(£22,500) and show 30.1 p.c. on
the £300,000 of ord. capital as
against 61.1, 31.4, 16.1 and 14.9
p.c. for the four preceding years.
The drop in the distribution from
15 p.c. to 12i p.c., of which 2\
p.c. is labelled bonus, can be
taken as an indication that the
board is uncertain of what lies
ahead of the industry.
Expansion of the business
shows up in net additions of
£127,188 to freeholds, etc., and
£235*905 to stock and plant—
an untidy entry:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital £600,000 £600.000 £600,000
Cr etc torS ’ .. 804,957 1,281,671 1.119.599
Tav reserve 79,500 143,500 120,000
Final dtvTTf 87$0 45.000 37.500
Fr etc. oldS ’.. 171.770 201.916 329.104
St plant 139,106 194,349 430,254
Advances 937,881 1,288,118 1,096,460
Cash, etc. .. 389,826 640.843 329,214
Goodwill .. 27,000
The reductions in creditors, etc.
(down £162,072), advances (down
£191,658) and cash, etc. (down
£311,629), are interrelated, being
due mainly to amounts outstand-
ing on account of wool trans-
actions at the previous balance.
From the seasonal point of
view the current term has opened
well. What will happen to wool
prices remains to be seen , hopes
are that they will pan out not
much below last season’s aver-
age. The Budget has brought
a little welcome relief to both the
co. and its clients. The problem
which threatens most trouble at
the moment is spiralling wage
and other costs, which look like
getting worse before they be-
come better.
At 295. 9d. (365. 4d. a year
ago) the ords. return 8.3 p.c. on
a 12-y p.c. distribution, or 6.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The A
and B prefs. at 21s. 9d. yield
6.9 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. basis—they
carry a cumulative 4 p.c. with the
right to advance with the ords.
up to 1\ p.c. Net tangible
cover is £6 Is. As, £5 Is. Bs and
40s. 6d. ords.
During 1951 the goldmining
industry in Westralia treated
2 742,000 tons (up 279,000 tons)
ore for 648,2000 z. (up 39,6000 z.)
fine gold, valued at £A10,042,000
(up £A613,000), and paid divi-
dends totalling £ A 1,000,000
(down £A196,000). Principal
producers were:-
Treated, Fine Em-
Company. Tons. Oa. ployed.
Big Bell .. •• 869,412 49,726 4/6
Perseverance .. 135,474 33,126 274
.. 151,322 43,868 374
G.M. of Kalg’lie 167,899 46,843 3/..
Great Boulder. . 325,924 86,986 66a
Hill 50 .. 28,302 /,557 103
L Star VI ! W . & 614,055 155,044 1009
New Coolgardie 51,896 25.197 221
North Kalgoorlie 255,315 59,395 481
Sons of Gwalia 73,825 19,186 250
South Kalgoorlie 98,595 24,420 180
The right to sell the output of
yellow metal on the free market
has turned out to be a rather
hollow victory. The premium
over the statutory or fixed price
of £AIS 9s. lOd. a fine ounce has
diminished as the supply of gold
to the market increased, and has
failed to offset the steep rise in
costs, which brought Paringa’s
95,000-ton-p.a. mill to a stand-
still early in 1951.
» * * *
Australian Development, N.L.,
which is working one of the
richest small mines in the Com-
monwealth, continues to strike it
rich. A crosscut on the 135 ft.
level recently ran into a pocket
of ore assaying 140dwt. gold per
ton. The co. took over the
Noble’s Knob and adjacent
leases at Tennant Creek about
the end of 1948. Jt a
maiden Is. a share in Noy.,
1949 and has since made dis-
tributions totalling £750,000, the
last 6d a share being sent out
in June, 1952. For the year to
June 30 last 15,160 tons ore
were crushed for 31,7180 z. fine
gold. A year ago the positive-
ore position was estimated at
81,000 tons, over half of which
was between the 135 ft. and 183 ft
levels. Paid capital is £150,000
in f.-p. Is- shares, which tne
market prices at 18s 6d. each.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ESTHER ATKINSON late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM FREDERICK ATKINSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1995 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an* appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
6th day of October 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HICKSON, LAKEMAN
& HOLCOMBE, Solicitors, 10 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The International Ball turned out to be
quite the most spectacular of the season,
with the most beautifully decorated tables,
the most impressive official party and a
delightful floor-show (national dances
and a Peace ballet). Flags were massed
behind the official table and round the
bandstand, which bore the U.N. slogan
“The World’s Hope for the World’s
Peace.” U.N. colors, pale-blue and white,
were used for the candles on the official
table, each of which rested in a little circle
of camellias, and U.N. flags were sold as
lucky-number favors. Lady Anderson
received 35 members of the official party,
including representatives of nearly every
consulate. There were over 100 in both
the Chinese and the Greek parties,
arranged by Mrs. W. H. Oong and Mrs.
A. C. Gooma. There were some lovely
dresses, Mrs. F. H. Berryman’s statuesque
black faille perhaps one of the most strik-
ing. Madame Regala’s crisp pink organza
was fairylike in its charm. With Mrs.
Alan Williams, who wore a beautiful
bouffant white dress embroidered with
silver, she was repsonsible for the decora-
tions. In Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s large party
one noticed Mrs. Norman Jenkyn’s
festive dress of cinnamon net gold sequin
embroidered over buttercup. Notable
also were Mrs. George Bardsley’s black
net with gold thread embroidery and Mrs.
Arthur Davis’s exquisite lace stole.
Three and a half days,remain (as they
say in the advertisements) for seeing the
wonderful exhibition of period clothes at
David Jones’s Gallery. Ther(?*are nearly
500 exhibits of dresses and accessories
(but no hats, which is strange), some of
which date back as far as 1789. The
children’s hand-embroidered dresses from
1853, 1910, etc., are a delight—they are
all crisp and fresh, having been laundered
in a modern washing-machine. Most
amusing item is the tennis-dress of 1880.
Made of natural China silk, it cascades to
the instep in a series of accordion-pleated
frills, and covers the top of the skirt with
a drape and a bustle. The top is a little
jacket buttoned to the neck and wrists.
Most beautiful item is a black velvet
evening-dress with a full skirt (completely
lined) and white coarse lace edging the
wide neckline. Its date is 1852, but if
worn today in one of our ballrooms it
would completely annihilate the opposi-
tion. This exhibition, which is the collec-
tion of Miss Imogen Whyse, should not
be missed by anyone who is interested in
clothes.
Anyone who wanted to see some of
Sydney’s young beauties should have
attended the Pimm’s Party which the
Younger Set of the Naughty ’Nineties
Committee put on at the A.C.I. Ballroom
on Friday. There were more than 200
of them there with their partners, all a
pleasure to look upon and all dressed
with glamor and charm. The decora-
tions, which included a huge cut-out of a
samba-swing/ ng South American, were in
charge of Jill Marsden, helped by her
fiance, Howard Rivett. President Ann
Livingston wore black with a wide neck-
line and a full skirt. Jill Chapman’s
dress was floating grey nylon. Val llett
wore black brocade with pink camellias ;
June Allsop, who won a model hat, was
in green velvet with a dear little fur
tippet. Mavis Barratt’s pure silk black-
and-white dress was covered by a black
velvet coat. Rhonda Miller’s coat-dress
was a striking peacock taffeta and was
worn with a white, peaked hatter’s-plush
headpiece like a snow maiden’s. Maureen
Aequero looked dashing in red velveteen,
Diana Andrews beauteous in black. As
one may have gathered, red and black
are much favored by the younger set this
season.
The honor of having a special presen-
tation fell to debutante Ngarie Smith at
the Mater Ball because her car broke
down and she was nearly an hour late
(this isn’t a hint to other debs—it might
never happen again). Mr. and Mrs.
Geraghty had already received the nine
other debs, twins Maureen and Colleen
Ryan, Leslie Holland,. Bettie Brennan,
Laurel Abbott, Eileen Saveli, Connie
Robertson, Carmen Whitehead and
Patrici a Olivers, but with the president of
the ball, Dr. T. J. Biggs, and Mrs. Biggs
they staged a second reception of Ngarie
by Mrs. M. Tierney. Among those in the
official party were Mrs. Rachel McGirr,
accompanied by her daughter Dr.
Gwen Fitzpatrick, Dr. J. E. F. Deakin,
Dr. and Mrs. Gilbert Bradley, Dr. and
Mrs. Breslin, the Mayor of North Sydney,
Mr, G. R. Fowle, Muriel McCrone,
Violet Hammond and Monty Anchau.
Two of Australia’s oldest families were
united at the surprise wedding of the
week, when Veronica Davis married Noel
Lees at St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
Veronica, who is the daughter of the late
Mr. J. B. Davis and of Mrs. M. Davis,
of Eynesbury, Edgecliff, wore a lovely
dress of chantilly lace over tulle and
moire with a tulle veil flowing to the
waistline from a juliet cap. Noel is the
son of the late Mr. Henry Lees and of
Mrs. Lees, of Strathfield. Only members
of the two families were present at the
reception, which was held at Kinnetl.
A letter from the Oriental Missionary
Society shocks one out of one’s little
worries about the price of bacon, eggs
and butter. It says quite baldly that the
civilian and Christian population of Korea
is facing starvation and death at this
time. One missionary said that in a
single day’s visitation of scores of homes
he found the solitary diet to be tree-bark
boiled until it is partially digestible. The
society, of which the address is 262
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, appeals for
funds to relieve this suffering.
After judging the samba competition
at the Pimm’s Party on Friday night Mrs.
J. C. Bendrodt said that flamboyant
variations should have no part in a ball-
room samba. She said that she had
awarded the prize to Margaret and
Morris Calleghan not only because they
had the perfect samba movement
(especially Morris), but also because they
were restrained. They interpreted the
music more precisely by their three small
variations, she said, that all the fancy
kicks and twirlings could do.
There were about 1000 guests at the
annual Legacy musicale and afternoon-
tea given by the president, Mr. I. Green,
to thank all those who have worked for
Legacy during the year. The guest-of-
honor was Elizabeth Northcott, and
music was provided by Marjorie Conley,
James Harris and Dawn Harwin, who is
herself a legatee. Guest-speaker Sir
James Bissett infected the audience with
his own cheerfulness, and had everyone
simmering with merriment. He brought
the house down when he described in
minute and correct detail what Queen
Elizabeth (now the Queen Mother) wore
when she visited the liner Queen Mary, of
which he was captain. Saide Parker, in
her speech, said that £30,000 was raised
in the metropolitan area last year, and it
was hoped that the target might be raised
this year to £40,000.
Nourma Handford, who graces the
Letter this has just published her
fourth book for teenagers. It is Carcoola
Adventure, a sequel to her Carcoola, and
carries farther along the road of life those
delightful young Australians introduced
in her previous book. Set in the west of
N.S.W., the atmosphere is particularly
natural, the characters drawn with fluency
and understanding. The dialogue, casual
but not too slangy, has the true Aus-
tralian ring. The story, which is friendly
and homely, should appeal to all girls
of teenage, for it succeeds in being
romantic without being at all sentimental.
Before Francis Broadhurst gave a talk
to the English-speaking Union on
Rabelais during the week he pinned a
chart on the wall behind his head. The
chart showed a large red hand with six
fingers, a thumb and a black line running
diagonally across it. He made no refer-
ence to it during his very interesting talk,
but when one brave member asked him
about it at question-time he revealed that
it was merely to concentrate attention
and to keep the audience guessing, Mr.
Broadhurst has illustrated two editions of
Rabelais, but doesn’t feel perfectly happy
about his work. If, he said, he could
present a perfect picture of all Rabelais’s
symbolism he would be either dead from
an overcharge of genius or in America,
“among the dahlers.”
From Melbourne
Over 250 guests were at the farewell-
party given at the War Nurses’ Memorial
Centre in St. Kilda-road for the retiring
matron-in-chief of the R.A.A.N.C.,
Colonel A. M. Sage, when Major-General
Sir Samuel Burston presented the guest-
of-honor with a platinum-and-sapphire
brooch. Mrs. R. G. Casey, wearing a
black Persian lamb coat over her black
frock and a two-toned grey straw bonnet,
headed the committee which organised
the party. There were guests from every
State. Trim in the grey uniform of the
R.A.A.N.C. was the deputy matron-in-
chief, Lieut.-Col, J. Bowe, Lieut.-Col.
J. S. Abbott (Northern Command),
Lieut.-Col. G. M. Taylor (Tasmania),
Lieut.-Col. C, A. Fall (Eastern), Lieut.-
Col. J, E. Ferguson (Western), Lieut.-
Col. C. A. Kestal (Central) and Lieut.-
Col. Lydia Shaw (Southern). Other guests
were Mrs. Gordon Williamson, formerly
matron of the 2/9th and now living in
Peak Hill (N.S.W.), and Mrs, Lucas, of
Cootamundra, who was formerly matron
of the sth A.G.H. Miss Grace Wilson,
who at the beginning of the war was
matron-in-chief, wore a silver-grey bro-
cade frock flecked with gold. Lieut.-
Generals S. F. Rowell and Sir Rupert
Savage were there with their wives.
This photo is of Madame Sirot, the wife
of the Consul for France. Tall and
graceful, she has a lovely complexion
and is—as might be expected of a French-
woman —a chic dresser. Madame Sirot,
who lost her first husband in the war,
has two sons, one 17, the other 16 —both
are at school in France. She is a vice-
president of the Alliance Franpaise.
Mrs. Earl Daum, president of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, presided at the meet-
ing at which the organisers of the Fourth
of July Ball, Mesdames A. Klestadt and
David Cheadle, presented to Lady
Murdoch a cheque for £1750, the proceeds
of the ball. Later afternoon-tea was
hostessed by Mrs. Herbert Allen, whose
scarlet jacket was worn with a black frock
and small black hat, Mrs. Harry
Cavanaugh, whose unusual black velvet
cap was worn with a smart bird’s-eye
tweed suit, and Mrs. Walter Killough,
who chose a scarlet coat and small black
velvet hat. Lady Murdoch presented
Mesdames George Uhrich, T. R. Blarney,
George Jasper and Glen Smith with life-
governorship certificates for the hospital.
Others present were Mrs. Rufus Ramey,
Mrs. Charles Millet and Mrs. R. Williams
(formerly Miriam Ramey).
Commander R. Nettlefold was host at
a pleasant afternoon-tea party at the
Oriental Hotel, when his guests were the
women who formed the committee
organising the Navy League Ball, which
yielded £7OO. Those at the party included
Mrs. Arthur Laver, president of the com-
mittee, in a black suit which featured a
velvet collar and a small hat with osprey
trimmings ; Mrs. Geoff Grimwade, whose
delphinium-blue velvet cap contrasted
with her black ensemble; Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas, in black jacket-suit, blue blouse
and osprey-trimmed black hat; Mrs.
Mickey Paxton, whose deep-rose suit was
worn with a grey felt cloche; and
Beverley Buxton, whose hat and frock
were grey.
The makers of Valencia shoes showed
many of their new designs at a small
parade in the Gloucester-room of the
Australia. The “magpie” effect was seen
in black shoes edged with white, and
white shoes with a smart piping of black
suede or patent-leather. For the first
time in Australia nylon lace was used to
make shoes by this firm, and peep-toes
and sling-backs will be back again this
summer. Shoes for warm weather have
achieved a bare look by a miracle of cut
and design. Linen and straw were used
with charming effect. Red calf and linen
made a smart middy shoe. Raspberry-
and-blonde straw made an effective
candy-stripe and fashioned a sling-back
court shoe. Shoes in wattle-yellow and
lilac kid will be accessories for summer
frocks. One mannequin wore lilac kid
shoes effectively with a silk frock printed
in purple, lilac and grey. Straw is plaited,
combined with kid or with linen to
fashion lightweight sandals, and an
unusual combination was blonde-and-
black straw with black kid.
Twelve hundred dancers were at the
Royale Ballroom for the Wool Ball,
organised by a number of young girls for
the Opportunity Clubs. President of the
committee, Jacqueline Baillieu, wore a
frock of persimmon-red chiffon. Mrs.
lan Morrison (Terang) wore gunmetal
faille contrasted with a sash of striped
flame-and-gold taffeta. Diana Learmonth
wore royal-blue satins, Josephine Cold-
ham white organdie, Judy Cowling, who
has just become engaged, allied a bodice
of candy-pink taffeta with a striped skirt
of black-and-white lime on matching pink
background. Mrs. John Roark, formerly
Janette Smith, wore her wedding gown
of white organdie and won the Belle of
the Ball prize, a beautiful wrist watch.
She went off the next day with her hus-
band to live in Tasmania.
Anne Collins came across from Sydney
with a striking collection of hats for the
summer. Anne stresses the fact that
fashion is divided into American and
French styles. The style which she
predicts will be most popular is the “shell
Coriandoli,” a little half-hat or shell-hat
designed by Madame Vernier for the
Duchess of Kent, which is the basic shape
for small hats so greatly liked by
Americans. The French trend is for a
slightly deeper hat. Colors for spring are
white with black, all shades of yellow
from daffodil to gold, beige, pink and
a clear scarlet. There will be large hats,
large sailors, small sailors, bretons, bi-
cornes, shells and bonnets. These are
fashioned in Laize, sharkskin cloth,
plaited Vandyke straw, wood-shaving
straw, leghorns and pique. The new
“bathing-cap” and “wig-cap” of Diofs
were featured. The former, fitting close
to the head, is made from wood-shaving
straw woven over cane, and as a frame
for the face is finished with an edging of
pale-beige floral silk with a tiny bow at
the back. The “wig-cap” is of black
braided straw and fits the head like a
judge’s wig ; it is edged with black velvet
and finished with a quaint bow at the
nape of the neck.
A little sailor-cap looked as though the
seat had been taken out of a cane chair,
pushed into shape and then bordered with
black velvet. One of the smartest hats
in the collection was Jacques Path’s large
white sailor in sharkskin cloth, bordered
with black petersham and finished with a
veil of wide mesh. Crisp and fresh was a
tiny beret of swathed white chiffon
finished with a wide bow at the back.
One exciting model was the copy of one
Madame Vernier made for the Duchess
of Kent. Of honey-gold leghorn, it is
broad at the sides but narrower in front
and with no brim at the back. Vernier
also made for the Duchess a “shell
Coriandoli” of pale-yellow Italian straw
and smothered it with white daisies. But
large hats give way to small ones for
cocktails, late-afternoon parties or dining
out, and so there is a little petal-cap made
of satin rose-petals mounted on black
velvet. There is also a white guipure
lace mounted on black velvet, a little
bonnet in grey jersey, pinched at each
side and bordered with shells, and another
in palest-mauve satin with an all-over
trimming of opalescent shells.
Lady Brooks, in a gown of parchment
satin, was in the audience at the La
Petite salon when a collection of spring
and summer fashions was shown. Pro-
ceeds from this parade were for the
Queen Elizabeth Maternal and Baby
Health Centre. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. John Inkster, was also there in a
junior-blue ballerina frock with white
wool embroidery highlighting the
scooped-out neckline. Dr. Doris Officer,
hon. secretary of the Centres Associa-
tion, wore poinsettia-red crepe. Lady
Beaurepaire was in gold-spotted taffeta:
Lady Connelly mixed black criepe and
black lace. White satin and black lace
were Mrs. Graham Nathan’s choice. Un-
usual was the black faille coat, its deep
cuffs trimmed with gold braid and gold-
and pastel-toned walnut shells, worn by
Mrs. Laurie Downey. Mrs. Edmund
Alcock wore grey organza and lace. Mrs.
Constance Day allied embroidered
emerald and jersey and deep rose faille.


The PERFECT Pott
at the POPULAR price
ŵ
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Though a staunch Anglican, Dean
Walter Berry, of Adelaide, is not a parson
—the dean came to him at the baptismal
font. At present chairman of the Archi-
tects Board in South Australia, the other
day he was honored with a Fellowship of
the Royal Institute of British Architects,
he having recently attended the insti-
tute’s conference in Edinburgh as Aus-
tralia’s representative. One of Adelaide s
best-known architects —he designed the
Centennial Hall and other important
buildings—he was an associate of the
South Australian Institute of Architects at
21, and its president in 1939. War-time
service took in three years as a flight-
lieutenant in the R.A.A.F. A great-
grandson of a South Australian pioneer,
and married to the great-granddaughter
of another, Berry is a keen golfer, but
still loves his gardening too much to
throw in the trowel there. He’s 48.
Cecil M. Wills, now in Melbourne, is
an author who took to writing late in life.
Now 60, he could be expected to be in
tobacco, he being the sixth descendant
of H. O. Wills, manufacturer of
gaspers. Cecil’s brother, H. 0., is now
managing-director of the huge concern ;
Cecil was forced out of the tobacco
factories by lung trouble, took to dairy-
ing, was forced out of that by money
troubles, and now makes his living writing
detective novels, having set himself the
goal of writing one whodunit for each
of his grandchildren—l 7 of them. With
16 published, he has one to go. It will be
set in Australia.
London “Bookseller” reports that a
Horatio Nelson Hornblower actually
existed. The journal has discovered a
record of his death in the register of St.
Mary’s Church, Swansea, South Wales.
He was a clerk in a local zinc-works.
“Cauboy”: John D. Porter, of Melbourne,
author, epicure, company-director and voluntary
organiser—his “Porter’s Mob” was the cele-
brated mobile troupe of 40 damsels and
vaudevillians who entertained -Victorian military
camps in the late war —has another one ready
for the 1956 Olympics. He was discussing the
problem of showing Australia to Games
visitors with Ted Cunningham, the N.Q. grazier,
on Cunningham’s huge Strathmore station.
They decided that ordinary methods wouldn’t
suit the importance of the occasion. Porter
offered to bring by plane from Melbourne
20 guests, picked in London; Cunningham,
whose father gave two properties in N.Q. in
trust for returned soldiers, offered to put them
up and show them everything there is to
see about a northern sheep-station. Porter
will then lift them to Mount Morgan and
show them one of the world’s largest goldmines,
take them to the Barrier Reef and then to
Rockhampton, where Alderman Pilbeam will
give them tickets to the rodeo he organises
annually, and at which he gives away £l5OO in
prizes. Having given them a few more glimpses
of Our Fertile North —Porter was the author
of that book—he will return the visitors to
Melbourne with something to talk about when
they get home. Porter owns the National Press,
which publishes his How to Build a Caravan,
for 20 years an international best-seller.
Another of his books, Red Paged by a critic
whose mouth watered while he wrote, is con-
cerned with cooking. To keep his hand in, the
author himself cooks annually a Christmas
dinner for 40 guests at his home in Brighton.
Appointed Assistant-Professor of Law
at Alberta University (Canada), former
Perth solicitor Arthur B. Weston has
been at Wadham College, Oxford, since
1950. At Oxford one of the two students
to pass out with first-class honors for his
B.C.L. degree, Weston has a legal back-
ground—grandson of the late Richard
Haynes, and nephew of Arthur Haynes,
who, with his son, is carrying on the
family practice. In his law course in
Perth, Weston had five distinctions,
besides winning the Keall Prize and a
Hackett Studentship which took him to
Oxford. With his law studies interrupted
by Hitler’s lawlessness, he served as a
pilot in the R.A.A.F., earning a
“mention.”
“Macnell”: Navy-cut is the word for
Admiral Sir John Edelsten —a round,
weathered face, a small, dapper figure,
and an external quietness covering the
Steel underneath. Out this way first in
cruiser Delhi, staff-officer to the rear-
admiral commanding the light-cruiser
squadron which escorted Hood and
Repulse on their world cruise in 1922-24,
Edelsten was back in the Pacific towards
the close of the Japanese war, with the
poles-apart jobs of boss of the Pacific
Fleet’s destroyer flotilla, and, later, in
charge of the massive First Battle
Squadron, flying his flag in battleship
Anson. To round off his embracing naval
experience, he had been chief of staff to'
Admiral (“Old Close the Range”) Cun-
ningham in the savage days of the early
Mediterranean fighting ; and thence went
to the Admiralty, to be assistant chief of
the staff whose main object was belting
the life out of Hitler’s U-boat packs in
the most crucial period of the Battle of
the Atlantic. At the beginning of the
war he had H.M.S. Shropshire (before she
became H.M.A.S.), bombarding the coast
of Italian Somaliland. Perhaps the most
distinctive characteristic of Edelsten’s is
his faculty for remaining unnoticed in
company—except, apparently, by the
Admiralty. He has just been appointed
C.-in-C, Portsmouth.
A brown-faced cleric with a breezy
disposition, J. Rogers-Brown has left the
dry heart of Australia and gone down to
the sea and ships as chaplain of the Fre-
mantle Mission to Seamen. For the past
two years he had been rector of Alice
Springs, probably the biggest parish in
the Commonwealth —it takes in the whole
of the Northern Territory, less the
Darwin area, and extends southward
from Katherine to the S. Australian
border. Part of his job at Alice was run-
ning a hostel in which 44 bush kiddies,
white and colored, stayed on their school-
holidays.
Recently elected leader of the Labor
Opposition in Westralia’s Legislative
Council, Gilbert Fraser has been one of
the three representatives of the West
Province since 1928. One of his side’s
best debaters, he served with the R.A.A.F.
in War 11, and has held executive office
in the Air Force Association.
As can be gathered from his sketch,
when Coventry went to school to draw
P. C. W. Disney, he got an impression of
tough vigor; natural enough, the subject
having been a Rugby forward, getting his
blue at Oxford. New head of Adelaide’s
Scotch College, Disney is a 36-year-old
Englishman. He went to Oxford on a
senior leaving classics scholarship, and
both he and his wife graduated there in
philosophy, politics and economics (their
three sons „ are at Scotch). Disney
DISNEY, of Adelaide Scotch.
subsequently graduated in a sterner
school, the Desert Air Force, whose
curriculum took in practical work over
North Africa and Italy. He has a pretty
good idea of the Christian-name his
pupils know him by—that is, when he’s
not being more disrespectfully called
after a certain web-footed character of
the famous Walt’s.
Small, bright, owning a face with a
good cutting-edge to it, Israel Green
takes over the presidency of Sydney
Legacy. Chairman of directors of a large
Sydney retail firm —which, with a
brother, he started after War I —he has
had 18 years in Legacy, six of them on
the board of management. He soldiered
in France with the Ist Pioneer Battalion,
and in War II lost his only son, whose
GREEN, of Sydney Legacy.
Beaufort torpedo-bomber crashed on
exercises off Jervis Bay (N.S.W.). A
Sydney Grammar product, born in
Auburn (Sydney), the new president,
when artist Prior called, was up to his
glasses organising the institution’s Button
Day and Legacy Week for the beginning
of next month. Looking after the interests
of some 21,000 kiddies of Diggers who
will never be able to do it themselves
takes a mort of solid work —in 10 days
from taking office Green attended no
fewer, than nine functions. In his
“spare”-time he does extensive hospital
work and golfs.
“Uramao”; New Zealander Dr. C. O.
Hutton, a product of McGlashan College
and the Otago University, Dunedin, who
went to Cambridge for a final trim-off,
then returned to Maoriland to become
lecturer in geology at his old University.
A couple of years ago he accepted the
Professorship of Geology at Stanford
University, California, and later joined
the Atomic Energy Commission in the
U.S., to engage in uranium-bearing ore-
research there. The other day he received
from the board of research studies at
Cambridge University information that he
has been recommended for a Doctorate
of Science. It will be received on his
behalf by proxy at Emmanuel College,
where he studied for his Doctorate of
Philosophy.
A British Indian Army captain who
came to Melbourne after the late war
reckons he knows how to cure the world
of pimples. When in India Geoffrey
Levett observed that he was subject to a
winter dose of them, but that they dis-
appeared if and when he could get fresh
vegetables. He brought his idea to Aus-
tralia and expressed it in the deep-
freezing of vegetables grown in summer,
when the vitamins are active. Now with
a flourishing business which provides the
pimple-cure to four States, he has just
landed a contract to supply deep-freeze
greens to the Army. Object of the opera-
tion —to clear the faces of troops in
Darwin.
“Met. Off.”: Having established an
international reputation as Director of
Riverview Observatory, outside Sydney,
Father Daniel O’Connell has been
appointed Director of the Vatican
Observatory in Rome. Possibly the
world’s oldest, the Vatican Observatory
was founded in 1579 by Pope Gregory
XIII, when he was reforming the Julian
calendar. Father O’Connell goes to it
from 14 years at Riverview, in which
time he built up the institution’s reputa-
tion to the stage where its findings were
welcomed by observatories throughout the
world, particularly with regard to loca-
tion of earthquakes. A tall, affable, un-
assuming man, with a passion for
precision and a detestation of exaggera-
tion and misrepresentation, the priest was
bora at Rugby (Eng.), 56 years ago, holds
Doctorates of Science and Philosophy
and is a Fellow of the Royal Astrono-
mical Society. In Australia for close on
20 years, he crossed to the U.S. in 1931,
to put in a period on the staff of Harvard
University Observatory and to visit the
Mount Wilson and Lick Observatories
in California. In the late war his earth-
quake observation was of particular value
to the Allied command planning landings
in the Pacific ; after it the War Graves
Commission sought his advice on siting
its war-cemeteries. He will be missed
by a large group of scientific men and
women in Australia, particularly in
Sydney University circles.
After 28 years of laboring in the vine-
yard, H. K. Johns, viticulture specialist
of the Westralian Department of Agri-
culture, reckons his cup s full. Few men
have amassed more knowledge ol the
wine industry, from the vineyard, through
the markets, to the table ; and the know-
ledge is a compound of practice and
theory, flavored with a historian’s fund
of information about the social customs
connected with wine-making and -drink-
ing. Johns served his apprenticeship in
vineyards and wineries in other States,
eventually joining the Westralian depart-
ment in 1924. Always a keen barracker
for Westralian wines, he has been a
member of the Australian Wine Board
for 23 years and a judge of wines at
Westralian Royal Shows for 26. A big
breezy man, with a sense of humoi
relieving a consistent outspokenness, in
retirement he will still busy himself with
advice to young vignerons.
“Craiser”: Ella Shields was a great
stayer, and she had a friend in Mel-
bourne with siniilar qualities. He was a
racehorse called Hoyle, who belonged to
her great friend Mrs. Dan Reddan. Every
time Ella brought Burlington Bertie to the
Tiv. boards in Melbourne she would go
out to Mrs. Reddan’s stables so that she
could pat Hoyle. Recently the ownei
of Hoyle died, bequeathing him to the
man who had trained him for so many
years. Hoyle is still going strong, and
won a race in Melbourne the week that
Ella died. Another Melbourne friend of
Ella was Mcßeath, The Bulletin
caricaturist, whose song, “I’m Going Bacs:
to Yarrawonga,” Ella put across the foot-
lights—and into immediate and wide
circulation.
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, Professor Richard Charles Mills,
at a time when one of his biggest schemes
the uniform taxation system—is under review.
Occupier of the Chair of Economics at Sydney
University for 23 years from 1922, he had his
training at Melbourne and London Universities
and the London School of Economics; ser^
in War I in a British siege battery, was wounded
and won a “mention”; succeeded Frederick
Eggleston as chairman of the Commonwealth
Grants Commission in 1941; and, in his last
post of Chairman of the Commonwealth Office
of Education, made a fine success of the post-
war soldier-training scheme. He was the author
of a weighty tome, Colonisation of Australia.
In Melbourne, Lady Gwendoline Lansell, wife
of Sir George Lansell, governing-director ot
the Bendigo “Advertiser.” In her youth a
prominent athlete, she won the Australian
women’s ski championship at Kosciusko m
1912.
In Perth, at 60, Keith Weir McKenzie, Old
Digger and one of Westralia’s most consistently
successful rifle-shots. He served with the 28th
Battalion of the Ist A.I.F. and was on staff
and overseas-transport work with the 2nd.
Noted for rapid aiming and snap-shooting, he
represented Australia at Bisley at the end ot
the Kaiser’s war, and twice tied for the King s
at Westralian N.R.A. meetings, besides winning
the grand aggregate on many occasions.
In Hobart, at 93, H. L. D’Emden, who rose
from telegraph-messenger in 1873 to Deputy-
Director of Posts and Telegraphs in 1908. He
retired in 1924.
In Melbourne, Lady Syme, widow of Sir
Geoffrey Syme, a managing-trustee of the Age
until his death in 1942.
In Launceston, at 88, Alex Kirkcaldy, whose
hobby was amateur astronomy. For his observa-
tions, especially of sunspots and the aurora
australis, he was made an F.R.A.S. some eight
At 51, in Melbourne, Abraham Hyam Sicree,
a leader of Melbourne Jewry and well-known
for his philanthropy. He endowed the chair ot
Semitic studies at the University of Melbourne,
was president of the Jewish National Fund,
chairman of the United Israeli Appeal and a
supporter of the Try Boy’s Society. One of
the oldest members of the Carlton Football
Club.


Give'Devil Dandruff
the'brush-offjgf
uiemc
- -f
ẁ
m
ẅ
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing—
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down’’ look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
'’Preparation
lai/iHi
Sold at all
CJspmists & Stores
Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JAGK.SOIH 4,
(> L SIIIJ.IVA\
rwssT V
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS „
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams end Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DON’T BE AS
COLD ns a FROG
IN YOUR OWN HOME THIS WINTER
/
/
*
/
/
/
'"/m
INSULATE
3WOH Vi
Mr mm
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOI
No need to shiver ihis winter —
insulate with 8.1. Slagwool . . .
keeps your home cosy, warm
and draught-free! Saves fuel,
too!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and host
you should insulate your home with 8.1. Home Insulation
N.S.W.: Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.), Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
8.1.41
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace,
Adelaide
WEST AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd. *
10 Elizabeth Street, Fremantle
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
As Others See Us.
“Oxo”; On his return to
Scotland after travelling some
20,000 miles in eastern Aus-
tralia, from the heavy-carrying
country in the south to the
“multi-million-acre stations of
th e Northern Territory,”
Ralph A. Cadzow, Duncrahill
Shorthorn stud, had this to say
m the British “Farming News”;
“Along with the rough treatment
they get from successive Govern-
ments, weather handicaps entitle
Australian farmers to a lot of
praise and admiration. Despite
droughts, primitive transport
and a fluctuating market, they
continue to carry the economy of
the country at great financial
risk, and very often for all too
small a return. When next you
read an article by a ‘Fleet-street
farmer’ trying to make the
underfed Briton believe that a
little intelligence and a few
bawbees would make the Aus-
tralian desert blossom forth and
furnish us with abundant food,
treat the whole thing with the
contempt it deserves.
“I covered some 20,000 miles,
and I saw no country that was
not developed to a greater or
lesser degree. Wherever it is
feasible to grow wool or meat,
wheat or sorghum, the Aus-
tralians have made an attempt at
it. It is only such wise gentle-
men as the Queensland-British
Food Corporation and a member
of Parliament from Dundee that
like to think otherwise, and what
are the results? Four successive
years of failure for the corpora-
tion, during which time Aus-
tralian farmers made more
money than ever in history.
“Unfortunately, Australia has
a rather unbalanced population.
It is to the population in the
cities that a political party must
look to put them in or out of
office, and on this section they
scatter the nation’s resources to
gain votes. Consequently the
facilities which should be granted
to the ‘outback’ are lacking. The
State-owned railways are in a
shocking condition, and to them
can be attributed the loss of vast
quantities of meat annually.
“It is worth reflecting that
every week just now thousands
of head of cattle in the Northern
Territory will be staggering to a
final halt, or being dragged to
the ground by a waiting dingo,
because there is no transport
available to move them a
thousand miles east, where the
d/ought has broken and feed is
abundant, because vote-catching
politicians sanctioned the
importation of sports-cars and
washing-machines instead of rail-
way engines and track.
“We will never get more meat
from Australia than we get now,
whether we pay for it or not —
and we are not pacing world
prices for it. The population of
Australia is expanding by about
200,000 a year, and the number
of cattle in the main beef areas
of the north has not risen by
2 per cent, in half a century. The
heavier you overstock the greater
are the losses in the next drought,
and cattle are three times slower
to regenerate than sheep. The
only answer is greater efficiency
with what there is there, and even
then the authorities say that
Australia will be a foodstuff-
importing country inside a
decade.”
Tick Control.
“C. Punch”; A. E. Donovan,
Director of N.S.W. Board of
Tick Control, says rucide
(D.D.T.) will be used for cattle-
dipping in an arsenic-resistant
tick-eradication programme in
the Grady’s Creek quarantine
area, near Lismore (N.S.W.).
In 1946 the arsenic-resistant
cattle-tick was spreading rapidly
over a large area of Queensland,
and with the co-operation of the
C.5.1.R.0. and Queensland
Department of Agriculture,
experiments were made with the
first rucide dips.
Results were spectacular.
Graziers and dairyfarmers rushed
the new dip, and rucide dips now
number 2000 or more in the
State. The rucide people claim
that arsenic-resistant ticks no
longer matter in Queensland.
During the 1951 drought
graziers found that if animals
were strong enough to swim
through a dip they could be
dipped in rucide without fear of
loss, and the comparatively small
number of dippings necessary to
keep ticks under control meant
much less wear and tear on
drought-weakened stock.
Kikuyu.
“Howie Wing”: Although it is
true (B. 16/7/’52) that there is
only one strain, we found in the
heavy-winter rainfall area of
south Westralia that kikuyu was
virtually two' different grasses,
according to locale.
On heavy valley soil with
abundant summer moisture
(equivalent to irrigation) kikuyu
stuck well through the hot
months but faded with the first
autumn frost. Its bulk of feed
seemed about equal to paspalum,
but kikuyu’s feed-value is higher.
Where white-clover thrives with
paspalum this might make the
better pasture, on account of the
clover’s ability to fix nitrogen.
We found white-clover unable
to persist under heavy grazing
unless long rotations could be
given.
On summer-dry hills where
paspalum died of drought we
found kikuyu to be easily the
best perennial grass. Dormant
during the hot months it gave a
useful burst of growth with the
first winter rains and continued
veil into the colder weather, pro-
viding a good bite for stock while
sub.-clover was still too short
to give much feed. Improved
resistance to cold due to drought-
enforced summer dormancy is
common to several plants, includ-
ing couch-grass, but is most
marked in kikuyu.
Under summer-dry conditions,
kikuyu did best on light land.
Although satisfactory on clay
soil, it ran better and produced
“ She's fallen for Dave at last.”
more feed on sand. We have
not yet had enough experience
of Phalaris tuberosa to know
whether that grass could equal
kikuyu on heavy land. It
certainly could not on light
country.
It is generally true that kikuyu
crowds everything else out, but
this does not apply to sub.-clover
on winter land. Where clover-
stalling has set in, kikuyu crowds
out cape-weed and other rubbish
and so helps regenerate the
clover sward. W.A. Department
of Agriculture advises growing
kikuyu with sub.-clover.
Krilium.
“Orango”: It’s doubtful if
krilium (B. 30/7/’52) has the
blessing of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture, which is unlikely
to recommend anything before it
has been given a thorough trial.
Word from the U.S. department
indicates that krilium has certain
possibilities in the physical
improvement of heavy soils, but
that its present high price will
limit its use to seed-beds and
very small areas.
Krilium is not claimed to be a
fertiliser, and it’s wild exaggera-
tion to say it can “transform arid
country into profitable produc-
tion.” Water will always be the
first requirement for that, and it
is frequently too costly to use.
Poultry Sheds.
“Dune”; Sheds on most small
poultryfarms are rather hap-
hazard affairs. They are built
with very little regard to orderly
layout, being spaced well apart
and each one housing from a
few dozen to several hundreds
of birds. This wide spacing may
help to minimise the risk of
rapid spread of any disease, but
this is offset by the labor re-
quired in feeding and attention,
not to mention the discomfort
for the attendant in wet weather
by slipping and slopping from
one shed to another.
In U.S.A. it is not novel to find
buildings of two, three and even
four stories, housing the laying
hens, with very modern feeding,
watering and egg-collecting
methods incorporated. Present
costs put copying this type of
building quite out of reach. The
Australian pouitryfarmer can do
the next-best thing by erecting
his new sheds on the “saw-tooth”
roof plan ; the size of each
section to suit his own particular
fancy.
Half of shed No. 1 is the egg-
packing and dispatch-room,
the other is the feed- and mixing-
room, a large central front-
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
After some coldness in early August the cycle shows
fairly general rain about mid-August. This will be supported
by a southern sunspot group advancing to its active position.
However, it has lost ground to some extent and also has
shifted the centre of action by its effects on the previous
sunspot group. This has more or less reduced action to
neutral, except in the southern areas of the continent, where
the cycle shows a considerable amount of disturbed weather
and rain for some time to come.


AMAZING NEW AIR JET
Bicycle Speedometer
See what speed you are
doing. Works same way as
aircraft speed indicator.
Clip on handlebars. Large,
easily read dial. Shows
speed up to 50 m.p.h 12/6
posted.
ALBA ENGINEERING CO.,
Box 32, P.O. Camperdown, N.S.
EU.«3S
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
w
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ŵ
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years,
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
——"“HISTBIBUXOBS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Uissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND ; Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Streel
SYDNEY
BOONOEE
POLLED BOONOEE
WAHGAHELLA ESTATE
This is the blood
that will make
YOUR FLOCK FAMOUS
*
for full particulars write
F. S. FfiLKINER & SONS PTT. LTD.
.Boonoke Norjfc. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
"Phenovis" Worm Kerned*
fa get,"
t
&
\
to
w.
m
A//'
/yjs
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ẁ
PHE.BX.BO
m
' , , , *<sm _
Highland Land &
Livestock Com-
pany, Emmett,
Idaho, bought 5
ALL-CROP Har-
vesters for har-
vesting foun-
dation - stock
Ranger alfalfa
seed
the ALL-CROP
Harvester is
tyi/iit Choice
Where Quality Counts
Where returns depend on quality, the
ALL-CROP Harvester is Australia’s
and America’s favourite. Malting
barley, legume seeds, seed grains,
flower seeds, edible beans are few
examples. The ALL-CROP success-
fully harvests over 100 different
kinds of grains, seeds and beans.
These six features assure quality
harvesting:
0 Full-width cylinder—a foot of cylinder for every foot of cut.
0 Rubber threshing surfaces —better shelling with less crackage.
0 Cylinder speed changer—adjusts cylinder instantly for all
crops and conditions.
Q Air-blast separation—separates much seed in air stream
before it reaches straw rack.
© Oversize straw rack—separating area equal to most 10-foot
combines.
@ Saw-tooth wind valves—precision wind control for all seeds
and conditions.
mm
Lars Peterson,
Ravalli Country,
Montana, World's
Wheat Champion,
World's Oat Cham-
pion and 5-1 im e
World Barley Cham-
pion, chooses the
All-Crop Harvester.
If quality harvesting is important to
you, let us give you full details on
the ALL-CROP Harvester.
ALL-CHOP is an Allis-Chalmers trademark.
<s>
JILLIS- CHALMERS
ẃ
NSW* Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA:
Mitcheii & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray. S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny.
W AUST * Westrallan Farmers' Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co.
W.
door serving as a truck dock for
loading and unloading.
Following down the line, with
a central alleyway for working,
come the laying-pens. By placing
the nests with backs to each side
of the alleyway, egg-collection is
reduced to the minimum of
labor. Hopper-feeding and
water cisterns in each of the
laying-pens assist in cutting
down time and costs. Under
these methods one man can now
handle 4000 birds, whereas
under old methods half that
number would have him flat-out.
Linseed a Safe Crop.
“Agric”: The Taubmans
chemicals people have issued a
handy booklet, “Know Your
Linseed,” which points out that
linseed can be grown wherever
wheat can be grown, and the
land should be worked the same
as for wheat or oats.
The best price is paid for lin-
seed which is skilfully harvested
so that it contains a minimum of
crushed and broken seed, par-
ticularly if it is carefully cleaned
and bagged.
The grower’s chief worry
during the growing period is the
caterpillar of the Heliothis armi-
gera moth, also known as the
tomato grub, corn earworm, cot-
ton-boll worm and linseed-seed
caterpillar, and spraying seems
to be the only way to control
it. Standard practice is to
spray with Rulene, a D.D.T.
preparation. Mixed with water,
four gallons of Rulene field-crop
spray provides 30 to 40 gallons
of made-up spray—enough for
10 acres. Emphasising the neces-
sity for even distribution of the
spray, the booklet recommends
placing a few bottles, sheets of
glass, or mirrors among the crop
and comparing the spray de-
posited. There should be 60 or
more droplets per square inch.
Linseed is regarded as one of
the safest crops for Queensland
so far as a market is concerned,
and there seems to be no possi-
bility of the demand being met
for many years to come.
New Cane Types.
“W. Court”: Many new
varieties of sugarcane are miles
ahead of older kinds; they yield
heavily on reasonably fertilq,
soils, and do not require
extremely heavy rains to keep
them growing.
Large areas are now being put
to cane-growing which until
recently were deemed useless;
but even with the new improved
cane varieties a lot of this new
land will have to be carefully
nursed if it is to grow much
cane.
Erosion will have to be
watched. There is always some
loss of soil from sloping pad-
docks, but the provision of good
wide drains across the top ends
and ploughing across the slope
instead of up and down it will
save a lot of soil. Where a gully
or creek comes against the lower
end of a field, graduating the
bank so that the fall is not
abrupt will avert gullying.
It will pay the grower to con-
serve and plough under as much
refuse as possible after harvest-
ing a crop. Green-manuring
crops grown before each planted
sugar crop will put real fertility
into the soil. They should
be chosen to suit local climatic
conditions. Poor land does not
worry them, and legumes can be
had that will give an anti-erosion
cover for from 12 weeks to five
months. .
Artificial fertilisers will stimu-
late the growth of cane on poor
or indifferent soils, but they are
no permanent benefit to the soil.
Black Peach-aphis.
“Myrrhee”: In southern
States tar-distillate is effective as
a winter ovicide against the
green peach-aphis, but is useless
against the black variety. This
pest overwinters on the roots of
peach-, nectarine- and plum-
trees and, as spring approaches,
ascends the trunks to attack the
first spring growth.
To stop it wrap brown-paper
smeared with a mixture made by
heating together (without boil-
ing) four parts of castor-oil with
nine parts of resin. A useful
spray is nicotine-sulphate loz. to
4gal. of water with ipint of
white-oil emulsion or Hoz. of
soft soap. Spray when the aphis
appear on the upper parts of the
tree.
Hints for the Farm.
“D.J.H.”: Research-workers
in America say scouring in hand-
reared calves is eliminated by
adding aureomycin to the ration.
There’s also 20 per cent, faster
growth in the first 20 weeks of
age.
“Myrrhee”: A full-strength
Bordeaux spray, 15:15:100, at
“budswell” is a necessity for all
kinds of stone-fruit. It protects
against brown-rot blossom-blight
on peaches, .apricots and
cherries ; rust, shothole and leaf-
curl on peaches and scab on
apricots, plums and cherries.
Dissolve 151 b. of copper sulphate
(bluestone) in one vessel and
151 b. of freshly-slaked lime in
another. Pour together, make
up to lOOgal. and spray
immediately.
“M.”: Growing the same or
related crops in the one ground
year after year tends to cause
the plant-foods in tjje soil to
become unbalanced and to
spread disease. The ideal
sequence is; (1) Leaf crops,
tomatoes and vine vegetables,
using stable-manure as compost;
(2) Root crops, using a fertiliser
instead of animal manure; (3)
Legumes, using a fertiliser only.
Dig in the plants after they have
ceased bearing. Then start again
with \a leaf-crop, and be sure
you don’t follow carrots with
parsnips, cabbages with caulis,
onions with leaks or tomatoes
with potatoes.
“Joe”: A “doormat” of clean
dry litter to a depth of several
inches spread on the floor for a
distance of 4ft. to sft. from the
nests will keep down the per-
centage of soiled eggs. Eggs are
soiled mainly by the dirty feet
of birds, and such a “mat”
before the nest means that the
hen’s feet are relatively clean
when she enters the nest.
“Joker”: Egg-breakages can
be reduced considerably by
using nesting material of an
absorbent nature, which will not
stain or taint. Pine'sawdust, the
coarser the better, and shavings
are best, with chaffed bladey-
grass an excellent substitute The
material must be kept dry and
replenished at frequent intervals.
“C.A.A.”: Greater humidity
is needed to hatch out turkey
than hen eggs. Maintain
humidity at 60 per cent, for the
first 24 days and 74 per cent,
during the last three days of
incubation. Flannel wicks with
one end in the water-tray or a
saturated sponge will provide
additional humidity, while
sprinkling eggs with warm water
in the first week also gives satis-
factory results. Turn the eggs
three times daily up to the 23rd
day. Test for fertility on the
10th day.


COLCHISONE the sensationally effective
NEW treatment brings
swiff, sure
RELIEF FROM
eiiir
IHEUMAHSM
and other conditions which cause pain, inflammation
and swelling of joints and limbs such as
SCIATICA • LUMBAGO • FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! Scien-
tific research into the cause
of those pains and aches in
joints and limbs from which
you suffer shows that in the
vast majority of cases they
are due to a “Gouty” con-
dition the result of urates
forming through excessive
uric acid in the blood.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in the hands
and feet? or any old injury
to a joint, and, for you;r own
sake, you must not neglect
these warnings. Frequently
they are the forerunners of
more severe complaints, and
if allowed to continue un-
checked your elbows, knees,
ankles or other joints may
become swollen and in-
flamed; you may suffer
unbearable agony and even
deformation of the joints or
crippling.
By dispersing and elimina-
ting these URATES and at
the same time counteracting
the URIC ACID conditions
of the blood, COLCHISONE
brings almost immediate re-
lief. Taken at the first
signs of an attack, it
helps prevent a' worsening
of your condition, but even
if vou suffer from GOUT
or RHEUMATISM in its
advanced stages you will
find the results just as
effective. Pain, swelling and
inflammation of the hands,
feet, elbows, knees, ankles
and shoulders will fast dis-
appear and you will regain
the freedom of movement
you had given up as lost.
COLCHISONE is a specific
for Gouty Rheumatic con-
ditions. It is a Colchicum-
Apium - Guaiacol treatment
never before available in
Australia. Each one of its
ingredients is effective in it-
self, but it is the special
method of combining all
three that makes it so com-
pletely successful. It is . . .
ECONOMICAL One
bottle contains several
months’ supply.
HARMLESS There are
no unpleasant results or
after-effects.
RELIABLE It brings
prompt relief in even the
most obstinate cases.
COLCHISONE
From your
chemist
PRICE 30/- for several
months' supply, including
valuable diet instruc-
tions.
FREE!
Should you require further
information on this vital
subject, it will be sup-
plied FREE and POST
FREE on request.
If you have any diffi-
culty in obtaining COL-
CHISONE, write direct
to the sole Australian
Distributors: RICKARD
MEDICAL PRODUCTS
PTY. LTD., 55 York
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
> *»
mu
m
I |
r *
KIH i .
•
•5»
i* * *.*
«s s*
: 88$
BR |
m
to
&
Step into
another
world...
ẅ
for a vacation
packed with
COLOUR, ROMANCE,
ADVENTURE!
You’ll love Ceylon! You’ll love
her exotic tropical beauty . . . her
two separate climates —like an
English Spring in the hills . . .
bathed in glorious tropical sun-
shine on the plains. You’ll thrill
to the rich colour and pageantry
of religious ceremonies . . . and
the ruins of a 2,500 year old
civilisation.
Yes, you’ll love Ceylon. In fact,
you’ll want to return again to
this romantic island gem.
Plan now for your tour of Ceylon.
Choice of accommodation
luxury hotels or any of Ceylon’s
Resthouses (Tourist Inns). Sport-
ing facilities include trout fishing
in Waltonian streams and deep sea
game fishing, surfing, golf, and
the famous Colombo Racecourse.
The Octagon, Temple of
the Sacred Tooth situated
at Royal Kandy, last capi-
tal of the Sinhalese Kings.
Numerous tropical, palm-
fringed beaches where you
may relax and swim in
shark-free waters.
Further information, free
maps and literature can
be obtained by writing to
the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST
BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Air-
lines in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents
through the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission, j
CT.3A.ia
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Cat lost black Persian wild
answers name ‘Santa.’ Owner
worried.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Finder should beware of his
Claus.
4* 4* 4*
“If a man breaks his promise to
marry a woman she may keep the
engagement ring.”
—Law article in Sunday paper.
As a memento of how he
slipped through her fingers,
4* 4* 4*
‘A rich man pays up; the rest of
us pay down.”
- Publicist Hartell Spence.
But, up or down, each has to
come across.
“Our mad civilisation is rushing
faster and faster, and we are getting
giddier and giddier. We have lost
our sense of values and proportion.”
—Educationist Miss Myra Roper.
If it isn’t “La Ronde de
I’Amour” it’s “L’Amour de la
Ronde.”
4* 4* 4*
“Art criticism in Sydney is at its
lowest ebb.”
—Melbourne artist John Loxton.
And many deserving artists are
left stranded,
4* 4* 4*
“Like Hollywood’s Lana Turner,
Gina is a sweater-girl who, a film-
critic says, has often pulled men’s
eyes over the wool.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
But moralists, at sight of her,
merely knit their brows.
4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Cronshaw told us he was
waging a one-man battle against
pawnbrokers.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
He’s pledged to defeat them.
Pardon Our Impatience.
Hail, Spring! when all the
world’s afire
With molten gold and crimson
flame
And melting green’s on hedge
and brier.
And bards their hearts’ content
declaim.
When birds with song the dawn-
ing greet
As days grow longer, calm and
warm.
And young men’s fancies, spells
complete,
Return to stable, track and form.
(/ know, of course, that Spring’s
not here —
That Winter’s never yet conceded
Her lien so early in the year —
But, brothers, who’ll deny it’s
needed ?)
P.O.M.C.
The Store-window Dummies
Get Together.
“Well, Myrtle, how did you
like your first day here?” asked
Joan, the tall willowy blonde
with the cute expression.
“Oh, not too' bad. But I am
stiff in the right arm —that nice
window-dresser with the marcel-
wave and the side-levers must
have forgotten—he left me all the
afternoon with that arm held
straight out”
“Oh, him. That nitwit’s
always putting me as if my arm’s
in an aeroplane-splint. And he
handles you too gently. I like
someone to throw you around
like a woman was meant to be.
That’s why I like Frank. He’s a
he-man. I always get a thrill
when he comes in the window.
1 used to go a deeper pink than
I naturally am when I first came
here and he’d pull briefs and bras
on me, but I’ve got hard-boiled
since then. Sometimes as he
slings me about he gives me a
playful squeeze. He even chucks
me under the chin when he’s in
a good mood. It was he who
“Hullo, Angel-facer!"
named me Joan —I feel as if I
sort of belong to him —I suppose
some lucky girl really does.”
“1 was terribly embarrassed
on my first day here,” put in
Norma, “when he casually pulled
off the floral silk nightie I was
wearing and left me in the
altogether. The window-blind
was up, and he didn’t even
bother to turn me round. It
was awful! There were all the
people staring”
“All the men, you mean,” in-
terrupted Joan. “W omen
shoppers don’t bother to look at
us. I stood all yesterday in just
a tulle negligee over a skimpy
bra and a pair of diaphanous
scalloped scanties —you know,
one of those glamorous trous-
seau outfits —and I could see one
old goat standing outside on the
pavement pretending he was in-
terested in a pair of stilt-heeled
pumps that were beside me. He
must have been there twenty
minutes. It was me he was
having a feed of —you could
have knocked his eyes off with
sticks! I suppose at home you
wouldn’t think butter would melt
in his mouth. He was old enough
to have had married grand-
daughters, too. You can’t beat
these old jokers—and they all
try to kid they’re not looking at
you at all. When we’re model-
ling thick chenille dressing-
gowns or buttoned-up tweed top-
coats, though, they just shoot
straight through. They’re beauts,
all right.”
“I always have to laugh at
that new window-dresser —Cyril,
isn’t it?” said Norma. “He’s so
awkward trying to put roll-ons
on you. And I don’t think he
knows yet that the clips dangling
from the bottom of your corsets
are to fasten to the tops of your
stockings. And the way he
jams a hat on your head —he
might as well stand back and
‘ring’ it like at a hoop-la stall.
I wish I could adjust it myself
to the new forward tilt. I feel
like a frump standing there. And
you can tell he’s not married
by the careful way he handles
you. By the way, Joan, what
do you think of that new model
in window sixteen? Aren’t those
exaggerated eyelashes of hers
terrific! I don’t like her snooty
expression, either.”
“New model! ” exclaimed
Joan. “Why, she’s as old as the
hills. I’ll guarantee she was
made in pre-war days—you can
tell by the way she’s joined—
they’ve got a new manufacturing
technique altogether now. Re-
member the way they put us
together? Not only that, you
can see she’s been resprayed
several times, and those eyelashes
aren’t her original ones. You
ought to have seen the superior
look I got from her when Frank
carried me past in those winter
woollies. She had on one of
those smart new nylon swim-
suits, If you ask me, I think
she’d be more at home at a nude
swimming-party!”
“I think she wants oiling,” put
in Myrtle. “Her head positively
squeaked every time Cyril twisted
it trying to get the right angle.
And the way she holds that glass
of gin while she sits in her beach-
togs at that outdoor-furniture
display makes it pretty plain she’s
soaked up a few'bottles in her
time.”
“Wasn’t it awful about
Brenda!” exclaimed Norma.
“Why, what happened?” asked
Joan.
“Well, a couple of the young
sales-assistants were skylarking
and one of them knocked Brenda
over and broke her leg. Bits
everywhere. I believe she’ll be
in hospital for a week or so while
they mould a new one,”
“Well,” said Joan, “I hope
they make a better job of her
than they did of Edna. That
was a scream. Someone made
a bloomer at the factory, and
she came back with a man’s
chest on her. And you know
Edna’s hips—forty to match her
bust, because she models all the
O.S. matron’s outfits.”
“Well,” said Norma, “I’m
going to get a bit of shut-eye.
1 don’t want to look like some-
thing the cat’s dragged in to-
morrow. I overheard Frank say
they’re teaming me with that
handsome, bronzed model with
the cleft chin and the dinky little
zonker for the twosome golf rig-
out in the sports window. Boy,
does he give me a thrill!”
Bo.
Behind the Scenes.
“A client tells a ghost exactly whai
sort of picture he would paint if
only he had the time. When the
ghost has executed the order the
client signs twice —once on the can-
vas, once on a cheque.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Men rich or poor and poles apart
Alike may hear the call of art
And feel emotions strong that
rush
Through head and heart when
they can take
The time from daily tasks to
slake
The thirst divine with paints and
brush.
But few can hope to make the
grade
To heights of fame despite the
aid
Of masters teaching them tech-
nique,
And most of those who would
express
Themselves this way perforce
confess
That everything they paint is
weak.
Ah well! It seems there’s one
sure scheme
To win through to the artist’s
dream
And have a canvas fit to boast
About —and that is just to pick
A substitute to do the trick
Or, if that fails, give up the
ghost!
D.H.E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The A.W.U»
Often referred to as the most powerful
union in Australia, the A.W.U., by its
very size and unwieldiness, shows some
outstanding weaknesses. I lately took a
job where an A.W.U. ticket was compul-
sory. The chit reads to the effect that I,
“whilst loyal to the principles of the
union,” am entitled to the protection and
privileges of membership. There is also
a neat little set of tear-off vouchers
attached which permit me to vote at the
various union elections and the “Labor
plebiscite for my particular electorate.
I was not requested to join the union.
I wasn’t even asked. I was told to pay
up and look pleasant or I wouldn’t have
the job. Thirty-five-bob changed hands
in July, although the ticket is only current
until September, when a further £2 will
be required to make me financial. Mem-
bership of the union has got away from
principles and has become a matter of
coercion—almost blackmail.
' Workers of the post-depression era
have come to look on their union ticket
as a necessary evil. Few know the
faintest thing about union principles, and
fewer still read the weekly paper published
by the union and compulsorily sold (as
part of the union ticket) to every member.
The A.W.U. was once the greatest
power for good among the workers in
Australia. It still could be. Bur that day
will only come when union reps have to
go out with the zeal of evangelists and
the hide of insurance agents and sell the
idea of unionism to the workers. To see
it sink to the level of protectionism must
make many a true Labor stalwart turn in
his grave. —A. W« Mee (Q.).
Road Accidents
Ever since the introduction of the
motor-vehicle manufacturers have striven
for speed, and then more -peed, with
greater and quicker acceleration. They
have succeeded in these objects to such
an extent that the handling of the modern
mo tor-vehicle has become more and more
the job of specialists.
The mental equipment of the average
driver has not kept pace with the
mechanical and technical advance of the
machine; the safety-point of bis reaction
capabilities has long ago been exceeded.
The law does not allow the indiscrimi-
nate ownership of a dangerous weapon
like a pistol. Yet, after a simple test,
which even old ladies can pass, it permits
anyone to propel among his fellows a
weapon generally weighing over a ton
and capable of speeds up to iOO m.p.h.
The obvious solution would seem to be
that permits to drive vehicles capable of
more than 30 m.p.h. should be confined
to those able to prove that they need
them and can handle them. —F. J.
(N.S.W.).
Butter Price
There has been no “reoent increase'of
one shilling per pound in the price of
butter” as far as the producer is con-
cerned (B. 23/7/’52). The 1951-52 price
to the producer was 3s. 6d. choice-quality
butter; the new price is 3s. 10|d., an
increase of 4£d. Approximately 60 p.c.
of butter produced in Australia is con-
sumed locally, and about 40 per cent, is
exported at a price equivalent to 3s. 6d.
a pound Australian. The average is
3s. 10-ld. —the producer receives 4s. lid.
for locally-gonsumed butter. Queensland
factories will pay only 3s. for July.
The Is. rise which “M.F.D.” seems to
be talking about was caused by the reduc-
tion of the Government subsidy to the
consumer.
Probably “the dairyfarmer on a decent
property, with good cows and milking-
machines,” is “managing well,” but the
capital invested in relation to the annual
average return is such that an experienced
industrialist would pass it over as an
uneconomical investment. I have a
“decent property, with good cows and a
milking-machine,” and at present I have
an Aberdeen Angus bull running with
those “good cows.” That’s how much
faith I have in the future of butter.—
Lex McLennan (Q.).
Timber Prices
The announcement from N. S, Wales
sawmillers and timber-merchants that
hardwood is to be reduced from 1435.
per 100 ft. super, to 1375. 6d. sounded
good, but there is a catch in it.
The reduction applies only to timber
bought in random lengths, or just as the
timber merchant could have it from a
“On second thoughts. Miss Tapper, We'd better put that bit in stars and
dashes.”
stack, dump it on to his lorry and dump
it on the job.
Thus, although the ss. 6d. cut will
benefit the big contractor, the owner-
builder and small contractor, who
invariably order their timber in specified
lengths, will derive small benefit, because
timber ordered in special lengths is plus
3s, 6d. a hundred on the new rate.
Helldud (N.S.W.).
The Freelance
Syndication isn’t the only stumbling-
block for the Australian freelance. The
editor who keeps an MS. for six months,
then sends it back without comment, isn t
exactly a friend, nor is the fellow who
lacks the common courtesy of sending a
brief note in reply as to whether a miss-
ing MS. reached his office.
Many of the freelance’s troubles, how-
ever, come after his work has been
accepted. To begin with, he is the lowest-
paid worker in the Commonwealth.
When the basic wage was barely £4 a
week most publications were paying two
guineas per thousand words; the same
magazines are paying no more today,
though the laborer’s wage is above £ll
and the price of their publications has
jumped, in some cases, by 100 per cent.
Then there is the payment-on-publica-
tion bugbear. One magazine held an
article of mine for two years before
printing —then presented me with two
guineas. Another accepted two short
stories. After 12 months I inquired
about them and was told that both would
be published in due course. Three and a
half years from the time I contributed the
stories one was published and payment
made. The other —who knows? Who
knows?— Sebak (N.S.W.).
Railway Finances
With fares and freights on the N. S.
Wales railways at a crippling level, and
Socialistic restrictions on company and
commercial road transport, there should
certainly have been a surplus for these
railways last year. Instead, there was
a deficit of £2,400,000.
The responsibility of controlling such
a complex organisation is too great for
one man, no matter how capable. Despite
an additional expenditure of, say, £BOOO
a year, the ideal would be a board of
three members, including a progressive
businessman who would be expected to
increase business and trade by fair
competition. The present commissioner
would be free to give his undivided
attention to traffic and engineering prob-
lems, in which he excels.
The third member, who might well be
an approved nominee of the A.R.U. and
allied unions, would undertake staffing
arrangements and industrial relationships
as his rhain responsibility. Overstaffing
and man-hour wastage have been blamed
for almost half of last year’s deficit.
The A.R.U. could prove most helpful
in Minister Sheahan’s mopping-up cam-
paign by making clear to individual
members that it is to their own advantage
for the department to balance its budget.
A continued decline in railway finances
must ultimately jeopardise the jobs of a
lot of railway workers. And the Arbitra-
tion Court is likely to find it hard to
reconcile the virtual bankruptcy of our
transport services with a continuance of
the 40-hour week.
From my own experience as a laborer
and a timekeeper I know there
is not so much loafing among rail-
waymen as is generally supposed, but
millions of man-hours are wasted among
collar-and-tie employees simply because
there is not sufficient work for the over-
crowded clerical staff.
A year ago I was employed as a
laborer (acting timekeeper) in a recon-
ditioning gang. My clerical duties
occupied a couple of hours each day.
For five or six hours I sat at the fire
reading a book or listening to the wireless.
I sought permission from the president
of the A.R.U. to work with other
members of the gang when not required
for clerical duties, but was told in writing
that the matter would have to be deter-
mined by the executive, as possibly there
would be others who would object.
Of course there would have been
objectors. That is what the Minister will
find himself up against: the tendency
among collar-and-tie workers to regulate
output on the basis of the laziest man s
contribution. —J. H. (N.S.W.).
Politics and Banks
That was wise counsel from Sir Ralph
Glyn: “The greatest evil that can befall
a great industry is to become the play
of party politics” (B. 11/6/’52); but it has
yet to be appreciated in Australia by
politicians of all three parties.
The latest sad example comes from the
Liberal-Country-party leader in Victoria,
L. G. Norman, who proposes, if returned
to power, to use £48,000,000 of State
Savings Bank funds for housing projects.
This has already caused some alarm, ami
has been seized on by Premier McDonald,
who has called it the most dangerous
thing ever advocated for the State Savings
Bank and its depositors.
Norman replied that any capital
risk on houses as securities would
not fee borne by the bank but by the
building societies, as at present. He would
do well to indicate the capital strength
of these societies and their ability to stand
any strain put on them. In 1930 thou-
sands of home purchasers were unable to
meet their obligations and many homes
reverted to the bank which had financed
their construction.
Savings-banks deposits are practically
“at call,” which means that a depositor
can go into the bank at any time and
ask for his money. For amounts of over
£2OO only seven days’ notice is required.
To take vast sums of money from the
public on those terms and then lend it
out on long-term housing loans is not
my idea of sound banking practice. The
limited activities of the Savings Bank
under present housing schemes, Credit
Foncier and the like, are quite all right,
but what Mr. Norman proposes is entirely
another matter.
The Royal Commission on Banking,
1936, had something to say on these vast
“call” deposits. The commission’s
recommendation —that much of the
money should be “fixed” —should have
been heeded. It’s not too late now.
It is during bad times that the greatest
call is made on savings banks for pay-
ment of deposits, and they must, there-
fore, be kept as liquid as possible. There
is nothing liquid about housing-loans at
present costs.
Direction of the Savings Bank
should be left strictly to its own experi-
enced management and the commissioners
and should certainly not come from any
political party of the day.- -Ceg (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 186
Across.
I—Reading1—Reading matter in a waiting-room
assists identification of defensive
footballers. (4, 7)
6 —Tree bark. (3)
B—Place for mailing whoever gets a
tenant to fight- (8)
10— Condition of disorderly bores. (5)
11— Hankering for money. (3)
12 — Columns concerning lolanthe
fashions? (9)
14 —Moslem chieftain. (5)
16 —A lower fifty and a hundred get
the bird covering. (4)
18 —Councillor leaves the chair for a
Talmudical scholar. (3)
20—Regretful miss is to turn back at
the start. (4)
22—Witch is back by a half-century.
(5)
24 —Finn minds a. forward cloth for
towels. (9)
27 U-boat fee for club membership.
(3)
28 — Vallin cloth. (5)
29 — Dance to Ireland with a dancer.
(9)
32 — Hooter. (3)
33 They sue little one with singles.
(ID
Down.
1— Boiler advertises the ability of
Mr. Hughes. (5-3)
2 Trig ratio introduces the firm to
a sunburnt cove. (9)
3 Born to have dinner on a
steamer, but not without want.
(9)
4 Assail in company. (3)
5 Sungod artist. (2)
6 Burns a policeman. (5)
7 It lands in the blockhole. (6)
9—Cupid involved in the picket
team’s morbid dryness of tne
hair. (7)
10 —Distress signal. (Three letters).
13 —Brace in tow. (3)
15— Dessert cat that inherited a base-
ball team with Ben confused over
an Arab steed. (7)
16— across dispenses with Ina in
company with this gentleman, (")
17 — County droops with rent. (9)
19 —Exercises self-restraint in a de-
scription of porridge sampled by
a blonde. (8)
21—Secreted by octopuses. (3)
23—Bone to finish a religion. (6)
25 panama, for instance, questions
Capone’s ability. (5)
26 Beard of the com. (3)
30— Intoxicated bed in France. (3)
31 — Maine pronoun. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 18S


9m entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
ftWMW* Monthly hf MOFFAT-VIRTU® UMTHED
m.v. AGRICULTURAL news
August
feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
1952
A HANDFULL OF BRAHMA CATTLE
COST AUSTRALIA MILLIONS
Imported Stock Brought Cattle Tick
A herd of Brahma cattle, imported from Batavia to Darwin in 1872, proved to be one of the most costly imports ever brought into this
country. What the original purchaser paid for them has never been recorded, but they have cost the Australian cattle industry millions
of pounds in the last eighty years, because they were the first traceable carriers of Cattle Tick to enter the country.
For some years after the cattle were brought to
Australia, nothing much was noticed. Some of
mem died, but no one knew the cause. Then,
in 1880, a herd of cattle died off at Glencoe,
near Darwin, and it was found they had the
Tick.
this time it was too late to take preventive
measures. Bullock teams carried the Tick from
Darwin, right through the Northern Territory
cattle country, and cattle from the Territory,
sent to the boiling-down works at Burketown
and Normanton, infested those areas.
Before people became conscious of what was
happening the Tick spread as far as the Tweed
Heads and Richmond River Districts of N.S.W.
and the East Kimberleys of Western Australia.
Then, the danger of Cattle Tick was brought
home to Queensland cattlemen. They lost
« j
P * i
mx-i'
Sgjg
:
M
• P ■• plj I'
i -, - $. - •
< | ~,, ■, x;-- Hu' . :
ts''' £ - ' ■
:■■■ *
jMjj
mwm
tmmmm
i ; :^^
y
Ihe Mofjat-Virtue Boom Spray Unit. The Roller Spray Plant is mounted on a vat on the tray
of the truck. Hoses carry the liquid to the boom.
NOW YOU CAN GET RID OF
WEEDS IN YOUR CROPS
Boom Spray and Hormones Make it Easy
When you sow oats you have to make sure you’re going to reap only oats. If you sow
wheat you don’t want it filled with Skeleton weed, wild turnip, and so on, or you’ll
never make it pay. There’s only one effective way of controlling weed growth in your
crops . . . and that’s by spraying with selective hormones.
The Mo flat-Virtue Boom Spray Unit has been
made especially for spraying hormones. The
power plant, the M.V. Roller Spray Plant,
was designed and built for pressure spraying.
The M.V. Boom has been built to use With the
Roller Spray, for applying spray liquids in the
most effective and economical manner.
The Roller Spray is a complete unit in itself.
It can be used separately for everything from
spraying fruit trees to fire-fighting.
The M.V. Boom has a coverage of 30ft. It is
fitted with 1 9 long-lasting, low volume nozzles,
and is hinged on both sides. It swings back
when it touches an obstruction, and returns to
the normal position once it is clear again.
Travelling at 4 m.p.h. the Unit puts out 8
gallons of liquid per acre. At this speed you
can spray nearly \4i acres per hour.
Designed with the help of practical experts all
over Australia, this is the most efficient and
reliable Boom Spray Unit you can buy. Full
particulars, including price, can be obtained
from any one of the Distributors at the bottom
of this page.
3,000,000 head between 1894 and 1900. At
this time it was nearly half Queensland’s cattle
population.
Immediately other States brought in rigid pre-
ventive measures. Infested areas were separated
from Tick-free areas, and restrictions were
placed on the movement of stock. This stopped
the tick from spreading, but could not get it out
of areas it had already reached.
DETECTING TICK FEVER CARRIERS
It has been found that apparently healthy beasts
carry tick fever in a similar way to that in
which humans carry malaria. Several States
have been trying to find a satisfactory way of
testing disease-carrying cattle. So far, they
have not been very successful.
This is one of the big hold-ups in eradicating
the Tick altogether, and until a solution is
found it seems we will have to keep on with the
restrictions already in force.
In Queensland today cattle men control out-
breaks of Tick Fever by spraying cattle with
tick-killing preparations. The spraying method
is becoming much more popular than plunge
dipping, which is harder on animals, and can
cause serious injury particularly to milch cows.
One of the most suitable units yet designed for
spraying cattle is the Moffat-Virtue Roller
Spray Plant. This Plant is being widely used
by cattlemen throughout the infested areas.
The Roller Spray Plant is amazingly versatile.
It is used for sheep jetting, noxious weed
control, firefighting, fruit, banana and vegetable
spraying, and hundreds of other jobs by farmers
and Government Departments throughout Aus-
tralia.
This Plant gets its performance from one unique
principle used in its construction . . . the
“eccentric roller drive,” This lowers power
requirements and keeps the weight of the whole
unit down to an amazingly low I 401bs. Yet the
Plant has a range of pressures, that can be
maintained without variation, right up to
2501b5. per square inch.
The Moffat-Virtue Roller Spray will save work,
and make money for you, no matter what type
of property you have. Get full particulars from
any one of the Distributors listed at the bottom
of this page.
BEATING THE
ARGENTINE ANT
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., in conjunction with
officers of the C.5.1.R.0., have designed
this portable Roller Spray Plant to attack
the Argentine Ant in Town Areas.
# The Roller Spray Plant is mounted on
a galvanised steel vat.
& The Plant is fitted with pneumatic
wheels, and a drawbar, to make for
easy pulling.
% The whole unit comes complete with
extension spray-rods, spray-guns,
nozzles, and two 60ft. lengths of high-
pressure hose.
This unit is ideal, not only for spraying
the Argentine Ant, but also for all types
of weed and insect spraying.
m
sa-.w
mm
s' , *
■•:■:■:■
li:«i
BRrMHpI ' ' "J
Sr I 1
v , . 'SK; ■:. ... •>' J •• /: (■■■|lj|i||M|Hfl
• • W:« « :,v . : .;.. . : . ... ■■• .
mm
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers,
facturers, Machinery Merchants,
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pt
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore,
Manu-
iEpsom
S.
Ltd.,
S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd.. Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
